Produced by Afra Ullah and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net. (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


BIDWELL'S TRAVELS.

FROM

Wall Street

To London Prison


_Fifteen Years in Solitude._


  FREED A HUMAN WRECK, A WONDERFUL SURVIVAL AND A MORE
    WONDERFUL RISE IN THE WORLD.
  TO-DAY HE HAS A NATIONAL REPUTATION AS A WRITER, SPEAKER
    AND IS CONSIDERED AN AUTHORITY ON ALL SOCIAL PROBLEMS.
  HE WAS TRIED AT THE OLD BAILEY AND SENTENCED FOR LIFE.
    CHARGED WITH THE £1,000,000 FORGERY ON THE BANK
      OF ENGLAND.

  THIS STORY SHOWS THAT THE EVENTS OF HIS LIFE SURPASS THE
    IMAGINATIONS OF OUR FAMOUS NOVELISTS, ITS THRILLING
      SCENES, HAIR-BREADTH ESCAPES AND MARVELOUS ADVENTURES
        ARE NOT A RECORD OF CRIME,
          BUT ARE PROOFS OF THAT

_IN THE WORLD OF WRONGDOING SUCCESS IS FAILURE._


490 Pages. 80 Graphic Illustrations.


Copyrighted 1897 by BIDWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY, HARTFORD, CONN.


Editorial New York Herald.

_Referring to a Whole Page._

"If an American dramatist or novelist had taken for the ground work of a
play or work of fiction the story of the Bidwell family to-day related
on another page of the Herald, all European critics would have told him
that the story was too 'American,' too vast in its outlines, too high in
its colors, too merely 'big' in fact.

"The story has its lesson. The play is not a mere spectacle. The lesson
is that in the doing and undoing of wrong the Bidwell family expended
enough ability and energy to stock a good many reigning European
families for generations.

"Let the Comedie Humaine write itself and it will outwrite Balzac."


Hon. Lyman J. Gage.

Having read the Bidwell book I believe it will benefit every one to read
this marvellous history of human experience.

Aside from its dramatic interest there are great moral lessons involved
of especial value to young men and employees in positions of trust.

Therefore, I recommend this book as unique and a valuable acquisition
for home and office.


From Chas. M. Stead, Union League Club, New York.

"_Dear Sir_--I read your book with a good deal of interest, and would
like to change it for a higher-priced binding if you have one."


The Worcester Spy.

"Mr. Bidwell's book has been compared with Dumas' famous 'Monte
Christo.' The extraordinary character of its adventures, indeed, would
render it dramatic and powerful as fiction; as human truth, it is simply
overwhelming. No one can read this book unmoved. From every conceivable
standpoint, physiological, sociological, and literary, it is a marvel."


Philip W. Moen.

Mr. Moen, of Washburn & Moen, Worcester, Mass., writes: "I have read Mr.
George Bidwell's book with the deepest interest. It is a book that
deserves to be widely read, and I am very glad to recommend it."


A Niece of Oliver Wendell Holmes

writes: "_Few books have so stirred my mind_ for years as the book by
George Bidwell. Hearing of the book, prejudice immediately seized me
against it. The history given by himself, to be interesting at all must
be sensational, therefore disastrous to morals. _So avowed prejudiced
thought; and, determined to find fault, I began this remarkable
history._ IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO FIND FAULT WITH THE BOOK, WHICH IS
VALUABLE AND WONDERFULLY ABSORBING."


From Ira D. Sankey, Esq.

"MR. GEORGE BIDWELL, _Dear Sir_--I have read with great interest your
book, and believe it will do much good among young men wherever read.
Your life is a proof and your book a burning record of the truth that
'Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap.' I believe in throwing
light into all the dark places of this life, that men, seeing the
dangers, they may avoid them. I wish you success."


From Hon. Robert G. Ingersoll.

"GEORGE BIDWELL, ESQ.:

_My Dear Sir_--Knowing as I do that you will tell a candid story of your
career, I believe you will do good. Crime springs mostly from a lack of
intelligence and imagination. Only the foolish can think that the
practice of vice is the road to joy. As a matter of fact, the wrong does
not pay. You have, in your remarkable book, made this fact perfectly
clear, and you will enforce this great truth on the platform. _In the
world of crime success is failure._ Good luck to you."


Rev. Dr. Edward Beecher

writes; "I recommend this book to the friends of morality."


Office of Street's Insurance Agency, Hartford, Conn.

"MR. GEORGE BIDWELL, _Dear Sir_--A clergyman consulted with me regarding
his son, who had fallen into bad associations, taken part in many small
thefts, and seemed hardened against shame or dread of exposure. I
believe the mean, dangerous boy has become a man by reading your book."
Yours very truly,

F. F. STREET, Hartford, Conn.


Hartford Daily Times.

"This autobiography is a story of thrilling interest."


CONTENTS.


  A NEW YORK HERALD EDITORIAL.


  CHAPTER I.

  Brooklyn Public Schools in the Sixties--Old. No. 13--Parents Suited
  to the Golden Age--A Curious Preparation for the Battle of
  Life--Knew that Brutus Slew Caesar--George the Third Was a
  Bad Fellow Who Got a Tea Kettle Thrown at His Head In
  Boston Harbor--My Model Home Library--An Innocent Leaves
  Home.                                                               19


  CHAPTER II.

  In a Broker's Office--A Nice Old Gentleman--Situation in Wall
  Street--An Up-to-Date Young Man--Visions of Wealth--Speculations--Wall
  Street in the Sixties--The Hon. John Morrissey,
  ex-Pugilist--His Famous Gambling House--I Try a Game of
  Faro--Midnight Banquets--I Have Entered the Primrose
  Way.                                                                24


  CHAPTER III.

  Pleasure Before Business--Result of That Method--On Financial
  Rocks--James, Otherwise "Jimmy," Irving--He Was a Model
  Chief of Detectives--Police Headquarters, 300 Mulberry Street,
  in the Early Seventies--He Takes Me for a Drive out Harlem
  Lane--A Trio of Detectives--They Make a Startling Proposition--A
  $10,000 Temptation--Mental Conflicts--I Dare Not Be Poor--C'est
  le Premier Pas Qui Coute.                                           28


  CHAPTER IV.

  History of the Famous Lord Bond Steal--"On the Office"--Three
  Sneaks Stumble on a Fortune--A $1,250,000 Tin Box--Dazed
  Crooks--What to Do with Their White Elephant--Excitement
  at Police Headquarters--Bullard et al.--A Violin Virtuoso--Superintendent
  of Police Kelso Presents a $500 Silver Punch
  Bowl to the Daughter of Boss Tweed--Paid for with Stolen
  Cash.                                                               36


  CHAPTER V.

  Police Protectors--New York Gangs--Irving & Co. Give Me $80,000
  Lord Bonds to Sell Abroad--A Midnight Farewell--Alone on
  the Sea--When Jim Fisk Owned Our Judges--Chief Irving
  Plans a Famous Bank Robbery--His Three Burglar Confederates.        48


  CHAPTER VI.

  The Bank Looted--Irving Notified by Bank Officials--His Feigned
  Surprise--Hunts the Burglars, but Divides the Plunder at His
  Own House--Count Shinburne and His Palace on the Rhine--Twenty
  Years Later.                                                        58


  CHAPTER VII.

  I Arrive in Paris--Field of Waterloo--Meet the Antwerp Chief of
  Police--He Is on Trail--A Dutch Van Tromp and the Countess
  Winzerode--His Dream of Bliss and Tragic Death--My Negotiations
  in Frankfurt-on-the-Main.                                           65


  CHAPTER VIII.

  Marpurgo & Weisweller, Bankers--Francoise Blanc, the Gambler
  King--His Casinos at Monte Carlo, Homburg and Wiesbaden--I
  Meet Van Tromp's Countess--Outlived Her Beauty--Now a
  Hanger-on at the Rouge et Noir Tables--Takes My Advice--Marries
  a Rich Burgher--Becomes a Good Stepmother--Her
  Pious End and Epitaph.                                              73


  CHAPTER IX.

  I Sell the $80,000 Bonds--Reach London Safely--Drifting--Success
  in Crime a Failure--A Desolate Woman--Beautiful Barmaid
  Show--Westminster Abbey--Good Resolutions--Sail Home--Irving
  at the Wharf--Meet at Taylor's Hotel--The Total: "I
  Have Another Job for You"--A Fool's Game.                           84


  CHAPTER X.

  Edwin James, Q.C., and a Possible Lord Chancellor of England--His
  Extravagance--On the Border Land of Crime--He Oversteps--Disbarred--Comes
  to New York--Richard O'Gorman's
  Great Heart--The Brea Will Case--A Dark Plot--$20,000 out of
  Wall Street--Jay Cooke & Co. Narrowly Escape Loss of $240,000--Chief
  Irving in the Plot--Detective George Elder Not in Our
  Ring--Accidentally He Appears and Thwarts Our Plans.                94


  CHAPTER XI.

  Eastward Ho!--The James and Brea Exit--Ezra, the Shrewd Lawyer--Three
  Unhappy Daughters--He Marries One--Detects
  Forged Will--Flight of Brea to Montana--A Sunrise Surprise
  at Butte City--James Returns to London--Fills a Pauper's
  Grave Instead of a Lord Chancellor's.                              114


  CHAPTER XII.

  Bordeaux, Marseilles and Lyons "Donate" $50,000--A Bad Quarter
  of an Hour--Eggs and Peasant Women--"Sweets to the Sweet"--A
  Mysterious Stranger Disappears Among the Tombs.                    123


  CHAPTER XIII.

  A Starry Talk--Contrast Between Mac's Philosophy and His Errand--A
  Financial Trip Through Germany--From Leipsic Fair
  to London--Return Loaded with Thalers.                             132


  CHAPTER XIV.

  A Drive to Hampton Court--Send $10,000 Police Tribute to New
  York--Discussing the Bank of England in the Throne Room
  at Windsor Castle--Believe It to Be a Fossil Institution--Greene,
  the Tailor--Introduces Me to Bank--No References
  Required--Joy That Ends in Sorrow.                                 142


  CHAPTER XV.

  Voyage to Rio Janeiro--The Lady of the Lucitania--A Swedish
  Colonel's Party of English Engineers--A Bibulous Chaplain--Modern
  Buccaneers--Scenes at Bordeaux--Crossing the Line--Father
  Neptune's Visit--Fun at Sea--Arrival in Rio--Maua &
  Co.--Our Plans.                                                    154


  CHAPTER XVI.

  Fifty Thousand Dollars on Bogus Letters of Credit--Visit to a
  Coffee Plantation--Slaves Dining--Dangerous Errors in Letters
  of Credit--A Nervous Day--An Eagle-Eyed Hebrew--"Show
  Me Your Letter of Credit"--Mac in a Corner--A Bold Coup--Strategy--Can
  We Get Out of Brazil?                                              160


  CHAPTER XVII.

  Brazilian Law--Visit Police Headquarters--A Douceur to the Chief--In
  a Tight Spot--A "Doctored" Passport--A Detective on
  Trail. Who Ingratiates Himself into Mac's Confidence--Manoeuvres--The
  Detective on a "Wild Goose Chase"--Safely on
  Board--A Distinguished Party in a Rowboat--A Stern Chase--Off
  at Last.                                                           173


  CHAPTER XVIII.

  Rio to Buenos Ayres--Return and Meet Mac in Paris--Determine
  to Abandon a Dangerous Business--Vienna--Watching the
  Game--Must Have More Money--Good Resolutions Vanish--Return
  to London--Determine to Assault the Bank of England--Deposit
  $67,000.                                                           186


  CHAPTER XIX.

  Bank of England Requires No References--Letter from Paris--A
  Gilded American Young Man--Duped into Marriage with a
  Parisienne Möndaine--A Ghost at Monte Carlo--In a Greenwood
  Mausoleum--Earthly Happiness and the World to
  Come.                                                              193


  CHAPTER XX.

  Is Sparta dead? Is the old Grecian spirit frozen in your veins,
  that ye do crouch and cower like base-born slaves, beneath
  your master's lash? O! comrades! warriors! Thracians!

  if we must fight, let us fight for ourselves; if we must slaughter,
let us slaughter our oppressors; if we must die, let us die under
the open sky, by the bright waters, in noble, honorable battle."

  E. Kellogg.
  
  

  XL.

  
  NO EXTENSION OF SLAVE TERRITORY.
  
  Mr.

  Chairman, I have no time to discuss the subject of slavery on this
occasion, nor should I desire to discuss it in this connection, if
I had more time.

  But I just not omit a few plain words on the momentous issue
  which has now been raised. I speak for Massachusetts--I believe
  I speak the sentiments of all New England, and of many other
  States out of New England--when I say that, upon
  this question, our minds are made up.

  So far as we have power--constitutional or moral power--to control
political events, we are resolved that there shall be no further
extension of the territory of this Union, subject to the institution
of slavery.

  This is not a matter to argue about with us. My honorable friend
  from Georgia (Mr Toombs) must pardon me if I do not
  enter into any question with him whether such a policy
  be equal or just.

  It may be that the North does not consider the institution of slavery
a fit thing to be the subject of equal distribution or nice weighing
in the balances.

  I cannot agree with him that the South gains nothing by the
  Constitution but the right to reclaim fugitives.
  Surely he has forgotten that slavery is the basis of
  representation in this House.
  
  But I do not intend to argue the case. I wish to deal with
  it calmly, but explicitly. I believe the North is ready to
  stand by the Constitution with all its compromises, as it now
  is. I do not intend, moreover, to throw out any
  threats of disunion, whatever may be the result.

  I do not intend, now or ever, to contemplate disunion as a cure for
any imaginable evil.

  At the same time I do not intend to be driven from a firm
  expression of purpose, and a steadfast adherence to
  principle, by any threats of disunion from any other
  quarter. The people of New England, whom I have any
  privilege to speak for, do not desire, as I understand their views,
  I know my own heart and my own principles and can
  at least speak for them, to gain one foot of territory by
  conquest, and as the result of the prosecution of the
  war with Mexico. I do not believe that even the abolitionists
  of the North,--though I am one of the last persons who would be
entitled to speak their sentiments, would be unwilling to be found
in combination with Southern gentlemen, who may see fit to espouse
this doctrine.

  We desire peace.

  We believe that this war ought never to have been commenced,
  and we do not wish to have it made the pretext for plundering Mexico
  of one foot of her lands. But if the war is to be prosecuted,
  and if territories are to be conquered and
  annexed, we shall stand fast and forever to the principle that,
so far as we are concerned, these territories shall be the exclusive
abode of freemen.

  R. C. Winthrop.

  XLI.
  
  NATIONAL MONUMENT TO WASHINGTON.
  
  Fellow-citizens!

  Let us seize this occasion to renew to each other our vows of
allegiance and devotion to the American Union, and let us recognize
In our common title to the name and fame of Washington, and, in our
common veneration for his example and his advice, the all-sufficient
centripetal power, which shall hold the thick clustering stars of
our confederacy in one glorious constellation forever!

  Let the column which we are about to construct, be at once a
  pledge and an emblem of perpetual union! Let the foundations be
  laid, let the superstructure be built up and cemented, let each
  stone be raised and reverted, In a spirit of national brotherhood!

  And may the earliest ray of the rising sun--till that sun shall set
to rise no more--draw forth from it dally, as from the fabled statue
of antiquity, a strain of national harmony, which shall strike a
responsive chord in every heart throughout the Republic!

  Proceed, then, fellow-citizens, with the work for which you
  have assembled.
  Lay the corner-stone of a monument which shall adequately
  bespeak the gratitude of the whole American people to the Illustrious
Father of his country!

  Build it to the skies, you cannot outreach the loftiness of his
principles!

  Found it upon the massive and eternal rock, you cannot make
  it more enduring than his fame! Construct it of the peerless
  Parian marble, you cannot make it purer than his life! Exhaust
  upon it the rules and principles of ancient and
  modern art, you cannot make it more proportionate than his
  character!

  

  But let not your homage to his memory end here. Think not to transfer
  to a tablet or a column the tribute which is due
  from yourselves. Just honor to Washington can only be
  rendered by observing his precepts and imitating his example.
  He has built his own monument.

  We and those who come after us, in successive generations, are its
appointed, its privileged guardians.

  The wide-spread Republic is the true monument to Washington.
  Maintain its Independence. Uphold its Constitution.
  Preserve its Union. Defend its Liberty. Let it stand
  before the world in all its original strength and beauty,
  securing peace, order, equality, and freedom to all within
  its boundaries, and shedding light, and hope, and joy, upon the
pathway of human liberty throughout the world; and Washington needs
no other monument.

  Other structures may fitly testify our veneration for him; this,
this alone, can adequately illustrate his services to mankind.

  Nor does he need even this. The Republic may perish; the wide
  arch of our ranged Union may fall; star by star its glories
  may expire; stone by stone its columns and its
  capitol may moulder and crumble; all other names which adorn its
annals may be forgotten; but as long as human hearts shall anywhere
pant, or human tongues shall anywhere plead, for a true, rational,
constitutional liberty, those hearts shall enshrine the memory, and
those tongues prolong the fame, of George Washington!

  R. C. Winthrop.

  XLII.
  
  THE PERFECT ORATOR.

  

  Imagine to yourselves a Demosthenes, addressing the most illustrious
  assembly in the world, upon a point whereon the fate of the
  most illustrious of nations depended. How awful such a
  meeting! How vast the subject! Is man possessed of talents adequate
to the great occasion?

  Adequate!

  Yes, superior. By the power of his eloquence, the augustness
  of the assembly is lost in the dignity of the orator;
  and the importance of the subject, for awhile, superseded by the
admiration of his talents.

  With what strength of argument, with what powers of the fancy, with
what emotions of the heart, does he assault and subjugate the whole
man; and, at once, captivate his reason, his imagination, and his
passions!

  To effect this must be the utmost effort of the most improved
  state of human nature,--not a faculty that he possesses is here
  unemployed; not a faculty that he possesses but is here
  exerted to its highest pitch. All his internal powers are at work;
all his external testify their energies.

  Within the memory, the fancy, the judgment, the passions, are all
busy; without, every muscle, every nerve, is exerted; not a feature,
not a limb but speaks.

  The organs of the body attuned to the exertions of the mind
  through the kindred organs of the hearers, instantaneously
  vibrate those energies from soul to soul. Notwithstanding the diversity
  of minds in such a multitude, by the
  lightning of eloquence, they are melted into one mass,--the whole
assembly, actuated in one and the same way, become, as it were, but
one man and have but one voice.

  The universal cry is,--LET US MARCH AGAINST PHILIP; LET US FIGHT
FOR OUR LIBERTIES;--LET US CONQUER OR DIE!

  XLIII.
  
  NECESSITY OF A PURE NATIONAL MORALITY.
  
  The crisis has come.

  By the people of this generation, by ourselves, probably the amazing
question is to be decided, whether the inheritance of our fathers
shall be preserved or thrown away; whether our Sabbaths shall be a
delight or a loathing; whether the taverns, on that holy day shall
be crowded with drunkards, or the sanctuary of God with humble
worshippers; whether riot and profaneness shall fill our streets,
and poverty our dwellings: and convicts our jails, and violence our
land; or whether industry, and temperance, and righteousness, shall
be the stability of our times; whether mild laws shall receive the
cheerful submission of free men, or the iron rod of a tyrant compel
the trembling homage of slaves.

  Be not deceived. The rocks and hills of New England will remain till
  the last conflagration. But let the Sabbath be profaned
  with impunity, to worship of God be abandoned, the government
  and religions instruction of children neglected, and the streams
  of intemperance be permitted to flow, and her glory will
  depart. The wall of fire will no longer surround her, and the
munition of rocks will no longer be her defence.

  The hand that overturns our doors and temples, is the hand of Death
unbarring the gate of pandemonium, and letting loose upon our land
the crimes and miseries of hell.

  If the Most High should stand aloof and cast not a single ingredient
  into our cup of trembling, it would seem to be full of
  superlative woe. But He will not stand aloof. As we shall have begun
  an open controversy with Him, he will contend
  openly with us.

  And, never, since the earth stood, has it been so fearful a thing
for nations to fall into the hands of the living God.

  The day of vengeance is at hand; the day of judgment has come;
  the great earthquakes which sinks Babylon is making the
  nations, and the waves of the mighty commotions are dashing
  upon every shore. Is this, then, a time to remove the foundations,
  when the earth itself is shaken?

  Is this a time to forfeit the protection of God, when the hearts
of men are failing them for fear, and for looking after those things
which are to come upon the earth?

  Is this a time to run upon His neck and the thick bosses of His
  buckler, when the nations are drinking blood, and fainting,
  and passing away in His wrath?

  Is this the time to throw away the shield of faith, when His arrows
are drunk with the blood of the slain?

  --to cut from the anchor of hope, when the clouds are collecting, and the
  sea and the waves are roaring and thunders are uttering their
  voices, and lightnings blazing in the heavens, and the great hail
is falling from heaven upon men, and every mountain, sea, and island
is fleeing in dismay from the face of an incensed God!

  L. Beecher.

  
  
  XLIV.
  

  ON THE IRISH DISTURBANCE BILL.

  I do not rise to fawn or cringe to this House; I do not rise to
  supplicate you to be merciful towards the nation to which
  I belong,--toward a nation which though subject to England,
  is yet distinct from it.

  It is a distinct nation; it has been treated as such by this country,
as may be proved by history, and by seven hundred years of tyranny.

  I call upon this House, as you value the liberty of England, not
  to allow this nefarious bill to pass.
  In it are involved the liberties of England, the liberty of the press,
  and.
  of every other institution dear to Englishmen.
  Against the bill I protest, in the name of the Irish people, and
in the face of Heaven.

  I treat with scorn the puny and pitiful assertions, that grievances
are not to be complained of,--that our redress is not to be agitated;
for, in such cases, remonstrances cannot be too strong, agitation
cannot be too violent, to show to the world with what injustice our
fair claims are met, and under what tyranny the people suffer.

  The clause which does away with trial by jury,--what, in the name
  of Heaven is it, if it is not the establishment of a
  revolutionary tribunal? It drives the judge from his
  bench; it does away with that which is more sacred than the
  throne itself--that for which your king reigns,
  your lords deliberate, your commons assemble.

  If ever I doubted before of the success of our agitation for repeal,
this bill,--this infamous bill,--the way in which it has been
received by the House; the manner in which its opponents have been
treated; the personalities to which they have been subjected; the
yells with which one of them has this night been greeted,--all these
things dissipate my doubts, and tell me of its complete and early
triumph.

  Do you think those yells will be forgotten? Do you suppose their echo
  will not reach the plains of my injured and insulted
  country; that they will not be whispered in her green
  valleys, and heard from her lofty hills? O, they will
  be heard there!--yes; and they will not be forgotten.
  The youth of Ireland will bound with indignation,--they will
  say "We are eight millions; and you treat us thus,
  as through we were no more to your country than the isle
  of Guernsey or of Jersey!"
  I have done my duty. I stand acquitted to my conscience
  and my country. I have opposed this measure throughout;
  and I now protest against it as harsh, oppressive, uncalled for,
unjust;--as establishing an infamous precedent, by retaliating crime
against crime;--as tyrannous,--cruelly and vindictively tyrannous!

     D. O'Connel.

     
     
     XLV.

     
     CÆSAR'S PAUSE UPON THE RUBICON.
     

     An advocate of Cæsar's character, speaking of his benevolent
     disposition, and of the reluctance with which he entered into the
     civil war, observes, "How long did he pause upon the brink of the
     Rubicon!" How came he to the brink of that river?

     How dared he cross it? Shall private men respect the boundaries of
     private property, and shall a man pay no respect to the
     boundaries of his country's rights? How dared he cross that
     river?--Oh! but he paused upon the brink!

He should leave perished on the brink, ere he had crossed it!

Why did he pause?

Why does a man's heart palpitate when he is on the point of committing an
unlawful deed? Why does the very murderer,--his victim sleeping before
him, and his glaring eye taking measure of the blow,--strike wide
of the mortal part?

--Because of conscience! 'T was that made Cæsar pause upon the brink of
the Rubicon.
Compassion!--What compassion?

The compassion of an assassin, that feels a momentary shudder as his weapon
begins to cut!

Cæsar paused upon the brink of the Rubicon!--What was the Rubicon?--The
boundary of Cæsar's province. From what did it separate his province?
From his country. Was that country a desert? No: it was cultivated
and fertile; rich and populous! Its sons were men of genius,
spirit, and generosity! Its daughters were lovely, susceptible, and
chaste! Friendship was its inhabitant!--Love was its inhabitant!--Domestic
affection was its inhabitant!--Liberty was its inhabitant!--All bounded
by the stream of the Rubicon! What was Cæsar, that stood upon the brink
of that stream?

--A traitor, bringing war and pestilence into the heart of that country!
No wonder that he paused! No wonder if, in his imagination, wrought upon
by his conscience, he had beheld blood instead of water; and
heard groans instead of murmurs.

No wonder if some Gorgon horror had turned him into stone upon the
spot.--But, no!--he cried, "The die is cast!" He plunged!--He crossed!--and
Rome was free no more.
J. S. Knowles.

XLVI.

GUSTAVUS VASA TO THE DALECARLIANS.

Swedes! countrymen! behold at last, after a thousand dangers past, your
chief, Gustavus, here! Long have I sighed 'mid foreign lands; long have
I roamed in foreign lands; at length, 'mid Swedish hearts and hands,
I grasp a Swedish spear! Yet, looking forth, although I see none
but the fearless and the free, sad thoughts the sight inspires; for
where, I think, on Swedish ground, save where these mountains frown
around, can that best heritage be found--the freedom of our sires? Yes,
Sweden pines beneath the yoke; the galling chain our fathers broke is
round our country now!

On perjured craft and ruthless guilt his power a tyrant Dane has
built, and Sweden's crown, all blood-bespilt, rests on a foreign brow.
On you your country turns her eyes--on you, on you, for aid relies,
scions of noblest stem! The foremost place in rolls of fame, by right
your fearless fathers claim; yours is the glory of their name,--'t
is yours to equal them.

As rushing down, when winter reigns, resistless to the shaking plains,
the torrent tears its way, and all that bars its onward course sweeps
to the sea with headlong force, so swept your sires the Dane and Norse;--can
ye do less than they? Rise! Reässert your ancient pride, and down
the hills a living tide of fiery valor pour. Let but the storm of battle
lower, back to his den the foe will cower;--then, then shall Freedom's
glorious hour strike for our land once more! What! silent motionless,
ye stand?

Gleams not an eye? Moves not a hand? Think ye to fly your fate? Or till
some better cause be given, wait ye?--Then wait! till, banished, driven,
ye fear to meet the face of Heaven;--till ye are slaughtered, wait. But
no! your kindling hearts gainsay the thought. Hark! hear that bloodhound's
bay! Yon blazing village see! Rise, countrymen! Awake! Defy the
haughty Dane!

Your battlecry be Freedom! We will do or die! On! Death or victory!

XLVII.

NOBILITY OF LABOR.

I call upon those whom I address to stand up for the nobility of
labor. It is Heaven's great ordinance for human improvement. Let not
that great ordinance be broken down. What do I say? It is broken
down; and it has been broken down for ages. Let it then be built up
again; here, if anywhere, on these shores of a new world, of a new
civilization But how, I may be asked, is it broken down?

Do not men toil? it may be said. They do indeed toil; but they too
generally do it because they must. Many submit to it as in some
sort a degrading necessity; and they desire nothing so much on earth
as escape from it. They fulfil the great law of labor in the letter,
but break it in the spirit; fulfill it with the muscle, but break it with
the mind. To some field of labor, mental or manual, every idler should
fasten, as a chosen and coveted theatre of improvement. But so
he is not impelled to do, under the teachings of our imperfect
civilization. On the contrary, he sits down, folds his hands, and
blesses himself in his idleness.

This way of thinking is the heritage of the absurd and unjust feudal
system under which serfs labored, and gentlemen spent their lives in
fighting and feasting. It is time that this opprobrium of toil were
done away. Ashamed to toil, art thou? Ashamed of thy dingy work-shop
and dusty labor-field; of thy hard hand scarred with service more
honorable than that of war; of thy soiled and weather-stained garments,
on which mother Nature has embroidered, midst sun and rain, midst fire
and steam, her own heraldic honors? Ashamed of these tokens and titles,
and envious of the flaunting robes of imbecile idleness and vanity? It
is treason to Nature; it is impiety to Heaven; it is breaking Heaven's
great ordinance.

Toil, I repeat toil--either of the brain, of the heart, or of the hand,
is the only true manhood, the only true nobility.
O. Dewey.

XLVIII.

SALATHIEL TO TITUS.

Son of Vespasian, I am at this hour a poor man, as I may in the next
be an exile or a slave: I have ties to life as strong as ever were
bound round the heart of man.

I stand here a suppliant for the life of one whose loss would embitter
mine!

Yet, not for wealth unlimited, for the safety of my family, for the
life of the noble victim that is now standing at the place of torture,
dare I abandon, dare I think the impious thought of abandoning the
cause of the City of Holiness.

Titus! in the name of that Being, to whom the wisdom of the earth is
folly, I adjure you to beware. Jerusalem is sacred.

Her crimes have often wrought her misery; often has she been trampled
by the armies of the stranger. But she is still the City of the
Omnipotent; and never was blow inflicted on her by man, that was not
terribly repaid.

The Assyrian came, the mightiest power of the world; he plundered
her temple, and led her people into captivity.

How long was it before his empire was a dream, his dynasty extinguished
in blood, and an enemy on his throne?

The Persian came; from her protector he turned into her oppressor; and
his empire was swept away like the dust of the desert! The Syrian
smote her; the smiter died in agonies of remorse; and where is his
kingdom now?
The Egyptian smote her; and who now sits on the throne of the
Ptolemies?

Pompey came: the invincible, the conqueror of a thousand cities, the
light of Rome; the lord of Asia, riding on the very wings of victory.
But he profaned her temple; and from that hour he went down,--down,
like a millstone plunged into the ocean!

Blind counsel, rash ambition, womanish fears were upon the great
statesman and warrior of Rome.

Where does he sleep?

What sands were colored with his blood? The universal conqueror died a
slave, by the hand of a slave! Crassus came at the head of the legions;
he plundered the sacred vessels of the sanctuary. Vengeance followed
him, and he was cursed by the curse of God. Where are the bones of the
robber and his host? Go, tear them from the jaws of the lion and the
wolf of Parthia,--their fitting tomb!

You, too: son of Vespasian, may be commissioned for the punishment of a
stiff-necked and rebellious people. You may scourge our naked vice by
force of arms; and then you may return to your own land exulting
in the conquest of the fiercest enemy of Rome. But shall you escape the
common fate of the instrument of evil? Shall you see a peaceful old
age? Shall a son of yours ever sit upon the throne?
After the performance
we went to supper at Delmonico's, and I was perfectly fascinated by the
company and surroundings, going home long past midnight a different man
than I had last left it.

The next day Ed came to the office and invited me to lunch, where, after
making some disparaging remarks about the country cut of my garments, he
offered to introduce me to his tailor, who was never in a hurry for his
money. After business that day we walked uptown together, and, prompted
by Ed, I ordered $150 worth of garments, then went to his outfitter and
ordered nearly an equal amount in shirts, ties, gloves, etc.

One amusing result was that when, a few days later, I walked down to our
office, comme il faut in garb, my employers raised my salary to $30 a
week, but this left me poorer than when I had husbanded my poor little
$10. Soon after, piloted by Ed, I ventured $50 on a margin in gold.
Unluckily, I won, invested again and again, and within fourteen days was
$284 ahead. I paid my tailor and outfitter's bill, bought a $100 watch
on credit, and gave a wine supper on borrowed money. Soon after this I
went to board at the old St. Nicholas, the then fashionable hotel. From
that time I began to drift more and more away from home influences.

Soon after the wine supper episode I threw up my position, and Ed and I
started on our own account under the name of E. Weed & Co. My partner's
parents were wealthy, and his father had been well known in the street,
which fact gave us standing.

The years I speak of were fortunate ones for Wall street, stocks of
every kind on the boom, the general wealth of the country massing up by
leaps and bounds, and every kind of speculative enterprise being
launched. Our firm history was the usual one of broker firms in that
tumultuous arena--the Wall street of those days--commissions in plenty,
a large income, but one's bank account never growing, for what was made
by day in the wild excitement of shifting values was thrown away amid
wilder scenes at night. Those, too, were, indeed, the flush times for
the professional gambler; for men were not content unless they burned
the candle at both ends. Day faro banks were open everywhere around the
Exchange, and enormous sums were nightly staked in the uptown games.
These were everywhere--all protected, and the proprietors invested their
money for rent, fixtures, etc., with as much confidence, and kept their
doors open as freely, as if embarked in a legitimate speculation.
Hundreds who spent the business hours of the day in the mad excitement
of the Exchange flocked around the green cloth at night, devoting the
same intensity of thought and brain to the turning of a card which
earlier in the day they had given to the market reports of the world.
Small wonder that death cut such wide swaths in the army of brokers.
Statistics show that it was more fatal to belong to that army than to an
army in the field.

Ed loved to have me with him, and I used to accompany him to a game,
then quite famous, run by John Morrissey, who later became a member of
Congress. At this time I never ventured a single bet, and did not like
to visit the place. But Ed would beg me to go, and always promised
faithfully not to remain more than twenty minutes. Of course, his twenty
minutes would lengthen into hours. Frequently I would take a chair into
a corner and go to sleep until he left the game, that being almost any
hour between midnight and morning. As usual, in such places, an elegant
supper was served free at midnight. The proprietor was always rather
attentive to me, and, to give him the credit due, seemed anxious that I
should not play. At supper he always reserved the chair next to himself
for me. One night while standing beside the roulette wheel, no one was
playing, and the dealer was idly whirling the ball, a sudden impulse
seized me, and the ball then rolling, I pulled a $20 bill from my pocket
and threw it down on the red remarking, "I'll lose that to pay for my
suppers." Unhappily I won, and, laughing, turned to the dealer and said:
"Here, give me my money. I am done," and a moment later went out with my
friend, fully determined never more to gamble. But, being in there the
next night, I, of course, ventured again. Again I was so unfortunate as
to win, and within a short time staked and lost or won nightly. But
something worse than gambling was ahead of me, just at the very door.


CHAPTER III.

A LICENSED PIRATE.


We had latterly somewhat neglected business--our real business being at
night, when we made the pursuit of pleasure hard work. Soon the finances
of our firm not only ran low, but were on three several occasions
exhausted, so that we not only had recourse to borrowing, but were
barely saved from bankruptcy by liberal donations from Ed's parents. His
father was a fine, jolly old gentleman, and took it quite a matter of
course that it was his duty to help us off the rocks when we ran on
them. My partner took everything easy, but I, having no indulgent parent
behind me ever ready to draw a check, began to be uneasy over the
financial situation. Strangely enough, however, it never occurred to me
to cut down my personal expenses, and I continued living at the same
extravagant rate as when money was plenty--dining and wining and being
dined and wined. Just here an important character, one destined to have
an influence for evil on my future life, came upon the scene, and I will
halt for a moment in my narrative to give some account of him.

This man was James Irving, popularly known as Jimmy Irving, chief of the
New York Detective Force, and a bad-hearted, worthless scamp he was. I
was with several friends in the Fifth Avenue Hotel one cold January
night when he came in, and one of our party, knowing him, introduced us.
He was a man of medium height, rather heavy set, blond mustache,
pleasant eyes, but with a weak mouth and chin, and a flushed face,
telling a tale of dissipation. It was when Boss Tweed ruled supreme in
New York and the whole administration was honeycombed with corruption.
Except under similar political conditions could such a man attain to so
responsible an office in a great city as that of chief of the detective
force--a position which at that time invested him with all but
autocratic power. An old rounder and barroom loafer, without one
attribute of true manliness and not possessed of any quality which would
point him out as a fit man for the place. Nevertheless, when the
position became vacant his political pull caused his selection. From
being a mere detective on the staff he became chief. And truly this
meant something in those days. The great civil war had but lately ended,
and the country was still reeling from the mighty conflict. The flush
times, resultant from the enormous money issue of the Government, kept
everything booming. The foundations of society were shaken and vice no
longer hid itself in the dark caves and dens of the great city. The
Tenderloin, with its multifarious and widereaching influence for evil,
was then created, and the police of the city reaped a royal revenue from
its thousand dens of vice for their protection. To be captain of the
Tenderloin precinct meant an extra weekly income of $1,000 at least. He
had the lion's share; about an equal amount went to Headquarters, to be
divided between the Chief of Police and the gang, Irving being one of
the half dozen who had pull enough to get in the ring. The Tenderloin
lieutenant, roundsman and sergeant came in for about $100, $50 and $25 a
week, while the common patrolman got what blackmail he could on his own
account from the unhappy women of the street. These were considered
lawful game, and woe betide the poor unfortunate who refused to pay the
tax. Too well she found it meant a violent arrest, accompanied with
brutal treatment, a night in a filthy cell, and then to be dragged
before the magistrate, who was some ward heeler, hand in glove with the
police. The form of a trial and a speedy "six months on the island" from
the lips of the judge followed.

From Spring street to Tenth, Broadway was full of night
games--faro--each and all paying large sums for protection. This money,
however, did not all go to Police Headquarters, there being a host of
parasites aside from the police. The shoulder-hitter politicians, each
with his pull, and each having a claim to his percentage. Most of the
Broadway games were known as square games, but then there was the host
of skin games in the Bowery, Chatham square, Houston, Prince and other
streets. The Eighth Ward and all Broadway were considered the lawful
happy hunting grounds for Headquarters detectives, and this by long
prescription. Outside of that they had no claim save only to a
percentage from the Tenderloin. But the protection money paid by the
swindling games around Chatham square, Bayard street, and the whole
length of the Bowery, by a sort of sacred prescription, belonged to the
captains of those precincts, save only that part absorbed by the
politicians of the district who had a pull. These usually were the
Aldermen and Councilmen with their henchmen.

[Illustration: "PULLING OUT A $20 BILL, I THREW IT DOWN."--Page 27.]

But to return to my friend, Capt. Jim Irving, who, before our party
separated, had opened three bottles of wine. Before leaving I had asked
him to call on me at the St. Nicholas. The next day he came and invited
me to take a drive with him to Fordham the following Sunday. On Sunday
he appeared behind a fast trotting horse, and in every respect an
elegant turnout. During our drive he casually remarked that he had paid
a thousand dollars for the rig, and as his pay was some two thousand
dollars per annum I easily figured that his rig and diamond pin had cost
him about a year's salary. It was a lovely morning, not cold, but
bracing, just the day for a ride. We started for Fordham, but changed
our minds and drove to the High Bridge, through Harlem lane, and well
out into Westchester County. Returning, we stopped at O'Brien's Hotel
for dinner. We fared sumptuously the whole day through, our dinner being
particularly fine, my companion paying for everything, and really it was
all highly enjoyable. He had a vast fund of anecdote, and many strange
stories of city life and adventure, which naturally would be expected
from one in his position. Many of those we passed or met during the day
were personally known to him, and some, both women as well as men, who
were then clothed in purple and fine linen, had histories, and many had
at some period of their lives looked on life from the seamy side, having
passed through strange vicissitudes.

Soon after dark we returned to my hotel, and after dinner, lighting our
cigars, we started for Police Headquarters. There he attended to some
routine business, having introduced me to two of his chief detectives.
Many who read this will recognize the men, but in this narrative they
will be known as Stanley and White. I will not further describe them
now; as they will appear in the story from time to time, the reader will
be able to judge what manner of men they were.

For the next eight weeks my life went on much the same as usual. In our
business we made some money, but by one unfortunate investment lost our
entire capital, and what proved worse for me, my partner's health began
to fail. Dissipation, late and heavy dinners and irregular hours began
to break a not over-strong constitution; consequently one Saturday he
abruptly announced his intention of withdrawing from the partnership to
take a trip to Europe. There was nothing to divide save the furniture in
our office, which he presented to me. The following Wednesday he sailed
with two members of his family. I saw him off, bidding him what proved
to be a last farewell. I left the wharf feeling very lonely and
miserable. It may be well to remark here that he died a year later in
Italy, one more victim of a fast life, while I was spared, but took no
warning from his fate. In truth, I was in the Primrose Way, which is
ever found a most tormenting and unhappy thoroughfare.

How I grieved all through the twenty years of captivity that I had not
had the moral courage to start afresh upon a basis of truth, sobriety
and honorable endeavor.

Instead of cutting down my expenses, I rather became more extravagant,
fearing my companions would suspect I was pressed for money. How much
more manly had I called them together and told them we must part
company.

Meeting Irving from time to time, he was most flattering in his
attentions, while I was young enough and silly enough to be pleased with
his notice. One evening about this time I met him while coming out of
Wallack's Theatre. Shaking hands warmly, he invited me to supper at what
was then known as upper Delmonico's. After supper, walking to the St.
Denis Hotel at Broadway and 11th street, we found Detectives Stanley and
White. Here wine was ordered, and long after midnight we parted, they
first having exacted a promise to dine with them the following night at
Delmonico's, at the same time stating that they wished to make me a
business proposition.

The next evening White came in and said we would dine at a restaurant at
Sixth avenue and 31st street, instead of at Delmonico's; then he left
me, upon my promise to be on hand.

At eleven I arrived, and entering the restaurant was at once recognized
by a waiter, evidently on the lookout, and ushered into a private room
upstairs. Only White had arrived, but soon Irving and Stanley came, and
supper was ordered. With such gentry as these wine is always in order.
Then they became confidential, and the conversation turned to the
subject of making money. Very skillfully they extracted the confession
that I had none. When excited by the talk and the wine I cried out, "By
heaven, I want money!" Stanley grasped my hand and said: "Of course you
do; a man's a fool without it." Irving interjected: "Are you game to do
us a favor and make ten thousand for yourself?" "But how?" I gasped. "Go
to Europe and negotiate some stolen bonds we have, will you?"

For $10,000 to become accessory to a crime!

It was an appalling proposition, and I shrank from it with an aversion I
could not conceal any more than he and his confederates could conceal
their chagrin over the way I took it, and over the fact that their
secret had been imparted to another. More wine was ordered, and before
we parted I had promised not only secrecy, but, worse still, I had also
promised to consider the proposition and give my answer the following
night.

As my evil genus would have it, that very morning I had a visit in my
office from the agent of my landlord, requesting arrears of rent, and
from a tradesman whom I was owing, demanding immediate payment of an
overdue bill.

Pressed for money as I was, the $10,000 seemed a large sum and offered
an easy way out of my difficulties. I shall never forget that day nor
how its slow minutes dragged during the mental struggle. Time after time
I said: "What could I not do with $10,000?" How vast the possibilities
before me with that sum at my command! Then, after all, had not the
owner of these bonds lost them forever, and why should not I have a
share instead of letting these villain detectives keep all? And through
all I kept saying to myself: "This, of course, is only speculation. I
will never do this thing."

At last the stars came out, and I started for a long walk alone up
Broadway to Fifth avenue and into the Park. Since that Park was formed
few men have ever passed its walks in whose bosoms raged such a tumult
as in mine. I was young, in love with pleasure, and poverty seemed a
fearful thing. I kept saying; "I cannot do this thing!" and then I would
add: "How am I to keep up appearances, and how am I to pay my debts?"
Unhappily, I had taken an enemy into the citadel. In the misery of the
struggle I drank heavily.

In my excitement I exaggerated my poverty until it seemed impersonated
and assumed the guise of an enemy threatening to enslave me. From 8
o'clock to 11 I paced that mall, and then left it to keep my appointment
with Irving & Co., with one thought surging through my brain, and that
was that I dared not be poor, the result being that before we parted, to
their renewed question: "Will you do this for us?" "Of course I will!" I
cried, and my feet had slipped a good many steps further down the
Primrose Way to death.

[Illustration: BURNING RETURNED BANK NOTES.]

[Illustration: IN FORT LAFAYETTE, NEW YORK HARBOR.]

[Illustration: IN FORT LAFAYETTE, NEW YORK HARBOR.]


CHAPTER IV.

FOOLS STUMBLING ON FORTUNES.


The present generation has become tolerably familiar with defalcations
and robberies involving enormous sums. Previous to 1861 they were
comparatively unknown, the reason being that the currency of the country
was strictly limited. There were absolutely no Government bonds or
currency, while the few bonds issued by corporations were not usually
made payable to bearer, and, therefore, were not negotiable, and were of
no use to the robber. But in 1861, to meet the expenses of the war, the
State banks were taxed out of existence and our present national
currency system came into being. In addition to the enormous issue of
greenbacks, bonds payable to bearer, amounting to hundreds of millions,
were issued by the general Government, by the individual States,
counties, towns and cities, all becoming popular investments.
Patriotism, and profit as well, led banks, corporations and individuals
all over the world to invest surplus funds in bonds, those of the
Government being most popular of all. The various issues authorized by
act of Congress were known as "seven-thirties," "ten-forties,"
"five-twenties," etc., these terms denoting either the rate of interest
or the period of years, dating from the first issue, wherein it was
optional with the Government to redeem them. Everywhere, at home, in the
theatres and public resorts not less than on the Exchange, were heard
animated discussions about "seven-thirties" and "ten-forties." The
business of the express companies of the United States took a new phase,
and for the first time in their history they began to be the carriers of
vast sums from city to city.

Then it was that those gentlemen who work without the pale of the law
discovered new prospects of wealth, and realized that even to crack a
safe or vault of a private firm would be rewarded by a find of bonds
that might amply repay all risks of robbery under police protection,
while to execute a successful raid on a car or even an express delivery
wagon on the street would mean wealth. To burglarize the vaults of a
bank meant, if undetected, anything from opening a magnificent bar or
hotel in New York to a steam yacht and Winter cruises in the tropics and
Summer nights on the Mediterranean.

The first coup in this line, which at once became famous, was startling
in its ease and magnitude. It was known, and still is, as "The Lord Bond
Robbery." Lord was a very wealthy man, who had inherited his millions.
His office was in Broad street, where he managed his estates. He had
invested $1,200,000 in seven-thirty bonds, all payable to bearer. For
the thief, if he had any knowledge of finance, and knew how to negotiate
them, such a sum as this in bonds was better than the same amount in
gold, it being more portable. One million two hundred thousand dollars
in gold would weigh upward of a ton, and would be difficult to handle,
but that sum in bonds would hardly fill a carpet-sack. In our day, with
safety deposit vaults everywhere, it seems strange that any sane man
would keep so vast a sum in an old-fashioned vault in his private
office, but Lord did so. His office was a very quiet one, with but few
visitors, there being no business transacted in it but that of his
estate.

[Illustration: "BY HEAVEN, I WANT MONEY."--Page 33.]

At this time there were three or four gangs in New York, all well known
and friendly with the police--that is, some or all were more or less
under "protection," and had pulls at Police Headquarters. But the pull
could not be depended upon at all times, particularly if the robbery
made a noise and the press took it up. Then there would be violent kicks
at Headquarters, and a general all-around scramble to get the thieves,
and so far as safe, stick to more or less of the plunder. The gang that
got Mr. Lord's bonds was what in police and thieves' slang was known as
"On the Office," so named because they went around visiting offices in
the business part of the city, one of the gang going in on pretense of
making some inquiry and so engaging the attention of one of the clerks.
Then the second member would come in and endeavor to attract the
attention of any remaining clerks, while the third would try to get in
without attracting attention, and, if unnoticed by those now busy
talking, would slip around behind the counter to the money drawer or
vault and carry off any cash box or package visible which appeared to be
of value. This gang consisted of three men, Hod Ennis, Charley Rose and
a man by the name of Bullard, afterward made notorious by engineering
the Boylston Bank robbery in Boston.

In the absence of Lord the office was under charge of two men,
old-fashioned fellows, who had grown gray in the service of the Lord
estate. The bonds were all in a tin box something larger than a soap
box. The interest on the bonds being due, the box had been taken out in
order to cut off the coupons, and was left in the door of the open
vault. None of these circumstances was known to these men; in fact,
while "looking for chances," they stumbled on the prize. The night
previous they had spent at a well-known faro game and had lost their
last dollar. At 9 o'clock in the morning they met at a saloon on Prince
street, where none but crooks consorted, and, borrowing a dollar from
the barkeeper, they took a South Ferry stage and started downtown on one
of many similar piratical expeditions. Of course, each paid his own
fare, as from the moment of starting until their return they appeared to
be strangers. Alighting at the ferry, they started up Front street, Rose
in lead, he being pilot-fish. From Front they turned into Broad, and up
Broad to No. 22, where there were a number of offices. Rose mounted the
staircase, it now being five minutes to 10, Bullard coming close behind.
Rose entered the first office to the left at the head of the stairs,
which was Lord's, and at once inquired by name for a member of a
well-known firm located a few doors down across the street. Lord was
away. The clerk, in his desire to serve the gentleman, went to the front
windows to point out the location of the firm. Bullard, who had lingered
in the hall, entered, leaving the office door open behind him, and at
once engaged the attention of the remaining clerk with a letter. Ennis,
seeing the coast clear, slipped in, went softly to the vault, and
perceiving the tin box, seized and carried it out, unseen by all save
his companions. They, seeing him safely off, found a quick pretext to
follow without any suspicion arising in the minds of the clerks. As a
matter of fact, they did not miss the box for nearly an hour.

Ennis carried it to Peck Slip, closely followed by his chums, and there
the three boarded a Second avenue car, all unsuspecting as to what a
prize they had. At the corner of the Bowery and Bayard street they got
out and entered that old red brick hotel on the corner--I forget the
name. They were acquainted and occasionally rendezvoused there, hiring
and paying for the room. They speedily opened the box, and were amazed
to find it packed full of bonds--five hundreds, thousands,
five-thousands, all payable to bearer. The very magnitude of their
plunder terrified them, and, knowing as much as I do about such men, I
am free to affirm that if a buyer of stolen property had appeared on the
scene and said: "Here, I'll give you $10,000 apiece," they would have
closed the deal at once and turned over the bonds, glad to get them off
their hands. What they did was this: Rose went out and bought a
second-hand carpet bag and put the bonds into it, save sixty
five-hundreds, which they divided, and Bullard resolved to leave the bag
with a friend of his. This friend, strangely enough, was the widow of a
policeman and sister of two others. But she knew nothing of Bullard's
character, believing him to be a workingman. Ennis and Rose were two
ignorant fellows, without the remotest idea of how to negotiate bonds,
but Bullard had, and, realizing how important it was to get some cash
before the thing was noised around, he started out to sell some,
agreeing to meet Rose and Ennis at No. 100 Third avenue, a large beer
saloon then, as now.

Going to different brokers' offices, he disposed of ten for $5,000
without any difficulty, and stopped at that. He met his two friends and
divided the $5,000 with them. Then, as a natural consequence with that
class of men, all got drunk, and before the next morning had spent,
loaned or gambled away every dollar of the $5,000.

I remember perfectly the tremendous sensation created when a rumor of
the robbery spread in Wall street and over the city, and what mystified
and intensified the matter was the fact that no complaint had been made
to the police. When Mr. Lord was interviewed by them and by reporters he
would not admit that he had been robbed, and said if he had been he
would prefer to lose the money rather than have a fuss made about the
affair.

This was really the first of many great bond robberies, and it struck
the popular fancy; but if it stirred Wall street greatly, who shall
describe the frenzy of excitement that broke out at 300 Mulberry
street--Police Headquarters--when the first vague rumors of a gigantic
robbery were fully confirmed, and it became known that Hod Ennis and his
gang had a million and more of plunder?

All rings and pulls and gangs were smashed, combined and recombined
again, while each and all were in an agony of fear lest the booty should
be returned to the owner--minus a percentage divided between the gang
and the ring, or sold to some clever fence, who would plant them away
safely and sell them in Europe from time to time, keeping all for
himself and they to have no share. What visions of diamond pins, of
eight or twelve carats, all Brazilian stones; of swift, high-stepping
horses; of the heaven of Harlem lane on Sunday afternoons, with a bottle
or two under the vest, haunted the sleep of all the detective force. I
say the police knew Hod Ennis and his gang had stolen the bonds, for in
those days there was not a gang of confidence men, card sharpers, bank
burglars, counterfeiters or forgers traveling the country but that the
gang and every member of it was well known to the Police Department of
each of our large cities. Whenever a job was done a score of detectives
all over the country could say such and such a gang did the job, and
they were almost always right.

Whether there was "something in" for the force to arrest and convict or
not, as a matter of fact the thieves were sooner or later hocus-pocussed
out of their share, either by the police, by some untrustworthy fence,
or by some lawyer who was pitched upon to work back the securities on a
percentage. In case the thief succeeded in saving part of the proceeds
he immediately lost it at faro or in revelry, and then risked his
liberty for more.

I know two men who to-day walk the streets of New York, the types of
conservative respectability, members of many fashionable clubs, who, in
the sixties, were known as fences, and were always ready to invest cash
for stolen bonds. Both of these men compromised with their conscience by
beating down the price and giving the thieves but a moiety of their
value. Both of them have their fads; one is a connoisseur in violins,
the other has a penchant for orchids, and has much local fame for the
rarities in his collection.

Before midnight of the day of the robbery it became known to the force
and many of the hangers-on of the gambling saloons and barrooms of the
Eighth Ward that Hod Ennis and his gang had money, and it was surmised
that it must be from the Lord business. In the mean time Bullard took
the bag of bonds up to Norwalk, Ct., and placed them for safe-keeping
with a trusty friend, first taking out one hundred bonds of five hundred
each and fifty of one thousand each, and, returning to the city, divided
them with his comrades. During his absence the photographs of the three
men had been shown at Police Headquarters to the two clerks, but they
were unable to identify them.

Within the next few days the $100,000 in bonds were completely
dissipated; some were sold to buyers of stolen goods for a percentage of
the value, some were lost at the gambling games--mostly at Morrissey's,
or at Mike Murray's on Broadway, near Spring street, and probably some
went Mulberry street way. Matters were thickening, and, fearing arrest,
Ennis fled to Canada, Bullard to Europe and Rose went West to
California. Eventually Ennis was convicted of a crime committed some
time before. He was sentenced to a long imprisonment, and came out an
old, broken-down man, without a dollar and without a friend. Rose was
sentenced to five years for another crime, and then disappeared. Bullard
settled down in Paris. He afterward returned and planned the Boylston
Bank affair in Boston. With his share of the plunder he went back to
Paris and opened an American bar at the Grand Hotel and flourished for
some years; but, wanting money, he committed a robbery in Belgium, was
arrested, and is now serving a long sentence for the same; no doubt, if
he survives, he will emerge friendless, penniless, a stranger in a
strange world.

If I were inclined to indulge in reminiscences, what a catalogue could
be given of men who had, like myself, drifted into the Primrose Way, and
all, or nearly all, have paid a terrible penalty for their
wrongdoing--none more terrible than myself. As for our violin virtuoso,
he seems to have conquered fate. So, too, with the connoisseur in
orchids; but let us wait until the end before we say all is well with
them.

Some time later on, meeting one of these detectives, now dead, who then
ranked as the best in New York, in the confidence of the bankers, he
said: "I am getting old and am now working for reputation, and
consequently am not taking any more percentages. Of course, I don't
molest any of my old friends, but those who are not under protection I
run in and send them up the river (Sing Sing) as fast as I get them to
rights."

This need not be considered a condemnation of all detectives, for there
were, even in my time, a few honest ones of the Pinkerton and John
Curtin class--the latter being now one of San Francisco's most reliable,
who, by unusually considerate judgment, has made honorable citizens of a
very large number of clerks whom he had been called upon to detect and
arrest. This he accomplished by extracting a confession in writing,
filing it among his secret papers, then saying to the trembling clerk:
"I shall have you reinstated in your position, but if you go wrong again
this confession will be made public."

The following incident will further enlighten the reader as to the way
things were done in those good old days:

When Boss Tweed was in the full zenith of his power and glory and of the
wealth so easily acquired by certain methods, his daughter was married.
Theirs was already the spirit of American institutions; the spirit of
Christian freedom of a temperate, regulated freedom, of a rational civil
obedience. For such a people the sword, the law of violence, did and
could do nothing but sever the bonds which bound her colonial wards
to their unnatural guardian. They redeemed their pledge, sword in hand;
but the sword left them as it found them, unchanged in character,
freemen in thought and in deed, instinct with the immortal spirit of
American institutions.

T. S Grimké.

VI.

DUTY OF LITERARY MEN TO THEIR COUNTRY.

We cannot honor our country with too deep a reverence; we cannot love
her with an affection too pure and fervent; we cannot serve her
with an energy of purpose or a faithfulness of zeal too steadfast
and ardent.

And what is our country? It is not the East, with her hills and her
valleys, with her countless sails and the rocky ramparts of her shores.
It is not the North, with her thousand villages, and her harvest-home,
with her frontiers of the lake and the ocean. It is not the West,
with her forrest-sea and her inland-isles, with her luxuriant
expanses, clothed in the verdant corn, with her beautiful Ohio and
her majestic Missouri.

  Nor is it yet the South, opulent in the mimic
  snow of the cotton, in the rich plantations
  of the rustling cane, and in the golden robes
  of the rice-field. What are these but the
  sister families of one greater, better,
  holier family,--our country?
  
  I come not here to speak the dialect, or to
  give the counsels of the patriot-statesman.
  But I come, a patriot scholar, to vindicate
  the rights and to plead for the interests
  of American Literature. And be assured, that
  we cannot, as patriot-scholars, think too highly of that country,
or sacrifice too much for her.

And let us never forget, let us rather remember with a religious
awe,--that the union of these States is indispensable to our
literature, as it is to our national independence and civil
liberties,--to our prosperity, happiness, and improvement.

If, indeed, we desire to behold a literature like that which has
sculptured with so much energy of expression, which has painted
so faithfully and vividly, the crimes, the vices, the follies of
ancient and modern Europe;--if we desire that our land should furnish
for the orator and the novelist, for the painter and the poet, age
after age, the wild and romantic scenery of war; the glittering
march of armies, and the revelry of the camp; the shrieks and
blasphemies, and all the horrors of the battle-field; the desolation
of the harvest, and the burning cottage; the storm, the sack, and
the ruin of cities;--if we desire to unchain the furious passions
of jealousy and selfishness, of hatred, revenge, and ambition, those
lions that now sleep harmless in their den;--if we desire that the
lake, the river, the ocean, should blush with the blood of brothers;
that the winds should waft from the land to the sea, from the sea
to the land, the roar and the smoke of battle, that the very
mountain-tops should become altars for the sacrifice of brothers;--if
we desire that these, and such as these,--the elements, to an
incredible extent, of the literature of the Old World,--should be
the elements of our literature; then, but then only, let us hurl
from its pedestal the majestic statue of our Union, and scatter its
fragments over all our land.

But, if we covet for our country the noblest, purest, loveliest
literature the world has ever seen,--such a literature as shall honor
God, and bless mankind,--a literature, whose smiles might play upon
an angel's face, whose tears "would not stain an angel's cheek,"--then
let us cling to the Union of these State's with a patriot's love,
with a scholar's enthusiasm, with a Christian's hope.

In her heavenly character, as a holocaust self-sacrificed to God; at the
height of her glory, as the ornament of a free, educated, peaceful
Christian people, American Literature will find that THE INTELLECTUAL
SPIRIT IS HER VERY TREE OF LIFE, AND THE UNION HER GARDEN OF PARADISE.

T. S. Grimké.

VII.

AMERICA'S OBLIGATIONS TO ENGLAND.

The honorable member has asked--"And now will these Americans,
children planted by our care, nourished up by our indulgence and
protected by our arms,--will they grudge to attribute their mite?"

Without waiting to examine it, I walked off,
saying: "I'll be back in ten minutes." He was evidently alarmed, and,
like all rogues, suspicious of every one. He probably had some wild idea
that I was laying a trap for him. In his ignorance of money methods he
thought it would be a long, perhaps difficult, negotiation to borrow
money on the bond, but, of course, I made short work of it; and "Jimmy"
was more than delighted when within the ten minutes I walked in with ten
one hundreds in my hand. A trifle like this made a great impression upon
Irving, and from that time on I had his entire confidence. Tuesday
evening I said good-bye to my mother, merely remarking in explanation of
my journey that I had a commission given me to execute in Europe.

Leaving her, I went to our rendezvous, near Broadway and Astor place,
where I found Irving, who handed me over his "boodle" (as he termed
it), remarking confidentially that I was to give him on my return his
share into his own hands; and, singularly enough, each of the others did
precisely the same thing. About 11 o'clock the other two came in, and
after some parley White handed over his bonds, and Stanley informed me
he would give me his on board before the steamer sailed the next
morning. I had already paid my bill and sent my baggage over to Jersey
City, so about midnight I set out, they accompanying me as far as the
ferry, and there, after shaking hands a half dozen times, we said
good-bye. Having bought my ticket and engaged my cabin, I went direct to
the steamer and went to bed. In the morning Stanley appeared and gave me
his bonds. Ten minutes later the hawsers were cast off and we were
steaming down the bay. Two hours later Fire Island sank beneath the
horizon, and we were alone on the sea.

Alone on the sea! and a fitting place to tell the story of a famous New
York bank robbery.

In the good old days when Bill Tweed was New York's owner, when Jim Fisk
was the proprietor of our judges and Kelso sat in Mulberry street, the
king of those good men, the police, who defend our lives and property,
this city became a spectacle to gods and men such as we thought then
could never be equaled. We thought so then, but we were not endowed with
second sight, nor with the gift of prophecy, or we might, perhaps, have
reserved our judgment. Still, our masters were a unique collection, and
if they have been equaled or surpassed since, they held with easy grasp
the pre-eminence among all American rulers who had shone and flourished
up to the time when those great men gave us new ideas upon the science
of government. The average and quiet citizen, shocked as he might be and
grumble as he did at the impudent plundering by our masters, their
contempt of public opinion and the cynical display of their luxury,
would doubtless have confined himself to grumbling and to calling for
slow-arriving thunderbolts to crash the oppressors who were despoiling
him had he felt certain that the plunder would be confined to them, that
his property would be safe, at least, from the attacks of those
insignificant, despicable but eminently dangerous plunderers who became
known to the police as common criminals. This, however, was not so.
After being flayed by iniquitous taxes, which he knew were destined to
add to the stores of Tweed, Connolly & Company, he had every day
abundant proof that what the big rascals left him, the little ones would
soon try, by burglary or robbery, to ravish from him, and that they
would do it with perfect immunity, unterrified either by the fear of
present arrest or of later punishment. The Mulberry street office was
divided into three or four little pools, each with its clientele of
dependents, all of whom faithfully and immediately reported to their
patrons the result of any little job they had been engaged in, handing
over to the representative of the pool the 20 per cent. of the result,
which was Headquarters' established commission. This was the ordinary
rate when gentlemen skilled in transferring other people's watches and
portemonnaies from the pockets of their owners to their own, or when
others who had devoted their talents to demonstrating practically the
enormous power of the jimmy and wedge originated and carried out by
themselves the operations peculiar to those classes of industries.

It sometimes happened that special cases offered, for which special
terms were arranged. Such cases stood by themselves. They were confided
only to the acknowledged heads of the profession. Standing outside of
all recognized rules, they were treated apart. Headquarters men were
always sent to the seat of operations to prevent interference, and, in
case of need, to protect their partners. Many a mysterious robbery was
perpetrated to which no clue was ever found; many an anxious search was
undertaken by the bloodhounds of the law to find the robbers, that they
might crack a bottle together and rejoice over the success of their
operations, and sometimes they were joined by men the mention of whose
names in such company would have excited incredulous and unbounded
amazement.

The gigantic heavings of the war were struggling to rest, but the men
whose minds were unhinged and thrown off their balance by the possession
of large sums flowing from transactions, a little irregular, perhaps,
but which the necessities of Government permitted, were endeavoring, by
any means, to open up new fountains of wealth in place of those which
the close of the war had exhausted.

One of the resources presenting itself most naturally to men in a
position to profit by it was speculating with other people's money, and
very naturally the result of such speculation was disastrous in the
highest degree. When detection became inevitable the defaulter generally
fled, hoping to find in a foreign land safety from the stroke of justice
and a shelter from the reproaches of his victims.

Occasionally, one more resolute, dreading flight as much as detection,
flung himself into schemes which, if they failed, meant the most hideous
and utter ruin, but which, if they succeeded, rendered discovery
impossible, and made his position more solid than ever before. One day,
late in the sixties, in the parlor of a bank in Greenwich street, a
gentleman was anxiously scanning the books of the establishment. He
alone in all the institution knew of a secret which would horrify his
brother officials and carry desolation to scores of homes, the first to
suffer being his own. Perhaps had it been possible to exempt this one
home, the misery of the others would not have greatly affected him. But
suffering must be kept from his own house, and all and any means to
banish it would be and must be good.

The gentleman in whose mind these thoughts were passing was the
president of the bank, who knew himself to be a defaulter to an enormous
amount, and who was now anxiously reflecting upon the means to cover up
his robberies. Fortunately for him he was acquainted with the one man
who more than any other in all America was able to help him. This was
Capt. Irving. The president was a man of nerve. He knew, as everybody
else knew, the relations in which the police stood to the thieves, and
he felt that if he could arrange to have his own bank robbed, his
difficulties would vanish, and his share in the defalcations be covered
up.

Every star has a tongue; every stripe is articulate. There is no
language or speech where their voices are not heard. There's magic
in the web of it. It has an answer for every question of duty. It has
a solution for every doubt and perplexity.
Irving was quickly taken into his confidence, the position explained,
the proposition to rob the bank broached, all possible co-operation in
the way of leaving safes unlocked and doors open, or what, of course,
amounts to the same thing, of furnishing keys and information to open
everything, promised, and then Irving was asked if he could find men to
carry the job into execution. New York in those days was well supplied
with such artists, but the right men to carry out so momentous an
operation had to be sought. The difficulty, however, was not great, and
Irving promptly assured the honorable president that he might
confidently count on the right men at the right time.

Among the professionals who twenty-three or four years ago were
considered "valuable" men at Police Headquarters were Mike Hurley,
Patsey Conroy and Max Shinburn. These were the men whom Irving instantly
determined to employ, and whom he forthwith set about to find. That not
being a matter of any difficulty, the same night the three men met
Irving at his own house, and were delighted over the revelation he made
to them.

One would like to know with what sentiment a man occupying an honorable
and responsible position, a Sunday-school superintendent, the head of a
great financial institution, well known in the money world and respected
in society, slunk to a midnight meeting with burglars.

Did no feeling of shame crimson his face, no sinking of disgust oppress
his heart, as he slipped into a house, where, although he kept aloof
from actual contact with the ruffians, the details of an enormous crime
of which he was the author were debated and settled?

Prudential reasons doubtless kept him from forming a personal
acquaintance with his agents. The risk of exposing himself to future
blackmail must not be incurred, and one may well believe that he shrank
from clasping the hands of these men, who were eagerly awaiting him.
Whatever were his feelings, his desperate position suffered no halting.
The storm was ready to break at any moment. In an instant he might be a
wretched fugitive, with terror before him and infamy howling behind. But
one way led out of this labyrinth. He had resolutely planted his feet in
that way, determined to tread it to the end. He did tread it to the end,
and he came out victorious.

If the suspicions of any afterward pointed toward him, no syllable of
the suspicions was breathed. Who dared suspect that an honorable citizen
had ever, in the dead of night, crept like a robber to a meeting of
outlaws, to concoct the details of an outrageous breach of trust, of a
crime which--none knew it better than he--would carry life-long misery
and suffering to the families of nearly every man who trusted him?

[Illustration: "THE DETECTIVES SIGNALED THE BURGLARS: 'THE COAST IS
CLEAR.'"--Page 57.]

"The evil that men do lives after them," but where does the
responsibility of its author end? Who will ever say what crimes may
spring from the one act of wrongdoing, crimes committed, it may be,
by persons who were directly led into them by the consequences of an act
the perpetrator of which had never heard of those affected by it? How
far does the responsibility of the wrongdoer extend? What weight of
horror is he accumulating on his head?

Such questions may perhaps occur afterward, when the pleasure has been
tasted and is gone, and nothing remains of the detected crime but the
ruin it has wrought; but in the excitement of laying the plot, in the
glamour which the hope of success casts over the schemer, they probably
never intrude, conscience is smothered, and he is left to carry out his
schemes to the end.

Doubtless no such thoughts disturbed the president, as he waited that
night while Irving acted as go-between, carrying messages from him to
the agents and from the agents back again to him. At last the
arrangements were made. Duplicate keys of the safe were to be provided,
and a way, to be presently explained, was to be left open to each of
them. Whatever the robbers found in the safes was to be theirs, and the
task of getting it was to be of the easiest. This, of course, was highly
satisfactory to the thieves, but something more must be prepared for the
stockholders and the public. Bank safes are not so easily emptied; there
must be the appearance, at least, of great effort to effect the robbery,
and marks of the effort must be left behind.

It was, therefore, settled that powerful tools were to be provided,
tools able to tear open any strong-box in the world. Such articles are
expensive, and the burglars had no money to procure them. No man who
knows those people will be surprised at this, for, however much money
they may obtain, they never have anything. It melts out of their hands,
and they would be themselves embarrassed to say what becomes of it.

The president's first necessity, therefore, was to pay out about a
thousand dollars for the jimmies, wedges and all the paraphernalia of
the burglars' industry. This he did. Irving took charge of the money,
and he had far too great an interest in the scheme to suffer the cash to
be squandered. The agreement was that on the following day Conroy should
present himself at the bank to hire a vacant basement, the roof of which
formed the floor of the room where the safes were lodged. The president
undertook to smooth any difficulties in the way of requiring references,
and promised that he should be accepted as a tenant.

This agreement was punctually carried out. Conroy made his application,
the basement was granted to him, the rent paid in advance for the
edification of the clerks, and he at once entered in possession. Hurley
and Shinburne joined him, and the following Saturday they removed so
much of the ceiling that but a few minutes' work was required to
complete a hole which should serve as a doorway to the vaults above when
the bank closed in the evening.

[Illustration: MACHINE FOR WEIGHING GOLD.]


CHAPTER VI.

CHEATED VISIONS AND VANISHED HOPES.


Saturday night was the time chosen to get into the bank, and the
plunderers were to remain there until Sunday. The members of Irving's
ring were to keep watch to prevent any officious interference from
passers-by or from ward policemen. Carriages were to be in waiting at
some convenient place on Sunday morning, and when the men inside
received a signal from their police accomplices on the outside, they
were to leave the bank, abandoning their tools, and carrying away
nothing but the money and the securities they had stolen. So far, the
way was plain; the keys had long before been prepared, tested and found
to work properly; full instructions were given as to the way to use
them, but the way inside was not yet open.

A night watchman was employed on the premises, and he, of course, was to
be got rid of. Little ceremony was to be used in treating him. He was to
be seized, overcome by any means, bound, gagged and rendered helpless
until Monday, and the fact that he always passed Sunday in the bank,
prevented any remark at home upon his continued absence. The details of
the plot were thus satisfactorily settled, and at a late hour the
conspirators separated.

In the early morning of that day the three burglars were standing in the
cellar to which they had lowered their booty, waiting for the signal to
come out. At last it was given, when the precious trio slipped out,
carrying their precious bags. A covered carriage was posted in an
adjoining street, into which the whole party entered, flurried and
excited, and rapidly drove to Irving's residence. There the contents of
the bags were carefully examined. The actual cash was easily disposed
of, but what was to be done with the bonds?

The arrangement finally agreed upon, to be detailed presently, shows
that if there be circumstances in which a little learning is a dangerous
thing, one of them is not just after the perpetration of a gigantic
burglary.

The Monday following its execution confusion and amazement reigned in
the bank. The clerks on their arrival were astounded to find the safe
doors wide open, torn and smashed by the tools which lay scattered over
the floor, and the night watchman, gagged and bound, was discovered,
nearly dead, in a neighboring room. One of the clerks jumped into a cab
and rushed to Police Headquarters in Mulberry street to report the
robbery. Irving was sitting in his office, busy with the night reports,
when the messenger was introduced to tell of the bank's calamity.

The excellent chief listened with breathless attention, and was
naturally horror-struck at the perpetration of such a crime. Calling a
couple of his trusted sleuths, he hastily communicated the surprising
news, and the three hurried with the clerk back to Greenwich street.
Arrived there they minutely examined the premises, and gave it as their
opinion, judging from the style of the work and from the tools which lay
around, that the burglary had been committed by a well-known burglar
named Harry Penrose, and that the night watchman, whom they immediately
placed under arrest, must have been his accomplice.

The president had sent word to the bank that he was unwell, and would
not be able to attend to business that day, but the terrible news was
immediately telegraphed to him, and, in spite of his illness, he hurried
to town. It is impossible to describe his astonishment and distress at
the sight which met his eyes. In the presence of the clerks he held
anxious consultations with the detectives, who assured him that they had
already taken the first steps to unravel the mystery, and that every
possible effort would be made to discover the criminals. In the privacy
of his own office he explained to the reporters that he had left in the
bank four hundred thousand dollars in cash and bonds, every farthing of
which had disappeared.

As soon as the news was published the excitement among the depositors
and the stockholders of the bank was, of course, immense. A run set in,
which the directors by the help of friends and of their own private
resources were able to meet, but the Wall street appreciation of the
calamity was shown in the drop in value of the bank's stock from 130 to
40.

I repeat, a little learning is a dangerous thing. Much knowledge is not
to be looked for among men who engage in such crimes, but one would
fancy that the everyday experience of Irving and his people would have
given them some idea of financial business. The fact is, they were, if
possible, more ignorant than their felonious partners. The financial
ideas of the latter scarcely went further than "making cheap pennyworths
of their plunder, giving to courtesans and living like lords till all be
gone," so that negotiating the sale of bonds was a mystery far too high
for them--something which they could never hope to attain to. But the
company included one man who was a rare exception to the ordinary ride
of such society. This was Max Shinburne, a German, a man of considerable
education, who, in some inexplicable way, had fallen so far from honor
and respectability that when he saw a thief he "consented unto him."

How is it that such men are often found in the ranks of professional
criminals? They would probably have difficulty to explain it themselves.
A want of savoir faire, the fact that they have never been taught to
make a practical use of their acquirements, the pressure of temptation
at a critical moment, the absence, possibly, from harm, leading to the
hope of immunity--all, perhaps, enter into the explanation of the secret
promptings which have led to the first false step, to the first planting
of the feet in the path which leads to destruction. nor those other
words of delusion and folly, "Liberty first and Union afterwards," but
everywhere, spread all over in characters of living light, blazing
on all its ample folds, as they float over the sea and over the land,
and in every wind under the whole heavens, that other sentiment dear to
every true American heart,--Liberty AND Union, Now And For Ever,
One And Inseparable.

D. Webster.

CXIX.

EVENTS GREAT, BECAUSE OF THEIR RESULTS.

Great actions and striking occurrences having excited a temporary
admiration, often pass away and are forgotten, because they leave no
lasting results, affecting the prosperity and happiness of communities.

Such is frequently the fortune of the most brilliant military achievements.

Of the ten thousand battles which have been fought, of all the fields
fertilized with carnage, of the banners which have been bathed in blood,
of the warriors who have hoped that they had risen from the field
of conquest to a glory as bright and as durable as the stars, how
few that continue long to interest mankind!

The victory of yesterday is reversed by the defeat of to-day; the star
of military glory, rising like a meteor, like a meteor has fallen;
disgrace and disaster hang on the heels of conquest and renown;
victor and vanquished presently pass away to oblivion, and the
world goes on in its course, with the loss only of so many lives
and so much treasure.

But if this be frequently, or generally, the fortune of military achievements,
it is not always so. There are enterprises, military as well as
civil, which sometimes check the current of events, give a new
turn to human affairs, and transmit their consequences through ages.

We see their importance in their results, and call them great because
great things follow. There have been battles which have fixed the fate
of nations. These come down to us in history with a solid and
permanent interest not created by a display of glittering armor,
the rush of adverse battalions, the sinking and rising of pennons,
the flight, the pursuit, and the victory; but by their effect in
advancing or retarding human knowledge, in overthrowing or establishing
despotism, in extending or destroying human happiness.

When the traveller pauses on the plains of Marathon, what are the emotions
which most strongly agitate his breast? What is that glorious recollection,
which thrills through his frame and suffuses his eyes? Not I imagine that
Grecian skill and Grecian valor were here most signally displayed; but
that Greece herself was here saved. It is because to this spot, and to
the event which has rendered it immortal, he refers all the succeeding
glories of the republic. It is because if that day had gone
otherwise, Greece had perished.

It is because he perceives that her philosophers and orators, her poets
and painters, her sculptors and architects, her governments and
free institutions, point backward to Marathon, and that their future
existence seems to have been suspended on the contingency, whether
the Persian or the Greek banner should wave victorious in the beams
of that day's setting sun.

And as his imagination kindles at the retrospect, he is transported back
to the interesting moment, he counts the fearful odds of the contending
hosts, his interest for the result overwhelms him; he trembles, as if it
were still uncertain, and seems to doubt whether he may consider Socrates
and Plato, Demosthenes, Sophocles, and Phidias, as secure, yet,
to himself and to the world.
D. Webster.

CXX.

THE FUTURE OF AMERICA.

Fellow-citizens, the hours of this day are rapidly flying, and this
occasion will soon be passed. Neither we nor our children can expect
to behold its return. They are in the distant regions of futurity, they
exist only in the all-creating power of God, who shall stand here, a
hundred years hence, to trace, through us, their descent from the
Pilgrims, and to survey, as we have now surveyed, the progress of their
country during the lapse of a century.

We would anticipate their concurrence with us in our sentiments of deep
regard for our common ancestors.

We would anticipate and partake the pleasure with which they will then
recount the steps of New England's advancement. On the morning of that
day, although it will not disturb us in our repose, the voice of
acclamation and gratitude, commencing on the rock of Plymouth, shall be
transmitted through millions of the sons of the Pilgrims, till it
lose itself in the murmurs of the Pacific seas. We would leave, for
the consideration of those who shall then occupy our places, some
proof that we hold the blessings transmitted from our fathers in just
estimation; some proof of our attachment to the cause of good government,
and of civil and religious liberty; some proof of a sincere and
ardent desire to promote everything which may enlarge the understandings,
and improve the hearts, of men.

And when, from the long distance of a hundred years, they shall look
back upon us, they shall know, at least, that we possessed affections,
which, running backward and warming with gratitude for what our ancestors
have done for our happiness, run forward also to our posterity and
meet them with cordial salutation, ere yet they have arrived on
the shore of being.

Advance, then, ye future generations! We would hail you, as you rise
in your long succession, to fill the places which we now fill, and
to taste the blessings of existence, where we are passing, and soon
shall have passed, our human duration.

We bid you welcome to the healthful skies and the verdant fields of New
England. We greet your accession to the great inheritance which we
have enjoyed. We welcome you to the blessings of good government,
and religious liberty. We welcome you to the treasures of science, and
the delights of learning. We welcome you to the transcendent sweets
of domestic life, to the happiness of kindred, and parents, and
children. We welcome you to the immeasurable blessings of rational
existence, the immortal hope of Christianity and the light of
everlasting truth.

D. Webster.

CXXI.

LIBERTY OF SPEECH.

Important, sir, as I deem it to discuss, on all proper occasions,
the policy of the measures at present pursued, it is still more
important to maintain the right of such discussion in its full and
just extent.

Sentiments lately sprung up, and now growing fashionable, make it
necessary to be explicit on this point. The more I perceive a disposition
to check the freedom of inquiry by extravagant and unconstitutional
pretences, the firmer shall be the tone in which I shall assert, and
the freer the manner in which I shall exercise it.

It is the ancient and undoubted prerogative of this people to canvass
public measures, and the merits of public men. It is a "home-bred" right,
a fireside privilege.

It hath ever been enjoyed in every house, cottage, and cabin, in the nation.
It is not to be drawn into controversy. It is as undoubted as the right
of breathing the air, or walking on the earth. Belonging to private
life as a right, it belongs to public life as a duty; and it is the
last duty which those whose representative I am shall find me to abandon.
Aiming at all times to be courteous and temperate in its use,
except when the right itself shall be questioned, I shall then carry it
to its extent. I shall place myself on the extreme boundary of my right,
and bid defiance to any arm that would move me from my ground.

This high constitutional privilege I shall defend and exercise within this
house, and in all places; in times of peace, and in all times.

Living, I shall assert it; and, should I leave no other inheritance to my
children, by the blessing of God I will leave them the inheritance of
free principles, and the example of a manly, independent, and constitutional
defence of them.
D. Webster.

CXXII.

WASHINGTON TO THE PRESENT GENERATION.

Fellow-citizens,--What contemplations are awakened in our minds,
as we assemble here to reenact a scene like that performed by
Washington!

Methinks I see his venerable form now before me, as presented in
the glorious statue by Houdon, now in the capital of Virginia.

He is dignified and grave; but his concern and anxiety seem to
soften the lineaments of his countenance.

The government over which he presides is yet in the crisis of experiment.
Not free from troubles at home, he sees the world in commotion and arms,
all around him. He sees that imposing foreign powers are half
disposed to try the strength of the recently established American
government. We perceive that mighty thoughts, mingled with fears as
well as hopes, are struggling within him.

He heads a short procession over these then naked fields; he crosses
yonder stream on a fallen tree; he ascends to the top of this eminence,
whose original oaks of the forest stand as thick around him as if the
spot had been devoted to Druidical worship, and here he performs
the appointed duty of the day.

And now, fellow-citizens, if this vision were a reality,--if Washington
actually were now amongst us,--and if he could draw around him the
shades of the great public men of his own days,--patriots and warriors,
orators and statesmen, and were to address us, in their presence, would
he not say to us,--"Ye men of this generation, I rejoice, and thank God
for being able to see that our labors, and toils, and sacrifices,
were not in vain. You are prosperous,--you are happy,--you are
grateful.

The fire of liberty burns brightly and steadily in your hearts, while
duty and the law restrain it from bursting forth in wild and destructive
conflagration. Cherish liberty, as you love it;--cherish its securities,
as you wish to preserve it. Maintain the Constitution which we
labored so painfully to establish and which has been to you such a source
of inestimable blessings. Preserve the Union of the States, cemented as
it was by our prayers, our tears, and our blood. Be true to God,
to your country, and to your duty. So shall the whole Eastern world
follow the morning sun, to contemplate you as a nation; so shall all
succeeding generations honor you as they honor us; and so shall
that Almighty Power which so graciously protected us, and which now
protects you, shower its everlasting blessings upon you and your
posterity."

Great father of your country! we heed your words; we feel their force
as if you uttered them with life of flesh and blood. Your example teaches
us; your affectionate addresses teach us; your public life teaches us
your sense of the value of the blessings of the Union. Those blessings
our fathers have tasted, and we have tasted, and still taste. Nor
do we intend that those who come after us shall be denied the same high
fruition, Our honor as well as our happiness is concerned.

We cannot, we dare not, we will not, betray our sacred trust. We will
not filch from posterity the treasure placed in our hands to be transmitted
to other generations.

The bow that gilds the clouds in the heavens, tile pillars that
uphold the firmament, may disappear and fall away, in the hour appointed
by the will of God; but, until that day comes, or so long as our lives
may last, no ruthless hand shall undermine that bright arch of Union
and Liberty which spans the continent from Washington to California.
D. Webster.

CXXIII.

THE PLATFORM OF THE CONSTITUTION.

A principal object, in his late political movements the gentleman himself
tells us, was to unite the entire South; and against whom, or
against what, does he wish to unite the entire South?

Is not this the very essence of local feeling and local regard? Is it
not the acknowledgment of a wish and object to create political
strength, by uniting political opinions geographically?

While the gentleman wishes to unite the entire South, I pray to
know, sir, if he expects me to turn toward the polar star, and, acting
on the same principle, to utter a cry of Rally! to the whole
North?
Heaven forbid! To the day of my death, neither he nor others shall hear
such a cry from me.

Finally, the honorable member declares that he shall now march off,
under the banner of State rights! March off from whom? March off
from what? We have been contending for great principles. We have been
struggling to maintain the liberty and to restore the prosperity of
the country; we have made these struggles here, in the national
councils, with the old flag--the true American flag, the Eagle and the
Stars and Stripes--waving over the chamber in which we sit. He now tells
us, however, that he marches off under the State-rights banner!

Let him go. I remain.

I am, where I ever have been, and ever mean to be.
Here, standing on the platform of the general Constitution,--a platform
broad enough, and firm enough, to uphold every interest of the whole
country,--I shall still be found. Intrusted with some part in the
administration of that Constitution, I intend to act in its spirit, and
in the spirit of those who framed it. Yes, sir. I would act as if our
fathers, who formed it for us, and who bequeathed it to us, were looking
on me,--as if I could see their venerable forms, bending down to behold
us from the abodes above! I would act, too, as if the eye of posterity
was gazing on me.

Standing thus, as in the full gaze of our ancestors and our posterity,
having received this inheritance from the former to be transmitted to
the latter, and feeling that, if I am born for any good, in my day and
generation, it is for the good of the whole country,--no local policy,
no local feeling, no temporary impulse, shall induce me to yield my
foothold on the Constitution and the Union. I move off under no
banner not known to the whole American People, and to their
Constitution and laws. No, sir!
these walls, these columns,
"shall fly From their firm base as soon as I."
I came into public life, sir, in the service of the United States. On that
broad altar my earliest and all my public vows have been made.

I propose to serve no other master. So far as depends on any agency of
mine, they shall continue United States;--united in interest and in
affection; united in everything in regard to which the Constitution has
decreed their union; united in war, for the common defense, the
common renown, and the common glory; and united, compacted, knit firmly
together, in peace, for the common prosperity and happiness of ourselves
and our children!
D. Webster.

CXXIV.

THE VETERANS OF THE BATTLE OF BUNKER HILL.

The great event in the history of the Continent, which we are now
met here to commemorate, that prodigy of modern times, at once the
wonder and the blessing of the world, is the American Revolution. In a
day of extraordinary prosperity and happiness, of high national honor,
distinction, and power, we are brought together, in this place, by our
love of country by our admiration of exalted character, by our gratitude
for signal services and patriotic devotion.

And we now stand here to enjoy all the blessings of our own condition,
and to look abroad on the brightened prospects of the world, while we
still have among us some of those who were active agents in the scenes
of 1775, and who are now here, from every quarter of New England, to
visit once more, and under circumstances so affecting,--I had almost
said so overwhelming, this renowned theatre of their courage and
patriotism.

Venerable men! you have come down to us from a former generation.
Heaven has bounteously lengthened out your lives, that you may behold
this joyous day. You are now where you stood fifty years ago, this
very hour, with your brothers and your neighbors, shoulder to shoulder,
in the strife for your country. Behold, how altered! The same heavens
are indeed over your heads; the same ocean rolls at your feet; but all
else how changed! You hear now no roar of hostile cannon, you see
no mixed volumes of smoke and flame rising from burning Charlestown.

The ground strowed with the dead and the dying; the impetuous charge; the
steady and successful repulse; the loud call to repeated assault; the
summoning of all that is manly to repeated resistance; a thousand
bosoms freely and fearlessly bared in an instant to whatever of
terror there may be in war and death;--all these you have witnessed,
but you witness them no more. All is peace. The heights of yonder
metropolis, its towers and roofs, which you then saw filled with wives
and children and countrymen in distress and terror, and looking
with unutterable emotions for the issue of the combat, have presented
you to-day with the sight of its whole happy population, come out to
welcome and greet you with a universal jubilee. Yonder proud ships by a
felicity of position appropriately lying at the foot of this mount,
and seeming fondly to cling around it, are not means of annoyance to
you, but your country's own means of distinction and defence. All is
peace; and God has granted you this sight of your country's
happiness, ere you slumber in the grave.

He has allowed you to behold and to partake the reward of your patriotic
toils; and he has allowed us, your sons and countrymen, to meet you here,
and in the name of the present generation, in the name of your country,
in the name of liberty, to thank you!

But, alas! you are not all here! Time and the sword have thinned your
ranks. Prescott, Putnam, Stark, Brooks, Read, Pomeroy, Bridge! our eyes
seek for you in vain amid ibis broken band. You are gathered to your
fathers, and live only to your county in her grateful remembrance and
your own bright example. But let us not too much grieve, that you have
met the common fate of men. You lived at least long enough to know that
your work had been nobly and successfully accomplished. You lived to see
your country's independence established, and to sheathe your swords from
war. On the light of Liberty you saw arise the light of Peace, like

"another morn risen on mid-noon;"
and the sky on which you closed your eyes was cloudless.

But ah! Him! the first great martyr in this great cause! Him!

the premature victim of his own self-devoting heart! Him!

the head of our civil councils, and the destined leader of our military
bands, whom nothing brought hither but the unquenchable fire of
his own spirit! Him! cut off by Providence in the hour of overwhelming
anxiety and thick gloom; falling ere he saw the star of his country
rise; pouring out his generous blood like water, before he knew
whether it would fertilize a land of freedom or of bondage!--how
shall I struggle with the emotions that stifle the utterance of thy
name!
Our poor work may perish; but thine shall endure! This monument may
moulder away; the solid ground it rests upon may sink down to a
level with the sea; but thy memory shall not fail! Wheresoever among
men a heart shall be found that beats to the transports of patriotism
and liberty, its aspirations shall be to claim kindred with thy
spirit!
D. Webster.

CXXV.
REPLY TO THE REFLECTIONS OF MR. WALPOLE.
Sir the atrocious crime of being a young man, which the honorable
gentleman has, with such spirit and decency charged upon me, I shall
neither attempt to palliate nor deny; but content myself with
wishing,--that I may be one of those whose follies cease with their
youth; and not of that number who are ignorant in spite of experience.
He wrote me twice, and the
following year I returned to Europe and met Amstel at Brussels. We had a
very delightful time together, during which he told me the sequel of the
Van Tromp episode. Instead of one, the Countess had two husbands living;
but the Van Tromps preferred to buy off the woman at a good round sum
rather than have a public scandal.

Amstel interviewed the Countess, and gave her the choice between arrest
and a full release of all claims on the Van Tromp property for the sum
of 100,000 gulden. She made a hard fight, but at last gave in
gracefully. But my chapter has grown too long already, and I will close
it with the remark that I myself met the lady at Wiesbaden in 1871, and
became acquainted with the brilliant adventuress. She will appear again
in the sequel.


CHAPTER VIII.

THE MERRY SUMMER OVER AND NO HARVEST STORED.


From Cologne to Frankfort is about 140 miles, and swiftly our train sped
along up the Rhine--the lovely stream about which poets have raved for
twenty generations. What classic ground! What scenes have its waters
reflected, its mountains looked upon! In the old days its rolling floods
made a deep impression on the stout Roman heart. More than one army,
carrying with it the hearts of the Roman world, had crossed that river
and plunged into the unknown forests beyond, only to go down in the
shock of conflict with the brave but barbarian foe, leaving not one
solitary survivor to carry back tidings to Rome of the fate of her army.
And down through all the linked centuries the history of the Rhine has
been the history of giant armies marching against each other, and of
brothers slaughtering brothers. To-day the plains of Germany and France
bear a million of armed men, ranged face to face, with only the Rhine
between, eagerly awaiting the signal to pour a deadly rain on each
other. And for what?

The last face that I saw at the Cologne station was that of Amstel, lit
up with smiles as he waved his hand in adieu. Sitting cozily in the
corner of the carriage, eager to see all that was to be seen, I found,
as all tourists do, much to charm and delight. But my thoughts were on
the bonds I had to sell, and I was glad enough when at 5 o'clock our
train drew into the depot at Frankfort.

Alighting I took a cab and drove to the Hotel Landsberg, and, although
tired, the scenes and surroundings were too novel for me to think of
sleep. So I dined and went out to view the city, but as I will have
occasion to refer to the place again, I will leave any description of it
until another chapter.

In London there was an American banking house that has since failed, but
which at this time was doing a large business in the way of issuing
letters of credit. The firm was patronized chiefly by Americans. It
issued credits, or letters of credit, without inquiry, to any one
applying for them. While in London I called at their office, 449 Strand,
and paying $750 was given a credit for £150, which I took under an
assumed name. I wanted this letter to serve as an introduction to some
of the bankers at Frankfort, and to open the way for the negotiation of
the bonds. The Frankfort correspondents of the London firm were Kraut,
Lautner & Co., on the Gallowsgasse. The next morning I repaired to the
office of this firm, and producing my letter was very cordially
received, and invited to make my headquarters in their office during my
stay at Frankfort, which for the next day or two I did. However, I
called on several other bankers, also feeling the way, and finally
selected the firm of Murpurgo & Wiesweller, bankers widely known and of
enormous wealth. I had several talks with Murpurgo, and told him I was
arranging to purchase a number of copper mines in Austria, and if the
deal was closed I should sell a large block of American bonds and use
the cash I realized to pay for the purchase of the mines. I suppose he
thought to make a good thing out of it, and was eager to purchase.

My reader will recall that payment upon all United States bonds payable
to bearer, as mine were, could not be stopped, and so far as the
innocent holder was concerned he was perfectly secure. But the custom
among bankers was, whenever any bonds were lost by theft or fraud, to
send out circulars containing the numbers, asking that the parties
offering them might be questioned and held. But as American bonds were
sold in millions all over the Continent, and were passing freely from
hand to hand, as a matter of fact, little or no attention was paid to
such circulars, but, of course, had strangers of disreputable appearance
offered bonds in large sums, the lists might have been scrutinized and
awkward questions asked. Therefore I felt a trifle nervous, and
determined to run no chance of losing my bonds--at least not all of
them. So I resolved to go to Wiesbaden, some fifteen miles away, stop at
some hotel under a different name, leave the bonds there, and take the
morning train for Frankfort, conduct my negotiations, and return to
Wiesbaden every evening. It was at this time easy to lose one's identity
in Wiesbaden, for the town then was, along with Baden-Baden, the Monte
Carlo of the Continent, and adventurers, men and women, from all over
Europe flocked there in thousands to chance their fortune in the
gambling halls. Although a little in advance of this portion of my
history, I will here relate an adventure of mine there, some years after
the period of which I am speaking.

I will, however, preface my narrative with a brief account of the
history of the place. The city of Wiesbaden, previous to the
Franco-German war of 1870, was the chief town of one of those petty
principalities which were plentifully sprinkled over the face of Europe.
Since the old Roman days the town had been famous for its hot springs,
and consequently for its hot baths, and a good many people--during the
Winter particularly--resorted there to bathe and to drink the waters. As
a matter of course, the townspeople, as the custom of such places is,
have recorded many a marvelous cure, ranging all the way from headache
to hydrophobia. But still the town was of little importance save
locally. The petty ruler, with a title longer than his income, lived in
the pretentious castle, beguiling the time by smoking cheap cigars or
ordering on banquets whose piece de resistance consisted of Gebratene
Gans und Kartoffeln, the unlucky bird being tribute in kind from the
farmyard of some peasant subject living in a miserable hut on black
bread.

But a change was impending. A mighty wizard had visited the place, with
an eye quick to see the possibilities of the situation, with a brain to
plan and a hand to execute. His name was Francois Blanc, the head of the
great gambling establishment at Homburg. Vast as were his ambition and
achievements, he was a man of the simplest tastes.

To see him--as I often have--in his seedy coat, his old-fashioned
spectacles on the tip of his nose, one would have taken him for a
country advocate whose wildest dreams were of a practice of two thousand
thalers a year, with an old gig and wheezy mare to haul him around the
country side from client to client. Before his Wiesbaden days he had
been the guiding spirit in the direction of the splendid gambling halls,
the Casino at Homburg. Blanc was impervious to flattery; a hard-headed,
silent man, a man without enthusiasm and without weaknesses, who kept a
lavish table and ate sparingly himself, who had a wine cellar rivaling
that of the Autocrat of All the Russias and yet contented himself with
sipping a harmless mineral water; who kept and directed a huge gambling
machine--a mighty conglomeration of gorgeously decorated halls, wine
parlors and music rooms, crammed day and night by giddy and excited
throngs, but himself never indulging in anything more exciting than an
after-dinner game of dominoes or a quiet drive with his wife through the
country lanes.

Thus this Francois Blanc, with perfect equanimity, watched the thousand
thousands of butterflies and moths of society scorch their wings in the
terrific flame that glowed in his Casino, while he looked on, a cynical
observer, despising the fools enraptured with roulette and fascinated
with rouge-et-noir.

But one thing he was not afraid of, and that was spending money. To
compass his business ends he laid it out lavishly, and in the end he
drew all Europe to Wiesbaden. Still broader and still deeper he laid the
foundations of the fortune that ultimately grew to colossal proportions.
But he did not make Wiesbaden famous without keen opposition. He made
the fortune of the beggarly Prince Karl and the whole hungry crowd of
royal highnesses in spite of themselves. At every fresh opposition he
simply opened his purse and a golden shower fell on them.

It required a hard head to withstand the attacks made on him when it
became known that he had bought up both prince and municipality, and
proposed to make Wiesbaden par excellence the gambling city of the
Continent. But, despite of all, he pushed on his plans to wonderful
success. A great park was laid out and stately buildings arose, all
dedicated to the goddess of chance. Slim was the chance the votaries of
the game had in his gorgeous halls. He threw out his money in millions,
but he knew the weak, foolish heart of man, the egotism of each and
every one of us, that leads us to ignore for ourselves the immutable law
of numbers. So he counted upon his returns, and never counted in vain.

As I say, he had a hard head to withstand the attacks made upon him.
Every day the post brought hundreds of letters containing propositions
of threats from people who had lost their money and demanded its return
with fierce threats, pitiful supplications and warnings of intended
suicide, place, date and hour carefully specified, so there could be no
mistake, and more than one attempt was made upon his life. But the
equanimity of Francois Blanc was equal to all adventures. Threats,
prayers, temptations, left him untouched. This man of ice,
self-possessed, cold, indifferent to the ruin of the thousands of
victims of his will, had a fad or fancy. It was for raising red and
white roses, and while the mad throngs were fluttering in frenzy around
the tables in his halls at Homburg, Wiesbaden and Monte Carlo, he, hoe
or trowel in hand, would be training and transplanting his roses,
solicitous over an opening bud or deploring the ravages of an insect;
or, again, refusing all invitations, would sit down with his wife to a
dinner of boiled turnips and bacon, washed down with a glass of Vichy
water and milk. This was the town and these the scenes constantly
occurring there.

Now for my adventure. In 1870, just before the war cloud burst, covering
all that part of the world, I was stopping for some weeks at the Hotel
Nassau. It stands in the main street, opposite the park gate leading to
the Casino. All the world went to Wiesbaden to be amused. However
fashionable frivolity and vice may be elsewhere, here it was strictly de
rigueur, and to pretend to decency and sobriety would be to stamp one's
self a heathen and barbarian, all unversed in the glorious
flower-wreathed Primrose Way of our orb.

The daily routine for the throng began with coffee in bed at 8 a.m.,
then dressing gowns were donned, and the bath in underground floors of
the hotel were sought and a bath had in the hot mineral waters, which
were conducted to all the hotels direct from the hot springs of the
town. Half an hour in the bath, then a light breakfast, preparatory to
sallying out for an hour on the Spaziergang around the Quellen to drink
the water, listen to the band, see and be seen, but, above all, to
gossip and tell lies. At 11 a.m. the gambling began in the Casino, and
with a rush the seats around the tables would be filled. Then speedily
there would be rows behind rows of eager players or spectators, and what
a sight it all was to the cool-headed observer.

With what keen interest all watched the result of the first turn of the
card at the card tables and the color of the first hit at roulette. For
all gamblers are superstitious, and are devout believers in omens. Those
whose luck or pocketbooks held out gambled steadily on, or, if luck
turned against them, would leave the table, go to do some fantastic
thing to change their luck and then return. At 2 p.m. the band (a very
fine one) played in the Musik Saal, and most of the idlers and morning
players gathered there to listen to the music and to drink and dine.
Here in this hall the intrigues begun on the promenade or in the
gambling-rooms were helped along by the ample opportunities of meeting,
with the passions stimulated by the music and the wine. At 4 o'clock
many took an afternoon nap. Then came the chief event of the day, the
ponderous table d'hote. At 9 p.m. every one flocked to the Casino, and
the game went merrily on until midnight. Then to bed, each and all with
more or less Rudesheimer or Hochheimer stowed away.

At the time of which I speak many were my idle days, in which I was free
to seek pleasure. I used to find much enjoyment in frequenting the
Casino to watch the people and to play the role of "looker-on in
Vienna," which, by the way, is a star role and therefore rather
agreeable. One evening while watching the rouge-et-noir I noticed a lady
just in front of me, magnificently dressed in all, save that there was
an entire absence of jewelry. She was literally dressed to kill, and,
although near 50, yet to the casual observer she seemed no more than 40,
or even less. She was a well-preserved woman of the world, and was known
as the Countess de Winzerole. This was the adventuress who had married
Van Tromp some two years before. What a career had been that of this
woman!

She had been mistress from first to last of a dozen men, noblemen,
diplomats, soldiers, but being an inveterate gambler, one after another
saw, with dismay, the cash, estates, diamonds, carriages, costly furs
and laces he showered upon her all go whirling into the ever-open maw of
the Casino, or in the drawing-room games of the bon-ton in Paris or
Petersburg. One brave youth, an officer in the Prussian Guards, had, in
his infatuation for the Countess, and impregnable, as he thought,
against bankruptcy by reason of his great fortune, tried to satisfy her
cravings for splendor of entourage and her infatuation for gambling. The
result was that one day the crack of a pistol-shot was heard in the
Countess' chamber, and the servants rushing in found the young bankrupt
dead, lying across the bed, with a bullet through the heart. The next
day a horde of clamorous creditors besieged the house, where the
Countess calmly told them she had sent for her bankers and on the morrow
they would be paid. That night his comrades buried their dead friend
with military honors. At midnight the cortege passed the hotel, and all
eyes watched the lovely Countess robed in white as she appeared, her
bosom heaving with emotion, while she waved a farewell to her dead
lover. Ten minutes later she fled through the back door and over the
garden wall, falling into the arms of another lover waiting there. He
himself did not go the way of the last, but half of his fortune did; so
one morning, leaving a polite note of farewell, he, taking for companion
the dressing maid of his mistress, embarked for America.

At the time I met her the Countess' reputation was too well known and
her beauty too much fallen off for her to make any more grand catches. A
local banker at Wiesbaden became very friendly. However, the friendship
lost all its warmth when the banker's stout wife one day caught them
together, and having already provided herself with a whip in
anticipation, visited them both with a jealous woman's rage and a sound
thrashing.

Now, the Countess spent her time around the tables, following the
winners and getting douceurs from them. These were by no means
small--most of them being gifts pure and simple, given from mere
goodness of heart or sheer prodigality for there were too many gay and
beautiful women flocking around ready to smile on winners in the game
for the Countess now to make even a temporary conquest. However, at
this period she lived well--even extravagantly--but, of course, saved
nothing. As related, I first met the Countess here at the table where
the game was going on. She had just staked and lost her last gulden. She
was betting on the black, and four times in succession the red had won.
She turned, and looking in my face, implored me to bet a double
Frederick on the red. I instantly placed the money on the red and won.
She begged me to transfer the stake to the black. I did so, and black
won. Placing her hand on the stake, she said: "Sir, leave it; black will
win again." Sure enough, it did. She seized the cash, $80, and handing
me a double Frederick, said in her most bewitching manner: "Oh, sir; be
generous and let me keep this!" I said: "Certainly, madame." She
promptly staked it, and in two turns of the cards it was gone.

We met several times the next few days, but merely bowed without
speaking.

One afternoon, entering the Musik Saal, I took a small table, and,
ordering a bottle of wine, sat down to listen to the music and watch the
throng. The Countess came in, and seeing me alone, came straight to me,
shook hands warmly and sat down. I, of course, invited her to have a
glass of wine. We soon finished that bottle and ordered another. We had
what was to me a most amusing talk. She was a character--had been
everywhere and spoke all the modern languages. She assured me that I was
a very charming gentleman. In paying my bill I incautiously displayed a
gold piece or two, and, seeing she was going to ask me to give her one,
I saved her the trouble by placing one in her hand. In time we became
quite good friends. Twice I paid her board bill in order to rescue her
wardrobe from the clutches of her landlord, and once I saved her from
the hands of an irate washerwoman. When, after a time, I left Wiesbaden,
I left her as gay, as prosperous and as extravagant as ever.

I did not see Wiesbaden again for over two years, but the second week
of January, 1873, found me there. The Prussian Government now ruled in
the town, and refused to renew the license of M. Blanc. It had expired
fourteen days before my arrival. What a change had fallen on the town!
The Casino was gloomy and cold, the gay crowds had fled. All the life
and movement of the street and promenade was forever a thing of the
past. I had located there simply as a precaution, disposing of large
amounts of bonds in Frankfort, fifteen miles away, and returning to
Wiesbaden each night. At this time I put up at the Hotel Victoria, near
the railroad station. One Saturday, going up to Frankfort rather late,
my business detained me until after dark. On reaching the station I
happened to look into the third-class waiting-room, and there I spied a
figure alone that looked familiar. I soon recognized the Countess. From
her appearance and surroundings it was plain that there was now no
wealthy lover at her beck and call. Because she looked so unhappy I gave
her a cordial greeting, which she returned rather wearily. It was very
cold, and I was clad in furs from head to foot; besides, I was,
apparently, on the full floodtide of fortune, having with me then a very
large sum of money, some of which she could have had for the asking.

I said: "Come, Countess; let us go together first class to Wiesbaden."
She replied that she lived at Bieberich, a small town on the Rhine, four
miles below Mayence, and four miles from Wiesbaden. As the train was
starting I bade her good-bye, but asked permission to call on her the
next day. She consented, giving her address as Hotel Bellevue.

The next morning was very cold, but I enjoyed that, so, after a light
breakfast, I started over the hills for a walk to the town, arriving
there soon after noon. I found the hotel, a fifth-rate one, and
entering, was shown to the room of the Countess. What a change for her
from the past! Her room was a small one, plastered, but unpapered, and
with a few articles of furniture of the cheapest. The poor woman was
too evidently in a state of frightful depression, and well she might be.
Hers had been a butterfly existence, life all one Summer holiday, no
hostages given to fortune, no bond taken against future wreck or change.
Like the butterfly, she had roamed from flower to flower, sipping the
sweet only, or, like the cricket, had merrily piped all the Summer
through, thinking sunshine and bloom eternal. Even when youth and beauty
had fled, and lovers no longer stood ready to attend and serve, she
still found a good aftermath in her happy harvest field on the floors of
the Casino, but when the Casino lights at Wiesbaden went out, then, for
the Countess, had the Winter indeed come.

My walk had given me something of an appetite, and it now being 2
o'clock I at once proposed to have dinner. To my surprise she said she
had already dined, and upon my remarking that it was early for dinner,
she replied that it was, but as she was owing quite a hotel bill she
feared to give any trouble lest the landlord might present his bill, and
in default of payment she was liable to arrest and a very considerable
imprisonment. I need hardly tell my readers that they do these things
differently in Germany than with us. I could easily afford to be
generous with other people's money, and did not mean to see the Countess
suffer for a hotel bill. Ringing the bell, I told the waiter to bring me
some dinner and a bottle of wine. The Countess looked very uneasy over
my order. Of late years she had seen life from the seamy side and had
observed so much of the falseness and cruelty of men that she had
apparently lost all faith in them, and no doubt thought me an
adventurer, one who might possibly dine and order expensive wines,
leaving her to face an angry landlord. While dinner was being prepared
she told me she was in the greatest distress; had not even a single
kreutzer to pay postage, and, worst of all, was owing for two weeks'
board. She had no means to fly, no place to fly to, and if she remained
incarceration awaited her. She had for weeks been writing everywhere to
every one she had known, former lovers, distant, but long-neglected
relatives. The result--dead silence; no response from anywhere. She at
last was alone, caught in the world's great snare, with no friendly hand
to shelter or save. It was a sight to read this woman's face. There
swept over it all the conflicting waves of regrets over might-have-beens
and the gloomy shades of despair. Both proprietor and waiter appeared to
set the table; it was for one, but wineglasses for two were brought
unsolicited. They were officiously anxious to please "Your Highness," as
they christened me. The Countess sat looking gloomily out of the window
across the Rhine, while I watched her face until an infinite pity for
the shipwrecked soul filled my mind. Dismissing the waiter I went to the
window, and standing by her chair I said: "Don't worry any more,
Countess; I will pay your bill." At the same time drawing from an inner
pocket a book crammed with notes, I placed seven 100-thaler notes in her
lap, saying: "This one is for your board bill, and the other six are for
your pocket money." I need not attempt to picture her amazement and
delight. Certainly she appeared very grateful. We had a long
conversation and I was talking to her like a brother. Perhaps had she
still been beautiful and young my manner and language might have been
less brotherly. I told her she had danced and sung, but at last the time
had come for toil, and suggested she should go to Brussels, which is
ever thronged with tourists, where her knowledge of languages and her
savoir faire could be made available in one of the many shops where
gimcracks are sold to travelers. I advised her to offer a small premium
for a position. This she said she would do.

In saying good-bye I promised to see her again the next night, but I
found a telegram awaiting me on my arrival at my hotel which called me
to meet two of my companions at Calais, and I was forced to leave by an
early train. The next time I saw the Countess was at Newgate. She
visited me there, and was in perfect despair over my position and her
inability to serve me. For those who may care to know more of her, I
will say that, following my advice, she went to Brussels and obtained a
position in a Tourist Exchange and within a year married the proprietor,
who was a Councilman and a man of considerable local importance. She
made him a good wife and became a true mother to his five daughters.
When he died he made her guardian to both of them and his wealth. She
became very religious, and to the last was a devout member of the Roman
Church. She died in 1886, thirteen years after the episode at Rieberich.
Her ashes rest in the little graveyard of the Convent des Soeurs de Ste.
Agnes, on the Charleroi road, two miles from the city, and on her
monument is engraved:

     TO ELIZABETH, The Beloved Wife, Pious and True. She Served God and
     Has Gone to Live with the Angels

[Illustration: "THE LOVELY COUNTESS WAVED A FAREWELL TO HER DEAD
LOVER."--Page 81.]


CHAPTER IX.

"WE HAVE ANOTHER JOB FOR YOU."


About every second day I called on Murpurgo & Weissweller in Frankfort,
and talked over matters, and easily saw that everything would go right.
All that was necessary was to produce the bonds, and they would hand
over the cash. Here in America, though we scrutinized a man's garments,
the quality and fit of the same having a certain value, we never take
much stock in a stranger because an artist tailor has decorated him, or
because he has plenty of money. But in the seventies, all over Europe,
from the mere fact that a man was an American and had the appearance,
dress and manner of a gentleman, they always took it for granted that he
must be a gentleman.

Therefore, seeing that I was taken for a capitalist, and that no
question would be asked, I told the firm my deal in Austrian copper
mines appeared so certain to be completed that I had ordered the
securities I intended to dispose of to be forwarded from London. Giving
them a list, they gave me a memorandum offer for the lot. I accepted
their offer. The next hour was a very bad sixty minutes for me. There
was considerable delay, and my suspicions were fully aroused, and at one
time I thought they had made some discovery; but, as a fact, my
suspicions were wholly unfounded.

The banker and clerks were simply hurrying around, anxious to oblige me
and have the money out of the bank before it closed. At last the amounts
were figured up and verified by myself. One of the partners hastened
off to the bank and in five minutes returned with a very pretty parcel
of 200,000 gulden; but, in spite of the evident safety of the business,
I was nervous, and resolved to put a good distance between me and the
town as speedily as possible. Before 5 o'clock I was in Weisbaden, and,
going directly to the Casino, where they kept at all times a million
francs, in addition to German money, and where the possession of large
sums attract no attention, I readily exchanged my money for 350
one-thousand-franc notes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Going to Rothschild's, I bought exchange on New York for $80,000, and
left the same night for London. Very many times I journeyed over that
route in after years, but never with so light a heart. I was young and
enthusiastic; all the glamour and poetry of life hung around me, while I
was too inexperienced to notice whither I was drifting, or to understand
the powerful current upon which I had embarked. In fact, I had sold
myself to do the devil's work, and day by day the chain would tighten,
while all the time I thought I could when I pleased stop short on the
downward grade and take the back track. More experience would have
taught me that every one who forsook the path of honor not only thought
the same, but had a purpose to even everything up some day and make
restitution. And to-day there is not a criminal but who, at the start,
looks forward to the time when he will no longer war against society,
but will go out and come in at peace with all men. But when one comes to
think of it, what a fool's game is that of a man who fights against
society!

[Illustration: "THEY FOUND A BODY, RAGGED, EMACIATED, FORLORN. IT WAS
BREA."--Page 120.]

The criminal has but two arms, very short and weak they are, and of
flesh, too. He has but two eyes that cannot possibly see around the
nearest corner, while society has a million arms of steel that can reach
around the world, and a million eyes which are never closed, that can
pierce the thickest gloom with sleepless vigilance. The poor, unhappy
criminal, by fortunate dexterity, may escape for a little, but at last
society lays her iron grasp on him, and with giant force hurls him into
a dungeon. As for the short-lived, tempestuous success that some few
criminals have, is there any sweetness in it? I say no; success won in
honest fight is sweet, but I know from my own experience that the
success of crime brings no sweetness, no blessing with it, but leaves
the mind a prey to a thousand haunting fears that make shipwreck of
peace.

There were no sleeping cars in all Europe then, so I sat up in a
compartment and really enjoyed the ride, viewing the country by
moonlight. At midnight we arrived at Calais, and took the boat for
Dover. The power thus commended has been exercised by the United States
under important circumstances with the coöperation of the best
names of our history, so as to be without question.

If slavery be unconstitutional in the national Capital, and if it
be a Christian duty, sustained by constitutional examples, to
ransom slaves, then your swift desires cannot hesitate to adopt the
present bill, and it becomes needless to enter upon other questions,
important perhaps, but irrelevant.
C. Sumner.

CCLXV.

THE SAME CONCLUDED.

Of course, I scorn to argue the obvious truth that the slaves here
are as much entitled to freedom as the white slaves that enlisted
the early energies of our Government. They are men by the grace of
God, and this is enough. There is no principle of the Constitution,
and no rule of justice, which is not as strong for the one as for the
other. In consenting to the ransom proposed, you will recognize their
manhood, and, if authority be needed, you will find it in the example
of Washington, who did not hesitate to employ a golden key to open the
house of bondage.

Let this bill pass, and the first practical triumph of freedom for
which good men have longed, dying without the sight--for which a
whole generation has petitioned, and for which orators and statesmen
have pleaded--will at last be accomplished.

Slavery will be banished from the national Capital. This metropolis,
which bears a venerated name, will be purified; its evil spirit
will be cast out; its shame will be removed; its society will be
refined; its courts will be made better; its revolting ordinances
will be swept away; and even its loyalty will be secured.

If not moved by justice to the slave, then be willing to act for
your own good and in self-defence. If you hesitate to pass this bill
for the blacks, then pass it for the whites. Nothing is clearer than
that the degradation of slavery affects the master as much as the
slave; while recent events testify that wherever slavery exists, there
treason lurks, if it does not flaunt. From the beginning of this
rebellion, slavery has been constantly manifest in the conduct of the
masters, and even here in the national Capital, it has been the
traitorous power which has encouraged and strengthened the enemy. This
power must be suppressed at every cost, and if its suppression here
endangers slavery elsewhere, there will be a new motive for
determined action.

Amidst all present solicitudes the future cannot be doubtful. At the
national Capital slavery will give way to freedom; but the good work
will not stop here. It must proceed. What God and nature decree
rebellion cannot arrest. And as the whole wide-spreading tyranny
begins to tumble, then, above the din of battle, sounding from the sea
and echoing along the land, above even the exaltations of victory on
well-fought fields, will ascend voices of gladness and benediction,
swelling from generous hearts wherever civilization bears sway,
to commemorate a sacred triumph whose trophies, instead of tattered
banners, will be ransomed slaves.
C. Sumner.

CXLXVI.

EXTRACT FROM FAREWELL ADDRESS AT NEW ORLEANS.

I shall speak in no bitterness, because I am not conscious of a
single personal animosity. Commanding the Army of the Gulf, I found
you captured, but not surrendered; conquered, but not orderly;
relieved from the presence of an army, but incapable of taking care
of yourselves. I restored order, punished crime, opened commerce,
brought provisions to your starving people, reformed your currency,
and gave you quiet protection, such as you had not enjoyed for many
years.I gave her five, and giving her my address in New
York, told her to find work and let me know how she got on. She did find
work in an eel-pie shop in Red Lion Square, High Holborn. I saw her two
years later in London, and possibly may refer to her again in this
story.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went down to Liverpool and embarked on the good ship Java. Ten days
later we sailed through the Narrows.

During my last day in London I went to Westminster Abbey, and spent
three hours in that Valhalla of the Anglo-Saxon race. It made a
tremendous impression upon my mind. In no other work of human hands do
the spirits of so many departed heroes linger, certainly in no other
does the dust of so many of the great dead rest, and as I read memorial
upon memorial to departed greatness I realized that the path of honor
and of truth was the only one for men to tread. All through the voyage
the influences of the Abbey were upon me; I felt I was treading on
dangerous ground, and resolved I would have no more of it. Would I had
then resolved, when I met Irving & Co., to throw all the plunder in
their faces and say: "I'll have none of it, and here we part!" I felt
that I ought to do that, but weakly said: "I need the $10,000, and I'll
give the rogues their share and then see them no more." I had fully made
up my mind to that, knowing Irving would be on the wharf, eager to meet
me.

In sailing through the Narrows and past Staten Island I was making up my
mind as to the little speech I would make. We rapidly neared the wharf
in Jersey City, and I quickly recognized Irving standing on the edge of
the closely packed crowd, watching the steamer with a nervous look on
his face. A rogue suspects every one, and although by this time he had
become pretty well satisfied as to my good faith, no doubt he would be
happier when he had his share of the plunder safe in his pocket. I was
standing close to the rail between two ladies, and saw Irving before he
saw me. Waving my handkerchief, his eye suddenly fell on me. With a
smile and pointing significantly to my pocket, I gave him a salute. An
eager look came into his face, and waving his hand he cried out: "I am
glad to see you!" and no doubt he spoke the truth. When the gangplank
was thrown ashore, and I saw him making his way toward it, evidently
intending to board the steamer, I thought how surprised he would be when
I told him I would have no more of his game. He sprang on board, rushed
to me with a beaming face, grasped my hand, and putting the other on my
shoulder, led me toward the gangway. He had not spoken yet, but as we
were going down the gangplank he said: "My boy, you have done
splendidly," and then, putting his mouth close to my ear, whispered: "We
have got another job for you, and it's a beauty!"

I don't mean to pester my reader with a moral, or by too much
moralizing, although I am tempted to do so. There is ample material for
a course of sermons in that "we have another job for you" coming to me
just then. But, leaving my reader to draw his own moral, I must go on
with my narrative.

Going up the wharf with Irving, I was on the point of telling him I
wanted no more jobs, but weakly put it off, and by so doing, of course,
made it more difficult. He told me Stanley and White were waiting at
Taylor's Hotel on Montgomery street, a few doors up from the wharf. We
soon were there, and they gave me a warm and even enthusiastic
reception. Then I began to tell some of my adventures on the journey, to
which they listened with unfeigned admiration, and, opening my bag, I
produced the sixteen bills of exchange for $5,000 each, informing them
they should have their cash in ninety minutes. It was curious to see
these men handle the bills of exchange, passing them from one to
another, examining them with anxious care. But where were my good
resolutions, and what had become of them? Why, they, under the effect of
the wine and the magnetic influence of these three minds, had gone
flying down the bay, and under a favorable gale were fast speeding
seaward beyond the ken of mortal eye, not to be found by me again until
years after, when, with the toils about me, I found myself in Newgate.
Then the fugitives all came back, this time to stay.

My three graces who adorned the Police Department of New York were full
of matter of a new enterprise, which by my co-operation was to make the
fortunes of us all. But they were too evidently anxious, too eagerly
desirous to handle the greenbacks my bills of exchange represented, to
fix their minds upon anything else.

Stanley and White went away together, but first each once more told me
privately that he depended upon me to put in his own hands his share,
showing how these rogues suspected each other, and, indeed, were full of
suspicions of every one and every thing. But, in that capacity I have a
nobler credential for my mission than all the clerks of the world can
write,--the credential that I am a "man;" the credential that I
am a "patriot;" the credential that I love with all sacrificing
devotion my oppressed fatherland and liberty; the credential that I hate
tyrants, and have sworn everlasting hostility to them; the credential
that I feel the strength to do good service to the cause of freedom;
good service, as perhaps few men can do, because I have the iron will,
in this my breast, to serve faithfully devotedly, indefatigably, that
noble cause.

I have the credential that I trust to God in heaven, to justice on earth;
that I offend no laws, but cling to the protection of the laws. I have
the credential of my people's undeniable confidence and its
unshaken faith; to my devotion, to my manliness, to my honesty, and to
my patriotism; which faith I will honestly answer without ambition,
without interest, as faithfully as ever, but more skillfully, because
schooled by adversities.

And I have the credential of the justice of the cause I plead, and of the
wonderful sympathy which, not my person, but that cause, has met, and
meets, in two hemispheres. These are my credentials, and nothing else.
To whom this is enough, he will help me, so far as the law permits and
it is his good pleasure. To whom these credentials are not
sufficient, let him look for a better accredited man.

LXXIX.

THE IDES OF MARCH.

To-day is the fourth anniversary of the Revolution in Hungary.

Anniversaries of revolutions are almost always connected with the
recollections of some patriot's death,--fallen on that day, like the
Spartans at Thermopylæ, martyrs of devotion to their fatherland.

Almost in every country there is some proud cemetery, or some modest
tombstone, adorned on such a day by a garland of evergreen,--the pious
offering of patriotic tenderness. I passed the last night in a
sleepless dream; and my soul wandered on the magnetic wings of the
past, home to my beloved, bleeding land. And I saw, in the
dead of the night, dark veiled shapes, with the paleness of eternal grief
upon their brow--but terrible in the fearless silence of that grief--gliding
over the churchyards of Hungary and kneeling down to the head of the
graves, and depositing the pious tribute of green and cypress upon them;
and, after a short prayer, rising with clenched fists and gnashing teeth,
and then stealing away tearless!
and silent as they came,--stealing away, because the bloodbounds
of my country's murder lurks from every corner on that night, and
on this day, and leads to prison those who dare to show a pious
remembrance to the beloved.

To-day, a smile on the lips of a Magyar is taken for a crime of
defiance to tyranny; and a tear in his eye is equivalent to a revolt.

And yet I have seen, with the eye of my home-wandering soul, thousands
performing the work of patriotic piety.

And I saw more.

When the pious offerers stole away, I saw the honored dead half risen
from their tombs, looking to the offerings, and whispering gloomily,
"Still a cypress, and still no flower of joy! Is there still the chill
of winter and the gloom of night over thee, Fatherland? Are we not yet
revenged?" And the sky of the east reddened suddenly, and
quivered with bloody flames; and from the far, far west, a lightning
flashed like a star-spangled stripe, and within its light a young eagle
mounted and soared towards the quivering flames of the east; and
as he drew near, upon his approaching, the flames changed into a
radiant morning sun, and a voice from above was heard in answer to
the question of the dead:
"Sleep yet a short while; mine is the revenge.

At 40 he found himself facile princeps of the
English Bar, and public opinion, that potent factor in popular
government, had already singled him out for the high position of
Attorney-General. That secured, only one step remained to place him in
the seat of the Lord Chancellor. Truly, an imperial position--one that
satisfied the proud ambition of a Wolsey and fitted the genius of a
Thomas a Becket. It carries with it the position of keeper of the
conscience of Her Majesty, giving the possessor precedence in all
official functions over the English aristocracy, next to royalty itself.

But about this time dark whispers began to fly about through the clubs
of London. Soon it became known that Edwin James, the Lord Chancellor
to be, was in the toils, and it shortly transpired that, in spite of the
fact that his income from his profession was nearer twenty than ten
thousand pounds per annum, it had proved insufficient and he was heavily
in debt, and worse.

It would seem he was keeping up what in the polite language of society
are known as dual houses. A woman of brilliant beauty presided over one,
and the marvelous beauty of its mistress was only equaled by her
extravagance. He also had a fondness for associating with younger men
than himself, and had got into a particularly fast set of young lords
and army men. At his club he had lost large sums at baccarat and loo,
and, in an unhappy hour for himself and his, he stooped from his high
position and--miserable to think of--committed a crime. This, in the
expectation that he would relieve himself from some of the more crushing
obligations he had heaped upon himself, either through the extravagant
vagaries of his imperious mistress, or by his own rashness in trying his
luck among a lot of titled sharpers. He had among his clients one fast,
even madly extravagant youth, heir of an historic name and of a lordly
estate. To supply his extravagance "my lord" had applied to the money
lenders--those sharks that in London, as elsewhere, fatten on such game.
These gentry were eager to lend the young blood money upon what are
known in English law as post-obits, which loans in this particular case
carried the trifling interest of about 100 per cent. per annum. James
was cognizant of his friend's excursions among the money lenders, and no
doubt he thought the young spendthrift, when he came into his fortune,
would never know within a good many thousands how much he had borrowed,
nor even the number of post-obits he had given.

I will just explain that a post-obit is a form of note or due bill given
by the heir of an estate (usually of an entailed estate), which matures
the moment the drawer of the document enters into that estate. That is
to say, the tender-hearted son discounts his father's death to provide
fuel to feed his flame. So Edwin James, driven to his own destruction,
stooped from his imperial position into what one might call ankle-depth
of crime.

How little he dreamed there was a beyond--a huge, seething sea of crime;
an ocean whose billows are of ink, and which would soon sweep him from
his high place into the black waters, there to be buffeted until, honor
and hope all gone, he would, throwing his hands to heaven, with one
despairing cry, sink into its inky depths, adding one more ruined life
to the millions already engulfed. In that long, sad catalogue of the
dead there is probably not one, who, when taking the first step into
crime, ever thought a second would follow the first.

But to come back to our gilded sir. He made out two post-obits for
£5,000, wrote his client's name at the bottom of each, gave them to the
money lenders, who, never doubting that the prodigal son had signed and
given them to his counsel, made no question, but gave James the money
for them at once. But James had reckoned without his host, for this
nineteenth century prodigal was made of keener metal than he of the
first. Strange to say, and utterly unexpected as it was to all who knew
him and had looked upon his riotous living, he kept his books straight,
and knew to a single guinea how much and to whom he was owing.

His discovery of the forgery was accelerated by the sudden and most
unexpected death of his father, his return home and stepping into his
estate.

The various post-obits were presented and placed before him. He
instantly pronounced the two for five thousand pounds each to be
forgeries, and the crime was easily laid at the door of the Queen's
Counsel. The heir indignantly refused to condone the offense, and,
revealing the fatal secret to a few, within a month it was known in
every clubroom in London. From there it got into the newspapers, and
they, under a thinly disguised alias of a "distinguished member of the
Bar," gave more or less accurate details of the damning truth. His
former client eventually said he would not prosecute the forgery if the
criminal left England; if not, he would immediately go before the Grand
Jury, procure an indictment, and have this man, who had moved a prince
among men, arraigned in the dock at the Old Bailey, there to plead and
stand trial like any common criminal.

And he fled. Of course, like all fugitives from justice throughout the
Old World, he looked to America for a city of refuge, and here he came.
Not to keep my readers too long from the main narrative, it will suffice
to say that soon after his arrival he applied for admission to the Bar
of New York, but first he won to his cause the high-souled Richard
O'Gorman, then a leader of his profession.

It was for Edwin James a lucky stroke, for at this time O'Gorman was in
full possession of his magnificent powers. Few could resist his magic.
His great heart was stirred, and he took up the cause of his friend as
if he had been his brother. The English lawyer's reputation was known to
every member of the Bar of New York, and there had been and still was a
bitter opposition to his admission; but when it became known that their
eloquent leader was his champion, many began to feel that after all "the
poor fellow ought to be given another chance," and when at the next
meeting of the Bar Association O'Gorman in a set oration brought all his
splendid eloquence into play the cause was won.

Great-hearted O'Gorman had helped this lame dog over the stile, but the
dog's heart was not in the right place, and, as my reader will see in
the sequel, he soon went lame again. * * *

       *       *       *       *       *

In the rear room of a somewhat luxurious range of offices in a building
on Broadway, facing the City Hall, four men were engaged in discussing
what was evidently an exciting topic. The door of the main office bore
the sign "Edwin James, Counselor-at-Law and Register in Bankruptcy." He
was one of the four. He had failed lamentably in his efforts to secure a
practice. The effects of O'Gorman's eloquence had in the gray light of
commonplace day faded away, the more so when the ideal his magic had
created in the minds of men was in hourly contrast with the man himself
and his history. His professional brethren looked upon him with
suspicion, and there was a general impression abroad that his escapades
were not over yet.

He had launched out in his office and home somewhat extravagantly, and
now, once again pressed by clamorous creditors, he had once more drifted
upon the borderlands of crime, and was here with his companions planning
a criminal transaction in order to pay his more pressing debts.

One of these four was Brea, who, with a keen eye to business, had
married the discarded daughter of a wealthy but not over-respectable New
York family, and he had, unsuspected, pulled the wires so that James had
been employed as the family lawyer, and in that capacity had drawn the
will of the mother. She was an imperious, hot-tempered body, one who,
when aroused, was accustomed to use language more vigorous than polite,
and who not infrequently went to fisticuffs with her daughters. The
husband and father, the creator of the fortune, was dead and the vast
family property, in securities, stocks and lands, was vested absolutely
in the mother. In the old lady's will Brea's wife, the second daughter
of the house (there were no sons), was down in the very first paragraph
for the magnificent sum of "one dollar lawful currency," and her name
nowhere else appeared in the lengthy document. The old lady was such a
termagant and so implacable in her hatreds that it was a moral certainty
she would never relent and change her purpose toward her daughter. But
James had also drawn up a second will of his own and Brea's
concoction, and a precious piece of villainy it was, in which the wife
was down for legacies amounting; to $750,000. The genuine will James
kept in his own possession, ready to destroy the very moment word came
that the old lady was an immortal, while the spurious will was kept in
the vaults of the Safety Deposit Company, there to remain until the
death of the testatrix, when, of course, it would in due time be
produced.

[Illustration: BANK OF ENGLAND PARLOR.]

Brea had been introduced to the other three men, and cultivated their
acquaintance in the belief that they would some day be useful to him. He
had a few days before introduced them to James. As a matter of
precaution he had concealed from them all knowledge of the will. At the
same time he gave them a hint that there was something in the wind, but
that some way must be found to secure at once a few thousands, enough
for a year or two, until the good time came when fortune was to lavish
her favors on them all with a liberal hand. But money must be had at
once, for Brea and James were in sore straits, particularly James, who
had been threatened with arrest, and was so far involved that he always
entered and left his house at night in order to escape importunate
creditors. This was James' second interview with the men, and the first
time he had been alone with them. He saw at once that he had to do with
able, clear-headed men, took them into his confidence, and, in order to
excite their hopes and to bind them to him as well, he confided to them
the plot of the forged will, producing the genuine for their inspection.
He assured them that it was a sure and speedy fortune, as the lady was
old and frail in health, and he also promised they should share between
them $100,000, provided they would stand by to give a hand in the
somewhat improbable event of the other heirs disputing the will, but
above all, if they would devise some means to furnish him at once
$10,000, or at least $5,000. Money he must have, and he could no longer
do without it.

The result of our conference in James' office was that the very next day
an office downtown was engaged under a fictitious name, and a simple,
unsuspicious fellow hired as porter and messenger. After some little
negotiation, we obtained particulars of parties banking with the then
great firm of Jay Cooke & Company, corner of Wall and Nassau streets.
Briefly told, the result was that four days later a messenger walked
into their banking house with a check for $20,000, purporting to be
signed by another firm, who banked with them. Along with the check went
a letter bearing a signature well known to the cashier, asking him to
pay the check to bearer. The result of all being that five minutes
thereafter we were walking unconcernedly up Broadway, and sending a
message to James to meet us at Delmonico's, corner of Broadway and
Chambers street, we sat down awaiting his arrival. He had anxiously been
looking for news, and almost before we had seated ourselves he entered,
eager and anxious-looking; but, when he glanced at our faces, a happy
expression came over his own, and without a word he put out his hand.
After a warm greeting, I produced the roll, and, to his delight, I
handed over to James ten five hundreds. On the morrow I went to the
office, and, paying my messenger a week's wages, besides making a small
gift, told him he need not come any more.

With this twenty thousand coup we fondly thought all our troubles and
all our unlawful acts were ended. We now had a few thousands, sufficient
to last until the $5,000 we had invested in the will case should bring
in a dividend that would mean a fortune for us all. So we took things
easy about town, and altogether thought ourselves pretty good fellows,
and this world a very good sort of place to be in.

Thus the Winter passed by and the Summer was at hand. Our thousands of
the year before had dwindled to hundreds, and the old lady whose heirs
we had constituted ourselves seemed to have renewed her youth, and
threatened to outlive us all.

Besides this there had grown up a repugnance in our minds to the
business, and when one day my friend Mac remarked it was a scoundrelly
business to rob the heirs of an estate, and they women, George and I
heartily acquiesced; and we vowed we would take no part in the matter,
and then and there resolved we would throw both James and Brea over, but
first to use Brea and James for our own purposes. Once more we found
ourselves planning a coup in Wall street. Talking the matter over, we
three soon had a plan, and, being dowered with intense energy, it
promised a successful termination. Audaciously enough we determined the
lightning should strike once more in the same place--that is, to make
Jay Cooke & Company again the victims. Irving and his honest fellows
were to co-operate by watching everything, and, if any arrest
threatened, to be on hand to make it themselves; and then let the
prisoner escape. Most important of all, when the bankers drove up in hot
haste to Police Headquarters to give information, James, Honest James,
would be on hand to receive them, would call in his two trustys to get
with him full particulars of the robbery and a description of the men.
Then the bankers would be sent away with assurances that "we know the
men and will have them," but at the same time warning them to keep the
matter a secret in order better to enable them to catch the villains.

If successful, the detectives were to receive 25 per cent. between them.
Our plan required James to play an important part, and, although no
confederacy could be fixed on him, yet he would hardly escape
questioning and a very considerable degree of suspicion, so much so that
it probably would put an end to any lingering remnants of character he
had on hand or in stock. But he was tired of America, and determined to
go to Paris with his share of the plunder. Our visits to James had
always been in his private office, and his clerks had never seen either
of us or Brea.

Our plan was to make use of James' office in a way that will appear
later. As related, he was suspected by his profession, but the general
public thought him a very great man. He had appeared as (volunteer)
counsel in two or three murder cases and had delivered powerful
addresses which had attracted considerable notice in the papers.

One day, soon after our plan was matured, Brea went to Philadelphia,
and, by a mixture of audacity and finesse, procured from Jay Cooke
himself (the parent house of the New York firm of Jay Cooke & Co. was in
Philadelphia) a letter of introduction to the manager of the New York
firm. He wanted the letter ostensibly in order to consult the manager
about certain investments which he, as executor of an estate, desired to
make for his wards.

The transaction was made to appear as one of considerable magnitude, in
which there would be large commissions paid. Shepherd. (James Hogg.)
"I wad ha'e kent it, Mr. North, on the tower o' Babel, on the day o' the
great hubbub. I think Socrates maun ha'e had just sic a voice--ye canna
weel ca 't sweet, for it is ower intellectual for that--ye canna
ca 't saft, for even in its aigh notes there's a sort o' birr, a sort o'
dirl that betokens power--ye canna ca 't hairsh, for angry as ye may
be at times, it's aye in tune frae the fineness o' your ear for music--ye
canna ca 't sherp, for it's aye sae nat'ral--and flett it cud never
be, gin you were even gi'en ower by the doctors. It's maist the only
voice I ever heard, that I can say is at ance persuawsive and commanding--you
micht fear 't, but you maun love 't; and there's no a voice in all
his Majesty's dominions, better framed by nature to hold communion
with friend or foe."
The quality of voice to which I would here call special attention is
called pure tone, which in its perfection, accompanied with strength
and compass, comprises nearly all the requisites of a good voice. "True
utterance and pure tone," says Professor Russell, "employ the whole
apparatus of voice, in one consentaneous act, combining in one perfect
sphere of sound, if it may be so expressed, the depth of effect produced
by the resonance of the chest, the force and firmness imparted by the
due compression of the throat, the clear, ringing property, caused
by the due proportion of nasal effect, and the softening and
sweetening influence of the head and mouth."

The orotund quality which is so effective in impassioned utterance,
and in the expression of deep, forcible, and sublime emotions, is nothing
more than pure tone increased in extent of volume, and in intensity of
force.
This modification of pure tone is very full, very rounds very smooth,
and very highly resonant or ringing.

It is what Dr. Rush regarded as the highest perfection of speech-voice,
and as the natural language of the highest species of emotion. Volume
and energy are its distinguishing characteristics. The piece from Webster
on page 160, is a good illustration of its use.

In cultivating purity of tone, it is necessary, in the first place, to
ascertain the elements of impurity, and their causes and remedies.
To this negative process must be added the positive, namely--attention
to the due and proportionate development of all the vocal organs. Depth
is increased by the expansion of the pharynx; roundness and volume are
promoted by the enlargement of the oral cavity, especially its back
part; and smoothness is the result of the free vibration of the vocal
chords, while resonance is produced by the proper expansion of the
chest.

MODULATION. This has reference, not to the qualities of the voice itself,
but to its management in delivery.

It includes those modifications and variations which are requisite for
the expression of thoughts and feelings, and are therefore denominated
by some elocutionists, the elements of expression, in distinction
from the elements of utterance, which we have already considered under
the preceding heads. The principal expressive modifications of the
voice, are pitch, force, rate, pause, and infection.
The voice should be exercised on these elements separately, till
each can be produced in all its varieties and degrees.

The middle pitch, or key-note, is that of common discourse, but by
practice it may be rendered effective in public speaking. Neglect to
cultivate and develop the power of speaking on this key, often
leads speakers to adopt the high, shouting note, which is heard so
commonly, and with so much disapprobation, at exhibitions of
declamation.

Every one can speak on a high key, although without training few
can do it pleasingly; but command over the low notes of the voice is a
rare accomplishment, and an unequivocal characteristic of the
finished speaker.

It is well to pay some attention to the very high and very low notes, not
so much for their own utility in public speaking as for the purpose
of giving strength and firmness to the notes which are intermediate
between the natural pitch and either extreme, and which are designated
as simply high and low, without any qualifying term.

After accustoming the ear and voice to the different notes, the student
should learn to make sudden transitions from one key to
another.

FORCE. The principal degrees of force requiring attention, are three:
the moderate, the declamatory, and the impassioned. The degrees lower
than moderate are, the suppressed and the subdued; and those higher
than impassioned are, shouting and calling. But these are not very
important in practical delivery.

RATE has reference to the kinds of movement in delivery, including the
rapid, the moderate, and the slow. Mrs. Siddon's primary rule for
good reading was, "Take Time." Excessive rapidity of utterance is,
undoubtedly, a very prevalent fault, both in speaking and in
conversation.

Deliberate speech is usually a characteristic of culture and good-breeding.
This excellence is greatly promoted by giving due quantity, or
prolongation of sound, to the vowels.

PAUSES. Besides the pauses required by the syntactical structure of the
sentence, and denoted by grammatical punctuation, there are the pauses
of passion, and the pauses at the termination of the clusters into which
words are grouped in good speaking.

The pauses of emotion occur in impassioned delivery. They usually consist
in lengthening the stops indicated by the punctuation marks, especially
those of the points of exclamation and interrogation, and the dash.
Pauses of this description constitute one of the most importent of the
elements of emphatic expression, and yet they are, by many speakers,
altogether neglected, or so abridged as to destroy their effect. The young
student is particularly apt to disregard them.

The pauses which mark the grouping of words according to the sense,
and afford rests for taking breath, should generally be introduced
before the nominative, if it consists of several words, or if it
is one important word; before and after an intermediate clause;
before the relative; before and after clauses introduced by
prepositions; before conjunctions; and before the infinitive mood,
if any words intervene betwixt it and the word governing it.

INFLECTIONS. The two chief inflections or slides are the raising
and the falling. The voice, when properly managed, usually rises or falls
on each emphatic syllable. These upward and downward movements of the
voice are what we mean by inflections. The student should practice
on them till he can inflect with ease and in a full sonorous voice.
Persons who are deficient in tune do not readily perceive the difference
between the rising slide and loudness of voice, or the falling and
softness. It is a very useful exercise to pronounce the long vowel
sounds giving to each first the rising then the falling slide.

The prolongation of these sounds is most profitably connected with the
slides, the voice being thus strengthened in its whole range of compass,
and, at the same time, accustomed to utter the musical sounds of speech
with due quantity. In inflecting the vowels, the voice, in order to
rise, begins low; and, in order to fall, it begins high.

The rising and falling slides combined form the circumflex, or wave,
which is a very impressive and significant modification of the voice.
It is chiefly used in sarcasm, raillery, irony, wit, and humor. It
well deserves careful study and practice.

THE MONOTONE, is the repetition of nearly the same tone on successive
syllables, resembling the repeated strokes of the bell. This element
belongs to very grave delivery, especially where emotions of awe,
sublimity, grandeur, and vastness are expressed, and is peculiarly adapted
to devotional exercises. The following example well illustrates its
use:

"He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under his
feet,--And he rode upon a cherub and did fly; yea, he did fly upon the
wings of the wind. He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion
round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies."
In practical delivery, the elements of expression are never used independently
of each other, two or three being always combined, even in the utterance
of the shortest passage. The perfection of vocal training, therefore,
requires a command, not merely of each individual modification of the
voice, but of all their numerous combinations. The following example
requires the union of declamatory force, low pitch, slow rate,
monotone, and orotund quality:--
"High on a throne of royal state, which far Outshone the wealth of
Ormus. and of Ind, Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand,
Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold, Satan exalted sat."

What has been said thus far, relates wholly to preparatory training
in the elements of elocution. I have dwelt upon this theoretical
department of my subject, because of its transcendent importance.
But I do not mean to imply, in anything that has been presented,
that the pupil should be confined exclusively to this disciplinary drill,
for a long period, without attempting practical exercises in reading
and declamation.

On the contrary, I would recommend that this practice on the vocal and
expressive elements be carried forward together with practice in speaking
pieces.

Exercises in vocal gymnastics, such as I have now indicated, should be
commenced with the first stages of education, and continued, with gradations
adapted to the age and progress of the pupil, through the whole course
of instruction, whether longer or shorter.

The value of thorough elementary training is well illustrated by
the following anecdote respecting the education of the ear and the
singing voice:--
"Porpora, one of the most illustrious masters of Italy, having
conceived a friendship for a young pupil, exacted from him the
promise that he would persevere with constancy in the course which
he should mark out for him.

The master then noted upon a single page of ruled paper, the diatonic
and chromatic scales, ascending and descending; the intervals of
third, fourth, fifth, &c.

This eternal page occupied master and pupil until the sixth year, when the
master added some lessons in articulation and declamation.

At the end of this year, the pupil, who still supposed himself in the
elements, was much surprised when Porpora said to him, 'Go, my son, you
have nothing more to learn; you are the first singer of Italy, and
of the world.'

The master had spoken the truth, for this singer was Caffarelli, the
greatest singer of the eighteenth century."

EXPRESSION
This term is used here, not in its limited and technical meaning,
but in its largest sense, as a convenient one to denote the practical
application of the principles of vocal culture which I have
recommended.

We will suppose the student to be thoroughly trained in enunciation,
that his utterance is distinct and his pronunciation is correct, and
that his voice is fully developed and well modulated. The question
now arises, How is he to be guided in the right use of his powers of
speech in the delivery of a given piece? On this point there is a wide
difference of opinion among writers on elocution. On the one hand there
are those who contend that, in the delivery of every sentence, the
application of emphasis, pause, pitch, inflection, &c., should be
governed by definite rules.

In accordance with this theory, they have formed complex systems of
elocutionary rules, for the guidance of pupils in reading aloud
and in declamation. On the other hand, there are authorities of eminence,
who regard all specific rules for the management of the voice in speaking
as not merely useless, but positively injurious. Most prominent among
the latter class is Archbishop Whately who, in speaking of the
method of teaching expressive delivery by rules, says:--"Such a
plan not only directs us into a circuitous and difficult path,
towards an object which may be reached by a shorter and straighter,
but also in most instances completely fails of that very object,
and even produces oftener than not, effects the very reverse of
what was designed."

Reprobating very emphatically all systematic attention to elocution as
an art, this eminent author advocates what he calls the natural manner
of speaking, for the attainment of which he prescribes the rule, "not
only to pay no studied attention to the voice, but studiously to
withdraw the thoughts from it, and to dwell as intently as possible
on the sense, trusting to nature to suggest spontaneously the proper
emphasis and tones."

The true course seems to me to lie midway between these two opposite
extremes. While it is useless to attempt to reduce to exact system
all the modifications of voice to be employed in the delivery of
both plain and allegorical language, still there are many important
elocutionary rules and principles which are eminently useful for
the guidance of the student.

Because Walker fell into the error of attempting to carry his principles
too far, and perplexed the student with an endless list of rules,
it does not follow that all rules should be disregarded. His rules
for inflections are, no doubt, too complex and artificial for
ordinary instruction in elocution, but those found in the works of Dr.
Porter and Professor Russell are calculated to afford important aid;
and Professor Mark Bailey, in his Introduction to "Hillard's Sixth
Reader," has still further simplified the subject.

The following principles which he lays down for regulating the inflections
are at once comprehensive and practical.

"The 'rising' and 'falling' slides separate the great mass of ideas into
two distinct classes; the first comprising all the subordinate, or
incomplete, or, as we prefer to name them, the negative ideas; the
second comprising all the principal, or complete, or, as we call them,
the positive ideas.

"The most important parts of what is spoken or written, are those which
affirm something positively, such as the facts and truths asserted,
the principles, sentiments, and actions enjoined, with the
illustrations, and reasons, and appeals, which enforce them.

All these may properly be grouped into one class, because they all
should have the same kind of slide in reading. This class we call
'positive ideas.'
"So all the other ideas which do not affirm or enjoin anything
positively, which are circumstantial and incomplete, or in open contrast
with the positive, all these ideas may be properly grouped into another
single class because they all should have the same kind of slide. This
class we call 'negative ideas.'
"Positive ideas should have the falling slide; Negative ideas should have
the rising slide.

"All sincere and earnest, or, in other words, all upright and downright
ideas demand the straight, or upright and downright slides.

"All ideas which are not sincere or earnest, but are used in jest, or
irony, in ridicule, sarcasm, or mockery, in insinuation or
double-meaning, demand the crooked or circumflex slides."

These rules taken in connection with the accompanying brief but clear and
precise explanation of the meaning attached to the words positive and
negative, constitute the most admirable generalization that I have met
with in elocutionary works of more recent date than that of Dr. Rush.
And, indeed, Professor Bailey's whole treatment of that part of elocution
now under consideration, is the best illustration I can name of the middle
course which I recommend. Avoiding alike the ultra "artificial" system
of Walker and the ultra "natural" system of Whately, he combines in
his instruction the excellencies of both, without their faults. He
is both philosophical in his theory, and practical in its application.
He attempts only what is practicable. He insists on analysis, but his
analysis is at once simple and comprehensive. He classes the different
kinds of composition with respect to the emotions, as follows,--1.

Unemotional; 2.
Bold; 3. Animated or joyous; 4. Subdued or pathetic; 5. Noble; 6. Grave;
7.
Ludicrous or sarcastic, 8. Impassioned,--and then indicates the
modifications of voice appropriate for each.

Now such a course of training based on such principles, especially
if pursued under a competent instructor, cannot fail to be highly
beneficial.
Experience has proved it. Whately is evidently in error in wholly
proscribing attention to the voice in speaking. In learning to dance,
the pupil must pay attention to the motions of his limbs, but when
practice has made the movements familiar, his mind is withdrawn
from them.

They then become natural. Just so will the student of elocution. In his
disciplinary exercises he must attend to his voice. He must become
accustomed to the correct application of tones and inflections in the
delivery of passages which illustrate them. But when he comes to practical
delivery, then the mind should be withdrawn from the manner of utterance,
and concentrated intensely upon the matter,--the thoughts and feelings
to be expressed. In private rehearsals, the management of the voice will
be a very prominent object of attention. Declamation is a sort of
transition stage, or intermediate exercise between private rehearsal
and practical delivery at the bar, in the pulpit, or on the platform,
and will require more or less attention to the voice, in proportion
to the progress already made by the pupil.

Judicious practice will gradually carry him to that point where
he will wholly cease to think of his manner, and become entirely
absorbed in his subject. He then becomes natural. But even the
most accomplished orator must occasionally give some thought to his
voice. When he rises to address an audience in a new place he must
consider the circumstances,--the capacity of the apartment, the nature
and temper of his auditors, &c., and pitch his voice accordingly.
In other words, the speaker must on all occasions give a general
attention to his voice,--sufficient, at least, to adapt it to the
requirements of the position in which he is placed, modifying it in the
progress of the discourse, as the necessity of the case demands. If the
matter of his discourse is very familiar, the skilful speaker may
greatly augment the effectiveness of his delivery by more particular
attention to the manner, while he will seem wholly absorbed in the
spirit and sense of what he utters.

GESTURE.

The limited space allotted to this introduction will not permit a full
discussion of this topic, and I must content myself with presenting
a few general observations concerning it.

The little child, in the unconscious freedom of childhood, before his
actions and manners have been modified by the restraints of artificial
life, affords the best model of gesture. His instinct prompts him
to that visible expression of his thoughts and feelings
"Which we are toiling all our lives to find."
And it may be assumed as a general fact that external expression, unless
repressed by habit or design, usually corresponds with internal
emotion.

The great desideratum in gesture is to make the visible expression
in delivery harmonize with the audible, or, as Shakspeare has it, to
"suit the action to the word, and the word to the action."
Professor Russell, in his excellent analysis of this subject says, "The
true speaker must have a true manner; and of the five great attributes
of genuine expression in attitude and action, TRUTH stands first,
followed by FIRMNESS, FORCE, FREEDOM, and PROPRIETY. GRACE, which is
sometimes added as a sixth, is, in all true manly eloquence, but
another name for the symmetry which flows from appropriateness; and,
in masculine expression, should never be a distinct object of attention."

In order to speak well, the orator must be able to stand well, that is,
he should assume a firm but easy and graceful attitude, the weight of the
body resting principally on one foot.

The distance between the feet should be such as to give both firmness
and freedom to the position One foot should be in advance of the
other, the toes being turned outward. The attitude should vary with the
thoughts and emotions expressed. Unemotional thoughts require an attitude
of repose, the body resting on the retired foot. Bold and impassioned
language requires the reverse of this. The body is thrown forward,
resting on the foot advanced. In turning from side to side, the toes
should be kept apart and the heels together.

The principal feature of bodily action consists in the proper use of
the hands. "Have not," says Quintilion, "our hand's the power of
exciting, of restraining, of beseeching, of testifying approbation,
admiration, and shame? Do they not, in pointing out places and persons,
discharge the duty of adverbs and pronouns? So amidst the great diversity
of tongues-pervading all nations and peoples, the language of
the hands appears to be a language common to all men." We stretch forth
and clasp the hands when we importunately entreat, sue, beseech,
supplicate, or ask mercy. To put forth the right hand spread open is
the gesture of bounty, liberality, and a free heart; and thus we
reward, and bestow gifts. Placing with vehemence the right fist in the
left palm is a gesture commonly used to mock, chide, insult, reproach,
and rebuke. To beckon with the raised hand is a universal sign of craving
audience and entreating a favorable silence. To wave the hand from us,
the palm outward, is the gesture of repulsion, aversion, dismissal. To
shake the fist at one signifies anger and defiance and threatening.
The hands are clasped or wrung in deep sorrow, and outstretched with
the palms inward to indicate welcoming, approving, and receiving. In
shame, the hand is placed before the eyes; in earnestness and ardor, the
hands reach forward; in joy, they are thrown up, widely apart; in exultation
and triumph, the right hand is waved above the head.

"In the rhetorical actions of the hand, the happy medium ought to be
observed; for the action of the hand should be full of dignity and
magnanimous resolution, making it a liberal index of the mind." A
French writer admirably remarks that we should move the arms because
we are animated, but not try to appear animated by moving the arms.

The countenance, especially the eye, should be made to speak as well as
the tongue. It is said of Chatham, that such was the power of his
eye, that he very often cowed down an antagonist in the midst of his
speech, and threw him into confusion. It is through the eye, scarcely
less than through the tones of voice, that intercourse of soul is carried
on between the speaker and hearers. To secure this intercourse the
speaker should let his soul beam from his eye. Nor should he fail to
look at his hearers, if he would have his hearers look at him. Among the
faults to be avoided in the management of the eye, Dr. Porter notices
particularly that unmeaning look which the eye "bent on vacuity"
has, resembling the inexpressive glare of the glass eye of a wax
figure; that indefinite sweep of the eye which ranges from one side
to the other of an assembly, resting nowhere; and that tremulous,
roving cast of the eye, and winking of the eyelid, which is in
direct contrast to an open, collected, manly expression of the face.

Among the faults of action to be noticed are:--1. Want of action; 2.
Want of expression of countenance; 3. A stiff, or a careless, attitude;
4. Want of appropriateness; 5. Excess of motions of the hands and arms;
6. Too great violence of action; 7. Too great complexity; 8. A mechanical
uniformity; 9. Tardiness, the action following the utterances when
it should accompany it, or slightly precede it.

It must not be supposed that it is necessary for the pupil to receive
training in a technical system of gesticulation before he commences
his exercises in declamation. If the student designs to qualify himself
to be a professor of elocution, he will need to study the laws of
gesture in "Austin's Chironomia," and be instructed in their application
by a skillful teacher. But this course is neither practicable nor necessary
for the mass of students. Instruction in this department should
generally be of a negative nature, and occupy itself mainly in the
correction of faults. When the pupil commences his exercises in declamation,
the less said about action the better.

Freedom is the first thing to be secured, and, to attain this end, few
directions should be given and few criticisms be made, at the outset.
When the speaker has acquired some confidence, and freedom of action,
his faults may be gradually pointed out, and his attention called to
some general principles of gesture, such as have been presented
respecting the language of the hands.

It was settled that George should pursue the venture alone in France,
while I should go with Mac to Germany to act as his second there. To
keep entirely clear myself, but at the same time to watch everything, to
exchange the German notes he obtained and to be ready to help if any one
should attempt to detain him.

Therefore, after completing certain preparations which required skill
and considerable business knowledge, we departed to execute this new
and, of course, last shuffle for fortune.

We had selected Berlin, Munich, Leipsic and Frankfort as the scenes of
our operations in Germany. In France we sought to operate in Bordeaux,
Marseilles and Lyons. At 8 p.m. Saturday we all crossed to Calais
together, where George said good-bye, and, leaving us to take the train
eastward to Berlin, he started west to Bordeaux. We were not to meet
again until after our hurried rush through the Continent and our return
to London with the proceeds. Before I give an account of Mac's adventure
and my own for the next three days I will here give George's narrative
in his own language, as related to us when we all met again in London:

After saying good-bye to you I arrived in Paris in due time, and
sauntered about for two hours until the train left for Bordeaux, where I
arrived at 8 o'clock Monday morning, and went at once to the Hotel
d'Orient, and after a bath and breakfast repaired to the bankers. As
soon as I presented my letters of introduction they received me with the
greatest consideration, lavishing every attention upon me, inviting me
to dinner and to a drive through the city afterward. I thanked them, and
explained that I was obliged to decline, as my agent was waiting for me
at Bayonne, where I had purchased some real estate, and, having been
recommended to their firm, I should feel obliged if they would cash my
draft for £2,000 and indorse it on my letter of credit. The manager
replied that it was the custom of the French bankers to require
twenty-four hours' notice before drawing a check, and asked me if the
next day would not answer. "We shall be happy to assist you," said he,
"in passing the time pleasantly." This was a new custom to me, but I
answered instantly, expressing regret that the nature of my business
precluded delay, it being necessary that I should reach Bayonne that
night. "I suppose," continued I, "that your bankers will not mind your
checking out a small sum without the usual notice. However, if it
occasions any embarrassment or inconvenience, I can easily procure the
money elsewhere." One of the partners replied that their bank would
without doubt honor their check, and the matter should be attended to at
once. I sat down for a half hour, conversing on a variety of topics. Of
course, this was a most trying period to me; the least show of haste or
anxiety might have betrayed me to those lynx-eyed, experienced men of
business. In the midst of our conversation an undercurrent of thought
kept running through my mind thus: "Who knows but they have sent a
dispatch to the Union Bank of London, merely as a matter of business
precaution, and that they are delaying me to get a reply? In that case I
shall have a good opportunity to learn the pure French accent while
passing my days in the Bagnio at Toulon." At last, however, the amount
was paid over to me in French bank notes. I deliberately counted them
and took leave, lighter in mind and heavier in purse by 50,000 francs.

[Illustration: THE RIGHT HONORABLE SIR SIDNEY WATERLOW, Lord Mayor of
London in 1873, in official costume.]

I had arranged that I would send all the money I obtained to the Queen's
Hotel, London, by post at the earliest possible moment after receiving
it, that in the event of any accident to myself the money should be
safe.

After receiving the money I inclosed it in a large envelope, addressing
it to the hotel in London. I also wrote on the envelope: "Echantillons
de papier" (i. e., samples of paper), after which I threw it into the
postoffice.

As I wished to reduce the risk as much as possible (the train for
Marseilles not leaving for three hours), I took a carriage and told the
driver to take me toward the next station on the way to that city. After
we were fairly out in the country I got outside and sat with the driver,
chatting with him about the country we were driving through, arriving in
the village about half an hour before the train from Bordeaux was due. I
dismissed my driver at a small village cabaret (tavern), walked to the
station, got aboard the train, and early the next morning was in
Marseilles. I breakfasted at the Hotel d'Europe, and looked over the
papers to see if the Bordeaux fraud had been discovered. As I could see
no indication of it, about 10 a.m. I took a carriage and went to call on
Messrs. Brune & Co.

On making myself known I was, as usual, received with the utmost
courtesy, began to talk business, and one of the firm got into my
carriage and rode with me to his bank to effect the sale of my draft on
London for the sum of £2,500. Arriving at the bank I took a seat in the
front office, while Mr. Brune went into the manager's room to introduce
the transaction; the clerks eyed me, as I thought, suspiciously, but
doubtless only curiously, because they perceived I was a foreigner.
Another thing which I noticed sent a shiver through me. After Mr. Brune
had been a few minutes in the manager's room, the bank porter stepped to
the outer door, closed and locked it. It being but 12 o'clock, I
imagined the precautionary measure must be due to my presence. "The
Bordeaux affair is discovered and has been telegraphed all over France,"
was my first thought; "all is over with me. I am a candidate for a
French prison, sure."

These and a thousand other thoughts flashed through my mind during the
quarter of an hour preceding Mr. Brune's reappearance with his hands
full of bank notes. I could hardly believe my eyes. I had suppressed all
signs of the internal hurricane which raged during those prolonged
moments of suspense.

Now the revulsion of feeling was so great that I nearly fainted.
However, by a mental effort, I recovered my self-possession and
effectually masked all inward convulsions.

Mr. Brune placed in my hands 62,000 francs, in notes of the Bank of
France, and we then descended to the carriage and drove to my hotel,
where we parted. I paid my bill, and at once made preparations to start
for Lyons, which was to be the next and last scene of my operations in
France.

As my train did not leave for three hours, I got into a carriage at some
distance from the hotel and was driven toward the next station, located
on the beautiful bay a few miles from Marseilles.

After driving along the shore of the bay for some miles I remember we
met two women, dressed in the quaint costume common to that part of the
country, each carrying a basket of eggs. I stopped the carriage and
endeavored to enter into conversation with the pair, but could not
understand a word of their patois. I then took a couple of eggs, handed
out a silver franc piece, and drove on, leaving two astonished women
standing in the road, gazing alternately at the piece of money and at
the back of my carriage. Arriving at the station I found it would be an
hour and a half to train time, and driving to a hotel on the shore I
ordered dinner to be served in the upper room of a two-story tower
overlooking the bay, with Marseilles in the distance. After dining I
strolled along the beach, looking at some queer fish not found north of
the Mediterranean, their colors vying in brilliancy with the plumage of
tropical birds. Returning to the station I took a ticket for Lyons,
stopping off at Arles about sunset, as I wished to see the amphitheatre
and other relics of the Roman occupation.

I remained in Arles till midnight, then took the train, arriving in
Lyons at 9 the next morning. Repairing to the Hotel de Lyons I had
breakfast, and on looking over the papers became satisfied that as yet
no discovery had been made. Therefore, I resolved to carry out my third
and last financial enterprise and then return to London with all speed.

I called a carriage and drove at once to the establishment of Messrs.
Coudert & Co. I sat near the desk, conversing with the head of the firm,
and opened a dispatch I sent from Arles, and, after reading, handed it
to him, saying: "I see that I shall have use for 60,000 francs, and must
ask you to cash a draft on my letter of credit for that amount." He
immediately stepped to the safe, took out a bundle of 1,000 franc notes,
and counting out sixty, gave them to me.

As it was almost certain that the Bordeaux fraud would soon be
discovered, I determined, now that my risky work was completed, to
attempt an immediate escape from France by way of Paris and Calais. I
did not, therefore, take the train direct from Lyons to Paris, but
engaged a carriage and drove back to a junction toward Marseilles. Here
I took a train which intersects further to the northward with another
road leading through Lyons to Paris. After going the roundabout route
above described, I was back at the Lyons station at 9 p.m. in a train
bound for Paris, where I arrived without further incident.

The next morning (Sunday) as I left the railway station I thought
detectives were watching me, but, in all probability, it was only the
imagination of a guilty conscience. I was then wearing a full beard, and
as a precautionary measure I, that morning, had all shaved off save the
mustache. Not daring to leave Paris on the through express, which
started at 3 o'clock p.m., nor to purchase a ticket to either Calais or
London direct, I went to the station and took the noon accommodation
train, which went no further toward Calais than Arras, a town some
thirty miles from Paris. I arrived there about 1 p.m.

As it would be a couple of hours before the express train was due, I
went to a small hotel and ordered dinner. To while away the time I took
a stroll through the main street, where were many mothers and nurses
with children, nice black-eyed French babies. As I was always a devoted
lover of children and other small creatures, I stepped into a shop and
bought a package of confectionery, which I distributed among the little
ones and their smiling nurses, receiving therefor, almost invariably,
the grateful exclamation, "Merci, Monsieur!" I gave some to children 8
and 10 years old, a crowd of whom soon gathered about me. Perceiving
that I was attracting too much attention, it was clear that I must get
rid of my young friends as soon as possible, or the police might also be
attracted, and their presence would lead to unpleasant results in case
the frauds had been discovered and inquiry was being made for an
Englishman. Purchasing a second supply of candies I hastily gave them
out, and with a "Restez ici, mes enfants," I passed through them and
continued my walk up the street. Quite a number followed at a
respectable distance, and I was cogitating how to double on them when I
came to the gateway of the town cemetery, through which I hastily
entered. The children remained outside and watched me as I walked up the
slope and disappeared. At the rear of the cemetery I observed an old
man at work in the adjoining field. I climbed upon the stone wall, which
instantly crumbled away, and I was landed on the old Frenchman's domain
without leave, amidst a pile of stones. Startled by the racket, he
looked up from his digging, and, seeing a stranger uprising from the
ruins of the fence, began consigning him to "le diable," with a volley
of vigorous French expletives delivered in peasant patois. I listened to
him, much amused for a moment, and then held up a five-franc piece. As
soon as he beheld it a wondrous change came over him. He eagerly seized
the silver and straightway showed me to a lane which led almost directly
to the railway station. I purchased a ticket for Calais and took the
Sunday afternoon express, and here I am.

[Illustration: OLD EDINBURGH STREET.]


CHAPTER XIII.

WE TALK OF THE STARS AND DO THE OTHER THING.


After we saw George off to Paris on the train Mac and I walked up and
down the platform outside of the station, star-gazing. Mac, with his
brilliant scholarship, elegant speech, logical force and fiery
enthusiasm, made a most fascinating companion.

The study of mankind is man, the old proverb says, but like many other
proverbs there is a full measure of unreality in it. It takes a good
amount of arrogance and conceit for one to fancy he is going to study
and understand men. No man can understand himself, and by no amount of
experience or study will he ever come to understand that subtle thing he
calls his mind or understand the motives that sway him.

I only wish one of those scientists who amuse themselves by pretending
to study and understand human minds and motives could have sat in Mac's
brain that night, have thought his thoughts and heard his speech, while
remaining ignorant of our history and mission. Mac's mind was a
storehouse of erudition, his memory a picture gallery, whose chambers
were gilded and decorated with many a glowing canvas. As a child he was
familiar with the Bible, the Old Testament particularly, and, improbable
as it seems, was still a diligent student of Holy Writ. His mind was
completely saturated with Bible imagery, yet there we were with our
pockets full of forged documents walking up and down that platform
star-gazing, while he talked with intelligent enthusiasm of those silver
flowers in the darkened sky, of stellar space, how in its infinity it
proved the presence of Deity. That with him there was no great and no
little. That a thought sweeping across the God-given mind of an infant
was as wonderful and as much an evidence of power as the millioned arch
of radiant suns in the milky way. While speeding through Belgium on our
way to the Rhine, he continued until the sun shone upon the horizon. It
was something to stir one's enthusiasm to see his sublime faith in the
mighty destiny of man, and to listen to him tell of the dignity and
grace of every human soul and his sure faith that all would be garnered
in the mighty plains of heaven, and he meant and felt it all; yes, meant
all he said, believed all he said, believed that he himself was a potent
factor in the Divine economy, and, furthermore, believed it behooved
every man to do all things, to be all things good and true, yet on this
Sunday morning we were fast speeding to the scene of our contemplated
schemes, and with light hearts looked forward to a speedy return to
London, fairly well laden with plunder.

We talked the whole night through, or rather Mac talked and I listened,
and it was a treat to be a listener, he being the speaker.

A period was put to his oration by the train stopping at Luxemburg, we
being summoned to breakfast.

On resuming our journey we took a nap, and when we awoke we found
ourselves nearing the Rhine; about noon we arrived at Cologne, and going
to Uhlrich platz, drank a bottle of Tokay in a famous wine cellar there,
then hurrying back to the station we traveled across the sandy plain
that stretches from near the Prussian border to the capital. We arrived
soon after dark, and Mac went at once to the Hotel Lion de Paris and
registered. I waited across the street in the shadow of the Empress
Palace. Mac soon came out, and we went to dine in a large cafe. We
enjoyed the novelty of the scene, and were never tired of marveling over
the all-predominant militarism. Soldiers everywhere, all with good lungs
and loud voices. We spent the evening seeing the town; at midnight we
parted to meet and breakfast together at the cafe at 8. I then went to
an obscure hotel and soon was in the land of dreams. In the morning I
awoke with an anxious feeling, and found myself wishing it were night.
At 8, the appointed time, I met Mac. He may possibly have felt some
anxiety; if so, it was invisible.

When an honest man makes a mistake he has not only sympathy, but can
always pick himself up again. With a rogue a mistake may easily be and
almost always is fatal. We feared the unseen and the unexpected. Above
all, our imagination magnified the danger while tormenting us with
needless fears. In Germany the banks open at 9 o'clock, and we knew they
would receive soon after 8 the letter we had deposited in the mail in
London. We decided that it would be best for Mac to enter the banker's
at five minutes after 9. We had discovered the night before the location
of the firm. During breakfast Mac went carefully through his pockets,
taking out every scrap of paper and turning everything over to me; then
taking out from among the others in our bag the letters of credit and
introduction we made our last scrutiny of them. We had not settled upon
the amount he should ask for, but agreed that it should not in any case
be less than 25,000 gulden ($10,000). If everything seemed favorable
then Mac was to use his own judgment and demand any sum under 100,000
gulden ($40,000). His letter of credit was for £10,000, and we did not
want to leave it behind. Of course, if we drew any less sum than the
amount the credit called for, the sum we drew would be indorsed on the
letter, and it would be returned to Mac and be instantly destroyed. So
with the documents in his pockets and giving me a smile, out he went,
and I followed after, keeping him in sight, and very anxious I was. We
were on Unter den Linden. Walking one square and turning to the left
half a block away were the bankers--Hebrew, by the way. I saw Mac
saunter up the steps and disappear from view. Outside of America money
transactions are carried on with the utmost deliberation; to an American
with exasperating slowness; so I thought it possible he might remain
invisible for a whole half-hour, and a long half-hour it would be to me.
In order to have my anxiety shortened by even a half minute we had
arranged that when he came out if he had the money he was to stroke his
beard as a signal. If it was all right, but delayed, he was to put his
handkerchief to his face, but if everything was wrong he was to clasp
his hands across his breast for a moment.

[Illustration: "BOYS, THAT IS THE SOFTEST MARK IN THE WORLD."--Page
145.]

In that event I was to keep a lookout to see if he was followed; if so,
I was to give him a signal, when he would go straight to his hotel--in
passing through would dispose of his tall hat, and put on the soft hat
he had in his pocket--then pass out the back entrance and hasten to a
certain hat shop, where I would meet him, and take a cab to a little
town six miles away, called Juterbock, where all trains going south,
west and east stopped. While driving out, we would settle on some plan;
but this emergency did not arise. I had stationed myself in a little
shop across the street, and from that vantage ground was watching for
Mac's reappearance, and just as I had settled myself for a weary watch
out he came, smiling and stroking his beard. A moment's glance satisfied
me he was not followed. I hastened after, and, coming up with him as he
turned the corner, he merely said 2,600 pounds ($13,000). It seemed too
good to be true, and I said: "I don't believe you." He replied: "It is
all right, my boy; here it is," at the same time thrusting a big package
containing gulden notes into my hand. We instantly separated, I
hastening to different but near-by brokers' offices, buying for nearly
the full amount French bank notes and gold. We went straight to the
hatter's and bought one of those broad-brimmed German student hats,
which, when he had placed it on his head, put on a pair of spectacles
and parted his flowing beard in the middle, made such a transformation
in his appearance that I myself would have passed him unrecognized. In
the mean time I had picked out a cabdriver, a stupid-looking,
conservative-appearing old fellow, and engaged him to drive "mich und
meinen freund nach Juterbock." So we entered the cab, an open one-horse
affair, and started for that town. Our next objective point was Munich,
but as the train did not leave until noon we preferred to spend the time
in a pleasant drive, and at the same time make assurance of our escape
doubly sure. Around Berlin the country is flat and uninteresting. Our
driver was a crabbed old fellow, but we managed to extract some
amusement out of him.

What pleased us greatly was to see him from time to time take out from
under his seat a loaf of black bread and cut off a slice for himself and
one for his horse, and then, seeing we were in no hurry, he would get
down, and, walking beside the horse, would feed him and himself at the
same time. When we arrived at Juterbock we had an hour to spare, so we
drove to an inn, and ordering a bottle of Hochheimer for ourselves and
beer and pretzels for our driver, we passed the time pleasantly. In the
mean time we had touched a match to the letter of credit, and at train
time we went by separate routes to the depot. Each purchased his own
ticket; to Nuremberg mine was, his to some near-by city, and at 12.30 we
boarded the train and were off for Munich and more profit there on the
morrow.

Late at night we arrived, and after locating the bank we went to a
theatre, where a variety show was going on, and found the performances
good; quite up, in fact, to similar exhibitions here. When the house
closed we separated for the night, each going to a different hotel. Our
plan was to secure all the cash we could in Munich in time to take a
train that left for Leipsic a little before 10 o'clock, arriving there
soon after 1, in time to visit the Leipsic bank the same day; then
leaving the city that night we would be in Frankfort early on Wednesday.
We would then make all haste to escape from Germany to the shelter of
mighty London.

Tuesday morning at 7 we met at a restaurant, as agreed, and soon had
over again our Berlin experience; but the amount we obtained here was
only 12,000 gulden (£1,000), Mac thinking it best to ask for a small
sum, Munich not being much of a commercial city. In cashing his credit,
although the amount was in gulden, the bank paid him in New Saxon
thalers, the thaler being 70 cents. We did not like the new thaler
notes, and wanted to change them there, but there was no time if we were
to catch the 10 o'clock train. I had Mac's derby hat in a box, and in
three minutes he had the hat and spectacles on, and, with his beard
again parted, the transformation was complete, and he, a perfect picture
of the dreamy German student, sauntered down to the depot and bought his
ticket for Leipsic. I followed him, carrying all the cash and documents
in my bag. We arrived at Leipsic soon after dinner. Times were brisk,
with plenty of bustle there, for the great Leipsic fair was in full
blast. Here was an opportunity missed; we ought to have had three or
four letters to as many banks. The place was thronged and the banks were
paying out and receiving money in thousands. On the train I had sat
apart from Mac, but in the same compartment, which was filled. Arriving
at Leipsic he left the train, and, walking up the street, entered a wine
room, where I joined him. He scrutinized his letters carefully, and,
placing them in his pocket, in five minutes was in the bank. Seeing the
bank was full of customers, instead of remaining outside to watch, I
entered and stood among the crowd, anxious, of course, but letting
nothing escape.

Instead of waiting or trying to transact his business with a
subordinate, Mac demanded to see the head of the firm. He was received
at once, and upon the production of his letters was treated with the
utmost consideration. He asked for 50,000 gulden ($20,000), which was
given him at once. The amount for fair time at Leipsic was not large. In
a very short time the business was done. The money being paid in gulden
notes, it made a pretty big bundle. As agreed upon, he went direct to
the cafe, carrying the money, while I stopped at a broker's office and
bought French money, notes and gold, for my new Saxon thalers. There the
transformation scene was re-enacted, but we could not leave town until 5
o'clock. We spent the time visiting the famous fair. Leipsic overflowed
with the fair. It was fair on the brain with every one. This annual fair
has been a yearly feature of the old city for four centuries, and draws
to it people from all over the European world, even from furthest
Russia. Soon after 5 o'clock we were on the train, but, for some reason
which I now forget, we did not arrive until 10 o'clock the next day at
Frankfort.

Frankfort, the home and still the fortress of the Rothschilds.

In Frankfort the Bourse opens at 10 a.m., and closes at 2. During those
hours the bankers are to be found on the Exchange only, and not at their
offices. Many of the offices are then deserted and fast locked. It
proved to be the case with the firm to which our letters were addressed,
and if we were to do any business in Frankfort we had of necessity to
wait until 2 p.m., but as it was now Wednesday and the third day since
our affair in Berlin, the first draft drawn on London, if promptly
mailed, would probably have been delivered at the Union Bank this
morning. Of course, as soon as the manager of the foreign department
found a draft for a large sum drawn by a stranger and made payable to
their correspondent in Berlin, he would at once surmise that a fraud had
been committed and undoubtedly would send a telegram to Germany to that
effect. The forgery once known in Berlin, the rumor of it, with a
thousand exaggerations, might easily fly to every Bourse in Europe, and
I feared that by 2 o'clock the story might possibly become known on the
Frankfort Exchange. So far we had $43,000, the result of our two days'
operations, but we had from the first great hopes of Frankfort, chiefly
because it was the money centre of the Continent, therefore the bankers
were used to handling large sums of money, and so long as everything was
all right they would hand out any sum, however large. We really ought to
have taken in Frankfort first. Had we done so, we probably would have
left the town with $50,000.

Soon as we arrived we went to a cafe, and, leaving Mac there and all the
money and papers in the bag, I hastened to the bankers, hoping to find
them open and ready for business. In that case I should have talked
business--that is, about having letters of credit, etc.--and I could
probably have told by their actions if any rumors of our transaction of
the two preceding days had reached the city. Had this been so the
bankers would have betrayed it by their looks and questions, and would
have been anxious to see my credits. Had such questions been asked, I
would have simply said that my letters of credit had not yet arrived
from Paris. This would have, of course, thrown them off the track, and
given us time to move off.

But when I arrived I found the doors locked. I at once returned to Mac
and said: "We are through; let us catch the train for Cologne at once."
He was anxious to wait until 4 o'clock and make a dash. We both knew the
Germans were slow, and might not think of using the telegraph, and we
agreed that we had more than an even chance of success; but Mac said:
"My boy, you are my manager, and I leave it for you to decide." Then I
said we were through, and that he should take no more chances; so we
settled it right there, in the little French-German cafe, and taking
out all the letters and every scrap of paper we destroyed them.

This decision, of course, brought a great relief--for the strain had
been greater than either of us had been willing to confess to the other.
So, easy in mind, we ordered lunch. Of course, we would have no news of
George until we met in London. We had no anxiety about him; we felt
certain he would come out all right. While waiting for the train we
discussed the future, and took it for granted that he would secure as
much as we had done. We counted ourselves possessors of $90,000. Of
this, fully $10,000 would go to our three honest detectives in New York;
we would spend about another $10,000, leaving us about $23,000 each.
Making this calculation, we sat down, and with the cash safe in our
hands we began planning for the future. Did we say: "Now we have a sum
of money ample to start us in an honest business, and, as we have
promised, we will quit?" Nothing of the kind; we simply ignored our many
promises and resolutions. Our ideas had grown with our success, and we
felt poor; so we quickly came to the conclusion that it was the part of
wisdom, since we were already so far in, to secure $100,000 each, and
then to call a halt; so there in Frankfort, in the very hour of our
success, we found ourselves planning new schemes, and further down the
Primrose Way.

Soon after the noon hour the train started, but first I took Mac's tall
hat to the hatter's and left it to be ironed, this, of course, to get
rid of it, and leave no trace behind; then, returning to the cafe, we
started. I fell behind and we made our way separately to the depot. Mac
had absolutely nothing about him save $2,000 in French paper and gold. I
had over $40,000 in notes and some gold in my bag. He bought a ticket
for Amsterdam, and I one for Belgium, both taking us through Cologne. I
saw him safe into a car, while I sauntered carelessly up and down the
station, swinging my bag and staring at everything; as the train was
about to start I entered another carriage. The railway from Frankfort
to Cologne follows the river bank for the entire distance. We quickly
passed Bingen, Mayence, Coblenz, and about dusk reached Cologne. This is
an important junction, and here we had to change cars, having twenty
minutes to wait. Both of us went direct to the cathedral. It is close to
the station, and there we had a few minutes' talk. Here Mac threw away
his ticket to Amsterdam and I gave him mine to Brussels. We agreed to
take separate cars at the station, but at the first stopping place I was
to join him in his compartment, for we had before us an all-night ride
to Ostend (the rival port to Calais), where we would embark for Dover.
At the depot I purchased a ticket to London via Ostend. We left Cologne
all right, and at the first station out I alighted and joined him.

We had a pleasant all-night journey, arriving very early the next
morning at Ostend. How lovely the sea looked, with the morning sun
shining on its restless waves!

We got to Dover without accident, and two hours after the express landed
us in London, and we drove at once to our appointed rendezvous, the
Terminus Hotel, London Bridge. We had no news of George, but that
evening, opening the door in response to a loud knock, he walked in,
receiving a boisterous welcome.


CHAPTER XIV.

I PLAY THE SILVER KING.


The next morning we all drove to Hampton Court, the creation of Wolsey,
and when tired we went to the Star and Garter. There we talked over
matters, and came to the conclusion we must have a hundred thousand
apiece before we could afford to settle down at home.

We resolved to send off the "percentage" to Irving & Company, and to pay
all debts we were owing at home.

Mac's heart went out to his father. He longed for a reconciliation, and
he determined to send him $10,000 and so make good the money his father
had given him to establish himself in New York, at the same time write
the old gentleman he had made a big strike in a cotton speculation, in
order to explain his having so large a sum to spare.

Our accounts were pretty well mixed up, and I hit upon a novel way to
settle them and give each of us an equal start. My proposal was that we
should pool everything. To put every dollar we had in the world on the
table then and there, and let the firm assume all obligations, purely
personal as they were, save only the Irving "percentage," and pay them
from the general fund, then divide the balance. This was agreed to, and
the queerest balance sheet ever made out was soon ready.

[Illustration: "THREE OR FOUR SHOTS RANG OUT, OUR TRAIN WAS OFF THE
TRACK."--Page 281.]

We all had planned certain gifts and presents to friends in America, a
considerable sum in the aggregate; all the cost of this was assumed by
the firm. The main item was $10,000 to the New York police. When the
balances were finally struck nearly $30,000 had disappeared from our
cash capital, but on the whole it was a good plan. It drew us all closer
together, consequently increased our faith in each other and at the same
time prevented all chances of future dispute. This matter settled, we
determined to have a little recreation by taking a tour in Italy. After
studying guide books and routes we resolved to take a steamer from
Southampton to Naples, spend a few days there in seeing the town and
visiting Pompeii, etc., then north to Rome.

We had made considerable preparation for our tour, when a circumstance
arose that not only changed our plans, but in the sequel changed our
lives as well.

We had been paying another visit to Hampton Court, and in place of
dining at the Star and Garter we returned by boat on the Thames and
dined at Cannon Street Hotel. Before going to the hotel we took a stroll
down Lombard street, and, arriving at the intersection of streets
opposite the Bank of England, we came to a halt. While watching the
human whirlpool in that centre of throbbing life, I turned to my
friends, and, pointing to the Bank of England, said: "Boys, you may
depend upon it, there is the softest spot in the world, and we could hit
the bank for a million as easy as rolling off a log." No response was
made at the time, and the casual remark was apparently forgotten. Well
for us if it had been.

The next day we went for a drive to Windsor, and were to dine at a
famous old roadside inn. On arriving we, of course, visited the castle,
and, while viewing the decorations in the stately throne room, Mac
stopped us with the remark that something I had said the day before had
been sticking in his mind. He went on to say that we wanted a hundred
thousand apiece in order to return home in good shape; that the Bank of
England had plenty to spare, and it was well for the lightning to strike
where the balances were heavy. The bank would never miss the money, and
he firmly believed the whole directorate of the fossil institution was
permeated with the dry rot of centuries. The managers were convinced
that their banking system was impregnable, and, as a consequence, it
would fall an easy victim, provided, as we suspected, the bank was
really managed by hereditary officials.

Here was a picture, indeed. Three American adventurers, two of them
barely past their majority, standing in the throne room of Windsor
Castle, and plotting to strike a blow at the money bags of the Bank of
England!

The idea grew on us rapidly. After dinner we sat in the twilight of that
old inn and discussed the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street from a point
of view from which she had probably never been discussed before. I can
imagine with what scorn the idiotically puffed and bepuffed magnates of
the bank would have regarded us had they known of our discussion.

They afterwards boasted to me, as they had boasted for a century, that
their system was perfect, and as a proof that it was so they widely
proclaimed they had not changed it in a hundred years. They had
proclaimed so loudly and so long its absolute invulnerability that they
not only believed it themselves, but all the world had come to believe
it as well. "Safe as the bank" was a proverb everywhere underlying the
English tongue.

In our discussion we speedily came to the conclusion that any system of
finance unchanged in detail for a century, belief in the perfection of
which was an article of faith not alone with the officials charged with
its management, but with the people of England at large, must, in the
very nature of the case, lie wide open to the attack of any man bold
enough to doubt its impregnability and resolute to attack.

What a figment of the imagination this boasted impregnability of the
Bank of England was the sequel will show. And as for those masters of
finance, those earthly Joves of the financial world who sat serene above
the clouds, "the Governor and Company of the Bank of England," they
soon had the whole money world shaking with laughter when they stood
revealed the Simple Simons they proved to be.

We wanted a hundred thousand apiece now, and had resolved to get it from
the Bank of England. Such was our confidence that we never thought
failure possible. Truly, if there ever was a plan laid in ignorant
enthusiasm this was one. Here we were, absolutely without any knowledge
of the inner workings of the institution, strangers in London, being
under assumed names, without business of any kind, and not only unable
to give any references, but unable to stand any investigation.

Exactly how we were to manipulate the bank we did not know. We were
inclined, now we had some fifty thousand dollars capital, to avoid so
serious a thing as forgery, but had an idea for one of us to obtain in
some way an introduction to the bank and to use all the money of the
party to establish a credit. In the mean time all were to get in the
swim in or around the exchange, and use the one who had the account in
the bank for reference for the others. If some good chance offered to go
into a straightforward business we could drop forever all thoughts of
breaking the law again. This was the theory; in practice, we were almost
certain to try on the game we had of late played so successfully.

In conference it was determined an account should be opened with the
bank, anyway; after that was done we could decide what use to put it to.

As I had not yet shown up in the previous transactions, I volunteered to
go to the front in this; so, telling my two friends to go to the
Continent--Italy, if they liked--I would remain in London and manage to
get the account started. They took me at my word, and a day or two after
sailed from Liverpool to Lisbon, and passed through Portugal to Spain,
visiting the chief cities of that country.

I was left alone in London and began prospecting at once, setting all
my wits at work to see how I could manage to get an introduction to the
bank. I had only $20,000 to start the thing with, as we did not think it
policy to risk our entire capital in one place. My first idea was to
find some solicitor of standing who kept his account at the Bank of
England, to give him a retaining fee of £100 to act as my legal adviser,
telling him some fairy tales about establishing a branch firm in London,
and engage him, as soon as we started, to devote all his time to our
business at a fat salary. But there were many objections to having a
lawyer to introduce me, they being wide awake and liable to scrutinize
too closely. If one should depart so far from his policy of caution as
to introduce a new client he might after the introduction easily notify
the bank that I was a stranger to him and perhaps advise them to
investigate, and investigation was the one thing I must avoid. Of
course, one is supposed to give reference, even if introduced. Although
I had no acquaintance with this bank's methods, yet I was confident that
all those at the top must be a stupid lot of red-tape sticklers, and I
resolved to do my business with them alone. I was pretty sure that the
routine of an introduction once well over, so as to give me access to
the officials, they could be easily satisfied and made to help on the
fraud, in place of being obstacles. The result proved my surmise
correct, for such a lot of self-sufficient barnacles no institution in
the world was ever burdened with.

The dry rot of officialism permeated the bank through and through; even
the bank solicitors, the Messrs. Freshfields, were merely "highly
respectable," and sometimes when that term is applied in England it
indicates mediocrity. The Freshfields managed to spend four hundred and
fifty thousand dollars of the bank's money in our prosecution. That fact
alone would have ruined the reputation of any law firm in America, but
the ring of toadies who control that close corporation called the
Benchers of the Inn was loud in its praise of this firm for the extreme
ability shown in working up the case for the bank.

I finally made up my mind to find some old established shopkeeper who
kept an account at the bank, and secure an introduction through him.

I determined to carry out the plan at once. The thing was first of all
to find my man; so at 2 o'clock that afternoon I stationed myself near
the bank to watch depositors coming out and then follow them. Four out
of five depositors when they take money to the bank come out examining
their passbooks. That afternoon I followed several; of these I selected
three; one was an optician and electrician, an old-established firm,
doing a large business. Another was an East India importing house. The
third was Green & Son, tailors.

The next day I went to the optician and purchased an expensive opera
glass, and had him engrave on it "To Lady Mary, from Her Friend," and
paid him for it with a £100 note; then I went to the East India firm and
bought a costly white silk shawl and a lap robe fit for a prince, and
looked at a camel's hair shawl at one hundred guineas.

I had brought from America with me a Western hat, and as I had resolved
to play the Silver King, I wore it when going around among the
tradesmen. The English had, and still have, absurd ideas concerning that
desirable article, "The American Silver King." The stage article they
take for the genuine, and devoutly believe that the pavements are thick
with them in America, all marching around with rolls of thousand-dollar
bills in their pockets, which they throw out to bootblacks and
bartenders.

Therefore, I resolved to play this role. After my purchase of the shawl
and robe, I drove in my brougham up to Green & Son, and entered, smoking
a cigar, and with my big hat pulled well down over my eyes. Soon as I
saw the elder Green I felt I had my man. Certainly I had hit well, for
the firm (fathers and sons) had been depositors in the Bank of England
for near a century, and had considerable wealth; but, English fashion,
stuck steadily to business. This is a firm of ultra-fashionable tailors,
that, like the historic Poole next door, charge for their reputation
more than for the fit of their garments.

One of the firm and an attendant flew to wait upon me, but, paying no
attention to them, I started on a slow march around the establishment,
examining the array of cloths, they following at my heels. I went down
one side and returned on the other to the door. Arriving there I halted
and, pointing first at one roll of cloth and then another, said: "One
suit from this, three suits from that, two from that, a topcoat from
that, another from that, another suit from that, one from that. Now,
show me some dressing gowns." The first shown was twenty guineas. I
instantly said that would do. One may be certain the tailor and his
assistant flew around, one to measure and the other to write the
measurements of this American sheep that Providence had led astray into
their shop. When asked my name and address, I gave F. A. Warren, Golden
Cross Hotel, and then, for fear I might forget my name, I made a
memorandum of it and placed it in my vest pocket. They bowed me out,
evidently greatly impressed with my taciturnity, and especially my big
hat, confident also that they had hooked a fortune in a genuine American
silver king. I entered the brougham and drove directly to the Golden
Cross Hotel, Charing Cross, and there registering "F. A. Warren" and
securing a room I left for my hotel. This room at the Golden Cross I
kept for a whole year, but never slept there. It was the only address
the Bank of England ever had of their distinguished customer, Mr.
Frederic Albert Warren.

I did not trouble any more about the other two store people, but looked
about the town, amusing myself. In due time I called and tried the
garments on, and, when ready to deliver, I left the cash with the hotel
people with orders to pay the bill, which was done. There the matter
rested for ten days, when I drove up again, and, remaining in my
carriage, the head of the firm came out to me and I remarked: "I must
have more garments; duplicate that order," and drove off.

A week after I called to have them tried on, and then said that as I was
going to Ireland for a few days' shooting with Lord Clancarty, I would
send down a portmanteau for the garments and call for it on my way from
the hotel to the station. So I bought the most expensive trunk I could
find and sent it to the tailor. When the day came for me to call I
provided myself with six £500 bank notes, five £100 and about fifty £5
notes to go on the bottom of the roll. Before leaving my hotel I had a
large trunk put on the cab, and then taking inside of it all the
dressing bags, rugs, silk umbrellas and canes in the whole party, I
drove to the tailor's, paid my bill with a £500 note and had the
portmanteau put on the cab. I turned to go, but, halting at the door, I
remarked quite in a casual manner: "By the way, Mr. Green, I have more
money than I care to carry loose in my vest pocket to Ireland; I think I
will leave it with you." He replied, "Certainly, sir," and as I was
pulling the roll out of my vest pocket he said: "How much is it, sir?"
"Only £4,000; it may be £5,000;" to which he replied: "Oh, sir, I would
be afraid to take charge of so much; let me introduce you to my bank."
He ran for his hat, accompanied me to the Bank of England, and, calling
one of the sub-managers, introduced me as an American gentleman, Mr. F.
A. Warren, who desired to open an account. A check and a pass book were
brought and the signature book laid before me for my autograph, and I
was requested to sign my name in full, so I christened myself Frederic
Albert. I drove to the North Eastern station and telegraphed the boys at
Barcelona that the thing was done and they could, if they liked, curtail
their excursion and return to England at once.

So the first step had been taken and successfully. We talked of now
giving up all further idea of breaking the law, and starting in London
as brokers and promoters of stock companies. The plan was for me to take
the money of the firm, £10,000, place it all in the Bank of England, and
begin to buy and sell stock and keep my money moving in and out of the
bank. Then George and Mac were to start an office and launch out as
promoters and refer to Mr. Warren of the Bank of England. This would
place them on a footing at once, and I would gradually drop out of the
Bank of England after introducing George and Mac in their right names.
This was a grand plan, and had we only carried it out fortune would have
been ours, and honor as well, but we were too impatient of any delay in
securing wealth and overconfident of our success and cleverness. Above
all, we were anxious to get home again. But I have got somewhat ahead of
my story.

Soon after I had a telegram from George and Mac saying that they would
arrive in time for a late dinner, and for me to wait and dine with them.
At the time I was living at the Grosvenor Hotel, Victoria Station. We
had a pleasant meeting and a good dinner to celebrate it. I exhibited my
check book, and they were eager to know all details of my interviews,
not only at the bank, but with the tailor, and over the wine I related
with great spirit the details of the little comedy. I have to this very
day a vivid recollection of the shouts of laughter that arose from my
companions during the recital. We laughed then, but we did not laugh for
the next twenty years, neither did we partake of any sumptuous banquets.
In the world of crime success is failure, and perhaps never had the
absolute accuracy of that statement been so fully confirmed as in our
own lives.

That merriment of ours ended in anguish too deep for words. For twenty
years I never looked upon a star, nor saw the face of a woman or of a
child; that is to say, from my early years when the heart beats fast
and the blood runs warmly in the veins. That fearful gap of time was
filled to the brim with the peltings of a pitiless storm, hungry,
driven, toiling like a galley slave under the Summer's burning sun, or
thinly clad exposed to every blizzard and all the whirling storms of
Winter, until my early manhood had vanished and the best years of my
prime were all melted away, and at last I came forth from my dungeon,
but with the mark of suffering and desolation burned deep upon me, to
face a world of which I could not but be ignorant.

[Illustration: THE "SUGAR-LOAF" IN THE BAY OF RIO.]


CHAPTER XV.

PIRATICAL CRUISE IN TROPICAL SEAS.


The way to the bank vaults with their treasures had been laid open, but
there remained many matters of detail to be carried out before we could
enter them. There promised to be a delay of several months, but we were
impatient over the prospect of delay of even six months in securing the
fortunes we wanted, and which we had come to consider essential to our
happiness.

Our plan to ease the bank of a million or two of her forty million
sterling was, roughly stated, to borrow from day to day large sums upon
forged securities, the bad feature of the plan, from our point of view,
being the fact that the bank, as a matter of course, would retain these
documents, which could be produced at any future time to found a
criminal charge against us, provided justice ever had the opportunity to
weigh us in her balances.

Protected as we were by the police in New York, we felt that the chance
of our identity ever becoming known was remote. Still, there was an
element of chance we wanted to eliminate entirely. In our recent raid on
the bankers of France and Germany we never exhausted our letter of
credit, but had the amount of cash we drew indorsed upon it, and brought
the actual forged document away and instantly destroyed it. Had we been
arrested in Europe, no doubt, under the laws prevailing there, they
would have made us suffer upon the verbal statement of the banker; but
in America to convict one of forgery the document itself must be
produced in court.

I paid several visits to the bank, depositing and drawing out various
sums of money. I had talks with the sub-manager, and, on various
pretexts to get information, I interviewed bankers and money men in the
city. Finally, after many conferences, we came to the conclusion that
the boasted impregnability of the bank was imaginary, and that the
vanity and self-sufficiency of the officials would some day prove a
snare to the institution they ruled over.

The next conclusion we arrived at was that, easy as it might be to
defraud the bank, yet there was an infinity of detail which would
require six months of preparations to carry out. Then, again, the word
forgery began to look black in our vocabulary. We knew John Bull was an
obstinate fellow when he once got his back up, and we began to think it
wise to keep beyond his dull weather eye.

Finally, as the result of many debates, we resolved to abandon the Bank
of England matter temporarily, possibly forever, because it was too
dangerous, and the delay would be too great. Our new plan was to go to
South America on a buccaneering expedition. There being no cable in
1872, and it took, as we ascertained, forty days to send a letter from
Rio de Janeiro to Europe and get a reply; so that, if we executed an
operation boldly and well, we might hope for anything. We resolved to go
to South America, but to leave my account stand in the bank, and if our
success was as great as expected, we would let the Bank of England keep
the million or two we wanted, and continue her century-long slumber
until the time came when some adventurous but unscrupulous mind should
accept the temptation she held out to seize some of her bags of
sovereigns.

They were victims of the royal perjury which betrayed the 15th of March.

The anniversary of our Revolution has not the stain of a single drop of
blood.

L. Kossuth.

LXXX.

THE SAME CONTINUED.

We, the elect of the nation, sat on that morning busily but quietly, in
the legislative hall of old Presburg, and, without any flood of
eloquence, passed our laws in short words, that the people shall
be free; the burdens of feudalism shall cease; the peasant shall
become free proprietor; that equality of duties, equality of rights,
shall be the fundamental law; and civil, political, social, and
religious liberty shall be the common property of all the people,
whatever tongue it may speak, or in whatever church pray; and that
a national ministry shall execute these laws, and guard with its
responsibility the chartered, ancient independence of our
Fatherland.

Two days before, Austria's brave people in Vienna had broken its yoke; and
summing up despots in the person of their tool, old Metternich, drove
him away; and the Hapsburgs, trembling in their imperial cavern of
imperial crimes, trembling, but treacherous, and lying and false,
wrote with yard-long letters, the words, "Constitution" and "Free Press"
upon Vienna's walls; and the people in joy cheered the inveterate
liars, because the people knows no falsehood.

On the 14th, I announced the tidings from Vienna to our Parliament
at Presburg. The announcement was swiftly carried by the great
democrat, the steam-engine, upon the billows of the Danube, down to
old Buda and to young Pesth, and while we, in the House of Representatives,
passed the laws of Justice and freedom, the people of Pesth rose in
peaceful but majestic manifestation, declaring that the people should be
free. At this manifestation all the barriers raised by violence against
the laws, fell of themselves. Not a drop of blood was shed. A man who was
in prison because he had dared to write a book, was carried home
in triumph through the streets. The people armed itself as a National
Guard, the windows were illuminated and bon fires burnt, and when these
tidings returned back to Presburg, blended with the cheers from
Vienna, they warmed the chill of our House of Lords, who readily agreed
to the laws we pro posed.

And there was rejoicing throughout the land. For the first time for
centuries the farmer awoke with the pleasant feeling that his time
was now his own--for the first time went out to till his field with the
consoling thought that the ninth part of his harvest will not be
taken by the landlord, nor the tenth by the bishop. Both had fully
resigned their feudal portion, and the air was brightened by the
lustre of freedom, and the very soil budding into a blooming paradise.
Such is the memory of the 15th of March, 1848.

L. Kossuth.

LXXXI.

THE SAME CONTINUED.

One year later, there was blood, but also victory, over the land;
the people because free, fought like demi-gods. Seven great victories we
had gained in that month of March. On this very day, the remains of
the first ten thousand Russians fled over the frontiers of Transylvania,
to tell at home how heavily the blow falls from free Hungarian arms. It
was in that very month, that one evening I lay down in the bed, whence
in the morning Windischgrätz had risen; and from the battle-field I
hastened to the Congress at Debreczin, to tell the Representatives
of the nation "It is time to declare our national independence,
because it is really achieved.

The Hapsburgs have not power to contradict it more." Nor had they.

But Russia, having experienced by the test of its first interference,
that there was no power on earth caring about the most flagrant
violation of the laws of nations, and seeing by the silence of Great
Britain and of the United States, that she may dare to violate
those laws, our heroes had to meet a fresh force of nearly two
hundred thousand Russians.

No power cheered our bravely-won independence by diplomatic recognition;
not even the United States, though they always professed their principle
to be that they recognize every de facto government. We therefore had
the right to expect a speedy recognition from the United States. Our
struggle rose to European height, but we were left alone to fight for
the world; and we had no arms for the new battalions, gathering up
in thousands with resolute hearts and empty hands.

The recognition of our independence being withheld, commercial intercourse
for procuring arms abroad was impossible,--the gloomy feeling of entire
forsakedness spread over our tired ranks, and prepared the field for the
secret action of treachery; until the most sacrilegious violation of
those common laws of nations was achieved, and. the code of "nature
and of nature's God" was drowned in Hungary's blood. And I who on the
15th of March, 1848, saw the principle of full civil and religious
liberty triumphing in my native land,--who, on the 15th of March,
1849, saw this freedom consolidated by victories,--one year later,
on the 15th of March, 1850, was on my sorrowful way to an Asiatic
prison.
L.

Kossuth.

LXXXII.

THE SAME CONCLUDED.

But wonderful are the ways of Divine Providence. It was again in the month
of March, 1851, that the generous interposition of the United States cast
the first ray of hope into the dead night of my captivity. And on the
15th of March, 1852, the fourth anniversary of our Revolution, guided
by the bounty of Providence, here I stand, in the very heart of
your immense Republic; no longer a captive, but free in the land
of the free, not only not desponding, but firm in confidence of the
future, because raised in spirits by a swelling sympathy in the
home of the brave; still a poor, a homeless exile, but not without
some power to do good to my country and to the cause of liberty,
as my very persecution proves.

Such is the history of the 15th of March, in my humble life. Who can
tell what will be the character of the next 15th of March?

Nearly two thousand years ago. the first Cæsar found a Brutus on the
Ides or 15th of March. May be that the Ides of March, 1853, will see
the last of the Cæsars fall under the avenging might of a thousand-handed
Brutus--the name of whom is "the people"--inexorable at last after
it has been so long generous. The seat of the Cæsars was first in the
south, then from the south to the east, from the east to the west, and
from the west to the north. That is their last abode. None was
lasting yet. Will the last, and worst, prove luckier? No, it will
not. While the seat of the Cæsars was tossed around and thrown
back to the icy north, a new world became the cradle of a new humanity,
where, in spite of the Cæsars the Genius of Freedom raised (let us hope)
an everlasting throne. The Cæsar of the north and the Genius of
Freedom have not place enough upon this earth for both of them; one
must yield and be crushed beneath the heels of the other. Which is it?
Which shall yield? America may decide.
L. Kossuth.

LXXXIII.

THE MAYFLOWER AND THE PILGRIMS.

Methinks I see it now that one solitary, adventurous vessel, the Mayflower
of a forlorn hope, freighted with the prospects of a future state, and
bound across the unknown sea. I behold it pursuing, with a thousand
misgivings, the uncertain, the tedious voyage. Suns rise and
set, and weeks, and months pass, and winter surprises them on the deep,
but brings them not the sight of the wished-for shore.

I see them now, scantily supplied with provisions, crowded almost to
suffocation in their ill-stored prison, delayed by calms, pursuing a
circuitous route; and now, driven in fury before the raging
tempest, in their scarcely seaworthy vessel. The awful voice of the
storm howls through the rigging. The laboring masts seem straining
from their base; the dismal sound of the pumps is heard; the ship leaps,
as it were, madly from billow to billow; the ocean breaks, and
settles with ingulfing floods over the floating deck, and beats
with deadening weight, against the staggered vessel.

I see them, escaped from these perils, pursuing their all but desperate
undertaking, and landed at last, after a five months' passage, on the
ice-clad rocks of Plymouth, weak and weary from the voyage, poorly armed,
scantily provisioned, depending on the charity of their shipmaster for
a draught of beer on board, drinking nothing but water on shore,
without shelter, without means, surrounded by hostile tribes.

Shut now the volume of history, and tell me, on any principle of human
probability, what shall be the fate of this handful of adventurers.
Tell me, man of military science, in how many months were they all
swept off by the thirty savage tribes, enumerated within the early
limits of New England?

Tell me, politician, how long did this shadow of a colony, on
which your conventions and treaties had not smiled, languish on the
distant coast? Student of history, compare for me the baffled projects,
the deserted settlements, the abandoned adventures of other times,
and find the parallel of this. Was it the winter's storm, beating upon
the houseless heads of women and children?

was it hard labor and spare meals? was it disease? was it the tomahawk?
was it the deep malady of blighted hope, a ruined enterprise, and
a broken heart, aching in its last moments at the recollection of
the loved and left, beyond the sea?

--was it some, or all of these united, that hurried this forsaken company
to their melancholy fate? And is it possible that neither of these
causes, that not all combined, were able to blast this bud of lope? Is
it possible, that from a beginning so feeble, so frail, so worthy,
not so much of admiration as of pity, there has gone forth a progress
so steady, a growth so wonderful, a reality so important, a promise yet
to be fulfilled so glorious?
E. Everett.

LXXXIV.

THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.

After years of fruitless and heart-sick solicitation, after offering, in
effect, to this monarchy and to that monarch, the gift of a hemisphere.
the great discoverer touches upon a partial success. He succeeds, not
in enlisting the sympathy of his countrymen at Genoa and Venice, for a
brave brother-sailor,--not in giving a new direction to the spirit
of maritime adventure, which had so long prevailed in Portugal,--not
in stimulating the commercial thrift of Henry the Seventh, or the
pious ambition of the Catholic king.

His sorrowful perseverance touches the heart of a noble princess,
worthy the throne which she adorned. The New World, which was just
escaping the subtle kingcraft of Ferdinand, was saved to Spain by
the womanly compassion of Isabella.

It is truly melancholy, however, to contemplate the wretched
equipment, for which the most powerful princess of Christendom was
ready to pledge her jewels.

Floating castles will soon be fitted out to convey the miserable
natives of Africa to the golden shores of America; towering galleons
will be despatched to bring home the guilty treasures to Spain.

But three small vessels, one of which was without a deck, and
neither of them, probably, exceeding the capacity of a pilot-boat,
and even these impressed into the public service, composed the
expedition fitted out under royal patronage, to realize that
magnificent conceptions in which the creative mind of Columbus had
planted the germs of a new world.

No chapter of romance equals the interest of this expedition. The most
fascinating of the works of fiction which have issued from the
modern press have, to my taste, no attraction compared with the
pages in which the first voyage of Columbus is described by Robertson,
and still more by our own Irving and Prescott, the last two enjoying
the advantage over the Scottish historian of possessing the lately
discovered Journals and letters of Columbus himself.

The departure from Palos, where, a few days before, he had begged
a morsel of bread and a cup of water for his wayworn child,--his
final farewell to the Old World at the Canaries,--his entrance upon the
trade winds, which then, for the first time, filled a European
sail,--the portentous variation of the needle, never before observed, the
fearful course westward and westward, day after day, and night after
night, over the unknown ocean, the mutinous and ill-appeased crew;
at length, when hope had turned to despair in every heart but one,
the tokens of land,--the cloud-banks on the western horizon,--the
logs of drift-wood,--the fresh shrub, floating with its leaves and
berries,--the flocks of land-birds,--the shoals of fish that inhabit
shallow water, the indescribable smell of the shore,--the mysterious
presentiment that seems ever to go before a great event, and finally,
on that ever-memorable night of the 12th of October, 1492, the
moving light seen by the sleepless eye of the great discoverer
himself, from the deck of the Santa Maria, and in the morning the
real, undoubted land, swelling up from the bosom of the deep, with
its plains, and hills, and forests, and rocks, and streams, and
strange, new races of men;--these are incidents in which the authentic
history of the discovery of our Continent excels the specious wonders
of romance, as much as gold excels tinsel, or the sun in the heavens
outshines the flickering taper.

E. Everett.

LXXXV.

ADAMS AND JEFFERSON.

We dismiss them not to the chambers of forgetfulness and death. What we
admired, and prized, and venerated in them, can never be forgotten.
I had almost said that they are now beginning to live; to live that
life of unimpaired influence, of unclouded fame, of unmingled
happiness, for which their talents and services were destined.

Such men do not, cannot die. To be cold and breathless; to feel not and
speak not; this is not the end of existence to the men who have breathed
their spirits into the institutions of their country, who have
stamped their characters on the pillars of the age, who have poured their
hearts' blood into the channels of the public prosperity. Tell me, ye who
tread the sods of yon sacred height, is Warren dead? Can you not still
see him, not pale and prostrate, the blood of his gallant heart
pouring out of his ghastly wound, but moving resplendent over the
field of honors with the rose of heaven upon his cheek, and the
fire of liberty in his eye?

Tell me, ye who make your pious pilgrimage to the shades of Vernon, is
Washington indeed shut up in that cold and narrow house? That which
made these men, and men like these, cannot die. The hand that traced the
charter of independence is, indeed, motionless; the eloquent lips that
sustained it are hushed; but the lofty spirits that conceived,
resolved, and maintained it, and which alone, to such men, "make
it life to live," these cannot expire;--
"These shall resist the empire of decay, When time is o'er, and
worlds have passed away; Cold in the dust the perished heart may
lie, But that which warmed it once can never die."

E. Everett.

LXXXVI.

THE INDIAN CHIEF TO THE WHITE SETTLER.

Think of the country for which the Indians fought!

Who can blame them? As Philip looked down from his seat on Mount Hope,
that glorious eminence, that
----" throne of royal state, which far Outshone the wealth of Ormus and
of Ind, Or where the gorgeous East, with richest hand, Showers on
her kings barbaric pearl and gold,"--
as he looked down, and beheld the lovely scene which spread beneath,
at a summer sunset, the distant hill-tops glittering as with fire,
the slanting beams streaming across the waters, the broad plains,
the island groups, the majestic forest,--could he be blamed, if his
heart burned within him, as he beheld it all passing, by no tardy
process, from beneath his control, into the hands of the stranger?

As the river chieftains--the lords of the waterfalls and the mountains--ranged
this lovely valley, can it be wondered at, if they beheld with bitterness
the forest disappearing beneath the settler's axe?

the fishing-place disturbed by his saw-mills? Can we not fancy the feelings
with which some strong-minded savage, the chief of the Pocomtuck
Indians, who should have ascended the summit of the Sugar-loaf
Mountain, (rising as it does before us, at this moment, in all its
loveliness and grandeur,)--in company with a friendly settler, contemplating
the progress already made by the white man, and marking the gigantic
strides with which he was advancing into the wilderness, should fold his
arms and say "White man, there is eternal war between me and thee!

I quit not the land of my fathers, but with my life. In those woods,
where I bent my youthful bow; I will still hunt the deer; over yonder
waters I will still glide, unrestrained, in my bark canoe. By those
dashing waterfalls I will still lay up my winter's store of food; on
these fertile meadows I will still plant my corn.

"Stranger, the land is mine! I understand not these paper rights. I gave
not my consent, when, as thou sayest, these broad regions were purchased,
for a few baubles, of my fathers. They could sell what was theirs;
they could sell no more. How could my father sell that which the Great
Spirit sent me into the world to live upon?
These hills are covered with coffee bushes filled
with red fruit, about the size of a cherry, each containing two kernels.
The coffee was being picked into large flat baskets by slaves, which,
when filled, they carried away on their heads to the drying grounds.

The roads were bordered with orange trees loaded with luscious fruit, to
which we helped ourselves. After a time we turned into a bridle path and
rode some miles through a dense forest. We emerged upon the outskirts of
a coffee plantation, where the slaves were just on their way to dinner,
and another half mile brought us to the planter's residence. Thirty or
forty slaves of both sexes and all ages were grouped upon the grass,
engaged in eating a black-looking stew out of metal dishes, their
fingers serving for knives, forks and spoons. Seeing three horsemen ride
out of the forest, they stared in stupid wonder, until one more
intelligent than the others went in search of the overseer. Presently a
white man appeared, and, in response to Mac's "Parlate Italiano," came
the smiling answer, "Si, Signor," proving, as we wagered he would be, a
native of beggarly, sunny Italy.

The overseer showed us over the place, and explained all the processes
of preparing coffee for the market. In one corner of a large, unpainted
building was what he called the infirmary, and a comfortless looking
place it was. He said there was no doctor employed, and that he dealt
out medicine to the slaves himself. After being served with coffee we
thanked him for our entertainment and returned to Rio by an evening
train.

The mail steamer Ebro was advertised to leave Rio for Liverpool on
Wednesday of the week following the exciting events narrated in the last
chapter. This was the mail that would carry the draft for £10,000 on the
London and Westminster Bank, along with a letter from the Rio bank,
stating that they had cashed Mr. Gregory Morrison's draft upon the
letter issued by them.

Twenty-two or three days after the steamer left Rio the London bank
would know their correspondents in Rio had been victimized, but 8,000
miles of blue water was between them, with no way to bridge it but by
steam; so we had at least forty-four days more to gather in our harvest.
I ought to say, apparently forty-four more days, for by an amazing
blunder we were about to bring a storm upon our heads.

The steamer we purposed to load our money on and ourselves, too, was the
Chimborazo, advertised to arrive on Tuesday and to leave for the River
Plate and the west coast the next day. So it was agreed that on Monday
Mac should go to the bank and arrange to cash his letters for twenty or
thirty thousand pounds, and go the next day for the money. As soon as
Mac came from the bank and announced that all was well, another of us
was to call at the Bank of London and Rio and the River Plate Bank,
present his letters of introduction and ask in each bank to have the
five thousand pounds or ten thousand pounds ready the next day. They
purposed to call about 11 o'clock, so as to give me time to exchange the
Brazilian bank notes for sovereigns, and to buy my ticket by the
Chimborazo, to secure my stateroom and to take the gold to the steamer,
and, above all, to get my passport vised by the police.

Monday came. We expected a nervous day, not such a paralyzingly nervous
one as it proved to be. In fact, a nervous Tuesday followed a nervous
Monday. My reader must remember that we were in the tropics, with a
blazing sun looking down on us with an intensity that made one long for
Greenland's icy mountains to cool us.

We went into the public park for our last consultation before our
fortune, which never came, was to come.

Mac had in the little morocco case in his pocket two letters each for
£20,000. Certainly no man in the world, save him, could have carried off
such a game played for such high stakes. Handsome in person, faultless
in address, cool in nerve, a master of all the languages spoken in
Rio--Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and French. Above all, he had a
boundless confidence in himself. What an honorable future might have
been his but for his youthful follies! Truly he could have achieved a
wonderful success in any honorable career. Unhappily for him, he, like
thousands of our brainiest youth, had entered the Primrose Way. In our
youthful fire and thoughtlessness we saw only the flowers and heard the
siren's song, but at last the Primrose Way led us down into a gloom
where all the flowers withered and the gay songs turned into dirges.

Looking at his watch Mac jumped up, saying: "It is 10.45 and time to be
off." So he started for the bank, we following at some distance, our
nerves all on the stretch. We felt that our lives and fortunes were
trembling in the balance. The minutes dragged like hours. While watching
we saw several persons enter or leave the bank, and still our friend
delayed his appearance.

To our suspicious minds there appeared to be strange movements about the
bank that boded ill for us. A thousand suspicions born of our fears came
and went through our minds, until at last, unable to endure the
suspense, I entered the bank myself, and stood there, pretending I was
waiting for some one. I sharply scrutinized every one and everything.
Mac was somewhere out of sight in the private offices. The clerks were
gossiping together, and that fact to me was suspicious. Then, to my
alarm, a bank clerk entered from the street with an eagle-eyed man, a
Hebrew, evidently, of about 45 years of age. Both passed hurriedly into
the private office, leaving me in an agony of suspense. My only relief
at that moment was the thought that George and myself had not as yet
compromised ourselves, and could, in the event of Mac's arrest, manage
to save him, either by bribery or a rescue.

Without appearing to do so, I watched that dingy, mottled door leading
into the private office until every crack and seam in it was
photographed indelibly on my brain.

In the trying periods of one's life, when the heart and soul are on the
rack, how strangely trifling details of the objects about one will be
noticed and remembered. It seems some cell of the brain, quite separate
from the cell of feeling and sensation, works calmly and steadily on,
photographing the material of one's surroundings.

I can never forget a flower worn by a lady guest at my table, when, in
the midst of enjoyment and surrounded by friends, the hand of the law in
the form of a burly detective was laid on me in Cuba. In all the misery
and humiliation of that scene I remember the peculiar color of the wood
of a cigar box standing on the sideboard. Doubtless each of my readers
will recall some similar phenomenon in his own life.

At last, unable to endure the suspense, above all, the uncertainty, I
went to the little door, and, opening it, looked in. To my intense
relief I saw Mac sitting there apparently talking unconcernedly with
Braga, the manager, and the Hebrew. As I had not attracted attention I
closed the door, went out in the street and gave George the pre-arranged
signal that all was well. Just then our partner appeared but with
telltale face. It was flushed with chagrin and vexation, and there was
gone from the contour of his body that indescribable port that tells,
better than words, of confidence and victory.

We went by different routes to our rendezvous, and I will leave it to
the imagination of my readers to picture our state of mind as we
listened to his recital of woe--the tale of Priam's Troy over again.

Mac had been cordially received by the manager, and had told him he
would require £20,000 the next day; would he please have it ready? The
manager replied that he did not require any more exchange on London, but
that he would send out for his broker, who would sell his bills on the
exchange. He (the manager) would indorse the bills of exchange and
indorse the amounts on his letters of credit. Of course, Mac could only
acquiesce, and Mr. Braga sent a clerk to his broker, Mr. Meyers, to come
around. This was the sharp-eyed Hebrew whom I saw enter.

The manager introduced Meyers to "Mr. Gregory Morrison," and explained
that he was to sell exchange for £20,000 on Morrison's credit, which the
bank would indorse. Meyers said: "Please show me your letters." Putting
his hand into his breast pocket and pulling out the little morocco case
containing the two letters, he handed the case and contents to Meyers,
who, probably without suspicion of anything being wrong, unrolled both
letters, and holding them in his hands, ran his sharp eyes down one of
them and read right through the body of the letter. They came to the
"note," which read: "All sums drawn against this credit please endorce
on the back, and notify the London and Westminster Bank at once." Here
he suddenly halted, turned his hawk's eye on Mac and said: "Why, sir,
here's the word indorse misspelled. Surely the clerks in the London
banks know how to spell!"

Here was a thunderbolt, indeed, that pierced poor Mr. Gregory Morrison
through and through, but he showed no sign. He coolly remarked that he
did not care to have his bills sold on the exchange, but would go and
see the people of the London and Rio and River Plate Banks, as they
probably would want exchange and would doubtless let him have what money
he required. Meyers said very sharply, "Have you letters to those
banks?" "I have," said Mac, at the same time producing two, one to each
bank, and each bearing the stamp of their respective banks.

That he had these letters was a happy thing, and no one under forty
days' time could say for a fact that they were not genuine. The dramatic
production of these letters lulled the fast gathering suspicions, and
would have called a halt had they purposed any serious action, for the
reason that during the forty days it would take to communicate with
London the credits could not be proved to be forgeries. That such
letters existed at all was due entirely to the foresight which had
provided to meet just such a contingency.

We all were for a brief few seconds utterly dumfounded, but quickly
aroused ourselves to the necessity of instant action to protect our
comrade. We saw that we must at once give over all thought of trying to
do any more business in Rio, and set all our inventions and energy at
work to save the £10,000 and to smuggle our companion safely out of Rio.
But how?


CHAPTER XVII.

ONCE MORE WE SAIL THE SEAS OVER.


Here in our country we know nothing of the annoyances and humbuggery of
the passport system, but now, as in 1872, every person desiring to leave
Brazil must be provided with a passport--if a foreigner, from his own
Government; if a native, one from the government of Brazil. When ready
to leave the country he must take his passport to police headquarters
and get it vised, at the same time notifying the police of the steamer
he proposes to sail on. Leaving the passport with the agent from whom he
buys his ticket, the latter, after ascertaining from the police that the
intending passenger is not wanted by the authorities, transmits the
passport to the purser of the steamer, who, in turn, hands it to the
passenger after the vessel is at sea.

It will be seen that these regulations make it difficult for a suspected
person to leave Brazil by the regular channels of communication, and
there are no back doors of escape in that country. Once in any seaport
town you must, if you leave at all, sail out of the harbor mouth, for in
the other direction, that is, inland, one is confronted by the mighty
tropical forests, the greater portion of which has never been looked
upon by the eye of man; and between all the seaports the same
impenetrable forest stretches.

So, straight out of the harbor between the Sugar Loaf and Fort Santa
Cruz Mac had to sail. How he should do so with safety was the problem we
had to solve. In this venture it would not do to have any blunders.
Without doubt the steamers would be watched for him, and instant arrest
and incarceration in the deadly tropical prison would be his lot if
discovered in the attempt to slip out of the country.

To complicate the matter here it was Monday, and no steamer to sail
until Wednesday, so there were forty-eight hours of frightful anxiety
ahead of us.

The Ebro, going to Europe, was in the harbor taking in cargo and coal.
The Chimborazo, going South, was not yet signaled, and we determined at
all hazards to get him off by the Ebro. We all had American passports,
and by the use of chemicals could alter the names and descriptions on
them at will.

Of course, the names in our passports were the same as we had in our
letters. George went to police headquarters, and giving a douceur to an
attendant, had the "vise" put on his passport at once. Then going to the
passenger agent he bought a ticket to Liverpool by the Ebro, and by
paying ten guineas extra had a stateroom assigned to him alone. After
this he took a boat and went out to the steamer, carrying with him two
bags of oranges and stowed them away under the bottom berths.

To make the escape a success it was decided prudent for George as Wilson
to get the agent well acquainted with his face and appearance, so if the
question was asked, "Who is this Wilson?" the police would see by the
description it was not the man they were looking for. For the next forty
hours George made the agent very tired. At one time he would want to
know if he could not get some reduction in the passenger rate, or if the
Ebro was seaworthy, or if there was any danger of her engines breaking
down, etc., until the agent got not only to know "Mr Wilson," but wished
him at the bottom of the sea.

When George started for the police office he left Mac and me alone in
the park.

[Illustration: "POINTING TO THE GOLD, MAC SAID: BOYS HELP
YOURSELVES."--Page 244.]

It was absolutely essential that Mac should put in one more appearance
at the bank. It was an ordeal, but one he had to undergo. He even
dreaded to return to his hotel, but go he must; so, just before the bank
closed, he called in and casually informed the manager that he should
start the next morning for S. Romao, a town in the interior of Brazil,
to be absent a week. He was then to go to the Hotel d'Europe, pay his
bill, at the same time stating that he was to leave Rio by the 4 o'clock
train the next morning, for San Paulo. As Mac had two trunks and other
impedimenta befitting a man of his importance, it was necessary to take
a carriage to the station, which was nearly a mile distant. It would be
unsafe to go in a carriage belonging to the hotel; therefore, he was to
say that a friend would call for him. As it was still two hours to
sunset, I suggested that after he had arranged matters he should saunter
out, walk about the streets until dark, then return to the hotel and be
ready when George should call for him at 3 o'clock the next morning.

After these arrangements we separated, George and I following to
ascertain if he was being watched or shadowed by detectives. When he
entered the hotel we remained in view of the entrance. It was not long
before he reappeared and walked leisurely along the street. A few
seconds after we saw another man come out, cross the street, and go in
the same direction. I followed him, and was soon satisfied that he was
keeping Mac in view. This sort of double hunt was kept up until dusk,
when Mac returned to his hotel, unconscious that a moment later his
"shadow" entered the place also. Here was a complication, indeed, though
it was no more than we had anticipated among the possibilities; still, I
had indulged in the hope that the bank would rely entirely upon the
passport system, and take no further steps for a day or two, which was
all the time required to carry out our plan. Though Mac had good nerve,
it was already somewhat shaken, and surely the situation would have
unnerved most men. Therefore, fearing that the certain knowledge of
imminent danger might still further confuse him and cause some false
move, we determined to keep our discovery to ourselves.

George next proceeded to an obscure part of the town, and stopping at a
small but respectable looking tavern, he engaged a room for the next
day, also a carriage, with an English-speaking driver, to be in
readiness at 3 o'clock the next morning. Promptly at the hour he was at
the livery stable, where he found the carriage ready, and was driven to
the Hotel d'Europe. Sending the driver up to the office on the second
floor, Mac soon appeared and informed him that he had promised to take
to the station a man who was stopping at the hotel. "He is going to S.
Romao by the same train," continued Mac, "and seems a good fellow, for I
had a long talk with him last night." Upon seeing signs of disapproval
in my face, he explained: "Well, you know, he said he could not get a
carriage at so early an hour in the morning, and I thought it could do
no harm to take him in, and he is waiting upstairs."

Here I joined them, and it would be difficult for the reader to imagine
the effect of this surprising communication upon our minds, for it was
clear enough that this was the very person who had been "shadowing" Mac
the day before, and had skillfully ingratiated himself into his new
friend's confidence. I could but admire his nerve in asking a
contemplated victim for a ride to the station. I said to Mac: "What in
the world can you be thinking of? Don't you see you are blocking our
whole plan? Go up and tell him your carriage is loaded down with
luggage, and express your regrets that you cannot accommodate him."

During this time the baggage was being placed in the carriage, and as
soon as Mac had dismissed his "passenger," who for some reason did not
show himself, we started rapidly for the station. On the way I requested
him to avoid making any new friends until he should find himself well
out at sea. I said:

"It might be fatal to attract the attention of any one, or to let any
one see you leave the train. Of course, this new acquaintance of yours
is only a countryman, but it is not possible to foresee what disaster
the least mistake or want of caution might originate. These cars are on
the English system, divided into compartments. You must go into the
station, stand near the ticket office until your new acquaintance comes,
then observe if he buys a first-class; if so, you take a second, and
vice versa. Pay no attention to him, and let him see you get into your
compartment, but keep an eye on his movements. In case he comes to get
in where you are, despite the different class of the tickets, tell him
the compartment is engaged. Everything depends on how you carry yourself
through the next twenty minutes. A single false step, a word too little
or too much, will surely prove fatal to all, for if anything happens to
you, we remain in Brazil."

In accordance with our pre-arranged plan, I stopped the carriage
opposite the station, it being still dark. Mac alighted, went straight
inside, and in a few minutes saw his "passenger" come puffing in, nearly
out of breath. Unquestionably supposing Mac's baggage to be already on
the train, he purchased a ticket, and after seeing his intended victim
enter a compartment, got into another himself just as the train began to
move. This was the vital moment for which Mac had been waiting, and,
quickly opening the door on the opposite side, he stepped off on that
side, hastily crossed to the other platform of the dimly lighted
station, and made his way unnoticed into the street. While this was
passing, I sat in the carriage, and it was not many minutes before I had
the satisfaction of seeing Mac coming back. But for the benefit of the
driver we then had a dialogue somewhat as follows:

"It is too bad. Our friends have not arrived. What shall we do?"

"Well, I suppose we must go back to the hotel and wait for the afternoon
train," I answered.

"But I have paid my bill there," said Mac, "and do not care to go back."

"Then," I replied, "meet me at the station, and I will look after the
luggage."

In case they recovered the trail, the information obtained from the
driver would cause confusion and delay sufficient, I hoped, to enable us
to get Mac out of Rio.

I then told the coachman to drive me into the city. It was not yet
daylight, but after a while I saw a sort of eating house and tavern
combined, and had the carriage halted there. Alighting, I entered and
said to the person in charge that I did not wish to disturb my friends
at so early an hour, and would pay him for taking care of my baggage, as
I wished to discharge the carriage. The offer was, of course, accepted,
the baggage housed and the carriage dismissed. In the mean time Mac was
waiting for us in an appointed place not far away, where I joined him,
and we went to the obscure tavern where the room had been engaged.
warrior, citizen, patriot, lover, friend,--whether in the humbler
ranks or bearing the sword of official power, whether private,
captain, surgeon, or chaplain, for all these in the heady fight
have passed away,--Hail!

and Farewell! Each hero must sleep serenely on the field where he fell
in a cause "sacred to liberty and the rights of mankind."
"Worn by no wasting, lingering pain, No cold gradations of decay, Death
broke at once the vital chain, And freed his soul the nearest way." J.
A. Andrew.

CCLXXVII.

HONOR TO OUR HEROES.

The heart swells with unwonted emotion when we remember our sons and
brothers, whose constant valor has sustained on the field, during
nearly three years of war, the cause of our country, of civilization,
and liberty.
Our volunteers have represented Massachusetts, during the year just ended,
on almost every field and in every department of the army where
our flag has been unfurled.

At Chancellorsville, Gettysburg, Vicksburg, Port Hudson, and Fort
Wagner, at Chickamauga, Knoxville, and Chattanooga,--under Hooker, and
Meade, and Banks, and Gillmore, and Rosecrans, Burnside, and Grant;
in every scene of danger and of duty, along the Atlantic and the
Gulf, on the Tennessee, the Cumberland, the Mississippi and the Rio
Grande,--under Dupont and Dahlgren, and Foote, and Farragut and
Porter,--the sons of Massachusetts have borne their part, and paid
the debt of patriotism and valor.

Ubiquitous as the stock they descend from, national in their opinions
and universal in their sympathies, they have fought shoulder to
shoulder with men of all sections and of every extraction.

On the ocean, on the rivers, on the land, on the heights where they
thundered down from the clouds of Lookout Mountain the defiance of
the skies, they have graven with their swords a record imperishable,

The Muse herself demands the lapse of silent years to soften, by
the influences of Time, her too keen and poignant realization of
the scenes of War--the pathos, the heroism, the fierce joy, the
grief of battle.

But, during the ages to come, she will brood over their memory. Into the
hearts of her consecrated priests will breathe the inspirations of
lofty and undying Beauty, Sublimity and Truth, in all the glowing forms
of speech, of literature and plastic art. By the homely traditions of
the fireside--by the head-stones in the church-yard consecrated to those
whose farms repose far off in rude graves by the Rappahannock, or sleep
beneath the sea,--embalmed in the memories of succeeding generations of
parents and children, the heroic dead will live on in immortal youth.
By their names, their character, their service, their fate, their
glory, they cannot fail:--
"They never fail who die In a great cause; the block may soak their gore;
Their heads may sodden in the sun, their limbs Be strung to city gates
and castle walls; But still their spirit walks abroad.

Though years Elapse and others share as dark a doom, They but augment the
deep and sweeping thoughts Which overpower all others, and conduct The
world at last to Freedom."
The edict of Nantes maintaining the religious liberty of the Huguenots
gave lustre to the fame of Henry the Great, whose name will gild
the pages of philosophic history after mankind may have forgotten
the martial prowess and the white plume of Navarre.

The Great Proclamation of Liberty will lift the Ruler who uttered it, our
Nation and our Age, above all vulgar destiny.

The bell which rang out the Declaration of independence, has found at
last a voice articulate, to "Proclaim Liberty throughout all the
Land unto all the Inhabitants thereof." It has been heard across
oceans, and has modified the sentiments of cabinets and kings.
The people of the Old World have heard it, and their hearts stop to catch
the last whisper of its echoes.
The poor slave has heard it, and with bounding joy, tempered by
the mystery of religion, he worships and adores. The waiting Continent
has heard it, and already foresees the fulfilled prophecy, when
she will sit "redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled by the irresistible
Genius of Universal Emancipation." J. A. Andrew.

CCLXXVIII.

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CONTEST.

I hold this armed contest to be a great historical movement, and to have
high moral interest and significance because it is to determine the
character of the institutions under which we, and those who come
after us, are to live.

You are not merely sustaining the administration of President Lincoln
against unlawful combinations, but you are fighting on the side of
law, order, government, civilization and progress. The result of
this war is to settle the question whether they who are hereafter to
inhabit this magnificent country are or are not to have that primal
blessing of a good government, without which the most abundant
material resources are as valueless as scientific books or philosophical
installments would be among the most barbarous tribes of Africa or
Australia.

Surely there cannot be imagined a war more worthy of calling forth all
the energies of a great people than this.

And if I am asked to define my meaning more distinctly and precisely,
I say that the questions now submitted to the stern arbitrament of war
are substantially these: Is the Constitution of the United States a
compact or a law? Is this Union a Commonwealth, a State, or is it
merely a confederacy or a copartnership?

Is there a right of secession in the separate States, singly or
collectively, other than the right of revolution? These are momentous
questions, and if they can be settled in no other way than by a war,
then such a war is worth the price it costs, great as that is. For
if the right of secession be fairly and logically deducible from the
Constitution--if any State, upon its own mere motion, with cause or
without cause, can withdraw from the Union as a partner may dissolve a
copartnership--then the Constitution itself is a stupendous failure,
the men who made it were bungling journeymen and not master-mechanics,
and to institutions of our country, so far from deserving our
gratitude and admiration, are worthy only of our contempt. The hour has
come, and the men have come, to settle these issues, fraught with such
vital consequences to unborn millions. The dusky clouds, surcharged
with electric fires, that stand front to front in mid air and darken
the heavens with their power, have been long in gathering; let the
storm continue till the air is cleared--and no longer.

I want to have it now determined that for all future time any State,
or any cluster of States, that may attempt to coerce or bully a legal
and constitutional majority by the threat of secession, shall be met
with the answer: "You don't go out of this Union unless you are strong
enough to fight your way out."

I want to have the armed heel of the country crush the serpent head
of secession, now and forever, so that it shall never again glare with
its baleful eyes, or brandish its venomous tongue. Let not the fate
and fortunes of this glorious country be committed to the keeping
of a clumsy, misshapen raft, compacted of twenty-four or thirty-four
logs, good enough to float down a river, but sure to go to pieces
when it gets into deep water; Let let them be embarked on board a
goodly ship, well found, well fastened, well manned--in which every
timber and plank has been so fashioned as to contribute to the
beauty and strength of the whole fabric, with a good seaman at the
helm, the Constitution in the binnacle, and the stars and stripes
at the masthead.

When the time of my departure shall come, let me feel, let me know, that
I leave those whom I love under the protection of a government good
enough to secure the affection of its subjects, and strong enough to
enforce their obedience. Remember that if a strong government be sometimes
bad, a weak government is never good.
G. S. Hillard.

CCLXXIX.

THE MILITARY CAPACITY OF THE PEOPLE.

We have cause for gratitude in the military capacity which our people have
developed. We had no great standing armies. We had but a single
thoroughly furnished military school. There was no military profession
proper, inviting young men on the threshold of life to choose the
trade of arms.

A soldier's garb was a rare spectacle, and every child ran to the window
to gaze at the passing glitter. Whence should come our fighting men
if the bugle should blow? You must have men before you have soldiers.
Our institutions raised men. Proverbially the Yankee can turn his hand
to anything. He likes to do well what he undertakes. He has a pride in
showing himself equal to his position. Above all, he has force of
personal character. When a Northern regiment makes a charge, it is not
merely the weight of so much physical humanity; there goes weight of
character with it. Why, there is an accomplished schoolmaster there,
and the best blacksmith of the village, and a solid merchant, and a
dexterous lawyer, and the handiest coachman of the stable, and a well
known stage-driver on a prominent public route, and a butcher with an
unerring cleaver, and a jolly tar whose vessel never missed stays
with his hand at the wheel; do you suppose that these men are going
to charge like so many nameless Hessians?

Why, it is a personal matter with every one of them. They go in under
orders, to be sure, but they have not lost the sense of individual
responsibility. The thing is to be well done because they are there.
I know it, my friends, the personal character of our recruits lends
weight and irresistibleness to them as soldiers.

There have been no braver men, no stouter soldiers, in all war's red annals,
than these armed clerks, farmers, college boys, and their comrades of
every peaceful calling. Each community keeps the name of some young hero,
nobler than Spartan mothers ever welcomed on his shield.

Redder blood never stained the earth, than those full libations our new
mustered ranks have poured out for union, law, and liberty. There has
been no fighting in the bloody past of human story, where muzzle to
muzzle and steel to steel, bold hearts have more truly played the
man, than in those battles of two years past in which our citizen armies
have saved our nationality. Never have the hardships of the camp,
the march, the field, and the trenches, and the merciless privations of
imprisonment been more heroically endured. It was not needed--and our
President said it well--to consecrate the sacred acres of Gettysburg;
that was already done by the deep baptism that had laved those hills,
and not that field only, but all the sands and sods and waves our boys'
brave blood have crimsoned. No land beneath the blue heavens was ever
kept by stouter living bulwarks; no mourners ever had a nobler
heritage than those that mourn our soldier-dead.

A. L. Stone.

CCLXXX.

LIMIT TO HUMAN DOMINION.

God has given the land to man, but the sea He has reserved to Himself.
"The sea is His, and He made it." He has given man "no inheritance
in it; no, not so much as to set his foot on." If he enters its domain,
he enters it as a pilgrim and a stranger. He may pass over it, but he
can have no abiding place upon it. He cannot build his house, nor so
much as pitch his tent within it. He cannot mark it with his lines, nor
subdue it to his uses, nor rear his monuments upon it. It steadfastly
refuses to own him as its lord and master. Its depths do not tremble
at his coming. Its waters do not flee when he appeareth.

All the strength of all his generations is to it as a feather before the
whirlwind; and all the noise of his commerce, and all the thunder
of his navies, it can hush in a moment within the silence of its
impenetrable abysses. Whole armies have gone down into that
unfathomable darkness, and not a floating bubble marks the place of their
disappearing. If all the populations of the world, from the beginning
of time, were cast into its depths the smooth surface of its
oblivion would close over them in an hour; and if all the cities of
the earth, and all the structures and monuments ever reared
by man were heaped together over that grave for a tombstone, it would
not break the surface of the deep or lift back their memory to the
light of the sun and the breath of the upper air.
The sea would roll its billows in derision, a thousand fathoms deep,
above the topmost stone of that mighty sepulchre. The patient earth
submits to the rule of man, and the mountains bow their rocky heads
before the hammer of his power and the blast of his terrible
enginery. The sea cares not for him; not so much as a single
hair's breadth can its level be lowered or lifted by all the art, and
all the effort, and all the enginery of all the generations of time.
He comes and goes upon it, and a moment after it is as if he had never
been there. He may engrave his titles upon the mountain top, and quarry
his signature into the foundations of the globe, but he cannot write
his name on the sea. And thus, by its material uses and its spiritual
voices, does the sea ever speak to us, to tell up that its builder
and maker is God. He hewed its channels in the deep, and drew its barriers
upon the stand, and cast its belted waters around the world. He fitted
it to the earth and the sky, and poised them skilfully, the one against
the other, when He "measured the waters in the hollow of His hand, and
meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth
in a measure, and weighted the mountains in scales, and the hills in
a balance." He gave the sea its wonderful laws, and armed it with its
wonderful powers, and set it upon its wonderful work.

"O'er all its breadth His wisdom walks, On all its waves His goodness
shines." L. Swain.

CCLXXXI.

THE BATTLE OF CIVILIZATIONS.

Our war is only an appeal from the nineteenth century of freedom and
ballots to the system of the sixteenth century. The old conflict,--a
new weapon, that is all.

The South thought because once, twice, thrice, the spaniel North had
gotten down on her knees, that this time, also, poisoned by
cotton-dust, she would kiss her feet.

But instead of that, for the first time in our history, the North has
flung the insult back, and said: "By the Almighty, the Mississippi is
mine, and I will have it." Now, when shall come peace? Out of this warlike
conflict, when shall come peace? Just as it came in the conflict of
parties and discussion. Whenever one civilization gets the uppermost
positively, then there will be peace, and never till then.

There is no new thing under the sun. The light shed upon our future is
the light of experience. Seventy years have not left us ignorant of what
the aristocracy of the South means and plans. The South needs to
rule, or she goes by the board. She is a wise power. I respect her
for it. She knows that she needs to rule. What does Mr. Jefferson Davis
plan? Do you suppose he plans for an imaginary line to divide South
Carolina from New York and Massachusetts? What good would that do? An
imaginary line would not shut out ideas. But she must bar out those
ideas. That is the programme in the South.

He imagines he can broaden his base by allying himself to a weaker race.
He says: "I will join marriage with the weak races of Mexico and the
Southwest, and then, perhaps, I can draw to my side the Northwest, with
its interests as an agricultural population, naturally allied to me,
and not to the Northeast, with its tariff set of States."

And he thinks thus, a strong, quiet, slaveholding empire, he will bar
New England and New York out in the cold, and will have comparative
peace.

But if he bar New England out in the cold, what then? She is still
there.
And give it only the fulcrum of Plymouth Rock an idea will upheave
the continent.

Now, Davis knows that better than we do,--a great deal better.
His plan, therefore is to mould an empire so strong, so broad, that
it can control New England and New York. He is not only to found a
slaveholding despotism, but he is to make it so strong that, by traitors
among us, and hemming us in by power, he is to cripple, confine, break
down, the free discussion of these Northern States. Unless he does that,
he is not safe.
He knows it. Now I do not say he will succeed, but I tell you what I
think is the plan of a statesmanlike leader of this effort. To make
slavery safe, he must mould Massachusetts, not into being a
slaveholding Commonwealth, but into being a silent, unprotesting
Commonwealth; that Maryland and Virginia, the Carolinas, and Arkansas,
may be quiet, peaceable populations.

He is a wise man. He knows what he wants, and he wants it with a will,
like Julius Cæsar of old. He has gathered every dollar and every missile
south of Mason and Dixon's line to hurl a thunderbolt that shall serve
his purpose. And if he does achieve a separate confederacy, and shall
be able to bribe the West into neutrality, much less alliance, a dangerous
time, and a terrible battle, will these Eastern States have. For they
will never make peace.

The Yankee who comes out of Cromwell's bosom will fight his Naseby
a hundred years, if it last so long, but he will conquer.

In other words, Davis will try to rule. If he conquers, he is to bring,
in his phrase, Carolina to Massachusetts. And if we conquer,
what is our policy?
To carry Massachusetts to Carolina. In other words, carry Northern
civilization all over the South. It is a contest between civilizations.

Which ever conquers supersedes the other.
W.The waiters all wore full-dress suits, faultless in cut and fit,
and the chief event in their daily existence, the serving of the table
d'hote, wore white kid gloves. The bewildering changes of varied colored
dishes (I mean crockery ware), was something to make one stare. Course
number one brought on a soup dish of pale violet color, quite a work of
art, but its contents was a watery compound with an artistic name.
Course number two consisted of a unique plate, light green in color,
with little fishes wriggling through green waves, but bearing on it a
small insipid portion of a genuine inhabitant of the deep; and so on,
course followed course, each on a different colored plate. If the dinner
was intended for an exhibition of crockery, each one of the seven I had
there was a success, but, however gratifying to the eye the dinners
might be, they were lamentable failures so far as stomach and appetite
were concerned; but when I came to pay my bill I found the white kid
gloves and the fancy china again; they were all in it, and many more
things as well. The bill was more than a foot long, filled with such
items as soap, sixpence; one envelope, one penny; one sheet note paper,
one penny; bath, two shillings; extra towels and soap for same,
sixpence, and so on through the line.

We found the Grosvenor another Gresham. However, as we wanted to stop at
a swell hotel, we concluded--so long as we were there--to remain; but
after a few days we found the cuisine "highly respectable;" that is, for
dinner one could get roast--either beef or mutton. As for vegetables, we
were strictly limited to turnips, cauliflowers, cabbage and potatoes,
and, for dessert, the famous apple tart of England, more deadly even
than our mince pie.

[Illustration: SOME NATIVES I MET IN TAWNY, SPAIN.--Page 290.]

The proprietor of a certain popular restaurant in New York has a fad for
hanging elaborately got-up Scripture texts--exhortations mostly--around
the walls of his restaurant. Interspersed with these are advertisements
of his eatables--also exhortations--such as, "Try our buckwheat cakes,
10 cents;" "Try our doughnuts and coffee;" between the two exhortations,
a third bidding one flee from the wrath to come; but the most fetching
of all are two companion cards. On the one is the legend, "Try our hot
mince pie;" on the other is displayed the apropos warning, "Prepare to
meet thy God."

So we resolved to sleep at the Grosvenor, but to avoid the apple tart.
We soon discovered a good restaurant near by, where we dined, and, as I
am on the subject of dining, I will finish this chapter with a little
narrative, the moral of which I will leave my readers to find: We were
now settled down in London, prepared to devote all our attention to that
Old Lady--The B. of E.--and, in accordance with a habit of ours, we
began to look for some safe place--hotel, cafe or restaurant--where we
could meet, run in at any time for consultation, or to write notes.
Three things were requisite--nearness to the money centre of the city, a
room where we could be secluded from people coming and going, and a
proprietor clever enough not to be inquisitive, with a genius for
minding his own business. A man who has a genius for that thing always
carries it in his face, just as his opposite--the busybody--carries
the traces of his restless inquisitiveness in the face and manner.

That same day we discovered, in a small street leading off Finsbury, a
shop with a sign over the door bearing the legend: "Licensed to sell
spirits and caterer." It had canned and potted meats, along with bottles
of wine, in the window, but was evidently fast going to seed. We pushed
our way in and found a bright, fresh-looking young Englishman,
evidently a countryman, but intelligent and civil, much like a
gamekeeper. We knew at once we had our place and man.

After some weeks we observed, now and then, a couple of sharp-looking
customers hanging about the place.

We feared being watched, and began to think it time to change, so
suddenly ceased calling at mine host's snuggery and took up new quarters
in a private house not far away. About two months later I happened to be
near and called. He received me warmly, and told me we had saved him
from bankruptcy. He had been a gamekeeper on a nobleman's estate, and
his wife had been a housemaid there. They married against the wishes of
their master, but they had five hundred pounds, and, coming to London,
started business on that. Custom was poor, and soon they were at the end
of their rope, when, happily for them, we came along and spent money
enough in his place to set him on his feet again.

[Illustration: BANK OF ENGLAND BULLION VAULTS.]


CHAPTER XIX.

WITH NO REGRETS, WITH NO TORTURING REMORSE.


Although I had the very respectable balance of $67,000 at the bank, I
had not as yet, since my arrival in London, paid it a visit. This was in
pursuance of our plans. So far I had only done business with the
supernumeraries, and none of the people at the top had ever even heard
of me. But we determined that they should not long remain in ignorance
of the great American contractor, F. A. Warren.

Three months had elapsed since our departure from London on our
piratical tour to the Spanish Main. In all nearly five months had
elapsed since Green had introduced me to the Old Lady whose impregnable
vaults we had now at last determined to loot. That in itself was a
favorable circumstance, as it would give me a chance to flourish in a
grandly indefinite way to the effect that I had "for some time" been a
customer of the bank, and none of the officials would probably take the
trouble to ascertain how very brief, in fact, my acquaintance had been.

I left London by the night mail from Victoria Station for Paris, the
first of many hurried trips I took to the Continent on the business we
had entered upon. Truly, we worked hard, spent money lavishly, brought
all our power and genius to work--for what? To have the lightning fall
on us.

Upon my arrival I drove at once to the Hotel Bristol, Place Vendome, a
swell hotel, where none but the great sirs o' the earth could afford to
stop.

Here I registered as F. A. Warren, London, and at once sent off the
following letter:

     P. M. Francis, Esq., Manager Bank of England, London.

     Dear Sir: I am a customer of the bank, therefore I take the liberty
     of troubling you in the hope to have the benefit of your advice.

     Will you kindly inform me what good 4 per cent. stocks are to be
     had in the market, also if the bank will transact the business for
     me? I remain very truly yours,

     F. A. WARREN.

By return mail came a letter wherein I was advised to invest in India 4
per cents or London Gas. I wrote an immediate order to have the bank
purchase ten thousand pounds of India stock and sent my check for that
amount, on his own bank, payable to the order of the manager. I received
the stock, instantly sold it, and replaced the money to my credit, and
the next day sent off an order for ten thousand pounds gas stock, and
repeated the operation until I had made the impression I wanted to make
on the mind of the manager, so that when I returned to London for my
decisive interview and sent in my card he would at once recognize the
name, F. A. Warren, as the multi-millionaire American who had been
sending him ten thousand pound checks from Paris.

All the time of my stay in France I had nothing to do but enjoy myself,
and I entered upon a systematic sightseeing in and around Paris. There
are some strange contrasts in that old town. One day I made one of a
coaching party to Fontainebleau, twenty-one miles from the city. Every
foot of the road there is classic ground, and I had assiduously studied
day by day the history of France. That Paris is France is nearly a
truth, and I had in my mind a tolerably clear view of the history of the
country and of the men who made its history. I was right there on the
scene of the history-making, and I found an intensity of interest in my
excursions such as I had never experienced before. The driver of the
coach was an Englishman by the name of Nunn. I mention this here, as he
eventually became my servant, and will appear again in the narrative.

To the Parisian hotel proprietor and shopkeeper the American visitor is
truly a providence. "Mine host" looks to him for loaves and fishes, and
is never deceived. The antics of our rich countrymen in Paris are
portentous in their amazing prodigality, and I fear we are the laughing
stock of the shopkeepers there.

At the Cafe Riche and Tortoni's I have seen extravagances in ordering
expensive wines and viands by my countrymen that made me regret that the
fools who were being served were not forced to toil for the mere
necessaries of existence. Certainly they were unworthy stewards of the
wealth heaven or the other place had bestowed on them by inheritance. I
remember one boy there throwing away in vice and dissipation the fortune
his father had through years of a long life spent toilsome hours in
accumulating. I sat at a table near him on several occasions, when,
after his banquet was half over, he used to reward the waiter with a
five-hundred franc note ($100), but the proprietor was ever close at
hand and would instantly despoil the garcon of his prize. He was
companioned by a member of the demi-monde, who, when arrayed in male
attire, as she was nightly, would cut up enough monkey tricks in one
night at the Valentino or Mabille to have made the fortunes of all our
comic paper artists had they been on the spot to catch her antics with a
kodak and then lay them before an admiring public.

The fortune this boy had inherited was unfortunately too vast and too
well-invested by his overfond and madly foolish father for the son to
run through it entirely. A very few years left him an imbecile in body
and mind, to become the prey of a parcel of sharks who, dressing in
purple and fine linen and faring sumptuously every day, held him in a
state of abject slavery and fear. One day, aboard his own yacht, off
Naples, they married him to a notorious woman. Under the guardianship of
his wife and her villain paramour he wandered like a spectre amid the
scene of his former riot.

For long at Monte Carlo he lingered like a ghost, and at last died in
Florence. The American colony attended his funeral in a body, while his
widow, dissolved in tears, refused to be comforted. Although many dark
stories were whispered, the Americans there forgave her all, for her
grief and sorrow were so overpoweringly evident that it would have
seemed a crime to doubt her tender love for the departed. After having
the body embalmed, she embarked with her dead love for America, and
to-day his ashes rest in that mighty city of the dead, Greenwood, under
a Greek cross of white marble, bearing the date of birth and death. I
went to see it last Easter week. The grave was strewn with flowers, and
the pedestal bears this inscription:

  "Too good for this world,
  The angels bore him to heaven,
  Leaving his heartbroken wife
  To mourn her unspeakable loss."

Unopposed she succeeded to her husband's estate. It was large then;
to-day it has grown to enormous proportions. She is not, but easily
might have been, one of the Four Hundred.

At Saratoga last August I saw her sitting on the balcony of the United
States Hotel--fat, wrinkled, vulgar-looking, covered with diamonds.
Nemesis appears to have postponed her visit to the lady. Her life from
her own standpoint has been a tremendous success. She has been
philosopher enough to appreciate what an immense factor mere eating and
drinking is in the sum of human enjoyment. Born with a cold heart, a
constitution of iron, and the digestion of an ostrich, happily for her
peace of mind she was absolutely without imagination.

[Illustration: "IN MY DREAM I WAS ON A SHORELESS SEA."--Page 286.]

To fill the sum of human happiness (from her own standpoint) she only
required one other thing, a good bank account, and that, she said,
heaven had put in her way, so her life has been filled full of joy, and
of the only sort she cared for or could appreciate. In her early years,
when her passions were strong, lover and paramour followed in rapid
succession. When her blood grew cold she found her delight in the
pleasures of the table, and keeping the same cook, who was an expert,
for twenty years, and exercising freely, 1894 found her at 60 with a
strong pulse, a perfect digestion and a keen enjoyment of sport, racing
in particular, and, on the whole, enjoying life as well as any woman in
the universe, with no regrets, no torturing remorse, but with a serene
faith that when done with this world she--never having done anything
very bad here--will have a pretty good time in the world to come.

[Illustration: ENTRANCE TO BULLION VAULTS, BANK OF ENGLAND.]


CHAPTER XX.

DETAILS NECESSARY, IF TEDIOUS.


After the events narrated in the last chapter, I returned to London. I
arrived early in the morning, and, meeting my companions, we had a long
and anxious talk over my near-approaching and all-important interview
with that great Sir of the London world, the manager of the Bank of
England. Happy for us if in that interview the manager had asked for the
customary references, or had used ordinary business precaution and
investigated me, or, indeed, had acted as any ordinary business man
would have done under ordinary circumstances. Our own conclusions were
that the fact that I was already a depositor, together with the
impression made by the letters and my £10,000 checks, would put the
thing through. Yet we, of course, felt that a thousand things could
arise to block our way effectually. A look, a word too much, a shadow,
or a smile in my face might ruin all; but still, after providing so far
as possible for every contingency, after planning what was to be said or
left unsaid at the interview, after my companions filling me full of
advice, we felt after all that everything must be left to my discretion,
to say and to act as I thought best under the circumstances.

This council of war was held in my room in the Grosvenor. I had arrived
from Paris at 6 o'clock. Mac and I breakfasted together at 8. George
joined us at 9, and we talked until 10, then we set out together for the
bank. Arriving there, they remained outside, watching for my
reappearance. Entering the bank, I sent in my card (F. A. Warren) by a
liveried flunkey, and was immediately ushered into the manager's parlor.
He has long since gone over to the majority, so here I will not so much
as name or describe him. Sufficient to say, that as soon as I set eyes
upon him I thought that we would have no particular difficulty in
carrying out our plans, save only so far as details went.

The manager, who had been told that I was a railroad contractor,
expressed himself highly gratified to have me do my business through the
bank, and said they would do all in their power to accommodate me. I
told him that, of course, I was financing large sums, and would require
more or less discounts before the year was out. Then I came away, and
meeting my two friends outside of the bank, in answer to their eager
inquiries as to what had transpired, I told them that, so far as the
bank officials were concerned, our way to the vaults of the bank was
wide open.

So ended the last scene of Act I.

The next day I went to the Continental Bank, in Lombard street, and
bought sight exchange on Paris for 200,000 francs, paying for it by a
check on the Bank of England. I was given a note of identification to
the Paris agent of the bank.

That night I left Victoria Station for Paris. At 10 the next morning I
had my money, and, going to the Place de la Bourse, near the Exchange, I
commissioned a broker, who was a member of the Exchange, to purchase
bills on London for £8,000. I cautioned him to buy bills drawn only on
well-known banking houses. About 3 o'clock he had the bills ready. I
paid him the amount, along with his commission, and, examining the
paper, found that he had purchased for me about what I wanted.

I will explain, for the benefit of any reader not conversant with
financial transactions, that if John Russell, cotton broker in Savannah,
ships a thousand bales of cotton to a firm in Manchester, England, the
firm in Manchester authorizes him to draw a bill of exchange on their
firm, payable at some London bank at three or six months' time, for the
value of the cotton. We will say the price is £10,000. Russell draws ten
bills for £1,000 each, say payable at the Union Bank of London. He gives
these bills to a money broker in Savannah, who sells them on the
Exchange and gets for them whatever the rate of exchange may then be on
London. The president of the Georgia Central Railroad may have ordered a
thousand tons of steel rail in England for his road, and to pay for them
he orders a broker to buy for him bills on London to the amount of the
cost of the rails. He purchases the Russell bills, and these bills of
exchange he sends in payment to the steel rail manufacturers in England,
so, as a matter of fact, the president of the Georgia Central pays
Russell for his thousand bales of cotton, but has the bills of exchange.
So, in place of £10,000 in gold being freighted twice across the ocean,
the ten pieces of paper cross only once. These ten bills for £1,000
each, drawn on the Union Bank of London at six months, in due time are
presented, duly accepted and paid at maturity by the bank.

Instead of commercial notes or bills they are now known as acceptances,
and are just as good as a bank note. Therefore, if the owner--no matter
who it is--wants the money at once, any bank will discount all or either
for the face value less the interest. In every commercial centre of the
world these accepted bills are being discounted by banks and moneyed
corporations for enormous sums, but by no bank in the world in such huge
amounts as by the Bank of England. Their daily discounts run into the
millions.

What our plan was will be made clear later.

[Illustration: A BILL OF EXCHANGE.]

The evening of the day of my arrival in Paris found me on the express
speeding to Paris. Two hours past midnight I was on the miserable little
passenger steamer that plies across the chopping channel, and which I
suppose has seen more of human misery than all the fleets that sail the
Atlantic, for the channel has stronger counter currents, and wind,
tide and currents seem ever to be in violent opposition, and here

  "E'er across the main doth float
    A sad and solemn swell,
  The wild, fantastic, fitful note
    Of Triton's breathing shell."

And Triton (old Neptune's t'other name) makes all passers over this part
of his realm pay ample tribute for "his fantastic, fitful notes."

The Paris night express lands one at early dawn in London, nearly always
weak on the legs, however. I breakfasted with Mac, and after that took
the bills to the various banks on which they were drawn, and leaving
them for their acceptance, I called again the next day and received them
back, bearing across the face, the magic words:

  "London, Aug. 14, 1872.

  "Accepted for the Union Bank of London.

  "E. Barclay, Manager.

  "J. Wayland, Assistant Manager."

Then I hurried to the Grosvenor, and we all looked at them with
curiosity, for it was upon the imitation of just such acceptances that
our whole plan was based. I intended to present this and many more
batches of genuine bills for discount at the bank until the officials
should become accustomed to discounting for me. In the mean time, as
fast as I got genuine acceptances and bills, we kept on making
imitations of them for future use, only leaving out the date until such
time as we should be ready to put them in for discount. Of course, the
success or failure of our whole plan turned upon this point. Is it the
custom of the Bank of England (in 1873) to send acceptances offered for
discount to the acceptors for verification of signatures?

This is always done in America, and had this very requisite precaution
been used by the Bank of England our plan would have been fruitless and
we should have been a few thousands out of pocket; but, if not, then we
could throw into the hopper enough acceptances of home manufacture so
that through the red tape routine of the bank millions of sovereigns
would be ground out into our pockets.

Taking my deposit book and the genuine bills, I went to the bank and
left the bills for discount. This was at once done and the amount placed
to my credit. I drew £10,000, and that night found me once more one of
500 unfortunates paying tribute to Neptune. This time I landed at Ostend
and took the train for Amsterdam. There I repeated the Paris operation,
securing £10,000 in genuine bills. I returned to London, and as before
left them for acceptance. Then my companion manufactured a lot of
imitations and put them away with those previously manufactured, to be
all ready when the day came to use them. The genuine bills were then
discounted. Again and again I went to the Continent, repeating the
operation, until at last my credit at the bank was firm as a rock, and
we were ready to reap our harvest. But these operations, simple as they
seem, lasted over a period of six months, and had been made at heavy
cost. Our ordinary living expenses were not less than $25 a day for the
three, while our extraordinary expenses were enormous. I probably
traveled 10,000 miles over the Continent in my bill-buying expeditions
to Paris, Amsterdam, Frankfort and Vienna.

Another source of expense was the commissions paid to brokers for buying
bills on the exchange. Then we had many expenses purely personal, and,
enormous as it seems, the sum total from the day of our return from
Brazil until the day of our operations against the bank began to bring
us in cash were quite $500 a week, so that we had invested $15,000 in
preparation, not to speak of our hard work--and it was hard work, and
trying, too, for there were a multitude of details to be worked out.


CHAPTER XXI.

THE EGYPTIANS PASS OVER THE RED SEA AND THE HEBREWS ARE DROWNED THEREIN.


All the details of events leading through the long Summer and Autumn
days of 1872 up to the hour when the golden shower began to fall on us
are of intense, almost dramatic, interest. I will not, however, lengthen
the narrative by giving here any further account of them, but will
merely relate the story of the last five days before the actual
presentation of our home-brewed acceptances.

The bank had been discounting for weeks comparatively large sums for me.
Many thousand pounds of the genuine article discounted had matured and
been paid, and more thousands were still in the vaults, awaiting
maturity, and would fall due, while our home-manufactured bills would be
laid away in the vaults, there to remain for four or five months until
due. Of course a full month or two months before that we could pack our
baggage and be on the other side of the world; I on some hacienda in
Mexico, George and Mac at some fashionable resort in Florida. They soon
to knock at the gates of the Four Hundred, I to spend a year or two in
Mexico, playing "grand senor," until, under the skillful management of
our friends, Irving, Stanley and White, at Police Headquarters in New
York, the affair had blown over, and they invited me to return.

But, as the sequel will show, the reality took on a different complexion
from the ideal.

[Illustration: BOW STREET POLICE STATION.]

My credit at the bank was solid as a rock. That means I had gone through
the red-tape routine. It only behooved us to use circumspection enough
to avoid making mistakes in our papers, and fortune was ours. I knew
everything was all right, but George, being a thorough business man
himself, could not comprehend that it could be quite right, and he
insisted upon one supreme test. Any single bill of exchange is seldom
drawn for more than £1,000, rarely for £2,000, and one of £6,000 is
almost unheard of. If a party in Bombay wanted exchange on London for
£100,000, his broker would probably furnish him with one hundred bills
for £1,000 each. But George had made up his mind that as a test, and to
make an impression upon the bank manager, I should go to Paris and get a
bill on London from Rothschilds drawn to the order of F. A. Warren
direct. Could this be done it would, of course, make it appear that I
had intimate relations with the Rothschilds, and as a minor
consideration we could use the Rothschild acceptance--a pretty nervy
thing to do, as Sir Anthony de Rothschild, the head of the London house,
whose name we proposed to offer, was a director of the Bank of England,
and would have to pass his own paper for discount--that is, paper
bearing his name, manufactured by ourselves.

We tried to talk George out of this notion, which Mac and I regarded as
a freak, unnecessary in the first place, and impossible anyhow. But he
was persistent, and I had to start out and try. I expected an expense of
$1,000 and a delay of two weeks, but fortune or the devil favored us.
So, purchasing at the exchange broker's in London 200,000 francs in
French paper money, once more I left Victoria Station for Paris. Once
more, an unwilling victim, I heard the "wild, fantastic, fitful note of
Triton's breathing shell." At Calais I took my place in what the French
call a coupe; that is, the end compartment on a car, which, by paying
ten francs extra, you can occupy alone. It is unlike the other
compartments in that there are no arms dividing it into seats; so one
can lie full length on the cushion.

Before this night I speak of I had cherished a theory as to what I
should do in the event of an accident happening to any train whereon I
was a passenger. In such a case I proposed to catch on to some object
and hold on, leaving my body and limbs to swing freely. My theory ever
since that night has been that I will go just wherever the breaking
timbers and flying furniture send me. I had fallen into a sound sleep
before the train started, and was aroused from it to find myself hurled
about the compartment much as a stout boy would shake a mouse in a cage,
and quite as helpless.

Our train was off the track. My carriage was near the engine, and the
momentum of the long train forced the car in the rear of mine up on end,
and it appeared as if it would fall over and crush me. I thought my hour
had come, and I cried out, "At last!" There was no fear or terror in it,
but merely the thought that after many months of almost incessant
travel, and necessarily of peril, "at last" my fate had come. It had
not. How good heaven would have been if it had sent me to my doom then
and there!

The accident had occurred at Marquise, a small town sixteen miles from
Calais and four from Boulogne, the first stopping place of the express.
It was a very long train, but the carriages were all empty except two. A
heavy excursion train had left Paris, and the cars were going back
empty. What lessened the number of passengers was the fact that it was
Sunday night. The English do not travel on Sundays as a rule. So,
fortunately, a great loss of life was prevented. However, two were
killed and half of the remaining passengers injured. My own injuries
were slight and consisted of trifling cuts on the face and hands from
flying glass. But, far worse than that, I had received a nervous shock,
which took some weeks to wear off, and during the rest of my journey to
Paris and return to London I was as nervous as a timid woman. I stayed
at Marquise until noon, when the express passing at that hour made a
special stop to pick me up.

In our glorious and free country the killing or mangling of a few
persons more or less is of no particular concern to any one beyond the
friends of the victims, least of all to the railway magnate or to his
servant. But in France an accident which results even in the wounding of
a passenger is a very serious matter to the road where it occurs and to
its officials. They always hasten to take the fullest responsibility,
and if attention or the more solid matter--cash--can comfort the
sufferer, he will have no occasion to mourn long. If one life be
lost--even a servant of the road--a strict judicial inquiry takes place
upon the scene of the accident, by a high official of the State, advised
by experts, not as in this country, by some drunken country loafer or
ward heeler, who, all ignorant of the law, has been "elected" county
coroner, and one who is more anxious to procure free passes on the road
than he is concerned for the victim murdered by the neglect or parsimony
of inefficient railway officials.

The road from Paris to Calais is known as the Chemin de Fer du Nord, and
Baron Alphonse de Rothschild, head of the Paris Rothschilds, is the
president of the road. This fact occurred to me within a few minutes of
the accident, and I thought I might make use of the affair as a means to
help me in my business at Paris. I arrived about dark, went to the Grand
Hotel, and to bed at once. My nerves were so shaken that I was timid,
even when in the elevator, but I slept well and awoke at daylight
feeling better.

At 10 o'clock, limping badly and leaning on a cane, I entered a carriage
and drove to the Maison Rothschild, Rue Lafitte. The banking house might
well be called a palace. The various offices open upon a courtyard,
while the whole architecture of the building would suggest the residence
of an officer of State or nobleman rather than a building devoted to
finance. But the currents which centre there are potent and
far-reaching, and come richly laden with tribute from the four quarters
of the world. To win that tribute slaves toil, and, toiling, die, in
Brazilian diamond mines, and thousands of coolies, entrapped by agents
in China and India, enter into perfidious contracts which commit them to
hopeless slavery and send them to wear out their lives in despairing
toil amid the pungent and murderous ammoniacal fumes of the guano
islands of Chili and Peru. The Rothschilds, too, own the Almaden
quicksilver mine and others.

They control the quicksilver industries of the world, and to swell their
abnormal hoard, portentous in its vastness, other poor wretches,
condemned under form of law, are doomed to days of wearing toil, and,
their bones rotting from quicksilver absorption, to nights of racking
pains. So, too, far Siberia contributes its quota of human misery that
the golden stream of interest on century-old loans may have no
interruption, but pour on unceasingly into the vaults of the
Rothschilds.

Alighting from the carriage and mounting the steps with difficulty, I
entered the English Department, and, seating myself, awaited the
manager's presence. He came, and expressing great concern when he
learned I was a victim of the Marquise disaster, asked what he could do
for me. I replied I wanted to see the Baron. He disappeared into a range
of offices, and no doubt told Baron Alphonse I was some important
personage, doubly important because injured on his road.

Soon a slight, sallow man of about 43 appeared, wearing an old-fashioned
stovepipe hat and a shabby suit of snuff-colored garments. The look of
the attendants testified that the deity was before me. Taking off his
antiquated chapeau he began a profuse apology for the accident,
explaining that accidents were most unusual events in France; that he
would order his own physician to attend me, that I should have every
attention without the slightest charge or expense to myself, etc., etc.,
and ended by saying I was to command him if he could serve me. In return
I told him since he was so distressed over the accident and my plight, I
should say no more about either, but as I was too badly shaken to
complete the business on which I had come to Paris I should request him
to instruct his subordinates to aid me in transmitting the funds I had
brought from London back again. He called the manager and told him to
accommodate me in anything, then, shaking hands and with many
expressions of regret, he withdrew.

I told the manager I wanted a three months' bill on London for £6,000.
He informed me that the house of Rothschild was not issuing time bills,
but since the Baron's order suspended the rule in my case, he would
procure me six bills for £1,000 each. These really were just as good for
our purpose as one bill for £6,000, but I had come to Paris on George's
demand that I should procure one bill for this unusual amount, so
perforce I had to say "No," that I wanted one bill only.

The manager began to remonstrate, saying it was unusual, and wanted to
explain the nature of a bill of exchange, but I cut him short, bidding
him recall the Baron at once. The thought of recalling that Jupiter to
repeat an order was enough to send a thrill through the entire staff,
and he instantly said: "Oh, sir, if you wish the £6,000 in one bill, you
shall have it, but it will involve some delay." So paying him 150,000
francs on account, I ordered the bill sent to me at 2 o'clock precisely
at the Grand Hotel, and drove off to the Louvre, where I spent two hours
in the picture galleries. At 2 o'clock I was at the hotel, and an
attendant came with the bill, and, pointing to a signature on it,
informed me it was that of a Cabinet Minister, equivalent to our
Secretary of the Treasury, certifying that the tax due the government
on the bill was paid. He explained the revenue stamp required upon a
bill of exchange was one-eighth of 1 per cent. of the face of the bill,
making the tax on my single bill 187 francs, or about $37. All bills are
stamped in a registering machine, which presses the stamp into the
paper; but there were no registering machines for a stamp of so high a
denomination as 187 francs either in the branch revenue office in the
Rothschild bank or at the Treasury, so the Baron had taken the bill to
the Treasury himself and got the Cabinet Minister to put his autograph
on it--probably the first and only time in history that such a thing had
been done. I wanted very much indeed to keep that bill as a curiosity,
but then the necessity of the time was on me, and I was not then a
collector of curios.

I had been only eighteen hours in Paris, and by a happy fluke the
business was done over which I had counted upon spending a good part of
the month.

When I left London I was all at sea as to how I should carry out the
objects of my visit to Paris. One plan was to procure an interview by
strategy with the Baron Alphonse and try to cajole him, but without
reference, and devoid of all business relations or acquaintance in
Paris, it was at best a questionable expedient, and I probably would
have had a take-down. But the accident at Marquise came and smoothed the
apparently insuperable difficulties in my way. But I have found that
something unusual does come to help a man on his way to the devil when
he is anxious to get there, which he is pretty sure to do, if he is only
diligent and careful to improve his opportunities.

What diligence and strict attention to business do men exhibit when they
start out to wreck their own lives and break the hearts of those near to
them! In a play by a modern writer, one scene presents Satan flying at
midnight over one of our cities, while the drunken songs and joyous
shouts of some gilded revelers rise in the night. The merry songs and
laughter are music to the ears of Lucifer. He pauses in his flight to
listen, and as the songs and shouts increase in volume he looks down on
the revelers and with a bitter sneer soliloquizes thus of them:

  "Ye are my bondsmen and my thralls,
  Your lives I fill with bitter pain."

And that sums it up pretty well; but we must look straight away from the
entrance of the Primrose Way to the exit.

Well, I had successfully played my trump card on the Rothschilds, and,
not seeing the end, thought I had won, and cleverly won; so before
sitting down to dinner I went to the telegraph office and telegraphed to
my partners:

     "The Egyptians all passed over the Red Sea. But the Hebrews are
     drowned therein."

Thinking this rather witty, I went to dinner well satisfied. An hour
past midnight the moon looked from behind a cloud and saw me, one of
many miserables, leaning over the bulwark of that wretched Dover
steamer, again paying tribute to Neptune.


CHAPTER XXII.

"ACCEPTED. LIONEL ROTHSCHILD."


When George and Mac received my telegram they, knowing the difficulties
of my mission, deemed it incredible that I had succeeded within a day,
so when my telegram came they thought I was attempting some jest. Upon
my arrival in London, walking into Mac's room--he being still in bed--I
announced that I had in my pocket Rothschild's bill for £6,000, drawn on
the London house. He flatly refused to believe me, but when he, and
later George, saw the bill, they were forced to believe. I at once took
it down to St. Swithin's lane, and, leaving it for acceptance, called
the next day, when I found scrawled across it in thin, pale ink the
mystic words "Accepted. Lionel Rothschild."

The bill itself was drawn on cheap, blue paper, on the same form as the
blank bills to be had at the Paris stationers', where I had bought some.
From Rothschilds' I went direct to the hotel where we had our
rendezvous, and the acceptance was so simple and easy that Mac had it
copied on another bill in ten minutes. The business methods of the bank
were so loose that there was no necessity for imitating signatures, but
as a precaution this was done to some extent. I then proceeded to the
Bank of England for my last personal interview with the manager. I must
halt here for a brief space in the narrative, in order to enlighten my
reader upon some new developments, also to introduce the new member we
at this time brought into our firm.

[Illustration: "NOYES ESCORTED BY AN ANGRY MOB TO NEWGATE."--Page 379]

There was a friend, a very old friend, of mine residing in Hartford,
Edwin Noyes by name. We had known each other from our schoolboy days,
and there was a warm friendship between us. Our paths in life had been
wide apart, but we maintained a frequent correspondence and often met.
He knew nothing of my primrose life, but supposed, of course, from the
style of my living that I was the possessor of a handsome income from my
business, which lay, as he imagined, in that mysterious precinct known
as "The Street," which, of course, meant Wall street, and that my
business was speculating in stocks.

He was a trifle older than myself, of a steady, reserved nature, and a
discreet and safe friend. This was the new member of our firm. Brethren,
scholars, patriots also, I trust,--you whose generous nurture gives you
large and enduring influence,--seek for the country of your pride
and love, above all things else, her establishment on the eternal right
as on the Rock of Ages. Thus shall there be no spot on her fame, no limit
to her growth, no waning to her glory.
A. P. Peabody.

CCLX.

"STEP TO THE CAPTAINS OFFICE AND SETTLE."
This old watchword, so often heard by travellers in the early stages of
steam-navigation, is now and then ringing in our ears with a very
pointed and pertinent application. It is a note that belongs to all the
responsibilities of this life for eternity. There is a day of reckoning,
a day for the settlement of accounts. All unpaid bills will then have
to be paid; all unbalanced books will have to be settled. There will be
no loose memorandums forgotten; there will be no heedless
commissioners for the convenience of careless consciences; there
will be no proxies; there will be no bribed auditors. Neither will there
be such a thing as a hesitating conscience; but the inward monitor, so
often drugged and silenced on earth, will speak out. There will
be no doubt nor question as to the right and wrong.

There will be no vain excuses! nor any attempt to make them. There
will be no more sophistry, no more considerations of expediency,
no more pleading of the laws of men and the customs of society,
no more talk about organic sins being converted into constructive
righteousness, or collective and corporate frauds releasing men
from individual responsibilities.

When we see a man, a professed Christian, running a race with the worshippers
of wealth and fashion, absorbed in the vanities of the world, or
endeavoring to serve both God and mammon, we hear the voice, Step
to the captain's office and settle!

When we see editors and politicians setting power in the place of
goodness, and expediency in the place of justice and law in the place of
equity, and custom in the place of right, putting darkness for light,
and evil for good, and tyranny for general benevolence, we think
of the day when the issuers of such counterfeit money will be brought to
light, and their sophistries and lies exposed,--for among the whole tribe
of unprincipled politicians there will be great consternation when
the call comes to step to the captain's office and settle.

When we see unjust rulers in their pride of power fastening chains upon
the bondmen, oppressing the poor, and playing their pranks of defiant
tyranny before high heaven, then also come these words to mind, like
a blast from the last trumpet, Step to the captain's office and
settle!

                                                  G. B. Cheever
                                             

CCLXI.

THE MURDER OF THE SOUL.

There are some people whose sympathies have been excited upon the subject
of slavery, who, if they can only be satisfied that the slaves
have enough to eat, think it is all very well, and that nothing
more is to be said or done.

If slaves were merely animals, whose only or chief enjoyment consisted
in the gratification of their bodily appetites, there would be some show
of sense in this conclusion. But, in fact, however crushed and brutified,
they are still men; men whose bosoms beat with the same passions as our
own; whose hearts swell with the same aspirations,--the same ardent desire
to improve their condition; the same wishes for what they have not;
the same indifference towards what they have; the same restless love
of social superiority; the same greediness of acquisition; the
same desire to know; the same impatience of all external control.

      The excitement which the singular case of Caspar Hauser produced a
few years since in Germans is not yet forgotten.

       From the representations of that enigmatical personage, it was
believed that those from whose custody he declared himself to have
escaped, had endeavored to destroy his intellect, or rather to
prevent it from being developed, so as to detain him forever in a
state of infantile imbecility.

This supposed attempt at what they saw fit to denominate the murder of
the soul, gave rise to great discussions among the German jurists; and
they soon raised it into a new crime, which they placed at the
very head of social enormities.

It is this very crime, the murder of the soul, which is in the course of
continuous and perpetual perpetration throughout the southern
States of the American Union; and not upon a single individual only,
but upon nearly one half of the entire population.

Consider the slaves as men, and the course of treatment which
custom and the laws prescribe is an artful, deliberate and well-digested
scheme to break their spirit; to deprive them of courage and of
manhood; to destroy their natural desire for an equal participation
in the benefits of society; to keep them ignorant, and therefore weak;
to reduce them, if possible, to a state of idiocy; to crowd them down
to a level with the brutes.
At last he said he would consider it. After a day or two of
silence he began to question us as to our mode of operation, then his
mind became more and more familiarized to the thought, until at last,
fascinated by our association, he acquiesced, saying: "I will do it. I
want money badly. The Bank of England, after all, will not miss it. So
I'll go in for this once."

By our direction he went to an obscure hotel in Manchester square, and
then purchased clothes more suitable for his new position than the
fashionable tailor-cut suit he wore from New York.

On several occasions I had gone to Jay Cooke & Co. in Lombard street and
purchased bonds under the name of F. A. Warren and giving checks in
payment upon the Bank of England. So one day I went there with Noyes and
purchased $20,000 in bonds, giving my check for them. I then introduced
Noyes as my clerk, directing them to deliver any bonds I bought to him
at any time. The next day he called and they gave him the bonds which I
had given my check for the day before, so there was no necessity any
longer for me to come in person to make purchases. Noyes could appear
there any day, give an order for bonds, secure a bill for them, and in
half an hour bring a Warren check for the amount of the bill,
pretending, of course, that he had got it from me, but really getting it
from Mac, leaving the check for collection and to call the next day for
the bonds.

The same day that I introduced him to Jay Cooke & Co. I took him to the
Bank of England at a busy time of day, and while drawing £2,000, I
casually introduced him to the paying teller as my clerk, requesting the
teller to pay him any checks I sent. Then for the next few days I had
Noyes take checks to the bank and had him order two or three small lots
of bonds from Jay Cooke & Co., so that they became familiarized with
seeing him come on my business.

[Illustration: "I DEMAND A GUARD AND SHELTER FOR MY WIFE, THE
DUCHESS."--Page 282.]

The plan was complete at last. Everything was ready to carry out our
scheme in perfect safety to all, and, as related in the beginning of the
chapter, I was now on my way to the bank for my last visit, with the
Rothschild bill in my hand. Many accounts were given of this famous
interview in the English press just after the discovery of the fraud
and prior to my arrest, also when the details transpired at the trial.
The facts were simply these: I presented myself at the bank, and,
sending in my card to the manager, was ushered at once into his parlor.
After a few remarks upon the money and stock market, I produced the
bill, remarking that I had a curiosity to show him which had been sent
me by a correspondent in Paris. It was certainly a curiosity; it was a
thing entirely unknown in the history of the bank to have a bill of
exchange bearing the signature of a Cabinet Minister certifying that the
internal revenue tax had been paid on it. This, along with the
circumstance that the bill was made payable to myself, evidently made
considerable impression on the manager and confirmed him in his good
opinion of his customer. The unusual features of this bill of exchange
led him to relate some of the inner events of the bank's history, during
which I asked him what precaution the bank took against forgery. He told
me a forgery on the bank was impossible. But I asked: "Why impossible?
Other banks get hit sometimes, and why not the Bank of England?" To that
question he gave a long reply, ending with the assertion that "our wise
forefathers have bequeathed us a system which is perfect." "Do you wish
me to understand you have not changed your system since your
forefathers' time?" I said. To which he emphatically replied: "Not in
the slightest particular for a hundred years." In conclusion I told him
I should be fully occupied looking after my different business
interests, but would give him a call if I found time. I also said I
would have the bill discounted and take the cash away with me, instead
of having it placed to my credit. He called an attendant, gave the
necessary order, and the cash was handed me. Bidding the manager
good-bye, I repaired to our meeting place and showed the notes for the
discounted bill. Even George was satisfied that my credit at the bank
was good for any amount of discounts on any sort of paper.

Everything now was ready for my departure from England. For some weeks
my partners had been busy preparing for the completion of the operation.

The first lot of bogus bills were ready to go into the mail at
Birmingham as soon as I was out of the way--it having been decided that
I should then be out of the country. So one Monday late in November I
packed my baggage, and, after many warm hand shakings, I bade my friends
adieu. We had had many talks about the happy future. We had planned
pleasant things in the future, and spoken confidently of our
four-in-hands, our Summer cottages at Saratoga and Newport, of our town
house, fine suppers and our boxes at the opera. After that I saw them
for a brief hour on the coast of France and once more said adieu. When
we met again it was in Newgate. I need hardly say that for the next
twenty years we had no boxes at the grand opera, no four-in-hands, nor
yet any fine suppers, but all that which was merely external passed
away, consumed in that fierce flame, but all that was manly and true
remained; that is, our devotion and courage and our high resolve to
conquer fate and live for better things.

Before leaving London we had squared up our cash account. It was
something to make one stare to see how our money had melted away. It was
arranged to send in the first lot of bogus bills on Thursday, giving me
two full days out of the country. Here I made a fatal mistake in
determining to go to the West Indies, then on to Mexico. As George had
planned I should have gone at once to New York, stopped at the best
hotel in the city and registered in my right name. By taking this course
I should have been safe and could have laughed at any attempt of the
bank authorities to extradite me, for the first lot of bogus bills could
have been held back until I had actually arrived in America. Then there
could not have been found a single particle of evidence against me.

I say "if I had come to New York." But there is some mysterious spell
over men embarked in crime that blinds their eyes to the plainest
dictates of common sense or prudence. This has been proved in a thousand
dramatic instances, but never more forcibly than in our own. It would
seem as if clever, daring men do almost impossible things with ease, but
there is a Nemesis which blinds them to trifles, fatal if overlooked,
causing them to make mistakes of which a schoolboy would be ashamed.

When we first got our combination together I thought we had found a
short cut to fortune, and never doubted of our success to the very end,
and amid many mishaps, that either crippled or ruined our schemes and
lengthened this short cut to fortune, I maintained my confidence until
on that day down in blazing Rio, when the letter "c" in lieu of the "s"
in indorse came to the front to crumble our "sure thing" into ruin. I
remember that in the stupefaction which for a few minutes settled down
on us, I felt we were really fighting against fate. A fate that like the
fiat of Deity says "Thou shalt not," to all wrongdoing.

For some time after that "indorce" takedown a feeling took possession of
me that such short cuts to fortune were risky, and that if success did
come the success would in the end prove a failure. But there is so much
in companionship and such magnetism in human association that when we
all three met in Paris and went in and out together, then, under the
stimulus of our union, I forgot all my forebodings and began to think
the unforeseen fatal something would not happen, and that we could
conquer fortune whether she would or no, and by any method on which we
chose to enter. But, as will be seen in the sequel, when reveling in an
unheard-of success, literally loaded down with wealth, Nemesis appeared
and by means even more simple than our error in Rio stripped us of our
wealth and dignity and left us naked to every storm that blew.


CHAPTER XXIII.

SHOWERS OF GOLD FALL--AND THEN?


I shall try and condense into a single chapter the narrative of events
in London from the time of my departure until the day, some months
later, when our scheme exploded and all took to flight when Noyes was
arrested.

Our expenses had been so enormous that we were anxious to make enough to
recoup them, so it had been agreed that the first batch of bogus bills
should not exceed the amount paid out since leaving Rio.

I left for Paris on Monday. On Wednesday, Noyes went to the bank and
drew out all the money to my credit, except three hundred pounds. The
same day he went to Birmingham and mailed lot number one of
home-manufacture bills representing £8,000.

The next twenty-four hours was an anxious time for my friends. The bills
would be delivered by the early mail on Thursday, and if all went right
the proceeds would be placed to my credit by 12 o'clock, and the bills
themselves would be stowed away in the vaults until they were due some
months ahead. George and Mac waited with the greatest anxiety until 2
o'clock. They had everything packed for instant flight, when at that
hour they sallied out of Mac's lodging and started for the bank to make
the test. They had filled out two Warren checks, one for £2,300 payable
to Warren, another for £4 10s., payable to bearer.

Noyes went on ahead, the others following, and took his stand on the
steps of a hotel in a side street not far from the bank. Keeping his
eye out for a suitable appearing party he finally stopped a uniformed
messenger, and, telling him to take the £4 10s. check to the bank, bring
the money to him there, and he would be paid for his trouble.

Of course, as soon as the messenger had turned his back Noyes bolted
around the corner to a place agreed upon, while Mac followed the
messenger to the bank and saw he was paid without question. He gave the
pre-arranged signal to George, who went with all haste to notify Noyes,
and when the messenger arrived with the cash, he found him standing on
the steps as cool and unconcerned as possible. Paying the messenger, all
three started to the bank, Mac on the way giving Noyes the £2,300 check,
which he presented. Nodding good day to the cashier he asked for £2,000
in gold and the remainder in notes, which were handed him at once, and
three very happy men sat down that evening to dinner, because the day's
operations had conclusively proved that the Bank of England methods were
fallible.

The next morning Noyes went to Jay Cooke & Co. and ordered $75,000 in
United States bonds, giving a check for them on the bank. The same
afternoon he went to Birmingham and mailed another letter, this one
containing £15,000 in bills, and later drew £2,000 in gold from the
bank. On Monday he went after the bonds, and the $75,000 was handed over
to him without questions. The whole operation was a repetition of these
tactics, but with an ever-increasing volume in the amounts of the bills.
On some days the mail brought to the bank letters with bills for
$100,000, sometimes for more, sometimes for less. So November and
December passed away, and the bank continued day by day and week by week
laying away in its vaults the worthless collateral of Mr. F. A. Warren in
exchange for its gold.

But why not be satisfied and stop while it was all right? That is the
question of a wise man, but who ever knew any man who wanted to do a
thing, whether he did it or not, who could not find half a hundred good
reasons why he should do it. But as Christmas came near Mac began to
long for home. He had repaid his father every penny of the large sum he
was owing him; there had been a reconciliation by mail, and each steamer
that came bore many long letters from parents and sisters, all speaking
of their joy over the happy turn of events that was going to bring the
absent member of the flock home within its walls again. The father's
heart, long estranged, grew very tender toward his boy, and with pride
he thought his eldest had thrown off the follies of his youth, and in
manful strength was making ample atonements for the thoughtlessness and
the wanderings of his youth. He and they were all destined to a terrible
awakening. For soon the press of the world was to teem with accounts of
his son's arrest and incarceration for participation in a gigantic
fraud. When the blow fell it came with crushing force on that home, and
a shadow deep as night settled down on the household; all joyousness and
even hope itself fled when the cable bore the news that their boy had
been condemned to life imprisonment in a foreign dungeon. And one by one
the members of that family passed away from a world that held no more
for them since their good name had been tarnished.

In London the boys talked of spending Christmas at home, but the
argument to stay--and it prevailed--was that since the money came in so
easily and in such amounts it was a pity to run away from it. Then,
again, by obtaining an enormous sum and putting it in a place of
absolute security, the bank would be glad to compromise the matter in
consideration of receiving a million or two back again.

So they spent a pretty merry and an exceedingly expensive Christmas in
London, but later in February they determined to pack up and leave.

Everything smiled upon them. The gold and bonds they had, meant fortunes
for all. I was away in tropic islands leading an idle life with my
bride amid the cocoanut and palm trees. Mac and George had never
appeared in the transaction, and as for Noyes, not a soul in all America
knew he was in Europe, and in all Europe only three or four people had
seen him, and knew him as representing Warren.

The business was finished. All three laden with money were going to
leave England, leaving the bank to slumber on for weeks until the first
bills became due before there could be a discovery. By that time the
cash would have been safely stowed, and how or where or to whom could
anything be traced?

So in council they had decided to be content with the enormous amount
they had. The last batch of bills was in the mail. Only one day more and
the strain on the nerves would be over. That day Noyes bought bonds and
drew cash for more than $150,000. At 3 o'clock they sat down to lunch,
their last in London, and then went direct to Mac's apartments in St.
James' place. All the material for making fraudulent bills was there,
and what could be burned was to be thrown into the grate, and the rest
to first be filed into blank nothings and then thrown into the Thames.
The three were there and they were happy. They had engineered a gigantic
scheme, had struck for wealth and won. The short cut to fortune in
defiance of fate had been traversed and now they set about a grateful
task--that of getting themselves and their rich argosy out of England.
Mac being the artist of the party, and having executed the actual
writing, drew the sealed box containing the unused bills up to the fire
and began throwing them in one by one. In doing so he occasionally would
throw some bill more elaborate than the common run on the floor beside
his chair. He had finished his task and took from the floor those he had
thrown there, looked at them for a moment, then crumbling them together,
raised his hand to throw them in the fire, but as the devil always
forsakes his friends at the critical moment, he stopped, smoothed out
the bills and turning to the others, said: "Boys, these are perfect
works of art; it is a pity to destroy them." From our point of view it
was, since it was only necessary to drop them into the mail and they
would coin us thousands. Then George said: "Suppose we send them in."
The others said "All right," and our doom was sealed.

There were in the lot nineteen bills of exchange for £26,000. A date had
been left off one of them! They failed to note it! Poor fools, we had
sold ourselves.

Was this an accident? No, it was Nemesis; it was anything you want to
call it, but it was not an accident.

So a letter was written, the bills, with memorandum, inclosed, the
envelope directed and stamped, and the three fools went to Birmingham,
mailed the letter, and then laughed over their success in the fight
against society, facilitated themselves that they had discovered the
undiscoverable, that they had safely traversed the short cut to fortune.
There is no short cut by wrongdoing to fortune, Boss Tweed and the long
list of robber barons to the contrary!

The bills were mailed on Monday. As that fatal letter slipped from their
fingers into the mail-box the last act of the deadly tragedy began. When
it ended the curtain fell upon us descending from the dock into the
chill dungeons of Newgate, never, so far as the sentence was concerned,
to emerge again.

On Tuesday morning the letter with the bills arrived at the bank.
Following the routine, they went to the discount department, were
discounted and placed to my credit. As I had a balance of £20,000, when
the proceeds of the bills were added to it, it brought up the whole to
the handsome sum of £46,000.

[Illustration: "THE DAY OF MY DESTINY IS OVER."--Page 304.]

When the bills arrived at the bank a strange thing occurred. The fatal
omission was made on an acceptance of Blydenstein & Co., a great banking
firm in London. The discount clerk noticed the omission of the date of
acceptance, but this being a mere formality, he thought it a clerical
error on the part of the bookkeeper of Blydenstein & Co. He made no
report of the matter, and it was discounted along with the other
eighteen, which were put away in the vaults with the batches that had
preceded it, while he laid this one aside until the next day, which was
Wednesday. At half past ten he gave it to the bank messenger, telling
him when he went his regular rounds to take the bill to Blydenstein's
and request them to correct the omission.

At 2 p.m. on Tuesday Noyes went to Jay Cooke & Co. and ordered $100,000
in United States bonds, and gave them a check on the Bank of England for
the amount. He was to call for the bonds next day, of course, after the
check had gone through the Clearing House and had been paid.

As soon as the bank opened on Wednesday, in order to test if everything
was all right, Noyes sent in a messenger with a small check, and the
money was thrown out as at all other times without remark. And that was
a complete demonstration that everything was all right. So it was then,
but within thirty minutes from that second the messenger was going to
start with the bill to Blydenstein's for correction.

This was 10 o'clock Wednesday. The bills had been twenty-five hours in
the possession of the bank, had been discounted and the proceeds placed
to my credit for twenty-four hours.

Who with intellect less than an archangel's could have divined the true
combination? First of all, that men brilliant and clever, gambling with
their lives, could have made such an omission, damning, fatal. Second,
if made, that the great Bank of England, thought absolutely infallible
by the whole world, conservative, supposedly cautious, would have
discounted a bill for £20,00 with the date out of the acceptance, and
having done so, hold the bill well on into the second day, without a
discovery, and that, too, when the firm whose acceptance was a forgery
was not 100 yards away! So when at 10 o'clock on Wednesday Mac saw the
small check paid without question to the messenger it seemed he had an
assurance doubly sure and a bond of fate that all was well, and that the
last batch of bills was packed safely away for another three months in
the vaults of the bank.

So Noyes went at once to Jay Cooke & Co., and as the check had been paid
at the bank they handed over, as in so many other occasions, the
$100,000 in bonds to him.

Mac and George were outside. George took the bonds and gave Noyes a
£10,000 check, and one minute from his leaving Jay Cooke & Co., Noyes
was at the counter of the bank. The cashier counted out the $50,000 to
him. He walked out of the bank with a lighter heart and more buoyant
step than ever before, for was not the danger all over and the long
strain on the nerves at an end, the transaction complete and fortune
won? He was never going to the bank again.

They had arranged to meet at Garraway's Coffee House in Exchange alley.
This is the Garraway's that became so famous at the time of the South
Sea Bubble, and its fame continued down to the end of the wars of
Napoleon. Then its glory departed as a centre of speculations, but its
renown as an old-fashioned chophouse remained till 1873. Everywhere in
contemporary English literature, from Swift and Addison to Goldsmith and
Johnson, one meets references to Garraway's.

The Dean immortalized it in his well-known lines on 'Change Alley:

  "There is a gulf where thousands fell,
    Here all the bold adventurers came,
  A narrow sound, though deep as hell,
    'Change Alley is the dreadful name.

  "Subscribers here by thousands float
    And jostle one another down.
  Each paddling in his leaky boat,
    And here they fish for gold and drown.

  "Meantime secure on Garraway's cliffs
    A savage race by shipwreck fed,
  Lie waiting for the foundered skiffs
    And strip the bodies of the dead."

Dickens also makes it the scene of the writing of the famous chops and
tomato sauce letter from Mr. Pickwick to Mrs. Bardell.

One can imagine the elation of my friends as they sat around that little
table at Garraway's. It was only 10:35. Their income that morning had
been $150,000. And many more such days had gone before. All danger was
over, wealth was won. They saw themselves back in America, among the
Four Hundred, possessors of a fortune, however wrongfully obtained, yet
obtained in a way that would leave behind no ruined widows and orphans
to linger out the remainder of their blighted lives in poverty and
misery. That was a point which added zest to their enjoyment of the
prospect.

"I am never to go to the bank again. Come, shake hands on that," said
Noyes. And in their excitement and wild delight they shook hands again
and again.

But they would have moderated their joy had they known that at the very
moment the bank porter, pale and frightened, was rushing past the room
where they sat, carrying the news to the bank that the two-thousand
pound bill was a forgery. Instantly all was confusion and excitement in
the bank. Telegrams were at once sent to the detective police, and at
that moment swarms of them were pouring out of the Bow street and
Scotland Yard offices.

That already stories of gigantic frauds, multiplied a thousand fold by
rumor, were flying everywhere that every bank in London was victimized.
In ten minutes the story reached the Stock Exchange and a scene of
terrific excitement ensued, and, through it all, our three innocents sat
on in that dingy old coffee-house, serenely unconscious of the fearful
storm that was rising. Still they were safe. Everything was confusion in
the bank. The terrified official, frantic with fear, could only describe
a tall young man, an American, who said his name was Warren.

Had my three triumphant friends only known what was up they might have
sat where they were the day through and drank porter out of the pewter
mugs in safety. There were a hundred thousand men in London who would
answer any description the bank could have given of Noyes, Mac and
George had never appeared in the transaction, and I, the F. Will the
Tribunes make up your losses to you? They will give you words as many as
you please; bring impeachments in abundance against the prime men
in the State; heap laws upon laws; assemblies you shall have without
end; but will any of you return the richer from these assemblies?

Extinguish, O Romans, these fatal divisions; generously break this
cursed enchantment, which keeps you buried in a scandalous inaction. Open
your eyes and consider the management of those ambitious men, who, to
make themselves powerful in their party, study nothing but how
they may foment divisions in the commonwealth.

CXL.

THE BOSTON MASSACRE.

Tell me, ye bloody butchers! ye villains high and low! ye wretches who
contrived, as well as you who executed, the inhuman deed! do you not
feel the goads and stings of conscious guilt pierce through your savage
bosoms?
Though some of you may think yourselves exalted to such a height that
bids defiance to the arms of human justice, and others shroud
yourselves beneath the mask of hypocrisy, and build your hopes of safety
on the low arts of cunning, chicanery, and falsehood; yet do you
not sometimes feel the gnawings of that worm which never dies?

Do not the injured shades of Maverick, Gray, Caldwell, Attucks, and
Carr, attend you in your solitary walks, arrest you even in the
midst of your debaucheries, and fill even your dreams with terror?

Ye dark, designing knaves! ye murderers! parricides! how dare you
tread upon the earth which has drank in the blood of slaughtered innocents,
shed by your wicked hands? How dare you breathe that air which
wafted to the ear of Heaven the groans of those who fell a sacrifice
to your accursed ambition? But, if the laboring earth does not expand
her jaws; if the air you breathe is not commissioned to be the minister
of death; yet hear it, and tremble! the eye of Heaven penetrates
the darkest chambers of the soul; traces the leading clew through
all the labyrinths which your industrious folly has devised; and
you, however you may have screened yourselves from human eyes, must be
arraigned, must lift your hands, red with the blood of those whose
deaths you have procured, at the tremendous bar of God.
John Hancock.

CXLI.

ENTERPRISE OF NEW ENGLAND.

As to the wealth, Mr. Speaker, which the colonies have drawn from the
sea by their fisheries, you had all that matter fully opened at your bar.
You surely thought those acquisitions of value; for they seemed even to
excite your envy; and yet the spirit by which that enterprising
employment has been exercised, ought rather, in my opinion, to have
raised your esteem and admiration. And pray, sir, what in the world is
equal to it? Pass by the other parts, and look at the manner in which
the people of New England have of late carried on the whale fishery.
Whilst we follow them among the tumbling mountains of ice, and behold
them penetrating into the deepest frozen recesses of Hudson's Bay and
Davis's Straits, whilst we are looking for them beneath the arctic circle,
we hear that they have pierced into the opposite region of polar cold,
that they are at the antipodes, and engaged under the frozen serpent
of the south. Falkland island, which seemed too remote and romantic
an object for the grasp of national ambition, is but a stage and
resting-place in the progress of their victorious industry.

Nor is the equinoctial heat more discouraging to them than the accumulated
winter of both the poles. We know that whilst some of them draw
the line and strike the harpoon on the coast of Africa, others run the
longitude, and pursue their gigantic game along the coast of Brazil.
No sea but what is vexed by their fisheries. No climate that is not
witness to their toils.
Neither the perseverance of Holland, nor the activity of France,
nor the dexterous and firm sagacity of English enterprise, ever
carried this most perilous mode of hardy industry to the extent to
which it has been pushed by this recent people; a people who are
still, as it were, but in the gristle, and not yet hardened into
the bone of manhood.

When I contemplate these things; when I know that the
colonies in general owe little or nothing to any care of ours, and
that they are not squeezed into this happy form by the constrains
of watchful and suspicious government, but that through a wise and
salutary neglect, a generous nature has been suffered to take her
own way to perfection; when I reflect upon these effects, when I
see how profitable they have been to us, I feel all the pride of
power sink, and all presumption in the wisdom of human contrivances
melt and die away within me.

My rigor relents. I pardon something to the spirit of liberty.
E. Burke.

CXLII.

THE RIGHT OF ENGLAND TO TAX AMERICA.

But Mr. Speaker, "we have a right to tax America." Oh, inestimable
right!
Oh, wonderful, transcendent right!

the assertion of which has cost this country thirteen provinces, six
islands, one hundred thousand lives, and seventy millions of money. Oh,
invaluable right! for the sake of which we have sacrificed our rank among
nations, our importance abroad, and our happiness at home! Oh, right!
more dear to us than our existence, which has already cost us so much,
and which seems likely to cost us our all.
Infatuated man! Miserable and undone country!

not to know that the claim of right, without the power of enforcing it,
is nugatory and idle.

We have a right to tax America, the noble lord tells us therefore
we ought to tax America.

This is the profound logic which comprises the whole chain of his
reasoning.

Not inferior to this was the wisdom of him who resolved to shear the
wolf.
What, shear a wolf! Have you considered the resistance, the difficulty,
the danger of the attempt? No, says the madman, I have considered
nothing but the right. Man has a right of dominion over the beasts of
the forest; and therefore I will shear the wolf.

How wonderful that a nation could be thus deluded! But the noble lord deals
in cheats and delusions. They are the daily traffic of his invention;
and he will continue to play to his cheats on this House, so long
as he thinks them necessary to his purpose, and so long as he has
money enough at command to bribe gentlemen to pretend that they
believe him.

But a black and bitter day of reckoning will surely come; and whenever
that day comes, I trust I shall be able, by a parliamentary impeachment,
to bring upon the heads of the authors of our calamities the punishment
they deserve.
E. Burke.

CXLIII.

DESCRIPTION OF JUNIUS.

Sir,--How comes this Junius to have broken through the cobwebs of the
law, and to range uncontrolled, unpunished, through the land? The myrmidons
of the court have been long, and are still pursuing him in vain. They
will not spend their time upon me, or you, or you. No! they disdain
such vermin, when the mighty boar of the forest, that has broken
through all their toils, is before them. But what will all their efforts
avail? No sooner has he wounded one than he lays down another dead
at his feet.

For my part, when I saw his attack upon the king, I own my blood ran
cold. I thought he had ventured too far, and there was an end of his
triumphs. Not that he had not asserted many truths:--Yes, sir, there are
in that composition many bold truths, by which a wise prince might profit.
It was the rancor and venom, with which I was struck. In these aspects
the North-Briton is as much inferior to him, as in strength, wit, and
judgment.

But while I expected, in this daring flight, his final ruin and
fall, behold him rising still higher, and coming down souse upon
both Houses of Parliament.

Yes, he did make you his quarry, and you still bleed from the wounds of
his talons. You crouched, and still crouch, beneath his rage. Nor
has he dreaded the terrors of your brow, sir; he has attacked even
you--he has--and I believe you have no reason to triumph in the encounter.
In short, after carrying away our royal eagle in his pounces, and dashing
him against a rock, he has laid you prostrate. King, lords and commons,
are but the sport of his fury.

Were he a member of this House, what might not be expected from his
knowledge, his firmness, and integrity? He would be easily known by his
contempt of all danger, by his penetration, by his vigor. Nothing would
escape his vigilance and activity. Bad ministers could conceal nothing
from his sagacity; nor could promises nor threats induce him to conceal
anything from the public.
E. Burke.

CXLIV.

TRUE STATESMANSHIP.

The true lawgiver ought to have a heart full of sensibility. He ought to
love and respect his kind, and to fear himself. It may be allowed to
his temperament to catchy his ultimate object with an intuitive glance,
but his movements toward it ought to be deliberate.

Political arrangement, as it is a work for social ends, is to be wrought
only by social means. There mind must conspire with mind. Time is required
to produce all the good we aim at. Our patience will achieve more than
our force. If I might venture to appeal to what is so much out of fashion
in Paris, I mean to experience, I should tell you that in my course I
have known, and, according to my measure, have coöperated with great
men; and I have never yet seen any plan which has not been mended by
the observations of those who were much inferior in understanding to
the person who took the lead in business. By a slow but well-sustained
progress the effect of each step is watched; the good or ill success
of the first gives light to us in the second; and so, from light
to light, we are conducted with safety through the whole series.

We see that the parts of the system do not clash. The evils latent in the
most promising contrivances are provided for as they arise. One advantage
is as little as possible sacrificed to another. We compensate, we reconcile,
we balance. We are enabled to unite into a consistent whole the various
anomalies and contending principles that are found in the minds and
affairs of men. From hence arises not an excellence in simplicity but
one far superior, an excellence in composition. Where the great
interests of mankind are concerned through a long succession of
generations, that succession ought to be admitted into some share in
the councils which are so deeply to affect them. If justice requires
this, the work itself requires the aid of more minds than one age can
furnish. It is from this view of things that the best legislators have
been often satisfied with the establishment of some sure, solid,
and ruling principle in government; a power like to that which some
of the philosophers have called a plastic nature; and having fixed the
principle, they have left it afterward to its own operation.
E. Burke.

CXLV.

THE QUEEN OF FRANCE AND THE SPIRIT OF CHIVALRY.

I hear, and I rejoice to hear, that the great lady, the other object of
the triumph, has borne that day (one is interested that beings made for
suffering should suffer well), and that she bears all the succeeding
days--that she bears the imprisonment of her husband, and her own
captivity, and the exile of her friends, and the insulting adulation
of addresses, and the whole weight of her accumulated wrongs, with
a serene patience, in a manner suited to her rank and race and
becoming the offspring of a sovereign distinguished for her piety
and her courage; that, like her, she has lofty sentiments; that she
feels with the dignity of a Roman matron; that in the last extremity
she will save herself; and that, if she must fall, she will fall
by no ignoble hand.

It is now sixteen or seventeen years since I saw the Queen of France,
then the dauphiness, at Versailles; and surely never lighted on this
orb, which she hardly seemed to touch, a more delightful vision. I saw
her just above the horizon, decorating and cheering the elevated sphere
she just began to move in, glittering like the morning star full of life
and splendor and joy. Oh! what a revolution! and what a heart must I
have, to contemplate, without emotion, that elevation and that fall!
Little did I dream, when she added titles of veneration to those of
enthusiastic, distant, respectful love, that she should ever be
obliged to carry the sharp antidote against disgrace concealed in
that bosom; little did I dream that I should have lived to see such
disasters fallen upon her in a nation of gallant men, in a nation
of men of honor and of cavaliers.

I thought ten thousand swords must have leaped from their scabbards
to avenge even a look that threatened her with insult? But the age of
chivalry is gone; that of sophisters, economists and calculators has
succeeded; and the glory of Europe is extinguished forever.
Never, never more shall we behold that generous loyalty to rank
and sex, that proud submission, that dignified obedience, that subordination
of the heart, which kept alive, even in servitude itself the spirit of
an exalted freedom.

The unbought grace of life, the cheap defence of nations, the nurse
of manly sentiment and heroic enterprise is gone!

It is gone, that sensibility of principle, that chastity of honor, which
felt a stain like a wound, which inspired courage while it mitigated
ferocity, which ennobled whatever it touched, and under which vice
itself lost half its evil by losing all its grossness.
E. Burke.

CXLVI.

PERORATION OF OPENING SPEECH AGAINST HASTINGS.

In the name of the Commons of England, I charge all this villany upon
Warren Hastings, in this last moment of my application to you.

  My Lords, what is it that we want here to a great
  act of national justice?

Do we want a cause, my Lords? You care the cause of oppressed
princes, of undone women of the first rank, of desolated provinces, and
of wasted kingdoms.

Do you want a criminal, my Lords? When was there so much iniquity
ever laid to the charge of any one? No, my Lords, you must not look to
punish any other such delinquent from India. Warren Hastings has not
left substance enough in India to nourish such another delinquent.

My Lords, is it a prosecutor you want? You have before you the Commons
of Great Britain as prosecutors; and I believe my Lords, that the sun,
in his beneficent progress round the world, does not behold a more
glorious sight than that of men, separated from a remote people by
the material bounds and barriers of nature, united by the bond of a
social and moral community--all the Commons of England resenting,
as their own, the indignities and cruelties, that are offered to all the
people of India.

Do we want a tribunal?

My Lords, no example of antiquity, nothing in the modern world, nothing
in the range of human imagination, can supply us with a tribunal like
this. My Lords, here we see virtually, in the mind's eye, that sacred
majesty of the Crown, under whose authority you sit and whose power you
exercise.

We have here all the branches of the royal family, in a situation
between majesty and subjection, between the sovereign and the subject--offering
a pledge, in that situation, for the support of the rights of the Crown
and the liberties of the people, both which extremities they touch.

My Lords, we have a great hereditary peerage here; those who have their
own honor, the honor of their ancestors, and of their posterity, to
guard, and who will justify as they always have justified, that provision
in the Constitution by which justice is made an hereditary office.

My Lords, we have here a new nobility, who have risen, and exalted
themselves by various merits, by great civil and military services, which
have extended the fame of this country from the rising to the setting
sun.

My Lords, you have here, also, the lights of our religion; you have the
bishops of England.

My Lords, you have that true image of the primitive Church in its ancient
form, in its ancient ordinances, purified from the superstitions and
the vices which a long succession of ages will bring upon the best
institutions.

My Lords, these are the securities which we have in all the constituent
parts of the body of this House. We know them, we reckon, we rest
upon them, and commit safely the interests of India and of humanity into
your hands. Therefore, it is with confidence, that, ordered by the Commons,

I impeach Warren Hastings, Esquire, of high crimes and misdemeanors,

I impeach him in the name of the Commons of Great Britain, in Parliament
assembled, whose parliamentary trust he has betrayed.

I impeach him in the name of all the Commons of Great Britain, whose
national character he has dishonored.

I impeach him in the name of the people of India, whose laws, rights,
and liberties he has subverted, whose property he has destroyed,
whose country he has laid waste and desolate.

I impeach him in the name, and by virtue of those eternal laws of Justice
which he has violated.

I impeach him in the name of human nature itself, which he has cruelly
outraged, injured and oppressed, in both sexes, in every age, rank,
situation and condition of life.
E. Burke.

CXLVII.

PERORATION OF CLOSING SPEECH AGAINST HASTINGS.

My Lords, at this awful close, in the name of the Commons, and surrounded
by them, I attest the retiring, I attest the advancing generations
between which, as a link in the great chain of eternal order, we
stand.

--We call this Nation, we call the world to witness, that the Commons
have shrunk from no labor; that we have been guilty of no prevarication,
that we have made no compromise with crime; that we have not feared any
odium whatsoever, in the long warfare which we have carried on with the
crimes--with the vices--with the exorbitant wealth--with the enormous
and overpowering influence of Eastern corruption.

My Lords, your House yet stands; it stands as a great edifice; but let me
say, that it stands in ruins that have been made by the greatest
moral earthquake that ever convulsed and shattered this globe of
ours.

My Lords, it has pleased Providence to place us in such a state that we
appear every moment to be on the verge of some great mutations. There
is one thing, and one thing only, which defies all mutation; that
which existed before the world, and will survive the fabric of the
world itself,--I mean justice; that justice which, emanating from
the Divinity, has a place in the breast of every one of us, given
us for our guide in regard to ourselves, and with regard to others,
and which will stand, after this globe is burned to ashes, our
advocate or our accuser before the great Judge, when He comes to
call upon us for the tenor of a well-spent life.

My Lords, the Commons will share in every fate with yon? Lordships; there
is nothing sinister which can happen to you, in which we shall not
be involved; and, if it should so happen, that we shall be subjected to
some of those frightful changes which we have seen; if it should happen
that your Lordships, stripped of all the decorous distinctions of
human society, should, by hands at once base and cruel, be led to those
scaffolds and machines of murder upon which great kings and glorious
queens have shed their blood, amidst the prelates, amidst the nobles,
amidst the magistrates, who supported their thrones,--may you in those
moments feel that consolation which I am persuaded they felt in the
critical moments of their dreadful agony!

My Lords, there is a consolation, and a great consolation it is, which
often happens to oppressed virtue and fallen dignity; it often
happens that the very oppressors and persecutors themselves are
forced to bear testimony in its favor.

The Parliament of Paris had an origin very, very similar to that of the
great court before which I stand; the Parliament of Paris continued
to have a great resemblance to it in its Constitution, even to its
fall; the Parliament of Paris, my Lords,--was; it is gone!

It has passed away; it has vanished like a dream! It fell pierced by the
sword of the Compte de Mirabeau. And yet that man, at the time of his
inflicting the death-wound of that Parliament, produced at once the
shortest and the grandest funeral oration that ever was or could be
made upon the departure of a great court of magistracy. When he pronounced
the death sentence upon that Parliament, and inflicted the mortal
wound, he declared that his motives for doing it were merely
political, and that their hands were as pure as those of justice
itself, which they administered--a great and glorious exit, my
Lords, of a great and glorious body!

My Lords, if you must fall, may you so fall! But, if you stand, and
stand I trust you will, together with the fortunes of this ancient
monarchy--together with the ancient laws and liberties of this great and
illustrious kingdom, may you stand as unimpeached in honor as in
power; may you stand, not as a substitute for virtue, but as an ornament
of virtue, as a security for virtue; may you stand long, and long stand
the terror of tyrants; may you stand the refuge of afflicted
Nations; may you stand a sacred temple, for the perpetual residence
of an inviolable justice!

E. Burke.

CXLVIII.

THE CRISIS OF THE NATION.

Lay hold on this opportunity of our salvation, Conscript Fathers,--by the
Immortal Gods I conjure you!--and remember that you are the foremost
men here, in the council chamber of the whole earth.

Give one sign to the Roman people that even as now they pledge their
valor--so you pledge your wisdom to the crisis of the State.

But what need that I exhort you?

Is there one so insensate as not to understand that if we sleep
over an occasion such as this, it is ours to bow our necks to a
tyranny not proud and cruel only, but ignominious--but sinful?

Do ye not know this Antony?

Do ye not know his companions? Do ye not know his whole
house--insolent--impure--gamesters--drunkards?

To be slaves to such as he, to such as these, were it not the fullest
measure of misery conjoined with the fullest measure of disgrace? If
it be so--may the gods avert the omen--that the supreme hour of
the republic has come, let us, the rulers of the world, rather fall with
honor, than serve with infamy! Born to glory and to liberty, let us
hold these bright distinctions fast, or let us greatly die! Be it, Romans,
our first resolve to strike down the tyrant and the tyranny. Be it our
second to endure all things for the honor and liberty of our country.
To submit to infamy for the love of life can never come within the
contemplation of a Roman soul! For you, the people of Rome--you whom the
gods have appointed to rule the world--for you to own a master,
is impious.
You are in the last crisis of nations. To be free or to be slaves--that
is the question of the hour. By every obligation of man or States
it behooves you in this extremity to conquer-as your devotion to
the gods and your concord among yourselves encourage you to hope--or
to bear all things but slavery. Other nations may bend to servitude;
the birthright and the distinction of the people of Rome is
liberty.
Cicero.

CXLIX.

EXTRACT FROM DEMOSTHENES.
Yes, Athenians, I repeat it, you yourselves are the contrivers of
your own ruin. Lives there a man who has confidence enough to deny
it? Let him arise, and assign, if he can, any other cause of the
success and prosperity of Philip. "But," you reply, "what Athens
may have lost in reputation abroad, she has gained in splendor at
home. Was there ever a greater appearance of prosperity? a greater
face of plenty?The car
doors were all locked, but on showing my ticket to a guard (conductor)
he let me into a compartment, no doubt supposing that I had obtained
admission to the station from the waiting-room and had been loitering
about. The same was probably the case with the two or three other men
looking out of the waiting-room window at the platform, whom I judged to
be detectives. The train rolled out of the station, and soon I was
leaving London behind at the rate of fifty miles an hour. After midnight
we took the steamer at Holyhead and arrived at Dublin about 7 a.m. I
should not have felt so comfortable throughout this night's journey had
I known that the telegraph was flashing in all directions five thousand
pounds reward for my capture.

"A whole column regarding myself and my supposed movements was published
in the Dublin papers of that morning. Not suspecting they contained
'news' regarding me, I neglected purchasing one, and, remaining ignorant
of my imminent danger, took the train for Cork, where I arrived about 4
p.m. I had two or three London papers of the previous day in my hand as
I left the station. I had never been in Cork until then, and as I passed
into the street two detectives, who were watching the passengers, turned
and followed me. A few yards from the station one of them stepped up by
my side and said:

"'Have you ever been here before?'

"I slightly turned my head toward him, gave a haughty glance as I
replied: 'Yes,' then looked straight ahead and continued my slow gait,
paying no further attention to him. He continued walking by my side for
a few steps, as if irresolute, then dropped to the rear, rejoining his
companion. I did not dare to look around or make inquiry as to the
location of the wharf from which the tugboat started to convey mail and
passengers to the New York steamers, which waited in the outer harbor.
Therefore I continued my walk along what appeared to be the main
business street, perhaps for a quarter of a mile, then turned into a
druggist's and called for some Spanish licorice. This was done to enable
me to ascertain if the detectives were still following. In a moment they
passed the shop gazing intently in and saw me leaning carelessly against
the counter with my face partially turned to the street. As soon as I
had paid for the licorice I continued my walk in the same direction, but
saw nothing of the men, they having evidently stopped in some place to
let me get ahead once more. In a short time I approached an inclosure
over the gate of which was a sign that informed me I had come by
accident direct to the wharf of the New York steamers. Entering I found
the place crowded and the tugboat ready to convey the passengers to the
steamer Atlantic. Before attempting to step aboard the tug I took a
covert look around and saw my two detectives standing back in one corner
with their eyes fixed upon me, all but their heads being concealed
behind the crowd waiting to see their friends off for America.
Apparently unconscious of their presence, I threw my papers, one by one,
down among the passengers; and as the deck of the boat was eight or ten
feet below, the detectives could not see to whom they were thrown. I
stood leaning on the rail a short time gazing at the scene, then left
the wharf not even glancing in the direction of the detectives. I felt
that any attempt of mine to embark would precipitate their movements,
therefore I at once abandoned all ideas of taking passage from
Queenstown.

"Now mark the irony of fate! That was the last passage ever made by the
magnificent steamer Atlantic! Some magnetic influence deranged her
compass so that she ran twenty miles out of her course, striking on the
coast of Nova Scotia, at Meager's Head, Prospect Harbor, broke in two,
then rolling into deep water sank in a few minutes. Out of 1,002 persons
on board 560 perished, including most of the saloon passengers and all
the women and children. The elegant cabins and staterooms became their
tombs--and one might have been mine. But not for me such favoring fate;
a moment's struggle ended their sufferings, while I was left to undergo
the pangs of a thousand deaths!

[Illustration: A CORRIDOR OF THE TOMBS, NEW YORK.]

"I continued my walk up a hill among the private residences of the city,
and, hailing a cab, told the driver to take me back to the station.
Eager for a job, he asked to drive me a mile beyond on the railway.
Thinking I might elude the detectives at the Queenstown station, I
acceded, and he made his little Irish horse rush along at a pace
which brought us to the stopping place just before the train arrived.

[Illustration: INTERIOR OF AN ENGLISH CONVICT PRISON.]

"I purchased a ticket and hastened into a carriage, where, lo and
behold! sat the two detectives. A few minutes brought us to Cork again.
I was not yet aware they were in possession of my right name and the
knowledge that a reward of £5,000 was offered for my capture, nor that
their hesitation was occasioned by doubts as to my identity, which the
first false step on my part might remove. I did not suppose they were
looking especially for me, but for any one in general whose actions and
appearance might indicate that he was one of the operators in the bank
forgery. Under this erroneous belief I crossed to the Dublin station,
which was a quarter of a mile from that of the Cork and Queenstown. As I
entered the waiting room I saw my two detectives standing at the other
side. 'Well,' I thought to myself, 'this is very strange; I left the
Queenstown station ahead of them and here they are again, all alive!' I
walked away into the most thronged streets of the business part of the
city; turning a corner I glanced backward and saw them following at some
distance in the rear. As soon as I had fairly turned the corner I
started at a fast walk, turning the next before they came in view, and
after three or four such turnings I went into a small temperance hotel
and took lodgings for the night. There was but a single commercial
traveler in the sitting room--a special room set apart in every English
hotel, sacred to the 'drummer' fraternity. In the course of the evening
he handed me a small railway map of Ireland, which, in my subsequent
flight through the country, proved of incalculable service to me.

"The next morning I went out and purchased a handbag, a Scotch cap and a
cheap frieze ulster. My night's cogitations had not enabled me to solve
the detective problem, but I felt confident that something was decidedly
wrong. I then hired a covered cab, driving past the postoffice to
recoinnoitre, and saw one of the detectives standing in the doorway.
This sight deterred me from going in to ask for a letter. Dismissing my
cab, I took another and drove to the place where I had made my
purchases, taking them into the cab and going through a by-street which
brought me close to my hotel.

"From the commercial room in the second floor front I looked out and
marked the farthest house I could see to the left on the opposite side.
Stepping to the desk I wrote an order directing the postmaster to
deliver any letters to my address to the bearer. This I gave to a
cabman, instructing him to drive to the postoffice and bring my mail to
the house I had marked, returning myself to the commercial room to
watch. In a few minutes I saw the cabman drive to the house, and seeing
no one waiting there, he turned and drove slowly down the street past
the hotel, holding up at arm's length a letter to attract my
notice--which it did to my two detectives walking along a short distance
behind him, on the hotel side of the street, with noses elevated and
eyes peering everywhere.

"'Well,' I thought, 'this is getting to be hot, and it is time for me to
leave Cork.' I was now fully aroused to a sense of my danger. No one
happening to be in the commercial room for the moment, I left my hat on
the sofa, and wearing the Scotch cap, slipped downstairs just as they
were past the hotel, following them until I came to where the cab was
waiting with my luggage. I ordered the driver to take me to a canal-boat
wharf, where I dismissed him; then, with bag in hand, I walked across
the canal bridge, stopped in a small shop and hired a smaller boy to go
for a jaunting car, and a few minutes later I was rolling to the
northward.

"On the road I threw some small coins to poor-looking people, who then,
as now, comprised among their numbers the most honest patriots and the
truest-hearted sons of Erin.

"Seeing me throwing the pence to the poor folk, cabby took it into his
head that I must be a priest--a good criterion of the estimation in
which the benevolence of the fathers is held by their own people. And I
may here remark that all the Catholic priests I have known, occupying
the post of chaplain, were without exception faithful and entirely
devoted to the duties of their holy calling. I had no intention of
traveling as a priest, and when I told the driver as much he would not
believe it, but insisted that I was really a priest traveling incognito;
therefore, when we stopped at a small wayside tavern, about twelve miles
from Cork and two to Fermoy, he privately informed the mistress that I
was a priest who did not want the fact to become known. Accordingly the
good woman treated me with marked attention during my short stay. It was
then nearly sunset, and as I did not wish the cabman to get back to Cork
until late at night, I kept him eating and drinking until dark, when I
paid the bill and started him homeward, uproariously rejoicing. I then
started for Fermoy station, about two miles distant, taking the hostler
along to carry my bag. When within half a mile of the village I let him
return. While passing through the village I went into a shop and
purchased a different Scotch cap, the 'Glengarry.'

"Arriving at the station, I noticed a man near the ticket office who
appeared to be watching those who were purchasing tickets. This made me
change my plan--instead of taking a ticket to Dublin, I bought one for
Lismore, the end of the road in the opposite direction. The exclamation,
'Well, are you going to stay all night?' was the first intimation I had
of our arrival at that place. I rubbed my sleepy eyes, and saw with
dismay that all the passengers were gone and one of the porters was
putting out the lights. At the platform I found a cab, and by 9 p.m. I
was at the Lismore House. After eating supper I entered the sitting
room, finding a single occupant whom I took to be a lawyer, and judging
by his conversation and manner, in the light of later events, I do not
doubt that he surmised who I was. He was reading a newspaper, which he
once or twice offered to me; but, not dreaming of the interesting nature
of its contents, I declined to take it from him. About 10 o'clock the
gentleman retired, leaving his paper on the table. I carelessly picked
it up, and the first thing that caught my eyes was a displayed heading
in large type, offering £5,000 reward for my arrest.

"A thunderbolt, indeed! For a few minutes I stared at the paper in blank
dismay. It was fortunate for my temporary safety that there were no
witnesses present. 'Well,' I thought to myself, 'this is a predicament!
How did they obtain any clue to me? I thought we had covered up the
whole affair so deep in mystery that not a clue to our personality could
ever be obtained!'

"I sat for an hour alone in this Lismore Hotel, utterly dumfounded,
bewildered, paralyzed. I had experienced some shocks, some 'take-downs,'
in my time, but never one to compare with this.

"Arousing myself from a state of mental stupefaction hitherto unknown, I
began to realize the necessity of immediate action if I wished to avoid
falling into the merciless jaws of the British lion. I put the paper
into the fire, and retired to the room allotted to me.

"Before daylight in the morning I had decided upon the first step, and
as the lawyer had asked me if I intended to remain over Sunday, I
resolved to be as far away as possible before he was out of bed. While
it was yet dark in the house, I left my bag in the bedroom and crept
gently down the stairs to the basement, where the porter-hostler was
sleeping in a box of rags. I suppose the poor wretch had not long
finished his multifarious duties, for I could arouse him only to a state
of semi-consciousness, and could get no information from him. I then
went up to the front door, carefully turned the key and stepped out on
the piazza which ran along the front of the hotel. Another shock was in
store for me. A man posted on the other side of the street was watching
the hotel!

"It was now quite light, and I sauntered carelessly up the street,
apparently taking no notice of the man over the way, and endeavoring to
show by my actions that I was out for an airing before breakfast.

"As I turned the next corner and glanced back, I saw him following. I
noticed a place where jaunting-cars were to be let, but passed on, at
each turn glancing back to see my follower the same distance in the
rear. I now took a circuit around by the hotel, but instead of going in
I hastened and turned the next corner beyond--he, when reaching the
corner near the hotel, not seeing me, doubtless thought I had gone in,
and planted himself in his old position. I thought Lismore to be getting
rather hot, and hastening to the livery stable, found the hostler just
getting up. He informed me that all the horses were engaged for the day
except one, the fastest they had, but as this was engaged for a long
journey on Tuesday, they were letting him have a rest. I said: 'But, my
good fellow, I must have a horse, and at once, with you to drive, and
there will be a half sovereign for a good Irishman, such as I see before
me.' My 'blarney' began to do its work. Scratching his head, he finally
said: 'Well, I will waken up my master, and you can talk with him.' So
he rapped at a window, and soon a night-capped head appeared, and after
some parley the master consented to let me have his equipage. In a few
minutes from the time I had lost sight of my follower we were rattling
out of the town of Lismore at the full speed of a blooded Irish horse. I
had left my bag behind, taking only the Scotch caps and ulster with me
from the hotel. I found, by reference to the small map and railway
guide, that Clonmel was less than thirty miles distant, and connected
with Dublin by a branch line. When I engaged the jaunting-car I had
told the owner that it was uncertain what part of the day I should
require it, and after we were about five miles from Lismore I said to
the driver:

"'You say that you are going to Clonmel on Tuesday for a passenger.
Well, now, as I must go there before I leave this part of the country,
you may as well continue in that direction, and I can return with you on
Tuesday.'

"This pleased him, and we drove on till about noon, when we stopped at a
country grocery about five miles from Clonmel. As we drove up to the
door, the words of an old Irish song went jingling through my brain:

  "'At the sign of the bell,
  On the road to Clonmel,
  Pat Flagherty kept a neat shebeen.'

"The rain poured down in torrents. I gave my driver a lunch of bread and
cheese, which--of course, there--included whisky. I also gave him a
sovereign, telling him to pay his master for the horse-hire and keep the
change for himself; then started him back, brimful of delight and the
'craythur,' receiving his parting salute:

"'Yer 'onor is a jintleman, and no mistake.'

"I arranged with the storekeeper to let a boy take me in his car to
Clonmel.

"The Green Isle! Well, I found out that day what keeps the grass green
in Ireland. My Irish frieze and every thread on me were water-logged,
yet the Irish lad, my driver, took the 'buckets-full' as a matter of
course. Amid this deluge of rain we arrived in Clonmel and stopped at a
'shebeen,' kept by the boy's uncle--driving into the back yard through a
gate in a board fence fifteen feet high, which shut it in from the
street.

[Illustration: "I AM JOHN CURTIN OF THE PINKERTON FORCE."--Page 332.]

"I went into a room in the rear of the sale room, the door of which
stood open so that I could see all that passed within, and, as I stood
drying my clothes by the turf fire, I saw how thirsty souls on the
'ould sod,' evaded the Sunday liquor law. The proprietor stood in the
shop in a position whence he could covertly keep an eye on the policeman
patrolling the street, and as soon as he was out of sight a signal was
given, the backyard gate thrown open, when a dozen men rushed in, and
the gate closed. Coming hilariously through the dwelling into the shop,
these were soon busily drinking their 'potheen.'

"It was now 2 o'clock p.m., the rain had ceased, and starting out, I
walked along a main street until I saw a sign 'cabs to let.' I went into
the house and was shown into an inner room, where the proprietress sat
crooning over a turf fire. She motioned me to a seat beside her, and
when I told her I wished for a conveyance to take me to Cahir, a place
eight miles distant, she asked me several questions, among others, how
long I wished to be gone, and if I were not an American. To all of which
I replied to the following effect: That I was going to visit some
friends who were officers stationed in the fort at Cahir; and as to her
mistaking me for an American, the ancestors of the 'Yankees' went from
about Norfolk County, England, to America, of course, taking the accent
with them, and I being from the former place, (Norfolk) of course had
the same accent.

"This explanation appeared to satisfy the old lady, and she became quite
confidential; and, anxious to remove from my mind any trace of offense
at her unusual questioning, she drew closer to me and said:

"I can see that you are all right; but the fact is that the captain of
police sent an order that I should notify him at once in case any
stranger wished to hire a vehicle, especially if I thought him an
American. But I do not care for the curs; they are nothing but a parcel
of spies and informers in the pay of the English Government; so even if
you were the one they are looking for they will wait a long time for me
to inform them, and you shall have my best horse and a good driver.'

"I heartily thanked the good old Irish lady--for I have found true
ladies and gentlemen among the poor and humble, as well as the wealthy,
especially in Ireland--and in a few minutes I was bowling gayly along
toward Cahir.

"This is a small, ancient, walled garrison town, the nearest railway
station being at Clonmel. This miniature city has been the scene of many
a heart-stirring event in the distant past. Here Cromwell was for a time
held at bay, and his fanatical hordes made their Celtic opponents pay in
blood for their patriotic and desperate defense of their homes and
firesides.

"Driving through the town gate, I saw in the main street a grocery store
with a blind down, and telling the driver to halt there, I paid him and
sent him back. I then went into the grocery, and after taking a lunch of
bread and cheese, continued my walk up the street. I saw a hotel just
ahead, but not wishing to attract attention to my movements, I crossed
to the opposite side, and while doing so glanced back and saw a car come
through the same town gate I had just entered, and dash furiously up the
street, pulling up at the walk a few yards behind me. Just as they
sprang out I turned to the left in a narrow lane in which I saw a
gateway to the fort, just within the entrance of which a sentry was
pacing, there being opposite several roofless cottages. The soldier's
back being turned, quick as thought I sprang unseen within one of these,
and in a moment I heard some men run around the corner and interrogate
the soldier, who stoutly declared that no one had entered. The men then
demanded to see the captain, were admitted, and after a short time I
heard them come out and depart. I stood in that ruin two mortal hours
until dusk, then walked out unseen by the sentry, and turning to the
left, came into a narrow street lined with small dwelling houses."


CHAPTER XXVI.

"EXCUSE ME, SIR, FOR QUESTIONING YOU."


"Crossing the narrow street in Cahir, referred to at the close of the
last chapter, I went in haphazard at the first door, without knocking,
and saw a family eating their humble supper. As I walked in I addressed
the family at the table thus:

"'Good evening. Pardon my intrusion, and do not disturb yourselves; but
by all means finish your supper.'

"'Good evening, sir,' was the reply from the man, whom I will call
Maloy. 'We are glad to see you; will you sit by and have pot-luck with
us?'

"'No, thank you,' I answered. 'I am an American--and it is my custom
when traveling in any country to make unceremonious calls like this, in
order to see the people as they really are at home.'

"After supper was over I related to Maloy and his family several stories
and incidents concerning the Fenians and their doings in America, which,
of course, interested them greatly. When it was fairly dark I arose to
go, and Maloy went outside with me. He had previously informed me that
he was employed by the government in the civil service. I will not state
in what capacity, for, although so many years have elapsed, the
true-hearted Irishman may still be earning his bread in the same humble
employment, and the knowledge that he assisted one whom he supposed to
be a Fenian leader in 1873 might even now cost him dearly. When we were
outside the door I said:

"'The fact is, Maloy, I am a Fenian leader, and the police are after me!
I have been dodging them for two days, and they are looking for me now
in Cahir! I have important papers for prominent Fenians in various parts
of Ireland, and it would delay our plans if I am obliged to destroy
them. But I fear I must do so at once unless you can help me. I would
almost sooner forfeit my life than to lose these papers, and I shall
fight to my last breath rather than let them fall into the hands of the
police, for it might be the ruin of several good men! My plan is to
double back to Clonmel, and I want your assistance to get me out of
Cahir!'

"'Oh, sir,' he replied, 'it is too bad you did not let me know a little
sooner, for the mail car is gone; it starts at 6 o'clock.'

"Just as he had finished speaking, a car came rumbling past and he
exclaimed joyfully:

"'We are in luck! There goes the mail car to the postoffice! Come with
me!'

"We hastened through a narrow, dark lane to the gate--the same I had
entered from Clonmel--walked through and at a hundred yards beyond
waited for the mail car, which soon came along. Maloy being well
acquainted with the driver, hailed him, saying that a friend of his
wanted a ride to Clonmel.

"After shaking hands warmly with Maloy, I climbed upon the car, and the
next instant I was whirling along--into fresh dangers--in that unique
vehicle, an Irish jaunting car.

"Arriving near Clonmel I saw a tavern, and ascertaining from the driver
that it was near the railway station, I left the car and entered the
place, only to find that the best, and, in fact, the sole food to be had
for supper was eggs. Having been on the move since dawn, after a
sleepless night, and almost without food, I hesitate to divulge how many
eggs I disposed of that evening, for the statement might tend to throw
distrust on the general veracity of my narrative. Having dried my wet
clothes and put myself into a presentable condition, I went to the
railway station to take the 11 p.m. train to Dublin. Seating myself on a
bench outside, I handed some money to a porter and sent him for a
ticket, which he obtained. There were but a few waiting about, so I
stepped into the small waiting room and sat down near three other men.
The one nearest, whom I at once put down for a local policeman in
private clothes, turned and spoke to me. I replied with civility to his
questions until finally he said: 'But are you not an American?' I
replied to his startling question in such a manner that he appeared
satisfied.

"'You must excuse me, sir, for questioning you,' he explained, 'but
there has been a great forgery in London, and it is said some of the
parties are in Ireland, and I am anxious to get a claim on the £5,000
that is offered for each one of them.'

"I told him that instead of being offended I was greatly pleased to see
the zeal he exhibited in the execution of his duties, and expressed the
hope that he might be successful in securing at least one of the
forgers, which would give him not only the £5,000, but undoubtedly
promotion. I got on the train all right, resolving that I would not
speak another word of English while in Ireland, and forthwith turned
into a Russian, who could speak 'une veree leetel Francais,' confident
that I should not be in danger of exposure by encounter with any one who
could speak the Russian language. I threw away the ordinary Scotch cap I
had been wearing, and put on the Glengarry. When I arrived at the
Maryborough junction, the train on the main line from Cork was late, and
I walked up and down on the platform, well knowing that the detectives
would scrutinize more closely those who appeared to shrink from
observation; therefore, I affected the bearing of a Russian prince as
nearly as I knew how.

"I got on the train unmolested, and arrived in Dublin at 1 a.m.

"There appeared to be some special watching of those leaving the train,
but I passed out unchallenged and took a cab. Not knowing the name of
any hotel, I told the driver I would direct the route as we passed
along, and he drove away at a great pace. Very soon I noticed another
cab following at an equal speed. I had mine turn a corner, but the one
behind came thundering after; and though I bade my driver to turn at
nearly every corner still I could not shake off my supposed pursuer
until, after apparently being followed about two miles, the stern chaser
turned off in another direction, much to my relief. We soon approached
the Cathedral Hotel, where I alighted about 2 a.m., rang up the porter,
and was shown to a room.

"At 7 o'clock in the morning I sent for my bill, left the hotel, went
direct to the 'Jew' quarters, and purchased a valise and some
second-hand clothes. Noticing the old Jewess' looks of curiosity at
seeing one of my appearance making such purchases, I remarked: 'A Fenian
friend has got himself into a scrape, and the police are after him; so I
am going to get him out of the country, and wish to let him have some
things that do not have too new a look.' At hearing those (in Ireland)
magic words, 'Fenian,' 'police,' she became all smiles, let me fill the
valise with old garments at my own price, and at starting said: 'God
bless you! May you have good luck, and get off safe to America!'

"I then went to a more pretentious locality, where I procured a silk hat
draped with mourning crape, put the Glengarry in my pocket, and became a
Frenchman. At this moment I discovered that I had left in my room at the
hotel a large silk neck-wrapper on which were embroidered my initials. I
immediately stepped into a shop and left my new purchases, resuming the
Scotch cap, and started for the hotel (where I had given no name), to
secure the dangerous article left behind. Coming in sight of the hotel,
I saw a man stationed opposite, leaning on a cane, who appeared to be
watching the house. As I approached nearer he kept his eyes covertly
fixed upon me; therefore, instead of entering the hotel, I walked past
it and turned the next corner, glancing backward as I did so, and, to my
dismay, saw the man following me. I now adopted the same plan of action
that succeeded so well at Cork, and in half an hour I had shaken him off
and returned to the place where I had left my new silk hat and valise.
Donning the hat, with valise in hand, I was soon seated in an Irish
jaunting car, on my way to a station about ten miles out on the railway
to Belfast.

"Upon reflection I was satisfied that the chambermaid had found the silk
wrapper and taken it to the hotel office. There the initials, together
with the knowledge of my arrival at so unusual an hour, without baggage,
and my early departure, had aroused suspicion, and the police had been
notified. At about 11 o'clock I arrived at the station, and going into a
store paid my Dublin cabman and called for lunch. About five minutes
before the train was due from Dublin I walked into the empty station,
presented myself at the ticket office, and said: 'Parlez vous Francais,
Monsieur?' and received the reply, 'No.' I then said in a mongrel of
French and English that I wished for a ticket to Drogheda--not daring to
purchase one through Belfast. Supposing me to be a French gentleman, he
was very polite and ordered the porter to take my baggage to the
platform. There I found myself the solitary waiting passenger. As the
train approached I saw a pair of heads projecting from the carriage
windows, eagerly scanning the platform. Two men jumped off, and,
hastening to the station master began to talk to him in an excited
manner, all the time glancing toward me. As I passed near the group to
get on the train, I heard the agent say: 'He is a Frenchman.' No doubt
he informed them that I had purchased a ticket to a way station only--a
fact that would naturally allay suspicion. At the next stopping place
they actually arrested a man, but went no further.

"I afterward ascertained that twelve men were arrested on that and the
preceding day, among the number being a fraudulent debtor trying to
escape by the same steamer, the Atlantic.

"The following extracts from contemporary newspapers will give the
reader some idea as to what a 'hot' place Ireland was for me:


                          "(By Cable to the New York Herald.)
                                                     "London.

     "Three shabbily dressed men, who, from their accent, are believed
     to be Americans, were arrested in Cork, Ireland, this morning while
     attempting to deposit $12,000 in that city.

     "They are supposed to be the parties who recently committed the
     frauds on the Bank of England."

                       "(From the London Times of same date.)

                                         "To Editor of Times.

     "Sir: The case of Dr. Hessel has been so lately before the public,
     and so much has been written both in the English and German papers
     against the English police, that probably a little evidence upon
     the procedure of the German (or, I ought probably to say, the
     Bavarian) may not be uninteresting at the present moment. Myself
     and son, a sub-lieutenant, R. N., made a great attempt to reach
     the grotesque old city of Nuremberg on Saturday last, arriving
     there about 7 o'clock. We were asked to put our names in the
     stranger's book, as usual, which we did, and retired to bed.
     Imagine our surprise, on rising on Sunday morning, at receiving a
     visit from one of the chief police officers, requesting us to
     'legitimize ourselves.' I asked him his object for making this
     demand, when he replied that a man named Warren was wanted by the
     English police.

     "In vain I showed him an old passport and letters addressed to me,
     showing that my name was Warner; he informed me that I could not
     leave my room, and placed two policemen at the door. At 1 o'clock
     I remembered an influential inhabitant of the town who knew me, and
     I sent for him. He at once went to headquarters and gave bond for
     me to a large amount, and at 6 o'clock in the evening myself and
     son were released. You will remember that in the case of Dr. Hessel
     four persons swore to his identity before he was deprived of his
     liberty. In my case a similar name to that required was sufficient
     to deprive me of mine.

     "I have since received, thanks to the strenuous and prompt action
     of the British Minister at Munich, a very ample apology in writing
     for the blunder that had been committed. It was signed by the
     Burgermeister of the city, and as the intelligence of this worthy
     seems to be equaled by his simplicity, he sends me a safe pass to
     protect me in my further travels, in case Warner should again be
     considered the same as Warren. I remain, sir, your obedient
     servant,

                                             "CHARLES W. C. WARNER,
                                  "Ex-Sheriff, London and Middlesex


"I now return to my narrative. In the second-class compartment where I
sat were two burly, loud-talking, well-informed farm proprietors, one of
whom had imbibed a little too freely of the native distillation. 
CX.

SUPPOSED SPEECH OF JOHN ADAMS IN FAVOR OF THE DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE.

Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, I give my hand and
my heart to this vote. It is true, indeed, that in the beginning, we
aimed not at independence. But there's a Divinity which shapes our
ends. The injustice of England has driven us to arms; and, blinded to her
own interest, for our good, she has obstinately persisted, till
independence is now within our grasp.

We have but to reach forth to it, and it is ours. Why, then, should we
defer the Declaration? Is any man so weak as now to hope for a
reconciliation with England, which shall leave either safety to the
country and its liberties, or safety to his own life, and his own honor?
Are not you, sir, who sit in that chair,--is not he, our venerable
colleague, near you, are you not both already the proscribed and predestined
objects of punishment and vengeance? Cut off from all hope of royal
clemency what are you, what can you be, while the power of England
remains, but outlaws?

If we postpone independence, do we mean to carry on, or to give up, the
war? Do we mean to submit to the measures of Parliament, Boston Port
Bill and all?

Do we mean to submit, and consent that we ourselves shall be ground to
powder, and our Country and its rights trodden down in the dust?
I know we do not mean to submit. We never shall submit. Do we intend
to violate that most solemn obligation ever entered into by men,
that plighting, before God, of our sacred honor to Washington, when
putting him forth to incur the dangers of war, as well as the political
hazards of the times, we promised to adhere to him, in every
extremity, with our fortunes and our lives?

I know there is not a man here, who would not rather see a general
conflagration sweep over the land, or an earthquake sink it, than one
jot or tittle of that plighted faith fall to the ground. For myself,
having, twelve months ago, in this place, moved you, that George Washington
be appointed commander of the forces, raised, or to be raised, for
the defence of American liberty, may my right hand forget her
cunning, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth if I hesitate
or waver in the support I give him.

The war, then, must go on. We must fight it through.

And, if the war must go on, why put off longer the Declaration
of Independence?

That measure will strengthen us; it will give us character abroad.
The nations will then treat with us, which they never can do while
we acknowledge ourselves subjects, in arms against our sovereign.

Nay, I maintain that England her self will sooner treat for peace with us
on the footing of independence, than consent, by repealing her acts, to
acknowledge that her whole conduct towards us has been a course of
injustice and oppression. Her pride will be less wounded, by submitting
to that course of things which now predestinates our independence than
by yielding the points in controversy to her rebellious subjects. The
former she would regard as the result of fortune; the latter she would
feel as her own deep disgrace. Why then, why then, sir, do we not
as soon as possible change this from a civil to a national war?

And since we must fight it through, why not put ourselves in a state
to enjoy all the benefits of victory if we gain the victory?
D. Webster.

CXI.

THE SAME CONCLUDED.

If we fail, it can be no worse for us. But we shall not fail. The cause
will raise up armies; the cause will create navies. The people, the
people, if we are true to them, will carry us and will carry themselves,
gloriously through this struggle. I care not how fickle other people
have been found.
I know the people of these Colonies, and I know that resistance to British
aggression is deep and settled in their hearts, and cannot be eradicated.

Every Colony, indeed, has expressed its willingness to follow, if we but
take the lead. Sir, the Declaration will inspire the people with increased
courage. Instead of a long and bloody war for restoration of privileges,
for redress of grievances, for chartered immunities, held under a British
king, set before them the glorious object of entire independence, and
it will breathe into them anew the breath of life. Read this Declaration
at the head of the army; every sword will be drawn from its scabbard,
and the solemn vow uttered, to maintain it, or to perish on the bed
of honor.
Publish it from the pulpit; religion will approve it, and the love
of religious liberty will cling round it, resolved to stand with
it, or fall with it.

Send it to the public halls; proclaim it there; let them hear it, who
heard the first roar of the enemy's cannon; let them see it, who saw their
brothers and their sons fall on the field of Bunker Hill, and in the
streets of Lexington and Concord, and the very walls will cry out in
its support.

Sir, I know the uncertainty of human affairs; but I see, I see dearly
through this day's business. You and I, indeed, may run it. We may
not live to the time when this Declaration shall be made good.
We may die; die colonists; die slaves; die, it may be, ignominiously
and on the scaffold.
Be it so. Be it so. If it be the pleasure of Heaven, that my country shall
require the poor offering of my life, the victim shall be ready at
the appointed hour of sacrifice, come when that hour may.

But, while I do live, let me have a country, or at least the hope of a
country, and that a free country.

But, whatever may be our fate, be assured, be assured, that this Declaration
will stand. It may cost treasure, and it may cost blood; but it will
stand, and it will richly compensate for both. Through the thick gloom
of the present, I see the brightness of the future, as the sun in heaven.

We shall make this a glorious, an immortal day. When we are in our graves,
our children will honor it. They will celebrate it, with thanksgiving,
with festivity, with bonfires, and illuminations. On its annual return,
they will shed tears, copious, gushing tears, not of subjection
and slavery, not of agony and distress, but of exultation, of
gratitude, and of joy.

Sir, before God, I believe the hour is come. My judgment approves this
measure, and my whole heart is in it. All that I have, and all that I
am, and all that I hope, in this life, I am now ready here to stake upon
it; and I leave off, as I begun, that, live or die, survive or perish,
I am for the Declaration. It is my living sentiment, and, by the
blessing of God, it shall be my dying sentiment,--Independence now; and
Independence Forever!
D. Webster.

CXII.

INFLUENCE OF THE CHARACTER OF WASHINGTON.

America has furnished to the world the character of Washington! And
if our American institutions had done nothing else, that alone would
have entitled them to the respect of mankind.

Washington! "First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts
of his countrymen!" Washington is all our own! The enthusiastic
veneration and regard in which the people of the United States hold him
prove them to be worthy of such a countryman; while his reputation
abroad redeems the highest honor on his country and its institutions. I
would cheerfully put the question to-day to the intelligence of Europe
and the world what character of the century, upon the whole, stands
out in the relief of history, most pure, most respectable, most sublime;
and I doubt not, that, by a suffrage approaching to unanimity, the answer
would be Washington!

The structure now standing before us, by its uprightness, its solidity,
its durability, is no unfit emblem of his character.

His public virtues and public principles were as firm as the earth on
which it stands; his personal motives, as pure as the serene heavens
in which its summit is lost. But, indeed, though a fit, it is an
inadequate emblem. Towering high above the column which our hands have
builded, beheld, not by the inhabitants of a single city or a single
State, but by all the families of man, ascends the colossal grandeur
of the character and life of Washington.

In all the constituents of the one, in all the acts of the other,
in all its titles to immortal love, admiration and renown, it is
an American production.

It is the embodiment and vindication of our Transatlantic liberty.

Born upon our soil of parents also born upon it; never for a moment
having had sight of the Old World; instructed, according to the
modes of his time, only in the spare, plain, but wholesome elementary
knowledge which our institutions provided for the children of the
people; growing up beneath and penetrated by the genuine influences
of American society; living from infancy to manhood and age amidst
our expanding, but not luxurious civilization; partaking in our
great destiny of labor, our long contest with unreclaimed nature
and uncivilized man, our agony of glory, the war of independence,
our great victory of peace, the formation of the Union, and the
establishment of the Constitution; he is all, all our own!

Washington is ours. That crowded and glorious life,
"Where multitudes of virtues passed along, Each pressing foremost, in
the mighty throng Ambitious to be seen, then making room For greater
multitudes that were to come,"--
that life was the life of an American citizen.

I claim him for America. In all the perils, in every darkened moment of
the State, in the midst of the reproaches of enemies and the
misgiving of friends, I turn to that transcendent name for courage
and for consolation.

To him who denies or doubts whether our fervid liberty can be combined
with law, with order, with the security of property, with the pursuits
and advancement of happiness; to him who denies that our forms of government
are capable of producing exaltation of soul, and the passion of
true glory; to him who denies that we have contributed anything to
the stock of great lessons and great examples; to all these I
reply by pointing to Washington!
D. Webster.

CXIII.

PUBLIC OPINION.

The time has been, indeed, when fleets, and armies, and subsidies,
were the principal reliances even in the best cause. But, happily for
mankind, a great change has taken place in this respect. Moral causes
come into consideration, in proportion as the progress of knowledge
is advanced; and the public opinion of the civilized world is rapidly
gaining an ascendeney over mere brutal force.

It is already able to oppose the most formidable obstruction to the
progress of injustice and oppression; and as it grows more
intelligent and more intense it will be more and more formidable. It may
be silenced by military power, but it cannot be conquered. It is
elastic, irrepressible, and invulnerable to the weapons of ordinary
warfare. It is that impassive, inextinguishable enemy of mere violence
and arbitrary rule, which, like Milton's angels,
"Vital in every part, . . . . .
Cannot, but by annihilating die."
Until this be propitiated or satisfied, it is vain for power to talk
either of triumphs or of repose.

No matter what fields are desolated, what fortresses surrendered, what
armies subdued, or what provinces overrun. In the history of the
year that has passed by us, and in the instance of unhappy Spain, we
have seen the vanity of all triumphs in a cause which violates the general
sense of justice of the civilized world.

It is nothing that the troops of France have passed from the Pyrenees to
Cadiz; it is nothing that an unhappy and prostrate nation has fallen
before them; it is nothing that arrests, and confiscation, and execution,
sweep away the little remnant of national resistance. There is an
enemy that still exists to check the glory of these triumphs. It follows
the conqueror back to the very scene of his ovations; it calls upon
him to take notice that Europe, though silent, is yet indignant; it
shows him that the sceptre of his victory is a barren sceptre; that it
shall confer neither joy nor honor, but shall moulder to dry ashes
in his grasp.

In the midst of his exultation, it pierces his ear with the cry of injured
Justice; it denounces against him the indignation of an enlightened and
civilized age; it turns to bitterness the cup of his rejoicing, and
wounds him with the sting which belongs to the consciousness of having
outraged the opinion of mankind.

D. Webster.

CXIV.

THE MURDERER'S SECRET.

The deed was executed with a degree of self-possession and steadiness,
equal to the wickedness with which it was planned. The circumstances,
now clearly in evidence, spread out the whole scene before us.

Deep sleep had fallen on the destined victim, and on all beneath his roof
A healthful old man, to whom sleep was sweet, the just sound slumbers
of the night held him in their soft but strong embrace. The assassin
enters, through the window already prepared, into an unoccupied apartment.
With noiseless foot he paces the lonely hall half-lighted by the moon;
he winds up the ascent of the stairs, and reaches the door of the chamber.
Of this, he moves the lock, by soft and continued pressure, till it turns
on its hinges without noise; and he enters, and beholds his victim before
him. The room was uncommonly open to the admission of light. The face
of the innocent sleeper was turned from the murderer, and the beams of
the moon, resting on the gray locks of his aged temple, showed him
where to strike. The fatal blow is given! and the victim passes, without
a struggle or a motion, from the repose of sleep to the repose of death!
It is the assassin's purpose to make sure work; and he plies the
dagger, though it is obvious that life has been destroyed by the blow
of the bludgeon. He even raises the aged arm, that he may not fail in
his aim at the heart, and replaces it again over the wounds of the
poniard. To finish the picture, he explores the wrist for the pulse!

He feels for it and ascertains that it beats no longer! It is accomplished.
The deed is done. He retreats, retraces his steps to the window, passes
out through it as he came in, and escapes. He has done the murder. No
eye has seen him, no ear has heard him. The secret is his own, and
it is safe!
Ah! gentlemen, that was a dreadful mistake. Such a secret can be
safe nowhere. The whole creation of God has neither nook nor corner,
where the guilty can bestow it, and say it is safe. Not to speak
of that eye which glances through all disguises, and beholds
everything, as in the splendor of noon, such secrets of guilt are
never safe from detection, even by man.
D. Webster.

CXV.
THE SAME CONCLUDED.
True it is, generally speaking, that murder "will out."My two companions were returning to London to continue carrying
out a giant scheme of fraud against a great moneyed institution, but
there we were, with $100,000 in plunder at our feet, sitting under the
stars, listening to the dash of the waves, and talking not at all like
pirates and robbers, but much more like crusaders setting out on a
crusade, or like pilgrims going on a pilgrimage.

I told my friends I should go to the City of Mexico for a year or two,
and then meet them somewhere in America where we would unite our wealth
to inaugurate some scheme that would benefit thousands in our own
generation and millions in the generations to come. We would hedge
ourselves about with kindly deeds, so live as to win the respect of all,
and when under the sod live in the eyes and mouths of men.

Too soon the whistle sounded, and we had to say good-bye, which we did
in an enthusiasm that told how deeply we felt. We were walking in the
Primrose Way, its flowers and songs were sweet, and we thought their
perfume and melody eternal.

I again arrived in Paris at daylight, but early as it was, my
sweetheart, escorted by my servant, was waiting my arrival. It was our
wedding morning. During our drive to the hotel, radiant with joy, she
told me the separation had been a cruel one, and she was so happy to
know we should never be separated again!

At 4 o'clock that afternoon we were married at the American Embassy.

I had told every one I was going to leave the next day for Havre, to
embark for New York. Our baggage was all packed and placed in a van,
which I accompanied to the Havre station, and had stored there. Sunday I
purchased one ticket to Bayonne, one for Madrid and one to Burgos, each
from different agencies. On Sunday morning I took a van to the Havre
station, and transferring our baggage to the road into Spain, checked
all of it to Madrid.

My purpose was to sail by the Lopez & Co. steamer El Rey Felipe from
Cadiz to Mexico, which was advertised to sail ten days later.

We were married very quietly on Friday, and our friends, wisely
recognizing the fact that young married people like to be alone, the
next day said good-bye and returned to Normandy. We spent a quiet and
happy Saturday and Sunday, and on Sunday night we left--my wife, servant
and self--for Cadiz, via Madrid. My wife, like all English people, knew
little of geography, and had such hazy notions of America that she
thought it quite the thing to go to such an outlandish and far off
quarter of the globe as America via a Spanish port. Columbus, she knew,
had gone that way, and why should not we?

We had an all-night ride to Bayonne in one of those antiquated
compartments used in railway carriages all over Europe, but the ride was
not tedious, nor was the night long. This little earth had no happier
couple, and, talking of the happy years that lay before us, the night
rushed by like a fairy dream.

Where was my conscience? Why, my dear reader, I had sung it such a song
that it was delighted with the music, and had, I was going to say, gone
to sleep, but it had not. It was wide awake, and we were good chums. We
both--conscience and I--had persuaded ourselves it was a virtuous deed
to do evil that good might come. My conscience was perhaps as old as the
sun, but I myself was young and too inexperienced to see the fallacy of
the argument, since I myself was the doer of the wrong; but, of course,
I should have hotly denounced any other such philosopher as a villain
and rogue.

The night flew by, and to our surprise we found 240 miles had slipped
away and we were in Bayonne. Thirty minutes more and we were speeding
south, and soon crossed the Bidassoa, the boundary between France and
Spain. Then my wife saying, "Now I will sleep," laid her head on the
shoulder of the happiest man in or out of Spain, and in ten minutes her
regular breathing told me she was in the land of dreams.

The Pyrenees, in dividing France and Spain, stand between two distinct
peoples, and as the centuries go by the streams of national life meet,
but only to repel each other, never to mingle. One has but to cross the
bank to realize that he is among a different race. Dress, food and
cooking--social life, religious devotion, modes of thought--are all
different. To us here in America it is difficult to realize that so
slight a thing as a mountain barrier, easily traversed, crossed by many
defiles and good roads, should continue to separate two distinct
peoples. But so it is. Stranger still, for nearly all time the
inhabitants of the Spanish mountains have been more or less opposed to
the people of the Spanish plains, and every century has seen several
insurrections among the mountaineers. In 1872 and '73 the Carlists held
the mountains and more or less fusillading was going on. The possibility
of my way being blocked by the Carlists never entered into my
calculations.

The railway from Bayonne to Madrid is owned in Paris, and it seems that
the directors were paying blackmail to Don Carlos, ostensibly to him,
but really to several marauding bands who plundered under the name of
fighting for the Don, upon the understanding that the railroad was not
to be meddled with. The directors had been paying 100,000 francs a
month. As will be easily believed, there was a difficulty in the
distribution of the money among so many greedy and inartistic robbers,
and the discontented determined to hold up the railroad itself and stop
all trains. Unluckily, the train we were on was the one they proposed to
experiment on first, and they proposed drastic measures, too--in fact,
had blown up or down a short tunnel, and torn up the rails in front of
our train. As we crossed the frontier a French gendarme and Spanish
civil guard appeared, demanding passports. It was, of course, a sure
thing that I had them all right. It is a safeguard under the protection
of which the man who has anything to fear slips through the fingers of
frontier guards and police, while the honest man quite frequently
neglects the necessary formalities and is detained.

Our train crossed the bridge over the Bidassoa and we were on Spanish
soil. Soon we entered the gorges of the Pyrenees, and while speculating
whether I should awaken my wife to see the magnificent scenery all
necessity for awakening any one on that train was over. Three or four
musket shots rang out, our train was off the rail, and after a crash or
two came to a sudden stop, and then a babel arose, while the train was
surrounded by armed men. It was laughable. It seemed like an opera
bouffe, the real thing, this motley array of brigands, all trying to
maintain under difficulties the grave Spanish exterior.

One monkey of 18 or 19 years, armed, came to our compartment, and,
pointing to my chain, said he wanted it and my watch. None of us
understood Spanish, but we all comprehended his meaning readily. I
refused to make him a gift, and got rid of him easily.

We were all ordered to alight and our captors seemed inclined to be
ugly. Myself and party were about the only well-dressed people on the
train, and, seeing a priest close by, I went up to him, and ascertaining
he could speak French, I began, in very bad French indeed, to threaten
with very dire consequences Don Carlos and every band of Carlists who
dares to annoy an English Duke and Duchess, and demanded instant shelter
and a guard for my wife, the Duchess. We could hardly keep from
laughing, it was so very like a melodrama. My wife thoroughly enjoyed
the situation, and I should have done so too, had I not had such strong
reasons for quick passage through Spain to blue water on the South, for
I desired to speedily put some leagues of Neptune's domain between
myself and the Old World.

The priest, although a sallow, sombre fellow, was a very good one, and
seemed to realize the gravity of the situation, for, calling the chief
to him, he warned him to be careful. That gentleman came up, and drawing
himself up said very proudly: "Sir, we are soldiers, not robbers." I
said I was very glad to know it, and demanded to be informed if I was a
prisoner or not, and was told I was not, but with the same breath he
said he would be obliged to detain us for a few days. There was a fonda,
or inn, close by, and leaving my wife there, I finally managed by a
liberal use of money to secure an ox-cart, and by virtue of great
generalship on the part of myself and servant, got all our baggage out
of the wrecked train and safely up to the inn.

Spaniards are provokingly slow, but by riding mule-back five miles away
I succeeded in seeing the local commander of the Carlist forces, and he
promised to send me the next day a pass through the lines, going either
south or north. I got him also to include in the pass my fellow
passengers. I did this because there was a Portuguese family who had
tickets for South America. They were then on their way to embark at
Lisbon, and the old gentleman, the head of the family, was very weak and
ill.

My safe plan would have been to return to France, make my way to Brest
and embark from there to New York, and that would have been my course
had I had any conception of the slowness of the Spanish officials and of
the fierce storms and snows that dominate the passes of the Pyrenees in
Winter.

We were informed by many officials, railway guards, Custom House
officers, Carlists, etc., that by crossing thirty miles south we would
pass the lines and get to a little town on the railway where trains left
frequently for Madrid. The Spaniards about the place would never have
let us start out on that perilous trip had it not been for the money
there was in it. I had secured at a round price three century old
bullock carts, and in the afternoon of the second day we got off. I had
all the women and the sick Portuguese in one cart, with the two other
carts ahead heaped with luggage. Thus there were eight bullocks, four
mules and (unlucky number) thirteen men engaged.

I had very misty notions as to our destination, but took it for granted
the baker's dozen of natives I had with me knew what they were about.
Snow was everywhere, and we were mounting up, up, up, on wheels, but I
supposed the highest altitude was only four or five miles away, and that
the down grade would be easy until we reached some snug inn where we
would find shelter for man and beast. Then an early start by daylight
and our novel jaunt would come to an end in civilization and a railway.
But I did not know Spaniards, their country, the Pyrenees, nor what
blizzards can blow in sunny Spain.

Myself and my servant Nunn trudged on alongside the cart with the women.
It took an hour to get out of sight of the fonda, and then we struck a
fine, wide military road that wound in and around the mountains, but
always up and deep in snow. Three, four o'clock came and still no sign
of the summit, but with the road winding in and out for miles ahead. The
sky began to darken, and without warning down came the snow. Then
frequent halts of the caravan to rest the cattle. Deeper grew the snow,
and as the darkness began to settle down I realized the responsibility I
had unwittingly taken on my shoulders. I had four delicate women in my
forlorn party and found myself fast in the midst of a snowstorm, in a
wild pass of the Pyrenees. I recognized one blessing, however, and was
profoundly grateful--the air was calm--and though the snow fell thick
and fast it was not driven by a storm.

Nunn proved to be thoroughly reliable, helpful and full of cheer.
Between us we kept up the spirits of the party. But all hands began to
grow hungry. Fortunately I had in my baggage a large pate de foie gras.
That is a fat goose liver pie, and it was fat, happily so, as it went
the further. Then I got rugs and wraps out of my trunks for the women
and a couple of bottles of brandy, and administered liberal doses all
round. I soon had them happy and full of courage. It was certainly
better to have them full of Dutch courage in a fool's paradise than to
have them awake to their position, for I quite expected it would end in
a night camp-out in the snow and sending an empty cart for supplies. Two
hours after dark we came to a dead halt, and my guides--they were
beauties--said they could go no further; the oxen could not pull the
carts. There was a fonda, they said, two miles away, but did not show
any disposition to help to get there, and for that matter did not seem
to care whether we did or not. I ordered them to leave the middle cart
behind and divide the teams, one team to be added to the front cart and
one to be hitched in front of the mules. Our interpreter was one of the
Portuguese women, but we did not get on very well, the Spaniards
objecting to anything being done, all of them apparently waiting for
the Virgin or some of the saints to come to our aid; but as neither did,
Nunn and I were exasperated, and finally took the matter into our own
hands. By my orders, despite the energetic protests of the drivers, he
unhitched the oxen from the middle team, and between us we got them to
the mule cart, hitched them in front of the mules and pulled out and
past the other carts. Here the Spaniards halted us, and after an angry
altercation in the dark--and it was dark--they agreed to go on. So,
taking a yoke of oxen from our cart, they were put in front of the four
of the first cart, and off we started. Nunn volunteered to stand by and
guard the stranded cart; so giving him two blankets and a little brandy
we drove off in the darkness. But not until, in sight of all, I had
given him a revolver, and each of the unlucky thirteen a good nip of
brandy. My anxiety about serious results was over as soon we started,
and in an hour and a half we halted in front of a wretched mountain inn,
patronized by muleteers, with the first story for a stable, but none of
us were disposed to be particular. A supper of Spanish beans was soon
ready, and then a bed was made up on the floor, and the women were soon
asleep. After seeing that the mules and oxen were fed, I took half an
hour's nap. Then with two drivers we started back, taking three yoke of
oxen. What a tramp I had back through the snow and storm! I was very
happy, however, for I knew my wife and party were safely sheltered, and
the excitement of action kept one from being gloomy.

In due time we found our stray, hitched to and started, but it was hard
pulling and the exhausted oxen had to come to frequent halts. At last,
just as I was beginning to feel tired, we came to the fonda.

The snow had slackened, but the wind was beginning to blow, so Nunn and
I carried all the luggage and traps into a corner of the stable below,
and tumbling down into the hay we were soon in the land of dreams. In my
dreams I was on a shoreless sea in a bark that silently and swiftly
circled around. Dark clouds closed in on all sides, while my boat sailed
between ever-narrowing walls, the clouds still closing in, until a giant
hand grew out from a ragged edge of the cloud wall, which, seizing the
prow of my boat, pulled it into the gloom and darkness. I felt the
clouds brushing my cheek. I heard the roar of falling water, and felt
that my doom was sealed. I thought of my wife, and, trying to call her
name, was dumb. I looked behind. Far off and far up there was a glow of
rosy light, and within the aureole was her face, full of sorrow, looking
at me with pity in every feature. As I looked, her face was slowly
eclipsed by a cloud. Then with one cry I plunged into the sea--and
awoke.

That dream would easily have joined the long procession of forgotten
dreams, but it was recalled many a time during many years. And, try as I
might, I felt it to be a portent and a prophecy.

When I awoke in the morning I was dumfounded to find a blizzard blowing
that the cattle could not face, and with every appearance of
continuance. In reply to my inquiries I learned they sometimes blew in
those altitudes for a week. This was unpleasant news for me, and the
prospect made me nervous. It was now Thursday, the fourth day since our
departure from Paris. And what might have happened in London in that
time! Here was I as completely isolated from the outside world and from
all news about my companions in England as if on a desert isle. For all
I knew discovery might have been made, and full details of the fraud
might be blazing in the press of Europe. I began to fear I had run into
a trap. To make matters worse, the steamer El Rey Felipe was advertised
to sail Monday from Cadiz, and to miss her seemed danger indeed.

[Illustration: PRISONERS WAITING TRIAL, AT NEWGATE, RECEIVING VISITORS.]

I was a prisoner in a wretched inn in a defile of the Pyrenees, with a
civil war raging, and no telling what might arise to detain us. Our
objective point was only some thirty-five miles away, but with roads
deep in snow, with wretched cattle and more wretched Spaniards for
drivers, there was poor prospect of making headway. I felt it would
never do for me to suffer longer detention.

I determined to leave my wife and baggage in charge of Nunn, to put the
$120,000 I had in a bag and start back to the French frontier, cross
into France and catch the Saturday steamer from Havre to New York,
explaining to my wife that important business demanded my presence in
America, that she could follow on the next steamer and that I would meet
her on arrival.

In the mean time my unlucky thirteen were happy. For were they not
sheltered, with plenty of food and high wages, all out of the pocket of
the great lord the Virgin herself must have sent to them? In fact, they
were winning from me what to them was a fortune. I was paying each man a
dollar a day and $5 for each team and cart.

From my experience I must give the Spaniards a good name for honesty. Of
course, they were charging me cut-throat prices, but they were poor,
and wealthy lords did not often come their way. Aside from that they
were very honest. Many things, such as rugs, shawls, lunch baskets,
dressing cases, etc., that must have seemed of value to them, lay around
everywhere, but not a single article was missing during the entire trip.

All day long the blizzard blew. It was a novel situation, and how I
should have enjoyed it had I only possessed that greatest of all
blessings--a good conscience! As it was, I was in misery, and could find
no peace, not even in my wife's smiles and evident content to be
anywhere with me.

I saw that the cattle were well cared for and that the men had both food
and wine. Then my servant skirmished around and decapitated sundry
chickens he found. So we had roast chicken three times a day, and as I
had a case of brandy in my luggage, we did not suffer. Nunn roasted the
chickens, made the punch, got the Spanish men and women to dance for our
entertainment, and made himself generally of service. About midnight the
storm broke up, and to my great satisfaction the stars came out. That
night I slept in the same room with the women, with a sheet hung between
us.

At 5 o'clock I had all hands up and breakfast under way. I ordered the
drivers and hangers on to have the teams hitched up and ready at
daylight. They all ate breakfast heartily enough, but were not zealous
about starting out. They made all sorts of pretexts and excuses to avoid
leaving their comfortable quarters. Certainly the road was not an
inviting prospect, there being quite eighteen inches of snow, but I was
determined to start one way or the other, either south with the party or
north alone. After long argument they, thinking they had me at their
mercy, refused to hitch up the cattle to make the attempt. I at once
paid and dismissed them all. Determining to set out immediately alone
for the French frontier, carrying only a small bag slung over my
shoulder, and concealing the bonds and paper money on my person, I would
leave the greater part of the gold in charge of my wife. I knew Nunn
would be a trusty guard to her.

I had not given her any intimation of my purpose, but got my bag ready,
and, secreting about me the bonds and paper money, I took my wife into a
room, and, first telling her she must be very brave, explained my plan,
pointing out I must not miss the Saturday steamer. She should follow on
the next, and I would leave her $20,000. But she pleaded to go with me,
said she would be no encumbrance, would ride mule-back to the railway,
no matter how far away. I then called Nunn and told him I should leave
him in charge of the baggage, and that we were going to set out at once.
I praised his fidelity, and informed him I would make him a present
when he arrived all safe in New York with the baggage. But when the sick
man and his family were told we were going they raised a howl. The women
all hung on me crying and imploring me not to leave them to despair and
death. They would all perish, etc.

[Illustration: Henry Hawkins, Esq. Q.C. Hon. Sir. J. Kellog, KKT Judge
of the Queen's Bench Rt. Hon. Sir R. J. K. Cockburn, Chief High Justice
of England]


[Illustration: The Lord Chancellor. Sir C. Russell J.C. Queen's
Counsel.]


[Illustration: Witnesses. Clerk of The Old Bailey. "I object My Lord".]

I had secured a good saddle mule, but with a man's saddle, and my wife
was sensible enough not to make an outcry over the prospect of a ride
man-fashion. She came out warmly clad and mounted the mule, and I
strapped some rugs and a bundle of lunch behind the saddle. The owner of
the mule was at his head, halter in hand, ready to lead off. The entire
population were out staring open-mouthed. I delivered a speech to my
lucky-unlucky thirteen, telling them in the best way I could that I was
going in order to deliver them all over to the vengeance of the military
chief of the district. That I should accuse them as robbers and thieves,
and that they might look for anguish that would wring their hearts and
souls.

They were greatly moved, and, pulling out my watch, I informed them by
pantomime and bad Spanish that if they got the teams in harness and the
luggage all packed on the carts in twenty minutes I would take them into
my favor and resume our journey southward.

Spaniards are proverbially slow. But these Spaniards were not slow, and
a very few minutes saw us all once more mounted on our cart, with the
two baggage carts following, and on our rocky way southward.


CHAPTER XXVIII.

FEAR SAYS "NO" TO HAPPINESS.


We passed during the day a military post and several squads of armed
men. Poor fellows! they were wretchedly equipped, so far as garments
went. They all examined us curiously, but did not offer to stop or
question us while I marched on ahead of the cavalcade like a drum major,
giving the military salute to each party as we passed. I ought to have
been fatigued, but I was not. After about five miles of uphill work we
began to descend. The road was a masterpiece of engineering, and well it
might be, for it was one of five military roads the great Napoleon
ordered to be constructed across the Pyrenees, and it was done in a
thoroughly workmanlike manner. It wound in and out and along defiles of
stern beauty.

We halted for rest and refreshment at noon, and again at 4 o'clock for
an hour. At the last place we found some Carlist officers, one a young
Englishman, who was a good fellow and most attentive. He was an
aide-de-camp on Don Carlos' staff. He told me there was no chance of his
side winning, but he was in it for the fun of the thing and in hope of
seeing some fighting. He had taken part in a number of skirmishes, and
was by no means satisfied yet. He volunteered to escort us through the
lines, and was evidently more than pleased to meet an English lady in
the person of my wife.

It was beautiful to see him order about my muleteers and bully them up
hill and down dale, not hesitating to use his whip on them. About 5
o'clock we started off in great shape, having some twenty miles to go to
the little town on the railway south of the Pyrenees. We had two
lanterns and a number of torches; it was a picturesque caravan in the
darkness. The young officer rode beside the first cart, conversing with
my wife, while I walked in the rear. We had reason to congratulate
ourselves over our escort, he being a brave and brilliant fellow and
evidently a person of importance. He little thought whom he was
escorting. I was pleased on my wife's account, as he was company for
her, and, altogether, she thoroughly enjoyed the novelty of the whole
situation.

We had made a fine bed of hay and blankets for our sick man.
Nevertheless, he was a source of much anxiety and trouble. At last, to
the intense relief of all, we heard far away the shrill whistle of a
locomotive. It was sweet music to my ears, for I realized the peril of
the delay. We had now arrived at the base of the southern slope of the
Pyrenees and the plain stretched out before us. We had just passed
through an intrenched camp that guarded the entrance to the valley. Our
escort had ridden ahead, and not satisfied with smoothing the way for
us, had turned out the guard to do us honor. We halted for a few
minutes, and several uniformed officers came forward and were introduced
to my wife and me. It was a picturesque scene. The mantle of snow
covering all, the strange-looking mountaineers, the eager-faced, boyish
officers--French, English, Austrian--all soldiers of fortune, who, in
the dearth of great wars, were seeking fame in the inglorious civil
contest; our torches casting fantastic shadows until the forest-covered
mountain, dark and frowning, though snow lay everywhere, seemed peopled
with hosts of men--all made a picture never to be forgotten by some of
the observers.

Another mile and our escort had to leave us, but the town, standing dark
against the snow, was in plain view. By his advice I went ahead on foot
with two men, in case any of "the enemy" were prowling around, but found
none until we arrived in the town; then a scene of great excitement to
the townspeople arose.

We were examined and cross-examined, and our statements taken down in
writing and sworn to by all hands. In the mean time I had made beds for
our sick man and the ladies in the waiting room of the station, and
about 2 o'clock I went to sleep. The station was fortified and full of
soldiers, but I did not care, being told the Madrid train would start at
daylight; if so, I would be in time for El Rey Felipe, and would be
sailing out of Cadiz harbor on Monday over the blue water, westward ho!

After a two hours' nap I was up, paid off my lucky thirteen, giving them
a present in addition to their due, with a written paper certifying that
they were honest and brave, and had delivered me and mine in safety.

The weather continued very cold, and when the train, consisting of two
passenger and one baggage car, arrived we found there were no heating
arrangements, and we shivered at the thought of an all-day's ride
without fire or heat across that windy plain. I determined to have a
compartment to ourselves, for my wife and I had not had a moment's
privacy since the smash-up of the train. So we fixed up a bed on the
floor of a compartment for our sick man, and I put his family in to look
out for him. When the train left we found ourselves, very much to our
satisfaction, alone. I had telegraphed ahead to Burges to have hot water
cases, then the only mode of heating cars in Europe, ready on our
arrival.

The engineer of our train was an Englishman. As it was so important that
I should not be delayed I gave him a sovereign and his stoker another,
and asked him as a favor to make time. He said he would and kept his
word. But arriving at Burgos we found that the train from Santander
going south was two hours late, so my wife and I started out to see the
famous town.

After a short view we made our way to the Cathedral, and it was a sight!
It is one of the many sacred edifices which the piety of former ages
bequeathed our own. One of these sacred buildings--like the Strasbourg
and Cologne Cathedrals, in the construction of which generation after
generation of pious souls--pious according to the fashion of their
times--had given their days to the building and decoration of the
cloister or church where their lives were lived, and all was done with
loving and patient care.

We in our day may sneer at the monks and brothers of the Dark Ages, but
in those times of rude violence all gentle hearted, scholarly souls
found in the sanctity and quiet of the cloister the only refuge open to
them, and they did good work, both in the domain of mind and in the
world of material things. Much that was "piety" and much that was
"faith" in their day is termed superstition in ours; but who will deny
that the simple piety and credulous faith of their day was a million
times better than the restless skepticism and sad unrest of ours?

At Burgos I tried to get an English paper, but none was to be had and no
one there had ever seen one.

But here some startling news came flashing over the wires. Nothing less
than that there had been a revolution at Madrid, the capital. Amadeo,
the lately elected king, had suddenly resigned, and a republic had been
proclaimed with Castelar at the head.

I began to see more and more what a fool I was to let myself be caught
at such a time in such a land, but still had so much confidence in my
good fortune that I felt I would be on time for the steamer on Monday.

It was now 3 o'clock Friday. We were all aboard for Madrid and just
pulling out of the station. We would be due there the next morning. From
Madrid to Cadiz there is only one through train in twenty-four hours,
and that leaves seven mornings a week; but, as it runs only fifteen
miles an hour, and is seldom on time at that, one must figure on taking
an entire twenty-four hours for the journey. Still, as we would be due
Saturday morning, I had a big margin for delay.

At last we were off. On the train and in every group we passed there
were signs of subdued excitement. Between Royalists and Republicans
sharp lines were evidently drawn which soon were to culminate in bloody
conflict.

Soon after 10 o'clock we arrived in the walled town of Avila, about
eighty miles from the famous Escurial built by the second Philip, and
about 150 miles from Madrid. Here we got an excellent dinner and good
coffee. But dinner was spoiled for me by the disastrous intelligence
that martial law had been proclaimed and that the Government had seized
the roads running north from Madrid to transport troops.

Here was a pretty pickle! I was enraged. I saw the chief of the railway
at Avila, but he was a fool, and under the unwonted state of affairs had
lost what little head he ever had.

So once more our baggage was all piled out of the train, and once more
we had to go into camp on the floor of the station, with a terrific din
around us.

I arose early, and looking up the telegraph clerk and railway chief, I
made them both rich by the present to each of five escudos.

Then I telegraphed Castelar and the Minister of War that I was an
Englishman, that I had my family with me, and having important business
in Madrid I must not be detained in Avila. I demanded that he should at
once direct the military officials to send me on to Madrid by special
train. I also sent a telegram to Hernandez, president of the road in
Paris, offering 5,000 francs for a special train. Another urgent message
was sent to the superintendent in Madrid repeating the offer for a
special train, the same sum to himself if he expedited the train. I also
authorized him to spend a similar amount if necessary in bribing the
military authorities.

[Illustration: TRIAL OF THE FOUR AMERICANS AT THE "OLD BAILEY," LONDON.]

At 11 o'clock I had a long telegram from him saying a train would be
made up at Avila. But an hour having passed away, I sent him a message
to order up an engine and one car from Madrid. Another message arrived
at 12 o'clock, and down came an engine and car.

Our baggage was hustled into the three front compartments. I put Nunn
and the Portuguese party in one and my wife and I occupied the rear
compartment. Thank Heaven! once more alone together. The soldiers and
inhabitants flocked around, and we were the observed of all observers.

The local railway chief was more than anxious to see us off, as I added
another five to the five escudos already given. Just then the telegraph
operator flew out with an order for our train to await the arrival of
the train from Madrid.

I stormed. I kept the wire hot with messages of protest to officials.
Two messages came from Madrid saying the delay was but temporary. So
there I sat in that musty compartment, my wife by my side and with a
heart full of bitterness, for I saw the precious hours slipping away,
and with them my chance of taking the Sunday morning train so as to
catch the Cadiz steamer. To miss it, I thought, meant ruin.

Hour after hour passed by, and there we sat. My secret cause of unrest
had to be kept locked in my breast, while my young wife, all
unsuspecting, was merry and happy, chanting little snatches of song and
telling me a hundred times she was the happiest of women. She did not
care for revolutions, nor for delays. Was she not with me! The sun
began to go down the sky, and the shadows fell. Still we sat on,
expecting every moment an order to proceed. The suspense was terrible.

At last about 6 o'clock an order came to have everything ready to pull
out for Madrid at 7, so very reluctantly we dismounted to take supper in
the station, and once more got into the car. But no order came. The
hours dragged on, and I saw fate closing her hand on me.

The night wore on, when suddenly, toward midnight, the operator rushed
out of his office and, shouting to the engineer, flew up to our
compartment, said good-bye and in a minute we were off. After that long
and terrible day it was happiness to be moving.

I had given the engineer a tip; he put on steam, and as we flew over the
road hope returned. I felt we were safe. At the rate we were going I
should have two or three hours to spare. We soon were at the Escurial.
As fate would have it we found here an order to run us on a side line
and to keep the track clear for a train going north. For two miserable
hours we waited and no train. Then I set the wires in motion again, and
just as the eastern skies grew gray we started.

Soon after midnight I telegraphed to the railway authorities at Madrid
to hold the train going south to Cadiz until my arrival, offering $100
an hour for every hour's detention.

Madrid is situated on a high sandy plain, storm-swept in Winter worse
than any plains in Northern Europe. We had a wheezy engine. Four miles
out it broke down, and then I gave up the struggle.

At 4 o'clock Sunday afternoon, nine hours too late for the Cadiz train,
we arrived at Madrid, too late to reach Cadiz by a special train. Not
too late could the train have been started off as soon as ordered, but
in Spain a special train is an unheard-of thing.

Mine from Avila was an innovation, only possible because there was so
much money behind it to all concerned at both ends of the line. No
Spaniard was ever known to be in a hurry, and no particle of matter
between his chin and his sombrero holds any lurking suspicion that
anything born of a woman could be in a hurry or have any reason for any
such insanity.

Here I was at last in the much-longed-for Madrid, but not on time, and I
had nothing to do but to put in execution some new plan. VALUE OF
POPULARITY.

MY Lords, I come now to speak upon what, indeed, I would have gladly
avoided, had I not been particularly pointed at for the part I have
taken in this bill.

It has been said by a noble lord on my left hand, that I, likewise, am
running the race of popularity. If the noble lord means by popularity,
that applause bestowed by after-ages on good and virtuous actions, I
have long been struggling in that race; to what purpose, all-trying
time can alone determine: but, if the noble lord means that mushroom
popularity which is raised without merit, and lost without crime,
he is much mistaken in his opinion.

I defy the noble lord to point out a single action of my life, in which
the popularity of the times ever had the smallest influence on my
determinations. I have a more permanent and steady rule for my conduct,
the dictates of my own breast. Those that have foregone that
pleasing adviser, and given up their mind to be the slave of every
popular impulse, I sincerely pity: I pity them still more, if their
vanity leads them to mistake the shouts of the mob for the trumpet
of fame.

Experience might inform them, that many who have been saluted with the
huzzahs of a crowd one day, have received its execrations the next;
and many who by the popularity of their times, have been held up as
spotless patriots, have, nevertheless, appeared upon the historian's
page,--when truth has triumphed over delusion,--the assassins of
liberty.

True liberty, in my opinion, can only exist when justice is equally
administered to all,--to the king and to the beggar.

Where is the justice, then, or where is the law, that protects a
member of Parliament more than any other man from the punishment due
to his crimes? The laws of this country allow no place, nor employment
to be a sanctuary for crimes; and where I have the honor to sit as
judge, neither royal favor, nor popular applause shall ever protect
the guilty.

Lord Mansfield.

CI.

SCORN TO BE SLAVES.

The voice of your father's blood cries to you from the ground, "My sons,
scorn to be slaves! In vain we met the frowns of tyrants; in vain we
crossed the boisterous ocean, found a new world, and prepared it for
the happy residence of liberty; in vain we toiled; in vain we fought;
we bled in vain, if you, our offspring, want valor to repel the
assaults of her invaders!" Stain not the glory of your worthy
ancestors; but, like them, resolve never to part with your birthright.
Be wise in your deliberations, and determined in your exertions for the
preservation of your liberty.

Follow not the dictates of passion, but enlist yourselves under the
sacred banner of reason; use every method in your power to secure
your rights; at least, prevent the curses of posterity from being heaped
upon your memories.

If you, with united zeal and fortitude, oppose the torrent of oppression;
if you feel the true fire of patriotism burning in your breasts;
if you, from your souls, despise the most gaudy dress which slavery
can wear; if you really prefer the lonely cottage, while blessed
with liberty, to gilded palaces, surrounded with the ensigns of
slavery you may have the fullest assurance that tyranny with her
whole accursed train, will hide her hideous head in confusion,
shame, and despair.

If you perform your part, you must have the strongest confidence, that
the same Almighty Being, who protected your pious, and venerable forefathers,
who enabled them to turn a barren wilderness into a fruitful field, who
so often made bare His arm for their salvation, will still be mindful
of their offspring.

May that Almighty Being graciously preside in all our councils. May
He direct us to such measures as He himself shall approve, and be pleased
to bless. May we be ever favored of God. May our land be a land of
liberty, the seat of virtue, the asylum of the oppressed, "a name and
a praise in the whole earth," until the last shock of time shall
bury the empires of the world in undistinguished ruin.

J. Warren.

CII.

LOSS OF THE ARCTIC.

It was autumn. Hundreds had wended their way from pilgrimages; from Rome
and its treasures of dead art, and its glory of living nature;
from the sides of the Switzer's mountains, and from the capitals
of various nations, all of them saying in their hearts, we will
wait for the September gales to have done with their equinoctial
fury, and then we will embark; we will slide across the appeased
ocean, and in the gorgeous month of October, we will greet our
longed-for native land, and our heart-loved homes.

And so the throng streamed along from Berlin, from Paris, from the Orient,
converging upon London, still hastening toward the welcome ship, and
narrowing every day the circle of engagements and preparations. They
crowded aboard.

Never had the Arctic borne such a host of passengers, nor passengers so
nearly related to so many of us. The hour was come. The signal-ball
fell at Greenwich. It was noon also at Liverpool. The anchors were
weighed; the great hull swayed to the current; the national colors streamed
abroad, as if themselves instinct with life and national sympathy.
The bell strikes; the wheels revolve; the signal-gun beats its echoes,
in upon every structure along the shore, and the Arctic glides joyfully
forth from the jersey, and turns her prow to the winding channel, and
begins her homeward run. The pilot stood at the wheel, and men saw
him. Death sat upon the prow, and no eye beheld him. Whoever stood at
the wheel in all the voyage, Death was the pilot that steered the craft,
and none knew it. He neither revealed his presence nor whispered his
errand.

And so hope was effulgent, and little gayety disported itself,
and joy was with every guest. Amid all the inconveniences of the voyage,
there was still that which hushed every murmur,--"Home is not far
away." And every morning it was still one night nearer home! Eight
days had passed. They beheld that distant bank of mist that forever
haunts the vast shallows of Newfoundland. Boldly they made it; and
plunging in, its pliant wreaths wrapped them about. They shall never
emerge. The last sunlight has flashed from that deck. The last voyage is
done to ship and passengers. At noon there came noiselessly stealing from
the north that fated instrument of destruction. In that mysterious
shroud, that vast atmosphere of mist, both steamers were holding their
way with rushing prow and roaring wheels, but invisible.

At a league's distance, unconscious, and at nearer approach, unwarned;
within hail, and bearing right towards each other, unseen, unfelt,
till in a moment more, emerging from the gray mists, the ill-omened
Vesta dealt her deadly stroke to the Arctic. The death-blow was
scarcely felt along the mighty hull. She neither reeled nor shivered.
Neither commander nor officers seemed that they had suffered harm.

Prompt upon humanity the brave Luce (let his name be ever spoken
with admiration and respect) ordered away his boat with the first
officer to inquire if the stranger had suffered harm.

As Gourley went over the ship's side, oh, that some good angel had called
to the brave commander in the words of Paul on a like occasion, "Except
these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved."
They departed, and with them the hope of the ship, for now the waters
gaining upon the hold and rising upon the fires, revealed the mortal
blow.
Oh, had now that stern, brave mate, Gourley, been on deck, whom
the sailors were wont to mind--had he stood to execute sufficiently
the commander's will--we may believe that we should not have had
to blush for the cowardice and recreancy of the crew, nor weep for
the untimely dead.

But, apparently, each subordinate officer lost all presence of mind,
then courage, and so honor. In a wild scramble, that ignoble mob of
firemen, engineers, waiters, and crew, rushed for the boats, and abandoned
the helpless women, children, and men to the mercy of the deep!
Four hours there were from the catastrophe of collision to the
catastrophe of sinking!

Oh, what a burial was here! Not as when one is borne from his home, among
weeping throngs, and gently carried to the green fields, and laid
peacefully beneath the turf and the flowers.

  No priest stood to pronounce a
  burial-service. It was an ocean grave.

The mists alone shrouded the burial-place.

No spade prepared the grave, nor sexton filled up the hollowed earth. Down,
down they sank, and the quick returning waters smoothed out every ripple,
and left the sea as if it had not been.
H. W. Beecher.

CIII.

THE GLORY AND GRANDEUR OF PEACE.

Whatever may be the judgment of poets, of moralist, of satirists, or even
of soldiers, it is certain that the glory of arms still exercises no
mean influence over the minds of men. The art of war, which has been
happily termed by a French divine, the baleful art by which men learn to
exterminate one another, is yet held even among Christians, to be
an honorable pursuit; and the animal courage, which it stimulates and
develops, is prized as a transcendent virtue. It will be for another age,
and a higher civilization, to appreciate the more exalted character of
the art of benevolence, the art of extending happiness and all good
influences, by word or deed, to the largest number of mankind, which,
in blessed contrast with the misery, the degradation, the wickedness
of war, shall shine resplendent, the true grandeur of peace. All then
will be willing to join with the early poet in saying, at least,

"Through louder fame attend the martial rage, 'T is greater glory
to reform the age."

Then shall the soul thrill with a nobler heroism than that of battle.
Peaceful industry, with untold multitudes of cheerful and beneficent
laborers, shall be its gladsome token. Literature, full of sympathy and
comfort for the heart of man, shall appear in garments of purer glory
than she has yet assumed. Science shall extend the bounds of knowledge
and power adding unimaginable strength to the hands of man, opening
innumerable resources in the earth, and revealing new secrets and harmonies
in the skies. Art, elevated and refined, shall lavish fresh streams
of beauty and grace. Charity, in streams of milk and honey, shall diffuse
itself among all the habitations of the world.

Does any one ask for the signs of this approaching era?

The increasing beneficence and intelligence of our own day, the broad-spread
sympathy with human suffering, the widening thoughts of men, the longings
of the heart for a higher condition on earth, the unfulfilled promises
of Christian progress, are the auspicious auguries of this happy future.
As early voyagers over untried realms of waste, we have already observed
the signs of land. The green twig and fresh red berry have floated by
our bark; the odors of the shore fan our faces; nay, we may seem to
descry the distant gleam of light, and hear from the more earnest
observers, as Columbus heard, after midnight, from the mast-head
of the Pinta, the joyful cry of Land!

Land! and lo! a new world broke upon his early morning gaze.
C. Sumner.

CIV.

ANCIENT AND MODERN PRODUCTIONS.

The classics possess a peculiar charm, from the circumstance that
they have been the models, I might almost say the masters, of
composition and thought, in all ages.

In the contemplation of these august teachers of mankind, we are filled
with conflicting emotions. They are the early voice of the world,
better remembered and more cherished still than all the intermediate words
that have been uttered, as the lessons of childhood still haunt
us when the impressions of later years have been effaced from the
mind.

But they show with most unwelcome frequency the tokens of the world's
childhood, before passion had yielded to the sway of reason and the
affections. They want the highest charm of purity, of righteousness,
of elevated sentiments, of love to God and man. It is not in the frigid
philosophy of the porch and academy that we are to seek these; not in
the marvelous teachings of Socrates, as they come mended by the
mellifluous words of Plato; not in the resounding line of Homer, on
whose inspiring tale of blood Alexander pillowed his head; not in the
animated strain of Pindar, where virtue is pictured in the successful
strife of an athlete at the Isthmian games; not in the torrent of
Demosthenes, dark with self-love and the spirit of vengeance; not in the
fitful philosophy and intemperate eloquence of Tully; not in the genial
libertinism of Horace, or the stately atheism of Lucretius. No! these
must not be our masters; in none of these are we to seek the way of life.
For eighteen hundred years the spirit of these writers has been engaged
in weaponless contest with the Sermon on the Mount, and those two sublime
commandments on which hang all the law and the prophets. The strife
is still pending.

Heathenism, which has possessed itself of such siren forms, is not yet
exorcised. It still tempts the young, controls the affairs of active
life, and haunts the meditations of age.

Our own productions, though they may yield to those of the ancients
in the arrangement of ideas, in method, in beauty of form, and in
freshness of illustration, are immeasurably superior in the truth,
delicacy, all elevation of their sentiments,--above all, in the
benign recollection of that great Christian revelation, the brotherhood
of man. How vain are eloquence and poetry compared with this heaven-descended
truth!

Put in one scale that simple utterance, and in the other the lore of
antiquity, with its accumulating glosses and commentaries, and the
last will be light and trivial in the balance. Greek poetry has been
likened to the song of the nightingale as she sits in the rich, symmetrical
crown of the palm-tree, trilling her thick-warbled notes; but even
this is less sweet and tender than the music of the human heart.

C. Sumner.

CV.

THE ABOLITION OF THE SLAVE TRADE.

Why ought the slave trade to be abolished? Because it is incurable
injustice! How much stronger, then, is the argument for immediate than
gradual abolition! By allowing it to continue even for one hour, do
not my right honorable friends weaken--do they not desert their own
arguments of its injustice? If on the ground of injustice it ought to
be abolished at last, why ought it not now? Why is injustice to be
suffered to remain for a single hour?

I know of no evil that ever has existed, nor can imagine any evil
to exist, worse than the tearing of eighty thousands persons annually
from their native land, by a combination of the most civilized
nations in the most enlightened quarter of the globe; but more
especially by that nation which calls herself the most free and the
most happy of them all.

Even if these miserable beings were proved guilty of every crime before
you take them off of which however not a single proof is adduced ought
we to take upon ourselves the office of executioners? And even if
we condescend so far, still can we be justified in taking them, unless
we have clear proof that they are criminals?

I have shown how great is the enormity of this evil, even on the supposition
that we take only convicts and prisoners of war. But take the
subject in the other way; take it on the grounds stated by the right
honorable gentleman over the way, and how does it stand? Think of
eighty thousand persons carried away out of their country, by we know not
what means, for crimes imputed; for light or inconsiderable faults; for
debt, perhaps; for the crime of witchcraft; or a thousand other weak and
scandalous pretexts, besides all the fraud and kidnapping, the villainies
and perfidy, by which the slave trade is supplied. Reflect on these eighty
thousand persons thus annually taken off! There is something in the
horror of it, that surpasses all the bounds of imagination. Admitting
that there exists in Africa something like to courts of justice; yet
what an office of humiliation and meanness is it in us, to take
upon ourselves to carry into execution the partial, the cruel,
iniquitous sentences of such courts, as if we also were strangers
to all religion, and to the first principles of justice.

But that country, it is said, has been in some degree civilized, and
civilized by us. It is said they have gained some knowledge of
the principles of justice. What sir, have they gained the principles
of justice from us? Is their civilization brought about by us! Yes, we
give them enough of our intercourse to convey to them the means, and
to initiate them in the study of mutual destruction. We give them
just enough of the forms of justice to enable them to add the pretext
of legal trials to their other modes of perpetuating the most
atrocious iniquity.

Soon
after dinner the engines were stopped for some hours for repacking, the
captain informing me that it was doubtful whether we should arrive in
Havana in time to go ashore that night. At 6 o'clock the sunset gun is
fired, the custom house closes and no more debarkations are allowed that
day. If I went ashore the next day I must be up and off at an early
hour, as the ship sailed at 7.30, so I told the captain if he arrived
before 6 o'clock I would go ashore and wait for the next steamer, but if
we were late I would go on to Vera Cruz with him.

Once having made up my mind to go ashore, I was all eagerness to push
matters. To do so I even asked the captain to tell the engineer to force
the engines a little if possible. It was well on to 6 o'clock when we
steamed past Moro Castle and dropped anchor in the harbor. I engaged two
of the boats alongside, our baggage was hurried into them, my wife went
down the ladder, and speaking some hurried farewells I ran down after
her and sprang lightly into the boat. That instant the sunset gun was
fired. Two minutes later and the custom house officers on board would
have forbidden my leaving the steamer. I say two minutes, but it was
less than half a minute. Half a minute! Thirty seconds changed my
destiny.


CHAPTER XXX.

"HAPPINESS AND I SHAKE HANDS FOR A TIME."


Cuba! What a productive and fertile island it is, with its charming
climate and lovely scenery! But, as in so many of the green spots of
this world, man has blasted and spoiled all that indulgent nature has
lavished here. From the days of Columbus the story of Cuba has been one
of wholesale murder of natives, of revolutions--later of insurrections,
and deadly civil strife, which have ruined whole provinces once covered
with large sugar, coffee and tobacco plantations.

Slavery now, as in all her past Christian history, is everywhere.
Previous to 1861 40,000 slaves were yearly imported in slave ships into
the harbor of Havana.

Perhaps all men are cruel when they are absolute masters of the lives
and fortunes of their fellows and amenable to none for their acts.
Certainly the white Cubans, as a rule, are cruel masters in all their
dealings with their slaves.

Probably to-day, certainly in 1873, most of the large plantations
witnessed scenes of cruelty never surpassed in the long annals of human
servitude.

During my stay I was invited to visit many plantations, but visits to
two were enough for me, there being too many signs on the surface of the
brutality that lay beneath. I could easily give cases that I saw or
heard of, but refrain from doing so here.

One day's stay in Cuba convinced us we could spend a month very happily
on the island, and, discovering that Don Fernando, the proprietor of
the hotel, had a furnished house in a lovely situation to let, we
resolved to remain, renting the house for a month at a fixed rate per
day. This rate included the ten servants--slaves--in the house, he to
furnish good horses and everything except wine. The service proved good,
and the cooking exquisite. This was rather expensive, but certainly a
handy kind of housekeeping, taking all worry and household cares from my
wife's shoulders.

There were a large number of American visitors on the island, lovers of
and seekers after sunshine and warmth, which they found in abundance
while swinging in hammocks under the palm or cocoanut trees, or in
strolling along the white strand, with its innumerable sunny coves,
while the Winter storms and blizzards were raging in the Northern
States. Here we formed many pleasant acquaintances, and, throwing off
much of the reserve maintained during the voyage, we mingled freely in
the nice but gossipy society which winters there.

Our house was on a lovely slope in full view of the Gulf of Mexico, and
in the midst of what was more like a tropical plantation than a garden.

I made the acquaintance of Gen. Torbert, our Consul, and was introduced
by him to the Spanish officials, including the colonel of police. I
assiduously cultivated the acquaintance of the latter, and frequently
had him out to the house to dinner and lunch, and felt pretty confident
that if any telegrams came about me he would certainly bring them to me
at once for an explanation. Even if my presence became known, and
telegraphic orders for my arrest should arrive, no speedy action would
be taken and ample time given me to escape. In all the assemblies,
picnics and balls I was gratified to find my wife very much sought after
and admired. It was well she had a few happy days; enough misery lay not
far ahead.

In the mean time I had no word from my friends in London. In fact, they
did not know where I was. When I bade them good-bye at Calais they told
me not to inform them of my destination until I had got there, and then
to do so through some relative.

Every day I watched the New York papers to see if there had been any
explosion in London, but the silence of the press told me my friends
were having an amazing success, and we might expect two or three months
more to elapse before there would be any discovery.

We had been some weeks in Havana.

It was well into the month of February when one day, being in my hammock
on the veranda, with my wife sitting near me, my servant rode up with
the papers, and, handing me the New York Herald, I leisurely opened it,
while chatting with my wife, but could not suppress an exclamation when
my eyes fell upon an Associated Press dispatch from London, in staring
headlines. They read:

  AMAZING FRAUD UPON THE BANK OF
  ENGLAND!

         *       *       *       *       *

  MILLIONS LOST!

         *       *       *       *       *

  GREAT EXCITEMENT IN LONDON!

         *       *       *       *       *

    £5,000 REWARD FOR THE ARREST OF THE
    AMERICAN PERPETRATOR, F. A. WARREN.

    "London, Feb. 14, 1873.

    "An amazing fraud has been perpetrated upon the Bank of England by a
    young American who gave the name of Frederick Albert Warren. The
    loss of the bank is reported to be from three to ten millions, and
    it is rumored that many London banks have been victimized to
    enormous amounts. The greatest excitement prevails in the city, and
    the forgery, for such it is, is the one topic of conversation on
    the Exchange and in the street. The police are completely at fault,
    although a young man named Noyes, who was Warren's clerk, has been
    arrested, but it is believed that he is a dupe.

    "The bank has offered a reward of £5,000 for information leading to
    the arrest of Warren or any confederate."

[Illustration: "I FIRED POINT BLANK, AND DOWN HE WENT AS IF FELLED BY
LIGHTNING."--Page 334.]

I took a long walk on the beach to think over the situation. I was
alarmed over the arrest of Noyes, which I knew ought not to have
occurred if the proper precautions had been taken, but I concluded that
at the worst his arrest only meant for him a brief incarceration.

I knew that no human power and no fear could ever make him betray us.
Two things never entered my calculations at all; that is, that my right
name would ever transpire, or that George and Mac would ever, by any
possibility, be brought into question for the fraud.

So I came back from my walk with my plans outlined. It was to remain
quietly where we were for a fortnight longer, then take the steamer to
Vera Cruz, go to the City of Mexico and there buy an estate, as I had
originally proposed. Then, after a few months, leave my wife there and
travel incog. through Northern Mexico and Texas, meet Mac and George and
afterward return to Mexico.

Not a soul in all Europe knew I was in Cuba, and so long as my name did
not transpire I was as safe in Cuba as if in the desert.

Consequently I determined to go on in the same way since our landing. In
the mean while I would watch the papers, and if any signs of danger
appeared I could take instant measures for my safety.

As the days passed the cable dispatches appearing in the papers
increased in volume, and the papers everywhere had editorials, which, as
a rule, were humorous or sarcastic, poking fun at the Britishers in
general and the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street in particular. Then the
comic papers took it up, and from week to week published cartoons
intended to be funny.

One of the funniest of these came out in one of the New York comics,
which appeared after the mail arrived from London with the particulars
of the simplicity of the bank officials in their dealings with the
mysterious F. A. Warren. This full-page cartoon represented a young dude,
seated on a mule, riding down a steep declivity.

At the bottom the devil stood, holding in the fingers of his extended
hands a quantity of thousand-pound bank notes tempting Warren, and John
Bull stood behind the mule, belaboring it with an umbrella and driving
Warren down to the devil.

I tried to keep the papers from my wife, but one day she came home from
a visit with a flushed face and eager to talk, and began telling me
about some daring countryman of mine "who had the audacity to rob the
Bank of England," and "who ought to have a whipping." On several
occasions Americans there asked my opinion as to who the party could be.

I always told them he was some clever young scamp, with plenty of money
of his own, who did it for the excitement of the thing and from a wish
to take a rise out of John Bull.

The next French steamer for Mexico was advertised to land at Havana for
passengers and mails for Vera Cruz in a few days, and I determined to
sail by her. Soon after my arrival I had formed the acquaintance of a
wealthy young countryman of mine from Savannah by the name of Gray. We
soon became fast friends, and I had him out to dinner nearly every day.
He had a warm friend in Senor Andrez, a rich young Cuban planter, and
had accepted an invitation to visit his coffee plantation in the Isle of
Pines, the largest of all that immense body of islets and keys of the
south coast of Cuba in the Carribean Sea, one of the loveliest tropical
isles imaginable, and Gray insisted upon my making one of the party.

It was proposed to spend a week on the island, and to take three days in
going and coming. But if I went then I would be unable to sail on the
steamer of the 25th, and would have to wait another week.

One day Gray brought Senor Andrez to dinner, along with a common friend,
a Senor Alvarez. All three joined in imploring me to make one of the
party, promising sport as novel as good; said the wild boars were
plentiful; that we would have two days' shark fishing, turning turtles
and hunting their eggs, and could vary it by a slave hunt, the jungle
and some of the smaller islands being "full of runaways," and as they
were by law wild beasts we might be lucky enough to shoot a few of
them--shoot, not capture, as the planters knew that a runaway slave who
had tasted the joys of freedom if caught was useless as a slave. So, as
a matter of sport, as well as a warning to other slaves, they organized
yearly hunts to bag a score or two. But so great is the depravity of the
human heart that these wretches, in their desperate wickedness, objected
to being shot, and at times were guilty of the enormity of shooting back
again. History records how, on certain occasions, they did so with such
good effect that the hunted became hunters; but these were rare events.

After long urging I consented. At the time there were only two short
railways in all Cuba. We were to cross the island to the south coast,
and there embark for the Isle of Pines in a boat owned by our host,
which would be in waiting. The railway would take us to the little
hamlet of San Felipe, some forty miles south, and there we were to take
horses to the seaport town of Cajio. We were to start on Saturday, two
days ahead. My wife did not relish my going, and I disliked it more than
she did, but for totally different reasons. Mine were that, as a matter
of prudence, I ought to recall my consent and remain in Havana until
steamer day, and then sail without fail to Mexico. But fearing the
ridicule of my friends, I went, persuading myself that there could be no
danger and that everything in London was buried in so dense a fog bank
that the detectives would struggle in vain to find a way out of it or
any clue to our identity.

Had I known of the clever work of the Pinkerton brothers in London and
the discoveries in Paris I should have been ill at ease; but had I known
that Capt. John Curtin--then a member of the Pinkerton staff in New
York, but now (1895.) of San Francisco--had with perfectly marvelous
intuition and rare detective skill let daylight into the whole plot, and
had reported to his chief that whenever F. A. Warren was discovered he
would prove to be Austin Bidwell; I say if I had known this, instead of
going off on a ten days' pleasure jaunt into an isolated corner of the
world I should have taken instant flight, leaving Cuba, not by the usual
modes of departure, but by sailing boat, and alone, for one of the
Mexican ports.

Capt. Curtin had been detailed to work on the New York end of the case,
to look for clues. It seemed a hopeless task. He is a warm friend of
mine now, after twenty years, and has long forgiven me for the bullet I
lodged in him in 1873. A few years after arresting me in the West Indies
he went to San Francisco and started a private inquiry office of his own
at 328 Montgomery street. When, after twenty years' incarceration, I
arrived there one lovely May in 1892, he was waiting for me at the
ferry, and gave me warm greetings, and as hearty congratulations, too,
as any man could give another; then introduced me to his friends
everywhere, and, in fact, from the hour of my arrival until my
departure, three months afterward, was never tired of doing me a service
and forwarding my business, so that by his kind offices I made a great
success out of what, by reason of the great financial depression, might
otherwise have proved a failure. But as Capt. Curtin, after effecting my
arrest, having recovered from his wound, was one of the four who took me
to England, I will wait until a later chapter to tell how it was he
discovered my name and located me in Cuba.

On Saturday morning our party of four, accompanied by a following of
black fellows and half a dozen dogs, set out by train. Before reaching
San Felipe our bones had a shaking. The roadbed was execrable, the
trucks of the cars were without springs, and to me it seemed as if we
must leave the rails at any moment.

In Havana we regarded Don Andrez as a good fellow, but upon our arrival
at San Felipe he had grown into a man of importance. When we came to
Cajio he had grown into a person of distinction, and at the island he
had swollen into a local Caesar. At San Felipe, a mere hamlet, horses
were waiting for us and mules for the baggage, but before setting out we
went to a nearby hacienda and sat down to what was simply the best lunch
of which I ever partook.

The town was chiefly remarkable for the number of its fighting cocks. At
the hacienda there were dozens, each in its separate
compartment--regarded the same as horses and game dogs are in England
and America--and half the black boys we met were carrying game birds.

At last, starting for Cajio, the road soon degenerated into a mere
track, which led through some barren hills with scanty growths of a
species of oak without underbrush, and here and there a sprinkling of
cacti, and in the lower reaches between the hills grew dense green walls
of Spanish bayonet.

We were crossing Cuba at its narrowest part, and from San Felipe to
Cajio was only some thirty miles. After fifteen miles we came into the
fertile coast belt and passed a number of deserted sugar plantations
where tropic vegetation was trying to cover up the work of ruin wrought
by man. Residences and sugar houses destroyed by fire were very much in
evidence. To my surprise I learned that bodies of insurgents--who then
held and had held for six years nearly the entire eastern province of
Santiago de Cuba and Puerto Principe, and part of the extreme western
province of Pinar del Rio--had only a few weeks before landed by night
at the port La Playa de Batabano, fifteen miles away, and with the cry
of "Free Cuba and death to the Spaniard!" had blotted out the town and
then marched into the heart of the country, burning houses, killing the
whites and calling upon the slaves to join them in freeing Cuba. Many
did, and terrible were their excesses, and terribly did they pay for
these. The Spanish soldiers and loyal Cuban volunteers closed in upon
them, and at the little hamlet of San Marcos, where we halted and
examined the too evident signs of the battle and massacre that followed,
they made their last stand, but were no match for their well-armed and
disciplined foes. After a desperate struggle they were overpowered, and
every surviving soul was butchered by the infuriated soldiers. It was
better so. Had they been spared it would have only been for the moment,
for by official decree of the Captain-General of Cuba, indorsed by the
Madrid Government, every inhabitant within the insurrectionary line,
without regard to age or sex, was doomed to death without form of trial.

At San Marcos we made a halt to view the scene of the fight and examined
the heaps of ashes where the fires were kindled which consumed the
bodies of the slain. Two or three were my countrymen. At the time it was
quite the thing for venturesome Americans to go and join the rebels and
help the fight for "Cuba libre." For some years every few days notices
would appear in the press about some Americans having been shot for
joining or attempting to join the rebels. The safety of a nation depends
not alone on the wisdom of its statesmen or the bravery of its generals.
The tongue of eloquence never saved a nation tottering to its fall; the
sword of a warrior never stayed its destruction.
There is a surer defence in every Christian home.

I say Christian home, for I allow of no glory to manhood which comes
not from the cross. I know of no rights wrung from tyranny, no truth
rescued from darkness and bigotry, which has not awaited on a Christian
civilization.

Would you see the image of true glory, I would show you villages where
the crown and glory of the people was in Christian schools, where the
voice of prayer goes heaven-ward, where the people have that most
priceless gift--faith in God.

With this as the basis, and leavened as it will be with brotherly
love, there will be no danger in grappling with any evils which
exist in our midst; we shall feel that we may work and bide our time,
and die knowing that God will bring victory.
Bishop Whipple.

CCCIX.

OUR NATIONAL ANNIVERSARY.

We celebrate to-day no idle tradition--the deeds of no fabulous race;
for we tread in the scarcely obliterated footsteps of an earnest and
valiant generation of men, who dared to stake life, and fortune, and
sacred honor, upon a declaration of rights, whose promulgation shook
tyrants on their thrones, gave hope to fainting freedom, and reformed the
political ethics of the world.

The greatest heroes of former days have sought renown in schemes of
conquest, based on the love of dominion or the thirst for war; and such
had been the worship of power in the minds of men, that adulation had
ever followed in the wake of victory. How daring then the trial of an
issue between a handful of oppressed and outlawed colonists, basing
their cause, under God, upon an appeal to the justice of mankind and their
own few valiant arms. And how immeasurably great was he, the fearless
commander, who, after the fortunes and triumphs of battle were over,
scorned the thought of a regal throne for a home in the hearts of his
countryman.
Amidst the rejoicings of this day, let us mingle something of gratitude
with our joy--something of reverence with our gratitude--and something
of duty with our reverence.

Let us cultivate personal independence in the spirit of loyalty
to the State. and may God grant that we may always be able to
maintain the sovereignty of the State in the spirit of integrity
to the Union.

Thus shall still be shed imperishable honors upon the American name thus
perpetuated, through all coming time, the heritage which has been
bequeathed to us by our fathers. Whatever shall be the fate of other
governments, ours thus sustained, shall stand forever. As has been elsewhere
said, nation after nation may rise and fall, kingdoms and empires crumble
into ruin, but our own native land, gathering energy and strength from
the lapse of time, shall go on and still go on its destined way
to greatness and renown.

And when thrones shall crumble into dust, when sceptres and diadems
shall have been forgotten, till Heaven's last thunder shall shake
the world below, the flag of the republic shall still wave on, and its
Stars, its Stripes, and its Eagle, shall still float in pride, and
strength, and glory,
"Whilst the earth bears, a plant, Or the sea rolls a wave."

A. H. Rice.

CCCX.

SOUTHERN USURPATIONS AND NORTHERN CONCESSIONS.

Why did these Southerners make war upon the country, converting their
own domain into a receptacle of stolen goods, and the hiding-place of
mercenaries, murderers, and madmen, and ours into one vast recruiting
tent?
Tell me, you cowardly and traitorous Northmen, who talk about peace
before the last armed foe has expired on the soil his attainted blood
defiles, or of compromise, while yet the walls of our hospitals
resound with the groans of the mangled, and are damp with the
death-dew of the expiring?

Tell me, you traitors, Davis, Pickens, Stephens, and Floyd? what do you
say provoked you to the point where forbearance ceased to be a
virtue?

What had we of the North usurped that belonged to you? I inquire not
now of what some among us may have said. I challenge any act of usurpation
by the non-slaveholding States against your rights as members of the
confederacy.
Facts are incontrovertible. What had we done? What provision of the
Federal Constitution had we violated? For once lay aside your declamation
and abuse, and soberly and truthfully state your grievances.

You know, and we know, and the world knows, that we made no encroachment
upon your reserved rights as a party to the compact between your fathers
and ours. You know, also, that we have been so terrified at your
reiterated threats against the family peace and general welfare, that,
in our anxiety to preserve national concord, we have sacrificed personal
honor and State pride. You called us "mudsills" and "greasy mechanics,"
until labor almost began to be ashamed of its God-given dignity. You
beat our representatives in the national council chambers, because
they expressed the views of those whom they served.

You denied us freedom of speech in all your borders.

This and much else, before the last burden, which broke our
uncomplaining patience into active, and, as you are destined to
learn, terrible resistance and deserved retribution.

But what had we done? How sinned against you?

In 1820 you wanted a geographical limit assigned to your peculiar
institution and we passed the law known as the Missouri Compromise. You
got sick of this when it appeared that slavery would not be a gainer
thereby, as it was supposed, and begged a repeal of the act.

It was repealed. In 1850, you clamored for further legislation in favor
of your property in human beings, and the fugitive slave law was placed
on the nation's statute book. You continually cried, "Give, give!" and
we gave.
But nothing would satisfy your rapacity; you had resolved to quarrel
with us. Do you remind me that we did not return your escaped slaves?
This is only half the truth. Whenever you came after your chattel,
with legal proofs of ownership, we caught and caged him, and sent him
back to you, often at our own expense. If you did not think it worth your
while to hunt up your runaway, it was none of our concern. Sometimes a
man among us, more of a humanitarian than a jurisconsult, and
better versed in the law of nature than the law of the land,
illegally, but conscientiously, aided your bondman to escape.

John Brown did so, and you hanged him for it! But no State, as such,
and no authority within a State, ever hesitated or refused to fulfil its
constitutional obligations to you on this head.

But you did not mean to be satisfied. You meant to rebel. You have
rebelled, and you must abide the consequences.
R. Busteed.

CCCXI.

MONUMENTAL HONORS TO PUBLIC BENEFACTORS.

What parent, as he conducts his son to Mount Auburn or to Bunker
Hill, will not, as he pauses before their monumental statues, seek
to heighten his reverence for virtue, for patriotism, for science,
for learning, for devotion to the public good, as he bids him
contemplate the form of that grave and venerable Winthrop, who left
his pleasant home in England to come and found a new republic in
this untrodden wilderness; of that ardent and intrepid Otis, who
first struck out the spark of American independence; of that noble
Adams, its most eloquent champion on the floor of Congress; of that
martyr Warren, who laid down his life in its defense; of that
self-taught Bowditch, who, without a guide, threaded the starry
mazes of the heavens; of that Story, honored at home and abroad as
one of the brightest luminaries of the law, and, by a felicity of
which I believe there is no other example, admirably portrayed in
marble by his son?

What citizen of Boston, as he accompanies the stranger around our
streets, guiding him through our busy thoroughfares, to our wharves,
crowded with vessels which range every sea and gather the produce of
every climate, up to the dome of this capitol, which commands as
lovely a landscape as can delight the eye or gladden the heart,
will not, as he calls his attention at last to the statues of
Franklin and Webster, exclaim:--"Boston takes pride in her natural
position, she rejoices in her beautiful environs, she is grateful
for her material prosperity; but richer than the merchandise stored
in palatial warehouses, greener than the slopes of sea-girt islets,
lovelier than this encircling panorama of land and sea, of field
and hamlet, of lake and stream, of garden and grove, is the memory
of her sons, native and adopted; the character, services and fame
of those who have benefited and adorned their day and generation.

Our children, and the schools at which they are trained, our citizens, and
the services they have rendered:--these are our monuments, these are
our jewels, these our abiding treasures." E. Everett.

CCCXII.

THE CRIME OF THE REBELLION.

I call the war which the Confederates are waging against the Union
a "Rebellion," because it is one, and in grave matters it is best to call
things by their right names. I speak of it as a crime, because the
Constitution of the United States so regards it, and puts "rebellion"
on a par with "invasion." The Constitution and law not only of England,
but of every civilized country regard them in the same light; or
rather they consider the rebel in arms as far worse than the alien
enemy.

To levy war against the United States is the constitutional definition
of treason, and that crime is, by every civilized government: regarded
as the highest which citizen or subject can commit. Not content with
the sanctions of human justice, of all the crimes against the law of
the land it is singled out for the denunciations of religion. The
litanies of every church in Christendom, as far as I am aware, from the
metropolitan cathedrals of Europe to the humblest missionary chapel
in the islands of the sea, concur with the Church of England in
imploring the Sovereign of the universe, by the most awful adjurations
which the heart of man can conceive or his tongue utter, to deliver
us from "sedition, privy conspiracy and rebellion."

And reason good,--for while a rebellion against tyranny; a rebellion
designed, after prostrating arbitrary power, to establish free government
on the basis of justice and truth, is an enterprise on which good men
and angels may look with complacency; an unprovoked rebellion of ambitious
men against a beneficent government, for the purpose--the avowed
purpose-of establishing, extending, and perpetuating any form of
injustice and wrong, is an imitation on earth of that first foul
revolt of "the Infernal serpent," against which the Supreme Majesty
of Heaven sent forth the armed myriads of his angels, and clothed the
right arm of his Son with the three-bolted thunders of Omnipotence.

Lord Bacon, "in the true marshalling of the sovereign degrees of honor,"
assigns the first place to "the Conditores Imperiorum, founders of
States and Commonwealths "; and truly to build up from the discordant
elements of our nature; the passions, the interests, and the opinions of
the individual man; the rivalries of family, clan, and tribe; the
influences of climate and geographical position; the accidents of
peace and war accumulated for ages, to build up, from these oftentimes
warring elements, a well-compacted, prosperous and powerful State,
if it were to be accomplished by one effort, or in one generation,
would require a more than mortal skill.

To contribute in some notable degree to this the greatest work of man,
by wise and patriotic counsel in peace, and loyal heroism in war, is as
high as human merit can well rise, and far more than to any of those
to whom Bacon assigns this highest place of honor, whose names can
hardly be repeated without a wondering smile,--Romulus; Cyrus, Cæsar,
Ottoman, Israel,--is it due to our Washington, as the founder of the
American Union.

But if to achieve or help to achieve this greatest work of man's
wisdom and virtue gives title to a place among the chief benefactors,
rightful heirs of the benedictions, of mankind, by equal reason shall
the bold bad men who seek to undo the noble work,--Eversores Imperiorum,
destroyers of States,--who for base and selfish ends rebel against
beneficent governments, seek to overturn wise constitutions, to lay
powerful republican unions at the foot of foreign thrones, bring on
civil and foreign war, anarchy at home, dictation abroad, desolation,
ruin,--by equal reason, I say, yes a thousand fold stronger, shall
they inherit the execrations of ages.
E. Everett.

CCCXIII.

A TRIBUTE TO OUR HONORED DEAD.

How bright are the honors which await those who with sacred fortitude
and patriotic patience have endured all things that they might save
their native land from division and from the power of corruption. The
honored dead! They that die for a good cause are redeemed from death.
Their names are gathered and garnered. Their memory is precious. Each
place grows proud for them who were born there.

There is to be, ere long, in every village, and in every neighborhood,
a glowing pride in its martyred heroes. Tablets shall preserve their
names. Pious love shall renew their inscriptions as time and the unfeeling
elements efface them. And the national festivals shall give multitudes
of precious names to the orator's lips. Children shall grow up under
more sacred inspirations, whose elder brothers dying nobly for
their country, left a name that honored and inspired all who bore it.

Orphan children shall find thousands of fathers and mothers to love and
help those whom dying heroes left as a legacy to the gratitude of the
public.

Oh, tell me not that they are dead--that generous hosts that airy army
of invisible heroes. They hover as a cloud of witnesses above this nation.
Are they dead that yet speak louder than we can speak, and a more
universal language? Are they dead that yet act? Are they dead that yet
move upon society, and inspire the people with nobler motives and more
heroic patriotism?

Ye that mourn, let gladness mingle with your tears.

It was your son: but now he is the nation's. He made your household
bright: now his example inspires a thousand households. Dear to his
brothers and sister's, he is now brother to every generous youth in the
land. Before, he was narrowed, appropriated, shut up to you. Now he is
augmented, set free, and given to all.

Before he was yours: he is ours. He has died from the family that he
might live to the nation. Not one name shall be forgot ten or
neglected:
and it shall by-and-by be confessed of our modern heroes, as it is
of an ancient hero, that he did more for his country by his death
than by his whole life.

Neither are they less honored who shall bear through life the marks of
wounds and sufferings.

Neither epaulette nor badge is so honorable as wounds received in a good
cause. Many a man shall envy him who henceforth limps. So strange is
the transforming power of patriotic ardor, that men shall almost covet
disfigurement. Crowds will give way to hobbling cripples, and
uncover in the presence of feebleness and helplessness. And buoyant
children shall pause in their noisy games, and with loving rererence
honor them whose hands can work no more, and whose feet are no longer
able to march except upon that journey which brings good men to honor
and immortality. Oh, mother of lost children! set not in darkness nor
sorrow whom a nation honors.

Oh, mourners of the early dead, they shall live again, and live forever.
Your sorrows are our gladness. The nation lives because you gave it men
that love it better than their own lives. And when a few more days shall
have cleared the perils from around the nation's brow, and she shall
sit in unsullied garments of liberty, with justice upon her forehead,
love in her eyes, and truth upon her lips, she shall not forget those
whose blood gave vital currents to her heart, and whose life, given to
her, shall live with her life till time shall be no more.

Every mountain and hill shall have its treasured name, every river shall
keep some solemn title, every valley and every lake shall cherish
its honored register; and till the mountains are worn out, and the rivers
forget to flow, till the clouds are weary of replenishing springs,
and the springs forget to gush, and the rills to sing, shall their names
be kept fresh with reverent honors which are inscribed upon the book
of National Remembrance.
H. W. Beecher.

CCCXIV.

ON THE CONFISCATION BILL.

Few of those engaged in this rebellion will ever be made to suffer in
their persons; and if they are to be left in the full possession and
enjoyment of their cotton, their lands, and their negroes, the innocent
will have been made to suffer while the guilty will go unpunished.
Shall the fathers of the gallant sons whose mangled bodies have been
borne back to Illinois by hundreds, from the bloody fields of
Belmont, of Donelson, and Pea Ridge, be ground down by onerous taxes,
which shall descend upon their children to the third and fourth
generations, to defray the expenses of defending the Government against
traitors, and we forbear to touch even the property of the authors
of these calamities, whose persons are beyond our reach?
Suppose ye that the loyal people of this country will submit to such
injustice?

I believe I represent as loyal, as patriotic and as brave a
constituency as any other Senator.

I claim nothing more.

While I am proud of the part which the soldiers of my own
State took in defeating the enemy in the West, I do not claim for them
any superiority over the other soldiers of the Republic.
The brave men who besieged Donelson, and who, after fighting through
the day for three consecutive days, lay each night on the ground without
shelter, exposed to the rain and sleet, were chiefly Illinoisans. It
was there that rebellion received the heavy blow which has staggered it
ever since. Forty dead bodies were borne from that bloody field to one
small town in my State, and buried in a common grave.

The Union forces at Pea Ridge were also largely made up of soldiers
from Illinois.

Suppose ye that I can go back to Illinois, among the relatives of those
who have been cruelly destroyed, and propose to levy taxes upon
them in order to conciliate and compensate the murderers, for that
is really what exempting rebel property from confiscation amounts to?

Sir, I know not if they would submit to such injustice; and yet there are
those who not only talk of an amnesty to the men who have brought these
troubles upon the country, but oppose providing the mild punishment
of confiscation of property for those who shall continue hereafter to
war upon the Government, and whose persons are beyond our reach. Do
gentlemen regard it as conciliatory to oblige us to lay taxes upon
those whose habitations have been consumed, to reward those who have
burned them?

upon those whose whole property has been stolen, to reward the
thieves?

upon those whose relatives have been slain, to compensate the
murderers?

In my judgment, justice, humanity, and mercy herself all demand that we
at once provide that the supporters of this cruel and wicked
rebellion should henceforth be made to feel its burdens.

When the rebels, whose hands are dripping with the blood of loyal
citizens, shall have grounded their arms, it will be time enough to talk
of clemency; but to have our sympathies excited in their behalf now,
when fighting to overthrow the Government, is cruelty to the loyal men
who have rallied to its support.
L. Trumbull.

CCCXV.

THE CRITTENDEN COMPROMISE.

Sir, what are the remedies that are proposed for the present condition
of things, and what have they been from the beginning? They have been
propositions of compromise; and Senators have spoken of peace, and of
the horrors of civil war; and gentlemen who have contended for the right
of the people of the Territories to regulate their own affairs, and
who have been horrified at the idea of a geographical line dividing
free States from slave States, free territory from slave territory,--and
we have proclaimed that the great principle upon which the Revolution
was fought was that of the right of the people to govern themselves,
and that it was a monstrous doctrine for Congress to interfere in
any way with its own Territories--these gentlemen come forward here
with propositions to divide the country on a geographical line; and
not only that, but to establish slavery south of the line; and they
call this the Missouri Compromise!

The proposition known as the Crittenden Compromise is no more like the
Missouri Compromise than is the government of Turkey like that of the
United States.
The Missouri Compromise was a law declaring that in all the territory
which we had acquired from Louisiana, north of a certain line of
latitude, slavery or involuntary servitude should never exist.

Early the next morning my friend, the chief of police,
Col. Moreno de Vascos, called on me, indignant and angry that I should
suffer such discourtesy. He was particularly indignant over the insult
to himself in not being consulted, so that he could have sent me a note
to call on him and explain. Then he turned to Pinkerton and told him to
liberate me, as he would be responsible for me whenever wanted. But the
captain knew what he was about, and knew his business too well and the
backing he had to pay any attention to Col. Vascos. I claimed the
protection of our Consul, but Torbet regretfully told me that on account
of the orders Pinkerton bore from the State Department at Washington he
was forced to consent to my detention, but he would not permit me to be
kept in the ordinary prison. So about 12 o'clock next day I was
transferred to the police barracks, and put into the lieutenant of
police's room and a guard of soldiers placed over me.

The New York Herald of the next day contained the following:

     (Editorial, New York Herald, Feb. 26, 1873.)

     "CUBAN AFFAIRS--BIDWELL'S IMPRISONMENT.

     "The special telegraphic advices which we publish to-day in
     reference to the arrest and imprisonment at Havana of Bidwell, one
     of the parties accused of the recent forgeries on the Bank of
     England, are very interesting, touching the jurisdiction of the
     Island authorities in this matter. It appears that Bidwell was
     arrested at the request of the British Government on the
     supposition that he was a British subject; but it is represented
     that he is a citizen of the United States of America, and that his
     arrest in Cuba is not justified by any extradition treaty with
     England, nor by any authority, except that of the Captain-General,
     whose will over the Island is the supreme law. If it can be
     established that Bidwell is a citizen of the United States his case
     certainly calls for the intervention of the Secretary of State. The
     prisoner, it seems, desires a transfer to New York, which is
     perfectly natural, but we suspect that the international
     difficulties suggested touching his detention in Cuba will not
     materially improve his chances of escape. Such proceedings could be
     carried out in no other country than Cuba, where the
     Captain-General does not always act in accordance with law.
     Distinguished lawyers and judges of that city, in conversation with
     the Herald correspondent, denounced the act as being utterly
     illegal and without precedent."


     (Cable dispatch to the London Times, March 3, 1873.)

                                         "Havana, Cuba, March 2, 1873.

     "Great efforts are being made by the lawyers and prominent citizens
     here to obtain the release of Bidwell, supposed to be Warren.
     To-morrow the American Consul will demand his release on the ground
     that he is an American citizen. The British Consul-General, E. H.
     Crawford, is doing everything in his power to counteract these
     efforts. There is great excitement here over Bidwell's arrest and
     the popular sympathy is with him."


     (By cable from Havana to New York Herald, March 31, 1873.)

     "Bidwell, the alleged Bank of England forger, whose arrest caused
     so much excitement here, escaped by jumping from the second story
     balcony of the police barracks late last night in the presence of
     his guards. He was partly dressed at the time. Bidwell and his wife
     are greatly liked here, and no doubt his Havana friends, seeing the
     impossibility of counteracting by legal means the efforts of the
     British Consul to secure his extradition, planned the affair.

     "It is the general opinion that John Bull has seen the last of
     Bidwell, there being dozens of planters in the district ready and
     willing to shelter him, which they can do effectually."

[Illustration: MAT-MAKING AT PENTONVILLE PRISON.]


CHAPTER XXXII.

NIGHTLY IN MY DUNGEON THE MAGICIAN MEMORY WOULD UNROLL THAT SCENE.


So at last justice had laid hold of me, but I thought it a very shaky
hold--so much so that I was confident that I could break away from her,
so that she could never weigh me in her balance.

I will not enter into the details of events in Havana for the next few
days--briefly told, I was nominally a prisoner; actually so, as regards
leaving the barracks. The commander, Col. Vascos, was a warm friend,
and, living in the barrack, he wanted me to dine at his table, but as I
was already planning an escape, I deemed it best not to accept.

My wife spent many hours with me daily. All my meals were brought from
the hotel. Nunn was kept a prisoner for two days, then liberated. I took
him into my confidence, telling him I was going to escape, and directed
him to make all outside arrangements for that event, and he was greatly
rejoiced when I told him he should accompany me in my flight.

Pinkerton, was awake to the danger of losing his man, and had lodged a
written protest with the English and American Consuls against my being
confined in the police barracks.

The only result was that Col. Vascos issued an order to keep him and his
men out of the barracks.

I had a great many visitors, including officers of the army and navy,
and all were loud in protestation and indignant at my arrest. None
seemed to care whether I was guilty or not, but all demanded my
liberation, as there was no extradition treaty and no law to surrender
me. Even my lawyer, the most influential in Cuba, assured me there was
not the slightest danger of my surrender, but I knew that the bankers
Rothschild would ask Spain to give me up, and to an impecunious
Government like that of Spain the word of a Rothschild was more potent
than that of a king.

Then I knew such bright men as William A. Pinkerton (who had arrived)
and his lieutenant, Capt. John Curtin, would never have made the mistake
of coming to Cuba without full powers; therefore, feeling confident that
my surrender would be only a question of time I resolved to escape.

At my request Col. Vascos had sent a guard of soldiers to my house and
brought to the barracks two of my trunks. I had $80,000 in cash and
bonds, besides many valuables as well, in them. I gave my wife $20,000
and my servant $1,000 in gold and $5,000 in Spanish bank notes. Curtin
had in vain tried to seize my luggage, but the Spanish law stood in his
way.

All this time the rebellion in the island was in full blast, the
insurgents--consisting of native Cubans, mulattoes and negroes
(ex-slaves)--held possession of the greater part of the Eastern
provinces--that is, the whole eastern end of the island, and the western
end, called Pinar del Rio. They had kept the flame of rebellion alive
for six years and were still making a desperate and fairly successful
fight to maintain themselves. The sympathies of the American people were
with them, and they looked to our country for arms and recruits. The
former were smuggled into the island as opportunity offered by a Cuban
committee in New York. Not many, but yet some, recruits went, for it was
death to be caught going or returning, and few ever returned. The civil
conflict was murderous, neither side giving quarter. The spirit of
adventure was strong upon me, and I resolved, if I escaped, to make my
way to the Western Province and join the insurgents for a year, then
make my escape by crossing the narrow body of water between Cape San
Antonio and the mainland of Central America.

Once among the rebels all pursuit of me was at an end, as army after
army had been sent from Spain to crush the rebellion, and each had in
turn melted away before the valor of the rebels or the deadly climate.

Nunn volunteered to accompany me, and I gave him $2,000 to send to his
wife in Paris, that his mind might be easy on that score. No one knew my
real destination save Nunn and my wife. It was hard to obtain her
consent, but at last it was given. I arranged with her that she was to
leave Havana as soon as she knew I was off, cross to Key West, wait one
month there, and, if she then heard nothing of me, she was to telegraph
my sister to meet her in New York, take the steamer to that city and
live with her until I rejoined her.

Among other things, Nunn, by my orders, procured good maps of the
country. A Spanish gentleman, a warm friend, but whose name I will not
mention, was my counselor in the plot. He advised me to go to the Isle
of Pines, as Senor Andrez had promised to keep me safely from all
pursuit. I let my friends think that was my destination. I proposed as
when on my visit to embark from Cajio, but to take a westward course
along the coast, and when well off Pinar del Rio and night fell to put
about and steer to shore under cover of the darkness. Once ashore, to
get as far inland as possible before dawn. Then to keep a lookout for
any body of rebels and join them as a volunteer in the cause of "free
Cuba." We were sure of a welcome, particularly as we would come well
armed.

[Illustration: BLACK MARIA CONVEYING THE FORGERS THROUGH LONDON IN
CHAINS.]

I had made it a practice to give the sentinels in the police barracks a
bottle of brandy every day and a box of cigars every second day during
my stay, besides what were to them valuable presents, so I was highly
popular in the barracks. We had fixed on the night of March 20 for the
venture.

My room was in the second story of the barracks, but I was allowed to go
freely through all the rooms on that floor, followed more or less by a
guard. None of the windows opened on the street. There was a room
leading to an open window, but the door was kept locked. It was arranged
to have it unlocked with the key on the inside at 10 o'clock that night.
I was to walk about as usual, and, when the hour came suddenly step
through the door, lock it behind me and then bolt through the window
into the street. Nunn and my friend were to await me outside of the
window with orders to shoot any man (not a native) who attempted to stop
me, as I feared Curtin or his men might be on guard in the street, and
once in the street I did not propose to go back again alive.

The guns and two extra revolvers had been made into a bundle and left at
the station. At a nearby room were disguises for Nunn and myself,
consisting simply of cloaks and whiskers. We intended to board the 10:30
train going South, and once well out of the station would dispense with
all disguise but the Spanish cloak each of us wore.

The day for the venture came. I had previously instructed my wife to
send word she was indisposed, and to remain at the hotel. She had very
bravely offered to be on hand and with me up to the moment I disappeared
through the door, but fearing that in the excitement some of the
soldiers might say or do something insulting, I forbade her being on the
scene. I had had an unusually large number of visitors during the day. I
felt but little anxiety over the result, save only on the side of
Pinkerton. I had a sort of suspicion or presentment that, once fairly
outside of the barracks, I would run against him. The day passed rapidly
away, and 6 o'clock came, and all the civil officials, with the horde of
hangers-on, departed, leaving the usual evening solitude in the
barracks. Soon Nunn came with my supper and cautiously produced a
revolver and belt. I strapped the belt around me under my vest, placing
the revolver under a pile of clothing. Nunn reported everything all
right. He had seen Curtin that day as usual around the hotel and
apparently unsuspicious of anything unusual going on.

The window I was to jump out of opened on the public street, and the
street would be jammed full of people at the hour I was going. Of course
there were a good many chances of failure, chiefly so because all the
police from top to bottom knew me by sight, and if one of them happened
to be one of the half hundred witnesses of my jump he might have wit
enough to seize me.

Nunn and my friend were to be under the window ready to act according to
circumstances. Above all, to be ready to seize hold of any one who
manifested any intention to detain me. Nunn was full of courage and
hope. At 7 o'clock he went away, not to see me again until we met
outside the barracks. I called the guard and three or four idle soldiers
into my room and served them out liberal doses of brandy. Unluckily
enough, however, the one on duty would drink but lightly. Soon after 8
Consul-General Torbet came in to smoke a cigar and have a chat. He
remained until nearly 10, and then departed. Then I felt the hour had
indeed come. I thrust the revolver inside my shirt, and rolled up a cap
and put it in the same place. Then calling the sentry, I gave him a
drink and a cigar, and stepping out into the hall, I began my usual
march around through the upper rooms of the barracks. I was to go out of
the window at precisely 10. It wanted ten minutes of that time. It was a
long ten minutes to me, but I marched around puffing my cigar
unconcernedly, with an eye on the door I was to slip through. At the
hour I had my watch in my hand, and was in the room farthest from the
door of exit into the room opening on the street. I walked swiftly
through the two intervening rooms and so was for a brief four or five
seconds out of sight of the slow following sentinel. I reached the door,
opened it, stepped through and instantly locked it. In a moment I was
through the open window into the little iron balcony outside. One swift
glance showed me the street thronged with people, but hesitation meant
failure and death. I climbed lightly over the railing and hung suspended
for an instant from the bottom; the crowd below made a circle from
under, and I dropped easily to the ground, bareheaded, of course. Nunn
was there, and instantly clapped a large straw hat on my head. The
strange incident did not seem to attract the least notice, for in a
moment we were lost in the crowd. I had my hand on my revolver, and had
so strong a belief I should every second be confronted by Curtin that I
was strangely surprised when I saw no sign of the gentleman. In less
time than it takes to tell it, I was down into an open hallway and then
into a room. I and Nunn, who were smooth-faced, were given bushy
whiskers and a cloak. In the mean time, I paid an agent in waiting
$10,000 in French and Spanish notes, then we hurried out of the rear
into a cab and were driven to the station, arriving just in time to
catch the 10:30 train.

The cab ride and train ride that night were happy rides. I had been a
captive and now was free. The sights and sounds all around me took on a
deeper purpose and a more significant meaning than they had ever borne
before.

I had for a few brief days been a captive, shut out from nature's sights
and sounds, and that brief deprivation awoke in me a feeling of
appreciation for the feast that is everywhere around us spread with a
lavish hand. My mind was in a tumult of delight, and I almost forgot I
was a fugitive; fortunately the Spaniard is not a suspicious animal, and
no notice was taken of us; and so we bumped slowly on southward through
the tropic night.

Seven o'clock on the morning of the 11th found us at Guisa, a small
station on the railroad about ninety miles from Havana and west from
Cajio some twenty miles. Our friend here procured us horses, and,
bidding him good-bye, Nunn and I started on our ride to Cajio. We were
both greatly elated over the success of our adventure. Our friends had
procured for us police passports and gun permits under the names of
Parish and Ellis.

I had a chronometer, several valuable diamonds, a revolver and gun. Nunn
carried a canvas bag containing, among other things, 250 capital cigars,
tobacco, matches and 300 cartridges. Then we had good maps of the island
and current charts of the Gulf of Mantabano, with its hundreds of rocky
inlets, spreading everywhere along the south coast. But, armed as we
were, it would never do to be picked up by any Spanish boat or patrol
anywhere near the rebel border. It probably meant death if we were
captured.

I think on the whole it would have been the wiser plan to have gone to
Senor Andrez's plantation at San Jose. The fear in that case was that if
an order arrived from Madrid to deliver me up I might not be safe even
in the Isle of Pines. At Cajio I resolved to lose myself so far as the
Spanish authorities were concerned, and only travel by night. If we
remained on land this would be necessary, as soldiers were everywhere
and our police passports would not hold good if we were found traveling
in the direction of the rebel lines.

I proposed going by sea, and then all our voyaging would necessarily be
by night, for there were Spanish gunboats everywhere patrolling around
the shores, but there were innumerable small inlets where we could draw
up our boat, lay perdu during the day and spy out the next island to
sail to at night.

[Illustration: CASTS OF THE HEADS OF NOTORIOUS CRIMINALS.]

We arrived in due time at Cajio, and here our passports were demanded by
a little yellow monkey of a sergeant. I did not quite like having
passports scrutinized and determined to try and avoid any more of it.

We found no boat at Cajio, nor could we buy, or, if we bought, could not
manage one alone. The only thing we could do was to charter one with a
crew of four men. During my stay in Cuba I had been studying Spanish. I
had become a tolerably proficient speaker, so I had no great difficulty
in associating with the natives.

I found my idea of joining the rebels by sea impracticable, and as to go
by land was perilous in the extreme, I made up my mind to send Nunn back
to Havana and to make the venture alone. I did not care to chance his
life, and I also felt that it was safer for one than for two.

Forty miles away was the last fortified post on the Rio Choerra, at the
small town of Voronjo. Once across that small stream I would be on
neutral ground, liable at any time to fall in with a rebel band.

Nunn was very plucky and most devoted. He by no means wanted to go back,
but at last consented.

I determined to chance traveling on the beach by night. So at 12 o'clock
the day after our arrival at Cajio we mounted our horses and announced
that we were returning to Havana. Two miles away, at the small hamlet of
Zoringa, we put our horses out and struck for the beach about four miles
west of Cajio. Then we went a few yards into the jungle and sat down for
our last talk and to wait for the darkness. We were no longer master and
servant, but friends. The hours went slowly by; we did not say much, but
felt strongly. We had good cigars and smoked almost incessantly.

I told him to see Curtin, to give him my regards and laugh at him in a
nice way, and to tell my wife that I would limit my stay with the rebels
to a year. I told Nunn to send for his wife to join him in New York, and
my wife would take her into service so that they could be together.

I did not dare to keep the gun we had, but retained the revolvers in a
belt around my waist. They were rather old-fashioned, and, as the sequel
proved, the ammunition was not waterproof or else was defective. I had
two bottles of water, a hundred cigars in my pocket, 300 cartridges,
four pounds of dried beef and a loaf of bread. I wore a soft hat and had
on a fine pair of English walking boots, an important article for the
tramp ahead of me. I wore my chronometer tied by a stout string. I sent
my wife all my valuables save three diamond studs, $700 in gold and
$5,000 in notes, mostly Spanish bank notes, and I kept $10,000 in bonds.

Nunn cut me a stout ironwood cudgel as a handy weapon.

At last the night came, and still we waited, loath to say good-bye. We
had come out of the jungle and were sitting in the still warm sand
talking in low tones and watching the stars. At last when my watch told
me it was 10 we rose, and, shaking hands warmly, parted, he going east
to Cajio, I west toward Pinar del Rio and the rebel camps.

Of course, my great danger lay in meeting soldiers who would stop me.
Indeed any one who met a stranger and a foreigner heading west would
either stop him or give an alarm, and if once arrested (passports so
near the enemy's camp were useless) it meant death, or what was quite as
bad, incarceration in a filthy prison until my case was reported on to
the Captain-General in Havana. That, of course, meant my return to
Havana and possibly to England.

Everything is very primitive in Cuba. The common people--that is, the
whites and free people--live in mere huts or cabins, and sleep in
hammocks under roofs open on two sides. All go to bed soon after sunset,
so there was no danger in night traveling, save only in meeting the
sentries or running on some detached post of soldiers.

In case of meeting these, I had resolved to plunge into the tropical
jungle which came close down to the beach.

Neither night traveling nor the situation had any terrors for me. I
felt my only danger lay in stumbling upon some outpost or sentry who
might perceive me before I saw him and so cover me with his rifle before
challenging, but I knew from observation since my arrival in Cuba that
the discipline among the Spanish soldiers was very slack, and I had a
pretty firm belief that isolated sentries usually took a nap while
waiting the relief.

After leaving Nunn I started out at a quick pace, alert and confident.
The moon had gone down, but the Caribbean Sea was lovely in the
starlight, and between watching the phosphorescent ripples of the waters
and listening to the night noises of the jungle I soon discovered I was
enjoying my jaunt and found myself anticipating the pleasure of the
free, open life ahead of me when once beyond the Spanish outposts and a
soldier of fortune. I thought what a story of adventure I would have to
relate when a year or two later I rejoined my wife and friends, and I
felt that a good record won in a fight for "free Cuba" would make men
willing to forget my past.

I found my westward march frequently interrupted by spooks--some rock,
stump or bush would, to my suspicious eye, take on the human form until
I thought it was a sentry on guard and meant danger. Once or twice I
sought the shelter of the jungle and spent a long time watching for some
sign of movement. On one occasion I painfully made a circuit of nearly a
mile to pass a projecting mass of bushes in the belief that there were
men behind it. The air was balmy as on a June night at home. I trudged
along with my two bottles of water slung across my shoulder tied to a
cord, and between them and my revolvers and cartridges I was pretty well
loaded down.

Nowhere during the night did I come across any fresh water, but was
fated to have a water adventure before daylight which I did not relish.
Soon after midnight I sat down on the sand well in the shadow of some
palmetto trees and had a very enjoyable lunch of bread and dried beef,
washed down by water from my bottle; then lighting a cigar and reclining
at full length on the dry sand I passed a pleasant half hour enjoying
the fine Havana. I looked forward to the hours of daylight to be spent
reclining at ease in the jungle with many anticipations of pleasure. I
had a supply of fine cigars, plenty to think about, and the
consciousness of having overcome serious difficulties gave me a feeling
of elation--then my surroundings were so novel and I was fond of outdoor
life.

At 4 o'clock the sky put on a ragged edge of gray in the east, and
feeling pretty well satisfied with my progress I began to think of
selecting a retreat for the hours of daylight. Suddenly I found myself
upon what was evidently the neck of a swamp extending far and wide into
the land. I had discovered during the night that there was a
well-traveled road skirting and following the beach at a distance of a
few hundred yards, but there was danger of my meeting some one there, so
I stuck to the beach.

In the middle of the swamp was a clear space of water with marshy banks.
As it was nearly daylight, and being in no hurry, my presence in the
country unknown, and in no immediate danger, I determined to halt and
not tackle the swamp until nightfall again. Then, if seen by any one, I
would have some hours of darkness to make myself scarce in the
neighborhood.

Turning to follow the edge of the swamp I saw before me on a little
lower level than where I stood in the sand what appeared a plot of vivid
green grass, and without any precaution stupidly stepped with my full
weight upon it, and instantly found myself floundering in four feet of
mud and water. I had fallen, and getting back on the solid ground I
found myself wet to the shoulders, my legs covered with mud and my
pistols, bread, etc., soaking with salt water. At once I ran across the
beach and sat down in the warm water of the sea, washing off the mud
as well as possible. Then I made my way into the jungle, crossing the
road, and going into the thicket a short distance sat down waiting for
daylight, purposing to remain concealed near enough to the road to see
all passers-by, so that I might judge what sort of people I was among.

[Illustration: DARTMOOR CONVICT ESTABLISHMENT.--ABOUT 2000 PRISONERS.]

As the ground where I stood was low and wet, and my clothes soaking, I
feared catching the fever, so made my way well back to where some fallen
trees had made a rift in the dense mass of trunks, creepers and foliage,
letting in the sunlight. There I pulled off my garments to dry, taking
great care not to let any of the poisonous leaves come into contact with
my flesh, and made myself comfortable, sitting down to lunch nearly in
the state of nature. I was more concerned over my damaged cigars than my
dampened cartridges. On examination I found the cigars but slightly wet,
so, spreading them out to dry along with the drapery, I lit one and
surveyed the position. As the moisture was already steaming out of my
garments I took matters cheerfully and considered the outlook good.

Having finished one of my bottles of water, I made up my mind to carry
only one, and to take my chance of replenishing that. So long as my
health continued perfect I did not require much water; what I feared was
that my exposure and change of diet might make me feverish; if so, I
would suffer from thirst unless I struck a hilly country.

How much company my watch was to me during those long days and nights! I
was never tired of examining it. About 10 o'clock I made my way to the
road and placed myself in a mass of foliage, where unseen by any one I
had quite a range of the road. Up to this hour I had not seen a soul. At
first I watched the little stretch of road with eagerness, but no one
appearing I turned my attention to watching the evolutions of a huge
yellow spider which was spreading its net near by. While absorbed, and
almost fascinated, I was suddenly roused by the sharp, quick beating of
hoofs on the sandy road. Giving a startled glance, I saw a man unarmed,
but evidently a soldier, gallop quickly by on a mule. Twenty minutes
later an old-fashioned cart containing four half-dressed negroes and
drawn by four wretched mules passed. The men were silent and downcast.
Before 1 o'clock thirty people had passed, several being soldiers of the
guardia civil (armed police).

Then starting to spy out the land from the bushes and vines bordering
the swamp I could see a bridge crossing the neck of the swamp, but,
worst of all, quite a collection of houses at the other side, reaching
down to the beach, and a wharf that ran out into the water quite fifty
yards, with, no doubt, a guardhouse and police station among them. I saw
my way blocked. It seemed certain there would be sentries on guard at
the bridge, or so near it as to make it impossible for me to cross
unobserved. The swamp extended inland apparently for three or four
miles, and the jungle grew so dense as to make it impossible to
penetrate it in an effort to go around, so I determined not to venture
crossing the bridge, but to swim for it.

The swamp spread on both sides of the lagoon, and there was no such
thing as wading in that almost liquid morass, so I tried to find by
daylight a place where the mud was covered with water enough at least to
make swimming possible, but no such place could I find.

Everywhere a black tangled mass of rotting leaves and creepers spread,
making such a horrible slime that I shrank from attempting to cross it
to the open water. Once over that there was the same ordeal to go
through on the other side, and I knew I could only do it at full
length--that is, to lie flat and pull myself along as well as possible.
The simplest way was to wade out into the sea, then to swim far enough
outside of the pier to escape observation from any one who might chance
to be on it.

But this involved the chance of a horrible death, the sea there swarming
with sharks, which at night come in shore. Therefore, after cogitating
the matter, I resolved to attempt the bridge, taking the risk of being
seen. It might prove fatal to be seen, as I would have to bolt back, and
once knowing a fugitive was in the jungle they might turn out and hedge
me in, unless I took the sea route. This I resolved to do, if the one by
the bridge proved impracticable.

So during the afternoon I gathered a small lot of dried limbs and broke
them off in sufficient quantity to make a raft capable of bearing about
twenty pounds. On this I intended to put my revolvers, cartridges,
cigars, etc., and also to rest lightly on it myself, pushing it before
me as I swam. After dark I crossed the road into the jungle skirting the
beach, carrying my raft, and deposited it on the sand. Lying down in the
hot sand near by smoking a cigar, I waited for the moon to go down. I
was doing more than watch the stars and moonlit water. I was saying to
myself, "What a jolly world is this!"

Then, beginning to argue of human destiny, at last I brought the
argument around to Ego, and decided that he was a pretty clever fellow,
and that the world meant to treat him well. So Ego, settling down into a
very comfortable frame of mind, lighting a fresh cigar and looking
across at the dark masses of the coral islets crowned with foliage set
in the mirrored waters, passed two delightful hours.

I watched the moon go down and was not impatient, for the beauty of the
scene more even than the novelty of the position cast a charm over the
spirit and soothed the eye and mind. I wondered how many were seeking me
and how many thousands were speculating over my identity and
whereabouts, yet not one in his wildest imagination could ever picture
the reality of my position in all its strange and magic surroundings.
Through all the coming twenty years, nightly in my dungeon, the
magician memory would unroll that scene from his pictured chambers. It
was all there--the physical that the eye took in and the thoughts evoked
and sent swarming to the brain, there to remain engraved until life and
memory end.

[Illustration: SCENE NEAR RIO JANEIRO.]


CHAPTER XXXIII.

SHARKS, SALT WATER ONES, AND OTHER THINGS.


The bridge had no protection along the side save a simple stringpiece of
timber. On the far side the houses rested nearly against the bridge
entrance, forming a street, which I had to pass through.

The moon went down at 10, but I could hear loud voices and occasional
bursts of laughter until 11. Then all grew still save the night noises
of the woods and swamps.

At midnight I carried my raft down to the edge of the water, then
leaving it there for use in case of a repulse, with my ironwood stick in
my left hand and my revolver in the right, I marched down to the bridge,
but fearing my upright figure might be seen, dark as it was, outlined
against the sky, I stooped and crawled along the stringpiece of timber
until within twenty feet of the large house at the end of the bridge.
Peering through the gloom I listened, but could not see or hear any
movement. Straightening myself up I took half a dozen paces, when, in
the stillness, I heard a sharp crackle that turned me to stone as the
flame of a wax match revealed two soldiers sitting on a bench within the
porch of the guardhouse not ten feet away. One had struck the match to
light a cigarette. The flame that betrayed them to me showed to them my
form outlined on the bridge.

There was a sudden exclamation, a hail, "Quien va!" then a sudden and
thrilling rattle of accoutrements, but I had turned and was flying back
across the bridge. Suddenly a rifle shot rang out sharply on the night;
a second followed, but I was unharmed. In ten seconds I was beside my
little raft, and, pushing it before me, waded out in the shallow water.
When up to my knees I halted, unstrapped my revolvers and placed them on
the raft. Then pulling off my shoes I put them and my load on the raft,
fastening all with a string put there for the purpose. Sticking my knife
through the lapel of my coat and resting my chin on the raft I began to
swim, keeping well out, so as to go outside the long wharf.

In the mean time everything was in commotion ashore. Two more shots were
fired, and flashes of the guns proved that a squad had turned out and
had crossed the bridge in hot pursuit. Then I blessed the wise
forethought that had led me to construct the raft. Certainly it had
saved me, for they would surely search the jungle.

During the fearful excitement I had forgotten all about the sharks. In
the darkness I had given all my attention to trying to get a glimpse of
the wharf. Suddenly, near me in the calm and awful stillness, there
sprang out of the dark waters a large fish which fell back with a
splash.

My heart stood still and my blood seemed to freeze, for to my horror I
fancied I saw the black fins of numberless sharks cutting the water. I
saw myself dragged down into the awful depths and torn limb from limb,
by the fierce and hungry monsters. I gave up hope and ceased my
swimming, expecting every minute to see the water churned into angry
foam by the furious sharks. Instinctively I placed my hand on the knife
I had thrust through the lapel of my coat for just such an emergency,
but strength and courage were all gone and my nerveless hand could not
draw it out. It seemed a long time that I waited, half dazed, for death,
which I hoped when it came would be swift.

Then I began swimming again, but in a hopeless way. My nerve was all
gone. I fancied I was ringed around with the black-finned devils, and
thought I could discern the currents from their waving tails; but I kept
on swimming, pushing my raft before me, until suddenly I was thrilled
through by my foot striking the bottom.

Making a rush for the shore, and once there, heedless of the fact that I
was in the rear of the houses, I fell down in the sand, weak and
panting, and there I lay until strength enough to walk came to me. Then,
taking my baggage from the raft, and cutting the cords that bound it
together, I started on. Courage and confidence soon came back, and I
kept steadily on for three hours, passing several small salt water
inlets, but no fresh water to fill my now empty bottle.

At the first sign of day I went just within the border of the jungle,
and lying down was soon asleep, and sleeping soundly, too, for waking I
found the sun high in the heavens, and, looking at my watch, saw it was
9 o'clock. At the same time I discovered that I was hungry, with no food
save a small piece of dried beef and not a drop of water in my bottle.

The salt water lagoon, or inlet, where I had my adventure of the
previous night was marked on my map as a river, but it was not. However,
I did not worry over the water question, as I knew I was near the hilly
country surrounding the town of Alguizor, an important military
headquarters, and I was confident of soon meeting some creek flowing
from the hills. As for food, there were to be found in the dense jungle,
where the soil was moist and wet, the holes of the nut crabs. They were
large and fat--that is, appeared to be fat--and I knew that with plenty
of them in the jungle I should not suffer from hunger.

Before starting inland for the day I turned to look at the blue waters
rippling under a light breeze, and glancing in the sun, only a few yards
away, I smiled to think of the phantoms my fears had conjured up, but
for all that I resolved that no more night swims in the sea should find
place in my programme.

I made my way with difficulty through the tangled woods, but had gone
nearly a mile before I came to the road. After a cautious survey from my
shelter, I stepped out on it, and looking away to the west I saw
cultivated hills with teams and people moving about; I also saw the road
became two--the right-hand one led away from the coast into the hills,
the one to the left continued to skirt the beach. Both roads were well
traveled, and I knew I was near the tobacco belt, which is cultivated
throughout its entire length, from the Gulf to the Caribbean Sea, for a
breadth of twenty miles, its western border touching the province of
Pinar del Rio. Forty miles beyond that border the rebels held the town
of San Cristoval, but I had made up my mind to follow the coast until I
reached the hamlet and harbor of Rio de San Diego, fifty miles south
from San Cristoval, then to strike north to the town of Passos, twenty
miles west of San Cristoval. Once past San Diego, I would be well within
the rebel lines, and could safely show myself, although I determined not
to do so voluntarily until I was at Passos.

The roundabout way I was traveling doubled the distance, but, aside from
getting outside the lines of the Spanish patrols, I was in no particular
hurry, and my mode of life was hardening and fitting me for the service
in which I was to embark. I counted upon taking ten days, or rather
nights, to reach San Diego, and five from there to Passos, where I would
make myself known to the rebel chiefs as an American volunteer in the
cause of Cuban liberty. And, I thought, what a change of scene for Mr.
F. A. Warren. From the Bank of England to a volunteer in a rebel camp in
Cuba!

[Illustration: MILITARY SUPPRESSING REVOLT OF CONVICTS AT CHATHAM.]

I crossed the road and entered the jungle to pass the day, but as the
ground was dry the trees and vines were not so closely matted, making it
easier to move about, and a far more agreeable place it was for a
daylight picnic than the jungle where I had passed the day before.
But no crabs showed themselves, and as there was no animal life to be
found, there was nothing but my piece of dried beef to be had "to go
into the interior," so I dined off that; then, lighting one of my
precious cigars, lay down in a sort of fairy bower to enjoy myself, and
succeeded. During the entire day no sight or sound of human form or
voice came to me, nor yet of animal life, save only a mateless bird,
garbed in green that flitted around. Of course, not a drop of water this
whole day long for me, and, though I was moderately thirsty, I did not
suffer, despite the fact that I smoked several cigars. But I felt that I
must have food and drink that night, whatever risk I incurred in
securing it. I determined, therefore, to start early on my journey and
get food before the country people were all in bed. As soon as night
fell I stepped out on the road and cautiously started westward. Knowing
there must be some town or hamlet near by, I purposed to enter, spy out
some shop and watch until the shopkeeper was alone, then enter and
purchase a supply of such food as he had, then march out and disappear
as quickly as possible.

Soon after starting I came to a small place such as the poor whites of
the country inhabit, and seeing two women in the doorway I walked in,
and with a salute and "Buenas noches, senoritas," I asked for water
(agua); they responded with alacrity and brought me some in a cocoanut
shell. I saw it was vile stuff, with an earthy taste, but thirsty as I
was it tasted like nectar. There was some food on a wooden dish inside,
and I suppose they saw me looking at it, for the older woman ran in and
returned bringing me two roasted plantains and a rice cake. Just then I
discovered a man inside and two others came up from the rear of the
house, or I would have purchased food of the women; but, seeing them, I
thanked the ladies, and, saying good night, disappeared in the darkness.
Picking up the empty bottle I had left in the road I walked on,
feasting as I went on my roasted plantains. How nice they tasted!

A mile ahead I came to a tumbledown roadhouse, with quite a crowd of
loud-voiced men standing around, who evidently had been indulging in the
fiery aguardiente sold there. Like the Levite and priest, I passed by on
the other side, giving the place a wide berth. Soon after I entered a
town or hamlet of a dozen houses. Two or three passed me in the darkness
with a "Buenas noches, senor," to which I mumbled some reply, they
doubtless taking me for a neighbor. Two uniformed men, evidently police
or soldiers, were lounging in the only shop, and I dared not enter until
they were gone. Planting myself in a deep shadow, I sat down waiting for
them to go out, but they showed no sign of moving until a shrill voice
from a female throat issued from a nearby house, bidding one of the
loungers to lounge no more just then, and he, hurriedly obeying the
summons, went; soon his companion followed; then, leaving my empty
bottle in the road, and with my hand on the revolver in my outside
pocket, I entered the shop. The easy-going Cuban shopkeeper paid no
particular attention to me, did not even stop rolling the cigarette he
was making. After deliberately lighting it, he lazily responded to my
"Buenas noches, senor," I saw bread, cakes and ham, and ordered of each;
then, seeing some Spanish wine, I took a bottle; also a bottle of
pickles. Producing a $10 Spanish bank note, I paid the bill, and emerged
into the night with the precious load, and so strong was the animal
instinct of hunger upon me that I would have fought to death sooner than
surrender the provisions I carried.

Picking up my empty bottle I looked out for a chance to fill it as I
walked through the town on the main road, which went straight west, but
intending to abandon it as soon as I came to the fields and found it was
safe to sit down for a feast, then make my way to the beach, now some
two miles away, and put in a good distance before daylight. But for two
mortal hours the road was bordered by impenetrable walls of cactus and
bayonet grass, and to make the matter worse the moon came out from
behind the clouds and poured a flood of light on the open road. Twice
men on horseback passed me, coming from the opposite direction, and both
times I sank down in the shadow of the cactus, both times with revolver
in hand, but dreading an encounter, as the noise of firing might wake a
hornets' nest about my ears.

At last I came to a road which entered a field. I was soon over the bars
and found myself in an old tobacco plantation, now partly planted in
Spanish beans. Crossing a couple of fields at the foot of the hills and
in going over a triangular piece of ground, I found the ruins of a
house, and nearby a small stream of water. I was in luck, and, taking a
good drink and filling my bottle, I sat down in a convenient shadow and
spread out my eatables. They were a goodly sight, and consisted of four
pounds of good ham, a dozen good-sized sweet cakes, two loaves of bread,
a bottle of pickles and one of wine, and one of water. I began with a
drink of wine, then followed ham and bread and cake for dessert, all
washed down with a fine long drink of water. Then lighting a cigar I
stretched myself at full length and spent a delightful hour star-gazing.

Then I arose, took another drink of wine, but as it was not particularly
select, threw the remainder away, and, filling both bottles from the
brook, I prepared to march.

How I wish the kodak fiend existed then and that one of them had
happened along just then to take a snap shot at me as I stood there in
full marching order, with my water bottles slung over my shoulders, my
eatables tied up in a large silk handkerchief, with my garments all in
tatters, the result of thorns and creepers snatching at them in my
jungle trampings; but, worst of all, my trusty and precious walking
boots were beginning to show signs of rough usage.

I struck the road leading to the beach and marched westward, but it was
an unknown land, and I was in constant fear of running against some
military post or patrol, being thus constantly delayed by long halts to
watch some suspicious object or by making long detours to avoid them.
Once I had a fright. Two men on horseback riding on the sandy road were
almost on me before I saw or heard them, and I only had time to sink
into the shadow as they passed almost within reach of my hand. Both were
smoking the everlasting cigarette, and were engaged in earnest talk.
Daylight came and found me not more than eight or ten miles further on
my journey, but I was very well content as I pitched my camp for the
day. I had a royal feast, then, after a cigar, lay down to sleep in
another fairy bower and slept until noon, and awoke to find myself
wondering how matters were going with Capt. Curtin in Havana, rather
amused over the state of chagrin I knew he must be in. I thought of a
possible future meeting some years ahead, when, all danger over, I would
see and chaff him over a bottle of Cliquot and the $50,000 he wouldn't
have, and how I went all the same and saved the money.

I realized I must be frugal or my provisions would never hold out; so,
after a light lunch, I began to make my way slowly to the beach through
the tangled maze of trees and vines. Coming in sight of the blue waters
I lay down to sleep again and awoke when the stars were out. The moon
would not go down till late, but as there was a deep, broad shadow cast
by the trees I walked in it.

Good food and the long day of rest restored my strength. All my
confidence returned, and I made good progress. At last the moon went
down, and then I pressed rapidly forward, always with revolver in hand,
ready for instant action. I think I made fully twenty-five miles this
night, but as the coast was indented my progress in a straight direction
was not more than half that distance. Just as it began to grow gray in
the east I came out on a wide inlet. It ran deep into the land. I
recognized it from my map as Puerto del Gato, and then I knew I was in
the province of Pinar del Rio and almost out of danger.

I went into the bush again and pitched camp, waiting for daylight to
come and reveal my surroundings. Pitching camp consisted in scraping a
few leaves together and lying down; but this morning I was too excited
to sleep. I felt that I was near my goal, after having safely gone
through many dangers. Once across the Puerto del Gato, two nights of
travel would place me outside of the farthest Spanish pickets and bring
me among friends, far beyond chance of pursuit, and I also knew that the
mere knowledge of my presence in the rebel camp would cause all thought
of pursuit to be dropped.

When daylight came I stood and looked around. Across the inlet, twenty
miles away, I could see only dark masses of green, with no sign of life.
To the north the land was hilly, with houses here and there in the
distance, and signs of animal life. I cautiously searched the shore for
a mile in the hope of finding a boat to cross to the other shore of the
inlet, but none was in sight.

About 9 o'clock I saw smoke off at sea, and soon I made out a small
Spanish gunboat coming rapidly up. Dropping anchor about a mile up the
inlet, she sent a boat ashore. I was feeling sleepy, and, going into the
woods again, I took a light lunch, and, emptying one bottle of water,
lay down to sleep, resolved to make my plans when I awoke. I did not
like the appearance of this gunboat; it seemed to promise the presence
of the enemy in force around me, besides being a visible manifestation
of the power of that enemy.

When I awoke from my nap I started on a cautious spying out of the land,
making my way toward the head of the inlet, but keeping always under the
protection of the woods. While going cautiously along I was startled by
the notes of a bugle ringing out some military call not far away, and a
moment later the gunboat replied with a gun, then steamed out to sea.
Continuing my progress through the woods I came to the road, and, hiding
securely in a thicket where I could see unseen, I watched. Soon I heard
the sound of voices, and then a detail of armed men passed, going
leisurely east, escorting an empty wagon drawn by four mules. It meant
much, these armed escorts, showing they were in the face of the enemy.
Several others passed during the hour of my watch. Then, with many
cautious glances up and down the road, I slipped quietly across and
crept for two hours through the jungle. Making my way to the side of the
bay, I saw that I had left the military post behind me. There were white
barracks and a wharf with people walking on it, and here the road and
beach were one. This much discovered, I went a safe distance into the
jungle and lay down to have a good sleep, feeling I would need all my
energy and strength for the coming night, as it promised to be a
critical one, especially as I could not afford to wait for the moon to
go down, and would not have the shelter of darkness, for the moonlight
was so powerful that one could easily read print by it.

I slept until dark, and awoke refreshed, then lunched and nearly
finished my last bottle of water. I had only sufficient food for two
more light meals. After lunch I smoked for an hour, star-gazing and
philosophizing. At 9 o'clock, emerging into the road, I started
cautiously out, walking in the shadow of the jungle as much as possible.
I thought the head of the inlet was about ten miles away, and expected
to find a military post or at least a picket stationed there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Daylight once more. But it found me happy and content, for the
difficulties of the passage of the wide inlet, which had confronted me
the night before, had all been surmounted. I was now in a densely wooded
point on the western side of the bay. Between me and San Diego lay a
wild no man's land of fifty miles. That meant only two nights more of
peril and uncertainty, and it was all straight going. So far as the
coast line was concerned I was outside of the Spanish lines. Tired out
and very well contented, just as the sun rose fiery red above the
horizon, I lay down and was at once in dreamland. At noon, hungry and
with only a few ounces of food to satisfy my hunger, I woke. Finishing
my last bit of ham and bread, I lighted a cigar and set about planning.
Pulling out my little map, I began to scan it for the thousandth time.
About six miles to the north was the little town of San Miguel. Between
me and San Diego lay fifty miles of wild country swept by fire and
sword, without an inhabitant and without food. Hungry as I already was,
I felt it would not do to undertake a two days' journey through that
wilderness without eating. Of course I made a mistake. I was clear of
the toils, and I ought to have taken every and any chance rather than
enter the enemy's lines again.

I resolved, soon after night came, to set out for San Miguel, watch my
chance to enter a shop and purchase food, then, beating a hasty retreat,
strike out across the country straight for San Diego, there to find
myself among friends in the rebel camp.

I set out and without any particular adventure arrived about 9 o'clock
at San Miguel. It proved to be a hamlet with the houses ranged close
together on opposite sides of the streets. The moonlight cast a deep
shadow on one side, while the opposite side was almost like day. I stood
in the deep shadow watching. The first building was evidently a police
or military barrack. The door was wide open, but no one was visible
inside. About five doors off was a shop, but the door was closed, and
from where I stood there appeared no sign of life within. I waited about
ten minutes, and rashly concluding that there was no one save the
proprietor there, I stepped out of the shadow into the moonlight and
hurrying across the street, put my hand on the door, opened it and
stepping within found myself in the presence of twenty soldiers, all
gossiping, smoking or gambling. Belts and cartridge boxes along with
bayonets decorated the walls or were lying about on boxes and barrels.

All eyes were turned on me. I saw myself in a fearful trap and nothing
but consummate coolness could keep them from questioning me. Bardell's
house. I shall show you that Mrs. Bar-dell, during the whole of that
time, waited on him, attended to his comforts, cooked his meals, looked
out his linen for the washerwoman when it went abroad, darned,
aired, and prepared it for wear when it came home, and, in short,
enjoyed his fullest trust and confidence.

I shall show you that, on many occasions, he gave half-pence, and on some
occasions even sixpences, to her little boy; and I shall prove to you,
by a witness whose testimony it will be impossible for my learned friend
to weaken or controvert, that on one occasion he patted the boy on the
head, and after inquiring whether he had won any alley-tors or commoneys
lately, (both of which I understand to be species of marbles much prized
by the youth of this town,) made use of this respectable expression--"How
would you like to have another father?"
Two letters have passed between these parties, letters which are admitted
to be in the handwriting of the defendant, and which speak volumes
indeed.
These letters, too, bespeak the character of the man. They are not open,
fervid, eloquent epistles, breathing nothing but the language of affectionate
attachment. They are covert, sly, underhanded communications, but,
fortunately, far more conclusive than if couched in the most glowing
language and the most poetic imagery--letters that must be viewed
with a cautious and suspicious eye--letters that were evidently
intended at the time, by Pickwick, to mislead and delude any third
parties into whose hands they might fall.

Let me read the first:--"Garraway's, twelve o'clock--Dear Mrs. B.--Chops
and tomato sauce.

Yours, Pickwick." Gentlemen, what does this mean? Chops and tomato sauce.
Yours, Pickwick! Chops! Gracious heavens! and tomato sauce! Gentlemen,
is the happiness of a sensitive and confiding female to be trifled away
by such shallow artifices as these? The next has no date whatever,
which is in itself suspicions--"Dear Mrs. B.--I shall not be at home
to-morrow. Slow coach." And then follows this very remarkable expression:--"Don't
trouble yourself about the warming-pan!" The warming-pan! Why, gentlemen,
who does trouble himself about a warming-pan?
When was the peace of mind of man or woman broken or disturbed about
a warming-pan, which is in itself a harmless, a useful, and I will
add, gentlemen, a comforting article of domestic furniture?

Why is Mrs. Barbell so earnestly entreated not to agitate herself about
this warming-pan, unless (as is no doubt the case) it is a mere cover
for hidden fire--a mere substitute for some endearing word or promise,
agreeable to some preconcerted system of correspondence, artfully
contrived by Pickwick with a view to his contemplated desertion, and
which I am not in a condition to explain? And what does this allusion to
the slow coach mean?

For aught I know it may be a reference to Pickwick himself, who has most
unquestionably been a criminally slow coach during the whole of
this transaction, but whose speed will now be very unexpectedly accelerated,
and whose wheels, gentlemen, as he will find to his cost, will
soon be greased by you!

But enough of this, gentlemen: it is difficult to smile with an aching
heart; it is ill jesting when our deepest sympathies are awakened. My
client's hopes and prospects are ruined, and it is no figure of
speech to say that her occupation is gone indeed. The bill is down--but
there is no tenant. Eligible single gentlemen pass and repass but there
is no invitation for them to inquire within, or without. All is gloom and
silence in the house; even the voice of the child is hushed; his infant
sports are disregarded when his mother weeps; his "alley-tors" and
his "commoneys" are alike neglected; he forgets the long familiar
cry of "knuckle-down," and at tip-chesse, or odd-and-even, his hand
is out.

But Pickwick, gentlemen, Pickwick, the ruthless destroyer of this
domestic oasis in Goswell Street-Pickwick, who has choked up the well,
and thrown ashes on the sward--Pickwick, who comes before you to-day
with his heartless tomato sauce and warming-pans--Pickwick still
rears his head with unblushing effrontery, and gazes without a
sigh on the ruin he has made. Damages, gentlemen--heavy damages, is the
only punishment with which you can visit him; the only recompense
you can award to my client.

And for those damages she now appeals to an enlightened, a high-minded,
a right-feeling, a conscientious, a dispassionate, a sympathizing,
a contemplative jury of her civilized countrymen.
C. Dickens

CCCXLIX.

MR. PUFF'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF.

Sir,--I make no secret of the trade I follow.

Among friends and brother authors, I love to be frank on the subject,
and to advertise myself vivâ
vocé. I am, sir, a practitioner in panegyric; or, to speak more plainly,
a professor of the art of puffing, at your service--or anybody's else.
I dare say, now, you conceive half the very civil paragraphs and
advertisements you see to be written by the parties concerned, or
their friends.

No such thing; nine out of ten manufactured by me, in the way of business.
Yon must know, sir, that from the first time I tried my hand at an
advertisement, my success was such, that for some time after I led a most
extraordinary life, indeed. Sir, I supported myself two years entirely
by my misfortunes; by advertisements To the charitable and humane! and
To those whom Providence has blessed with affluence! And, in truth,
I deserved what I got; for I suppose never man went through such a
series of calamities in the same space of time.

Sir, I was five times made a bankrupt, and reduced from a state of affluence,
by a train of unavoidable misfortunes; then, sir, though a very
industrious tradesman, I was twice burned out, and lost my little all
both times. I lived upon those fires a month. I soon after was
confined by a most excruciating disorder, and lost the use of my limbs.

That told very well; for I had the case strongly attested, and went
about to collect the subscriptions myself. I was afterwards twice tapped
for a dropsy, which declined into a very profitable consumption. I was
then reduced to--O no!--then I became a widower with six helpless
children. All this I bore with patience, though I made some occasional
attempts at felo de se; but, as I did not find those rash actions answer,
I left off killing myself very soon. Well, sir, at last, what with
bankruptcies, fires, gouts, dropsies, imprisonments, and other valuable
calamities, having got together a pretty handsome sum, I determined
to quit a business which had always gone rather against my conscience,
and in a more liberal way still to indulge my talents for fiction and
embellishments, through my favorite channel of diurnal communication;
and so, sir, you have my history.
R. B. Sheridan.

     CCCL.
     
     LYCEUM SPEECH OF MR. ORATOR CLIMAX.
     
     Mr. President,--Happiness is like a crow perched upon the neighboring
     top of a far distant mountain, which some fisherman vainly strives,
     to no purpose, to ensnare. He looks at the crow, Mr.
     President,--and--Mr.
     President the crow looks at him; and, sir, they both look at each
     other.
     But the moment he attempts to reproach him, he banishes away like
the schismatic taints of the rainbow, the cause of which it was the
astonishing and perspiring genius of a Newton, who first deplored
and enveloped the cause of it.

Cannot the poor man, sir, precipitate into all the beauties of
nature, from the loftiest mounting up to the most humblest valley
as well as the man prepossessed of indigence?

Yes, sir; while trilling transports crown his view, and rosy hours
allure his sanguinary youth, he can raise his mind up to the laws
of nature, incompressible as they are, while viewing the lawless
storm that kindleth up the pretentious roaring thunder, and fireth
up the dark and rapid lightnings, and causeth it to fly through the
intensity of space, that belches forth those awful and sublime
meteors, and roll-abolly-aliases, through the unfathomable regions
of fiery hemispheres.

Sometimes, sir, seated in some lonely retreat, beneath the shadowy
shades of an umbrageous tree, at whose venal foot flows some limping
stagnant stream, he gathers around him his wife and the rest of his
orphan children. He there takes a retrospective view upon the diagram
of futurity, and casts his eye like a flashing meteor forward into
the past.

Seated in their midst, aggravated and exhaled by the dignity and
independence coincident with honorable poverty, his countenance irrigated
with an intense glow of self-deficiency and excommunicated knowledge,
he quietly turns to instruct his little assemblage. He there endeavors
to distil into their young youthful minds useless lessons, to guard
their juvenile youths against vice and immortality. There, on a clear
sunny evening, when the silvery moon is shining forth in all her
indulgence and ubiquity, he teaches them the first sediments of
gastronomy, by pointing out to them the bear, the lion, and many other
fixed invisible consternations, which are continually involving upon their
axletrees, through the blue cerulean fundamus above.

From this vast ethereal he dives with them to the very bottom of the
unfathomable oceans, bringing up from thence liquid treasures of earth
and air. He then courses with them on the imaginable wing of fancy
through the boundless regions of unimaginable either, until, swelling
into impalpable immensity, he is forever lost in the infinite
radiation of his own overwhelming genius.

Anonymous.

CCCLI.

BULLUM vs. BOATUM.

What a profound study is the law! How shall I define it? Law is--law.
Law is--law; and so forth, and hereby and aforesaid, provided always,
nevertheless, notwithstanding. Law is like a country dance; people are
led up and down in it till they are tired. It is like physic; they that
take the least of it are best off. Law is like a homely gentlewoman; very
well to follow. Law is like a scolding wife; very bad when it follows
us. Law is like a new fashion; people are bewitched to get into it;
it is also like bad weather; most people are glad when they get out of
it. We will now mention, in illustration, a case that came before us,--the
case of Bullum vs. Boatum. It was as follows:--
There were two farmers--farmer A. and farmer B. Farmer A was seized or
possessed of a bull; farmer B. was seized or possessed of a ferry-boat.

Now, the owner of the ferry-boat, having made his boat fast to a post on
shore, with a piece of hay twisted rope-fashion, or, as we say,
vulgo vocato, a hay-band,--after he had made his boat fast to the
aforesaid post (as it was very natural for a hungry man to do) went
up to town to dinner.

Farmer A.'s bull (as it was natural for a hungry bull to do) came down
town to look for a dinner; and, observing, discovering, seeing, and
spying out some turnips in the bottom of the ferryboat, ate up the turnips,
and, to make an end of his meal, fell to work upon the hay-band. The
boat, being eaten from its moorings, floated down the river with
the bull in it; it struck against a rock, beat a hole in the bottom
of the boat, and tossed the bull overboard; whereupon the owner of
the bull brought his action against the boat for running away with
the bull.

The owner of the boat brought his action against the bull for running
away with the boat. And thus notice of trial was given, Bullum vs.
Boatum, Boatum vs. Bullum.
The counsel for the bull begun with saying:--"My lord, and you,
gentlemen of the jury, we are counsel in this cause for the bull. We are
indicted for running away with the boat. Now, my lord, we have heard
of running horses, but never of running bulls before. Now, my lord, the
bull could no more run away with the boat than a man in a coach may be
said to run away with the horses; therefore, my lord, how can we
punish what is not punishable?

How can we eat what is not eatable? Or, how can we drink what is not
drinkable?
Or, as the law says, how can we think what is not thinkable? Therefore,
my lord, as we are counsel in this cause for the bull, if the jury should
bring the bull in guilty, the jury would be guilty of a bull."
The counsel for the boat observed, that the bull should be non-suited,
because, in his declaration, he had not specified what color he was
of; for thus wisely, and thus learnedly, spoke the counsel:--"My
lord, if the bull was of no color, he must be of some color; and,
if he was not of any color, what color could the bull be of?"

I overruled this motion myself, by observing the bull was a white
bull, and that white is no color; besides, as I told my brethren,
they should not trouble their heads to talk of color t in law, for
the law can color anything.

     This cause being afterwards left to a reference, upon the award,
both bull and boat were acquitted, it being proved that the tide
of the river carried them both away; upon which I gave it as my
opinion, that, as, the tide of the river carried both bull and boat
away, both bull and boat had good action against the water-bailiff.

                                            My opinion being taken, an action was issued, and, upon the traverse,
this point of law arose: How, wherefore, and whether, why, when,
and what, whatsoever, whereas, and whereby, as the boat was not a
compos mentis evidence, how could an oath be administered?

     That point was soon settled by Boatum's attorney declaring that, for
     his client, he would swear anything.
     
     The water-bailiff's charter was then read, taken out of the original
record in true law Latin; which set forth in their declaration,
that they were carried away either by the tide of flood or the tide
of ebb.

     The character of the water-bailiff was as follows: "Aquæ bailiffi
est magistratus in choici, sapor omnibus fishibus qui habuerunt
finos et scalos, claws, shells, et talos, qui swimmare in freshibus,
vel saltibus riveris, lakos, pondis, canalibus et well-boats, sive
oysteri, prawni, whitini, shrimpi, turbutus solus;" that is, not
turbots alone, but turbots and soles both together.

                                            But now comes the nicety of the law; for the law is as nice as a
new-laid egg.

     Bullum and Boatum mentioned both ebb and flood, to avoid
     quibbling; but, it being proved that they were carried away neither
     by the tide of flood nor by the tide of ebb, but exactly upon the
     top of high water, they were nonsuited; but, such was the lenity
     of the court, that, upon their paying all costs they were allowed
     to begin again de novo.
     G. A Stevens.
     
     
     CCCLII.
     
     PLEADING EXTRAORDINARY.

May it please the Court--Gentlemen of the Jury--You sit in that box as
the great reservoir of Roman liberty, Spartan fame, and Grecian polytheism.
You are to swing the great flail of justice and electricity over this
immense community, in hydraulic majesty, and conjugal superfluity. You
are the great triumphal arch on which evaporates the even scales
of justice and numerical computation. You are to ascend the deep arcana
of nature, and dispose of my client with equiponderating concatenation,
in reference to his future velocity and reverberating momentum.

Such is your sedative and stimulating character. My client is only a man
of domestic eccentricity and matrimonial configuration, not permitted,
as you are, gentlemen, to walk in the primeval and lowest vales of
society, but he has to endure the red-hot sun of the universe, on the
heights of nobility and feudal eminence. He has a beautiful wife of
horticultural propensities, that hen-pecks the remainder of his days with
soothing and bewitching verbosity that makes the nectar of his pandemonium
as cool as Tartarus.

He has a family of domestic children, that gathers around the fireplace
of his peaceful homicide in tumultudinous consanguinity, and cry with
screaming and rebounding pertinacity for bread, butter, and molasses.
Such is the glowing and overwhelming character and defeasance of my client,
who stands convicted before this court of oyer and terminer, and
lex non scripta, by the persecuting pettifogger of this court, who is
as much exterior to me as I am interior to the judge, and you, gentlemen
of the jury.

This Borax of the law here has brought witnesses into this court, who
swear that my client has stolen a firkin of butter. Now, I say, every
one of them swore to a lie, and the truth is concentrated within them.
But if it is so, I justify the act on the ground that the butter
was necessary for a public good, to tune his family into harmonious
discord.

But I take no other mountainous and absquatulated grounds on this trial,
and move that a quash be laid upon this indictment.

Now I will prove this by a learned expectoration of the principle of the
law. Now butter is made of grass, and, it is laid down by St. Peter Pindar,
in his principle of subterraneous law, that grass is couchant and
levant, which in our obicular tongue, means that grass is of a mild
and free nature; consequently, my client had a right to grass and
butter both.

To prove my second great principle, "let facts be submitted to a candid
world." Now butter is grease, and Greece is a foreign country, situated
in the emaciated regions of Liberia and California; consequently
my client cannot be tried in this horizon, and is out of the
benediction of this court.

I will now bring forward the ultimatum respondentia, and cap the
great climax of logic, by quoting an inconceivable principle of
law, as laid down in Latin, by Pothier, Hudibras, Blackstone,
Hannibal, and Sangrado.

     It is thus: Hæc hoc morus multicaulis, a mensa et thoro, ruta baga
     centum. Which means; in English, that ninety-nine men are guilty,
     where one is innocent.
     
     Now, it is your duty to convict ninety-nine men first; then
     you come to my client, who is innocent and acquitted according
     to law.

     If these great principles shall be duly depreciated in this court,
then the great North pole of liberty, that has stood so many years
in pneumatic tallness, shading there publican regions of commerce
and agriculture, will stand the wreck of the Spanish Inquisition,
the pirates of the hyperborean seas, and the marauders of the Aurora
Blivar!

     But, gentlemen of the jury, if you convict my client, his
     children will be doomed to pine away in a state of hopeless
     matrimony; and his beautiful wife i will stand lone and delighted
     like a dried up mullen-stalk in a sheep-pasture.
     Anonymous.
     
     
     CCCLIII.
     

     FUSS AT FIRES.
     

It having been announced to me, my young friends, that you were about
forming a fire-company, I have called you together to give you such
directions as long experience in a first-quality engine company qualifies
me to communicate. The moment you hear an alarm of fire, scream like a
pair of panthers. Run any way, except the right way,--for the furthest
way round is the nearest way to the fire.

If you happen to run on the top of a wood-pile, so much the better; you
can then get a good view of the neighborhood.

If a light breaks on your view, "break" for it immediately; but be sure
you don't jump into a bow window. Keep yelling, all the time; and, if
you can't make night hideous enough yourself, kick all the dogs you come
across, and set them yelling, too; 't will help amazingly.

A brace of cats dragged up stairs by the tail would be a "powerful
auxiliary." When you reach the scene of the fire, do all you can to
convert it into a scene of destruction. Tear down all the fences in
the vicinity. If it be a chimney on fire, throw salt down it; or if you
can't do that, perhaps the best plan would be to jerk off the pump-handle
and pound it down. Don't forget to yell, all the while, as it will have
a prodigious effect in frightening off the fire. The louder the better,
of course; and the more ladies in the vicinity, the greater necessity for
"doing it brown." Should the roof begin to smoke, get to work in good
earnest, and make any man "smoke" that interrupts you. If it is summer,
and there are fruit-trees in the lot, cut them down, to prevent the
fire from roasting the apples.

Don't forget to yell! Should the stable be threatened, carry out the
cow-chains.
Never mind the horse,--he'll be alive and kicking; and if his legs
don't do their duty, let them pay for the roast.

Ditto as to the hogs,--let them save their own bacon, or smoke for it.
When the roof begins to burn, get a crow-bar and pry away the stone
steps; or, if the steps be of wood, procure an axe and chop them up.

Next, cut away the wash-boards in the basement story; and if that don't
stop the flames, let the chair-boards on the first floor share a
similar fate. Should the "devouring element" still pursue the "even
tenor of its way," you had better ascend to the second story. Pitch
out the pitchers, and tumble out the tumblers. Yell all the time!

If you find a baby a-bed, fling it into the second story window of the
house across the way; but let the kitten carefully down in a work-basket.

Then draw out the bureau drawers, and empty their contents out of the back
window; telling somebody below to upset the slop-barrel and rain-water
hogshead at the same time. Of course, you will attend to the mirror. The
further it can be thrown, the more pieces will be made. If anybody
objects, smash it over his head.

Do not, under any circumstances, drop the tongs down from the second
story; the fall might break its legs, and render the poor thing a cripple
for life. Set it straddle of your shoulder, and carry it down carefully.
Pile the bedclothes carefully on the floor, and throw the crockery out
of the window. By the time you will have attended to all these things,
the fire will certainly be arrested, or the building be burnt down.

In either case, your services will be no longer needed; and, of course,
you require no further directions.

Anonymous.

CCCLIV.

MR. PEPPERAGE'S PERORATION.

The Union! Inspiring theme! How shall I find words to describe its momentous
magnificence and its beatific lustre? The Union!--it is the ark
of our safety!--the palladium of our liberties!--the safeguard of
our happiness!--and the ægis of our virtues! In the Union we live and
move and go ahead It watches over us at our birth--it fans us in our
cradles--it accompanies us to the district school--it gives us our
victuals in due season--it selects our wives for us from "America's fair
daughters," and it does a great many other things; to say nothing of
putting us to sleep sometimes, and keeping the flies from our innocent
repose.

While the Union lasts, we have the most remarkable prospect of plenty
of fodder, with occasional drinks.
Even in the days of Elizabeth the keepers of the Tower of London had
enough human feeling to leave untouched the inscriptions made by Raleigh
and others, and there they are to-day, and to-day wake a response in the
heart of every visitor that looks on them.

[Illustration: A GANG IN BLOUSES MARCHING OUT.]


CHAPTER XXXV.

RUNNING THE GAUNTLET.


My life at Newgate was an ordeal such as I hope no reader of this will
ever undergo. Day by day I saw the world slipping from under my feet,
and the net drawing its deadly folds closer around me. Soon we all were
forced to realize there was no escape for any of us.

Of course, we were all guilty and deserved punishment--I need not say we
did not think so then--but the evidence was most weak, and had our trial
taken place in America under the too liberal construction of our laws,
undoubtedly we all would have escaped. But in England there is no court
of criminal appeal, as with us, and when once the jury gives a verdict,
that ends the matter. The result is that if judges are prejudiced, or
want a man convicted, as in our case, he never escapes. The jury is
always selected from the shopkeeping class, and they are horribly
subservient to the aristocratic classes. They don't care for
evidence--they simply watch the judge. If he smiles, the prisoner is
innocent. If he frowns, then, of course, guilty.

With us when a man is charged with an offense against the laws he
engages a lawyer--one is sufficient and quite costly enough. In England
they are divided into three classes, viz.: solicitors, barristers and
Queen's Counsels.

The solicitor takes the case and transacts all the business connected
with it. A barrister is the lawyer who is employed by the solicitor to
conduct the case in court and make the pleadings. He never comes in
contact with the client, but takes the brief and all instructions from
the solicitor. The Queen's Counsel is a lawyer of a higher rank, and
whenever his serene lordship takes a brief he must, to keep up his
dignity, "be supported" by a barrister. So my reader will perhaps
understand the raison d'etre of the proverb, "The lawyers own England."
As no solicitor can plead in court, so no Queen's Counsel will come in
direct contact with a client, and must be "supported" by a barrister.
Ergo, any unfortunate having a case in court must fee two, if not three
legal sharks to represent him, if represented at all.

We employed as solicitor a Mr. David Howell of 105 Cheapside, and a
thoroughgoing, unprincipled rascal he proved to be. He was a small,
spare, undersized man, with little beady eyes, light complexion, red
hair, and stubby beard, and when he spoke it was with a thin reedy
voice. From first to last he managed our case in exactly the way the
prosecution would have desired. He bled us freely, and altogether we
paid him nearly $10,000, and our defense by our eight lawyers--four
Queen's Counsels and four barristers--was about the lamest and most
idiotic possible.

We early came to the unanimous conclusion that in our country Howell
would have had to face a jury for robbing us, and that but one of our
eight lawyers had ability enough to appear in a police court here to
conduct a hearing before an ordinary magistrate.

I do not propose to enter into the details of our preliminary hearings
before the Lord Mayor at the Mansion House, or of the trial. Both the
hearings and trial were sensational in the highest degree, and attracted
universal attention all over the English-speaking world. Full-page
pictures of the trial appeared in all the illustrated journals of Europe
and America, and our portraits were on sale everywhere.

After many hearings before Sir Sidney Waterlaw, we were finally
committed for trial.

Editorial from the London Times of Aug. 13, 1873:

THE BANK FORGERIES.

     "Monday next has been fixed for the trial, and the depositions
     taken before the Lord Mayor at the Justice Room of the Mansion
     House by Mr. Oke, the chief clerk, have been printed for the
     convenience of the presiding judge and of the counsel on both
     sides. They extend over 242 folio pages, including the oral and
     documentary evidence, and make of themselves a thick volume,
     together with an elaborate index for ready reference. Within living
     memory there has been no such case for length and importance heard
     before any Lord Mayor of London in its preliminary stage, nor one
     which excited a greater amount of public interest from first to
     last. The Overend Gurney prosecution is the only one in late years
     which at all approaches it in those respects, but in that the
     printed depositions only extended over 164 folio pages, or much
     less than those in the Bank case, in which as many as 108 witnesses
     gave evidence before the Lord Mayor, and the preliminary
     examinations--twenty-three in number from first to last--lasted
     from the first of March until the 2d of July, exclusive of the time
     spent in remands."

From the London Times, Aug. 10, 1873:

     "On the opening of the August sessions of the Old Bailey Central
     Criminal Court. The court and streets were much crowded from the
     beginning, and continued so throughout the day. Alderman Sir Robert
     Carden, representing the Lord Mayor; Mr. Alderman Finis, Mr.
     Alderman Besley, Mr. Alderman Lawrence, M.P., Mr. Alderman Whetham
     and Mr. Alderman Ellis, as commissioners of the Court, occupied
     seats upon the bench, as did also Alderman Sheriff White.

     "Sheriff Sir Frederick Perkins, Mr. Under-Sheriff Hewitt and Mr.
     Under-Sheriff Crosley, Mr. R. B. Green, Mr. R. W. Crawford, M.P.,
     Governor of the Bank. Mr. Lyall, Deputy Governor, and Mr. Alfred de
     Rothschild were present. The members of the bar mustered in force,
     and the reserved seats were chiefly occupied by ladies. Mr.
     Hardinge Gifford, Q.C. (now Lord Chancellor of the British Empire),
     and Mr. Watkin Williams, Q.C. (instructed by Messrs. Freshfield,
     the solicitors of the bank), appeared as counsel for the
     prosecution."

For eight mortal days the final trial dragged on, and there we were
pilloried in that horrible dock--a spectacle for the staring throngs
that flocked to see the young Americans who had found a pregnable spot
in the impregnable Bank of England.

The misery of those eight days! No language can describe it, nor would I
undergo it again for the wealth of the world.

The court was filled with fashionables, ladies as well, who flocked to
stare at misery, while the corridors of the Old Bailey and the street
itself were packed with thousands eager to catch a glimpse of us. The
Judge, in scarlet, sat in solemn state, with members of the nobility or
gouty Aldermen in gold chains and robes on the bench beside him. The
body of the court was filled with bewigged lawyers--a tippling lot of
sharks and rogues, always after lunch half tipsy with the punch or dry
sherry which English lawyers drink, jesting and cracking jokes,
unmindful of the fate of their clients. Capt. Curtin and a score of
detectives were present.

No fewer than 213 witnesses were called by the prosecution. Of these
about fifty were from America, and by them they traced our lives for
many years before. As the forged bills were all sent by mail it was
necessary to convict us by circumstantial evidence. The evidence was all
very weak, save only in that remarkable matter of the blotting paper.
Our conviction was a foregone conclusion.

The jury retired to consider their verdict shortly after 7 o'clock, and
on returning into court after the lapse of about a quarter of an hour
they gave in a verdict of guilty against all of the four prisoners.


CHAPTER XXXVI.

"NOTHING LEFT US BUT A GRAVE, THAT SMALL MODEL OF THE BARREN EARTH," WITH
DISHONOR FOR AN EPITAPH.


Judge Archibald proceeded to pass sentence. He began with the
interesting and truthful remark: "I have anxiously considered whether
anything less than the maximum penalty of the law will be adequate to
meet the requirements of this case, and I think not." We had information
that a few days previously a meeting of judges had been held and that he
had been advised to pass a life sentence. What he really meant to say
was that he had anxiously considered whether anything less would be
adequate to satisfy the Bank of England. He went on to say that we had
not only inflicted great loss on the bank, but had also seriously
discredited that great institution in the eyes of the public. He
continued: "It is difficult to see the motives for this crime; it was
not want, for you were in possession of a large sum of money. You are
men of education, some of you speak the Continental languages, and you
have traveled considerably. I see no reason to make any distinction
between you, and let it be understood from the sentence which I am about
to pass upon you that men of education"--and he might have added, what
he undoubtedly thought, Americans--"who commit crimes which none but men
of education can commit must expect a terrible retribution, and that
sentence is penal servitude for life, and I further order that each one
of you pay one-fourth of the costs of prosecution--£49,000, or $245,000
in all."

And, after all, what aroused so greatly his indignation? It was simply
this--because we were youngsters and Americans, and had successfully
assaulted the fondly imagined impregnable Bank of England, and, worse
still, had held up to the laughter of the whole world its red-tape
idiotic management, for had the bank asked so common a thing as a
reference the fraud would have been made impossible.

Let my reader contrast this modern Jeffreys, his savage tirade, and, for
an offense against property, this most brutal sentence, with the
treatment of the Warwickshire bank wreckers. Greenaway, the manager of
this bank, and three of the directors by false balance sheets and
perjured reports for years had looted the bank, finally robbing the
depositors of £1,000,000, several of whom committed suicide and
thousands more of whom were ruined.

They were tried, convicted, and in being sentenced were told that, being
men of high social position, the disgrace in itself was a severe
punishment; therefore, he should take that fact into consideration, and
ended by sentencing two to eight months', one to twelve and one to
fourteen months' imprisonment.

We were sentenced late at night--nearly 10 o'clock--a smoky, foggy
London night. The court was packed, the corridors crowded, and when the
jury came in with their verdict the suppressed excitement found vent.
But when the vindictive and unheard-of sentence fell from the lips of
this villain Judge an exclamation of horror fell from that crowded
court.

We turned from the Judge and went down the stairs to the entrance to the
underground passage leading to Newgate. There we halted to say farewell.

[Illustration: BEFORE THE GOVERNOR--ASSISTANT WARDER REPORTING A
PRISONER FOR TALKING.]

To say farewell! Yes. The Primrose Way had come to an end, but we were
comrades and friends still, and in order that in the gloom of the
slow-moving days and the blackness and thick horror of the years to come
we might have some thought in common, we then and there promised--what
could we poor, broken bankrupts promise?

Where or to what in the thick horror enshrouding us could we turn? We
had

  "Nothing left us to call our own save death,
  And that small model of the barren earth
  Which serves as paste and cover to our bones;"

nothing but a grave, that

  "Small model of the barren earth,"

with dishonor and degradation for our epitaph!

But there, in the very instant of our overwhelming defeat, standing in
the dark mouth of the stone conduit leading from the Old Bailey to the
dungeons of Newgate, by virtue of the high resolve we made, we conquered
Fate at her worst, and by our act in establishing a secret bond of
sympathy in our separation dropped the bad, disastrous past, and
starting on new things planted our feet on the bottom round of the
ladder of success, feeling that, with plenty of faith and endurance,
Fortune, frown as she might now, must in some distant day turn her wheel
and smile again.

And what was this act? Why, it was a simple one, but bore in it the germ
of great things.

As we halted there in the gloom we swore never to give in, however they
might starve us, even grind us to powder, as we felt they would
certainly try to do. We knew that in their anxiety about our souls they
would be sure kindly to furnish each with a Bible, and we promised to
read one chapter every day consecutively, and, while reading the same
chapter at the same hour, think of the others. For twenty years we kept
the promise. Then, making the resolve mentioned in the beginning of this
book, I marched back to my cell. The door was opened and closed behind
me, leaving me in pitch darkness--a convict in my dungeon. Dressed as I
was I lay down on the little bed there, and through all that long and
terrible night, with a million dread images rushing through my brain, I
lay passive, with wide-open eyes, staring into the darkness, conscious
that sanity and insanity were struggling for mastery in my brain, while
I, like some interested spectator, watched the struggle; or, again, I
was struggling in the air with some powerful but viewless monster form,
that clutched my throat with iron fingers, but whose body was impalpable
to the grasp of my hands. A mighty space, an eternity of time and
daylight came. Then, like one in a dream, I rose mechanically, and,
finding the pin I had secreted, I stood on the little wooden bench, and,
impelled by some spiritual but irresistible force, I scratched on the
wall the message I had resolved to leave:

  "In the reproof of chance
  Lies the true proof of men."

Then I thought of my friends and my promise, and, like one in a dream, I
took the ill-smelling and dirty little Bible from the shelf, and,
turning to the first chapter, read:

    "And the spirit of God moved upon the waters." ...
  "And God said let there be light, and there was light."

Then the book fell from my hand, and I remembered no more. My mind had
gone whirling into the abyss.

I was sentenced on Wednesday. For three days, from Thursday to Sunday,
my mind was a blank. I have no recollection of my removal under escort
from Newgate to Pentonville.

On Sunday, the fourth day of my sentence, like one rousing from a
trance, I awoke to find myself shaven and shorn, dressed in a coarse
convict uniform, in a rough cell of white-washed brick. The small window
had heavy double bars set with thick fluted glass, which, while
admitting light, foiled any attempt of the eye to discern objects
without. In the corner there was a rusty iron shelf. A board let into
the brickwork served for bed, bench and table. A zinc jug and basin for
water, with a wooden plate, spoon and salt dish (no knife or fork for
twenty years!) completed the furnishings.

As I was looking around in a helpless way a key suddenly rattled in the
lock and, the door opening, a uniformed warder stepped in and, giving me
a searching look, said in a rough voice: "Come on; you'll do for chapel;
you have put on the balmy long enough." His kindly face belied his rough
tones, and I followed him out of the door and soon found myself in the
prison chapel. None was present, and I was ordered to sit on the front
bench at the far end. The benches were simply common flat boards ranged
in rows. Soon the prisoners came in singly, marching about two yards
apart, and sat on the benches with that interval between them--that is,
in the division of the chapel where I sat, it being separated from the
rest by a high partition. Soon a white-robed, surpliced clergyman came
in, and the service began; but I had no eye or ear, nor any
comprehension save in a dim manner, as to what was going on. My brain
was trying to connect the past and the present, feeling that something
terrible had befallen me, but what it was I could not understand. When
the services were over I returned under the escort of the warder, who,
when I arrived at my cell, ordered me to go in and close the door, which
I did, banging it behind me. It had a spring lock, and when I heard the
snap of the catch and looked at the narrow, barred window, with its
thick, fluted glass admitting only a dim light, I remembered everything.
Like a flash it all came to me, and I realized the full horror of my
position. Sitting down on the little board fastened to the wall, serving
as bed, seat and table, I buried my face in my hands and began to
ponder. Regrets came in floods, with remorse and despair, hand in hand,
when, realizing that it was madness to think, I sprang up, saying to
myself the hour and minute had come for me to decide--either for
madness and a convict's dishonored grave, or to keep the promise I had
made to my friends--never to give in, but to live and conquer fate.

I determined then and there to live in the future, and never to dwell on
the horrible present or past. Then I remembered the last scene in
Newgate and my promise to accompany my friends step by step, day by day,
in our readings. Finding a Bible on the little rusty iron shelf in the
corner, and this being the fourth day of our sentence, I turned to the
fourth chapter. It gives the story of Cain's crime and punishment, and I
read the graphic narrative with an intensity of interest difficult to
describe. When I read, "And Cain said unto the Lord, my punishment is
greater than I can bear. Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from
the face of the earth," I felt that the cry of Cain in all its intense
naturalness, in its remorse and despair, was my own, and I was overcome.
Laying the book down, I walked the floor for an hour in agony, until
fantastic images came thronging thick and fast to my brain. I realized
that my mind was going and felt I must do something to make me forget my
misery.

I opened the Bible at random and my eye caught the word "misery." I
looked closely at the verse and read:

"Thou shalt forget thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass
away."

I threw the book down, crying with vehemence, "That's a lie! God never
gives something for nothing." Soon I opened the book again and looked at
the context. Those of my readers who care to do so can do the same. The
verse is Job xi., 16. The context begins at verse 13. From that hour I
never despaired again.

The same day I began committing the Book of Job to memory, and worked
for dear life and reason. I became interested, and my interest in that
wondrous poem deepened until the study became a passion. Thus I turned
the whole current of my thoughts into a new channel. Reason came back,
and with it resolution and courage and strength.

I was in Pentonville Prison, in the suburbs of London. All men convicted
in England are sent to this prison to undergo one year's solitary
confinement. At the completion of the year they are drafted away to the
public works' prisons, where, working in gangs, they complete their
sentences.

Of my experience in Pentonville during my year of solitude it suffices
to say that, passing through a great deal of mental conflict, I found I
had grown stronger and was eager for transfer to the other prison, where
I could for a few hours each day at least look on the sky and the faces
of my fellow men.

At last the day of transfer came, and, escorted by two uniformed and
armed warders, I was taken to the famous Chatham Prison, twenty-seven
miles from London on the river Medway....

"You were sent here to work, and you will have to do it or I will make
you suffer for it," was the friendly greeting that fell on my ears as I
stood before a pompous little fellow (an ex-major from the army) at
Chatham Prison one lovely morning in 1874.

I had arrived there under escort but an hour before, strong in the
resolve to obey the regulations if I could, and never to give in if I
had a fair chance; also with a desperate resolve never to submit to
persecution, come what might, and these resolutions saved me--but only
by a steady and dogged adherence to them on many occasions, through many
years and amid surroundings that might well make me--as it did and does
many good men--desperate and utterly reckless.

After a few more remarks of a very personal and pungent nature the
little fellow marched off with a delicious swagger and an heroical air.
I at once turned to the warder and asked, "Who is that little fellow?"
"The Governor!" he gasped out. "If he had only heard you!" and then
followed a pantomime that implied something very dreadful. Then I
marched off to the doctor, and next to the chaplain, who (knowing who I
was) asked me if I could read and write, to which I meekly replied,
"Yes, sir;" but apparently being doubtful upon the point he gave me a
book. Opening it and pretending to read, I said in a solemn tone of
voice: "When time and place adhere write me down an ass." He took the
book from me, looked at the open page, gazed solemnly in my face with a
funny wagging of his head, as much as to say, "you will come to no
good," and followed the little major.

Then my cicerone took me into the main building, filled up to the brim
with what seemed to be little brick and stone boxes, and, halting in
front of one, said, "This is your cell." Looking around to see if it was
safe to talk, he began to question me rapidly about my case, and getting
no satisfaction he wound up the questioning with the remark: "Well, you
tried to take all our money over to America." Then, becoming
confidential, he told me what wicked fellows the other prisoners were,
chiefly because they went to the Governor and reported the officers,
charging them with maltreatment and bullying particularly, and knocking
them about generally. Of course, the warders never did such things, but
were really of a very lamblike and gentle nature. In order to back up
their lies the prisoners would knock their own heads against the walls
and then swear by everything good that some one of the warders had done
it. I said, perhaps he had.

Well, he said, perhaps an officer might give a man "a little clip," but
never so as to hurt him, and "only in fun, you know." I felt at the time
that I would never learn to appreciate Chatham "fun," but on the very
next day I was convinced of it when a man named Farrier pulled out from
his waistband a piece of rag, and, unrolling it, produced two of his
front teeth with the information that a certain warder had struck him
with his fist in the mouth and knocked them out.

But to return to my narrative. After many "wise saws and modern
instances," he locked me up in the little brick and stone box and
departed, having first informed me that I "would go out to labor in the
morning."

I looked about my little box with a mixture of curiosity and
consternation, for the thought smote me with blinding force that for
long years that little box--eight feet six inches in length, seven feet
in height and five feet in width, with its floor and roof of
stone--would be my only home--would be! must be! and no power could
avert my fate.

On the small iron shelf I found a tin dish used by some previous
occupant, and smeared inside and out with gruel. There being no water in
my jug, when the men came in for dinner, I, in my innocence, asked one
of the officers for some water to wash the dish. He looked at me with
great contempt and said: "You are a precious flat; lick it off, man.
Before long you won't waste gruel by washing your tin dish. You won't be
here many days and want to use water to clean your pint."

After dinner I saw the men marched out to labor, and was amazed to see
their famished, wolfish looks--thin, gaunt and almost disguised out of
all human resemblance by their ill-fitting, mud-covered garments and
mud-splashed faces and hands. I myself was kept in, but the weary,
almost ghastly spectre march I had witnessed constantly haunted me, and
I said, "Will I ever resemble them?" And youthful spirit and pride
rushed to the front and cried, "Never!"

Night and supper (eight ounces of brown bread) came at length, and I
rose up from my meal cheerful and resolute to meet the worst, be it what
it might short of deliberate persecution, with a stout heart and faith
that at last all would be well.

In the morning I arose, had my breakfast (nine ounces of brown bread and
one pint of gruel), and was eager to learn what this "labor" meant. I
was prepared for much, but not for the grim reality. I had been ordered
to join eighty-two party--a brickmaking party, but working in the "mud
districts." So we, along with 1,200 others, marched out to our work, and
as soon as we were outside of the prison grounds I saw a sight that,
while it explained the mud-splashed appearance of my spectral array, was
enough to daunt any man doomed to join in the game. Mud, mud everywhere,
with groups of weary men with shovel, or shovel and barrow, working in
it. A sort of road had been made over the mud with ashes and cinders,
and our party of twenty-two men, with five other parties, moved steadily
on for about a mile until we came to the clay banks or pits. Fortunately
we had a very good officer by the name of James. He wanted the work
done, and used his tongue pretty freely; still he was a man who would
speak the truth, and treated his men as well as he dared to do under the
brutal regime ruling in Chatham. He speedily told me off to a barrow and
spade, and I was fully enlisted as barrow-and-spade man to Her Majesty.

A steam mill, or "pug," like a monster coffee mill, was used for mixing
the clay and sand and delivering it in form of bricks below, where
another party received them and laid them out to dry, preparatory to
burning. Our duty was "to keep the pug going"--keep it full of clay to
the top. The clay was in a high bank; we dug into it from the bottom
with our spades, and filled it as fast as possible into our barrows. In
front of each man was a "run," formed by a line of planks only eight
inches in width, and all converging toward and meeting near the "pug."
The distance we were wheeling was from thirty to forty yards, end the
incline was really very steep; but that in itself would not have been so
bad, but the labor of digging out the clay was severe, and that
everlasting "pug" was as hungry as if it were in the habit of taking
"Plantation Bitters" to give it an appetite.

One had no period of rest between the filling of one's barrow and the
start up the run. In an hour's time my poor hands were covered with
blood blisters, and my left knee was a lame duck indeed, made so by the
slight wrench given it each time I struck in my spade with my left foot;
but I made no complaint. About 10 o'clock the man next to me with an
oath threw down his spade and vowed he would do no more work. Putting on
his vest and packet, he walked up to the warder, and quite as a matter
of course turned his back to him and put both hands behind him. The
warder produced a pair of handcuffs, and without any comment handcuffed
his hands in that position, and then told him to stand with his back to
the work. No one took the slightest notice and the toil did not slacken
for an instant, but one man was out of the game, and we had to make his
side good.

Noon came at last. We dropped our spades, hastily slipped on our jackets
and at once set off at a quick march for the prison. I naturally looked
at the various gangs piloting their way through the mud and all steering
in a straight line for the Appian way whereon we were, for, as all roads
lead to Rome, so all the sticky ways "on the works" led to the prison.
Our laconic friend was trudging on behind the party, and to my surprise
I noticed that several of the other parties had un enfant perdu, hands
behind his back, marching in the rear, and as soon as we reached the
prison each poor sheep in the rear fell out quite as a matter of course.
When all the men were in, a warder came up and gave the order, "Right
turn! Forward!" and off the poor fellows marched to the punishment cells
for three days' bread and water each, and no bed, unless one designates
an oak plank as such. It was all very sad; 'twas pitiful to see the
matter-of-fact way in which every one concerned took it all.

So my first day in the mud and clay came to an end, and I found myself
once more in my little box with a night before me for rest and thought.
Although I had suffered, yet there were grounds for gratitude and hope,
and I felt that I might regard the future steadily and without despair.

[Illustration: VISITOR TRYING ON THE HANGMAN'S IR ON PINIONING BELT AT
NEWGATE.]


CHAPTER XXXVII.

HENCEFORTH A LIGHT WAS TO STREAM THROUGH THE FLUTED GLASS OF MY WINDOW.


The first day was over, but it seemed to me that something more must
come. That what I had gone through could mean the life of a day must
surely be impossible. Was there nothing before me but isolation so
complete that no whisper from the outside world could reach me, that
world which compared with the death into which I was being absorbed
seemed the only world of the living?

Had I actually nothing to look for but the most repulsive work under the
most repulsive conditions? I said there must be surely some change, that
wheeling mud forever was not the doom of any man and could certainly not
be mine.

I looked about my little cell, the stillness of the grave without, the
utter solitude within. The ration which formed my supper was on the
table, eight ounces of black bread. Try as I might to cheat myself with
hope, I knew that hope for many a long year there was none, that so far
as the most vindictive sentence could compass it, for many a long year
the earth with her bars was about me.

No "De Profundis" cry could ever ascend from the abyss to the bottom of
which I had fallen. What was outside of me had nothing but the hideous.

But although the visible seemed corruption, and the things which my
soul, and body, too, had refused to touch were become my sorrowful meat,
yet I could not but feel that the invisible, that part of me which no
bars could hold and no man deprive me of, was still my own, and that in
it I might and would find sufficient to support what I began to feel
was, after all, the only man.

To face the actualities of the position was the first thing; not to
cheat myself, the second. I had seen the sort of men I was to be with. I
set to work to study and to understand the kind of life we were to live
together.

At early dawn we rose, receiving immediately after the nine ounces of
bread and pint of oatmeal gruel which composed breakfast. At 6.30, to
chapel to hear one of the schoolmasters drone through the morning
prayers of the English Church service, and listen to some hymn shouted
out from throats never accustomed to such accents. Then the morning
hours would drag slowly on in the Summer's sun and Winter's blast until
the noon hour; then there was the long march back from the scene of my
toil to the prison for dinner. Arriving there, each man went to his
cell, closing his door, which snapped to, having a spring lock. Soon
after a dinner is given consisting of sixteen ounces of boiled potatoes
and five ounces of bread, varied on three days of the week with five
ounces of meat additional. At 1 o'clock the doors were unlocked and we
marched out to our work again. At night, returning to the prison, eight
ounces of black bread would be doled out for supper. Then came the hours
between supper and bedtime, when shut in between those narrow walls one
realized what it was to be a prisoner.

In the corner of the cell there was a board let into the stonework.
There was a thin pallet and two blankets rolled up together during the
day in a corner of the cell that served for bedding, but so thin and
hard was the pallet that one might almost as well have slept on the
board. For the first few weeks this bed made my bones ache. Most men
have little patience and small fortitude, and this bed kills many of
the prisoners. I mean breaks their hearts, simply because they have not
the wit to accept the matter philosophically and realize that they can
soon become used to any hardship. It took six months for my bones to
become used to the hard bed, but for the next nineteen years I used to
sleep as sweetly on that oak board as I ever did or now do in a bed of
down, only, like Jean Valjean, in "Les Miserables," I had become so used
to it that upon my liberation I found it impossible for a time to sleep
in a bed.

On a little rusty iron shelf, fixed in the corner, was our tinware.
Although called tinware, it really was zinc, and was susceptible,
through much hard work, of a high polish, but this "polishing tinware"
was a fearful curse to the poor prisoner. It consisted of a jug for
water and a bowl for washing in and a pint dish for gruel. There were
strict and imperative orders, rigidly enforced, that this tinware should
be kept polished, the result being that the men never washed themselves,
and never took water in their jugs, for if they did their tinware would
take a stain--"go off," as it was termed--the result being that if the
poor devil washed and kept himself clean he would be reported and
severely punished for having dirty tinware.

A prisoner is not permitted to receive anything from his friends or
communicate with them in any way, save only once in three months he is
permitted to write and receive a letter, provided he is a good character
and has not been reported for any infraction of the rules for three
months; for if reported for any cause, however trifling, the privilege
of writing is postponed for three months, and, as a matter of fact, more
than half of the men never get a chance to write during their
imprisonment.

A visit of half an hour once in three months is permitted, but this is a
favor that is only granted upon the same condition as the privilege of
letter writing.


CHAPTER XXXVIII.

WHAT, THESE TEDIOUS DETAILS AGAIN.


It will be well to present here some account of those who were to rule
my life for so many years.

All they ask, we could readily grant, if we thought slavery right; all
we ask, they could as readily grant, if they thought it wrong. Their
thinking it right and our thinking it wrong, is the precise fact
upon which depends the whole controversy. Thinking it right, as
they do, they are not to blame for desiring its full recognition, as
being right; but, thinking it wrong, as we do, can we yield to them?
Can we cast our votes with their view, and against our own? In view
of our moral, social, and political responsibilities, can we do
this?

Wrong as we think slavery is, we can yet afford to let it alone where
it is, because that much is due to the necessity arising from
its actual presence in the nation; but can we, while our votes will
prevent it, allow it to spread into the National Territories, and to
overrun us here in these Free States? If our sense of duty forbids this,
then let us stand by our duty, fearlessly and effectively.

Neither let us be slandered from our duty by false accusations against
us, nor frightened from it by menaces either of destruction to the
government or of dungeons to ourselves. LET US HAVE FAITH THAT RIGHT MAKES
MIGHT, AND IN THAT FAITH, LET US, TO THE END DARE TO DO OUR DUTY AS WE
UNDERSTAND IT.
A. Lincoln.

CCLXXXVII.

THE PRETEXT OF REBELLION.

If war must come--if the bayonet must be used to maintain the
Constitution--I can say, before God, my conscience is clear. I have
struggled long for a peaceful solution of the difficulty. I have not
only tendered those States what was theirs of right, but I have gone
to the very extreme off magnanimity, The return we receive is war, armies
marched upon our Capital obstructions and danger to our navigation,
letters of marque to invite pirates to prey upon our commerce, a concerted
movement to blot out the United States of America from the map
of the globe. The question is, Are we to be stricken down by those
who, when they can no longer govern, threaten to destroy? What cause,
what excuse do disunionists give us for breaking up the best government
on which the sun of heaven ever shed its rays? They are dissatisfied
with the result of a Presidential election. Did they never get beaten
before? Are we to resort to the sword when we get defeated at the
ballot-box? I understand that the voice of the people expressed in the
mode appointed by the Constitution must command the obedience of every
citizen. They assume, on the election of a particular candidate, that
their rights are not safe in the Union. What evidence do they present
of this? I defy any man to show any act on which it is based.
What act has been omitted or been done? I appeal to these assembled
thousands, that so far as the constitutional rights of the Southern
States--I will say the constitutional rights of slaveholders--are
concerned, nothing has been done, and nothing omitted, of which they
can complain.

There has never been a time, from the day that Washington was inaugurated
first President of these United States, when the rights of the
Southern States stood firmer under the laws of the land than they
do now; there never was a time when they had not as good a cause
for disunion as they have to-day.

What good cause have they now that has not existed under every
administration? If they say the Territorial question--now, for the first
time, there is no act of Congress prohibiting slavery anywhere. If it
be the non-enforcement of the laws, the only complaints that I have heard
have been of the too vigorous and faithful fulfillment of the Fugitive
Slave Law. Then what reason have they? The slavery question is a mere
excuse. The election of Lincoln is a mere pretext. The present secession
movement is the result of an enormous conspiracy formed more than a year
since--foraged by leaders in the Southern Confederacy more than twelve
months ago. They use the slavery question as a means to aid the
accomplishment of their ends. They desired the election of a Northern
candidate, by a sectional vote, in order to show that the two
sections cannot live together. When the history of the two years
from the Lecompton charter down to the Presidential election shall
be written, it will be shown that the scheme was deliberately made
to break up this Union. They desired a Northern Republican to be
elected by a purely Northern vote, and now assign this fact as a
reason why the sections may not longer live together.When about to leave the prison, on going off duty, he
must hang up the belt and attachments in the chief warder's office.
Their pay, besides uniforms, which are of blue cloth, is $350 a year for
warders and $300 for assistant warders. All promotions are by seniority.
In case of transfer by authorities to any other prison, they retain
their position in the line of promotion, but if they volunteer or make
application to be transferred they have to begin at the bottom in
reckoning the length of service for promotion. When the authorities wish
to transfer warders, it is usual for them to call for volunteers, of
whom they find a sufficient number anxious for a change, unless the
transfer is to an unpopular station, such as Dartmoor, which is among
the bogs, and a lonely, bleak place.

[Illustration: THEY DO IT DIFFERENTLY IN CHINA.]

[Illustration: THEY DON'T USE STRAIGHT-JACKETS IN PERSIA.]

Warders are exempted from doing night duty, which is all done by the
assistant warders, who are on that service one week out of three.
Although when on night duty they had the day for sleep and recreation,
I never saw one who did not detest it, because they must remain on duty
continuously for twelve hours, and must not read, sit down nor lean
against anything, nor have their hands behind them. These military
regulations apply as well to the whole time they are on duty in the
prison, day or night. A few years ago the time of daily duty was reduced
to twelve hours, with one hour at noon for dinner. Besides this, at
times they must do a good deal of extra duty. Each is allowed ten days
annual holiday, but is frequently obliged to take it piecemeal, a day or
two at a time, so that he cannot go far away from the scene of his
servitude. Their duties require unflagging attention and never-ceasing
vigilance, which must be a heavy tax on the brain, and the twelve hours
must be passed in standing or walking about. In fact, they are subjected
to military discipline, or rather despotism, and any known infraction of
the rules subjects them to penalties according to the nature of the
offense. Leaning against a wall, sitting down, etc., for a first
offense, they are mulcted in a small sum--12 to 60 cents, usually--and
are put back in the line of promotion. The fines go to the Officers'
Library fund. I knew one officer, Joseph Matthews, who had been
assistant warder twenty years, and, being frequently set back for doing
some small favor to prisoners, was discharged from the service in 1886,
without a pension, for some slight breach of regulations. He had a wife
and six children, and had worked twenty years for less than $7 per week.
For giving a convict a small bit of tobacco, a heavy fine, suspension,
and in case it was not the first offense, expulsion from the service
without a pension. For acting the go-between and facilitating
correspondence with the friends of convicts, expulsion--possibly
imprisonment. One of the assistant warders, who was convicted of having
received a bribe of £100 from one of us at Newgate, was expelled from
the service and imprisoned eighteen months. Another at Portsmouth
Prison underwent the same fate, save that his term was but six months,
for sending and receiving letters for a prisoner, and similar cases are
of frequent occurrence.

The warders and assistant warders are the ones who come in direct and
constant contact with prisoners, and when the eye of no superior
authority is on them, or nothing else to deter, they are "hail fellow
well met" with such of the convicts as are unprincipled enough to curry
favor with and assist them in covering up their peccadilloes from their
superiors. They naturally recoil at the hardness and parsimony of the
Government toward them, evading the performance of duties when they can,
and I have heard more than one say: "Why should we care what prisoners
do, so long as we don't get into trouble? The Government grinds us down
to twelve hours' daily duty on just pay enough to keep body and soul
together; then, if we complain, tells us that we can leave if we like,
as there are others ready to step into our places. Bah! what do we care
for the Government? It is of no benefit to us; the big guns get big pay,
and the higher up the office the more the pay and the less the work. To
be sure, we can go out of the prison to sleep, but otherwise we are
bound as closely as you are." Yet these very warders, the moment any
superior authority appears on the scene, are as obsequious and fawning
as whipped dogs, and recoup themselves for this forced humiliation by
taking it out of such of the convicts as fail to curry their favor, or
offend, or make them trouble. Surely their office is a very responsible
one, and it is blind, false economy to retain low-priced men in such a
position. The present English system of penal servitude is perfect on
paper, but the moral qualities of most of the warders and assistant
warders preclude all possibility of the reformation of those in their
charge.

Notwithstanding the expositions of the English delegates at the
international meetings, prison reform has never yet been tried in Great
Britain and Ireland. In other words, all efforts in that direction have
been defeated by placing convicts in the immediate charge of a class of
men who, by education and training, possess none of the qualifications
requisite for such a responsible position.

In so far as forms are concerned, the business of the prison is carried
on most systematically. There are blank forms which cover everything,
from provisioning the prison to bathing the men, and these must be
filled in and signed by the warder in charge of the particular work
being done. For example, every week he must fill in the proper form and
certify that every man in his ward has had a bath. I have known men to
go unbathed for many months, simply because they did not wish to bathe,
and it saved the warder trouble--nearly all others in the ward only
bathed about once a month, and yet at the stated times the officer
filled up and signed the form, certifying to the superior authorities
that those in his ward had been bathed at the regulation times.

A great majority of the officers are soldiers who have been invalided or
pensioned off after doing the full term for which they enlisted--twelve
years--and of sailors in the same condition. In order to encourage
enlistment into the army and navy, the Government gives discharged
soldiers and sailors the preference in the civil service, apparently
heedless as to their moral qualifications. Indeed, it would be
difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain about these, for the very
nature and present requirements of these services tend to harden and
make men conscienceless, subservient and fawning toward their superiors,
and tyrannical to those in their power.

As to those in the prison service, there are many who would be good men
in a situation suited to their acquirements, and there are but a few of
those who are brought into immediate contact with the men--who, in fact,
virtually hold the power of life and death over them--whose influence is
of an elevating or reforming kind. Indeed, I have heard many of them
telling or exchanging obscene stories with prisoners, and using the
vilest language and bandying thieves' slang, in which they become
proficient. I am bold to say that at least one-half of all I have known
are in morals on a level with the average prisoner, or, as I have heard
more than one assistant warder say, "Too much of a coward to steal,
ashamed to beg and too lazy to work"--therefore became a soldier, then a
warder. This may, at the moment, have been spoken in a jesting way, but
it is none the less true.

What can be expected in the way of refinement and good morals from a
class of men who entered the army or navy, coming, as they did in most
cases, from the untaught and mind-debased multitude with which that land
of drink and debauchery swarms?

It will be seen from the foregoing that very much is expected from them,
and in order to fulfill the very hard terms of their contract with the
Government, and keep their places, they are forced to resort to
trickery, deception and perjury, until these, in their attitude toward
their employer, the Government, become second nature, readily resorting
to lies to clear themselves from blame, even in trivial matters, to save
themselves from a sixpence fine. There are jealousies among themselves,
but when it is a question of deceiving or keeping any neglect of duties
or violences against prisoners from the superior authorities they all
unite as one man and affirm or swear to anything they think the position
requires.

A real pleasure was derived from those prisoners' friends, the rats and
mice, which I easily tamed and taught to be my companions.

[Illustration: "COME ON. YOU ARE FREE."--Page 480.]

Not long after my arrival a prisoner gave me a young rat which became
the solace of an otherwise miserable existence. Nothing could he cleaner
in its habits or more affectionate in disposition than this pet member
of a despised race of rodents. It passed all its leisure time in
preening its fur, and after eating always most scrupulously cleaned
its hands and face. It was easily taught, and in course of time it could
perform many surprising feats. I made a small trapeze, the bar being a
slate pencil about four inches long, which was wound with yarn and hung
from strings of the same; and on this the rat would perform like an
acrobat, appearing to enjoy the exercise as much as the performance
always delighted me. I made a long cord out of yarn, on which it would
climb exactly in the manner in which a sailor shins up a rope; and when
the cord was stretched horizontally it would let its body sway under and
travel along the cord, clinging by its hands and feet like a human
performer.

A rat's natural position when eating a piece of bread is to sit on its
haunches, but I had trained this rat to stand upright on its feet, with
its head up like a soldier. Placing it in front of me on the bed, I
would hand it a piece of bread, which it would hold up to its mouth with
its hands while standing erect. Keeping one sharp eye on me and the
other on its food, the moment it noticed that I was not looking it would
gradually settle down upon its haunches. When my eyes turned on it it
would instantly straighten itself up like a schoolboy caught in some
mischief. It always showed great jealousy of my tame mice, and I had to
be very careful not to let it get a chance to get at one. On one
occasion I was training one of the mice, and did not notice that the rat
was near. Suddenly, like a flash, it leaped nearly two feet, seizing the
mouse by the neck precisely as a tiger seizes its prey. Although I
instantly snatched it away, it was too late, the one fierce bite having
severed the jugular.

I have mentioned mice, and indeed they were most interesting pets,
easily trained and as scrupulously clean and neat as any creature of a
higher race could be. I at times had a half dozen of them, which I had
caught in the following simple way: I first stuck a small bit of bread
on the inside of my pint tin cup, about half way down; then turning it
bottom up on the floor, I raised one edge just high enough so that a
mouse could enter, and let the edge of the cup rest on a splinter. It
would not be long before one would enter, and as it could not reach the
bread otherwise it stood up, putting its hands against the sides of the
cup, thus over-balancing it, causing the cup to drop, and simple mousie
would find itself also a prisoner.

Although there was an order that no prisoner should be permitted to have
any kind of pets, especially rats and mice, and as the prison swarmed
with these, the warders had become tired of being obliged to turn over
the cells and prisoners daily in search of these contraband favorites,
the loss of which generally provoked the owners to insubordination; in
consequence of which there was a tacit understanding that they were not
to be interfered with, provided they were kept out of sight when the
governor made his rounds.

Nothing could overcome the jealousy of my otherwise gentle rat when it
saw me petting a mouse, and it would watch for an opportunity to spring
upon its diminutive rival and put a speedy end to its career.

I had one mouse which to its other accomplishments added the following:
It would lie in the palm of my open hand, with its four legs up in the
air, pretending to be dead, only the little creature kept its bright
eyes wide open, fixed on my face. As soon as I said, "Come to life!" it
would spring up, rush along my arm and disappear into my bosom like a
flash.

[Illustration: 1 Austin ----. 2 Geo. McDonald. 3 Officer. 4 Geo. Bidwell.
5 Officer. 6 Noyes. 7 Mr. Straight, Q.C. McDONALD SPEAKING TO MR.
STRAIGHT, Q.C., DURING THE TRIAL.]

I had a mouse trained the same as the one above described, and was in
dread lest a warder should see and destroy it. Therefore, in the hope of
getting a guarantee for its safety, one day when the medical officer on
his round came to my cell with his retinue I put my mouse through the
"dead dog" performance. The little fellow lay exposed in my hand with
one of its twinkling eyes fixed on me, and the other on these strangers.
Such was its confidence in me that it went through the performance
perfectly, and when I gave the signal in an instant it was in my (as the
poor thing believed) protecting bosom. The doctors laughed, and the
retinue of course followed suit--if they had frowned the latter would
have done likewise. The doctors appeared so pleased that I felt certain
they would order the warder, as was in their power, to let me keep my
harmless pet, the sole companion of my solitude and misery, unmolested.

They went outside the cell and lingered; in a moment then the warder
came in, and after a struggle got the mouse out of my bosom and put his
heel upon it. I am not ashamed to confess that I cried over the loss of
this poor little victim of overconfidence in human beings.

I once procured a beetle with red stripes across its wing-sheaths, and
trained it to show some degree of intelligence. This was for months the
sole companion of my solitude, but it was at last discovered in my
possession and taken away.

I made friends with the flies, and found that they displayed no small
degree of intelligence. I soon had a dozen tamed, and in the course of
my long observations I discovered, among other things, that the males
were very tyrannical over the fair sex, and tried to prevent them from
getting any of the food. In the Summer mornings at daylight they would
gather on the wall next my bed and wait patiently until I placed a
little chewed bread on the back of my hand, when instantly there was a
rush, and the first one who got possession, if a male, tried to prevent
the rest from alighting, and would dart at the nearest, chasing it in
zig-zags far away. In the mean time another would have attained
possession, and it went for the next corner, and for a long time there
would be a succession of fierce encounters, until at last all had made
good their footing and feasted harmoniously; for as fast as one
succeeded in alighting it was let alone. Sometimes a male would take
possession of my forehead, and, in case I left him unmolested, he would
keep off intruders on what he evidently considered his domain by darting
at them in a ferocious manner. On one occasion I noticed a fly that had
one of its hind legs turned up, apparently out of joint. As it was
feeding on my hand I tried to put my finger on the leg to press it down.
During three or four such attempts it moved away, after which it
appeared to recognize my kind intention and stood perfectly still while
I pressed on the leg. It may be unnecessary to add that I failed in
performing a successful surgical operation.

As the Winter approached the flies began to lose their legs and wings;
those that lost their wings would walk along the wall until they came to
the usual waiting spot, and as soon as I put a finger against the wall
the maimed creature would crawl to the usual place on my hand for
breakfast. Indeed, the long years of solitude had produced in me such an
unutterable longing for the companionship of something which had life
that I never destroyed any kind of insect which found its way into my
cell--even when mosquitoes lit on my face I always let them have their
fill undisturbed, and felt well repaid by getting a glimpse of them as
they flew and with the music of their buzzing.


CHAPTER XXXIX.

THE DAYS O' SUMMER MERRILY SPENT IN THE LAND OF THE HEATHER.


In the cell next to mine was a prison genius named Heep, who was one of
the most singular characters I ever met. As I shall have occasion to
speak of him frequently, I may as well give here a sketch of his life as
related to me by himself. He was born in the town of Macclesfield, near
Manchester, in 1852, of respectable mechanics, or tradespeople as they
are called in England. His father died when Heep was about 5 years of
age, and after a time his mother married a carpenter and joiner of the
place.

Young Heep was a lively child, up to all sorts of tricks, and does not
remember the time since he could walk that he was not in some mischief,
and, as he remarked, "took to all sorts of deviltry as naturally as a
duck to water." As long as his father lived there was not much check on
his mischievous propensities, but his stepfather proved to be a severe
and stern judge, and brought him to book for every irregularity,
thrashing him most unmercifully for each offense. His mother could not
have filled her maternal duty very judiciously, judging from the fact
that before he was 12 years old she set him to follow and watch his
stepfather to the house of a woman of whom she was jealous. The boy
possessed great natural abilities, and in good hands would have turned
out something different than a life-long prison drudge. He was handsome,
genteel in appearance, an apt scholar, though very self-willed and
headstrong, and as he grew up his naturally hot temper became
uncontrollable. At an early age he had discovered that by threats of
self-injury he could bend his parents to his wishes, but found in his
stepfather one who would put up with no nonsense; even when he cut
himself so as to bleed freely, instead of the coveted indulgence it only
procured him an additional thrashing.

At 15 he had become ungovernable at home, and his father had him put in
the county insane asylum, where he remained a year and a half. While
there he caused so much trouble that the attendants were only too glad
when he escaped and went to Liverpool. Here he succeeded in getting a
situation with a dealer in bric-a-brac, rare books and antiquities. In a
short time the proprietor placed so much confidence in his integrity
that he gave him the charge of his place during his own absences, and
young Heep was not long in taking advantage of his position to rob his
employer by taking a book or other article which he sold to some one of
his master's customers. This went on for some time until on one occasion
he took the book to a shop kept by a woman to whom he had previously
sold several articles and offered it for a sovereign. She examined it
and found that it was an ancient, illuminated Greek manuscript, worth
fifty times more than the price young Heep asked for it, and, suspecting
something wrong, she told him to come again for the money the next
evening. At the appointed time he entered the place and was confronted
by his master, who contented himself with upbraiding him for his perfidy
and discharging him from his service.

At this period of his career he had contracted vicious habits, the most
pernicious for him being that of drink, for when sober he was in his
right mind, but the moment the drink was in his common sense departed,
and he became a raving maniac, ready to fight or perpetrate any other
act of folly. Up to this time he had never been tempted to steal only in
order to supply means for improper indulgences.

Not long after being discharged from his situation he was found by the
police acting in so insane a manner under the influence of drink that
the magistrate before whom he was taken had him sent to the Raynell
lunatic asylum. Here, being perfectly reckless, he carried on all sorts
of games which made him obnoxious, although making himself very useful
in work which he liked, such as gardening, etc. He also took up fancy
painting and soon became a skillful copyist of prints of any
description, enlarging or reducing, and painting them in oil or water
colors. He also became a good decorator and scene painter, besides
devoting time to various studies, including music.

At last he found means to effect his escape and lay in hiding until
night; then as he had on the asylum clothes, which would betray him, he
went back and got in through the window of the tailors' shop, which was
in an isolated building, and exchanged the clothes he had on for a suit
belonging to one of the attendants. Thinking himself now safe from
recognition he started off across the country, but had not gone more
than twenty miles when, in passing through a small town, a policeman who
had just heard of the escape from Raynell arrested him on suspicion.

The Raynell authorities sent some one to identify him; he was taken
back, tried on the charge of stealing the attendant's suit of clothes,
which he still had on, was convicted by the usual intelligent jury and
sentenced to five years' penal servitude.

He finished his term of imprisonment at Chatham, and instead of being
set at liberty was sent under guard back to the asylum!

According to English law, if a person confined in a lunatic asylum
escapes and keeps away fourteen days he cannot after that be arrested,
unless he commits fresh acts of insanity.

After several futile attempts he at last made good his escape and
obtained work with a farmer, where he remained safe for thirteen days,
and was congratulating himself that in less than another day he would be
free, when his thoughts were broken off by the appearance of two
attendants who seized and carried him back to the asylum.

The events above narrated had driven him into a state of desperation at
what he felt to be gross injustice, and he carried on in such a way that
the doctor ordered his head to be shaved and blistered as a punishment,
the straitjacket and all other coercive measures having been of no
avail. The night watchman had orders to watch him closely, but he kept
so sharp an eye on the watchman that he caught him asleep, and, creeping
to the closet window, which he had previously tampered with, crept out,
and after climbing the low wall found himself on a raw November night,
with the rain falling in torrents, a stark-naked,
head-shaved-and-blistered but once more a free man. In this condition he
wandered on throughout the night, and just before daylight he entered a
cemetery to find that refuge among the dead of which he thought himself
so cruelly deprived by the living.

Beneath the entrance to the church there was a passage which led to some
family vaults in the basement, and he crept down the passage to seek
some shelter for his nude body from the driving rain, which had chilled
him through. While groping about in the dark his hand rested on
something soft, which, to his unbounded delight, proved to be an old
coat which had probably been left there by the sexton and forgotten. He
remained hidden all day, and traveled through the fields all night,
during which he found a scarecrow, from which he transferred to his own
person its old hat and trousers.

He said that although so hungry, he never had felt so happy as he did at
finding himself once more dressed up. After proceeding a few miles
farther, he ventured into a laborer's cottage in quest of food, which
was given him, and with it a pair of old boots. As dilapidated, ragged,
vagabond-looking, honest people are common in England, no questions were
asked, and he proceeded on his way rejoicing in that freedom of which he
had been deprived for ten years or more.

Amid all his pranks he had never been charged with idleness, and now
worked at odd jobs about the farms until he had procured a decent suit
of clothes, when he applied to a master house painter for work as a
journeyman, though he had never done anything of that kind. The master,
pleased with his appearance, gave him a trial, but the first job showed
such ignorance of the art of house painting that he was forthwith
discharged with half a day's wages. However, he had picked up some
valuable hints, and being very apt by the time he had been more or less
summarily discharged from half a dozen places he had become a good
workman, and henceforth had no trouble about retaining any situation as
long as he refrained from beer and restrained his temper; but at the
slightest fault-finding on the part of the master he would fly into a
passion and throw up the situation, and this, especially, if he
suspected that anything had leaked out about his imprisonment.

While at work with a companion at painting the interior of a gentleman's
residence near Bradford a word or two was dropped which made him believe
his fellow workman had become aware of his being an ex-convict. Quitting
work, he went to a public house, passing the rest of the day in
carousing. About midnight, while on his way to his boarding house, it
occurred to him that he had noticed a good many valuable things about
the gentleman's house which he could obtain. No sooner thought than
done; the entrance was in a moment gained; he had just consciousness
enough left to gather a few things, then lie down by the side of them
and fell into a drunkard's sleep, in which the servants found him when
they came down in the morning. A constable was sent for, he was given in
charge, tried, convicted of the crime of burglary and sentenced to seven
years' penal servitude.

His former term of five years had made him proficient in all the dodges
of prison life, and he felt justified in his own mind in using all his
craft in order to put in his seven years as easily as possible. As he
had been in Raynell asylum, he knew that by "putting on the balmy" so as
to be sent to the lunatic department he would not be subjected to the
prison rules and be as well off as he had been in the free asylum.
Persistent attempts at suicide by cutting himself in the arms and legs
with a piece of glass so as to bleed freely accomplished his purpose.
Being placed with the other convict lunatics, he made himself useful,
but on account of his bad temper and overbearing, quarrelsome
disposition, obnoxious to his fellow prisoners.

Eventually he was discharged with an eighteen months' ticket-of-leave
and $2.50 as capital for a new departure.

He went to Liverpool, procured a passage on board a freight steamer to
America, which he paid for by working at painting. Landing at New York,
he made his way to Norfolk, Va., where he procured work as a painter.
Owing to his infirmity of temper he did not keep his place long, and
after knocking about for a few months he took a freak to return to
England--the last place of all for any man who has once been a prisoner.

[Illustration: George Bidwell

AFTER IMPRISONMENT. (From Photo. by Stuart, Hartford.)]

Once more in his native land, he procured work without difficulty at
house painting, but, as usual, remained in one place but a very short
time. His earnings, like those of a great majority of the working
class in England, were squandered in the public house.

Soon after the events just recorded, Heep concluded to visit his old
home in Macclesfield. He accordingly threw up his situation, and arrived
at the railway station an hour before the train was due. In order to
while away the time he entered a public house and drank several glasses
of ale. The compartment which he entered happened to be empty, and as
usual whenever he indulged his appetite for anything containing alcohol,
he was soon quite out of his mind and fancied that some one on the train
was coming to murder him, and leaped headlong from the train, which was
going at the rate of forty miles an hour. This came to a standstill, he
was taken on board again, not seriously injured, and left at Wrexham in
Denbighshire, from which he was sent to the Denbigh Insane Asylum. This
being a Welsh institution, did not, according to Heep, possess those
facilities for enjoying life which were so liberally supplied to the
inmates of the Raynell asylum near Liverpool. Accordingly he behaved
himself with so much propriety that the doctor discharged him as cured.

Not long after his return he got work near Manchester at painting in a
block of new houses where the plumbers were at work putting in the gas
and water pipes. On a Saturday, when he left work at noon, he met a
young plumber who was out of a job. This man said he knew where he could
earn a sovereign if he had tools to do a job in a butcher shop, and told
Heep that if he would go to the houses where he had been painting and
borrow a few plumbers' tools and assist him he would divide the amount.
Heep went back, but finding that the master plumber and all his men had
gone (Saturday afternoon in England being a half-holiday for laborers),
he took the few tools required, went and finished the job by 7 p.m.;
then instead of taking the tools back, they went into a public house
where they caroused till midnight, when they separated, Heep taking the
tools to his boarding house. On Monday he started early, so as to get
the tools back before the other workmen arrived. On nearing the houses
he passed a policeman who walked a little lame. He turned his head to
look back, and the policeman happened to do the same thing, and seeing
Heep looking at him his suspicions were aroused. Turning back, he came
up and asked him what he had in the two bosses (tool baskets). Heep
informed him, and on further questioning showed him the key to the house
from which he had taken the tools, and asked him to accompany him there,
which he did. They entered, Heep putting back the tools, and showed the
policeman where he had been painting and wished him to stay until the
master came in half an hour. This the policeman declined to do, and took
the tools and told Heep to come to the police station.

Heep lost his temper and began cursing him. The policeman went to the
door, and seeing another just passing beckoned him in, and the two
marched him to the station. The plumber was sent for, and was induced to
make a charge against Heep and value the stolen goods at ten shillings.
Seeing that the police were bound to make a case against him, he seized
the plumber's knife and cut his throat, severing the windpipe. The
doctor was sent for, he was transferred to the jail hospital, and in the
course of two or three weeks was well enough to appear before the
magistrate, though he could not speak, and was bound over for trial.

In the mean time the police had discovered that he had served two penal
terms, on the strength of which, when convicted, the magistrate
sentenced him to ten years' penal servitude.

At the trial he had not yet recovered the use of his voice, nor did he
have any one to defend him, for at that time, unlike the present, the
Crown did not furnish a lawyer for the defense of those who were unable
to employ one at their own expense. When the magistrate was about to
pronounce the sentence, he said that as the prisoner had escaped from
ordinary asylums he should send him to a place from which he could not
escape--meaning a prison.

[Illustration: BANK OF ENGLAND SCENE.--VISITOR HOLDING £1,000,000
($5,000,000) BANK OF ENGLAND NOTES.]


CHAPTER XL.

WE WILL FERRY YOU OVER JORDAN THAT ROLLS BETWEEN.


Once convicted of a crime in England it is impossible, unless a man has
money or friends, for him to obtain an honest livelihood unless he is
the happy possessor of a trade. All the great corporations demand
references that will cover a series of years of the applicant's life,
and, above all, strict inquiry is made as to his last employer. This
cuts the ground out from under the feet of the unfortunate, and feeling
that England can no longer be a home to him he turns his eyes as a
matter of course to America.

A fair percentage of the prisoners are men who perhaps under great
temptation, or while under the influence of drink, have broken the laws,
but yet are honorably minded and resolved in future to lead an honest
life. Such are not undesirable citizens; but there is another class,
that of the professional criminal; with these the prisons swarm, and,
worse yet, the slums and saloons of the great cities are breeding
thousands more that will take the places of those now on the stage.

The conditions of society in England are such that the procession of
criminals is an unending one. The society that creates the criminal also
has established a system of police repression that makes the life
history of society's victim one of misery, until such time when the
criminal, growing wise by experience, shakes the dust of English soil
off from his feet and transfers himself, a moral ruin, to our country,
here to become a curse and a burden.

This flow of moral sewage to our shores is constant and unceasing. Our
Government has frequently protested against it, but with no success, for
the officials in England indignantly deny that the State either
encourages or assists the exodus of her criminal classes; but from my
personal knowledge I know this to be false. The officials over there
have found out an effectual way to rid themselves of their discharged
prisoners as fast as their sentences expire, and cast them on our
shores, and this is so ingenious a way that the wrong can never be
brought home to them.

During my twenty years' residence in Chatham I suppose nearly half as
many thousands asked me for information about America, and at least 95
per cent. assured me that when released they would "join the society"
and depart at once for that happy hunting ground--that Promised Land
which charms the imagination no less of the criminal than of the honest
poor of the Old World. In every English prison the walls are decorated
with placards, gorgeous in hue, of rival firms appealing to the readers
for patronage. "Join us," they all say; and every prisoner knows the
appeal "join us" means if you do we will ferry you over the Jordan that
rolls between this desert land and the plains flowing with milk and
honey on the other side. The "firms" I mention are those arch humbugs,
the Prisoners' Aid Societies of England.

Elizabeth Fry, who made "aid to prisoners" fashionable and a society fad
in England, has much to answer for. Prisoners' Aid Societies have sprung
up in every quarter of England, and having a rich soil, and under the
fostering care of the Government, have flourished with a rank and
luxuriant growth. These societies draw their nourishment from English
soil, but, unhappily for us, their tall branches hang over our wall and
their ripened fruit falls on our ground.

From the time a prisoner becomes accustomed to his surroundings until
the hour of his release the one thing ever uppermost in his thoughts,
the one distracting subject and cause of anxious solicitude, is the
question, "Which society shall I join?" It is a tolerably safe venture
to predict that he will "join" "The Royal Prisoners' Aid Society of
London," which society is happy in having Her Gracious Majesty and a
long list of illustrious lords and ladies for "governors." What that may
mean no one knows. Certainly no benefit from these people ever accrues
to the discharged prisoners, but who can describe the glory that falls
on the four or five reverend gentlemen, sons, nephews or brothers of
deans or bishops, high-salaried secretaries of this particular society,
who pose at the annual meeting in Exeter Hall, before a brilliant
audience, and after have the felicity of seeing their report in the
church and society journals and their names connected with such exalted
people.

The way the Government over there accomplishes its purpose of getting
rid of its criminal population at our expense and at the same time is
able to answer the charges of our Government with disavowal is this:

The Home Secretary alone possesses the pardoning power for the United
Kingdom, and directly controls every prison, his fiat being law in all
things to every official as well as to every inmate. He has officially
recognized and registered at the Home Office every prisoners' aid
society in England, Scotland and Wales, and in order to boom them he
gives to every discharged prisoner an extra gratuity of £3 provided he
"joins" a prisoners' aid society on his discharge, the result being that
all do so. England is a small and compact country, and the police have
practically one head, and that head is the Home Secretary. Under the
circumstances the system of police espionage is so perfect that whenever
a discharged prisoner is reconvicted for another crime he cannot escape
recognition, and in all such cases the Home Secretary notifies the
particular aid society who received the prisoner on his discharge of the
fact, very much to the vexation of the officials of the society, who are
all anxious for a good record in reforming men that come officially
under their auspices. They publish that all who are never reported as
reconvicted are reformed, and all love to make a big showing for the
money subscribed at the all-important annual meeting, the result being
that all the men hustled out of the country by the society count as
reformed men.

These societies are supported by subscriptions, which all go in salaries
and office rents. The assistance given to the discharged prisoner is
limited to the £3 extra gratuity given the society by the Government on
the prisoner's behalf. The London societies have an agreement with the
Netherlands Line and the Wilson Line of steamers to "take to sea" for £2
10s. all "workingmen" they send to them. I have talked to thousands of
men who "joined the society," most of whom intended to go to America,
and I have talked to scores who had "joined," but who, unluckily for
themselves, not leaving England, were reconvicted and sent back to
Chatham. Throughout twenty years I conversed with several thousand men
who joined the society avowing they were going to America, and were
never heard of again in England, and have also known some scores of men
who passed through the hands of the society agents, yet were afterward
reconvicted. Therefore I am in a position to speak with authority on the
important question of England dumping her criminal population on our
shores.


CHAPTER XLI.

"WELL MY MAN, WHAT DO YOU INTEND TO DO?" "I WANT TO GO TO AMERICA, SIR."
"TUT! TUT! YOU MEAN YOU WANT TO GO TO SEA!" "YES, SIR; I WANT TO GO TO
SEA."


The Royal Society and The Christian Aid Societies, presided over by a
Rev. Mr. Whitely, enjoy a bad pre-eminence in this respect. The year
before my release the latter stated at the annual meeting that six
thousand discharged prisoners had passed through his society, and I
venture to assert that five thousand of these found their way to this
country through the assistance of this society. These two societies have
been boomed to an incredible extent, and it would be a curious study if
any report could be had as to how the large subscriptions were actually
expended.

For the sake of making my narrative clear, I will here only speak of the
first-named society.

[Illustration: LEAVING LIVERPOOL.--GEORGE BIDWELL'S FAREWELL TO JOHN
BULL.]

I warn you, do not dare to lay your hand on the Constitution.--I tell
you that if, circumstanced as you are, you pass an act which surrenders
the government of Ireland to the English Parliament, it will be a
nullity and that no man in Ireland will be bound to obey it. I make
the assertion deliberately,--I repeat it and I call on any man who hears
me, to take down my words;--you have not been elected for this
purpose,--you are appointed to act under the Constitution, not to alter
it,--you are appointed to exercise the functions of legislators, and
not to transfer them,--and if you do so, your act is a dissolution
of the government,--you resolve society into its original elements,
and no man in the land is bound to obey you.

Yourselves you may extinguish, but Parliament you cannot extinguish,--it
is enthroned in the hearts of the people,--it is enshrined in the
sanctuary of the Constitution,--it is immortal as the island which
it protects.

As well might the frantic suicide hope that the act which destroys
his miserable body should extinguish his eternal soul.

Again I therefore warn you, do not dare to lay your hands on the
Constitution; it is above your power.

Sir, I do not say that the Parliament and the people, by mutual
consent and cooperation, may not change the form of the Constitution.

But, thank God, the people have manifested no such wish,--so far as they
have spoken, their voice is decidedly against this daring innovation.

You know that no voice has been uttered in its favor, and you cannot be
infatuated enough to take confidence from the silence which prevails
in some parts of the kingdom; if you know how to appreciate that silence,
it is more formidable than the most clamorous opposition,--you may be
rived and shivered by the lightning before you hear the peal of the
thunder! But, sir, we are told we should discuss this question with
calmness and composure. I am called on to surrender my birthright and
my honor, and I am told I should be calm and composed.

National pride! Independence of our country! These, we are told by the
Minister, are only vulgar topics fitted for the meridian of the mob,
but unworthy to be mentioned in such an enlightened assembly as
this; they are trinkets and gew-gaws fit to catch the fancy of
childish and unthinking people like you, sir, or like your predecessor
in that chair, but utterly unworthy of the consideration of this
House, or of the matured understanding of the noble lord who
condescends to instruct it!

Gracious God! We see a Perry re-ascending from the tomb and raising his
awful voice to warn us against the surrender of our freedom, and we see
that the proud and virtuous feelings which warmed the breast of that
aged and venerable man, are only calculated to excite the contempt
of this young philosopher, who has been transplanted from the nursery
to the cabinet, to outrage the feelings and understanding of the country.

W. C. Plunkett.

LXIII.

WASHINGTON.

Sir, it matters very little, what immediate spot may have been the
birthplace of such a man as Washington.

No people can claim, no country appropriate him. The boon of Providence
to the human race,--his fame is eternity, and his residence, creation.
Though it was the defeat of our arms, and the disgrace of our policy, I
almost bless the convulsion in which he had his origin.

If the heavens thundered, and the earth rocked, yet, when the storm had
passed, how pure was the climate that it cleared!
How bright in the brow of the firmament was the planet which it revealed
to us! In the production of Washington, it does really appear as
if Nature was endeavoring to improve upon herself, and that all the
virtues of the ancient world were but so many studies preparatory to the
patriot of the new.

Individual instances, no doubt there were,--splendid exemplifications of
some single qualification. Cæsar was merciful, Scipio was continent,
Hannibal was patient; but it was reserved for Washington to blend
them all in one, and, like the lovely masterpiece of the Grecian
artist, to exhibit, in one glow of associated beauty, the pride
of every model and the perfection of every master.

As a general, he marshalled the peasant into a veteran, and supplied by
discipline the absence of experience; as a statesman, he enlarged the
policy of the cabinet into the most comprehensive system of general
advantage; and such was the wisdom of his views, and the philosophy of
his counsels, that, to the soldier and the statesman, he almost added
the character of the sage! A conqueror, he was untainted with the crime
of blood; a revolutionist, he was free from any stain of treason; for
aggression commenced the contest, and his country called him to the
command. Liberty unsheathed his sword, necessity stained, victory
returned it.

If he had paused here, history might have doubted what station to assign
him; whether at the head of her citizens or her soldiers, her heroes
or her patriots. But the last glorious act crowns his career, and banishes
all hesitation. Who like Washington, after having emancipated a
hemisphere, resigned its crown, and preferred the retirement of domestic
life to the adoration of a land he might be almost said to have created!
Happy, proud America! The lightnings of heaven yielded to your philosophy!
The temptations of earth could not seduce your patriotism.
C. Phillips.

LXIV.

EDUCATION.

Of all the blessings which it has pleased Providence to allow us to
cultivate, there is not one which breathes a purer fragrance, or bears
a heavenlier aspect than education.

It is a, companion which no misfortune can depress, no clime destroy
no enemy alienate, no despotism enslave; at home a friend, abroad
an introduction, in solitude a solace, in society an ornament; it
chastens vice, it guides virtue, it gives at once a grace and
government to genius.

Without it, what is man? A splendid slave!

A reasoning savage, vascillating between the dignity of an intelligence
derived from God, and the degradation of passion participated with
brutes; and in the accident of their alternate ascendency, shuddering
at the terrors of a hereafter, or embracing the horrid hope of
annihilation. What is this wondrous world of his residence?

"A mighty maze, and all without a plan:"
a dark, and desolate, and dreary cavern, without wealth, or ornament,
or order. But light up within it the torch of knowledge, and how wondrous
the transition! The seasons change, the atmosphere breathes,
the landscape lives, earth unfolds its fruits, ocean rolls in its
magnificence, the heavens display their constellated canopy, and the
grand animated spectacle of nature rises revealed before him, its
varieties regulated, and its mysteries resolved! The phenomena which
bewilder, the prejudices which debase, the superstitions which enslave,
vanish before education.

Like the holy symbol which blazed upon the cloud before the hesitating
constantly, if man follow but its precepts, purely it will not only
lead him to the victories of this world, but open the very portals of
Omnipotence for his admission. Cast your eye over the monumental map
of ancient grandeur, once studded with the stars of empire and the
splendors of philosophy. What erected the little State of Athens into a
powerful Commonwealth, placing in her hand the sceptre of legislation,
and wreathing round her brow the imperishable chaplet of literary fame?
What extended Rome, the heart of banditti, into universal empire? What
animated Sparta with that high, unbending, adamantine courage, which
conquered Nature herself, and has fixed her in the sight of future ages,
a model of public virtue, and a proverb of national independence?

What but those wise public institutions which strengthened their minds
with early application, informed their infancy with the principles
of actions, and sent them into the world too vigilant to be deceived by
its calms, and too vigorous to be shaken by its whirlwinds?

C. Phillips.

LXV.

CHARACTER OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.

He is fallen! We may now pause before that splendid prodigy, which
towered amongst us like some ancient ruin, whose frown terrified
the glance its magnificence attracted.

Grand, gloomy, and peculiar, he sat upon the throne a sceptered hermit,
wrapped in the solitude of his own originality. A mind, bold, independent,
and decisive,--a will, despotic in its dictates,--an energy that
distanced expedition, and a conscience pliable to every touch of
interest, marked the outline of this extraordinary character,--the
most extraordinary, perhaps, that in the annals of this world ever
rose, or reigned, or fell.

Flung into life in the midst of a revolution that quickened every
energy of a people who acknowledge no superior, he commenced his course,
a stranger by birth, and a scholar by charity! With no friend but his
sword, and no fortune but his talents, he rushed into the list where
rank, and wealth, and genius had arrayed themselves, and competition
fell from him as from the glance of destiny. He knew no motive but
interest,--he acknowledged no criterion but success,--he worshiped no
God but ambition, and with an eastern devotion he knelt at the shrine
of his idolatry. Subsidiary to this, there was no creed that he did
not profess, there was no opinion that he dill not promulgate; in the
hope of a dynasty, he upheld the crescent; for the sake of a divorce,
he bowed before the cross; the orphan of St. Louis, he became the adopted
child of the republic; and with a parricidal ingratitude, on the ruins
both of the throne and the tribune, he reared the throne of his
despotism. A professed Catholic, he imprisoned the pope; a pretended
patriot, he impoverished the country; and in the name of Brutus, he
grasped without remorse, and wore without shame, the diadem of the
Cæsars.
C. Phillips.

LXVI.

A COLLISION OF VICES.

My honorable and learned friend began by telling us that, after
all, hatred is no bad thing in itself "I hate a Tory," says my
honorable friend; "and another man hates a cat; but it does not
follow that he would hunt down the cat, or I the Tory."

Nay, so far from it, hatred, if it be properly managed, is, according to
my honorable friend's theory, no bad preface to a rational esteem and
affection. It prepares its votaries for a reconciliation of differences;
for lying down with their most inveterate enemies, like the leopard and
the kid in the vision of the prophet. This dogma is a little startling,
but it is not altogether without precedent. It is borrowed from a character
in a play, which is, I dare say, as great a favorite with my learned
friend as it is with me,--I mean the comedy of the Rivals; in which Mrs.
Malaprop, giving a lecture on the subject of marriage to her niece
(who is unreasonable enough to talk of liking, as a necessary preliminary
to such a union), says, "What have you to do with your likings and
your preferences, child? Depend upon it, it is safest to begin with a
little aversion. I am sure I hated your poor dear uncle like a
blackamoor before we were married; and yet, you know, my dear, what a
good wife I made him." Such is my learned friend's argument, to a hair.
But finding that this doctrine did not appear to go down with the
House so glibly as he had expected my honorable and learned
friend presently changed his tack and put forward a theory which,
whether for novelty or for beauty, I pronounce to be incomparable; and,
in short, as wanting nothing to recommend it but a slight foundation in
truth. "True philosophy," says my honorable friend, "will always continue
to lead men to virtue by the instrumentality of their conflicting vices.
The virtues where more than one exists, may live harmoniously together;
but the vices bear mortal antipathy to one another, and, therefor,
furnish to the moral engineer the power by which he can make each keep
the other under controls." Admirable! but upon this doctrine, the
poor man who has but one single vice must be in a very bad way. No
fulcrum no moral power, for effecting his cure! Whereas his more
fortunate neighbor, who has two or more vices in his composition, is in
a fair way of becoming a very virtuous member of society. I wonder how
my learned friend would like to have this doctrine introduced into
his domestic establishment. For instance, suppose that I discharge a
servant because he is addicted to liquor, I could not venture to
recommend him to my honorable and learned friend. It might be the poor
man's only fault and therefor clearly incorrigible; but, if I had the
good fortune to find out that he was also addicted to stealing, might
I not with a safe conscience send him to my learned friend with a
strong recommendation, saying "I send you a man whom I know to be a
drunkard; but I am happy to assure you he is also a thief: you
cannot do better than employ him; you will make his drunkenness
counteract his thievery, and no doubt you will bring him out of the
conflict a very moral personage!"

G. Canning.

LXVII.

"MEASURES, NOT MEN"
If I am pushed to the wall, and forced to speak my opinion, I have
no disguise nor reservation:--I do think that this is a time
when the administration of the Government ought to be in the ablest
and fittest hands; I do not think the hands in which it is now placed
answer to that description. I do not pretend to conceal in what
quarter I think that fitness most eminently resides; I do not subscribe
to the doctrines which have been advanced, that, in times like the
present, the fitness of individuals for their political situation is no
part of the consideration to which a member of Parliament may fairly
turn his attention. I know not a more solemn or important duty that a
member of Parliament can have to discharge, than by giving, at fit
seasons, a free opinion upon the character and qualities of public
men. Away with the cant of "measures, not men!" the idle supposition
that it is the harness, and not the horses, that draws the chariot
along! No, sir, if the comparison must be made, if the distinction
must be taken, men are everything, measures computatively nothing. I
speak, sir, of times of difficulty and danger; of times when systems are
shaken, when precedents and general rules of conduct fail. Then it is,
that not to this or that measure,--however prudently devised, however
blameless in execution,--but to the energy and character of individuals,
a state must be indebted for its salvation. Then it is that kingdoms
rise or fall in proportion as they are upheld, not by well meant endeavors
(laudable though they may be), but by commanding, overawing
talents,--by able men.

And what is the nature of the times in which we live? Look at France, and
see what we have to cope with, and consider what has made her what she
is.

A man! You will tell me that she was great, and powerful, and
formidable, before the days of Bonaparte's government; that he
found in her great physical and moral resources; that he had but
to turn them to account, True, and he did so.

Compare the situation in which he found France with that to which
he has raised her.

I am no panegyrist of Bonaparte; but I cannot shut my eyes to the superiority
of his talents, to the amazing ascendency of his genius, Tell me not
of his measures and his policy. It is his genius, his character, that
keeps the world in awe. Sir, to meet, to check, to curb, to stand up
against him, we want arms of the same kind. I am far from objecting to
the large military establishments which are proposed to you.

I vote for them, with all my heart. But, for the purpose of coping
with Bonaparte, one great, commanding spirit is worth them all.

G. Canning.

LXVIII.

PARLIAMENTARY REFORM.

My Lords, I do not disguise the intense solicitude which I feel for the
event of this debate, because I know full well that the peace of the
country is involved in the issue. I cannot look without dismay at the
rejection of this measure of parliamentary reform. But, grievous as may
be the consequences of a temporary defeat, temporary it can only be;
for its ultimate, and even speedy success, is certain. Nothing can now
stop it. Do not suffer yourselves to be persuaded that, even if the present
ministers were driven from the helm, any one could steer you through
the troubles which surround you, without reform.

But our successors would take up the task in circumstances far less
auspicious.

Under them, you would be fain to grant a bill, compared with which,
the one we now proffer you is moderate indeed.

Hear the parable of the Sibyl; for it conveys a wise and wholesome
moral.

"She now appears at your gate, and offers you mildly the volumes--the
precious volumes--of wisdom and peace. The price she asks is reasonable;
to restore the franchise, which, without any bargain, you ought
voluntarily to give. You refuse her terms--her moderate terms;--she
darkens the porch no longer. But soon--for you cannot do without her
wares--you call her back.
Again she comes, but with diminished treasures; the leaves of the book are
in part torn away by lawless hands, in part defaced with characters of
blood. But the prophetic maid has risen in her demands;--it is Parliaments
by the year--it is vote by the ballot--it is suffrage by the million!
From this you turn away indignant; and, for the second time, she departs.
Beware of her third coming! for the treasure you must have; and what price
she may next demand, who shall tell? It may even be the mace which rests
upon that woolsack! What may follow your course of obstinacy,
if persisted in, I cannot take upon me to predict, nor do I wish to
conjecture. But this I know full well; that as sure as man is mortal,
and to err is human, justice deferred enhances the price at which you
must purchase safety and peace;--nor can you expect to gather in another
crop than they did who went be fore you, if you persevere in their
utterly abominable husbandry of sowing injustice and reaping rebellion.

But, among the awful considerations that now bow down my mind, there is
one that stands preeminent above the rest. You are the highest judicature
in the realm; you sit here as judges, and decide all causes, civil and
criminal, without appeal. It is a Judge's just duty never to pronounce
a sentence, in the most trifling case, without hearing. Will you make
this the exception? Are you really prepared to determine, but not to
hear, the mighty cause, upon which a Nation's hopes and fears hang?
You are? Then beware of your decision! Rouse not, I beseech you, a
peace-loving but a resolute people! Alienate not from your body the
affections of a whole Empire! As your friend, as the friend of my order,
as the friend of my country, as the faithful servant of my sovereign,
I counsel you to assist, with your uttermost efforts, in preserving
the peace, and upholding and perpetuating the Constitution. Therefore,
I pray and exhort you not to reject this measure. By all you hold most
dear--by all the ties that bind every one of us to our common order and
our common country, I solemnly adjure you--I warn you--I implore you--yea,
on my bended knees, I supplicate you,--reject not this bill!
Lord Brougham.

LXIX.

DENUNCIATION OF SLAVERY.

I trust at length the time has come, when Parliament will no longer bear
to be told, that slave-owners are the best lawgivers on slavery; no
longer suffer our voice to roll across the Atlantic in empty
warnings and fruitless orders. Tell me not of rights,--talk not of the
property of the planter in his slave. I deny his rights,--I
acknowledge not the property.
The principles, the feelings of our common nature, rise in rebellion against
it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the
sentence is the same, that rejects it.

In vain you tell me of laws that sanction such a claim! There is a law
above all the enactments of human codes,--the same throughout the world,--the
same in all times; such as it was before the daring genius of
Columbus pierced the night of ages, and opened to one world the
source of power, wealth, and knowledge,--to the others all unutterable
woes, such is it at this day; it is the law written by the finger
of God on the heart of man; and be that law, unchangeable and
eternal, while men despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and hate blood,
they shall reject with indignation the wild and guilty fantasy,
that man can hold property in man!

In vain ye appeal to treaties,--to covenants between nations. The covenants
of the Almighty, whether the old covenant or the new, denounce such
unholy pretensions. To these laws did they of old refer, who maintained
the African trade. Such treaties did they cite, and not untruly; for, by
one shameful compact, you bartered the glories of Blenheim for the
traffic in blood.

Yet, in despite of law and of treaty, that infernal traffic is now
destroyed, and its votaries put to death like other pirates. How
came this change to pass? Not, assuredly, by Parliament leading the
way; but the country at length awoke; the indignation of the people
was kindled; it descended in thunder, and smote the traffic, and
scattered its guilty profit to the winds. Now, then, let the planters
beware,--let their assemblies beware,--let the government at home
beware,--let the Parliament beware!The shops, although inside of the boundary walls, were
quite separate from the main building, where the men, closely guarded,
were confined. He entered the familiar room where he so long had worked,
and easily placed his hands on his (to him) precious kit of tools, and
carried his jimmies, wedges, sledges, bits, braces, drills, etc., to the
wall, and then landed them safe outside. Then he returned and entered
the room where the plunder he sought lay. Thanks to his friend, the way
was easy, and his art was not required to secure it. There were 600
ounces in silver bars, a pretty good load in avoirdupois, but he only
made one journey of it, mounted the wall and speedily was over.

Stoneman was a long-headed fellow. He had taken, without the owner's
leave, one of the many boats on the banks of the near-by river. He
carried his plunder and tools down to the boat, and pulled across the
river, two miles down, to where quite a stream empties into the
Connecticut. He pulled some distance up it; then putting everything into
bags he sank them in the creek. Then drifting back into the Connecticut
River again he threw his ladder over and turned the boat adrift. At 7
o'clock the next morning he was in New York.

In due time, in the idiom of the professionals, he "raised his plant,"
and the burglar's kit manufactured in the Connecticut State Prison did
what Stoneman considered yeoman service. With all his art and cunning,
justice would not be cajoled by him, but weighed him in her balance, to
a good purpose too. His success in his particular line was great, but he
paid dearly for it all. Many times he escaped detection, but not always.
Not to escape, but to be brought to the bar, means a fearful gap in the
life of a criminal. He was, as I say, famous in certain circles for his
success in his lawless course, yet in the twenty years between 1865 and
1886 he passed sixteen years in captivity. In that year he went to
England with a confederate, and a few hours later in London they
snatched a parcel of money from a bank messenger in Lombard street. Both
were caught in the act, and sentenced at the Old Bailey to twenty years
each. To-day Stoneman is toiling under brutal task-masters, and it is
all but certain he will perish at his task, friendless, alone, unpitied.
Better so even, for should he ever be freed it will not be until the
twentieth century is well on its way to the have beens of time, then
only to find himself a battered hulk stranded on a shore from which the
tide has ebbed forever.


CHAPTER XLIV.

I FIND THE FENIANS WITH ME IN THE TOILS.


I had, of course, for many years heard much of the Fenian prisoners in
the English prisons, particularly Sergeant McCarty and William O'Brien.
Soon after my arrival at Chatham I was placed in the same party with
them. We were all three strongly drawn together, but were shy of being
the first to speak. Of course, it was strictly against the rules to
talk, but as a matter of fact the prisoners find many opportunities for
talking, particularly if they do their work. The officers are reported
and fined if their men fall behind in their task, so if a man is any way
backward in working the officer keeps his weather eye open, and reports
him for any infraction of the rules.

One day, soon after they were put in my party, I gave O'Brien a hand in
fixing his run. We spoke a few words. The ice was broken; we soon became
fast friends, and our friendship remained unbroken until their happy
release some years after. They were fine, manly fellows, and I in time
came to have a warm affection for them.

McCarty had for nearly twenty years been a sergeant in the English army.
He had come out of the Indian mutiny with a splendid record, and had
been recommended for a commission. But while wearing the British
uniform, his heart was warm for Ireland and her cause, so when, in 1867,
his battery being then stationed in Dublin, he was informed many devoted
adherents to the Fenian cause had determined to try and seize Dublin,
with a view of starting a wide revolt against English domination,
perilous as it was, he cast his lot in with them, and speedily found
sufficient adherents in his own field battery to seize it and bring it
into action against the English. The plan miscarried. Sergeant McCarty,
along with many others, was arrested and tried for treason; as a matter
of course was speedily convicted, and sentenced to be hanged, drawn and
quartered. This sentence was commuted to penal servitude for life.

O'Brien was an enthusiastic youngster of 17, and an ardent patriot. He
had enlisted in a regiment then stationed in Ireland for no other reason
than to familiarize himself in military affairs, also to win over
recruits to the Fenian cause, and when the revolt began to be in a
position to seize arms. The result of it all, so far as my two friends
were concerned--they found themselves by my side in the great Chatham
ship basin loading trucks with mud and clay, and that upon a diet of
black bread and potatoes. The cars, or trucks, held four tons, there
were three men to a truck, and the task was nineteen trucks a day, and
between the urging of officers, frightened themselves for fear the task
might not be done, and the mud and starvation, it was despairing work.

The punishments were not only severe, but were dealt out with a liberal
hand. The men, as a rule, were willing to work, but between weakness,
brought on by perpetual hunger, and the misery of the incessant bullying
of the officers, some few suicided every year, but many more did worse
to themselves; that is, the poor fellows, seeing nothing but misery
before them, would when the trucks were being shifted on the rail
deliberately thrust an arm or leg under the wheels and have it taken
off. No less than twenty-two did this in 1874. Of course, the object was
to get out of the mud. When once a man's leg or arm was off he would no
longer be able to handle a shovel, and would necessarily be placed in
an inside or cripples party and set to work picking oakum or breaking
stones, with the result that, being free from severe toil and sheltered
from the storms, they would not be so hungry. Then, again, they could
more easily escape being reported, and that meant much.

[Illustration: CONDEMNED TO BE HANGED.]

[Illustration: WEIGHING OFFICE, BANK OF ENGLAND.]

There was never anything but black bread for breakfast and supper, save
only one pint of gruel with the bread for breakfast. For dinner every
day we got a pound of boiled potatoes and five ounces of black bread;
three days a week five ounces of meat--that is, fifteen ounces a week
for a man toiling hard in the keen sea air. We were always on the verge
of starvation; our sufferings were terrible. In our hunger there was no
vile refuse we would not devour greedily if opportunity occurred.

O'Brien was a slight, delicate fellow, quite unfitted for the hardships
and toil he was subjected to, but he was a high-spirited, brave
youngster, and his spirit carried him through, while many a man better
fitted physically to endure the toil gave in and died, or became utterly
broken down, and would be sent away to an invalid station a physical
wreck. McCarty and I used to do extra work so as to shield O'Brien, and
so long as our trucks were filled on time the officer made no complaint.
The prisoners were certainly very good to each other, and usually did
all in their power to help and cheer up the weaker men.

In 1877 my two friends were liberated. I was glad to see them go, but I
missed them sadly. But McCarty had suffered too much. He only survived
his liberation a few days, dying in Dublin, to the grief of all Ireland.
O'Brien started a tobacco store in Dublin, where he still is.

I knew all of the dynamiters--Curtin, Daily, Dr. Gallagher, Eagan, etc.
However misguided, yet they meant to serve their country, and dearly
have they paid for their zeal. I pitied poor Gallagher. The strain on
his spirit was too great. He soon broke down, and his dejected, forlorn
looks, his stooping shoulders and listless walk made me and all think
his days were numbered; but he had immense vitality and still lived when
I was liberated; but he was truly a pitiable object, and if he is ever
to live to breathe the air a free man then his friends must secure a
speedy release, for he is slowly sinking into his grave.

[Illustration: RETROSPECTIONS.]


CHAPTER XLV.

IN MOOD AS LONELY, IN PLIGHT AS DESPERATE AS HIS.


I have related how, the Sunday after my sentence, in my despair I took
the little Bible off the shelf. The other books I had at Chatham besides
the Bible were a dictionary and "The Life of the Prophet Jeremiah."
Once, soon after my arrival in Chatham, I took the Jeremiah down from
the shelf, but speedily put it back and made a vow never to take it down
again; and I never did. It remained in view on the little shelf for
nineteen years, while I sat there watching it rot away. The dictionary
is a good book, but grows tiresome at times. As for the Bible, there is
no discount on that. For fourteen years I was a careful student of its
sacred pages. Every Sunday of that fourteen years, from 12 o'clock until
2, I used to walk the stone floor of my cell preaching a sermon with no
audience but my dictionary and "The Life of the Prophet Jeremiah." I at
first began my Bible studies and my sermons as a means to occupy my
thoughts and keep my mind bright. It saved my life and reason. I need
hardly say that I became tolerably familiar with the book, and I had the
great advantage of studying the Bible without a commentary.

I thought in my enthusiasm I should never tire of the Bible, but after
ten or twelve years I began to grow weary of it, and grew very hungry
for other mental food. I wanted a Shakespeare, for with him to keep me
company I could no longer be in the desolation of solitude. At last I
determined to get my friends to try for me. I had learned the Bible
almost by heart; the smallest incidents in the life of the Prophet
Jeremiah were much more familiar to me than the history of the civil
war, and Anathoth took on proportions which made it as real as New York
and far more important. The desperate efforts I had made to keep myself
from falling into the condition of so many I had seen drooping to idiocy
and death were, I felt, successful, and any occupation which kept alive
the intellect could not but be beneficial. I was hungry, starving for
mental food. Never had books appeared so attractive, never was kingdom
so cheerfully offered for a horse as I would have offered mine for an
octavo. My friends had written for me to the Government, but with no
success. At last they had interested the American Minister in London,
who promised to write to the Home Secretary for me, but a year had
slipped by and I had heard nothing.

Jeremiah continued with me, and it seemed he was to remain with me to
the end. But a change was coming.

Can I ever forget the day it happened! Can I ever cease to remember the
delight, the incredulity, the astonishment of that happy day! I had come
in at night hungry, cold, wet and miserable. I made my way a little
depressed to my cell. As I was about to step across the threshold I saw
a book lying on my little wooden bed. Amazed and astonished, I hesitated
to enter. Small as such a circumstance appears, the very sight of the
book brought on a weakness. I feared to pick it up, a horrible dread
seized me that it might be a new Bible, and I was unwilling to risk
another disappointment. The footprint on the sand was not more
suggestive nor more awe-inspiring to Robinson Crusoe than the appearance
of that book was to me. In mood as lonely, in plight as desperate as
his, there lay before me a sight as unlooked for and, as it seemed, as
full of meaning as the footprint was to Robinson.

At last I pulled myself together, determined to end the suspense and
know what was before me. I picked up the book, and who can understand
the delight, the joy, the rapture even, with which I read on the title
page, "The Works of William Shakespeare." In an instant I became a new
man. If ever one human being felt gratitude to another I felt it at that
moment for the American Minister. To him I owed it that henceforth a new
light was to stream through the fluted glass of my window, that
henceforth a new world was opened up for me to live in, and the world
seemed lighter to me. Many a month and year afterward my cell was filled
and my heart cheered by the multitude of friends the divine William
provided for me.

About the time I received my Shakespeare another piece of happy fortune
befell me. A smallpox scare was existing outside, and all hands in the
prison were ordered to be vaccinated. When the doctor came around a few
days afterward to examine the effects of the operation he found my arm
so swollen that he directed me to be taken to the hospital.

For twenty-five days I had full opportunity to learn what the girl in
Dickens' "Little Dorritt" meant when she called the hospital an
"'eavenly" place. It was the first time I had ever been admitted, and
the change from the horrible mud hole to the rest and comfort of a cell
in the hospital was indeed almost "'eavenly." With nothing to do but to
read my Shakespeare, the cravings of hunger for the first time since my
imprisonment satisfied, I was tempted to believe--I did partly
believe--that the world had few positions pleasanter than mine.

Godliness with contentment is undoubtedly great gain. Contentment alone
without the godliness is no poor thing, and was I not content? Few,
indeed, of all the thousands who have toiled in that torturing prison
house have ever been or are likely ever to be so content as I was.

How true it is that happiness is altogether relative, and that it is
divided much more evenly among men than we are willing to believe! A
mere respite from an intolerable position, a single book to keep the
mind from cracking, transformed gloom and misery into light and at least
comparative happiness.

After a time I began to watch the effects of the unnatural life upon
others. They arrived full of resolution, buoyed often by hopes which
they were soon destined to find delusive. The short-time men, those with
seven or ten year sentences, could face the prospect hopefully. To them
the day would come when the prison gate must swing back and the path to
the world be open once more. But no such hope cheers the long-timers,
the men with twenty years and life, who quickly learn how great the
proportion is of their number who find relief only in the box smeared
with black which incloses what is left of them in the grave. Every day I
used to see the effects on them of hunger and torment of mind. The first
part visibly affected was the neck. The flesh shrinks, disappears and
leaves what look like two artificial props to support the head. As time
wears on the erect posture grows bent; instead of standing up straight
the knees bulge outward as though unable to support the body's weight,
and the man drags himself along in a kind of despondent shuffle. Another
year or two and his shoulders are bent forward. He carries his arms
habitually before him now, he has grown moody, seldom speaks to any one,
nor answers if spoken to. In the general deterioration of the body the
mind keeps equal step; and so unfailing is the effect that even warders
wait to see it, and remark to each other that so and so is "going off."
When the sufferer begins to carry his arms in front every one
understands that the end is coming. The projecting head, the sunken eye,
the fixed, expressionless features are merely the outward exponents of
the hopeless, sullen brooding within. Sometimes the man merely keeps on
in that way, wasting more and more, body and mind, every day, until at
last he drops and is carried into the infirmary to come out no more.

Truly I was looking on life from the seamy side.

Before my own experience had taught me I used to think at times when
such a subject ever came into my mind at all: "What must be the thoughts
and anticipations of a man condemned to separation from other men, to
lead an unnatural life under the strained and artificial conditions of
prison?" The change is so violent, it comes so suddenly, the unknown
possibilities are so terrible, the sufferings naturally implied are so
inevitable, that had any one gifted with a knowledge of futurity shown
me that such experience was to be mine I would have thought it utterly
impossible that such horrors could be withstood by ordinary strength.

The delights of pleasure are seldom equal to the anticipation of them,
and it is probable that the pain of suffering is more unbearable in the
shrinking expectation than when affliction actually opens her furnace
door and commands us to enter. Perhaps there is a compensation of some
kind in nature, a provision to deaden feeling when a death stroke
falls--some merciful dispensation by which we fail to realize or to
understand in its exactness the meaning of the stroke which is crushing
us.

The man rescued from drowning or from asphyxiation has felt no pain. The
animal that falls beneath the rush and the murderous claws of a beast of
prey seems to fall into a torpor-like indifference, under the influence
of which he meets with no great suffering the death his captor brings
him. Probably all great suffering comes accompanied with a reserve of
strength or with a power of resistance which may even spring from
weakness, but which invests the sufferer with courage, and perhaps, too,
with hope, to meet it. [Transcriber's note: words are missing here on
the original] but the pitiless application of a discipline designed with
consummate skill to find out all the weak points of a man's inner armor
and to inflict the utmost possible suffering upon him, I used to ask
myself if it could be possible that I was really the man upon whom so
hideous a fate had fallen.

The blackness of darkness was round about me. Infinite despair stood
ready to seize me. It seemed an amazement that life should be forced to
remain with him who longs for death, who would rejoice exceedingly and
be glad could he find the grave. But when the first horrible numbness of
the shock was disappearing, when the first glimmering perception came to
me that "as a man's day so shall his strength be," I began to suspect,
and soon to know, that in many ways the reality was not so terrible as
imagination pictured it.

However ample the provision be which men may make to inflict suffering
upon other men, however well and successfully they may apply the
provision, they cannot alter men's nature. That will assert itself under
all circumstances. The fact that a man is restrained of his liberty by
no means alters his nature. The things he liked or disliked when he was
at liberty he will like or dislike when a prisoner, and he is not long
in finding that "whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap" is
just as certainly true of the seed he plants in inclosed ground as it is
of what he scatters in the open field.


CHAPTER XLVI.

IF PAIN IS NOT AN EVIL, IT CERTAINLY IS A VERY GOOD IMITATION.


The world inside of the walls has a public opinion of its own, and it is
at least quite as often just as the public opinion whose sphere is not
circumscribed by stone walls and iron bars. The man who accepts the
situation, resolved to get his hand as easily as possible out of the
tiger's mouth, soon becomes known as a sensible fellow, willing to give
others no trouble and anxious to have no trouble given him. Such a man
will rarely be molested.

Patient, uncomplaining endurance always excites pity and sympathy. The
most ignorant, the most brutal warder will scarcely oppress the man who
goes quietly and unresistingly along the thorny road stretched out
before him; who, not taking the thorns for roses, is not disappointed at
finding few roses among the thorns.

Those, however, who are determined to see the rough side of prison life
may easily do so; the appliances are there and they will certainly be
accommodated. An English prison is a vast machine in which a man counts
for just nothing at all. He is to the establishment what a bale of
merchandise is to a merchant's warehouse. The prison does not look upon
him as a man at all. He is merely an object which must move in a certain
rut and occupy a certain niche provided for it. There is no room for the
smallest sentiment. The vast machine of which he is an item keeps
undisturbed upon its course.

Move with it, and all is well. Resist, and you will be crushed as
inevitably as the man who plants himself on the railroad track when the
express is coming. Without passion, without prejudice, but also without
pity and without remorse, the machine crushes and passes on. The dead
man is carried to his grave and in ten minutes is as much forgotten as
though he had never existed.

The plank bed, the crank, the bread-and-water diet, unauthorized but
none the less effectual clubbing at the hands of warders, the cold in
the punishment cells penetrating to the very marrow of the bones,
weakness, sickness and unpitied death are the certain portion of the
rebel.

Some are found idiotic enough to invite such a fate, though fewer now
than formerly. The progress of education in England during the last
twenty years, and the philanthropic efforts of many societies and
private persons, but above all the covert but successful efforts of the
authorities to deport them to this country instantly after their
release, have had an immense effect in thinning the ranks of prison
inmates. The Judges, too, have been forced by public opinion to be much
less severe than they used to be, and that counts for much even in the
inside of prisons.

Nothing can be more capricious than the sentences they pass. In very few
cases does the law set any limit. "Life or any term not less than five
years" is the usual reading of the statute books, and the consequence
naturally is that one Judge will give his man five years, while another
will condemn his to twenty years for precisely the same crime committed
under precisely the same circumstances as the first one.

Another great blot on the English judicial system is that no court of
appeal exists to which a sentence might be referred for review, so that
the most unjust and unequal sentences are constantly passed from which
there is no appeal but in the forlorn hope--rather, entire
hopelessness--of a petition to the Home Secretary. I have often seen a
man who had been sentenced to five years for murder working by the side
of another whose sentence was twenty years for some crime against
property. Such contrasts, of course, excite great discontent, and in
some cases are the reason why men set up a hopeless resistance to what
they feel to be persecution and injustice.

It always seemed to me that the standpoint of the Board of Directors,
established in 1864, and which continued without change until very
recently, was altogether wrong. They appeared to think that in their
dealings with other men the only course was to be the application of
"force, iron force," as one of the governors expressed it. The very
great majority require no such application, and the few difficult ones
could easily be managed in another way. Certainly it is necessary that
all prison discipline be penal, but it is not necessary that it be
ferocious and inhuman, as certainly is the English. Starvation, the
crank, the plank bed, the fearful cold of the cells are not measures
necessary in dealing with any man.

Whatever they could think of to harden, to degrade, to insult, to
inflict every form of suffering, both physical and mental, which a man
could undergo and live, was embodied in the rules they made. Their
prisons were to be places of suffering and of nothing but suffering.

So far as the directors were concerned the regulations were carried out
to the letter, but each prison is under the control of a resident
governor, with a deputy governor to assist him. These gentlemen are
always men of good social position, retired officers of the army, who
have seen the world and have experience in controlling men. They are
rarely inclined to unnecessary severity, but are generally willing to
apply the rules with as much consideration as such rules admit. The
governor's discretion, however, is limited, but daily contact more or
less with men whom he sees to differ very little from free men, and whom
he sometimes finds to be even better than many he knows who are not, but
who perhaps ought to be, on the wrong side of the bars, makes him
unwilling to throw too many sharp points on the path which has to be
trodden by men for whom he often cannot help feeling considerable
sympathy.

I have more than once heard governors express their disapproval of the
starvation system and of the ferocity of treatment toward men who some
day or other must go back to society.

Under such governors the new arrival speedily finds out that to a
certain extent his comfort depends upon himself. No man can make a bad
thing good or trick himself into believing that suffering is pleasure.
If pain be not an evil, it is an exceedingly good imitation, and the
wisest philosopher is just as restless under the toothache as the most
perfect idiot.

[Illustration: PENTONVILLE PRISON.]


CHAPTER XLVII.

HIS ROW BECOMES FILLED WITH VERY SHARP-EDGED STONES INDEED.


The inhabitant of a cell has a very rough row to hoe under any
circumstance, and it has to be hoed, but there is no necessity for him
to fill his row with stones and to plant roots in it himself. He soon
finds his level, and the impression he makes on his arrival is the one
which, as a rule, clings to him to the end.

When prison air and prison influence have succeeded in incasing a man
with the sort of moral hardbake that renders him callous to those
feelings which at first so gall the raw spots, he finds himself watching
with curiosity the shapings of newcomers. Some announce immediately on
arrival that they cannot possibly be there more than a month or two;
their arrest was a mistake, and their uncle, the member of Parliament,
is now busily engaged making representations to the Home Secretary. One
of the very few amusements prisoners have is in watching the important
fellows, the men whose friends could do so much for them if they would
only let them know where they are. Sometimes a chap who has perhaps been
a body servant or something of the kind, who has picked up the kind of
veneer he could catch by aping his master, will furnish food for smiles
to every one he comes in contact with during his stay. He never receives
a letter without explaining confidentially to every one that another
aunt whose favorite he was has just died, leaving him £10,000 in cash,
not to speak of a trifle or two in the shape of half a dozen houses.
These gentlemen are immediately furnished with a name which becomes much
better known than their own, and whenever they have delivered themselves
of their periodical brooding of lies the news goes smiling round that
Billy Treacle's aunt has died again and left him another fortune.

So long as their inventions do no more harm than make them ridiculous,
they are only laughed at and let alone, but when one of them develops a
talent for invention which molests or injures others, especially when it
takes the form of confidential communication to the governor of what he
sees, and still more of what he does not see, such retribution as both
prisoners and officers can inflict is not long in falling. His row
becomes filled with very sharp-edged stones indeed, and roots which tear
his hands painfully. Nearly always these boastings are fathered by an
absurd vanity--a desire ever to appear what they are not, and while they
think they are deceiving others they deceive no one but themselves.

One case I remember, though, was an exception. One young fellow made
such use of his invention, and the story is so interesting and
instructive as showing with what lofty respect English gentlemen are
educated for the rights of property, that I shall relate it.

Four or five years after I went to Chatham a young fellow named
Frederick Barton arrived with a ten years' sentence for forgery. His
appearance and manners were very much in his favor, and his conduct so
confirmed the good first impression that he speedily became a favorite
with everybody from the governor down.

Some three years had slipped by when one day he asked me if I would
prepare a petition which he might send to the Home Secretary in the hope
of obtaining a commutation of sentence. I liked the youngster very well
and readily consented, but told him that I doubted very much if he
would get anything. THE FOUNDERS OF BOSTON.

On this occasion, it is proper to speak of the founders of Our city, and
of their glory. Now in its true acceptation, the term glory expresses
the splendor which emanates from virtue, in the act of producing general
and permanent good. Right conceptions, then, of the glory of our ancestors,
are to be obtained only by analyzing their virtues. These
virtues, indeed, are not seen charactered in breathing bronze, or
in living marble. Our ancestors have left no Corinthian temples on our
hills, no Gothic cathedrals on our plains, no proud pyramid, no storied
obelisk, in our cities. But mind is there. Sagacious enterprise is
there. An active, vigorous, intelligent, moral population throng our
cities, and predominate in our fields;--men, patient of labor,
submissive to law, respectful to authority, regardful of right,
faithful to liberty.

These are the monuments of our ancestors. They stand immutable and
immortal, in the social, moral, and intellectual condition of their
descendants. They exist in the spirit which their precepts instilled,
and their example implanted.

It was to this spot, during twelve successive years, that the real
body of those just settlers emigrated. In this place, they either
fixed permanently their abode, or took their departure from it, for the
coast or the interior. Whatever honor devolves on this metropolis, from
the events connected with its first settlement, is not solitary
or exclusive; it is shared with Massachusetts; with New England;
in some sense, with the whole United States.

For what part of this wide empire, be it sea or shore, lake or
river, mountain or valley, have the descendants of the first settlers
of New England not traversed; what depth of forest not penetrated?

what danger of nature or man not defied? Where is the cultivated
field, in redeeming which from the wilderness, their vigor has not
been displayed?

Where, amid unsubdued nature, by the side of the first log-hut of the
settler, does the school-house stand, and the church-spire rise, unless
the sons of New England are there? Where does improvement advance, under
the active energy of willing hearts and ready hands, prostrating the
moss-covered monarch of the wood, and from their ashes, amid their
charred roots, bidding the green sward and the waving harvest to unspring,
and the spirit of the fathers of New England is not seen, hovering and
shedding around the benign influences of sound, social, moral, and
religious institutions, stronger and more enduring than knotted oak or
tempered steel? The swelling tide of their descendants has spread
upon our coasts, ascended our rivers, taken possession of our plains.
Already it encircles our lakes. At this hour, the rushing noise of the
advancing wave startles the wild beast in his lair among the prairies
of the West. Soon it shall be seen climbing the Rocky Mountains, and,
as it dashes over their cliffs, shall be hailed by the dwellers on the
Pacific, as the harbinger of the coming blessings of safety, liberty,
and truth.
Pres. Quincy.

X.

THE AMERICAN SAILOR.

Look to your history--that part of it which the world knows by heart,--and
you will find on its brightest page the glorious achievements of the
American sailor. Whatever his country has done to disgrace him, and
break his spirit, he has never disgraced her;--he has always been ready
to serve her; he always has served her faithfully and effectually.
He has often been weighed in the balance, and never found wanting. The
only fault ever found with him is, that he sometimes fights ahead of his
orders. The world has no match for him, man for man; and he asks no
odds, and he cares for no odds, when the cause of humanity or the glory
of his country calls him to fight.

Who, in the darkest days of our Revolution, carried your flag into the
very chops of the British Channel, bearded the lion in his den,
and woke the echoes of old Albion's hills by the thunders of his
cannon, and the shouts of his triumph?

It was the American sailor.

And the names of John Paul Jones, and the Bon Homme Richard, will go down
the annals of time forever.

Who struck the first blow that humbled the Barbary flag--which, for a
hundred years, had been the terror of Christendom,--drove it from the
Mediterranean, and put an end to the infamous tribute it had been
accustomed to extort?

It was the American sailor, and the name of Decatur and his gallant
companions will be as lasting as monumental brass.

In the year 1812, when your arms on shore were covered by
disaster,--when Winchester had been defeated, when the army of the
Northwest had surrendered, and when the feeling of despondency hung
like a cloud over the land,--who first relit the fires of national glory,
and made the welkin ring with the shouts of victory? It was the
American sailor. And the names of Hull and the Constitution will be
remembered as long as we have left anything worth remembering.

The wand of British invincibility was broken when the flag of the Guerrière
came down. That one event was worth more to the Republic than all
the money which has ever been expended for the navy. Since that day
the navy has had no stain upon its escutcheon, but has been cherished
as your pride and glory. And the American sailor has established a
reputation throughout the world,--in peace and in war, in storm
and in battle,--for heroism and prowess unsurpassed.

He shrinks from no danger, he dreads no foe, he yields to no superior.

No shoals are too dangerous, no seas too boisterous, no climate too
rigorous for him.

The burning sun of the tropic cannot make him effeminate, nor can
the eternal winter of the polar seas paralyze his energies.

R. F. Stockton.

XI.

MORALITY, THE FOUNDATION OF NATIONAL GREATNESS.

When we look forward to the probable growth of this country; when we
think of the millions of human beings who are to spread over our
present territory; of the career of improvement and glory open to this
new people; of the impulse which free institutions, if prosperous,
may be expected to give to philosophy, religion, science, literature,
and arts; of the vast field in which the experiment is to be made,
of what the unfettered powers of man may achieve; of the bright page of
history which our fathers have filled, and of the advantages under
which their toils and virtues have placed us for carrying on their
work;--when we think of all this, can we help, for a moment,
surrendering ourselves to bright visions of our country's glory
before which all the glories of the past are to fade away?

Is it presumption to say that, if just to ourselves and all nations, we
shall be felt through this whole continent, that we shall spread
our language, institutions, and civilization, through a wider space
than any nation has yet filled with a like beneficent influence?

And are we prepared to barter these hopes, this sublime moral empire, for
conquests by force?
Are we prepared to sink to the level of unprincipled nations, to
content ourselves with a vulgar, guilty greatness, to adopt in our
youth maxims and ends which must brand our future with sordidness,
aggression, and shame?

This country cannot, without peculiar infamy, run the common race of
national rapacity. Our origin, institutions, and position are peculiar,
and all favor an upright honorable course.

Why cannot we rise to noble conceptions of our destiny? Why do we not
feel, that our work as a nation is to carry freedom, religion, science,
and a noble form of human nature over this continent? And why do we
not remember, that to diffuse these blessings we must first cherish
them in our own borders; and that whatever deeply and permanently
corrupts us, will make our spreading influence a curse, not a blessing,
to this new world? I am not prophet enough to read our fate. I
believe, indeed, that we are to make our futurity for ourselves.
I believe, that a nation's destiny lies in its character, in the
principles which govern its policy, and bear rule in the hearts of
its citizens.

I take my stand on God's moral and eternal law. A nation, renouncing and
defying this, cannot be free, cannot be great.
W. E. Channing.

XII.

INTEMPERANCE.

Among the evils of intemperance, much importance is given to the poverty
of which it is the cause. But this evil, great as it is, is yet light,
in comparison with the essential evil of intemperance. What matters it,
that a man be poor, if he carry into his poverty the spirit, energy,
reason, and virtues of a man? What matters it, that a man must, for a
few years, live on bread and water? How many of the richest are reduced,
by disease, to a worse condition than this?

Honest, virtuous, noble-minded poverty, is comparatively a light evil. The
ancient philosopher chose it, as a condition of virtue. It has been the
lot of many a Christian.

The poverty of the intemperate man owes its great misery to its
cause.

He who makes himself a beggar, by having made himself a brute, is
miserable indeed. He who has no solace, who has only agonizing recollections
and harrowing remorse, as he looks on his cold hearth, his scanty
table, his ragged children, has indeed to bear a crushing weight of
woe. That he suffers, is a light thing. That he has brought on himself
this suffering by the voluntary extinction of his reason, that is the
terrible thought, the intolerable curse.

Intemperance is to be pitied and abhorred for its own sake, much
more than for its outward consequences.

These owe their chief bitterness to their criminal source. We speak of the
miseries which the drunkard carries to his family. But take away his
own brutality, and how lightened would be these miseries! We talk
of his wife and children in rags.

Let the rags continue; but suppose them to be the effects of an
innocent cause. Suppose his wife and children bound to him by a strong
love, which a life of labor for their support, and of unlearned kindness
has awakened; suppose them to know that his toils for their welfare
had broken down his frame; suppose him able to say, "We are poor in this
world's goods, but rich in affection and religious trust.

  I am going from you; but I leave you to the
  Father of the fatherless, and to the widow's God."

     Suppose this; and how changed these rags!--how changed the cold,
     naked room! The heart's warmth can do much to withstand the
     winter's cold;--and there is hope, there is honor, in this
     virtuous indigence.
     
     What breaks the heart of the drunkard's wife?

                                                  It is not that he is poor, but that he is a drunkard.

Instead of that bloated face, now distorted with passion, now
robbed of every gleam of intelligence, if the wife could look on an
affectionate countenance, which had, for years, been the interpreter of
a well-principled mind and faithful heart, what an overwhelming load
would be lifted from her!

It is a husband, whose touch is polluting, whose infirmities are the
witness of his guilt, who has blighted all her hopes, who has proved
false to the vow which made her his; it is such a husband who makes
home a hell,--not one whom toil and disease and Providence have cast
on the care of wife and children.

We look too much at the consequences of vice,--too little at the vice
itself. It is vice which is the chief weight of what we call its
consequences,--vice, which is the bitterness in the cup of human woe.

W. E. Channing.

XIII.

INCONSISTENT EXPECTATIONS.

This world may be considered as a great mart of commerce, where fortune
exposes to our view various commodities,--riches, ease, tranquillity,
fame, integrity, knowledge.

Everything is marked at a settled price,--our time, our labor, our
ingenuity, is so much ready money, which we are to lay out to the best
advantage. Examine, compare, choose, reject; but stand to your
own judgment, and do not, like children, when you have purchased one
thing, repine that you do not possess another which you did not
purchase.

Such is the force of well-regulated industry that a steady and
vigorous exertion of our faculties, directed to one end, will
generally insure success.

       Would you, for instance, be rich?

       Do you think that single point worth the
       sacrifice of everything else? You may then
       be rich.

           Thousands have become so, from the lowest beginnings, by
       toil, and patient
       diligence, and attention to the minutest articles of expense and
                profit.

     But you must give up the pleasures of leisure, of mental ease,
     of a free, unsuspicious temper.

     If you preserve your integrity, it must be a coarse-spun and vulgar
honesty.

     Those high and lofty notions of morals which you brought with
     you from the schools, must be considerably lowered, and mixed
     with the baser alloy of a jealous and worldly-minded prudence.
     You must learn to do hard, lf not unjust things; and as for the nice
     embarrassments of a delicate and ingenuous spirit, it is necessary
     to get rid of them as fast as possible.
     You must shut your heart against the Muses, and be content to feed
     your understanding with plain household truths. In short, you must
     not attempt to enlarge your ideas, or polish your taste, or refine
     your sentiments, but must keep on in one beaten track, without turning
     aside either to the right or to the left. "But you say, I cannot
     submit to drudgery like this; I feel a spirit above it." 'Tis well,
     be above it then; only do not repine that you are not rich.
     
     Is knowledge the pearl of price in your estimation? That, toy may be
     purchased by steady application, and long solitary study
     and reflection.
     Bestow these, and you shall be learned. "But," says the man of letters,
     "what a hardship is it, that many an illiterate fellow, who cannot
     construe the motto of the arms on his coach, shall raise a fortune
     and make a figure, while I have little more than the common
     conveniences of life!" Was it, then, to raise a fortune, that you
     consumed the sprightly hours of youth in study and retirement? Was
     it to be rich that you grew pale over the midnight lamp, and
     distilled the sweetness from the Greek and Roman springs? You have
then mistaken your path, and ill employed your industry.
"What reward have I then, for all my labor?" What reward! A large,
comprehensive soul, well purged from vulgar fears, and perturbations,
and prejudices; able to comprehend and interpret the works of
man,--of God; a rich, flourishing, cultivated mind, furnished with
inexhaustible stores of entertainment and reflection; a perpetual
spring of fresh ideas, and the conscious dignity of superior
intelligence. Good Heaven! What other reward can you ask besides!
"But is it not some reproach upon the economy of Providence, that
such a one, who is a mean, dirty fellow, should have amassed wealth
enough to buy half a nation?" Not in the least. He made himself a
mean, dirty fellow for that very end. He has paid his health, his
conscience, his liberty for it; and will you envy him his bargain?
Will you hang your head and blush in his presence, because he
outshines you in equipage and show? Lift up your brow with a noble
confidence, and say to yourself "I have not these things, it is
true; but it is because I have not sought, because I have not desired
them; it is because I possess something better. I have chosen my
lot; I am content and satisfied." The characteristic mark of a great
and noble mind is to choose some high and worthy object, and pursue
that object through life.
Mrs. Barbauld.

XIV.
THE PATRIOT'S SWORD VINDICATED.Right Honourable Sir i humbly beg that you will listen to my woe
  for what i Suffer in Chatham prison the one half you do not Know
  From repeated attacks of this frightful disease i am getting worse
   each day
  So i humbly trust you will have me removed without the least delay

  In making my request in poetry Sir i hope you wont think i am Joking
  for the greatest favour you can bestowe upon me is to Send me back to
    Woking
  For in this damp and foggy Climate its impossible to ever get better
  So i humbly trust in addition to this you will grant me a Special letter

  Another little case i wish to State if you Sir will Kindly listen
  has it would Cause a Vast amount of talk all round and about the prison
  I mean if Niblo Clark Should be sent upon some public Works
  it would cause more talk then the late dispute between the russians and
   the turks

  in foggy wheather with my disease it would be impossible to larst one
    hour
  and if you doubt the accuracy of what i say i refere to doctor Power
  or any other naval doctor or one from the army garrison
  they one and all would say the Same and likewise Doctor Harrison

  Since my reception in this here prison i have been a most unfortunate man
  and i will tell you the why and wherefore as well as i possibly Can
  for every time i been in this hospital its the whole truth what i Say
  for my medical treatment i assure Sir i have dearly had to pay

  A regular marked man i have been for them all its well known to Captain
   Harris
  for the list of reports against me would reach from this place to paris
  So i humbly beg Right Honourable Sir you will grant this humble petition
  for i am sorry to State i have nothing to pay having lost both health
   and remission

  Such Cruel injustice to poor Sick men is far from being just and right
  but to report Sick patients in hospital is the officers Chief delight
  But perhaps kind Sir you might imagine that they only do this to a dodger
  But its done to all--Austin Bidwell as well and likewise to poor Sir
   Roger (Tichborne).

  like Savage lions in this infirmary the Officers about are walking
  to Catch and report a dying poor man for the frivolous Charge of talking
  and when we go out from hospital our poor bodies they try to Slaughter
  by taking these reports one at the time and Killing us on bread and water

  I am suffering a Chest and throat disease a frightful Chronic disorder
  and to go out from hospital is attempting Suicide to get heaps of bread
   and Water
  for it is such cruel treatment made me as i am and brought me to the
   Verge of the grave
  So in conclusion Right Honourable Sir a removal i humbly Crave

if this petition should not be sent prisoners abstain from further
writting who will explain his case more Clearly to the Visiting director
and i wish to have this petition Submitted to the director by your truly
humble servant Niblo Clark.


CHAPTER L.

IT WAS NIGHT; SILENCE AND GLOOM HAD SETTLED DOWN ON THE INMATES.


By a refinement of cruelty we had been separated and sent to prison wide
apart; for twenty years I had not seen the face of one of my friends.
But there was an invisible bond between us that no tyranny could break.
How blessed the happy forethought that made us, in that dark hour, amid
our despair, make that promise!

Ten years had slowly dragged by, 1883 came, and my devoted family felt
that I, and my comrades, too, had paid, as was right, our due to
justice, and we ought to be liberated. They determined that it would not
be their fault if I remained in captivity. So that year my sister came
to England and remained permanently there. She worked bravely and well,
but year after year passed without result. It was hardly eloquence, in
the strict sense of the term; it was pure reason. Now and then, for
a sentence or two, his eye flashed and his voice swelled into a bolder
note, as he uttered some emphatic thought; but he instantly fell back
into the tone of earnest conversation, which ran throughout the great
body of his speech.

The argument ended. Mr. Webster stood for some moments silent before the
court, while every eye was fixed intently upon him. At length, addressing
the chief justice, Marshall, he proceeded thus:--
"This, Sir, is my case!

It is the case, not merely of that humble institution, it is the case
of every college in our land. It is more. It is the case of every
eleemosynary institution throughout the country,--of all those great
charities founded by the piety of our ancestors to alleviate human
misery; and scatter blessings along the pathway of life. It is more!
It is, in some sense, the case of every man among us who has property
of which he may be stripped; for the question is simply this: Shall
our State legislatures be allowed to take that which is not their
own, to turn it from its original use, and apply it to such ends
or purposes as they, in their discretion, shall see fit?

"Sir, you may destroy this little institution; it is weak; it is in your
hands! I know it is one of the lesser lights in the literary horizon
of our country. You may put it out. But if you do so, you must carry
through your work! You must extinguish one after another, all those
great lights of science which, for more than a century, have thrown
their radiance over our land!

"It is, Sir, as I have said, a small college. And yet, there are those who
love it----."

Here the feelings which he had thus far succeeded in keeping down, broke
forth. His lips quivered; his firm cheeks trembled with emotion; his eyes
were filled with tears, his voice choked, and he seemed struggling to
the utmost simply to gain that mastery over himself which might save him
from an unmanly burst of feeling. I will not attempt to give
you the few broken words of tenderness in which he went on to
speak of his attachment to the college. The whole seemed to be mingled
throughout with the recollections of father, mother, brother, and
all the trials and privations through which he had made his way
into life.Helen Densmore (then residing
in London) and the Duke of Norfolk, at last the Home Secretary felt the
pressure, and all unwillingly--"much against his will," as he termed
it--was forced to order my release.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Thou shalt forget thy misery and remember it as waters that pass
away."

Twenty years had passed away since I had bade my friends good-bye under
the Old Bailey, and now 1893 had come. It was a frosty February night,
and I was alone in that little room with its arched roof and stone
floor. It was past 7 o'clock, and the prison gloom and stillness had
settled down on all the inmates, when suddenly there came the noise of
hurrying feet that echoed strangely from the arched roof as the warders
tramped loudly on the stone floor of the long hall. A rush of feet, or,
indeed, anything that broke the horrible stillness at that hour, was
startling. They were the feet of the reserve guard, which was never
called in save when the patrol who glided around the corridors in
slippered feet discovered some suicide. Many a heartbroken man had I
known in that twenty years who in his despair ended his misery thus.

While wondering who the unfortunate could be I heard their steps
mounting the stairway leading to my landing, and then a sudden thrill
shot through me as they turned down the corridor toward my cell. My
heart stood still as I thought, could they be coming for me? I had a
sudden frenzy of fear that they might pass my door, but no, they came
straight on, halted, and Ross, a principal officer--I had known him
twenty years--gave a thundering rap on my door and shouted, "I want
you!" Then a key rattled in the lock, the door was thrown open and three
friendly faces looked in. Faint, deadly white, trembling like a
frightened child, I started to my feet trying to speak, but no sound
came from my lips for a moment. At last I stammered, "What's the
matter?" Ross thrust his form through the door, and with face close to
mine said the thrilling words, "You're free!" I cried, "I don't believe
you!" and Ross said: "Come on, my boy; it's all right."

Like one in a dream I passed out through the door of that little cell
whose grim, narrow walls had frowned on me for a score of years and had
in vain tried to crush my spirit.

Still like one in a dream I went down that long hall listening only to
the strange sound of my own footsteps and saying to myself: "It is all a
dream. I will awake, as I have from thousands of like dreams, and find
myself again in my dungeon."

I was led into the outer office, where some papers were read to me, and
then others given me to sign, but I listened or signed like one in a
maze. Suddenly I saw Ross thrust the key into the outer door. That
roused me, and the thought flashed into my mind, now I will see a star.

The heavy door rolled on its hinges, the ponderous gate was flung back.
Stepping out, I intuitively looked up, and a sudden awe fell upon me,
for there, like a revelation, shone the Milky Way, with its millioned
arch of radiant suns. At the sight of that miracle of glory, my heart
beat fast. I realized that I was free, with health and strength, with
courage to begin again the battle of life, and in my irrepressible
emotion I cried aloud, and my cry was like a prayer--"God is good."

[Illustration: A FIVE-POUND NOTE.

The counterfeit plate.]