Produced by Donald Lainson


TRENT'S TRUST AND OTHER STORIES

By Bret Harte


CONTENTS


TRENT'S TRUST

MR. MACGLOWRIE'S WIDOW

A WARD OF COLONEL STARBOTTLE

PROSPER'S "OLD MOTHER"

THE CONVALESCENCE OF JACK HAMLIN

A PUPIL OF CHESTNUT RIDGE

DICK BOYLE'S BUSINESS CARD


TRENT'S TRUST

I

Randolph Trent stepped from the Stockton boat on the San Francisco
wharf, penniless, friendless, and unknown. It was some time before Timothy
could answer.

"I've had an awful fall," he moaned finally.

"Where are you hurt?" Mr. Crow asked him.

"Everywhere!" Timothy Turtle told him. "I thought you said that water was
soft to fall into."
"Well, isn't it?"
"It certainly is _not,_" Timothy Turtle declared. "I believe there's
nothing harder in the whole world.... I've heard, sir, that you are very
wise. But for once, anyhow, you've made a great mistake."
Old Mr. Crow coughed--and winked at his friends. "The trouble
was"--he explained--"the trouble was, you lost your balance and
landed in the creek upside down. And of course you couldn't fly in
that position. It's what's called 'turning turtle,'" he added, "and
I might have known--if I had stopped to think--that you'd be sure
to do it."A rising wind, which had rocked the boat for the last few hours, had now
developed into a strong sou'wester, with torrents of rain which swept
the roadway. His well-worn working clothes, fitted to the warmer
Southern mines, gave him more concern from their visible, absurd
contrast to the climate than from any actual sense of discomfort,
and his feverishness defied the chill of his soaking garments, as he
hurriedly faced the blast through the dimly lighted street. At the next
corner he paused; he had reached another, and, from its dilapidated
appearance, apparently an older wharf than that where he had landed,
but, like the first, it was still a straggling avenue leading toward the
higher and more animated part of the city. He again mechanically--for a
part of his trouble was a vague, undefined purpose--turned toward it.

Peter Mink replied with a shake of his small head. "I'm not going
to tell you, Mr. Turtle. I don't want to hurt your feelings. And
if I were to explain that your back says you're a disagreeable, mean
old scamp, you know you'd be very angry."
Peter Mink jumped out of the way just in time. For Timothy Turtle wheeled
with amazing swiftness and snapped at his tormentor.

"Don't do that!" Peter cried. "_I_ didn't say anything about you, Mr.

Turtle."
"You'd better not," Timothy warned him. "And if Johnnie Green carved
any such words as those on my shell I don't know what to do. I certainly
don't want to carry them about with me for the rest of my life." He
looked unhappy, to say the least. He knew that probably he
would live a great many years longer. And he was puzzled.

"Why don't you get a new shell?" Peter Mink inquired.

"I'd hate to do that," Timothy Turtle told him. "I've had this one a
long time; and it fits me perfectly."
"Then why don't you get the well-known tailor, Mr. Ferdinand Frog, to
make you a coat that will cover your back? If you did that, nobody could
see what's on your shell."
"A good idea!" Timothy Turtle exclaimed.

"I'll see Mr. Frog at once. And some day I'll do something handsome
for you, because you've been a great help to me."
"Why wait?" Peter Mink demanded. "Why don't you do it now?" Knowing that
Timothy was stingy, Peter thought that the old gentleman would soon
change his mind about "doing something handsome" for him.

"No!" Timothy Turtle declared. "I want to wait a while and think it
over."
"Well, then," Peter Mink urged him, "why don't you crawl under that
shelving rock and think it over right now?"
"You ask too many questions," Mr. Turtle told him. "And besides, I must
hurry away and find Ferdinand Frog. I want my new coat as soon as I can
get it. And the longer I stay here, the more time I shall lose." So in
spite of all Peter Mink could say, Timothy slipped into Black Creek and
swam away.

XIX
CAREFUL MR. FROG

Somebody had knocked. And with a wide smile upon his face Mr. Ferdinand
Frog, the tailor, went to his door and peeped out.

One look was enough. He shut the door again with great haste and barred
it. And he held one hand over his heart, as if he had just received a
terrible fright.

"Let me in!" somebody called. The tailor knew that it was Timothy
Turtle's voice, for he had seen that crusty old person standing upon his
doorstep.

"Go away!" Mr. Frog replied. "I'm not here."
He was an odd chap--this Ferdinand Frog. One never could tell what he was
going to do--or say.

"Yes, you are!" Timothy Turtle insisted. "I saw you only a moment ago."

The tailor then peered out of the window at his caller.

"There you are now!" Timothy shouted, as he caught sight of Mr. Frog. "I
say, let me in!"
"I can't," Mr. Frog answered. "I'm sick a-bed."
"Nonsense!" Timothy cried.

"Well, I expect I'll be ill if you don't go away," the tailor answered.

"I'm having a nervous chill this very moment."
He was afraid of Timothy Turtle. And it was no wonder. For Timothy
had tried, more than once to make a meal of the nimble Mr. Frog.

"I haven't come here to hurt you," Timothy Turtle explained, trying
to smile at the face in the window. "I want you to make me a new coat--a
big one that will cover my back all over."

To his great disappointment Mr. Frog shook his head with great force.

"I'm not interested," he announced.

"Do you mean"--Timothy Turtle faltered--"do you mean that you won't
make a coat for me?"
"Exactly!"
"Why?" Timothy pressed him.

"Too busy!" was Mr. Frog's answer.

"Who is?"
"You are!" said Mr. Frog. "Ever since I've known you, you've been
trying to catch me and my friends."
"Why--er--I was only joking," Timothy Turtle told him. "You mustn't mind
my playful ways. Just make me a coat and I'll do something handsome for
you."
It was now the tailor's turn to ask questions.

"What"--he inquired--"what will you do?"

"I couldn't just say at this moment," Timothy replied.

"Why not?"
"Oh, I'd want to think a while," said Timothy Turtle.

"Very well!" was the tailor's answer. "I've no objection, though it's
something I never do myself."
"I wish you'd come outside a moment, since you don't want me inside
your shop," Timothy remarked. "I'd like to whisper to you."
"I'm deaf," Mr. Frog informed him. "I couldn't hear a single word,
even if you were to shout your head off."
"You can hear what I'm saying now well enough," Timothy pointed out.

"I read the lips," said Mr. Frog with a snicker.

That speech made Timothy Turtle start.

"Then if you can read my lips, no doubt you can read what's on my back,"
he said.

"That's easy," the tailor observed. "Your shell's on your back, of course."

Timothy Turtle glanced up with a look of scorn.

"Don't be silly!" he snapped. "I mean, can you read what's carved on my
shell?"

"Certainly!" Mr. Frog replied. And he began to mutter, as if to himself,
"J. G.--that means _just grumpy_, of course----"

Timothy Turtle interrupted him quickly.

"I don't care to hear any more," he screamed.

And turning away, he waddled towards the water.

"That Ferdinand Frog has no manners," he spluttered.

"I only wish he wasn't quite so spry."

And Mr. Turtle looked very fierce as he snapped his jaws together.

XX
THE ALMANAC

One rainy night Peter Mink stopped at Black Creek; and calling
loudly to Timothy Turtle he asked for a place to sleep.

"You remember," he said, when Timothy drew himself upon the bank,
"you told me that you would do something handsome for me some time.

And now that I'm wet and tired I hope you can offer me a snug, dry spot
in which to spend the night."

"What can you do to pay me?" asked Timothy Turtle. He never did anything
for anybody without pay. "Can you saw wood?"

Now, Peter Mink would rather stay out in the rain forever than saw
a single stick of wood.

So he said:

"No, I can't!" just like that.

"Well, it's about time you learned," said Timothy Turtle.

Peter Mink was about to leave in disgust; and he was wondering what
name he would call Timothy Turtle, when he was a little further
away, when he noticed that Timothy had a thin book in his hand.

"What's that?" Peter asked.

"It's the Farmer's Almanac," said Timothy Turtle. "I've been looking
through it; but my eyes are bad and I can't read."
Now that was quite true; for Timothy's eyes _were_ bad--and he had never
learned to read.

"I'll tell you what I'll do," Peter Mink announced. "If you'll give me
a place to spend the night I'll read the Farmer's Almanac to you."
"Come right in!"

Timothy Turtle cried, leading the way to a cozy nook beneath a big
rock which was not far from the water. And Peter Mink was very
glad to creep inside that comfortable shelter. He took the Almanac from
Timothy Turtle and they both sat down.

Peter opened the book.

"I see," he said, "that it says the weather was fair to-day, but look
out for a heavy rain to-night!"

Now, Timothy Turtle had not felt quite sure that Peter Mink knew how
to read. But when he heard that he quickly changed his mind.

"That's exactly what's happened!" he exclaimed. And he was greatly
pleased.

But the next moment he noticed that Peter Mink was holding the book upside
down. Timothy could tell that because the picture of the man ploughing,
on the cover, was upside down.

"You can't read!" he cried angrily.

"You don't even know how to hold a book. You've got it bottom
side up!"
But Peter Mink only smiled pleasantly at him.

"You don't understand," he said. "That's the way I was taught to read.
Then, if you want to read when standing on your head, you don't
need to turn the book over....

It's the latest method," he explained.

"Oh!" said Timothy Turtle. "That's different!"
"Yes--quite different!" said Peter Mink.

"What does the Almanac say about next week?" Timothy inquired.

"Time to plant corn!" Peter told him.

"That's so!" said Timothy Turtle. "Mr. Crow was telling me this very day
that Farmer Green was ploughing his cornfield; but of course that doesn't
interest me much.... What else does the book say?" Timothy continued.

"Well, here's some general advice," Peter Mink remarked, as he looked at
the Almanac again. "It says: 'If anybody comes to you and asks for a
place to sleep, give him a bed--but first of all, give him a good
supper.'"
"I don't believe I want to hear any more to-night," said Timothy Turtle
hastily. "It's late; so we'd better go to bed right away."
Peter Mink was somewhat disappointed. He had hoped to get a fish
or two to eat.

But there was nothing he could say, though he did wish Timothy Turtle
could take a hint.

"In the morning you can read to me again," Timothy told him.

So they went to bed.

But in the morning the Almanac was nowhere to be found. Timothy Turtle
hunted for it in every place he could think of--except Peter Mink's
pocket.

After Peter had gone, Timothy continued his search. And at last he found
the Almanac beneath the heap of dry leaves which Peter Mink had used
for a bed.

"That's queer!" Timothy Turtle said. "I'm almost sure I looked there before
Peter Mink went away.... My eyes must be growing worse."
The more he thought of the matter, the gladder he was that he hadn't
found the book before. For there was no knowing but that Peter Mink
might have found some advice about giving a good breakfast to a guest
who stayed over night.

Then Timothy Turtle went into Black Creek and caught a fine fish, for he
was hungry.

And he enjoyed his meal mightily, because he had it all to himself.

While he was eating he kept thinking what a disagreeable fellow Peter Mink
was. No doubt he would have been surprised had he known that Peter Mink
was thinking the same thing about _him_, at exactly the same moment.

XXI
A QUEER WISH

Fishing was one of Timothy Turtle's favorite sports. He was a skillful
fisherman, too.

And though it only happened once that he caught more than one fish at a
time, on that occasion he captured seven. This was the way it
happened:

Johnnie Green had come to Black Creek to fish for pickerel. And Timothy
Turtle was much annoyed when he found Johnnie fishing in the pool that
he liked best of all. Timothy thought it was mean of Johnnie Green to
catch _his_ fish, in _his_ creek.

And Timothy's beady eyes glared as he watched Johnnie from a safe hiding-place
under the bank.

He saw that Johnnie Green was a good fisherman.

Before he moved on he caught three big fish from that pool; and one of
them--the biggest of the three--was the very fish on which Timothy
Turtle had been expecting to dine that day.

It was really no wonder that he was annoyed. And when Johnnie went further
up the creek to try his luck elsewhere Timothy Turtle slipped into
the water and followed him.

The more fish he saw Johnnie Green catch, the angrier Timothy grew. And
he went out of his way to tell a number of his neighbors what was
happening.

"Something ought to be done about it!" he complained.

"Why don't you go down and speak to Farmer Green?" Peter Mink suggested.
Peter liked fish, too. And he had often said that Johnnie had no right
to take food away from him, when everybody knew that there was a
plenty at the farmhouse.

Timothy Turtle did not care for Peter's suggestion.

"I've no time to waste talking to Farmer Green," he said. "It seems to
me a letter would be better. Now, if somebody would write a letter, and
get everybody to sign his name to it, and send it down to Farmer Green
by a messenger, I would do my share to help. I would tell the messenger
where to leave the letter so that Farmer Green would be sure to find
it." Timothy then said that he must hurry back to the creek, for he
wanted to see how many fish Johnnie Green took, so the number could
be mentioned in the letter. But before he left Timothy told Peter Mink
to go and find somebody to write the letter. "There's old Mr. Crow,"
Timothy said. "You might ask him. He could use one of his quills for a
pen, you know."
When Timothy Turtle reached the creek once more he found that while he
was talking to Peter Mink, Johnnie Green had moved oh again.

So Timothy started to follow him. But what should he see, lying on the
bank right before him, but a string of seven pickerel! Johnnie Green
had left them there, while he went still further up the creek to catch
more.

Timothy Turtle suddenly changed his mind about sending a letter to
Farmer Green. He wished that Johnnie would come there to fish every
day.

"He's a kind boy, after all!" said Timothy Turtle to himself. "I never
dreamed that he was catching these fish for me. But here they are, waiting
for me! For Johnnie must have known that I would find them."

Timothy Turtle didn't say anything more. Of course he was only talking
to himself, anyhow. And he seized the string of pickerel and waddled
into the bushes, where he ate every one of those seven fish.

When Peter Mink met Timothy the next day he said he had not yet found
anybody who would write the letter to Farmer Green.

"Mr. Crow told me that if it was anybody but you he might be willing
to pull out one of his quills for a pen," Peter explained. "But he said
that he hoped Johnnie Green would come here every day to fish, until
there are no fish left for you."
Timothy Turtle sniffed.

"You go back," he directed Peter Mink, "and tell Mr. Crow that _I_ hope
Johnnie Green will come here _twice a day_ until he has caught every
fish in Black Creek."
Peter Mink thought that that was a queer thing for Timothy to
wish.

Neither he nor old Mr. Crow could understand it.

XXII
THE UNWELCOME GUEST

Ferdinand Frog did not like Timothy Turtle. But he always said he thought
Mr. Turtle could be _trusted_.

"You can _depend_ on him," Mr. Frog often remarked. "Yes, you can depend
on him to grab you if he ever gets a chance."
And all the rest of the musical Frog family agreed with him.

It is not surprising, therefore, that they never invited Timothy
Turtle to attend their singing parties in Cedar Swamp.

It made no difference how much Timothy Turtle hinted. Though he
frequently took pains to tell Ferdinand Frog how fond he was of
music, Mr. Frog never once asked him to come to a concert.

In private Mr. Frog and his friends often spoke of Mr. Turtle--and giggled.
And one of the Frog family even made up a song about Timothy Turtle,
which the whole company loved to chant in Cedar Swamp, safe--as
they thought--from Timothy's snapping jaws.

But one fine summer's evening they had a great surprise. They had scarcely
begun their nightly concert when Timothy Turtle appeared, out of the
water and crawled upon an old stump, right in their midst.

"Good evening!" he cried. "I was just passing on my way home; and hearing
the singing, I thought I'd stop and enjoy it."

For a few moments none of the Frog family said a word. And then Ferdinand
Frog spoke up and asked Mr.

Turtle a question:

"Have you had your dinner?"
"No, I haven't," Timothy answered.

"But you needn't trouble yourselves on my account. Go on with your
singing.

And if I feel faint no doubt I can find a bite to eat hereabouts."

Now, Mr.

Turtle hoped that his speech would put the singers quite at their ease.
But they looked at one another and rolled their eyes as if to say,
"This Timothy Turtle is a dangerous person.

Look out for him!"

At the same time they did not wish to appear frightened.

And Ferdinand Frog's mother's uncle even made a short speech,
saying that he hoped Mr.

Turtle would enjoy the singing half as much as everybody else enjoyed
his company.

He was about to make some further remark. But no one knew what. For
Timothy Turtle wheeled about to look at the old gentleman. And the
moment Timothy moved, Ferdinand Frog's mother's uncle jumped hastily
into the water from the hummock where he had been sitting, and swam
away.

The rest of the company then sang a song. And their listener said that
he had never heard anything like it.

"I wish you'd sing it again," he said, "with your mouths open and
your eyes shut."
But the musical Frog family objected that they were not used to
singing in that fashion.
"Why don't you keep your own eyes shut?" Ferdinand Frog asked
Mr.
Turtle. "Then you wouldn't know whether ours were open or closed."

"Let us _all_ shut our eyes!" Timothy Turtle then suggested. And
when the Frog family began another song, a few of the younger and
more foolish singers followed Mr. Turtle's advice.
So, too, did Mr. Turtle himself--_for a few moments_.
But he soon opened his eyes slyly. And he became very angry when
he saw that most of the singers were watching him.
"You aren't doing as I asked you!" he shouted.

XXIII
A MERRY SONG
Timothy Turtle made such a noise that the Frog family had to stop
singing.

"It's not fair!" he cried. "You're peeping!"
"Well, so are you!" Ferdinand Frog retorted.
"I only opened my eyes to make sure that you were doing as I asked
you to," Mr. Turtle replied with an injured air.
"And we didn't shut ours, because we wanted to watch _you_," said
Mr.
Frog.

"Can't you trust me?" Timothy snapped.
"Certainly!" Ferdinand Frog replied.
"Oh, yes! We can trust you!" And he winked at his friends.
"You don't want to hurt my feelings, do you?" Timothy Turtle went
on.

"No, indeed!" everybody exclaimed.
And then Ferdinand Frog told Timothy that they would sing a special
song in his honor.
"Fire away!" Timothy ordered them. And the whole company knew, when
he said that, that if he really cared anything at all for singing
he never would have spoken of it in that fashion.
They were just about to begin the song when Timothy Turtle stopped
them.

"What's this thing called?" he demanded.
"It's known," Ferdinand Frog explained, "as 'A Merry Song.'"
And then the whole Frog family began to bellow their loudest:
Come let us sing a merry song!
To you it may sound sad.
And if you think it loud and long _We_ think that it's not bad.
"We'll sing about a grumpy one Who snaps and bites all day.
And if you call that "having fun" We make reply, "Go 'way!"
He has a glittering, wicked eye And also cruel jaws.
And if you ask the reason why, We'll answer you, _"Because!"_
He'll stretch his neck and grab you quick-- Don't let him come too
near!
And if you poke him with a stick He'll seize that too--oh, dear!
Now, we'll admit he swims quite well And that he's slow ashore.
Don't ask us if he wears a shell Until we tell you more.
Don't ask us if he's fond of fish Nor seek to learn his age.
And kindly don't express a wish To see him in a rage!
Don't ask us if his claws are strong And if he has a tail.
It might be short and blunt, or long And pointed like a nail.
We do not want to cause you pain.
We would not give offense-- But, sir, you'll not come here again
If you have any sense.
After the last echo of the song had lost itself in the depths of
Cedar Swamp, the singers all turned, smiling, to their listener.
But his face wore no smile. On the contrary, Timothy Turtle frowned
darkly.
"You can't fool me!" he cried. "You don't like me! You don't want
me here!" 
Ferdinand Frog swallowed a few times.
"Well," said he, "of course my manners are so elegant that I simply
_couldn't_ dispute one of my elders. And anyhow, Mr. Turtle, you'd
find that our singing sounded twice as well if you were half a mile
away."
"It certainly couldn't sound any worse than it does here," Timothy
Turtle declared--a remark which made the Frog family grin broadly.
He said no more, but slipped into the water and struck out towards
home.
There was a lively scattering of those who found themselves in
Timothy Turtle's path. And for a time it looked as if the singing
party had broken up in disorder.
But after a while everybody came back again--that is, everybody but
Timothy Turtle. He hurried away and spent most of the whole night
buried in the mud at the bottom of Black Creek. For even until
daybreak that merry song came floating now and then across Pleasant
Valley.
And Timothy Turtle did not like it. He thought it not only loud and
long, but most unpleasant as well.

THE END
Little Jack Rabbit Books 
(Trademark Registered)
By DAVID CORY 
Author of "Little Journeys to Happyland"
Colored Wrappers With Text Illustrations.
A new and unique series about the furred and feathered little people
of the wood and meadow.
Children will eagerly follow the doings of little Jack Rabbit, and
the clever way in which he escapes from his three enemies, Danny
Fox, Mr.
Wicked Wolf and Hungry Hawk will delight the youngsters.
LITTLE JACK RABBIT'S ADVENTURES
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND DANNY FOX
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE SQUIRREL BROTHERS
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND CHIPPY CHIPMUNK
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE BIG BROWN BEAR
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND UNCLE JOHN HARE
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND PROFESSOR CROW
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND OLD MAN WEASEL
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND MR. WICKED WOLF
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND HUNGRY HAWK
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE POLICEMAN DOG
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND MISS MOUSIE
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND UNCLE LUCKY
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE YELLOW DOG TRAMP
GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK
LITTLE JOURNEYS TO HAPPYLAND 
By DAVID CORY
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED. INDIVIDUAL COLORED WRAPPERS.
Printed in large type--easy to read. For children from 6 to 8
years.
A new series of exciting adventures by the author of the LITTLE
JACK RABBIT books. This series is unique in that it deals with
unusual and exciting adventures on land and sea and in the air.
THE CRUISE OF THE NOAH'S ARK
This is a good rainy day story. On just such a day Mr. Noah invites
Marjorie to go for a trip in Noah's Ark. She gets aboard just in
time and away it floats out into the big wide world.
THE MAGIC SOAP BUBBLE
The king of the gnomes has a magic pipe with which he blows a
wonderful bubble and taking Ed. with him they both have a delightful
time in Gnomeland.

THE ICEBERG EXPRESS
The Mermaid's magic comb changes little Mary Louise into a mermaid.
The Polar Bear Porter on the Iceberg Express invites her to take a
trip with him and away they go.

THE WIND WAGON
Little Hero stepped aboard the Wind Wagon and started on a journey
to many wonderful places and had a delightful time.
THE MAGIC UMBRELLA
A little old man gave Jimmy the Magic Umbrella which took him to
Happyland, where he had many adventures.
GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK"No one yet," returned the teller, "but," he added parenthetically,
"Judge Boompointer, you know, was speaking to you about his son."

"Yes, I know that." To Randolph: "Go round to my private room and wait
for me. I won't be as long as your friend last night." Then he added to
a negro porter, "Show him round there."

He moved away, stopping at one or two desks to give an order to the
clerks, and once before the railing to speak to a depositor. Randolph
followed the negro into the hall, through a "board room," and into a
handsomely furnished office. He had not to wait long. In a few moments
the president appeared with an older man whose gray side whiskers, cut
with a certain precision, and whose black and white checked neckerchief,
tied in a formal bow, proclaimed the English respectability of the
period. At the president's dictation he took down Randolph's name,
nativity, length of residence, and occupation in California. This
concluded, the president, glancing at his companion, said briefly,--

"Well?"

"He had better come to-morrow morning at nine," was the answer.

"And ask for Mr. Dingwall, the deputy manager," added the president,
with a gesture that was at once an introduction and a dismissal to both.

Randolph had heard before of this startling brevity of San Francisco
business detail, yet he lingered until the door closed on Mr. Dingwall.
His heart was honestly full.

"You have been very kind, sir," he stammered.

"I haven't run half the risks of that chap last night," said the
president grimly, the least tremor of a smile on his set mouth.

"If you would only let me know what I can do to thank you," persisted
Randolph.

"Trust the man that trusts you, and hang on to your trust," returned the
president curtly, with a parting nod.

Elated and filled with high hopes as Randolph was, he felt some
trepidation in returning to his hotel. He had to face his landlord with
some explanation of the bank's inquiry. The landlord might consider him
an impostor, and request him to leave, or, more dreadful still, insist
upon keeping the bag. He thought of the parting words of the president,
and resolved upon "hanging on to his trust," whatever happened. But he
was agreeably surprised to find that he was received at the office with
a certain respect not usually shown to the casual visitor. "Your caller
turned up to-day"--Randolph started--"from the Eureka bank," continued
the clerk. "Sorry we could not give your name, but you know you
only left a deposit in your letter and sent a messenger for your key
yesterday afternoon. When you came you went straight to your room.
Perhaps you would like to register now." Randolph no longer hesitated,
reflecting that he could explain it all later to his unknown benefactor,
and wrote his name boldly. But he was still more astonished when the
clerk continued: "I reckon it was a case of identifying you for a
draft--it often happens here--and we'd have been glad to do it for you.
But the bank clerk seemed satisfied with out description of you--you're
easily described, you know" (this in a parenthesis, complimentarily
intended)--"so it's all right. We can give you a better room lower down,
if you're going to stay longer." Not knowing whether to laugh or to be
embarrassed at this extraordinary conclusion of the blunder, Randolph
answered that he had just come from the bank, adding, with a pardonable
touch of youthful pride, that he was entering the bank's employment the
next day.

Another equally agreeable surprise met him on his arrival there the next
morning. Without any previous examination or trial he was installed at
once as a corresponding clerk in the place of one just promoted to
a sub-agency in the interior. His handwriting, his facility of
composition, had all been taken for granted, or perhaps predicated
upon something the president had discerned in that one quick, absorbing
glance. He ventured to express the thought to his neighbor.

"The boss," said that gentleman, "can size a man in and out, and all
through, in about the time it would take you and me to tell the color of
his hair. HE don't make mistakes, you bet; but old Dingy--the dep--you
settled with your clothes."

"My clothes!" echoed Randolph, with a faint flush.

"Yes, English cut--that fetched him."

And so his work began. His liberal salary, which seemed to him
munificent in comparison with his previous earnings in the mines,
enabled him to keep the contents of the buckskin purse intact, and
presently to return the borrowed suit of clothes to the portmanteau. The
mysterious owner should find everything as when he first placed it in
his hands. With the quick mobility of youth and his own rather mercurial
nature, he had begun to forget, or perhaps to be a little ashamed of his
keen emotions and sufferings the night of his arrival, until that night
was recalled to him in a singular way.

One Sunday a vague sense of duty to his still missing benefactor
impelled him to spend part of his holiday upon the wharves. He had
rambled away among the shipping at the newer pier slips, and had gazed
curiously upon decks where a few seamen or officers in their Sunday
apparel smoked, paced, or idled, trying vainly to recognize the face
and figure which had once briefly flashed out under the flickering wharf
lamp. Was the stranger a shipmaster who had suddenly transferred himself
to another vessel on another voyage? A crowd which had gathered around
some landing steps nearer shore presently attracted his attention. He
lounged toward it and looked over the shoulders of the bystanders down
upon the steps. A boat was lying there, which had just towed in the body
of a man found floating on the water. Its features were already
swollen and defaced like a hideous mask; its body distended beyond all
proportion, even to the bursting of its sodden clothing. A tremulous
fascination came over Randolph as he gazed. The bystanders made their
brief comments, a few authoritatively and with the air of nautical
experts.

"Been in the water about a week, I reckon."

"'Bout that time; just rucked up and floated with the tide."

"Not much chance o' spottin' him by his looks, eh?"

"Nor anything else, you bet. Reg'larly cleaned out. Look at his
pockets."

"Wharf-rats or shanghai men?"

"Betwixt and between, I reckon. Man who found him says he's got an ugly
cut just back of his head. Ye can't see it for his floating hair."

"Wonder if he got it before or after he got in the water."

"That's for the coroner to say."

"Much he knows or cares," said another cynically. "It'll just be a case
of 'Found drowned' and the regular twenty-five dollars to HIM, and five
to the man who found the body. That's enough for him to know."

Thrilled with a vague anxiety, Randolph edged forward for a nearer view
of the wretched derelict still gently undulating on the towline. The
closer he looked the more he was impressed by the idea of some frightful
mask that hid a face that refused to be recognized. But his attention
became fixed on a man who was giving some advice or orders and examining
the body scrutinizingly. Without knowing why, Randolph felt a sudden
aversion to him, which was deepened when the man, lifting his head, met
Randolph's eyes with a pair of shifting yet aggressive ones. He bore,
nevertheless, an odd, weird likeness to the missing man Randolph was
seeking, which strangely troubled him. As the stranger's eyes followed
him and lingered with a singular curiosity on Randolph's dress, he
remembered with a sudden alarm that he was wearing the suit of the
missing man. A quick impulse to conceal himself came upon him, but he as
quickly conquered it, and returned the man's cold stare with an anger he
could not account for, but which made the stranger avert his eyes. Then
the man got into the boat beside the boatman, and the two again towed
away the corpse. The head rose and fell with the swell, as if nodding a
farewell. But it was still defiant, under its shapeless mask, that even
wore a smile, as if triumphant in its hideous secret.


II


The opinion of the cynical bystander on the wharf proved to be a correct
one. The coroner's jury brought in the usual verdict of "Found drowned,"
which was followed by the usual newspaper comment upon the insecurity of
the wharves and the inadequate protection of the police.

Randolph Trent read it with conflicting emotions. The possibility he had
conceived of the corpse being that of his benefactor was dismissed when
he had seen its face, although he was sometimes tortured with doubt, and
a wonder if he might not have learned more by attending the inquest. And
there was still the suggestion that the mysterious disappearance might
have been accomplished by violence like this. He was satisfied that if
he had attempted publicly to identify the corpse as his missing friend
he would have laid himself open to suspicion with a story he could
hardly corroborate.

He had once thought of confiding his doubts to Mr. Revelstoke, the bank
president, but he had a dread of that gentleman's curt conclusions
and remembered his injunction to "hang on to his trust." Since his
installation, Mr. Revelstoke had merely acknowledged his presence by
a good-humored nod now and then, although Randolph had an instinctive
feeling that he was perfectly informed as to his progress. It was wiser
for Randolph to confine himself strictly to his duty and keep his own
counsel.

Yet he was young, and it was not strange that in his idle moments his
thoughts sometimes reverted to the pretty girl he had seen on the night
of his arrival, nor that he should wish to parade his better fortune
before her curious eyes. Neither was it strange that in this city, whose
day-long sunshine brought every one into the public streets, he should
presently have that opportunity. It chanced that one afternoon, being
in the residential quarter, he noticed a well-dressed young girl walking
before him in company with a delicate looking boy of seven or eight
years. Something in the carriage of her graceful figure, something in
a certain consciousness and ostentation of coquetry toward her youthful
escort, attracted his attention. Yet it struck him that she was neither
related to the child nor accustomed to children's ways, and that she
somewhat unduly emphasized this to the passers-by, particularly those of
his own sex, who seemed to be greatly attracted by her evident beauty.
Presently she ascended the steps of a handsome dwelling, evidently their
home, and as she turned he saw her face. It was the girl he remembered.
As her eye caught his, he blushed with the consciousness of their former
meeting; yet, in the very embarrassment of the moment, he lifted his
hat in recognition. But the salutation was met only by a cold, critical
stare. Randolph bit his lip and passed on. His reason told him she
was right, his instinct told him she was unfair; the contradiction
fascinated him.

Yet he was destined to see her again. A month later, while seated at his
desk, which overlooked the teller's counter, he was startled to see her
enter the bank and approach the counter. She was already withdrawing
a glove from her little hand, ready to affix her signature to the
receipted form to be proffered by the teller. As she received the gold
in exchange, he could see, by the increased politeness of that official,
his evident desire to prolong the transaction, and the sidelong
glances of his fellow clerks, that she was apparently no stranger but a
recognized object of admiration. Although her face was slightly flushed
at the moment, Randolph observed that she wore a certain proud reserve,
which he half hoped was intended as a check to these attentions. Her
eyes were fixed upon the counter, and this gave him a brief opportunity
to study her delicate beauty. For in a few moments she was gone; whether
she had in her turn observed him he could not say. Presently he rose and
sauntered, with what he believed was a careless air, toward the paying
teller's counter and the receipt, which, being the last, was plainly
exposed on the file of that day's "taking." He was startled by a titter
of laughter from the clerks and by the teller ironically lifting the
file and placing it before him.

"That's her name, sonny, but I didn't think that you'd tumble to it
quite as quick as the others. Every new man manages to saunter round
here to get a sight of that receipt, and I've seen hoary old depositors
outside edge around inside, pretendin' they wanted to see the dep, jest
to feast their eyes on that girl's name. Take a good look at it and
paste a copy in your hat, for that's all you'll know of her, you bet.
Perhaps you think she's put her address and her 'at home' days on the
receipt. Look hard and maybe you'll see 'em."

The instinct of youthful retaliation to say he knew her address already
stirred Randolph, but he shut his lips in time, and moved away. His desk
neighbor informed him that the young lady came there once a month and
drew a hundred dollars from some deposit to her credit, but that was all
they knew. Her name was Caroline Avondale, yet there was no one of that
name in the San Francisco Directory.

But Randolph's romantic curiosity would not allow the incident to rest
there. A favorable impression he had produced on Mr. Dingwall enabled
him to learn more, and precipitated what seemed to him a singular
discovery. "You will find," said the deputy manager, "the statement
of the first deposit to Miss Avondale's credit in letters in your
own department. The account was opened two years ago through a South
American banker. But I am afraid it will not satisfy your curiosity."
Nevertheless, Randolph remained after office hours and spent some time
in examining the correspondence of two years ago. He was rewarded at
last by a banker's letter from Callao advising the remittance of one
thousand dollars to the credit of Miss Avondale of San Francisco. The
letter was written in Spanish, of which Randolph had a fair knowledge,
but it was made plainer by a space having been left in the formal letter
for the English name, which was written in another hand, together with
a copy of Miss Avondale's signature for identification--the usual
proceeding in those early days, when personal identification was
difficult to travelers, emigrants, and visitors in a land of strangers.

But here he was struck by a singular resemblance which he at first put
down to mere coincidence of names. The child's photograph which he
had found in the portmanteau was taken at Callao. That was a mere
coincidence, but it suggested to his mind a more singular one--that the
handwriting of the address was, in some odd fashion, familiar to him.
That night when he went home he opened the portmanteau and took from the
purse the scrap of paper with the written address of the bank, and on
comparing it with the banker's letter the next day he was startled to
find that the handwriting of the bank's address and that in which the
girl's name was introduced in the banker's letter were apparently the
same. The letters in the words "Caroline" and "California" appeared as
if formed by the same hand. How this might have struck a chirographical
expert he did not know. He could not consult the paying teller, who was
supposed to be familiar with signatures, without exposing his secret and
himself to ridicule. And, after all, what did it prove? Nothing. Even
if this girl were cognizant of the man who supplied her address to the
Callao banker two years ago, and he was really the missing owner of the
portmanteau, would she know where he was now? It might make an opening
for conversation if he ever met her familiarly, but nothing more. Yet
I am afraid another idea occasionally took possession of Randolph's
romantic fancy. It was pleasant to think that the patron of his own
fortunes might be in some mysterious way the custodian of hers. The
money was placed to her credit--a liberal sum for a girl so young. The
large house in which she lived was sufficient to prove to the optimistic
Randolph that this income was something personal and distinct from her
family. That his unknown benefactor was in the habit of mysteriously
rewarding deserving merit after the fashion of a marine fairy godmother,
I fear did not strike him as being ridiculous.

But an unfortunate query in that direction, addressed to a cynical
fellow clerk, who had the exhaustive experience with the immature
mustaches of twenty-three, elicited a reply which shocked him. To his
indignant protest the young man continued:--

"Look here; a girl like that who draws money regularly from some man
who doesn't show up by name, who comes for it herself, and hasn't any
address, and calls herself 'Avondale'--only an innocent from Dutch Flat,
like you, would swallow."

"Impossible," said Randolph indignantly. "Anybody could see she's a lady
by her dress and bearing."

"Dress and bearing!" echoed the clerk, with the derision of blase youth.
"If that's your test, you ought to see Florry ----."

But here one may safely leave the young gentleman as abruptly as
Randolph did. Yet a drop of this corrosive criticism irritated his
sensitiveness, and it was not until he recalled his last meeting with
her and her innocent escort that he was himself again. Fortunately, he
did not relate it to the critic, who would in all probability have added
a precocious motherhood to the young lady's possible qualities.

He could now only look forward to her reappearance at the bank, and here
he was destined to a more serious disappointment. For when she made her
customary appearance at the counter, he noticed a certain businesslike
gravity in the paying teller's reception of her, and that he was
consulting a small register before him instead of handing her the usual
receipt form. "Perhaps you are unaware, Miss Avondale, that your account
is overdrawn," Randolph distinctly heard him say, although in a politely
lowered voice.

The young girl stopped in taking off her glove; her delicate face
expressed her wonder, and paled slightly; she cast a quick and
apparently involuntary glance in the direction of Randolph, but said
quietly,--

"I don't think I understand."

"I thought you did not--ladies so seldom do," continued the paying
teller suavely. "But there are no funds to your credit. Has not your
banker or correspondent advised you?"

The girl evidently did not comprehend. "I have no correspondent or
banker," she said. "I mean--I have heard nothing."

"The original credit was opened from Callao," continued the official,
"but since then it has been added to by drafts from Melbourne. There may
be one nearly due now."

The young girl seemed scarcely to comprehend, yet her face remained
pale and thoughtful. It was not until the paying teller resumed with
suggestive politeness that she roused herself: "If you would like to see
the president, he might oblige you until you hear from your friends. Of
course, my duty is simply to"--

"I don't think I require you to exceed it," returned the young girl
quietly, "or that I wish to see the president." Her delicate little face
was quite set with resolution and a mature dignity, albeit it was still
pale, as she drew away from the counter.

"If you would leave your address," continued the official with
persistent politeness, "we could advise you of any later deposit to your
credit."

"It is hardly necessary," returned the young lady. "I should learn it
myself, and call again. Thank you. Good-morning." And settling her veil
over her face, she quietly passed out.

The pain and indignation with which Randolph overheard this colloquy he
could with the greatest difficulty conceal. For one wild moment he
had thought of calling her back while he made a personal appeal to
Revelstoke; but the conviction borne in upon him by her resolute bearing
that she would refuse it, and he would only lay himself open to another
rebuff, held him to his seat. Yet he could not entirely repress his
youthful indignation.

"Where I come from," he said in an audible voice to his neighbor, "a
young lady like that would have been spared this public disappointment.
A dozen men would have made up that sum and let her go without knowing
anything about her account being overdrawn." And he really believed it.

"Nice, comf'able way of doing banking business in Dutch Flat," returned
the cynic. "And I suppose you'd have kept it up every month? Rather
a tall price to pay for looking at a pretty girl once a month! But I
suppose they're scarcer up there than here. All the same, it ain't too
late now. Start up your subscription right here, sonny, and we'll all
ante up."

But Randolph, who seldom followed his heroics to their ultimate prosaic
conclusions, regretted he had spoken, although still unconvinced.
Happily for his temper, he did not hear the comment of the two tellers.

"Won't see HER again, old boy," said one.

"I reckon not," returned the other, "now that she's been chucked by her
fancy man--until she gets another. But cheer up; a girl like that won't
want friends long."

It is not probable that either of these young gentlemen believed what
they said, or would have been personally disrespectful or uncivil to any
woman; they were fairly decent young fellows, but the rigors of business
demanded this appearance of worldly wisdom between themselves. Meantime,
for a week after, Randolph indulged in wild fancies of taking his
benefactor's capital of seventy dollars, adding thirty to it from his
own hard-earned savings, buying a draft with it from the bank for one
hundred dollars, and in some mysterious way getting it to Miss Avondale
as the delayed remittance.

The brief wet winter was nearly spent; the long dry season was due,
although there was still the rare beauty of cloud scenery in the
steel-blue sky, and the sudden return of quick but transient showers.
It was on a Sunday of weather like this that the nature-loving Randolph
extended his usual holiday excursion as far as Contra Costa by the
steamer after his dutiful round of the wharves and shipping. It was with
a gayety born equally of his youth and the weather that he overcame his
constitutional shyness, and not only mingled without restraint among
the pleasure-seekers that thronged the crowded boat, but, in the
consciousness of his good looks and a new suit of clothes,
even penetrated into the aristocratic seclusion of the "ladies'
cabin"--sacred to the fair sex and their attendant swains or chaperones.

But he found every seat occupied, and was turning away, when he suddenly
recognized Miss Avondale sitting beside her little escort. She appeared,
however, in a somewhat constrained attitude, sustaining with one hand
the boy, who had clambered on the seat. He was looking out of the cabin
window, which she was also trying to do, with greater difficulty on
account of her position. He could see her profile presented with such
marked persistency that he was satisfied she had seen him and was
avoiding him. He turned and left the cabin.

Yet, once on the deck again, he repented his haste. Perhaps she had not
actually recognized him; perhaps she wished to avoid him only because
she was in plainer clothes--a circumstance that, with his knowledge of
her changed fortunes, struck him to the heart. It seemed to him that
even as a humble employee of the bank he was in some way responsible for
it, and wondered if she associated him with her humiliation. He longed
to speak with her and assure her of his sympathy, and yet he was equally
conscious that she would reject it.

When the boat reached the Alameda wharf she slipped away with the other
passengers. He wandered about the hotel garden and the main street in
the hope of meeting her again, although he was instinctively conscious
that she would not follow the lines of the usual Sunday sight-seers, but
had her own destination. He penetrated the depths of the Alameda, and
lost himself among its low, trailing oaks, to no purpose. The hope of
the morning had died within him; the fire of adventure was quenched, and
when the clouds gathered with a rising wind he felt that the promise of
that day was gone. He turned to go back to the ferry, but on consulting
his watch he found that he had already lost so much time in his devious
wanderings that he must run to catch the last boat. The few drops that
spattered through the trees presently increased to a shower; he put up
his umbrella without lessening his speed, and finally dashed into the
main street as the last bell was ringing. But at the same moment a
slight, graceful figure slipped out of the woods just ahead of him, with
no other protection from the pelting storm than a handkerchief tied over
her hat, and ran as swiftly toward the wharf. It needed only one glance
for Randolph to recognize Miss Avondale. The moment had come, the
opportunity was here, and the next instant he was panting at her side,
with the umbrella over her head.

The girl lifted her head quickly, gave a swift look of recognition, a
brief smile of gratitude, and continued her pace. She had not taken
his arm, but had grasped the handle of the umbrella, which linked them
together. Not a word was spoken. Two people cannot be conversational or
sentimental flying at the top of their speed beneath a single umbrella,
with a crowd of impatient passengers watching and waiting for them.
And I grieve to say that, being a happy American crowd, there was some
irreverent humor. "Go it, sis! He's gainin' on you!" "Keep it up!"
"Steady, sonny! Don't prance!" "No fancy licks! You were nearly over the
traces that time!" "Keep up to the pole!" (i. e. the umbrella). "Don't
crowd her off the track! Just swing on together; you'll do it."

Randolph had glanced quickly at his companion. She was laughing, yet
looking at him shyly as if wondering how HE was taking it. The paddle
wheels were beginning to revolve. Another rush, and they were on board
as the plank was drawn in.

But they were only on the edge of a packed and seething crowd. Randolph
managed, however, to force a way for her to an angle of the paddle box,
where they were comparatively alone although still exposed to the rain.
She recognized their enforced companionship by dropping her grasp of the
umbrella, which she had hitherto been holding over him with a singular
kind of mature superiority very like--as Randolph felt--her manner to
the boy.

"You have left your little friend?" he said, grasping at the idea for a
conversational opening.

"My little cousin? Yes," she said. "I left him with friends. I could not
bear to make him run any risk in this weather. But," she hesitated half
apologetically, half mischievously, "perhaps I hurried you."

"Oh, no," said Randolph quickly. "This is the last boat, and I must be
at the bank to-morrow morning at nine."

"And I must be at the shop at eight," she said. She did not speak
bitterly or pointedly, nor yet with the entire familiarity of custom.
He noticed that her dress was indeed plainer, and yet she seemed quite
concerned over the water-soaked state of that cheap thin silk pelerine
and merino skirt. A big lump was in his throat.

"Do you know," he said desperately, yet trying to laugh, "that this is
not the first time you have seen me dripping?"

"Yes," she returned, looking at him interestedly; "it was outside of the
druggist's in Montgomery Street, about four months ago. You were wetter
then even than you are now."

"I was hungry, friendless, and penniless, Miss Avondale." He had spoken
thus abruptly in the faint hope that the revelation might equalize their
present condition; but somehow his confession, now that it was uttered,
seemed exceedingly weak and impotent. Then he blundered in a different
direction. "Your eyes were the only kind ones I had seen since I
landed." He flushed a little, feeling himself on insecure ground,
and ended desperately: "Why, when I left you, I thought of committing
suicide."

"Oh, dear, not so bad as that, I hope!" she said quickly, smiling
kindly, yet with a certain air of mature toleration, as if she were
addressing her little cousin. "You only fancied it. And it isn't very
complimentary to my eyes if their kindness drove you to such horrid
thoughts. And then what happened?" she pursued smilingly.

"I had a job to carry a man's bag, and it got me a night's lodging and
a meal," said Randolph, almost brusquely, feeling the utter collapse of
his story.

"And then?" she said encouragingly.

"I got a situation at the bank."

"When?"

"The next day," faltered Randolph, expecting to hear her laugh. But Miss
Avondale heaved the faintest sigh.

"You are very lucky," she said.

"Not so very," returned Randolph quickly, "for the next time you saw me
you cut me dead."

"I believe I did," she said smilingly.

"Would you mind telling me why?"

"Are you sure you won't be angry?"

"I may be pained," said Randolph prudently.

"I apologize for that beforehand. Well, that first night I saw a young
man looking very anxious, very uncomfortable, and very weak. The second
time--and not very long after--I saw him well dressed, lounging like any
other young man on a Sunday afternoon, and I believed that he took the
liberty of bowing to me then because I had once looked at him under a
misapprehension."

"Oh, Miss Avondale!"

"Then I took a more charitable view, and came to the conclusion that the
first night he had been drinking. But," she added, with a faint smile at
Randolph's lugubrious face, "I apologize. And you have had your revenge;
for if I cut you on account of your smart clothes, you have tried to do
me a kindness on account of my plain ones."

"Oh, Miss Avondale," burst out Randolph, "if you only knew how sorry
and indignant I was at the bank--when--you know--the other day"--he
stammered. "I wanted to go with you to Mr. Revelstoke, you know, who had
been so generous to me, and I know he would have been proud to befriend
you until you heard from your friends."

"And I am very glad you did nothing so foolish," said the young
lady seriously, "or"--with a smile--"I should have been still more
aggravating to you when we met. The bank was quite right. Nor have I any
pathetic story like yours. Some years ago my little half-cousin whom
you saw lost his mother and was put in my charge by his father, with
a certain sum to my credit, to be expended for myself and the child.
I lived with an uncle, with whom, for some family reasons, the child's
father was not on good terms, and this money and the charge of the child
were therefore intrusted entirely to me; perhaps, also, because Bobby
and I were fond of each other and I was a friend of his mother. The
father was a shipmaster, always away on long voyages, and has been home
but once in the three years I have had charge of his son. I have not
heard from him since. He is a good-hearted man, but of a restless,
roving disposition, with no domestic tastes. Why he should suddenly
cease to provide for my little cousin--if he has done so--or if his
omission means only some temporary disaster to himself or his fortunes,
I do not know. My anxiety was more for the poor boy's sake than for
myself, for as long as I live I can provide for him." She said this
without the least display of emotion, and with the same mature air of
also repressing any emotion on the part of Randolph. But for her size
and girlish figure, but for the dripping tangles of her hair and her
soft eyes, he would have believed he was talking to a hard, middle-aged
matron.

"Then you--he--has no friends here?" asked Randolph.

"No. We are all from Callao, where Bobby was born. My uncle was a
merchant there, who came here lately to establish an agency. We lived
with him in Sutter Street--where you remember I was so hateful to you,"
she interpolated, with a mischievous smile--"until his enterprise failed
and he was obliged to return; but I stayed here with Bobby, that he
might be educated in his father's own tongue. It was unfortunate,
perhaps," she said, with a little knitting of her pretty brows, "that
the remittances ceased and uncle left about the same time; but, like
you, I was lucky, and I managed to get a place in the Emporium."

"The Emporium!" repeated Randolph in surprise. It was a popular "magasin
of fashion" in Montgomery Street. To connect this refined girl with its
garish display and vulgar attendants seemed impossible.

"The Emporium," reiterated Miss Avondale simply. "You see, we used
to dress a good deal in Callao and had the Paris fashions, and that
experience was of great service to me. I am now at the head of what they
call the 'mantle department,' if you please, and am looked up to as
an authority." She made him a mischievous bow, which had the effect of
causing a trickle from the umbrella to fall across his budding mustache,
and another down her own straight little nose--a diversion that made
them laugh together, although Randolph secretly felt that the young
girl's quiet heroism was making his own trials appear ridiculous. But
her allusion to Callao and the boy's name had again excited his fancy
and revived his romantic dream of their common benefactor. As soon as
they could get a more perfect shelter and furl the umbrella, he plunged
into the full story of the mysterious portmanteau and its missing owner,
with the strange discovery that he had made of the similarity of the
two handwritings. The young lady listened intently, eagerly, checking
herself with what might have been a half smile at his enthusiasm.

"I remember the banker's letter, certainly," she said, "and Captain
Dornton--that was the name of Bobby's father--asked me to sign my name
in the body of it where HE had also written it with my address. But the
likeness of the handwriting to your slip of paper may be only a fancied
one. Have you shown it to any one," she said quickly--"I mean," she
corrected herself as quickly, "any one who is an expert?"

"Not the two together," said Randolph, explaining how he had shown the
paper to Mr. Revelstoke.

But Miss Avondale had recovered herself, and laughed. "That that bit of
paper should have been the means of getting you a situation seems to me
the more wonderful occurrence. Of course it is quite a coincidence that
there should be a child's photograph and a letter signed 'Bobby' in
the portmanteau. But"--she stopped suddenly and fixed her dark eyes on
his--"you have seen Bobby. Surely you can say if it was his likeness?"

Randolph was embarrassed. The fact was he had always been so absorbed
in HER that he had hardly glanced at the child. He ventured to say this,
and added a little awkwardly, and coloring, that he had seen Bobby only
twice.

"And you still have this remarkable photograph and letter?" she said,
perhaps a little too carelessly.

"Yes. Would you like to see them?"

"Very much," she returned quickly; and then added, with a laugh, "you
are making me quite curious."

"If you would allow me to see you home," said Randolph, "we have to pass
the street where my room is, and," he added timidly, "I could show them
to you."

"Certainly," she replied, with sublime unconsciousness of the cause of
his hesitation; "that will be very nice?"

Randolph was happy, albeit he could not help thinking that she was
treating him like the absent Bobby.

"It's only on Commercial Street, just above Montgomery," he went on. "We
go straight up from the wharf"--he stopped short here, for the bulk of a
bystander, a roughly clad miner, was pressing him so closely that he was
obliged to resist indignantly--partly from discomfort, and partly from a
sense that the man was overhearing him. The stranger muttered a kind of
apology, and moved away.

"He seems to be perpetually in your way," said Miss Avondale, smiling.
"He was right behind you, and you nearly trod on his toes, when you
bolted out of the cabin this morning."

"Ah, then you DID see me!" said Randolph, forgetting all else in his
delight at the admission.

But Miss Avondale was not disconcerted. "Thanks to your collision, I saw
you both."

It was still raining when they disembarked at the wharf, a little behind
the other Passengers, who had crowded on the bow of the steamboat. It
was only a block or two beyond the place where Randolph had landed that
eventful night. He had to pass it now; but with Miss Avondale clinging
to his arm, with what different feelings! The rain still fell, the day
was fading, but he walked in an enchanted dream, of which the prosaic
umbrella was the mystic tent and magic pavilion. He must needs even
stop at the corner of the wharf, and show her the exact spot where his
unknown benefactor appeared.

"Coming out of the shadow like that man there," she added brightly,
pointing to a figure just emerging from the obscurity of an overhanging
warehouse. "Why, it's your friend the miner!"

Randolph looked. It was indeed the same man, who had probably reached
the wharf by a cross street.

"Let us go on, do!" said Miss Avondale, suddenly tightening her hold of
Randolph's arm in some instinctive feminine alarm. "I don't like this
place."

But Randolph, with the young girl's arm clinging to his, felt supremely
daring. Indeed, I fear he was somewhat disappointed when the stranger
peacefully turned into the junk shop at the corner and left them to
pursue their way.

They at last stopped before some business offices on a central
thoroughfare, where Randolph had a room on the third story. When they
had climbed the flight of stairs he unlocked a door and disclosed a
good-sized apartment which had been intended for an office, but which
was now neatly furnished as a study and bedroom. Did I upbraid the
dead--accuse the living?

I did not, sir. Too pleased to labour for the girl whom I had chosen--I
rejoiced to owe my bread to my exertion. She then, as now--for it was
her--my Anna, sir--the wreck whom you have seen--cruelly misused by
poverty and grief--robbed of her beauty and her strength--the miserable
outline of her former self--she then, even as now, was in all things
actuated by the highest motives--a serious and religious maid. She
cheered me with her smiles--her perfect patience and tranquil hope.

It was to her a privilege to be united to a clergyman, and to
find her earthly joy combined with usefulness and good. In our walks, I
have painted the future which was never to be--the bliss we were never
to experience. I have spoken of the parsonage, and its little lawn and
many flowers--pictured myself at work--visiting the poor--comforting
the sick--herself my dear attendant at the cottage doors, with hosts
of little ones about her, whom she might call her children, and for
whom she might exercise more than a mother's care. She could not
listen to such promises, and not grow happier in her inexperience
than reality could ever render her; and yet sighs, sighs, ominous
sighs, would from the first escape her.

Still for a twelvemonth our nook of earth was Paradise, and sorrow, the
universal lot, was banished from our door. The tales which I had been
accustomed to hear of the world's deceit and falsehood seemed
groundless and cruel--the inventions of envious disappointed minds--whose
ambition had betrayed them into hopes, too preposterous for fulfilment
Happiness was on earth--did I not find her in my daily walk?--for
such as were not loth to greet her with a lowly and contented spirit.
I had no present care. The days were prosperous. I obtained a scholarship
in my college at the end of the first year, which was worth to me at
least fifty pounds per annum. This, not requiring, I saved up. I
worked hard during the day--withdrew myself from all intercourse
with men, and every evening was rewarded with the smiles of her for
whose dear sake all labour was so easy.

Oh, the tranquillity and ineffable bliss of those distant bygone days!
_Bygone_, did I say?

No--they exist still.
Poverty--misery--persecution--such things pass away, and are in
truth a dream.

The troubles of yesterday vanish with the sun that set upon them--but those
hours, deeply impressed upon the soul, have left their mark indelible;
the intense, unspeakable joy that filled them, lingers yet, and
brightens up one spot that stands alone, distinct in life.

Cast when I will one single glance there, and I behold the stationary sun
shine. I do so now.

None feel so vigorous and well as they who are on the eve of some prostrating
sickness.

Dreaming of security, and as I looked about, perceiving from no
side the probability or show of evil, I was in truth entangled in
a maze of peril.

My summer's day was at an end. The cloud had gathered--was overhead, and
ready to burst and overwhelm me.
For one twelvemonth, as I have said, I felt the perfect enjoyment of life,
and was blest. At the end of that period I received a letter from my
uncle. It was full of tenderness and affection. The first few lines
were taken up with enquiries--and immediately afterwards there
came a proposition.

It was to this effect. "My mother wished to retire from business; it was
still a lucrative one, and she offered it to me. She undertook to
leave in the firm a capital sufficiently large to carry it on, and
receiving a moderate interest only for this sum, she would relinquish
all other profit in favour of her son."

I read the letter, and had faith in its sincerity. _As_ I read it, a devil
whispered delusively into my ear, and the sounds were music there,
until my ruin was completed.

I knew the business to be affluent and thriving. The income derived from
it enabled my mother to live luxuriously. _Half the sum would
afford every wished-for comfort to my Anna, and much less would enable
us at once to marry_.

Here was the rock on which I went to pieces--here was the giddy light
that blinded me to all considerations--here was the sophistry that
made all other reasoning dull and valueless. I did not stop to enquire
what movement of feeling could operate so generously upon my uncle. If
an unfavourable suggestion forced itself upon me, it was expelled at
once; and persuasion of the purity of his motives was too easy, where
my wish was father to the thought. If I remained at college, years
might elapse before our union. _Now, immediately_, if I accepted
this unlooked-for offer--she was mine, and a home, such as in other
circumstances I could never hope to give her, was ready for her
reception! I could think of nothing else, but I beheld in the unexpected
good--the outstretched hand of Providence. Full of my delight, I
communicated the intelligence to Anna; but very different was
its effect on her. She read the letter, and looked at me as if she
wished to read the most hidden of my secret wishes.

"'What have you thought of doing, then?' she asked.

"'Accepting the proposal, Anna,' I replied, 'with your consent.'
"'Never with that,' she answered almost solemnly. 'My lips shall never
bid you turn from the course which you have chosen, and to which you
have been called. You do not require wealth--you have said so many
times--and I am sure it is not necessary for your happiness.'
"'I think not of myself, dear Anna,' I replied.

'I have more than enough for my own wants.

It is for your sake that I would accept their offer, and become richer
than we can ever be if I refuse it. Our marriage now depends upon
a hundred things--is distant at the best, and may never be. The moment
that I consent to this arrangement, you are mine for ever.'
"'Warton,' she said, more seriously than ever, 'I am yours. You have
my heart, and I have engaged to give you, when you ask it, this
poor hand. In any condition of life--I am yours.

But I tell you that I never can deliberately ask you to resign the
hopes which we have cherished--with, as we have believed, the approbation
and the blessing of our God. Your line of duty is, as I conceive it--marked.
Whilst you proceed, steadily and with a simple mind--come what may,
your pillow will never be moistened with tears of remorse. If affliction
and trial come--they will come as the chastening of your Father, who
will give you strength to bear the load you have not cast upon
yourself. But once diverge from the straight and narrow path, and
who can see the end of difficulty and danger? You are unused to business,
you know nothing of its forms, its ways--you are not fit for it.
Your habits--your temperament are opposed to it, and you cannot enter
the field as you should--to prosper. Think not of me. I wish--my
happiness, and joy, and pride will be to see you a respected
minister of God.

I am not impatient. If we do right, our reward will come at last. Let
years intervene, and my love for you will burn as steadily as now. Do not
be tempted--and do not let us think that good can result--if, for my sake,
you are unfaithful--_there_!'

She pointed upwards as she spoke, and for a moment the sinfulness
of my wishes blazed before me--startled, and silenced me. I resolved
to decline my uncle's offer; yet a week elapsed, and the letter was not
written. But another came from _him_. It was one of tender reproach
for my long silence, and it requested an immediate answer to the
munificent proposal of my mother. If I refused it, a stranger would
be called upon to enjoy my rights, and the opportunity for realizing
a handsome fortune would never occur again. Such were its exciting
terms, and once more, perplexed by desire and doubt, I appealed to the
purer judgment of my Anna.

"She wept when she came to the close of the epistle, and had not a word
to say.

"'I distress you, Anna,' said I, 'by my indecision. Dry your tears, my
beloved; I will hesitate no longer.'

"'I know not what to do,' she faltered; 'if you should act upon my
advice, and afterwards repent, you would never forgive me.

Yet, I believe from my very soul that you should flee from this temptation.
But do as you will--as seems wisest and best--and trust not to a
weak woman. Do what reason and principle direct, and happen what
will--I will be satisfied.
One thing occurs to me. Can you trust your uncle?"
I hesitated.

"'I ask,' she continued, 'because you have often spoken of him as if
you could not confidently. May he not have--I judge of him only from
your report--some motive for his present conduct which we cannot
penetrate?

It is an unkind world, and the innocent and guileless are not safe
from the schemes and contrivances of the wicked. I speak at random,
but I am filled with alarm for you. You are safe now--but one step may
be your ruin.'
"'You are right, Anna,' I replied; 'it is too great a venture,
I cannot trust this man. I will not leave the path of duty. I will refuse
his offer this very night.'
"And I did so. In her presence I wrote an answer to his letter, and
declined respectfully the brilliant prospect which he had placed before
me. The letter was dispatched--Anna was at peace, and my own mind
was satisfied.

"It was, however, not my fate to pass safely through this fiery ordeal.

Nothing but my destruction, final and entire, would satisfy my greedy
persecutor--and artfully enough did he at length encompass it. In a
few days, there arrived a third communication on the same subject,
but from another hand.

My mother became the correspondent, and she conjured me by my filial love
and duty, not to disobey her.

She desired to retire into privacy.

She was growing old and it was time to make arrangements for another
world.

Her son, if he would, might enable her to carry out her pious wish--or,
by his obstinate refusal, hurry her with sorrow to the grave.

There was much more to this effect. Appeal upon appeal was made _there_,
where she knew me to be most vulnerable, and the choice of action was not
left me. To deny her longer--would be to stand convicted of
disobedience, undutifulness, and all unfilial faults. From this period,
I was lost. One word before I hurry to the end. I absolve my mother
from all participation in the crimes of which boldly I accuse my
uncle. She, poor helpless woman, was but his instrument, and believed,
when she urged me, that it was with a view to my advancement and lasting
benefit. I conveyed my mother's communication immediately to Anna.
She made no observation on its contents--bade me seek counsel of
her father; and with her eyes streaming with agonizing tears, left
me to pray upon my knees for counsel and direction from on high.

Her father--I could not blame him--a man who had struggled hardly for
his bread as a clergyman and a scholar--and seen more of the dark
shadows than the light of life--received my intelligence with unmingled
satisfaction. He charged me, as I loved his child, and valued her
future welfare, to accept the princely kindness of my friends--to
see them instantly, and secure my fortune whilst time and circumstances
served.

And then, as if to appease his own qualms of conscience, and to justify
his counsel, he reasoned about the usefulness which, even to a
pious mind, was permitted in the exercise of trade.

Infinite was the good that I might do. Yea, more, perhaps, than if I
persisted in my first design, and remained for ever a poor clergyman; I
might relieve the poor even to my heart's content. What privilege
so great as this! What suffering so acute as the desire to help the
sick and needy with no ability to do it!

'Be sure, young man, the hand of Providence is here; it would be
sinful to deny it.' O _interest--interest!--self--self_!--words of magic
and of power; they rendered my poor friend blind as they did me. I
listened to his advice with eagerness and delight; and though I
knew that to obey it was to cast myself from security into turmoil
and danger, I laboured to persuade myself that he was right, and
that hesitation was now criminal.

Again I saw my betrothed, and I approached her--innocent and truthful
as she was--with shame and self-abasement.

I repeated her father's words, and she shook her head sadly, but made no
reply. What need was there of reply? Had she not already spoken?

"'Let me, at least, dear Anna, go to London,' I said, 'and implore my
mother to retract this wish, unsay her words. I would rather give up
the world, than take it without your cheerful acquiescence.

Your happiness is every thing to me. You shall decide for me.'
"'No, Warton,' she replied--'you and my father must decide, and may
Heaven direct you both.

Go to London--do as you wish. I am resigned. I am presumptuous, and
may be wrong. All will be for the best. Go! God bless you and support
you.'

"And I went, traitor and renegade that I was, prepared to surrender to the
bitterest foe that ever hunted victim down.

Believe me not, sir, when I say that any sense of filial duty
actuated me in my resolve, that any feeling influenced this unsteady
heart but one--The desire to call my Anna mine--the pride I felt
in the consciousness of wealth--and of the power to bestow it all
on her.

"My reception in London was as favourable as I could wish it. My uncle was
an altered man--at least he appeared so.

He met me with smiles and honied words, and made such promises of
friendship and protection, that I stood before him convicted of
uncharitableness and gross misconduct. I reproached myself for the old
prejudices, and for the malice which I had always borne him, and
attributed them all to boyish inexperience, and stubbornness.

I was older now, and could see with the eyes of a man. Not only did
I acquit him of all intention of wrong, but I could have fallen on
my knees before him, and asked his pardon for my own offences. I
wrote a long letter to Anna, and described in lively colours my
own agreeable surprise, desired her to be of good heart, and to
rely upon my prudence.

I engaged to write daily, to announce the progress of my mission--and
to advise her of the proposed arrangements. This was my first
communication.
Before she could receive a second, I had put my hand to paper, and signed
my death-warrant. I had irretrievably committed myself. I was living
with my uncle. His wine was of the best. He could drink freely of it,
and get cooler and more collected at each glass, but frequent draughts
animated and inflamed my younger head. He spoke to me with kindness,
and I grew confiding and loquacious. I told him of my engagement with
Anna, described her beauty, extolled her virtues. He seized the golden
opportunity, and reproved me gently for the little consideration which
I exhibited for one so worthy of my love. It was unpardonably selfish to
hesitate one instant longer. It was due to her, and to our future
offspring, to make every provision for their maintenance and comfort.
It was madness to overlook the advantages which my mother's offer gave.
She herself, the lovely Anna, as her cares increased, would mourn
over the cruel obstinacy of him who might have placed her beyond
anxiety and apprehension, but who preferred to keep her poor,
dependent, joyless.

She was young, and spoke, doubtless, as she felt--but time would
dissipate romance, and bitterly would she regret that he who professed
to love her had not taken pains to prove that love more thoughtful
and sincere.

So he went on--and, in the height of his appeal, a visitor was
announced--Mr Gilbert, an old friend, an intimate, who was immediately
admitted.

I was requested not to mind him, for he knew every secret of my uncle's.
The latter repeated my story, and ended with an account of my ingratitude
to Anna. Mr Gilbert could scarcely speak for his astonishment.

He shook his head severely, and vowed the case was quite unparalleled. I
drank on--the thought of the immediate possession of my Anna flashed once
powerfully and effectually across my brain, and I held out no
longer.

I yielded to the sweet solicitation--and was lost.

"On the following morning, Mr Gilbert arrived to breakfast. The subject
was resumed. My uncle produced a paper, which he had hastily drawn up.
It should be signed by all. Mr Gilbert, as a friend, could witness it.
It was a rough draught, but would answer every purpose for the present.
The statement was very simple. My mother left in the firm twenty
thousand pounds in stock, and cash and book debts. For this I made myself
responsible, and undertook to pay an interest of five per cent. All
profits in the business were my own. Fool that I was, I signed the
document without reflection--gave, with one movement of the pen,
my liberty, my happiness, and life, into the power of one who had
for years resolved to get them in his clutch.

My uncle followed with his signature--then Mr Gilbert. To make all
sure, however, a clerk of the former was summoned to the room, and
requested to act as second witness to the deed.

"You are perfectly satisfied with the contents?'

said Mr Gilbert to my uncle, when the clerk had finished.

"'Quite so,' was the answer.

"'And you, sir?' he continued, turning then to me.

"'I answered, '_Yes_,' whilst a sickening shudder crept through
my blood, and the remonstrance of Anna sounded in my ears like a
knell.

"I remained in London, and a week after this ceremony I entered upon
my duties at the counting-house.

_At the earnest recommendation of my uncle_, I carried into the business,
as additional capital, the sum of money from which I had hitherto
derived my income. This amounted to nearly four thousand pounds. It
may seem strange to you, sir, as it does to me now, that I should so
readily have adopted the statement of my uncle, and so deeply involved
myself upon the strength of his simple _ipse dixit_. It was a mad-man's
act, and yet there were many excuses for it at the time. I was but a
boy--fresh from a life of retirement and study--unused to the ways of
men--unprepared for fraud. Satisfied of my own integrity, I believed
implicitly in the ingenuousness of others. I had no friend to act for
me--to investigate and warn--my heart was burthened with its love, and
all my thoughts were far away. The business had prospered for years, and
it was conducted externally as in the days of my poor father.

All was decorous and business-like, and the reputation of the house was
high and unblemished. There was nothing in the appearance of things
to excite suspicion--and not a breath was suggested from my own too
easy and confiding nature. The father of my betrothed!
was delighted at the step which I had taken. He wrote me an impassioned
letter, full of praise and brilliant prophecies, none of which he
lived to see fulfilled. His daughter, he assured me, would yet be
grateful to me for the firmness I had evinced, and that the blessing
of Heaven must attend conduct so estimable and wise.

Anna herself wrote in another strain. The act which she had so long
dreaded was accomplished--it was useless to look back--she could only
hope and pray for the future. She entreated me to be careful of my
health, and to accustom myself gradually to my new employment.

It was a consolation to behold her father so very happy, and to find
me contented in my position. Nothing would give her now such satisfaction,
as to be convinced that she had been wrong throughout, and that I had
done well in giving up my former occupations.

A month passed quickly by. The engagements of the firm were met--and
its affairs were carried on as usual. No change took place. The only
difference was my presence, and the appearance of my name in all the
transactions of the house.

I saw my mother frequently--but my uncle, by degrees, withdrew.
His own affairs required his constant attention, but he provided
me with help and countenance in the person of Mr Gilbert.

This gentleman, in addition to the character of a bosom friend,
sustained another--that of _legal adviser_ to my uncle! He visited me
daily, and helped me marvellously.

He procured from my uncle my patrimony of four thousand pounds--drew
up in return for it a release, which I executed--paid the money into
my banker's hands--received my mother's dividend--inspected the
accounts--advised summary proceedings against defaulters--and
settled, at a certain rate, to purchase a few outstanding debts,
which it would cost some trouble and manoeuvring to get in.

I could not choose but act upon advice that was at once so very friendly
and professional. My inexperience, for a time, gratefully reposed in
Mr Gilbert. Exactly two months after I had entered the concern,
I married.
Sun never rose more promisingly upon a wedding-day--a lovelier bride
had never graced it. I pass over the few intoxicating weeks during
which life assumes a form and hue which it never wore before--never
puts forth again. The novelty of my situation--the joy I had in her
possession, and in the knowledge that she was wholly mine--lived now
and breathed for me--the pride with which I gazed upon her blooming
beauty, and communed with her, as with a new-found better self--all
combined to render one brief season a sweet delirium--an ecstatic
dream. It is time to wake from it. I return to the business. I had
agreed to pay my mother's dividend every quarter--and, as I told you,
Mr Gilbert received the money for her.
She did not live to enjoy it. A short illness removed her from a world
which had never been one of sorrow to her. Her heart was adamant, and
troubled waters passed over--did not enter and disturb it. All that
she had became my uncle's, and he was now my creditor.

I beg you, sir, to mark this. Twice had he inherited the property which
should have been my own. It was about a twelvemonth after the death
of my mother, that small, dark shadows appeared in the horizon,
foretelling storm and tempest. At first they gave me no uneasiness,
but they increased and gathered, and soon compelled me to take
measures for the outbreak. I continued to discharge my uncle's claim
with undeviating regularity. Mr Gilbert sharply saw to that; but a
difficulty arose at length of meeting punctually all the demands
which came upon me in the way of business.

This was overcome in the beginning, by enforcing payment from customers
who had traded previously on a liberal credit. The evil thus temporarily
repaired gave rise, however, to a greater evil. Our friends withdrew
their favours, and offered them else where.

This critical state of things did not improve, but caused me daily fresh
alarm. Money became more scarce--the difficulty of meeting payments
more imminent and harassing.
It was very strange. It had not been so in my father's time; nor
later, when my mother had the management of affairs. Was it my fault?
What had I done amiss.
"I found Miss
Eversleigh very sympathetic over the fate of the unfortunate man, whom
nobody else here seems to care for," said Randolph coldly.

"Yes," returned Miss Avondale composedly; "I believe she was a great
friend of Captain Dornton when she was quite a child, and I don't think
she can expect much from Sir William, who is very different from his
brother. In fact, she was one of the relatives who came over here in
quest of the captain, when it was believed he was living and the heir.
He was quite a patron of hers."

"But was he not also one of yours?" said Randolph bluntly.

"I think I told you I was the friend of the boy and of poor Paquita, the
boy's mother," said Miss Avondale quietly. "I never saw Captain Dornton
but twice."

Randolph noticed that she had not said "wife," although in her previous
confidences she had so described the mother. But, as Dingwall had said,
why should she have exposed the boy's illegitimacy to a comparative
stranger; and if she herself had been deceived about it, why should he
expect her to tell him? And yet--he was not satisfied.

He was startled by a little laugh. "Well, I declare, you look as if
you resented the fact that your benefactor had turned out to be a
baronet--just as in some novel--and that you have rendered a service
to the English aristocracy. If you are thinking of poor Bobby," she
continued, without the slightest show of self-consciousness, "Sir
William will provide for him, and thinks of taking him to England to
restore his health. Now"--with her smiling, tolerant superiority--"you
must go and talk to Miss Eversleigh. I see her looking this way, and I
don't think she half likes me as it is."

Randolph, who, however, also saw that Sir William was lounging toward
them, here rose formally, as if permitting the latter to take the
vacated seat. This partly imposed on him the necessity of seeking Miss
Eversleigh, who, having withdrawn to the other end of the room, was
turning over the leaves of an album. As Randolph joined her, she said,
without looking up, "Is Miss Avondale a friend of yours?"

The question was so pertinent to his reflections at the moment that he
answered impulsively, "I really don't know."

"Yes, that's the answer, I think, most of her acquaintances would give,
if they were asked the same question and replied honestly," said the
young girl, as if musing.

"Even Sir William?" suggested Randolph, half smiling, yet wondering at
her unlooked-for serious shrewdness as he glanced toward the sofa.

"Yes; but HE wouldn't care. You see, there would be a pair of them." She
stopped with a slight blush, as if she had gone too far, but corrected
herself in her former youthful frankness: "You don't mind my saying what
I did of her? You're not such a PARTICULAR friend?"

"We both owe a debt of gratitude to your cousin Jack," said Randolph, in
some embarrassment.

"Yes, but YOU feel it and she doesn't. So that doesn't make you
friends."

"But she has taken good care of Captain Dornton's child," suggested
Randolph loyally.

He stopped, however, feeling that he was on dangerous ground. But Miss
Eversleigh put her own construction on his reticence, and said,--

"I don't think she cares for it much--or for ANY children."

Randolph remembered his own impression the only time he had ever seen
her with the child, and was struck with the young girl's instinct again
coinciding with his own. But, possibly because he knew he could never
again feel toward Miss Avondale as he had, he was the more anxious to
be just, and he was about to utter a protest against this general
assumption, when the voice of Sir William broke in upon them. He was
taking his leave--and the opportunity of accompanying Miss Avondale
to her lodgings on the way to his hotel. He lingered a moment over his
handshaking with Randolph.

"Awfully glad to have met you, and I fancy you're awfully glad to get
rid of what they call your 'trust.' Must have given you a beastly lot of
bother, eh--might have given you more?"

He nodded familiarly to Miss Eversleigh, and turned away with Miss
Avondale, who waved her usual smiling patronage to Randolph, even
including his companion in that half-amused, half-superior salutation.
Perhaps it was this that put a sudden hauteur into the young girl's
expression as she stared at Miss Avondale's departing figure.

"If you ever come to England, Mr. Trent," she said, with a pretty
dignity in her youthful face, "I hope you will find some people not
quite so rude as my cousin and"--

"Miss Avondale, you would say," returned Randolph quietly. "As to HER,
I am quite accustomed to her maturer superiority, which, I am afraid,
is the effect of my own youth and inexperience; and I believe that, in
course of time, your cousin's brusqueness might be as easily understood
by me. I dare say," he added, with a laugh, "that I must seem to them
a very romantic visionary with my 'trust,' and the foolish importance I
have put upon a very trivial occurrence."

"I don't think so," said the girl quickly, "and I consider Bill very
rude, and," she added, with a return of her boyish frankness, "I shall
tell him so. As for Miss Avondale, she's AT LEAST thirty, I understand;
perhaps she can't help showing it in that way, too."

But here Randolph, to evade further personal allusions, continued
laughingly: "And as I've LOST my 'trust,' I haven't even that to show in
defense. Indeed, when you all are gone I shall have nothing to remind me
of my kind benefactor. It will seem like a dream."

Miss Eversleigh was silent for a moment, and then glanced quickly
around her. The rest of the company were their elders, and, engaged in
conversation at the other end of the apartment, had evidently left the
young people to themselves.

"Wait a moment," she said, with a youthful air of mystery and
earnestness. Randolph saw that she had slipped an Indian bracelet,
profusely hung with small trinkets, from her arm to her wrist, and was
evidently selecting one. It proved to be a child's tiny ring with a
small pearl setting. "This was given to me by Cousin Jack," said Miss
Eversleigh in a low voice, "when I was a child, at some frolic or
festival, and I have kept it ever since. I brought it with me when we
came here as a kind of memento to show him. You know that is impossible
now. You say you have nothing of his to keep. Will you accept this?
I know he would be glad to know you had it. You could wear it on your
watch chain. Don't say no, but take it."

Protesting, yet filled with a strange joy and pride, Randolph took it
from the young girl's hand. The little color which had deepened on
her cheek cleared away as he thanked her gratefully, and with a quiet
dignity she arose and moved toward the others. Randolph did not linger
long after this, and presently took his leave of his host and hostess.

It seemed to him that he walked home that night in the whirling clouds
of his dispelled dream. The airy structure he had built up for the last
three months had collapsed. The enchanted canopy under which he had
stood with Miss Avondale was folded forever. The romance he had evolved
from his strange fortune had come to an end, not prosaically, as such
romances are apt to do, but with a dramatic termination which, however,
was equally fatal to his hopes. At any other time he might have
projected the wildest hopes from the fancy that he and Miss Avondale
were orphaned of a common benefactor; but it was plain that her
interests were apart from his. And there was an indefinable something he
did not understand, and did not want to understand, in the story she had
told him. How much of it she had withheld, not so much from delicacy or
contempt for his understanding as a desire to mislead him, he did not
know. His faith in her had gone with his romance. It was not strange
that the young English girl's unsophisticated frankness and simple
confidences lingered longest in his memory, and that when, a few days
later, Mr. Dingwall informed him that Miss Avondale had sailed for
England with the Dornton family, he was more conscious of a loss in the
stranger girl's departure.

"I suppose Miss Avondale takes charge of--of the boy, sir?" he said
quietly.

Mr. Dingwall gave him a quick glance. "Possibly. Sir William has behaved
with great--er--consideration," he replied briefly.


IV


Randolph's nature was too hopeful and recuperative to allow him to
linger idly in the past. He threw himself into his work at the bank with
his old earnestness and a certain simple conscientiousness which, while
it often provoked the raillery of his fellow clerks, did not escape the
eyes of his employers. He was advanced step by step, and by the end
of the year was put in charge of the correspondence with banks and
agencies. He had saved some money, and had made one or two profitable
investments. He was enabled to take better apartments in the same
building he had occupied. He had few of the temptations of youth. His
fear of poverty and his natural taste kept him from the speculative and
material excesses of the period. A distrust of his romantic weakness
kept him from society and meaner entanglements which might have beset
his good looks and good nature. He worked in his rooms at night and
forbore his old evening rambles.

As the year wore on to the anniversary of his arrival, he thought much
of the dead man who had inspired his fortunes, and with it a sense of
his old doubts and suspicions revived. His reason had obliged him to
accept the loss of the fateful portmanteau as an ordinary theft; his
instinct remained unconvinced. There was no superstition connected
with his loss. His own prosperity had not been impaired by it. On the
contrary, he reflected bitterly that the dead man had apparently died
only to benefit others. At such times he recalled, with a pleasure that
he knew might become perilous, the tall English girl who had defended
Dornton's memory and echoed his own sympathy. But that was all over now.

One stormy night, not unlike that eventful one of his past experience,
Randolph sought his rooms in the teeth of a southwest gale. As he
buffeted his way along the rain-washed pavement of Montgomery Street, it
was not strange that his thoughts reverted to that night and the memory
of his dead protector. But reaching his apartment, he sternly banished
them with the vanished romance they revived, and lighting his lamp, laid
out his papers in the prospect of an evening of uninterrupted work.
He was surprised, however, after a little interval, by the sound of
uncertain and shuffling steps on the half-lighted passage outside, the
noise of some heavy article set down on the floor, and then a tentative
knock at his door. A little impatiently he called, "Come in."

The door opened slowly, and out of the half obscurity of the passage
a thickset figure lurched toward him into the full light of the room.
Randolph half rose, and then sank back into his chair, awed, spellbound,
and motionless. He saw the figure standing plainly before him; he saw
distinctly the familiar furniture of his room, the storm-twinkling
lights in the windows opposite, the flash of passing carriage lamps in
the street below. But the figure before him was none other than the dead
man of whom he had just been thinking.

The figure looked at him intently, and then burst into a fit of
unmistakable laughter. It was neither loud nor unpleasant, and yet
it provoked a disagreeable recollection. Nevertheless, it dissipated
Randolph's superstitious tremor, for he had never before heard of a
ghost who laughed heartily.

"You don't remember me," said the man. "Belay there, and I'll freshen
your memory." He stepped back to the door, opened it, put his arm
out into the hall, and brought in a portmanteau, closed the door, and
appeared before Randolph again with the portmanteau in his hand. It was
the one that had been stolen. "There!" he said.

"Captain Dornton," murmured Randolph.

The man laughed again and flung down the portmanteau. "You've got
my name pat enough, lad, I see; but I reckoned you'd have spotted ME
without that portmanteau."

"I see you've got it back," stammered Randolph in his embarrassment. "It
was--stolen from me."

Captain Dornton laughed again, dropped into a chair, rubbed his hands on
his knees, and turned his face toward Randolph. "Yes; I stole it--or had
it stolen--the same thing, for I'm responsible."

"But I would have given it up to YOU at once," said Randolph
reproachfully, clinging to the only idea he could understand in his
utter bewilderment. "I have religiously and faithfully kept it for you,
with all its contents, ever since--you disappeared."

"I know it, lad," said Captain Dornton, rising, and extending a brown,
weather-beaten hand which closed heartily on the young man's; "no need
to say that. And you've kept it even better than you know. Look here!"

He lifted the portmanteau to his lap and disclosed BEHIND the usual
small pouch or pocket in the lid a slit in the lining. "Between the
lining and the outer leather," he went on grimly, "I had two or three
bank notes that came to about a thousand dollars, and some papers, lad,
that, reckoning by and large, might be worth to me a million. When I got
that portmanteau back they were all there, gummed in, just as I had left
them. I didn't show up and come for them myself, for I was lying low at
the time, and--no offense, lad--I didn't know how you stood with a party
who was no particular friend of mine. An old shipmate whom I set to
watch that party quite accidentally run across your bows in the ferry
boat, and heard enough to make him follow in your wake here, where he
got the portmanteau. It's all right," he said, with a laugh, waving
aside with his brown hand Randolph's protesting gesture. "The old
bag's only got back to its rightful owner. It mayn't have been got in
shipshape 'Frisco style, but when a man's life is at stake, at least,
when it's a question of his being considered dead or alive, he's got to
take things as he finds 'em, and I found 'em d--- bad."

In a flash of recollection Randolph remembered the obtruding miner on
the ferry boat, the same figure on the wharf corner, and the advantage
taken of his absence with Miss Avondale. And Miss Avondale was the
"party" this man's shipmate was watching! He felt his face crimsoning,
yet he dared not question him further, nor yet defend her. Captain
Dornton noticed it, and with a friendly tact, which Randolph had not
expected of him, rising again, laid his hand gently on the young man's
shoulder.

"Look here, lad," he said, with his pleasant smile; "don't you worry
your head about the ways or doings of the Dornton family, or any of
their friends. They're a queer lot--including your humble servant.
You've done the square thing accordin' to your lights. You've ridden
straight from start to finish, with no jockeying, and I shan't forget
it. There are only two men who haven't failed me when I trusted them.
One was you when I gave you my portmanteau; the other was Jack Redhill
when he stole it from you."

He dropped back in his chair again, and laughed silently.

"Then you did not fall overboard as they supposed," stammered Randolph
at last.

"Not much! But the next thing to it. It wasn't the water that I took in
that knocked me out, my lad, but something stronger. I was shanghaied."

"Shanghaied?" repeated Randolph vacantly.

"Yes, shanghaied! Hocused! Drugged at that gin mill on the wharf by
a lot of crimps, who, mistaking me for a better man, shoved me,
blind drunk and helpless, down the steps into a boat, and out to a
short-handed brig in the stream. When I came to I was outside the Heads,
pointed for Guayaquil. When they found they'd captured, not a poor Jack,
but a man who'd trod a quarterdeck, who knew, and was known at every
port on the trading line, and who could make it hot for them, they were
glad to compromise and set me ashore at Acapulco, and six weeks later I
landed in 'Frisco."

"Safe and sound, thank Heaven!" said Randolph joyously.

"Not exactly, lad," said Captain Dornton grimly, "but dead and sat
upon by the coroner, and my body comfortably boxed up and on its way to
England."

"But that was nine months ago. What have you been doing since? Why
didn't you declare yourself then?" said Randolph impatiently, a little
irritated by the man's extreme indifference. He really talked like an
amused spectator of his own misfortunes.

"Steady, lad. I know what you're going to say. I know all that happened.
But the first thing I found when I got back was that the shanghai
business had saved my life; that but for that I would have really been
occupying that box on its way to England, instead of the poor devil who
was taken for me."

A cold tremor passed over Randolph. Captain Dornton, however, was
tolerantly smiling.

"I don't understand," said Randolph breathlessly.

Captain Dornton rose and, walking to the door, looked out into the
passage; then he shut the door carefully and returned, glancing about
the room and at the storm-washed windows. "I thought I heard some one
outside. I'm lying low just now, and only go out at night, for I don't
want this thing blown before I'm ready. Got anything to drink here?"

Randolph replied by taking a decanter of whiskey and glasses from a
cupboard. The captain filled his glass, and continued with the same
gentle but exasperating nonchalance, "Mind my smoking?"

"Not at all," said Randolph, pushing a cigar toward him. But the captain
put it aside, drew from his pocket a short black clay pipe, stuffed it
with black "Cavendish plug," which he had first chipped off in the
palm of his hand with a large clasp knife, lighted it, and took a few
meditative whiffs. Then, glancing at Randolph's papers, he said, "I'm
not keeping you from your work, lad?" and receiving a reply in the
negative, puffed at his pipe and once more settled himself comfortably
in his chair, with his dark, bearded profile toward Randolph.

"You were saying just now you didn't understand," he went on slowly,
without looking up; "so you must take your own bearings from what
I'm telling you. When I met you that night I had just arrived from
Melbourne. I had been lucky in some trading speculations I had out
there, and I had some bills with me, but no money except what I had
tucked in the skin of that portmanteau and a few papers connected with
my family at home. When a man lives the roving kind of life I have, he
learns to keep all that he cares for under his own hat, and isn't apt
to blab to friends. But it got out in some way on the voyage that I had
money, and as there was a mixed lot of 'Sydney ducks' and 'ticket of
leave men' on board, it seems they hatched a nice little plot to waylay
me on the wharf on landing, rob me, and drop me into deep water. To make
it seem less suspicious, they associated themselves with a lot of crimps
who were on the lookout for our sailors, who were going ashore that
night too. I'd my suspicions that a couple of those men might be waiting
for me at the end of the wharf. I left the ship just a minute or two
before the sailors did. Then I met you. That meeting, my lad, was
my first step toward salvation. For the two men let you pass with my
portmanteau, which they didn't recognize, as I knew they would ME, and
supposed you were a stranger, and lay low, waiting for me. I, who went
into the gin-mill with the other sailors, was foolish enough to drink,
and was drugged and crimped as they were. I hadn't thought of that. A
poor devil of a ticket of leave man, about my size, was knocked down
for me, and," he added, suppressing a laugh, "will be buried, deeply
lamented, in the chancel of Dornton Church. While the row was going on,
the skipper, fearing to lose other men, warped out into the stream,
and so knew nothing of what happened to me. When they found what they
thought was my body, he was willing to identify it in the hope that
the crime might be charged to the crimps, and so did the other sailor
witnesses. But my brother Bill, who had just arrived here from Callao,
where he had been hunting for me, hushed it up to prevent a scandal.
All the same, Bill might have known the body wasn't mine, even though he
hadn't seen me for years."

"But it was frightfully disfigured, so that even I, who saw you only
once, could not have sworn it was NOT you," said Randolph quickly.

"Humph!" said Captain Dornton musingly. "Bill may have acted on the
square--though he was in a d----d hurry."

"But," said Randolph eagerly, "you will put an end to all this now. You
will assert yourself. You have witnesses to prove your identity."

"Steady, lad," said the captain, waving his pipe gently. "Of course I
have. But"--he stopped, laid down his pipe, and put his hands doggedly
in his pockets--"IS IT WORTH IT?" Seeing the look of amazement in
Randolph's face, he laughed his low laugh, and settled himself back in
his chair again. "No," he said quietly, "if it wasn't for my son, and
what's due him as my heir, I suppose--I reckon I'd just chuck the whole
d----d thing."

"What!" said Randolph. "Give up the property, the title, the family
honor, the wrong done to your reputation, the punishment"--He hesitated,
fearing he had gone too far.

Captain Dornton withdrew his pipe from his mouth with a gesture of
caution, and holding it up, said: "Steady, lad. We'll come to THAT by
and by. As to the property and title, I cut and run from THEM ten
years ago. To me they meant only the old thing--the life of a country
gentleman, the hunting, the shooting, the whole beastly business that
the land, over there, hangs like a millstone round your neck. They meant
all this to me, who loved adventure and the sea from my cradle. I cut
the property, for I hated it, and I hate it still. If I went back I
should hear the sea calling me day and night; I should feel the breath
of the southwest trades in every wind that blew over that tight little
island yonder; I should be always scenting the old trail, lad, the trail
that leads straight out of the Gate to swoop down to the South Seas. Do
you think a man who has felt his ship's bows heave and plunge under him
in the long Pacific swell--just ahead of him a reef breaking white into
the lagoon, and beyond a fence of feathery palms--cares to follow hounds
over gray hedges under a gray November sky? And the society? A man who's
got a speaking acquaintance in every port from Acapulco to Melbourne,
who knows every den and every longshoreman in it from a South American
tienda to a Samoan beach-comber's hut,--what does he want with society?"
He paused as Randolph's eyes were fixed wonderingly on the first sign
of emotion on his weather-beaten face, which seemed for a moment to glow
with the strength and freshness of the sea, and then said, with a laugh:
"You stare, lad. Well, for all the Dorntons are rather proud of their
family, like as not there was some beastly old Danish pirate among them
long ago, and I've got a taste of his blood in me. But I'm not quite as
bad as that yet."

He laughed, and carelessly went on: "As to the family honor, I don't
see that it will be helped by my ripping up the whole thing and perhaps
showing that Bill was a little too previous in identifying me. As to my
reputation, that was gone after I left home, and if I hadn't been the
legal heir they wouldn't have bothered their heads about me. My father
had given me up long ago, and there isn't a man, woman, or child that
wouldn't now welcome Bill in my place."

"There is one who wouldn't," said Randolph impulsively.

"You mean Caroline Avondale?" said Captain Dornton dryly.

Randolph colored. "No; I mean Miss Eversleigh, who was with your
brother."

Captain Dornton reflected. "To be sure! Sibyl Eversleigh! I haven't seen
her since she was so high. I used to call her my little sweetheart. So
Sybby remembered Cousin Jack and came to find him? But when did you
meet her?" he asked suddenly, as if this was the only detail of the past
which had escaped him, fixing his frank eyes upon Randolph.

_SLEEPY-TIME TALES_ (Trademark Registered)
THE TALE OF TIMOTHY TURTLE
BY ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY Author of "_TUCK-ME-IN TALES_" (Trademark Registered)

ILLUSTRATED BY HARRY L. SMITH

NEW YORK GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
Made in the United States of America
COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY GROSSET & DUNLAP
CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I A FAMOUS BITER II AN OLD-TIMER III TIMOTHY'S GRUDGE IV A TIGHT
SQUEEZE V MR. TURTLE'S MISTAKE VI MR. CROW'S KIND OFFER VII LEARNING
TO FLY VIII TURNING TURTLE IX A PLEASURE TRIP X A WARNING XI ON THE BEAVER
DAM XII KIND TIMOTHY TURTLE XIII THE PLOT XIV CAUGHT!

XV THE REDSKINS' WAY XVI JOHNNIE GREEN'S INITIALS XVII TIMOTHY NEEDS HELP
XVIII PETER MINK'S PLAN XIX CAREFUL MR.

FROG XX THE ALMANAC XXI A QUEER WISH XXII THE UNWELCOME GUEST XXIII
A MERRY SONG

Illustrations

Timothy was going through the queerest motions.
Frontispiece

"Let Me In!" said Timothy to Mr. Frog.

Timothy began to climb the steep bluff.

"Let me go!" Fatty Coon shrieked.

THE TALE OF TIMOTHY TURTLE
I
A FAMOUS BITER

That black rascal, Mr. Crow, was not the oldest dweller in Pleasant
Valley. There was another elderly gentleman who had spent more summers--and
a great many more winters--under the shadow of Blue Mountain than
he.

All the wild folk knew this person by the name of Timothy Turtle. And
if they didn't see him so often as Mr. Crow it was because he spent
much of his time on the muddy bottom of Black Creek. Besides, he never
flapped his way through the air to Farmer Green's cornfield, in plain
sight of everyone who happened to look up at the sky.

On the contrary, Mr. Timothy Turtle seldom wandered far from the banks
of the creek--for the best of reasons. He was anything but a fast
walker. In fact, one might say that he waddled, or even crawled, rather
than walked.

But in the water he was quite a different creature. By means of
his webbed feet he could swim as easily as Mr. Crow could fly.
And he could stay at the bottom of Black Creek a surprisingly long
time before he came up for a breath of air.

Indeed, Mr.

Crow sometimes remarked that _he_ would be just as well pleased if Timothy
Turtle buried himself in the mud beneath the water _and never_ came up
again!

Such a speech was enough to show that Mr. Crow was not fond of Timothy
Turtle. Perhaps Mr. Crow disliked to have a neighbor who was older
than he.

But Mr. Crow himself always laughed at such a suggestion.

"The trouble is----" he would say--"the trouble is, Timothy Turtle is _too
grumpy_. Now, _I'm_ old. But I claim that that's no reason why I
shouldn't be pleasant." And then he would laugh--somewhat harshly--just
to show that he knew how.

There was a good deal of truth in what Mr. Crow said. Timothy Turtle was
grumpy. But it was not old age that made him so. He had been like
that all his life. There never was a time when he Wasn't snappish,
when he wouldn't rather bite a body than not.

And that was the reason why he had not more friends.

To be sure, many people knew him. But usually they took good care not to
get too near him.

For Timothy Turtle had a most unpleasant way of shooting out his
long neck from under his shell and seizing a person in his powerful jaws.
In spite of his great age he was quick as a flash. And one had to step
lively to escape him.

If Timothy had bitten you just for an instant, and then stopped, this
trick of his wouldn't have been so disagreeable. But he was not content
with a mere nip. When he had hold of you he never wanted to let you
go.
And it was no joke getting away, once you found yourself caught by
him.

As for Timothy Turtle, he never could understand why his neighbors objected
to this little trick of his. He always said that it was more fun than
almost anything else he could think of. And it is true that he never
seemed so happy as he did when he had caught some careless person and
was biting him without mercy.

"Anybody that wants to may bite _me,"_ Timothy used to declare. But
perhaps he never stopped to think that one might almost as well bite a
rock as his hard shell. And anybody might better chew a piece of
leather than try to take a mouthful out of his legs, or his neck, or
his head.

So no one paid any heed to Timothy Turtle's kind offer. Even Peter Mink,
who was himself overfond of biting people, wisely let Mr. Turtle
alone.

There is no doubt that it was the safer way.

II
AN OLD-TIMER

It was pleasant for Timothy Turtle that he lived in Black Creek, for
he was very fond of fishing.

If he had happened to make his home among the rocks on the top of Blue
Mountain he would have had to travel a long way to find even a trout
stream. But in Black Creek there were fish right in his dooryard,
one may say.

It was lucky for him, too, that he liked fish to eat. And whenever he
wanted a change of food the creek was a good place in which to find a
frog, or perhaps a foolish duckling who had not learned to be
careful.

It was no wonder that all the mother birds in the neighborhood used to
warn their children to beware of Timothy Turtle. Did not Long Bill
Wren, who lived among the reeds on the bank of Black Creek, have a narrow
escape when he was only a few weeks old?

He had just learned to fly. And although his mother had told him not to
leave the bank, he disobeyed her. When she was not watching him he
sailed over the water for the first time in his life and alighted
on a flat object on top of a rock.

Bill supposed it was a stone that he was sitting on. And he felt so proud
of what he had done that he cried, "Look! Oh, look!"
His poor mother was dreadfully frightened when she saw him.

"Come back!" she shrieked. "You're in great danger!"
So Bill flew back to the bank as fast as he could go.

"What have I told you about Timothy Turtle?" his mother asked him
sharply.

"You've said to keep away from him, or he might eat me," young Bill
faltered.

"Exactly!" his mother cried. "And the moment I glance away, here you go
and sit right on his back! It's a wonder you're alive."
Her son hung his head. And never again did he pick out a perch until he
was sure it wasn't old Mr. Turtle.

When he was older, and had children of his own, Long Bill often
remarked that it was too bad Mr. Turtle didn't live in some other
place. "He makes my wife so nervous!" he used to exclaim. "With a new
brood of at least a half-dozen youngsters to take care of every summer
one has to watch sharp for Mr. Turtle whenever the children play near
the water." And Long Bill always took pains to tell his children of
his own adventure with Timothy Turtle and warn them not to make
such a mistake.

"Luckily I sat exactly in the center of Mr. Turtle's shell, so he
couldn't reach me," Long Bill was explaining to his family one day. "But
if I had happened to perch on his head I certainly wouldn't be here now."

"Oh, Mr. Turtle is too slow to catch me," one of the youngsters boasted.

"I saw him on the bank to-day; and he only _crawled_."

"Ah! You don't know him," Long Bill Wren replied. "When he wants to, he
can stand up on his hind legs as quick as a wink. And he can dart his
head out just like a snake."
"Ugh!" Long Bill's small son shivered as he spoke. "I wish Mr. Turtle
would go away from our creek."

"_He_ thinks it's _his_ creek," Long Bill Wren observed. "He has
lived in it years and years and years.

We'll have to get on with him as best we can, for there's no doubt
that Timothy Turtle is here to stay."

III
TIMOTHY'S GRUDGE

Sometimes Fatty Coon liked a taste of fresh fish, just by way of a
change from Farmer Green's corn, and blackberries, wild grapes, bugs--and
all the other dainties on which he dined.

So it happened that one day he visited Black Creek, where he crouched
near the water with the hope that some silly fish would swim within reach
of his sharp claws.

For a long time he waited patiently. And at last, to his great joy, a
young pickerel nosed his way through the shallow water in front of
him.

The newcomer was hunting flies. And he did not notice the eager
fisherman.

Fatty Coon waited until just the right moment. And then one of
his paws darted suddenly into the water.

But instead of Fatty Coon catching the pickerel, someone else caught Fatty
Coon.

His captor was no less a person than Timothy Turtle himself, who had
been buried all this time in the mud almost under Fatty Coon's nose.
That is, his body was buried. His head and neck he had left free, so that
he might strike at a fish when one came his way.

But he had seen something else that took his fancy. When Fatty's paw
scooped into the water Timothy Turtle just _had_ to grab it.

"Let me go!" Fatty Coon shrieked, for Mr. Turtle's cruel jaws hurt him
terribly.

"Why, this is fun!" Timothy Turtle muttered thickly, as he took a firmer
hold on Fatty's paw.

"Besides, I've been wanting to talk with you for a long time."
"Then you'd better let me go," Fatty groaned, "because you can't
talk well with your mouth full."
"I can say all I need to," Timothy Turtle grunted. "And I know that if I
dropped your paw you'd run off."
"Hurry, then!" Fatty Coon begged him piteously. "Hurry and tell me what
you have to say. And please talk fast!"

Timothy Turtle almost smiled.

"Am I hurting you?" he inquired.

"Yes, you are!" cried Fatty Coon.

"Good!" Mr. Turtle snorted. "I meant to, because I've a grudge against
you."

Fatty Coon couldn't think what he meant.

"I've never done a thing to you," he declared.

"Perhaps not!" Timothy Turtle admitted.

"But you stole Mrs. Turtle's eggs--twenty-seven of them--and you can't
deny it."

Now, it was true--what Timothy Turtle said. Hidden among the reeds one
day, Fatty Coon had watched Mrs. Turtle bury her eggs in the sand, to
hatch. And when she had gone he had crept out from his hiding-place,
dug up her precious, round, white treasures, and eaten them, every
one.

Well, Fatty Coon dropped his head in front of Mr. Turtle. He was somewhat
ashamed, and frightened, too. And he did not like to look into Timothy
Turtle's blinking eyes. "How did you know?" he asked Mr. Turtle.

"Mrs. Turtle told me," said Timothy, shifting his hold slightly, for
a better one.

"How did the old lady know who took her eggs?" Fatty persisted.

"Mr. Crow saw everything that happened--and don't you call my wife an
old lady!" Timothy Turtle spluttered.

"Very well! She's a _young_ one, of course," Fatty said hastily. "But I
don't know how I've harmed you."
"You don't, eh?"

Timothy Turtle snarled. "Then I'll explain. I meant to have those
eggs myself, young man!"

IV
A TIGHT SQUEEZE

Timothy Turtle's remark was most surprising. It almost took Fatty Coon's
breath away. And for a moment or two he even forgot the pain in
his paw.

"Do you mean to say," he asked, "that you like turtles' eggs!"

"Do I?" said Timothy. "There's no better treat, in my opinion, than a
tender young egg, especially if it's well mixed with sand. And, of course,
twenty-seven of them are twenty-seven times as good."
"I'm sorry----" Fatty told him--"I'm sorry that I ever touched the old--I
mean the _young_--lady's eggs. And now that you've almost bitten my paw
in two, please--good Mr. Turtle--let me go!"
But good Mr. Turtle had no notion of freeing his prisoner.

"Not yet!" he snapped. "I'm going to bite you twenty-seven times as long,
and twenty-seven times as hard--if I can."
"But it was only a mistake!" Fatty Coon moaned. "I never knew you wanted
those eggs yourself."
"Take care----" said Timothy Turtle sternly--"take care that you never
make such a mistake again."
"Don't do that!" Fatty Coon suddenly cried.

"Don't do _what_?" was Mr. Turtle's testy reply.

"Don't pull on my leg!" Fatty Coon pleaded. "You'll have me in the water
in another moment, and I'll get wet, and my mother won't like it
a bit."

But Timothy Turtle paid no heed to Fatty Coon's objections.

"Certainly I'll pull you into the creek," he declared. "I'm going to take
you out where the water's deep, and drag you down, down, down to the
very bottom. We'll have lots of fun burying ourselves in the mud.
And I venture to say that you'll like it so well down there that you'll
never want to come up again."
If Fatty Coon was frightened before, now he was terrified almost out
of his wits. And he began to claw frantically at Timothy Turtle's
head.

Luckily he had three free paws. And of these he made good use. In the
shallows near the bank he struggled with all his might and main. And
soon the water was churned into a muddy pool.

[Illustration: "Let Me In!" said Timothy to Mr. Frog.]
Fatty never knew exactly how he succeeded in breaking loose from
Mr.
Turtle. Anyhow, he found himself free at last; and he lost no time in
scrambling up the bank to safety.

Afterward Timothy Turtle always complained that Fatty Coon didn't
"fight fair."
"He gouges," Timothy would explain. "He'd just as soon stick one of his
claws into your eye as not. And I claim that's something no real gentleman
will do."
Now, Fatty did not leave Black Creek at once, after his adventure with
Timothy Turtle. He paused for a time, to squat on the bank and nurse
his injured paw.

While he lingered there he happened to glance up. And whom should he
see, sitting motionless in a tree near-by, but that old rascal, Mr.
Crow!

"Oh! Naughty, naughty!" Mr. Crow cawed in a mocking voice.
"You've been fighting."
"It's all your fault," Fatty growled. "If you'd minded your own affairs
Timothy Turtle would never have known anything about those eggs."
"Bless your heart!" old Mr. Crow cried. "Timothy Turtle would have
seized you just the same, if you'd never touched his wife's eggs. You
don't know him as well as I do."

"Perhaps not!" Fatty Coon replied. "And what's more, I don't want to.
I never want to see Timothy Turtle again."
Old Mr. Crow laughed merrily at that speech. But Fatty Coon only turned
his back on him.

_He_ was in no mood for laughter.

V
MR. TURTLE'S MISTAKE

Mr. Crow was in no hurry to leave Black Creek. And after Fatty Coon had
limped away the old gentleman still sat in the tree which hung over
the water. He hoped that Timothy Turtle would crawl out upon the
bank and growl about Fatty.

The old black rascal was not disappointed. Fatty Coon had not been gone
long when Timothy Turtle dragged himself out of the creek and stretched
himself upon the sand in the warm sunshine.

"How's your eye?" Mr. Crow asked him hoarsely.

"It's feeling better; but it's a wonder that I can see with it at
all," Timothy Turtle grumbled.

"If I ever get hold of that fat young fellow again I'll pull him
under the water before he knows what's happened to him.

He doesn't fight _fair_."
Old Mr. Crow chuckled.

"You'll never have another chance to show him the right way," he
remarked. "He won't come near this creek, or my name's not--ahem--Mr.

Crow."
"What's your first name?" Timothy Turtle inquired, as he stared unpleasantly
at the speaker.

"Never mind!" said the other. "Mr. Crow will do, if you want to
attract my attention."
Timothy Turtle frowned.

"I don't want to," he retorted. "The fact is, I'd rather be alone. I don't
care to have strangers peeping down at me when I'm enjoying a sun-bath."

"But I like to look at you," old Mr. Crow assured him solemnly. "You
make me think of somebody I've known for a good many years."
"Ah! An old friend!" Timothy exclaimed.

"Well--not a _friend_, exactly," Mr. Crow explained. "He lives in
the South, where I spend the winters. You look like him, in many
ways." 
"And his name?" Timothy Turtle said.
"Mr. Alligator!" 
Timothy Turtle grunted.
"Humph!" he said. "I've never heard of him."
"That's not strange," old Mr. Crow told him. "He stays all the time
in the South and you stay all the time in the North. You couldn't
very well meet, you see."
"Your tail is a good deal like his," Mr. Crow continued. "And when
you walk you have a trick of raising yourself sometimes on your
hind legs, with your head and tail stretched out--a trick that
reminds me of him." 
For once Timothy seemed pleased.
"Anything else?" he demanded, with something that was almost like
a smile. Unfortunately, he had passed so many years with a constant
frown on his face that smiling actually hurt him.
"Why, yes! There is something else," old Mr. Crow went on. "You and
he have the same way of _snapping_ at things."
There was no doubt, now, that Timothy Turtle was gratified.
"He must be a fine bird--this Mr. Alligator!" he exclaimed.
Old Mr. Crow spluttered. And he had to hang on tight to save himself
from tumbling off his perch.
A bird! Timothy Turtle thought that Mr. Alligator was a bird!
The mistake was so amusing that Mr. Crow wanted to laugh. But he
knew that would never do--if he wanted any more fun with Timothy
Turtle.
So he pretended to cough. And he wrapped his muffler more snugly
about his neck, remarking that there was a cold wind that day, even
though the sun _was_ warm.

VI 
MR. CROW'S KIND OFFER
"I suppose----" Timothy Turtle said to his young friend, old
Mr.
Crow--"I suppose Mr. Alligator is a fine flier."
"He's a very powerful fellow," old Mr. Crow replied with a sly
smile.

"Did you ever try to follow him?" Timothy wanted to know.
Mr. Crow shook his head.
"No!" he answered. "I shouldn't want to do that, because one never
could tell when he might take a notion to jump into the water."
"Oh! Then he can swim, can he?"
"Certainly!" Mr. Crow assured him.
"Then that's another way in which he's like me!" Timothy Turtle
cried.
"And if I could only fly, I'd be still more like him."
"Why don't you learn?" Mr. Crow suggested wickedly.
"I'm too old," Timothy sighed.
"Not at all!" Mr. Crow hastened to assure him. "One can never be
too old to _try_ a thing."
But Timothy Turtle replied that even if he was young enough to
attempt such a feat as flying, he hadn't the least idea of the way
to go about it.

Old Mr. Crow was most helpful.
"I'll tell you what you ought to do," he advised. "You swim down
the creek as far as the big bluff. And it will be a simple matter
for you to climb up to the top of the bluff and jump off the rock
that hangs high up over the water."
Timothy Turtle looked far from happy at that suggestion.
"I shouldn't care to do that," he said.
"Why not?" Mr. Crow asked him. "You know there's only one way of
flying, and that's through the air."
"I might fall," Timothy objected.
"What if you did?" said Mr. Crow glibly. "You'd only fall into the
water. And everybody agrees that you're a fine swimmer.... You
aren't afraid of getting your feet wet, are you?" And he laughed
loudly at his own joke.
For some reason Timothy lost his temper. Perhaps he thought Mr.
Crow was disrespectful to his elders.
"Look here, young man!" he snapped, glaring angrily at old Mr. Crow.
"If you're laughing at me, I'll invite you to drop down here and
stand on the end of my nose."
Old Mr. Crow grew sober at once. The mere thought of perching himself
in so dangerous a place was enough to put a quick end to his noisy
_haw-haws_.
"My dear sir!" he cried. "I wouldn't _dream_ of standing on the
nose of a fine old gentleman like you. No indeedy! My manners are
too good for that."
Timothy Turtle said bluntly that he had always been told that Mr.
Crow was the rudest person in all Pleasant Valley--unless it was
Mr. Crow's boisterous cousin, Jasper Jay.
When he heard that, Mr. Crow pretended to wipe a tear away from
each of his eyes.
"I've always been misunderstood," he declared mournfully. "I'm
really a kind-hearted soul. And just to prove to you that I want
to be helpful, I'll meet you at the bluff any time you say, and
tell you exactly what to do if you want to learn to fly."
Timothy Turtle seemed to think that the chance was too good a one
to lose.
"I accept your offer," he shouted. "And I'll start downstream this
very moment." 

VII 
LEARNING TO FLY
Timothy Turtle reached the overhanging bluff in a surprisingly short
time. But it must be remembered that he did not walk there on land,
but swam down Black Creek with the current. When he crawled out
upon the bank he was glad to see that old Mr. Crow was waiting for
him, on a pine stump that stood near the water.
He failed utterly to notice that Mr. Crow was not alone. Hidden in
all sorts of places were as many as a dozen of Mr. Crow's friends.
For the old gentleman had invited his cousin, Jasper Jay, to come
to the bluff "to enjoy the fun," as he expressed it.
"But don't let Timothy Turtle see you!" Mr. Crow had warned Jasper.
"At least, don't let him know you're there until after he has jumped
off the big rock." 
Jasper Jay had given his solemn promise.
"And don't let him hear you, either," Mr. Crow had said. And Jasper
had agreed to that, too, although he said that it might be a hard
thing to do.
Well, Timothy Turtle crawled out upon the bank and took a long look
at the high bluff above him, from which the great rock hung over
the water of the creek.
"I believe----" he said to old Mr. Crow--"I believe I'd better wait
till to-morrow before I try to fly. I've just had a long swim, you
know. And I want to feel fresh when I take my first lesson."

"Nonsense!" Mr. Crow exclaimed. "Everything's all ready. You're not
too tired, are you, to climb to the top of the bluff?"
"No," Timothy Turtle admitted.
"Then you've no reason for waiting," Mr. Crow assured him. "Coming
down will be much easier than going up."
"I dare say that's true," Timothy remarked. "But I don't quite like
to think about this business of flying."
"Then you certainly ought not to wait any longer," Mr. Crow urged
him.
"For the longer you wait the more time you'll have to think."
That appeared to Timothy Turtle to be a good bit of advice. And yet
he still seemed uneasy.
"There's just one thing that troubles me," he confessed. "After
I've jumped from the rock I might find that I couldn't fly. And I'd
get a bad fall."
"But you'd land in the water," Mr. Crow reminded him. "And that
would be much better than falling on the land.... I don't need to
tell you," he added, "that water is soft. And you're a fine swimmer."

So Timothy Turtle yielded. And thereupon he began to drag himself
up the steep bluff.
It seemed to Mr. Crow that he had never known anybody to walk so
slowly.
But then, of course, he was in a hurry to see the fun. And it
couldn't really begin until Mr. Turtle should reach the big rock
and take the leap that Mr. Crow had suggested to him.
Jasper Jay and the rowdies he had brought with him stirred
impatiently.
And Jasper said aloud to one of them:
"What an old slow-poke he is!"
"What's that!" Timothy Turtle inquired, as he stopped and looked
around at Mr. Crow.

"I didn't speak," Mr. Crow told him.
Timothy glared at his teacher for a few moments. And Mr. Crow began
to think that Jasper Jay had spoiled the fun. But at last Timothy
Turtle plodded on. And when his back was turned old Mr. Crow flew
over to the place where Jasper Jay was hidden and whispered to him
that he had better keep still or there would be trouble for him.
VIII 
TURNING TURTLE
So Timothy Turtle struggled up the steep face of the bluff. And as
he neared the top Mr. Crow began to hop up and down upon the old
pine stump. He was almost bursting with silent laughter. But he
succeeded in keeping quiet.It seemed to him,
too, in his youthful superstition, as he looked at the abandoned
portmanteau, that he had again to take up his burden--his "trust."

It was nearly four o'clock when the spell was broken. A large packet,
bearing the printed address of a London and American bank, was brought
to him by a special messenger; but the written direction was in
the captain's hand. Randolph tore it open. It contained one or two
inclosures, which he hastily put aside for the letter, two pages of
foolscap, which he read breathlessly:--


DEAR TRENT,--Don't worry your head if I have slipped my cable without
telling you. I'm all right, only I got the news you are bringing me,
JUST AFTER YOU LEFT, by Jack Redhill, whom I had sent to Dornton Hall
to see how the land lay the night before. It was not that I didn't trust
YOU, but HE had ways of getting news that you wouldn't stoop to. You
can guess, from what I have told you already, that, now Bobby is gone,
there's nothing to keep me here, and I'm following my own idea of
letting the whole blasted thing slide. I only worked this racket for
the sake of him. I'm sorry for him, but I suppose the poor little beggar
couldn't stand these sunless, God-forsaken longitudes any more than
I could. Besides that, as I didn't want to trust any lawyer with my
secret, I myself had hunted up some books on the matter, and found that,
by the law of entail, I'd have to rip up the whole blessed thing, and
Bill would have had to pay back every blessed cent of what rents he had
collected since he took hold--not to ME, but the ESTATE--with interest,
and that no arrangement I could make with HIM would be legal on account
of the boy. At least, that's the way the thing seemed to pan out to me.
So that when I heard of Bobby's death I was glad to jump the rest, and
that's what I made up my mind to do.

But, like a blasted lubber, now that I COULD do it and cut right away,
I must needs think that I'd like first to see Bill on the sly, without
letting on to any one else, and tell him what I was going to do. I'd no
fear that he'd object, or that he'd hesitate a minute to fall in with my
plan of dropping my name and my game, and giving him full swing, while I
stood out to sea and the South Pacific, and dropped out of his mess for
the rest of my life. Perhaps I wanted to set his mind at rest, if he'd
ever had any doubts; perhaps I wanted to have a little fun out of him
for his d----d previousness; perhaps, lad, I had a hankering to see the
old place for the last time. At any rate, I allowed to go to Dornton
Hall. I timed myself to get there about the hour you left, to keep
out of sight until I knew he was returning from the horse show, and to
waylay him ALONE and have our little talk without witnesses. I daren't
go to the Hall, for some of the old servants might recognize me.

I went down there with Jack Redhill, and we separated at the station. I
hung around in the fog. I even saw you pass with Sibyl in the dogcart,
but you didn't see me. I knew the place, and just where to hide where
I could have the chance of seeing him alone. But it was a beastly job
waiting there. I felt like a d----d thief instead of a man who was
simply visiting his own. Yet, you mayn't believe me, lad, but I hated
the place and all it meant more than ever. Then, by and by, I heard him
coming. I had arranged it all with myself to get into the yew hedge, and
step out as he came to the garden entrance, and as soon as he recognized
me to get him round the terrace into the summer house, where we could
speak without danger.

I heard the groom drive away to the stable with the cart, and, sure
enough, in a minute he came lurching along toward the garden door. He
was mighty unsteady on his pins, and I reckon he was more than half
full, which was a bad lookout for our confab. But I calculated that the
sight of me, when I slipped out, would sober him. And, by ---, it
did! For his eyes bulged out of his head and got fixed there; his jaw
dropped; he tried to strike at me with a hunting crop he was carrying,
and then he uttered an ungodly yell you might have heard at the station,
and dropped down in his tracks. I had just time to slip back into the
hedge again before the groom came driving back, and then all hands were
piped, and they took him into the house.

And of course the game was up, and I lost my only chance. I was thankful
enough to get clean away without discovering myself, and I have to trust
now to the fact of Bill's being drunk, and thinking it was my ghost that
he saw, in a touch of the jimjams! And I'm not sorry to have given him
that start, for there was that in his eye, and that in the stroke he
made, my lad, that showed a guilty conscience I hadn't reckoned on. And
it cured me of my wish to set his mind at ease. He's welcome to all the
rest.

And that's why I'm going away--never to return. I'm sorry I couldn't
take you with me, but it's better that I shouldn't see you again, and
that you didn't even know WHERE I was gone. When you get this I shall
be on blue water and heading for the sunshine. You'll find two letters
inclosed. One you need not open unless you hear that my secret was
blown, and you are ever called upon to explain your relations with me.
The other is my thanks, my lad, in a letter of credit on the bank, for
the way you have kept your trust, and I believe will continue to keep
it, to

JOHN DORNTON.

P.S. I hope you dropped a tear over my swell tomb at Dornton Church.
All the same, I don't begrudge it to the poor devil who lost his life
instead of me.

J. D.


As Randolph read, he seemed to hear the captain's voice throughout the
letter, and even his low, characteristic laugh in the postscript. Then
he suddenly remembered the luggage which the porter had said the captain
had ordered to be taken below; but on asking that functionary he was
told a conveyance for the Victoria Docks had called with an order, and
taken it away at daybreak. It was evident that the captain had intended
the letter should be his only farewell. Depressed and a little hurt
at his patron's abruptness, Randolph returned to his room. Opening the
letter of credit, he found it was for a thousand pounds--a munificent
beneficence, as it seemed to Randolph, for his dubious services, and
a proof of his patron's frequent declarations that he had money enough
without touching the Dornton estates.

For a long time he sat with these sole evidences of the reality of his
experience in his hands, a prey to a thousand surmises and conflicting
thoughts. Was he the self-deceived disciple of a visionary, a generous,
unselfish, but weak man, whose eccentricity passed even the bounds of
reason? Who would believe the captain's story or the captain's motives?
Who comprehend his strange quest and its stranger and almost ridiculous
termination? Even if the seal of secrecy were removed in after years,
what had he, Randolph, to show in corroboration of his patron's claim?

Then it occurred to him that there was no reason why he should not go
down to the rectory and see Miss Eversleigh again under pretense of
inquiring after the luckless baronet, whose title and fortune had,
nevertheless, been so strangely preserved. He began at once his
preparations for the journey, and was nearly ready when a servant
entered with a telegram. Randolph's heart leaped. The captain had sent
him news--perhaps had changed his mind! He tore off the yellow cover,
and read,--


Sir William died at twelve o'clock without recovering consciousness.

S. EVERSLEIGH.


VI


For a moment Randolph gazed at the dispatch with a half-hysterical
laugh, and then became as suddenly sane and cool. One thought alone was
uppermost in his mind: the captain could not have heard this news yet,
and if he was still within reach, or accessible by any means whatever,
however determined his purpose, he must know it at once. The only clue
to his whereabouts was the Victoria Docks. But that was something. In
another moment Randolph was in the lower hall, had learned the quickest
way of reaching the docks, and plunged into the street.

The fog here swooped down, and to the embarrassment of his mind was
added the obscurity of light and distance, which halted him after a few
hurried steps, in utter perplexity. Indistinct figures were here and
there approaching him out of nothingness and melting away again into the
greenish gray chaos. He was in a busy thoroughfare; he could hear the
slow trample of hoofs, the dull crawling of vehicles, and the warning
outcries of a traffic he could not see. Trusting rather to his own speed
than that of a halting conveyance, he blundered on until he reached
the railway station. A short but exasperating journey of impulses and
hesitations, of detonating signals and warning whistles, and he at last
stood on the docks, beyond him a vague bulk or two, and a soft, opaque
flowing wall--the river!

But one steamer had left that day--the Dom Pedro, for the River
Plate--two hours before, but until the fog thickened, a quarter of an
hour ago, she could be seen, so his informant said, still lying, with
steam up, in midstream. Yes, it was still possible to board her. But
even as the boatman spoke, and was leading the way toward the landing
steps, the fog suddenly lightened; a soft salt breath stole in from the
distant sea, and a veil seemed to be lifted from the face of the gray
waters. The outlines of the two shores came back; the spars of nearer
vessels showed distinctly, but the space where the huge hulk had rested
was empty and void. There was a trail of something darker and more
opaque than fog itself lying near the surface of the water, but the Dom
Pedro was a mere speck in the broadening distance.


A bright sun and a keen easterly wind were revealing the curling ridges
of the sea beyond the headland when Randolph again passed the gates of
Dornton Hall on his way to the rectory. Now, for the first time, he was
able to see clearly the outlines of that spot which had seemed to him
only a misty dream, and even in his preoccupation he was struck by its
grave beauty. The leafless limes and elms in the park grouped themselves
as part of the picturesque details of the Hall they encompassed, and
the evergreen slope of firs and larches rose as a background to the
gray battlements, covered with dark green ivy, whose rich shadows were
brought out by the unwonted sunshine. With a half-repugnant curiosity he
had tried to identify the garden entrance and the fateful yew hedge the
captain had spoken of as he passed. But as quickly he fell back upon the
resolution he had taken in coming there--to dissociate his secret, his
experience, and his responsibility to his patron from his relations
to Sibyl Eversleigh; to enjoy her companionship without an obtruding
thought of the strange circumstances that had brought them together
at first, or the stranger fortune that had later renewed their
acquaintance. He had resolved to think of her as if she had merely
passed into his life in the casual ways of society, with only her
personal charms to set her apart from others. Why should his exclusive
possession of a secret--which, even if confided to her, would only give
her needless and hopeless anxiety--debar them from an exchange of those
other confidences of youth and sympathy? Why could he not love her and
yet withhold from her the knowledge of her cousin's existence? So he had
determined to make the most of his opportunity during his brief holiday;
to avail himself of her naive invitation, and even of what he dared
sometimes to think was her predilection for his companionship. And if,
before he left, he had acquired a right to look forward to a time
when her future and his should be one--but here his glowing fancy was
abruptly checked by his arrival at the rectory door.

Mr. Brunton received him cordially, yet with a slight business
preoccupation and a certain air of importance that struck him as
peculiar. Sibyl, he informed him, was engaged at that moment with some
friends who had come over from the Hall. Mr. Trent would understand that
there was a great deal for her to do--in her present position.
Wondering why SHE should be selected to do it instead of older and more
experienced persons, Randolph, however, contented himself with inquiries
regarding the details of Sir William's seizure and death. He learned, as
he expected, that nothing whatever was known of the captain's visit, nor
was there the least suspicion that the baronet's attack was the result
of any predisposing emotion. Indeed, it seemed more possible that his
medical attendants, knowing something of his late excesses and their
effect upon his constitution, preferred, for the sake of avoiding
scandal, to attribute the attack to long-standing organic disease.

Randolph, who had already determined, as a forlorn hope, to write
a cautious letter to the captain (informing him briefly of the news
without betraying his secret, and directed to the care of the consignees
of the Dom Pedro in Brazil, by the next post), was glad to be able to
add this medical opinion to relieve his patron's mind of any fear of
having hastened his brother's death by his innocent appearance. But here
the entrance of Sibyl Eversleigh with her friends drove all else from
his mind.

She looked so tall and graceful in her black dress, which set off her
dazzling skin, and, with her youthful gravity, gave to her figure the
charming maturity of a young widow, that he was for a moment awed and
embarrassed. But he experienced a relief when she came eagerly toward
him in all her old girlish frankness, and with even something of
yearning expectation in her gray eyes.

"It was so good of you to come," she said. "I thought you would imagine
how I was feeling"--She stopped, as if she were conscious, as Randolph
was, of a certain chill of unresponsiveness in the company, and said
in an undertone, "Wait until we are alone." Then, turning with a slight
color and a pretty dignity toward her friends, she continued: "Lady
Ashbrook, this is Mr. Trent, an old friend of both my cousins when they
were in America."

In spite of the gracious response of the ladies, Randolph was aware
of their critical scrutiny of both himself and Miss Eversleigh, of
the exchange of significant glances, and a certain stiffness in
her guardian's manner. It was quite enough to affect Randolph's
sensitiveness and bring out his own reserve.

Fancying, however, that his reticence disturbed Miss Eversleigh, he
forced himself to converse with Lady Ashbrook--avoiding many of her
pointed queries as to himself, his acquaintance with Sibyl, and the
length of time he expected to stay in England--and even accompanied her
to her carriage. And here he was rewarded by Sibyl running out with a
crape veil twisted round her throat and head, and the usual femininely
forgotten final message to her visitor. As the carriage drove away, she
turned to Randolph, and said quickly,--

"Let us go in by way of the garden."

It was a slight detour, but it gave them a few moments alone.

"It was so awful and sudden," she said, looking gravely at Randolph,
"and to think that only an hour before I had been saying unkind things
of him! Of course," she added naively, "they were true, and the groom
admitted to me that the mare was overdriven and Sir William could
hardly stand. And only to think of it! he never recovered complete
consciousness, but muttered incoherently all the time. I was with him to
the last, and he never said a word I could understand--only once."

"What did he say?" asked Randolph uneasily.

"I don't like to say--it was TOO dreadful!"

Randolph did not press her. Yet, after a pause, she said in a low voice,
with a naivete impossible to describe, "It was, 'Jack, damn you!'"

He did not dare to look at her, even with this grim mingling of farce
and tragedy which seemed to invest every scene of that sordid drama.
Miss Eversleigh continued gravely: "The groom's name was Robert, but
Jack might have been the name of one of his boon companions."

Convinced that she suspected nothing, yet in the hope of changing the
subject, Randolph said quietly: "I thought your guardian perhaps a
little less frank and communicative to-day."

"Yes," said the young girl suddenly, with a certain impatience, and
yet in half apology to her companion, "of course. He--THEY--all and
everybody--are much more concerned and anxious about my new position
than I am. It's perfectly dreadful--this thinking of it all the time,
arranging everything, criticising everything in reference to it, and the
poor man who is the cause of it all not yet at rest in his grave! The
whole thing is inhuman and unchristian!"

"I don't understand," stammered Randolph vaguely. "What IS your new
position? What do you mean?"

The girl looked up in his face with surprise. "Why, didn't you know? I'm
the next of kin--I'm the heiress--and will succeed to the property in
six months, when I am of age."

In a flash of recollection Randolph suddenly recalled the captain's
words, "There are only three lives between her and the property."
Their meaning had barely touched his comprehension before. She was the
heiress. Yes, save for the captain!

She saw the change, the wonder, even the dismay, in his face, and her
own brightened frankly. "It's so good to find one who never thought of
it, who hadn't it before him as the chief end for which I was born! Yes,
I was the next of kin after dear Jack died and Bill succeeded, but
there was every chance that he would marry and have an heir. And yet the
moment he was taken ill that idea was uppermost in my guardian's mind,
good man as he is, and even forced upon me. If this--this property
had come from poor Cousin Jack, whom I loved, there would have been
something dear in it as a memory or a gift, but from HIM, whom I
couldn't bear--I know it's wicked to talk that way, but it's simply
dreadful!"

"And yet," said Randolph, with a sudden seriousness he could not
control, "I honestly believe that Captain Dornton would be perfectly
happy--yes, rejoiced!--if he knew the property had come to YOU."

There was such an air of conviction, and, it seemed to the simple girl,
even of spiritual insight, in his manner that her clear, handsome eyes
rested wonderingly on his.

"Do you really think so?" she said thoughtfully. "And yet HE knows
that I am like him. Yes," she continued, answering Randolph's look of
surprise, "I am just like HIM in that. I loathe and despise the life
that this thing would condemn me to; I hate all that it means, and all
that it binds me to, as he used to; and if I could, I would cut and run
from it as HE did."

She spoke with a determined earnestness and warmth, so unlike her usual
grave naivete that he was astonished. There was a flush on her cheek and
a frank fire in her eye that reminded him strangely of the captain; and
yet she had emphasized her words with a little stamp of her narrow foot
and a gesture of her hand that was so untrained and girlish that he
smiled, and said, with perhaps the least touch of bitterness in his
tone, "But you will get over that when you come into the property."

"I suppose I shall," she returned, with an odd lapse to her former
gravity and submissiveness. "That's what they all tell me."

"You will be independent and your own mistress," he added.

"Independent," she repeated impatiently, "with Dornton Hall and twenty
thousand a year! Independent, with every duty marked out for me!
Independent, with every one to criticise my smallest actions--every one
who would never have given a thought to the orphan who was contented
and made her own friends on a hundred a year! Of course you, who are
a stranger, don't understand; yet I thought that you"--she
hesitated,--"would have thought differently."

"Why?"

"Why, with your belief that one should make one's own fortune," she
said.

"That would do for a man, and in that I respected Captain Dornton's
convictions, as you told them to me. But for a girl, how could she be
independent, except with money?"

She shook her head as if unconvinced, but did not reply. They were
nearing the garden porch, when she looked up, and said: "And as YOU'RE
a man, you will be making your way in the world. Mr. Dingwall said you
would."

There was something so childishly trustful and confident in her
assurance that he smiled. "Mr. Dingwall is too sanguine, but it gives me
hope to hear YOU say so."

She colored slightly, and said gravely: "We must go in now." Yet she
lingered for a moment before the door. For a long time afterward he had
a very vivid recollection of her charming face, in its childlike
gravity and its quaint frame of black crape, standing out against the
sunset-warmed wall of the rectory. "Promise me you will not mind what
these people say or do," she said suddenly.

"I promise," he returned, with a smile, "to mind only what YOU say or
do."

"But I might not be always quite right, you know," she said naively.

"I'll risk that."

"Then, when we go in now, don't talk much to me, but make yourself
agreeable to all the others, and then go straight home to the inn, and
don't come here until after the funeral."

The faintest evasive glint of mischievousness in her withdrawn eyes at
this moment mitigated the austerity of her command as they both passed
in.

Randolph had intended not to return to London until after the funeral,
two days later, and spent the interesting day at the neighboring town,
whence he dispatched his exploring and perhaps hopeless letter to
the captain. The funeral was a large and imposing one, and impressed
Randolph for the first time with the local importance and solid
standing of the Dorntons. All the magnates and old county families were
represented. The inn yard and the streets of the little village were
filled with their quaint liveries, crested paneled carriages, and
silver-cipher caparisoned horses, with a sprinkling of fashion from
London. He could not close his ears to the gossip of the villagers
regarding the suddenness of the late baronet's death, the extinction of
the title, the accession of the orphaned girl to the property, and even,
to his greater exasperation, speculations upon her future and probable
marriage. "Some o' they gay chaps from Lunnon will be lordin' it over
the Hall afore long," was the comment of the hostler.

It was with some little bitterness that Randolph took his seat in the
crowded church. But this feeling, and even his attempts to discover Miss
Eversleigh's face in the stately family pew fenced off from the chancel,
presently passed away. And then his mind began to be filled with strange
and weird fancies. What grim and ghostly revelations might pass between
this dead scion of the Dorntons lying on the trestles before them and
the obscure, nameless ticket of leave man awaiting his entrance in the
vault below! The incongruity of this thought, with the smug complacency
of the worldly minded congregation sitting around him, and the probable
smiling carelessness of the reckless rover--the cause of all--even now
idly pacing the deck on the distant sea, touched him with horror. And
when added to this was the consciousness that Sibyl Eversleigh was
forced to become an innocent actor in this hideous comedy, it seemed
as much as he could bear. Again he questioned himself, Was he right to
withhold his secret from her? In vain he tried to satisfy his conscience
that she was happier in her ignorance. The resolve he had made to
keep his relations with her apart from his secret, he knew now, was
impossible. But one thing was left to him. Until he could disclose his
whole story--until his lips were unsealed by Captain Dornton--he must
never see her again. And the grim sanctity of the edifice seemed to make
that resolution a vow.

He did not dare to raise his eyes again toward her pew, lest a sight of
her sweet, grave face might shake his resolution, and he slipped away
first among the departing congregation. He sent her a brief note from
the inn saying that he was recalled to London by an earlier train, and
that he would be obliged to return to California at once, but hoping
that if he could be of any further assistance to her she would write
to him to the care of the bank. It was a formal letter, and yet he had
never written otherwise than formally to her. That night he reached
London. On the following night he sailed from Liverpool for America.


Six months had passed. It was difficult, at first, for Randolph to pick
up his old life again; but his habitual earnestness and singleness of
purpose stood him in good stead, and a vague rumor that he had made some
powerful friends abroad, with the nearer fact that he had a letter of
credit for a thousand pounds, did not lessen his reputation. He swore
to the Constitution with an _idée fixe _to destroy it. He attempted
to do so on the 29th of January 1849, not two months after his
election.

'I agree with you that the fault of the Constitution was that it allowed
the President to be chosen by universal suffrage; and that the fault
of the people was that they elected a pretender to the throne, whose
ambition, rashness, and faithlessness had been proved.

'No new Constitution can work if the Executive conspires against it. But
deliberating and acting in the midst of _émeutes_, with a Chamber and
a population divided into half a dozen hostile factions, the two
Royalist parties hating one another, the Bonapartists bent on destroying
all freedom, and the Socialists all individual property, what could
we do? My wish and Tocqueville's was to give the election to the
Chamber. We found that out of 650 members we could not hope that our
proposition would be supported by more than 200. You think that we ought
to have proposed two Chambers.

The great use of two Chambers is to strengthen the Executive by
enabling it to play one against the other; but we felt that our
Executive was dangerously strong, and we believed, I think truly,
that a single Chamber would resist him better than two could do.

The provision which required more than a bare majority for the revision
of the Constitution was one of those which we borrowed from America.
It had worked well there. In the general instability we wished to
have one anchor, one mooring ring fixed. We did not choose that the
whole framework of our Government should be capable of being suddenly
destroyed by a majority of one, in a moment of excitement and perhaps
by a parliamentary surprise.

'With respect to your complaint that, there being no power of dissolution,
there was no means of taking the opinion of the people, the answer is,
that to give the President power of dissolution would have been to
invite him to a _coup d'état._ With no Chamber to watch him, he would
have been omnipotent.

'I agree with you that the Constitution was a detestable one.

But even now, looking back to the times, and to the conditions under
which we made it, I do not think that it was in our power to make a good
one.'
'Tocqueville,' I said, 'told me that Cormenin was your Solon, that he
brought a bit of constitution to you every morning, and that it was
usually adopted.'[1]
'Tocqueville's memory,' answered Beaumont, 'deceived him. Cormenin was our
president. It is true that he brought a bit of constitution every morning.
But it scarcely ever was adopted or capable of being adopted.
It was in general bad in itself, or certain to be rejected by the Assembly.
He wished to make the President a puppet. But he exercised over us a
mischievous influence. He tried to revenge himself for our refusal
of all his proposals by rendering our deliberations fruitless. And
as the power of a president over a deliberative body is great,
he often succeeded.

'Many of our members were unaccustomed to public business and lost their
tempers or their courage when opposed. The Abbé Lamennais proposed a
double election of the president. But of thirty members, only four,
among whom were Tocqueville and I, supported him. He left the committee
and never returned to it. Tocqueville and I were anxious to introduce
double election everywhere. It is the best palliative of universal
suffrage.'
'The double election,' I said, 'of the American President is nugatory.

Every elector is chosen under a pledge to nominate a specified
candidate.'

'That is true,' said Beaumont, 'as to the President, but not as to
the other functionaries thus elected.

The senators chosen by double election are far superior to the
representatives chosen by direct voting.

'We proposed, too, to begin by establishing municipal institutions.
We were utterly defeated. The love of centralisation is almost inherent
in French politicians. They see the evil of local government--its
stupidity, its corruption, its jobbing. They see the convenience of
centralisation--the ease with which a centralised administration
works.
Feelings which are really democratic have reached those who fancy themselves
aristocrats. We had scarcely a supporter.

'We should perhaps have a few now, when experience has shown that
centralisation is still more useful to an usurper than it is to a
regular Government.'

[Footnote 1: See Vol. I. p. 212.--ED.]

_August_ 18.--We drove in the afternoon to the coast, and sat in the
shade of the little ricks of sea-weed, gazing on an open sea as blue
as the Mediterranean.

We talked of America.

'I can understand,' said Madame de Tocqueville, 'the indignation of the
North against you. It is, of course, excessive, but they had a right
to expect you to be on their side in an anti-slavery war.'
'They had no right,' I said, 'to expect from our Government anything
but absolute neutrality.'
'But you need not,' she replied, 'have been so eager to put the South
on the footing of belligerents.'

'On what other footing,' I asked, 'could we put them?

On what other footing does the North put them? Have they ventured, or
will they venture, to hang a single seceder?'
'At least,' she said, 'you might have expressed more sympathy with the
North?'
'I think,' I answered, 'that we have expressed as much sympathy as it
was possible to feel. We deplore the combat, we hold the South responsible
for it, we think their capricious separation one of the most foolish
and one of the most wicked acts that have ever been committed; we
hope that the North will beat them, and we should bitterly regret their
forcing themselves back into the Union on terms making slavery worse,
if possible, than it is now. We wish the contest to end as quickly as
possible: but we do not think that it can end by the North subjugating
the Southerns and forcing them to be its subjects.

'The best termination to which we look forward as possible, is that the
North should beat the South, and then dictate its own terms of
separation.

'If they wish to go farther than this, if they wish us to love or to
admire our Northern cousins in their political capacity, they wish for
what is impossible.

'We cannot forget that the Abolitionists have been always a small and
discredited party; that the Cuba slave trade is mainly carried on from
New York; that they have neglected the obligations formally entered
into by them with us to co-operate in the suppression of the slave
trade; that they have pertinaciously refused to allow us even to
inquire into the right of slavers to use the American flag; that
it is the capital of the North which feeds the slavery of the South;
that the first act of the North, as soon as the secession of the
South from Congress allowed it to do what it liked, was to enact a
selfish protective tariff; that their treatment of us, from the
time that they have felt strong enough to insult us, has been one
unvaried series of threats, bullying, and injury; that they have
refused to submit their claims on us to arbitration, driven out our
ambassadors, seized by force on disputed territory, and threatened
war on every pretence.'

'It is true,' said Beaumont, 'that during the last twenty years American
diplomacy has not been such as to inspire affection or respect But you
must recollect that during all that time America has been governed
by the South.'
'It is true,' I said, 'that the presidents have generally been
Southerns, but I am not aware that the North has ever disavowed their
treatment of us.

This is certain, that throughout the Union, insolence to England has
been an American statesman's road to popularity.'

_Monday., August _19.--We walked in the afternoon over the commons overlooking
the sea, and among the shady lanes of this well-wooded country.

We came on a group of about twelve or thirteen reapers taking their
evening meal of enormous loaves of brown bread, basins of butter, and
kegs of cider.

M. Roussell, the farmer in whose service they were, was sitting among them.
He was an old friend and constituent of Tocqueville, and for thirty
years was Maire of Tocqueville.

He has recently resigned. He rose and walked with us to his house.

'I was required,' he said, 'to support the prefect's candidate for the
_Conseil général_. No such proposition was ever made to me before. I
could not submit to it. The prefect has been unusually busy of
late. The schoolmaster has been required to send in a list of the
peasants whose children, on the plea of poverty, receive gratuitous
education. The children of those who do not vote with the prefect are
to have it no longer.'
I asked what were the wages of labour.

'Three francs and half a day,' he said, 'during the harvest, with
food--which includes cider. In ordinary times one franc a day
with food, or a franc and a half without food.'
'It seems then,' I said, 'that you can feed a man for half a franc a day?'

'He can feed himself,' said M. Roussell, 'for that, but I cannot, or
for double that money.'
The day labourer is generally hired only for one day. A new bargain is
made every day.

The house was not uncomfortable, but very untidy.

There are no ricks, everything is stored in large barns, where it
is safe from weather, but terribly exposed to vermin.

A bright-complexioned servant-girl was in the kitchen preparing an
enormous bowl of soup, of which bread, potatoes, and onions were
the chief solid ingredients.

'Roussell,' said Beaumont, 'is superior to his class. In general
they are bad politicians. It is seldom difficult to get their votes
for the nominee of the prefect. They dislike to vote for anyone whom
they know, especially if he be a gentleman, or be supported by the
gentry. Such a candidate excites their democratic envy and suspicion.
But the prefect is an abstraction.

They have never seen him, they have seldom heard of his name or of that
of his candidate, and therefore they vote for him.

'Lately, however, in some of my communes, the peasants have adapted
a new practice, that of electing peasants.

I suspect that the Government is not displeased.

'The presence of such members will throw discredit on the _Conseils
généraux_, and, if they get there, on the _Corps législatif,_ much to
the pleasure of our democratic master, and they will be easily bribed
or frightened.

Besides which the fifteen francs a day will be a fortune to them,
and they will be terrified by the threat of a dissolution.

I do not think that even yet we have seen the worst of universal suffrage.'

'What influence,' I asked, 'have the priests?'
'In some parts of France,' said Beaumont, 'where the people are
religious, as is the case here, much.

Not much in the north-east, where there is little religion; and in the
towns, where there is generally no religion, their patronage of a candidate
would ruin him. I believe that nothing has so much contributed to Louis
Napoleon's popularity with the _ouvriers_ as his quarrel with the
Pope. You may infer the feelings of the lower classes in Paris from
his cousin's conduct.'
'I study Prince Napoleon,' said Ampère, 'with interest, for I believe
that he will be the successor.'

'If Louis Napoleon,' I said, 'were to be shot tomorrow, would not
the little prince be proclaimed?'

'Probably,' said Ampere, 'but with Jérôme for regent, and I doubt whether
the regency would end by the little Napoleon IV. assuming the
sceptre.

'Louis Napoleon himself does not expect it.

He often says that, in France, it is more than two hundred years
since a sovereign has been succeeded by his son.

'On the whole,' continued Ampère, 'I had rather have Jérôme than Louis
Napoleon. He has more talent and less prudence. He would bring on the
crisis sooner.

'On the 31st of October, 1849,' said Madame de Tocqueville, 'I was in
Louis Napoleon's company, and he mentioned some matter on which he
wished to know my husband's opinion. I could not give it. "It does not
much signify," he answered, "for as I see M. de Tocqueville every day,
I will talk to him about it myself." At that very time, the _ordonnance_
dismissing M. de Tocqueville had been signed, and Louis Napoleon knew
that he would probably never see him again.'
'I do not,' said Ampere, 'give up the chance of a republic. I do
not wish for one. It must be a very bad constitutional monarchy which
I should not prefer to the best republic.

My democratic illusions are gone.

France and America have dispelled them: but it must be a very bad
republic which I should not prefer to the best despotism. A
republic is like a fever, violent and frightful, but not necessarily
productive of organic mischief. A despotism is a consumption: it
degrades and weakens, and perverts all the vital functions.

'What is there now in France worth living for? I find people proud of
our Italian campaign. Why should the French be proud that their master's
soldiers have been successful in a war as to which they were not consulted;
which, in fact, they disapproved, which was not made for their
benefit, which was the most glaring proof of their servility and
degradation? We knew before that our troops were better than the Austrians.
What have we gained by the additional example of their superiority?

'I fear,' I said, 'that a republic, at least such a republic as you are
likely to have, would begin by some gross economical enormities--by
the _droit au travail_, by the _impôt progressif sur la fortune
présumtée_, by a paper currency made a legal tender without limitation
of its amount.'
'The last republic,' said Ampere, 'did some of these things, but very
timidly and moderately. It gave to its paper a forced currency, but
was so cautious in its issue, that it was not depreciated. It created
the _ateliers nationaux,_ but it soon dissolved them, though at the
expense of a civil war. Its worst fault was more political than
economical: it was the 45 centimes, that is to say, the sudden increase
by 45 per cent, of the direct taxes. It never recovered that blow. Of
all its acts it is the one which is best recollected. The Provisional
Government is known in the provinces as "ces gredins des quarante-cinq
centimes." The business of a revolutionary government is to be
popular. It ought to reduce taxation, meet its expenditure by loans,
abolish octrois and prohibitions, and defer taxation until it has
lasted long enough to be submitted to as a _fait accompli_.'
'I fear,' said Madame de Tocqueville, 'that our working classes are
in a much worse frame of mind than they were in 1848. Socialist opinions--the
doctrine that the profits of capitalists are so much taken fraudulently
or oppressively from the wages of labourers, and that it is unjust
that one man should have more of the means of happiness than
another--are extending every day.

The workpeople believe that the rich are their enemies and that the Emperor
is their friend, and that he will join them in an attempt to get
their fair share, that is, an equal share, of the property of the
country--and I am not sure that they are mistaken.'
'Nor am I,' said Beaumont '_Celui-ci_ fully sympathises with their feelings,
and I do not think that he has intelligence enough to see the absurdity
of their theories.'
'You do not deny him,' I said, 'intelligence?'
'Not,' said Beaumont, 'for some purposes, and to some extent, practical
intelligence. His ends are bad, but he is often skilful in inventing
and pertinacious in employing means for effecting those bad ends.
But I deny him theoretic intelligence. I do not think that he has
comprehension or patience to work out, or even to follow, a long
train of reasoning; such a train as that by which economical errors
and fallacies are detected.'

'Are there strikes,' I asked, 'among your workmen?'
'They are beginning,' said Beaumont.

'We have had one near us, and the authorities were afraid to interfere.'

'I suppose,' I said, that they are illegal?'
'They are illegal,' he answered, 'and I think that they ought to
be so.

They are always oppressive and tyrannical. The workman who does not join
in a strike is made miserable. They are generally mischievous to the
combined workmen themselves, and always to those of other trades.

Your toleration of them appears to me one of the worst symptoms of
your political state of health.

It shows among your public men an ignorance or a cowardice, or a
desire of ill-earned popularity, which is generally a precursor of
a democratic revolution.'

'It is certain,' said Ampère, 'that the masters are becoming afraid
of their workmen. Péreire brings his from their residences to the
Barrière Malesherbes in carriages. You are not actually insulted
in the streets of Paris, but you are treated with rude neglect. A
_fiacre_ likes to splash you, a _paveur_ to scatter you with mud.
Louis Napoleon began with Chauvinism. He excited all the bad
international passions of the multitude. He has now taken up
Sansculotteism. Repulsed with scorn and disgust by the rich and the
educated, he has thrown himself on the poor and ignorant The passions
with which he likes to work are envy, malignity, and rapacity.
'I do not believe that he feels them. He is what is called a
good-natured man. That is to say, he likes to please everyone that
he sees. But his selfishness is indescribable.
'No public interest stands in the way of his slightest caprice. He
often puts me in mind of Nero. With the same indifference to the
welfare of others with which Nero amused himself by burning down
Rome, he is amusing himself by pulling down Paris.' 
N.W. SENIOR."Yes--hadn't heard o' MacGlowrie's wife and disremembered your
brothers."

"The colonel doesn't know everybody, even if he is a fighting man," said
Mrs. MacGlowrie with languid scorn.

"That's just what Dick Blair said," returned Miss Morvin. "And though
he's only a doctor, he jest stuck up agin' the kernel, and told that
story about your jabbin' that man with your scissors--beautiful; and
how you once fought off a bear with a red-hot iron, so that you'd have
admired to hear him. He's awfully gone on you!"

The widow took that opportunity to button her cuff.

"And how long does the preacher calculate to stay?" she added, returning
to business details.

"Only a day. They'll have his house fixed up and ready for him
to-morrow. They're spendin' a heap o' money on it. He ought to be the
pow'ful preacher they say he is--to be worth it."

But here Mrs. MacGlowrie's interest in the conversation ceased, and it
dropped.

In her anxiety to further the suit of Dick Blair, Miss Morvin had
scarcely reported the colonel with fairness.

That gentleman, leaning against the bar in the hotel saloon with a
cocktail in his hand, had expatiated with his usual gallantry upon
Mrs. MacGlowrie's charms, and on his own "personal" responsibility
had expressed the opinion that they were thrown away on Laurel Spring.
That--blank it all--she reminded him of the blankest beautiful woman
he had seen even in Washington--old Major Beveridge's daughter from
Kentucky. Were they sure she wasn't from Kentucky? Wasn't her name
Beveridge--and not Boompointer? Becoming more reminiscent over his
second drink, the colonel could vaguely recall only one Boompointer--a
blank skulking hound, sir--a mean white shyster--but, of course, he
couldn't have been of the same breed as such a blank fine woman as the
widow! It was here that Dick Blair interrupted with a heightened color
and a glowing eulogy of the widow's relations and herself, which,
however, only increased the chivalry of the colonel--who would be the
last man, sir, to detract from--or suffer any detraction of--a lady's
reputation. It was needless to say that all this was intensely diverting
to the bystanders, and proportionally discomposing to Blair, who already
experienced some slight jealousy of the colonel as a man whose fighting
reputation might possibly attract the affections of the widow of the
belligerent MacGlowrie. He had cursed his folly and relapsed into gloomy
silence until the colonel left.

For Dick Blair loved the widow with the unselfishness of a generous
nature and a first passion. He had admired her from the first day
his lot was cast in Laurel Spring, where coming from a rude frontier
practice he had succeeded the district doctor in a more peaceful and
domestic ministration. A skillful and gentle surgeon rather than a
general household practitioner, he was at first coldly welcomed by the
gloomy dyspeptics and ague-haunted settlers from riparian lowlands. The
few bucolic idlers who had relieved the monotony of their lives by the
stimulus of patent medicines and the exaltation of stomach bitters, also
looked askance at him. A common-sense way of dealing with their ailments
did not naturally commend itself to the shopkeepers who vended these
nostrums, and he was made to feel the opposition of trade. But he was
gentle to women and children and animals, and, oddly enough, it was
to this latter dilection that he owed the widow's interest in him--an
interest that eventually made him popular elsewhere.

The widow had a pet dog--a beautiful spaniel, who, however, had
assimilated her graceful languor to his own native love of ease to such
an extent that he failed in a short leap between a balcony and a window,
and fell to the ground with a fractured thigh. The dog was supposed to
be crippled for life even if that life were worth preserving--when Dr.
Blair came to the rescue, set the fractured limb, put it in splints and
plaster after an ingenious design of his own, visited him daily, and
eventually restored him to his mistress's lap sound in wind and limb.
How far this daily ministration and the necessary exchange of sympathy
between the widow and himself heightened his zeal was not known. There
were those who believed that the whole thing was an unmanly trick to get
the better of his rivals in the widow's good graces; there were others
who averred that his treatment of a brute beast like a human being was
sinful and unchristian. "He couldn't have done more for a regularly
baptized child," said the postmistress. "And what mo' would a regularly
baptized child have wanted?" returned Mrs. MacGlowrie, with the drawling
Southern intonation she fell back upon when most contemptuous.

But Dr. Blair's increasing practice and the widow's preoccupation
presently ended their brief intimacy. It was well known that she
encouraged no suitors at the hotel, and his shyness and sensitiveness
shrank from ostentatious advances. There seemed to be no chance of her
becoming, herself, his patient; her sane mind, indolent nerves, and calm
circulation kept her from feminine "vapors" of feminine excesses. She
retained the teeth and digestion of a child in her thirty odd years, and
abused neither. Riding and the cultivation of her little garden gave
her sufficient exercise. And yet the unexpected occurred! The day after
Starbottle left, Dr. Blair was summoned hastily to the hotel. Mrs.
MacGlowrie had been found lying senseless in a dead faint in the
passage outside the dining room. In his hurried flight thither with the
messenger he could learn only that she had seemed to be in her usual
health that morning, and that no one could assign any cause for her
fainting.

He could find out little more when he arrived and examined her as she
lay pale and unconscious on the sofa of her sitting room. It had not
been thought necessary to loosen her already loose dress, and indeed he
could find no organic disturbance. The case was one of sudden nervous
shock--but this, with his knowledge of her indolent temperament, seemed
almost absurd. They could tell him nothing but that she was evidently on
the point of entering the dining room when she fell unconscious. Had
she been frightened by anything? A snake or a rat? Miss Morvin
was indignant! The widow of MacGlowrie--the repeller of
grizzlies--frightened at "sich"! Had she been upset by any previous
excitement, passion, or the receipt of bad news? No!--she "wasn't that
kind," as the doctor knew. And even as they were speaking he felt the
widow's healthy life returning to the pulse he was holding, and giving
a faint tinge to her lips. Her blue-veined eyelids quivered slightly
and then opened with languid wonder on the doctor and her surroundings.
Suddenly a quick, startled look contracted the yellow brown pupils of
her eyes, she lifted herself to a sitting posture with a hurried glance
around the room and at the door beyond. Catching the quick, observant
eyes of Dr. Blair, she collected herself with an effort, which Dr. Blair
felt in her pulse, and drew away her wrist.

"What is it? What happened?" she said weakly.

"You had a slight attack of faintness," said the doctor cheerily, "and
they called me in as I was passing, but you're all right now."

"How pow'ful foolish," she said, with returning color, but her eyes
still glancing at the door, "slumping off like a green gyrl at nothin'."

"Perhaps you were startled?" said the doctor.

Mrs. MacGlowrie glanced up quickly and looked away. "No!--Let me see!
I was just passing through the hall, going into the dining room,
when--everything seemed to waltz round me--and I was off! Where did they
find me?" she said, turning to Miss Morvin.

"I picked you up just outside the door," replied the housekeeper.

"Then they did not see me?" said Mrs. MacGlowrie.

"Who's they?" responded the housekeeper with more directness than
grammatical accuracy.

"The people in the dining room. I was just opening the door--and I felt
this coming on--and--I reckon I had just sense enough to shut the door
again before I went off."

"Then that accounts for what Jim Slocum said," uttered Miss Morvin
triumphantly. "He was in the dining room talkin' with the new preacher,
when he allowed he heard the door open and shut behind him. Then he
heard a kind of slump outside and opened the door again just to find you
lyin' there, and to rush off and get me. And that's why he was so mad
at the preacher!--for he says he just skurried away without offerin'
to help. He allows the preacher may be a pow'ful exhorter--but he ain't
worth much at 'works.'"

"Some men can't bear to be around when a woman's up to that sort of
foolishness," said the widow, with a faint attempt at a smile, but a
return of her paleness.

"Hadn't you better lie down again?" said the doctor solicitously.

"I'm all right now," returned Mrs. MacGlowrie, struggling to her feet;
"Morvin will look after me till the shakiness goes. But it was mighty
touching and neighborly to come in, Doctor," she continued, succeeding
at last in bringing up a faint but adorable smile, which stirred Blair's
pulses. "If I were my own dog--you couldn't have treated me better!"

With no further excuse for staying longer, Blair was obliged to
depart--yet reluctantly, both as lover and physician. He was by no means
satisfied with her condition. He called to inquire the next day--but she
was engaged and sent word to say she was "better."

In the excitement attending the advent of the new preacher the slight
illness of the charming widow was forgotten. He had taken the
settlement by storm. His first sermon at Laurel Spring exceeded even
the extravagant reputation that had preceded him. Known as the "Inspired
Cowboy," a common unlettered frontiersman, he was said to have developed
wonderful powers of exhortatory eloquence among the Indians, and
scarcely less savage border communities where he had lived, half
outcast, half missionary. He had just come up from the Southern
agricultural districts, where he had been, despite his rude antecedents,
singularly effective with women and young people. The moody dyspeptics
and lazy rustics of Laurel Spring were stirred as with a new patent
medicine. Dr. Blair went to the first "revival" meeting. Without
undervaluing the man's influence, he was instinctively repelled by
his appearance and methods. The young physician's trained powers of
observation not only saw an overwrought emotionalism in the speaker's
eloquence, but detected the ring of insincerity in his more lucid speech
and acts. Nevertheless, the hysteria of the preacher was communicated to
the congregation, who wept and shouted with him. Tired and discontented
housewives found their vague sorrows and vaguer longings were only the
result of their "unregenerate" state; the lazy country youths felt
that the frustration of their small ambitions lay in their not being
"convicted of sin." The mourners' bench was crowded with wildly
emulating sinners. Dr. Blair turned away with mingled feelings of
amusement and contempt. At the door Jim Slocum tapped him on the
shoulder: "Fetches the wimmin folk every time, don't he, Doctor?" said
Jim.

"So it seems," said Blair dryly.

"You're one o' them scientific fellers that look inter things--what do
YOU allow it is?"

The young doctor restrained the crushing answer that rose to his lips.
He had learned caution in that neighborhood. "I couldn't say," he said
indifferently.

"'Tain't no religion," said Slocum emphatically; "it's jest pure
fas'nation. Did ye look at his eye? It's like a rattlesnake's, and them
wimmin are like birds. They're frightened of him--but they hev to do
jest what he 'wills' 'em. That's how he skeert the widder the other
day."

The doctor was alert and on fire at once. "Scared the widow?" he
repeated indignantly.

"Yes. You know how she swooned away. Well, sir, me and that preacher,
Brown, was the only one in that dinin' room at the time. The widder
opened the door behind me and sorter peeked in, and that thar preacher
give a start and looked up; and then, that sort of queer light come in
his eyes, and she shut the door, and kinder fluttered and flopped down
in the passage outside, like a bird! And he crawled away like a snake,
and never said a word! My belief is that either he hadn't time to turn
on the hull influence, or else she, bein' smart, got the door shut
betwixt her and it in time! Otherwise, sure as you're born, she'd
hev been floppin' and crawlin' and sobbin' arter him--jist like them
critters we've left."

"Better not let the brethren hear you talk like that, or they'll lynch
you," said the doctor, with a laugh. "Mrs. MacGlowrie simply had an
attack of faintness from some overexertion, that's all."

Nevertheless, he was uneasy as he walked away. Mrs. MacGlowrie had
evidently received a shock which was still unexplained, and, in spite of
Slocum's exaggerated fancy, there might be some foundation in his story.
He did not share the man's superstition, although he was not a skeptic
regarding magnetism. Yet even then, the widow's action was one of
repulsion, and as long as she was strong enough not to come to these
meetings, she was not in danger. A day or two later, as he was passing
the garden of the hotel on horseback, he saw her lithe, graceful,
languid figure bending over one of her favorite flower beds. The high
fence partially concealed him from view, and she evidently believed
herself alone. Perhaps that was why she suddenly raised herself from her
task, put back her straying hair with a weary, abstracted look, remained
for a moment quite still staring at the vacant sky, and then, with
a little catching of her breath, resumed her occupation in a dull,
mechanical way. In that brief glimpse of her charming face, Blair was
shocked at the change; she was pale, the corners of her pretty mouth
were drawn, there were deeper shades in the orbits of her eyes, and in
spite of her broad garden hat with its blue ribbon, her light flowered
frock and frilled apron, she looked as he fancied she might have looked
in the first crushing grief of her widowhood. "He was just like that in
my great-grandfather's time," the old gentleman explained.

And all the rest of the villagers remarked that Timothy Turtle was
old enough to have better manners.

Certainly, they said, the youngest Beaver child knew better than to treat
people in such a rude fashion.

Brownie Beaver's mother especially announced that she had never in all
her life met a gentleman who had treated her so disrespectfully as old
Mr. Turtle. And she grew red and pale by turns as she recalled how
he had seized her by the tail and held her fast for a whole day.

"I hope," she said, "that by the time he comes here again he will
have learned how to behave himself."

But Grandaddy Beaver shook his head.

"Timothy Turtle," he declared, "will be no different even if he lives to
be a thousand years old."

And everybody said that it was a great pity.

XIII
THE PLOT

Of all the creatures that walked or swam or flew, Timothy Turtle
liked boys the least of all.

He said that if they ever did anything except throw stones he had
never caught them at it.

"It's a wonder"--he often remarked--"it's a wonder that there's a stone
left anywhere along this creek.

I've lived here a good many years; and no boy ever spied me sunning myself
on a rock in the water without trying to hit me."
Once in a great while some youngster was skillful enough to bounce a stone
off Mr. Turtle's back. And when the old scamp flopped into the water he
always heard a great whooping from the bank.

At such times as likely as not Timothy had been awakened from a sound
sleep. But when that jeering noise greeted his ears he knew at once
what had struck him.

It was a good thing for him that he had a hard back.

Nevertheless it always made him angry to be disturbed when he was
taking a nap. And some people said that if Timothy Turtle ever grabbed
a boy by his great-toe, when he was in swimming, that youngster would
limp for many a day thereafter.

But the boys went in swimming just the same. Black Creek would have
had to be alive with turtles to keep them out of it on a hot summer's
day.

Indeed Farmer Green often said that he wished his son Johnnie would
spend half the time in the hayfield that he wasted around the
creek.

When questioned by his father, Johnnie said that there was an old turtle
in Black Creek that he wanted to catch.

"What are you going to do with him--make soup of him?" Farmer Green
inquired solemnly.

Johnnie shook his head.

"I want to cut my initials on his shell and let him go," he explained.

"Then if I catch him again when I'm grown up I'll know him when
I find him.... I'll put the date under my initials, too," Johnnie
added.

Farmer Green laughed.

"When you're grown up," he said, "you'll have something else to do besides
catching snapping turtles. This afternoon you may carve your initials
on the hay-rake and then take it over to the big meadow and play with
it."
For a few moments Johnnie Green couldn't help looking glum. He had
intended to visit the creek that very afternoon. But now he knew that
his father expected him to work--to _work_ on one of the finest
days of the whole summer!

"I'll let you off all day to-morrow," Farmer Green said. "And you know
there's that calf I told you I'd give you if you helped me with the
haying."
And then Johnnie actually smiled.

* * * * *

Well, the next morning was just as fine as the afternoon before. And Johnnie
Green set off early for Black Creek, with his pockets stuffed full of
cherries, because he was afraid he might get hungry. He ate a few of them
on the way to the creek.

But when he reached that delightful place he found something that made him
forget what he had in his pockets. For there near the top of the bank,
too far from the water to escape him--there lay Timothy Turtle
himself, taking a sun-bath on the warm sand.

XIV
CAUGHT!

As soon as Johnnie Green saw Mr. Turtle he let out a loud whoop. And
as soon as Mr. Turtle saw Johnnie, _he_ scrambled up and made awkwardly
for the water as fast as he could go.

But Timothy's fastest, on land, was so slow that Johnnie Green stopped
him in two seconds.

Catching up a long stick, Johnnie thrust it in front of Timothy
Turtle, who promptly seized it in his hooked jaws.

Johnnie Green couldn't help laughing at him.

"You're a stupid old fellow!" he cried. "You could bite that stick all
day and not hurt me."
But Timothy Turtle said never a word. He wished, however, that he could
shift his grip to one of Johnnie's bare toes. He rather thought, if he
could have done that, that Johnnie Green would give such a yell as had
never before been heard in Pleasant Valley.

But Johnnie was careful. After catching Mr.

Turtle he hardly knew what to do with him. All summer long Johnnie
had kept his jackknife sharp as a razor, ready to carve his initials
on Mr. Turtle's hard shell whenever the chance came. The knife was
in his pocket. There was Mr. Turtle before him on the sand. And
yet Johnnie was puzzled.

Close at hand his captive looked fiercer than he had appeared at a
distance, lying on a rock in the creek. And his jaws had closed upon the
stick in a vise-like hold. Johnnie winced when he tried to imagine how
he would feel with Mr. Turtle fastened firmly to a toe or a finger.

It was not a pleasant thought. But Johnnie Green soon had a happier
one:
why not turn the old scamp over upon his back?

Johnnie had heard that a turtle was helpless when upset in that way.
And he had already made up his mind to flop this one over when he
realized that even with his captive upside down there was still a certain
difficulty.

To be sure, Mr. Turtle couldn't walk away. But he could bite just the
same. And how was a boy going to carve his initials on anybody's back,
when that person was lying on it?

Johnnie Green saw that that plan wouldn't do at all. But he turned
Timothy over, just for fun, upsetting him neatly by lifting him on the
stick--for Timothy had not sense enough to let go of it in time to
save himself.

Johnnie stayed there only long enough to make sure that Timothy Turtle
was unable to move.

And he soon decided that the savage old rascal would have to lie
on his back until somebody came along and tipped him over.
Then Johnnie Green scampered away.

To be sure, Mr. Turtle wriggled his legs, and twisted his neck about.

But all his wiggling and twisting were of not the slightest help to
him.

It was the first time in his long life that he had ever found himself
in that position on land.

And he was both frightened and angry.

Old Mr. Crow, who had a way of knowing when there was anything unusual
going on, arrived in time to hear Timothy's remarks. And what he said
about boys--and especially about Johnnie Green--made Mr. Crow catch
his breath.

XV
THE REDSKINS' WAY

Of course Timothy Turtle was glad that Johnnie Green was gone. But
he was far from happy, lying helpless on his back on the bank
of Black Creek.

He told Mr. Crow that he hoped Johnnie would forget to come back again--a
remark which made old Mr.

Crow laugh. Being very wise, he saw at once that Timothy Turtle knew
next to nothing about boys.

"I should think," Mr. Crow told Timothy, "you'd want Johnnie Green to
return."

"Why?" Timothy snapped out his question in an angry tone, as he lay there
upside down and stared at old Mr. Crow, who sat in a tree
near-by.

"Well," Mr.

Crow answered, "who'll set you on your feet again if he doesn't?"
"Don't you worry about me!" Timothy Turtle sneered.

"I'll right myself as soon as there's a freshet. If there's a big enough
rain the creek will rise as high as I am now.

And nobody could keep me on my back in the water."
Old Mr. Crow actually snickered.

"You might have to wait till next spring for a freshet," he said
cheerfully.

"And what would you eat meanwhile?"
Having had a hearty meal of fish just before leaving the creek,
Timothy Turtle hadn't once thought of _eating_.

And naturally Mr. Crow's question troubled him. So he frowned frightfully.
And he snapped his hooked jaws together, for he had to take something
in his jaws and bite it, if it was no more than the air.

"I suppose"--Mr. Crow remarked--"I suppose you would call that _taking
the air, eh_?" And there was a merry twinkle in his eye.

"Go away!"

Timothy Turtle growled.

But his guest declined to leave.

"There's likely to be some fun here," he thought, "and I don't intend to
miss it."
* * * * *
If Timothy Turtle was surprised, Mr.

Crow certainly was not, when a little later Johnnie Green and another
boy whom he called "Red" (on account of his hair) came hurrying
up to the spot where Timothy Turtle lay.

Upon the ground they dropped a number of things, such as pieces of
rope, an old grain-sack, and an axe.

"Goodness!" said Mr. Crow to himself, as he looked on.

"I'm glad I'm not Timothy Turtle. It appears to me that he's going to
have a terrible time."

And Timothy himself seemed to think the same.

He made savage passes at Johnnie and Red whenever they came near him.

But they took good care to keep beyond his reach.

On the whole their captive behaved in a most foolish manner. Instead
of drawing his head as far as he could into his shell, he thrust
his neck out as far as it would go.

And that was exactly what the boys wanted him to do.

Before Timothy Turtle--who was somewhat slow-witted--before he
realized what their plan was, Johnnie Green and his friend Red had
slipped one noose around his head and another around his body.

And after turning their captive right side up they staked him out
upon the sand so that he could not move.

"There!" Johnnie Green cried when they had Timothy Turtle where they
wanted him.

"That's the way the Redskins do with their enemies."

And his friend the red-haired boy danced something that might have
been an Indian war dance.

Anyhow, neither old Mr. Crow nor Timothy Turtle had ever seen anything
like it.

XVI

JOHNNIE GREEN'S INITIALS

Timothy Turtle found himself in a very uncomfortable position, staked
out as he was on the bank of Black Creek, with one rope about his body
and another about his neck.

And even then Johnnie Green was not satisfied. Though his friend
Red insisted that their captive could do them no harm (saying, "How
can he bite when he can't move his head?") Johnnie Green replied
that he would "fix him" so there couldn't possibly be any accident.
And taking the old grain-sack he had brought back with him, he
wrapped it carefully around Timothy's head, till he looked for all
the world as if he had the earache.

"There!" Johnnie Green said, when he had finished. "He'll have to bite
through that bag before he bites us; and I guess he'll find he has
a pretty big mouthful."

Then he pulled out his jackknife and felt its sharp edge with his
thumb.

"Lemme do it for you!" Red begged him, holding out his hand for the
knife.

But Johnnie Green had no such idea.

"No!" he said firmly.

"I've got to cut my initials myself."
"He might get loose and grab you," the red-haired boy remarked
hopefully.

But Johnnie Green told him that he would risk that.

"Which way are you going to cut them?" Red asked him.

"What do you mean?" Johnnie inquired.

"Are you going to make 'em read when he's going or coming?"

Red explained.

"I hadn't thought of that," Johnnie Green replied. "But I guess _going_
would be better. Then if he stands up you can read 'em just the
same, without any trouble."

So Johnnie kneeled down beside Timothy Turtle.

It took him some time to decide just where he would carve his initials
on Timothy's shell. And he had about decided that the best place
to put his mark on Mr.

Turtle's back would be exactly in the middle of it, when he cried all at
once, "Look, Red! Look!"
"Whassamatter?" the red-haired boy wanted to know.
"This is the queerest thing I ever heard of!" Johnnie exclaimed.
"Here are my initials already cut!"
Red could not believe him, until he had peered at Timothy's shell
himself. And then he saw that what Johnnie had said was true.
"There's a date, too," Johnnie pointed out. And he read it
aloud.
"That's more'n thirty years ago," he declared.
But the red-haired boy laughed boisterously.
"Shucks!" he jeered. "Somebody's been playin' a joke on you. Somebody
knew you were lookin' for this old turtle and put your initials and
that old date on him just to puzzle you."
Johnnie Green didn't know exactly what to think. But probably he
was no more upset than was Timothy Turtle, who was not having a
good time at all.
"I don't care if some one did catch this turtle first," Johnnie
said at last. "I'm going to carve my mark on him just the same."

So he began to cut "J. G." in the exact center of the back of Timothy
Turtle, much to that old fellow's rage.
And when Johnnie Green had finished the letters he cut the date
below them.
"What you goin' to do with him now?" Red asked Johnnie then.
"Turn him loose!" Johnnie replied.
"Aw--don't do that! Lemme have him!" Red coaxed.
Johnnie Green said that he was sorry--but he intended to set his
captive free, just as he had planned.
He soon found that turning Mr. Turtle loose was no easy matter.
Strange to say, Timothy Turtle did nothing to help. On the contrary,
he made the task as hard as he could for Johnnie Green, trying his
best to bite that young man.
In the end Johnnie had to cut the rope that held Timothy's head.
And when that furious old fellow at last found himself in Black
Creek once more he still wore a noose of rope, like a collar, around
his neck.

* * * * *
When Johnnie Green told his father about his adventure with Timothy
Turtle, he had a great surprise. Farmer Green said that when he was
just about Johnnie's age he had cut _his_ initials on a turtle,
down by the creek.
Now, since Johnnie was named for his father, their initials had to
be alike. So the J. G.--and the old date--that Johnnie had found
must have been carved by Farmer Green when he was a youngster.
Somehow, Johnnie found it very hard to imagine that his father had
ever been a boy like himself and had spent his time playing near
the creek, and carving his initials on the back of a turtle.
"How old do you suppose that turtle is?" he asked his father.
"Oh, he must be a regular old settler," Farmer Green declared. "He
may have been around here when your grandfather was a boy, for all
I know." 
"Do you really believe that?" Johnnie exclaimed.
"Well," his father answered, "there's only one way to find out."
"What's that?" Johnnie inquired eagerly.
"Ask Mr. Turtle himself," Farmer Green replied with a smile.
XVII 
TIMOTHY NEEDS HELP
Everybody who lived near Black Creek noticed Timothy Turtle's new
collar. And almost every one, being curious, asked Mr. Turtle where
he got it, and why he was wearing it.
Now, Timothy Turtle would give such folk no answer at all. But old
Mr.
Crow knew what had happened--of course. And he took pains to tell
all his friends how Johnnie Green had caught Timothy and tied a
rope around his neck, and cut something on Timothy's back,
besides.

[Illustration: "Let me go!" Fatty Coon shrieked.]
So it was not long before Timothy Turtle's neighbors began to ask
him what was on his back.
"My shell's on my back!" he snapped, when any one put that question
to him.
"Yes--but what's on your shell?" everybody was sure to answer
back.
Timothy Turtle couldn't have replied to that question, even if he
had wanted to. And though he always sneered when hearing it and
turned his head away, as if the matter was something he didn't care
to talk about, there was nobody who was any more eager to know the
answer than he.
To be sure, by raising his head he could get a slanting view of the
top of his shell. But such a glimpse was not enough to tell him
anything.
Under the constant inquiries of his neighbors Timothy's curiosity
grew every day. Soon he took to staring at his reflection in the
surface of the water, with the hope that he might be able to see
his back in that way.
But it was all in vain. Though Timothy twisted and turned and
stretched his long neck, he couldn't see his own back, no matter
how much he tried.
Now, there was an ill-mannered scamp named Peter Mink who happened
to go prowling up the creek one day. And as he quietly rounded a
bend he came upon an odd sight.
In front of him, and perched on a rock in the midst of the water,
Timothy Turtle was going through the queerest motions. He seemed
to be peering into the water at something, while wriggling about
in a most peculiar fashion.
He did not notice Peter Mink, who stood stock still and watched him
for some time without speaking.
At last Peter's prying ways got the better of him. He simply had
to say something.

"What on earth are you doing!"The man who died there was my husband's cousin--a
desperate man and a noted duelist."

"And YOU assumed to be HIS widow?" said the astounded Blair.

"Yes, but don't blame me too much," she said pathetically. "It was a
wild, a silly deceit, but it was partly forced upon me. For when I
first arrived across the plains, at the frontier, I was still bearing
my husband's name, and although I was alone and helpless, I found myself
strangely welcomed and respected by those rude frontiersmen. It was not
long before I saw it was because I was presumed to be the widow of ALLEN
MacGlowrie--who had just died in San Francisco. I let them think so, for
I knew--what they did not--that Allen's wife had separated from him and
married again, and that my taking his name could do no harm. I accepted
their kindness; they gave me my first start in business, which brought
me here. It was not much of a deceit," she continued, with a slight
tremble of her pretty lip, "to prefer to pass as the widow of a dead
desperado than to be known as the divorced wife of a living convict. It
has hurt no one, and it has saved me just now."

"You were right! No one could blame you," said Blair eagerly, seizing
her hand.

But she disengaged it gently, and went on:--

"And now you wonder why I gave him a meeting here?"

"I wonder at nothing but your courage and patience in all this
suffering!" said Blair fervently; "and at your forgiving me for so
cruelly misunderstanding you."

"But you must learn all. When I first saw MacGlowrie under his assumed
name, I fainted, for I was terrified and believed he knew I was here
and had come to expose me even at his own risk. That was why I hesitated
between going away or openly defying him. But it appears he was more
frightened than I at finding me here--he had supposed I had changed my
name after the divorce, and that Mrs. MacGlowrie, Laurel Spring, was his
cousin's widow. When he found out who I was he was eager to see me
and agree upon a mutual silence while he was here. He thought only of
himself," she added scornfully, "and Colonel Starbottle's recognition
of him that night as the convicted swindler was enough to put him to
flight."

"And the colonel never suspected that you were his wife?" said Blair.

"Never! He supposed from the name that he was some relation of my
husband, and that was why he refused to tell it--for my sake. The
colonel is an old fogy--and pompous--but a gentleman--as good as they
make them!"

A slightly jealous uneasiness and a greater sense of shame came over
Blair.

"I seem to have been the only one who suspected and did not aid you," he
said sadly, "and yet God knows"--

The widow had put up her slim hand in half-smiling, half-pathetic
interruption.

"Wait! I have not told you everything. When I took over the
responsibility of being Allen MacGlowrie's widow, I had to take over
HER relations and HER history as I gathered it from the frontiersmen. I
never frightened any grizzly--I never jabbed anybody with the scissors;
it was SHE who did it. I never was among the Injins--I never had any
fighting relations; my paw was a plain farmer. I was only a peaceful
Blue Grass girl--there! I never thought there was any harm in it; it
seemed to keep the men off, and leave me free--until I knew you! And you
know I didn't want you to believe it--don't you?"

She hid her flushed face and dimples in her handkerchief.

"But did you never think there might be another way to keep the men off,
and sink the name of MacGlowrie forever?" said Blair in a lower voice.

"I think we must be going back now," said the widow timidly, withdrawing
her hand, which Blair had again mysteriously got possession of in her
confusion.

"But wait just a few minutes longer to keep me company," said Blair
pleadingly. "I came here to see a patient, and as there must have been
some mistake in the message--I must try to discover it."

"Oh! Is that all?" said the widow quickly. "Why?"--she flushed again and
laughed faintly--"Well! I am that patient! I wanted to see you alone to
explain everything, and I could think of no other way. I'm afraid I've
got into the habit of thinking nothing of being somebody else."

"I wish you would let me select who you should be," said the doctor
boldly.

"We really must go back--to the horses," said the widow.

"Agreed--if we will ride home together."

They did. And before the year was over, although they both remained, the
name of MacGlowrie had passed out of Laurel Spring.


A WARD OF COLONEL STARBOTTLE'S


"The kernel seems a little off color to-day," said the barkeeper as
he replaced the whiskey decanter, and gazed reflectively after the
departing figure of Colonel Starbottle.

"I didn't notice anything," said a bystander; "he passed the time o' day
civil enough to me."

"Oh, he's allus polite enough to strangers and wimmin folk even when he
is that way; it's only his old chums, or them ez like to be thought so,
that he's peppery with. Why, ez to that, after he'd had that quo'll with
his old partner, Judge Pratt, in one o' them spells, I saw him the next
minit go half a block out of his way to direct an entire stranger; and
ez for wimmin!Drachmas. Drachmas.
1842, estimated at 17,834,000 1842, . . . . 19,395,022 1843, . . . .
14,407,795 1843, . . . . 18,666,482
We may remark, that not the smallest reliance can be placed on these
budgets for the years 1842 and 1843.

We are informed that 1,000,000 drachmas of the revenue of 1842 were still
unpaid in the month of May 1843.]

We shall now endeavour to explain why the king's government has proved
so inefficient in improving the country, and afterwards examine
the various causes of its extreme unpopularity.

To do this, it is necessary to state what the government has really
done; and also, what it was expected to do.
We shall try as we go along, to explain the part the protecting powers
have acted in thwarting the progress of improvement, and in encouraging
the court in its lavish expenditure and anti-national policy. It must,
indeed, constantly be borne in mind by the reader, that the three
protecting powers in their collective capacity have all along
supported the government of King Otho--and that even when the
_Morning Chronicle_ called King Otho an idiot, and Lord Palmerston
quarrelled with him and scolded him, still England joined the other
powers in continuing to supply him with money to continue his immense
palace, and pay his Bavarian aides-de-camp.

We may add, too, that if it had been otherwise, had either Great
Britain, France, or Russia, deliberately abandoned the alliance,
King Otho would immediately have ceased to be King of Greece, unless
supported on his throne by the direct interference of the other two.

Had the Greeks not looked upon him as the pledge that the
protecting powers would maintain order in the country, they would have
sent him back to his royal father, as ornamental at Munich, where an
additional king would make the town look gayer, but as utterly useless
in Greece. Though, England, France, and Russia, have therefore each in
their turn acted in opposition to King Otho, still they have always
as a body supported his doings, right or wrong.

Let us now see what the government of King Otho has done for Greece.
From 1833 until 1837, Greece was governed by Bavarian ministers,
and accordingly the king was not considered directly responsible
for the conduct of the administration.

These ministers were Mr Maurer, who, during 1833 and part of 1834,
directed the government. He was supported with great eagerness by France,
and opposed with more energy by England.

The liberal and anti-Russian tendency of his measures, alarmed
Russia, but she showed her opposition with considerable moderation.
Count Armansperg succeeded Mr Maurer, and he ruled Greece with almost
absolute power for two years.

He was supported by Lord Palmerston with the energy of the most determined
partizanship.

"What!" said Colonel Starbottle, starting up.

"Hold on!" said Pyecroft hilariously. "That isn't all! Neither the
executors nor the probate judge knew you from Adam, and the Sacramento
bar, scenting a good joke, lay low and said nothing. Then the old fool
judge said that 'as you appeared to be a lawyer, a man of mature years,
and a friend of the family, you were an eminently fit person, and ought
to be communicated with'--you know his hifalutin' style. Nobody says
anything. So that the next thing you'll know you'll get a letter from
that executor asking you to look after that kid. Ha! ha! The boys said
they could fancy they saw you trotting around with a ten year old girl
holding on to your hand, and the Senorita Dolores or Miss Bellamont
looking on! Or your being called away from a poker deal some night by
the infant, singing, 'Gardy, dear gardy, come home with me now, the
clock in the steeple strikes one!' And think of that old fool judge not
knowing you! Ha! ha!"

A study of Colonel Starbottle's face during this speech would have
puzzled a better physiognomist than Mr. Pyecroft. His first look of
astonishment gave way to an empurpled confusion, from which a single
short Silenus-like chuckle escaped, but this quickly changed again into
a dull coppery indignation, and, as Pyecroft's laugh continued, faded
out into a sallow rigidity in which his murky eyes alone seemed to keep
what was left of his previous high color. But what was more singular,
in spite of his enforced calm, something of his habitual old-fashioned
loftiness and oratorical exaltation appeared to be returning to him as
he placed his hand on his inflated breast and faced Pyceroft.

"The ignorance of the executor of Mrs. Stannard and the--er--probate
judge," he began slowly, "may be pardonable, Mr. Pyecroft, since his
Honor would imply that, although unknown to HIM personally, I am at
least amicus curiae in this question of--er--guardianship. But I am
grieved--indeed I may say shocked--Mr. Pyecroft, that the--er--last
sacred trust of a dying widow--perhaps the holiest trust that can
be conceived by man--the care and welfare of her helpless orphaned
girl--should be made the subject of mirth, sir, by yourself and the
members of the Sacramento bar! I shall not allude, sir, to my own
feelings in regard to Dick Stannard, one of my most cherished friends,"
continued the colonel, in a voice charged with emotion, "but I can
conceive of no nobler trust laid upon the altar of friendship than the
care and guidance of his orphaned girl! And if, as you tell me, the
utterly inadequate sum of three thousand dollars is all that is left for
her maintenance through life, the selection of a guardian sufficiently
devoted to the family to be willing to augment that pittance out of his
own means from time to time would seem to be most important."

Before the astounded Pyecroft could recover himself, Colonel Starbottle
leaned back in his chair, half closing his eyes, and abandoned himself,
quite after his old manner, to one of his dreamy reminiscences.

"Poor Dick Stannard! I have a vivid recollection, sir, of driving out
with him on the Shell Road at New Orleans in '54, and of his saying,
'Star'--the only man, sir, who ever abbreviated my name--'Star, if
anything happens to me or her, look after our child! It was during that
very drive, sir, that, through his incautious neglect to fortify himself
against the swampy malaria by a glass of straight Bourbon with a pinch
of bark in it, he caught that fever which undermined his constitution.
Thank you, Mr. Pyecroft, for--er--recalling the circumstance. I shall,"
continued the colonel, suddenly abandoning reminiscence, sitting up, and
arranging his papers, "look forward with great interest to--er--letter
from the executor."

The next day it was universally understood that Colonel Starbottle
had been appointed guardian of Pansy Stannard by the probate judge of
Sacramento.


There are of record two distinct accounts of Colonel Starbottle's first
meeting with his ward after his appointment as her guardian. One, given
by himself, varying slightly at times, but always bearing unvarying
compliment to the grace, beauty, and singular accomplishments of this
apparently gifted child, was nevertheless characterized more by vague,
dreamy reminiscences of the departed parents than by any personal
experience of the daughter.

"I found the young lady, sir," he remarked to Mr. Pyecroft,
"recalling my cherished friend Stannard in--er--form and features,
and--although--er--personally unacquainted with her deceased mother--who
belonged, sir, to one of the first families of Virginia--I am told that
she is--er--remarkably like her. Miss Stannard is at present a pupil in
one of the best educational establishments in Santa Clara, where she is
receiving tuition in--er--the English classics, foreign belles
lettres, embroidery, the harp, and--er--the use of the--er--globes,
and--er--blackboard--under the most fastidious care, and my own personal
supervision. The principal of the school, Miss Eudoxia Tish--associated
with--er--er--Miss Prinkwell--is--er--remarkably gifted woman; and as
I was present at one of the school exercises, I had the opportunity of
testifying to her excellence in--er--short address I made to the young
ladies." From such glittering but unsatisfying generalities as these
I prefer to turn to the real interview, gathered from contemporary
witnesses.

It was the usual cloudless, dazzling, Californian summer day, tempered
with the asperity of the northwest trades that Miss Tish, looking
through her window towards the rose-embowered gateway of the seminary,
saw an extraordinary figure advancing up the avenue. It was that of
a man slightly past middle age, yet erect and jaunty, whose costume
recalled the early water-color portraits of her own youthful days. His
tightly buttoned blue frock coat with gilt buttons was opened far enough
across the chest to allow the expanding of a frilled shirt, black stock,
and nankeen waistcoat, and his immaculate white trousers were smartly
strapped over his smart varnished boots. A white bell-crowned hat,
carried in his hand to permit the wiping of his forehead with a silk
handkerchief, and a gold-headed walking stick hooked over his arm,
completed this singular equipment. He was followed, a few paces in the
rear, by a negro carrying an enormous bouquet, and a number of small
boxes and parcels tied up with ribbons. As the figure paused before the
door, Miss Tish gasped, and cast a quick restraining glance around the
classroom. But it was too late; a dozen pairs of blue, black, round,
inquiring, or mischievous eyes were already dancing and gloating over
the bizarre stranger through the window.

"A cirkiss--or nigger minstrels--sure as you're born!" said Mary Frost,
aged nine, in a fierce whisper.

"No!--a agent from 'The Emporium,' with samples," returned Miss Briggs,
aged fourteen.

"Young ladies, attend to your studies," said Miss Tish, as the servant
brought in a card. Miss Tish glanced at it with some nervousness, and
read to herself, "Colonel Culpeper Starbottle," engraved in script, and
below it in pencil, "To see Miss Pansy Stannard, under favor of Miss
Tish." Rising with some perturbation, Miss Tish hurriedly intrusted
the class to an assistant, and descended to the reception room. She had
never seen Pansy's guardian before (the executor had brought the child);
and this extraordinary creature, whose visit she could not deny, might
be ruinous to school discipline. It was in vain. If his passion obtained
the rein for an instant--it was wild--away--beyond his reach--and he
thought not, in the paroxysm, of the sufferer, whose smile he would
not have ruffled in the season of sobriety and quiet. I did not fail again
and again to remonstrate on behalf of my mother--for the scene
which I have described to you became an endless one; but perceiving
at length that representation added only fuel to the fire, I desisted.

My lively habits soon appeared to be unsuited to the new order of things.
My father would once have smiled with enjoyment at some piece of boyish
mischief which now roused him to anger, and before excuse could
be offered, or pardon asked--the severest chastisement--I cannot tell
how severe, was inflicted on my flesh."
"Madman!" I exclaimed involuntarily, interrupting Warton in his
narrative.

"Madman do you say, sir?" he answered quickly. "Yes, I have often thought
so--and to an extent, I grant you--if it be madness to have the
reason prostrate before passion. But it is profitless to define the
malady. I would have you dwell, sir, on the _cause_--_her_ fatal
apathy--her indifference--_I know not what besides_--which made
him what he was.

You may imagine, sir, that my blood has boiled beneath the punishment--that
I have burned with indignation beneath the weight of it, undeserved
and cruel as it was.

Oh, sir! God has visited me these many years with sore
affliction.

     I am a forlorn, disabled, cast-off
     creature--nothing lives
     viler than the thing I have become; and yet in this dark hour I
thank my Maker with an overflowing grateful heart that He tied down
my hands when they have tingled in my agony to return the father's
blow.

I never did--I never did."
The speaker grew more and more excited, and his voice at last failed
him.

I rose, and retired to the window, but he proceeded whilst my
face was turned away. I know not why--but my own eyes smarted.

"Yes, sir, time after time the horrible desire to be avenged, and
to give back blow for blow, has possessed me; and, as if eternal
torture were to be the immediate penalty of the unnatural act, I
have thrown my arms behind me, clasped hand in hand, and held them
tiger-like together, until the fit was passed away.

And then who could be more penitent, more sorrowful, than he! Within an
hour of perpetrating this barbarity, he has met me with a look
pleading for forgiveness, which I would have given him had he
offended me, oh much--much more.

What could he say to his child?
What could his child allow him to utter? Nothing. I have kissed him;
he has taken me by the hand, we have walked abroad together; and he has
loaded me with gifts for the joy of our reconciliation."

Curious as I was to hear more, I deemed it expedient, for the present,
to close the history. The man seemed carried away by the subject,
and his cheeks were scorched with this burning flush which the unusual
exertion of mind and body had summoned up. He spoke vehemently--hurriedly--at
the top of his voice, and I knew not how far his agitation might carry
him. I again proposed to him to abstain from fatigue, and to leave
his history unfinished for the present. He paused for a few minutes,
wiped the heavy perspiration from his brow, and answered me in a calm and
steady voice--
"I will transgress no more, sir. I have never spoken of these things
yet--and they come before my mind too vividly--they inflame and mislead
me. I ask your pardon. But let me finish now--the tale is soon told--I
cannot for a second time revert to it."
"Go on," I answered, yielding once more to his wish, and in the same
composed and quiet voice he _began_ again.

"The first watch which I called my own, was given to me on one of these
occasions. My father had requested me to execute some small commission.
I forgot to do it.

In his eyes the fault for a moment assumed the form of wilful disobedience.
That moment was enough--he was roused--the paroxysm prevailed--and
I was beaten like a dog.

An hour afterwards he was persuaded that his child was not undutiful.
His reason had returned to him, and, with it a load of miserable
remorse.

He offered me, with a tremulous hand, the bauble, which I accepted;
and, as I took it, I saw a weight of sorrow tumble from his unhappy
breast.

This was my father, sir.
A man who would have been the best of fathers--had he been permitted,
as his heart directed him, to be the tenderest of husbands.

I could see in my boyhood that blame attached to my mother--to what
extent I did not know.

I lived in the hope of hearing at some future time. That time never
came. I remained at home two months, and then went back to school. I
received a letter from one of my father's clerks, who was an especial
favourite of mine. It must have been about a week after my departure.
It told me that my father had drooped since I quitted him.

On the morning that I came away, he left his business and locked himself
in my bedroom. He was shut up at least two hours there. Fifty
different matters required his presence in the counting-house, and
at length my friend, the clerk, disturbed him.

When the door was opened he found his master, his eyes streaming with
tears, intent upon a little book in which he had seen me reading
many days before.

Oh, it was like him, sir!

Within a few days I received another letter from the same hand. My father
was dangerously ill, and I was summoned home. I flew, and arrived
to find him delirious.

He had been seized with inflammation the day before.

The fire blazed in a system that was ripe for it.

The doctors were baffled. Mortification had already begun. He did
not recognize me, but he spoke of me in his delirium in terms of endearment,
whilst curses against my mother rolled from his unconscious lips. Three
hours after my arrival he was a corpse. And such a corpse! They told
me it was my father, and I believed them.

"Are _you_, sir, fatherless?" asked Warton suddenly.

I told him, and he continued. "You have felt then the lightning shock
that has altered the very face of nature. Earth, before and after that
event, is not the same. It never was to human being yet. It cannot
be.
What a secret is learnt upon that day! How tottering and insecure have
become the things of life that seemed so firm and fixed! The penalty is
heavy which we pay for the privilege to be our own master. Oh, the
desolation of a fatherless home! My father died, having made no will.
So it was said at first--but in a few days there was another version.
My mother's brother--the uncle that I spoke of--then appeared upon
the stage, and was most active for his sister's interests. He had never
been a friend of my father's. They had not spoken for years. I did
not know why. I had never enquired--for the man was a stranger to me, and
since my birth he had not crossed our threshold.

My father believed that his relative had wronged him--of this I was
sure--and I hated him therefore when he appeared.

When my father was buried, this man produced a will. I was present when
it was read--bodily present; but my heart and soul were away with
him in the grave--and with him, sir, in heaven, beyond it.

They told me at the conclusion of the ceremony, that my father had died
worth fifty thousand pounds--that he had left my mother the bulk of
his property--to my sister a fortune of ten thousand pounds, and
to me the sum of a hundred and fifty pounds per annum.

But they might have talked to stone.

What cared my young and inexperienced, and still bleeding heart, for
particulars and sums? A crust without him was more than enough.

It was more than I could swallow now--and what was _wealth_ to me?
My uncle, I heard afterwards, watched me as the different items
were read over, and seemed pleased to observe upon my face no sign
of disappointment.

That he was pleased, I am certain, for he spoke kindly to me when
all was over, and said that I was a good boy, and should be taken
care of. "-Taken care of-!"--and so I was--and so I am--for look
about you, sir, and observe the evidences of my uncle's love. The clerk,
to whom I have alluded, took an early opportunity to remind me of the
nature of my father's will--and to hint to me suspicions of foul play.
I readily believed him. It was not that I cared for the money. At that
age I was ignorant of its value, and my little portion seemed a mine
of wealth. But I wished to dislike my uncle, because he had given pain
to my dear father. I avoided his presence as much as I could, and I made
him feel that my aversion was hearty. We never became _friends_.
We seldom spoke--and never but when obliged.

He was a coarse man then--I have not seen him for many years--ungentlemanly
and unfeeling in his deportment.

It would have been as easy for him to alter the framework of his
body as to have shown regard for the sensibilities of other men.

He lived to amass. He counts his tens of thousands now--they may have been
scraped together amidst the groans and shrieks of the distressed, but
there they are--he has them, and he is happy. I asked, and obtained
from my mother, permission to return to school. I remained there without
visiting my home again for three years. My mother did not once write
to me, or come to see me.

I did not write to her. My expenses were paid from my income. My father's
business was still conducted by my mother with her assistants, and
she resided in the old house.

Did I tell you that my uncle was the appointed executor
of my father's will, and my guardian?

He managed my affairs, and for the present I suffered him to do as
he thought proper.

In the meanwhile my happiness at school was unbounded. My existence there
was sweet and tranquil, like the flow of a small secluded stream. I loved
my master. Ill-taught and self-neglected nearly till the time that I
came under his instruction, I believed that I owed all my education
to him; and whilst I thirsted for knowledge as the means of raising
myself and my own mind, he supplied me with the healthful sustenance,
and helped me forward with his precepts.

I had neither taste nor application for the severer studies. Science
was too hard and real for the warm imagination with which Providence had
liberally endowed me. It was a scarecrow in the garden of knowledge, and
I looked at it with fear from the sunny heights of poesy on which I
basked and dreamed. History--fiction--the strains of Fletcher,
Shakspeare--the lore of former worlds--these had unspeakable charms for
me; and such information as they yielded, I imbibed greedily.

Admiration of the beautiful creations of mind leads rapidly in ardent
spirits to an emulative longing; and the desire to achieve--to a firm
belief of capability.

The grateful glow of love within is mistaken for the gift divine. I
burned to follow in the steps of the immortal, and already believed
myself inspired.

Hours and days I passed in compositions, which have since helped to warm
our poverty-stricken room; for they had all one destination--the
fire. I shall, however, never consider the days ill-spent which were
engaged in such pursuits. The pleasure was intense--the advantage, if
unseen and indirect, was not insignificant. Whatever _tends_ to elevate
and purify, is in itself good and noble. We cannot withdraw ourselves
from the selfishness of life, and incline our souls to the wisdom
of the speaking dead, and not advance--be it but one step--heavenward.

And in my own case--the intellectual character was associated with all
that is lofty in principle, and exalted in conduct. _Sans peur et sans
reproche_ was its fit motto. Falsehood and dishonesty must not attach
to it. In my own mind I pictured a moral excellence which it was
necessary to attain; and in my strivings for intellectual fame,
_that_, as the essential accompaniment, was never once lost sight
of. Pride still clung to me--and was fed throughout. I was eighteen years
of age, and I desired to enter the university. I fixed upon Oxford,
as holding out a better prospect of success than the sister seat of
learning. I enquired what sum of money was necessary for my education
there; and received for answer, that two hundred pounds a-year
might carry me comfortably through, but that, with some economy and
self-denial, a hundred and fifty might be sufficient.

It is a curious circumstance that the very post which brought this
information, brought likewise a letter from my uncle, offering,
as my guardian, and at his own expense, to send me to the university.

I was indignant at the proposition, and vowed, before his letter was half
read, that I would rather live upon a meal a-day, than owe my bread
to one whom I regarded as my father's foe. Does it not strike you,
sir, as somewhat singular, that my father should make this man
executor, trustee, and guardian?

Men do not generally appoint their enemies to such offices. I wrote
to my uncle in reply, declined coldly but respectfully his offer,
and told him my intention.

Here our correspondence ended, and six months afterwards my name was on
the boards of my college. I went up knowing no one, but carrying from
my friend, the schoolmaster, a letter of introduction to a clergyman who
had been his college friend, and who (now married and the father of
one child) earned his subsistence by taking pupils. I was received
by this poor but worthy man with extreme kindness.

He read the character which I had brought with me, and bade me make his
house my home.

His hospitality was at first a great advantage to me. My slender income
compelled me to exercise rigid economy--and to avoid all company.
Although very poor, I have told you that I was already very proud. I would
not receive a favour which I could not pay back--I would not permit the
breath of slander to whisper a syllable against my name.

There were hours in which no book could be read with pleasure, which no
study could make light. Such were passed in delightful converse with
my friend, and thus I was spared even the temptation to walk astray.
I need not tell you that I had no tutor. It was a luxury I could not
afford. I worked the harder, and was all the happier for the victory
I had gained--such I deemed it--over my uncle. At the end of a twelve-month,
I found my expenses were even within my income. It was a sweet discovery.
I had paid my way. I did not owe a penny. I was respected, and no one
knew my mode of life, or the amount of income that I possessed. My friend,
I said, had one child. She was a daughter.

During my first year's residence I had never seen her.
She was away in Dorsetshire nursing a cousin, who died at length
in her arms. She returned home at the commencement of my second year,
and I was introduced to her.

She fell upon my solitary life like the primrose that comes alone to
enliven the dull earth--a simple flower of loveliness and promise,
graceful in herself--but to the gazer's eye more beautiful, no other
flower being present to provoke comparison.

We met often. She was an artless creature sir, and gave her love
to me long, long before she knew the price of such a gift. She doated
on her father, and it was a virtue that I understood. She was very
fair to look at; timid as the fawn--as guileless; a creature of
poetry, sent to be a dream, and to shed about her a beguiling
unsubstantial brightness.

All things looked practicable and easy in the light in which she moved.
The difficulties of life were softened--its rewards and joys coloured
and enhanced. I thought of her as a wife, and the tone of my existence
was from the moment changed. If you could have seen her, sir--the angel
of that quiet house--gliding about, ministering happiness--her innocent
expression--her lovely form--her golden hair falling to her swelling
bosom--her truthfulness and cultivated mind--you would, like me,
have blessed the fortune which had brought her to your side, and
revealed the treasure to your youthful heart.

I told her that I loved, and her tears and maiden blushes made her
own affection manifest. Her father spoke to me, bade me
reflect, take counsel, and be cautious.

When they went into
a shop, which, thanks to the ingenuous Pansy, they did pretty often,
he would introduce her with a wave of the hand and the remark, "I
am--er--seeking nothing to-day, but if you will kindly--er--serve my
WARD--Miss Stannard!" Later, when they went into the confectioner's for
refreshment, and Pansy frankly declared for "ice cream and cream cakes,"
instead of the "dish of tea and bread and butter" he had ordered in
pursuance of his promise, he heroically took it himself--to satisfy
his honor. Indeed, I know of no more sublime figure than Colonel
Starbottle--rising superior to a long-withstood craving for a
"cocktail," morbidly conscious also of the ridiculousness of his
appearance to any of his old associates who might see him--drinking
luke-warm tea and pecking feebly at his bread and butter at a small
table, beside his little tyrant.

And this domination of the helpless continued on their way home.
Although Miss Pansy no longer talked of herself, she was equally
voluble in inquiry as to the colonel's habits, ways of life, friends
and acquaintances, happily restricting her interrogations, in regard to
those of her own sex, to "any LITTLE girls that he knew." Saved by this
exonerating adjective, the colonel saw here a chance to indulge
his postponed monitorial duty, as well as his vivid imagination. He
accordingly drew elaborate pictures of impossible children he had
known--creatures precise in language and dress, abstinent of play and
confectionery, devoted to lessons and duties, and otherwise, in Pansy's
own words, "loathsome to the last degree!" As "daughters of oldest
and most cherished friends," they might perhaps have excited Pansy's
childish jealousy but for the singular fact that they had all long ago
been rewarded by marriage with senators, judges, and generals--also
associates of the colonel. This remoteness of presence somewhat marred
their effect as an example, and the colonel was mortified, though not
entirely displeased, to observe that their surprising virtues did not
destroy Pansy's voracity for sweets, the recklessness of her skipping,
nor the freedom of her language. The colonel was remorseful--but happy.

When they reached the seminary again, Pansy retired with her various
purchases, but reappeared after an interval with Miss Tish.

"I remember," hesitated that lady, trembling under the fascination of
the colonel's profound bow, "that you were anxious to look over the
school, and although it was not possible then, I shall be glad to show
you now through one of the classrooms."

The colonel, glancing at Pansy, was momentarily shocked by a distortion
of one side of her face, which seemed, however, to end in a wink of her
innocent brown eyes, but recovering himself, gallantly expressed his
gratitude. The next moment he was ascending the stairs, side by side
with Miss Tish, and had a distinct impression that he had been pinched
in the calf by Pansy, who was following close behind.

It was recess, but the large classroom was quite filled with pupils,
many of them older and prettier girls, inveigled there, as it afterwards
appeared, by Pansy, in some precocious presentiment of her guardian's
taste. The colonel's apologetic yet gallant bow on entering, and his
erect, old-fashioned elegance, instantly took their delighted attention.
Indeed, all would have gone well had not Miss Prinkwell, with the view
of impressing the colonel as well as her pupils, majestically introduced
him as "a distinguished jurist deeply interested in the cause of
education, as well as guardian of their fellow pupil." That opportunity
was not thrown away on Colonel Starbottle.

Stepping up to the desk of the astounded principal, he laid the points
of his fingers delicately upon it, and, with a preparatory inclination
of his head towards her, placed his other hand in his breast, and with
an invocatory glance at the ceiling, began.

It was the colonel's habit at such moments to state at first, with great
care and precision, the things that he "would not say," that he "NEED
not say," and apparently that it was absolutely unnecessary even to
allude to. It was therefore, not strange that the colonel informed them
that he need not say that he counted his present privilege among
the highest that had been granted him; for besides the privilege of
beholding the galaxy of youthful talent and excellence before him,
besides the privilege of being surrounded by a garland of the blossoms
of the school in all their freshness and beauty, it was well understood
that he had the greater privilege of--er--standing in loco parentis to
one of these blossoms. It was not for him to allude to the high trust
imposed upon him by--er--deceased and cherished friend, and daughter of
one of the first families of Virginia, by the side of one who must feel
that she was the recipient of trusts equally supreme (here the colonel
paused, and statuesquely regarded the alarmed Miss Prinkwell as if he
were in doubt of it), but he would say that it should be HIS devoted
mission to champion the rights of the orphaned and innocent whenever and
wherever the occasion arose, against all odds, and even in the face of
misguided authority. (Having left the impression that Miss Prinkwell
contemplated an invasion of those rights, the colonel became more
lenient and genial.) He fully recognized her high and noble office; he
saw in her the worthy successor of those two famous instructresses of
Athens--those Greek ladies--er--whose names had escaped his memory,
but which--er--no doubt Miss Prinkwell would be glad to recall to her
pupils, with some account of their lives. (Miss Prinkwell colored; she
had never heard of them before, and even the delight of the class in the
colonel's triumph was a little dampened by this prospect of hearing more
about them.) But the colonel was only too content with seeing before him
these bright and beautiful faces, destined, as he firmly believed, in
after years to lend their charm and effulgence to the highest
places as the happy helpmeets of the greatest in the land. He
was--er--leaving a--er--slight testimonial of his regard in the form
of some--er--innocent refreshments in the hands of his ward, who
would--er--act as--er--his proxy in their distribution; and the
colonel sat down to the flutter of handkerchiefs, an applause only half
restrained, and the utter demoralization of Miss Prinkwell.

But the time of his departure had come by this time, and he was too
experienced a public man to risk the possibility of an anticlimax by
protracting his leave-taking. And in an ominous shining of Pansy's big
eyes as the time approached he felt an embarrassment as perplexing as
the odd presentiment of loneliness that was creeping over him. But
with an elaborate caution as to the dangers of self-indulgence, and the
private bestowal of a large gold piece slipped into her hand, a promise
to come again soon, and an exaction that she would write to him often,
the colonel received in return a wet kiss, a great deal of wet cheek
pressed against his own, and a momentary tender clinging, like that
which attends the pulling up of some small flower, as he passed out
into the porch. In the hall, on the landing above him, there was a close
packing of brief skirts against the railing, and a voice, apparently
proceeding from a pair of very small mottled legs protruding through the
balusters, said distinctly, "Free cheers for Ternel Tarbottle!" And to
this benediction the colonel, hat in hand, passed out of this Eden into
the world again.


The colonel's next visit to the seminary did not produce the same
sensation as the first, although it was accompanied with equal
disturbance to the fair principals. Had he been a less conceited man he
might have noticed that their antagonism, although held in restraint by
their wholesome fear of him, was in danger of becoming more a conviction
than a mere suspicion. He was made aware of it through Pansy's
resentment towards them, and her revelation of a certain inquisition
that she had been subjected to in regard to his occupation, habits, and
acquaintances. Naturally of these things Pansy knew very little, but
this had not prevented her from saying a great deal. There had been
enough in her questioners' manner to make her suspect that her guardian
was being attacked, and to his defense she brought the mendacity
and imagination of a clever child. What she had really said did not
transpire except through her own comments to the colonel: "And of course
you've killed people--for you're a kernel, you know?" (Here the colonel
admitted, as a point of fact, that he had served in the Mexican war.)
"And you kin PREACH, for they heard you do it when you was here before,"
she added confidently; "and of course you own niggers--for there's
'Jim.'" (The colonel here attempted to explain that Jim, being in a free
State, was now a free man, but Pansy swept away such fine distinctions.)
"And you're rich, you know, for you gave me that ten-dollar gold piece
all for myself. So I jest gave 'em as good as they sent--the old spies
and curiosity shops!" The colonel, more pleased at Pansy's devotion than
concerned over the incident itself, accepted this interpretation of his
character as a munificent, militant priest with a smiling protest. But a
later incident caused him to remember it more seriously.

They had taken their usual stroll through the Alameda, and had made the
round of the shops, where the colonel had exhibited his usual liberality
of purchase and his exalted parental protection, and so had passed on to
their usual refreshment at the confectioner's, the usual ices and cakes
for Pansy, but this time--a concession also to the tyrant Pansy--a glass
of lemon soda and a biscuit for the colonel. He was coughing over his
unaccustomed beverage, and Pansy, her equanimity and volubility restored
by sweets, was chirruping at his side; the large saloon was filling up
with customers--mainly ladies and children, embarrassing to him as
the only man present, when suddenly Pansy's attention was diverted
by another arrival. It was a good-looking young woman, overdressed,
striking, and self-conscious, who, with an air of one who was in the
habit of challenging attention, affectedly seated herself with a male
companion at an empty table, and began to pull off an overtight glove.

"My!" said Pansy in admiring wonder, "ain't she fine?"

Colonel Starbottle looked up abstractedly, but at the first glance
his face flushed redly, deepened to a purple, and then became gray and
stern. He had recognized in the garish fair one Miss Flora Montague, the
"Western Star of Terpsichore and Song," with whom he had supped a few
days before at Sacramento. The lady was "on tour" with her "Combination
troupe."

The colonel leaned over and fixed his murky eyes on Pansy. "The room
is filling up; the place is stifling; I must--er--request you
to--er--hurry."

There was a change in the colonel's manner, which the quick-witted
child heeded. But she had not associated it with the entrance of the
strangers, and as she obediently gulped down her ice, she went on
innocently,--

"That fine lady's smilin' and lookin' over here. Seems to know you; so
does the man with her."

"I--er--must request you," said the colonel, with husky precision, "NOT
to look that way, but finish your--er--repast."

His tone was so decided that the child's lips pouted, but before she
could speak a shadow leaned over their table. It was the companion of
the "fine lady."

"Don't seem to see us, Colonel," he said with coarse familiarity, laying
his hand on the colonel's shoulder. "Florry wants to know what's up."

The colonel rose at the touch. "Tell her, sir," he said huskily, but
with slow deliberation, "that I 'am up' and leaving this place with
my ward, Miss Stannard. Good-morning." He lifted Pansy with infinite
courtesy from her chair, took her hand, strolled to the counter, threw
down a gold piece, and passing the table of the astonished fair one with
an inflated breast, swept with Pansy out of the shop. In the street he
paused, bidding the child go on; and then, finding he was not followed
by the woman's escort, rejoined his little companion.

For a few moments they walked silently side by side. Then Pansy's
curiosity, getting the better of her pout, demanded information. She had
applied a child's swift logic to the scene. The colonel was angry, and
had punished the woman for something. She drew closer to his side, and
looking up with her big eyes, said confidentially.

"What had she been a-doing?"

The colonel was amazed, embarrassed, and speechless. He was totally
unprepared for the question, and as unable to answer it. His abrupt
departure from the shop had been to evade the very truth now demanded of
him. Only a supreme effort of mendacity was left him. He wiped his brow
with his handkerchief, coughed, and began deliberately:--

"The--er--lady in question is in the habit of using a scent
called--er--patchouli, a--er--perfume exceedingly distressing to me.
I detected it instantly on her entrance. I wished to avoid it--without
further contact. It is--er--singular but accepted fact that some people
are--er--peculiarly affected by odors. I had--er--old cherished friend
who always--er--fainted at the odor of jasmine; and I was intimately
acquainted with General Bludyer, who--er--dropped like a shot on the
presentation of a simple violet. The--er--habit of using such perfumes
excessively in public," continued the colonel, looking down upon the
innocent Pansy, and speaking in tones of deadly deliberation, "cannot be
too greatly condemned, as well as the habit of--er--frequenting
places of public resort in extravagant costumes, with--er--individuals
who--er--intrude upon domestic privacy. I trust you will eschew such
perfumes, places, costumes, and--er--companions FOREVER and--ON ALL
OCCASIONS!" The colonel had raised his voice to his forensic emphasis,
and Pansy, somewhat alarmed, assented. Whether she entirely accepted the
colonel's explanation was another matter.

The incident, although not again alluded to, seemed to shadow the
rest of their brief afternoon holiday, and the colonel's manner was
unmistakably graver. But it seemed to the child more affectionate and
thoughtful. He had previously at parting submitted to be kissed by
Pansy with stately tolerance and an immediate resumption of his loftiest
manner. On this present leave-taking he laid his straight closely shaven
lips on the crown of her dark head, and as her small arms clipped his
neck, drew her closely to his side. The child uttered a slight cry; the
colonel hurriedly put his hand to his breast. Her round cheek had
come in contact with his derringer--a small weapon of beauty and
precision--which invariably nestled also at his side, in his waistcoat
pocket. The child laughed; so did the colonel, but his cheek flushed
mightily.


It was four months later, and a turbulent night. The early rains,
driven by a strong southwester against the upper windows of the Magnolia
Restaurant, sometimes blurred the radiance of the bright lights within,
and the roar of the encompassing pines at times drowned the sounds
of song and laughter that rose from a private supper room. Even the
clattering arrival and departure of the Sacramento stage coach, which
disturbed the depths below, did not affect these upper revelers. For
Colonel Starbottle, Jack Hamlin, Judge Beeswinger, and Jo Wynyard,
assisted by Mesdames Montague, Montmorency, Bellefield, and "Tinky"
Clifford, of the "Western Star Combination Troupe," then performing "on
tour," were holding "high jinks" in the supper room. The colonel had
been of late moody, irritable, and easily upset. In the words of a
friend and admirer, "he was kam only at twelve paces."

In a lull in the general tumult a Chinese waiter was seen at the door
vainly endeavoring to attract the attention of the colonel by signs
and interjections. Mr. Hamlin's quick eye first caught sight of the
intruder. "Come in, Confucius," said Jack pleasantly; "you're a trifle
late for a regular turn, but any little thing in the way of knife
swallowing"--

"Lill missee to see connle! Waitee waitee, bottom side housee,"
interrupted the Chinaman, dividing his speech between Jack and the
colonel.

"What! ANOTHER lady? This is no place for me!" said Jack, rising with
finely simulated decorum.

"Ask her up," chirped "Tinky" Clifford.

But at this moment the door opened against the Chinaman, and a small
figure in a cloak and hat, dripping with raindrops, glided swiftly in.
After a moment's half-frightened, half-admiring glance at the party,
she darted forward with a little cry and threw her wet arms round the
colonel. The rest of the company, arrested in their festivity, gasped
with vague and smiling wonder; the colonel became purple and gasped.
But only for a moment. The next instant he was on his legs, holding the
child with one hand, while with the other he described a stately sweep
of the table.

"My ward--Miss Pansy Stannard," he said with husky brevity. But drawing
the child aside, he whispered quickly, "What has happened? Why are you
here?"

But Pansy, child-like, already diverted by the lights, the table piled
with delicacies, the gayly dressed women, and the air of festivity,
answered half abstractedly, and as much, perhaps, to the curious eyes
about her as to the colonel's voice,--

"I runned away!"

"Hush!" whispered the colonel, aghast.

But Pansy, responding again to the company rather than her guardian's
counsel, and as if appealing to them, went on half poutingly: "Yes! I
runned away because they teased me! Because they didn't like you and
said horrid things. Because they told awful, dreadful lies! Because they
said I wasn't no orphan!--that my name wasn't Stannard, and that you'd
made it all up. Because they said I was a liar--and YOU WAS MY FATHER!"

A sudden outbreak of laughter here shook the room, and even drowned
the storm outside; again and again it rose, as the colonel staggered
gaspingly to his feet. For an instant it seemed as if his struggles to
restrain himself would end in an apoplectic fit. Perhaps it was for this
reason that Jack Hamlin checked his own light laugh and became alert
and grave. Yet the next moment Colonel Starbottle went as suddenly dead
white, as leaning over the table he said huskily, but deliberately, "I
must request the ladies present to withdraw."

"Don't mind US, Colonel," said Judge Beeswinger, "it's all in the family
here, you know! And now I look at the girl--hang it all! she DOES favor
you, old man. Ha! ha!"

"And as for the ladies," said Wynyard with a weak, vinous laugh, "unless
any of 'em is inclined to take the matter as PERSONAL--eh?"

"Stop!" roared the colonel.

There was no mistaking his voice nor his intent now. The two men,
insulted and instantly sobered, were silent. Mr. Hamlin rose, playfully
but determinedly tapped his fair companions on the shoulders, saying,
"Run away and play, girls," actually bundled them, giggling and
protesting, from the room, closed the door, and stood with his back
against it. Then it was seen that the colonel, still very white, was
holding the child by the hand, as she shrank back wonderingly and a
little frightened against him.

"I thank YOU, Mr. Hamlin," said the colonel in a lower voice--yet with a
slight touch of his habitual stateliness in it, "for being here to bear
witness, in the presence of this child, to my unqualified statement that
a more foul, vile, and iniquitous falsehood never was uttered than that
which has been poured into her innocent ears!" He paused, walked to the
door, still holding her hand, and, as Mr. Hamlin stepped aside, opened
it, told her to await him in the public parlor, closed the door again,
and once more faced the two men. "And," he continued more deliberately,
"for the infamous jests that you, Judge Beeswinger, and you, Mr.
Wynyard, have dared to pass in her presence and mine, I shall expect
from each of you the fullest satisfaction--personal satisfaction. My
seconds will wait on you in the morning!"

The two men stood up sobered--yet belligerent.

"As you like, sir," said Beeswinger, flashing.

"The sooner the better for me," added Wynyard curtly.

They passed the unruffled Jack Hamlin with a smile and a vaguely
significant air, as if calling him as a witness to the colonel's
madness, and strode out of the room.

As the door closed behind them, Mr. Hamlin lightly settled his white
waistcoat, and, with his hands on his hips, lounged towards the colonel.
"And THEN?" he said quietly.

"Eh?" said the colonel.

"After you've shot one or both of these men, or one of 'em has knocked
you out, what's to become of that child?"

"If--I am--er--spared, sir," said the colonel huskily, "I shall continue
to defend her--against calumny and sneers"--

"In this style, eh? After her life has been made a hell by her
association with a man of your reputation, you propose to whitewash it
by a quarrel with a couple of drunken scallawags like Beeswinger and
Wynyard, in the presence of three painted trollops and a d----d scamp
like myself! Do you suppose this won't be blown all over California
before she can be sent back to school? Do you suppose those cackling
hussies in the next room won't give the whole story away to the next man
who stands treat?" (A fine contempt for the sex in general was one of
Mr. Hamlin's most subtle attractions for them.)

"Nevertheless, sir," stammered the colonel, "the prompt punishment of
the man who has dared"--

"Punishment!" interrupted Hamlin, "who's to punish the man who has
dared most? The one man who is responsible for the whole thing? Who's to
punish YOU?"

"Mr. Hamlin--sir!" gasped the colonel, falling back, as his hand
involuntarily rose to the level of his waistcoat pocket and his
derringer.

But Mr. Hamlin only put down the wine glass he had lifted from the table
and was delicately twirling between his fingers, and looked fixedly at
the colonel.

"Look here," he said slowly. "When the boys said that you accepted the
guardianship of that child NOT on account of Dick Stannard, but only as
a bluff against the joke they'd set up at you, I didn't believe them!
When these men and women to-night tumbled to that story of the child
being YOURS, I didn't believe that! When it was said by others that you
were serious about making her your ward, and giving her your property,
because you doted on her like a father, I didn't believe that."

"And--why not THAT?" said the colonel quickly, yet with an odd tremor in
his voice.

"Because," said Hamlin, becoming suddenly as grave as the colonel, "I
could not believe that any one who cared a picayune for the child could
undertake a trust that might bring her into contact with a life and
company as rotten as ours. I could not believe that even the most
God-forsaken, conceited fool would, for the sake of a little sentimental
parade and splurge among people outside his regular walk, allow the
prospects of that child to be blasted. I couldn't believe it, even if
he thought he was acting like a father. I didn't believe it--but I'm
beginning to believe it now!"

quickly demanded Sheridan. "What is it to me if others have the nightmare,
while I feel my eyes open? Burke, in his dreams, may dread the example
of France; but I as little dread it as I should a fire at the Pole.

He thinks that Englishmen have such a passion
for foreign importations, that if the pestilence were raging
on the other side of the Channel, we should send for specimens. My
proposition is, that the example of France is more likely to make slaves
of us than republicans."
"Is it," asked W----, "to make us
'Fly from minor tyrants to the throne?'"

"I laugh at the whole," replied Sheridan, "as a bugbear. I have no fear
of France as either a schoolmaster, or a seducer, of England.
France is lunatic, and who dreads a lunatic after his first
paroxysm?

Exhaustion, disgust, decay, perhaps death, are the natural results. If
there is any peril to us, it is only from our meddling. The lunatic
never revenges himself but on his keeper. I should leave the patient
to the native doctors, or to those best of all doctors for mad nations,
suffering, shame, and time. Chain, taunt, or torment the lunatic, and
he rewards you by knocking out your brains."
"Those are not exactly the opinions of our friend Charles," observed the
prince with peculiar emphasis.

"No," was the reply. "I think for myself. Some would take the madman
by the hand, and treat him as if in possession of his senses. Burke would
gather all the dignitaries of Church and State, and treat him as
a demoniac; attempt to exorcise the evil spirit, and if it continued
intractable, solemnly excommunicate the possessed by bell, book,
and candle.

But, as I do not like throwing away my trouble, I should
let him alone."
"The doctrine of confiscation is startling to all property," remarked
the prince.

"I wish Charles would remember, that his strength lies in the aristocracy."

"No man knows it better," observed W----. "But I strongly doubt whether
his consciousness of his own extraordinary talents is not at this
moment tempting him to try a new source of hazard.

The people, nay, the populace, are a new element to him, and to all. I can
conceive a man of pre-eminent ability, as much delighted with
difficulty as inferior men are delighted with ease. Fox has managed the
aristocracy so long, and has bridled them with so much the hand of a
master, that what he might have once considered as an achievement, he
now regards as child's play. If Alexander's taming Bucephalus was a
triumph for a noble boy, I scarcely think that, after passing the
Granicus, he would have been proud of his fame as a horse-breaker.
Fox sees, as all men see, that great changes, for either good or ill, are
coming on the world. Next to that of a great king, perhaps the most
tempting rank to ambition would be that of a great demagogue."
The glitter of Sheridan's eye, and the glow which passed across his cheek,
as he looked at the speaker, showed how fully he agreed with the
sentiment; and I expected some bold burst of eloquence. But, with that
sudden change of tone and temper which was among the most curious
characteristics of the man, he laughingly said, "At all events,
whatever the Revolution may do to our neighbours, it will do a vast
deal of good to ourselves.

The clubs were growing so dull, that I began to think of withdrawing
my name from them all. Their principal supporters were daily yawning
themselves to death. The wiser part were flying into the country, where,
at least, their yawning would not be visible; and the rest remained
enveloped in dry and dreary newspapers, like the herbs of a 'Hortus
siccus.'

White's was an hospital of the deaf and dumb; and Brookes's strongly
resembled Westminster Hall in the long vacation. It was in the
midst of this general doze that the news from Paris came. I assure
you the effects were miraculous--the universal spasm of lock-jaw
was no more. Men no longer regarded each other with a despairing
glance in St James's Street, and passed on.

All was sudden sociability. Even in the city people grew communicative,
and puns were committed that would have struck their forefathers with
amazement. As Burke said, in one of his sybilline speeches the other
night: 'The tempest had come, at once bending down the summits of the
forest and stirring up the depths of the pool.' One of the aldermen,
on being told that the French were preparing to pass the Waal, said,
that if the Dutch would take _his_ advice, and if iron spikes
were not enough, they should _glass_ their _wall_."
The newspapers now arrived, and France for a while engrossed the conversation.
The famous Mirabeau had just made an oration with which all France
was ringing.

"That man's character," said the prince, after reading some vehement
portions of his speech, "perplexes me more and more. An aristocrat
by birth, he is a democrat by passion; but he has palpably come into the
world too early, or too late, for power. Under Louis XIV., he would
have made a magnificent minister; under his successor, a splendid
courtier; but under the present unfortunate king, he must be either
the brawler or the buffoon, the incendiary, or the sport, of the
people.

Yet he is evidently a man of singular ability, and if he knows how to
manage his popularity, he may yet do great things."
"I always," said Sheridan, "am inclined to predict well of the man who
takes advantage of his time. That is the true faculty for public life;
the true test of commanding capacity. There are thousands who have ability,
for one who knows how to make use of it; as we are told that there
are monsters in the depths of the ocean which never come up to the
light.

But I prefer your leviathan, which, whether he slumbers in the calm
or rushes through the storm, shows all his magnitude to the eye."

"And gets himself harpooned for his pains," observed W----.

"Well, then, at least he dies the death of a hero," was the
reply--"tempesting the brine, and perhaps even sinking the harpooner."
He uttered this sentiment with such sudden ardour, that all
listened while he declaimed--"I can imagine no worse fate for a
man of true talent than to linger down into the grave; to find the
world disappearing from him while he remains in it; his political
vision growing indistinct, his political ear losing the voice of
man, his passions growing stagnant, all his sensibilities palpably
paralyzing, while the world is as loud, busy, and brilliant round
him as ever--with but one sense remaining, the unhappy consciousness
that, though not _yet_ dead, he is buried; a figure, if not of
scorn, of pity, entombed under the compassionate gaze of mankind,
and forgotten before he has mouldered.

Who that could die in the vigour of his life, would wish to drag on
existence like _Somers_, coming to the Council day after day without
comprehending a word?

or Marlborough, babbling out his own imbecility? If I am to die, let me
die in hot blood, let me die like the lion biting the spear that
has entered his heart, or springing upon the hunter who has struck
him--not like the crushed snake, miserable and mutilated, hiding
itself in its hole, and torpid before it is turned into clay!"

"Will Mirabeau redeem France?" asked the prince; "or will he overwhelm
the throne?"
"I never heard of any one but Saint Christopher," said Sheridan,
sportively, "who could walk through the ocean, and yet keep his head
above water. Mirabeau is out of soundings already."
"Burke," said F----, "predicts that he must perish; that the
Revolution will go on, increasing in terrors; and that it would be as
easy to stop a planet launched through space, as the progress of
France to ruin."

"So be it," said Sheridan with sudden animation.

"There have been revolutions in every age of the world, but the
world has outlived them all. Like tempests, they may wreck a royal
fleet now and then, but they prevent the ocean from being a pond, and
the air from being a pestilence.

I am content if the world is the better for all this, though France
may be the worse.

I am a political optimist, in spite of Voltaire; or, I agree with a
better man and a greater poet--'All's well that ends well.'"
The prince looked grave; and significantly asked, "Whether too high
a present price might not be paid for prospective good?"

Sheridan turned off the question with a smile.

"The man who has as little to pay as I have," said he, "seldom thinks of
price one way or the other.
Possibly, if I were his Grace of Bedford, or my Lord Fitzwilliam,
I might begin to balance my rent-roll against my raptures.

Or, if I were higher still, I might be only more prudent. But," said
he, with a bow, "if what was fit for Parmenio was not fit for Alexander,
neither would what was fit for Alexander be fit for Parmenio."
The prince soon after rose from table, and led the way into the
library, where we spent some time in looking over an exquisite collection
of drawings of Greece and Albania, a present from the French king
to his royal highness.

The windows were thrown open, and the fresh scents of the flower
garden were delicious; the night was calm, and the moon gleamed far
over the quiet ocean.

At this moment a soft sound of music arose at a distance. I looked in
vain for the musicians--none were visible. The strain, incomparably
managed, now approached, now receded, now seemed to ascend from the sea,
now to stoop from the sky. All crowded to the casement--to me, a
stranger and unexpecting, all was surprise and spell.

I, almost unconsciously, repeated the fine lines in the Tempest:--

"Where should this music be? I' the air, or the earth?
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon Some god of the island-- This
music crept by me upon the waters, Allaying both their fury and my passion
With its sweet air--But 'tis gone!

No, it begins again."
The prince returned my quotation with a gracious smile, and the words
of the great poet,
"This is no mortal business, nor no sound This the earth owns."
The private band, stationed in one of the thickets, had been the
magicians.

Supper was laid in this handsome apartment, not precisely
"The spare Sabine feast, A radish and an egg,"
but perfectly simple, and perfectly elegant.

The service was Sevre, and I observed on it the arms of the Duke of
Orleans, combined with those of the Prince. It had been a present
from the most luxurious, and most unfortunate, man on earth. And
thus closed my first day in the exclusive world.

On the next evening, I had exchanged fresh breezes and bright skies
for the sullen atmosphere and perpetual smoke of the great city;
stars for lamps, and the gentle murmurs of the tide, for the turbid
rush and heavy roar of the million of London.

During the day, I had been abandoned sufficiently to my own meditations.
For though we did not leave Brighton till noon, Marianne remained
steadily, and I feared angrily, invisible.
Mordecai, during the journey, consulted nothing but his tablets, and
was evidently plunged in some huge financial speculation; and when he
dropped me at a hotel in St James's, and hurried towards his den in
the depths of the city, like a bat to its cave, I felt as solitary as
if I had dropped from the moon.

But an English hotel is a cure for most of the sorrows of English life.

The well-served table--the excellent sherry--a blazing fire, not at all
unrequired in the first sharp evenings of our autumn--and the newspaper
"just come in," are capital "medicines for the mind diseased." And
like old Maréchal Louvois, who recommended roast pigeons as a cure for
grief--observing that, "whenever he heard of the loss of any of his
friends, he ordered a pair, and found himself always much comforted
after eating them"--I was beginning to sink into that easy oblivion of
the rules of life, which, without actual sleep, has all the placid
enjoyment of slumber; when a voice pronounced my name, and I was startled
and half suffocated by the embrace of a figure who rushed from an opposite
box, and in a torrent of French poured out a torrent of raptures on my
arriving in London.

When I contrived at last to disengage myself, I saw Lafontaine; but
so hollow-cheeked and pale-visaged, that I could scarcely recognize
my showy friend in the skeleton knight who stood gesticulating his
ultra-happiness before me.

At length he drew, with a trembling touch and a glistening eye, from his
bosom a letter, which he placed in my hand with a squeeze of eternal
friendship. "Read," said he, "read, and then wonder, if you can,
at my misery and my gratitude." The letter was from Mariamne, and
certainly a very pretty one--gay and tender at once; gracefully alluding
to some little fretfulness on her part, or his, I could scarcely
tell which; but assuring him that all this was at an end--that she
foreswore the world henceforth, and was quite his own. All this was
expressed with an elegance which I was not quite prepared to find
in the fair one, and with a tone of sincerity for which I was still
less prepared; yet with the coquette in every line.

I should have been glad to see him at any time, but now I received
him as a resource from solitude, or rather from those restless
thoughts which made solitude so painful to me. Another bottle, perhaps,
made me more sensitive, and him more willing to communicate; and
before it was finished, he had opened his whole heart and emptied his
letter-case, and I had consulted him on the _im_probabilities of
my ever being able to succeed in the object which had so strangely,
yet so totally, occupied all my feelings.

It was clear, from her correspondence, that his pretty Jewess had played
him much as the angler plays the trout which he has secured on his
hook.
She evidently enjoyed the display of her skill in tormenting: every
second letter was almost a declaration of breaking off the correspondence
altogether; or, what was even worse, mingled with those menaces, there
were from time to time allusions to my opinions, and quotations
of my chance remarks, which, rather to my surprise, showed me that the
proverb, "_Les absens ont toujours tort_," was true in more senses
than one, and that the Frenchman occasionally lost ground by being
fifty miles off.

Once or twice it seemed to me that the little "betrothed" was evidently
thinking of the error of precipitate vows, and was beginning to
change her mind. But her last letter was a complete extinguisher of
all my vanity, if it had ever been awakened. It was a curious mingling
of poignancy and penitence; an acknowledgment of the pain which she felt
in ever having given pain, and almost an entreaty that he would hasten
his affairs in London, and return to Brighton, to "guard her against
herself, once and for ever."
All this was quite as it should be; but the envelope contained an
enormous postscript, of which I happened to be the theme.

It was evidently written in another mood of mind; and except that passion
is blind, and even refuses to see, when it might, I should probably have
had another rencontre with the best swordsman in the _Chevaux Legers_.
After speaking of me and my prospects in life, with an interest
which reached at least to the full amount of friendship, the subject
of my reveries came on the tapis.

"My father and Mr Marston are on the point of going to town," said
the postscript; "the latter to dream of Mademoiselle De Tourville,
without the smallest hope of ever obtaining her hand.

But I scarcely know what to think of him and his feelings--if feelings
they can be called--which change like the fashions of the day, and
at the mercy of all the triflers of the day; or like the butterfly
fluttering round the garden, as if merely to show that it can
flutter.

This habit must make him for ever incapable of the generous devotedness
of heart and truth of affection which I so much value in my
'_friend_.'"

But here Lafontaine interfered, obviously through fear of my plunging into
some discovery of my own demerits, which had not struck him on his
first perusal; and I surrendered the letter, postscript and all,
having first ascertained by a glance, that the former was dated at
the very hour of the discovery of my unlucky stanzas to Clotilde,
and the latter probably after the "fair penitent" had time to reflect
on the matter, and let compassion make its way.

Woman is a brilliant problem--but a problem after all.

A sudden trampling of cavalry and loud rush of carriages prevented
my attempting the solution--at least for that sitting. All the guests
crowded to the door. "His Majesty was going to Drury-Lane!" It was a
performance "by command."

The never-failing pulse in the foreign heart was touched.
Lafontaine crushed his correspondence into his bosom, sprang on his
feet, wiped his eyes of all their sorrows, and proposed that we
should see the display.

I was rejoiced to escape a topic too delicate for my handling. A carriage
was called, and by a double fee we contrived, through many a hazard,
in the narrowest and most dangerous defiles of any Christian city,
to reach the stately entrance, just as the troopers were brushing
away the mob from the steps, and the trumpets were outringing the
cries of the orangewomen.

By another bribe we contrived to make our way into a box, whose doors
were more unrelenting than brass or marble to the crowd in the lobby,
less acquainted with the mode of getting through the English world; and
I had my first view of national loyalty, in the handsomest theatre
which I have ever seen. How often it has been burnt down and built
since, is beyond my calculation. It was then perfection.

We had galloped to some purpose; for we had distanced the monarch and
his eight carriages.

The royal party had not yet entered the house; and I enjoyed, for a few
minutes, one of the most striking displays that the opulence and
animation of a great country can possibly produce--the _coup-d'oeil_ of
a well-dressed audience in a fine and spacious theatre.
Multitudes spread over hill and dale may be picturesque; the aspect
of great public meetings may be startling, stern, or powerfully
impressive; the British House of Lords, on the opening of the
session, exhibits a majestic spectacle; but for a concentration of
all the effects of art, beauty, and magnificence, I have yet seen
nothing like one of the English theatres in their better days.

To compare it in point of importance with any other great assemblage,
would in general be idle. But at this time, even the assemblage before
me, collected as it was for indulgence, had a character of remarkable
interest.

The times were anxious. The nation was avowedly on the eve of a struggle
of which no human foresight could discover the termination. The presence
of the king was the presence of the monarchy; the presence of the
assemblage was the presence of the nation.

The house was only a levee on a large scale, and the crowd, composed as
it was of the most distinguished individuals of the country--the
ministers, the peerage, the heads of legislature--and the whole
completed by an immense mass of the middle order, gave a strong and
admirable representation of the power and feelings of the empire.

At length the sound of the trumpets was heard, the door of the
royal box was thrown open, and "God save the King" began. Noble
as this noblest of national songs is, it had, at that period, a
higher meaning. It is impossible to describe the spirit and ardour in
which it was received; nay, the almost sacred enthusiasm in which it was
joined by all, and in which every sentiment was followed with
boundless acclamation.

It was more than an honourable and pleased welcome of a popular
king. It was a national pledge to the throne--a proud declaration
of public principle--a triumphant defiance of the enemy and the
Earth to strike the stability of a British throne, or subdue the
hearts of a British people.

The widow of Captain Pottinger here sat up so suddenly that she seemed
to slip through her sombre and precise enwrappings with an exposure
of the real Mrs. Pottinger that was almost improper. Her high color
deepened; the pupils of her black eyes contracted in the light the
innocent Prosper had poured into them. Leaning forward, with her fingers
clasped on her bosom, she said: "Did you tell this to the manager?"

"Of course not," said Prosper; "ye see, it's only a matter 'twixt you
and me."

Mrs. Pottinger looked at Prosper, drew a deep breath, and then gazed
at the abelone shells for moral support. A smile, half querulous,
half superior, crossed her face as she said: "This is very abrupt and
unusual. There is, of course, a disparity in our ages! You have never
seen me before--at least to my knowledge--although you may have heard
of me. The Spraggs of Marblehead are well known--perhaps better than the
Pottingers. And yet, Mr. Griggs"--

"Riggs," suggested Prosper hurriedly.

"Riggs. Excuse me! I was thinking of young Lieutenant Griggs of the
Navy, whom I knew in the days now past. Mr. Riggs, I should say. Then
you want me to"--

"To be my old mother, ma'am," said Prosper tremblingly. "That is, to
pretend and look ez ef you was! You see, I haven't any, but I thought it
would be nice for the boys, and make it more like home in my new house,
ef I allowed that my old mother would be comin' to live with me. They
don't know I never had a mother to speak of. They'll never find it out!
Say ye will, Mrs. Pottinger! Do!"

And here the unexpected occurred. Against all conventional rules and
all accepted traditions of fiction, I am obliged to state that Mrs.
Pottinger did NOT rise up and order the trembling Prosper to leave the
house! She only gripped the arm of her chair a little tighter, leaned
forward, and disdaining her usual precision and refinement of speech,
said quietly: "It's a bargain. If THAT'S what you're wanting, my
son, you can count upon me as becoming your old mother, Cecilia Jane
Pottinger Riggs, every time!"

A few days later the sentimentalist Joe Wynbrook walked into the Wild
Cat saloon, where his comrades were drinking, and laid a letter down on
the bar with every expression of astonishment and disgust. "Look," he
said, "if that don't beat all! Ye wouldn't believe it, but here's Prossy
Riggs writin' that he came across his mother--his MOTHER, gentlemen--in
'Frisco; she hevin', unbeknownst to him, joined a party visiting the
coast! And what does this blamed fool do? Why, he's goin' to bring
her--that old woman--HERE! Here--gentlemen--to take charge of that new
house--and spoil our fun. And the God-forsaken idiot thinks that we'll
LIKE it!"

It was one of those rare mornings in the rainy season when there was a
suspicion of spring in the air, and after a night of rainfall the sun
broke through fleecy clouds with little islets of blue sky--when
Prosper Riggs and his mother drove into Wild Cat camp. An expression
of cheerfulness was on the faces of his old comrades. For it had been
recognized that, after all, "Prossy" had a perfect right to bring his
old mother there--his well-known youth and inexperience preventing this
baleful performance from being established as a precedent. For these
reasons hats were cheerfully doffed, and some jackets put on, as the
buggy swept up the hill to the pretty new cottage, with its green blinds
and white veranda, on the crest.

Yet I am afraid that Prosper was not perfectly happy, even in the
triumphant consummation of his plans. Mrs. Pottinger's sudden and
business-like acquiescence in it, and her singular lapse from her
genteel precision, were gratifying but startling to his ingenuousness.
And although from the moment she accepted the situation she was
fertile in resources and full of precaution against any possibility of
detection, he saw, with some uneasiness, that its control had passed out
of his hands.

"You say your comrades know nothing of your family history?" she had
said to him on the journey thither. "What are you going to tell them?"

"Nothin', 'cept your bein' my old mother," said Prosper hopelessly.

"That's not enough, my son." (Another embarrassment to Prosper was her
easy grasp of the maternal epithets.) "Now listen! You were born just
six months after your father, Captain Riggs (formerly Pottinger) sailed
on his first voyage. You remember very little of him, of course, as he
was away so much."

"Hadn't I better know suthin about his looks?" said Prosper
submissively.

"A tall dark man, that's enough," responded Mrs. Pottinger sharply.

"Hadn't he better favor me?" said Prosper, with his small cunning
recognizing the fact that he himself was a decided blond.

"Ain't at all necessary," said the widow firmly. "You were always wild
and ungovernable," she continued, "and ran away from school to join some
Western emigration. That accounts for the difference of our styles."

"But," continued Prosper, "I oughter remember suthin about our old
times--runnin' arrants for you, and bringin' in the wood o' frosty
mornin's, and you givin' me hot doughnuts," suggested Prosper dubiously.

"Nothing of the sort," said Mrs. Pottinger promptly. "We lived in the
city, with plenty of servants. Just remember, Prosper dear, your mother
wasn't THAT low-down country style."

Glad to be relieved from further invention, Prosper was, nevertheless,
somewhat concerned at this shattering of the ideal mother in the
very camp that had sung her praises. But he could only trust to her
recognizing the situation with her usual sagacity, of which he stood in
respectful awe.

Joe Wynbrook and Cyrus Brewster had, as older members of the camp,
purposely lingered near the new house to offer any assistance to "Prossy
and his mother," and had received a brief and passing introduction to
the latter. So deep and unexpected was the impression she made upon
them that these two oracles of the camp retired down the hill in awkward
silence for some time, neither daring to risk his reputation by comment
or oversurprise.

But when they approached the curious crowd below awaiting them, Cyrus
Brewster ventured to say, "Struck me ez ef that old gal was rather
high-toned for Prossy's mother."

Joe Wynbrook instantly seized the fatal admission to show the advantage
of superior insight:--

"Struck YOU! Why, it was no more than I expected all along! What did we
know of Prossy? Nothin'! What did he ever tell us'? Nothin'! And why'?
'Cos it was his secret. Lord! a blind mule could see that. All this
foolishness and simplicity o' his come o' his bein' cuddled and pampered
as a baby. Then, like ez not, he was either kidnapped or led away by
some feller--and nearly broke his mother's heart. I'll bet my bottom
dollar he has been advertised for afore this--only we didn't see the
paper. Like as not they had agents out seekin' him, and he jest ran into
their hands in 'Frisco! I had a kind o' presentiment o' this when he
left, though I never let on anything."

"I reckon, too, that she's kinder afraid he'll bolt agin. Did ye notice
how she kept watchin' him all the time, and how she did the bossin' o'
everything? And there's ONE thing sure! He's changed--yes! He don't look
as keerless and free and foolish ez he uster."

Here there was an unmistakable chorus of assent from the crowd that had
joined them. Every one--even those who had not been introduced to
the mother--had noticed his strange restraint and reticence. That
question actually made Timothy snort.

"_Me work_?" he snapped scornfully, as he glared at the speaker.

Everybody knew what he meant. And everybody knew how Timothy felt,
too, when he edged along the dam and made a savage pass at the plump
gentleman who had spoken to him.

[Illustration: Timothy began to climb the steep bluff.]
Luckily the brisk Beaver jumped aside before Timothy Turtle's jaws
closed on him. And he did not say another word to the stranger during
the rest of his stay at the pond.

But Timothy Turtle became quite talkative. He stopped all he met--old
and young both--and warned them that nobody need try to get him to work,
for he never had worked, and he never intended to.

XI
ON THE BEAVER DAM

Timothy Turtle was so angry that he went about snapping at everybody
and everything. And since the whole Beaver family kept carefully out of
his way, he had to content himself with setting his jaws upon roots and
sticks.

Now, the Beavers' dam was made of sticks and mud. So Timothy found plenty
of chances to bite. And because he could not hurt the sticks, no matter
how much he tried, nobody cared.

Really he acted in a most silly, surly fashion.

Out of a corner of his eye Brownie Beaver watched Timothy Turtle
closely. Brownie had not forgotten how Timothy seized his mother
by the tail. And while he was helping his elders on the dam, at the
same time he was trying to think of some way to outwit Timothy
Turtle.
It happened that just at that time the dam needed a great deal of
mending. There were so many holes to be filled that the Beavers
worked all night long. And in spite of all their efforts they saw
that even then a few leaks would have to go unmended. But they did
not get snappish nor lose their tempers. They were not like Timothy
Turtle.
Though he slept a great part of the night, and waked up to watch
the workers early in the morning, his temper was worse than ever.
He was paddling through the water close to the dam when Brownie
Beaver called to him.Certainly he was so far encouraged that he had a
long conversation with Mrs. Pottinger that night, with the result that
the next morning Joe Wynbrook, Cyrus Brewster, Hank Mann, and Kentucky
Ike were invited to spend the evening at the new house. As the men,
clean shirted and decently jacketed, filed into the neat sitting room
with its bright carpet, its cheerful fire, its side table with a snowy
cloth on which shining tea and coffee pots were standing, their hearts
thrilled with satisfaction. In a large stuffed rocking chair, Prossy's
old mother, wrapped up in a shawl and some mysterious ill health which
seemed to forbid any exertion, received them with genteel languor and an
extended black mitten.

"I cannot," said Mrs. Pottinger, with sad pensiveness, "offer you the
hospitality of my own home, gentlemen--you remember, Prosper, dear, the
large salon and our staff of servants at Lexington Avenue!--but since my
son has persuaded me to take charge of his humble cot, I hope you will
make all allowances for its deficiencies--even," she added, casting a
look of mild reproach on the astonished Prosper--"even if HE cannot."

"I'm sure he oughter to be thankful to ye, ma'am," said Joe Wynbrook
quickly, "for makin' a break to come here to live, jest ez we're
thankful--speakin' for the rest of this camp--for yer lightin' us up ez
you're doin'! I reckon I'm speakin' for the crowd," he added, looking
round him.

Murmurs of "That's so" and "You bet" passed through the company, and one
or two cast a half-indignant glance at Prosper.

"It's only natural," continued Mrs. Pottinger resignedly, "that having
lived so long alone, my dear Prosper may at first be a little impatient
of his old mother's control, and perhaps regret his invitation."

"Oh no, ma'am," said the embarrassed Prosper.

But here the mercurial Wynbrook interposed on behalf of amity and the
camp's esprit de corps. "Why, Lord! ma'am, he's jest bin longin' for ye!
Times and times agin he's talked about ye; sayin' how ef he could only
get ye out of yer Fifth Avenue saloon to share his humble lot with him
here, he'd die happy! YOU'VE heard him talk, Brewster?"

"Frequent," replied the accommodating Brewster.

"Part of the simple refreshment I have to offer you," continued Mrs.
Pottinger, ignoring further comment, "is a viand the exact quality of
which I am not familiar with, but which my son informs me is a great
favorite with you. It has been prepared by Li Sing, under my direction.
Prosper, dear, see that the--er--doughnuts--are brought in with the
coffee."

Satisfaction beamed on the faces of the company, with perhaps the sole
exception of Prosper. As a dish containing a number of brown glistening
spheres of baked dough was brought in, the men's eyes shone in
sympathetic appreciation. Yet that epicurean light was for a moment
dulled as each man grasped a sphere, and then sat motionless with it
in his hand, as if it was a ball and they were waiting the signal for
playing.

"I am told," said Mrs. Pottinger, with a glance of Christian tolerance
at Prosper, "that lightness is considered desirable by some--perhaps you
gentlemen may find them heavy."

"Thar is two kinds," said the diplomatic Joe cheerfully, as he began to
nibble his, sideways, like a squirrel, "light and heavy; some likes 'em
one way, and some another."

They were hard and heavy, but the men, assisted by the steaming coffee,
finished them with heroic politeness. "And now, gentlemen," said Mrs.
Pottinger, leaning back in her chair and calmly surveying the party,
"you have my permission to light your pipes while you partake of some
whiskey and water."

The guests looked up--gratified but astonished. "Are ye sure, ma'am, you
don't mind it?" said Joe politely.

"Not at all," responded Mrs. Pottinger briefly. "In fact, as my
physician advises the inhalation of tobacco smoke for my asthmatic
difficulties, I will join you." After a moment's fumbling in a beaded
bag that hung from her waist, she produced a small black clay pipe,
filled it from the same receptacle, and lit it.

Or at least, nobody would have supposed that Mr. Turtle had found what
he was looking for. Certainly if he was hunting for fun, he never
looked as if he had discovered any.
For no smile showed itself upon his face. Instead, he met every one with
a frown. And if a body gave him a cheery "Good morning," just as likely
as not Timothy would answer with a grunt, and pass on.

Naturally, when Timothy Turtle arrived anywhere and told people that he
expected to spend a few days among them they did not feel any great joy
at the news. On the contrary, they were quite likely to say to one
another, "I hope he won't stop long," or "He looks more grumpy than ever."
And some would even remark that they wished Timothy Turtle would go
home and stay there.

So no one of the Beaver colony was glad when Timothy appeared in their
pond one day and explained that he intended to be in the neighborhood
at least a week. In the first place, the Beavers, as a whole, were a
busy, cheerful family, who did not like disagreeable folk for company.
And in the second place, they were spry workers; and they had little
use for anybody as slow as Timothy Turtle, who never did any work
at all.

It is no wonder, then, that as soon as the news of Timothy's coming
spread up and down and across the pond, the busy Beavers stopped their
work and said things about the crusty outsider who had forced himself
upon them. And almost everybody went to call upon Grandaddy Beaver and
asked him what he thought ought to be done.

Now, Grandaddy was a good old soul. And he told the hot-headed younger
members of the colony to keep cool, which seems a simple thing for
them to have done, swimming about as they were in the icy water, which
flowed down from springs on the side of Blue Mountain.

"Timothy Turtle has been here before," Grandaddy Beaver announced. "I
can remember my great-grandfather's telling me about his passing two
whole weeks in our pond. And though everybody wished he would leave, he
never harmed anybody, because people kept out of his way."
"Well, he ought to work while he's here," said a brisk gentleman, tugging
at his moustache.

"Timothy Turtle will never lift his hand to do a single stroke of work,"
said old Grandaddy Beaver. "He has already spent a long life without
working.

And he'll be lazy if he lives to be a hundred years old--or even a hundred
and fifty."
Now, a young chap called Brownie Beaver heard all this, as he stood
in Grandaddy's doorway and peeped inside the house.

And he thought it was a shame that _somebody_ couldn't make Timothy
Turtle mend his ways. To Brownie Bearer it seemed that Timothy Turtle
was old enough to behave himself.

X

A WARNING

Timothy Turtle's visit at the beaver pond was just like all of his
outings.

Wherever he went he was so disagreeable and snappish that there wasn't a
single person in the whole village that didn't wish Timothy had
stayed away from that place.

He was forever grumbling, complaining that the fishing was poor in the
pond.

And as for frogs, he declared that he hadn't seen even one.

"Why anybody wants to live here is more than I can understand."

That was what Timothy Turtle told everyone he met. And of course it was a
poor way of making himself welcome.

"Why do you come here, if you don't like our pond?" people asked him.

"It's a change for me," was Timothy's reply. "After I've spent a week
with you I'll be pretty glad to get back home again.

And I won't want to go on another excursion for a whole year--or
maybe two.

"It's twenty years since I was here before.

And I sha'n't care to come again for forty, at least."
Now, such dreadfully rude remarks hurt the Beaver family's feelings.
And when Timothy Turtle seized a fat lady by the tail one day and
wouldn't let her go until sunset, her feelings were hurt most of
all. She cried that she had never been so insulted in all her
life.
Timothy Turtle merely said that she ought not to object. He explained
that he had been _giving her a rest_--for of course she couldn't
cut down a tree, nor work upon the dam that held the water in the
pond, while he clung fast to her tail.
Well, this fat lady happened to be Brownie Beaver's mother. And
after her disagreeable experience with the stranger, Brownie made
up his mind that he _would make Timothy Turtle work_. That was the
worst punishment he could think of.
Whenever the members of the Beaver family were not sleeping, or
eating, either they were gathering food by cutting down trees, or
they were mending their dam.
The dam always had leaks here and there. And sooner or later every
one of them had to be stopped, before it grew so big that the water
would rush through it and tear a hole so great that the pond would
be drained dry.Pottinger, rising in her turn and fixing
upon the unfortunate Prosper a pair of murky piratical eyes that had
once quelled the sea-roving Pottinger. "Do you, my adopted son, dare to
tell me that I can't have my own flesh and blood beneath my roof?"

"Yes! I'd rather tell the whole story--I'd rather tell the boys I fooled
them--than go on again!" burst out the excited Prosper.

But Mrs. Pottinger only set her lips implacably together. "Very well,
tell them then," she said rigidly; "tell them how you lured me from my
humble dependence in San Francisco with the prospect of a home with you;
tell them how you compelled me to deceive their trusting hearts with
your wicked falsehoods; tell them how you--a foundling--borrowed me for
your mother, my poor dead husband for your father, and made me invent
falsehood upon falsehood to tell them while you sat still and listened!"

Prosper gasped.

"Tell them," she went on deliberately, "that when I wanted to bring
my helpless child to her only home--THEN, only then--you determined
to break your word to me, either because you meanly begrudged her that
share of your house, or to keep your misdeeds from her knowledge! Tell
them that, Prossy, dear, and see what they'll say!"

Prosper sank back in his chair aghast. In his sudden instinct of revolt
he had forgotten the camp! He knew, alas, too well what they would say!
He knew that, added to their indignation at having been duped, their
chivalry and absurd sentiment would rise in arms against the abandonment
of two helpless women!

"P'r'aps ye're right, ma'am," he stammered. "I was only thinkin'," he
added feebly, "how SHE'D take it."

"She'll take it as I wish her to take it," said Mrs. Pottinger firmly.

"Supposin', ez the camp don't know her, and I ain't bin talkin' o'
havin' any SISTER, you ran her in here as my COUSIN? See? You bein' her
aunt?"

Mrs. Pottinger regarded him with compressed lips for some time. Then
she said, slowly and half meditatively: "Yes, it might be done! She will
probably be willing to sacrifice her nearer relationship to save herself
from passing as your sister. It would be less galling to her pride, and
she wouldn't have to treat you so familiarly."

"Yes, ma'am," said Prosper, too relieved to notice the uncomplimentary
nature of the suggestion. "And ye see I could call her 'Miss Pottinger,'
which would come easier to me."

In its high resolve to bear with the weaknesses of Prosper's mother,
the camp received the news of the advent of Prosper's cousin solely with
reference to its possible effect upon the aunt's habits, and very little
other curiosity. Prosper's own reticence, they felt, was probably due to
the tender age at which he had separated from his relations. But when
it was known that Prosper's mother had driven to the house with a very
pretty girl of eighteen, there was a flutter of excitement in that
impressionable community. Prosper, with his usual shyness, had evaded an
early meeting with her, and was even loitering irresolutely on his way
home from work, when, as he approached the house, to his discomfiture
the door suddenly opened, the young lady appeared and advanced directly
towards him.

She was slim, graceful, and prettily dressed, and at any other moment
Prosper might have been impressed by her good looks. The stage had now
lost all interest for me, and I prevailed on Lafontaine, much against
his will, to leave the house. The lobby was crowded, the rush was
tremendous, and after struggling our way, with some hazard of our limbs,
we reached the door only just in time to see Montrecour escorting the
ladies to their carriage.

All was over for the night; and my companion, who now began to think
that he had tormented me too far, was drawing me slowly, and almost
unconsciously, through the multitude, when a flourish of trumpets
and drums announced that their Majesties were leaving the theatre.

The life guards rode up; and the rushing of the crowd, the crash of the
carriages, the prancing and restiveness of the startled horses, and the
quarrelling of the coachmen and the Bow Street officers, produced
a scene of uproar.

My first thought was the hazard of Clotilde, and I hastened to the
spot where I had seen her last, but she was gone.

"All's safe, you see," said Lafontaine, trying to compose his ruffled
costume; "your John Bulls are dangerous, in their loyalty, to coats
and carriages."

I agreed with him, and we sprang into one of the wretched vehicles
that held its ground, with English tenacity, in the midst of a war
of coronets.

But our adventures were not to close so simply. Our driver had not
remained in the rain for hours, without applying to the national
remedy against all inclemencies of weather.

He had no sooner mounted the box than I found that we were running a
race with every carriage which we approached, sometimes tilting
against them, and sometimes narrowly escaping from being overturned.

At last we met with an antagonist worthy of our prowess. All my efforts
to stop our charioteer had been useless, for he was evidently
beyond any kind of appeal but that of flinging him from his seat;
and Lafontaine, with the genuine fondness of a Gaul for excitement
of all kinds, seemed wonderfully amused as we swept along.

But our new rival was evidently in the same condition with our own Jehu,
and after a smart horsewhipping of each other, they rushed forward
at full speed. A sudden scream from within the other carriage showed
the terror of its inmates, as it dashed along; an old woman in full
dress, however, was all that I could discover; for we were fairly
distanced in the race, though it was still kept up, with all the
perseverance of a fool thoroughly intoxicated. In a few minutes more
we heard a tremendous collision in front, and saw by the blaze of
half a hundred flambeaux brandished in all directions, our rival a
complete wreck, plunged into the midst of a crowd of equipages,
waiting for their lordly owners in front of Devonshire house.

It had been one of the weekly balls given by the Duchess, and the fallen
vehicle had damaged panels covered with heraldry as old as the
Plantagenets.

Arriving with almost equal rapidity, but with better fortune, I had but
just time to spring into the street, at the instant when the old lady,
writhing herself out of the window, which was now uppermost, was
about to trust her portly person to chance.

I caught her as she clung to the carriage with her many-braceleted arms,
and was almost strangled by the vigour of her involuntary embrace
as she rolled down upon me.

There was nothing in the world less romantic than my position in the midst
of a circle of sneering footmen; and, as if to put romance for ever out
of the question, I was relieved from my plumed and mantled encumbrance
only by the assistance of Townshend, then the prince of Bow Street officers;
who, knowing every thing and every body, informed me that the lady was
a person of prodigious rank, and that he should 'feel it his duty,'
before he parted with me, to ascertain whether her ladyship's purse had
not suffered defalcation by my volunteering.

I was indignant, as might be supposed; and my indignation was not at all
decreased by the coming up of half a dozen Bow Street officers, every
one of whom either "believed," or "suspected," or "knew," me to
be "an old offender."

But I was relieved from the laughter of the liveried mob round me, and
probably from figuring in the police histories of the morning, by the
extreme terrors of the lady for the fate of her daughter. The carriage
had by this time been raised up, but its other inmate was not to
be found.
She now produced the purse, which had been so impudently the cause
of impeaching my honour; "and offered its contents to all who should
bring any tidings of her daughter, her lost child, her Clotilde!" The
name thrilled on my ear. I flew off to renew the search, followed by the
crowd--was unsuccessful, and returned, only to see my _protégé_ in strong
hysterics. My situation now became embarrassing; when a way was
made through the crowd by a highly-powdered personage, the chamberlain
of the mansion, who announced himself as sent by "her Grace," to
say that the Countess de Tourville was safe, having been taken into
the house; and, further, conveying "her Grace's compliments to Madame
la Maréchal de Tourville, to entreat that she would do her the
honour to join her daughter."

This message, delivered with all the pomp of a "gentleman of the
bedchamber," produced its immediate effect upon the circle of
cocked hats and worsted epaulettes.

They grew grave at once; and guided by Townshend, who moved on, hat in
hand, and bowing with the obsequiousness of one escorting a prince
of the blood, we reached the door of the mansion.

But here a new difficulty arose. The duchess was known to La
Maréchal, for to whom in misfortune was not that most generous and
kind-hearted duchess known?

But _I_ was still a stranger. However, with my old Frenchwoman, ceremony
was not then the prevailing point. _I_ had been her "preserver," as
she was pleased to term me. _I_ had been "introduced," which was
quite sufficient for knowledge; above all other merits, "I spoke
French like a Parisian;" in short, it was wholly impossible for her
to ascend the crowded staircase, with her numberless dislocations, by
the help of any other arm on earth. The slightest hope of seeing Clotilde
would have made me confront all the etiquette of Spain; and I bore
the contrast of my undress costume with the feathered and silken
multitude which filled the stairs, in the spirit of a philosopher,
until, by "many a step and slow," we reached the private wing of
the mansion.

There, in an apartment fitted up with all the luxury of a boudoir, yet
looking melancholy from the dim lights and the silent attendants, lay
Clotilde on a sofa. But how changed from the being whom I had just seen
at the theatre! She had been in imminent danger, and was literally
dragged from under the horses' feet. A slight wound in her temple was
still bleeding, and her livid lips and half-closed eyes gave me the image
of death. As for Madame, she was in distraction; the volubility of her
sorrows made the well-trained domestics shrink, as from a display
at which they ought not to be present; and at length the only
recipients of her woes were myself and the physician, who, with
ominous visage, and drops in hand, was administering his aid to the
passive patient.

As Madame's despair rendered her wholly useless, the doctor called on me
to assist him in raising her from the floor, on which she had flung
herself like a heroine in a tragedy.

While I was engaged in this most reluctant performance, the accents of a
sweet voice, and the rustling of silk, made me raise my eyes, and a
vision floated across the apartment; it was the duchess herself,
glittering in gold and jewels, turbaned and embroidered, as a Semiramis
or a queen of Sheba; she was brilliant enough for either. She had just
left the fancy ball behind, and was come "to make her personal enquiries
for the health of her young friend."

My office was rather startling, even to the habitual presence of mind
of the leader of fashion. I might have figured in her eyes, as the
husband, or the lover, or the doctor's apprentice; she almost uttered
a scream. But the sound, slight as it was, recalled the Maréchal to
her senses. The explanation was given with promptitude, and received
with politeness. My family, in all its branches, came into her Grace's
quick recollection; and I was thus indebted to my adventure, not only
for an introduction to one of the most elegant women of her time--to
the goddess of fashion in her temple, the Circe of high life, at
the "witching hour," but of being most "graciously" received; and
even hearing a panegyric on my chivalry, from the Maréchal, smilingly
echoed by lips which seemed made only for smiles.

A summons from the ball-room soon withdrew the captivating mistress of
the mansion, who retired with the step and glance of the very queen
of courtesy; and I was about to take my leave, when a ceremonial
of still higher interest awaited me.

Clotilde, feebly rising from her sofa, and sustaining herself on the neck
of her kneeling mother, murmured her thanks to me "for the preservation
of her dear parent."

The sound of her voice, feeble as it was, fell on my ear like music. I
advanced towards her. The Maréchal stood with her handkerchief to her
eyes, and venting her sensibilities in sobs. The fairer object before
me shed no tears, but, with her eyes half-closed, and looking the
marble model of paleness and beauty, she held out her hand. She was,
perhaps, unconscious of offering more than a simple testimony of her
gratitude for the services which her mother had described with
such needless eloquence.

But in that delicious, yet unaccountable feeling--that superstition
of the heart, which makes every thing eventful--even that simple
pressure of her hand created a long and living future in my mind.

Yet let me do myself justice; whether wise or weak in the presence of the
only being who had ever mastered my mind, I was determined not "to point
a moral and adorn a tale." I had other duties and other purposes
before me than to degenerate into a slave of sighs. I was to be no Romeo,
bathing my soul in the luxuries of Italian palace-chambers, moonlight
speeches, and the song of nightingales. I felt that I was an Englishman,
and had the rugged steep of fortune to climb, and climb alone. The
time, too, in which I was to begin my struggle for distinction, aroused
me to shake off the spirit of dreams which threatened to steal
over my nature.

The spot in which I lived was the metropolis of mankind. I was
in the centre of the machinery which moved the living world. The wheels
of the globe were rushing, rolling, and resounding in my ears. Every
interest, necessity, stimulant, and passion of mankind, came in an incessant
current to London, as to the universal heart, and flowed back, refreshed
and invigorated, to the extremities of civilization.

I saw the hourly operations of that mighty furnace in which the
fortunes of all nations were mingled, and poured forth remolded.

And London itself was never more alive. Every journal which I took up
was filled with the signs of this extraordinary energy; the projects
and meetings, the harangues and political experiments, of bold men, some
rising from the mire into notoriety, if not into fame; some plunging
from the highest rank of public life into the mire, in the hope of
rising, if with darkened, yet a freshened wing.

The debates in parliament, never more vivid than at this crisis,
with the two great parties in full force, and throwing out
flashes in every movement, like the collision of two vast thunder
clouds, were a perpetual summons to action in every breast which
felt itself above the dust it trod. But the French journals were
the true excitements to political ardour. They were more than lamps,
guiding mankind along the dusky paths of public regeneration--they
were torches, dazzling the multitude who attempted to profit by
their light; and, while they threw a glare round the head of the
march, blinding all who followed.

To one born, like myself, in the most aristocratic system of society on
earth, yet excluded from its advantages by the mere chance of birth,
it was new, and undoubtedly not displeasing, to see the pride of
nobility tamed by the new rush of talent and ambition which had
started up from obscurity in France; village attorneys and physicians,
clerks in offices, journalists, men from the plough and the pen,
supplying the places of the noblesse of Clovis and Capet, possessing
themselves of the highest power while their predecessors were flying
through Europe; conducting negotiations, commanding armies, ruling
assemblies, holding the helm of government in the storm which had
scattered the great names of France upon the waters.

I anticipated all the triumph of the "younger sons."
Even the brief interval of my Brighton visit had curiously changed
the aspect of the metropolis.

The emigration was in full force, and every spot was crowded with
foreign visages. Sallow cheeks and starting eyes, scowling brows and
fierce mustaches, were the order of the day; the monks and the military
had run off together. The English language was almost overwhelmed by
the perpetual jargon of all the loud-tongued provincialities of
France. But the most singular portion was the ecclesiastical. The streets
and parks were filled with the unlucky sheep of the Gallican church,
scattered before the teeth and howl of the republican wolf; and England
saw, for the first time, the secrets of the monastery poured out before
the light of day.

The appearance of some among this sable multitude, though venerable and
dignified, could not prevent the infinite grotesque of the others from
having its effect on the spectator.

The monks and priesthood of France amounted to little less than a
hundred and fifty thousand. All were now thrown up from the darkness
of centuries before a wondering world.

I had Milton's vision of Limbo before my eyes.

"Embryos and idiots, eremites and friars, A violent cross wind from
either coast Blew them transverse. Then might ye see Cowls, hoods, and
habits, with their wearers, tost, And flutter'd into rags; their
reliques, beads, Indulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls, The sport
of winds."

The mire was fully stirred up in which the hierarchy had enjoyed
its sleep and sunshine for a thousand years.

The weeds and worms had been fairly scraped off, which for a thousand
years had grown upon the keel of the national vessel, and of which
the true wonder was, that the vessel had been able to make sail
with them clinging to her so long.

In fact, I was thus present at one of the most remarkable phenomena
of the whole Revolution.

The flight of a noblesse was nothing to this change. The glittering
peerage of France, created by a court, and living in perpetual connexion
with the court, as naturally followed its fate as a lapdog follows
the fortunes of its mistress; but here was a digging up of the
moles, an extermination of the bats, a general extrusion of the
subversive principle, to a race of existence which, whether above
or below ground, seemed almost to form a part of the soil.

The wind roared
over the deep-throated chimney, the clock ticked monotonously, and then
there came the sound of wheels and voices.

But Mrs. Rivers was not destined to see her guest that night. Dr.
Duchesne, under the safe lee of the door, explained that Mr. Hamlin
had been exhausted by the journey, and, assisted by a mild opiate, was
asleep in the carriage; that if Mrs. Rivers did not object, they would
carry him at once to his room. In the flaring and guttering of candles,
the flashing of lanterns, the flapping of coats and shawls, and the
bewildering rush of wind, Mrs. Rivers was only vaguely conscious of a
slight figure muffled tightly in a cloak carried past her in the arms
of a grizzled negro up the staircase, followed by Dr. Duchesne. With
the closing of the front door on the tumultuous world without, a silence
fell again on the little parlor.

When the doctor made his reappearance it was to say that his patient was
being undressed and put to bed by his negro servant, who, however, would
return with the doctor to-night, but that the patient would be left with
everything that was necessary, and that he would require no attention
from the family until the next day. Indeed, it was better that he
should remain undisturbed. As the doctor confined his confidences and
instructions entirely to the physical condition of their guest, Mrs.
Rivers found it awkward to press other inquiries.

"Of course," she said at last hesitatingly, but with a certain primness
of expression, "Mr. Hamlin must expect to find everything here very
different from what he is accustomed to--at least from what my husband
says are his habits."

"Nobody knows that better than he, Mrs. Rivers," returned the doctor
with an equally marked precision of manner, "and you could not have a
guest who would be less likely to make you remind him of it."

A little annoyed, yet not exactly knowing why, Mrs. Rivers abandoned the
subject, and as the doctor shortly afterwards busied himself in the care
of his patient, with whom he remained until the hour of his departure,
she had no chance of renewing it. But as he finally shook hands with his
host and hostess, it seemed to her that he slightly recurred to it. "I
have the greatest hope of the curative effect of this wonderful locality
on my patient, but even still more of the beneficial effect of the
complete change of his habits, his surroundings, and their influences."
Then the door closed on the man of science and the grizzled negro
servant, the noise of the carriage wheels was shut out with the song of
the wind in the pine tops, and the rancho of Windy Hill possessed Mr.
Jack Hamlin in peace. Indeed, the wind was now falling, as was its
custom at that hour, and the moon presently arose over a hushed and
sleeping landscape.

For the rest of the evening the silent presence in the room above
affected the household; the half-curious servants and ranch hands spoke
in whispers in the passages, and at evening prayers, in the dining room,
Seth Rivers, kneeling before and bowed over a rush-bottomed chair whose
legs were clutched by his strong hands, included "the stranger within
our gates" in his regular supplications. When the hour for retiring
came, Seth, with a candle in his hand, preceded his wife up the
staircase, but stopped before the door of their guest's room. "I
reckon," he said interrogatively to Mrs. Rivers, "I oughter see ef he's
wantin' anythin'?"

"You heard what the doctor said," returned Mrs. Rivers cautiously.
At the same time she did not speak decidedly, and the frontiersman's
instinct of hospitality prevailed. He knocked lightly; there was no
response. He turned the door handle softly. The door opened. A faint
clean perfume--an odor of some general personality rather than any
particular thing--stole out upon them. The light of Seth's candle struck
a few glints from some cut-glass and silver, the contents of the guest's
dressing case, which had been carefully laid out upon a small table by
his negro servant. There was also a refined neatness in the disposition
of his clothes and effects which struck the feminine eye of even the
tidy Mrs. Rivers as something new to her experience. Seth drew nearer
the bed with his shaded candle, and then, turning, beckoned his wife to
approach. Mrs. Rivers hesitated--but for the necessity of silence
she would have openly protested--but that protest was shut up in her
compressed lips as she came forward.

For an instant that awe with which absolute helplessness invests the
sleeping and dead was felt by both husband and wife. Only the upper part
of the sleeper's face was visible above the bedclothes, held in position
by a thin white nervous hand that was encircled at the wrist by a
ruffle. Seth stared. Short brown curls were tumbled over a forehead damp
with the dews of sleep and exhaustion. But what appeared more singular,
the closed eyes of this vessel of wrath and recklessness were fringed
with lashes as long and silky as a woman's. Then Mrs. Rivers gently
pulled her husband's sleeve, and they both crept back with a greater
sense of intrusion and even more cautiously than they had entered. Nor
did they speak until the door was closed softly and they were alone on
the landing. Seth looked grimly at his wife.

"Don't look much ez ef he could hurt anybody."

"He looks like a sick man," returned Mrs. Rivers calmly.


The unconscious object of this criticism and attention slept until late;
slept through the stir of awakened life within and without, through the
challenge of early cocks in the lean-to shed, through the creaking
of departing ox teams and the lazy, long-drawn commands of teamsters,
through the regular strokes of the morning pump and the splash of water
on stones, through the far-off barking of dogs and the half-intelligible
shouts of ranchmen; slept through the sunlight on his ceiling, through
its slow descent of his wall, and awoke with it in his eyes! He woke,
too, with a delicious sense of freedom from pain, and of even drawing
a long breath without difficulty--two facts so marvelous and dreamlike
that he naturally closed his eyes again lest he should waken to a world
of suffering and dyspnoea. Satisfied at last that this relief was real,
he again opened his eyes, but upon surroundings so strange, so wildly
absurd and improbable, that he again doubted their reality. He was
lying in a moderately large room, primly and severely furnished, but
his attention was for the moment riveted to a gilt frame upon the wall
beside him bearing the text, "God Bless Our Home," and then on another
frame on the opposite wall which admonished him to "Watch and Pray."
Beside them hung an engraving of the "Raising of Lazarus," and a
Hogarthian lithograph of "The Drunkard's Progress." Mr. Hamlin closed
his eyes; he was dreaming certainly--not one of those wild, fantastic
visions that had so miserably filled the past long nights of pain and
suffering, but still a dream! At last, opening one eye stealthily, he
caught the flash of the sunlight upon the crystal and silver articles
of his dressing case, and that flash at once illuminated his memory. He
remembered his long weeks of illness and the devotion of Dr. Duchesne.
He remembered how, when the crisis was past, the doctor had urged a
complete change and absolute rest, and had told him of a secluded rancho
in some remote locality kept by an honest Western pioneer whose family
he had attended. He remembered his own reluctant assent, impelled by
gratitude to the doctor and the helplessness of a sick man. He
now recalled the weary journey thither, his exhaustion and the
semi-consciousness of his arrival in a bewildering wind on a shadowy
hilltop. And this was the place!

He shivered slightly, and ducked his head under the cover again. But the
brightness of the sun and some exhilarating quality in the air tempted
him to have another outlook, avoiding as far as possible the grimly
decorated walls. If they had only left him his faithful servant he
could have relieved himself of that mischievous badinage which always
alternately horrified and delighted that devoted negro. But he was
alone--absolutely alone--in this conventicle!

Presently he saw the door open slowly. It gave admission to the small
round face and yellow ringlets of a little girl, and finally to her
whole figure, clasping a doll nearly as large as herself. For a moment
she stood there, arrested by the display of Mr. Hamlin's dressing case
on the table. Then her glances moved around the room and rested upon the
bed. Her blue eyes and Mr. Hamlin's brown ones met and mingled. Without
a moment's hesitation she moved to the bedside. Taking her doll's hands
in her own, she displayed it before him.

"Isn't it pitty?"

Mr. Hamlin was instantly his old self again. Thrusting his hand
comfortably under the pillow, he lay on his side and gazed at it long
and affectionately. "I never," he said in a faint voice, but with
immovable features, "saw anything so perfectly beautiful. Is it alive?"

"It's a dolly," she returned gravely, smoothing down its frock and
straightening its helpless feet. Then seized with a spontaneous idea,
like a young animal she suddenly presented it to him with both hands and
said,--

"Kiss it."

Mr. Hamlin implanted a chaste salute on its vermilion cheek. "Would you
mind letting me hold it for a little?" he said with extreme diffidence.

The child was delighted, as he expected. Mr. Hamlin placed it in a
sitting posture on the edge of his bed, and put an ostentatious paternal
arm around it.

"But you're alive, ain't you?" he said to the child.

This subtle witticism convulsed her. "I'm a little girl," she gurgled.

"I see; her mother?"

"Ess."

"And who's your mother?"

"Mammy."

"Mrs. Rivers?"

The child nodded until her ringlets were shaken on her cheek. After
a moment she began to laugh bashfully and with repression, yet as
Mr. Hamlin thought a little mischievously. Then as he looked at her
interrogatively she suddenly caught hold of the ruffle of his sleeve.

"Oo's got on mammy's nighty."

Mr. Hamlin started. He saw the child's obvious mistake and actually felt
himself blushing. It was unprecedented--it was the sheerest weakness--it
must have something to do with the confounded air.

"I grieve to say you are deeply mistaken--it is my very own," he
returned with great gravity. Nevertheless, he drew the coverlet close
over his shoulder. But here he was again attracted by another face at
the half-opened door--a freckled one, belonging to a boy apparently a
year or two older than the girl. He was violently telegraphing to her to
come away, although it was evident that he was at the same time deeply
interested in the guest's toilet articles. Yet as his bright gray eyes
and Mr. Hamlin's brown ones met, he succumbed, as the girl had, and
walked directly to the bedside. But he did it bashfully--as the girl had
not. He even attempted a defensive explanation.

"She hadn't oughter come in here, and mar wouldn't let her, and she
knows it," he said with superior virtue.

"But I asked her to come as I'm asking you," said Mr. Hamlin promptly,
"and don't you go back on your sister or you'll never be president of
the United States." With this he laid his hand on the boy's tow head,
and then, lifting himself on his pillow to a half-sitting posture, put
an arm around each of the children, drawing them together, with the doll
occupying the central post of honor. "Now," continued Mr. Hamlin, albeit
in a voice a little faint from the exertion, "now that we're comfortable
together I'll tell you the story of the good little boy who became a
pirate in order to save his grandmother and little sister from being
eaten by a wolf at the door."

But, alas! that interesting record of self-sacrifice never was told. For
it chanced that Melinda Bird, Mrs. Rivers's help, following the trail of
the missing children, came upon the open door and glanced in. There, to
her astonishment, she saw the domestic group already described, and to
her eyes dominated by the "most beautiful and perfectly elegant" young
man she had ever seen. But let not the incautious reader suppose that
she succumbed as weakly as her artless charges to these fascinations.
The character and antecedents of that young man had been already
delivered to her in the kitchen by the other help. With that single
glance she halted; her eyes sought the ceiling in chaste exaltation.
Falling back a step, she called in ladylike hauteur and precision, "Mary
Emmeline and John Wesley."

Mr. Hamlin glanced at the children. "It's Melindy looking for us,"
said John Wesley. But they did not move. At which Mr. Hamlin called out
faintly but cheerfully, "They're here, all right."

Again the voice arose with still more marked and lofty distinctness,
"John Wesley and Mary Em-me-line." It seemed to Mr. Hamlin that human
accents could not convey a more significant and elevated ignoring of
some implied impropriety in his invitation. He was for a moment crushed.

But he only said to his little friends with a smile, "You'd better go
now and we'll have that story later."

"Affer beckus?" suggested Mary Emmeline.

"In the woods," added John Wesley.

Mr. Hamlin nodded blandly. The children trotted to the door. It closed
upon them and Miss Bird's parting admonition, loud enough for Mr. Hamlin
to hear, "No more freedoms, no more intrudings, you hear."

The older culprit, Hamlin, retreated luxuriously under his blankets,
but presently another new sensation came over him--absolutely, hunger.
Perhaps it was the child's allusion to "beckus," but he found himself
wondering when it would be ready. This anxiety was soon relieved by the
appearance of his host himself bearing a tray, possibly in deference to
Miss Bird's sense of propriety. It appeared also that Dr. Duchesne had
previously given suitable directions for his diet, and Mr. Hamlin found
his repast simple but enjoyable. Always playfully or ironically polite
to strangers, he thanked his host and said he had slept splendidly.

"It's this yer 'ozone' in the air that Dr. Duchesne talks about," said
Seth complacently.

"I am inclined to think it is also those texts," said Mr. Hamlin
gravely, as he indicated them on the wall. "You see they reminded me of
church and my boyhood's slumbers there. I have never slept so peacefully
since." Seth's face brightened so interestedly at what he believed to
be a suggestion of his guest's conversion that Mr. Hamlin was fain to
change the subject. When his host had withdrawn he proceeded to dress
himself, but here became conscious of his weakness and was obliged
to sit down. In one of those enforced rests he chanced to be near the
window, and for the first time looked on the environs of his place
of exile. For a moment he was staggered. Everything seemed to pitch
downward from the rocky outcrop on which the rambling house and farm
sheds stood. Even the great pines around it swept downward like a green
wave, to rise again in enormous billows as far as the eye could reach.
He could count a dozen of their tumbled crests following each other on
their way to the distant plain. In some vague point of that shimmering
horizon of heat and dust was the spot he came from the preceding night.
Yet the recollection of it and his feverish past seemed to confuse him,
and he turned his eyes gladly away.

Pale, a little tremulous, but immaculate and jaunty in his white
flannels and straw hat, he at last made his way downstairs. To his
great relief he found the sitting room empty, as he would have willingly
deferred his formal acknowledgments to his hostess later. A single
glance at the interior determined him not to linger, and he slipped
quietly into the open air and sunshine. The day was warm and still, as
the wind only came up with the going down of the sun, and the atmosphere
was still redolent with the morning spicing of pine and hay and a
stronger balm that seemed to fill his breast with sunshine. He walked
toward the nearest shade--a cluster of young buckeyes--and having with
a certain civic fastidiousness flicked the dust from a stump with his
handkerchief he sat down. It was very quiet and calm. The life and
animation of early morning had already vanished from the hill, or seemed
to be suspended with the sun in the sky. He could see the ranchmen and
oxen toiling on the green terraced slopes below, but no sound reached
his ears. Even the house he had just quitted seemed empty of life
throughout its rambling length. His seclusion was complete. Could he
stand it for three weeks? Perhaps it need not be for so long; he
was already stronger! He foresaw that the ascetic Seth might become
wearisome. He had an intuition that Mrs. Rivers would be equally so; he
should certainly quarrel with Melinda, and this would probably debar him
from the company of the children--his only hope.

But his seclusion was by no means so complete as he expected.
He presently was aware of a camp-meeting hymn hummed somewhat
ostentatiously by a deep contralto voice, which he at once recognized as
Melinda's, and saw that severe virgin proceeding from the kitchen along
the ridge until within a few paces of the buckeyes, when she stopped
and, with her hand shading her eyes, apparently began to examine the
distant fields. She was a tall, robust girl, not without certain rustic
attractions, of which she seemed fully conscious. This latter weakness
gave Mr. Hamlin a new idea. He put up the penknife with which he had
been paring his nails while wondering why his hands had become so thin,
and awaited events. She presently turned, approached the buckeyes,
plucked a spike of the blossoms with great girlish lightness, and then
apparently discovering Mr. Hamlin, started in deep concern and said with
somewhat stentorian politeness: "I BEG your pardon--didn't know I was
intruding!"

"Don't mention it," returned Jack promptly, but without moving. "I saw
you coming and was prepared; but generally--as I have something the
matter with my heart--a sudden joy like this is dangerous."

Somewhat mystified, but struggling between an expression of rigorous
decorum and gratified vanity, Miss Melinda stammered, "I was only"--

"I knew it--I saw what you were doing," interrupted Jack gravely, "only
I wouldn't do it if I were you. You were looking at one of those young
men down the hill. You forgot that if you could see him he could see
you looking too, and that would only make him conceited. We say that the
Greeks deserve some credit for turning their attention towards
their own improvement, instead of adopting the Gallican system of
reform, and raising a revolution against King Otho.

They seem to have set themselves seriously to work to render themselves
worthy of that liberty, the restoration of which they have so long
required in vain from the allied powers.

There is, perhaps, no feature in the Greek revolution more remarkable than
the eager desire for education manifested by all classes.
The central government threw so many impediments in the
way of the establishment of a university, that the Greeks perceived
that no buildings would be erected either as lecture-rooms for the
professors, or to contain the extensive collections of books which
had been sent to Greece by various patriotic Greeks in Europe.

Men of all parties were indignant at the neglect, and at last a public
meeting was held, and it was resolved to raise a subscription for
building the university.

The government did not dare to oppose the measure; fortunately, there was
one liberal-minded man connected with the court at the time,
Professor Brandis of Bonn, and his influence silenced the grumbling
of the Bavarians; the subscription proceeded with unrivalled activity,
and upwards of £.4000 was raised in a town of little more than
twenty thousand inhabitants--half the inhabitants of which had not
yet been able to rebuild their own houses.

Many travellers have seen the new university at Athens, and visited its
respectable library, and they can bear testimony to the simplicity
and good sense displayed in the building.

One of the most remarkable features of the great moral improvement
which has taken place in the population, is the eagerness displayed
for the introduction of a good system of female education. The first
female school established in Greece was founded at Syra, in the time of
Capo d'Istria, by that excellent missionary the late Rev. Dr Korck, who
was sent to Greece by the Church Missionary Society. An excellent
female school still exists in this island, under the auspices of the
Rev. Mr Hilner, a German missionary ordained in England, and also in
connexion with the Church Missionary Society. The first female school at
Athens, after the termination of the Revolution, was established
by Mrs Hill, an American lady, whose exertions have been above all
praise. A large female school was subsequently formed by a society of
Greeks, and liberally supported by the Rev. Mr Leeves, and many other
strangers, for the purpose of educating female teachers. This society
raises about £.800 per annum in subscriptions among the Greeks. We
cannot close the subject of female education without adding a tribute
of praise to the exertions of Mrs Korck, a Greek lady, widow of
the excellent missionary whom we have mentioned as having founded
the first female school at Syra; and of Mr George Constantinidhes, a
Greek teacher, who commenced his studies under the auspices of the
British and Foreign School Society, and who has devoted all his
energy to the cause of the education of his countrymen, and has always
inculcated the great importance of a good system of female education. We
insist particularly on the merits of those who devoted their
attention to this subject, as indicating a deep conviction of the
importance of moral and religious instruction.

Male education leads to wealth and honours. Boys gain a livelihood
by their learning, but girls are educated that they may form better
mothers.

Other public institutions have not been neglected. The citizens of
Athens have built a very respectable civil hospital, and we mention
this as it is one of the public buildings which excites the attention
of strangers, and which is often supposed to have been erected by the
government, though entirely built from the funds raised by local
taxes. The amount of municipal taxes which the Greeks pay, is another
subject which deserves attention.

The general taxes in Greece are very heavy. Every individual
pays, on an average, twelve shillings, which makes the payment of a family
of five persons amount to £.3 sterling annually. This is a very large
sum, when the poverty and destitution of the people is taken into
consideration, and is greater than is paid by any other European nation
where the population is so thinly scattered over the surface of the
country. Yet as soon as the Greeks became convinced that the general
government would contribute nothing towards improving the country,
they determined to impose on themselves additional burdens rather
than submit to wait.

Hospitals, schools, churches, and bridges, built by several municipalities,
attest the energy of the determination of the people to make every
sacrifice to improve their condition.

We offer our readers a statement of the amount of the taxes imposed by
the municipalities of Attica on themselves for local improvements.
The town communes of Athens and the Piraeus find less difficulty in
collecting the large revenues they possess, than the country districts
their comparatively trifling resources.

Drachmas Athens, with a population of 22,309 collects 159,000 Piraeus,
... 2,099 ... 27,300 Kekropia, ... 2,158 ... 3,759 Marathon, ... 1,214
... 1,708 Phyle, ... 2,659 ... 7,000 Laurion, ... 1,470 ... 2,356 Kalamos,
... 2,000 ... 2,747 ------- ------- 33,909 ... 203,870
From this statement we find that each family of five persons pays,
on an average, thirty drachmas of self-imposed taxes, or about
twenty-two shillings annually, in addition to the £.3 sterling
paid to the general government.

We think we may now ask: Are the Greeks fit for a representative system
of government?

We should like to hear the reasons of those who hold the opinion, that
they are not yet able to give an opinion on the best means of improving
their own country, and the most advantageous mode of raising the necessary
revenue.

We must now conclude with a few remarks on the line of conduct towards
the Greeks which has been pursued by the three protecting powers. We do
not, however, propose entering at any length on the subject, as we have
no other object than that of rendering our preceding observations
more clear to our readers.

We are persuaded that the policy of interfering as little as possible
in the affairs of Greece, which has been adopted, and impartially acted
on by Lord Aberdeen, is the true policy of Great Britain.

But in reviewing the general position of the Greek state, it must
not be forgotten that the Greek people have had communications with
the great powers of Europe of a nature very different from those
which existed between the protecting powers and King Otho.

As soon as it became evident that Turkey could not suppress the Greek
revolution without suffering most seriously from the diminution of her
resources, Russia and England began to perceive that it would be a matter
of some importance to secure the good-will of the Greek population.
The Greeks scattered over the countries in the Levant, amount to about
five millions, and they are the most active and intelligent portion of
the population of the greater part of the provinces in which they dwell.
The declining state of the Ottoman empire, and the warlike spirit
of the Greek mountaineers and sailors, induced both Russia and England
to commence bidding for the favour of the insurgents. In 1822 the deputy
sent by the Greeks to solicit the _compassion_ of the European
ministers assembled at Verona, was not allowed to approach the
Congress.

But the successful resistance of the Greeks to the whole strength
of the Ottoman empire for two years, induced Russia to communicate a
memoir to the European cabinets in 1824, proposing that the Greek
population then in arms should receive a separate, though independent,
political existence. This indiscreet proposition awakened the jealousy
of England, as indicating the immense importance attached by Russia to
securing the good-will of the Greeks. England immediately outbid the Czar
for their favour, by recognising the validity of their blockades of
the Turkish fortresses, thus virtually acknowledging the existence
of the Greek state.

The other European powers were compelled most unwillingly to follow
the example of Great Britain.

Mr Canning, however, in order to place the question on some public
footing, laid down the principles on which the British cabinet was
determined to act, in a communication to the Greek government, dated
in the month of December 1824.

This document declares that the British government will observe the
strictest neutrality with reference to the war; while with regard
to the intermediate state of independence and subjection proposed
in the Russian memorial, it adds that, as it has been rejected by
both parties, it is needless to discuss its advantages or defects.

It also assured the Greeks that Great Britain would take no part in any
attempt to compel them by force to adopt a plan of pacification contrary
to their wishes.

France now thought fit to enter on the field. According to the
invariable principle of modern French diplomacy, she made no definite
proposition either to the Greeks or the European powers; but she sent
semi-official agents into the country, who made great promises to
the Greeks if they would choose the Duke de Nemours, the second son
of the Duke d'Orleans, now King Louis Philippe, to be sovereign of
Greece.

The Greeks had seen something too substantial on the part of Russia and
England to follow this Gallic will-o'-the-wisp. But England and
Russia, in order to brush all the cobwebs of French intrigue from
a question which appeared to them too important to be dealt with
any longer by unauthorized agents, signed a protocol at St Petersburg
on the 4th April 1826, engaging to use their good offices with the
Sultan to put an end to the war.

The Duke of Wellington himself negotiated the signature of this protocol,
and it is one of the numerous services he has rendered to his country
and to Europe, as the Greek question threatened to disturb the peace
of the East.

France, as well as Austria, refused to join, until it became evident that
the two powers were taking active measures to carry their decisions
into effect, when France gave in her adhesion, and the treaty of the
6th of July 1827, was signed at London by France, Great Britain, and
Russia.

Events soon ran away with calculations. The Turkish fleet was destroyed
at Navarino on the 20th October 1827, the anniversary (if we may trust
Mitford's _History of Greece_) of the battle of Salamis. France now
embarked in the cause, determined to outbid her allies, and sent an
expedition to the Morea, under Marshal Maison, to drive out the troops
of Ibrahim Pasha. Capo d'Istria assumed the absolute direction of political
affairs, and by his Russian partizanship and anti-Anglican prejudices,
plunged Greece in a new revolution, when his personal oppression
of the family of Mauromichalis caused his assassination.

King Otho was then selected as king of Greece, and the consent of the
Greeks was obtained to his appointment by a loan to the new monarch
of £.2,400,000 sterling, and by a good deal of intrigue and
intimidation at the assembly of Pronia.

[F] The Greeks, however, had already solemnly informed the allied
powers, that the acts of their national assemblies, consolidating the
institutions of the Greek state, and by securing the liberties of the
Greek people, "were as precious to Greece as her existence itself;" and
the protecting powers had consecrated their engagement to support these
institutions, by annexing this declaration to their protocol of the 22d
March 1830.[G]

[Footnote F: Several national assemblies have been held in Greece.
The acts of the following have been printed in a collection composed
of several volumes.

The first was held at Pidhavro, near Epidaurus, of which its name is a
corruption, in 1822; the others at Astros in 1823, at Epidaurus in
1826, at Troezene in 1827, at Argos in 1830 and the last at Pronia,
near Nauplia, in 1832.]
[Footnote G: Annex A, No. 9.]
The three allied powers have not displayed more union in their councils,
since the selection of King Otho, than they did before his
appointment.

In one thing alone they have been unanimous; but unfortunately this has
been to forget their engagements to the Greek people, to see that the
institutions and liberties of Greece were to be respected. England and
France have, however, displayed at times some compunction on the subject;
but, unluckily for the Greeks, their consciences did not prick
them at the same moment.

At one time the Duke de Broglie proposed that Greece should be reinstated
in the enjoyment of her free institutions, but Lord Palmerston declared,
that, her government being very anti-Russian at the time, institutions
and liberty were a mere secondary matter, and he did not think the
Greeks required such luxuries.

Times, however, changed, and King Otho, displaying considerably
more affection for Russia than for England--England conceived it
necessary to propose, at one of the conferences in London on the affairs
of Greece, that the Greeks should be called, in virtue of their national
institutions, to exercise a control over the lavish and injudicious
expenditure of the revenues of the kingdom by the royal government.
But Russia and France, though admitting the incapacity of the
king's government, declared that they considered it better to
send commissioners named by the protecting powers, to control his
Hellenic majesty's expenses. Russia, indeed, distinctly declared she
would not allow the constitutional question to be discussed in the
conferences at the Foreign Office, and Lord Palmerston, with unusual
meekness, submitted. France, every ready to play a great game in small
matters, really sent a commissioner to Greece, to control King
Otho's expenses; but his Hellenic majesty soon gave proofs of how
grievously the _Morning Chronicle_ had mistaken his abilities.

     He gave the French commissioner a few dinners,
       a large star, and a good place at all
     court pageants in which he could display the uniform of
       Louis Philippe to advantage, and thereby made the commissioner the
same as one of his own ministers.

England and Russia kept aloof in stern disapprobation of this paltry
comedy.

The last farthing of the loan has now been expended, and the protecting
powers have intimated to King Otho, in very strong terns, that he
must immediately commence paying the interest and sinking fund, due
in terms of the treaty which placed the crown of Greece on his head.

     The whole burden of this payment, of course,
       falls on the Greek people, who, we have
     already shown, have suffered enough from the
       government of King Otho, without this aggravation of their misery.

Is it, we ask, just that the Greeks should be compelled to pay
sums expended on decorations to European statesmen, pensions to Bavarian
ministers, staff appointments to French engineer officers, and
ambassadors at foreign courts, when they never were allowed even to
express their conviction of the folly of these measures, except by the
public press? The truth is, that the loan was wasted, and the amount
now to be repaid by Greece was very considerably increased by the
allied powers themselves, who neglected to enforce the provisions
of the very treaty they now call upon the Greeks to execute, though
not a party to it.

King Otho borrowed largely from Bavaria, as well as from the
protecting powers--he was at liberty to do so without the allies
attempting to interfere.

But he was not entitled to repay any part of this loan from the
revenues of Greece, until the claims of the protecting powers were
satisfied.

So says the treaty.

The allies were bound, also, to restrict the auxiliary corps of
Bavarians to 3000 men; yet they allowed King Otho to assemble round
his person, at one time, upwards of 6000 Bavarian troops, and a
very great number of civil officers and forest guards.

The King of Bavaria, when he was anxious to secure the throne for his
son, promised "that limited furloughs should be granted to Bavarian
officers, and their pay continued to them.

This," says his Majesty, "will greatly relieve the Greek treasury, by
providing for the service of the state officers of experience,
possessing their own means of subsistence without any charge upon
the country."

Now, the allies knew that every Bavarian officer who put his foot in
Greece, received the pay of a higher rank than he previously held
in Bavaria from the Greek treasury.

Is it, then, an equal application of the principles of justice to king and
people, to compel the Greeks to pay for the violation of the King
of Bavaria's engagement?

[H]
[Footnote H: The paper from which we have quoted the above passage,
is printed as an annex to the protocol appointing King Otho, in
the Parliamentary papers.]

We believe that there now remains only one assertion which we have
ventured to make, which we have not yet proved.

We repeat it, and shall proceed to state our proofs.

We say that Greece, if equitably treated, is not bankrupt, but on the
contrary she possesses resources amply sufficient to discharge all
just claims on her revenues, to maintain order in the country, and to
defend her institutions.

We shall draw our proof from the budget of King Otho for the present
year, as this statement was laid before the allied powers to excite
their compassion, and show them the absolute impossibility of King
Otho paying his debts.

The revenues of Greece are stated at 14,407,795 drachmas: and we may here
remark, that last year, when his Hellenic majesty expected to
persuade the allies to desist from pressing their claims, he stated
the revenues of his
kingdom at ... 17,834,000 The national expenses only amount to ...
11,735,546 
Under the following heads:-- 
Drachmas.

Foreign Affairs, 394,712 Justice, 904,902 Interior, 1,073,182 Religion
and Education, 651,658 War Department, 5,255,804 Navy, 1,404,465
Finances, 486,600 Expenses of managing the Revenue, which, in all
preceding years, has been a part of the expenses of the Finance
Department, 1,564,222 Another section of Finance Department, 60,000
---------- Making a total of 11,735,546
The expenses of the Greek government which have been imposed on the
country by the protecting powers, but never yet approved of by the
Greek nation, are as follows:-- 
Drachmas.

Interest and sinking fund of debt due to the three protecting powers,
debt to Bavaria, and pensions, 4,703,232 Civil list of King Otho,
1,209,064 ---------- 5,912,296
It seems that the allies have made a very liberal allowance to King
Otho.
The monarch and his council of state cost more than the whole civil
administration of the country, and almost as much as the Greek navy.

We humbly conceive that a court of equity would strike out the Bavarian
loan as illegally contracted, and forming a private debt between the
two monarchs of Bavaria and Greece--that it would diminish the
claim of the protecting powers, by expunging all those sums which have
been spent among themselves or on strangers, with their consent--that
it would reduce the civil list of the king and the council of state
to 500,000 drachmas--and that it would order the immediate convocation
of a national assembly, in order to take measures for improving the
revenues of the country.

If the allied powers will form themselves into this court of equity,
and follow the course we have suggested, we have no doubt that in
a very short period no kingdom in Europe will have its finances in a more
flourishing condition than Greece.

* * * * *

A SKETCH IN THE TROPICS.

FROM A SUPERCARGO'S LOG.

It was on a November morning of the year 1816, and about half an hour
before daybreak, that the door of an obscure house in the Calle St
Agostino, at the Havannah, was cautiously opened, and a man put out
his head, and gazed up and down the street as if to assure himself
that no one was near.

All was silence and solitude at that early hour, and presently the door
opening wider gave egress to a young man muffled in a shabby cloak,
who, with hurried but stealthy step, took the direction of the port.

Hastening noiselessly through the deserted streets and lanes, he
soon reached the quay, upon which were numerous storehouses of sugar
and other merchandize, and piles of dye-woods, placed there in
readiness for shipment.

Upon approaching one of the latter, the young man gave a low whistle,
and the next instant a figure glided from between two huge heaps
of logwood, and seizing his hand, drew him into the hiding-place
from which it had just emerged.

A quarter of an hour elapsed, and the first faint tinge of day just began
to appear, when the noise of oars was heard, and presently in the grey
light a boat was seen darting out of the mist that hung over the water.
As it neared the quay, the two men left their place of concealment,
and one of them, pointing to the person who sat in the stern of the
boat, pressed his companion's hand, and hurrying away, soon disappeared
amid the labyrinth of goods and warehouses.

The boat came up to the stairs. Of the three persons it contained, two
sailors, who had been rowing, remained in it; the third, whose dress and
appearance were those of the master of a merchant vessel, sprang
on shore, and walked in the direction of the town.

As he passed before the logwood, the stranger stepped out and accosted
him.

The seaman's first movement, and not an unnatural one, considering he
was at the Havannah and the day not yet broken, was to half draw
his cutlass from its scabbard, but the next moment he let it drop
back again.

The appearance of the person who addressed him was, if not very
prepossessing, at least not much calculated to inspire alarm.

He was a young man of handsome and even noble countenance, but pale
and sickly-looking, and having the appearance of one bowed down by
sorrow and illness.

"Are you the captain of the Philadelphia schooner that is on the point
of sailing?"

enquired he in a trembling, anxious voice.

The seaman looked hard in the young man's face, and answered in the
affirmative. The stranger's eye sparkled.

"Can I have a passage for myself, a friend, and two children?" demanded
he.

The sailor hesitated before he replied, and again scanned his interlocutor
from head to foot with his keen grey eyes. There was something inconsistent,
not to say suspicious, in the whole appearance of the stranger. His cloak
was stained and shabby, and his words humble; but there was a fire in
his eye that flashed forth seemingly in spite of himself, and his voice
had that particular tone which the habit of command alone gives. The
result of the sailor's scrutiny was apparently unfavourable, and
he shook his head negatively.

The young man gasped for breath, and drew a well-filled purse
from his bosom.

"I will pay beforehand," said he, "I will pay whatever you ask."
The American started; the contrast was too great between the heavy
purse and large offers and the beggarly exterior of the applicant. He
shook his head more decidedly than before.

The stranger bit his lip till the blood came, his breast heaved, his whole
manner was that of one who abandons himself to despair. The sailor
felt a touch of compassion.

"Young man," said he in Spanish, "you are no merchant. What do you want
at Philadelphia?"
"I want to go to Philadelphia.

Here is my passage money, here my pass.

You are captain of the schooner. What do you require more?"
There was a wild vehemence in the tone and manner in which these
words were spoken, that indisposed the seaman still more against
his would-be passenger.

Again he shook his head, and was about to pass on. The young man seized
his arm.

"_Por el amor de Dios, Capitan_, take me with you.

Take my unhappy wife and my poor children."

"Wife and children!" repeated the captain. "Have you a wife and children?"

The stranger groaned.

"You have committed no crime?

you are not flying from the arm of justice?" asked the American
sharply.

Lord! how it all
comes back! Ez I was sayin' only t'other day, we can't be too grateful
to our parents for givin' us an eddication in our youth;" and Mr.
Hoover, with the air of recalling an alma mater of sequestered gloom and
cloistered erudition, gazed reverently around the new pine walls.

But Mrs. Hoover here intervened with a gracious appreciation of the
schoolmaster's youth after her usual kindly fashion. "And don't you
forget it, Hiram Hoover, that these young folks of to-day kin teach the
old schoolmasters of 'way back more'n you and I dream of. We've heard
of your book larnin', Mr. Brooks, afore this, and we're proud to hev you
here, even if the Lord has not pleased to give us the children to send
to ye. But we've always paid our share in keeping up the school
for others that was more favored, and now it looks as if He had not
forgotten us, and ez if"--with a significant, half-shy glance at her
husband and a corroborating nod from that gentleman--"ez if, reelly, we
might be reckonin' to send you a scholar ourselves."

The young schoolmaster, sympathetic and sensitive, felt somewhat
embarrassed. The allusion to his extreme youth, mollified though it was
by the salve of praise from the tactful Mrs. Hoover, had annoyed him,
and perhaps added to his slight confusion over the information she
vouchsafed. He had not heard of any late addition to the Hoover family,
he would not have been likely to, in his secluded habits; and although
he was accustomed to the naive and direct simplicity of the pioneer,
he could scarcely believe that this good lady was announcing a maternal
expectation. He smiled vaguely and begged them to be seated.

"Ye see," said Mr. Hoover, dropping upon a low bench, "the way the thing
pans out is this. Almiry's brother is a pow'ful preacher down the coast
at San Antonio and hez settled down thar with a big Free Will Baptist
Church congregation and a heap o' land got from them Mexicans. Thar's
a lot o' poor Spanish and Injin trash that belong to the land, and
Almiry's brother hez set about convertin' 'em, givin' 'em convickshion
and religion, though the most of 'em is Papists and followers of the
Scarlet Woman. Thar was an orphan, a little girl that he got outer the
hands o' them priests, kinder snatched as a brand from the burnin', and
he sent her to us to be brought up in the ways o' the Lord, knowin'
that we had no children of our own. But we thought she oughter get the
benefit o' schoolin' too, besides our own care, and we reckoned to bring
her here reg'lar to school."

Relieved and pleased to help the good-natured couple in the care of the
homeless waif, albeit somewhat doubtful of their religious methods, the
schoolmaster said he would be delighted to number her among his little
flock. Had she already received any tuition?

"Only from them padres, ye know, things about saints, Virgin Marys,
visions, and miracles," put in Mrs. Hoover; "and we kinder thought ez
you know Spanish you might be able to get rid o' them in exchange for
'conviction o' sins' and 'justification by faith,' ye know."

"I'm afraid," said Mr. Brooks, smiling at the thought of displacing the
Church's "mysteries" for certain corybantic displays and thaumaturgical
exhibitions he had witnessed at the Dissenters' camp meeting, "that I
must leave all that to you, and I must caution you to be careful
what you do lest you also shake her faith in the alphabet and the
multiplication table."

"Mebbee you're right," said Mrs. Hoover, mystified but good-natured;
"but thar's one thing more we oughter tell ye. She's--she's a trifle
dark complected."

The schoolmaster smiled. "Well?" he said patiently.

"She isn't a nigger nor an Injin, ye know, but she's kinder a
half-Spanish, half-Mexican Injin, what they call 'mes--mes'"--

"Mestiza," suggested Mr. Brooks; "a half-breed or mongrel."

"I reckon. Now thar wouldn't be any objection to that, eh?" said Mr.
Hoover a little uneasily.

"Not by me," returned the schoolmaster cheerfully. "And although this
school is state-aided it's not a 'public school' in the eye of the law,
so you have only the foolish prejudices of your neighbors to deal with."
He had recognized the reason of their hesitation and knew the strong
racial antagonism held towards the negro and Indian by Mr. Hoover's
Southwestern compatriots, and he could not refrain from "rubbing it in."

"They kin see," interposed Mrs. Hoover, "that she's not a nigger, for
her hair don't 'kink,' and a furrin Injin, of course, is different from
one o' our own."

"If they hear her speak Spanish, and you simply say she is a foreigner,
as she is, it will be all right," said the schoolmaster smilingly. "Let
her come, I'll look after her."

Much relieved, after a few more words the couple took their departure,
the schoolmaster promising to call the next afternoon at the Hoovers'
ranch and meet his new scholar. "Ye might give us a hint or two how she
oughter be fixed up afore she joins the school."

The ranch was about four miles from the schoolhouse, and as Mr. Brooks
drew rein before the Hoovers' gate he appreciated the devotion of the
couple who were willing to send the child that distance twice a day.
The house, with its outbuildings, was on a more liberal scale than its
neighbors, and showed few of the makeshifts and half-hearted advances
towards permanent occupation common to the Southwestern pioneers, who
were more or less nomads in instinct and circumstance. He was ushered
into a well-furnished sitting room, whose glaring freshness was subdued
and repressed by black-framed engravings of scriptural subjects. As Mr.
Brooks glanced at them and recalled the schoolrooms of the old missions,
with their monastic shadows which half hid the gaudy, tinseled saints
and flaming or ensanguined hearts upon the walls, he feared that the
little waif of Mother Church had not gained any cheerfulness in the
exchange.

As she entered the room with Mrs. Hoover, her large dark eyes--the most
notable feature in her small face--seemed to sustain the schoolmaster's
fanciful fear in their half-frightened wonder. She was clinging closely
to Mrs. Hoover's side, as if recognizing the good woman's maternal
kindness even while doubtful of her purpose; but on the schoolmaster
addressing her in Spanish, a singular change took place in their
relative positions. A quick look of intelligence came into her
melancholy eyes, and with it a slight consciousness of superiority to
her protectors that was embarrassing to him. For the rest he observed
merely that she was small and slightly built, although her figure was
hidden in a long "check apron" or calico pinafore with sleeves--a local
garment--which was utterly incongruous with her originality. Her skin
was olive, inclining to yellow, or rather to that exquisite shade of
buff to be seen in the new bark of the madrono. Her face was oval, and
her mouth small and childlike, with little to suggest the aboriginal
type in her other features.

The master's questions elicited from the child the fact that she could
read and write, that she knew her "Hail Mary" and creed (happily the
Protestant Mrs. Hoover was unable to follow this questioning), but he
also elicited the more disturbing fact that her replies and confidences
suggested a certain familiarity and equality of condition which he could
only set down to his own youthfulness of appearance. He was apprehensive
that she might even make some remark regarding Mrs. Hoover, and was not
sorry that the latter did not understand Spanish. But before he left he
managed to speak with Mrs. Hoover alone and suggested a change in
the costume of the pupil when she came to school. "The better she is
dressed," suggested the wily young diplomat, "the less likely is she to
awaken any suspicion of her race."

"Now that's jest what's botherin' me, Mr. Brooks," returned Mrs. Hoover,
with a troubled face, "for you see she is a growin' girl," and she
concluded, with some embarrassment, "I can't quite make up my mind how
to dress her."

"How old is she?" asked the master abruptly.

"Goin' on twelve, but,"--and Mrs. Hoover again hesitated.

"Why, two of my scholars, the Bromly girls, are over fourteen," said the
master, "and you know how they are dressed;" but here he hesitated in
his turn. It had just occurred to him that the little waif was from the
extreme South, and the precocious maturity of the mixed races there was
well known. He even remembered, to his alarm, to have seen brides of
twelve and mothers of fourteen among the native villagers. This might
also account for the suggestion of equality in her manner, and even for
a slight coquettishness which he thought he had noticed in her when
he had addressed her playfully as a muchacha. "I should dress her in
something Spanish," he said hurriedly, "something white, you know, with
plenty of flounces and a little black lace, or a black silk skirt and
a lace scarf, you know. She'll be all right if you don't make her look
like a servant or a dependent," he added, with a show of confidence he
was far from feeling. "But you haven't told me her name," he concluded.

"As we're reckonin' to adopt her," said Mrs. Hoover gravely, "you'll
give her ours."

"But I can't call her 'Miss Hoover,'" suggested the master; "what's her
first name?"

"We was thinkin' o' 'Serafina Ann,'" said Mrs. Hoover with more gravity.

"But what is her name?" persisted the master.

"Well," returned Mrs. Hoover, with a troubled look, "me and Hiram
consider it's a heathenish sort of name for a young gal, but you'll find
it in my brother's letter." She took a letter from under the lid of a
large Bible on the table and pointed to a passage in it.

"The child was christened 'Concepcion,'" read the master. "Why, that's
one of the Marys!"

"The which?" asked Mrs. Hoover severely.

"One of the titles of the Virgin Mary; 'Maria de la Concepcion,'" said
Mr. Brooks glibly.

"It don't sound much like anythin' so Christian and decent as 'Maria' or
'Mary,'" returned Mrs. Hoover suspiciously.

"But the abbreviation, 'Concha,' is very pretty. In fact it's just the
thing, it's so very Spanish," returned the master decisively. "And
you know that the squaw who hangs about the mining camp is called
'Reservation Ann,' and old Mrs. Parkins's negro cook is called 'Aunt
Serafina,' so 'Serafina Ann' is too suggestive. 'Concha Hoover' 's the
name."

"P'r'aps you're right," said Mrs. Hoover meditatively.

"And dress her so she'll look like her name and you'll be all right,"
said the master gayly as he took his departure.

Nevertheless, it was with some anxiety the next morning he heard the
sound of hoofs on the rocky bridle path leading to the schoolhouse. He
had already informed his little flock of the probable addition to their
numbers and their breathless curiosity now accented the appearance
of Mr. Hoover riding past the window, followed by a little figure on
horseback, half hidden in the graceful folds of a serape. The next
moment they dismounted at the porch, the serape was cast aside, and the
new scholar entered.

A little alarmed even in his admiration, the master nevertheless thought
he had never seen a more dainty figure. Her heavily flounced white skirt
stopped short just above her white-stockinged ankles and little
feet, hidden in white satin, low-quartered slippers. Her black silk,
shell-like jacket half clasped her stayless bust clad in an under-bodice
of soft muslin that faintly outlined a contour which struck him as
already womanly. A black lace veil which had protected her head, she
had on entering slipped down to her shoulders with a graceful gesture,
leaving one end of it pinned to her hair by a rose above her little
yellow ear. The whole figure was so inconsistent with its present
setting that the master inwardly resolved to suggest a modification of
it to Mrs. Hoover as he, with great gravity, however, led the girl to
the seat he had prepared for her. Mr. Hoover, who had been assisting
discipline as he conscientiously believed by gazing with hushed,
reverent reminiscence on the walls, here whispered behind his large
hand that he would call for her at "four o'clock" and tiptoed out of the
schoolroom. The master, who felt that everything would depend upon
his repressing the children's exuberant curiosity and maintaining the
discipline of the school for the next few minutes, with supernatural
gravity addressed the young girl in Spanish and placed before her a
few slight elementary tasks. Perhaps the strangeness of the language,
perhaps the unwonted seriousness of the master, perhaps also the
impassibility of the young stranger herself, all contributed to arrest
the expanding smiles on little faces, to check their wandering eyes,
and hush their eager whispers. By degrees heads were again lowered
over their tasks, the scratching of pencils on slates, and the
far-off rapping of Woodpeckers again indicated the normal quiet of the
schoolroom, and the master knew he had triumphed, and the ordeal was
past.

But not as regarded himself, for although the new pupil had accepted his
instructions with childlike submissiveness, and even as it seemed to
him with childlike comprehension, he could not help noticing that
she occasionally glanced at him with a demure suggestion of some
understanding between them, or as if they were playing at master and
pupil. This naturally annoyed him and perhaps added a severer dignity to
his manner, which did not appear to be effective, however, and which
he fancied secretly amused her. Was she covertly laughing at him? Yet
against this, once or twice, as her big eyes wandered from her task over
the room, they encountered the curious gaze of the other children, and
he fancied he saw an exchange of that freemasonry of intelligence common
to children in the presence of their elders even when strangers to each
other. He looked forward to recess to see how she would get on with her
companions; he knew that this would settle her status in the school, and
perhaps elsewhere. Even her limited English vocabulary would not in any
way affect that instinctive, childlike test of superiority, but he was
surprised when the hour of recess came and he had explained to her in
Spanish and English its purpose, to see her quietly put her arm around
the waist of Matilda Bromly, the tallest girl in the school, as the two
whisked themselves off to the playground. She was a mere child after
all!

Other things seemed to confirm this opinion. Later, when the children
returned from recess, the young stranger had instantly become a popular
idol, and had evidently dispensed her favors and patronage generously.
The elder Bromly girl was wearing her lace veil, another had possession
of her handkerchief, and a third displayed the rose which had adorned
her left ear, things of which the master was obliged to take note with a
view of returning them to the prodigal little barbarian at the close of
school. Later he was, however, much perplexed by the mysterious passage
under the desks of some unknown object which apparently was making
the circuit of the school. With the annoyed consciousness that he was
perhaps unwittingly participating in some game, he finally "nailed it"
in the possession of Demosthenes Walker, aged six, to the spontaneous
outcry of "Cotched!" from the whole school. When produced from Master
Walker's desk in company with a horned toad and a piece of gingerbread,
it was found to be Concha's white satin slipper, the young girl herself,
meanwhile, bending demurely over her task with the bereft foot tucked up
like a bird's under her skirt. The master, reserving reproof of this
and other enormities until later, contented himself with commanding the
slipper to be brought to him, when he took it to her with the satirical
remark in Spanish that the schoolroom was not a dressing room--Camara
para vestirse. To his surprise, however, she smilingly held out the tiny
stockinged foot with a singular combination of the spoiled child and the
coquettish senorita, and remained with it extended as if waiting for him
to kneel and replace the slipper. But he laid it carefully on her desk.

"Put it on at once," he said in English.

There was no mistaking the tone of his voice, whatever his language.
Concha darted a quick look at him like the momentary resentment of
an animal, but almost as quickly her eyes became suffused, and with a
hurried movement she put on the slipper.

"Please, sir, it dropped off and Jimmy Snyder passed it on," said a
small explanatory voice among the benches.

"Silence!" said the master.

Nevertheless, he was glad to see that the school had not noticed the
girl's familiarity even though they thought him "hard." He was not
sure upon reflection but that he had magnified her offense and had been
unnecessarily severe, and this feeling was augmented by his occasionally
finding her looking at him with the melancholy, wondering eyes of a
chidden animal. Later, as he was moving among the desks' overlooking
the tasks of the individual pupils, he observed from a distance that her
head was bent over her desk while her lips were moving as if repeating
to herself her lesson, and that afterwards, with a swift look around the
room to assure herself that she was unobserved, she made a hurried sign
of the cross. It occurred to him that this might have followed some
penitential prayer of the child, and remembering her tuition by the
padres it gave him an idea. He dismissed school a few moments earlier in
order that he might speak to her alone before Mr. Hoover arrived.

Referring to the slipper incident and receiving her assurances that
"she" (the slipper) was much too large and fell often "so," a fact
really established by demonstration, he seized his opportunity. "But
tell me, when you were with the padre and your slipper fell off, you did
not expect him to put it on for you?"

Concha looked at him coyly and then said triumphantly, "Ah, no! but he
was a priest, and you are a young caballero."

Yet even after this audacity Mr. Brooks found he could only recommend
to Mr. Hoover a change in the young girl's slippers, the absence of the
rose-pinned veil, and the substitution of a sunbonnet. For the rest
he must trust to circumstances. As Mr. Hoover--who with large paternal
optimism had professed to see already an improvement in her--helped her
into the saddle, the schoolmaster could not help noticing that she had
evidently expected him to perform that act of courtesy, and that she
looked correspondingly reproachful.

"The holy fathers used sometimes to let me ride with them on their
mules," said Concha, leaning over her saddle towards the schoolmaster.

"Eh, what, missy?" said the Protestant Mr. Hoover, pricking up his ears.
"Now you just listen to Mr. Brooks's doctrines, and never mind them
Papists," he added as he rode away, with the firm conviction that the
master had already commenced the task of her spiritual conversion.

The next day the master awoke to find his little school famous. Whatever
were the exaggerations or whatever the fancies carried home to their
parents by the children, the result was an overwhelming interest in the
proceedings and personnel of the school by the whole district. People
had already called at the Hoover ranch to see Mrs. Hoover's pretty
adopted daughter. The master, on his way to the schoolroom that morning,
had found a few woodmen and charcoal burners lounging on the bridle
path that led from the main road. Two or three parents accompanied
their children to school, asserting they had just dropped in to see how
"Aramanta" or "Tommy" were "gettin' on." As the school began to assemble
several unfamiliar faces passed the windows or were boldly flattened
against the glass. The little schoolhouse had not seen such a gathering
since it had been borrowed for a political meeting in the previous
autumn. And the master noticed with some concern that many of the faces
were the same which he had seen uplifted to the glittering periods of
Colonel Starbottle, "the war horse of the Democracy."

For he could not shut his eyes to the fact that they came from no
mere curiosity to see the novel and bizarre; no appreciation of
mere picturesqueness or beauty; and alas! from no enthusiasm for the
progression of education. He knew the people among whom he had lived,
and he realized the fatal question of "color" had been raised in some
mysterious way by those Southwestern emigrants who had carried into this
"free state" their inherited prejudices. A few words convinced him that
the unhappy children had variously described the complexion of their new
fellow pupil, and it was believed that the "No'th'n" schoolmaster, aided
and abetted by "capital" in the person of Hiram Hoover, had introduced
either a "nigger wench," a "Chinese girl," or an "Injin baby" to the
same educational privileges as the "pure whites," and so contaminated
the sons of freemen in their very nests. He was able to reassure many
that the child was of Spanish origin, but a majority preferred the
evidence of their own senses, and lingered for that purpose. As the hour
for her appearance drew near and passed, he was seized with a sudden
fear that she might not come, that Mr. Hoover had been prevailed upon
by his compatriots, in view of the excitement, to withdraw her from the
school. But a faint cheer from the bridle path satisfied him, and the
next moment a little retinue swept by the window, and he understood.
The Hoovers had evidently determined to accent the Spanish character
of their little charge. Concha, with a black riding skirt over her
flounces, was now mounted on a handsome pinto mustang glittering with
silver trappings, accompanied by a vaquero in a velvet jacket, Mr.
Hoover bringing up the rear. He, as he informed the master, had
merely come to show the way to the vaquero, who hereafter would always
accompany the child to and from school. Whether or not he had been
induced to this display by the excitement did not transpire. Enough that
the effect was a success. The riding skirt and her mustang's fripperies
had added to Concha's piquancy, and if her origin was still doubted by
some, the child herself was accepted with enthusiasm. The parents who
were spectators were proud of this distinguished accession to their
children's playmates, and when she dismounted amid the acclaim of her
little companions, it was with the aplomb of a queen.

The master alone foresaw trouble in this encouragement of her precocious
manner. He received her quietly, and when she had removed her riding
skirt, glancing at her feet, said approvingly, "I am glad to see you
have changed your slippers; I hope they fit you more firmly than the
others."

The child shrugged her shoulders. "Quien sabe. But Pedro (the vaquero)
will help me now on my horse when he comes for me."

The master understood the characteristic non sequitur as an allusion
to his want of gallantry on the previous day, but took no notice of it.
Nevertheless, he was pleased to see during the day that she was paying
more attention to her studies, although they were generally rehearsed
with the languid indifference to all mental accomplishment which
belonged to her race. Once he thought to stimulate her activity through
her personal vanity.

"Why can you not learn as quickly as Matilda Bromly? She is only two
years older than you," he suggested.

"Ah! Mother of God!--why does she then try to wear roses like me? And
with that hair. It becomes her not."

The master became thus aware for the first time that the elder Bromly
girl, in "the sincerest form of flattery" to her idol, was wearing a
yellow rose in her tawny locks, and, further, that Master Bromly with
exquisite humor had burlesqued his sister's imitation with a very small
carrot stuck above his left ear. This the master promptly removed,
adding an additional sum to the humorist's already overflowing slate by
way of penance, and returned to Concha. "But wouldn't you like to be as
clever as she?--you can if you will only learn."

"What for should I? Look you; she has a devotion for the tall one--the
boy Brown! Ah! I want him not."

Yet, notwithstanding this lack of noble ambition, Concha seemed to have
absorbed the "devotion" of the boys, big and little, and as the master
presently discovered even that of many of the adult population. There
were always loungers on the bridle path at the opening and closing
of school, and the vaquero, who now always accompanied her, became an
object of envy. Possibly this caused the master to observe him closely.
He was tall and thin, with a smooth complexionless face, but to
the master's astonishment he had the blue gray eye of the higher or
Castilian type of native Californian. Further inquiry proved that he was
a son of one of the old impoverished Spanish grant holders whose leagues
and cattle had been mortgaged to the Hoovers, who now retained the son
to control the live stock "on shares." "It looks kinder ez ef he might
hev an eye on that poorty little gal when she's an age to marry,"
suggested a jealous swain. For several days the girl submitted to her
school tasks with her usual languid indifference and did not again
transgress the ordinary rules. Nor did Mr. Brooks again refer to their
hopeless conversation. But one afternoon he noticed that in the silence
and preoccupation of the class she had substituted another volume for
her text-book and was perusing it with the articulating lips of the
unpracticed reader. He demanded it from her. With blazing eyes and
both hands thrust into her desk she refused and defied him. Mr.
Brooks slipped his arms around her waist, quietly lifted her from the
bench--feeling her little teeth pierce the back of his hand as he did
so, but secured the book. Two of the elder boys and girls had risen with
excited faces.

"Sit down!" said the master sternly.

They resumed their places with awed looks. The master examined the book.
It was a little Spanish prayer book. "You were reading this?" he said in
her own tongue.

"Yes. You shall not prevent me!" she burst out. "Mother of God! THEY
will not let me read it at the ranch. They would take it from me. And
now YOU!"

"You may read it when and where you like, except when you should be
studying your lessons," returned the master quietly. "You may keep it
here in your desk and peruse it at recess. Come to me for it then. You
are not fit to read it now."

The girl looked up with astounded eyes, which in the capriciousness of
her passionate nature the next moment filled with tears. Then dropping
on her knees she caught the master's bitten hand and covered it with
tears and kisses. But he quietly disengaged it and lifted her to her
seat. There was a sniffling sound among the benches, which, however,
quickly subsided as he glanced around the room, and the incident ended.

Regularly thereafter she took her prayer book back at recess and
disappeared with the children, finding, as he afterwards learned, a seat
under a secluded buckeye tree, where she was not disturbed by them until
her orisons were concluded. The children must have remained loyal to
some command of hers, for the incident and this custom were never told
out of school, and the master did not consider it his duty to inform Mr.
or Mrs. Hoover. If the child could recognize some check--even if it were
deemed by some a superstitious one--over her capricious and precocious
nature, why should he interfere?

One day at recess he presently became conscious of the ceasing of those
small voices in the woods around the schoolhouse, which were always
as familiar and pleasant to him in his seclusion as the song of their
playfellows--the birds themselves. The continued silence at last
awakened his concern and curiosity. He had seldom intruded upon or
participated in their games or amusements, remembering when a boy
himself the heavy incompatibility of the best intentioned adult intruder
to even the most hypocritically polite child at such a moment. A sense
of duty, however, impelled him to step beyond the schoolhouse, where to
his astonishment he found the adjacent woods empty and soundless. He was
relieved, however, after penetrating its recesses, to hear the distant
sound of small applause and the unmistakable choking gasps of Johnny
Stidger's pocket accordion. Following the sound he came at last upon a
little hollow among the sycamores, where the children were disposed in
a ring, in the centre of which, with a handkerchief in each hand, Concha
the melancholy!--Concha the devout!--was dancing that most extravagant
feat of the fandango--the audacious sembicuaca!

Yet, in spite of her rude and uncertain accompaniment, she was dancing
it with a grace, precision, and lightness that was wonderful; in spite
of its doubtful poses and seductive languors she was dancing it with the
artless gayety and innocence--perhaps from the suggestion of her tiny
figure--of a mere child among an audience of children. Dancing it alone
she assumed the parts of the man and woman; advancing, retreating,
coquetting, rejecting, coyly bewitching, and at last yielding as lightly
and as immaterially as the flickering shadows that fell upon them from
the waving trees overhead. The master was fascinated yet troubled.
What if there had been older spectators? Would the parents take the
performance as innocently as the performer and her little audience? He
thought it necessary later to suggest this delicately to the child. Her
temper rose, her eyes flashed.

"Ah, the slipper, she is forbidden. The prayer book--she must not. The
dance, it is not good. Truly, there is nothing."

For several days she sulked. One morning she did not come to school,
nor the next. At the close of the third day the master called at the
Hoovers' ranch.

Mrs. Hoover met him embarrassedly in the hall. "I was sayin' to Hiram
he ought to tell ye, but he didn't like to till it was certain. Concha's
gone."

"Gone?" echoed the master.

"Yes. Run off with Pedro. Married to him yesterday by the Popish priest
at the mission."

"Married! That child?"

"She wasn't no child, Mr. Brooks. We were deceived. My brother was
a fool, and men don't understand these things. She was a grown
woman--accordin' to these folks' ways and ages--when she kem here. And
that's what bothered me."

There was a week's excitement at Chestnut Ridge, but it pleased the
master to know that while the children grieved for the loss of Concha
they never seemed to understand why she had gone.


DICK BOYLE'S BUSINESS CARD


The Sage Wood and Dead Flat stage coach was waiting before the station.
The Pine Barrens mail wagon that connected with it was long overdue,
with its transfer passengers, and the station had relapsed into listless
expectation. Even the humors of Dick Boyle, the Chicago "drummer,"--and,
so far, the solitary passenger--which had diverted the waiting loungers,
began to fail in effect, though the cheerfulness of the humorist was
unabated. The ostlers had slunk back into the stables, the station
keeper and stage driver had reduced their conversation to impatient
monosyllables, as if each thought the other responsible for the delay.
A solitary Indian, wrapped in a commissary blanket and covered by a
cast-off tall hat, crouched against the wall of the station looking
stolidly at nothing. The Spaniard literally foamed at the mouth.

"Soldiers!" vociferated he, "seize the captain and the prisoners. We
are betrayed. And you, steersman, put about."
And betrayed they assuredly were; for while the officer had been quaffing
his Madeira, and the soldiers and boatmen regaling themselves with
the steward's rum, sail had been made on the vessel without noise
or bustle, and, favoured by the breeze, she was rapidly increasing
her distance from land.

Meantime Ready preserved the utmost composure.

"Betrayed!" repeated he, replying to the vehement ejaculation of the
Spaniard. "Thank God we are Americans, and have no trust to break,
nothing to betray. As to this prisoner of yours, however, he must
remain here."

"Here!" sneered the Spaniard--"We'll soon see about that you
treacherous"--
"Here," quietly interrupted the captain. "Do not give yourself needless
trouble, Señor; your soldiers' guns are, as you perceive, in our
hands, and my six sailors well provided with pistols and cutlasses.

We are more than a match for your ten, and at the first suspicious
movement you make, we fire on you."
The officer looked around, and became speechless when he beheld
the soldiers' muskets piled upon the deck, and guarded by two well
armed and determined-looking sailors.

"You would not dare"--exclaimed he.

"Indeed would I," replied Ready; "but I hope you will not force me to
it.
You must remain a few hours longer my guest, and then you can return
to port in your boat.

You will get off with a month's arrest, and as compensation, you
will have the satisfaction of having delivered a brave enemy from
despair and death."
The officer ground his teeth together, but even yet he did not give up
all hopes of getting out of the scrape. Resistance was evidently out
of the question, his men's muskets being in the power of the
Americans who, with cocked pistols and naked cutlasses, stood on
guard over them.

The soldiers themselves did not seem very full of fight, and the boatmen
were negroes, and consequently non-combatants. But there were several
trincadores and armed cutters cruising about, and if he could
manage to hail or make a signal to one of them, the schooner would
be brought to, and the tables turned.

He gazed earnestly at a sloop that just then crossed them at no great
distance, staggering in towards the harbour under press of sail. The
American seemed to read his thoughts.

"Do me the honour, Señor," said be, "to partake of a slight _dejeuner-à-la
fourchette_ in the cabin. We will also hope for the pleasure of your
company at dinner. Supper you will probably eat at home."
And so saying, he motioned courteously towards the cabin stairs.

The Spaniard looked in the seaman's face, and read in its decided
expression, and in the slight smile of intelligence that played
upon it, that he must not hope either to resist or outwit his polite
but peremptory entertainer.

So, making a virtue of necessity, he descended into the cabin.

The joy of the refugees at finding themselves thus unexpectedly rescued
from the captivity they so much dreaded, may be more easily imagined
than described.

They remained for some time without uttering a word; but the tears
of the lady, and the looks of heartfelt gratitude of her husband
were the best thanks they could offer their deliverer.

On went the schooner; fainter and fainter grew the outline of the
land, till at length it sank under the horizon, and nothing was visible
but the castle of the Molo and the topmasts of the vessels riding at
anchor off the Havannah. They were twenty miles from land, far enough
for the safety of the fugitive, and as far as it was prudent for those
to come who had to return to port in an open boat.

Ready's good-humour and hearty hospitality had reconciled him with the
Spaniard, who seemed to have forgotten the trick that had been played
him, and the punishment he would incur for having allowed himself to
be entrapped. He shook the captain's hand as he stepped over the side,
the negroes dipped their oars into the water, and in a short time
the boat was seen from the schooner as a mere speck upon the vast
expanse of ocean.

The voyage was prosperous, and in eleven days the vessel reached its
destination. The Columbian officer, his wife and children, were
received with the utmost kindness and hospitality by the young and
handsome wife of Captain Ready, in whose house they took up their
quarters.

They remained there two months, living in the most retired manner,
with the double object of economizing their scanty resources, and
of avoiding the notice of the Philadelphians, who at that time
viewed the patriots of Southern America with no very favourable eye.

The insurrection against the Spaniards had injured the commerce
between the United States and the Spanish colonies, and the purely
mercantile and lucre-loving spirit of the Philadelphians made them
look with dislike on any persons or circumstances who caused a
diminution of their trade and profits.

At the expiration of the above-mentioned time, an opportunity offered
of a vessel going to Marguerite, then the headquarters of the
patriots, and the place where the first expeditions were formed under
Bolivar against the Spaniards.

Estoval (that was the name by which the Columbian officer was designated
in his passport) gladly seized the opportunity, and taking a grateful
and affectionate leave of his deliverer, embarked with his wife and
children. They had been several days at sea before they remembered that
they had forgotten to tell their American friends their real name.
The latter had never enquired it, and the Estovals being accustomed to
address one another by their Christian names, it had never been
mentioned.

Meantime, the good seed Captain Ready had sown, brought the honest Yankee
but a sorry harvest. His employers had small sympathy with the
feelings of humanity that had induced him to run the risk of
carrying off a Spanish state-prisoner from under the guns of a Spanish
battery. Their correspondents at the Havannah had had some trouble
and difficulty on account of the affair, and had written to Philadelphia
to complain of it.
Ready lost his ship, and could only obtain from his employers certificates
of character of so ambiguous and unsatisfactory a nature, that for a
long time he found it impossible to get the command of another
vessel.

In the autumn of 1824, I left Baltimore as supercargo of the brig Perverance,
Captain Ready. Proceeding to the Havannah, we discharged our cargo,
took in another, partly on our own account, partly on that of the
Spanish government, and sailed for Callao on the 1st December,
exactly eight days before the celebrated battle of Ayacucho dealt
the finishing blow to Spanish rule on the southern continent of
America, and established the independence of Peru.

The Spaniards, however, still held the fortress of Callao, which, after
having been taken by Martin and Cochrane four years previously,
had again been treacherously delivered up, and was now blockaded
by sea and land by the patriots, under the command of General
Hualero, who had marched an army from Columbia to assist the cause
of liberty in Peru.

Of all these circumstances we were ignorant, until we arrived within a
few leagues of the port of Callao. Then we learned them from a vessel
that spoke us, but we still advanced, hoping to find an opportunity
to slip in.
In attempting to do so, we were seized by one of the blockading vessels,
and the captain and myself taken out and sent to Lima. We were allowed
to take our personal property with us, but of brig or cargo we heard
nothing for some time. I was not a little uneasy; for the whole of
my savings during ten years' clerkship in the house of a Baltimore
merchant were embarked in the form of a venture on board the
Perseverance.

The captain, who had a fifth of the cargo, and was half owner of
the brig, took things very philosophically, and passed his days
with a penknife and stick in his hand, whittling away, Yankee
fashion; and when he had chapped up his stick, he would set to work
notching and hacking the first chair, bench, or table that came
under his hand.

If any one spoke to him of the brig, he would grind his teeth a
little, but said nothing, and whittled away harder than ever. This was
his character, however. I had known him for five years that he
had been in the employ of the same house as myself, and he had always
passed for a singularly reserved and taciturn man.
During our voyage, whole weeks had sometimes elapsed without his uttering
a word except to give the necessary orders.

In spite of his peculiarities, Captain Ready was generally liked by his
brother captains, and by all who knew him. When he did speak, his words
(perhaps the more prized on account of their rarity) were always listened
to with attention. There was a benevolence and mildness in the tones
of his voice that rendered it quite musical, and never failed to
prepossess in his favour all those who heard him, and to make them
forget the usual sullenness of his manner. During the whole time he
had sailed for the Baltimore house, he had shown himself a model of
trustworthiness and seamanship, and enjoyed the full confidence of his
employers. It was said, however, that his early life had not been
irreproachable; that when he first, and as a very young man, had
command of a Philadelphian ship, something had occurred which had
thrown a stain upon his character. What this was, I had never heard
very distinctly stated. He had favoured the escape of a malefactor,
ensnared some officers who were sent on board his vessel to seize
him. All this was very vague, but what was positive was the fact,
that the owners of the ship he then commanded, had had much trouble
about the matter, and Ready himself remained long unemployed, until
the rapid increase of trade between the United States and the infant
republics of South America had caused seamen of ability to be in
much request, and he had again obtained command of a vessel.

We were seated one afternoon outside the French coffeehouse at Lima.
The party consisted of seven or eight captains of merchant
vessels that had been seized, and they were doing their best to kill
the time, some smoking, others chewing, but nearly all with penknife
and stick in hand, whittling as for a wager. On their first arrival at
Lima, and adoption of this coffeehouse as a place of resort, the tables
and chairs belonging to it seemed in a fair way to be cut to pieces
by these indefatigable whittlers; but the coffeehouse keeper had hit
upon a plan to avoid such deterioration of his chattels, and had placed
in every corner of the rooms bundles of sticks, at which his Yankee
customers cut and notched, till the coffeehouse assumed the appearance
of a carpenter's shop.

The costume and airs of the patriots, as they called themselves, were no
small source of amusement to us. They strutted about in all the pride
of their fire-new freedom, regular caricatures of soldiers. One would
have on a Spanish jacket, part of the spoils of Ayacucho--another, an
American one, which he had bought from some sailor--a third a monk's
robe, cut short, and fashioned into a sort of doublet. Here was a
shako wanting a brim, in company with a gold-laced velvet coat of the
time of Philip V.; there, a hussar jacket and an old-fashioned
cocked hat. The volunteers were the best clothed, also in great part
from the plunder of the battle of Ayacucho. Their uniforms were laden
with gold and silver lace, and some of the officers, not satisfied
with two epaulettes, had half-a-dozen hanging before and behind,
as well as on their shoulders.

As we sat smoking, whittling, and quizzing the patriots, a side-door
of the coffeehouse was suddenly opened, and an officer came out
whose appearance was calculated to give us a far more favourable
opinion of South American _militaires_.

He was a man about thirty years of age, plainly but tastefully
dressed, and of that unassuming, engaging demeanour which is so
often found the companion of the greatest decision of character,
and which contrasted with the martial deportment of a young man who
followed him, and who, although in much more showy uniform, was
evidently his inferior in rank.

We bowed as he passed before us, and he acknowledged the salutation by
raising his cocked hat slightly but courteously from his head. He was
passing on when his eyes suddenly fell upon Captain Ready, who was
standing a little on one side, notching away at his tenth or twelfth
stick, and at that moment happened to look up.

The officer started, gazed earnestly at Ready for the space of a moment,
and then, with delight expressed on his countenance, sprang forward,
and clasped him in his arms.

"Captain Ready!"
"That is my name," quietly replied the captain.

"Is it possible you do not know me?" exclaimed the officer.

Ready looked hard at him, and seemed a little in doubt.

At last he shook his head.

"You do not know me?" repeated the other, almost reproachfully, and
then whispered something in his ear.

It was now Ready's turn to start and look surprised.

A smile of pleasure lit up his countenance as he grasped the hand of the
officer, who took his arm and dragged him away into the house.

A quarter of an hour elapsed, during which we lost ourselves in conjectures
as to who this acquaintance of Ready's could be. At the end of that
time the captain and his new (or old) friend re-appeared. The latter
walked away, and we saw him enter the government house, while Ready
joined us, as silent and phlegmatic as ever, and resumed his stick and
penknife.
In reply to our enquiries as to who the officer was, he only said that
he belonged to the army besieging Callao, and that he had once made
a voyage as his passenger. This was all the information we could
extract from our taciturn friend; but we saw plainly that the officer
was somebody of importance, from the respect paid him by the
soldiers and others whom he met.

The morning following this incident we were sitting over our chocolate,
when an orderly dragoon came to ask for Captain Ready. The captain went
out to speak to him, and presently returning, went on with his breakfast
very deliberately.

When he had done, he asked me if I were inclined for a little
excursion out of the town, which would, perhaps, keep us a couple
of days away.

I willingly accepted, heartily sick as I was of the monotonous life
we were leading.

We packed up our valises, took our pistols and cutlasses, and went
out.

To my astonishment the orderly was waiting at the door with two
magnificent Spanish chargers, splendidly accoutred.

They were the finest horses I had seen in Peru, and my curiosity
was strongly excited to know who had sent them, and whither we were
going.

To my questions, Ready replied that we were going to visit the
officer whom he had spoken to on the preceding day, and who was
with the besieging army, and had once been his passenger, but he
declared he did not know his name or rank.

We had left the town about a mile behind us, when we heard the sound
of cannon in the direction we were approaching; it increased as we
went on, and about a mile further we met a string of carts, full of
wounded, going in to Lima. Here and there we caught sight of parties
of marauders, who disappeared as soon as they saw our orderly. I felt
a great longing and curiosity to witness the fight that was evidently
going on--not, however, that I was particularly desirous of taking share
in it, or putting myself in the way of the bullets. My friend the
captain jogged on by my side, taking little heed of the roar of the
cannon, which to him was no novelty; for having passed his life at sea,
he had had more than one encounter with pirates and other rough customers,
and been many times under the fire of batteries, running in and
out of blockaded American ports.

His whole attention was now engrossed by the management of his horse,
which was somewhat restive, and he, like most sailors, was a very
indifferent rider.

On reaching the top of a small rising ground, we beheld to the left the
dark frowning bastions of the fort, and to the right the village
of Bella Vista, which, although commanded by the guns of Callao,
had been chosen as the headquarters of the besieging army--the
houses being, for the most part, built of huge blocks of stone, and
offering sufficient resistance to the balls.

The orderly pointed out to us the various batteries, and especially one
which was just completed, and was situated about three hundred yards
from the fortress. It had not yet been used, and was still masked from
the enemy by some houses which stood just in its front.

For a few moments they, too, seemed to
surround and possess it, even as the other shadows had done, penetrating
the woods and thicket beside it. And then as suddenly at some signal
they swept forward furiously in the track of the destroying shadows.


Miss Cantire took full advantage of the suggestion "not to hurry" in her
walk, with certain feminine ideas of its latitude. She gathered a few
wild flowers and some berries in the underwood, inspected some birds'
nests with a healthy youthful curiosity, and even took the opportunity
of arranging some moist tendrils of her silky hair with something she
took from the small reticule that hung coquettishly from her girdle. It
was, indeed, some twenty minutes before she emerged into the road again;
the vehicle had evidently disappeared in a turn of the long, winding
ascent, but just ahead of her was that dreadful man, the "Chicago
drummer." She was not vain, but she made no doubt that he was waiting
there for her. There was no avoiding him, but his companionship could be
made a brief one. She began to walk with ostentatious swiftness.

Boyle, whose concern for her safety was secretly relieved at this, began
to walk forward briskly too without looking around. Miss Cantire was not
prepared for this; it looked so ridiculously as if she were chasing him!
She hesitated slightly, but now as she was nearly abreast of him she was
obliged to keep on.

"I think you do well to hurry, Miss Cantire," he said as she passed.
"I've lost sight of the coach for some time, and I dare say they're
already waiting for us at the summit."

Miss Cantire did not like this any better. To go on beside this dreadful
man, scrambling breathlessly after the stage--for all the world like an
absorbed and sentimentally belated pair of picnickers--was really TOO
much. "Perhaps if YOU ran on and told them I was coming as fast as I
could," she suggested tentatively.

"It would be as much as my life is worth to appear before Foster without
you," he said laughingly. "You've only got to hurry on a little faster."

But the young lady resented this being driven by a "drummer." She began
to lag, depressing her pretty brows ominously.

"Let me carry your flowers," said Boyle. He had noticed that she was
finding some difficulty in holding up her skirt and the nosegay at the
same time.

"No! No!" she said in hurried horror at this new suggestion of their
companionship. "Thank you very much--but they're really not worth
keeping--I am going to throw them away. There!" she added, tossing them
impatiently in the dust.

But she had not reckoned on Boyle's perfect good-humor. That gentle
idiot stooped down, actually gathered them up again, and was following!
She hurried on; if she could only get to the coach first, ignoring him!
But a vulgar man like that would be sure to hand them to her with some
joke! Then she lagged again--she was getting tired, and she could see
no sign of the coach. The drummer, too, was also lagging behind--at
a respectful distance, like a groom or one of her father's troopers.
Nevertheless this did not put her in a much better humor, and halting
until he came abreast of her, she said impatiently: "I don't see why Mr.
Foster should think it necessary to send any one to look after me."

"He didn't," returned Boyle simply. "I got down to pick up something."

"To pick up something?" she returned incredulously.

"Yes. THAT." He held out the card. "It's the card of our firm."

Miss Cantire smiled ironically. "You are certainly devoted to your
business."

"Well, yes," returned Boyle good-humoredly. "You see I reckon it don't
pay to do anything halfway. And whatever I do, I mean to keep my eyes
about me." In spite of her prejudice, Miss Cantire could see that these
necessary organs, if rather flippant, were honest. "Yes, I suppose there
isn't much on that I don't take in. Why now, Miss Cantire, there's that
fancy dust cloak you're wearing--it isn't in our line of goods--nor in
anybody's line west of Chicago; it came from Boston or New York, and was
made for home consumption! But your hat--and mighty pretty it is too, as
YOU'VE fixed it up--is only regular Dunstable stock, which we could
put down at Pine Barrens for four and a half cents a piece, net. Yet I
suppose you paid nearly twenty-five cents for it at the Agency!"

Oddly enough this cool appraisement of her costume did not incense the
young lady as it ought to have done. On the contrary, for some occult
feminine reason, it amused and interested her. It would be such a good
story to tell her friends of a "drummer's" idea of gallantry; and to
tease the flirtatious young West Pointer who had just joined. And the
appraisement was truthful--Major Cantire had only his pay--and Miss
Cantire had been obliged to select that hat from the government stores.

"Are you in the habit of giving this information to ladies you meet in
traveling?" she asked.

"Well, no!" answered Boyle--"for that's just where you have to keep your
eyes open. Most of 'em wouldn't like it, and it's no use aggravating a
possible customer. But you are not that kind."

Miss Cantire was silent. She knew she was not of that kind, but she
did not require his vulgar indorsement. She pushed on for some moments
alone, when suddenly he hailed her. She turned impatiently. He was
carefully examining the road on both sides.

"We have either lost our way," he said, rejoining her, "or the coach has
turned off somewhere. These tracks are not fresh, and as they are all
going the same way, they were made by the up coach last night. They're
not OUR tracks; I thought it strange we hadn't sighted the coach by this
time."

"And then"--said Miss Cantire impatiently.

"We must turn back until we find them again."

The young lady frowned. "Why not keep on until we get to the top?" she
said pettishly. "I'm sure I shall." She stopped suddenly as she caught
sight of his grave face and keen, observant eyes. "Why can't we go on as
we are?"

"Because we are expected to come back to the COACH--and not to the
summit merely. These are the 'orders,' and you know you are a soldier's
daughter!" He laughed as he spoke, but there was a certain quiet
deliberation in his manner that impressed her. When he added, after
a pause, "We must go back and find where the tracks turned off," she
obeyed without a word.

They walked for some time, eagerly searching for signs of the missing
vehicle. A curious interest and a new reliance in Boyle's judgment
obliterated her previous annoyance, and made her more natural. She ran
ahead of him with youthful eagerness, examining the ground, following
a false clue with great animation, and confessing her defeat with a
charming laugh. And it was she who, after retracing their steps for ten
minutes, found the diverging track with a girlish cry of triumph. Boyle,
who had followed her movements quite as interestedly as her discovery,
looked a little grave as he noticed the deep indentations made by the
struggling horses. Miss Cantire detected the change in his face; ten
minutes before she would never have observed it. "I suppose we had
better follow the new track," she said inquiringly, as he seemed to
hesitate.

"Certainly," he said quickly, as if coming to a prompt decision. "That
is safest."

"What do you think has happened? The ground looks very much cut up," she
said in a confidential tone, as new to her as her previous observation
of him.

"A horse has probably stumbled and they've taken the old trail as less
difficult," said Boyle promptly. In his heart he did not believe it,
yet he knew that if anything serious had threatened them the coach would
have waited in the road. "It's an easier trail for us, though I suppose
it's a little longer," he added presently.

"You take everything so good-humoredly, Mr. Boyle," she said after a
pause.

"It's the way to do business, Miss Cantire," he said. "A man in my line
has to cultivate it."

She wished he hadn't said that, but, nevertheless, she returned a little
archly: "But you haven't any business with the stage company nor with
ME, although I admit I intend to get my Dunstable hereafter from your
firm at the wholesale prices."

Before he could reply, the detonation of two gunshots, softened by
distance, floated down from the ridge above them. "There!" said Miss
Cantire eagerly. "Do you hear that?"

His face was turned towards the distant ridge, but really that she might
not question his eyes. She continued with animation: "That's from the
coach--to guide us--don't you see?"

"Yes," he returned, with a quick laugh, "and it says hurry up--mighty
quick--we're tired waiting--so we'd better push on."

"Why don't you answer back with your revolver?" she asked.

"Haven't got one," he said.

"Haven't got one?" she repeated in genuine surprise. "I thought
you gentlemen who are traveling always carried one. Perhaps it's
inconsistent with your gospel of good-humor."

"That's just it, Miss Cantire," he said with a laugh. "You've hit it."

"Why," she said hesitatingly, "even I have a derringer--a very little
one, you know, which I carry in my reticule. Captain Richards gave it to
me." She opened her reticule and showed a pretty ivory-handled pistol.
The look of joyful surprise which came into his face changed quickly as
she cocked it and lifted it into the air. He seized her arm quickly.

"No, please don't, you might want it--I mean the report won't carry far
enough. It's a very useful little thing, for all that, but it's only
effective at close quarters." He kept the pistol in his hand as they
walked on. But Miss Cantire noticed this, also his evident satisfaction
when she had at first produced it, and his concern when she was about to
discharge it uselessly. She was a clever girl, and a frank one to those
she was inclined to trust. And she began to trust this stranger. A smile
stole along her oval cheek.

"I really believe you're afraid of something, Mr. Boyle," she said,
without looking up. "What is it? You haven't got that Indian scare too?"

Boyle had no false shame. "I think I have," he returned, with equal
frankness. "You see, I don't understand Indians as well as you--and
Foster."

"Well, you take my word and Foster's that there is not the least danger
from them. About here they are merely grown-up children, cruel and
destructive as most children are; but they know their masters by this
time, and the old days of promiscuous scalping are over. The only other
childish propensity they keep is thieving. Even then they only steal
what they actually want,--horses, guns, and powder. A coach can go where
an ammunition or an emigrant wagon can't. So your trunk of samples is
quite safe with Foster."

Boyle did not think it necessary to protest. Perhaps he was thinking of
something else.

"I've a mind," she went on slyly, "to tell you something more.
Confidence for confidence: as you've told me YOUR trade secrets, I'll
tell you one of OURS. Before we left Pine Barrens, my father ordered a
small escort of cavalrymen to be in readiness to join that coach if
the scouts, who were watching, thought it necessary. So, you see, I'm
something of a fraud as regards my reputation for courage."

"That doesn't follow," said Boyle admiringly, "for your father must
have thought there was some danger, or he wouldn't have taken that
precaution."

"Oh, it wasn't for me," said the young girl quickly.

"Not for you?" repeated Boyle.

Miss Cantire stopped short, with a pretty flush of color and an adorable
laugh. "There! I've done it, so I might as well tell the whole story.
But I can trust you, Mr. Boyle." (She faced him with clear, penetrating
eyes.) "Well," she laughed again, "you might have noticed that we had a
quantity of baggage of passengers who didn't go? Well, those passengers
never intended to go, and hadn't any baggage! Do you understand? Those
innocent-looking heavy trunks contained carbines and cartridges from
our post for Fort Taylor"--she made him a mischievous curtsy--"under
MY charge! And," she added, enjoying his astonishment, "as you saw, I
brought them through safe to the station, and had them transferred to
this coach with less fuss and trouble than a commissary transport and
escort would have made."

"And they were in THIS coach?" repeated Boyle abstractedly.

"Were? They ARE!" said Miss Cantire.

"Then the sooner I get you back to your treasure again the better," said
Boyle with a laugh. "Does Foster know it?"

"Of course not! Do you suppose I'd tell it to anybody but a stranger
to the place? Perhaps, like you, I know when and to whom to impart
information," she said mischievously.

Whatever was in Boyle's mind he had space for profound and admiring
astonishment of the young lady before him. The girlish simplicity and
trustfulness of her revelation seemed as inconsistent with his previous
impression of her reserve and independence as her girlish reasoning and
manner was now delightfully at variance with her tallness, her aquiline
nose, and her erect figure. Mr. Boyle, like most short men, was apt to
overestimate the qualities of size.

They walked on for some moments in silence. The ascent was comparatively
easy but devious, and Boyle could see that this new detour would take
them still some time to reach the summit. Miss Cantire at last voiced
the thought in his own mind. "I wonder what induced them to turn off
here? and if you hadn't been so clever as to discover their tracks, how
could we have found them? But," she added, with feminine logic, "that,
of course, is why they fired those shots."

Boyle remembered, however, that the shots came from another direction,
but did not correct her conclusion. Nevertheless he said lightly:
"Perhaps even Foster might have had an Indian scare."

"He ought to know 'friendlies' or 'government reservation men' better by
this time," said Miss Cantire; "however, there is something in that. Do
you know," she added with a laugh, "though I haven't your keen eyes
I'm gifted with a keen scent, and once or twice I've thought I SMELT
Indians--that peculiar odor of their camps, which is unlike anything
else, and which one detects even in their ponies. I used to notice it
when I rode one; no amount of grooming could take it away."

"I don't suppose that the intensity or degree of this odor would give
you any idea of the hostile or friendly feelings of the Indians towards
you?" asked Boyle grimly.

Although the remark was consistent with Boyle's objectionable reputation
as a humorist, Miss Cantire deigned to receive it with a smile, at which
Boyle, who was a little relieved by their security so far, and their
nearness to their journey's end, developed further ingenious trifling
until, at the end of an hour, they stood upon the plain again.

There was no sign of the coach, but its fresh track was visible leading
along the bank of the ravine towards the intersection of the road they
should have come by, and to which the coach had indubitably returned.
Mr. Boyle drew a long breath. They were comparatively safe from any
invisible attack now. At the end of ten minutes Miss Cantire, from her
superior height, detected the top of the missing vehicle appearing above
the stunted bushes at the junction of the highway.

"Would you mind throwing those old flowers away now?" she said, glancing
at the spoils which Boyle still carried.

"Why?" he asked.

"Oh, they're too ridiculous. Please do."

"May I keep one?" he asked, with the first intonation of masculine
weakness in his voice.

"If you like," she said, a little coldly.

Boyle selected a small spray of myrtle and cast the other flowers
obediently aside.

"Dear me, how ridiculous!" she said.

"What is ridiculous?" he asked, lifting his eyes to hers with a slight
color. But he saw that she was straining her eyes in the distance.

"Why, there don't seem to be any horses to the coach!"

He looked. Through a gap in the furze he could see the vehicle now quite
distinctly, standing empty, horseless and alone. He glanced hurriedly
around them; on the one side a few rocks protected them from the tangled
rim of the ridge; on the other stretched the plain. "Sit down, don't
move until I return," he said quickly. "Take that." He handed back her
pistol, and ran quickly to the coach. It was no illusion; there it stood
vacant, abandoned, its dropped pole and cut traces showing too plainly
the fearful haste of its desertion! A light step behind him made him
turn. It was Miss Cantire, pink and breathless, carrying the cocked
derringer in her hand. "How foolish of you--without a weapon," she
gasped in explanation.

Then they both stared at the coach, the empty plain, and at each
other! After their tedious ascent, their long detour, their protracted
expectancy and their eager curiosity, there was such a suggestion of
hideous mockery in this vacant, useless vehicle--apparently left to them
in what seemed their utter abandonment--that it instinctively affected
them alike. And as I am writing of human nature I am compelled to say
that they both burst into a fit of laughter that for the moment stopped
all other expression!

"It was so kind of them to leave the coach," said Miss Cantire faintly,
as she took her handkerchief from her wet and mirthful eyes. "But what
made them run away?"

Boyle did not reply; he was eagerly examining the coach. In that brief
hour and a half the dust of the plain had blown thick upon it, and
covered any foul stain or blot that might have suggested the awful
truth. Even the soft imprint of the Indians' moccasined feet had been
trampled out by the later horse hoofs of the cavalrymen. It was these
that first attracted Boyle's attention, but he thought them the marks
made by the plunging of the released coach horses.

Not so his companion! She was examining them more closely, and suddenly
lifted her bright, animated face. "Look!" she said; "our men have been
here, and have had a hand in this--whatever it is."

"Our men?" repeated Boyle blankly.

"Yes!--troopers from the post--the escort I told you of. These are the
prints of the regulation cavalry horseshoe--not of Foster's team, nor of
Indian ponies, who never have any! Don't you see?" she went on eagerly;
"our men have got wind of something and have galloped down here--along
the ridge--see!" she went on, pointing to the hoof prints coming
from the plain. "They've anticipated some Indian attack and secured
everything."

"But if they were the same escort you spoke of, they must have known you
were here, and have"--he was about to say "abandoned you," but checked
himself, remembering they were her father's soldiers.

"They knew I could take care of myself, and wouldn't stand in the way
of their duty," said the young girl, anticipating him with quick
professional pride that seemed to fit her aquiline nose and tall figure.
"And if they knew that," she added, softening with a mischievous smile,
"they also knew, of course, that I was protected by a gallant stranger
vouched for by Mr. Foster! No!" she added, with a certain blind, devoted
confidence, which Boyle noticed with a slight wince that she had never
shown before, "it's all right! and 'by orders,' Mr. Boyle, and when
they've done their work they'll be back."

But Boyle's masculine common sense was, perhaps, safer than Miss
Cantire's feminine faith and inherited discipline, for in an instant
he suddenly comprehended the actual truth! The Indians had been there
FIRST; THEY had despoiled the coach and got off safely with their booty
and prisoners on the approach of the escort, who were now naturally
pursuing them with a fury aroused by the belief that their commander's
daughter was one of their prisoners. This conviction was a dreadful one,
yet a relief as far as the young girl was concerned. But should he tell
her? No! Better that she should keep her calm faith in the triumphant
promptness of the soldiers--and their speedy return.

"I dare say you are right," he said cheerfully, "and let us be thankful
that in the empty coach you'll have at least a half-civilized shelter
until they return. Meantime I'll go and reconnoitre a little."

"I will go with you," she said.

But Boyle pointed out to her so strongly the necessity of her remaining
to wait for the return of the soldiers that, being also fagged out
by her long climb, she obediently consented, while he, even with
his inspiration of the truth, did not believe in the return of the
despoilers, and knew she would be safe.

He made his way to the nearest thicket, where he rightly believed the
ambush had been prepared, and to which undoubtedly they first retreated
with their booty. He expected to find some signs or traces of their
spoil which in their haste they had to abandon. He was more successful
than he anticipated. A few steps into the thicket brought him full
upon a realization of more than his worst convictions--the dead body of
Foster! Near it lay the body of the mail agent. Both had been evidently
dragged into the thicket from where they fell, scalped and half
stripped. I was in bed, and, tired with the thought that weighed upon
my brain, had fallen into a temporary sleep, from which I woke too
soon, to find my wife, now about to become a mother, weeping as if
her heart were broken, at my side.

Trouble, sir, had soured my temper, and I had ceased to be as tender
as she deserved. I was base enough to speak unkindly to her.

"'You are discontented, Anna,' I exclaimed. You are not satisfied--you
repent now that you married me'--I see you do.'
"'Warton,' she exclaimed, 'if you love me, leave this cruel business. Let
us live upon a crust. I will work for you. I will submit to any thing
to see you calm and happy. This will kill you.'
"'It will, it must!' I cried out in misery. 'I cannot help it. What is to
be done?'
"'Retire from it--resign all--every thing--but save us both. This
agitation--this ceaseless wear and tear--must eventually, and soon,
destroy you. What, then, becomes of me?'
"'Show me, Anna, how I can do what you desire with honour. Show me the
way, and I will bless you. Oh, why did I not heed your words before!
Why did I suffer myself to be entrapped'--
"She stopped me in my exclamations.

"'You have promised, dear,' said she, 'never to look upon the past.
You acted for the best. So did we all. It is our consolation and
support. But the present is sad and mournful, and, I believe, it rests
with ourselves to secure our happiness for the future. Are you
content to do it?'
"'Oh, can you ask me, Anna? Tell me how I may escape without discredit--without
shame and one dishonourable taint--and you take me from the depths
of my despair. I see no end to this career. I am fixed to the stake,
and I must burn.'
"'Listen to me, dearest. You shall write to your uncle without delay, and
explain to him your wishes. You shall tell him of your difficulties
frankly and unreservedly.

Make known to him your state of health, and tell him firmly that you are
unequal to the burden which is laid upon you.
Should he insist upon a recompense for your loss, you have money of your
own there--yield it to him, and these hands shall never rest until they
have earned for you every shilling of it back again. Be tranquil, resolute,
cheerful, and all will yet be well, I trust--I feel it will.'
"I had once refused to act on her advice, and the consequences had
been dire enough. When compliance was too late, I implicitly obeyed her.
The letter was written, and an answer came as speedily as we could wish
it. It was a kind reply. My uncle was sorry for my illness, and was
content to take the business off my hands, if I was ready to resign it
in the condition that I had found it. And this, I thanked my God
with tears of joy, I was prepared to do. My personal expenses had been
trifling. The amount of business done was large--my the profits had
not been withdrawn.

Although my sufferings had been great, and difficulties had met me
which I could neither prevent nor comprehend, still reason told me that
the property must have increased in value. It was with alacrity that I
engaged, at my uncle's particular request, an accountant to investigate
the proceedings of the house, and to pronounce upon its present state.
The result of the examination could not but be most satisfactory. It did
not occur to me at the time, that my uncle had deemed no accountant
necessary when he heaped upon me the responsibility which I had
borne so ill.

It would have been but fair, methinks. A time was fixed for a
meeting with my uncle, and for producing the result of the enquiry.
The accountant had been closely engaged at his work for many days, and
had brought it to an end only on the evening preceding the day of our
appointment. He submitted his estimate to me, and you shall judge
my horror when I perused it. There were many sheets of paper, but in
one line my misery was summed up. EIGHT THOUSAND POUNDS _were deficient
and unaccounted for_. Yes, and my own small fortune had been included
in the amount of capital.

The accountant had been careful and exact--there was not a flaw in
his reckoning. The glaring discrepancy stared me in the face, and
pronounced my ruin. I knew not what to think or do.

In accents of the most earnest supplication, I entreated the accountant
to pass the night in reviewing his labours, and to afford me, if
possible, the means of rescuing my name from the obloquy which, in
a few hours, must attach to it.

I offered him any sum of money--all that he could ask--for his pains, and
he promised to comply with my request.

The idea that I had been the victim of a trick, a fraud, never glanced
across my mind. No, when my wretchedness permitted me to think at all,
I suspected and accused no one but myself. I could imagine and believe
that, inadvertently, I had committed some great error when my soul
had been darkened by the daily and hourly anxieties which had
followed it so long.

But how to discover it? How to make my innocence apparent to the
world? How to face my uncle? How to brave the taunts of men? How, above
all, to meet the huge demands which soon would press and fall upon
me?

The tortures of hell cannot exceed in acuteness all that I suffered that
long and bitter night. The accountant was waiting for me in the
parlour when I left my bed.

He had spent the night as I had wished him but had not found one error
in his calculations.

I tore the papers from his hands, and strained my eyes upon the
pages to extract the lie which existed there to damn me. It would
not go--it could not be removed.
I was a doomed, lost man.

Whatever might be the consequence, I resolved to see my uncle, and to
speak the truth. I relied upon the sympathy which I believed inherent
in the nature of man. I relied upon my own integrity, and the serenity
which conscious innocence should give. I met my uncle. I shall never
forget that interview. He received me in his private house--in his
drawing-room. We were alone.

He sat at a table: his face was somewhat pale, but he was cool and
undisturbed--ah, how much more so than his trembling sacrifice! I
placed before him the condemning paper.
It was that only that he cared to see. He looked at once to the
result, and then, without a word, he turned his withering eye upon
me.

"'I know it,' I cried out, not permitting him to speak. 'I know what you
would say. It is a mystery, and I cannot solve it.

There is a fearful error somewhere--but where I know not.

I am as innocent--'
"'Innocent!' exclaimed my uncle, in a tone of bitterness, 'Well, go on,
sir.'

"'Yes, innocent,' I repeated. 'Time will prove it, and make the mystery
clear. My brain is now confused; but it cannot be that this gigantic
error can escape me when I am calm--composed. Grant me but time.'
"'I grant nothing,' said my uncle, fiercely. 'Plunderer! I show no mercy.

You would have shown me none--you would have left me in the lurch,
and laughed at me as you made merry with your stolen wealth. Mark
me, sir--restore it--labour till you have made it good, or I crush
you--once, and for ever.'
"I was rendered speechless by these words. I attempted to make answer;
but my tongue clove to the roof of my mouth--my throat grew dry and
hot--my brain was dizzy, and the room swam round me. I thought of the
name which I had been striving for years to build up--the honourable
name which I had gained--the height from which I was about to
fall--the yawning gulf below--a thousand painful thoughts rushed
in one instant to my mind, and overcame me.

I should have fallen to the earth, had not my heart found in my eyes
a passage for its grief, and rendered me weaker than a child before a
creature who had never felt the luxury of one human tear. I wept aloud
and fearfully.

"'Guilt, guilt, palpable guilt!' exclaimed my uncle. 'None but the guilty
weep. You do not take me by surprise, young man. I was prepared for
this--I have but a word to say. Restore this money, or undertake to pay
it back to me--to the last farthing of my lawful claim. Do this, and I
forgive you, and forget your indiscretion. Refuse, and to-morrow you
are a bankrupt and a beggar. Leave me, and take time for your
decision.

Come to me again this evening.

If you fail--_you_ may expect a visit in the morning.'
"This was said deliberately, but in a tone most expressive of sincerity.
I staggered from his presence, and hurried homeward.

A sickening sensation checked me as I approached my door. I could not
enter it. I rushed away; and in the open fields, where I could weep
and rave unnoticed and alone, I cursed my fate, and entreated heaven
to smite me with its thunders. My mind was tottering. Hours passed
before I reached the house again, how, when, or by what means I arrived
there, I could not tell.

The servant girl who gave me admittance looked savagely upon me, as
I thought. It was sorrow, and not anger, that was written in her face;
but how could I discriminate? Her mistress was seriously ill. She had
been alarmed by the visit of a gentleman, who waited for me in the
parlour, and by my protracted absence; and her agitation had brought
on the pangs of labour.
A physician was now with her. Who was this gentleman?

I entered the room, and there the fiend sate, white with irritation
and gnawing disappointment.

I started back, but he advanced to me--held my papers to my face,
and pointed to one portion of them with a finger that was alive
with rage and agitation.

"'Is it true?' asked my uncle, gnashing his teeth. 'Answer me--yes or
no?--one word, is it true?'
"'It is a lie!' I answered, ignorant of his meaning, and half crazed with
the excitement. 'I am innocent--innocent--Heaven knows I am.'
"'Have you, or have you not given to Gilbert, for these heavy sums, a
power of attorney? Has he got it? Answer me in a word.'
"'He advanced me money,' I replied, 'and I gave him such documents as he
required.'

"'Enough!' said my uncle. 'You are a beggar!'--and without another
word he left me.

"For a week my wife remained in a dangerous condition. Threatened with
the loss of her, I did not leave her side. What was the business to me
at such a time?--what was reputation--what life? Life!--sir, I carried
about with me a potent poison, and I waited only for her latest breath
to drink it off, and join her in the grave.

She rallied, however, and once more I walked abroad--to find myself
a bankrupt and a castaway. The very day that my uncle quitted me, he
called my creditors together--exposed the state of my affairs--and
accused me of the vilest practices. A docket was struck against me.
Every thing that I possessed was dragged away--even to the bed on
which my Anna had been cast, and which she so much needed now.

Every thing was gone; but the blow had fallen, and I was callous to the
loss. In the midst of the desolation I struggled to preserve one trifle
from the common wreck. Do not smile, sir, when I mention _my reputation_.
Yes, I felt that if it could be rescued all might be spared, and I might
yet defy and shame my persecutors. I appealed to the commissioner who
had charge of my estate. I proclaimed aloud, and in the face of
men, my innocence.

I conjured him to subject me to the severest trial--to compel the closest
examination of my affairs--my books--and every individual connected
with the house. I demanded it for the sake of justice--for my own
sake, and for the sake of the poor creatures--I was a father now--whose
fortunes were linked with mine, whose bread depended upon the verdict
which should be pronounced against me. My passionate supplication was
not in vain. The affairs of our house were looked into--the business
that had been done for years was sifted--and clerks and men were subjected
to every interrogatory that could elucidate a fact. At the end of six
months it was publicly announced that an important error had been
discovered--that the estimate given to me was incorrect, _and by
many thousand pounds greater than the true value_.

"There had been a _mistake_! The bankrupt departed from the court
without a blemish on his character. He had been indiscreet in entering
heedlessly upon so large an undertaking, and must pay dearly for that
in discretion.
He was strictly liable and bound to pay what he had acknowledged with his
hand to be a lawful debt. There was no help for him. The young man
was worthy of commiseration, and his creditors should show him mercy."
This was the verdict of the commissioner, spoken in the ears of one
who was a stranger to mercy, and who had vowed to show me _none_.
Guilt, however, attached to my good name no longer, and I smiled
at his malignity.

It was too soon _to smile_. The secret of all my difficulty was now
explained.
Trading upon a false capital, to an extravagant extent beyond the real
one--draining my exchequer of its resources to pay an ever-recurring
interest, whilst the principal was but a fiction in the estate, it was
no wonder that I became hemmed in by claims impossible to meet,
and that the services of Mr Gilbert were so soon in requisition.

In giving to Mr Gilbert a power over the firm, I acted according to my
ideas of justice.
When I was impoverished, he furnished me with the means of keeping up
the credit of the house. But for him it must have fallen. I believed
that I was solvent.

Why should I hesitate to make this man secure? But it is for this preference,
which rendered my uncle's dividend comparatively nothing, that I have
been followed through my life with rancour and malevolence unparalleled.
Mark me, sir; the _mistake_, as it was called--the vital _error_--was
a deliberate fraud committed by my uncle at the outset.

He had withdrawn this heavy sum of money at the beginning--he had
resolved to keep me for my life his servant and his slave--to feast
upon the dropping sweat of my exhausted mind--to convert my heart's
blood into gold, which was his god.

He hated me for my conduct towards him in my boyhood, which he had
neither forgotten nor forgiven; and his detestation gave zest to
his hellish desire of accumulating wealth at any cost. Had I applied
to _him_, had I entered into new engagements with _him_, given to _him_
the securities which, from a notion of right, I had presented to
Gilbert--had I made over to the fiend soul as well as body, I might
still have retained his friendship, still been permitted to labour
and to toil for his aggrandizement and ease.

It was Gilbert himself who revealed to me his patron's villany. It was
time for the vultures to quarrel when they could not both fatten on my
prostrate carcass; but they were bound together by the dark doings
of years, and it was only by imperfect hints and innuendoes that I was
made aware of their treachery. If proofs existed to convict my uncle,
Gilbert could not afford to produce them.

The price was life, or something short of it; but I heard enough for
satisfaction.

Although I was deprived of everything that I possessed, my mind recovered
its buoyancy, and my spirit, after the first shock, grew sanguine. I
had been proclaimed an innocent and injured man, and my beloved Anna
was at my side smiling and rejoicing. In our overthrow, she beheld
only the dark storm of morning, that sometimes ushers in the
glorious noon and golden sunset.

I spoke of the past with anger; she reverted to it with the chastened
sorrow of a repentant angel. I looked to the future with distrust
and apprehension, she, with a bright, abiding confidence. Never had
she appeared so happy, so contented--never had the smile remained so
constant to her cheek, so unalloyed with touch of care, as when we
stood houseless and homeless in the world, and nothing but her
fortitude and love were left me to rely upon.

My first care after my dismission into life again, was to obtain my
certificate from my creditors, and with almost all of them I was
successful. The exceptions were my uncle, and three individuals--his
creatures, and willing instruments of torture. They were sufficient to
brand me with disgrace, and to affix for ever to my name that mark
of infamy which an after life of virtue shall never wash away or
hide.

UNCERTIFICATED BANKRUPT was the badge I carried with me.
From this period my decline was rapid and unequivocal. A creditor, who
had not proved his debt upon the estate, hearing tell of my defenceless
situation, cast me forthwith into prison.
Boyle's long absence, his flushed face, twisted necktie,
and enforced cheerfulness. She was shocked, amazed, discomfited--and
admiring! And this hero had been sitting opposite to her, silent all the
rest of the night!

"Did Mr. Boyle say anything of an Indian attack last night?" asked
Ashford. "Did you hear anything?"

"Only the wolves howling," said Miss Cantire. "Mr. Boyle was away
twice." She was strangely reticent--in complimentary imitation of her
missing hero.

"There's a dead Indian here who has been killed," began Ashford.

"Oh, please don't say anything more, Mr. Ashford," interrupted the young
lady, "but let us get away from this horrid place at once. Do get the
horses in. I can't stand it."

But the horses were already harnessed and mounted, postilion-wise, by
the troopers. The vehicle was ready to start when Miss Cantire called
"Stop!"

When Ashford presented himself at the door, the young lady was upon her
hands and knees, searching the bottom of the coach. "Oh, dear! I've lost
something. I must have dropped it on the road," she said breathlessly,
with pink cheeks. "You must positively wait and let me go back and find
it. I won't be long. You know there's 'no hurry.'"

Mr. Ashford stared as Miss Cantire skipped like a schoolgirl from the
coach and ran down the trail by which she and Boyle had approached the
coach the night before. She had not gone far before she came upon the
withered flowers he had thrown away at her command. "It must be about
here," she murmured. Suddenly she uttered a cry of delight, and picked
up the business card that Boyle had shown her. By the way here, Mr Robertson
in his list of famous Catholics in Germany, (p. 19,) includes Gentz. Now,
Varnhagen, who knew well, says that Gentz was only politically an
Austrian, and always remained Protestant in his religious opinions;
which is doubtless the fact.]The coach drove on, and Miss Cantire, alone in its recesses, drew the
myrtle from her mantle and folding it carefully in her handkerchief,
placed it in her reticule. Windsor is certainly a noble structure--Edward's
mile of palaces--but that residence is better tenanted than by a
subject. While, here I have found a desert, it is true; but as the poet
says or sings-- 
'I am monarch of all I survey.'"
"Yes," I observed.Then she raised it slowly to her lips, rolled it
into a spiral, and, loosening a hook and eye, thrust it gently into her
bosom.

And Dick Boyle, galloping away to the distant station, did not know
that the first step towards a realization of his foolish dream had been
taken!