One humorous episode which happened during Brant's stay
in London caused quite a sensation. Through the good
graces of Earl Moira, he was invited to attend a masquerade
ball in Mayfair. It was to be a festive event, and people
of distinguished rank were expected to be present. Brant
did not go to any pains to deck himself out artfully for
the occasion, but was attired only in the costume of his
tribe. To change his appearance, he painted a portion of
his face, and arrived in this guise at the place of
entertainment. As he entered the gay ball-room, his lofty
plumage swayed grandly and a glittering tomahawk shone
from his girdle. The scene that met his eyes was resplendent
with life and beauty. Masked figures were flitting by,
clad in every imaginable garb. Here was a sleek-faced
friar, rotund and merry; there, a gypsy maid, or mild-eyed
shepherdess with her stave. Lonely hermits and whimsical
jesters, cackling witches, and members of a pilgrim
band--all thronged together with laugh or grimace, adding
their own peculiar lustre to the brilliant assembly. By
and by a Turk came strolling down the floor; he was a
diplomat of high degree, and two nymphs from the paradise
of Islam hovered near at hand. Suddenly the Turk caught
sight of the painted features of the sturdy redskin. He
stopped, and fixed the Indian with his gaze. Here, he
thought, was the chance for a bit of frolic. In a moment
he had lost his stately demeanour and lurched jocularly
towards the warrior. He reached for the Indian's face,
thinking it was screened with parchment. She was thrown
down in the confusion, and broke her arm. With her
wonted vivacity she afterwards observed, that she had
risked her life both for the House of Stuart and for
that of Brunswick, but had got very little for her pains.
Her husband remained in America for some time after she
returned to Scotland, but joined her at last.

Flora had a numerous family of sons and daughters.
Charles, her eldest son, was a captain in the Queen's
Rangers. He was worthy of bearing his mother's name. As his
kinsman, the late Lord Macdonald, saw his remains lowered
into the grave, he remarked, "There lies the most finished
gentleman of my family and name!" Alexander, the second
son, also in the King's service, was lost at sea. Ranald,
the third, was a captain of Marines. He was remarkable
for his elegant person, and estimable for his high
professional reputation. James, the fourth son, served
in Tarlton's British Legion, and was a brave officer. The
late Lieutenant-Colonel John Macdonald, in Exeter, long
survived his brothers.

This officer was introduced to King George the Fourth,
who observed, on his presentation, to those around
him, "This gentleman is the son of a lady to whom my
family (thus designating the Stuarts) owe a great obligation."
Of two daughters, one, Mrs. Macleod of Lochbuy, died not
many years ago.

The following letters refer to the family who have been
thus enumerated.[312]

FROM MRS. MACDONALD TO MRS. MACKENZIE OF DELVIN, BY
DUNKELL.

"Dunvegan, twenty-fourth July, 1780
"Dear Madam,

"I arrived at Inverness the third day after parting with
you, in good health and without any accidents, which
I always dread; my young 'squire continued always very
obliging and attentive to me. I stayed at Inverness
for three days. I had the good-luck to meet with a
female companion from that to Skye. I was the fourth day,
with great difficulty, at Raasay, for my hands being
so pained with the riding.

"I arrived here a few days ago with my young daughter, who promises
to be a stout Highland dairg, quite overgrown of her age.

Nanny and her small family are well: her husband was not sailed the
last accounts she had from him.

"I have the pleasure to inform you, upon my arrival
here, that I had two letters from my husband; the
latter dated tenth May. He was then in very good
health, and informs me that my son Charles has got the
command of a troop of horse in Lord Cathcart's regiment.
But alas! I have heard nothing since I left you about
my son Sandy,[313] which you may be sure gives me great
uneasiness; but still hope for the best.

"By public and private news, I hope we will soon have
peace re-established, to our great satisfaction: which,
as it's a thing long expected and wished for, will be for
the utility of the whole nation; especially to poor
me, that has my all engaged,--fond to hear news, and
yet afraid to get it.
"I wait here till a favourable opportunity for the Long Island shall
offer itself.--As I am upon all occasions under the greatest
obligations to you, would you get a letter from my son Johny sooner
than I would get one from him, you would very much oblige me by
dropping me a few lines communicating to me the most material part
of his letter.In November 1786 a great council of Indian tribes was
held at Huron Village, on the Detroit river. This was
well attended, and its deliberations were very grave. An
address, probably written by Brant, was sent by order of
the assembled Indians to the Congress of the United
States. Peace was desired, but it would be necessary for
the Congressional representatives to treat with the
redskins as a whole; difficulties had been engendered
because the United States had entered into negotiations
with separate tribes--'kindled council-fires wherever it
saw fit'--without ever deigning to consult the Indians
as a whole; this, affirmed the address, must happen no
longer.

During the next few years the War Chief was unsparing in
his efforts to come to some solution of the problem which
the attitude of the United States had presented. He was
quite aware that there was not enough concerted action
among the various tribes. In his efforts to unite them
he was aided and supported in all that he did by the
English officials. But, try as Brant might, it seemed
impossible to arrive at that wide union among the tribes
at which he was aiming. On every hand were differences
of opinion and petty jealousies. In 1789 General St Clair,
indeed, was able to make two separate treaties with the
Indians, much to the delight of the government at
Philadelphia. 'I am persuaded,' St Clair wrote confidently,
'[that] their general confederacy is entirely broken.
Indeed it would not be very difficult, if circumstances
required it, to set them at deadly variance.'

But though unwilling to unite, it was with jealous and
angry eyes that they watched the white men cross the
Ohio. The year 1790 found the western tribes ablaze with
passion and again on the war-path against the United
States. The Shawnees, Potawatomis, and Miamis were the
leaders of the revolt. An expedition under General Harmar
marched against them, but it was defeated with great
loss. The Six Nations were the next in arms, and fell
without mercy on the settlements by the Alleghany river.

The horizon was now dark and it seemed as though a
widespread struggle with the Indians was certain to occur.
While the British authorities trusted implicitly in Joseph
Brant, the executive of the United States was also trying
to win his confidence. Both sides clearly recognized that
the future of the red men depended largely on the policy
that Brant should adopt. To have two great nations each
striving to enlist one's services is a fair indication
that the possession of those services will give either
nation a distinct advantage. Brant did not lack vanity,
and on this occasion he was more than flattered. But, to
do justice to Brant, it must be admitted that all the
time he had been in favour of peace. Sir John looked at
every line, and at every letter, with much attention;
and at last at the date, which my gudesire had not
observed--"From my appointed place," he read, "this
twenty-fifth of November."
"What! That is yesterday! Villain, thou must have gone
to hell for this!"
"I got it from your honour's father; whether he be in heaven or
hell, I know not," said Steenie.

"I will debate you for a warlock to the Privy Council!"
said Sir John. "I will send you to your master, the
devil, with the help of a tar-barrel and a torch!"
"I intend to debate mysell to the Presbytery," said
Steenie, "and tell them all I have seen last night,
whilk are things fitter for them to judge of than a
borrel man like me."
Sir John paused, composed himsell, and desired to hear
the full history; and my gudesire told it him from point
to point, as I have told it you--neither more nor
less.

Sir John was silent again for a long time, and at last he said,
very composedly: "Steenie, this story of yours concerns the honour
of many a noble family besides mine; and if it be a leasing-making,
to keep yourself out of my danger, the least you can expect is to
have a red-hot iron driven through your tongue, and that will be
as bad as scaulding your fingers wi' a red-hot chanter.

But yet it may be true, Steenie; and if the money cast
up, I shall not know what to think of it. But where shall
we find the Cat's Cradle? There are cats enough about
the old house, but I think they kitten without the
ceremony of bed or cradle."
"We were best ask Hutcheon," said my gudesire; "he kens
a' the odd corners about as weel as--another serving-man
that is now gane, and that I wad not like to name."

Aweel, Hutcheon, when he was asked, told them that a ruinous
turret lang disused, next to the clock-house, only
accessible by a ladder, for the opening was on the outside,
above the battlements, was called of old the Cat's
Cradle.

"There will I go immediately," said Sir John; and he
took--with what purpose Heaven kens--one of his
father's pistols from the hall table, where they had
lain since the night he died, and hastened to the
battlements.

It was a dangerous place to climb, for the ladder was
auld and frail, and wanted ane or twa rounds. However,
up got Sir John, and entered at the turret door, where
his body stopped the only little light that was in the bit
turret. Something flees at him wi' a vengeance, maist
dang him back ower--bang! gaed the knight's pistol, and
Hutcheon, that held the ladder, and my gudesire,
that stood beside him, hears a loud skelloch. A minute
after, Sir John flings the body of the jackanape
down to them, and cries that the siller is fund, and
that they should come up and help him. And there was
the bag of siller sure aneaugh, and mony orra thing besides,
that had been missing for mony a day.

And Sir John, when he had riped the turret weel, led my
gudesire into the dining-parlour, and took him by the hand,
and spoke kindly to him, and said he was sorry he should
have doubted his word, and that he would hereafter be
a good master to him, to make amends.

"And now, Steenie," said Sir John, "although this vision
of yours tends, on the whole, to my father's credit as
an honest man, that he should, even after his death,
desire to see justice done to a poor man like you, yet
you are sensible that ill-dispositioned men might make bad
constructions upon it concerning his soul's health. So, I think,
we had better lay the haill dirdum on that ill-deedie creature,
Major Weir, and say naething about your dream in the wood of
Pitmurkie.This disaster in the country of the Miamis showed the
United States how hard it would be to break the spirit
of the red men. War having effected nothing, it was again
decided to resort to entreaty. A number of chiefs of
different tribes were invited to go to Philadelphia, and
among them was Captain Brant. 'I can assure you,' wrote
the secretary of state in the federal government to Brant
on February 2, 1792, 'that the President of the United
States will be highly gratified by receiving and conversing
with a chief of such eminence as you are, on a subject
so interesting and important to the human race.' After
some persuasion Brant consented to go and, proceeding on
horseback by way of the Mohawk valley, he arrived at the
capital city on June 20. There he was gladly welcomed,
and every effort was made to win him for the United
States. 'I was offered a thousand guineas down,' wrote
the War Chief at a later time, 'and to have the half-pay
and pension I receive from Great Britain doubled, merely
on condition that I would use my endeavours to bring
about a peace. But this I rejected.' The American
authorities then held out an even more tempting bait.
They would give him pre-emption rights over land estimated
to be worth twenty thousand pounds and an annual allowance
of fifteen hundred dollars. But Brant steadfastly refused,
and his reason was very plain. How could he accept such
a bribe? 'They might expect me,' he said, 'to act contrary
to His Majesty's interest and the honour of our nations.'
He did, however, promise that he would urge the Miamis
to come to terms with the United States, and that he
would go to them for that purpose.

As he was on his way home from Philadelphia he found that
a Dutch-American, named Dygert, was pursuing him with
the intention of making an attempt upon his life. In New
York, while he was talking to several officers at his
lodgings in Broadway, he happened to peer out, and saw
a man in the street below with his eyes intently fixed
on the window of his room.

'There is Dygert now,' he cried.

Colonel Willet, one of the officers, went down and accused
the man of basely plotting Brant's assassination.

'Do you know,' said the colonel, 'that if you kill that
savage, you will be hanged?'

'Who,' said Dygert in surprise, 'would hang me for killing
an Indian?'

You will see,' answered Willet; if you execute your
purpose, you may depend upon it that you will be hanged
up immediately.'

At this the would-be criminal went off and did not trouble
the War Chief any more.

On his safe return to Canada Brant was taken ill and was
not able to attend a grand council held in the autumn at
Au Glaize, on the Great Miami. When the council met it
was agreed that hostilities should be suspended until a
fresh council should be held at Miami Rapids.

During the winter of 1792-93 Brant received a visit from
Simcoe, lieutenant-governor of Upper Canada, at his home
on Grand River. This officer, who had lately been installed
at Niagara, carried a letter to the War Chief from his
old friend Lord Percy, now the Duke of Northumberland,
together with a brace of pistols that the duke had sent
to him. Simcoe was on his way to Detroit by sled, and
stopped for three days at the Mohawk village. A _feu de
joie_ was fired in his honour, flags were hoisted, and
the Indians made a display of their trophies of war.

Brant and some of the redskins accompanied the
lieutenant-governor as far as the Thames river, where
was situated the village of the Delawares. Here the War
Chief was forced to return. Soon afterwards His Excellency
again halted at Grand River on his way back. The Indians
entertained him in royal style, performing the calumet
dance, the feather dance, and several other dances of
their tribe.

In the middle of the summer of 1793 a great assembly of
Indians took place at Miami Rapids. Commissioners who
were sent to represent the United States were not allowed
to approach the place of meeting. Brant made three
speeches, urging upon the Indians the advisability of
peace. But the red men were still headstrong, and the
commissioners had to go away without having reached any
understanding with them.

The end of the struggle, however, was coming fast. In
1794 General Wayne marched to the neighbourhood of Fort
Miami with a numerous force, defeated the Indians at the
Fallen Timbers, and drove them before him in all directions.
Crestfallen and heartsore, they saw that the day of the
white man had come at last. Brant stood by as their helper
to the very end, but it availed them little. The Black
Snake, as they called General Wayne, had beaten them,
and they knew he would beat them again. The tribesmen
who had come from the far west withdrew sullenly across
the Mississippi, the other races submitted, and the Treaty
of Greenville was signed with General Wayne on August 3,
1795. The ox-cart began to rumble north of the Ohio; the
tall forests fell before the settler's axe, and the red
man lived and walked no more alone by the 'River Beautiful.'


The suspense was terrible.

Sam'l and Sanders had both known all along that Bell would take the
first of the two who asked her.

Even those who thought her proud admitted that she was
modest. Bitterly the weaver repented having waited so
long. Now it was too late. In ten minutes Sanders would
be at T'nowhead; in an hour all would be over. Sam'l
rose to his feet in a daze. His mother pulled him
down by the coat-tail, and his father shook him,
thinking he was walking in his sleep. He tottered past
them, however, hurried up the aisle, which was so narrow
that Dan'l Ross could only reach his seat by walking
sideways, and was gone before the minister could do more than stop
in the middle of a whirl and gape in horror after him.

A number of the congregation felt that day the advantage
of sitting in the loft. What was a mystery to those
downstairs was revealed to them.
From the gallery windows they had a fine open view to
the south; and as Sam'l took the common, which was a short
cut through a steep ascent, to T'nowhead, he was never
out of their line of vision. Sanders was not to be
seen, but they guessed rightly the reason why. Thinking
he had ample time, he had gone round by the main road to
save his boots--perhaps a little scared by what was
coming. Sam'l's design was to forestall him by taking
the shorter path over the burn and up the commonty.

It was a race for a wife, and several onlookers in the gallery
braved the minister's displeasure to see who won.

Those who favoured Sam'l's suit exultingly saw him
leap the stream, while the friends of Sanders fixed
their eyes on the top of the common where it ran into
the road.
Sanders must come into sight there, and the one who reached
this point first would get Bell.

As Auld Lichts do not walk abroad on the Sabbath, Sanders
would probably not be delayed. The chances were in his
favour. Had it been any other day in the week Sam'l might
have run. So some of the congregation in the gallery were
thinking, when suddenly they saw him bend low and then
take to his heels. He had caught sight of Sanders's head
bobbing over the hedge that separated the road from the
common, and feared that Sanders might see him.

The congregation who could crane their necks sufficiently
saw a black object, which they guessed to be the carter's
hat, crawling along the hedge-top. For a moment it was
motionless, and then it shot ahead. The rivals had seen
each other. It was now a hot race. Sam'l dissembling
no longer, clattered up the common, becoming smaller
and smaller to the onlookers as he neared the top.

More than one person in the gallery almost rose to their
feet in their excitement. Sam'l had it.
No, Sanders was in front. Then the two figures disappeared
from view.
They seemed to run into each other at the top of the
brae, and no one could say who was first. The congregation
looked at one another. Some of them perspired. But the
minister held on his course.
Sam'l had just been in time to cut Sanders out.In 1904, on a petition to the
king, it was given the title of 'His Majesty's Chapel of
the Mohawks.' Thus was restored the name of the church
in which the Indians were wont to worship in the Mohawk
valley. With its square tower, quaint slender steeple,
and the graves of bygone generations of red men who have
worshipped in it gathered about its walls, it is a
venerable reminder of the past. The Bible which was first
used in 'The Old Mohawk Church' was a gift from Queen
Anne to the tribesmen in 1712 and was brought to Grand
River from their former home on the Mohawk. The silver
communion plate was part of a service which had also been
presented to them by the same queen before they came to
Canada. It was of burnished silver and bore the Royal
Coat of Arms. The remaining pieces of this set were given
to the Indians who settled in the Bay of Quinte district.
In the year 1786 there was sent to the church a large
and melodious bell. This was a presentation from the
British government, and on it was stamped the arms of
the reigning House of Hanover.

In all the wide region later known as the province of
Upper Canada, as yet no other Protestant sanctuary had
opened its doors for the use of Christian believers. With
the erection of this temple of the Mohawks begins the
history of the Protestant churches in one of the fairest
sections of the Dominion of Canada. It was a sweet and
solemn bell that pealed out its message when service was
held on those Sabbaths in pioneer days. Into the solitudes
it rang, wakening the stillness, echoing to hill-top,
and throbbing down to distant valley. Up and along the
river stole the gladsome strain, the first call to prayer
ever heard in this scarcely broken wilderness. From among
the trees emerged the exiled people of the Long House.
They mingled together; they entered the courts of the
Great Spirit, silent and full of awe. She, as well as Mrs.
Macdonald, was now on horseback, and she proposed that the
ladies should go on a little faster, and leave those on foot to
take their time.

There was another object in this arrangement: the
country was traversed by parties of militia, and it was
necessary for the Prince and Kingsburgh to diverge by a
cross-road over the hills to the place of their destination.
They went therefore by by-paths, south-south-east, to
Kingsburgh's house, which they reached at midnight; Flora
having arrived there a short time before. She had parted
with her other companions on the road.

During this journey of seven long miles, which were performed
in a drenching rain, there was no slight risk, owing to the very
singular demeanour of the Prince, and to the awkwardness with which
he performed his part.

Betty Burke was regarded by the gazing passers-by as a very
strange woman. When the country-people greeted him with an
obeisance, he returned it with a bow instead of a
curtsey; and in all his gestures he forgot the woman,
and retained the man. After the remonstrance upon
holding his skirts too high, he let them fall down into the
streams which often intersected his path. "Your enemies,
sir," remarked Kingsburgh, "call you a Pretender, but
you are the worst at your trade that I ever saw." "Why,"
replied Charles laughing, "they do me perhaps as much
injustice in this as in other respects. I have all my
life despised assumed characters, and am the worst
dissembler in the world."
Lady Kingsburgh, not expecting her husband that night, had retired
to rest; and her house was not at this time in the best possible
condition for receiving visitors.

Kingsburgh, however, introduced Charles into the hall,
and sent a servant up-stairs to desire Lady Kingsburgh to
rise and dress herself.
The netted rackets employed in the game of
lacrosse were three and a half feet in length, straight
at the handle but curved at the other end. The broad
portion used for throwing or carrying the ball was formed
of thongs of deerskin, interwoven and drawn firm and
tight. It was a picturesque sight when the opposing teams
were ready to commence play. The animated warriors were
nude except for a breech-cloth reaching to the knee. When
all was in readiness, an Indian maiden came tripping into
the centre of the field. She was prettily attired after
the custom of her tribe, wore bracelets of silver and a
red tiara decked with eagle feathers. Placing the ball
among the players, she hurried from the field of play.
Two experts from the rival parties then raised the ball
between their rackets and strove to make the first
successful throw. The great game had now begun, and each
time the ball went through a goal it counted one tally.
It was, however, essential to attack Lord Loudon, whose
army cut off all communication with Caithness, whence
the Prince expected provisions and men. In this dilemma
an expedient had been thought of some time previously, and
preparations had been made for it; but the execution
was extremely dangerous. Mr. Maxwell gives the following
account of it:[255]
"All the fishing-boats that could be got on the coast of Moray had
been brought to Findhorn; the difficulty was, to cross the frith
of Moray unperceived by the English ships that were continually
cruizing there:
if the design was suspected, it could not succeed.

Two or three North-country gentlemen, that were employed in this
affair, had conducted it with great secrecy and expedition.

All was ready at Findhorn when the orders came from Inverness to
make the attempt, and the enemy had no suspicion.

Moir of Stoneywood set out with this little fleet in the
beginning of the night, got safe across the frith of
Moray, and arrived in the morning at Tain, where the
Duke of Perth, whom the Prince had sent to command
this expedition, was ready. The men were embarked with
great despatch, and by means of a thick fog, which
happened very opportunely, got over to Sutherland without
being perceived. The Duke of Perth marched directly to
the enemies' quarters, and, after some disappointments,
owing to his being the dupe of his good nature and
politeness, succeeded in dispersing Lord Loudon's army:
and this era, in the opinion of Mr. Maxwell, is the
finest part of the Prince's expedition." Henceforth,
all was dismay and disaster.

The affairs of Charles Edward had now begun visibly to decline, for
money, the sinews of the war, was not to be had; and the military
chest, plundered, as it has been stated, by villains who robbed the
Prince by false musters, was exhausted.

The hopes of the Chevalier were in the lowest state, when
the intelligence reached Inverness that the Duke of
Cumberland was advancing from Aberdeen to attack his
forces. Upon receiving these tidings, the Prince sent
messengers far and wide to call in his scattered troops,
expecting that he should be strong enough to venture a
battle.

The Duke of Perth, who at that time commanded all the troops
that were to the eastward of Inverness, was planted
near the river Spey.
The sale of large tracts of Indian land
was then authorized, and the money received was safely
invested for the benefit of the Mohawks and others of
the Six Nations in Canada. In connection with this
difficult question Brant had intended making a trip to
England, but was forced to abandon the idea.

During the latter part of his life Brant visited different
parts of America and twice journeyed as far as the Atlantic
seaboard. On these occasions he had the opportunity of
talking over old campaigns with officers who had fought
against him in the war, and he delighted his listeners
with stirring stories of his experiences in the field.
On one occasion, when in Philadelphia, he was entertained
in sumptuous fashion by Colonel Aaron Burr. A dinner
party was held in his honour, and among the guests were
Talleyrand and Volney. Early in the evening the War Chief
was rather taciturn, and the other guests were somewhat
disappointed. But this was only a passing mood, from
which Brant soon freed himself. Launching into the
conversation, he was soon the centre of attraction.

Though Captain Brant was able to pass his later years in
comparative ease, his life was marred by the occurrence
of two untoward events. His eldest son, Isaac, was a
reprobate over whom the father exercised little influence.
Isaac had been guilty of acts of violence and had begun
to threaten Joseph Brant himself. He was jealous of the
numerous children of Catherine Brant and took occasion
to offer her various insults. In 1795 both father and
son were at Burlington Heights, at a time when the Indians
were receiving supplies from the provincial government.
Isaac, crazed with liquor, tried to assault his father
in one of the lower rooms of an inn, but he was held in
check by several of his youthful companions.

Captain Brant drew a dirk which he usually carried with
him, and in the excitement of the moment inflicted a
slight wound on Isaac's hand. The cut was not serious,
but Isaac would not allow it to be properly treated, and
subsequently died from an attack of brain fever. The War
Chief was sorely grieved at the result of his hasty
action, and fretted about it until the end of his days.
He is said to have hung the dirk up in his room and to
have often wept as he gazed upon it. The other source of
trouble to Brant was the revolt against his rule of a
small minority among the tribes. This, which struck me
as a very passable imitation of Dickens's pathetic writings,
was a poser. In default of language, I looked Miss Sawley
straight in the face, and attempted a substitute for a
sigh. I was rewarded with a tender glance.

"Ah," said she, "I see you are a congenial spirit! How
delightful, and yet how rare, it is to meet with any one who
thinks in unison with yourself! Do you ever walk in
the Necropolis, Mr. Dunshunner? It is my favourite haunt of a
morning.Because of Brant's many services to the crown, the British
government gave him a fine stretch of land on the north-west
shore of Lake Ontario, near the entrance to Burlington
Bay. On his estate, known as Wellington Square, he erected
a large two-storey house, in which he might spend the
remaining years of his life. A number of black slaves
whom he had captured in the war were his servants and
gave him every attention. I felt quite abashed beside
him.

We were ushered into Mr. Sawley's drawing-room. Round the walls,
and at considerable distances from each other, were seated about a
dozen characters, male and female, all of them dressed in sable,
and wearing countenances of woe.In his
declining years he was wont to gaze over the waters of
Lake Ontario, remembering the country stretching from
the southern shore where once he had struggled, and the
valley of the Mohawk, where had been the lodges of his
people.

But the giant pine-tree of the forest was now beginning
to bend. Tall and erect, it had out-topped and outrivalled
every other tree of the woodland. Men knew that that
pine-tree was tottering. So saying, he led the way out through
the halls and trances that were weel kend to my gudesire,
and into the auld oak parlour; and there was as much
singing of profane sangs, and birling of red wine,
and blasphemy and sculduddery, as had ever been in
Redgauntlet Castle when it was at the blythest.

But Lord take us in keeping! What a set of ghastly
revellers there were that sat around that table! My gudesire
kend mony that had long before gane to their place, for often had
he piped to the most part in the hall of Redgauntlet.He played an important part in the War
of 1812.] a chieftain of his tribe, leaned to catch the
last faltering word.

'Have pity on the poor Indians,' whispered the dying War
Chief; 'if you can get any influence with the great,
endeavour to do them all the good you can.'

