Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Charles Aldarondo and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.


THE OPEN SECRET OF IRELAND


By

T. M. KETTLE

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY J. E. REDMOND, M.P.


     "Also it is a proverbe of olde date, 'The pride of Fraunce, the
     treason of Inglande, and the warre of Irelande, shall never have
     ende.' Which proverbe, touching the warre of Irelande, is like
     alwaie to continue, without God sette in men's breasts to find some
     new remedy that never was found before."

_State Papers_, Reign of Henry VIII.


LONDON

W. J. HAM-SMITH

1912


CONTENTS


INTRODUCTION BY J. E. REDMOND, M.P.    vii
PRELIMINARY.                            xi

CHAP.
   I.  AN EXERCISE IN HUMILITY.          1
  II.  HISTORY _(a) Coloured_.          17
 III.  HISTORY _(b) Plain_.             31
  IV.  THE OBVIOUSNESS OF HOME RULE.    47
   V.  THE RAVAGES OF UNIONISM (1).     65
  VI.  THE RAVAGES OF UNIONISM (2).     80
 VII.  THE HALLUCINATION OF "ULSTER".   98
VIII.  THE MECHANICS OF HOME RULE.     120
  IX.  AFTER HOME RULE.                144
   X.  AN EPILOGUE ON "LOYALTY".       161


INTRODUCTION


The object of Mr Kettle, in writing this book, is, I take it, to reveal
to English readers what he not inaptly terms as "The Open Secret of
Ireland," in order to bring about a better understanding between the two
nations, and to smoothe the way to a just and final settlement of their
old-time differences. Any work undertaken on such lines commends itself
to a ready welcome and a careful study, and I feel sure that both await
Mr Kettle's latest contribution to the literature of the Irish question.
As the son of one of the founders of the Land League, and as, for some
years, one of the most brilliant members of the Irish Party, and, later,
Professor in the School of Economics in the new National University in
Dublin, he has won his way to recognition as an eloquent exponent of
Irish national ideas; whilst the novelty of his point of view, and the
freshness, vigour, and picturesque attractiveness of his style ensure
for his work a cordial reception on its literary merits, apart from its
political value.

Undoubtedly, one of the main sources of the Anglo-Irish difficulty has
been mutual misunderstanding, generating mutual mistrust and hatred. But
the root of the difficulty goes deeper. It is to be sought in the system
of misgovernment and oppression which successive generations of British
rulers have imposed upon what, with cruel irony, British historians and
statesmen have been wont to call "the sister country." This is the real
"open secret" of Ireland, a secret that all who run may read, and the
effective bearing of which is: that tyranny begets hatred, and that
freedom and justice are the only sure foundations of contentment and
goodwill between nations.

During the past thirty years, and especially since 1886, when Mr
Gladstone threw the weight of his unrivalled genius and influence into
the scale in favour of justice to Ireland, a great deal has been done to
erase the bitter memories of the past, and to enable the English and the
Irish peoples to regard each other in the light of truth, and with a
more just appreciation of what is essential to the establishment of
genuine and lasting friendly relations between them.

But it would be idle to ignore the fact that, to a considerable section
of the English people, Ireland is still a country of which they possess
less knowledge than they do of the most insignificant and remote of the
many islands over which the British flag floats. Mr Kettle's book ought
to be of service in dispelling this ignorance, and in enabling
Englishmen to view the Anglo-Irish question from the standpoint of an
educated and friendly Irish opinion.

The output of purely political literature on the Irish problem has been
increasing during the past few years, and there is room for a book which
aims at focussing attention upon some aspects of it which the mere
politician is apt to pass lightly over or to ignore altogether. Like
most of Mr Kettle's work, the book bears the impress of his
individuality, and, to many of his readers, this will constitute much of
its charm and merit. At the same time, in order to prevent
misunderstanding, it is necessary for me to state that I do not commit
myself to acceptance or endorsement of everything which the book
contains. I content myself with stating, from personal experience, that
nothing which Mr Kettle writes about Ireland can fail to be worthy of
notice by everyone interested in the Home Rule controversy, and that I
believe the circulation of this volume will serve to stimulate thought
about Ireland, and so to hasten the advent of that brighter day when the
grant of full self-government to Ireland will reveal to England the open
secret of making Ireland her friend and helpmate, the brightest jewel in
her crown of Empire.

J. E. REDMOND.

_12th December, 1911_.


PRELIMINARY


After an intermission of nearly twenty years Ireland once again blocks
the way. "Finally rejected" by the House of Commons and the English
electorate in 1886, "finally rejected" by the House of Lords in 1893,
the Home Rule idea has not only survived but waxed stronger in the
wilderness. Time and events have altered its shape only to clothe it
with a richer significance.

Will Great Britain decide wisely in the choice to which she is now put?
Naturally, I do not speak of the Parliamentary future of the Home Rule
Bill: that is safe. I have in mind rather that profound moral
settlement, that generous reconciliation which we have seen in South
Africa, and desire to see in Ireland. What of it? Did reason and the
candid vision of things, as they are, control public affairs, there
could be little doubt as to the issue in this choice between friendship
and hatred, between the formula of freedom and that of domination. But,
unhappily, we have no assurance that Philip sober rather than Philip
drunk will sign the warrant. There exists in England, in respect of all
things Irish, a monstrous residuum of prejudice. It lies ambushed in the
blood even when it has been dismissed from the mind, and constitutes the
real peril of the situation. No effort will be spared to reawaken it.
The motto of militant Unionism has always been: When in doubt throw mud.
Such a programme naturally begets a predilection for ditches, and when
certain orators speak of the "last ditch" they must be taken to mean
that which has most mud in it. The old methods are already once more in
operation. The wicked lying of previous campaigns no doubt cannot be
repeated: bigotry will make no further experiments in Pigottry. But a
resolute attempt, lavishly financed and directed by masters of the art
of defamation, will be made to blacken Ireland. Every newspaper in every
remotest country-town in England will be deluged with syndicated venom.
The shop-keeper will wrap up his parcels in Orange posters, and the
working-man will, I hope, light his pipe for years to come with
pamphlets of the same clamant colour. Irishmen, or at all events persons
born in Ireland, will be found to testify that they belong to a
barbarous people which has never ceased from barbarism, and that they
are not fit to govern themselves. Politicians who were never known to
risk a five-pound note in helping to develop Ireland will toss down
their fifties to help to defame her. Such is the outlook. Against this
campaign of malice, hatred, and all uncharitableness it is the duty of
every good citizen to say his word, and in the following pages I say
mine. This little book is not a compendium of facts, and so does not
trench on the province of Mr Stephen Gwynn M.P.'s admirable "Case for
Home Rule." It does not discuss the details, financial or otherwise, of
a statesmanlike settlement. Such suggestions as I had to make I have
already made in "Home Rule Finance," and the reader will find much
ampler treatment of the whole subject in "The Framework of Home Rule,"
by Mr Erskine Childers, and "Home Rule Problems," edited by Mr Basil
Williams. In general, my aim has been to aid in humanising the Irish
Question. The interpretation of various aspects of it, here offered, is
intended to be not exhaustive but provocative, a mere set of shorthand
rubrics any one of which might have been expanded into a chapter.
Addressing the English reader with complete candour, I have attempted to
recommend to him that method of approach, that mental attitude which
alone can divest him of his preconceptions, and put him in rapport with
the true spirit of the Ireland of actuality. To that end the various
lines of discussion converge:--

Chapter I is an outline of the pathology of the English mind in Ireland.

Chapters II and III present the history of Ireland as the epic, not of a
futile and defeated, but of an indomitable and victorious people.

Chapter IV exhibits the Home Rule idea as a fundamental law of nature,
human nature, and government.

Chapters V and VI contain a very brief account of the more obvious
economic crimes and blunders of Unionism.

Chapter VII discusses the queer ideas of "Ulster," and the queer
reasons for the survival of these ideas.

Chapter VIII demonstrates that, as a mere matter of political technique,
Home Rule must be conceded if any real government is ever to exist
again, whether in Great Britain, in Ireland, or in the Empire.

Chapter IX dips into the future, and indicates that a Home Rule Ireland
will have so much interesting work to do as to have no time for civil
war or religious oppression.

Chapter X shows that everybody who values "loyalty" must of necessity be
a Home Ruler.

The only moral commended to the reader is that expressed by Browning in
a firm and inevitable line, which has been disastrously forgotten in so
many passages of English history:--

     "It's fitter being sane than mad."

I have tried also to convey to him, with what success others must judge,
something of the "pride and passion" of Irish nationality. That is, in
truth, the dream that comes through the multitude of business. If you
think that Home Rule is a little thing which must be done in a little
way for little reasons, your feet are set on the path to failure. Home
Rule is one of those fundamental reforms that are not achieved at all
unless they are achieved greatly.

T.M.K.

_December, 1911_.


THE OPEN SECRET OF IRELAND


CHAPTER I

AN EXERCISE IN HUMILITY


In order to understand Ireland we must begin by understanding England.
On no other terms will that complex of facts, memories, and passions,
which is called the Irish Question, yield up its secret. "You have
always been," said a Lady Clanricarde to some English politician, "like
a high wall standing between us and the sun." The phrase lives. It
reveals in a flashlight of genius the historical relations of the two
nations. It explains and justifies the principle adopted as the basis of
this discussion, namely, that no examination of the Irish Problem is
possible without a prior examination of the English mind. It used to be
said that England dearly loved a Lord, a dictum which may have to be
modified in the light of recent events. Far more than a Lord does the
typical Englishman love a Judge, and the thought of acting as a Judge.
Confronted with Ireland he says to himself: "Here are these Irish
people; some maintain that they are nice, others that they are nasty,
but everybody agrees that they are queer. Very good. I will study them
in a judicial spirit; I will weigh the evidence dispassionately, and
give my decision. When it comes to action, I will play the honest broker
between their contending parties." Now this may be a very agreeable way
of going about the business, but it is fatally unreal. Great Britain
comes into court, she will be pained to hear, not as Judge but rather as
defendant. She comes to answer the charge that, having seized Ireland as
a "trustee of civilisation," she has, either through incompetence or
through dishonesty, betrayed her trust. "This volume by Mr. Miles has
substantial value. It is by the circulation and use of such books
that Christian knowledge is to be extended, and Christian faith
confirmed. By a thorough study even of this small work in childhood,
many persons might have the satisfaction of carrying through life a
clear and connected idea of the biographies of Jesus, and of the nature
of the external evidence in their favor, instead of remaining in
vague uncertainty on the whole subject.

Bringing into a simple and popular form, and small compass, information
not hitherto accessible, except to a limited number of persons, the
'Gospel Narratives' will be interesting to the general reader,
whether youthful or adult. It must, without doubt, be introduced in all
our Sunday Schools, and will rank among the most important manuals."

NAOMI; or Boston Two Hundred Years Ago. A Tale of the Quaker Persecution
in New England. By ELIZA BUCKMINSTER LEE, Author of "The Life of
Jean Paul." Second Edition. 12mo. pp. 324. Price, 75 cents.

The first edition of this popular book was exhausted within a month
after its publication.

"Mrs. Lee has given the public a most agreeable book. Her style is
elevated and earnest. Her sentiments, of the pure and the true. The
characters are well conceived, and are presented each in strong
individuality, and with such apparent truthfulness as almost to
leave us in doubt whether they are 'beings of the mind,' or were
real men and women who bore the parts she assigns them in those
dark tragedies that stained this 'fair heritage of freedom' in the
early days of Massachusetts."

--_Worcester Palladium._
"We have been exceedingly interested in this book, and recommend it
as a beautiful picture of female piety and quiet heroism, set in a frame
of history and tradition, that cannot fail to please every one connected,
however remotely, with the land of the Puritans. The accomplished author
of 'The Life of Jean Paul' has produced an American novel which we should
like to see followed by others illustrative of the facts and manners
of the olden time."--_Christian Inquirer._
THE MARRIAGE OFFERING. Designed as a Gift to the Newly-married. Edited
by Rev. A.A. LIVERMORE. 16mo. pp. 215. Price, 50 cents.

"It was a happy thought that suggested such a volume. We were not aware
before that there was so much and so various Christian literature
on the subject."

     --_Christian Register._
     MARTYRIA; a Legend, wherein are contained Homilies, Conversations,
     and Incidents of the Reign of Edward the Sixth. Written by WILLIAM
     MOUNTFORD, Clerk. With an Introduction to the American Edition, by
     Rev. F.D. HUNTINGTON. 16mo. pp. 348. Price, 75
     cents.

"The charm of the book lies in the elevated tone of thought and moral
sentiment which pervades it. You feel, on closing the volume, as if leaving
some ancient cathedral, where your soul had been mingling with ascending
anthems and prayers. There is scarcely a page which does not contain
some fine strain of thought or sentiment, over which you shut the
book that you may pause and meditate.

"We recommend the volume to our readers, with the assurance that they will
find few works in the current literature of the day so well
worth perusal."--_Christian Register._
"This is really an original book. We have seen nothing for a long time
more fresh or true. The writer has succeeded wonderfully, in taking
himself and his readers into the heart of the age he describes. What is
more, he has uttered words and thoughts which stir up the deep places
of the soul. Let those read who wish to commune with the true and
unpretending martyr-spirit, the spread of faith and endurance,
courage, self denial, forgiveness, prayer.

"Of all the treatises we have ever read on marriage, we have seen none so
good as one here called a 'Marriage Sermon'; not that we would ask
any couple to hear it all on their marriage day, but we commend it to
all who are married, or intend to be. The whole book is precious."--_Providence
Journal._
"There are few religious books which breathe a finer spirit than this
singular volume. The author's mind seems to have meditated deeply
on the awful realities of life. In the thoughtful flow of his periods,
and the grave, earnest eloquence of particular passages, we are
sometimes reminded of the Old English prose writers. The work is
a 'curiosity' of literature, well worth an attentive perusal."--_Graham's
Magazine._
A TRANSLATION OF PAUL'S EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS, with an Introduction and
Notes. By WILLIAM A. WHITWELL, Minister of the Congregational Society
in Wilton, N.H. 16mo. pp. 116. Price, 50 cents.

"We would express a high opinion of the book, and can assure the
Christian reader who will compare it carefully with our common version,
that he will rise up from the joint perusal of the two with a better
understanding of Paul than he had before."--_Christian Register._

CHRISTIANITY THE DELIVERANCE OF THE SOUL AND ITS LIFE. By WILLIAM MOUNTFORD.
With an Introduction by Rev. F.D. HUNTINGTON. 16mo. pp.
118. Price, 37-1/2 cents.

"Mr. Mountford is full of warm religious feeling. He brings religion home
to the heart, and applies it as the guide of the life."--_London Inquirer._

SELF-FORMATION; or the History of an Individual Mind: Intended as a
Guide for the Intellect through Difficulties to Success. By a
Fellow of a College. 12mo. pp. 504. Price, $1.00.

"The publishers have done good service by bringing forward an American
edition of this work. It may be most unreservedly recommended, especially
to the young."--_Daily Advertiser._
"Your gift of 'Self-Formation' is truly a welcome one, and I am greatly
obliged to you for it. It is a work of quite original character,
and I esteem it (in common with all I know of, who have read it) as
possessed of very rare merit. I am glad, for the cause of good education
and sound principle, that you have republished it, and I wish every
young man and woman in the community might be induced to read it
carefully. It is several years since I looked into it in the English
edition,--but I yet retain a vivid impression of the great delight it
afforded me, and I shall gladly avail of the opportunity of renewing
it."--_Extract from a Letter._
"This is emphatically a good book, which may be read with profit by all
classes, but more especially by young men, to whose wants it
is admirably adapted. The American editor is no doubt right in saying,
that it is almost without a question the most valuable and useful work
on self education that has appeared in our own, if not in any other
language."--_New York Tribune._
THOUGHTS ON MORAL AND SPIRITUAL CULTURE. By Rev. ROBERT C. WATERSTON.
Second Edition, revised. 16mo. pp. 302. Price, 62-1/2 cents.

This book has met with a ready sale in this country, and has been
republished in England. A London periodical, in reviewing it, says:--"We
will venture to predict that it will soon take its place on the shelves
of our religious libraries, beside Ware 'On the Christian Character,'
Greenwood's 'Lives of the Apostles,' and other works to which we might
refer as standard publications, the value of which is not likely to be
diminished by the lapse of time or the caprices of fashion."
"The sense of duty in parents and teachers may be strengthened and
elevated by contemplating the high standard which is here held up to
them. The style has the great merit of being an earnest one, and there
are many passages which rise into genuine eloquence and the glow of
poetry."--_N.A. Review._
"The Lecture 'On the Best Means of exerting a Moral and Spiritual Influence
in Schools,' no teacher, male or female, possessed of any of the
germs of improvement, can read without benefit."--_Hon. Horace Mann,
Secretary of the Board of Education._
DOMESTIC WORSHIP. By WILLIAM H. FURNESS, Pastor of the First Congregational
Unitarian Church in Philadelphia. Third Edition. 12mo.
pp. 272. Price, 75 cents.

"We are glad to see this book. It is a work of great and peculiar
excellence. It is not a compilation from other books of devotion;
nor is it made up of conventional phrases and Scripture quotations,
which have been so long employed as the language of prayer, that they
are repeated without thought and without feeling. It is admirably
adapted to the purpose for which it was written; and it may be read again
and again with great interest and profit by any one, who desires to
enrich his mind with the purest sentiments of devotion, and with the
language in which it finds its best expression. Here we have the genuine
utterances of religious sensibility,--fresh, natural, and original, as
they come from a mind of singular fertility and beauty, and a heart
overflowing with love to God and love to man. They seem not like
prayers made with hands, to be printed in a book, but _real praying_,
full of spirit and life.... So remarkable is their tone of reality
and genuineness, that we cannot bring ourselves to regard them as
compositions written for a purpose, but rather as the actual utterances
of a pure and elevated soul in reverent and immediate communion with the
Infinite Father."--_Christian Examiner._
LAYS FOR THE SABBATH. A Collection of Religious Poetry. Compiled by EMILY
TAYLOR. Revised, with Additions, by JOHN PIERPONT. 16mo. pp.
288. Price, 75 cents.

"It is simple and unpretending: and though some of the pieces are
probably familiar to most readers, they all breathe a pure and elevated
spirit, and here and there is an exquisite effusion of genius, which
answers to the holiest wants of the soul.

"Not only great pleasure may be derived from such a volume, but
lasting and useful impressions. Many are keenly alive to the harmony
of verse and the fresh outbursts of poetic feeling, who would pore with
delight over such a volume, and many might thus be won to high thought
and serious reflection."--_Christian Examiner._
THE YOUNG MAIDEN. Seventh Edition. By Rev. A.B. MUZZEY, Author of "The
Young Man's Friend," "Sunday School Guide," etc., etc. 16mo. pp.
264.
Price, 62-1/2 cents.

     
     CONTENTS.--The Capacities of Woman; Female Influence; Female
     Education; Home; Society; Love; Single Life; Reasons for Marriage;
     Conditions of True Marriage; Society of Young Men; First
     Love; Conduct during Engagement; Trials of Woman and her Solace;
     Encouragements.
     
     "The sentiments and principles enforced in this book may be safely
     commended to the attention of women of all ranks. Its purpose
     is excellent throughout; and as it is everywhere governed by a
     just and amiable spirit, we believe it is calculated to do much
good."

--_London Atlas._
"A little work, well worthy, from its good sense and good feeling, to be
a permanent and favorite monitor to our fair countrywomen."

     --_Morning Herald._
     A HISTORY OF SUNDAY SCHOOLS and of Religious Education, from
     the Earliest Times. By LEWIS G. PRAY. Embellished with two
     Engravings.
     16mo. pp. 270. Price, 62-1/2 cents.
     
     "The author has been for a long period engaged in the cause of
     which he has now become the historian; and if ardor, perseverance,
     and faithfulness in that service qualify him to write its history,
we know of no one to whom it could have been more properly confided."

--_Portsmouth Journal._
"A volume of great Interest to all who have at heart the subject
discussed."

     --_Literary World._
     LIFE IN THE SICK-ROOM.

Essays, by HARRIET MARTINEAU. With an Introduction to the American
Edition, by MRS. FOLLEN. Second American Edition. 16mo. pp. 196.
Price, 62-1/2 cents.

"For the principles which it inculcates, for the exalted ideal it
presents, for the renovating spirit with which it is filled, the
book cannot fail to be a blessing to humanity."

     --_Christian Examiner._
     EUTHANASY, or Happy Talk towards the End of Life. By WILLIAM
     MOUNTFORD.

Author of "Martyria." 16mo. pp.

"This is a book which will prove an incalculable treasure to those who
are in sorrow and bereavement, and cannot be perused by any
thoughtful mind without pleasure and improvement."

--_Christian Examiner._

THE CHRISTIAN PARENT. By Rev. A.B. MUZZEY, Author of "The Young
Maiden," &c., &c. 16mo. Price, 75 cents.

RELIGIOUS CONSOLATION. Edited by Rev. EZRA S. GANNETT. 16mo. Price, 50
cents.

CONTENTS.

--The Good of Affliction; The Mourner Comforted; Erroneous Views of Death;
The Departed; Death and Sleep; Immortality; Trust in God under
Afflictions; Filial Trust; The Future Life; Friends in Heaven;
Hope; Thanksgiving in Affliction; Trust amidst Trial; Life and Death;
The Voices of the Dead; To the Memory of a Friend; A Prayer in Affliction;
Duties of the Afflicted; The Mourner Blessed; Consolation; The Dangers
of Adversity; Trust in Divine Love; The Promises of Jesus; The
Believer's Hope; The Uses of Affliction; Time Passing; The Christian's
Death; The Hope of Immortality; God our Father.

THOUGHTS; selected from the Works of WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING, D.D.
32mo. pp. 160.

    Price, 37-1/2 cents.
    
    "This is a diamond of a volume, the purpose of which is well expressed
in the following 'thought' from Channing, which is put on the
title-page:--
"'Sometimes a single word, spoken by the voice of genius, goes far
into the heart.

A hint, a suggestion, an undefined delicacy of expression, teaches more
than we gather from volumes of less gifted men.'
"Those who differ in theological views from the gifted Channing will of
course find many thoughts in this little volume not to their taste.
But those to whom any theological views have ever done much good
will nevertheless prize the book for its thoughts. Thoughts they are,
not faint reflections of thought. And those who would be wise above all
things prize to know what can be thought on all sides of every important
subject. To enrich our columns we borrow a gem or two."--_Chronotype._

"A collection of noble thoughts, that may well take its place by
the side of the celebrated thoughts of Pascal, which have in them
more of metaphysics, but less that touches the human heart. It makes a
beautiful pocket volume."--_Christian Examiner._
"We have long desired to see a book of this kind, and now, from a slight
examination, believe that it is well done. It is a beautiful collection
of beautiful thoughts, and must be a welcome possession, not only for
all who agree with Dr. Channing in his peculiar religious opinions,
but for all who value lofty sentiments worthily expressed, and who
by the influence of such thoughts would be strengthened to duty,
or raised to a higher sphere of contemplation."

--_Christian Register._
DAVID ELLINGTON. By Rev. HENRY WARE, JR. With other Extracts from his
Writings. 18mo. pp. 192. Price, 37-1/2 cents.

"Mr. Ware has left very few things which will do so much towards promoting
the great object for which he lived and labored. The simple story
of the every-day life of a good man, told as these stories are
told, finds a response in the hearts of those most indifferent to the
great concerns of virtue and religion; it reaches and touches what
nothing else, not the eloquent preaching of an apostle, could reach
and touch."

CHRISTIAN CONSOLATIONS.

Sermons designed to furnish Comfort and Strength to the Afflicted.

By Rev. A.P.

PEABODY, Pastor of the South Church, Portsmouth, N.H. 16mo. pp. 320.
Price, 75 cents.

"We welcome with almost as much surprise as satisfaction the appearance
of a volume of discourses as excellent as those of Mr.
Peabody. They are rich in thought, and of a high order of literary
merit."--_N.A. Review._
THE GENERAL FEATURES OF THE MORAL GOVERNMENT OF GOD. By A.B. JACOCKS.

16mo. pp. 94. Price, 37-1/2 cents.

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF NATURE: with an Outline of some
of its recent Developments among the Germans, embracing the Philosophical
Systems of Schelling and Hegel, and Oken's System of Nature. By J.B.
STALLO, A.M., lately Professor of Analytical Mathematics, Natural Philosophy,
and Chemistry in St. John's College, N.Y. 12mo. pp. 532. Price,
$1.25.

"It grapples with the most abstruse problems, and tugs fiercely to pluck
out the heart of their mystery. No difficulty is too great for the
author to meet, and none seems able to upset his theory. In truth,
the book is one of the most profound ever published in Boston, and
whatever opinion may be given regarding its principles, none can
gainsay its vigor of understanding and reach of learning.

The pertinent question, Who reads an American book? will change somewhat
its meaning, if American literature takes the abstruse direction
indicated by Mr. Stallo's volume. In that event, our books will
remain unread, not because they are too shallow, but because they are
too deep."--_Boston Courier._
MORNING AND EVENING MEDITATIONS, for every Day in a Month. By MISS CARPENTER
(daughter of the late Dr. Lant Carpenter). 16mo. pp. 312.
Price, 62-1/2 cents.

"The compiler of this work has rendered good service to all possessed of
Christian sympathies."--_Literary World._
"We like its spirit, and believe it will prove an excellent closet
companion for those who will faithfully use it."--_Christian Register._

THE WORDS OF CHRIST; from the New Testament. 16mo. pp. 150. Price, 50
cents.

"The compiler has most happily collected the words of Christ, so that,
by the slightest reference possible to the tables, every text is ascertained
under the several heads. It will prove very beneficial to the Biblical
scholar, clergyman, and Sunday-school teacher."--_Christian World._

DISCOURSES ON THE CHRISTIAN SPIRIT AND LIFE. By Rev. CYRUS A. BARTOL.
Second Edition, Revised, with an Introduction. 12mo. pp. 408. Price,
$1.00.

DISCOURSES ON THE RECTITUDE OF HUMAN NATURE. By GEORGE W. BURNAP,
D.D.
12mo. pp. 409. Price, $1.00.

A HISTORY OF JESUS. By Rev. WILLIAM H. FURNESS. 12mo. pp. 231.
Price, $1.00.

COMMUNION THOUGHTS. By Rev. S.G. BULFINCH. 16mo. pp. 204. Price, 62-1/2
cents.

INTRODUCTORY LESSONS ON CHRISTIAN EVIDENCES. By ARCHBISHOP
WHATLEY.
18mo. pp. 131. Price, 20 cents.

RELIGIOUS THOUGHTS AND OPINIONS OF A STATESMAN. By WILLIAM VON HUMBOLDT.
16mo.

THE STARS AND EARTH; OR THOUGHTS UPON SPACE, TIME, AND ETERNITY.
18mo.
pp. 88. Price, 31 cents.

A MEMOIR OF REV. HIRAM WITHINGTON, With Selections from his Writings.
16mo. pp. 190. Price, 50 cents.

TEN DISCOURSES ON ORTHODOXY. By Rev. JOSEPH H. ALLEN, 12mo. pp. 227.
Price, 75 cents.

POPULAR OBJECTIONS TO UNITARIAN CHRISTIANITY CONSIDERED AND ANSWERED.
In Seven Discourses. By Rev. GEORGE W. BURNAP. 16mo. pp. 166. Price,
37-1/2 cents.

CONTENTS.--The Position of Unitarianism defined. Unitarians not Infidels.
Explaining the Bible and Explaining it away. Unitarianism not mere
Morality. Unitarianism Evangelical Christianity. Unitarianism
does not tend to Unbelief. Dr. Watts a Unitarian.

"These topics Mr. Burnap treats with a freshness of thought which
will render the volume acceptable to those who have a taste for
reading of this sort, while its general merits place it in the class
of works one would wish to see extensively circulated among those
who think that Unitarianism has nothing to stand upon, or that it is a
doctrine full of impiety."--_Christian Examiner._
THE MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS OF F.W.P. GREENWOOD, D.D. 12mo. pp. 400.
Price, $1.00.

"It is a profitable book for any one to read,--partly because it communicates
information and offers instruction, but chiefly because its moral
tone is of the healthiest kind."

--_Christian Examiner._
ECHOES OF INFANT VOICES. 16mo. pp. 144. Price, 50 cents.

MEMOIR AND WRITINGS OF REV. JAMES H. PERKINS. Edited by Rev. WILLIAM H.
CHANNING. 2 Vols. 12mo.

A STUDY FOR YOUNG MEN; or a Sketch of Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton. By
Rev. THOMAS BINNEY. 16mo. pp. 150. Price, 42 cents.
HYMNS FOR THE SANCTUARY. Compiled by a Committee of the West Boston
Society. 12mo.
CHRISTIAN HYMNS FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE WORSHIP. A Collection compiled
by a Committee of the Cheshire Pastoral Association. Twenty-eighth
Edition. 18mo. pp. 562. Price, 50 cents.
Although this book has been published but four years, it is now
used in _forty_ societies, and this fact is considered sufficient
to show the estimation in which it is held, and the manner in which
it has stood the test of comparison with other collections.
The following are some of the peculiar merits of the Christian
Hymns:--the number of hymns is very large; the variety of subjects
and metres is very great; the hymns are better adapted for singing;
the plan of arrangement is improved; and the price is very
low.

MANUALS FOR SABBATH SCHOOLS.
LESSONS ON THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOUR, for Sunday Schools and
Families. By Rev. F.D. HUNTINGTON. 18mo. Fourth Edition.
QUESTIONS ADAPTED TO THE TEXT OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By C. SOULE
CARTEE. 18mo. Parts I. and II. Fourth Thousand.
A SCRIPTURE CATECHISM OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION, stated in the Words
of the Bible. By EPHRAIM PEABODY. 18mo. pp. 56. Third Thousand.
FIRST BOOK FOR SUNDAY SCHOOLS. Fifth Edition. 18mo. pp. 36.
THE MINISTRY OF CHRIST. With Notes and Questions By Rev. THOMAS
B.
FOX. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. 18mo. pp. 261.
A MANUAL ON THE BOOK OF ACTS. By Rev. THOMAS B. FOX. 18mo.
THE SUNDAY SCHOOL SERVICE-BOOK. By Hon. STEPHEN C. PHILLIPS, President
of the Boston Sunday School Society. 18mo.
THE SUNDAY SCHOOL SINGING-BOOK. By E.L. WHITE. Square 16mo.
QUESTIONS ON THE GOSPEL NARRATIVES; their Origin, Peculiarities,
and Transmission. By Rev. HENRY A. MILES. 18mo. pp. 18.
JUVENILE BOOKS.
THE CHILDHOOD OF MARY LEESON. By MARY HOWITT. 18mo. pp. 143.
THE PLAYMATE. A Pleasant Companion for Spare Hours. Embellished
with more than a Hundred Engravings. Large 16mo. pp. 400.
HYMNS, SONGS, AND FABLES. By MRS. FOLLEN. 18mo. pp. 107.
THE TWO NEW SCHOLARS, and Other Stories. 18mo. pp. 92.
FIVE YEARS OF YOUTH; of Sense and Sentiment. By HARRIET MARTINEAU.
With a Preface by MRS. FOLLEN. 18mo. pp. 255.
ALLEGORIES AND CHRISTIAN LESSONS; for Children. By T.B. FOX. 18mo.
pp.
144.
ELLA HERBERT; or Self-Denial. By a Lady. 18mo. pp. 71.
TRADITIONS OF PALESTINE. By HARRIET MARTINEAU. 18mo. pp. 142.
THE ESKDALE HERDBOY. By LADY STODDART. 18mo. pp. 146.
THE BOY OF SPIRIT. 18mo. pp. 123.
WHEN ARE WE HAPPIEST? 18mo. pp. 149.
HURRA FOR NEW ENGLAND! 18mo. pp. 112.
HOW TO SPOIL A GOOD CITIZEN; and Other Stories. By the Author of
"Willie Rogers," &c., &c. 18mo. pp. 180.

MRS. TUTHILL'S JUVENILES.
I WILL BE A GENTLEMAN. Twelfth Edition. 18mo. pp. 154.
I WILL BE A LADY. Twelfth Edition. 18mo. pp. 173.
ONWARD! RIGHT ONWARD! Seventh Edition. 18mo. pp. 173.
ANY THING FOR SPORT. Third Edition. 18mo. pp. 136.
THE BOARDING-SCHOOL GIRL. Second Edition. 18mo. pp. 145.
A STRIKE FOR FREEDOM, or Law and Order, 18mo.

* * * * *
THE BOY OF MOUNT RHIGI. By Miss SEDGWICK. 16mo. pp. 252.
THE GLORIOUS STRANGER. 18mo.
COUSIN HATTY'S HYMNS AND TWILIGHT STORIES. 16mo.
ALL FOR THE BEST. By T.S. ARTHUR. 16mo.
BARDOUC. A Persian Tale. 18mo.

THE CHILD'S MORNING BOOK. 18mo.
* * * * *
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER AND RELIGIOUS MISCELLANY. Edited by Rev.
GEORGE PUTNAM, D.D., and Rev. GEORGE E. ELLIS.
"This work, which combines literature with theology, has always
sustained a high reputation for learning and ability,--nearly all
the more eminent Unitarians of the day having been at different
times numbered among its contributors."
The Examiner was first issued under the superintendence of the late
Dr. Noah Worcester. It has since been edited by Rev. John G. Palfrey,
D.D., Rev. Francis Jenks, Rev. F.W.P. Greenwood, D.D., Rev. James
Walker, D.D., Rev. William Ware, Rev. Alvan Lamson, D.D., and
Rev.
Ezra S. Gannett, D.D., and through its pages the writings of
Worcester, Channing, Norton, and Ware have been given to the
public.
The Christian Examiner is published on the first days of January,
March, May, July, September, and November, in numbers of one hundred
and forty-four octavo pages each, at _four dollars_ per annum.Both would be dead now in
any event. What does it matter whether yours were the saints and men of
letters and mine the savages, or whether the boot was on the other leg?
That's all over and done with. Imitate me. Let bygones be bygones."

Now this is, in some respects, the authentic voice of health.
Undoubtedly the most characteristic thing about the past is that it is
not present, and to lavish on it too tragic and intense a devotion is to
love death more than life. And yet our bluff Englishman can learn in two
words how it comes about that his invitation represents a demand for the
impossible. In the first place, the bygones have not gone by. Our
complaint is made not against the crimes of his fathers, who are dead,
but against the crimes of himself and his fellows, who are alive. We
denounce not the repealed Penal Laws but the unrepealed Act of Union. If
we recall to the memory of England the systematic baseness of the
former, it is in order to remind her that she once thought them right,
and now confesses that they were cruelly wrong. We Irish are realists,
and we hold the problems of the present as of more account than any
agonies or tyrannies of the past. But our realism has the human touch in
it, and that constitutes the second impossibility in the invitation
tendered us. _Que messieurs les assassins commencent!_ The anti-Irish
legend is not dead nor even sleeping, nor are the resources of calumny
yet exhausted. An instance is immediately at hand. I have, at this
moment, on my desk a volume lately issued--"The School History of
England." It is published by the Clarendon Press, Oxford; Mr Rudyard
Kipling contributes twenty-three pieces of verse, and a Mr C. R. L.
Fletcher, whose qualifications are not stated, appears to be responsible
for the prose. The book has been praised in most of the papers, and it
will no doubt go far. This is the picture of the coming to Ireland of
the Cymro-Frankish adventurers which its pages will imprint on the minds
of the youth of England:

     "One event of his reign (Henry II.'s) must not be forgotten, his
     visit to Ireland in 1171-2. St Patrick, you may have heard, had
     banished the snakes from that island, but he had not succeeded in
     banishing the murderers and thieves who were worse than many
     snakes. In spite of some few settlements of Danish pirates and
     traders on the eastern coast, Ireland had remained purely Celtic
     and purely a pasture country. All wealth was reckoned in cows; Rome
     had never set foot there, so there was a king for every day in the
     week, and the sole amusement of such persons was to drive off each
     other's cows and to kill all who resisted. In Henry II.'s time this
     had been going on for at least seven hundred years, and during the
     seven hundred that have followed much the same thing would have
     been going on, if the English Government had not occasionally
     interfered."

The English whom Henry II. left behind him soon became "as wild and
barbarous as the Irishmen themselves."

Oxford, the home of so many other lost causes, apparently aspires to be
also the home of the lost cause of mendacity. The forcible-feeble malice
of Mr Fletcher calls for no serious discussion; submit it to any
continental scholar, to any honest British scholar, and he will ask
contemptuously, though perhaps with a little stab of pain, how the name
of Oxford comes to be associated with such wicked absurdities. Every
other reference to Ireland is marked by the same scientific composure
and balanced judgment. And this document, inspired by race hatred, and
apparently designed to propagate race hatred, is offered to the youth of
these countries as an aid towards the consolidation of the Empire. It is
a case not merely of the poisoning of a well, but of the poisoning of a
great river at its source. The force of cowardice can no farther go. So
long as it goes thus far, so long as the Froudes find Fletchers to echo
them, Irishmen will inevitably "brood over the past." We do not share
the cult of ancestor-worship, but we hold the belief that the Irish
nation, like any other, is an organism endowed with a life in some sort
continuous and repetitive of its origins. To us it does matter something
whether our forerunners were turbulent savages, destitute of all
culture, or whether they were valiant, immature men labouring through
the twilight of their age towards that dawn which does not yet flush our
own horizon. But we are far from wishing that dead centuries should be
summoned back to wake old bitterness that ought also to be dead. Hand
history over to the scholars, if you will; let it be marshalled as a
multitudinous and coloured pageant, to incite imaginations and inspire
literature. Such is our desire, but when we read the clotted nonsense of
persons like Mr Fletcher we can only repeat: _Que messieurs les
assassins commencent_!

For the purpose of this inquiry it is inevitable that some brief account
should be rendered of the past relations between England and Ireland.
The reader need not shrink back in alarm; it is not proposed to lead him
by the reluctant nose through the whole maze and morass of Irish
history. The past is of value to political realists only in that residue
of it which survives, namely, the wisdom which it ought to have taught
us. Englishmen are invited to consider the history of Ireland solely
from that point of view. They are prayed to purge themselves altogether
of pity, indignation, and remorse; these are emotions far too beneficent
to waste on things outside the ambit of our own immediate life. If they
are wise they will come to Irish history as to a school, and they will
learn one lesson that runs through it like the refrain of a ballad. A
very simple lesson it is, just this: Ireland cannot be put down. Ireland
always has her way in the end. If the opposite view is widely held the
explanation lies on the surface. Two causes have co-operated to produce
the illusion. Everybody agrees that Great Britain has acted in a most
blackguardly fashion towards Ireland; everybody assumes that
blackguardism always succeeds in this world, therefore Ireland is a
failure. The only flaw in this syllogism is that it is in direct
conflict with every known fact. For the rest we have to thank or blame
the sentimentalism of Mr Matthew Arnold. His proud but futile Celts who
"went down to battle but always fell" have been mistaken for the Irish
of actual history. The truth is, of course, that the phrase is in the
grand manner of symbolism. When Ecclesiastes laments that the eye is not
filled with seeing nor the ear with hearing we do not argue him deaf
and blind; we take his words as a proclamation of that famine and fierce
appetite of the spirit which has created all the higher religions.
Ireland agrees with Ecclesiastes. Perceiving that there is in matter no
integral and permanent reality she cannot be content with material
victories; her poets are subtle in what a French writer styles the
innuendoes by which the soul makes its enormous claims. The formula of
her aspiration has been admirably rendered by the late Mrs Nora Chesson:

    "He follows after shadows when all your chase is done;
    He follows after shadows, the King of Ireland's son."

Were I to read the poem, of which these lines are the motif, to certain
genial Englishmen of my acquaintance they would observe that the
gentleman in question was a "queer cove, staying up late at night and
catching cold, and that no doubt there was a woman in the case." But
these are considerations a little remote from the daily dust of
politics. In the sense in which every life is a failure, and the best
life the worst failure, Ireland is a failure. But in every other sense,
in all that touches the fathomable business of daylight, she has been a
conspicuous success.

A certain type of fanaticism is naive enough to regard the intercourse
of England with Ireland as that of a superior with an inferior race.
This is the sanction invoked to legitimise every adventure in invasion
and colonisation. M. Jules Hormand, who has attempted, in his recent
book, "Domination et Colonisation," to formulate a theory of the whole
subject, touches bed-rock when he writes:

     "We must then accept as our point of departure the principle that
     there is a hierarchy of races and of civilisations, and that we
     belong to the higher race and civilisation.... The essential
     legitimation of conquest is precisely this conviction of our own
     superiority.... Nations which do not hold this belief, because
     incapable of such sincerity towards themselves, should not attempt
     to conquer others."

The late Lord Salisbury was grasping at such a justification when he
likened the Irish to Hottentots; it would be a justification of a kind
if it chanced to be validated by the facts. But it does not. There is so
much genuine humour in the comparison that, for my part, I am unable to
take offence at it. I look at the lathe painted to look like iron, and I
set over against him Parnell. That is enough; the lathe is smashed to
fragments amid the colossal laughter of the gods. The truth is that in
every shock and conflict of Irish civilisation with English, it is the
latter that has given way. The obscuration of this obvious fact is
probably to be ascribed to the military successes of the Norman, or
rather the Cymro-Frankish invaders. If we were the higher race why did
we not put them out? Replying on the same plane of thought we observe
that if they were the higher race they would have put us down. But a
more detailed assignment of qualities between the two peoples is
possible. In general it may be said that the two stood on much the same
level of mentality, but that they had specialised on different subjects,
the Normans on war and politics, the Irish on culture. Of the many
writers who help us to reconstruct the period we ought to signalise one,
Mrs A.S. Green, who to a rare scholarship adds something rarer, the
genius of common sense. This is not the place in which to recall the
whole substance of her "Making of Ireland and its Undoing" and her
"Irish Nationality"; but from borrowings thence and elsewhere we can
piece together a plain tale of that first chapter of the Irish Question.


CHAPTER III

HISTORY

_(b) Plain_


In those days war was the most lucrative industry open to a young man of
breeding, courage, and ability. Owners of capital regarded it as a sound
investment. What Professor Oman tells us of the Normans in 1066 was
equally true of them in 1169:

     "Duke William had undertaken his expedition not as a mere feudal
     lord of the barons of Normandy but rather as the managing director
     of a great joint-stock company for the conquest of England, in
     which not only his own subjects but hundreds of adventurers, poor
     and rich, from all parts of Western Europe had taken shares."

The Normans, then, came to Ireland with their eyes on three objects. In
the first place, property. This was to be secured in the case of each
individual adventurer by the overthrow of some individual Irish
chieftain. It necessitated war in the shape of a purely local, and
indeed personal grapple. In the second place, plunder. This was to be
secured by raids, incursions, and temporary alliances. In the third
place, escape from the growing power and exactions of the Crown. This
was to be secured geographically by migration to Ireland, and
politically by delaying, resolutely if discreetly, the extension in that
country of the over-lordship of the King. Herein lies the explanation of
the fact that for three and a half centuries the English penetration
into Ireland is a mere chaos of private appetites and egotisms. The
invaders, as we have said, were specialists in war, and in the
unification of states through war. This they had done for England; this
they failed to do for Ireland. The one ingredient which, if dropped into
the seething cauldron of her life, must have produced the definite
crystallisation of a new nationality, complete in structure and
function, was not contributed. True, the Cymro-Franks proved themselves
strong enough in arms to maintain their foothold; if that physical test
is enough to establish their racial superiority then let us salute Mr
Jack Johnson as Zarathustra, the superman. But in their one special and
characteristic task they failed lamentably. Instead of conquest and
consolidation they gave us mere invasion and disturbance. The disastrous
role played by them has been unfolded by many interpreters of history,
by none with a more vivid accuracy than we find in the pages of M.
Paul-Dubois:

     "Had Ireland," he writes, "been left to herself she would, in all
     human probability, have succeeded, notwithstanding her decadence,
     in establishing political unity under a military chief. Had the
     country been brought into peaceful contact with continental
     civilisation, it must have advanced along the path of modern
     progress. Even if it had been conquered by a powerful nation, it
     would at least have participated in the progress of the conquering
     power. But none of these things happened. England, whose political
     and social development had been hastened by the Norman Conquest,
     desired to extend her influence to Ireland. 'She wished,' as Froude
     strangely tells us, 'to complete the work of civilisation happily
     begun by the Danes.' But in actual fact she only succeeded in
     trammelling the development of Irish society, and maintaining in
     the country an appalling condition of decadent stagnation, as the
     result of three centuries and a half of intermittent invasions,
     never followed by conquest."

On the other hand the triumph of Irish culture was easy and absolute.
Ireland, unvisited by the legions and the law of Rome, had evolved a
different vision of the life of men in community, or, in other words, a
different idea of the State. Put very briefly the difference lay in
this. The Romans and their inheritors organised for purposes of war and
order, the Irish for purposes of culture. The one laid the emphasis on
police, the other on poets. But for a detailed exposition of the
contrast I must send the reader to Mrs Green's "Irish Nationality." In a
world in which right is little more than a secretion of might, in which,
unless a strong man armed keeps house, his enemies enter in, the
weakness of the Gaelic idea is obvious. But the Roman pattern too had a
characteristic vice which has led logically in our own time to a
monstrous and sinister growth of armaments.

To those who recognise in this deification of war the blackest menace of
our day the vision of a culture State is not without charm. The
shattering possibilities enfolded in it would have fevered Nietzsche and
fascinated Renan. But, be that as it may, Ireland played Cleopatra to
the Antony of the invaders. Some of them, indeed, the "garrison" pure
and simple, had all their interests centred not only in resisting but in
calumniating her. But the majority yielded gaily to her music, her
poetry, her sociability, that magical quality of hers which the Germans
call _Gemütlichkeit_. In a few centuries a new and enduring phrase had
designated them as more Irish than the Irish themselves. So far as any
superiority of civilisation manifests itself in this first period it is
altogether on the side of Ireland. This power of assimilation has never
decayed. There never was a nation, not even the United States, that so
subdued and re-fashioned those who came to her shores, that so wrought
them into her own blood and tissue. The Norman baron is transformed in a
few generations into an Irish chieftain, and as often as not into an
Irish "rebel." The Jacobite planter of the first decade of the
seventeenth century is in the fifth decade found in arms against
Cromwell; the Cromwellian settler is destined in turn to shed his blood
for James II. and Catholicity. Protestant colonists who, in the early
eighteenth century, enforce and defend the abominable Penal Laws, will
in 1782 demand, with drawn swords, that henceforth there shall be no
longer a Protestant colony but in its place an Irish nation. The
personal history of the captains of the Irish cause in modern times is
no less remarkable. O'Connell begins his public career in the Yeomanry
called out to put down the insurrectionary movement of Emmet. Isaac
Butt comes first into note as the orator of the Orange Party in Dublin.
Parnell himself steps out of a Tory milieu and tradition into the
central tumult of agitation. Wave after incoming wave of them, her
conquerors were conquered. "Once again," cried Parnell in the last
public utterance of his life, "I am come to cast myself into the deep
sea of the love of my people." In that deep sea a hundred diverse
currents of blood have met and mingled; they have lost their individual
drift to become part of the strong tide of national consciousness and
national unity. If Irish history is to be regarded as a test of racial
superiority then Ireland emerges with the crown and garlands of victory.
We came, we the invaders, to dominate, and we remained to serve. For
Ireland has signed us with the oil and chrism of her human sacrament,
and even though we should deny the faith with our lips she would hold
our hearts to the end.

But let us translate her triumph into more concrete speech. The
essential lesson of experience, then, is that no device, plan, or policy
adopted by England for the subjugation of Ireland has ever been anything
except an abject failure. And the positive of this negative is that
every claim that ever formed part of the national programme of Ireland
has won its way against all enmities. No plough to which she ever put
her hand has been turned back or stayed eternally in mid-furrow. It does
not matter what period you call to the witness-box; the testimony is
uniform and unvarying. Until Tudor times, as has been noted, there
cannot be said to have been in any strict sense an English policy in
Ireland; there was only a scuffle of appetites. In so far as there was a
policy it consisted of sporadic murder for the one half, and for the
other of an attempt to prevent all intercourse that might lead to
amalgamation between the two peoples. The Statute of Kilkenny--which is,
all things considered, more important than the Kilkenny cats though not
so well known in England--made it a capital offence for a settler to
marry an Irishwoman or to adopt the Irish language, law, or costume. The
Act no doubt provided a good many ruffians with legal and even
ecclesiastical fig-leaves with which to cover their ruffianism, and
promoted among the garrison such laudable objects as rape and
assassination. But as a breakwater between the two races it did not
fulfil expectation. The Statute was passed in 1367: and two centuries
later Henry VIII. was forced to appoint as his Deputy the famous
Garrett Fitzgerald whose life was a militant denial of every clause and
letter of it. With the Tudors, after some diplomatic preliminaries, a
very clear and business-like policy was developed. Seeing that the only
sort of quiet Irishman known to contemporary science was a dead
Irishman, English Deputies and Governors were instructed to pacify
Ireland by slaughtering or starving the entire population. The record of
their conscientious effort to obey these instructions may be studied in
any writer of the period, or in any historian, say Mr Froude. For Mr
Froude, in his pursuit of the picturesque, was always ready to resort to
the most extreme measures; he sometimes even went so far as to tell the
truth. The noblest and ablest English minds lent their aids. Sir Walter
Raleigh and Edmund Spenser were both rather circumambulatory on paper;
the work of each is 'a long monotone broken by two or three exquisite
immortalities. But they were both as concise in action as an Elizabethan
headsman. Sir Walter helped Lord Grey, the recognised pattern in those
days of the Christian gentleman, to put to death seven hundred
prisoners-of-war at Smerwick. Spenser, being no soldier, leaned rather
to famine. In his famous book he recommends the destruction of crops,
houses, cattle, and all necessaries of life so that the Irish should
"soon be compelled to devour each other." The Commanders-in-Chief and
the Deputies specialised in poison, as became men whose wealth and
learning enabled them to keep in touch with the Italian Renaissance.
Bluff, straightforward troopers like Mountjoy, Malby, Wilmot, Bagenal,
Chichester, and the rest, not pretending to such refinements, did their
best in the way of hanging, stabbing, and burning. In those days as well
as ours the children had their Charter. "Nits," said the trustees of
civilisation, "will grow to lice." And so they tossed them on the points
of their swords, thus combining work with play, or fed them on the roast
corpses of their relatives, and afterwards strangled them with tresses
of their mother's hair.

I do not recall these facts in order to show that Elizabethan policy was
a riot of blackguardism. That is obvious, and it is irrelevant. I
mention them in order to show that the blackguardism under review was an
unrelieved failure. At one time, indeed, it seemed to have succeeded.

"Ireland, brayed as in a mortar, to use Sir John Davies' phrase," writes
M. Paul-Dubois, "at last submitted. In the last years of the century
half the population had perished. Elizabeth reigned over corpses and
ashes. _Hibernia Pacata_--Ireland is 'pacified.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

The blunder discloses itself at a glance. Only half the population had
perished; there were still alive, according to the most probable
estimate, quite two hundred thousand Irishmen. The next generation helps
to illustrate not only the indestructibility of Ireland, but her all but
miraculous power of recuperation. So abundant are the resources of his
own vitality that, as Dr Moritz Bonn declares, an Irish peasant can live
where a continental goat would starve. And not having read Malthus--Mr
Malthus at that time being even less readable than since--the Irish
remnant proceeded to develop anew into a nation. In forty years it was
marching behind that _beau chevalier_ Owen Roe O'Neill to battle and
victory. O'Neill, a general famous through Europe, the one man who might
have measured equal swords with Cromwell, was removed by poison, and
then came the massacres. In eleven years, Sir William Petty assures us,
616,000 out of a total population of 1,466,000 perished by the sword or
by starvation. For the remainder the policy of root and branch
extermination was abandoned in favour of a policy of State-aided
migration and emigration. As an alternative to hell the Irish were
deported to Connaught or the Barbadoes. Henceforth there were to be
three provinces of loyal English, and one of rebelly Irish. This again
was not a radiant success. The transformation of the Cromwellian settler
has been indicated; if you were to search for him to-day you would
probably find him President of the local branch of the United Irish
League. The story repeats itself period after period. The Penal Laws did
not protestantise Ireland. The eighteenth century may be said to mark
the lowest ebb of national life, but the tide was to turn. After Aughrim
and the Boyne, the new device of England was to sacrifice everything to
the "garrison." "Protestant Ireland," as Grattan put it, "knelt to
England on the necks of her countrymen." In one aspect the garrison were
tyrants; in another they were slaves. They were at once oppressors and
oppressed. There was a sort of "deal" between them and the English
Government by which the public welfare was to be sacrificed to the
English Government, the Irish Catholics to the "garrison." A vile
programme, but subtle and adroit, it bore its unnatural fruit of
legislation, passed by the Westminster Parliament and the Dublin
Garrison Parliament alike, for the destruction of every manufacturing
and commercial interest in Ireland that was thought to conflict with a
similar interest in England. But another debacle has to be chronicled.
Out of the very baseness of this regime a new patriotism was begotten.
The garrison, awakening abruptly to the fact that it had no country,
determined to invent one; and there was brought to birth that modern
Ireland, passionate for freedom, which has occupied the stage ever
since. In our own time it has knit, as a fractured limb knits, into one
tissue with the tradition of the Gaelic peasantry. Hanging and burning,
torture and oppression, poison and Penal Laws, bribes and blackguardism
so far from exterminating the Irish people actually hammered them into a
nation, one and indestructible, proud of its past and confident of its
future.

Take instances still more recent and particular--the struggle for
religious freedom or the struggle for the land. Catholic emancipation is
a leading case: obstinacy against obstinacy, the No! of England against
the Yes! of Ireland, and the former sprawling in the ditch at the end of
the tussle. "The Law," ran the dictum of an eighteenth-century Lord
Chancellor, "does not suppose any such person to exist as an Irish
Roman Catholic." At this moment a Catholic holds the seals and purse of
the Chancellorship. Never did ministers swallow their own stubborn words
more incontinently than did Peel and Wellington. So late as 1828 Peel
was loudly declaring that the continuance of these bars, which excluded
the Catholics from the acquisition of political power, was necessary for
the maintenance of the Constitution and the safety of the Church, and
Wellington was echoing his words. A year later, utterly defeated by
O'Connell, Peel was introducing the Catholic Relief Bill in the Commons.
Wellington had it for his task to induce, or rather frighten the king to
assent. Ireland not only emancipated the Catholics, she went on to
emancipate the Dissenters, a service of freedom of conscience which is
too often forgotten.

The Tithe System was similarly declared to be part of the fabric of the
Constitution, to be upheld at the point of the bayonet. Scythe in hand,
the Irish peasant proclaimed that it must go. It went. Still more
fundamental was the existence of the Protestant Established Church. To
touch it was to lay hands on the Ark. Orange orators threatened civil
war; two hundred thousand Ulstermen were to shoulder their Minie
Rifles, and not merely slaughter the Catholics but even depose Queen
Victoria.

Ireland said that the Establishment too must go; and, with the echoed
menace of Fenianism ringing in his ears, Mr Gladstone hauled down the
official blazon of Ascendancy. "Ulster" did not fight. But the fierce
struggle for the land affords the crucial test. Landlordism of that most
savage type which held for its whole gospel that a man may do what he
likes with his own was conceived to be the very corner-stone of British
rule in Ireland. It controlled Parliament, the judiciary, the schools,
the Press, and possessed in the Royal Irish Constabulary an incomparable
watch-dog. It had resisted the criticism and attack loosened against it
by the scandal of the Great Famine. Then suddenly Ireland took the
business in hand. On a certain day in October 1879, some thirty men met
in a small hotel in Dublin and, under the inspiration of Michael Davitt,
founded the Land League. To the programme then formulated, the
expropriation of the landlords at twenty years' purchase of their rents,
England as usual said No! The proposal was thundered against as
confiscation, communism, naked and shameful. To any student, with
patience sufficient for the task, the contemporary files of such
journals as the _Times_ will furnish an exquisite chapter in the
literature of obtuseness. England sustained her No! with batons,
bullets, plank-beds, Coercion courts, and an occasional halter; Ireland
her Yes! with "agitation." Is it necessary to ask who won? Is it
necessary to trace step by step the complete surrender of the last
ditchers of those days? The fantastic and wicked dreams of the agitators
have in thirty years translated themselves into Statute Law and solid
fact. An English statesman of the period, say Mr Balfour or Mr Wyndham,
is fortunate if, with a few odd rags pilfered from the Land League
wardrobe, he can conceal from history his utter poverty of ideas.

This, then, is the essential wisdom of Irish history: Ireland has won
all along the line. The Normans did not normanise her. The Tudors did
not exterminate her. She has undone the Confiscations, and drawn a
cancelling pen through the Penal Laws. The Act of Union, so far from
suppressing her individuality or overwhelming it, has actually brought
it to that full self-consciousness which constitutes the coming of age
of a nation. Tears, as we read in Wordsworth, to human suffering are
due; if there be anyone with tears at command he may shed them, with
great fitness, and with no profit at all, over the long martyrdom of
Ireland. But let him, at least if he values facts, think twice before he
goes on to apply to her that other line which speaks of human hopes
defeated and overthrown. No other people in the world has held so
staunchly to its inner vision; none other has, with such fiery patience,
repelled the hostility of circumstances, and in the end reshaped them
after the desire of her heart. Hats off to success, gentlemen! Your
modern God may well be troubled at sight of this enigmatic Ireland which
at once despises him, and tumbles his faithfullest worshippers in the
sand of their own amphitheatre. Yet, so it is. The Confederate General,
seeing victory suddenly snatched from his hands, and not for the first
time, by Meagher's Brigade, exclaimed in immortal profanity: "There
comes that damned Green Flag again!" I have often commended that phrase
to Englishmen as admirably expressive of the historical role and record
of Ireland in British Politics. The damned Green Flag flutters again in
their eyes, and if they will but listen to the music that marches with
it, they will find that the lamenting fifes are dominated wholly by the
drums of victory.


CHAPTER IV

THE OBVIOUSNESS OF HOME RULE


Ireland, then, has made it her foible to be not only right but
irresistible in her past demands. What is it that she now claims, and on
what grounds? She claims the right to enter into possession of her own
soul. She claims the _toga virilis_, and all the strengthening burdens
of freedom. Now it is difficult to represent such a demand in terms of
argument. Liberty is no mere conclusion of linked logic long-drawn out:
it is an axiom, a flaming avatar. The arguments by which it is defended
are important, but they bear to it much the same relation that a table
of the wave-lengths of various rays of light bears to the immediate
glory of a sunrise. There is another obstacle. Self-government, like
other spiritual realities, say love or civilisation, is too vast,
obvious, and natural to be easily imprisoned in words. You are certainly
in love; suppose you were suddenly asked "to state the case" for love?
You are probably civilised; suppose you were suddenly asked "to state
the case for civilisation"? So it is with the Home Rule idea. To ask
what is the gate of entrance to it is like asking what was the gate of
entrance to hundred-gated Thebes. My friend, Mr Barry O'Brien, in
lecturing on Ireland, used to begin by recounting a very agreeable and
appropriate story. A prisoner on trial was asked whether he would accept
for his case the jury which had tried the last. He objected very
vehemently. "Well, but," said the Judge, "what is the nature of your
objection? Do you object to the panel or to the array?" "Ah!" replied
the traverser, "if you want to know, I object to the whole damned
business." That is approximately our objection to the present system of
government in Ireland. But let me attempt to group under a series of
somewhat arbitrary headings the "case for Home Rule," that is to say,
the case for applying to Ireland the plain platitudes of constitutional
freedom.

The whole matter roots in the fact of nationality. Nationality is to
political life what personality is to mental life, the mainspring,
namely, of the mechanism. The two principles of organisation have this
in common, that although by, through, and for them the entire pageant
of our experience is unfolded, we are unable to capture either of them
in a precise formula. That I am a person I know; but what is a person?
That Ireland is a nation I know; but what is a nation? "A community of
memories and hopes," says Anatole France; but that applies to a football
club. Something for which a man will die, says Mr T. M. Healy: but men
will die for strange reasons; there was a French poet who shot himself
because the trees were always green in the spring and never, for a
change, blue or red. A cultural unit, say the anthropologists; an idea
of the divine mind, declare Mazzini and the mystics' of sociology. Each
of these formulas possesses a certain relative truth, but all of them
together come short of the whole truth. Nationality, which acts better
perhaps than it argues, is one of the great forces of nature and of
human nature that have got to be accepted. Nationality will out, and
where it exists it will, in spite of all resistance, strain fiercely to
express itself in some sort of autonomous government.

German romance depicts for us the misery and restlessness of a man who
had lost his shadow. Catholic theologians--if the masters of a wisdom
too high and too austere for these days may be invoked--tell us that
the departed soul, even though it be in Paradise, hungers with a great
desire for the Resurrection that it may be restored to its life-long
comrade, the body.

    "The crimson-throbbing glow
    Into its old abode aye pants to go."

Look again at Ireland and you will discern, under all conflicts, that
unity of memory, of will, of material interest, of temperamental
atmosphere which knits men into a nation. You will notice the presence
of these characteristics, but it is an absence, a void that will most
impress you. You will see not a body that has lost its shadow, but
something more sinister--a soul that has been sundered from its natural
body. She demands restoration. She sues out a _habeas corpus_ of a kind
not elsewhere to be paralleled. That is the "Irish Question."

You may not like this interpretation of things. It may seem to you
fantastic, nasty, perilous to all comfort. Life often does make on the
tender-hearted an impression of coarse violence; life, nevertheless,
always has its way. What other interpretation is possible? Lancashire,
to take any random contrast, is much richer than Ireland in wealth and
population; but Lancashire is not a "Question." Lancashire is not a
"Question" because Lancashire is not a nation. Ireland is a "Question"
because Ireland is a nation. Her fundamental claim is a claim for the
constitutional recognition of nationality.

We have seen that in almost every conflict between English and Irish
ideas the latter have had the justification of success. This holds good
also as regards our long insistence on nationality as a principle of
political organisation. In various passages of the nineteenth century it
seemed to be gravely compromised. Capital, its mobility indefinitely
increased by the improved technique of exchange, became essentially a
citizen of the world. The earth was all about it where to choose; its
masters, falsely identifying patriotism with the Protectionism then
dominant, struck at both, and the Free Trade movement philosophised
itself into cosmopolitanism. Labour, like capital, showed a rapid
tendency to become international or rather supernational. "The workers,"
proclaimed Marx, "have no fatherland." While this was the drift of ideas
in the economic sphere, that in the political was no more favourable.
Belgium seemed on the point of extinction, Italy was a mere geographical
expression, Hungary was abject and broken. In the narrower but even
more significant sphere of British colonial policy the passion for
centralisation had not yet been understood in all its folly. Downing
Street still functioned as the Dublin Castle of the Empire. The
possibility of the overseas possessions developing that rich, strong
individuality which characterises them to-day would have been dismissed
with horror. The colour and texture of men's thought on these subjects
has undergone a notable transformation. Cosmopolitanism of the old type
is a slain hallucination. Capital in our time is not content to be a
patriot, it is a Jingo. As to labour, if we turn to its politics we find
Herr Bebel declaring that the German socialist is first of all a German,
and Mr Ramsay MacDonald pledging his adherents to support any war
necessary for the assertion of English prestige. If we turn to its
theoretical sociology we find the national idea rehabilitated and
triumphant.

Such intellectual reconstructions do not, as a rule, begin in England,
or find in English their characteristic formulæ. Mr Blatchford might
indeed be cited, but it is in the brilliant literature of German Social
Democracy that the most scientific expression of the new spirit is to be
sought. Truly Marx has been indeed translated. His abstract and
etiolated internationalism has been replaced by the warm humanity of
writers like, say, David or Pernerstorfer. The principle of nationality
is Vindicated by the latter in a noble passage. I quote it from
Sombart's "Socialism and the Social Movement."

     "Nationality in its highest form is ... a precious possession. It
     is the highest expression of human civilisation in an individual
     form, and mankind is the richer for its appearance. Our purpose is
     not only to see to it that men shall be housed and fed and clothed
     in a manner worthy of human beings, but also that they may become
     humanised by participation in the culture of centuries, that they
     may themselves possess culture and produce it. All culture is
     national. It takes its rise in some special people, and reaches its
     highest form in national character.... Socialism and the national
     idea are thus not opposed to each other. Every attempt to weaken
     the national idea is an attempt to lessen the precious possessions
     of mankind.... Socialism wants to organise, and not disintegrate,
     humanity. But in the organisms of mankind, not individuals, but
     nations are the tissues, and if the whole organism is to remain
     healthy it is necessary for the tissues to be healthy.... The
     peoples, despite the changes they undergo, are everlasting, and
     they add to their own greatness by helping the world upward. And
     so we are at one and the same time good Socialists and good
     Germans."

This might almost seem to be a rhapsody, but every movement of
continental politics in recent times confirms and enforces its plain
truth. "The spirit of resurgent nationality," as Professor Bury of
Cambridge tells us, "has governed, as one of the most puissant forces,
the political course of the last century and is still unexhausted." It
has governed not only the West but the East; the twain have met in that
demand for a constitutional national State which in our day has flamed
up, a fire not to be put out, in Turkey, Persia, Egypt. But it is in
Imperial politics that the bouleversement has been most complete. When
critics now find fault with the structure of the Empire they complain
not that there is too much Downing Street in it, but that the residual
power of Downing Street-is not visible to the naked eye. To us Irish the
blindness of England to the meaning of her own colonial work is a
maddening miracle. A wit of the time met Goldsmith at dinner. The
novelist was a little more disconcerting than usual, a result, let us
charitably hope, of the excellence of the claret. Afterwards they asked
his fellow-diner what he thought of the author. "Well," he replied, "I
believe that that man wrote 'The Vicar of Wakefield,' and, let me tell
you, it takes a lot of believing." Similarly when we in Ireland learn
that Great Britain has founded on the principle of local autonomy an
Empire on which the sun never sets, we nerve ourselves to an Act of
Faith. It is not inappropriate to observe that a large part of the
"founding" was done by Irishmen.

But the point of immediate interest lies in this. The foolishness of
England in Ireland finds an exact parallel, although on a smaller scale
and for a shorter period, in the early foolishness of England in her own
colonies. In both cases there is an attempt to suppress individuality
and initiative, to exploit, to bully, to Downing Street-ify. It was a
policy of Unionism, the sort of Unionism that linked the destiny of the
lady to that of the tiger. The fruits of it were a little bitter in the
eating. The colonies in which under the Home Rule regime "loyalty" has
blossomed like the rose, were in those days most distressingly disloyal.

Philip Neri's latest biographer that, "Our Saint was profoundly convinced
that there is in music and in song a mysterious and a mighty power
to stir the heart with high and noble emotion, and an especial fitness
to raise it above sense to the love of heavenly things."[1] In
like manner the Saint's illustrious son, Cardinal Newman, has
spoken of "the emotion which some gentle, peaceful strain excites in
us," and "how soul and body are rapt and carried away captive by the
concord of musical sounds where the ear is open to their power;"[2]
how, too, "music is the expression of ideas greater and more profound
than any in the visible world, ideas which centre, indeed, in Him
whom Catholicism manifests, who is the seat of all beauty, order,
and perfection whatever

     ."[3] Music, then, to him was no "mere ingenuity or trick of art
     like some game or fashion of the day without meaning."[4] For
     him man "sweeps the strings and they thrill with an ecstatic
     meaning."[5] "Is it possible," he asks, "that that inexhaustible
     evolution and disposition of notes, so rich yet so simple, so
     intricate yet so regulated, so various yet so majestic, should
     be a mere sound which is gone and perishes? Can it be that
     those mysterious stirrings of heart, and keen emotions, and strange
     yearnings after we know not what, and awful impressions from we
     know not whence, should be wrought in us by what is unsubstantial,
     and comes and goes, and begins and ends in itself. It is not
     so; it cannot be. No; they have escaped from some higher sphere;
     they are the outpourings of eternal harmony in the medium of created
     sound; they are echoes from our home; they are the voice of angels,
     or the _Magnificat_ of saints, or the living laws of Divine
governance, or the Divine attributes, something are they beside
themselves, which we cannot compass, which we cannot utter

."[6] And with him, as with St.

Philip, may we not say that music held "a foremost place in his thoughts
and plans"?[7] True, out of its place, he will but allow that "playing
musical instruments is an elegant pastime, and a resource to the idle."[8]
Music and "stuffing birds"[9] were no conceivable substitutes for
education properly so called, any more than a "Tamworth Reading-Room"
system could be the panacea for every ill; but so long as an art in
any given case did not tend to displace the more serious business of
life; should it become for such an one an "aid to reflection," or, _per
contra_, profitably distract him; in brief, if it anywise helped a
soul on to her journey's end, then welcome the "good and perfect
gift."
[Footnote 1: Cardinal Capecelatro's _Life of St. Philip Neri_, translated
by the Rev. Thomas Alder Pope, of the Oratory, vol. ii. p.
83.]
[Footnote 2: _Discourses to Mixed Congregations_, p. 297, Fourth
Edit.
1871.]
[Footnote 3: _Idea of a University_, dis. iv. p. 80, Sixth Edit.
1886.]

[Footnote 4: _Oxford University Sermons_, p. 346, Edit. 1884.]
[Footnote 5: _Idea_, dis. ix. 230. Dr. Chalmers writes to Blanco
White: "You speak in your letter of the relief you have found in music....
I am no musician and want a good ear, and yet I am conscious of a power
in music which I want words to describe. It touches chords, reaches depths
in the soul which lie beyond all other influences....
Nothing in my experience is more mysterious, more inexplicable."
(Blanco White's _Life and Correspondence_, edited by Thom, 1845,
vol.
iii. p. 195.)]
[Footnote 6: _Oxford University Sermons_, pp. 346, 347. Writing
to her brother about the passage on music, partly cited above,
beginning:
"There are seven notes in the scale, make them fourteen; yet what a slender
outfit for so vast an enterprise! What science brings so much out of
so little! Out of what poor element does some great master in it
create his new world!" Mrs. J. Mozley says, "We are pleased at your
tribute to music, but what do you mean by fourteen notes? Do you
mean the twelve semitones, as some suggest? I am indignant at the
idea. I think you knew what you were saying. Please tell me when you
write." (Mozley, _Corr._ ii. p. 411.) He replies: "I had already been
both amused and provoked to find my gross blunder about the 'fourteen.'
But do not, pray, suppose I _doubled_ the notes for semitones,
though it looks very like it.

The truth is, I had a most stupid idea in my head there were fifteen
semi tones, and I took off one for the octave. On reading it over when
published, I saw the absurdity. I have a great dislike to publishing hot
bread, and this is one proof of the inconvenience." (_Ibid._) The
Second Edition has "thirteen notes," which is correct, if the octave
be included, but later editions go back to "fourteen."]
[Footnote 7: Pope, _Capecelatro_, ii. 82.]
[Footnote 8: _Idea_, dis. vi. p. 144.]
[Footnote 9: _Ibid._]
Thus, of a pupil's violin playing, September, 1865: "There are more
important things, and I had some fear that he might be neglecting his
proper studies. Now since he has not been, his music is all gain....
To my mind music is an important part of education, where boys have a
turn for it. It is a great resource when they are thrown on the world,
it is a social amusement perfectly innocent, and, what is so great a
point, employs their thoughts. Drawing does not do this. It is often a
great point for a boy to escape from himself, and music enables him.
He cannot be playing difficult passages on the violin, and thinking of
anything else."

Perhaps he was speaking from experience, for he told us in September,
1875: "I began the violin when I was ten years old," and his two brothers
used to accompany him in trios, Frank playing "the bass." On going
to Oxford he kept up his music. Thus in February, 1820: "Our music club
at St. John's has been offered, and has accepted, the music-room,
for our weekly private concerts;" and later:
"I went to the R's to play the difficult first violin to Haydn, Mozart,
&c.;"[10] and in June, 1820: "I was asked by a man yesterday to go
to his rooms for a _little_ music at seven o'clock. I went. An old Don--a
very good-natured man but too fond of music--played bass, and through his
enthusiasm I was kept playing quartets on a heavy tenor from seven to
twelve. Oh, my poor eyes and head and back."[11] When the news
arrived of his success at Oriel he was practising music. "The Provost's
butler--to whom it fell by usage to take the news to the fortunate
candidate--made his way to Mr. Newman's lodgings in Broad Street, and
found him playing the violin. This in itself disconcerted the messenger,
who did not associate such an accomplishment with a candidateship for
the Oriel Common-Room, but his perplexity was increased when on his
delivering what may be considered to have been his usual form of speech
on such occasions, that 'he had, he feared, disagreeable news to announce,
viz., that Mr. Newman was elected Fellow of Oriel, and that his
immediate presence was required there,' the person addressed merely
answered, 'Very well,' and went on fiddling. This led the man to ask
whether, perhaps, he had not gone to the wrong person, to which Mr.
Newman replied that it was all right.
But, as may be imagined, no sooner had the man left than he
flung down his instrument and dashed downstairs."[12] And again, "With
a half-malicious intent of frightening them (his electors at Oriel),
it was told them that Mr.

Newman had for years belonged to a club of instrumental music, and had
himself taken part in its public performances, a diversion, innocent
in itself, but scarcely in keeping, or in sympathy with an intellectual
Common-Room, or promising a satisfactory career to a nascent Fellow of
Oriel."[13] So thought the _quidnuncs_; nevertheless, Mr. Newman
"went on fiddling." His pupil, F. Rogers (the late Lord Blachford),
joined him herein, and writes, January, 1834: "Your sermons ... and
Beethoven are most satisfactory. I wish I could hope to join you in
the last in any moderate time. However, I do expect you will take me
to Rose Hill to hear some of it again, if it were only to remind me
of those evenings I used to spend with you when at Iffley. I am afraid
you will have enough of my bass to satisfy you without Beethoven in the
course of next term." N.B.--"He was to be in Froude's room over my
head,--J.H.N."[14] Mr. Bowden also played the violoncello, and
Newman was further supported by one who was a musician, and a deal
more besides. "Mr. Blanco White," he writes, November, 1826, "plays
the violin, and has an exquisite ear."[15] "I have only one sister alive
now," he said sadly in September, 1875, "and she is old, but plays
Beethoven very well.[16] She has an old-fashioned, energetic style
of playing; but one person, I remember, played Beethoven as no one
else, Blanco White.

I don't know how he learned the violin, but he would seem to have
inherited a tradition as to the method of playing him." "Both were
violinists," writes Mr. T. Mozley of Blanco White and Mr.
Newman, "but with different instruments. Blanco White's was very
small.... Poor gentleman! Night after night anyone walking in the
silence of Merton Lane might hear his continual attempts to surmount
some little difficulty, returning to it again and again like Philomel
to her vain regrets.[17] With Reinagle ... Newman and Blanco White
had frequent (trios) at the latter's lodgings, where I was all the
audience.... Most interesting was it to contrast Blanco White's excited
and indeed agitated countenance with Newman's sphinx-like immobility,
as the latter drew long rich notes with a steady hand."[18] Dr. Newman
was still "bowing" forty years later, by which time the alleged
"sphinx-like immobility" had made way for an ever-varying expression
upon his face as strains alternated between grave and gay.

Producing his violin from an old green baize bag,[19] bending forward, and
holding his violin against his chest, instead of under the chin
in the modern fashion, most particular about his instrument being in
perfect tune, in execution awkward yet vigorous, painstaking rather
than brilliant, he would often attend at the Oratory School
Sunday practices between two and four of an afternoon, Father Ryder
and Father Norris sometimes coming to play also. For many years
Dr. Newman had given up the violin,[20] but finding some of the
school taking to the strings, he took it up again by way of encouraging
them to persevere in what he deemed to be so good a thing for his
boys. And he quietly inculcated a lesson in self-effacement too, for
albeit he had begun the violin very long before our time, he invariably
took second fiddle. He had no high opinion of his own performances.
Answering the Liverpool anti-Popery spouter's summons to battle, he
relied rather on his friends' estimate of his powers than upon his own.
"Canon M'Neill's well-known talents as a finished orator would
make such a public controversy an unfair trial of strength
between them, because he himself was no orator. He had in fact no
practice in public speaking. _His friends, however, told him_ that he was
no mean performer on the violin, and if he agreed to meet Canon M'Neill,
he would only make one condition, that the Canon should open the
meeting, and say all he had to say, after which he (Mr.

Newman) would conclude with a tune on the violin.

The public would then be able to judge which was the better man

."[21] With mere fiddling, a fluency void of expression he had little
patience, and when, at a term "break-up," a youth's bow cleverly capered
about on a violoncello, he uttered no compliment when the boy had concluded
his flourishes. It was a mere display for executive skill, without
feeling.

[Footnote 10: Mozley, _Correspondence_, i. p. 52.]
[Footnote 11: _Ibid._]
[Footnote 12: Mozley, _Corr._ i. p. 71. On one occasion (between 1860-70)
two Oratory boys went up to his room to make a complaint, and hearing
only "fiddling" the other side of the door, made bold to enter, but their
visit was ill-timed. "Every Englishman's house is his castle,"
said the Father, and he "went on fiddling." This term, "Father,"
is what every one in the house called Dr. Newman, and correctly, as being
Father Superior of the Oratory. It is the name (it need scarcely be added)
that he liked to be called by.]
[Footnote 13: _Ibid._ i. p. 104: Provost Hawkins, at this time a Fellow,
and ultimately succeeding Copleston, had no love for music, and
rather despised such a thing as being "a sign of an effeminate
(or frivolous) mind." He used one or other of these terms, or _both_.]

[Footnote 14: Mozley, _Corr._ ii. p. 22.]
[Footnote 15: _Ibid._ i. p. 146.]
[Footnote 16: She writes in July, 1843: "Now I do so wish, John, you would
pay us a visit. I will practise hard to get up some Beethoven." (Mozley,
_Corr._ ii. 415.)]
[Footnote 17: With this difference, however, Philomel had not to learn
her regrets: she knew them already.]
[Footnote 18: _Reminiscences_, i. pp. 247, 248, Second Edition, 1882.
Of statements in this work the Cardinal humorously observed: "When a thing
won't stand on three legs, Tom supplies a fourth." The Father played
the viola a good deal, which is larger than the violin; hence Mr.

Mozley's "different instruments," &c.]
[Footnote 19: One of the boys was once lent this aged green baize bag,
and losing it, never heard the end of it. Whenever there was
question of lending him anything else, the Father would say very
quietly: "I think I lent you a green baize bag." Nor would he allow that
it was lost: "You mean mislaid."]
[Footnote 20: A friend remembers Father Whitty, S.J., bringing to
Maryvale Mr. McCarthy and Mr. M'Quoin, young converts and subsequently
priests (the former is still living in Jersey). Both played the violin,
so an instrumental quartet was essayed (a rare event in the community),
the executants being the two named, and Fathers Newman and Bowles
(violoncello).]
[Footnote 21: Father Lockhart, in the _Paternoster Review_ for
September, 1890.]
Readers will remember here the passage in _Loss and Gain_: "Bateman:
'If you attempt more, it's like taxing a musical instrument beyond
its powers.' Reding: 'You but try, Bateman, to make a bass play
quadrilles, and you will see what is meant by taxing an instrument.'

Bateman: 'Well, I have heard Lindley play all sorts of quick tunes
on his bass, and most wonderful it is.' Reding: 'Wonderful is the
right word, it is very wonderful. You say, "How _can_ he manage it?
It's very wonderful for a bass;" but it is not pleasant in itself.
In like manner, I have always felt a disgust when Mr.

     So-and-so comes forward to make his sweet flute bleat and bray
     like a haut-bois; it's forcing the poor thing to do what it was
     never made for.'"[22]
     [Footnote 22: _Loss and Gain_, p. 284, Sixth Edition, 1874.]
     In the same mood, when a quartet of Schubert was played to him in
March, 1878, the sole remark he let fall was, "Very harmonious and
clever, but it does not touch the heart."

In March, 1883, he observed that he missed the minor key in Palestrina,
and on our adding that, perhaps, Mendelssohn had too much of it, he
went on, "It cuts me to the heart that minor," and so he liked the mixed
mode to the Psalm _In exitu Israel_, and was much affected by the slow
movements in Beethoven's Ninth Quartet and C minor Symphony, and
the Allegretto of the Symphony in A.

I cannot of that music rightly say, Whether I hear or touch or taste
the tones, Oh, what a heart-subduing melody![23]
[Footnote 23: _The Dream of Gerontius._]
There was just that human element about it, so "deeply pathetic,"
which in the same way made him prefer Euripides to Sophocles, for
all the latter's "sweet composure, melodious fulness, majesty and
grace

     ."[24] And here we may add, that as late as January, 1890, _apropos_
     of a Greek play for his school, he was as keen and eager as ever
     about the merits of Euripides, expressed himself as being at a
     loss to understand the critics invariably preferring Sophocles to
     the other two, and evidently placed Euripides and Æschylus first
     and second respectively. A frequently true and natural feeling,
     whether displayed by the author of the _Bacchæ_, or by the
     composer of _Fidelio_, evidently almost atoned, in his estimation,
     for every deficiency.
     
     [Footnote 24: _Essays_, i. 7, Fifth Edit.]
     He writes to his sister, October, 1834: "There is a lady here" (at
     Tunbridge Wells), "who plays most beautifully. I think I never
     heard such a touch--why, I cannot make out, for she has not long
     fingers to be brilliant. So you must set yourself to rival her.

It would be interesting to _examine_ the causes of expression, which you
might easily do. _Strength_ of finger is one thing certainly. This lady
is not brilliant in the common sense--that is, smart and rattling--but
every note is so full-toned, so perfect, that one requires nothing beyond
itself. This in Beethoven's effective passages produces a surprising
effect. I accompanied her last night and am to do so again to-night."[25]
He wrote in September, 1865, of a certain boy's progress with the violin:
"He plays fluently, so to say; by fluency I mean in time, in tune, and
with execution. This is stage one; stage two is eloquence, by which I
mean grace, delicacy, and expression. To gain this nothing is better than
to accompany his sisters. A boy who always is first fiddle is in danger
of artistic faults parallel to those which are implied in the
metaphorical sense of the words.

     When he comes back I think he has had enough of the music-master,
     and I shall try to make him turn his thoughts to a higher
     school of music than is suitable to a beginner, but I cannot
     tell whether he is old enough to take to it. I recollect how slow
     I was as a boy to like the school of music which afterwards so
     possessed me that I have to come to think Haydn, in spite of his
     genius, almost vulgar." And just as Blanco White would seem to
     have thoroughly initiated Mr.

Newman into the mysteries of Beethoven, so did Dr. Newman lead on his
boys (as they would say) "to swear by" that master. They might start
with Corelli, and go on to Romberg, Haydn, and Mozart: their ultimate
goal was Beethoven, and round would come the "Father Superior" with ancient
copies of the quintet version of the celebrated septet, and
arrangements from the symphonies; nor were the first ten quartets,
the instrumental trios, the violin sonatas, and the overtures
forgotten.

The "Dutchman," with his force and depth, his tenderness and sweetness,
was the Cardinal's prime favourite. "We were at the concert," Mrs. Newman
writes to him at school, "and fascinated with the Dutchman"
(the name he had given to Beethoven to tease his music-master
because of the _van_ to his name), "and thought of you and your
musical party frequently

     ."[26] "They tell me," he said in May, 1876, on occasion of hearing
     at the Latin Play, the _scherzo_ and _finale_ of the
     Second Symphony, "that these first two symphonies of Beethoven
     are not in his style; to me they are Beethoven all over.

There is no mistaking that _scherzo_." And again in October, 1877, after
a rendering of the _allegretto_ of the Eighth Symphony, on our
observing that it was like the giant at play, he said: "It is curious
you should say that. I used to call him the gigantic nightingale.

He is like a great bird singing. My sister remembers my using the
expression long ago." And although he betrayed a little doubt as to
Beethoven's tone being essentially religious, he was unwilling to hear
anything said against him.[27] The late Father Caswall, once distracted,
while singing High Mass, with Beethoven's Mass in C, half-humorously
vented his wrath at recreation against the _Credo_.
Said he: "I think that's a condemnable _Credo_." "Oh, I rather liked
it," was Father Newman's rejoinder. "More dramatic than reverent," had
been the remark made to the latter in September, 1882, by the then
Warden of Keble, after the conclusion of the _Mount of Olives_ at
the Birmingham Festival.

The Cardinal said little or nothing at the time, but his affection for
Beethoven came out subsequently. "When you come to Beethoven," said he,
"I don't say anything about good taste, but he has such wonderful bits
here and there." And in the department of _cadenza_ and variation he
deemed him without an equal.

[Footnote 25: Mozley, _Corr._ ii. 67.]
[Footnote 26: Mozley, _Corr._ i. 19.]
[Footnote 27: The late Canon Mozley said that Chopin was "certainly
a Manichean; he did not believe in God; he believed in some spirit, not
in God;" while "the moral grandeur of Beethoven's genius was always
present to him, as, with less force, was also Mendelssohn's: 'They
believed in God--their music showed it.'" (_Letters_, p. 353,
Edit.
1885.)]
Distrusting their talent lest it should run away with them, and
they neglect the rubrics, Dr. Newman was sensitive over musicians
of the day setting to work upon liturgy. Of sorts of liberty taken we
have modern examples in Gounod's _Mors et Vita_ Oratorio, where _O
felix culpa_, &c., is planted in the middle of the _Dies Iræ_, and in
his _Messe Solennelle_, where _Domine, non sum dignus_, &c.,
figures as a solo in the _Agnus Dei_ (a less objectionable case, the
treatment being fortunately devotional). Berlioz, too, in his _Requiem_,
introduces before the _Tuba mirum_ the words, _Et iterum venturus est
judicare vivos et mortuos_. And in a passage where he would appear to
be depicting Beethoven's power, after alluding to "the marvellous development
which musical science has undergone in the last century," Dr. Newman
continues: "Doubtless, here, too, the highest genius may be made
subservient to religion," but "it is certain that religion must be alive
and on the defensive, for if its servant sleep a potent enchantment
will steal over it.... If, then, a great master in this mysterious
science ... throws himself on his own gifts, trusts its inspirations and
absorbs himself in those thoughts which, though they come to him
in the way of nature belong to things above nature, it is obvious he
will neglect everything else. Rising in his strength he will break
through the trammels of words; he will scatter human voices, even
the sweetest, to the winds; he will be borne upon nothing else than the
fullest flood of sounds which art has enabled him to draw from
mechanical contrivances; he will go forth as a giant, as far as
ever his instruments can reach, starting from their secret depths
fresh and fresh elements of beauty and grandeur as he goes, and
pouring them together into still more marvellous and rapturous
combinations; and well indeed, and lawfully, while he keeps to that
line which is his own; but should he happen to be attracted, as he
well may, by the sublimity, so congenial to him, of the Catholic
doctrine and ritual, should he engage in sacred themes, should he
resolve by means of his art to do honour to the Mass, or the Divine
Office--(he cannot have a more pious, a better purpose, and religion
will gracefully accept what he gracefully offers; but) is it not
certain from the circumstances of the case, that he will be carried
on rather to use religion than to minister to it, unless religion
is strong on its own ground, and reminds him that if he would do
honour to the highest of subjects, he must make himself its scholar,
must humbly follow the thoughts given him, and must aim at the
glory, not of his own gift, but of the Great Give

r
It has been developed and
clarified in many speeches and essays and in some books. To grasp it is
to find your road to Damascus on the Irish Question. But for the moment
we are concerned with but one aspect, namely, the export of capital from
Ireland as a result of the Union, and the economic reactions of that
process. Since we are to use moderation of speech and banish all
rhetoric from these pages, one is at a loss to characterise Union
arrangements and post-Union finance. Let it suffice to say that they
combined the moral outlook of Captain Kidd with the mathematical
technique of a super-bucket-shop. From the first Great Britain robbed
the Irish till; from the first she skimmed the cream off the Irish milk,
and appropriated it for her own nourishment. One has a sort of gloomy
pride in remembering that although cheated in all these transactions we
were not duped. Mr Foster, Speaker of the Irish House of Commons--in
those days the Speaker actually spoke, a whimsical Irish custom--tore
the cloak off Lord Castlereagh's strutting statesmanship, and laid bare
his real motives. Speaking on the first Union proposal in 1799 he said:

     "But the noble Lord has told us the real motives of this scheme of
     Union, and I thank him for stating them so fairly. Ireland, he
     says, must contribute to every war, and the Minister won't trust to
     interest, affection, or connection for guiding her conduct. _He
     must have her purse within his own grasp_. While three hundred men
     hold it in Ireland he cannot put his hand into it, they are out of
     his reach, but let a hundred of you carry it over and lay it at his
     feet, and then he will have full and uncontrolled power."

So it came about. Even before the Union Grattan's Parliament had, of its
own free will and out of an extravagant loyalty, run itself into debt
for the first time to help England against France. But, as Foster
indicated, the Irish members felt that they were coming to the end of
their resources. They were about to call a halt, and so the Union became
a necessary ingredient of Pitt's foreign policy. By it Ireland was
swept into the vortex of his anti-French hysteria, and of what Mr
Hartley Withers so properly styles his "reckless finance." In sixteen
years she was brought to the edge of bankruptcy. Between 1801 and 1817
her funded debt was increased from £28,541,157 to £112,684,773, an
augmentation of nearly 300 per cent. In the first fifteen years
following the Union she paid in taxes £78,000,000 as against £31,000,000
in the last fifteen years preceding the Union. After the amalgamation of
the Exchequers in 1817 the case becomes clearer. In 1819-20, for
instance, the revenue contributed by Ireland was £5,256,564, of which
only £1,564,880 was spent in Ireland, leaving a tribute for Great
Britain of £3,691,684. For 1829-30 the tribute was £4,156,576.

Let us now inquire how things stood with regard to absenteeism. This had
existed before the Union'; indeed, if the curious reader will turn to
Johnson's "Dictionary" he will find it damned in a definition. But it
was enormously intensified by the shifting of the centre of gravity of
Irish politics, industry, and fashion from Dublin to London. The memoirs
of that day abound in references to an exodus which has left other and
more material evidence in those fallen and ravaged mansions which now
constitute the worst slums of our capital city.

One figure may be cited by way of illustration. Before the Union "98
Peers, and a proportionate number of wealthy Commoners" lived in Dublin.
The number of resident Peers in 1825 was twelve. At present, as I learn
from those who read the sixpenny illustrateds, there is one. But when
they abandoned Ireland they did not leave their rents behind. And it was
a time of rising rents; according to Toynbee they at least doubled
between 1790 and 1833. Precise figures are not easily arrived at, but Mr
D'Alton in his "History of the County Dublin," a book quite innocent of
politics, calculates that the absentee rental of Ireland was in 1804 not
less than £3,000,000, and in 1830 not less than £4,000,000, an
under-estimate. If we average these figures over the period we find that
during the first thirty years of Union, that is to say during the most
critical phase of the Industrial Revolution, not less than £105,000,000
of Irish capital was "exported" from Ireland to Great Britain through
the channel of absenteeism.

Averaging the figures of the taxation-tribute in similar fashion, and
taking the lowest estimates, I am unable to reach a less total than
£120,000,000 for the same period. In other words, the effect of the
Union was to withdraw from Ireland during the thirty years that settled
the economic structure of modern industry not less than _£_225,000,000.
Let me draw the argument together in words which I have used elsewhere,
and which others can no doubt easily better:

     "We have heard, in our day, a long-drawn denunciation of a Liberal
     government on the score that it had, by predatory taxation, driven
     English capital out of the country, and compromised the industrial
     future of England. We have seen in our own day gilt-edged
     securities, bank, insurance, railway, and brewery shares in Great
     Britain, brought toppling down by a Tory waste of _£_250,000,000 on
     the Boer War. We know that in economic history effects are, in a
     notable way, cumulative; so clearly marked is the line of
     continuity as to lead a great writer to declare that there is not a
     nail in all England that could not be traced back to savings made
     before the Norman Conquest. A hundred instances admonish us that,
     in industrial life, nothing fails like failure. When we put all
     these considerations together, and give them a concrete
     application, can we doubt that in over-taxation and the withdrawal
     of capital we have the prime _causa causans_ of the decay of
     Ireland under the Union?"

In this wise did Pitt "blend Ireland with the industry and capital of
Great Britain." Cupped by his finance she gave the venal blood of her
industry to strengthen the predominant partner, and to help him to
exclude for a time from these islands that pernicious French Democracy
in which all states and peoples have since found redemption. Such was
the first chapter in the Economics of Unionism.


CHAPTER VI

THE RAVAGES OF UNIONISM (2)


If the reader cares to push forward the line of thought suggested in the
preceding pages and to submit it to a concrete test he can do so without
difficulty. He has but to compare the post-Union history of linen with
that of cotton. Linen in Ireland had been a perfect type of the
State-created, spoon-fed industry characteristic of the period of
mercantilism. Within certain limits--such as the steady resolve to
confine it, in point of religion, to Protestants, and, in point of
geography, to Ulster--it had behind it at the Union a century of
encouragement. It is calculated that between 1700 and 1800 it had
received bounties, English and Irish, totalling more than,£2,500,000. In
other words it had a chance to accumulate capital. Even linen declined
after the Union partly from the direct effects of that measure, partly
from the growing intensity of the Industrial Revolution. But the
capital accumulated, the commercial good name established under native
government carried the manufacturers through. These were able towards
1830 to introduce the new machinery and the new processes, and to
weather the tempest of competition. Cotton, on the other hand, was a
very recent arrival. It had developed very rapidly, and in 1800 gave
promise of supplanting linen. But the weight of capital told more and
more as changes in the technique of transportation and production
ushered in our modern world. Lacking the solid reserves of its rival,
involved in all the exactions that fall on a tributary nation, the
cotton manufacture of Ireland lost ground, lost heart, and disappeared.
But let us resume the parable. If the "business man" responds to
capital, he will certainly not be obtuse to the appeal of coal. In this
feeder of industry Ireland was geologically at a disadvantage, and it
was promised that the free trade with Great Britain inaugurated by the
Union would "blend" with her the resources of the latter country. Did
she obtain free trade in coal? Miss Murray, a Unionist, in her
"Commercial Relations between England and Ireland" tells the story in
part:

     "Coals again had hitherto been exported from Great Britain at a
     duty of gd. per ton; this duty was to cease but the Irish import
     duty on coal was to be made perpetual, and that at a time when all
     coasting duties in England and Scotland had been abolished. Dublin
     especially would suffer from this arrangement, for the duty there
     on coals imported was is. 8-4/5d. per ton, while that in the rest
     of Ireland was only 9-1/2d. This was because a local duty of 1s.
     per ton existed in Dublin for the internal improvement of the city;
     this local duty was blended by the Union arrangements with the
     general duty on the article, and its perpetual continuance was thus
     enforced. All this shows how little Irish affairs were understood
     in England."

But was it a failure of the English intellect or a lapse of the English
will? Except through the Platonic intuition which reduces all sin to
terms of ignorance I cannot accept the former explanation. What is
certain is that there was no lack of contemporary protest. There existed
in Dublin in 1828 a Society for the Improvement of Ireland, an active
body which included in its membership the Lord Mayor (a high Tory, of
course), Lord Cloncurry, and a long list of notable names such as
Latouche, Sinclair, Houghton, Leader, Grattan, Smith O'Brien, George
Moore, and Daniel O'Connell. In the year mentioned the Society appointed
a number of committees to report on the state of Irish agriculture,
commerce, and industry. One of these reports is full of information
touching the drain of capital from the country, and its consequent
decay, as registered by contemporaries; we shall learn from another how
things stood with regard to coal. At the time of the Union the Irish
Parliament granted a bounty of 2s. per ton on Irish coal carried
coastwise to Dublin, and levied a duty of 10-1/2d. per ton on coal
imported from Great Britain. The effect of the Union was to abolish the
bounty and double the levy on imports. Writing twenty-eight years later
the Committee summarise in a brief passage the disastrous effects of a
policy, so foolish and so unjust. The last sentence opens up sombre
vistas to any student of economic history:

     "Severe, however, as the operation of the coal duty in arresting
     the progress of manufacture may have been in other parts of
     Ireland, in Dublin, under the circumstances to which your Committee
     are about to call the attention of the Society, it has produced all
     the effects of actual prohibition, all the mischiefs of the most
     rigorous exclusion. It is a singular circumstance that, in the
     metropolis of the country, possessing local advantages in respect
     to manufactures and facilities for trade with the interior,
     superior, probably, to any other city or town in this portion of
     the empire, with a population excessive as to the means of
     employment, in a degree which probably has not a parallel in
     Europe, _there is not a factory for the production of either silk,
     linen, cotton, or woollen manufactures which is worked or propelled
     by a steam engine_."

The writers go on to ask for the repeal of the local duty on coal in
Dublin, and to suggest that the necessary revenue should be raised by a
duty on spirits. This course Belfast had been permitted to follow--one
of the numberless make-weights thrown into the scale so steadily on the
side of the Protestant North. In my part of the country the people used
to say of any very expert thief: "Why, he'd steal the fire out of your
grate." Under the Union arrangements Great Britain stole the fire out of
the grate of Ireland. And having so dealt with capital and coal the
predominant partner next proceeded by a logical development to muddle
transportation.

The Drummond Commission, appointed in 1836 to consider the question of
railway construction in Ireland, issued a report in 1838 which
practically recommended public and not private enterprise as appropriate
"to accomplish so important a national object." What came after is best
related in the official terminology of the Scotter Commission of
1906-10:

     "This report was presented in July 1838, and early in the
     following year a great public meeting, held in Dublin, passed a
     resolution that inasmuch as an adequate system of railways could
     not be constructed by private capital, the Government should be
     urged to take the work into its own hands, thereby saving the cost
     of Private Bill legislation. Promises were also made that the lands
     necessary for railway construction would be given free of cost.
     Similar resolutions were adopted at another meeting held about the
     same time in the north of Ireland. In addition, an address to the
     Queen was presented by a number of Irish Peers, headed by the Duke
     of Leinster, praying that action might be taken on the Drummond
     Commission Report."

The government saw the light, and proceeded to sin against it. They
embodied the Dublin programme in resolutions which were adopted by the
House of Commons in March 1839, and they then abruptly abandoned the
whole business. The last chance was not yet lost. During the Great
Famine of 1847 the Opposition proposed to raise, £16,000,000 by State
loans for the construction of railways as relief works. A suggestion so
sane could not hope to pass. It was in fact rejected; the starving
peasants were set to dig large holes and fill them up again, and to
build bad roads leading nowhere. And instead of a national railway
system Ireland was given private enterprise with all its waste and all
its clash of interests.

The two most conspicuous gifts of Unionism to Ireland have been, as all
the world knows, poverty and police. Soon after 1830, that is to say
when the first harvest of government from Westminster was ripe to the
sickle, Irish destitution had assumed what politicians call men-acing
proportions. One person in every three of the population never had any
other alimentary experience than the difference between hunger and
starvation. In these circumstances a Royal Commission was appointed to
consider the advisability of extending the English Poor Law to Ireland.
Their report is a pioneer document in the development of economic
thought. Just as the Railway Commission a few years later was to give
the watchword of the future, nationalisation, so the Poor Law Commission
gave within its province the watchword of the future, prevention before
relief. They pointed the contrast between the two countries. I quote the
words of the later Irish Poor Law Commission of 1903-6:

     "Having regard to the destitution and poverty that were prevalent
     in Ireland owing to want of employment, the Royal Commissioners in
     their Report of 1836 came to the conclusion that the English
     workhouse system would be unsuitable for Ireland, because after
     unchecked demoralisation by profuse out-door relief _in England,
     the Work-house system was devised in order to make the lazy and
     idle seek ordinary employment which could be got. The situation in
     Ireland was, on the contrary, one in which the able-bodied and
     healthy were willing and anxious to work for any wages, even for
     twopence a day, but were unable to obtain such or any employment_."

Ireland at the end of a generation of Unionism was suffering, as the
commissioners proceed to point out, not from over-population, but from
under-development. They tabled two sets of recommendations. The relief
programme advised compulsory provision for the sick, aged, infirm,
lunatics, and others incapable of work; in all essential matters it
anticipated in 1836 that Minority Report which to the England of 1912
still seems extravagantly humane. The prevention programme outlined a
scheme for the development of Irish resources. Including, as it did,
demands for County Fiscal Boards, agricultural education, better
cottages for the labourers, drainage, reclamation, and changes in the
land system, it has been a sort of lucky bag into which British
ministers have been dipping without acknowledgment ever since. But the
report itself was, like the Railway Report, too sane and too Irish to
stand a chance. There was sent over from England a Mr Nicholls, who,
after a six weeks flutter through the country, devised the Poor Law
System under which we still labour. Mr Nicholls afterwards became Sir
George, and when he died it is probable that a statue was erected to
him. If that is so the inscription must always remain inadequate until
this is added: "Having understood all about Ireland in six weeks he gave
her, as the one thing needful to redeem her, the workhouse."

But, of course, the capital exploit of the Economics of Unionism was its
dealing with the problem of land tenure. I shrink from inviting the
reader into the desert of selfishness and stupidity which constitutes
English policy, in this regard, from the Union to the triumph of the
Land League. Let him study it at large in Davitt's "Fall of Feudalism."
We are not concerned here to revive that calamitous pageant. Our
interest is of another kind, namely to signalise the malign influence
introduced into the agrarian struggle by government from Westminster as
against government from Dublin. Even had Grattan's Parliament remained,
the battle for the land would have had to go forward; for that
Parliament was an assembly controlled by landlords who, for the most
part, believed as strongly in the sacredness of rent as they did in the
sacredness of nationality. But by the Union the conflict was embittered
and befouled. The landlords invented their famous doctrine of
conditional loyalty. They bargained with Great Britain to the effect
that, if they were permitted to pillage their tenantry, they would in
return uphold and maintain British rule in Ireland.

It was the old picture with which M. Paul-Dubois has acquainted us, that
of the "Garrison" kneeling to England on the necks of the Irish poor. In
this perversion, which under autonomy would have been impossible, we
find the explanation of the extreme savagery of Union land policy in
Ireland. Its extreme, its bat-eyed obtuseness is to be explained in
another way. Souchon in his introduction to the French edition of
Philippovich, the great Austrian economist, observes with great truth
that England has not even yet developed any sort of _Agrarpolitik_, that
is to say any systematic Economics of Agriculture. In the early
nineteenth century her own land problems were neglected, and her
political leaders were increasingly dominated by an economic gospel of
shopkeepers and urban manufacturers. Forced into the context of
agrarian life such a gospel was bound to manifest itself as one of folly
and disaster.

If we put these two elements together we are enabled to understand why
the Union land policy in Ireland was such a portentous muddle and
scandal. In 1829 the question assumed a fresh urgency, in consequence of
the eviction campaign which followed the disfranchisement of the small
holders under Catholic Emancipation. That Irish opinion, which in an
Irish Parliament would have had its way, began to grapple with the
situation.

It is not that I complain of all those inexplicable diseases,
_opprobria medicinæ_, so pusillanimously submitted to by civilized
humanity and its physicians,--chicken-pox, measles, whooping-cough, mumps.
I complain, indeed, of no diseases, but of their treatment. But let
me not delay longer than is needful amid such distressful recollections.
Three hateful decoctions were known to me by the phonetics,
Lixipro, Lixaslutis, and Lixusmatic. I don't know what they were,
and I don't want to know. Devil's elixirs were they all. Rubbub and
magnesia,--endless imprecations rest upon that obnoxious red mixture!
And chiefest of them all--Arimanes of the whole bad crew, though
Agag is the only really suitable royal name I can think of--is that
slow, greasy horror, whose superhuman excess of unutterable abomination
no words can express, and even inarticulate ejaculations made on
purpose cannot at all show forth,--as urk!

huk! agh!--chiefest among them all, castor oil!

I hurry away from the awful scene.

Let me be thankful that I swallowed but little calomel. Let me be
thankful that, after a time, I could not swallow castor oil. Spasmodic
regurgitations, as if one had attempted to load a gun having a live coal
at the far end, closed perforce that chapter of torments. And soon
thereafter arose the benign genius of homoeopathy, with healing in its
neat little white-paper wings.
Beautiful Homoeopathy, the real Angel in the House, if Mr.
Coventry Patmore had only known it! Hast thou not long ago appeared,
veiled in an allegory, before an unrecognizing world? Surely, what but
homoeopathic medicine was that wondrous talisman with which Adonbec
El Hakim cured the Melech Ric? To be taken in a tumbler about two thirds
full of water, as now; but in those early times, and for such a very
large man, at one gulp, instead of by hourly teaspoonfuls. Or perhaps
the manuscripts may have been corrupted in that passage by unscrupulous
mediæval physicians of the school of Salerno, or other regular
institutions.

     
     I suppose I must have played a good deal; but there are reasons why
     this may not have been the case. The chief of them is, that whereas
     I have subsequently commonly attained a fair degree of excellence
in what I have learned, I did not in the staple games of my childhood
do so.

In marbles, spinning top, and ball I was inferior,--indeed,
scarcely at home in the technics of some of them. The games of marbles
which I see now-a-days seem to centre upon the projection of the missile
into a hole in the ground. In my day we used to play upon the surface of
the earth; sometimes "in the big ring," where each combatant fired at
the marbles grouped in the centre, from any point upon the external
orbit; sometimes "in the little ring," where the shot was made from the
place where the projectile lodged last; sometimes "at chasings,"
where the players fired alternately, each at the marble of his
adversary.

Concerning this last game, I remember the following terms: "ebs,"
which, seasonably vociferated, that is, when it is the speaker's
turn to play and before his adversary can say anything, serves as an
incantation authorizing the speaker to deliver his fire from any point
other than that where his marble lies, equally distant from the objective
point; "clearings," in like manner, authorizing the preparation of a
reasonably unobstructed line of fire; and "fen ebs," "fen clearings,"
and "fen everythings," to be pronounced before the other player speaks,
and which, by virtue of the prohibitory syllable "fen" (_défendre_,
Fr.), prevent respectively ebs, clearings, and everything,--that is
to say, any elusion or amelioration of the existing conditions of
fire.

In games of ball, to confess the truth, I was but feeble. Scarce, indeed,
was I of average skill in any of them except the simplest two,--"bung-ends,"
and "one old cat." In the first of these, one boy throws the ball
against the side of a house, or other perpendicular unelastic plane,
while the other smites it with his club at the rebound.
In the second, played as a trio, boy A throws the ball at boy B,
standing opposite, whose duty is to smite, while boy C, behind B,
catches B out in case of a miss.

I was pretty good at "tag" and "catch," games of running and dodging. In
these, one boy is called "it," i. e. leader, or victim. He pursues the
rest; and the games are alike, except that in "catch" he who is to
be made "it" must be caught and held by him who is "it," whereas in
"tag" a touch is sufficient to transfer the responsibility, and
inaugurate the new choragus.

There. Such quaint scraps are all that is left me of my existence as
a little child. I know men who say, that, within their own
consciousness and memories, they have the witness and knowledge of a life
even before that of this humanity. But, for my own part, I should never
know, by anything in my own memory, that I had been a baby,--that I
was or did anything before that first school where the ferocious
little girl was handcuffed in unbleached-cotton bags, for scratching.

"The child is father of the man," saith the great poet of dry
sentimentalizing. Therefore the man's endeavor to remember about his
childhood might reasonably be expected to bring him into _limbo
patrum_.
But it is a dim and narrow field to grope in. It is not wandering in a
darkened world,--it is feeling in a dark closet.

It was an unconscious brief advance from nothing to very little. Yes,
but still there must have been some dim features of the dawning
character. No doubt. The heedless, complying, unjudging benevolence, for
instance, that gave away _all_ my gingerbread to the young Anakim
of Parade Street, was one. It was liable afterwards to invert,
by reacting from such over-operation as that, into an equally unjudging
disregard of the wants and needs of others.

And now, What was it? This is no foolish nor unimportant inquiry. If
I could answer it sufficiently, I should at once supply the basis of whole
systems of mental and moral art and science. Such whole systems
indeed--for instance, the muddy distractions of the Scotch
metaphysicians--have already been based upon the phantasms of wiggy old
doctors who dived backward into themselves,--jumping down their own
throats, as it were, in their search after knowledge, as did the seventh
Arabian Brother in the Spectator (is it not?) "with seven candles in each
hand, lighted at both ends,"--and said, "When I began to think, I
must necessarily have thought thus and thus."

This was all very scientific. But for usefulness it would have been
better to inquire, not what they must have thought, but what they did
think.

Indeed, hitherto the history of mental philosophy is the history of
the ignorance of man about himself; and since science must be
built upon induction, and since phrenology has now established a
classification--approximately correct and sufficient for working
purposes--of the mental faculties, it is now quite in order to
review the old inductions from the history of the individual, and
to accumulate new ones.

Even the mere trifles of these recollections of mine, some of them at
least, must have an actual philosophical value, if only they are true
and well enough stated.

Thank goodness, that, at any rate, I was not a remarkable child! It is
the average record which has most value. The remarkable child is not
a magnified child, but a distorted one; not a young giant, but a young
monster.

No tract or little 24mo. would have been published about me by the American
Sunday-School Union, if I had died young. No brilliant repartees by me
are on record. No sweet remembrance is in blossom about me of a grim,
unchildish pleasure in preferring the convenience or enjoyment of others
to my own. In an instance where I remember to have tried to do as the
good boys do in the story-books, by giving away my one cooky, the quick
reaction into common sense sent me in grief to my mother, making use
of natural tears and a specious plea of what I had done to get me another
cooky, or perchance two. It was a dead failure.
My mother knew too well the importance of the great moral lesson to let
me reap material advantage from my good deed. She relegated me to the
unfailing good dry bread, explaining how I could find abundant satisfaction
within my own breast for doing a kind action,--how virtue was to
be its own reward.

I looked for the said reward, but could not see it.

It was not satisfaction within my breast that I wanted, but within
my stomach and on my palate.

Benevolence will not supplement alimentiveness in the small boy. If I
gathered any reward at all, it was in the hard wisdom of my resolve not
to be caught in any such nonsense again.

I had not, as had a little monster of misplaced piety whose case is
recorded in the good children's books, "at the early age of six
made up my mind on all the great questions of the day." Yet I think
I can remember yelling out "Hurra for Jackson!" because it was a
good easy shout, although my father was a strong, steady Whig. There
is practical democracy in that. First choice of shouts is much toward
winning the battle.

I was not remarkable for early piety, sweetness of disposition, wit,
beauty (I must certainly have been, as a child, skinny), or helpful
kindness (except that irrational benevolence of mine).

I have been told that I learned to read, nobody knew how, all by myself,
by the time I was four years old. How that may be I don't know; but I
do know that I did not know how to read when I was twenty years old.

I was a "natural speller." It is no joke, but one of the proverbial
fools' truths, which Dogberry enounces when he says that "reading and
writing come by nature." They do. And so does spelling. Abundance of
well-educated people never escape from occasional perturbations in
orthography, just as they never learn a desirable handwriting, nor
how to read silently fast and well, or well aloud.

It is because they cannot; because they have not what Nature gave
Neighbor Seacoal; because spelling and reading and writing are
"gifts,"--they come by nature.

What I learned at school in those first ten years I do not know. Almost
nothing. I have utterly forgotten what. I might have been much better
taught. I might have been instructed in thinking. I do not mean that a
child of eight or nine years old can or should be made to see, judge,
and conclude upon new matters with the discovering and advancing power
of a philosopher. But he may be made to perform his own proper little
mental operations, no matter how small they are, on the same principle,--on
the principle of actual understanding, instead of mere sole
memorizing.

     All my instructors, whether they meant to do so or not, did in fact
     proceed as if they believed children's minds to be, not live fountains,
     but empty cisterns; not to be capable of thought; like an empty
     house, to be furnished for a tenant; needing to be fitted up
     with a store of lifeless forms, which the adult life, when it
     came, was to breathe vitality into and turn to living uses. I
     learned rules. "Here, little boy," they said, "swallow these
     oyster-shells. They will lie naturally and easily in your stomach
     until you grow up, because little boys' stomachs are adapted for
     the storage of oyster-shells; and when you are a man, and want
     oysters, put some in there." But does it stand to reason that
     children, who manipulate words and figures, and produce results
     without understanding the rules they apply,--just as a wizard's
apprentice could evoke his master's demons without knowing the
meaning of the awful syllables he recited, so that Southey's arcanum
of Aballiboozobanganorribo might respectably serve as one of
them,--does it stand to reason that these unhappy young jugglers
will the better learn to do the same work intelligently afterwards?

No; for they have to dislodge the bad habit which has pre-empted, before
they can install the good one. As well undertake to train a new Mozart
by making the bright little music-loving boy grind ten years on a
barrel-organ with _La ci darem_ in its bowels.

I remember a fondness for long, large, grown-up words; doubtless, in
some measure, a result of my constant practice of reading grown-up
people's books. It was a mere verbal memory, the driest of all the
intellectual faculties. Scarcely a faint perfume of meaning lingered about
the rattling piles of husks that I could say and spell.

What I learned at Sunday school and church was to be inexpressibly weary
of them. What I learned at home I can perhaps define but little better.

I gained no important result from any direct instruction. I gained
something of good-boy behavior and decent manners, diligently trained
into me. But what was most valuable in my home education was unconscious
infiltration from a good home-atmosphere. This is an influence of
incalculable importance, a thousand times outweighing all the schools.
It is that for which God established the family; the one single possible
real and efficient means of well bringing up the young. And whatever
shades of repression, misunderstanding, ungeniality, restraint,
may have sometimes troubled me, still I constantly feel and fully
know that that pure, calm, quiet, bright, loving, intelligent, refined
atmosphere of my home silently and unconsciously penetrated and vivified
all my being. If now I should be told, "You are no very splendid exemplar
of the results of such influences," I should still say, "Most
true, unfortunately true; but what should I have been without
them?"

I had brothers and sisters,--a few playmates; but neither they, nor any
other human beings, not even my parents, seem to have been during those
years, to any important extent, directly operative within or upon the
sphere and character of my own real conscious existence. That life figures
itself in my memory much like a magic circle, within which I was alone,
and did my scanty little thinkings and imaginings alone. The rest of
the living were outside, unreal,--phantoms moving to and fro, around
and without, but never coming within that limit,--never entering
into living communion with me. This constitutional solitude of mind
has a useful office, perhaps not to be easily explained, but sometimes
not otherwise to be performed.

This isolation was, in part, unnecessary. To a certain extent the
necessity for it still remains. But in part it was artificial,--my
unconscious reaction against an ill-adapted influence,--the resisting
force of a trait which, like all those other early traits, has
become visible to me, like the blind paths over bogs, now that I
am a long way off.

     This trait I have already spoken of. It was an insensibility to a
     certain motive, rather prominent among those commonly proposed
     to me for my own government of myself. This was variously framed
     thus:--It is not usual to do this; it is usual to do that; if you
     proceed so and so, it will seem singular; people will talk about
it; you will offend people's usages and habits; you will seem
singular and odd.

Against such cautions I rebelled with a mute, indignant impulse, which I
was not old enough to enounce or to argue. It was, however, the result
of two characteristics;--one, the natural lack of instinctive desire for
the good opinion of others; and the other, a corresponding
instinct for living out my own life fully and freely, not so as
to infringe upon the just rights of others, but not stinting or
distorting or amputating myself, even though others set the example.
It was the old fable reversed,--the fox disinclined to cut off his tail,
even though all the other foxes had cut off theirs. And the fact that
people older than I, and several of them, and for year after year, urged
upon me the considerations I have spoken of, never availed. That key would
not move the mechanism of my mind. It did not fit.

My childhood seems to me far more memorable for what it had not, was
not, than for what it had and was. I do not believe this is because
mine was an especially unfortunate or unhappy childhood. As I have
hinted before, it was because childhood is empty,--an unconscious, imperfect
life,--almost animal,--germinal,--a life in the egg, in the jelly,
in the sap. The experiences of childhood are seed-leaves. They drop
quickly away and utterly disappear, and even the scars where they
grew cease to show on the stem. Probably I seemed to myself to enjoy
life when I was a child. Children whom I see daily seem to do so. But
thought is life.
Mere enjoyment is dreaming. It may seem to cover hours or days or years
of experience, but when we awake it has been only a point of time. But
this pleasure-dream is worse than a sleep-dream. Over its costly actuality
of time, cut out and dropped down out of life, the hither and
thither ends of the shortened thread of existence must be knotted
together into a cord of diminished length, strength, and value.

In sum: This child which I was was a semi-embryonic creature, mostly
unconscious, whose ten years' career, now chiefly faded into entire
blankness, showed not many mental traits. The chief were quick
and retentive verbal memory, quick, undiscriminating, impulsive,
unreasonable kind-heartedness, and an insensibility, even an
instinctive opposition, to the approvings or disapprovings of others.
Or the child might be stated thus: Nervous and sensitive organization,
intellect predominant; in the intellect the perceptive faculties most
active, and of these chiefly that which notices and compares exteriors;
beside the intellect, a kind-heartedness without balance, and
therefore too great; too little caution, and too little love of
approbation. Around these features others have grown up, of
course; but these were, so to speak, the primary strata of the formation,
underlying the other elements, determining their tendencies, and
cropping out through them.

This child was all but empty, unsubstantial, imperfect; incapable,
then, of much life from within itself, little helped by thoughts
or other aid from without. The efforts made by others to operate
on it were faithful, kindly, well meant, but not adapted to its individuality.
The fact is, that, so far as they had any supposed basis on system, it
was on the Scotch empirical analysis of perception, conception, reason,
will; a Procrustean mental philosophy which absolutely ignores
individuality, and assumes that all human beings are alike. It
is as good as the little boys' conventional system of portraiture.
A round O, two dots, a perpendicular line between them, and a
horizontal one across below, displays every face. Such was Christ
and such was Judas; such was Messalina and such was Florence
Nightingale. But there is a better philosophy of the mind.

FOOTNOTES:
If rifle-levers ever click in rebellion against a Home
Rule government, duly established by statute under the authority of the
Crown, it will be astonishing to find that every bullet in Ireland is a
member of an Orange Lodge. If "Ulster" repudiates the arbitrament of
reason, and the verdict of a free ballot, she simply puts herself
outside the law. And she may be quite assured that the law, driven back
on its ultimate sanction of force, will very sharply and very amply
vindicate itself.

But it is not courteous to the reader to detain him among such
unrealities as Sir Edward Carson's Civil War. Treason, that is to say
platform treason, is not so much an eccentricity as a habit of
Orangeism. It is a way they have in the Lodges, and their past history
supplies a corrective to their present outburst. Perhaps their most
notable exploit in armed loyalty was their attempt to dethrone, or
rather to defeat in succession to the throne, Queen Victoria. This is a
chapter in their history with regard to which they are far too modest
and reticent.

But the leading case in recent years is of course the attitude of the
Lodges towards the Disestablishment of the Irish Episcopal Church in
1869. The records are singularly rich in what I may perhaps call
Carsonese. Dukes threatened to "fight as men alone can fight who have
the Bible in one hand and the sword in the other." Learned counsel of
the Queen covenanted to "seal their protest with their blood in
martyrdom and battle." Ministers of the gospel were all for kicking the
Crown into the Boyne, keeping their powder dry, shouldering Minié
rifles, and finally joining the lawyers in the red grave of martyrdom.

An Ulster poet (a satirist one fears) wrote a famous invocation to the
statue of Mr Walker near Derry, beginning:

    "Come down out o' that, Mr Walker,
      There's work to be done by-and-by,
    And this is no time to stand glowerin'
      Betwixt the bog-side and the sky."

But Mr Walker did not come down: he remained on his safe pinnacle of
immortality. And of course there was no civil war. That period was wiser
than our own in one respect: nobody of any common sense thought of
spoiling such exquisite blague by taking it seriously. Its motive was
universally understood in Ireland. The orators of the movement never for
a moment dreamed of levying war on Mr Gladstone, but they were
determined to levy blackmail. They saw that they could bluff English
opinion into granting all manner of extravagant compensation for the
extinction of their privileges and their ascendancy, if only the Orange
drum was beaten loudly enough. It was a case of the more cry the more
wool. And in point of fact they succeeded. They obtained financial
arrangements of the most generous character, and, thereafter, the
battle-flags were furled. Within five years of Disestablishment the
Episcopalian Synod was praising it as the happiest event in the life of
that Church. The lawyers, being denied the martyrdom of the battlefield,
stolidly accepted that of promotion to the judicial bench, and a holy
silence descended on the divines.

This strategy having succeeded so admirably in 1868 is repeated in 1912.
"Ulster" has not the least intention of raising war or the sinews of
war; her interest is in the sinews of peace. Although she does not hold
a winning card in her hand she hopes to scoop the pool by a superb
bluff. By menaces of rebellion she expects to be able to insist that
under Home Rule she shall continue encased in an impenetrable armour of
privileges, preferences, and safeguards. She is all the more likely to
succeed because of the tenderness of Nationalist Ireland in her regard.
Short of the absolute surrender by the majority of every shred of its
rights (which is, of course, what is demanded) there are very few
safeguards that we are not prepared to concede to the superstition, the
egotism, or even the actual greed of the Orangemen. But it may as well
be understood that we are not to be either duped or bullied.

If the policy of Ulster Unionism is unreal there is no word in any
language that can describe the phantasmal nature of the grounds on which
it professes to fear national freedom. Home Rule, declare the orators,
will obviously mean Rome Rule. The _Ne Temere_ decree will de-legitimise
every Protestant in the country. The Dublin Parliament will tax every
"Ulster" industry out of existence. One is told that not only do many
people say, but that some people even believe things of this kind. But
then there are people who believe that they are made of Dresden china,
and will break if they knock against a chair. These latter are to be
found in lunatic asylums. It is indeed particularly worth noting that
when a man begins to see in the whole movement of the world a conspiracy
to oppress and injure him our first step is to inquire not into his
grievance but into his sanity. One finds the same difficulty in
discussing Irish politics in terms of the three hallucinations specified
that one finds in discussing, say, Rugby football with a Dresden-china
fellow-citizen. It is better not to make the attempt, but to substitute
a plain statement of obvious facts.

In the first place, even if any policy of oppression were in our minds,
it is not in our power. The overlordship of the Imperial Parliament
remains in any scheme of Home Rule unimpaired, and any man damnified
because of his religion can appeal in last resort to the Imperial Army
and Navy. Shankhill Road is mathematically safe. After all there are in
England some forty millions of Protestants who, whatever their religious
temperature may be, will certainly decline to see Protestantism
penalised. The Protestants in Ireland have a million and a quarter, and
they make noise enough for twice the number. There are about three and a
quarter millions of Irish Catholics. History concedes to Catholic
Ireland the cleanest record in respect of religious tolerance to be
found anywhere in Europe. We never martyred a saint, and amid all the
witch-hunting devilries of Scotland and England we burned only one
witch, a namesake of my own. Deny or suppress all this. Imagine into
the eyes of every Catholic neighbour the slumbering but unquenched fires
of Smithfield. But be good enough to respect mathematics. Do not suggest
that the martial qualities induced by the two religions are so
dissimilar that two Catholics are capable of imposing Home Rule on
twenty-five Protestants.

The suggestion that we shall overtax "Ulster" is even more captivating.
But how are we to do it? Of course we might schedule the sites given up
to Protestant church buildings as undeveloped land. Or we might issue
income-tax forms with an assessment printed on one side, and the decrees
of the Council of Trent on the other. Or we might insist on every orator
desirous of uttering that ennobling sentiment, "To Hell with the Pope!"
taking out a licence, and charge him a small fee. Positive treason, such
as the proclamation of Provisional Governments, would of course pay a
higher rate. All these would be most interesting experiments, and would
add a picturesque touch to the conventionality of modern administration.
But if we were to overtax sugar or coffee, corn or butter, flax or wool,
beer or spirits, land or houses, I fear that we should be beating
ourselves rather severely with our own sticks. Our revenge on "Ulster"
would be rather like that of Savage, the poet, who revenged himself on
a friend by sleeping out the whole of a December night on a bridge. The
whole suggestion is, of course, futile and fantastic. It is a bubble
that has been pricked, and by no one so thoroughly as by Lord Pirrie,
the head of Harland and Wolff, that is to say the leader of the
industrial North.

The clamour of the exploiters of "Ulster" is motived on this point by
two considerations, the one an illusion, the other a reality. The
illusion, or rather the pretence, consists in representing the Unionists
as the sole holders of wealth in Ireland. It would be a sufficient
refutation of this view to quote those other passages in which the same
orators assert with equal eloquence that the Tory policy of land
purchase and resolute government from Westminster has brought enormous
prosperity to the rest of the country. On _per capita_ valuation the
highest northern county ranks only twelfth in Ireland. It is the
reality, however, that supplies the clue. While the masters of Orangeism
do not represent the wealth of Ireland they do certainly represent the
largest, or, at least, the most intense concentration of unearned
incomes. What they fear is not unjust but democratic taxation. They
cling to the Union as a bulwark against the reform movement which in
every modern state is resuming for society a small part of certain vast
fortunes which in their essence have been socially created. But even on
the plane of their own selfishness they are following a foolish line of
action. The Union did not save them from the Land Tax Budget, nor, as
regards the future, is salvation of the English Tories. Should they ever
return to power they will repeat their action respecting the Death
Duties. Having in Opposition denounced the land taxes with indecent
bitterness they will, when back in office, confirm and extend them.
"Ulster" had far better cast in her lot with Ireland. She will find an
Irish Assembly not only strikingly but, one might almost add, sinfully
conservative in matters of taxation. As to the conflict between the
agrarian and the manufacturing interests, that also exists in every
nation on the earth. But neither has any greater temptation to plan the
destruction of the other than a merchant has to murder his best
customer.

There remains the weltering problem of mixed marriages and the _Ne
Temere_ decree. It is perhaps worth observing that marriages get mixed
in other countries as well as in Ireland. It grieves one that men should
differ as to the true religious interpretation of life. But they do in
fact differ, and wherever two human beings, holding strongly to
different faiths, fall in love there is tragic material. But they do in
fact fall in love. The theme recurs, with a thousand reverberations, in
the novel literature of England, France, and Germany. The situation
occurs also in Ireland. But I am bewildered to know in what way it is an
argument for or against Home Rule. Let us appeal once more to colonial
experience and practice. There is a Catholic majority in Canada and an
overwhelming Catholic majority in Quebec. The policy of the Catholic
Church towards mixed marriages is precisely the same there as in
Ireland. Does Protestantism demand that the constitutions of the
Dominion and the Province respectively shall be withdrawn? Since no such
claim is made we must conclude that the outcry on Orange platforms is
designed not to enforce a principle but to awaken all the slumbering
fires of prejudice. The _Ne Temere_ decree introduces no new departure.
Now, as always, the Catholic Church requires simply that her members
shall consecrate the supreme adventure of life with the Sacrament of
their fathers before the altar of their fathers. It is strange that the
Orangemen, believing as they do that the Pope is anti-Christ, should be
so annoyed at finding that the Pope teaches a doctrine different from
theirs on the subject of marriage. The Pope can inflict no spiritual
penalties on them since they are outside his flock. He can inflict no
civil penalties on anybody. There is undoubtedly in the matter of
divorce a sharp conflict between Catholic ideas and the practice and
opinion of Protestant countries. That exists, and will continue, under
every variation of government. It is an eternal antinomy. But whom does
it aggrieve? We Catholics voluntarily abjure the blessings of divorce,
but we should never dream of using the civil law to impose our
abnegation on those of another belief. If there is any doubt upon that
point it can very easily be removed. The civil law of marriage can be
conserved under one of the "safeguards."

The truth is that in order to test our tolerance Orangeism proposes to
us a series of exercises which are a very delirium of intolerance.
"Sever yourselves," it says in effect to us, "from all allegiance to
that Italian Cardinal. Consign him, as Portadown does, to hell. Bait
your bishops. Deride the spiritual authority of your priests. Then shall
we know that you are men and masters of your own consciences. Elect a
Unionist Council in every county, a Unionist Corporation in Dublin, then
shall we know that you are brothers. Disown your dead leaders. Spit on
the grave of Emmet. Teach your children that every Fenian was a
murderer. Erase from your chronicles the name of Parnell. Then shall we
know that you are loyal."

It has been occasionally urged by writers who prefer phrases to
actualities that Home Rule must wait on the conversion of "Ulster."
Therein the patient must minister to himself. Miracles of that order
cannot be accomplished from without. Great is Diana of the Ephesians,
and the servitude of tradition is at an end only when the hands that
fashioned the idols shatter them on the altars of a new nobleness. Let
us distinguish. The Orangeism which is merely an instrument of
exploitation and domination will not yield to reason. The Orangeism
which is an inherited hysteria will not yield to reason. It Bourbonises
too much. It lives in the past, learning nothing and forgetting nothing.
Argument runs off it like rain off a duck's back. These two types of
thought we must leave to the grace of God, and the education of the
accomplished fact. They represent a declining cause, and a decaying
party. The Lodges once mustered more than 200,000 members; they have
now less than 10,000. There is another kind of Orangeism, that which has
begun to think, and the Orangeism that has begun to think is already
converted. I said that Protestant "Ulster" had never given to its own
democracy a leader, but to say that is to forget John Mitchel. Master in
prose of a passion as intense as Carlyle's and far less cloudy, of an
irony not excelled by Swift, Mitchel flung into the tabernacles of his
own people during the Great Famine a sentence that meant not peace but a
sword. He taught them, as no one since, that Orangeism was merely a
weapon of exploitation. While the band played "The Boyne Water" and the
people cheered it, the landlords were picking the pockets of the
ecstatic crowd.

     "The Pope, we know, is the 'man of sin,'" wrote Mitchel, "and the
     'Antichrist,' and also, if you like, the 'mystery of iniquity,' and
     all that, but he brings no ejectments in Ireland."

Mitchel travelled too fast for co-religionists whose shoulders had not
yet slipped the burden of old superstitions. The élan of genius and the
call of freedom drew him out of the home of his fathers to consort with
Papists, rebels, and transported convicts. But his failure was the seed
of later success. In a few years the League of North and South was able
to unite Protestant and Catholic on the plain economic issue that
landlordism must go. That too failed, but the stream of democratic
thought had been merely driven underground to reappear further on in the
century. In the elections that shook the fortress of Toryism in Ulster
in the seventies Catholic priests marched at the head of processions
side by side with Grand Masters of Orange Lodges. In the first years of
the Land League, Michael Davitt was able to secure the enthusiastic
support of purely Orange meetings in Armagh. Still later, Mr T. W.
Russell, at the head of a democratic coalition, smashed the old
Ascendancy on the question of compulsory purchase, and Mr Lindsay
Crawford founded his Independent Order, a portent if not yet a power. So
much has been done in the country. But it is in the cities, those
workshops of the society of the future, that the change is most marked.
The new movement finds an apt epitome in the political career of Mr
Joseph Devlin. The workers of Belfast had been accustomed to see labour
problems treated by the old type of Unionist member of parliament either
with cowardice or with contempt. _Enfin Malesherbes vint_. At last a
man rose up out of their own class, although a Catholic and a
Nationalist. He spoke with an awakening eloquence, and he made good his
words. In every industrial struggle in that sweated city he interposed
his strong word to demand justice for the wage-earner. This was a new
sort of politics. It bore fruit where Ulster Unionism had been but a
barren fig-tree. The democracy of Belfast accepted their leader. They
gave him a majority of 16 in West Belfast in 1906 and in four years they
had multiplied it by forty. The Boyne was bridged, and everything that
has since happened has but added a new stay or girder to the strength of
the bridge. And not only labour but capital has passed across that
estranging river to firm ground of patriotism and national unity. Lord
Pirrie, the head of the greatest manufacturing enterprise in Belfast, is
an ardent Home Ruler. Business men, ministers of religion, even lawyers,
are thinking out things quietly beneath the surface. The new "Ulster" is
breaking its shell. Parties are forming on the basis of economic
realities, not on that of "religious" phantasms.

As for the old "Ulster," it remains a problem not for the War Office,
but for the Department of Education.


CHAPTER VIII

THE MECHANICS OF HOME RULE


The inevitableness of Home Rule resides in the fact that it is, as one
might say, a biped among ideas. It marches to triumph on two feet, an
Irish and an Imperial foot. If there were in Ireland no demand whatever
for self-government it would, nevertheless, be necessary in the
interests of the Empire to force it on her. The human, or as some people
may prefer to call it, the sociological case for Home Rule, and the
historical case for it have already been outlined. We now turn to
consideration, of another order, derived from Political Mechanics, or
rather bearing on the mere mechanism of politics. Let us approach the
problem first from the Imperial side.

On the whole, the most remarkable thing about the British Empire is that
there is no British Empire. We are in presence of the familiar
distinction between the raw material and the finished article. There
are, indeed, on the surface of the globe a number of self-governing
colonies, founded and peopled by men of Irish and English blood. In each
of these the United Kingdom is represented by a Governor whose whole
duty consists in being seen on formal occasions, but never heard in
counsel or rebuke. The only other connecting links are those of law and
finance. The Privy Council acts as a Court of Appeal in certain causes,
and Colonial Governments borrow money in the London market. These
communities widely seperated in geography and in temperament, have no
common fiscal policy, no common foreign policy, no common scheme of
defence, no common Council to discuss and decide Imperial affairs. Now
this may be a very wise arrangement, but you must not call it an Empire.
From the point of view of unity, if from no other, it presents an
unfavourable contrast to French Imperialism, under which all the oversea
colonies are represented in the Chamber of Deputies in Paris. In the
English plan the oversea colonies are unrelated atoms. You may say that
they afford all the materials for a grandiose federation; but if you
have flour in one bag, and raisins in another, and candied peel in
another, and suet in another you must not call them a Christmas pudding
until they have been mixed together and cooked. Those areas of the
globe, coloured red on the maps, may have all the resources requisite
for a great, self-sufficing, economic unit of a new order. Their peoples
may desire that new order. But until it is achieved you must remember
that the British Empire belongs to the region of dream and not to that
of fact.

For many years now, apostles of reconstruction have been hammering out
the details of a scheme that shall unify the Empire on some sort of
Federal basis. For the new organism which they desire to create they
need a brain. Is this to be found in the Westminster Assembly, sometimes
loosely styled the "Imperial Parliament"? As things stand at present
such a suggestion is a mere counter-sense. That body has come to such a
pass as would seem to indicate the final bankruptcy of the governing
genius of England. All the penalties of political gluttony have
accumulated on it. Parliament, to put the truth a little brutally, has
broken down under a long debauch of over-feeding. Every day of every
session it bites off far more in the way of bills and estimates than it
even pretends to have time to chew. Results follow which it would be
indiscreet to express in terms of physiology. Tens of millions are
shovelled out of the Treasury by an offhand, undiscussed, perfunctory
resolution. The attempt to compress infinite issues in a space too
little has altered and, as some critics think, degraded the whole tenor
of public life. Parliament is no longer the Grand Inquest of the Nation,
at least not in the ancient and proper meaning of the words. The
declaration of Edmund Burke to the effect that a member has no right to
sacrifice his "unbiassed opinion, his mature judgment, his enlightened
conscience" to any set of men living may be echoed by the judges in our
day, but to anyone who knows the House of Commons it is a piece of pure
irony. Party discipline cracks every session a more compelling whip; and
our shepherded, regimented, and automatised representatives themselves
realise that, whatever more desirable status they may have attained,
they have certainly lost that of individual freedom. Out of their own
ranks a movement has arisen to put an end altogether to Party
government. This proposal I myself believe to be futile, but its very
futility testifies to the existence of an intolerable situation. All
this turns on the inadequacy of the time of the House of Commons to its
business. But the distribution of such time as there is, is a revel of
ineptitudes. It resembles the drawing of a schoolboy who has not yet
learned perspective. A stranger dropping into the Chamber will find it
spending two hours in helping to determine whether Russia is to have a
Czar, and the next four hours helping to determine whether Rathmines is
to have, let us say, a new sewer. The affairs of India, involving the
political welfare of three hundred millions of human beings, get one
day; Egypt, that test case in international ethics, has to be content
with a few scattered hours. And, despite all this, local questions are
not considered at sufficient length or with sufficient knowledge. The
parish pump is close enough to spoil St Stephen's as an Imperial
Council, and yet so far away as to destroy its effectiveness as an organ
of local government.

Such an assembly is clearly unfitted to function as the cerebrum of
Empire. It must be relieved of burdens which in the complexity of modern
politics it is no longer able to bear. How is this to be done? In one
way and in one way only, by leaving local business to local bodies. But
that is Home Rule, or, as the learned, envisaging the idea from another
point of view, sometimes prefer to call it, Devolution. Through the
principle of autonomy, incompletely applied, the British Possessions
have so far evolved. Through the principle of autonomy, completely
applied, and in no other wise, can they evolve into an ordered system
worthy of the Imperial name. This is at first blush a singular
development. Here lie Ireland and England separated by a mountain of
misunderstanding. We Irish Nationalists have for a century been trying
to bore a tunnel through from one side. And suddenly we become aware of
the tapping of picks not our own, and encounter midway the tunnel which
the Party of Imperial Reconstruction have driven through from the other
side. Here are all the materials for a _tableau_. Justice falls on the
neck of expediency. Imperialism recognises in nationality no rebel but a
son of the house. Toryism rubs its eyes, and finds that it is Home Rule.

But, sounded to its depths, this new current of thought appears not only
not eccentric but inevitable. Ample explanation is to be found in the
history of the Irish fight for self-government. On this subject there
has been in Ireland a marked evolution of ideas. O'Connell began by
demanding simple Repeal of the Union and the Restoration of Grattan's
Parliament. But by 1844 he had advanced towards a Federal programme.

"Beside the local Parliament in Ireland having full and perfect local
authority," he writes in that year, "there should be, for questions of
Imperial concern, colonial, military, and naval, and of foreign alliance
and policy, a Congressional or Federal Parliament, in which Ireland
should have a fair share and proportion of representation and power."

The proposed change of programme came in a questionable shape to a
suspicious time. It was not received with universal favour, and, to
avert dissension, it was represented as a mere _ballon d'essai_ and was
abandoned. O'Connell died, and Repeal and Federation alike were
swallowed up in the Great Famine. But time was to renew its urgency. The
essential facts, and the logic of the facts, remained unaltered. When
Isaac Butt came to formulate his scheme at the Home Rule Conference in
1873 he renewed the Federal proposal in terms almost verbally the same.
The Conference resolved:

     "That, in claiming these rights and privileges for our country, we
     adopt the principle of a Federal arrangement, which would secure to
     the Irish Parliament the right of legislating for and regulating
     all matters relating to the internal affairs of Ireland, while
     _leaving to the Imperial Parliament the power of dealing with all
     questions affecting the Imperial and Government, legislation
     regarding the colonies and other dependencies of the Crown, the
     relations of the Empire with Foreign States, and all matters
     appertaining to the defence and stability of the Empire at large;
     as well as the power of granting and providing the supplies
     necessary for Imperial purposes_."

Parnell, who was a supreme master of the art of doing one thing at a
time, naturally laid the emphasis on Ireland. But when he was asked by
Mr Cecil Rhodes to agree to the retention of Irish representatives at
Westminster in the interests of Imperial Federation, he declared himself
in very definite terms:

     "It does not come so much within my province to express a full
     opinion upon the larger question of Imperial federation, but I
     agree with you that the continued Irish representation at
     Westminster immensely facilitates such a step, while the contrary
     provision in the Bill of 1886 would have been a bar. Undoubtedly
     this is a matter which should be dealt with largely in accordance
     with the opinion of the Colonies themselves, and if they should
     desire to share in the cost of Imperial matters, as undoubtedly
     they now do in the responsibility, and should express a wish for
     representation at Westminster, I certainly think it should be
     accorded to them, and that public opinion in these islands would
     unanimously concur in the necessary constitutional modifications."

That is, if you will, thinking Imperially. Mr Redmond stands where
Parnell stood. He claims for the Irish people "the legislative and
executive control of all purely Irish affairs." But he is altogether
friendly to a later and larger application of the principle of autonomy.

But where, asks the triumphant critic not quite ingenuously, is the line
to be drawn between local and Imperial affairs? Problems far more
perplexed than this have been solved by the wit of man. The line was
drawn by O'Connell and Butt, by Parnell and Gladstone. It can be drawn
to meet the circumstances of to-day by men of goodwill, after discussion
and mutual adjustment. But why not postpone the case of Ireland until a
scheme of Home Rule all round either for the United Kingdom or for the
whole Empire has been worked out? We answer that Ireland comes first on
grounds both of ethics and of expediency. Through all the blackness of
dismal years we have laboured to preserve the twin ideas of nationality
and autonomy, and the labourer is worthy of his hire. But a Home Rule
assembly, functioning in Dublin, may well furnish the germ of a
reorganisation of the Empire. If so, let it be remembered that it was
not Mr Chamberlain but Daniel O'Connell who first in these countries
gave to Imperialism a definite and articulate form. In any event Home
Rule is the only remedy for the present congestion of St Stephen's. It
is the only tonic that can restore to English public life its old vigour
of independence.

Such are the necessities and such is the future of the Empire merely as
a problem in what has been called Political Mechanics. We have now, from
the same point of view, to examine very cursorily the present government
of Ireland. The phrasing, let me interpose, is inaccurate. Ireland, in
our day, is not governed; it is only administered. A modern government,
if it wishes to be real, must above all else explain itself. For such
luxuries, so far as Ireland is concerned, there is no time in the House
of Commons. A modern government must exercise active control over every
department of public business. For such an effort there is, so far as
Ireland is concerned, no energy in the House of Commons. Once in a blue
moon it does of course become necessary to pass an Irish Bill, a
University or a Land Bill. The Party shepherds round up their flocks,
and, for a reluctant day or two, they have to feed sparely in
unaccustomed pastures. Or again, as in 1886, 1893, or 1912, Ireland
dominates British politics, and the English members descend on her with
a heavy flop of hatred or sympathy as it may happen. But at all other
times the Union Parliament abdicates, or at least it "governs" Ireland
as men are said sometimes to drive motor-cars, in a drowse. Three
days--or is it two?--are given to Irish Estimates, and on each of these
occasions the Chamber is as desolate as a grazing ranch in Meath.
Honourable members snatch at the opportunity of cultivating their souls
in the theatres, clubs, restaurants, and other centres of culture in
which London abounds. The Irish Party is compelled by the elemental
necessities of the situation to speak with one voice on matters
regarding which there would properly be at least two voices in an Irish
Parliament, precisely identical in personnel. Ulster Unionism presents a
similar solidarity.

Whenever a point of any novelty is made, the Chief Secretary's secretary
slips over to one of the Irish Officials who on these occasions lie
ambushed at the back of the Speaker's chair, and returns with all the
elation of a honey-laden bee. His little burden of wisdom is gratefully
noted on the margin of the typewritten brief which has been already
prepared in Dublin by the Board under discussion, and, entrenched behind
this, the Right Honourable gentleman winds up the debate. Sometimes his
solemnity wrings laughter from men, sometimes his flippancy wrings
tears from the gods, but it does not in the least matter what he says.
The division bells ring; the absentees come trooping in, learn at the
door of the lobby, each from his respective Whip, whether his
spontaneous, independent judgment has made him a Yes! or a No! and vote
accordingly in the light of an unsullied conscience. The Irish
officials, with a sigh of relief or a shrug of contempt, collect their
hats and umbrellas, and retire to their hotels to erase from their minds
by slumber the babblings of a mis-spent evening. And the course of
administration in Ireland is as much affected by the whole proceedings
as the course of an 80 h.p. Mercédès is affected by a cabman's oath.

So much for exclusively Irish affairs. When Ireland comes into some
"general" scheme of legislation the parody of government becomes if
possible more fantastic in character. Let me take just three
instances--Old Age Pensions, Insurance, and the Budget. In regard to the
first it was perhaps a matter of course that no attempt should be made
to allow for the difference in economic levels between Great Britain and
Ireland. This is the very principle of Unionism: to apply like methods
to things which are unlike. But in the calculation of details an
ignorance was exhibited which passed the bounds of decency. Mistakes of
five or six per cent are, in these complex affairs, not only to be
expected but almost to be desired; they help to depress ministerial
cocksureness. But in this case there was an error of 200 per cent, a
circumstance which incidentally established in the English mind a
pleasing legend of Irish dishonesty. The Insurance Bill was ushered in
with greater prudence. The "government," recognising its own inability
to lead opinion, had the grace to refrain from misleading it. No special
Irish memorandum was issued, and no attempt was made to adjust the
scheme to Irish social and economic conditions. But Budgets afford on
the whole the capital instance of what we may call legislation by
accident. The Act of Union solemnly prescribes the principles on which
these measures are to be framed, and points to the Chancellor of the
Exchequer as the trustee of Irish interests. But nobody of this
generation ever knew a Chancellor of the Exchequer who had even read the
Act of Union; Mr Lloyd George, on his own admission, had certainly not
read it in 1909. What has happened is very simple. The fulfilment of
treaty obligations required differential taxation, but administrative
convenience was best served by a uniform system of taxation. In the
struggle between the two, conscience was as usual defeated. The
artist, with suitable diffidence, hesitated, yet looked on the proposal
as an interposition of Providence, and then begged for the money at
once, to help him on his further journey into Germany. Though success
had delivered him from poverty, and commissions came in faster than he
could paint, yet at no time did he roll in wealth; spite of scrupulous
economy, he never much more than paid his way; and a few years later,
when, for Emilie Linder, engaged on _The Death of St. Joseph_,[5]
he gladly accepted beforehand the price by instalments.

The correspondence shows a tender conscience, with a humility not devoid
of independence.
The art products were in fact of so high a quality that the painter
conferred a greater favour than any he could receive in return.

Overbeck left the hospitable roof of Cornelius in Munich at the end of
August, 1831, and reached Heidelberg, there to meet with an
enthusiastic reception from friends and admirers; there also, after a
separation of five-and-twenty years, he saw once more, and for
the last time, his elder brother from Lübeck. Close to Heidelberg,
overhanging the banks of the Necker, is Stift Neuburg, formerly a
monastic establishment, but then the picturesque residence of a family
in warmest bonds of friendship with the art brethren. At this lovely
spot, I am told by the present owner, "Overbeck stayed several
days, and a seat in the garden is still called after him 'Overbeck's
Plätzchen.'" On this rustic bench the painter was wont to sit meditatively
amid scenery of surpassing beauty; the quietude of nature and the
converse of kindred minds were to his heart's content. Within the old
mansion, on the walls and in portfolios, are the choicest examples of the
artist's early and middle periods; thus Stift Neuburg in its house and
grounds remains sacred to the painter's memory.[6]
From Heidelberg Overbeck travelled to Frankfort--a city soon to become
a focus of the wide-spreading revival. Here the apostle of sacred art
made the acquaintance of the poet Clemens Brentano, and fell among other
friends and adorers. Philip Veit, his fellow-worker in the Casa
Bartholdi and the Villa Massimo, had just been appointed Director of the
Städel Institute, where he executed one of the noblest of
frescoes--_The Introduction of the Arts into Germany through
Christianity_. Likewise among warm adherents was Johann Passavant, a
painter who in Rome had joined the brethren, a critic who made a
name by the 'Life of Raphael.' Overbeck was here esteemed "the greatest
living artist," and some expressed "the cherished thought, the earnest
desire" that the painter should be secured for Frankfort. But as this
proved out of the question, the promise was gladly accepted of the
master-work since famous as _The Triumph of Religion in the Arts_.
Cologne next received a visit, and the Cathedral choir having advanced
towards completion, the assistance of the Christian painter was naturally
solicited: _The Assumption of the Virgin_, now adorning a side chapel,
counts among the memorable fruits of the painter's timely visit to his
native land.

     This northern journey was extended as far as Düsseldorf,
     a sequestered town already growing illustrious for its school
     of religious painting. Wilhelm Schadow, co-partner in Roman labours,
     had here, as Director of the Academy, gathered round him devoted
scholars, and Overbeck greeted his old friend as a missionary in
the common cause.

     After receiving on all hands respectful adulations which would have
     turned a vainer head, the traveller bent his steps southwards,
     and reached Italy by way of Strasburg and Switzerland. On reaching
     Rome, he writes on the 1st of December to Cornelius in characteristic
tone: "You will understand with what lively joy I once more saw my
beloved Rome; I therefore will not conceal the painful impression
which the distracted opinions and doctrines in the Fatherland have
left in my mind, but I feel rest in the persuasion that, through
the dispensation of Providence, my lot has been cast in this Roman
seclusion, not that I intend to lay my hands idly in my lap, but,
on the contrary, I shall endeavour to work with my utmost ability,
spurred on all the more by the thought that even here at a distance
I shall move in your circle."

     Assuredly as to professional prospects the passage of the Alps had
     extended the artist's circuit: the Italian works which chiefly mark
     the painter's first period had come to an end; henceforth Overbeck's
labours, though prosecuted within the Roman studio, were for the
good of Germany.

     Overbeck, in September, 1833, witnessed an event memorable in the
history of art: he was present at the opening of Raphael's tomb in
the Pantheon, and a few days after he wrote to his friend Veit at
Frankfort a circumstantial account, as some relief to his overwhelming
emotions.

     The letter is here of interest as evidence of Overbeck's unshaken
     allegiance to the great master; if called by others a pre-Raphaelite,
     he remained at heart faithful to the painter from whom indeed he
borrowed largely.

     Unlike certain of our English artists and critics, he never decried
     Raphael.

     He writes: "Know, then, I was present at the opening of Raphael's
     grave, and have looked upon the true and incomparable master.
     What a shudder came over me when the remains of the honoured painter
were laid open, thou canst better conceive than I can describe.

     May this deep experience not be without good results for us: may
     the remembrance of the honoured one make us more worthy inheritors
of his spirit!"

     [7]

     Overbeck about this time, in letters to Emilie Linder, begins to
express ultra views, to the prejudice of his art.

     He pleads that certain Biblical drawings may have for her more worth
because the religious meaning dominates over the art skill.

     In like manner he writes apologetically concerning _The Death of St.
     Joseph_. The picture, he urges, embodies not so much a historic fact
     as an idea, the intent being not to lead the spectator to the real,
but to something beyond.

     The purist painter then proceeds to express his invincible reluctance
     to study the subject from the side of life; models he had carefully
avoided, because he feared that a single glance at nature would
destroy the whole conception.

     It is with sincere regret that I have to record so pernicious a
doctrine.

     Surely the artist's special function must always be to find out the
     divine element in nature, and fatal is the day when first he calls
into question the essential oneness between Nature and God.

     But Overbeck's peculiar phase of Catholicism marred as well as made
     his art. Through the Church he entered a holy, heavenly sphere,
     and his pictures verily stand forth as the revelation of his soul.

     But the sublimest of doctrines sometimes prove to be utterly
     unpaintable, and certainly the tenets to which Overbeck gave a
     super-sensuous turn, in the end perplexed and clouded his art.
     Outraged nature took her revenge, and the sequel shows that Overbeck
     so diverted his vision and narrowed his pictorial range that his
     art fell short of the largeness of nature and humanity.
     
     Northern Germany claimed the illustrious painter as her son, and
so fitly came commissions from Cologne, Lübeck, and Hamburg.

For the great Hospital in this last commercial town was painted the
large oil-picture, _Christ's Agony in the Garden_. This impressive
composition represents the Saviour kneeling; the head is bowed in anguish,
the hands are raised in ecstasy; below, the three disciples lie asleep,
and in the glory of the upper sky amid rolling clouds appears as a
vision the angel bearing the cross. I paid a visit to Hamburg in
order to judge of a work of which I could find but slight mention. Its
characteristics are just what might have been anticipated. The drawing
is studious, the expression intense, the execution feeble; in
short, the technique becomes wholly subordinate to the intention.
The conception has Giottesque simplicity:
the shade of night brings solemnity, and the longer I stood before the
canvas the more I became impressed with the quietude and fervour
of the scene.[8]
We find an epitome of Overbeck's mind and art in a lovely composition,
_Lo Sposalizio_. Count Raczynski had as far back as 1819 given a general
commission, and at first was proposed as a subject the _Sibyl_, for which
the drawing in sepia, dated 1821, now hangs in the Count's Gallery
in Berlin. The figure, pensive and poetic, resembles a mediæval Saint
rather than a Sibyl. The painter afterwards found a more congenial theme
in _The Marriage of the Virgin_. The treatment is wholly traditional,
the style austerely pre-Raphaelite; the only expletive in the way
of an idea comes with attendant angels, lyres in hand.

The work was not delivered till 1836, in the meanwhile the first fire had
died out, and nature was thrust into the distance. The technique had not
improved, the material clothing becomes subject to the mental
conception, thus are eschewed _chic_ of touch and surface texture. The
colour is indescribable: it pertains neither to earth nor to heaven,
and yet it has more of dull clay than of iridescent light. What a
misfortune that the gem-like lustre of the early Italians escaped this
modern disciple!
A thoroughly characteristic letter accompanied the picture. Overbeck having
shut himself out from the world, seeks for his creations a like
seclusion. He writes to Raczynski: "As you are wishing to send my picture
to the public exhibition in Berlin, I cannot refrain from expressing
my anxiety. Paintings of this kind appear to me not fitted to be seen
by the motley multitude usually gathered together in exhibitions. The
general public are almost sure to measure wrongly works like this, for
as the eye is attracted to outward means and is engaged on technical
splendours, pictures in which these qualities are held in subordination
to higher aims cannot but sink into the shade. The spectator is not in
the mood to honour a spiritual subject which has been thought out from
a spiritual side. The place in which this picture should be seen is a
chapel, or some such peaceful spot removed from disturbing surroundings."[9]

I now wish to direct the reader's attention to _The Triumph of
Religion in the Arts_, otherwise _The Magnificat of Art_, or _The
Christian Parnassus_, or the triumph of Mariolatry. This large and
elaborate composition embodied the artist's best thoughts for ten years
in the prime of life, from 1831 to 1840. Accompanying the work was a
written explanation, which comprises a confession of Overbeck's art
faith.[10] The Madonna, with the Infant in her arms, sits enthroned in
the upper half of the canvas, and around, in mid-heaven, are ranged
prophets, evangelists, and saints. On the earth below stand some sixty
painters, sculptors, and architects; the heads as far as possible are
taken from authentic portraits. In the midst is a fountain, the upper
waters rising into the sky, the lower falling into two basins
beneath. The painter explains his meaning as follows: "The fountain
in the centre is the emblem of the well of water springing up into eternal
life, thus denoting the heavenward direction of Christian Art as
opposed to the idea of the ancients, who represented the stream as
flowing downwards from Mount Parnassus.

     Every manifestation of art therefore is honoured so far only as it
     looks towards heaven. The fountain descends into two mirrors: the
     upper one reflects heaven, the lower receives earthly objects; thus
     is indicated the twofold character of art, which, on the one hand,
in its spiritual essence comes with every good thought from above,
and which, on the other, is derived from the outward forms of nature.

This twofold sphere of art is signified by the position assigned to the
assembled artists in relation to the two mirrors of water." Overbeck
next proceeds to expound his pictorial judgments. He gives Raphael a
white robe as symbolic of universal genius, "for as white light
contains the seven prismatic colours, so does Raphael's art unite all
the qualities we gaze on with wonder." Michelangelo sits apart on a
fragment of antique sculpture, his back turned alike on the Fountain and
the Madonna. I once ventured to ask Overbeck in his studio for some
explanation of this harsh judgment; he calmly but firmly replied
that he thought the verdict according to the evidence.

Still less mercy is shown to the Venetians, and as for Correggio, he is
stigmatised as utterly lost. On the other hand, Fra Angelico, the Tuscan
School, Dürer, and the brothers Van Eyck receive due reverence. But it
has fairly been questioned whether the majority of the sixty or more
artists here immortalised would thank the painter for his pains. The
reading given to historic facts is narrow, partial, not to say perverted,
and could content only such ultra critics as Rio, Montalembert, and
Pugin.

_The Triumph of Religion_[11] I have known for more than a quarter of a
century, and have heard much of its profundity, spiritualism, and
symbolism. But no critic will assign to the picture the first
rank among works of creative reason and imagination; the comparison
has inevitably been instituted with Raphael's _Disputa_, in the Vatican,
to which it is confessedly inferior. Historically, it finds a place
sufficiently honourable by the side of Francia and Pinturicchio. Its
avowed merits are considerable; its very scale and the vastness of the
labour give importance; the canvas extends to a breadth and height of
about fifteen feet. The composition, if not bold or masterly, is
careful and thoughtful, the drawing scholastic; the heads are wrought
as biographic studies, the draperies cast into balanced harmonies.

The execution is steady, without show or fling; the colour, as always,
is the reverse of alluring: Venetian splendours are eschewed in favour
of pigments thin, dull, and crude.

     Yet the technique has usual soundness; the materials stand firm
     and unchanged. The picture has the advantage of a commanding position
     in the handsome new gallery in Frankfort, and, notwithstanding
     its defects and shortcomings, must be accounted as among the most
     memorable achievements of the century.
     
     Overbeck made _The Triumph of Religion_ a propaganda of his
     pictorial faith, and wrote his explanatory text for the special
     benefit of young painters.

     The document concludes with the following emphatic and affectionate
     appeal: "And now, my dear young friend and brother artist, so
     ardently striving to excel in the Fine Arts, I have placed a picture
before you in which you may wander as in a garden.

     Here you see all the great masters: behold how the future lies
spread before you, like the bright distance in this picture, so
that you may be encouraged thereby in your noble task.

Strive to approach the great masters with all the powers of your mind,
but know that you can only reach their eminence by steadily keeping in
view the goal which I have endeavoured in this painting to place
before you. Several of the artists here assembled may serve as warnings
to you: the Venetians went astray as soon as they made colouring
the principal object of attraction, and so by degrees they sank in
sensuality.

The effeminate Correggio proceeded in this career at a more rapid
rate, until he had cast aside every restraint of modesty and morality,
and gave himself up to unbridled voluptuousness.[12] Michael Angelo
set up the antique as an object of idolatry, and Raphael was tempted
to taste the forbidden fruit, and so the sin of apostasy in the
fine arts became manifest.

In after times, indeed, various attempts have been made to elevate
the arts; but as no remedy was applied to the source of the evil,
the result proved on the whole unsuccessful.

This is also the reason why none of the celebrated masters of late
times have been introduced into our painting.[13] In conclusion,
you may unhesitatingly adopt as a principle that the fine arts can alone
be beneficial to man when, like the wise virgins, they go out to meet
the bridegroom in humility and modesty, with their lamps burning
and fed with the faith and the fear of God: only as such daughters of
heaven are they worthy of your love."
Ten years of the painter's later period, reaching from 1843 to
1852, were dedicated to the Life of Christ as recorded by the four
Evangelists. German artists of the modern time have revived the
practice of the old religious painters of composing Biblical series, and
such a narrative is technically termed a "cyclus." Overbeck evolved three
such consecutive compositions--"The Gospels" in forty cartoons, "The
Sacraments" in seven, and "The Stations" in fourteen. The large drawings
for "The Gospels" or "Evangelists"[14] I was accustomed to see from
time to time while in progress within the studio; none were ever carried
out, as the artist might have hoped, in oils, or as wall pictures or
tapestries, but all, in common with most of his drawings, have been
widely diffused by means of engraving.[15] Overbeck was specially
qualified by his habits of mind and literary tastes and antecedents
thus to write off his thoughts in outline; his drawings may be
compared to "thinking aloud," and one scene after another reads as
consecutive sonnets bearing on continuous themes.

The events depicted as a matter of course fall into accustomed routine;
they almost of necessity begin with _The Annunciation_ and end with
_The Ascension_. Yet Overbeck, while inspired was not enslaved by his
predecessors; often are presented novel and even bold conceptions,
as in _The Massacre of the Innocents_ (1843) and _Barabbas released and
borne in Triumph_ (1849). Such designs prove an intellect neither
servile nor sterile. Certain other compositions are marred by affectation
and sentimentality, traits of morbid moods increasing with years, and
which contrast strangely with the healthiness and robustness of the great
old masters. Fitly have been chosen to illustrate these pages _The
Naming of St. John_ (1843), _Christ Healing the Sick_ (1843),
_Christ's Entry into Jerusalem_ (1849), _The Entombment_ (1844),
and _The Resurrection_ (1848). Two other illustrations, _Christ in
the Temple_ and Christ _falling under the Cross_ show variations on
the Gospel series. Overbeck may be compared to certain fastidious writers
who mature by endless emendations and finishing touches; he loved to recur
oft and again to favourite texts, changing attitudes, adding or
subtracting figures, episodes, or accessories. His lifelong compositions
are as a peopled world of the elect and precious: many of the characters
we claim as old acquaintances; the figures come, go, and return
again, changed, yet without a break in personal identity. They move
round a common centre; Christ is their life; they are in soul and body
Christian.

These "Gospels" have taken a permanent place in the world's Christian
Art. If not wholly worthy of so large and grand a theme, they yet scarcely
suffer from comparison with like efforts by other artists. They have
hardly less of unction and holiness than Fra Angelico's designs, while
undoubtedly they display profounder science and art. That they have nothing
in common with the Bible of Gustave Doré is much to their praise; on
the other hand, that they lack the inventive fertility and the imaginative
flight of the Bible of Julius Schnorr indicates that they fall short
of universality. These Gospels, it may also be said, pertain not to
the Church militant, but to the Church triumphant; not to the world at
large, but to a select company of believers. They teach the passive
virtues--patience, resignation, long-suffering, and so far realise the
painter's ideal of earth as the portal to heaven. Certain spheres were
beyond his ken. The marriage of Cana did not for him flow with the wine
of gladness; he had no fellowship with the nuptial banquet as painted
by Veronese. His pencil shunned the Song of Miriam and the Dance of the
Daughter of Herodias; it could not pass, like the pen of England's
epic poet, with a light fantastic touch from "Il Penseroso" to "L'Allegro;"
his walk was narrow as a convent cloister; his art was attuned to the
sound of the vesper bell.

Overbeck's modes of study and habits of work were like himself--secluded
and self-contained. His strength did not permit prolonged labour,
and his mind was easily put out of tune; yet by method and strict economy
of time he was able, as we have seen, to get through a very
considerable amount of work. Each day had its allotted task. He rose
summer and winter between five and six o'clock, and usually went to
church; at seven he took a simple breakfast, then entered his studio and
worked on till one. This was the hour for dinner, a frugal meal preceded
by the customary grace. After a little repose, action was resumed about
half-past two, and continued till four, or sometimes even to six. Then
came exercise, mostly a meditative walk; in early times, before the
habits of a recluse had grown confirmed, the painter enjoyed an evening's
stroll with choice spirits, such as Niebuhr and Bunsen, but in later
years he preferred his own communings, his thoughts turning upon
art or finding diversion only among the beauties of nature.

Within the house he became abstracted; he wandered about lost to
outward surroundings, and would brook no interruption. In the winter
evenings, at least in later life, he relaxed so far as to join in some
table game; but his hours were early, he supped at eight, then retired
to his room for meditation, and was always in bed by ten. General family
prayers were not the order of the household; the constant habit was
individual devotion in private. The Pope took a fatherly care over the
pious artist, and granted him privileges permitted only to the few. And
Overbeck was on his part strict and zealous in all Church functions,
and neglected no means of building up the Christian life. Each
day in fact was so nicely apportioned between religion and art, that
the morning and the evening worship blended indissolubly with the midday
work.

The bodily and mental aspect of Overbeck is well known. I myself
had the privilege of first seeing the painter when in the Cenci Palace,
as far back as the year 1848. My journal describes a man impressive
in presence, tall and attenuated in body, worn by ill-health and
suffering, the face emaciated and tied round by a piece of black
silk. The mind had eaten into the flesh; the features were sorrow-laden.
The voice sank into whispers, the words were plaintive and sparse;
noiselessly the artist glided among easels bearing pictorial forms
austere as his own person, meekly he offered explanations of works which
embodied his very soul, timidly sought retreat and passed as a shadow
by--the emblem of an art given in answer to prayer and pertaining to two
worlds.

The painter, as drawn or described by himself and others, presents an
interesting psychological study: no historic portrait reveals
closer correspondence between the inner and the outer man. Cornelius
delineated his friend at the age of twenty-three: the type is ascetic and
æsthetic after the pre-Raphaelite pattern affected by the Nazarites.
Führich, one of the fraternity, describes his first impressions:
on entering the studio he beheld a tall, spare figure, noble in head,
the hair flowing over smooth temples to the shoulders, the forehead
reflective, the calm eye "soul-full," the whole aspect that of
"inner living." It is added, "at once I felt a soul fulfilment."

Such an undertaking will amount to a unification of Irish
life altogether without precedent. It will draw the great personalities
of industry for the first time into the central current of public
affairs. It will furnish them with a platform upon which they will have
to talk in terms of the plough, the loom, and the ledger, and not in
terms of the wolf-dog and the orange-lily, and will render fruitful for
the service of the country innumerable talents, now unknown or estranged
by political superstitions. It will do all that State action can do to
generate a boom in Irish enterprises, and to tempt Irish capital into
them in a more abundant stream. And the proceedings and conclusions of
such a body, circulated broadcast somewhat after the Washington plan,
will provide for all classes in the community a liberal education in
Economics. Will "Ulster" fight against such an attempt to increase its
prosperity? Will the shipbuilders, the spinners, and the weavers close
down their works in order to patronise Sir Edward Carson's performance
on a pop-gun? It is not probable.

Work is the best remedy against such vapours, and an Ireland, occupied
in this fashion-with wealth-producing labour, will have no time for
civil war or "religious" riots.

As for concrete projects, the Irish Parliament will not be able to
begin on a very ambitious scale. But there are two or three matters
which it must at once put in hand. There is, for instance, the drainage
of the Barrow and the Bann. These two rivers are in a remarkable degree
non-political and non-sectarian. Just as the rain falls on the just and
the unjust, so do their rain-swollen floods spoil with serene
impartiality Nationalist hay and Orange hay, Catholic oats and
Presbyterian oats. Will "Ulster" fight against an effort to check the
mischief? Then there is re-afforestation. As the result mainly of the
waste of war, Ireland, which ought to be a richly wooded country, is
very poor in that regard. In consequence of this, a climate, moister
than need be, distributes colds and consumption among the population,
without any religious test, and unchecked winds lodge the corn of all
denominations. Re-afforestation, as offering a profit certain but a
little remote, and promising a climatic advantage diffused over the
whole area of the country, is eminently a matter for public enterprise.
Are we to be denied the hope that fir, and spruce, and Austrian pine may
conceivably be lifted out of the plane of Party politics? Further, to
take instances at haphazard, the State, whatever else its economic
functions may be, will be one of the largest purchasers of commodities
in the country. It is thinkable that the Irish State may give its civil
servants Irish-made paper to write on in their offices. It may even so
arrange things that when Captain Craig comes to the House of Commons at
College Green he shall sit on an Irish-made bench, dine off a cloth of
Belfast linen, and be ruthlessly compelled to eat Meath beef, Dublin
potatoes, and Tipperary butter. In such horrible manifestations of Home
Rule I do not discern the material for a revolution. Again, it may be
proposed that in order to develop manufactures, municipalities and
county councils may be given power to remit local rates on newly
established factories for an initial period of, say, ten years. It may
occur to evil-minded people to increase the provision for technical
instruction in certain centres for the same end. The Irish State may
think it well to maintain agents in London, New York, and some of the
continental capitals with a view to widening the external market for
Irish products. I do not say that a Home Rule Parliament will do all
these things, but they are the sort of thing that it will do. And the
mere naked enumeration of them is sufficient to show that such an
Assembly will have ample matter of economic development upon which to
keep its teeth polished without devouring either priests or
Protestants.

There are other urgent questions upon which unanimity exists even at
present, for example Poor Law Reform. I have outlined in an earlier
chapter the honourable record of Ireland in this regard. We were agreed
in 1836 that the workhouse should never have come; we are now agreed
that it must go. Whether in Antrim or in Clare, the same vicious system
has produced the same vicious results. Uniform experience has issued in
unanimous agreement as to the lines upon which reform ought to proceed.
At the same time there are differences as to detail, and the task of
fusing together various views and hammering out of them a workable Bill
will be an ideal task for a representative assembly. Two very superior
portraits of Dr. Channing appear in the volumes; one from a painting
by Allston, the other by Gambadella. Price $3.00.

CONTENTS.--_Part First_,--Parentage and Birth; Boyhood; College Life;
Richmond; Studies and Settlement. _Part Second_,--Early Ministry;
Spiritual Growth; The Unitarian Controversy; Middle-age Ministry; European
Journey. _Part Third_,--The Ministry and Literature; Religion
and Philosophy; Social Reforms; The Antislavery Movement; Politics;
Friends; Home Life; Notes.

NOTICES OF THE PRESS.

"A more interesting and instructive biographical work we have never read.
High as was our opinion of Channing,--of his intellectual and moral
worth,--the perusal of this work has convinced us that we never duly
estimated him.... His letters reveal his character more fully than his
sermons and essays. In his letters he lays his heart entirely open;
and no man, no matter what his opinions or prejudices, can read them
without saying,--'Channing was, indeed, a great and good man,--one who
lived for the world!'"--_Christian Messenger._
"Only one who was similar in purpose and temper,--who felt like
aspirations, hopes, and faith,--could at all do justice to the
distinguished subject. The present book must, therefore, we are sure,
give us Channing's character in its completeness, and true harmony and
proportions of parts."--_Salem Observer._
"These memoirs of a great and good man will, we apprehend, obtain
an uncommonly extensive circulation, not only among the denomination
of Christians in which he ranked himself, but with all who reverence
purity of character, an enlarged philanthropy, and eminent talents,
guided by virtue and piety."Then again, even where
the physical conditions are reasonable, the programme lacks actuality.
It is unpractical, out of touch with the facts of life and locality, a
veritable castle hung absurdly in the air and not based on any solid
foundation. The view still lingers in high places that the business of
education is to break the spirit of a people, to put them down and not
to lift them up. In token of this, the teachers are denied the civil
rights of freemen. Now all these ineptitudes are contrary to the humane
tradition of Ireland. Go they must, but, when an Irish Parliament starts
to remove them, I cannot imagine Captain Craig, with a Union Jack
wrapped around his bosom, straddling like Apollyon across the path. The
Captain has far too much sense, and too much feeling in him.

It will be observed that we are getting on. A nation so busy with
realities will have no time to waste on civil war. _Inter leges arma
silent_. But this is a mere outline sketch of the preliminary task of
the initial sessions of an Irish Parliament. Problems with a far heavier
fist will thunder at its doors, the problems of labour. The democratic
group in Ireland, that group which everywhere holds the commission of
the future, has long since declared that, to it, Home Rule would be a
barren counter-sense unless it meant the redemption of the back streets.
The Titanic conflict between what is called capital and what is called
labour, shaking the pillars of our modern Society, has not passed
Ireland by like the unregarded wind. We can no longer think of ourselves
as insulated from the world, immune from strikes, Socialists, and
Syndicalism. The problems of labour have got to be faced. But will they
be solved by a grapple between the Orange Lodges and the Ancient Order
of Hibernians? It is obvious that under their pressure the old order
must change, yielding place to a new. Every Trade Union has already
bridged the Boyne. Every strike has already torn the Orange Flag and the
Green Flag into two pieces, and stitched them together again after a new
and portentous pattern.

What does it all come to? Simply this, that Ireland under Home Rule will
be most painfully like every other modern country of western
civilisation. Some Unionists think that, if they could only get rid of
the Irish Party, all would be for the best in the best of all possible
worlds. Why then are they not Home Rulers? For Home Rule will most
assuredly get rid of the Irish Party. It will shatter the old political
combinations like a waggon-load of dynamite. New groups will crystallise
about new principles. The future in Ireland belongs to no old fidelity:
it may belong to any new courage.

Assuredly we must not seem to suggest that, in an autonomous Ireland,
public life will be all nougat, velvet, and soft music. There will be
conflicts, and vehement conflicts, for that is the way of the twentieth
century, and they will no doubt centre, for the most part, about
taxation and education. But the political forces of the country will
have moved into totally new formations. One foresees plainly a vertical
section of parties into Agrarian and Urban, a cross section into Labour
and Capitalistic. Each of these economic groupings is indefinitely
criss-crossed by an indefinite number of antagonisms, spiritual and
material. Will Rousseau answer your question? All true art comes from
revelation, to speak generally, I do think, but not necessarily
through the Jewish Dispensation," &c. (Dec. 1850, J.H.N.) Mozley,
_Corr._ ii. 479.]
[Footnote 59: _Loss and Gain_, pp. 282-286.]
The irrepressible Bateman has Gothic and Gregorian on the brain: and in
another place goes "on boldly to declare that, if he had his will there
should be no architecture in the English churches but Gothic, and no
music but Gregorian. This ... gave scope for a very pretty quarrel,
Reding said that all these adjuncts of worship, whether music or
architecture, were national; they were the mode in which religious
feeling showed itself in particular times and places.

He did not mean to say that the outward expression of religion in a
country might not be guided, but it could not be forced; that it
was as preposterous to make people worship in one's own way, as to be
merry in one's own way.'... Bateman: 'But surely ... you don't
mean to say that there is no natural connection between internal
feeling and outward expression, so that one form is no better
than another?' Reding: 'Far from it, but let those who confine their
music to Gregorians, put up crucifixes in the highways. Each is the
representative of a particular locality or time.'... Campbell:
'You can't be more Catholic than Rome, I suppose, yet there's no Gothic
there.' Bateman: '...

Rome has corrupted the pure Apostolic doctrine, can we wonder that
it should have a corrupt architecture?'

Reding: 'Why, then, go to Rome for Gregorians?'"

[60]
[Footnote 60: _Loss and Gain_, p. 277.]
The foregoing would probably open out, in the eyes, say, of the accomplished
author of the _Vesper Psalter_,[61] a wide field for further discussion,
but so much may be fairly gathered, viz., that the Cardinal's musical
views were sensible ones, even if open, theoretically, to some
differences of opinion. _Omnia probate_, he seems to say, _quod bonum est
tenete_. He had, of course, no sympathy with extravagances. His was a
cultured, at any rate a refined taste, _sui similis_, and when it was
said in April, 1886, that Niedermeyer's B minor Mass was "elaborate,"
he observed: "Well, I like a medium in music, although I may be wrong
in that." All was well, we suppose, provided the best gifts of Catholic
masters in their art were in good faith proffered to Almighty God. In
the words herein of St. Gregory the Great: _Mihi placet ut, sive in
Romanâ, sive in Galliarum, sive in quâlibet ecclesiâ, aliquid invenisti
quod plus omnipotenti Deo possit placere, sollicite eligas._[62]
All was well, too, if singers and players were animated with the
Catholic spirit that breathed in a Haydn and a Mozart, to say nothing
of later giants.[63] Under such conditions, and with due observance
of the unaccompanied chant in Advent and Lent, the male choirs of
both Oratories in England have probably done a good work, and if
so, one worthy of St.

Philip's blessing.

[Footnote 61: By the late Sir John Lambert, K.C.B., and published by
Burns in 1849. Its Preface is well worthy of attention, and we
note with pleasure his remark, "that while pleading for the restoration
of the Ritual Song as the Church system and the music of the
people, and as the basis of all that is really grand and ecclesiastical,
the writer would not wish to be understood to object to the superadding
of the most elaborate music where it can be properly executed, if it
does not supersede the Church Song, and is of a character to harmonize
with it. Doubtless," he adds, "as the Church employs all the resources
of art, as far as in accordance with her own spirit, the most perfect
celebration of the Divine Office would be where both could be combined.

You introduce them to the Wars
of the Roses as a model of peaceful, constitutional development; to the
slaying of Edward II., Richard II., and I know not how many more as
object-lessons in the reverence which angry Englishmen accord to an
anointed king when they really dislike him. Later centuries show them
one Stuart beheaded outside his own palace, another dethroned and
banished in favour of a Dutch prince. Of romantic loyalty to the person
of a sovereign they find no trace or hint in the modern period. Lost
causes and setting suns, whatever appeal they may have made to Ireland,
do but rarely fire with their magical glimmer the raw daylight of the
English political mind. As for that more facile, after-dinner
attachment, in which it is charged that we do not join with sufficient
fervour, it seems to us always fulsome, and often mere hyprocrisy. In
the development of English ceremonial, "God Save the King!" gets to the
head of the toast-list only when the king has been thoroughly saved from
all the perils and temptations incidental to the possession of power. So
long as he claims any shred of initiative his English subjects continue
in a perpetual chafe and grumble of disloyalty; as soon as the Crown has
been rasped and sand-papered down to a decorative zero their loyalty
knows no bounds.

The simple and honourable truth is that all through her history England
strove after national freedom, and declined to be quiet until she got
it. There could not be a better statement of the methods which she
employed than Mr Rudyard Kipling's:

    "Axe and torch and tumult, steel and gray-goose wing,
    Wrung it, inch and ell, and all, slowly from the King."

It is, of course, a pity that the liberty thus established was better
fitted for the home market than for export. But this does not affect the
fact that, at the end of the process, the English people were in the
saddle. But the Irish people are not in the saddle, they are under it.
Indeed, the capital sin of Dublin Castle is that it is a bureaucracy
which has seized upon the estate of the people. In Ireland, under its
_régime_, the nation has had as much to say to its own public policy as
a Durbar-elephant has to say to the future of India. There is just this
difference in favour of the elephant: at least he has riot to pay for
the embroidered palanquins, and the prodding-poles, of his riders. We
are all agreed that loyalty is a duty. It is the duty of every
government to be loyal to the welfare, the nobler traditions, the
deep-rooted ideals, the habit of thought of its people. It is the duty
of every government to be loyal to the idea of duty, and to that austere
justice through which the most ancient heavens abide fresh and strong.
And until these prime duties have been faithfully performed, no
government need expect and none can exact "loyalty" from its subjects.

But it seems that we are compromised on other grounds. Reding: "Much as
I like modern music, I can't quite go the length to which your doctrine
would lead me.

     I cannot, indeed, help liking Mozart; but surely his music is not
     religious?" Campbell: "I have not been speaking in defence of
     particular composers, figured music may be right, yet Mozart or
     Beethoven inadmissible.

In like manner you don't suppose, because I tolerate Roman architecture,
that therefore I like naked cupids to stand for cherubs, and
sprawling women for the cardinal virtues....Mr Balfour very properly characterises as the utterance of a
statesman, this passage in which Parnell declines to usurp the throne
and sceptre of Providence. But Mr Smith complains that it deprives Home
Rule of the note of "finality." With the suggestion that Home Rule is
not at all events the end of the world we are, of course, in warm
agreement. But if Mr Smith has entered public affairs in pursuit of
static formulæ for dynamic realities, if he wants things fixed and
frozen and final, he has come to the wrong world to gratify such
desires. And even if he were to go to the next, he would have to be very
careful in choosing his destination, for all the theologians tell us
that, in Heaven, personalities continue to grow and develop. In fact, if
anybody wants "finality," I am afraid that we can only recommend him to
go to Hell. As for the world, in which we live, it is a world of flux.
Physicists allow the earth a long road to travel before it tumbles into
dissolution, and seers and prophets of various kinds foretell an equally
long cycle of development for human nature, as we now know it. The fate
of all our present political combinations is doubtful, and no nation has
received absolute guarantees for its future. An All-Europe State with
its capital at London, a Federation of the World with its capital at
Dublin, a Chinese Empire with its capital at Paris--these are all
possibilities. Australia may be annexed by Japan, Canada by the United
States, or vice versa; South Africa may spread northwards until it
absorbs the Continent, or shrink southwards until it expires on the
point of the Cape. The Superman may, as I am informed, appear on the
stage of history at any moment, and make pie of everything. And not one
of these appalling possibilities disturbs Mr Smith in the least. But he
is going to vote against justice for Ireland unless we can promise him
that throughout all the æons, as yet unvouchsafed, and to the last
syllable of recorded time, her political destiny is going to be in all
details regulated by the Home Rule Bill of 1912. This is not an
intelligent attitude.

Of course the real innuendo is that we in Ireland are burning to levy
war on Great Britain, and would welcome any foreign invasion to that
end. On these two points one is happy to be able to give assurances, or
rather to state intentions. As for foreign invasion, we have had quite
enough of it. It is easier to get invaders in than to get them out
again, and we have not spent seven hundred years in recovering Ireland
for ourselves in order to make a present of it to the Germans, or the
Russians, or the Man in the Moon, or any other foreign power whatever.
The present plan of governing Ireland in opposition to the will of her
people does indeed inevitably make that country the weak spot in the
defences of these islands, for such misgovernment produces discontent,
and discontent is the best ally of the invader. Alter that by Home Rule,
and your cause instantly becomes ours. "[32]
[Footnote 28: _Idea_, dis. iv. 80, 81. In a Bull of 1749, Pope Benedict
the Fourteenth lays great stress on the words being heard and
understood, "Curandum est ut verba quæ cantantur plane perfecteque
intelligantur," and this is best secured in the unaccompanied chant.
In an interesting article of the _Dublin Review_ (New Series, vol.
ii.
January-April, 1864), the effect of official pronouncements on the questions
affecting the plain chant and concerted music is thus succinctly
summed up: "1. That music, properly so called, may be admitted as
well as plain chant. 2. That the music of the church is to possess
a certain gravity and to minister to devotion. 3. That instrumental
music may be allowed, under certain restrictions."]

[Footnote 29: _Discussions and Arguments_, p. 343, Fourth Edit. 1882.]

[Footnote 30: We have it, however, on good authority that a Jesuit
Father told a Mr. Okely that "one of our Fathers received him (Mendelssohn)
into the Church shortly before his death." Our informant thinks the
occurrence took place in Switzerland. If so, the fact ought to be
better known than it is. Moreover, he adds, that the late Father W.
Maher, S.J., on one occasion, previous to Mendelssohn's _Lauda Sion_
being done at Farm Street, addressed the congregation: "Perhaps you would
like to know that the author of the music we are about to hear died
a Catholic."]
[Footnote 31: _Oxford University Sermons_, p. 346.]
[Footnote 32: She subsequently resumed talk, trying to draw him
out about Ireland and Gounod, but all in vain. It was nearly 3 p.m.
ere this _morning_ concert came to an end, when a second lady,
introduced by a noble lord, appeared on the scene, and detained him upon
questions relative to the state of the soul after death, what
St.
Thomas had said, &c. Meanwhile sweepers, uninterested in this ill-timed
discussion, were pursuing their avocation in the emptying hall, and
stewards were set wondering as to when His Eminence would be released.]

He got to know fairly well Mendelssohn's canzonet quartet and
Schumann's pianoforte quintet Op. 44; but we recall no musical works
heard by him for the first time in very late life making any
particular impression on the Father, with one notable exception; Cherubini's
First Requiem in C minor, done at the Festival, August 29, 1879.
We were to have gone with him, but a Father who accompanied him wrote
to us instead next day: "The Father was quite overcome by it, and that
is the fact. He kept on saying, 'beautiful, wonderful,' and such-like
exclamations. At the _Mors stupebit_ he was shaking his head in his
solemn way, and muttering, 'beautiful, beautiful.' He admired
the fugue _Quam olim_ very much, but the part which struck him most by
far, and which he spoke of afterwards as we drove home, is the ending
of the _Agnus Dei_--he could not get over it--the lovely note C
which keeps recurring as the 'requiem' approaches eternity." When
it was done twice in its true home, the church, later, on the 2nd
and 13th November, 1886, he said, "It is magnificent music." "That
is a beautiful Mass" (adding, with a touch of pathos), "but when
you get as old as I am, it comes rather too home." A diary noting
the service on All Souls' day, says: "His Eminence was at the throne
in his purple robes.Our
attitude in their regard goes beyond the reach of prose, and no adequate
poetry comes to my mind. The Irish poets have recently been so busy
compiling catalogues of crime, profanity, and mania for the Abbey
Theatre that they have not had time to attend to politics; and in
attempting to suggest the spirit that must inform the settlement between
Ireland and England, if out of it is to spring the authentic flower of
loyalty, I am reluctantly compelled to fall back on a weaker brother,
not of the craft:

    Bond, from the toil of hate we may not cease:
    Free, we are free to be your friend.
    But when you make your banquet, and we come,
    Soldier with equal soldier must we sit,
    Closing a battle, not forgetting it.
    This mate and mother of valiant rebels dead
    Must come with all her history or her head.
    We keep the past for pride.
    Nor war nor peace shall strike our poets dumb:
    No rawest squad of all Death's volunteers,
    No simplest man who died
    To tear your flag down, in the bitter years,
    But shall have praise, and three times thrice again,
    When, at that table, men shall drink with men.

As political poetry, this may be open to amendment; as poetic politics,
it is sound, decisive, and answerable.




THE END

THE NORTHUMBERLAND PRESS, THORNTON STREET, NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE