Scanned a proofed by Sandra Laythorpe, menorot@menorot.com


Nuttie's Father

by Charlotte M Yonge


CHAPTER I.
ST. AMBROSE'S CHOIR.


'For be it known
 That their saint's honour is their own.'--SCOTT.


The town of Micklethwayte was rising and thriving.  There were
salubrious springs which an enterprising doctor had lately brought
into notice.  The firm of Greenleaf and Dutton manufactured umbrellas
in large quantities, from the stout weather-proof family roof down to
the daintiest fringed toy of a parasol.  There were a Guild Hall and
a handsome Corn Market.  This might result from the development of
small subsidiary types of craft, or "gocarts," originally designed
for local exploration on other planets. Such craft, whether they
operated by air cushion, nuclear energy, gravitational force, power
cell, or whatever, conceivably would permit Earth's population
to spread out without the need for expensive new roads--which, by
the way, take millions of acres of land out of productive use.

A development of this sort, together with new power sources to replace
the fossil fuels on which factory, home, and vehicle now depend, might
also all but eliminate the growing smog and air-pollution blight.

_Water shortage_
A direct result of the population increase, multiplied by the many
new uses for which water is being used in home appliances, etc.,
and plus the greatly increased demand for standard uses such as
indoor plumbing, irrigation, and factory processing, is the likelihood
that water shortage will be high on the list of future problems.

Ways to conserve and reuse water, together with economical desalting
of sea water, will be essential in the decades ahead. Space
research may provide part of the answer here, too. (See New Water
Sources and Uses, sec. III.)

_Soil erosion_
The Russian steppes of Kazakhstan are providing the world with a great
contemporary dust bowl, reminiscent of the middle 1930's
when dust from the Great Plains stretched from Texas to
Saskatchewan.

Questionable agriculture policies, drought, and strong easterly winds
are among the forces blamed for the trials of southern Russia.[74]
So great is the extent of this disturbance that the dust cloud has
been identified in photographs taken by American weather satellites.

Of course, "wind erosion is only one of the processes whereby the
Earth's arable land is diminishing and the deserts increasing;
erosion by water can also sweep away the soil."[75] But insofar as
the current dust bowl of the Soviet steppes has "diminished
food resources at a time when the number of mouths to feed is increasing
so rapidly, the world is the poorer."[76]
What can space research do about this vital trend, which again seems
destined to accelerate in the future?'Oh! vicar, where are we to go?' was the question so eager to break
forth.

'Not to the Crystal Palace, Nuttie.  The funds won't bear it.  Mr.
Dutton says we must spend as little as possible on locomotion.'

'I'm sure I don't care for the Crystal Palace.  A trumpery tinsel
place, all shams.'

'Hush, hush, my dear, not so loud,' said the quiet lady; but Nuttie
only wriggled her shoulders, though her voice was a trifle lowered.
'If it were the British Museum now, or Westminster Abbey.'

'Or the Alps,' chimed in a quieter voice, 'or the Ufizzi.'

'Now, Mr. Dutton, that's not what I want.  Our people aren't ready
for that, but what they have let it be real.  Miss Mary, don't you
see what I mean?'

'Rather better than Miss Egremont herself,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Well,' said the vicar, interposing in the wordy war, 'Mrs.
Greenleaf's children have scarlatina, so we can't go to Horton
Bishop.  The choice seems to be between South Beach and Monks
Horton.'

'That's no harm,' cried Nuttie; 'Mrs. Greenleaf is so patronising!'

'And both that and South Beach are so stale,' said the youth.

'As if the dear sea could ever be stale,' cried the young girl.

'I thought Monks Horton was forbidden ground,' said Miss Mary.

'So it was with the last regime', said the vicar; 'but now the new
people are come I expect great things from them.  I hear they are
very friendly.'

'I expect nothing from them,' said Nuttie so sententiously that all
her hearers laughed and asked 'her exquisite reason,' as Mr. Dutton
put it.

'Lady Kirkaldy and a whole lot of them came into the School of Art.'

'And didn't appreciate "Head of Antinous by Miss Ursula Egremont,"'
was the cry that interrupted her, but she went on with dignity
unruffled--'Anything so foolish and inane as their whole talk and all
their observations I never heard.  "I don't like this style," one of
them said.  "Such ugly useless things!  I never see anything pretty
and neatly finished such as we used to do."'  The girl gave it in a
tone of mimicry of the nonchalant voice, adding, with fresh
imitation, "'And another did not approve of drawing from the life--
models might be such strange people."'

'My ears were not equally open to their profanities,' said Miss Mary.
'I confess that I was struck by the good breeding and courtesy of the
leader of the party, who, I think, was Lady Kirkaldy herself.'

'I saw!  I thought she was patronising you, and my blood boiled!'
cried Nuttie.

'Will boiling blood endure a picnic in the park of so much ignorance,
folly, and patronage?' asked Mr. Dutton.

'Oh, indeed, Mr. Dutton, Nuttie never said that,' exclaimed gentle
Mrs. Egremont.

'Whether it is fully worth the doing is the question,' said the
vicar.

'Grass and shade do not despise,' said Miss Mary.

'There surely must be some ecclesiastical remains,' said the young
man.

'And there is a river,' added the vicar.

'I shall get a stickleback for my aquarium,' cried Nuttie.  'We shall
make some discoveries for the Scientific Society.  I shall note down
every individual creature I see!  I say! you are sure it is not a
sham waterfall or Temple of Tivoli?'

'It would please the choir boys and G. F. S. girls quite as much, if
not more, in that case,' said Miss Mary; 'but you need not expect
that, Nuttie.  Landscape-gardening is gone by.'

'Even with the county people?' said Nuttie.

'By at least half a century,' said Mr. Dutton, 'with all deference to
this young lady's experience.'

'It was out of their own mouths,' cried the girl defiantly.  'That's
all I know about county people, and so I hope it will be.'

'Come in, my dear, you are talking very fast,' interposed Mrs.
Egremont, with some pain in the soft sweet voice, which, if it had
been a little stronger, would have been the best in the choir.

These houses in St. Ambrose's Road were semi-detached.  The pair
which the party had reached had their entrances at the angles, with a
narrow gravel path leading by a tiny grass plat to each.  One, which
was covered with a rich pall of purple clematis, was the home of Mrs.
Egremont, her aunt, and Nuttie; the other, adorned with a Gloire de
Dijon rose in second bloom, was the abode of Mary Nugent, with her
mother, the widow of a naval captain.  Farther on, with adjoining
gardens, was another couple of houses, in one of which lived Mr.
Dutton; in the other lodged the youth, Gerard Godfrey, together with
the partner of the principal medical man.  The opposite neighbours
were a master of the Modern School and a scholar.  Indeed, the saying
of the vicar, the Rev. Francis Spyers, was, and St. Ambrose's Road
was proud of it, that it was a professional place.  Every one had
something to do either with schools or umbrellas, scarcely excepting
the doctor and the solicitor, for the former attended the pupils and
the latter supplied them.  Mr. Dutton was a partner in the umbrella
factory, and lived, as the younger folk said, as the old bachelor of
the Road.  Had he not a housekeeper, a poodle, and a cat; and was not
his house, with lovely sill boxes full of flowers in the windows, the
neatest of the neat; and did not the tiny conservatory over his
dining-room window always produce the flowers most needed for the
altar vases, and likewise bouquets for the tables of favoured ladies.
Why, the very daisies never durst lift their heads on his little
lawn, which even bore a French looking-glass globe in the centre.
Miss Nugent, or Miss Mary as every one still called her, as her elder
sister's marriage was recent, was assistant teacher at the School of
Art, and gave private drawing lessons, so as to supplement the
pension on which her mother lived.  They also received girls as
boarders attending the High School.

So did Miss Headworth, who had all her life been one of those people
who seem condemned to toil to make up for the errors or disasters of
others.  First she helped to educate a brother, and soon he had died
to leave an orphan daughter to be bred up at her cost.  The girl had
married from her first situation; but had almost immediately lost her
husband at sea, and on this her aunt had settled at Micklethwayte to
make a home for her and her child, at first taking pupils, but when
the High School was set up, changing these into boarders; while Mrs.
Egremont went as daily governess to the children of a family of
somewhat higher pretensions.  Little Ursula, or Nuttie, as she was
called, according to the local contraction, was like the child of all
the party, and after climbing up through the High School to the last
form, hoped, after passing the Cambridge examination, to become a
teacher there in another year.


CHAPTER II.
MONKS HORTON.


'And we will all the pleasures prove,
By shallow rivers, by whose falls
Melodious birds sing madrigals.'--Old Ballad.


It was holiday-time, and liberties were taken such as were not
permissible, when they might have afforded a bad precedent to the
boarders.  Therefore, when two afternoons later Mary Nugent,
returning from district visiting, came out into her garden behind the
house, she was not scandalised to see a pair of little black feet
under a holland skirt resting on a laurel branch, and going a few
steps more she beheld a big shady hat, and a pair of little hands
busy with a pencil and a blank book; as Ursula sat on the low wall
between the gardens, shaded by the laburnum which facilitated the
ascent on her own side.

'Oh Miss Mary!  Delicious!  Come up here!  You don't know how
charming this is.'

She moved aside so as to leave the ascent--by an inverted flower-pot
and a laurel branch--open to her friend, thus knocking down one of
the pile of books which she had taken to the top of the wall.  This
new gate was externally completed in 1826.
The natural application of the fine avenue, called the Long Walk,
was thus realized.

The gateway consists of two towers the York and Lancaster. The
foundations and walls of the York Tower were part of the old building--the
Lancaster is entirely new. These towers which have machiolated
battlements, are about 100 feet high; the gateway between them is
24 feet high.

In our former Engraving, the gateway was in the distance, but the present
being a near view, shows the solidity, largeness of proportions,
and the boldness of the building, to greater advantage. The appearance
of the whole is extremely beautiful, although its newness and
cleanness remind us of Mr.

Bowles's eccentric observation, that "it looks as if it was washed
every morning with _soap and water_."

Here it may be as well to state that Windsor Castle is divided into
the upper and lower wards.

The lower contains the ecclesiastical portions of the edifice, including
St.

George's Chapel. The upper ward is formed by the celebrated
Round Tower on the west; the state apartments, including St.

George's Hall, on the north; and a range of domestic apartments on
the east and south, which communicate with the state apartments. The
whole building is thus a hollow square, of which the three outer sides
on the north, east, and south, are surrounded with a magnificent
terrace. The Inner Court, or Quadrangle, is a connected building of
three sides, the fourth being formed by the Round Tower, or Keep.

          The improvements of the interior
           of the Quadrangle having been already detailed by us,[1] we pass
on to observe, that the low French windows of St.

George's Hall, which faces the side in our Engraving, have been replaced
by long pointed arch windows, of elegant proportions. Nothing can
exceed the splendour of the look-out from these windows through
the arched entrance to the "lengthened vista," or Long Walk, as
shown in the Engraving.

The interior of the Hall is nearly completed; "the length, 200 feet,
is too great for the width;"[2] the carved ceiling, and the arms
of the Knights of the Garter, from the first institution of the
order, are exquisitely emblazoned on shields or escutcheons.

Beautifully as they are executed, we scarcely like their whole effect,
which is undoubtedly marred by the proportions of the hall itself.
Perhaps they are too near a blaze of chivalric splendour for these
days of cold calculation. The ball-room, adjoining in St. George's
Hall, is nearly completed.

The decorations are gold and white, in the florid style of the time
of Louis the Fourteenth, superb and showy; four pieces of tapestry
are let into the walls, which, observes the _Athenæum_, really look
like some of Rubens's stupendous works now in the Grosvenor collection.

We have not seen these apartments since last summer, when the
decorations were in a forward state.

We were surprised at the coarseness of the gilding, when examined
closely; we saw, too, that where one of the entrances to the Ball-room
had been heightened, the original, door had been _pieced_, which
was a work of economy we did not look for in the repairs of a palace

.

[1] See _Mirror_, vol. xi. p. 2.
[2] _Athenæum_, No. 180--an opinion to which we beg to subscribe.

It is gratifying to learn that the erection of a colossal statue
of George III. on Snow Hill, in the Long Walk, is in progress.

This is a testimony of the filial affection of the late King, and
should not be overlooked in his character.

* * * * *

STERNE'S ELIZA.

(_To the Editor._)

Though a perusal of your pages evidently shows that you wish
more for original communications than to copy from any one, yet the
extreme beauty of the following article (which I exactly copy as it
appeared translated in the _European Magazine_ for March, 1784)
makes one hope to see it revived or preserved in the _Mirror_.

A CONSTANT READER.

"_For the European Magazine._

"Mrs. DRAPER, the lady who has been so celebrated as the
correspondent of Mr. STERNE, under the name of ELIZA, will naturally
attract the notice of the Public. That she was deserving of the
encomiums bestowed upon her by that _admirable writer_ will appear
from the following eulogium, written by the excellent Abbe RAYNAL,
which I transmit to you for publication in your next Magazine.--I
am yours, &c. A.T.

"Territory of _Anjengo_,[3] thou art nothing; but thou hast given
birth to Eliza.

A day will come, when these staples of commerce, founded by the
Europeans on the coasts of Asia, will exist no more.

     Before a few centuries are elapsed, the grass will
      cover them, or the Indians, _avenged_, will have built upon their
ruins.

But if my works be destined to have any duration, the name of Anjengo
will not be obliterated from the memory of man. Those who shall
read my works, or those whom the winds shall drive towards these
shores, will say--There it is that Eliza Draper was born; and if there
be a Briton among them, he will immediately add, with the spirit
of conscious pride--And there it was that she was born of English
parents

.

[3] A town of Hindoostan, in Travancore.

"Let me be permitted to indulge my grief, and to give a free course
to my tears!

Eliza was my friend. Reader, whosoe'er thou art, forgive me this
involuntary motion;--let my mind dwell upon Eliza. If I have sometimes
moved thee to compassionate the calamities of the human race, let
me now prevail upon thee to commiserate my own misfortune. I was thy
friend without knowing thee; be for a moment mine. Thy gentle pity
shall be my reward.

"Eliza ended her days in the land of her forefathers, at the
age of three-and-thirty. A celestial soul was separated from a heavenly
body.

Ye who visit the spot on which her sacred ashes rest, write upon the
marble that covers them: In such a year, in such a month, on
such a day, at such an hour, God withdrew his spirit, and Eliza
died.

"And thou, _original writer_, her admirer and her friend, it was Eliza
who inspired _thy works_, and dictated to thee the most affecting
pages of them. _Fortunate Sterne, thou art no more_, and I am left
behind.

I wept _over thee with Eliza_; thou wouldst weep over her with me:
and had it been the will of Heaven, that you had both survived me,
your tears would have fallen together upon my grave.

"The men were used to say, that no woman had so many graces
as Eliza:
the women said so too. They all praised her candour; they all
extolled her sensibility; they were all ambitious of the honour of her
acquaintance. The stings of envy were never pointed against
unconscious merit.

"Anjengo, it is to the influence of thy happy climate that she
certainly was indebted for that almost incompatible harmony of
voluptuousness and decency which diffused itself over all her person,
and accompanied all her motions.

A statuary who would have wished to represent Voluptuousness, would
have taken her for his model; and she would equally have served
for him who might have had a figure of Modesty to display.

Even _the gloomy and clouded sky of England_ had not been able to
obscure the brightness of that aërial kind of soul, unknown in our
climates.

In every thing that Eliza did, an irresistible charm was diffused
around her.

Desire, but of _a timid and bashful cast_, followed her steps in
silence.

Any man of courteousness alone must have loved her, but would not
have _dared_ to own his passion.

"I search for Eliza every where; I discover, I discern, some of her
features, some of her charms, scattered among those women whose
figure is most interesting.

But what is become of her who united them all?
Nature, who hast exhausted thy gifts to form an Eliza, didst thou
create her only for one moment? Didst thou make her to be admired
for one instant, and to be for ever regretted?

"All who have seen Eliza regret her. As for myself, my tears will never
cease to flow for her all the time I have to live.

But is this sufficient!

Those who have known _her tenderness for me_, the confidence she
had bestowed upon me, will they not say to me--She is no more, and
yet thou livest.

"Eliza intended to quit her country, her relations, her friends,
to take up her residence along _with me_, and spend her days in the
midst of mine.

What happiness had I not promised to myself?

What joy did I not expect, from seeing her sought after by men of
genius, and beloved by women of the nicest taste? I said to myself,
Eliza is young, and thou art near thy latter end.

It is she _who will close thine eyes_. Vain hope!

Fatal reverse of all human probabilities! My old age has been prolonged
beyond the days of her youth.

_There is now no person in the world existing for me.

Fate has condemned me to live, and die alone._

"Eliza's mind was cultivated, but the effects of this art were
never perceived.

It had done nothing more than embellish nature; it served in her,
only to make the charm more lasting.

Every instant increased the delight she inspired; every instant
rendered her more interesting.
Such is the impression she had left in India; such is the impression
she made in Europe. Eliza, then, _was very beautiful_?

No, she was
simply beautiful; but there was no beauty she did not eclipse,
because she was the only one that was like herself.

"Eliza has written; and the men of
 her nation, whose works have
      been the most abounding in elegance and taste, would not have
disavowed the small number of pages she has left behind her.

"When I saw Eliza, I experienced a sensation unknown to me. It was too
warm to be no more than friendship; it was too pure to be love. Had
it been a passion, Eliza would have pitied me; she would have endeavoured
to bring me back to my reason, and I should have completely lost
it.

"Eliza used frequently to say, that she had a greater esteem for me
than any one else. At present I may believe it.

"In her last moments Eliza's thoughts were fixed upon her friend; and
I cannot write a line without having before me the monument she
has left me.

Oh! that she could also have endowed my pen with her graces and her
virtue!

--Methinks, at least, I hear her say--'That stern muse that looks at
you, is History, whose awful duty it is to determine the opinion
of posterity.

That fickle deity that hovers o'er the globe, is Fame, who condescended
to entertain us a moment about you; she brought me thy works, and
paved the way for our connection by esteem.

Behold that phoenix immortal amidst the flames: it is the symbol
of Genius, which never dies.

Let these emblems perpetually incite thee to shew thyself the
defender of _humanity_, of _truth_, and of _liberty_.'

"Eliza, from the highest Heaven, thy first, and last country, receive
my oath: "_I swear not to write one line in which thy friend may
not be recognised_

."

* * * * *

ORIGIN OF THE WORD BRITANNIA.

(_To the Editor._)

I discovered the following curious information in a Classical
Dictionary appended to a very old Latin Thesaurus, written by Cooper,
Bishop of Norwich, in the early part of the reign of Elizabeth;
which, as its authenticity may be relied on, affords an easy solution
to a difficulty that has puzzled many.

I speak of the origin of the name _Britannia_.

"About 30 yeres sence, it hapned in Wilshire, at Juy Church, aboute
two myles from Sarisbury, as men digged to make a foundation, they
founde an holow stone couered with another stone, wherin they
founde a booke, hauevinge in it little above xx leaves (as they
saide) of very thicke vellume, wherin was some things written.

But when it was shewed to priests and chanons, whiche were there,
they could not reade it.
Wherfore after they had tossed it from one to another (by the meanes
wherof it was torne) they did neglecte and caste it aside.

Long after a peece therof happened to come to my handes: whiche
notwithstandynge it was all to rente defaced, I shewed to Maister
Richard Pace, than chiefe secretary to the kynges moste royal
majestie, wherof he exceedingly rejoysed.

But because it was partely rente, partely defaced and blourred
with meate (or weate) whiche had fallen on it, he could not finde
any one sentence perfect. Notwithstandynge after longe beholdynge,
he shewed me, it seemed that the said booke conteined some auncient
monument of this yle, and that he perceived this woorde _Prytania_,
to be put for _Brytannia_.

But at that tyme he sayde no more to me. Afterwarde, I gevyng much
study and diligence to the readynge of hystories, consyderynge wherof
this woorde _Britannia_ first came, fyndynge that all the yles in
this parte in the occean, were called _Brittaniæ_, after conjecture
of Albion, remebringe (remembering) the sayde wrytynge, and by
chaunce fyndyng in Suidas, that _Prytania_ in Greeke, with
a circumflexed aspiratio (aspiration,) doeth signifie metalles,
fayres and markettes, also revenues belongyng to the commune treasure:
I then conceyved this opinion, that the Greekes flourishynge in
wisdome, prowesse, and experience, of saylynge, beynge entred into
the occean sea, founde in the yles greate plenty of tyn, leade,
yron, brasse, and in divers places golde and sylver in great
quantitie, they called all those yles (isles) by this generall name
Prytania, &c."

I have, with few exceptions, preserved the spelling.

Your constant reader and admirer,
AN ANTIQUARY.

* * * * *

POLAND.

(_For the Mirror._)

The following account of Poland, may be acceptable at the present time,
when this heroic people are making a noble effort to throw off the
yoke of Russian despotism.

As a kingdom, Poland is swept from the map of nations; but
when geographically considered, is of no small importance: it lies
between forty-six and fifty-seven degrees of north latitude, and
between sixteen and thirty-four degrees east longitude; and is
bounded north by Russia, south by Hungary and Turkey in Europe,
east by Russia, west by Prussia and Germany. Poland is in general
a very level country, (if we except the Carpathian mountains,)
fertile in corn, having long furnished Sweden and Holland; its horses
are some of the finest in Europe, and its salt-works are very
productive; the towns collectively are built of wood; the appearance
of the villages very mean.

This was the country of the ancient Vandals; it was made a duchy about
the end of the seventh century; in the tenth, Christianity was
introduced, and Boleslaus erected it into a monarchy in 999. The form
of government was here very singular: it was the only elective monarchy
in Europe, and the Poles, in the choice of a king, did not always
confine themselves to a countryman; at one time all nations were
eligible.

The king was elected by the whole body of the nobility and gentry
in the plains of Warsaw, and before this choice they obliged him
to sign whatever conditions they thought proper.

The Polish armies were not paid by the king; every nobleman or gentleman
gave his attendance in time of war, at the head of his vassals,
and retired from the fatigues of the campaign when it suited his
own inclination. In the year 1779, a singularly bold partition of
this country was effected by Russia, Prussia, and Austria; Russia
laid claim to part of Lithuania, Polesia, Podolia, Volhinia, and part
of the Ukraine. This immense tract of country, containing 8,000,000
souls, is become part and parcel of the Russian territory. Prussia
claimed Great Poland, the other part of Lithuania, and Polish
Russia.
The only part of Poland retained by Prussia, is the Grand Duchy of
Posen, containing 538 geographical square miles, and 1,051,137
inhabitants. Its chief towns are Bromberg and Posen. Austria
seized on Little Poland and Red Russia, leaving to the King of
Poland only Samogitia, Mascovia, and Polachia; even this small
territory was wrested from him, and in 1795, he was obliged to
resign his crown.

That part of Poland which is subject to Austria, bears the
designation of the kingdom of Galicia and Lodomiria. Its population
amounts to 4,370,000 souls. The present kingdom of Poland is
hereditary in the person of the Russian autocrat and his successors,
and comprises a superfices of 6,340 square leagues, having a
population of 3,850,000 souls.

It is divided into eight waiwodeships, namely, Warsaw, Landomir,
Kalish, Lublin, Plotzk, Mascovia, Podolachia, and Augustowo.
Its rivers are the Vistula, Warte, Bug, Dnieper, Niemen, and
Dwina.
The national revenues amounted (prior to the present contest) to
£2,280,000. sterling, about the seventh part of which was assigned
to the civil list. Its military force during the despotic
government of the Grand Duke Constantine, was 30,000 infantry, and
20,000 cavalry; at present it is estimated at 70,000 infantry,
20,000 cavalry, and 50,000 men armed with scythes. Warsaw, with
126,433 inhabitants, is its capital, and next stand in succession
Landomir, 50,000 inhabitants; Lublin, 12,000; and Kalies, 8,500. The
Catholic religion predominates, but the number of Jews and Socinians
is great. There are more than 2,000,000 Jews dispersed through
Poland, independent of those resident as merchants in the principal
towns.

Socinius resided many years at Cracow, and married the daughter of a
Polish nobleman.

According to a distinguished Polish historian, M. Chodzko, the
population of the different provinces of Ancient Poland amounted, in
1824, to about 19,000,000 of inhabitants.

W.G.C.

* * * * *

FINE ARTS.

* * * * *

MR. HAYDON'S PICTURE OF NAPOLEON MUSING AT ST. HELENA.

This picture has, we understand, been painted for Sir Robert
Peel, whose taste and munificence in patronizing the fine arts
cannot be too highly praised.

It is throughout a masterly performance, and one of which the English
school of art has just cause to be proud.

We intend to let Mr. Haydon describe it in his own vivid style:--
"Napoleon was peculiarly alive to poetical association as produced
by scenery or sound; village bells with their echoing ding, dong,
dang, now bursting full on the ear, now dying in the wind, affected
him as they affect every body alive to natural impressions, and in
the eve of all his great battles, you find him stealing away in
the dead of the night, between the two hosts, and indulging in every
species of poetical reverie.

"It was impossible to think of such a genius in captivity, without
mysterious associations of the sky, the sea, the rock, and the solitude
with which he was enveloped, I never imagined him but as if musing at
dawn, or melancholy at sun-set, listening at midnight to the beating
and roaring of the Atlantic, or meditating as the stars gazed and
the moon shone on him: in short Napoleon never appeared to me but at
those moments of silence and twilight, when nature seems to sympathize
with the fallen and when if there be moments fit, in this turbulent
earth, for celestial intercourse, one must imagine these would be
the moments immortal spirits might select to descend within the
sphere of mortality, to soothe and comfort, to inspire and support
the afflicted.

"Under such impressions the present picture was produced,--I
imagined him standing on the brow of an impending cliff and musing
on his past fortunes,--imagined sea birds screaming at his feet,--the
sun just down,--the sails of his guard ship glittering on the
horizon, and the Atlantic, calm, silent, awfully deep, and endlessly
extensive.

"I tried it in a small sketch, and it was instantly purchased,--I
published a print and the demand is now and has been incessant; a
commission for a picture the full size of life, from one well known
as the friend of artists and patron of art followed, and thus I
have ventured to think a conception so unexpectedly popular might,
on this enlarged scale, not be uninteresting to the public.

"No trouble has been spared to render the picture a resemblance,
its height is Napoleon's exact height, according to Constant, his
valet, viz. five feet two inches and three quarters, French, or
five feet five inches and a half, English; the uniform is that of
one of the regiments of Chasseurs, every detail has been dictated
by an old officer of the regiment; and his celebrated hat has been
faithfully copied from one of Napoleon's own hats now in England.

"The best description I ever saw of Napoleon's appearance was in the
letter of an Irish gentleman, named North, published in the _Dublin
Evening Post_, and as it is so very characteristic, it may amuse
the visiter. He saw him at Elba in 1814, and thus paints him:--

'I recommend the coal cellar--'and, as he went off--'poor boy, he is
a dear good fellow, but how little he knows how to be laughed at!'


CHAPTER IV.
A NAME.


'Sigh no more lady, lady sigh no more,
   Men were deceivers ever,
 One foot on sea and one on land--
   To one thing constant never.'--Old Ballad.


'So you have ventured out again,' said Lady Kirkaldy, as her nephew
strolled up to her afternoon tea-table under a great cedar tree:

'The coast being clear, and only distant shouts being heard in the
ravine--


          '" Like an army defeated
             The choir retreated;
             And now doth fare well
             In the valley's soft swell,"'


said the aunt.

'At least you have survived; or is this the reaction,' said the
nephew, putting on a languid air.

'There were some very nice people among them, on whom the pictures
were by no means thrown away.  What would you say, Mark, if I told
you that I strongly suspect that I have seen your lost aunt?'

'Nonsense!' cried Mark, as emphatically as disrespectfully.

'I am not joking in the least,' said Lady Kirkaldy, looking up at
him.  'I heard the name of Egremont, and made out that it belonged to
a very lady-like pretty-looking woman in gray and white; she seemed
to be trying to check and tame a bright girl of eighteen or so, who
was in a perfect state of rapture over the Vandykes.  I managed to
ask the clergyman who the lady was, and he told me she was a Mrs.
Egremont, who lives with her aunt, a Miss Headworth, who boards girls
for the High School; very worthy people, he added.'

'Headworth?'

'Yes.'

'But if it were, she would have known your name.'

'Hardly.  The title had not come in those days; and if she heard of
us at all it would be as Kerrs.  I ventured further to put out a
feeler by asking whether he knew what her husband had been, and he
said he believed he had been lost at sea, but he, Mr. Spyers I mean,
had only been at Micklethwayte three or four years, and had merely
known her as a widow.'

'I suppose it is worth following up,' said Mark, rather reluctantly.
'I wish I had seen her.  I think I should know Miss Headworth again,
and she would hardly know me.'

'You see what comes of absconding.'

'After all, it was best,' said Mark.  'Supposing her to be the real
woman, which I don't expect, it might have been awkward if she had
heard my name!  How can we ascertain the history of this person
without committing ourselves?'

Lord Kirkaldy, an able man, who had been for many years a
diplomatist, here joined the party, and the whole story was laid
before him.  He was new to Micklethwayte, having succeeded a somewhat
distant kinsman, and did not know enough of the place to be able to
fix on any one to whom to apply for information; but the result of
the consultation was that Lady Kirkaldy should go alone to call on
Miss Headworth, and explain that she was come to inquire about a
young lady of the same name, who had once been governess to the
children of her sister, Lady Adelaide Egremont.  Mark was rather a
study to his uncle and aunt all the evening.  He was as upright and
honourable as the day, and not only acted on high principle, but had
a tender feeling to the beautiful playfellow governess, no doubt
enhanced by painful experiences of successors chosen for their utter
dissimilarity to her.  Still it was evidently rather flat to find
himself probably so near the tangible goal of his romantic search;
and the existence of a first cousin had been startling to him, though
his distaste was more to the taking her from second-rate folk in a
country town than to the overthrow of his own heirship.  At least so
he manifestly and honestly believed, and knowing it to be one of
those faiths that make themselves facts, the Kirkaldys did not
disturb him in it, nor commiserate him for a loss which they thought
the best thing possible for him.

Miss Headworth was accustomed to receive visitors anent boarders, so
when Lady Kirkaldy's card was brought to her, the first impression
was that some such arrangement was to be made.  She was sitting in
her pretty little drawing-room alone, for Nuttie and her mother had
gone out for a walk with Miss Nugent.

The room, opening on the garden, and cool with blinds, had a certain
homely grace about the faded furniture.  The drawings on the walls
were good, the work quaint and tasteful.  There was a grand vase of
foxgloves before the empty grate, and some Marshal Nial roses in a
glass on the table.  The old lady herself--with alert black eyes and
a sweet expression--rose from her chair in the window to receive her
guest.

Lady Kirkaldy felt reassured as to the refinement of the
surroundings, and liked the gentle but self-possessed tones of the
old lady.  She noticed the foxgloves.

'Yes,' said Miss Headworth, 'they are the fruits of yesterday's
expedition.  My two children, as I call them, brought them home in
triumph.  I cannot tell you what pleasure Lord Kirkaldy's kindness
gave them--and many more.'

'I am glad,' said the lady, while she said to herself, 'now for it,'
and sat forward.  'It struck me,' she said, 'on hearing your name
that you might be related to--to a young lady who lived a good while
ago in the family of my sister, Lady Adelaide Egremont.'

A strange look came into Miss Headworth's eyes, her lips trembled,
she clutched tightly the arm of her chair, but then cast a puzzled
glance at her visitor.

'Perhaps if you heard of me then,' said the latter, 'it was as Lady
Margaret Kerr.'

'Yes,' said Miss Headworth, then pausing, she collected herself and
said in an anxious voice,  'Do I understand that your ladyship is
come to inquire for my niece, being aware of the circumstances.'

'I only became aware of them yesterday,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'I was
in Turkey at the time, and no particulars were given to me; but my
nephew, Mark Egremont, your niece's old pupil, came to consult us,
having just discovered among his uncle's papers evidence of the
marriage, of which of course he had been ignorant.'

'Then,' exclaimed Miss Headworth, holding her hands tightly clasped,
'Shall I really see justice done at last to my poor child?'

'It is young Mark's most earnest wish and his father--'Lady Kirkaldy
hesitated for a word, and Miss Headworth put in:

'His father!  Why would he never even acknowledge either Alice's
letters or mine?  We wrote several times both to him and Lady
Adelaide, and never received any reply, except one short one,
desiring he might not be troubled on such a subject.  It was cruel!
Alice said it was not in his writing.  She had done very wrong, and
the family might well be offended, but a poor child like her, just
eighteen, might have been treated with some pity.'

'My sister was in declining health.  He was very much engrossed.  He
left the matter to--to others,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'He is very
sorry now that he acquiesced in what was then thought right.  He did
not then know that there had been a marriage.'

'I should have thought in that case a clergyman would have been bound
to show the more compassion.'

Lady Kirkaldy knew that the cruel silence had been chiefly the work
of the stem Puritan pitilessness of her mother, so she passed this
over, saying, 'We are all very anxious to atone, as far as possible,
for what is past, but we know little or nothing, only what my nephew
Mark has been able to gather.'

'Little Mark!  Alice always talked of him with great affection.  How
pleased she will be to hear of his remembering her.'

'Would you object to telling me what you know of this history?' said
Lady Kirkaldy.  'I am afraid it is very painful to you, but I think
we should understand it clearly.  Please speak to me as a friend, as
woman to woman.'

'Your ladyship is very kind,' said the poor old lady.  'I have only
mentioned the subject once since we came to settle here, seventeen
years ago, but such things one cannot forget.  If you will excuse me,
I have some dates that will assist my accuracy.'

She hurried away, and came back in a few moments, having evidently
dried some tears, perhaps of thankfulness, but she paused as if
reluctant to begin.

'I think your niece had no nearer relation than yourself,' said Lady
Kirkaldy, anxious to set her off and at ease.

'Oh no, or she never would have been so treated.  She was an orphan.
My poor brother was a curate.  He married--as young men will--on
insufficient means, his strength gave way, and he died of diphtheria
when this poor child was only two years old.  Indeed, two little ones
died at the same time, and the mother married again and went to
Shanghai.  She did not long live there, poor thing, and little Alice
was sent home to me.  I thought I did my best for her by keeping her
at a good school.  I have often wished that I had given up my
situation, and become an assistant there, so as to have her more
under my own eyes; but I fancied it important to receive a salary out
of which I could save.  I am wearying your ladyship, but I can't but
dwell on the excuses for my poor child.'

'Indeed I wish to hear all the details,' was the sincere and gentle
answer.

'I had her with me generally in the holidays, and I confess I was
absolutely alarmed to see how pretty the child was growing, knowing
how great a disadvantage it often is.  She was always a good girl,
not naturally so studious as could be wished, but docile, merry,
gentle, a favourite with every one, and peculiarly innocent and
childish.  I wished her to remain a few years longer as teacher, but
it so happened that Lady Adelaide Egremont, coming to consult the
head of the establishment about a nursery-governess, saw Alice, and
was so much struck with her sweet face, which was all sunshine then,
as to insist on engaging her.'

'Ah! my dear sister, I remember her enthusiastic letter about her
pretty governess, and her boy's affection for her, an affection that
has lasted--'

'It seemed so safe.  A clergyman's family in the country, and so kind
a lady at the head, that, though Alice had been educated for a
superior governess, it appeared the best beginning she could have.
And she was very happy, and met with great kindness.  Only,
unfortunately, Lady Adelaide was delicate, and for many weeks
entirely confined to the sofa.  Mr. Egremont's elder brother was much
there.  He seemed to my poor inexperienced child quite elderly, and
his attentions like those of--of an old uncle--she told me
afterwards--'

'He must really have been over forty--'

'No doubt my poor Alice was unguarded.  We know what a merry, happy,
childish girl may be, but I never heard that her conduct was even
censured while she remained at Baxley, though I find that Captain
Egremont used to join them in their walks, under pretext of playing
with the children.  Then she was sent to Freshwater with the two
eldest children during Lady Adelaide's confinement, and there, most
unjustifiably, Captain Egremont continually visited them from his
yacht, and offered to take them out in it.  Alice knew she ought not
to go without a married lady on board, and he brought a Mr. and Mrs.
Houghton to call, who were very kind and caressing to her and the
children, so that she thought all was right.  Oh! Lady Kirkaldy, I
don't mean to defend her, I daresay she was very giddy and silly, she
reproaches herself, poor dear, but I do say that a wicked advantage
was taken of her innocence and ignorance.  She says that she had
begun to grow a little uneasy at the way people looked when Captain
Egremont joined them on the beach; and the nurse, a German, said
something that she could not understand.  On the 1st of July--yes--
but I have the date here--came a telegram to the hotel to have rooms
for Lady de Lyonnais and Mr. Egremont ready by the evening.  The
whole place knew it, and some meddling person burst on Alice with the
news, roughly and coarsely given, that they were coming to call her
to account for her goings on.  Captain Egremont found her crying in
the utmost terror, and--she really hardly knew what he said to her--
she thinks he offered to shelter her on board the Ninon, from Lady de
Lyonnais' first wrath while he and Mrs. Houghton explained matters;
but she cannot tell, for she lost her senses with fright, only knew
that he was kind and sweet to her in her distress, and thought only
of escaping.  Well, I don't excuse her.  Of course it was the most
terrible and fatal thing she could have done, and--' The good old
lady was quite overcome, and Lady Kirkaldy had tears in her eyes as
she said,

'It was frightful folly--but she was guarded.'

'Yes, her innocence was guarded, thank God,' said Miss Headworth
fervently.  'You see she did know that Mr. and Mrs. Houghton were on
board, and Mrs. Houghton was a truly kind protector who deserved her
confidence, though, poor lady, she admitted to me that her own
conduct had not been-strictly correct.'

'How long was it before you heard of her?'

'There was a dreadful letter from Mr. Egremont enclosing what was due
of her salary, and then I heard no more for seven months.  I went to
the Isle of Wight and made all inquiries, but the nurse and children
had gone away immediately, and I could obtain no trace of them.'

'Then she--your niece, never wrote.'

'She was afraid, poor dear.  She had never been at her ease with me.
Her mother had taught her to think me strict and harsh, and she had
never opened to me in those days.  Besides, he had forbidden her.  At
last, however, in January, came a letter from this Mrs. Houghton,
telling me that my Alice was very unwell at Dieppe, that nothing had
been heard of her husband, Captain Egremont, to whom she had been
married on the 20th of July at St. Philippe, in Jersey, and that she
herself was obliged to leave the place almost immediately; but she
would, if possible, wait till my arrival, as Mrs. Egremont was not in
a condition to be left alone.  My dear friends, with whom I was then
living, were as kind as possible, and set me free to go.  I was there
in three days, and truly the dear, beautiful, merry girl I had parted
with only a year before was a sad piteous sight.  Mrs. Houghton
seemed broken-hearted at leaving her, thinking there was little
chance of her living; but Mr. Houghton, who, I am afraid, was a
professed gambler, had got into some scrape, and was gone to Paris,
where she had to follow him.  She told me all about it, and how, when
Captain Egremont fancied that a marriage in the Channel Islands was
one he could play fast and loose with, she had taken care that the
formalities should be such as to make all secure.  Foolish and wrong
as poor Alice had been, she had awakened all the best side of that
poor woman's nature, and no mother could have been more careful and
tender.  She gave me the certificate--here it is--and assured me that
it would hold good.  I have shown it to a lawyer, and he said the
same; but when I sent a copy to Mr. Egremont, my letter was returned
unopened.'

'Captain Egremont had denied the marriage, and they believed him,'
said Lady Kirkaldy.  'It is hard to believe that he could be so
heartless, but he was in bondage to the old General Egremont, and
dreaded losing his inheritance.'

'So he told them in his one visit to Dieppe.  He said he must keep
his marriage secret, but promised an allowance, on condition that
Alice would live quietly at Dieppe, and not communicate with any one
of her own family or his.  He had left £100 with her, but that was
nearly gone, and she had never heard from him.  It had preyed on her,
and she was so ill that I never expected, any more than Mrs.
Houghton, to see her recover.  I stayed there with her; she could not
be moved, even if she would have consented, when she was continually
expecting him; but at last--four days after her little girl was born--
came the news of the Ninon having been burnt, with all on board,
three months before.  Do you know, strange to say, though I had
feared so much to tell her, she began to revive from that time.  The
suspense and watching were over.  She saw that he had not deserted
her, and believed that he had loved her to the last.  She cried a
great deal, but it was in a peaceful, natural way.  I wrote then, as
I had already written, to Lady Adelaide and to Mr. Egremont, but was
not answered.'

'I can account for that,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'My sister had been
ordered to Madeira in the autumn, and there they remained till her
death in May.  All the letters were sent to my mother, and she did
not think fit to forward, or open, any bearing on the subject.  In
the meantime Mr. Egremont was presented to the family living, and on
his return moved to Bridgefield Egremont.  And you came here?'

'Of course I could not part with my poor Alice again.  Mr. and Mrs.
Fordyce, whose daughter I had long ago educated, had always kept up a
correspondence with me, and, knowing all the story, proposed to me to
come here.  He was then rector of the old church, and by their help
and recommendation, with such capital as I had, we were able to begin
a little school; and though that has had to give way to the High
School, what with boarders, and with Alice's employment as daily
governess, we have, I am thankful to say, gone on very well and
comfortably, and my dear child has recovered her cheerfulness, though
she can never be quite what--I think she was meant to be,' said the
old lady, with a sad smile, 'though perhaps she is something better.'

'Do you think she was absolutely convinced of his death?'

'Do you mean that he is alive?' exclaimed Miss Headworth in dismay.
'Oh! he is a wickeder man than even I supposed, to have forsaken her
all these years.  Is my poor child in his power?  Must her peace, now
she has attained it, be disturbed?'

'There is a great deal to take into consideration,' said Lady
Kirkaldy.  'I had better tell you how this visit of mine came about,
and explain some matters about the Egremont family.'

She then told how Captain Egremont, after a brief service in the Life
Guards, had been made to retire, that the old General, whose heir he
was, might keep him in attendance on him.  Already self-indulgent and
extravagant, the idleness of the life he led with the worn-out old
roue had deadened his better feelings, and habituated him to
dissipation, while his debts, his expensive habits, and his dread of
losing the inheritance, had bound him over to the General.  Both had
been saved from the fire in the Ninon, whence they were picked up by
a Chilian vessel, and they had been long in communicating with home.
The General hated England, and was in broken health.  He had spent
the remaining years of his life at various continental resorts, where
he could enjoy a warm climate, combined with facilities for high
play.

When at length, he died, Captain Egremont had continued the life to
which he had become accustomed, and had of late manifested an
expectation that his nephew Mark should play the same part by him as
he had done by the General, but the youth, bred in a very different
tone, would on no account thus surrender himself to an evil bondage.
Indeed he felt all the severity of youthful virtue, and had little
toleration for his uncle's ways of thinking; though, when the old man
had come home ill, dejected, and half blind, he had allowed himself
to be made useful on business matters.  And thus he had discovered
the marriage, and had taken up the cause with the ardour stimulated
by a chivalrous feeling for the beautiful vision of his childhood,
whose sudden disappearance had ended his brightest days.

'I suppose it is right and generous of the young man,' said Miss
Headworth.  'But since the--the man is alive, I wish my poor Alice
could have been left at peace!'

'You forget that her daughter has rights which must be taken into
consideration.'

'Little Nuttie!  Dear child!  I should so far like her to be provided
for, so far as that she need not go out in the world to earn her own
livelihood.  But no! better be as we are than accept anything from
that man!'

'I quite understand and respect your feeling, Miss Headworth,'
returned the lady; 'but may I return to my question whether you think
your niece has any doubt of her husband being dead.'

Miss Headworth considered.  'Since you ask me, I think she has kept
the possibility of the life before her.  We have never mentioned the
subject, and, as I said, the belief in his death ended a great
suspense and sense of wounded affection.  She began soon and
vigorously to turn her attention to the support of her child, and has
found a fair measure of happiness; but at the same time she has
shrunk from all notice and society, more than would be natural in so
very young a widow and so attractive, more than I should have
expected from her original character.  And once, when she did
apprehend symptoms of admiration, she insisted that I should tell the
history, enough, as she said, to make it plain that it was
impossible.  There was one night too, when she had scarlatina, and
was a little lightheaded, only four years ago, when she talked a good
deal about his coming back; but that might have been only the old
impression on her brain, of that long watching at Dieppe.  He--
Captain Egremont, does not yet know where she is?'

'No, certainly not.  But I fear he must.'

'I suppose he ought,' sighed Miss Headworth; 'but in the meantime,
till we know what line he takes, surely she need not be unsettled by
the knowledge of his existence.'

'By no means.  You had better act as you think best about that.  But
you will not object to my nephew, her old pupil, Mark, coming to see
her?  I will make him promise not to enter upon the subject.'

Miss Headworth had only time to make a sign of reluctant acquiescence
when the door opened and mother and daughter came in.  Nuttie first,
eager as usual and open-mouthed, unaware that any one was there, for
Lady Kirkaldy, wishing to avoid talk and observation, had left her
carriage at the livery stables, and walked to St. Ambrose Road.  The
girl, whom in a moment she classed as small, dark, and oddly like May
Egremont, stopped short at sight of a stranger; the mother would have
retreated but for Miss Headworth's nervous call 'Alice, my dear, here
is Lady Kirkaldy.'

Very lovely was Lady Kirkaldy's impression as she saw a slender
figure in a dark gray linen dress, and a face of refined, though not
intellectual, beauty and sweetness, under a large straw hat with a
good deal of white gauziness about it, and the curtsey was full of
natural grace.

'You do not know me,' said Lady Kirkaldy, taking her hand, 'but I am
aunt to some former pupils of yours, one of whom, Mark Egremont, is
very anxious to come and see you.'

'Mark!  My dear little Mark,' and her face lighted up.  'How very
kind of him.  But he is not little Mark now.'

'He is not a very big Mark either.  Most of the Egremonts are small.
I see your daughter takes after them,' said Lady Kirkaldy, shaking
hands with Ursula, who looked at her in unmitigated amazement.

Alice faltered something about Lady Adelaide.

'My dear sister fell into a decline, and died while the three
children were still babies.  Poor things, I believe they had a sad
time till their father married a Miss Condamine, who has been an
excellent stepmother to them.  I have been to see them, but Mark was
not then at home, so he has come to me at Monks Horton.  When will he
find you at home?  Or may I bring him in at once.  He was to meet me
at Micklethwayte.'

'I should like very much to see him,' was the answer.  And Miss
Headworth was obliged to say something about her ladyship taking a
cup of tea.  Lady Kirkaldy, knowing that Mark was on the watch, set
off in search of him, and found him, as she expected, pacing the
pavement in front of the church.  There was no great distance in
which to utter her explanations and cautions, warning him of her
promise that the intelligence of the husband's being alive was to be
withheld for a fitter time, but he promised dutifully, and his aunt
then took him in with her.

The recognition of her claims was a less stunning shock to Alice
Egremont than to her aunt.  Shielded by her illness, as well as by
her simplicity and ignorance, she had never been aware of her aunt's
attempted correspondence with the Egremonts, nor of their deafness to
appeals made on her behalf.  Far less had it ever occurred to her
that the validity of her marriage could be denied, and the heinous
error of her elopement seemed to her quite sufficient to account for
her having been so entirely cast off by the family.  The idea that as
wife or widow she had any claims on them, or that Ursula might have
rights above those of Mark, had not come into her mind, which,
indeed, at the moment was chiefly occupied by the doubt whether the
milk was come in, and by ordering in the best teacups, presented by
the boarders.

Thus she was in the passage when Mark entered, and his exclamation
instantly was 'Oh, Edda, dear old Edda!  You aren't a bit altered!'
and he put his head under her hat and kissed her, adding, as she
seemed rather startled, 'You are my aunt, you know; and where's my
cousin?  You are Ursula?'

He advanced upon Nuttie, took her by the hand and kissed her forehead
before she was aware, but she flashed at him with her black eyes, and
looked stiff and defiant.  She had no notion of kisses to herself,
still less to her pretty mother whom she protected with a half proud,
half jealous fondness.  How could the man presume to call her by that
foolish name?  However, that single effusion had exhausted Mark's
powers of cordiality, or else Nuttie's stiffness froze him.  They
were all embarrassed, and had reason to be grateful to Lady
Kirkaldy's practised powers as a diplomate's wife.  She made the
most of Mrs. Egremont's shy spasmodic inquiries, and Mark's jerks of
information, such as that they were all living at Bridgefield
Egremont, now, that his sister May was very like his new cousin, that
Blanche was come out and was very like his mother, etc. etc.  Every
one was more at ease when Lady Kirkaldy carried the conversation off
to yesterday's entertainment, hoping no one had been overtired, and
the like.  Mrs. Egremont lighted up a little and began telling some
of the expressions of delight she had heard, and in the midst,
Nuttie, waking from her trance of stiff displeasure, came plump in
with 'Oh! and there's a water-soldier, a real Stratiotes aculeatus in
your lake.  May we get it?  Mr. Dutton didn't think we ought, but it
would be such a prize!'

'Ursula means a rare water-plant,' said Mrs. Egremont gently, seeing
that Lady Kirkaldy had no notion of the treasure she possessed.  'She
and some of her friends are very eager botanists.'

'I am sure you may,' said the lady, amused.

'Thank you!  Then, O mother!  Miss Mary and I will go.  And we'll
wait till after office hours, and then Gerard Godfrey can come and
fish it out for us!  Oh, thank you.  He wants the pattern of the
Abbot's cross for an illumination, and he can get some ferns for the
church.'

Soon after this ebullition, Lady Kirkaldy carried off her nephew, and
his first utterance outside the door was 'A woman like that will be
the salvation of my uncle.'

'Firstly, if you can bring them together,' said his aunt; 'and
secondly, if there is stuff enough in that pretty creature.'


CHAPTER V.
SUSPENSE.


'Where shall the traitor rest
 He, the deceiver?'--SCOTT.


Poor Miss Headworth's peace of mind was utterly destroyed.  That the
niece whom she had nursed back to life and happiness, and brought to
love her as a mother, should be at the mercy of a man whom she looked
on as a heartless profligate, was dreadful to her beyond measure.
And it involved Ursula's young life likewise?  Could it be a duty,
after these eighteen years, to return to him?  What legal rights had
he to enforce the resumption of the wife he had deserted.  'I will
consult Mr. Dutton,' said the old lady to herself; 'Mr. Dutton is the
only person who knows the particulars.  He will give me the best
advice.'

And while Miss Headworth, over her evening toilette, was coming to
this resolution in one bedroom, Nuttie, in another, was standing
aghast at her mother's agitation, and receiving a confession which
filled her with astonishment.

'I can't think why that gentleman should go and be so affectionate
all on a sudden, 'quoth Nuttie;' if he is my cousin, and so fond of
you, why couldn't he have come to see us before?'

'Oh, Nuttie, dear, you don't understand why it is so good of him!  My
dear, now this has come, I must tell you--you must hear--the sad
thing your mother did.  Yes, my dear, I was their governess--and--and
I did not--In short, my dear, I eloped.'

'You, mother!  Oh what fun!' cried the girl in the utter extremity of
wonder.

'Nuttie!' exclaimed Mrs. Egremont, in a tone of horror and
indignation--nay, of apprehension.

'O mother--I didn't mean that!  But I can't get to believe it.  You,
little mother mine, you that are so timid and bashful and quiet.
That you--you should have done such a thing.'

'Nuttie, my dear, can't you understand that such a thing would make
me quiet?  I am always feeling when I see people, or they bring their
daughters here.  "If they only knew--"'

'No, no, no!  They would still see you were the sweetest dear.  But
tell me all about it.  How very much in love you must have been!'
said Nuttie, a magnificent vision of a young sailor with curly hair
and open throat rising before her.

'I think I was more frightened than in love,' faintly said Mrs.
Egremont.  'At least I didn't know it was love, I thought he was only
kind to me.'

'But you liked it?' said Ursula magisterially.

'I liked it, oh, I liked it!  It gave me a feeling such as nothing
else ever did, but I never thought of its being love, he was so much
older.'

'Older!' exclaimed Nuttie, much taken aback.  'Oh! as old as Mr.
Dutton?'

'Mr. Dutton is thirty-six, I think.  Yes, he was older than that.'

'Mother, how could you?'  For to be older than Mr: Dutton seemed to
the youthful fancy to be near decrepitude; but she added, 'I suppose
he was very noble, and had done great things.'

'He was the grandest gentleman I ever saw, and had such, a manner,'
said the mother, passing over the latter suggestion.  'Anyway, I
never thought what it all meant--all alone with the children as I
was--till I found people looking at me, and laughing at me, and then
I heard Lady de Lyonnais and Mr. Egremont were coming down, very
angry, to send me away.  I ought, I know it now, to have waited, for
they would have written to my aunt.  But I was horribly frightened,
and I couldn't bear to think of never seeing him again, and he came
and comforted me, and said he would take me to Mrs. Houghton, the
kind lady who was staying in the Ninon, and they would make it all
square for me--and then--oh! it was very sweet--but I never knew that
we were sailing away to Jersey to be married!  I knew it was very
dreadful without any one's leave, but it was so noble of him to take
the poor little governess and defend her, and it wasn't as if my
mother had been alive.  I didn't know Aunt Ursel then as I did
afterwards.  And Mrs. Houghton said there was nothing else to be
done.'

'O don't leave off, mother.  Do tell me.  How long did you have him?'

'Six weeks then--and afterwards one fortnight at Dieppe.  He was not
free.  He had an old uncle, General Egremont, who was sick and hot-
tempered, and he was obliged to keep everything secret from him, and
therefore from everybody else.  And so I was to live at Dieppe, while
he went out to take care of his uncle, and you know--you know--'

'Yes, I know, dear mother.  But I am sure he was saving somebody
else, and it was a noble death!  And I know how Aunt Ursel came to
Dieppe, and how I--your own little Frenchwoman--came to take care of
you.  And haven't we been jolly without any of these fine relations
that never looked after you all this time?  Besides, you know he is
very likely to be on a lonely coral island, and will come home yet.
I often think he is.'

'My dear child, I have been happier than I deserved,' said Alice
Egremont, drying her eyes.  'But oh! Nuttie, I hope you will be a
wiser woman than your mother.'

'Come, don't go on in that way!  Why, I've such advantages!  I've
Miss Mary, and Aunt Ursel, and Mr. Spyers, and Mr. Dutton, and you,
you poor little thing, had nobody!  One good thing is, we shall get
the water-soldier.  Mr. Dutton needn't come, for he's like a cat, and
won't soil his boots, but Gerard is dying to get another look at the
old ruin.  He can't make up his mind about the cross on one of the
stone-coffin lids, so he'll be delighted to come, and he'll get it
out of the pond for us.  I wonder when we can go.  To-night is choir
practice, and to-morrow is cutting-out day.'

Miss Headworth was not sorry that the small sociabilities of the
friends did not leave her alone with her niece all that evening, or
the next day, when there was a grand cutting-out for the working
party,--an operation always performed in the holidays.  Miss
Headworth had of late years been excused from it, and it gave her the
opportunity she wanted of a consultation with Mr. Dutton.  He was her
prime adviser in everything, from her investments (such as they were)
to the eccentricities of her timepieces; and as the cuckoo-clock had
that night cuckooed all the hours round in succession, no one thought
it wonderful that she should send a twisted note entreating him to
call as early as he could in the afternoon.  Of course Nuttie's
chatter had proclaimed the extraordinary visitors, and it needed not
the old lady's dash under "on an anxious affair" to bring him to her
little drawing-room as soon as he could quit his desk.  Perhaps he
hastened his work with a hope in his heart which he durst not
express, but the agitation on the usually placid face forbade him to
entertain it for an instant, and he only said, 'So our expedition has
led to unforeseen consequences, Miss Headworth.'  And then she
answered under her breath, as if afraid of being overheard: 'Mr.
Dutton, my poor child does not know it yet, but the man is alive!'

Mr. Dutton compressed his lips.  It was the greater shock, for he had
actually made inquiries at the Yacht Club, but the officials there
either had not been made aware of the reappearance of the two
Egremonts, or they did not think it worth while to look beyond the
record which declared that all hands had perished, and the connection
of the uncle and nephew with the Yacht Club had not been renewed.
Presently he said, 'Then hers was a right instinct.  There is reason
to be thankful.'

Miss Headworth was too full of her own anxieties to heed his causes
for thankfulness.  She told what she had heard from Lady Kirkaldy and
from Mark Egremont, and asked counsel whether it could be Alice's
duty to return to the man who had deserted her, or even to accept
anything from him.  There was an impetuous and indignant spirit at
the bottom of the old lady's heart, in spite of the subdued life she
had led for so many years, and she hardly brooked the measured
considerate manner in which her adviser declared that all depended on
circumstances, and the manner in which Captain Egremont made the
first move.  At present no one was acting but young Mark, and, as Mr.
Dutton observed, it was not a matter in which a man was very likely
to submit to a nephew's dictation.

There was certainly no need for Mrs. Egremont to _force_ her presence
on him.  But Mr. Dutton did think that for her own sake and her
child's there ought to be full recognition of their rights, and that
this should be proved by their maintenance.

'I imagine that Ursula may probably be a considerable heiress, and
her lights must not be sacrificed.'

'Poor little girl!  Will it be for her happiness?  I doubt it
greatly!'

'Of that I suppose we have no right to judge,' said Mr. Dutton,
somewhat tremulously. 'Justice is what we have to look to, and to
allow Nuttie to be passed over would be permitting a slur to be cast
on her and her mother.'

'I see that,' said Miss Headworth, with an effort.  'I suppose I am
after all a selfish, faithless old woman, and it is not in my hands
after all.  But I must prepare my poor Alice for what may be coming.'

'If any terms are offered to her, she had better put the matter into
a lawyer's hands.  Dobson would be a safe man to deal with.'

Miss Headworth was amazed that he--who had helped her in many a
little question bordering on law--should not proffer his aid now in
this greatest stress.  He was a resolute, self-controlled man, and
she never guessed at the feeling that made him judge himself to be no
fitting champion for Alice Egremont against her husband.  Ever since,
ten years ago, he had learnt that his beautiful neighbour did not
regard herself so certainly a widow as to venture to open her heart
to any other love, he had lived patiently on, content to serve her as
a trustworthy friend, and never betraying the secret hope so long
cherished and now entirely crushed.

He was relieved to escape from the interview, and the poor old lady
remained a little more certain as to her duty perhaps, but with a
certainty that only made her more unhappy, and she was so restless
and nervous that, in the middle of the evening's reading of
Archbishop Trench's Lectures on History, Alice suddenly broke off in
the very middle of a sentence and exclaimed, 'Aunt Ursel! you are
keeping something from me.'

Miss Headworth made a faint attempt by saying something about
presently, and glancing with her eyes to indicate that it was to be
reserved till after Nuttie's bedtime, but the young lady comprehended
the signs and exclaimed, 'Never mind me, Aunt Ursel,--I know all
about mother; she told me last night.'

'It is!' broke in Mrs. Egremont, who had been watching her aunt's
face.  'You have heard of _him_.'

'Oh, my father!  You really have!' cried Nuttie.  'Then he really was
on the desert island all this time; I was quite sure of it.  How
delightful!'  She jumped up and looked at the door, as if she
expected to see him appear that instant, clad in skins like Robinson
Crusoe, but her aunt's nervous agitation found vent in a sharp
reproof: 'Nuttie, hold your tongue, and don't be such a foolish
child, or I shall send you out of the room this instant!'

'But aunt?' gasped Alice, unable to bear the suspense.

'Yes, my poor dear child.  Captain Egremont with the General got off
with some of the crew in a boat when the Ninon was burnt.  He spent a
good many years abroad with the old man, but he has now inherited the
family place, and is living there.'  Miss Headworth felt as if she
had fired a cannon and looked to see the effect.

'Ah, if we could have stayed at Dieppe!' said Mrs. Egremont.  'But we
did write back to say where we could be heard of.'

'That was of no use.  Mark found no traces of us when he went
thither.'

'Did he send Mark?'

'No.  My dear Alice, I must not conceal from you that this is all Mr.
Mark Egremont's doing.  He seems to have been helping his uncle with
his papers when he came on the evidence of your marriage, and,
remembering you as he does, he forced the confession of it from the
captain, and of his own accord set forth to discover what had become
of you and to see justice done to you.'

'Dear little Mark!' said she; 'he always was such an affectionate
little boy.'

'And now, my dear, you must consider how you will receive any
advances on his part.'

'Oh, Aunt Ursel, don't!  I can't talk now.  Please let me go to bed.
Nuttie, dear, you need not come yet.'

The desire for solitude, in which to realise what she had heard, was
overpowering, and she fled away in the summer twilight, leaving
Nuttie with wide open eyes, looking after her vanished hero and
desert island.

'My poor Alice!' sighed the old lady.

'Aunt Ursel!' exclaimed Nuttie, 'was--I mean--is my father a good or
a bad man?'

'My dear, should a daughter ask such a question?'

'Aunt Ursel, I can't help it.  I think I ought to know all about it,'
said Nuttie gravely, putting away her childishness and sitting down
by her aunt.  'I did not think so much of it when mother told me they
eloped, because, though I know it was very wrong, people do do odd
things sometimes when they are very much in love (she said it in a
superior patronising tone that would have amused Miss Headworth very
much at any other time); and it has not spoilt mother for being the
dearest, sweetest, best thing in the world, and, besides, they had
neither of them any fathers or mothers to disobey.  But, then, when I
found he was so old, and that he kept it a secret, and must have told
stories only for the sake of money (uttered with extreme contempt), I
didn't like it.  And if he left her as Theseus left Ariadne, or Sir
Lancelot left Elaine, I--I don't think it is nice.  Do you think he
only pretended to be lost in the Ninon to get rid of her, or that he
could not find her?'

'The Ninon was really reported lost with all on board,' said Miss
Headworth.  'That was ascertained.  He was saved by a Chilian ship,
and seems to have been a good while making his way back to Europe.  I
had taken care that our address should be known at Dieppe, but it is
quite possible that he may not have applied to the right people, or
that they may not have preserved my letter, so that we cannot feel
sore that he was to blame.'

'If he had been worth anything at all, he would have moved heaven and
earth to find her!' cried Nuttie; 'and you said yourself it was all
_that_ Mark's doing!'

'He seems to be a very upright and generous young man, that Mr. Mark
Egremont,' said Miss Headworth, a whole romance as to Nuttie's future
destiny sweeping across her mind in an instant, with a mental
dispensation to first cousins in such a case.  'I think you will find
him a staunch champion even against his own interests.'

Perceptions came across Nuttie.  'Oh, then I am a sort of lost
heiress, like people in a story!  I see!  But, Aunt Ursel, what do
you think will happen?'

'My dear child, I cannot guess in the least.  Perhaps the Egremont
property will not concern you, and only go to male heirs.  That would
be the best thing, since in any case you must be sufficiently
provided for.  Your father must do that.'

'But about mother?'

'A proper provision must be insisted on for her,' said Miss
Headworth.  'It is no use, however, to speculate on the future.  We
cannot guess how Mr. Mark Egremont's communication will be received,
or whether any wish will be expressed for your mother's rejoining
your father.  In such a case the terms must be distinctly understood,
and I have full trust both in Mr. Mark and in Lady Kirkaldy as her
champions to see that justice is done to you both.'

'I'm sure he doesn't deserve that mother should go to him.'

'Nor do I expect that he will wish it, or that it would be proper;
but he is bound to give her a handsome maintenance, and I think most
probably you will be asked to stay with your uncle and cousins,' said
Miss Headworth, figuring to herself a kind of Newstead Abbey or some
such scene of constant orgies at Bridgefield Egremont.

'I shall accept nothing from the family that does not include
mother,' said Nuttie.

'Dear child, I foresee many trials, but you must be her protector.'

'That I will,' said Nuttie; and in the gallant purpose she went to
bed, to find her mother either asleep or feigning slumber with tears
on her cheek.


CHAPTER VI.
THE WATER-SOLDIER.


'Presumptuous maid, with looks intent,
 Again she stretched, again she bent,
 Nor knew the gulf between.'--GRAY.


It all seemed like a dream to Ursula, perhaps likewise to her mother,
when they rose to the routine of daily life with the ordinary
interests of the day before them.  There was a latent unwillingness
in Mrs. Egremont's mind to discuss the subject with either aunt or
daughter; and when the post brought no letter, Ursula, after a
moment's sense of flatness, was relieved, and returned to her eager
desire to hurry after the water-soldier.  It was feasible that very
afternoon.  Mary Nugent came in with the intelligence.

'And can Gerard come? or we shall only look at it.'

'Yes, Gerard can come, and so will Mr. Dutton,' said Mary, who,
standing about half-way between Mrs. Egremont and her daughter, did
not think herself quite a sufficient chaperon.

'He will look on like a hen at her ducklings,' said Nuttie.  'It is
cruel to take him, poor man!'

'Meantime, Nuttie, do you like an hour of "Marie Stuart?"'

'Oh, thank you!'  But she whispered, 'Aunt Ursel, may I tell her?'

'Ask your mother, my dear.'

Leave was given, half reluctantly, and with a prohibition against
mentioning the subject to any one else, but both mother and aunt had
confidence in Mary Nugent's wisdom and discretion, so the two friends
sat on the wall together, and Ursula poured out her heart.  Poor
little girl! she was greatly discomfited at the vanishing of her
noble vision of the heroic self-devoted father, and ready on the
other hand to believe him a villain, like Bertram Risingham, or 'the
Pirate,' being possessed by this idea on account of his West Indian
voyages.  At any rate, she was determined not to be accepted or
acknowledged without her mother, and was already rehearsing
magnanimous letters of refusal.

Miss Mary listened and wondered, feeling sometimes as if this were as
much a romance as the little yacht going down with the burning ship;
and then came back the recollection that there was a real fact that
Nuttie had a father, and that it was entirely uncertain what part he
might take, or what the girl might be called on to do.  Considering
anxiously these bearings of the question, she scarcely heard what she
was required to assent to, in one of Nuttie's eager, 'Don't you think
so?'

'My dear Nuttie,' she said, rousing herself, 'what I do think is that
it will all probably turn out exactly contrariwise to our
imaginations, so I believe it would be wisest to build up as few
fancies as possible, but only to pray that you may have a right
judgment in all things, and have strength to do what is right,
whatever you may see that to be.'

'And of course that will be to stick by mother.'

'There can be little doubt of that, but the how?  No, dear, do not
let us devise all sorts of _hows_ when we have nothing to go upon.
That would be of no use, and only perplex you when the time comes.
It would be much better to "do the nexte thinge," and read our "Marie
Stuart."'

Nuttie pouted a little, but submitted, though she now and then broke
into a translation with 'You know mother will never stand up for
herself,' or 'They think I shall be asked to stay with the Egremonts,
but I must work up for the exam.'

However, the school habit of concentrating her attention prevailed,
and the study quieted Nuttie's excitement.  The expedition took place
as arranged.  There was a train which stopped so that the party could
go down by it, and the distance was not too great for walking back.

Mr. Dutton met them on the platform, well armed with his neat silk
umbrella, and his black poodle, Monsieur, trotting solemnly after
him.  Gerard Godfrey bore materials for an exact transcript of the
Abbot's monumental cross, his head being full of church architecture,
while Nuttie carried a long green tin case, or vasculum as she chose
to call it, with her three vowels, U A E, and the stars of the Little
Bear conspicuously painted on it in white.

'You did not venture on that the other day,' said Mr. Dutton.  'How
much of the park do you mean to carry away in it?'

'Let me take it,' said Gerard politely.

'No, thank you.  You'd leave it behind, while you were pottering over
the mouldings.'

'You are much more likely to leave it behind yourself.'

'What--with my soldier, my Stratiotes, in it?  I think I see myself.'

'Give it to me,' said Gerard.  'Of course I can't see you carrying a
great thing like that.'

'Can't you, indeed?'

'Gently, gently, my dear,' said Miss Mary, as the young people seemed
very near a skirmish, and the train was sweeping up.  Then there was
another small scuffle, for Nuttie had set her heart on the third
class; but Mr. Dutton had taken second-class tickets, and was about
to hand them into a carriage whence there had just emerged a very
supercilious black-moustached valet, who was pulling out a leather-
covered dressing-case, while Gerard was consoling Nuttie by telling
her that Monsieur never deigned to go third class.

'It is a smoking carriage,' said Miss Nugent, on the step.  'Pah! how
it smells,' as she jumped back.

'Beautiful backy--a perfect nosegay,' said Gerard.

'Trust that fellow for having the best.'

'His master's, no doubt,' suggested Mr. Dutton.

'You'd better go in it, to enjoy his reversion,' said Nuttie.

'And where's my escort, then?'

'Oh, I'm sure we don't want you.'

'Nuttie, my dear,' expostulated Miss Nugent, dragging her into the
next carriage.

'You may enjoy the fragrance still,' said Nuttie when seated.  'Do
you see--there's the man's master; he has stood him up against that
post, with his cigar, to wait while he gets out the luggage.  I
daresay you can get a whiff if you lean out far enough.'

'I say! that figure is a study!' said Gerard.  'What is it that he is
so like?'

'Oh! I know,' said Nuttie.  'It is Lord Frederick Verisopht, and the
bad gentlefolks in the pictures to the old numbers of Dickens that
you have got, Miss Mary.  Now, isn't he?  Look! only Lord Frederick
wasn't fat.'

Nuttie was in a state of excitement that made her peculiarly
unmanageable, and Miss Nugent was very grateful to Mr. Dutton for his
sharp though general admonition against staring, while, under pretext
of disposing of the umbrella and the vasculum, he stood up, so as to
block the window till they were starting.

There was no one else to observe them but a demure old lady, and in
ten minutes' time they were in open space, where high spirits might
work themselves off, though the battle over the botanical case was
ended by Miss Nugent, who strongly held that ladies should carry
their own extra encumbrances, and slung it with a scarf over Nuttie's
shoulders in a knowing knapsack fashion.

The two young people had known one another all their lives, for
Gerard was the son of a medical man who had lived next door to Miss
Headworth when the children were young.  The father was dead, and the
family had left the place, but this son had remained at school, and
afterwards had been put into the office at the umbrella factory under
charge of Mr. Dutton, whose godson he was, and who treated him as a
nephew.  He was a good-hearted, steady young fellow, with his whole
interest in ecclesiastical details, wearing a tie in accordance with
'the colours,' and absorbed in church music and decorations, while
his recreations were almost all in accordance therewith.

There was plenty of merriment, as he drew and measured at the very
scanty ruins, which were little more than a few fragments of wall,
overgrown luxuriantly with ivy and clematis, but enclosing some fine
old coffin-lids with floriated crosses, interesting to those who
cared for architecture and church history, as Mr. Dutton tried to
make the children do, so that their ecclesiastical feelings might be
less narrow, and stand on a surer foundation than present interest, a
slightly aggressive feeling of contempt for all the other town
churches, and a pleasing sense of being persecuted.

They fought over the floriations and mouldings with great zest, and
each maintained a date with youthful vigour--both being, as Mr.
Dutton by and by showed them, long before the foundation.  The pond
had been left to the last with a view to the wellbeing of the water-
soldier on the return.  Here the difficulties of the capture were
great, for the nearest plant flourished too far from the bank to be
reached with comfort, and besides, the sharp-pointed leaves to which
it owes its name were not to be approached with casual grasps.

'Oh Monsieur, I wish you were a Beau,' sighed Nuttie.  'Why, are you
too stupid to go and get it?'

'It is a proof of his superior intelligence,' said Mr. Dutton.

'But really it is too ridiculous--too provoking--to have come all
this way and not get it,' cried the tantalised Nuttie.  'Oh, Gerard,
are you taking off your boots and stockings?  You duck!'

'Just what I wish I was,' said the youth, rolling up his trousers.

But even the paddling in did not answer.  Mr. Dutton called out
anxiously, 'Take care, Gerard, the bottom may be soft,' and came down
to the very verge just in time to hold out his hand, and prevent an
utterly disastrous fall, for Gerard, in spite of his bare feet, sank
at once into mud, and on the first attempt to take a step forward,
found his foot slipping away from under him, and would in another
instant have tumbled backwards into the slush and weeds.  He
scrambled back, his hat falling off into the reeds, and splashing Mr.
Dutton all over, while Monsieur began to bark 'with astonishment at
seeing his master in such a plight,' declared the ladies, who stood
convulsed with cruel laughter.

'Isn't it dreadful?' exclaimed Ursula.

'Well!  It might have been worse,' gravely said Mr. Dutton, wiping
off the more obnoxious of his splashes with his pocket handkerchief.

'Oh I didn't mean you, but the water-soldier,' said Nuttie.  'To have
come five miles for it in vain!'

'I don't know what to suggest,' added Gerard.  'Even if the ladies
were to retire--'

'No, no,' interposed Mr. Dutton, ''tis no swimming ground, and I
forbid the expedient.  You would only be entangled in the weeds.'

'Behold!' exclaimed Mary, who had been prowling about the banks, and
now held up in triumph one of the poles with a bill-hook at the end
used for cutting weed.

'Bravo, Miss Nugent!' cried Gerard.

'Female wit has circumvented the water-soldier,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Don't cry out too soon,' returned Mary; 'the soldier may float off
and escape you yet.'

However, the capture was safely accomplished, without even a dip
under water to destroy the beauty of the white flowers.  With these,
and a few waterlilies secured by Gerard for the morrow's altar vases,
the party set out on their homeward walk, through plantations of
whispering firs, the low sun tingeing the trunks with ruddy light;
across heathery commons, where crimson heath abounded, and the
delicate blush-coloured wax-belled species was a prize; by cornfields
in ear hanging out their dainty stamens; along hedges full of
exquisite plumes of feathering or nodding grass, of which Nuttie made
bouquets and botanical studies, and Gerard stored for harvest
decorations.  They ran and danced on together with Monsieur at their
heels, while the elders watched them with some sadness and anxiety.
Free-masonry had soon made both Mary and Mr. Dutton aware of each
other's initiation, and they had discussed the matter in all its
bearings, agreed that the man was a scoundrel, and the woman an
angel, even if she had once been weak, and that she ought to be very
resolute with him if he came to terms.  And then they looked after
their young companions, and Mr. Dutton said, 'Poor children, what is
before them?'

'It is well they are both so young,' answered Mary.


CHAPTER VII.
THAT MAN.


'It is the last time--'tis the last!'--SCOTT.


Sundays were the ever-recurring centres of work and interests to the
little circle in St. Ambrose's Road.  To them the church services and
the various classes and schools were the great objects and
excitements of the week.  A certain measure of hopeful effort and
varying success is what gives zest to life, and the purer and higher
the aim, and the more unmixed the motives, the greater the happiness
achieved by the 'something attempted, something done.'

Setting apart actual spiritual devotion, the altar vases, purchased
by a contribution of careful savings, and adorned with the Monks
Horton lilies, backed by ferns from the same quarter; the surplices
made by the ladies themselves, the chants they had practised, the
hymns they had taught, could not but be much more interesting to them
than if they had been mere lookers on.  Every cross on the markers,
every flower on the altar cloth was the work of one or other of them;
everything in the church was an achievement, and choir boys, school
children, Bible classes, every member of the regular congregation,
had some special interest; nay, every irregular member or visitor
might be a convert in time--if not a present sympathiser, and at the
very least might swell the offertory that was destined to so many
needs of the struggling district.

Thus it was with some curiosity mingled with self-reproach that
Nuttie, while singing her Benedictus among the tuneful shop-girls, to
whom she was bound to set an example, became aware of yesterday's
first-class traveller lounging, as far as the rows of chairs would
permit, in the aisle, and, as she thought, staring hard at her
mother.  It was well that Mrs. Egremont's invariable custom was never
to lift her eyes from her book or her harmonium, or she surely must
have been disconcerted, her daughter thought, by the eyes that must
have found her out, under her little black net bonnet and veil, as
the most beautiful woman in church,--as she certainly was,--even that
fine good-for-nothing gentleman thinking so.  Nuttie would add his
glances to the glories of her lovely mother!

And she did so, with triumph in her tone of reprobation, as she
trotted off, after the early dinner, to her share of Sunday-school
work as usual under Miss Nugent's wing.  It began with a children's
service, and then ensued, in rooms at the factory, lent by Mr.
Dutton, the teaching that was to supply the omissions of the Board
School; the establishment of a voluntary one being the next ambition
of St. Ambrose's.

Coming home from their labours, in the fervent discussion of their
scholars, and exchanging remarks and greetings with the other
teachers of various calibres, the friends reached their own road, and
there, to their amazement, beheld Miss Headworth.

'Yes, it really is!' cried Nuttie.  'We can't be too late?  No--
there's no bell!  Aunt Ursel!  What has brought you out?  What's the
matter?  Where's mother?'

'In the house.  My dear,' catching hold of her, and speaking
breathlessly, 'I came out to prepare you.  He is come--your father--'

'Where?' cried Nuttie, rather wildly.

'He is in the drawing-room with your mother.  I said I would send
you.'  Poor Miss Headworth gasped with agitation.  He is one with no
particular trust in himself, with no superior steadfastness to be
admired for, who sees a lady's face, who hears her voice, and,
without any phrase about the matter, falls in love.

What does he ask for, then, but pity?--pity for his weakness, pity
for his love, which is his life. You would make women always the
inferiors, gaping up at your imaginary lover; he, like a marble
statue, with his nose in the air!

But God has been wiser than you; and the most steadfast of your
heroes may prove human, after all.

We appeal to the queen for judgment,' I added, turning and bowing
before Flora.

'And how shall the queen judge?'

she asked. 'I must give you an answer that is no answer at all. "The
wind bloweth where it listeth": she goes where her heart goes.'
Her face flushed as she said it; mine also, for I read in it a declaration,
and my heart swelled for joy. But Chevenix grew pale.

'You make of life a very dreadful kind of lottery, ma'am,' said he.
'But I will not despair. Honest and unornamental is still my choice.'

And I must say he looked extremely handsome and very amusingly like
the marble statue with its nose in the air to which I had compared
him.

'I cannot imagine how we got upon this subject,' said Flora.

'Madame, it was through the war,' replied Chevenix.

'All roads lead to Rome,' I commented. 'What else would you expect Mr.
Chevenix and myself to talk of?'

About this time I was conscious of a certain bustle and movement
in the room behind me, but did not pay to it that degree of attention
which perhaps would have been wise.

There came a certain change in Flora's face; she signalled repeatedly
with her fan; her eyes appealed to me obsequiously; there could
be no doubt that she wanted something--as well as I could make out,
that I should go away and leave the field clear for my rival, which
I had not the least idea of doing.

At last she rose from her chair with impatience.

'I think it time you were saying good-night, Mr Ducie!' she said.

I could not in the least see why, and said so.

Whereupon she gave me this appalling answer, 'My aunt is coming out
of the card-room.'
In less time than it takes to tell, I had made my bow and my escape.

Looking back from the doorway, I was privileged to see, for a moment,
the august profile and gold eyeglasses of Miss Gilchrist issuing
from the card-room; and the sight lent me wings.

I stood not on the order of my going; and a moment after, I was on
the pavement of Castle Street, and the lighted windows shone down on
me, and were crossed by ironical shadows of those who had remained
behind.

CHAPTER XXIX--EVENTS OF TUESDAY: THE TOILS CLOSING

This day began with a surprise. I found a letter on my breakfast- table
addressed to Edward Ducie, Esquire; and at first I was startled
beyond measure.

'Conscience doth make cowards of us all!' When I had opened
it, it proved to be only a note from the lawyer, enclosing a card for
the Assembly Ball on Thursday evening.
Shortly after, as I was composing my mind with a segar at one of
the windows of the sitting-room, and Rowley, having finished the
light share of work that fell to him, sat not far off tootling with
great spirit and a marked preference for the upper octave, Ronald
was suddenly shown in.

I got him a segar, drew in a chair to the side of the fire, and
installed him there--I was going to say, at his ease, but no
expression could be farther from the truth.

He was plainly on pins and needles, did not know whether to take or
to refuse the segar, and, after he had taken it, did not know whether
to light or to return it. I saw he had something to say; I
did not think it was his own something; and I was ready to offer
a large bet it was really something of Major Chevenix's.

'Well, and so here you are!'

I observed, with pointless cordiality, for I was bound I should do
nothing to help him out. If he were, indeed, here running errands
for my rival, he might have a fair field, but certainly no
favour.

'The fact is,' he began, 'I would rather see you alone.'
'Why, certainly,' I replied. 'Rowley, you can step into the
bedroom. My dear fellow,' I continued, 'this sounds serious.
Nothing wrong, I trust.'
'Well, I'll be quite honest,' said he. 'I AM a good deal bothered.'

'And I bet I know why!' I exclaimed. 'And I bet I can put you to rights,
too!'
'What do you mean!' he asked.

'You must be hard up,' said I, 'and all I can say is, you've come
to the right place.

If you have the least use for a hundred pounds, or any such trifling
sum as that, please mention it.

It's here, quite at your service.'
'I am sure it is most kind of you,' said Ronald, 'and the truth is,
though I can't think how you guessed it, that I really AM a little
behind board.

But I haven't come to talk about that.'

'No, I dare say!' cried I. 'Not worth talking about! But remember,
Ronald, you and I are on different sides of the business.
Remember that you did me one of those services that make men friends
for ever. And since I have had the fortune to come into a fair share
of money, just oblige me, and consider so much of it as your
own.'

'No,' he said, 'I couldn't take it; I couldn't, really. Besides, the
fact is, I've come on a very different matter.

It's about my sister, St. Ives,' and he shook his head menacingly at
me.

'You're quite sure?' I persisted. 'It's here, at your service--up to
five hundred pounds, if you like. Well, all right; only remember
where it is, when you do want it.'
'Oh, please let me alone!' cried Ronald: 'I've come to say
something unpleasant; and how on earth can I do it, if you don't
give a fellow a chance?

It's about my sister, as I said. You can see for yourself that it
can't be allowed to go on. It's compromising; it don't lead to anything;
and you're not the kind of man (you must feel it yourself) that I
can allow my female relatives to have anything to do with.

I hate saying this, St.
Ives; it looks like hitting a man when he's down, you know; and I
told the Major I very much disliked it from the first. However, it
had to be said; and now it has been, and, between gentlemen,
it shouldn't be necessary to refer to it again.'
'It's compromising; it doesn't lead to anything; not the kind of man,'
I repeated thoughtfully. 'Yes, I believe I understand, and shall make
haste to put myself en regle.' I stood up, and laid my segar down.
'Mr. Gilchrist,' said I, with a bow, 'in answer to your very natural
observations, I beg to offer myself as a suitor for your sister's
hand.

I am a man of title, of which we think lightly in France, but of
ancient lineage, which is everywhere prized.

I can display thirty-two quarterings without a blot. My expectations
are certainly above the average: I believe my uncle's income averages
about thirty thousand pounds, though I admit I was not careful to
inform myself. Put it anywhere between fifteen and fifty thousand;
it is certainly not less.'

'All this is very easy to say,' said Ronald, with a pitying smile.
'Unfortunately, these things are in the air.'
'Pardon me,--in Buckinghamshire,' said I, smiling.

'Well, what I mean is, my dear St.

Ives, that you CAN'T PROVE them,' he continued.

'They might just as well not be: do you follow me? You can't bring us
any third party to back you.'

'Oh, come!' cried I, springing up and hurrying to the table. 'You must
excuse me!' I wrote Romaine's address. 'There is my reference, Mr.
Gilchrist.

Until you have written to him, and received his negative answer, I
have a right to be treated, and I shall see that you treat me, as
a gentleman.'

He was brought up with a round turn at that.

'I beg your pardon, St. Ives,' said he. 'Believe me, I had no wish to
be offensive.

But there's the difficulty of this affair; I can't make any of my
points without offence! You must excuse me, it's not my fault.
But, at any rate, you must see for yourself this proposal of
marriage is--is merely impossible, my dear fellow.

It's nonsense! Our countries are at war; you are a prisoner.'
'My ancestor of the time of the Ligue,' I replied, 'married a Huguenot
lady out of the Saintonge, riding two hundred miles through an
enemy's country to bring off his bride; and it was a happy marriage.'

'Well!' he began; and then looked down into the fire, and became
silent.

'Well?' I asked.

'Well, there's this business of--Goguelat,' said he, still looking at
the coals in the grate.

'What!'

I exclaimed, starting in my chair. 'What's that you say?'
'This business about Goguelat,' he repeated.

'Ronald,' said I, 'this is not your doing. These are not your own
words. I know where they came from: a coward put them in your
mouth.'

'St. Ives!' he cried, 'why do you make it so hard for me? and where's
the use of insulting other people? The plain English is, that I
can't hear of any proposal of marriage from a man under a charge
like that. You must see it for yourself, man! It's the most absurd
thing I ever heard of! And you go on forcing me to argue with
you, too!'
'Because I have had an affair of honour which terminated unhappily,
you--a young soldier, or next-door to it--refuse my offer?

Do I understand
you aright?'

said I.
 

'My dear fellow!' he wailed, 'of course you can twist my words, if
you like. You SAY it was an affair of honour. Well, I can't, of
course, tell you that--I can't--I mean, you must see that that's
just the point! Was it? I don't know.'

'I have the honour to inform you,' said I.

'Well, other people say the reverse, you see!'
'They lie, Ronald, and I will prove it in time.'
'The short and the long of it is, that any man who is so unfortunate
as to have such things said about him is not the man to be my
brother-in-law!' he cried.

'Do you know who will be my first witness at the court? Arthur
Chevenix!' said I.

'I don't care!' he cried, rising from his chair and beginning to
pace outrageously about the room. 'What do you mean, St. Ives?
What is this about? It's like a dream, I declare! You made an offer,
and I have refused it.

I don't like it, I don't want it; and whatever I did, or didn't,
wouldn't matter--my aunt wouldn't bear of it anyway! Can't you take
your answer, man?'
'You must remember, Ronald, that we are playing with edged tools,' said
I. 'An offer of marriage is a delicate subject to handle.
You have refused, and you have justified your refusal by several
statements: first, that I was an impostor; second, that our
countries were at war; and third-- No, I will speak,' said I;
'you can answer when I have done,--and third, that I had dishonourably
killed--or was said to have done so--the man Goguelat. Now, my
dear fellow, these are very awkward grounds to be taking. From any one
else's lips I need scarce tell you how I should resent them;
but my hands are tied. I have so much gratitude to you, without
talking of the love I bear your sister, that you insult me,
when you do so, under the cover of a complete impunity. I must feel
the pain--and I do feel it acutely--I can do nothing to protect
myself.' He had been anxious enough to interrupt me in the beginning;
but now, and after I had ceased, he stood a long while silent.

'St. Ives,' he said at last, 'I think I had better go away.

This has been very irritating. I never at all meant to say anything
of the kind, and I apologise to you. I have all the esteem for you
that one gentleman should have for another. I only meant to tell
you--to show you what had influenced my mind; and that, in short,
the thing was impossible.

One thing you may be quite sure of: I shall do nothing against you.

Will you shake hands before I go away?' he blurted out.

'Yes,' said I, 'I agree with you--the interview has been irritating.

Let bygones be bygones. Good-bye, Ronald.'
'Good-bye, St. Ives!' he returned. 'I'm heartily sorry.'
And with that he was gone.

The windows of my own sitting-room looked towards the north; but the
entrance passage drew its light from the direction of the square.
Hence I was able to observe Ronald's departure, his very disheartened
gait, and the fact that he was joined, about half-way, by no less a
man than Major Chevenix. At this, I could scarce keep from smiling;
so unpalatable an interview must be before the pair of them, and
I could hear their voices, clashing like crossed swords, in that
eternal antiphony of 'I told you,' and 'I told you not.' Without
doubt, they had gained very little by their visit; but then I had
gained less than nothing, and had been bitterly dispirited into the
bargain. Ronald had stuck to his guns and refused me to the last. It
was no news; but, on the other hand, it could not be contorted into
good news. I was now certain that during my temporary absence in
France, all irons would be put into the fire, and the world turned
upside down, to make Flora disown the obtrusive Frenchman and accept
Chevenix. Without doubt she would resist these instances: but
the thought of them did not please me, and I felt she should be
warned and prepared for the battle.

It was no use to try and see her now, but I promised myself early that
evening to return to Swanston. In the meantime I had to make all my
preparations, and look the coming journey in the face. Here in Edinburgh
I was within four miles of the sea, yet the business of
approaching random fishermen with my hat in the one hand and a knife
in the other, appeared so desperate, that I saw nothing for it but to
retrace my steps over the northern counties, and knock a second time
at the doors of Birchell Fenn. To do this, money would be necessary;
and after leaving my paper in the hands of Flora I had still a
balance of about fifteen hundred pounds.

Or rather I may say I had them and I had them not; for after my
luncheon with Mr. Robbie I had placed the amount, all but thirty
pounds of change, in a bank in George Street, on a deposit receipt
in the name of Mr. Rowley. This I had designed to be my gift to him,
in case I must suddenly depart. But now, thinking better of the
arrangement, I despatched my little man, cockade and all, to lift the
fifteen hundred.

He was not long gone, and returned with a flushed face, and the
deposit receipt still in his hand.

'No go, Mr. Anne,' says he.

'How's that?' I inquired,
'Well, sir, I found the place all right, and no mistake,' said
he.

'But I tell you what gave me a blue fright!

There was a customer standing by the door, and I reckonised him! Who
do you think it was, Mr. Anne? W'y, that same Red-Breast--him I had
breakfast with near Aylesbury.'
'You are sure you are not mistaken?' I asked.

'Certain sure,' he replied. 'Not Mr. Lavender, I don't mean, sir;
I mean the other party. "Wot's he doing here?' says I. It don't look
right."'
'Not by any means,' I agreed.

I walked to and fro in the apartment reflecting. This particular Bow
Street runner might be here by accident; but it was to imagine a
singular play of coincidence that he, who had met Rowley and spoken
with him in the 'Green Dragon,' hard by Aylesbury, should be now
in Scotland, where he could have no legitimate business, and by
the doors of the bank where Rowley kept his account.

'Rowley,' said I, 'he didn't see you, did he?'
'Never a fear,' quoth Rowley. 'W'y Mr. Anne, sir, if he 'ad, you
wouldn't have seen ME any more! I ain't a hass, sir!'
'Well, my boy, you can put that receipt in your pocket. You'll have
no more use for it till you're quite clear of me. Don't lose it, though;
it's your share of the Christmas-box: fifteen hundred pounds all
for yourself.'

'Begging your pardon, Mr. Anne, sir, but wot for!' said Rowley.

'To set up a public-house upon,' said I.

'If you'll excuse me, sir, I ain't got any call to set up a public-
house, sir,' he replied stoutly.

'And I tell you wot, sir, it seems to me I'm reether young for the
billet. I'm your body servant, Mr. Anne, or else I'm nothink.'
'Well, Rowley,' I said, 'I'll tell you what it's for. It's for the
good service you have done me, of which I don't care--and don't
dare--to speak.

It's for your loyalty and cheerfulness, my dear boy. I had meant it
for you; but to tell you the truth, it's past mending now--it has
to be yours.

Since that man is waiting by the bank, the money can't be touched
until I'm gone.'

'Until you're gone, sir?'

re-echoed Rowley. 'You don't go anywheres without me, I can tell you
that, Mr. Anne, sir!'
'Yes, my boy,' said I, 'we are going to part very soon now; probably
to-morrow.

And it's for my sake, Rowley! Depend upon it, if there was any reason
at all for that Bow Street man being at the bank, he was not there to
look out for you.

How they could have found out about the account so early is more
than I can fathom; some strange coincidence must have played
me false! But there the fact is; and Rowley, I'll not only have
to say farewell to you presently, I'll have to ask you to stay
indoors until I can say it.
Remember, my boy, it's only so that you can serve me now.'
'W'y, sir, you say the word, and of course I'll do it!' he
cried.
'"Nothink by 'alves," is my motto! I'm your man, through thick and
thin, live or die, I am!'
In the meantime there was nothing to be done till towards sunset.
My only chance now was to come again as quickly as possible to
speech of Flora, who was my only practicable banker; and not before
evening was it worth while to think of that. I might compose myself
as well as I was able over the Caledonian Mercury, with its ill
news of the campaign of France and belated documents about the
retreat from Russia; and, as I sat there by the fire, I was sometimes
all awake with anger and mortification at what I was reading, and
sometimes again I would be three parts asleep as I dozed over the
barren items of home intelligence.Can we, Nuttie?  Come and help me
to get her to promise.  Do--do dearest auntie,' and she began the
coaxing and caressing natural to her, but Nuttie did not join in it,
and Miss Headworth shook her head and said gravely--

'Don't, Alice.  It is of no use.  I tell you once for all that my
mind is made up.'

Alice, knowing by long experience that, when her aunt spoke in that
tone, persuasion was useless, desisted, but looked at her in
consternation, with eyes swimming in tears.  Nuttie understood her a
little better, and felt the prickings of distrust again.

'But, aunt, dear aunt, how can we leave you?  What will you do with
all the boarders,' went on Mrs. Egremont.

'I shall see my way, my dear.  Do not think about that.  It is a
great thing to see you and this child receive justice.'

'And only think, after all the hard things that have been said of
him, that we should meet first at church!  He would not wait and send
letters and messages by Mark.  You see he came down himself the first
moment.  I always knew he would.  Only I am so sorry for him, that he
should have lost all those sweet years when Nuttie was a tiny child.
She must do all she can to make up to him.'

'Oh dear!' broke out Nuttie.  'It is so strange!  It will be all so
strange!'

'It will be a very new life,' said her aunt, rather didactically;
'but you must do your best to be a good daughter, and to fill your
new position, and I have no doubt you will enjoy it.'

'If I could but take all with me!' said Nuttie.  'Oh dear! whatever
will you do, Aunt Ursel?  Oh mother, the choir!  Who will play the
harmonium? and who will lead the girls? and whatever will Mr. Spyers
do? and who will take my class?  Mother, couldn't we stay a little
longer to set things going here?'

'It is nice of you to have thought of it, my dear,' said Mrs.
Egremont, 'but your father would not like to stay on here.'

'But mightn't I stay, just a few days, mother, to wish everybody
good-bye?  Mr. Dutton, and Miss Mary, and Gerard, and all the girls?'

There was some consolation in this plan, and the three women rested
on it that night, Mrs. Egremont recovering composure enough to write
three or four needful notes, explaining her sudden departure.  The
aunt could not talk of a future she so much dreaded for her nieces,
losing in it the thought of her own loneliness; Alice kept back her
own loving, tender, undoubting joy with a curious sense that it was
hard and ungrateful towards the aunt; but it was impossible to think
of that, and Nuttie was in many moods.

Eager anticipation of the new unseen world beyond, exultation in
finding herself somebody, sympathy with her mother's happiness, all
had their share, but they made her all the wilder, because they were
far from unmixed.  The instinctive dislike of Mr. Egremont's
countenance, and doubt of his plausible story, which had vanished
before his presence, and her mother's faith, returned upon her from
time to time, caught perhaps from her aunt's tone and looks.  Then
her aunt had been like a mother to her--her own mother much more like
a sister, and the quitting her was a wrench not compensated for as in
Mrs. Egremont's case by a more absorbing affection.  Moreover, Nuttie
felt sure that poor Gerard Godfrey would break his heart.  As the
mother and daughter for the last time lay down together in the room
that had been theirs through the seventeen years of the girl's life,
Alice fell asleep with a look of exquisite peace and content on her
face, feeling her long term of trial crowned by unlooked-for joy,
while Ursula, though respecting her slumbers too much to move, lay
with wide-open eyes, now speculating on the strange future, now
grieving over those she left--Aunt Ursel, Gerard, Mary, and all such;
the schemes from which she was snatched, and then again consoling
herself with the hope that, since she was going to be rich, she could
at once give all that was wanted--the white altar cloth, the brass
pitcher--nay, perhaps finish the church and build the school!  For
had not some one said something about her position?  Oh yes, she had
not thought of it before, but, since she was the elder brother's
daughter, she must be the heiress!  There was no doubt a grand
beautiful story before her; she would withstand all sorts of
fascinations, wicked baronets and earls innumerable, and come back
and take Gerard by the hand, and say, 'Pride was quelled and love was
free.'  Not that Gerard had ever uttered a word tending in that
direction since he had been seven years old, but that would make it
all the prettier; they would both be silently constant, till the time
came, perhaps when she was of age.  Mother would like it, though
_that_ father would certainly be horrid.  And how nice it would be to
give Gerard everything, and they would go all over the Continent, and
see pictures, and buy them, and see all the cathedrals and all the
mountains.  But perhaps, since Mark Egremont had really been so
generous in hunting up the cousin who was displacing him, she was
bound in duty to marry him; perhaps he reckoned on her doing so.  She
would be generous in her turn, give up all the wealth to him, and
return to do and be everything to Micklethwayte.  How they would
admire and bless her.  And oh! she was going to London to-morrow--
London, which she so much wished to see--Westminster Abbey, British
Museum, All Saints, National Gallery, no end of new dresses.

Half-waking, half-dreaming, she spent the night which seemed long
enough, and the light hours of the summer morning seemed still
longer, before she could call it a reasonable time for getting up.
Her splashings  awoke her mother, who lay smiling for a few moments,
realising and giving thanks for her great joy, then bestirred herself
with the recollection of all that had to be done on this busy morning
before any summons from her husband could arrive.

Combining packing and dressing, like the essentially unmethodical
little woman she was, Mrs. Egremont still had all her beautiful silky
brown hair about her shoulders when the bell of St. Ambrose's was
heard giving its thin tinkling summons to matins at half-past seven.
She was disappointed; she meant to have gone for this last time, but
there was no help for it, and Nuttie set off by herself.

Gerard Godfrey was at his own door.  He was not one of the regular
attendants at the short service, being of that modern species that
holds itself superior to 'Cranmer's prayers,' but on this morning he
hastened up to her with outstretched hand.

'And you are going away!' he said.

'I hope to get leave to stay a few days after mother,' she said.

'To prolong the torment?' he said.

'To wish everybody good-bye.  It is a great piece of my life that is
come to an end, and I can't bear to break it off so short.'

'And if you feel so, who are going to wealth and pleasure, what must
it be to those who are left behind?'

'Oh!' said Nuttie, 'some one will be raised up.  That's what they
always say. '

'I shall go into a brotherhood,' observed Gerard desperately.

'Oh, don't,' began Nuttie, much gratified, but at that moment Miss
Nugent came out at her door, and Mr. Spyers, who was some way in
advance, looked round and waited for them to come up.  He held out
his hands to her and said, 'Well, Nuttie, my child, you are going to
begin a new life.'

'Oh dear!  I wish I could have both!' cried Nuttie, not very
relevantly as far as the words
went.

'Scheiden und weiden thut weh!' quoted Mary.

'If his place was only Monks Horton.  What will Aunt Ursel do?'

'I think perhaps she may be induced to join us,' said Mary.  'We mean
to do our best to persuade her.'

'And there's the choir!  And my class, and the harmonium,' went on
Nuttie, while Gerard walked on disconsolately.

'Micklethwayte has existed without you, Nuttie,' said Mr. Spyers,
taking her on with him alone.  'Perhaps it will be able to do so
again.  My dear, you had better look on.  There will be plenty for
you to learn and to do where you are going, and you will be sure to
find much to enjoy, and also something to bear.  I should like to
remind you that the best means of going on well in this new world
will be to keep self down and to have the strong desire that only
love can give to be submissive, and to do what is right both to God
and your father and mother.  May I give you a text to take with you?
"Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right."'

They were at the door and there was no time for an answer, but
Nuttie, as she took her place, was partly touched and partly fretted
at the admonition.

The question as to her remaining a day or two after her mother was
soon disposed of.  Mrs. Egremont sent a pretty little note to make
the request, but the elegant valet who appeared at ten o'clock
brought a verbal message that his master wished Mrs. and Miss
Egremont to be ready by two o'clock to join him in calling on Lady
Kirkaldy at Monks Horton, and that if their luggage was ready by four
o'clock, he (Gregorio) would take charge of it, as they were all to
go up to town by the 4.40 train.

'Did he have my note?' faltered Alice, stimulated by the imploring
glances of aunt and daughter, but anticipating the answer.

'Yes, madame, but he wishes that Miss Egremont should accompany you
immediately.'

'Of course,' was Alice's comment, 'now that he has found his child,
he cannot bear to part with her.'

And all through the farewells that almost rent the gentle Alice's
heart in two, she was haunted by the terror that she or her daughter
should have red eyes to vex her husband.  As to Mr. Dutton, he had
only come in with Gerard in a great hurry just after breakfast, said
there was much to do to-day at the office, as they were going to take
stock, and they should neither of them have time to come home to
luncheon.  He shook the hands of mother and daughter heartily,
promised to 'look after' Miss Headworth, and bore off in his train
young Gerard, looking the picture of woe, and muttering 'I believe he
has got it up on purpose;' while mother and daughter thought it very
odd, and rather unkind.


CHAPTER IX.
NEW PLUMES.


'And ye sall walk in silk attire,
 And siller hae to spare.'--Old Ballad.


The very best open fly and pair of horses, being the equipage most
like a private carriage possessed by the Royal Hotel, came to the
door with Mr. Egremont seated in it, at a few minutes after two
o'clock, and found Alice in her only black silk, with a rose in her
bonnet, and a tie to match on her neck, hastily procured as signs of
her wifehood.

She had swallowed her tears, and Nuttie was not a crying person, but
was perfectly scarlet on her usually brown cheeks.  Her father
muttered some civility about back seats, but it was plain that it was
only in words, and she never thought of anything but looking back,
with her last wave to her aunt and the two maids, one crying at the
gate, the other at the door.

'There,' said Mr. Egremont, as they drove away, 'that is over!'

'My dear aunt,' said his wife.  'Who can express her goodness to me?'

'Cela va sans dire,' was the reply.  'But these are connections that
happily Ursula is young enough to forget and leave behind.'

'I shall never forget!' began Nuttie, but she saw her father
composing himself in his corner without paying the slightest heed to
what she was saying, and she encountered a warning and alarmed glance
from her mother, so she was forced to content herself with uttering
silent vows of perpetual recollection as she passed each well-known
object,--the unfinished church, with Mr. Spyers at the door talking
to old Bellman; the Town Hall, whose concerts, lectures, and S. P. G.
meetings had been her chief gaiety and excitement; the School of Art,
where Lady Kirkaldy's appearance now seemed to her to have been like
that of a bird of omen; past the shops in the High Street, with a
little exultation at the thought of past desires which they had
excited.  Long could she have rattled away, her hopes contradicting
her regrets, and her regrets qualifying her anticipations, but she
saw that her mother was nervous about every word and gesture, and
fairly looked dismayed when she exclaimed, 'Oh, mother, there's Etta
Smith; how surprised she will be!' bowing and smiling with all her
might.

There was a look of bare toleration on Mr. Egremont's face, as if he
endured because it would soon be over, as Nuttie bowed several times,
and his wife, though less quick to catch people's eyes, sometimes
also made her recognition.  When the streets were past and Nuttie had
aimed her last nods at the nursery parties out walking on the road,
she became aware that those cold, lack-lustre, and yet sharply
critical eyes of her father were scanning her all over.

'She has been educated?' he presently said to his wife.

'Oh yes,' was the eager answer.  'She is in the highest form at the
High School, and has to go up for the Senior Local Examination.  Miss
Belper makes sure that she will get a first class.'

Mr. Egremont gave a little wave of the hand, as dismissing something
superfluous, and said, 'I hope she has some accomplishments.'

'She has done very fairly in French and German--'

'And Latin,' put in Ursula.

'And she has had several prizes at the School of Art.'

'And music?  That's the only thing of any value in society,' he said
impatiently, and Mrs. Egremont said more timidly, 'She has learnt
music regularly.'

'But I don't care about it,' broke in Nuttie.  'I haven't mother's
ear nor her voice.  I learnt the science in case I should have to
teach, and they make me practise.  I don't mind classical music, but
I can't stand rubbish, and I think it is waste of time.'

Mr. Egremont looked fairly amused, as at the outspoken folly of an
enfant terrible, but he only said, either to his wife or to himself,
'A little polish, and then she may be fairly presentable. '

'We have taken great pains with her,' answered the gentle mother,
evidently taking this as a great compliment, while the daughter was
tingling with indignation.  She, bred up by mother, and aunt, and
Mary Nugent, to be barely presentable.  Was not their society at
Micklethwayte equal in good manners to any, and superior, far
superior, in goodness and intelligence to these stupid fashionable
people, who undervalued all her real useful acquirements, and cared
for nothing but trumpery music.

The carriage entered the park, and Nuttie saw lake and woods from a
fresh point of view.  The owners were both at home, and Nuttie found
herself walking behind her parents into a cheerful apartment, half
library, half morning-room.  Mrs. Egremont was by far the most shy
and shrinking of the party, but it was an occasion that showed her
husband's complete tact and savoir favre.  He knew perfectly well
that the Kirkaldys knew all about it, and he therefore took the
initiative.  'You are surprised to see us,' he said, as he gave his
hand, 'but we could not leave the country without coming to thank
Lady Kirkaldy for her kindness in assisting in following up the clue
to Mrs. Egremont's residence.'

'I am very happy,' said Lady Kirkaldy, while all were being seated.

'I think it was here that my nephew Mark first met one whom, child as
he was, he could not but remember.'

'I don't think you met him here,' said Lady Kirkaldy to Mrs.
Egremont; 'but he heard the name and was struck by it.'

'Dear Mark!' was the response.  'He was so kind.'

'He is a dear good boy,' chimed in my lady.

'Yes,' said her lord, 'an excellent good fellow with plenty of
brains.'

'As he well knows,' said Mr. Egremont.  'Oh yes; I quite agree with
all you say of him!  One ought to be thankful for the possession of a
rare specimen.'

It was in the tone in which Falstaff discussed that sober boy, Lord
John of Lancaster.  Lord Kirkaldy asked if the visitors were going to
remain long in the neighbourhood.

'We are due in London to-night,' replied Mr. Egremont.  'We shall
spend a day or two there, and then go home.  Alice,' he added, though
his wife had never heard him call her so before, 'Lady Kirkaldy knows
your inexperience.  Perhaps she would be good enough to give you some
addresses that might be useful.'

'I shall be delighted,' said the lady, cordially looking at the
blushing Mrs. Egremont.

'Dressmaker, and all the rest of it,' said Mr. Egremont.  'You know
better than she does what she will require, and a little advice will
be invaluable.  Above all, if you could tell her how to pick up a
maid.'

Lady Kirkaldy proposed to take the mother and daughter up to her
dressing-room, where she kept her book of addresses to London
tradesmen; and Mr. Egremont only begged that they would remember the
4.40 train.  Then Lord Kirkaldy was left to entertain him, while the
ladies went up the broad staircase to the pleasant room, which had a
mingled look of refinement and usefulness which struck Nuttie at
once.  Lady Kirkaldy, as soon as the door was shut, took her visitor
by the hand, kissed her forehead, and said, 'You must let me tell you
how glad I am.'

The crystal veil at once spread over Alice's eyes.

'Oh, thank you. Lady Kirkaldy!  I am _so_ happy, and yet I am so
afraid.  Please tell me what we shall _do_ so that we may not vex
him, so high bred and fastidious as he is?'

'Be yourself!  That's all, my dear,' said Lady Kirkaldy tenderly.
'Don't be afraid.  You are quite incapable of doing anything that
could distress the most fastidious taste.'

It was perfectly true of the mother, perhaps less so of the daughter;
but Lady Kirkaldy only thought of her as a mere girl, who could
easily be modelled by her surroundings.  The kind hostess applied
herself to giving the addresses of the people she thought likely to
be most useful in the complete outfit which she saw would be
necessary, explaining to which establishments she applied with
confidence if she needed to complete her wardrobe in haste, feeling
certain that nothing would be sent her that she disliked, and giving
leave to use her name.  She soon saw that the mother was a little
dazed, while Ursula's eyes grew rounder at the unlimited vista of
fine clothes, and she assented, and asked questions as to the
details.  As to a maid, Lady Kirkaldy would write to a person who
would call on Mrs. Egremont at the hotel in London, and who might be
what was wanted; and in conclusion, Lady Kirkaldy, with some
diffidence, begged to be written to--'if--if,' she said, 'there
happened to be any difficulty about which you might not like to
consult Mrs. William Egremont.'  Nuttie hardly knew whether to be
grateful or not, for she did not believe in any standard above that
of Micklethwayte, and she was almost angry at her mother's grateful
answer--'Oh, thank you!  I should be so grateful!  I am so afraid of
annoying him by what he may think small, ignorant, country-town ways!
You will understand--'

Lady Kirkaldy did understand, and she dreaded what might be before
the sweet little yielding woman, not from want of breeding so much as
from the long-indulged selfishness of her husband; but she encouraged
her as much as possible, and promised all possible counsel, bringing
her downstairs again just in time.

'Pretty little soul!' said Lord Kirkaldy, as the fly clattered away.
'I wonder whether Mark has done her a kindness!'

'It is just what she is, a pretty, nay, a beautiful soul, full of
tenderness and forgiveness and affection and humility, only I doubt
whether there is any force or resolution to hold her own.  You smile!
Well, perhaps the less of that she has the better she may get on with
him.  Did he say anything about her?'

'No; I think he wants to ignore that they have not spent the last
twenty years together.'

'That may be the best way for all parties.  Do you think he will
behave well to her?'

'No man could well do otherwise to such a sweet little thing,' said
Lord Kirkaldy; 'especially as she will be his most obedient slave,
and will make herself necessary to him.  It is much better luck than
he deserves; but I pity her when she comes to make her way with yon
ladies!'

'I wish I was there!  I know she will let herself be trodden on!
However, there's Mark to stand up for her, and William Egremont will
do whatever he thinks right and just.  I wish I knew how his wife
will take it!'


CHAPTER X.
BRIDGEFIELD EGREMONT.


'Let us see these handsome houses
 Where the wealthy nobles dwell.'--TENNYSON.


'Mother, mother!' cried two young people, bursting open the door of
the pretty dining-room of Bridgefield Rectory, where the grown-up
part of the family were lingering over a late breakfast.

'Gently, gently, children,' said the dignified lady at the head of
the table.  'Don't disturb papa.'

'But we really have something to say, mother!' said the elder girl,
'and Fraulein said you ought to know.  Uncle Alwyn is come home, and
Mrs. Egremont.  And please, are we to call her Aunt Egremont, or Aunt
Alwyn, or what?'

The desired sensation was produced.  Canon Egremont put down his
newspaper.  The two elder sisters looked from one to the other in
unmitigated astonishment.  Mark briefly made answer to the final
question, 'Aunt Alice,' and Mrs. Egremont said gravely, 'How did you
hear this, Rosalind?  You know I always forbid you to gossip.'

'We didn't gossip, mother.  We went up to the gardens to get some
mulberries for our half-holiday feast; and Ronaldson came out and
told us we must ask leave first, for the ladies were come.  The
Squire came home at nine o'clock last night, and Mrs. Egremont and
all, and only sent a telegram two hours before to have the rooms got
ready.'

'Has Uncle Alwyn gone and got himself married?' exclaimed one of the
young ladies, in utter amazement.

'Not just now, Blanche,' said her father.  'It is an old story now.
Your uncle married this lady, who had been governess to May and Mark,
many years ago, and from--circumstances in which she was not at all
to blame, he lost sight of her while he was abroad with old General
Egremont.  Mark met her about a fortnight ago, and this has led to
your uncle's going in quest of her, though he has certainly been more
sudden in his proceedings than I expected.'

The mother here succeeded in sending Rosalind and Adela, with their
wondering eyes, off the scene, and she would much have liked to send
her two stepdaughters after them, but one-and-twenty and eighteen
could not so readily be ordered off as twelve and ten; and Mark, who
had been prohibited from uttering a word to his sisters, was eagerly
examining Margaret whether she remembered their Edda; but she had
been only three years old at the time of the adventures in the Isle
of Wight, and remembered nothing distinctly but the aspect of one of
the sailors in the yacht.

'Well,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'this has come very suddenly upon us.  It
would have been more for her own dignity if she had held out a little
before coming so easily to terms, after the way in which she has been
treated.'

'When you see her, mother, you will understand,' said Mark.

'Shall we have to be intimate with her?' asked May.

'I desire that she should be treated as a relation,' said the Canon
decidedly.  'There is nothing against her character,' and, as his
wife was about to interrupt,--'nothing but an indiscretion to which
she was almost driven many years ago.  She was cruelly treated, and I
for one am heartily sorry for having let myself be guided by others.'

Mrs. William Egremont felt somewhat complacent, for she knew he meant
Lady de Lyonnais, and there certainly had been no love lost between
her and her step-children's grandmother; but she was a sensible
woman, and forbore to speak, though there was a mental reservation
that intimacy would a good deal depend upon circumstances.  Blanche
cried out that it was a perfect romance, and May gravely said, 'But
is she a lady?'

'A perfect lady,' said Mark.  'Aunt Margaret says so.'

'One knows what a perfect lady means,' returned May.

'Come, May,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'do not let us begin with a
prejudice.  By all accounts the poor thing has conducted herself with
perfect respectability all this time.  What did you tell me, Mark?
She has been living with an aunt, keeping a school at Micklethwayte.'

 Not quite,' said Mark.  'She has been acting as a daily governess.
She seemed to be on friendly terms with the clerical folk.  I came
across the name at a school feast, or something of the kind, which
came off in the Kirkaldys' park.'

'Oh, then, I know exactly the sort of person!' returned May, pursing
up her lips.

Mark laughed and said, 'I wonder whether it is too soon to go up and
see them.  I wonder what my uncle thinks of his daughter.'

'What!  You don't mean to say there is a daughter?' cried May.

'Even so.  And exactly like you too, Miss May.'

'Then you are cut out, Mark!'

'You are cut out, I think, May.  You'll have to give her all your
Miss Egremont cards.'

'No,' said the young lady; 'mother made me have my Christian name
printed.  She said all but the daughters of the head of the family
ought to have it so.  I'm glad of it.'

'How old is she?' asked Blanche.

'About a year younger than you.'

'I think it is very interesting,' said Blanche.  'How wonderful it
must all be to her!  I will go up with you, Mark, as soon as I can
get ready.'

'You had better wait till later in the day, Blanche,' said the
mother.  She knew the meeting was inevitable, but she preferred
having it under her own eye, if she could not reconnoitre.

She was a just and sensible woman, who felt reparation due to the
newly-discovered sister-in-law, and that harmony, or at least the
appearance of it, must be preserved; but she was also exclusive and
fastidious by nature, and did not look forward to the needful
intercourse with much satisfaction either on her own account or that
of her family.

She told Mark to say that she should come to see Mrs. Egremont after
luncheon, since he was determined to go at once, and moreover to drag
his father with him.  Canon Egremont was a good and upright man,
according to his lights, which were rather those of a well-beneficed
clergyman of the first than of the last half of the century,
intensified perhaps that the passive voice was the strongest in him.
All the country knew that Canon Egremont could be relied on to give a
prudent, scholarly judgment, and to be kind and liberal, when once
induced to stir mind or body--but how to do that was the problem.  He
had not been a young man at the time of his first marriage, and was
only a few years' junior to his brother, though he had the fresh,
wholesome look of a man who kept regular hours and lived much in the
air.

Alice knew him at once, and thought eighteen years had made little
change, as, at Nuttie's call to her, she looked from the window and
saw the handsome, dignified, gray-haired, close-shaven rosy face, and
the clerical garb unchanged in favour of long coats and high
waistcoats.

The mother and daughter were exploring the house together.  Mr.
Egremont had made it known that he preferred having his breakfast
alone, and not being disturbed in the forenoon.  So the two ladies
had breakfasted together at nine, the earliest hour at which they
could prevail on the household to give them a meal.  Indeed Nuttie
had slept till nearly that time, for between excitement and noise,
her London slumbers had been broken; and her endeavour to keep
Micklethwayte hours had resulted in a long, weary, hungry time in the
sitting-room of the hotel, with nothing to do, when the gaze from the
window palled on her, but to write to her aunt and Mary Nugent.  The
rest of the day had been spent in driving about in a brougham with
her mother shopping, and this she could not but enjoy exceedingly,
more than did the timid Mrs. Egremont, who could not but feel herself
weighted with responsibility; and never having had to spend at the
utmost more than ten pounds at a time, felt bewildered at the cheques
put into her hands, and then was alarmed to find them melting away
faster than she expected.

There was a very late dinner, after which Mr. Egremont, on the first
day, made his wife play bezique with him.  She enjoyed it, as a
tender reminiscence of the yachting days; but Nuttie found herself de
trop, and was reduced to the book she had contrived to purchase on
her travels.  The second night Mr. Egremont had picked up two
friends, not yet gone out of town, whose talk was of horses and of
yachts, quite incomprehensible to the ladies.  They were very
attentive to Mrs. Egremont, whom they evidently admired, one so
visibly as to call up a blush; but they disregarded the daughter as a
schoolgirl.  Happily they appeared no more after the dinner; but
Nuttie's first exclamation of astonished disgust was silenced at once
by her mother with unusual determination, 'You must not speak so of
your father's friends.'

'Not when--'

'Not at all,' interrupted Mrs. Egremont.

The only sense of promotion to greatness that Ursula had yet enjoyed
was in these fine clothes, and the maid whom Lady Kirkaldy had
recommended, a grave and severe-looking person, of whom both stood
somewhat in awe.  The arrival at Bridgefield had been too late for
anything to be taken in but a general impression of space and
dreariness, and the inevitable dinner of many courses, after which
Nuttie was so tired out that her mother sent her to bed.

Since the waking she had made some acquaintance with the house.
There was no show of domestics, no curtseying housekeeper to parade
the new mistress over the house; Mr. Egremont had told his wife that
she must fill up the establishment as she pleased, but that there was
an admirable cook downstairs, and he would not have her interfered
with--she suited his tastes as no one else did, and she must be left
to deal with the provisions and her own underlings.  There was a
stable establishment, and a footman had been hired in town, but there
was besides only one untidy-looking housemaid, who began by giving
warning; and Alice and Nuttie had roamed about without meeting any
one from the big wainscotted dining-room with faded crimson curtains
and family portraits, the older grimy, the younger chalky, to the two
drawing-rooms, whose gilding and pale blue damask had been preserved
by pinafores of brown holland; the library, which looked and smelt as
if Mr. Egremont was in the habit of sitting there, and a big
billiard-room, all opening into a shivery-feeling hall, with
Scagliola columns and a few dirty statues between them; then upstairs
to a possible morning-room, looking out over a garden lawn, where
mowing was going on in haste, and suites of dreary shut-up fusty
bedrooms.  Nuttie, who had notions of choosing her own bower, could
not make up her mind which looked the least inviting.  It did not
seem as if girls could ever have laughed together, or children
clattered up and down the stairs.  Mrs. Egremont begged her to keep
possession for the present at least of the chamber where the grim
housemaid had chosen to put her, and which had the advantage of being
aired.

The two windows looked out over the park, and thence it was that
while Morris, the maid, was unpacking and putting away the new
purchases, and Nuttie was standing, scarcely realising that such
pretty hats and bonnets could be her very own, when her mother beheld
the Canon and Mark advancing up the drive.  It was with a great start
that she called Ursula to come down directly with her, as no one
would know where to find them, hastily washing the hands that had
picked up a sense of dustiness during the exploration, and taking a
comprehensive glance in the cheval glass, which showed her some one
she felt entirely unfamiliar to her in a dainty summer costume of
pale gray silk picked out with a mysterious shade of pink.  Ursula
too thought Miss Egremont's outer woman more like a Chelsea
shepherdess than Nuttie's true self, as she tripped along in her
buckled shoes and the sea green stockings that had been sent home
with her skirt.  With crimson cheeks and a throbbing heart, Alice was
only just at the foot of the stairs when the newcomers had made their
way in, and the kind Canon, ignoring all that was past, held out his
hands saying, 'Well, my dear, I am glad to see you here,' kissing
Mrs. Egremont on each cheek.  'And so this is your daughter.  How do
you do, my dear--Ursula?  Isn't that your name?'  And Ursula had
again to submit to a kiss, much more savoury and kindly than her
father's, though very stubbly.  And oh! her uncle's dress was like
that of no one she had ever seen except the rector of the old church,
the object of unlimited contempt to the adherents of St. Ambrose's.

As to Mark, he only kissed his aunt, and shook hands with her, while
his father ran on with an unusual loquacity that was a proof of
nervousness in him.

'Mrs. Egremont--Jane, I mean--will be here after luncheon.  She
thought you would like to get settled in first.  How is Alwyn?  Is he
down yet?'

'I will see,' in a trembling voice.

'Oh no, never mind, Alwyn hates to be disturbed till he has made
himself up in the morning.  My call is on you, you know.  Where are
you sitting?'

'I don't quite know.  In the drawing-room, I suppose.'

The Canon, knowing the house much better than she did, opened a door
into a third drawing-room she had not yet seen, a pretty little room,
fitted up with fluted silk, like a tent, somewhat faded but not much
the worse for that, and opening into a conservatory, which seemed to
have little in it but some veteran orange trees.  Nuttie, however,
exclaimed with pleasure at the nicest room she had seen, and Mark
began unfastening the glass door that led into it.  Meantime Alice,
with burning cheeks and liquid eyes, nerved her voice to say, 'Oh,
sir--Mr. Egremont--please forgive me!  I know now how wrong I was.'

'Nonsense, my dear.  Bygones are bygones.  You were far more sinned
against than sinning, and have much to forgive me.  There, my dear,
we will say no more about it, nor think of it either.  I am only too
thankful that poor Alwyn should have some one to look after him.'

Alice, who had dreaded nothing more than the meeting with her former
master, was infinitely relieved and grateful for this kindness.  She
had ejaculated, 'Oh, you are so good!' in the midst, and now at the
mention of her husband, she exclaimed, 'Oh! do you think he is ill?
I can't help being afraid he is, but he will not tell me, and does
not like to be asked.'

'Poor fellow, he has damaged his health a good deal,' was the answer.
'He had a sharp attack in the spring, but he has pretty well got over
it, and Raikes told me there was no reason for uneasiness, provided
he would be careful; and that will be a much easier matter now.  I
should not wonder if we saw him with quite a renewed youth.'

So the Canon and Mrs. Egremont were getting on pretty well together,
but there was much more stiffness and less cordiality between the two
cousins, although Mark got the window open into the conservatory, and
showed Nuttie the way into the garden, advising her to ask Ronaldson,
the gardener, to fill the conservatory with flowers.  The pavilion,
as this little room was called, always seemed to have more capacities
for being lived in than any other room in the house.  It had been
fitted up when such things were the fashion for the shortlived bride
of 'our great uncle.'

What mere assertion will make any man believe that in one second of
time, in one beat of the pendulum of a clock, a ray of light travels
over 192,000 miles, and would therefore perform the tour of the
world in about the same time that it requires to wink with our
eyelids, and in much less than a swift runner occupies in taking a
single stride?

What mortal can be made to believe, without demonstration, that the
sun is almost a million times larger than the earth? and that,
although so remote from us, that a cannon ball shot directly towards
it, and maintaining its full speed, would be twenty years in reaching
it, it yet affects the earth by its attraction in an inappreciable
instant of time?

--Who would not ask for demonstration, when told that a gnat's wing,
in its ordinary flight, beats many hundred times in a second? or that
there exist animated and regularly organised beings, many thousands
of whose bodies laid close together would not extend an inch? But
what are these to the astonishing truths which modern optical
inquiries have disclosed, which teach us that every point of a
medium through which a ray of light passes is affected with a
succession of periodical movements, regularly recurring at equal
intervals, no less than 500 millions of millions of times in a
single second!

that it is by such movements, communicated to the nerves of our eyes,
that we see--nay more, that it is the difference in the frequency
of their recurrence which affects us with the sense of the diversity
of colour; that, for instance, in acquiring the sensation of redness
our eyes are affected 482 millions of millions of times; of
yellowness, 542 millions of millions of times; and of violet, 707
millions of millions of times per second.

Do not such things sound more like the ravings of madmen, than the
sober conclusions of people in their waking senses? They are,
nevertheless, conclusions to which any one may most certainly arrive,
who will only be at the trouble of examining the chain of reasoning
by which they have been obtained.

_Extraordinary Property of Shadows_.

An eminent living geometer had proved by calculations, founded on
strict optical principles, that in the _centre of the shadow_ of
a small circular plate of metal, exposed in a dark room to a beam
of light emanating from a _very small brilliant point_, there ought
to be no darkness,--in fact, _no shadow_ at that place; but, on the
contrary, a degree of illumination precisely as bright as if the
metal plate were away.

Strange and even impossible as this conclusion may seem, it has
been put to the trial, and found perfectly correct

.

* * * * *

THE NATURALIST.

* * * * *

RAINING TREES.

(_By John Murray, Esq. F.S.A. &c._)
The secretions of trees form a curious part of their physiology, but
the influence of vegetation on the atmosphere seems to have been
entirely overlooked, at least as far as it regards its meteorology.

In the case of that curious genus of plants the Sarracèn_ia_, in which
the S. adúnca is most conspicuous, the foliaceous pouch is a mere
reservoir, or cistern, to catch and retain the falling dew or rain.

In the _N_epénthes distillatòria, or pitcher plant, the case is
different; and analysis proves it to be an evident secretion from
the plant itself, independent altogether of the fact that it is
found in the pitcher before the lid has yet opened.

I may here state, _en passant,_ that the results, I obtained from
a chemical examination of this liquid differ materially from those
of Dr.

Edward Turner. The _C_órnus máscula is very remarkable for the amount
of fluid matter which evolves from its leaves, and the willow and
poplar, when grouped more especially, exhibit the phenomenon in the
form of a gentle shower.

Prince Maximilian, in his _Travels in the Brazils_, informs us that
the natives in these districts are well acquainted with the peculiar
property of those hollow leaves that act as recipients of the
condensed vapours of the atmosphere; and, doubtless, these are
sources where many tropical animals, as well as the wandering savage,
sate their thirst "in a weary land."

The Tillánds_ia_ exhibits a watery feature of a different complexion:
here the entire interior is charged with such a supply of liquid,
that, when cut, it affords a copious and refreshing beverage to
man.

That these extraordinary sources of "living springs of water" are
not unknown to inferior creation, is a fact interestingly confirmed
to us in the happy incidents detailed by Mr. Campbell, in his _Travels
in South Africa_, where a species of mouse is described to us, as
storing up supplies of water contained in the berries of particular
plants; and, in Ceylon, animals of the _S_ímia tribe are said to
be well acquainted with the _N_epénthes distillatòria, and to have
frequent recourse to its pitcher.

The mechanism of the "rose of Jericho" (Anastática hierochuntìna]
shows the susceptibility of plants to moisture in a very remarkable
manner; and I have submitted some experiments made with this
extraordinary exotic, the inhabitant of an arid sandy soil, to the
Horticultural Society of London.

That succulents should be found clothing in patches the surface
of the burning desert is a phenomenon not the least wonderful in
the geographical history of vegetation.

In Cockburn's _Voyages_ we find an interesting account of a tree in
South America, which yielded a plentiful supply of water by a kind of
distillatory process: this tree was met with near the mountainous
district of Vera Paz. The party were attracted to it from a distance,
the ground appearing wet around it; and the peculiarity was the more
striking, as no rain had fallen for six months previous. "At last,"
says he, "to our great astonishment, as well as joy, we saw water
dropping, or, as it were, distilling fast from the end of every
leaf of this wonderful tree; at least it was so with us, who had been
labouring four days through extreme heat without receiving the
least moisture, and were now almost expiring for want of it."

The testimony of travellers is too often enshrined among the
fabulous; and their credentials either altogether rejected by some,
or at least received "cum grano salis."

Bruce of Kinnaird forms the most remarkable example of this kind,
and the caricature of Baron Munchausen consigned the whole to
sarcasm and ridicule; and yet the time is come when the more
remarkable circumstances and phenomena mentioned by this traveller,
verified by Lord Valentia, Mr.

Salt, &c. are received as well accredited facts.
The curious phenomenon mentioned by Cockburn finds an interesting
and beautiful counterpart in two plants--namely, the _C_álla
Aethiópica and Agapánthus umbellàtus, in both of which, after a
copious watering, the water will be seen to drop from the tips of
the leaves; a phenomenon, as far as I know, not hitherto recorded.

The great rivers of the continent of Europe have their source of
supply in the glaciers; but many of the rivers in the New World
owe their origin to the extensive forests of America, and their
destruction might dry up many a rivulet, and thus again convert the
luxuriant valley into an arid and sterile waste; carried farther,
the principle extends to the great features of the globe.

What the glaciers effect among the higher regions of the Alps, the
_P_ìnus _Cémbra_. and _L_árix commùnis accomplish at lower elevations;
and many a mountain rivulet owes its existence to their influence.
It rains often in the woodlands when it rains no where else;
and it is thus that trees and woods modify the hygrometric character
of a country; and I doubt not but, by a judicious disposal of trees
of particular kinds, many lands now parched up with drought--as,
for example, in some of the Leeward Islands--might be reclaimed
from that sterility to which they are unhappily doomed.

In Glass' _History of the Canary Islands_ we have the description of
a peculiar tree in the Island of Hierro, which is the means of supplying
the inhabitants, man as well as inferior animals, with water;
an island which, but for this marvellous adjunct, would be uninhabitable
and abandoned. The tree is called _Til_ by the people of the island,
and has attached to it the epithet _garse_, or _sacred_.

It is situated on the top of a rock, terminating the district called
_Tigulatre_, which leads from the shore. A cloud of vapour,
which seems to rise from the sea, is impelled towards it; and being
condensed by the foliage of the tree, the rain falls into a
large tank, from which it is measured out by individuals set apart
for that purpose by the authorities of the island.

In confirmation of a circumstance _primâ facie_ so incredible, I have
here to record a phenomenon, witnessed by myself, equally
extraordinary.

I had frequently observed, in avenues of trees, that the entire ground
engrossed by their shady foliage was completely saturated with
moisture; and that during the prevalence of a fog, when the ground
without their pale was completely parched, the wet which fell from
their branches more resembled a gentle shower than anything else;
and in investigating the phenomenon which I am disposed to consider
entirely _electrical_, I think the _elm_ exhibits this feature more
remarkably than any other tree of the forest. I never, however, was
more astonished than I was in the month of September last, on
witnessing a very striking example of this description.

I had taken an early walk, on the road leading from Stafford to Lichfield:
a dense fog prevailed, but the _road was dry and dusty_, while
it was quite otherwise with the line of a few _Lombardy poplars_;
for from them it rained so plentifully, and so fast, that any one
of them might have been used as an admirable shower bath, and the
constant stream of water supplied by the aggregate would (had it
been directed into a proper channel) have been found quite sufficient
to turn an ordinary mill.

--_Mag. Nat.
Hist._

* * * * *

THE GATHERER.

A snapper of unconsidered trifles.
SHAKSPEARE.

* * * * *

HUMAN TIMEPIECE.

J.D.

Chevalley, a native of Switzerland, has arrived at an astonishing
degree of perfection in reckoning time by an internal movement.

In his youth he was accustomed to pay great attention to the ringing
of bells and vibrations of pendulums, and by degrees he acquired
the power of continuing a succession of intervals exactly equal to
those which the vibrations or sounds produced.

--Being on board a vessel, on the Lake of Geneva, he engaged to indicate
to the crowd about him the lapse of a quarter of an hour, or as
many minutes and seconds as any one chose to name, and this during
a conversation the most diversified with those standing by; and
farther, to indicate by the voice the moment when the hand passed
over the quarter minutes, or half minutes, or any other sub-division
previously stipulated, during the whole course of the experiment.

This he did without mistake, notwithstanding the exertions of those
about him to distract his attention, and clapped his hands at the
conclusion of the time fixed.

His own account of it is thus given:--"I have acquired, by imitation,
labour, and patience, a movement which neither thoughts, nor labour,
nor any thing can stop: it is similar to that of a pendulum, which
at each motion of going and returning gives me the space of three
seconds, so that twenty of them make a minute--and these I add to
others continually

."

* * * * *

HISTORICAL FACT.

During the troubles in the reign of Charles I., a country girl came
to London, in search of a situation; but not succeeding, she applied
to be allowed to carry out beer from a brewhouse. These females were
then called "tub-women."

The brewer observing her to be a very good-looking girl, took her
out of this low situation into his house, and afterwards married her.

He died, however, while she was yet a very young woman, and left
her a large fortune.

She was recommended, on giving up the brewery, to Mr.

Hyde, a most able lawyer, to settle her husband's affairs; he, in
process of time, married the widow, and was afterwards made Earl of
Clarendon. Of this marriage there was a daughter, who was afterwards
wife to James II. and mother of Mary and Anne, queens of
England.

ZANGA.

* * * * *

LAWYERS.

In 1454, an Act of Parliament notices, "that there had used formerly
six or eight attorneys only, for Suffolk, Norfolk, and Norwich
together; that this number was now increased to more than eighty,
most of whom being not of sufficient knowledge, came to fairs, &c.
inciting the people to suits for small trespasses, &c. wherefore
there shall be hereafter but six for Suffolk, six for Norfolk, and
two for the city of Norwich."

H.B.A.

* * * * *

THE DYERS.

_Inscription on a Tombstone in a Churchyard at Truro, Cornwall._

A dyer born, a dyer bred, Lies numbered here among the dead; Dyers,
like mortals doomed to die, Alike fit food for worms supply.
Josephus Dyer was his name; By dyeing he acquired fame; 'Twas in his
forty-second year His neighbours kind did him inter.
Josephus Dyer, his first son, Doth also lie beneath this stone;
So likewise doth his second boy, Who was his parents' hope and
joy.

His handywork all did admire, For never was a better dyer.
Both youths were in their fairest prime, Ripe fruitage of a healthful
clime; But nought can check Death's lawless aim, Whosoever' life he
choose to claim:

It was God's edict from his throne, "My will shall upon earth be
done." Then did the active mother's skill The vacancy with
credit fill Till she grew old, and weak, and blind, And this last wish
dwelt on her mind-- That she, when dead, should buried be With her
loved spouse and family.
At last Death's arm her strength defied; Thus all the dyeing Dyers
died!

* * * * *

HALCYON DAYS.

Halcyon-days denote a time of peace and tranquillity. The expression
takes its rise from a sea-fowl, called among naturalists
_halcyon_, or _alcyon,_ which is said to build its nest about the
winter solstice, when the weather is usually observed to be still
and calm.

Aristotle and Pliny tell us that this bird is most common in the seas
of Sicily, that it sat only a few days, and those in the depth of
winter, and during that period the mariner might sail in full security;
for which reason they were styled _Halcyon-days_.

P.T.W.

* * * * *

USE OF TIME.

Dr. Cotton Mather, who was a man of uncommon dispatch and activity
in the management of his numerous affairs, and improved every minute
of his time, that he might not suffer by silly, impertinent, and
tedious visiters, wrote over his study-door, in large letters, "Be
short."
Ursinus, a professor in the University of Heidelburgh, and a
diligent scholar, to prevent gossips and idlers from interrupting him
in his hours of study, wrote over the door of his library the
following lines--"Friend, whoever thou art that comest hither,
dispatch thy business or begone."

The learned Scaliger placed the following sentence over the doors
of his study--"Tempus meum est ager meus," "My time is my
field or estate." And it is frequently the only valuable field which
the labourer, in body or mind, possesses.

Ever hold time too precious to be spent With babblers.

--_Shakspeare._

"Friends," says Lord Bacon, "are robbers of our time."
H.B.A.

* * * * *

EPITAPH ON A POTTER.

How frail is man--how short life's longest day!

Here lies the worthy Potter, turned to clay!
Whose forming hand, and whose reforming care, Has left us lull of
flaws. Vile earthenware!

H.S.G.

* * * * *

LENGTHENING OF THE DAYS.

Selden, in his _Table Talk_, says "The lengthening of days is not
suddenly perceived till they are grown a pretty deal longer, because
the sun, though it be in a circle, yet it seems for awhile to go
in a straight line.

For take a segment of a great circle especially, and you shall doubt
whether it be straight or no. But when the sun has got past that line,
then you presently perceive the days are lengthened. Thus it runs
in the winter and summer solstice, which is indeed the true reason
of them."
* * * * *
_Printed and Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset
House,) London; sold by ERNEST FLEISCHER, 626, New Market, Leipsic;
and by all Newsmen and Booksellers._ 
* * * *

*
Dutton!'

Nuttie was very much pleased with her own pretty tennis dress; but
she had no personal vanity for herself, only for her mother.  The
knowledge that she was no beauty was no grievance to her youthful
spirits; but when her father surveyed them in the hall, she looked
for his verdict for her mother as if their relations were reversed.

'Ha!  Well, you certainly are a pretty creature, Edda,' he said
graciously.  'You'll pass muster!  You want nothing but style.  And,
hang it! you'll do just as well without it, if the Canoness will only
do you justice.  Faces like that weren't given for nothing.'

She blushed incarnadine and accepted one of his kisses with a
pleasure, at which Nuttie wondered, her motherly affection prompting
her to murmur in his ear--

'And Ursula?'

'She'll not cut you out; but she is Egremont enough to do very
fairly.  Going already?'

'If you would come with us,' she said wistfully, to the horror of
Nuttie, who was burning to be at the beginning of all the matches.

'I? oh no!  I promised old Will to look in, but that won't be till
late in the day, or I shall have to go handing all the dowagers into
the dining-room to tea.'

'Then I think we had better go on.  They asked us to come early, so
as to see people arrive and know who they are.'

_They_ was a useful pronoun to Alice, who felt it a liberty to call
her grand-looking sister-in-law, Jane--was too well-bred to term her
Mrs. William.

The mother and daughter crossed the gardens, Nuttie chattering all
the way about the tennis tactics she had picked up from Blanche,
while her mother answered her somewhat mechanically, wondering, as
her eye fell on the square squat gray church tower, what had become
of the earnest devotion to church work and intellectual pursuits that
used to characterise the girl.  True, always both mother and daughter
had hitherto kept up their church-going, and even their Sunday-school
habits, nor had any hindrance come in their way, Mr. Egremont
apparently acquiescing in what he never shared.  But these things
seemed, in Ursula's mind, to have sunk out of the proportion they
held at Bridgefield, no longer to be the spirit of a life, but mere
Sunday duties and occupations.

Was this wicked world getting a hold of the poor child?  Which was
duty? which was the world?  This was the thought that perplexed
Alice, too simple as yet to perceive that Ursula's former absorption
had been in the interests that surrounded her and her companions,
exactly as they were at present, and that the real being had yet to
work itself out.

For herself, Alice did not think at all.  She was rejoicing in her
restored husband, and his evident affection.  Her duty towards him
was in her eyes plain.  She saw, of course, that he had no religion,
but she accepted the fact like that of bad weather; she loved him,
and she loved her daughter; she said her prayers with all her heart
for them, she hoped, and she did her best, without trying to go below
the surface.

There was the Rectory gate wide open.  There was Basil rushing up to
greet his dear Aunt Alice, there were all the windows and doors of
the Rectory open, and the nearer slopes covered with chairs and seats
of all dimensions, some under trees, some umbelliferous, and glowing
Afghan rugs, or spotted skins spread for those who preferred the
ground.  There was Blanche flitting about wild with excitement, and
pouncing on Nuttie to admire her outfit, and reiterate instructions;
there were the two younger girls altering the position of chairs
according to their mother's directions; there were actually two
guests--not very alarming ones, only the curate and his wife, both
rather gaunt, bony people.  He was button-holing the Canon, and she
was trying to do the same by the Canoness about some parish casualty.
The Canon hoped to escape in the welcome to his sister-in-law and
niece, but he was immediately secured again, while his wife found it
requisite to hurry off else where, leaving Mrs. Edwards to tell her
story to Mrs. Egremont.  In point of fact, Alice really liked the
good lady, was quite at ease with her, and felt parish concerns a
natural element, so that she gave full heed and attention to the
cruelty of Mrs. Parkins' depriving Betsy Butter (with an old father
and mother to support) of her family washing, on the ground of a
missing pocket handkerchief, the which Mrs. Edwards believed to have
been abstracted by the favourite pickle of Miss Blanche's class, if
only a confession could be elicited from him when undefended by his
furious mother.  Mrs. Egremont was listening with actual interest and
sympathy to the history of Betsy Butter's struggles, and was
inquiring the way to her cottage, when she was called off to be
introduced to the arrivals who were beginning to flood the lawn.  She
presently saw May, who had just come down, walking up and down with
Mrs. Edwards, evidently hearing the story of the handkerchief.  She
thought it had been Nuttie for a moment.  There was a general
resemblance between the cousins that made them be mistaken for one
another several times in the course of the day, since their dresses,
though not alike, were of the same make and style.

Thus it was that as Nuttie was sitting on the grass in earnest
contemplation of Blanche's play, a hand was familiarly laid on her
shoulder, and a voice said,  'I haven't seen that horrid girl yet!'

After so many introductions, Nuttie had little idea whom she knew, or
whom she did not know.  She looked up and saw a small person in light
blue, with the delicate features, transparent skin, and blue eyes
that accompany yellow hair, with an indescribable glitter of mirth
and joyousness about the whole creature, as if she were part and
parcel of the sunbeam in which she stood,

'What horrid girl?' said Nuttie.

'The interloper, the newly-discovered savage, come to upset--Ah!'--
with a little shriek--'It isn't May!  I beg your pardon.'

'I'm May's cousin,' said Nuttie, 'Ursula Egremont.'

'Oh, oh!' and therewith the fact burst on both girls at once.  They
stood still a moment in dismay, then the stranger went into a fit of
laughter.  'Oh, I beg your pardon!  I can't help it!  It is so
funny!'

Nuttie was almost infected, though somewhat hurt.  'Who said I was
horrid?' she asked.

'Nobody!  Nobody but me--Annaple Ruthven--and they'll all tell you,
May and all, that I'm always putting my foot in it.  And I never
meant that you were horrid--you yourself--you know--only--'

'Only nobody wanted us here,' said Nuttie; 'but we could not help
it.'

'Of course not.  It was shocking, just my way.  Please forgive me!'
and she looked most pleading.  Nuttie held out her hand with
something about 'No one could mind;' and therewith Annaple cried,
'Oh, if you don't mind, we can have our laugh out!' and the rippling
laughter did set Nuttie off at once.  The peal was not over when May
herself was upon them demanding what was the joke.

'Oh, there she is!  The real May!  Why,' said Annaple, kissing her,
'only think here I've been and gone and thought this was you, and
inquired about--What was it?--the awful monster--the chimera dire--
that Mark had routed up--'

'No; you didn't say that,' said Nuttie, half provoked.

'Never mind what I said.  Don't repeat it.  I only wish myself and
every one else to forget it.  Now it is swept to the winds by a good
wholesome giggling.  But what business have you two to be so
inconveniently alike?  You are as bad as the twin Leslies!'

'There's an old foremother on the staircase in white satin who left
her looks to us both,' said May.

'You'll have to wear badges,' said Annaple.  'You know the Leslies
were so troublesome that one had to be shipped off to the East Indies
and the other to the West.'

'They married, that's all,' said May, seeing Nuttie looking
mystified; and at that moment, Blanche's side coming out victorious,
Nuttie descended into the arena to congratulate and be asked to form
part of the next set.

'Well, that was a scrape!' said Annaple; 'but she wasn't bad about
it!  I must do something to make up for it somehow--get Janet to
invite her, but really Janet is in such a state of mind that I am
mildness itself compared with her.  She would not have come, only
John was curious, and declared he should go whether we did or not.'

'Ah!' said May, 'I saw him, like the rest of mankind, at madame's
feet.'

'Oh! is she of that sort?'

'No,' said May, 'not at all.  Mother and father too both think she is
good to the backbone; but she is very pretty, with just the inane
soft sweetness that men rave about--innocent really.  All accounts of
her are excellent, and she has nice parish ways, and will be as
helpful as Uncle Alwyn will let her.'

'But she couldn't always have been nice?'

'Well, I verily believe it was all Uncle Alwyn's and grandmamma's
fault.  I know Mark thinks so.'

'When the women of a family acquit a woman it goes for something,'
said Annaple.  'That's not original, my dear, I heard old Lady
Grosmede say so to Janet when she was deliberating over the
invitation, "For a good deal more than Mr. Mark's, at any rate.'"

'Mark is very fond of her--the mother, I mean.  He says when he was a
little fellow her loss was worse to him than even our mother's.'

'Do you remember the catastrophe?'

'Not a bit.  Only when she is petting Basil it strikes me that I have
heard the tones before.  I only remember the time of misery under the
crosspatches grandmamma got for us.'

'Well, it was a splendid cutting of his own throat in Mark,' said
Annaple, 'so it ought to turn out well.'

'I don't know how it is to turn out for Mark,' answered May.  'Oh,
here he comes!'

'Will you come into this set, Annaple?' he asked.  'They want another
couple,' and, as she accepted,  'How do you get on with May's
double?'

'I pity May for having such a double.'

'Don't encourage her by misplaced pity.'

'It's abominable altogether!  I want to fly at somebody!'

'Exhaust your feelings on your racket, and reflect that you see a man
released from bondage.'

'Is that philosophy or high-faluting?' she said in a teasing tone as
the game began.

The Ruthvens had very blue blood in their veins, but as there were
nine of the present generation, they possessed little beyond their
long pedigree; even the head of the family, Lord Ronnisglen, being
forced to live as a soldier, leaving his castle to grouse shooters.
His seven brothers had fared mostly in distant lands as they could,
and his mother had found a home, together with her youngest child, at
Lescombe, where her eldest was the wife of Sir John Delmar.  Lady
Ronnisglen was an invalid, confined to the house, and Lady Delmar had
daughters fast treading on the heels of Annabella, so christened, but
always called Annaple after the old Scottish queens, her ancestors.
She had been May Egremont's chief friend ever since her importation
at twelve years old, and the intimacy had been promoted by her mother
and sister.  Indeed, the neighbourhood had looked on with some
amusement at the competition ascribed to Lady Delmar and to the
wealthy parvenu, Mrs. West, for the heir-presumptive of Bridgefield
Egremont.

Annaple's lightness and dexterity rendered her the best of the lady
tennis-players, and the less practised Ursula found herself defeated
in the match, in spite of a partner whose play was superior to
Mark's, and with whom she shyly walked off to eat ices.

'I see,' said Annaple, 'it is a country-town edition of May.  I
shan't blunder between them again.'

'She will polish,' said Mark, 'but she is not equal to her mother.'

'Whom I have not seen yet.  Ah, there's Mr. Egremont!  Why, he looks
quite renovated!'

'Well he may be!'

'But Mark, not to hurt your feelings, he must have behaved
atrociously.'

'I'm not going to deny it,' said Mark.

'I always did think he looked like it,' said Annaple.

'When have you seen him before?'

'Only once, but it was my admirable sagacity, you understand?  I
always see all the villains in books just on his model.  Oh, but
who's that?  How very pretty!  You don't mean it is she!  Well, she
might be the heroine of anything!'

'Isn't she lovely?'

'And has she been keeping school like Patience on a monument all
these years?  It doesn't seem to have much damaged her damask cheek!'

'It was only daily governessing.  She looks much better than when I
first saw her; and as to the damask--why, that's deepened by the
introduction to old Lady Grosmede that is impending.'

'She is being walked up to the old Spanish duck with the red rag
round her leg to receive her fiat.  What a thing it is to be a
bearded Dowager, and rule one's neighbourhood!'

'I think she approves.  She has made room for her by her side.  Is
she going to catechise her?'

Annaple made an absurd sound of mingled pity and disgust.

'Not that she--my aunt, I mean--need be afraid.  The shame is all on
the other side.'

'And I think Lady Grosmede has too much sense to think the worse of
her for having worked for herself,' added Annaple.  'If it was not
for mother I should long to begin!'

'You?  It's a longing well known to me!--but you!'

'Exactly!  As the Irishman felt blue moulded for want of a bating, so
do I feel fagged out for want of an honest day's work.'

'If one only knew what to turn to,' said Mark so wearily that Annaple
exclaimed,

'We seem to be in the frozen-out state of mind, and might walk up and
down singing "I've got no work to do,"'--to which she gave the well
known intonation.

'Too true,' said he, joining in the hum.

'But I thought you were by way of reading law.'

'One must see more than only "by way of" in these days to do any
good.'

At that moment Basil ran up with a message that Lady Delmar was ready
to go home.

They walked slowly up the terrace and Mark paused as they came near
Mrs. Egremont to say, 'Aunt Alice, here is Miss Ruthven, May's great
friend.'

Annaple met a pleasant smile, and they shook hands, exchanging an
observation or two, while a little way off Lady Grosmede was nodding
her strong old face at Lady Delmar, and saying, 'Tell your mother
I'll soon come and see her, my dear.  Very much more leisure than
most people now have, however, is apt to present trouble in
itself.

Since it appears that the time is not far away when those living in
the highly developed countries will no longer have to concentrate
their prime energies on the traditional quest for food, clothing,
and shelter, a potentially dangerous vacuum may be the result.

At least the psychologists seem agreed that people must feel a useful
purpose in their lives and have ways to pursue it.

Above all, leisure makes a challenge to the human spirit.

Athens, in her Golden Age, displayed a genius for the creative use
of leisure which can be seen as complementary, and indeed superior,
to her genius for military and commercial ventures.

There have also been such periods of all-pervasive inspiration in
the history of other peoples * * *.

The doubling of our standard of living will present a growing
challenge to the human spirit and produce graver consequences,
should we fail to meet it.

We neglect the proper use of leisure at our peril.[77]
In other words, the answer to the problem does not lie solely with the
golf course, the yacht club, the theater, or the lengthened
vacation.

Much more will be required.

The intellectual stimulus of space exploration and research, which
undoubtedly will divide into numerous branches like capillary streaks
from a bolt of lightning, should be markedly useful in helping to
fill this vacuum.

Space research would seem particularly applicable in this role since
it deals with fundamental knowledge and concepts which are satisfying
in terms of psychological needs and sense of purpose.

_Intensified nationalism_
Ever since World War II the era of colonialism has been on the
wane.

Many nations have proclaimed, won, or wrested their independence
during that period.

Others appear
to be on the verge of doing so.

At any rate, it is clear that in the decades ahead the world is
going to see the rise of even more independent nations with strong
nationalistic feelings.

History implies that developments of this sort are often accompanied
by international unrest--because of the normal ebullience of national
adolescence and the desire to be accepted by the world community,
as well as a variety of concomitant political and economical
upheavals.

Yet even then, her position
depended on the impression she might make on those about him, on her
own power of self-assertion, and on her contributing to his comfort
or pleasure.

Of self-assertion Alice had none, only a gentle dignity in her
simplicity, and she was so absolutely devoted to him that he found
his house far more pleasant and agreeable for her presence and
unfailing attention, though still his estimation of her was
influenced more than he owned to himself by that of the world in
general, and the Rectory in particular.

And the Rectory did its part well.  The Canon was not only charmed
with the gentle lady, but felt an atonement due to her; and his wife,
without ever breathing into any ears, save his, the mysterious
adjective 'governessy,' praised her right and left, confiding to all
inquirers the romance of the burnt yacht, the lost bride, and the
happy meeting under Lady Kirkaldy's auspices, with the perfect
respectability of the intermediate career, while such was the
universal esteem for, and trust in herself and the Canon, that she
was fully believed; and people only whispered that probably Alwyn
Egremont had been excused for the desertion more than he deserved.

The subject of all this gossip troubled herself about it infinitely
less than did the good Canoness.  In effect she did not know enough
of the world to think about it at all.  Her cares were of a different
order, chiefly caused by tenderness of conscience, and solicitude to
keep the peace between the two beings whom she best loved.

Two things were in her favour in this latter respect, one that they
saw very little of each other, since Mr. Egremont seldom emerged from
his own rooms till after luncheon; and the other that Ursula's brains
ran to little but lawn-tennis for the ensuing weeks.  To hold a
champion's place at the tournaments, neck and neck with her cousin
Blanche, and defeat Miss Ruthven, and that veteran player, Miss
Basset, was her foremost ambition, and the two cousins would have
practised morning, noon, and night if their mothers would have let
them.  There need have been no fear of Ursula's rebellion about the
Cambridge honours, she never seemed even to think of them, and would
have had no time in the more important competition of rackets.
Indeed, it was almost treated as a hardship that the pair were
forbidden to rush together before twelve o'clock, and that Ursula's
mother insisted on rational home occupation until that time, setting
the example herself by letter-writing, needlework, and sharing in the
music which was a penance to the girl, only enforced by that strong
sense of protecting affection which forbade rebellion.  But Alice
could hope that their performances were pleasant to her husband in
the evening, if only to sleep by, and so she persisted in preparing
for them.

Nuttie's rage for tennis, and apparent forgetfulness of her old life
and aspirations, might be disappointing, but it conduced to make her
mother's task easier than if she had been her original, critical, and
protesting self.  In the new and brilliant surroundings she troubled
herself much less than could have been expected at the failure of her
father, his house, nay, and of the parish itself, in coming up to the
St. Ambrose standard.  How much was owing to mere novelty and
intoxication, how much to a yet unanalysed disappointment, how much
to May's having thrown her upon the more frivolous Blanche, could not
be guessed.  The effect was unsatisfactory to her mother, but a
certain relief, for Nuttie's aid would have been only mischievous in
the household difficulties that weighed on the anxious conscience.
Good servants would not stay at Bridgefield Hall for unexplained
causes, which their mistress believed to be connected with Gregorio,
or with the treasure of a cook-housekeeper over whom she was
forbidden to exercise any authority, and who therefore entirely
neglected all meals which the master did not share with the ladies.
Fortunately, Mr. Egremont came in one day at their luncheon and found
nothing there but semi-raw beef, upon which there was an explosion;
and being by this time convinced that his wife both would and could
minister to his comfort, her dominion was established in the female
department, though, as long as Gregorio continued paramount with his
master, and the stables remained in their former state, it was
impossible to bring matters up to the decorous standard of the
Rectory, and if ever his mistress gave an order he did not approve,
Gregorio overruled it as her ignorance.  In fact, he treated both the
ladies with a contemptuous sort of civility.  Meantime Mr. Egremont
was generally caressing and admiring in his ways towards his wife,
with only occasional bursts of temper when anything annoyed him.  He
was proud of her, gave her a liberal allowance, and only refused to
be troubled; and she was really happy in his affection, for which she
felt a gratitude only too humble in the eyes of her daughter.

They had parties.  Blanche's ambition of tennis courts all over the
lawn was fulfilled, and sundry dinners, which were crosses to Alice,
who had neither faculty nor training for a leader and hostess,
suffered much from the menu, more from the pairing of her guests,
more again in catching her chief lady's eye after, and most of all
from her husband's scowls and subsequent growls and their
consequence, for Ursula broke out, 'It is not fair to blame my
mother.  How should she have all the savoir-faire, or what you may
call it, of Aunt Jane, when she has had no practice?'

'Perhaps, Mrs. Egremont,' he retorted with extreme suavity, 'you will
also attend to your daughter's manners.'  Otherwise he took little
notice of Ursula, viewing her perhaps, as did the neighbourhood, as a
poor imitation of May, without her style, or it may be with a sense
that her tongue might become inconvenient if not repressed.  When he
began to collect sporting guests of his own calibre in the shooting
season, the Canoness quietly advised her sister-in-law to regard them
as gentlemen's parties, and send Ursula down to spend the evening
with her cousins; and to this no objection was made.  Mr. Egremont
wanted his beautiful wife at the head of his table, and his guests
never comported themselves unsuitably before her; but nobody wanted
the unformed girl, and she and Blanche were always happy together.

The chief restraint was when Mark was at home, and that was not
always.  He made sundry visits and expeditions, and was altogether in
an uncomfortable condition of reaction and perplexity as to his
future.  He was a good and conscientious fellow, and had never been
actually idle, but had taken education and life with the easiness of
the prospective heir to a large property; and though he had acquitted
himself creditably, it was with no view of making his powers
marketable.  Though he had been entered at the Temple, it was chiefly
in order to occupy himself respectably, and to have a nominal
profession, so as not to be wholly dependent on his uncle; and all
that he had acquired was the conviction that it would be half a
lifetime, if not a whole one, before the law would afford him a
maintenance.

His father wished him to take Holy Orders with a view to the
reversion of the Rectory, but Mark's estimate of clerical duty and
vocation was just such as to make him shrink from them.  He was
three-and-twenty, an awkward age for all those examinations that
stand as lions in the face of youth intended for almost any sort of
service, and seldom or never to be gagged by interest.  For one
indeed, he went up and failed, and in such a manner as to convince
him that cramming had more to do than general culture with success.

He had a certain consciousness that most people thought another way
open to him, most decidedly his gentle aunt, and perhaps even his
parents.  The matter came prominently before him one day at luncheon,
when, some parochial affairs being on hand and Mr. Egremont out for
the day, Alice, whose free forenoons enabled her to take a share in
church and parish affairs, was there, as well as the curate and his
wife.

These good people were in great commotion about a wedding about to
take place between a young farmer and his delicate first cousin, the
only survivor of a consumptive family.

'"Proputty, proputty,"' quoted the Canon.  'James Johnson is what
they call a warm man.'

'It is a sin and a shame,' said Mrs. Edwards.  'What can they expect?
George Johnson looks strong enough now, but they tell me his brother
undoubtedly died of decline, though they called it inflammation; but
there was tubercular disease.'

'I am afraid it is strong in the family,' said the Canoness, 'they
all have those clear complexions; but I do believe George is heartily
in love with poor little Emily.'

'First cousins ought to be in the table of degrees,' said Mr.
Edwards.

'It is always a question whether the multiplying of prohibitions
without absolute necessity is expedient,' said the Canon.

He spoke quite dispassionately, but the excellent couple were not
remarkable for tact.  Mrs. Edwards gave her husband such a glance of
warning and consternation as violently inclined May to laugh, and he
obediently and hesitatingly began, 'Oh yes, sir, I beg your pardon.
Of course there may be instances,' thereby bringing an intense glow
of carnation into Alice's cheeks, while the Canon, ready for the
occasion, replied, 'And George Johnson considers himself one of them.
He will repair the old moat house, I suppose.'

And his wife, though she would rather have beaten Mrs. Edwards,
demanded how many blankets would be wanted that winter.

The effect of this little episode was that Mark announced to his
father that evening his strong desire to emigrate, an intention which
the Canon combated with all his might.  He was apparently a hale and
hearty man, but he had had one or two attacks of illness that made
him doubt whether he would be long-lived; and not only could he not
bear to have his eldest son out of reach, but he dreaded leaving his
family to such a head as his brother.  Mark scarcely thought the
reasons valid, considering the rapidity of communication with Canada,
but it was not possible to withstand the entreaties of a father with
tears in his eyes; and though he could not bring himself to consent
to preparing to be his father's curate, he promised to do nothing
that would remove him to another quarter of the world, and in two or
three days more, started for Monks Horton to see what advice his
uncle and aunt there could give him; indeed, Lord Kirkaldy's
influence was reckoned on by his family almost as a sure card in the
diplomatic line.

The Kirkaldys were very fond of Mark, and had an odd feeling of being
accountable for the discovery which had changed his prospects.  They
would have done anything for him that they could, but all Lord
Kirkaldy's interest was at the foreign office, or with his fellow-
diplomates, and here he soon found an insuperable bar.  Mark's
education had stood still from the time of Miss Headworth's flight
till his father's second marriage, his energies having been solely
devoted to struggles with the grim varieties of governess purveyed by
his grandmother, and he had thus missed all chance of foundation of
foreign languages, and when once at school, he had shared in the
average English boy's contempt and aversion for the French masters
who outscreamed a whole class.

In consequence, Lord Kirkaldy, an accurate and elegant scholar in
European tongues, besides speaking them with the cosmopolitan ease of
an ambassador's son, was horrified, not only at Mark's pronunciation,
but at his attempts at letter-writing and translation, made with all
the good will in the world, but fit for nothing but to furnish the
good stories which the kind uncle refrained from telling any one but
his wife.  Unluckily, too, a Piedmontese family, some of them not
strong in their English, were on a visit at Monks Horton, and the
dialect in which the old marquis and Mark tried at times to
interchange ideas about pheasants was something fearful.  And as in
the course of a week Mark showed no signs of improvement in
vernacular French or Italian, Lord Kirkaldy's conscience would let
him give no other advice than that his nephew should stick to English
law living still on the allowance his father gave him, and hoping for
one of the chance appointments open to an English barrister of good
family and fair ability.

Of course Mark had gone at once to carry tidings of 'Aunt Alice,' as
he scrupulously called her, to old Miss Headworth, whom his aunt had
continued to visit at intervals.  That good lady had given up her
boarders, having realised enough to provide for her own old age, and
she had joined forces with the Nugents, Mary being very thankful to
have her companionship for Mrs. Nugent, who was growing too blind and
feeble to be satisfactorily left alone all day.

Mark delighted the old ladies by his visits and accounts of their
darling's success and popularity, which he could paint so brightly
that they could not help exulting, even though there might be secret
misgivings as to the endurance of these palmy days.  He was a great
hero in their eyes, and they had too good taste to oppress him with
their admiration, so that he really was more at ease in their little
drawing-room than anywhere at Monks Horton, whither the Italians
could penetrate.  The marchesino spoke English very well, but that
was all the worse for Mark, since it gave such a sense of
inferiority.  He was an intelligent man too, bent on being acquainted
with English industries of all kinds; and thus it was that a party
was organised to see the umbrella factory.  It was conducted by Mr.
Dutton, with whom Lord Kirkaldy, between charities and public
business, had become acquainted.

To Mark's secret shame, this manufacturer spoke French perfectly, and
even got into such a lively conversation with the old marquis about
Cavour, that Lord Kirkaldy begged him to come to dinner and continue
it.  They were all surprised, not only by the details of the
manufacture and the multitude of artizans, male and female, whom it
employed, but by the number of warehouse-clerks whom they found at
work, and who, it appeared, were in correspondence with agencies and
depots in London and all the principal towns in the kingdom.  Gerard
Godfrey was there,--casting looks askance at the young Egremont, whom
he regarded as a kind of robber.

The marchesino asked from what class these young men were taken, and
Mr. Dutton made reply that most of them were sons of professional
men.  If they could obtain a small capital and take shares in the
business they were encouraged to do so, and rose to the headship of
the agencies, obtaining a fair income.

'And you don't exact an examination,' said Mark.

'Except in handwriting and book-keeping,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Poor Mark, you look for your bugbear everywhere!' sighed his aunt.

They went over the Institute, coffee-rooms, eating-rooms, and
lodging-houses, by which the umbrella firm strove to keep their hands
respectable and contented, and were highly pleased with all, most
especially with Mr. Dutton, who, though his name did not come
prominently forward, had been the prime mover and contriver of all
these things, and might have been a wealthier man if he had not
undertaken expenses which he could not charge upon the company.

Gerard Godfrey came in to Mrs. Nugent's that evening in the lowest
spirits.  He had a sister married to a curate in the same county with
Bridgefield, and she had sent him a local paper which 'understood
that a marriage was arranged between Mark de Lyonnais Egremont,
Esquire, and Ursula, daughter of Alwyn Piercefield Egremont, Esquire,
of Bridgefield Egremont,' and he could not help coming to display it
to Miss Headworth in all its impertinence and prematurity.

'Indeed he said nothing to me about it,' said Miss Headworth, 'and I
think he would if it had been true.'

'No doubt he intends it, and is trying to recommend himself through
you,' said Gerard.

'I should not think he needed that,' returned Aunt Ursel, 'though I
should be very glad, I am sure.  He is an excellent young man, and it
is quite the obvious thing.'

'People don't always do the obvious thing,' put in Mary Nugent.

'Certainly it didn't look like it,' said Miss Headworth,' when he
told us about the great annual Hunt Ball at Redcastle that Nuttie and
his sister Blanche are to come out at; he said he did not intend to
go home for it if he could help it.'

'Struggling against fate,' said Miss Nugent.

'The puppy!' burst out Gerard.

Having ascertained the particulars of this same Hunt Ball, Gerard
became possessed with a vehement desire to visit his sister, and so
earnestly solicited a few days' leave of absence that it was granted
to him.  'Poor boy, he may settle down when he has ascertained
what an ass he is,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Ah!' said Mary.  'I thought he was very bad when I saw he had not
changed the green markers for St. Luke's Day.'


CHAPTER XIII.
DETRIMENTALS.


'That tongue of yours at times wags more than charity allows;
 And if you're strong, be merciful, great woman of three cows.'
                                                      J. O. MANGAN.


Nine miles was a severe distance through country lanes in November to
go to a ball; but the Redcastle Hunt Ball was the ball of the year,
uniting all the county magnates; and young ladies were hardly
reckoned as 'come out' till they had appeared there.  Mrs. Egremont's
position would hardly be established till she had been presented to
the notabilities who lived beyond calling intercourse; and her
husband prepared himself to be victimised with an amount of grumbling
that was intended to impress her with the magnitude of the sacrifice,
but which only made her offer to forego the gaiety, and be told that
she would never have any common sense.

So their carriage led the way, and was followed by the Rectory
waggonette containing the ladies and Mark, who had been decisively
summoned home, since his stepmother disliked public balls without a
gentleman in attendance, and his father was not to be detached from
his fireside.

And in a group near the door, got up as elaborately as his powers
could accomplish, stood Gerard Godfrey.  He knew nobody there except
a family in his sister's parish, who had good-naturedly given him a
seat in their fly, and having fulfilled his duty by asking the
daughter to dance, he had nothing to disturb him in watching for the
cynosure whose attraction had led him into these unknown regions,
and, as he remembered with a qualm, on the eve of St. Britius.
However, with such a purpose, one might surely grant oneself a
dispensation from the vigil of a black letter saint.

There at length he beheld the entrance.  There was the ogre himself,
high bred, almost handsome, as long as he was not too closely
scrutinised, and on his arm the well-known figure, metamorphosed by
delicately-tinted satin sheen and pearls, and still more by the
gentle blushing gladness on the fair cheeks and the soft eyes that
used to droop.  Then followed a stately form in mulberry moire and
point lace, leaning on Gerard's more especial abhorrence,--'that
puppy,' who had been the author of all the mischief; and behind them
three girls, one in black, the other two in white, and, what was
provoking, he really could not decide which was Ursula.  The
carefully-dressed hair and stylish evening dress and equipments had
altogether transformed the little homely schoolgirl, so that, though
he was sure that she was not the fair-haired damsel with pale blue
flowers, he did not know how to decide between the white and daisies
and the black and grasses.  Indeed, he thought the two whites most
likely to be sisters, and all the more when the black lace halted to
exchange greetings with some one, and her face put on an expression
so familiar to him, that he started forward and tried to catch her
eye; but in vain, and he suffered agonies of doubt whether she had
been perverted by greatness.

It was some comfort that, when presently a rush of waiters floated
by, she was not with her cousin; but to provoke him still more, as
the daisies neared him, he beheld for a moment in the whirl the queer
smile, half-frightened, half-exultant, which he had seen on Nuttie's
face when swinging sky-high!

When the pause came and people walked about, the black lady stood
talking so near him that he ventured at last on a step forward and an
eager 'Miss Egremont,' but, as she turned, he found himself obliged
to say, 'I beg your pardon.'

'Did you mean my cousin.  We often get mistaken for each other,' said
May civilly.

He brightened.  'I beg your pardon,' he said, 'I knew her at
Micklethwayte.  I am here--quite by accident.  Mrs. Elmore was so
good as to bring me.'

May was rather entertained.  'There's my cousin,' she said, 'Lord
Philip Molyneux is asking her to dance,' and she left him most
unnecessarily infuriated with Lord Philip Molyneux.

A steward introduced him to a dull-looking girl, but fortune favoured
him, for this time he did catch the real Nuttie's eye, and all
herself, as soon as the dance was over, she came up with outstretched
hands, 'Oh Gerard! to think of your being here!  Come to mother!'

And, beautiful and radiant, Mrs. Egremont was greeting him, and there
were ten minutes of delicious exchange of news.  But 'pleasures are
as poppies fled,' Nuttie had no dance to spare, her card was full,
and she had not learnt fashionable effrontery enough to play tricks
with engagements, and just then Mr. Egremont descended on them--'I
wish to introduce you to the Duchess,' he said to his wife; and on
the way he demanded--'Who is that young cub?'

'Gerard Godfrey--an old neighbour.'

'I thought I had seen him racketing about there with Ursula.  I'll
not have those umbrella fellows coming about!'

'Does he really make umbrellas, Nuttie?' asked Blanche, catching her
hand.

'No such thing!' said Nuttie hotly, 'he is in the office.  His father
was a surgeon; his sisters married clergymen!'

'And he came here to meet you,' said Annaple Ruthven.  'Poor fellow,
what a shame it is!  Can't you give him one turn!

'Oh dear!  I'm engaged all through!  To Mark this time.'

'Give him one of the extras!  Throw Mark over to me!  No,' as she
looked at the faces of the two girls, 'I suppose that wouldn't do,
but I'm free this time--I'm not the fashion.  Introduce me; I'll do
my best as consolation.'

Nuttie had just performed the feat, with great shyness, when Mark
appeared, having been sent in quest of his cousin, when her father
perceived that she had hung back.

Poor Gerard led off Miss Ruthven the more gloomily, and could not
help sighing out, 'I suppose that is an engagement!'

'Oh! you believe that impertinent gossip in the paper,' returned
Annaple.  'I wonder they don't contradict it; but perhaps they treat
it with magnificent scorn.'

'No doubt they know that it is only premature.'

'If _they_ means the elders, I daresay they wish it, but we aren't in
France or Italy.'

'Then you don't think, Miss Ruthven, that it will come off?'

'I don't see the slightest present prospect,' said Annaple, unable to
resist the kindly impulse of giving immediate pleasure, though she
knew the prospect might be even slighter for her partner.

However, he 'footed it' all the more lightly and joyously for the
assurance, and the good-natured maiden afterwards made him conduct
her to the tea-room, whither Mark and Nuttie were also tending, and
there all four contrived to get mixed up together; and Nuttie had
time to hear of Monsieur's new accomplishment of going home for Mr.
Dutton's luncheon and bringing it in a basket to the office, before
fate again descended; Mr. Egremont, who had been at the far end of
the room among some congeners, who preferred stronger refreshment,
suddenly heard her laugh, stepped up, and, with a look of thunder
towards her, observed in a low voice, 'Mark, you will oblige me by
taking your cousin back to her mother.'

'The gray tyrant father,' murmured Annaple in sympathy.  'That being
the case, I may as well go back in that direction also.'

This resulted in finding Lady Delmar and the two Mrs. Egremonts
together, comparing notes about the two different roads to Redcastle
from their several homes.

Lady Delmar was declaring that her coachman was the most obstinate
man in existence, and that her husband believed in him to any extent.

'Which way did you come?' she asked.

'By Bankside Lane,' said the Canoness.

'Over Bluepost Bridge!  There, Janet,' said Annaple.

'So much the worse.  I know we shall come to grief over Bluepost
Bridge, and now there will be treble weight to break it down.  I
dreamt it, I tell you, and there's second sight in the family.'

'Yes, but you should tell what you did dream, Janet,' said her
sister.  'She thought Robinson, the coachman, was waltzing with her
over it, and they went into a hole and stuck fast, while the red-flag
traction engineman prodded her with an umbrella till she was all over
blood.  Now, if it had been anything rational, I should have thought
something of her second sight!  I tell her 'twas suggested by--


         "London Bridge is broken down,
          Dance o'er my lady Lee!"'


'Well, I am quite certain those traction-engines will break it some
time or other,' said Lady Delmar.  'I am always trying to get John to
bring it before the magistrates, but he only laughs at me, and
nothing will induce Robinson to go the other way, because they have
just been mending the road on Lescombe Hill!  Annaple, my dear, I
can't allow you another waltz; Mark must excuse you--I am going.  It
is half-past two, and the carriage was ordered at two!  Robinson will
be in a worse temper than ever if we keep him waiting.'

She bore her sister off to the cloak-room, and there, nearly an hour
later, the Egremonts found them still waiting the pleasure of the
implacable Robinson; but what was that in consideration of having
kept her sister from such a detrimental as poor Mark had become?  So
muttered Mr. Egremont, in the satisfaction of having himself, with
gentlemanly severity, intimated the insuperable gulf between Miss
Egremont of Bridgefield and the Man of Umbrellas.

Moreover, his sister-in-law took care that he should hear that the
Duchess of Redcastle had pronounced his wife sweetly pretty and lady-
like, and talked of inviting them for a visit of a few nights.

'A bore,' observed he ungratefully, ''tis as dull as ditchwater.'
But, in truth, though the Canon's family, when in residence, were
intimate with the ducal family, Alwyn Egremont had never been at the
castle since the days of his earliest youth, and he was not quite
prepared to owe his toleration there to his wife's charms, or the
Canoness's patronage of her.

And innocent Alice only knew that everybody had been very kind to
her, and it was only a pity that her husband did not like her to
notice poor Gerard Godfrey.


CHAPTER XIV.
GOING AGEE.


'Gin ye were a brig as auld as me.'--BURNS.


'What's the matter?' exclaimed Mrs. Egremont, waking from a doze,--
'that bridge?'

'Bridge!  Don't be such a fool!  We aren't near it yet.'

The servant, his face looking blurred through the window, came to
explain that the delay was caused by an agricultural engine, which
had chosen this unlucky night, or morning, to travel from one farm to
another.  There was a long delay, while the monster could be heard
coughing frightfully before it could be backed with its spiky
companion into a field so as to let the carriages pass by; and
meantime Mr. Egremont was betrayed into uttering ejaculations which
made poor Nuttie round her eyes in the dark as she sat by his feet on
the back seat, and Alice try to bury her ears in her hood in the
corner.

'This all you have?' he asked.

'It is enough, at least,' said I. 'It shows you where I bought and
what I paid for it.'
'Well, I don't know,' he said.

'You want some paper of identification.'
'To identify the chaise?'

I inquired.

'Not at all: to identify YOU,' said he.

'My good sir, remember yourself!' said I. 'The title-deeds of my
estate are in that despatch-box; but you do not seriously suppose
that I should allow you to examine them?'
'Well, you see, this paper proves that some Mr. Ramornie paid seventy
guineas for a chaise,' said the fellow. 'That's all well and good;
but who's to prove to me that you are Mr. Ramornie?'
'Fellow!' cried I.

'O, fellow as much as you please!' said he. 'Fellow, with all my
heart! That changes nothing. I am fellow, of course--obtrusive
fellow, impudent fellow, if you like--but who are you? I hear of you
with two names; I hear of you running away with young ladies, and
getting cheered for a Frenchman, which seems odd; and one
thing I will go bail for, that you were in a blue fright when the
post- boy began to tell tales at my door.

In short, sir, you may be a very good gentleman; but I don't know
enough about you, and I'll trouble you for your papers, or to go
before a magistrate. Take your choice; if I'm not fine enough, I
hope the magistrates are.'
'My good man,' I stammered, for though I had found my voice, I could
scarce be said to have recovered my wits, 'this is most unusual, most
rude. Is it the custom in Westmorland that gentlemen should be insulted?'

'That depends,' said he. 'When it's suspected that gentlemen are spies
it IS the custom; and a good custom, too.

         No no,' he broke out, perceiving
           me to make a movement.

'Both hands upon the table, my gentleman! I want no pistol balls in
my chaise panels.'
'Surely, sir, you do me strange injustice!' said I, now the master
of myself. 'You see me sitting here, a monument of tranquillity:
pray may I help myself to wine without umbraging you?'
I took this attitude in sheer despair. I had no plan, no hope.
The best I could imagine was to spin the business out some minutes
longer, then capitulate.

At least, I would not capituatle one moment too soon.

'Am I to take that for NO?' he asked.

'Referring to your former obliging proposal?' said I. 'My good sir,
you are to take it, as you say, for "No." Certainly I will not show
you my deeds; certainly I will not rise from table and trundle out
to see your magistrates.

I have too much respect for my digestion, and too little curiosity
in justices of the peace.'
He leaned forward, looked me nearly in the face, and reached out one
hand to the bell-rope. 'See here, my fine fellow!' said he.
'Do you see that bell-rope? Let me tell you, there's a boy waiting
below: one jingle, and he goes to fetch the constable.'
'Do you tell me so?' said I. 'Well, there's no accounting for
tastes! I have a prejudice against the society of constables,
but if it is your fancy to have one in for the dessert--' I shrugged
my shoulders lightly.

'Really, you know,' I added, 'this is vastly entertaining. I assure
you, I am looking on, with all the interest of a man of the world, at
the development of your highly original character.'
He continued to study my face without speech, his hand still on the
button of the bell-rope, his eyes in mine; this was the decisive
heat.

My face seemed to myself to dislimn under his gaze, my expression
to change, the smile (with which I had began) to degenerate into
the grin of the man upon the rack.

I was besides harassed with doubts.

An innocent man, I argued, would have resented the fellow's impudence
an hour ago; and by my continued endurance of the ordeal, I was simply
signing and sealing my confession; in short, I had reached the
end of my powers.

'Have you any objection to my putting my hands in my breeches
pockets?' I inquired. 'Excuse me mentioning it, but you showed yourself
so extremely nervous a moment back.' My voice was not all I could
have wished, but it sufficed. I could hear it tremble, but the
landlord apparently could not. He turned away and drew a long
breath, and you may be sure I was quick to follow his example.

'You're a cool hand at least, and that's the sort I like,' said he.

'Be you what you please, I'll deal square. I'll take the chaise for
a hundred pound down, and throw the dinner in.'
'I beg your pardon,' I cried, wholly mystified by this form of
words.

'You pay me a hundred down,' he repeated, 'and I'll take the chaise.
It's very little more than it cost,' he added, with a grin, 'and
you know you must get it off your hands somehow.'

I do not know when I have been better entertained than by this impudent
proposal. It was broadly funny, and I suppose the least tempting offer
in the world. For all that, it came very welcome, for it gave me
the occasion to laugh. This I did with the most complete
abandonment, till the tears ran down my cheeks; and ever and again,
as the fit abated, I would get another view of the landlord's face,
and go off into another paroxysm.

'You droll creature, you will be the death of me yet!' I cried, drying
my eyes.

My friend was now wholly disconcerted; he knew not where to look, nor
yet what to say; and began for the first time to conceive it
possible he was mistaken.

'You seem rather to enjoy a laugh, sir,' said he.

'O, yes! I am quite an original,' I replied, and laughed again.

Presently, in a changed voice, he offered me twenty pounds for the
chaise; I ran him up to twenty-five, and closed with the offer:
indeed, I was glad to get anything; and if I haggled, it was not in
the desire of gain, but with the view at any price of securing a safe
retreat. For although hostilities were suspended, he was yet far from
satisfied; and I could read his continued suspicions in the
cloudy eye that still hovered about my face. At last they took shape
in words.

'This is all very well,' says he: 'you carry it off well; but for
all that, I must do my duty.'
I had my strong effect in reserve; it was to burn my ships with
a vengeance! I rose. 'Leave the room,' said I. 'This is insuperable.
Is the man mad?'

         And then, as if already half-
          ashamed of my passion: 'I can take a joke as well as any one,' I
added; 'but this passes measure.

Send my servant and the bill.'

         When he had left me alone, I considered my own
          valour with amazement.

I had insulted him; I had sent him away alone; now, if ever,
he would take what was the only sensible resource, and fetch the
constable. But there was something instinctively treacherous about the
man which shrank from plain courses. And, with all his cleverness,
he missed the occasion of fame.

Rowley and I were suffered to walk out of his door, with all our
baggage, on foot, with no destination named, except in the vague
statement that we were come 'to view the lakes'; and my friend
only watched our departure with his chin in his hand, still moodily
irresolute.

I think this one of my great successes. I was exposed, unmasked,
summoned to do a perfectly natural act, which must prove my doom
and which I had not the slightest pretext for refusing. I kept my
head, stuck to my guns, and, against all likelihood, here I was once
more at liberty and in the king's highway. This was a strong lesson
never to despair; and, at the same time, how many hints to be cautious!
and what a perplexed and dubious business the whole question of my
escape now appeared! That I should have risked perishing upon a trumpery
question of a pourboire, depicted in lively colours the perils that
perpetually surrounded us. Though, to be sure, the initial mistake
had been committed before that; and if I had not suffered myself to
be drawn a little deep in confidences to the innocent Dolly, there
need have been no tumble at the inn of Kirkby-Lonsdale. I took the
lesson to heart, and promised myself in the future to be more
reserved. It was none of my business to attend to broken chaises or
shipwrecked travellers.
I had my hands full of my own affairs; and my best defence would be a
little more natural selfishness and a trifle less imbecile good-
nature.

CHAPTER XXV--I MEET A CHEERFUL EXTRAVAGANT

I pass over the next fifty or sixty leagues of our journey
without comment. The reader must be growing weary of scenes of travel;
and for my own part I have no cause to recall these particular
miles with any pleasure. We were mainly occupied with attempts to
obliterate our trail, which (as the result showed) were far from
successful; for, on my cousin following, he was able to run me
home with the least possible loss of time, following the claret-coloured
chaise to Kirkby-Lonsdale, where I think the landlord must have wept
to learn what he had missed, and tracing us thereafter to the
doors of the coach-office in Edinburgh without a single check.
Fortune did not favour me, and why should I recapitulate the details
of futile precautions which deceived nobody, and wearisome arts
which proved to be artless?

The day was drawing to an end when Mr.

Rowley and I bowled into Edinburgh to the stirring sound of the guard's
bugle and the clattering team. I was here upon my field of battle;
on the scene of my former captivity, escape and exploits; and in
the same city with my love. My heart expanded; I have rarely
felt more of a hero. All down the Bridges I sat by the driver with
my arms folded and my face set, unflinchingly meeting every eye,
and prepared every moment for a cry of recognition.

Hundreds of the population were in the habit of visiting the Castle,
where it was my practice (before the days of Flora) to make myself
conspicuous among the prisoners; and I think it an extraordinary
thing that I should have encountered so few to recognise me. But
doubtless a clean chin is a disguise in itself; and the change is
great from a suit of sulphur-yellow to fine linen, a well-fitting
mouse-coloured great- coat furred in black, a pair of tight trousers
of fashionable cut, and a hat of inimitable curl.

After all, it was more likely that I should have recognised our
visitors, than that they should have identified the modish gentleman
with the miserable prisoner in the Castle.

I was glad to set foot on the flagstones, and to escape from the
crowd that had assembled to receive the mail.

Here we were, with but little daylight before us, and that on
Saturday afternoon, the eve of the famous Scottish Sabbath, adrift
in the New Town of Edinburgh, and overladen with baggage.

We carried it ourselves. I would not take a cab, nor so much as
hire a porter, who might afterwards serve as a link between my
lodgings and the mail, and connect me again with the claret-coloured
chaise and Aylesbury.

For I was resolved to break the chain of evidence for good, and to
begin life afresh (so far as regards caution) with a new character.

The first step was to find lodgings, and to find them quickly.
This was the more needful as Mr. Rowley and I, in our smart clothes
and with our cumbrous burthen, made a noticeable appearance in the
streets at that time of the day and in that quarter of the town,
which was largely given up to fine folk, bucks and dandies and young
ladies, or respectable professional men on their way home to dinner.

On the north side of St.

James' Square I was so happy as to spy a bill in a third-floor window.
I was equally indifferent to cost and convenience in my choice of
a lodging--'any port in a storm' was the principle on which I was
prepared to act; and Rowley and I made at once for the common
entrance and sealed the stair.

We were admitted by a very sour-looking female in bombazine.

I gathered she had all her life been depressed by a series of
bereavements, the last of which might very well have befallen her
the day before; and I instinctively lowered my voice when I addressed
her.

She admitted she had rooms to let--even showed them to us--a sitting-room
and bedroom in a suite, commanding a fine prospect to the Firth and
Fifeshire, and in themselves well proportioned and comfortably
furnished, with pictures on the wall, shells on the mantelpiece, and
several books upon the table which I found afterwards to be all
of a devotional character, and all presentation copies, 'to my
Christian friend,' or 'to my devout acquaintance in the Lord, Bethiah
McRankine.'

Beyond this my 'Christian friend' could not be made to advance: no, not
even to do that which seemed the most natural and pleasing thing
in the world--I mean to name her price--but stood before us shaking
her head, and at times mourning like the dove, the picture of
depression and defence.

She had a voice the most querulous I have ever heard, and with this
she produced a whole regiment of difficulties and criticisms.

She could not promise an attendance.

'Well, madam,' said I, 'and what is my servant for?'
'Him?' she asked. 'Be gude to us! Is HE your servant?'

'I am sorry, ma'am, he meets with your disapproval.'
'Na, I never said that.

But he's young. He'll be a great breaker, I'm thinkin'. Ay! he'll
be a great responsibeelity to ye, like.
Does he attend to his releegion?'
'Yes, m'm,' returned Rowley, with admirable promptitude, and,
immediately closing his eyes, as if from habit, repeated the following
distich with more celerity than fervour:-
'Matthew, Mark, Luke and John Bless the bed that I lie on!'

'Nhm!' said the lady, and maintained an awful silence.

'Well, ma'am,' said I, 'it seems we are never to hear the beginning
of your terms, let alone the end of them. Come--a good movement!
and let us be either off or on.'
She opened her lips slowly. 'Ony raferences?' she inquired, in a
voice like a bell.

I opened my pocket-book and showed her a handful of bank bills. 'I
think, madam, that these are unexceptionable,' said I.

'Ye'll be wantin' breakfast late?' was her reply.

'Madam, we want breakfast at whatever hour it suits you to give it,
from four in the morning till four in the afternoon!'

I cried.
'Only tell us your figure, if your mouth be large enough to let it
out!'

'I couldnae give ye supper the nicht,' came the echo.

'We shall go out to supper, you incorrigible female!' I vowed, between
laughter and tears. 'Here--this is going to end! I want you for a
landlady--let me tell you that!--and I am going to have my way. You
won't tell me what you charge? Very well; I will do without! I can
trust you! You don't seem to know when you have a good lodger; but
I know perfectly when I have an honest landlady!

Rowley, unstrap the valises!'
Will it be credited? The monomaniac fell to rating me for my indiscretion!
But the battle was over; these were her last guns, and more in the
nature of a salute than of renewed hostilities.

And presently she condescended on very moderate terms, and Rowley and
I were able to escape in quest of supper. Much time had, however,
been lost; the sun was long down, the lamps glimmered along the
streets, and the voice of a watchman already resounded in the
neighbouring Leith Road.

On our first arrival I had observed a place of entertainment not far
off, in a street behind the Register House.

Thither we found our way, and sat down to a late dinner alone.
But we had scarce given our orders before the door opened, and a
tall young fellow entered with something of a lurch, looked about
him, and approached the same table.

'Give you good evening, most grave and reverend seniors!' said he.
'Will you permit a wanderer, a pilgrim--the pilgrim of love, in
short--to come to temporary anchor under your lee?

I care not who knows it, but I have a passionate aversion from the
bestial practice of solitary feeding!'

'You are welcome, sir,' said I, 'if I may take upon me so far to
play the host in a public place.'

He looked startled, and fixed a hazy eye on me, as he sat down.

'Sir,' said he, 'you are a man not without some tincture of
letters, I perceive!

What shall we drink, sir?'
I mentioned I had already called for a pot of porter.

'A modest pot--the seasonable quencher?'

said he. 'Well, I do not know but what I could look at a modest pot
myself!

I am, for the moment, in precarious health. Much study hath heated my
brain, much walking wearied my--well, it seems to be more my eyes!'

'You have walked far, I dare say?'

I suggested.

'Not so much far as often,' he replied. 'There is in this city--to
which, I think, you are a stranger? Sir, to your very good health
and our better acquaintance!--there is, in this city of Dunedin, a
certain implication of streets which reflects the utmost credit
on the designer and the publicans--at every hundred yards is seated
the Judicious Tavern, so that persons of contemplative mind are
secure, at moderate distances, of refreshment.

I have been doing a trot in that favoured quarter, favoured by art
and nature. A few chosen comrades--enemies of publicity and friends
to wit and wine-- obliged me with their society. "Along the cool,
sequestered vale of Register Street we kept the uneven tenor of
our way," sir.'
'It struck me, as you came in--' I began.

'O, don't make any bones about it!' he interrupted. 'Of course it
struck you! and let me tell you I was devilish lucky not to strike
myself.

When I entered this apartment I shone "with all the pomp and prodigality
of brandy and water," as the poet Gray has in another place expressed
it. Powerful bard, Gray! but a niminy- piminy creature, afraid of
a petticoat and a bottle--not a man, sir, not a man! Excuse me
for being so troublesome, but what the devil have I done with my fork?
Thank you, I am sure. Temulentia, quoad me ipsum, brevis colligo
est. I sit and eat, sir, in a London fog.

I should bring a link-boy to table with me; and I would too, if the
little brutes were only washed! I intend to found a Philanthropical
Society for Washing the Deserving Poor and Shaving Soldiers. I am
pleased to observe that, although not of an unmilitary bearing,
you are apparently shaved. In my calendar of the virtues shaving
comes next to drinking. A gentleman may be a low-minded ruffian
without sixpence, but he will always be close shaved. See me, with
the eye of fancy, in the chill hours of the morning, say about a
quarter to twelve, noon--see me awake! First thing of all, without
one thought of the plausible but unsatisfactory small beer, or the
healthful though insipid soda- water, I take the deadly razor in
my vacillating grasp; I proceed to skate upon the margin of eternity.
Stimulating thought! I bleed, perhaps, but with medicable wounds.
The stubble reaped, I pass out of my chamber, calm but triumphant.
To employ a hackneyed phrase, I would not call Lord Wellington my
uncle! I, too, have dared, perhaps bled, before the imminent deadly
shaving-table.'It was a state chamber, with a
big bed, far away from the entrance, shuttered and curtained up, and
with double doors, excluding all noise.  The two cousins lay down,
Nuttie dead asleep almost before her head touched the pillow, while
May was aching all over, declaring herself far too much tired and
excited to sleep; and, besides that it was not worth while, for she
should be called for in a very short time.  And she remained
conscious of a great dread of being roused, so that when she heard
her cousin moving about the room, she insisted that they had scarcely
lain down, whereupon Nuttie laughed, declared that she had heard a
great clock strike twelve before she moved, and showed daylight
coming in through the shutters.

'We can't lie here any longer, I suppose,' said May, sitting up
wearily; 'and yet what can we put on?  It makes one shiver to think
of going down to luncheon in a ball dress!'

'Besides, mine is all torn to pieces to make bandages,' said Nuttie.
'I must put on the underskirt and my cloak again.'

'Or Annaple might lend us something.  I must get out somehow to know
how poor Lady Delmar is, and what has become of everybody.  Ring,
Ursula, please, and lie down till somebody comes.'

The bell was answered by a maid, who told them that my lady had been
brought home by Mr. and Mrs. Egremont about an hour after their
arrival.  She was as well as could be expected, and there was no
cause for anxiety.  Mr. and Mrs. Egremont had then gone on to
Bridgefield, leaving word that Mrs. William Egremont and Miss Blanche
were sleeping at Redcastle, having sent home for their own dresses
and the young ladies', and would call for the rest of their party on
the way.  Indeed, a box for the Miss Egremonts had been deposited by
the Canon from the pony-carriage an hour ago, and was already in the
dressing-room; but Miss Ruthven would not have them disturbed.  Miss
Ruthven,--oh yes, she was up, she had not been in bed at all.


CHAPTER XV.
A CASTLE OF UMBRELLAS.


No, Annaple Ruthven could not have slept, even if she had had time.
Her first care had been to receive her sister, who had been met at
the entrance of Redcastle by her husband.  There had been profuse
offers of hospitality to Mr. and Mrs. Egremont, the latter of whom
looked tired out, and offers of sending messengers to Bridgefield;
but Mr. Egremont would not hear of them, and every one suspected that
he would not incur the chance of rising without Gregorio and all his
appliances.

By the time they were disposed of, and Lady Delmar safe in bed, it
was time to repair to her mother's room, so as to prevent her from
being alarmed.  Lady Ronnisglen was English born.  She was not by any
means the typical dowager.  Her invalid condition was chiefly owing
to an accident, which had rendered her almost incapable of walking,
and she was also extremely susceptible of cold, and therefore hardly
ever went out; but there was so much youth and life about her at
sixty-three that she and Annaple often seemed like companion sisters,
and her shrewd, keen, managing eldest-born like their mother.

Annaple lay down beside her on her bed in the morning twilight, and
gave her the history of the accident in playful terms indeed.
Annaple could never help that, but there was something in her voice
that made Lady Ronnisglen say, when satisfied about Janet's hurt,
'You've more to say, Nannie dear.'

'Yes, minnie mine, I walked home with Mark Egremont.'

'And--?'

'Yes, minnie.  He is going to work and make a home--a real, true,
homely home for you and me.'

'My child, my child, you have not hung the old woman about the poor
boy's neck!'

'As if I would have had him if he did not love her, and make a mother
of her!'

'But what is he going to do, Nan?  This is a very different thing
from--'

'Very different from Janet's notions!' and they both laughed, the
mother adding to the mirth by saying--

'Poor Janet, congratulating herself that no harm had been done, and
that you had never taken to one another!'

'Did she really now?'

'Oh yes, only yesterday, and I bade her not crow too soon, for I
thought I saw symptoms--'

'You dear darling minnie!  Think of that!  Before we either of us
knew it, and when he is worth ever so much than he was before!  Not
but that I am enraged when people say he has acted nobly, just as if
there had been anything else for him to do!'

'I own that I am glad he has proved himself.  I was afraid he would
be dragged in the way of his uncle.  Don't be furious, Nannie.  Not
at all into evil, but into loitering; and I should like to know what
are his prospects now.'

'Well, mother, I don't think he has any.  But he means to have.  And
not a word is to be said to anybody except you and his father and May
till he has looked over the top of the wall, and seen his way.  We
need not bring Janet down on us till then.'

'I must see him, my dear.  Let me see him before he goes away.  He
always has been a very dear lad, a thoroughly excellent right-minded
fellow.  Only I must know what he means to do, and whether there is
any reasonable chance of employment or fixed purpose.'

Lady Ronnisglen's maid here arrived with her matutinal cup of tea;
and Annaple, beginning to perceive that she was very stiff, went off
in hopes that her morning toilette would deceive her hardworked
little frame into believing it had had a proper night's rest.

She was quite ready to appear at the breakfast table, though her
eldest niece, a long-haired, long-limbed girl, considerably the
bigger of the two, was only too happy to preside over the cups.  All
the four young people were in the greatest state of excitement,
welcoming, as the heroes of the night, Mark and Mr. Godfrey, and
clamouring to be allowed to walk down after breakfast with their
father and the gentlemen to see the scene of the catastrophe and the
remains of the carriage and the bridge.

Sir John made a courteous reference to the governess, but there was a
general sense that the cat was away, and presently there was a rush
upstairs to prepare for the walk.  Annaple had time in the course of
all the bustle, while the colour came back to her cheeks for a
moment, to tell Mark that her mother had been all that was good, and
wanted to see him.

He must manage to stay till after eleven o'clock; she could not be
ready before.  Then he might come to her sitting-room, which, as well
as her bedroom, was on the ground floor.

Mark had to work off his anxiety by an inspection of the scene of the
disaster and a circumstantial explanation of the details to the young
Delmars, who crowded round him and Mr. Godfrey, half awed, half
delighted, and indeed the youngest--a considerable tomboy--had nearly
given the latter the opportunity of becoming a double hero by
tumbling through the broken rail, but he caught her in time, and she
only incurred from Sir John such a scolding as a great fright will
produce from the easiest of fathers.

Afterwards Mark put Gerard on the way to his brother-in-law's living,
asking him on the road so many questions about the umbrella business
that the youth was not quite sure how to take it, and doubted whether
the young swell supposed that he could talk of nothing else; but his
petulance was mitigated when he was asked, 'Supposing a person wished
to enter the business, to whom should he apply?'

'Do you know any one who wishes for anything of the kind?' he asked.
'Are you making inquiries for any one?' and on a hesitating
affirmation, 'Because I know there is an opening for a man with
capital just at present.  Dutton won't advertise--'tis so risky; and
he wants some knowledge of a person's antecedents, and whether he is
likely to go into it in a liberal, gentlemanly spirit, with good
principles, you see, such as would not upset all we are doing for the
hands.'

'What amount of capital do you mean?'

'Oh, from five hundred to a thousand!  Or more would not come amiss.
If I only had it!  What it would be to conduct an affair like that on
true principles!  But luck is against me every way.'

Mark was at the sitting-room door as the four quarters began to
strike in preparation for eleven, but Lady Ronnisglen had been in her
chair for nearly half-an-hour, having been rapid and nervous enough
to hurry even the imperturbable maid, whom Annaple thought incapable
of being hastened.  She was a little slight woman, with delicate
features and pale complexion, such as time deals with gently, and her
once yellow hair now softened with silver was turned back in bands
beneath the simple net cap that suited her so well.  There was a soft
yet sparkling look about her as she held out her hands and exclaimed,
'Ah, Master Mark, what mischief have you been doing?'

Mark came and knelt on one knee beside her and said: 'Will you let me
work for you both, Lady Ronnisglen?  I will do my best to find some.'

'Ah! that is the point, my dear boy.  I should have asked and wished
for definite work, if you had come to me before that discovery of
yours; and now it is a mere matter of necessity.'

'Yes,' said Mark; then, with some hesitation, he added: 'Lady
Ronnisglen, do you care whether I take to what people call a
gentleman's profession?  I could, of course, go on till I am called
to the bar, and then wait for something to turn up; but that would be
waiting indeed!  Then in other directions I've taken things easy, you
see, till I'm too old for examinations.  I failed in the only one
that was still open to me.  Lord Kirkaldy tried me for foreign office
work, and was appalled at my blunders.  I'm not fit for a parson.'

'I should have thought you were.'

'Not I,' said Mark.  'I'm not up to the mark there.  I couldn't say
honestly that I was called to it.  I wish I could, for it would be
the easiest way out of it; but I looked at the service, and I can't.
There--that's a nice confession to come to you with!  I can't think
how I can have been so impudent.'

'Mark, you are a dear good lad.  I respect and honour you ever so
much more than before all this showed what stuff was in you!  But the
question is, What's to be done?  My child is verily the "penniless
lass with a high pedigree," for she has not a poor thousand to call
her own.'

'And I have no right to anything in my father's lifetime, though I
have no doubt he would give me up my share of my mother's portion--
about £3000.  Now this is what has occurred to me: In the place where
I found my uncle's wife--Micklethwayte, close to Monks Horton--
there's a great umbrella factory, with agencies everywhere.  There
are superior people belonging to it.  I've seen some of them, and
I've been talking to the young fellow who helped us last night, who
is in the office.  I find that to go into the thing with such capital
as I might hope for, would bring in a much larger and speedier return
than I could hope for any other way, if only my belongings would set
aside their feelings.  And you see there are the Kirkaldys close by
to secure her good society.'

Lady Ronnisglen put out her transparent-looking, black-mittened hand,
and gave a little dainty pat to his arm.  'I like to see a man in
earnest,' said she.  Her little Skye terrier was seized with jealousy
at her gesture, and came nuzzling in between with his black nose.
'Mull objects!' she said, smiling; but then, with a graver look, 'And
so will your father.'

'At first,' said Mark; 'but I think he will give way when he has had
time to look at the matter, and sees how good you are.  That will
make all the difference.'

So Annaple, who had been banished for a little while, was allowed to
return, and mother, daughter, and lover built themselves a little
castle of umbrellas, and bestowed a little arch commiseration on poor
Lady Delmar; who, it was agreed, need know nothing until something
definite was arranged, since Annaple was clearly accountable to no
one except her mother.  She would certainly think the latter part of
her dream only too well realised, and consider that an unfair
advantage had been taken of her seclusion in her own room.  In spite
of all loyal efforts to the contrary, Mark, if he had been in a frame
of mind to draw conclusions, would have perceived that the prospect
of escaping from the beneficent rule of Lescombe was by no means
unpleasant to Lady Ronnisglen.  The books that lay within her reach
would hardly have found a welcome anywhere else in the house.  Sir
John was not brilliant, and his wife had turned her native wits to
the practical rather than the intellectual line, and had quite enough
to think of in keeping up the dignities of Lescombe with a large
family amid agricultural difficulties.

Annaple remembered at last that she ought to go and look after her
guests, assisted therein by the pleasure of giving May a hearty kiss
and light squeeze, with a murmur that 'all was right.'

She brought them downstairs just as the gong was sounding, and the
rush of girls descending from the schoolroom, and Lady Ronnisglen
being wheeled across the hall in her chair.  Nuttie, who had expected
to see a gray, passive, silent old lady like Mrs. Nugent, was quite
amazed at the bright, lively face and voice that greeted the son-in-
law and grandchildren, May and herself, congratulating these two on
having been so well employed all the morning, and observing that she
was afraid her Nannie could not give so good an account of herself.

'Well,' said Sir John, 'I am sure she looks as if she found plodding
along the lanes as wholesome as sleeping in her bed!  Nan Apple-
cheeks, eh?'

Whereupon Annaple's cheeks glowed all the more into resemblance of
the baby-name which she had long ceased to deserve; but May could see
the darkness under her eyes, betraying that it was only excitement
that drove away fatigue.

Sir John had not gone far in his circumstantial description of the
injuries to his unfortunate carriage when the Canon arrived, with his
wife and Blanche.  Mark would have given worlds in his impatience to
have matters settled between the two parents then and there; but Lady
Ronnisglen had already warned him that this would not be possible,
and assured him that it would be much wiser to prepare his father
beforehand.

Then he fixed his hopes on a solitary drive with his father back in
the pony carriage, but he found himself told off to take that home,
and had to content himself with May as a companion.  Nor was his
sister's mode of receiving the umbrella plan reassuring.  She had
smiled too often with her stepmother over Nuttie's having been
brought up among umbrellas to be ready to accept the same lot for her
brother and her friend, and she was quite sure that her father would
never consent.  'An Egremont an umbrella-maker! how horrible!  Just
fancy seeing Dutton, Egremont and Co. on the handle of one's
umbrella!'

'Well, you need not patronise us,' said Mark.

'But is it possible that Lady Ronnisglen did not object?' said May.

 She seemed to think it preferable to driving pigs in the Texas, like
her son Malcolm.'

'Yes, but then that _was_ the Texas.'

'Oh May, May, I did not think you were such a goose!'

'I should have thought the folly was in not being patient.  Stick to
your profession, and something must come in time.'

'Ay, and how many men do you think are sticking to it in that hope?
No, May, 'tis not real patience to wear out the best years of my life
and hers in idleness, waiting for something not beneath an Egremont
to do!'

'But is there nothing to do better than that?'

'Find it for me, May.'


CHAPTER XVI.
INFRA DIG.


'Till every penny which she told,
 Creative Fancy turned to gold.'--B. LLOYD.


The Blueposts Bridge had produced a good deal of effect.  Ursula
Egremont in special seemed to herself to have been awakened from a
strange dream, and to have resumed her real nature and affections.
She felt as if she would give all her partners at the ball for one
shake of Monsieur's fringed paws; her heart yearned after Aunt Ursel
and Miss Mary; she longed after the chants of the choir; and when she
thought of the effort poor Gerard Godfrey had made to see her, she
felt him a hero, and herself a recreant heroine, who had well-nigh
been betrayed into frivolity and desertion of him, and she registered
secret resolutions of constancy.

She burned to pour out to her mother all the Micklethwayte tidings,
and all her longings to be there; but when the Rectory party set her
down at the door, the footman, with a look of grave importance,
announced that Mr. Egremont was very unwell.  'Mr. Gregory thinks he
has taken a chill from the effect of exposure, sir, and Dr. Hamilton
has been sent for.'

The Canon and his wife both got out on this intelligence, and Mrs.
Egremont was summoned to see them.  She came, looking more frightened
than they thought the occasion demanded, for she was appalled by the
severe pain in the head and eyes; but they comforted her by assuring
her that her husband had suffered in the same manner in the spring,
and she saw how well he had recovered; and then telling Nuttie to
bring word what the doctor's report was, and then spend the evening
at the Rectory, they departed, while poor Nuttie only had one kiss,
one inquiry whether she were rested, before her mother fled back to
the patient.

Nor did she see her again till after the doctor's visit, and then it
was only to desire her to tell her uncle that the attack was
pronounced to be a return of the illness of last spring, and that it
would be expedient to go abroad for the winter.

Go abroad!  It had always been a vision of delight to Nuttie, and she
could not be greatly concerned at the occasion of it; but she did not
find the Rectory in a condition to converse and sympathise.  Blanche
was lying down with a bad headache.  The Edwardses and a whole party
of semi-genteel parish visitors had come in to inquire about the
accident, and had to be entertained with afternoon tea; and May,
though helping her stepmother to do her devoir towards them, seemed
more preoccupied than ever.

As indeed she was, for she knew that Mark was putting his fate to the
touch with his father in the study.

The Canon heard the proposal with utter consternation and dismay at
the perverseness of the two young people, who might have been engaged
any time these two years with the full approbation of their families,
and now chose the very moment when every one was rejoicing at their
freedom.

'When a young man has got into a pickle,' he said, 'the first thing
is to want to be married!'

'Exactly so, sir, to give him a motive for getting out of the pickle.
'

'Umbrellas!  I should like to hear what your grandfather would have
said!'

'These are not my grandfather's days, sir.'

'No indeed!  There was nothing to do but to give a hint to old Lord
de Lyonnais, and he could get you put into any berth you chose.
Interest was interest in those days!  I don't see why Kirkaldy can't
do the same.'

'Not unless I had foreign languages at my tongue's end.'

Whereat the Canon groaned, and Mark had to work again through all the
difficulties in the way of the more liberal professions; and the
upshot was that his father agreed to drive over to Lescombe the next
day and see Lady Ronnisglen.  He certainly had always implicitly
trusted his son's veracity, but he evidently thought that there must
have been much warping of the imagination to make the young man
believe the old Scottish peeress to have consented to her daughter's
marrying into an umbrella factory.

Nuttie was surprised and gratified that both Mark and May put her
through an examination on the habits of Micklethwayte and the
position of Mr. Godfrey, which she thought was entirely due to the
favourable impression Gerard had produced, and she felt
proportionably proud of him when Mark pronounced him a very nice
gentlemanly young fellow.  She could not think why her uncle, with
more testiness than she had ever seen in that good-natured dignitary,
ordered May not to stand chattering there, but to give them some
music.

The Canon drove to Lescombe the next day under pretext of inquiring
after Lady Delmar, and then almost forgot to do so, after he had
ascertained that she was a prisoner to her dressing-room, and that
Sir John was out shooting.  The result of his interview filled him
with astonishment.  Lady Ronnisglen having had a large proportion of
sons to put out in life on very small means had learnt not to be
fastidious, and held that the gentleman might ennoble the vocation
instead of the vocation debasing the gentleman.  Moreover, in her
secret soul she felt that her daughter Janet's manoeuvres were far
more truly degrading than any form of honest labour; and it was very
sore to her to have no power of preventing them, ridicule, protest,
or discouragement being all alike treated as the dear mother's old-
world unpractical romance.  It galled her likewise that she could
perceive the determination that Annaple Ruthven should be disposed of
before Muriel Delmar came on the scene; and the retiring to ever so
small a home of their own had been discussed between mother and
daughter, and only put aside because of the pain it would give their
honest-hearted host and their hostess, who really loved them.

Thus she did her best to persuade her old friend that there were few
openings for a man of his son's age, and that if the Micklethwayte
business were all that Mark imagined, it was not beneath the
attention even of a well-born gentleman in these modern days, and
would involve less delay than any other plan, except emigration,
which was equally dreaded by each parent.  Delay there must be, not
only in order to ascertain the facts respecting the firm, but to
prove whether Mark had any aptitude for the business before involving
any capital in it.  However, every other alternative would involve
much longer and more doubtful waiting.  And altogether the Canon felt
that if a person of Lady Ronnisglen's rank did not object, he had
scarcely a right to do so.  However, both alike reserved consent
until full inquiry should have been made.

The Canon wrote to Lord Kirkaldy, and in the meantime wanted to
gather what information he could from his sister-in-law; but he found
her absolutely engrossed as her husband's nurse, and scarcely
permitted to snatch a meal outside the darkened room.  He groaned and
grumbled at his brother's selfishness, and declared that her health
would be damaged, while his shrewder lady declared that nothing would
be so good for her as to let Alwyn find her indispensable to his
comfort, even beyond Gregorio.

This absorption of her mother fell hard on Ursula, especially when
the first two days' alarm was over, and her mother was still kept an
entire prisoner, as companion rather than nurse.  As before, the
rheumatic attack fastened upon the head and eyes, causing lengthened
suffering, and teaching Mr. Egremont that he had never had so gentle,
so skilful, so loving, or altogether so pleasant a slave as his wife,
the only person except Gregorio whom, in his irritable state, he
would tolerate about him.

His brother could not be entirely kept out, but was never made
welcome, more especially when he took upon himself to remonstrate on
Alice's being deprived of air, exercise, and rest.  He got no thanks;
Mr. Egremont snarled, and Alice protested that she was never tired,
and needed nothing.  The Rectory party were, excepting the schoolroom
girls, engaged to make visits from home before going into residence
at Redcastle, and were to begin with Monks Horton.  They offered to
escort Ursula to see her great aunt at Micklethwayte--Oh joy of
joys!--but when the Canon made the proposition in his brother's room,
Mr. Egremont cut it short with 'I'm not going to have her running
after those umbrella-mongers.'

The Canon's heart sank within him at the tone, and he was really very
sorry for his niece, who was likely to have a fortnight or three
weeks of comparative solitude before her father was ready to set out
on the journey.

'Can't she help you, in reading to her father--or anything?' he asked
Alice, who had come out with him into the anteroom to express her
warm thanks for the kind proposal.

She shook her head.  'He would not like it, nor I, for her.'

'I should think not!' exclaimed the Canon, as his eye fell on the
title of a yellow French book on the table.  'I have heard of this!
Does he make you read such as this to him, Alice?'

'Nothing else seems to amuse him,' she said.  'Do you, think I ought
not?  I don't understand much of that kind of modern French, but
Nuttie knows it better.'

'Not _that kind_, I hope,' said the Canon hastily.  No, no, my dear,'
as he saw her colour mantling, 'small blame to you.  You have only to
do the best you can with him, poor fellow!  Then we'll take anything
for you.  We've said nothing to Nuttie, Jane said I had better ask
you first.'

'Oh, that was kind!  I am glad she is spared the disappointment.'

Not that she was.  For when she learnt her cousins' destination, she
entreated to go with them, and had to be told that the proposal had
been made and refused.

There is no denying that she behaved very ill.  It was the first real
sharp collision of wills.  She had differed from, and disapproved of,
her father all along, but what had been required of her had generally
been pleasant to one side at least of her nature; but here she was
condemned to the dulness of the lonely outsider to a sick room, when
her whole soul was leaping back to the delights of her dear old home
at Micklethwayte,

She made her mother's brief meal with her such a misery of protests
and insistences on pleadings with her father that poor Alice was fain
to rejoice when the servants' presence silenced her, and fairly fled
from her when the last dish was carried out.

"When they met again Nuttie demanded, 'Have you spoken to my father?'

'I told you, my dear, it would be of no use?'

'You promised.'

'No, Nuttie, I did not.'

'I'm sure I understood you to say you would if you could.'

'It was your hopes, my dear child.  He is quite determined.'

'And you leave him so.  Mother, I can't understand your submitting to
show such cruel ingratitude!'

Nuttie was very angry, though she was shocked at the burning colour
and hot tears that she beheld as, half choked, her mother said: 'Oh,
my dear, my dear, do not speak so!  You know--you know it is not in
my heart, but my first duty, and yours too, is to your father.'

'Whatever he tells us?' demanded Nuttie, still hot and angry.

'I did not say that,' returned her mother gently, 'but you know,
Nuttie, Aunt Ursel herself would say that it is our duty to abide by
his decision here.'

'But you could speak to him,' still argued Nuttie, 'what's the use of
his being so fond of you if he won't do anything you want?'

'Hush! hush, Nuttie! you know that is not a right way of speaking.  I
cannot worry him now he is ill.  You don't know what that dreadful
pain is!'

Happily Nuttie did refrain from saying, 'No doubt it makes him very
cross;' but she muttered, 'And so we are to be cut off for ever from
Aunt Ursel, and Miss Mary, and--and--every thing good--and nice--and
catholic?'

'I hope not, indeed, I hope not.  Only he wants us to get the good
society manners and tone--like your cousins, you know.  You are young
enough for it, and a real Egremont, you know Nuttie, and when you
have learnt it, he will trust you there,' said the mother, making a
very mild version of his speech about the umbrella-mongers.

'Yes, he wants to make me worldly, so that I should not care, but
that he never shall do, whatever you may let him do to you.'

His bell rang sharply, and away hurried Alice, leaving her daughter
with a miserably sore and impatient heart, and the consciousness of
having harshly wounded the mother whom she had meant to protect.  And
there was no hugging and kissing to make up for it possible.  They
would not meet till dinner-time, and Nuttie's mood of stormy
repentance had cooled before that time into longing to be more tender
than usual towards her mother, but how was that possible during the
awful household ceremony of many courses, with three solemn men-
servants ministering to them?

And poor Alice jumped up at the end, and ran away as if afraid of
fresh objurgations, so that all Nuttie could do was to rush headlong
after her, catch her on the landing, kiss her face all over, and
exclaim, 'Oh, mother, mother, I was dreadfully cross!'

'There, there!  I knew you would be sorry, dear, dear child, I know
it is very hard, but let me go.  He wants me!'

And a very forlorn and deplorable person was left behind, feeling as
if her father, after carrying her away from everything else that she
loved, had ended by robbing her of her mother.

She stood on the handsome staircase, and contrasted it with the
little cosy entrance at her aunt's.  She felt how she hated all these
fine surroundings, and how very good and unworldly she was for so
doing.  Only, was it good to have been so violent towards her mother?

The Rectory folks were dining out, so she could only have recourse to
Mudie's box to try to drive dull care away.

A few days more and they were gone.  Though Mr. Egremont was
gradually mending, he still required his wife to be in constant
attendance.  In point of fact Alice could not, and in her loyalty
would not, tell her dignified brother-in-law, far less her daughter,
of the hint that the doctor had given her, namely, that her husband
was lapsing into the constant use of opiates, founded at first on the
needs of his malady, but growing into a perilous habit, which
accounted for his shutting himself up all the forenoon.

While under medical treatment it was possible to allowance him, and
keep him under orders, but Dr. Hamilton warned her not to allow the
quantity to be exceeded or the drugs to be resorted to after his
recovery, speaking seriously of the consequences of indulgence.  He
spoke as a duty, but as he looked at the gentle, timid woman, he saw
little hope of her doing any good!

Poor Alice was appalled.  All she could do was to betake herself to
'the little weapon called All-Prayer,' and therewith to use all
vigilance and all her arts of coaxing and cheering away weariness and
languor, beguiling sleeplessness, soothing pain by any other means.
She had just enough success to prevent her from utterly despairing,
and to keep her always on the strain, and at her own cost, for Mr.
Egremont was far more irritable when he was without the narcotic, and
the serenity it produced was an absolute relief.  She soon found too
that Gregorio was a contrary power.  Once, when he had suggested the
dose, and she had replied by citing the physician's commands, Mr.
Egremont had muttered an imprecation on doctors, and she had caught a
horrible grin of hatred on the man's face, which seemed to her almost
diabolical.  She had prevailed then, but the next time her absence
was at all prolonged, she found that the opiate had been taken, and
her dread of quitting her post increased, though she did not by any
means always succeed.  Sometimes she was good-humouredly set aside,
sometimes roughly told to mind her own business; but she could not
relinquish the struggle, and whenever she did succeed in preventing
the indulgence she felt a hopefulness that--in spite of himself and
Gregorio, she might yet save him.

Another hint she had from both the Canon and his wife.  When they
asked what place was chosen, Mr. Egremont said he had made Alice
write to inquire of the houses to be had at various resorts--Mentone,
Nice, Cannes, and the like.  She was struck by the ardour with which
they both began to praise Nice, Genoa, Sorrento, any place in
preference to Mentone, which her husband seemed to know and like the
best.

And when she went downstairs with them the Canon held her hand a
moment, and said, 'Anywhere but Mentone, my dear.'

She looked bewildered for a moment, and the Canoness added, 'Look in
the guide-books.'

Then she remembered Monte Carlo, and for a moment it was to her as
shocking a warning as if she had been bidden to keep her husband out
of the temptation of thieving.

She resolved, however, to do her best, feeling immediately that again
it was a pull of her influence against Gregorio's.  Fortune favoured
her so far that the villa favoured by Mr. Egremont was not to be had,
only the side of the bay he disliked, and that a pleasant villa
offered at Nice.

Should she close with it?  Well--was there great haste?  Gregorio
knew a good many people at Mentone, and could ascertain in his own
way if they could get the right side of the bay by going to the hotel
and waiting.  Alice, however, pressed the matter--represented the
danger of falling between two stools, pleaded personal preference,
and whereas Mr. Egremont was too lazy for resistance to any
persuasion, she obtained permission to engage the Nice villa.  The
next day Gregorio announced that he had heard that the proprietor of
Villa Francaleone at Mentone was giving up hopes of his usual
tenants, and an offer might secure it.

'Villa Eugenie at Nice is taken,' said Alice, and she received one of
those deadly black looks, which were always like a stab.

Of all this Nuttie knew nothing.  She was a good deal thrown with the
schoolroom party and with the curate's wife for companionship.  Now
Mrs. Edwards did not approve of even the canonical Egremonts, having
an ideal far beyond the ritual of Bridgefield; and she was delighted
to find how entirely Miss Egremont sympathised with her.

Nuttie described St. Ambrose's as a paradise of church observances
and parish management, everything becoming embellished and all
shortcomings forgotten in the loving mists of distance.  The
harmonium was never out of tune; the choir-boys were only just
naughty enough to show how wisely Mr. Spyers dealt with them; the
surplices, one would think, never needed washing; Mr. Dutton and
Gerard Godfrey were paragons of lay helpers, and district visitors
never were troublesome.  Mrs. Edwards listened with open ears, and
together they bewailed the impracticability of moving the Canon to
raising Bridgefield to anything approaching to such a standard; while
Nuttie absolutely cultivated her home sickness.

According to promise Blanche wrote to her from Monks Horton, and told
her thus much--'We have been all over your umbrella place.  It was
very curious.  Then we called upon Miss Headworth, who was quite
well, and was pleased to hear of you.'

Blanche was famous for never putting into a letter what her
correspondent wanted to hear, but her stepmother wrote a much longer
and more interesting letter to Mrs. Egremont.

'You will be glad to hear that we found your aunt quite well.  I
suppose it is not in the nature of things that you should not be
missed; but I should think your place as well supplied as could be
hoped by that very handsome and superior Miss Nugent, with whom she
lives.  I had a good deal of conversation with both; for you will be
surprised to hear that the Canon has consented to Mark's making the
experiment of working for a year in Greenleaf and Dutton's office,
with a view to entering the firm in future.  I was very anxious to
understand from such true ladies what the position would be socially.
I longed to talk it over with you beforehand; but Alwyn could never
spare you, and it was not a subject to be broached without ample time
for discussion.  We felt that though the Kirkaldys could tell us
much, it was only from the outside, whereas Miss Headworth could
speak from within.  The decision is of course a blow to his father,
and will be still more so to the De Lyonnais family, but they have
never done anything to entitle them to have a voice in the matter,
and the Kirkaldys agree with us that, though not a path of
distinction, it is one of honourable prosperity; and with this, if
Mark is content, we have no right to object, since his mind is set on
present happiness rather than ambition.'

It was a letter gratifying to Alice in its confidential tone, as well
as in the evident approval of those surroundings which she loved so
well.  She read it to her husband, as she was desired to give him a
message that the Canon had not written out of consideration for his
eyes.  He laughed the laugh that always jarred on her.  'So Master
Mark has got his nose to the grindstone, has he?' was his first
exclamation, and, after some cogitation, 'The fellow wants to be
married, depend on it!'

'Do you think so?' returned Alice wistfully.

'Think!  Why, you may see it in Jane's letter!  I wonder who it is!
The little yellow Ruthven girl, most likely!  The boy is fool enough
for anything!  I thought he would have mended his fortunes with
Ursula, but he's too proud to stomach that, I suppose!'

'I did wish that!' said Alice.  'It would have set everything
straight, and it would have been so nice for her.'

'You should have cut out your daughter after your own pattern,' he
answered; 'not let her be such a raw insignificant little spitfire.
'Tis a pity.  I don't want the estate to go out of the name, though I
won't leave it to an interfering prig like Mark unless he chooses to
take my daughter with it!'

The latter part of this amiable speech was muttered and scarcely
heard or attended to by Alice in her struggle to conceal the grief
she felt at the uncompromising opinion of her child.  Nuttie might
outgrow being raw, but there seemed less rather than more prospect of
a better understanding with her father.  About a week later Mark made
his appearance, timing it happily when his uncle was making his
toilette, so that his aunt was taking a turn on the sunny terrace
with Nuttie when the young man came hurrying up the garden.

'Mark!  What?  Are you come home?'

'Not the others.  They are at Mr. Condamine's, I came last night--by
way of Lescombe.  Edda, dear, it is all right!  Oh, I forgot you did
not know!  There was no seeing you before we went away.  Ah! by the
by, how is my uncle?'

'Much better, except that using his eyes brings on the pain.  'What
is it, Mark?  Ah! I can guess,' she said, aided no doubt by that
conjecture of her husband's.

'Yes, yes, yes!' he answered, with a rapidity quite unlike himself.
'Why, Nuttie, how mystified you look!'

'I'm sure I don't wonder at any one being glad to live at dear old
Micklethwayte,' said Nuttie slowly.  'But, somehow, I didn't think it
of you, Mark.'

'My dear, that's not all!' said her mother.

'Oh!' cried Nuttie, with a prolonged intonation.  'Is it?--Oh, Mark!
did you _do it_ that night when you led the horse home?'

'Even so, Nuttie!  And, Aunt Alice, Lady Ronnisglen is the best and
bravest of old ladies, and the wisest.  Nobody objects but Lady
Delmar, and she declares she shall not consider it an engagement till
Ronnisglen has been written to in Nepaul, as if he had anything to do
with it; but that matters the less, since they all insist on our
waiting till I've had a year's trial at the office!  I suppose they
could not be expected to do otherwise, but it is a pity, for I'm
afraid Lady Delmar will lead Annaple and her mother a life of it.'

'Dear Mark, I am delighted that it is all going so well.'

'I knew you would be!  I told them I must tell _you_, though it is
not to go any farther.'

So that hope of Mark's restoration to the inheritance faded from
Alice, and yet she could not be concerned for him.  She had never
seen him in such good spirits, for the sense of failure and
disappointment had always been upon him; and the definite prospect of
occupation, gilded by his hopes of Annaple, seemed to make a new man
of him.


CHAPTER XVII.
AN OLD FRIEND.


'My heart untravelled still returns to thee.'--GOLDSMITH.


To go abroad!  Such had been the fairy castle of Nuttie's life.  She
had dreamed of Swiss mountains, Italian pictures, Rheinland castles,
a perpetual panorama of delight, and here she was in one of the great
hotels of Paris, as little likely to see the lions of that city as
she had been to see those of London.

The party were halting for two days there because the dentist, on
whom Mr. Egremont's fine show of teeth depended, practised there; but
Nuttie spent great part of the day alone in the sitting-room, and her
hand-bag and her mother's, with all their books and little comforts,
had been lost in the agony of landing.  Her mother's attendance was
required all the morning, or what was worse, she expected that it
would be, and though Nuttie's persistence dragged out the staid,
silent English maid, who had never been abroad before, to walk in the
Tuilleries gardens, which they could see from their windows, both
felt half-scared the whole time.  Nuttie was quite unused to finding
her own way unprotected, and Martin was frightened, cross, and
miserable about the bags, which, she averred, had been left by
Gregorio's fault.  She so hated Gregorio that only a sort of
adoration which she entertained for Mrs. Egremont  would have induced
her to come tete-a-tete with him, and perhaps he was visiting his
disappointment about Mentone on her.  In the afternoon nothing was
achieved but a drive in the Bois de Boulogne, when it was at once
made evident that Mr. Egremont would tolerate no questions nor
exclamations.

His mouth was in no condition for eating in public, and he therefore
decreed that his wife and daughter should dine at the table d'hote,
while he was served alone by Gregorio.  This was a great boon to
Nuttie, and to her mother it recalled bridal days long past at
Dieppe; but what was their astonishment when on entering the room
they beheld the familiar face of Mr. Dutton!  It was possible for him
to place himself between them, and there is no describing the sense
of rest and protection his presence imparted to them, more especially
to Nuttie.

He had come over, as he did from time to time, on business connected
with the materials he used, and he was beguiled into telling them of
his views of Mark, whom he had put in the way of learning the
preliminaries needful to an accountant.  She didn't mind a bit; so
this morning I began to play to myself, and she flounced in,
and flew up, and carried on no end about Sunday!'
'You see, Rowley,' said I, 'they're all mad up here, and you have to
humour them. See and don't quarrel with Mrs. McRankine; and, above
all, don't argue with her, or you'll get the worst of it.
Whatever she says, touch your forelock and say, "If you please!" or "I
beg pardon, ma'am." And let me tell you one thing: I am sorry, but
you have to go to church with her again this afternoon.

That's duty, my boy!'
As I had foreseen, the bells had scarce begun before Mrs. McRankine
presented herself to be our escort, upon which I sprang up with
readiness and offered her my arm. Rowley followed behind. I was
beginning to grow accustomed to the risks of my stay in Edinburgh,
and it even amused me to confront a new churchful. I confess the
amusement did not last until the end; for if Dr. Gray were long,
Mr. McCraw was not only longer, but more incoherent, and the matter
of his sermon (which was a direct attack, apparently, on all the
Churches of the world, my own among the number), where it had not
the tonic quality of personal insult, rather inclined me to slumber.
But I braced myself for my life, kept up Rowley with the end of a
pin, and came through it awake, but no more.

Bethiah was quite conquered by this 'mark of grace,' though, I am
afraid, she was also moved by more worldly considerations. The first
is, the lady had not the least objection to go to church on the arm
of an elegantly dressed young gentleman, and be followed by a spruce
servant with a cockade in his hat. I could see it by the way she took
possession of us, found us the places in the Bible, whispered to me
the name of the minister, passed us lozenges, which I (for my part)
handed on to Rowley, and at each fresh attention stole a little
glance about the church to make sure she was observed.

Rowley was a pretty boy; you will pardon me if I also remembered
that I was a favourable-looking young man.

When we grow elderly, how the room brightens, and begins to look
as it ought to look, on the entrance of youth, grace, health, and
comeliness!

You do not want them for yourself, perhaps not even for your son, but
you look on smiling; and when you recall their images--again, it is
with a smile. I defy you to see or think of them and not smile with
an infinite and intimate, but quite impersonal, pleasure.
Well, either I know nothing of women, or that was the case with
Bethiah McRankine. She had been to church with a cockade behind her,
on the one hand; on the other, her house was brightened by the presence
of a pair of good-looking young fellows of the other sex, who were
always pleased and deferential in her society and accepted her views
as final.

These were sentiments to be encouraged; and, on the way home from
church--if church it could be called--I adopted a most insidious
device to magnify her interest. I took her into the confidence,
that is, of my love affair, and I had no sooner mentioned a young
lady with whom my affections were engaged than she turned upon me a
face of awful gravity.

'Is she bonny?' she inquired.

I gave her full assurances upon that.

'To what denoamination does she beloang?' came next, and was so unexpected
as almost to deprive me of breath.

'Upon my word, ma'am, I have never inquired,' cried I; 'I only know
that she is a heartfelt Christian, and that is enough.'
'Ay!' she sighed, 'if she has the root of the maitter! There's a
remnant practically in most of the denoaminations. There's some in the
McGlashanites, and some in the Glassites, and mony in the McMillanites,
and there's a leeven even in the Estayblishment.'

'I have known some very good Papists even, if you go to that,' said
I.

'Mr. Ducie, think shame to yoursel'!' she cried.

'Why, my dear madam! I only--' I began.

'You shouldnae jest in sairious maitters,' she interrupted.

On the whole, she entered into what I chose to tell her of our idyll
with avidity, like a cat licking her whiskers over a dish of cream;
and, strange to say--and so expansive a passion is that of love!--that
I derived a perhaps equal satisfaction from confiding in that breast
of iron. It made an immediate bond: from that hour we seemed to be
welded into a family-party; and I had little difficulty in persuading
her to join us and to preside over our tea-table.

Surely there was never so ill-matched a trio as Rowley, Mrs.
McRankine, and the Viscount Anne! But I am of the Apostle's way,
with a difference: all things to all women!

When I cannot please a woman, hang me in my cravat!

CHAPTER XXVIII--EVENTS OF MONDAY: THE LAWYER'S PARTY

By half-past eight o'clock on the next morning, I was ringing the
bell of the lawyer's office in Castle Street, where I found him
ensconced at a business table, in a room surrounded by several tiers
of green tin cases.

He greeted me like an old friend.

'Come away, sir, come away!' said he. 'Here is the dentist ready for
you, and I think I can promise you that the operation will be
practically painless.'

'I am not so sure of that, Mr. Robbie,' I replied, as I shook
hands with him. 'But at least there shall be no time lost with
me.'
I had to confess to having gone a-roving with a pair of drovers and
their cattle, to having used a false name, to having murdered or
half-murdered a fellow-creature in a scuffle on the moors, and to
having suffered a couple of quite innocent men to lie some time in
prison on a charge from which I could have immediately freed them.

All this I gave him first of all, to be done with the worst of
it; and all this he took with gravity, but without the least appearance
of surprise.

'Now, sir,' I continued, 'I expect to have to pay for my unhappy
frolic, but I would like very well if it could be managed without my
personal appearance or even the mention of my real name. I had so
much wisdom as to sail under false colours in this foolish jaunt of
mine; my family would be extremely concerned if they had wind of
it; but at the same time, if the case of this Faa has terminated
fatally, and there are proceedings against Todd and Candlish, I
am not going to stand by and see them vexed, far less punished;
and I authorise you to give me up for trial if you think that best--or,
if you think it unnecessary, in the meanwhile to make preparations
for their defence. I hope, sir, that I am as little anxious to be
Quixotic, as I am determined to be just.'

'Very fairly spoken,' said Mr. Robbie. 'It is not much in my line,
as doubtless your friend, Mr. Romaine, will have told you. I rarely
mix myself up with anything on the criminal side, or approaching it.
However, for a young gentleman like you, I may stretch a point,
and I dare say I may be able to accomplish more than perhaps
another.

I will go at once to the Procurator Fiscal's office and inquire.'
'Wait a moment, Mr. Robbie,' said I. 'You forget the chapter of expenses.
I had thought, for a beginning, of placing a thousand pounds in
your hands.'

'My dear sir, you will kindly wait until I render you my bill,' said
Mr. Robbie severely.'

'It seemed to me,' I protested, 'that coming to you almost as a
stranger, and placing in your hands a piece of business so contrary
to your habits, some substantial guarantee of my good faith--'
'Not the way that we do business in Scotland, sir,' he interrupted,
with an air of closing the dispute.

'And yet, Mr. Robbie,' I continued, 'I must ask you to allow me to
proceed. I do not merely refer to the expenses of the case. I have my
eye besides on Todd and Candlish. They are thoroughly deserving
fellows; they have been subjected through me to a considerable
term of imprisonment; and I suggest, sir, that you should not spare
money for their indemnification.

This will explain,' I added smiling, 'my offer of the thousand pounds.
It was in the nature of a measure by which you should judge the scale
on which I can afford to have this business carried through.'
'I take you perfectly, Mr. Ducie,' said he. 'But the sooner I am off,
the better this affair is like to be guided. My clerk will show
you into the waiting-room and give you the day's Caledonian Mercury
and the last Register to amuse yourself with in the interval.'
I believe Mr. Robbie was at least three hours gone. I saw him descend
from a cab at the door, and almost immediately after I was shown
again into his study, where the solemnity of his manner led me to
augur the worst.

For some time he had the inhumanity to read me a lecture as to the
incredible silliness, 'not to say immorality,' of my behaviour.
'I have the satisfaction in telling you my opinion, because it
appears that you are going to get off scot free,' he continued,
where, indeed, I thought he might have begun.

'The man, Faa, has been discharged cured; and the two men, Todd and
Candlish, would have been leeberated lone ago if it had not been for
their extraordinary loyalty to yourself, Mr. Ducie--or Mr. St.
Ivey, as I believe I should now call you. Never a word would either
of the two old fools volunteer that in any manner pointed at the
existence of such a person; and when they were confronted with Faa's
version of the affair, they gave accounts so entirely discrepant with
their own former declarations, as well as with each other, that the
Fiscal was quite nonplussed, and imaigined there was something behind
it. You may believe I soon laughed him out of that! And I had the
satisfaction of seeing your two friends set free, and very glad
to be on the causeway again.'

'Oh, sir,' I cried, 'you should have brought them here.'

'No instructions, Mr. Ducie!' said he. 'How did I know you wished
to renew an acquaintance which you had just terminated so fortunately?

And, indeed, to be frank with you, I should have set my face against
it, if you had!

Let them go! They are paid and contented, and have the highest possible
opinion of Mr.

St. Ivey!

When I gave them fifty pounds apiece--which was rather more than
enough, Mr.

Ducie, whatever you may think--the man Todd, who has the only tongue
of the party, struck his staff on the ground.

"Weel," says he, "I aye said he was a gentleman!"

"Man, Todd," said I, "that was just what Mr St. Ivey said of yourself!"'

'So it was a case of "Compliments fly when gentlefolk meet."'
'No, no, Mr. Ducie, man Todd and man Candlish are gone out of your
life, and a good riddance! They are fine fellows in their way, but
no proper associates for the like of yourself; and do you finally
agree to be done with all eccentricity--take up with no more
drovers, or tinkers, but enjoy the naitural pleesures for which
your age, your wealth, your intelligence, and (if I may be allowed
to say it) your appearance so completely fit you.

And the first of these,' quoth he, looking at his watch, 'will be
to step through to my dining-room and share a bachelor's luncheon.'

Over the meal, which was good, Mr. Robbie continued to develop the
same theme. 'You're, no doubt, what they call a dancing-man?' said he.
'Well, on Thursday night there is the Assembly Ball.

You must certainly go there, and you must permit me besides to do the
honours of the ceety and send you a ticket. I am a thorough believer
in a young man being a young man--but no more drovers or rovers, if
you love me!

Talking of which puts me in mind that you may be short of partners at
the Assembly--oh, I have been young myself!--and if ye care to come
to anything so portentiously tedious as a tea-party at the house of
a bachelor lawyer, consisting mainly of his nieces and nephews, and
his grand-nieces and grand-nephews, and his wards, and generally
the whole clan of the descendants of his clients, you might drop
in to-night towards seven o'clock.

I think I can show you one or two that are worth looking at, and you
can dance with them later on at the Assembly.'
He proceeded to give me a sketch of one or two eligible young
ladies' whom I might expect to meet. 'And then there's my
parteecular friend, Miss Flora,' said he. 'But I'll make no attempt
of a description. You shall see her for yourself.'
It will be readily supposed that I accepted his invitation; and returned
home to make a toilette worthy of her I was to meet and the good
news of which I was the bearer.

The toilette, I
have reason to believe, was a success.

Mr. Rowley dismissed me with a farewell: 'Crikey!
                                 Mr. Anne, but you do look prime!'

Even the stony Bethiah was--how shall I say?--dazzled, but
scandalised, by my appearance; and while, of course, she deplored
the vanity that led to it, she could not wholly prevent herself
from admiring the result.

'Ay, Mr. Ducie, this is a poor employment for a wayfaring Christian
man!' she said.

'Wi' Christ despised and rejectit in all pairts of the world and
the flag of the Covenant flung doon, you will be muckle better
on your knees! However, I'll have to confess that it sets you
weel. And if it's the lassie ye're gaun to see the nicht, I suppose
I'll just have to excuse ye! Bairns maun be bairns!' she said,
with a sigh. 'I mind when Mr. McRankine came courtin', and that's
lang by-gane--I mind I had a green gown, passementit, that was
thocht to become me to admiration. I was nae just exactly what ye
would ca' bonny; but I was pale, penetratin', and interestin'.' And
she leaned over the stair-rail with a candle to watch my descent
as long as it should be possible.

It was but a little party at Mr. Robbie's--by which, I do not so
much mean that there were few people, for the rooms were crowded,
as that there was very little attempted to entertain them. In one
apartment there were tables set out, where the elders were solemnly
engaged upon whist; in the other and larger one, a great number of
youth of both sexes entertained themselves languidly, the ladies
sitting upon chairs to be courted, the gentlemen standing about in
various attitudes of insinuation or indifference. Conversation appeared
the sole resource, except in so far as it was modified by a number
of keepsakes and annuals which lay dispersed upon the tables, and of
which the young beaux displayed the illustrations to the
ladies. Mr. Robbie himself was customarily in the card-room; only now
and again, when he cut out, he made an incursion among the young
folks, and rolled about jovially from one to another, the very picture
of the general uncle.

It chanced that Flora had met Mr. Robbie in the course of the
afternoon. 'Now, Miss Flora,' he had said, 'come early, for I have
a Phoenix to show you--one Mr. Ducie, a new client of mine that, I
vow, I have fallen in love with'; and he was so good as to add a
word or two on my appearance, from which Flora conceived a suspicion
of the truth. She had come to the party, in consequence, on the
knife-edge of anticipation and alarm; had chosen a place by the door,
where I found her, on my arrival, surrounded by a posse of
vapid youths; and, when I drew near, sprang up to meet me in the
most natural manner in the world, and, obviously, with a prepared
form of words.

'How do you do, Mr. Ducie?' she said. 'It is quite an age since I have
seen you!'
'I have much to tell you, Miss Gilchrist,' I replied. 'May I sit down?'

For the artful girl, by sitting near the door, and the judicious
use of her shawl, had contrived to keep a chair empty by her side.

She made room for me, as a matter of course, and the youths had the
discretion to melt before us. As soon as I was once seated her fan
flew out, and she whispered behind it:

'Are you mad?'

'Madly in love,' I replied; 'but in no other sense.'
'I have no patience! You cannot understand what I am suffering!' she
said. 'What are you to say to Ronald, to Major Chevenix, to my
aunt?'
Your aunt?' I cried, with a start. 'Peccavi! is she here?'
'She is in the card-room at whist,' said Flora.

'Where she will probably stay all the evening?' I suggested.

'She may,' she admitted; 'she generally does!'
'Well, then, I must avoid the card-room,' said I, 'which is very
much what I had counted upon doing. I did not come here to play
cards, but to contemplate a certain young lady to my heart's
content--if it can ever be contented!--and to tell her some good
news.'
'But there are still Ronald and the Major!' she persisted. 'They
are not card-room fixtures! Ronald will be coming and going. And
as for Mr. Chevenix, he--'
'Always sits with Miss Flora?' I interrupted. 'And they talk of poor
St. Ives? I had gathered as much, my dear; and Mr. Ducie has come to
prevent it! But pray dismiss these fears! I mind no one but your
aunt.'
'Why my aunt?'
'Because your aunt is a lady, my dear, and a very clever lady, and,
like all clever ladies, a very rash lady,' said I. 'You can never count
upon them, unless you are sure of getting them in a corner, as I
have got you, and talking them over rationally, as I am just engaged
on with yourself! It would be quite the same to your aunt to make
the worst kind of a scandal, with an equal indifference to my danger
and to the feelings of our good host!'
'Well,' she said, 'and what of Ronald, then?

Do you think HE is above making a scandal? You must know him
very little!'
'On the other hand, it is my pretension that I know him very well!'
I replied. 'I must speak to Ronald first--not Ronald to me--that is
all!'
'Then, please, go and speak to him at once!' she pleaded. He is there--do
you see?--at the upper end of the room, talking to that girl in
pink.'
'And so lose this seat before I have told you my good news?' I
exclaimed. 'Catch me! And, besides, my dear one, think a little of
me and my good news! I thought the bearer of good news was always
welcome! I hoped he might be a little welcome for himself!
Consider! I have but one friend; and let me stay by her! And there
is only one thing I care to hear; and let me hear it!'
'Oh, Anne,' she sighed, 'if I did not love you, why should I be so
uneasy? I am turned into a coward, dear! Think, if it were the other
way round--if you were quite safe and I was in, oh, such danger!'
She had no sooner said it than I was convicted of being a dullard.
'God forgive me, dear!' I made haste to reply. 'I never saw before
that there were two sides to this!'He was in unusual
good humour, and even tolerated their ecstasies at the scenery and
the flowers, dined at the table d'hote and found acquaintance,
enjoyed himself, and in the forenoon, while Nuttie was out wondering
and admiring, and going as far as she could drag Martin, he expressed
to his wife that she would be astonished at the gardens and the music
of Monte Carlo.

There, however, Alice made a stand.  'Thank you, it is very kind, but
if you please, I should not like to take Ursula to Monte Carlo, or to
go there myself,' she said in an apologetic tone.

He laughed.  'What! you are afraid of making the little one a
confirmed gambler?'

'You know I am not, but--'

'You think the little prig will be contaminated, eh?'

'Well, I think it will be happier for her if she never sees anything--
of the kind.'

Perhaps the theory advanced by a noted eastern astronomer will turn
out to be true--that biological evolution on the habitable planets
of the universe may be the result of contamination left by space
travelers arriving from (and leaving for) other worlds.

In other words, the fruition of life on the various planets of the
millions of solar systems might be the product of a wandering group
of astronautic Johnny Appleseeds who leave the grains of life behind
them.

I wonder if you would thank me
as heartily supposing I cleared a round thousand and gave you--say a
diamond necklace?'

'I am sure I should not!'

'No, I don't believe you would.  That restless little conscience of
yours would be up on end.  After all, I don't know that you are the
worse for it, when it looks so prettily out of your brown eyes.  I
wonder what you expect to see?  The ruined gamester shooting himself
on every path, eh?'

'No, no; I don't suppose I should see anything horrid or even
disagreeable.  I know it is all very beautiful; but then every person
who goes for the innocent pleasures' sake only helps to keep up the
whole thing--evil and all.'

'And what would the old women of all sorts here and at Nice do
without such a choice temple of scandal to whet their teeth upon?
Well, I suppose you and your precious daughter can take care of
yourselves.  There are the gardens, or you can tell Gregorio to order
you a carriage.'

'Then you are going?'

'Yes, I promised Grafton.  Don't be afraid, Mistress Edda, I'm not
going to stake Bridgefield and reduce you to beggary.  If Lunardi
went up and came down, there was the matter settled. We prefer to
grant the point.

We do not want to see the experiment repeated ad nauseam by Byfield,
and Brown, and Butler, and Brodie, and Bottomley. Ah! if they would
go up and NOT come down again! But this is by the question. The
University of Cramond delights to honour merit in the man, sir,
rather than utility in the profession; and Byfield, though an
ignorant dog, is a sound reliable drinker, and really not amiss
over his cups.

Under the radiance of the kindly jar partiality might even credit him
with wit.'
It will be seen afterwards that this was more my business than I
thought it at the time. Indeed, I was impatient to be gone. Even as
my friend maundered ahead a squall burst, the jaws of the rain were
opened against the coffee-house windows, and at that inclement
signal I remembered I was due elsewhere.

CHAPTER XXVI--THE COTTAGE AT NIGHT

At the door I was nearly blown back by the unbridled violence of the
squall, and Rowley and I must shout our parting words. All the way
along Princes Street (whither my way led) the wind hunted me behind
and screamed in my ears.

The city was flushed with bucketfuls of rain that tasted salt from
the neighbouring ocean.
It seemed to darken and lighten again in the vicissitudes of the
gusts. Now you would say the lamps had been blown out from end
to end of the long thoroughfare; now, in a lull, they would revive,
re-multiply, shine again on the wet pavements, and make darkness
sparingly visible.

By the time I had got to the corner of the Lothian Road there was
a distinct improvement.

For one thing, I had now my shoulder to the wind; for a second, I
came in the lee of my old prison-house, the Castle; and, at any
rate, the excessive fury of the blast was itself moderating. The
thought of what errand I was on re-awoke within me, and I seemed
to breast the rough weather with increasing ease.

With such a destination, what mattered a little buffeting of wind
or a sprinkle of cold water? I recalled Flora's image, I took her
in fancy to my arms, and my heart throbbed. And the next moment
I had recognised the inanity of that fool's paradise. If I
could spy her taper as she went to bed, I might count myself lucky.

I had about two leagues before me of a road mostly uphill, and now
deep in mire.

So soon as I was clear of the last street lamp, darkness received
me--a darkness only pointed by the lights of occasional rustic
farms, where the dogs howled with uplifted heads as I went by.

The wind continued to decline: it had been but a squall, not a tempest.
The rain, on the other hand, settled into a steady deluge, which
had soon drenched me thoroughly.

I continued to tramp forward in the night, contending with gloomy
thoughts and accompanied by the dismal ululation of the dogs. What
ailed them that they should have been thus wakeful, and perceived
the small sound of my steps amid the general reverberation of the rain,
was more than I could fancy.

I remembered tales with which I had been entertained in childhood.
I told myself some murderer was going by, and the brutes perceived
upon him the faint smell of blood; and the next moment, with a
physical shock, I had applied the words to my own case!

Here was a dismal disposition for a lover.

'Was ever lady in this humour wooed?' I asked myself, and came near
turning back.

It is never wise to risk a critical interview when your spirits are
depressed, your clothes muddy, and your hands wet! But the
boisterous night was in itself favourable to my enterprise: now, or
perhaps never, I might find some way to have an interview with Flora;
and if I had one interview (wet clothes, low spirits and all), I
told myself there would certainly be another.

Arrived in the cottage-garden I found the circumstances mighty
inclement. From the round holes in the shutters of the parlour, shafts
of candle-light streamed forth; elsewhere the darkness was complete.
The trees, the thickets, were saturated; the lower parts of the garden
turned into a morass. At intervals, when the wind broke forth again,
there passed overhead a wild coil of clashing branches; and between
whiles the whole enclosure continuously and stridently resounded
with the rain.

I advanced close to the window and contrived to read the face of my
watch. It was half-past seven; they would not retire before
ten, they might not before midnight, and the prospect was unpleasant.

In a lull of the wind I could hear from the inside the voice of Flora
reading aloud; the words of course inaudible--only a flow of
undecipherable speech, quiet, cordial, colourless, more intimate
and winning, more eloquent of her personality, but not less beautiful
than song.

And the next moment the clamour of a fresh squall broke out about
the cottage; the voice was drowned in its bellowing, and I was
glad to retreat from my dangerous post.

For three egregious hours I must now suffer the elements to do
their worst upon me, and continue to hold my ground in patience. I
recalled the least fortunate of my services in the field: being
out-sentry of the pickets in weather no less vile, sometimes unsuppered
and with nothing to look forward to by way of breakfast but musket-balls;
and they seemed light in comparison.

So strangely are we built: so much more strong is the love of
woman than the mere love of life.

At last my patience was rewarded. The light disappeared from the
parlour and reappeared a moment after in the room above. I was
pretty well informed for the enterprise that lay before me. I knew
the lair of the dragon--that which was just illuminated. I knew the
bower of my Rosamond, and how excellently it was placed on the
ground-level, round the flank of the cottage and out of earshot of
her formidable aunt. Nothing was left but to apply my knowledge.
I was then at the bottom of the garden, whether I had gone (Heaven
save the mark!) for warmth, that I might walk to and fro unheard and
keep myself from perishing. The night had fallen still, the wind
ceased; the noise of the rain had much lightened, if it had not
stopped, and was succeeded by the dripping of the garden trees.
In the midst of this lull, and as I was already drawing near to the
cottage, I was startled by the sound of a window-sash screaming in
its channels; and a step or two beyond I became aware of a gush of
light upon the darkness.

It fell from Flora's window, which she had flung open on the night,
and where she now sat, roseate and pensive, in the shine of two
candles falling from behind, her tresses deeply embowering and
shading her; the suspended comb still in one hand, the other idly
clinging to the iron stanchions with which the window was barred.

Keeping to the turf, and favoured by the darkness of the night and the
patter of the rain which was now returning, though without wind, I
approached until I could almost have touched her. It seemed a grossness
of which I was incapable to break up her reverie by speech. I stood
and drank her in with my eyes; how the light made a glory in her
hair, and (what I have always thought the most ravishing thing
in nature) how the planes ran into each other, and were distinguished,
and how the hues blended and varied, and were shaded off, between
the cheek and neck.

At first I was abashed:
she wore her beauty like an immediate halo of refinement; she
discouraged me like an angel, or what I suspect to be the next most
discouraging, a modern lady.

But as I continued to gaze, hope and life returned to me; I forgot my
timidity, I forgot the sickening pack of wet clothes with which I
stood burdened, I tingled with new blood.

Still unconscious of my presence, still gazing before her upon the
illuminated image of the window, the straight shadows of the bars, the
glinting of pebbles on the path, and the impenetrable night on the
garden and the hills beyond it, she heaved a deep breath that
struck upon my heart like an appeal.

'Why does Miss Gilchrist sigh?' I whispered. 'Does she recall absent
friends?'
She turned her head swiftly in my direction; it was the only sign
of surprise she deigned to make. At the same time I stepped into the
light and bowed profoundly.

'You!' she said. 'Here?'

'Yes, I am here,' I replied.

'I have come very far, it may be a hundred and fifty leagues, to see
you. I have waited all this night in your garden. Will Miss Gilchrist
not offer her hand--to a friend in trouble?'
She extended it between the bars, and I dropped upon one knee
on the wet path and kissed it twice.

At the second it was withdrawn suddenly, methought with more of a start
than she had hitherto displayed. I regained my former attitude, and
we were both silent awhile. My timidity returned on me tenfold.
I looked in her face for any signals of anger, and seeing her eyes
to waver and fall aside from mine, augured that all was well.

'You must have been mad to come here!' she broke out. 'Of all places
under heaven this is no place for you to come.

And I was just thinking you were safe in France!'
'You were thinking of me!' I cried.

'Mr. St. Ives, you cannot understand your danger,' she replied. 'I
am sure of it, and yet I cannot find it in my heart to tell you.

O, be persuaded, and go!'

'I believe I know the worst.

But I was never one to set an undue value on life, the life that
we share with beasts.

My university has been in the wars, not a famous place of education,
but one where a man learns to carry his life in his hand as lightly
as a glove, and for his lady or his honour to lay it as lightly
down.
You appeal to my fears, and you do wrong. I have come to Scotland
with my eyes quite open to see you and to speak with you--it may be
for the last time. With my eyes quite open, I say; and if I did not
hesitate at the beginning do you think that I would draw back now?'

'You do not know!'

she cried, with rising agitation. 'This country, even this garden,
is death to you. They all believe it; I am the only one that does
not.

If they hear you now, if they heard a whisper--I dread to think of
it. O, go, go this instant. It is my prayer.'
'Dear lady, do not refuse me what I have come so far to seek; and
remember that out of all the millions in England there is no other
but yourself in whom I can dare confide.

I have all the world against me; you are my only ally; and as I have
to speak, you have to listen.

All is true that they say of me, and all of it false at the same time.
I did kill this man Goguelat--it was that you meant?'
She mutely signed to me that it was; she had become deadly
pale.

'But I killed him in fair fight.

Till then, I had never taken a life unless in battle, which is my
trade. But I was grateful, I was on fire with gratitude, to one
who had been good to me, who had been better to me than I could
have dreamed of an angel, who had come into the darkness of my
prison like sunrise.

The man Goguelat insulted her.

O, he had insulted me often, it was his favourite pastime, and he might
insult me as he pleased--for who was I?

But with that lady it was different.

I could never forgive myself if I had let it pass. And we fought,
and he fell, and I have no remorse.'
I waited anxiously for some reply. The worst was now out, and I knew
that she had heard of it before; but it was impossible for me to go
on with my narrative without some shadow of encouragement.

'You blame me?'
'No, not at all.

It is a point I cannot speak on--I am only a girl. I am sure you
were in the right: I have always said so--to Ronald. Not, of course,
to my aunt. I am afraid I let her speak as she will.

You must not think me a disloyal friend; and even with the Major--I
did not tell you he had become quite a friend of ours--Major Chevenix,
I mean--he has taken such a fancy to Ronald!

It was he that brought the news to us of that hateful Clausel being
captured, and all that he was saying. I was indignant with him.
I said--I dare say I said too much--and I must say he was very
good- natured. He said, "You and I, who are his friends, KNOW that
Champdivers is innocent. But what is the use of saying it?" All this
was in the corner of the room in what they call an aside. And then
he said, "Give me a chance to speak to you in private, I have much
to tell you."

And he did. And told me just what you did-- that it was an affair
of honour, and no blame attached to you. O, I must say I like that
Major Chevenix!'
At this I was seized with a great pang of jealousy. I remembered
the first time that he had seen her, the interest that he seemed
immediately to conceive; and I could not but admire the dog
for the use he had been ingenious enough to make of our
acquaintance in order to supplant me. All is fair in love and war.
For all that, I was now no less anxious to do the speaking myself
than I had been before to hear Flora. At least, I could keep clear of
the hateful image of Major Chevenix. Accordingly I burst at once
on the narrative of my adventures. It was the same as you have read,
but briefer, and told with a very different purpose.

Now every incident had a particular bearing, every by-way branched off
to Rome--and that was Flora.

When I had begun to speak I had kneeled upon the gravel withoutside
the low window, rested my arms upon the sill, and lowered my voice
to the most confidential whisper.

Flora herself must kneel upon the other side, and this brought our heads
upon a level with only the bars between us. So placed, so separated,
it seemed that our proximity, and the continuous and low sounds
of my pleading voice, worked progressively and powerfully on her
heart, and perhaps not less so on my own.

For these spells are double-edged. The silly birds may be charmed
with the pipe of the fowler, which is but a tube of reeds. Not so with
a bird of our own feather!

As I went on, and my resolve strengthened, and my voice found new
modulations, and our faces were drawn closer to the bars and to
each other, not only she, but I, succumbed to the fascination, and
were kindled by the charm.

We make love, and thereby ourselves fall the deeper in it. It is with
the heart only that one captures a heart.

'And now,' I continued, 'I will tell you what you can still do for me.
I run a little risk just now, and you see for yourself how unavoidable
it is for any man of honour. But if--but in case of the worst I do not
choose to enrich either my enemies or the Prince Regent.

I have here the bulk of what my uncle gave me. Eight thousand odd
pounds. Will you take care of it for me? Do not think of it merely
as money; take and keep it as a relic of your friend or some
precious piece of him. I may have bitter need of it ere long. Do
you know the old country story of the giant who gave his heart to
his wife to keep for him, thinking it safer to repose on her loyalty
than his own strength?

Flora, I am the giant--a very little one: will you be the keeper
of my life? It is my heart I offer you in this symbol. In the sight
of God, if you will have it, I give you my name, I endow you with my
money. If the worst come, if I may never hope to call you wife, let
me at least think that you will use my uncle's legacy as my widow.'

'No, not that,' she said. 'Never that.'
'What then?' I said. 'What else, my angel? What are words to
me?
There is but one name that I care to know you by. Flora, my love!'

'Anne!' she said.

What sound is so full of music as one's own name uttered for the
first time in the voice of her we love!

'My darling!' said I.

The jealous bars, set at the top and bottom in stone and lime,
obstructed the rapture of the moment; but I took her to myself as
wholly as they allowed.

She did not shun my lips. My arms were wound round her body, which
yielded itself generously to my embrace.

As we so remained, entwined and yet severed, bruising our faces
unconsciously on the cold bars, the irony of the universe--or as I
prefer to say, envy of some of the gods--again stirred up the elements
of that stormy night. The wind blew again in the tree- tops; a volley
of cold sea-rain deluged the garden, and, as the deuce would have
it, a gutter which had been hitherto choked up began suddenly to play
upon my head and shoulders with the vivacity of a fountain.

Even now she
was not certain of the lady's surname, but she trusted to her
husband's knowledge of Mrs. Houghton's previous history; and not in
vain.  Mr. Egremont amused himself with a little ridicule at his
wife's quixotry, and demanded whether Flossy Houghton was a promising
convert; but confessed himself very glad that the poor thing should
be off their hands, declaring that it was quite time her own people
looked after her, and happily he recollected her maiden name.  So the
letter was written, after numerous attempts at expressing it
suitably, explaining Mrs. Houghton's illness and the yearnings she
was too proud and ashamed to express to her sister, and was answered
at once by a few short words of earnest gratitude, and an assurance
that Miss Reade was preparing to start at once.  Could Mrs. Egremont
meet her and prepare her sister?

To Alice's disappointment this could not be.  Mr. Egremont had
invited some friends to the villa, and would not spare her.  She
could only send a note, assuring Miss Reade that she believed that
preparation would do more harm than good, and she waited and watched
anxiously.  A card came by the post in Mrs. Houghton's scrawled
writing.  'Naughty little wretch!' was all it said, but thence she
gathered hope.

The spring was advancing, and Mr. Egremont was in haste to be gone,
but Alice obtained one more run to Mentone, and once more climbed up
the dark and dirty stairs to the room, where the well-known voice
answered her tap, 'Come in!  Ah, there she is, the wicked little
angel!'

A substantial little roly-poly business-like little woman hurried
forward with tearful eyes and outstretched hands.  'Oh, Mrs.
Egremont! can I ever thank you enough?'

'You can't, Anne, so don't try.  It will be a relief to all parties,'
interposed Mrs. Houghton.  'Sentiment is not permitted here.'

Nevertheless she hugged Alice almost convulsively.  She was sitting
in a comfortable arm-chair, one about which Mrs. Egremont knew
something, and the whole aspect of the room had changed indescribably
for the better, as much indeed as Mrs. Houghton's own personal array,
which had no longer the desolate neglected look of old.

A little stool was close to her chair, as if the two sisters could
not bear to be far apart, and the look of love and content in their
eyes as they turned to one another was perfect joy to Alice.  She had
no longer any doubt that Anne Reade, who had found the wanderer yet a
great way off, would yet bring her back to the home, spiritually if
not outwardly.

Mrs. Houghton spoke, of better rooms when the winter visitors had
fled, Anne spoke of her being able to return to Dockforth.  Whether
that would ever be seemed entirely doubtful to Alice's eyes,
especially as the patient's inclination was evidently otherwise.
There was nothing to be done but to leave the sisters together,
obtaining Miss Reade's ready promise to write, and putting into her
hands a sum of money which could be sincerely called 'only a debt of
gratitude from my husband and me,' and which would smooth the way
either to remaining or returning to England.

Nor was there any return.  Ere many weeks had passed Mrs. Egremont
heard from Miss Reade how a fresh cold had made it impossible to
move, and summer heat had brought on low fever, which had destroyed
the feeble strength, but not till 'childhood's star' had again
arisen, and a deeply and truly repentant woman had passed away,
saved, as it seemed, through that one effort on behalf of the young
girl whose innocence she had protected.


CHAPTER XIX.
THE VORTEX.


'With one black shadow at her feet.'--TENNYSON.


The rebuffs that society had bestowed on his wife and daughter at
Nice had rendered Mr. Egremont the more determined on producing them
in London and establishing their position.  He secured a furnished
house in Westburnia before leaving Nice, and, travelling leisurely
home without visiting Bridgefield, he took possession the second week
in May.

There had not been much correspondence with the Rectory, and on the
first forenoon, as Mrs. Egremont and Nuttie were trying to enliven
the drawing-room with the flowers sent up to meet them, they were
surprised by the entrance of Blanche, full of kisses and welcomes.

'Oh! didn't you know?  I'm with the Kirkaldys just round the corner.
Aunt Margaret has undertaken to do the part of a noble aunt by me.'

'Then you are here for the season?  And May?'

'May wouldn't come, except just for a week to see the pictures, and
lay in a stock of talk.  She's grown more parochial than ever, and we
believe it is all Hugh Condamine.  Oh! I forgot you were gone before
we came home last autumn.  He is mamma's nephew, you know, and was
ordained last year to the curacy of the next parish to his father's
place.  If the Edwardses only would take themselves off, we would
have him at home, and then we should have flowers on the altar, and
all sorts of jolly things.  Papa would stand ever so much more from
him than from the old Edwardses.'

'But is he engaged to May, then?'

'Well, no, not exactly.  I believe he does not think it right till he
has done preparing for priest's orders.  He's ever so strict, you
know, and he hasn't got much either; but he means it.  Lucy, his
sister, you know, told me all about it, and that altogether the
elders had settled it was better for both that he should attend to
his preparation, and May should not bind herself, though they really
understand one another, and so she won't come to London.'

'Oh, that's very good of her!' cried Nuttie; 'but why won't they let
them settle their minds and be engaged?'

'People are always tiresome,' said Blanche; 'and I do believe the
living is at the bottom of it, at least Lucy thought so.  I mean
everybody wants to wait--all the old ones, I mean--not Hugh or May,
of course--to know whether Mark will stick to the umbrellas, or turn
back and be a clergyman, because, then, of course, he would have the
living; and if he doesn't, they want to be certain whether Uncle
Alwyn, or you, Nuttie, would promise it to Hugh if he married May!'

'Me!' exclaimed Nuttie.

'My dear, I don't like to hear you talk of such things,' said Mrs.
Egremont gently.

'Oh yes, I know--it's all very dreadful.  I was only telling you what
is in the old people's heads, and what would settle it, and make it
all right with them.'

'And how is Mark?  Is Miss Ruthven in London?' asked Mrs. Egremont,
glad to turn away the conversation from the contingencies of which
Blanche spoke with the hardness of youth, as yet not realising
sorrow.

'I daresay you know nearly as much of Mark as we do, now the
Kirkaldys are up here.  All his letters go to Lescombe.  Oh no,
Annaple is not in London.  The Delmars can't afford it, you know,
though I believe my lady would have made a stretch if Annaple hadn't
been bespoke--but now she reserves herself for Muriel.'

Alice looked with some discomfort at the soft fair-haired creature
who was uttering all this worldly jargon in a tone that would have
been flippant if it had not been so childish.  She asked if Lord.
Ronnisglen had written.

'Oh yes, long ago.  Lady Delmar had tried to make him nasty about it,
but he wouldn't be, so that's all right; and Mark seems to get on
very well, though it must be horridly dull for him now the Kirkaldys
are away, and he can't spend all his Sundays at Monks Horton.'

'He will get more into the spirit of the place,' said Nuttie, whereat
Blanche shrugged her shoulders a little, and exclaimed:

'You've got out of it at any rate, Nuttie!'

'I hope not!'

'Well, then, the look of it!  I never saw any one so improved!  Isn't
she, Aunt Alice?  She's grown, I declare!  Yes'--measuring herself
against her cousin--'I was a leetle bit taller when you came, and now
you've got above me! and what a duck of a way of doing your hair!
You must show me!  I must tell May there's no fear of your being
taken for one another now; Aunt Margaret will be quite surprised.'

It was true that Ursula had developed a good deal during the last
year, and, under the experienced hands of Martin, had lost her
schoolgirl air, and turned into a young lady capable of becoming the
Paris outfit which her father had enjoined.  Without positive beauty,
she was a pleasing, intelligent, animated girl, with the reputation
of being an heiress, with a romance in the background, and there was
nothing to prevent her from being a success.  The family connections,
with Lady Kirkaldy to set the example, had determined on giving full
support to Mrs. Egremont, and, as of course every one liked to look
at so lovely a face, the way of both was smoothed in a manner that
delighted her husband when they encountered any of those who had
looked coldly on her at Nice.

He would have had her presented, but her own reluctance and the
united counsels of Lady Kirkaldy and the Canoness prevailed on him to
drop the idea; and then there was a fight with Ursula, who declared
that she would not go to court if her mother did not; but she was
overruled at last by that mother's tears at her defiance; and let
herself be presented, together with Blanche, by Lady Kirkaldy.

To Ursula it was altogether a strange time, full of the same kind of
reckless swing and sense of intoxication that had possessed her at
Bridgefield.  Not that there was an excessive amount of actual
gaiety.  Hot rooms and late hours were soon found not to agree with
Mrs. Egremont.  She looked faded and languid after evening parties;
and, as her husband really cared more to have her ready to wait upon
him and amuse him than for anything else, he did not insist on her
going out more than might be needful to establish her position, or
when it suited him to show her off.  The other purposes were quite as
well served by letting Ursula go out with Lady Kirkaldy, who was
warmly interested in mother and daughter, glad of a companion for
Blanche, and still more glad of a companion for herself.  For she was
not slow to discover that exhibitions, which were merely fashionable
gapeseed to her niece, were to Nuttie real delights, viewed
intelligently, and eliciting comments and questions that Lady
Kirkaldy and even her husband enjoyed in their fresh interest, but
which were unendurable weariness to Blanche, unless she had some one
to chatter with.  Lectures and lessons, which the aunt hoped to
render palatable by their being shared by the two cousins, only
served to show the difference between a trained and eager, and an
untrained and idle, nature.  With the foreign society to be met at
Lord Kirkaldy's, Blanche was less at a loss than her brother, and
could get on by the help of nods and becks and wreathed smiles; but
Nuttie, fresh from her winter abroad, could really talk, and was
often in request as a useful person to help in entertaining.  She
thus saw some of the choicest society in London, and, in addition,
had as much of the youthful gaiety as Lady Kirkaldy thought wholesome
for the two girls.  Also there were those ecclesiastical delights and
privileges which had been heard of at Micklethwayte, and were within
reach, greatly enjoyed by Mrs. Egremont whenever she could share
them, though her daughter chafed at her treating all except the chief
service on Sunday as more indulgence than duty.

Nuttie was strong, with that spring of energy which unbroken health
and a quiet life lays up, and, in her own phrase, she went in for
everything, from early services to late balls, thinking all right
because it was seldom that her day did not begin with matins or
Celebration, and because she was not taken to more than two balls a
week, and conversed at times with superior people, or looked at those
with world-famed names.  Possibly the whirl was greater than if it
had been mere gaiety, for then the brain would not have participated
in it.  Church functions, with the scurry to go at all, or to obtain
a seat, fine music, grand sermons, religious meetings, entertainments
for the poor, lectures, lessons, exhibitions, rides, drives, kettle-
drums, garden-parties, concerts, theatres, operas, balls, chattering,
laughing, discussing, reading up current subjects, enjoying
attention, excitement as to what should be done and how,--one thing
drove out another in perpetual succession, and the one thing she
never did or could do was to sit still and think!  Rest was simply
dreamless sleep, generally under the spell of a strong will to wake
at the appointed hour for church.  The short intervals of being alone
with her mother were spent in pouring out histories of her doings,
which were received with a sympathy that doubled their pleasure,
excepting when Nuttie thought proper to grumble and scold at her
mother's not coming to some Church festival at an hour when she
thought Mr. Egremont might want her.

Of him Nuttie saw very little.  He did not want her, and cared little
what she did, as long as she was under the wing of Lady Kirkaldy,
whose patronage was a triumphant refutation of all doubts.  He went
his own way, and had his own club, his own associates, and, with his
wife always at his beck and call, troubled himself very little about
anything else.

Alice spent a good deal of time alone, chiefly in waiting his
pleasure; but she had her own quiet occupations, her books, her
needlework, her housekeeping, and letter-writing, and was peacefully
happy as long as she did not displease Nuttie.  There were no
collisions between father and daughter, and the household
arrangements satisfied that fastidious taste.  She was proud of
Ursula's successes, but very thankful not to be dragged out to share
them, though she was much less shy, and more able on occasion to take
her place.

One pain she had.  Good old Mrs. Nugent was rapidly decaying, and she
shared with all her loving heart in the grief this was to Mary and to
Miss Headworth, and longed to help them in their nursing.  She would
not grieve Nuttie by dwelling constantly on the bad accounts, and the
girl hardly attended to them in the tumult of occupations; and so at
last, when the final tidings came in the second week in July, they
were an absolute shock to Nuttie, and affected her as the first grief
sometimes does.  Mrs. Nugent was really the first person of her own
intimate knowledge who had died, and in the excited state in which
she was, the idea of the contrast between her own occupations and
Mary's was so dreadful to her that she wept most bitterly, with the
sobs of childhood, such as she really did not know how to restrain.

It was an unfortunate day, for it was one of the few on which Mr.
Egremont wanted to take out his ladies.  There was to be a great
garden-party at Richmond, given by one of his former set, who had
lately whitewashed himself by marrying a very fast and fashionable
lady.  Nuttie had heard strong opinions on the subject at Lord
Kirkaldy's; but her father was quite elated at being in a position to
countenance his old friends.  Alice, in the midst of her sorrow,
recollected this with consternation.

'My dear, my dear, hush!  You must stop yourself!  Remember we have
to go out.'

'Go--out,' cried Nuttie, her sobs arrested by very horror.  'You
wouldn't go--!'

'I am afraid your father would be very much vexed--'

'Let him!  It is a horrid wicked place to go to at all; and now--when
dear, dear old Mrs. Nugent is lying there--and--'

The crying grew violent again, and in the midst in walked Mr.
Egremont with an astonished 'What is all this?'

'We have lost one of our dear kind old friends at Micklethwayte,'
said Alice, going towards him; 'dear old Mrs. Nugent,' and she lifted
up her tear-stained face, which he caressed a little and said, 'Poor
old body;' but then, at a sob, 'Can't you stop Ursula from making
such a row and disfiguring herself?  You must pick up your looks,
Edda, for I mean you to make a sensation at Jerningham's.'

'Oh, Alwyn, if you could let us stay at home!  Mrs. Nugent was so
good to us, and it does seem unkind--' The tears were in her eyes
again.

'Nonsense!' he said impatiently.  'I promised Jerningham, and it is
absurd to have you shutting yourself up for every old woman at
Micklethwayte.'

Thereupon Ursula wiped away her tears, and stood up wrathful before
him.  'I am not going,' she said.

'Oh, indeed!' he returned in a tone that made her still more angry.
'Hein'! a French ejaculation which he had the habit of uttering in a
most exasperating manner.

'No,' she said.  'It is scarcely a place to which we even ought to be
asked to go, and certainly not when--'

'Do you hear that, Mrs. Egremont?' he asked.

'Oh, Nuttie, Nuttie, dear!' she implored; 'don't.'

'No, mother,' said Nuttie, with flashing eyes; 'if you care so little
for your best friends as to let yourself be dragged out among all
sorts of gay, wicked people when your dear friend is lying dead, I'm
sure I shan't go with you.'

Her father laughed a little.  'A pretty figure you are, to make a
favour of accompanying us!'

'Oh, go away, go away, Nuttie,' entreated her mother.  'You don't
know what you are saying. '

'I do know,' said Nuttie, exasperated perhaps by the contrast in the
mirror opposite between her own swelled, disfigured face, and the
soft tender one of her mother with the liquid eyes.  'I know how much
you care for the dear friends who took care of us when we
were forsaken!'

And with this shaft she marched out of the room, while her father
again laughed, and said, 'Have they been training her for the tragic
stage?  Never mind, Edda, the little vixen will come to her senses
upstairs, and be begging to go.'

 I don't think she will,' said Alice sadly; 'she is not that sort of
stuff, and she was very fond of Mrs. Nugent.  Oh, Alwyn! if you could
let us off.'

'Not after that explosion, certainly,' he said.  'Besides, I promised
Jerningham, and such an excuse would never hold water.  She is not
even a relation.'

'No, but she was very good to me.'

'The more reason why you should not stay at home and be hipped.
Never mind that silly girl.  She will be all right by and by.'

On the contrary, she did not come down to luncheon, and when, about
an hour later, Alice, after writing a few tender loving words to the
mourners, went up to her daughter's room, it was to find a limp and
deplorable figure lying across the bed, and to be greeted with a
fresh outburst of sobs and inarticulate exclamations.

'Oh, Nuttie, dear, this will not do!  It is not right.  Dear good
Mrs. Nugent herself would tell you that this is not the way any one
so good and so suffering should be grieved for.  Think--'

'Oh, I know all that!' cried Nuttie, impatiently; 'but she--she was
the dearest--and nobody cares for her but me.  Not even you--'

Again Alice tried to debate the point, and urge on her the duties of
moderation, self-control, and obedience, but the poor gentle mother
was at a great disadvantage.

In the first place, she respected and almost envied her daughter's
resistance, and really did not know whether it was timidity or
principle that made it her instinct to act otherwise; in the next,
Ursula could always talk her down; and, in the third, she was, and
greatly she reproached herself for that same, in great dread of
setting herself off into tears that might become hysterical if she
once gave way to them.  And what would be her husband's feelings if
she too collapsed and became unpresentable.

So, having once convinced herself that even if Nuttie had been a
consenting party, no amount of cold water and eau-de-cologne would
bring those bloodshot eyes, swollen lids, and mottled cheeks to be
fit to be seen, she fled as fast as possible from the gasps of barbed
reproaches which put her own composure in peril, and dressed with the
heaviest of hearts, coupled with the utmost solicitude to look her
best.  If she had not thought it absolutely wrong, she would even
have followed Martin's suggestion, and put on a soupcon of rouge; but
by the time she was summoned to the carriage the feverishness of her
effort at self-control had done the work, and her husband had paid
her the compliment of observing that she looked pretty enough for
two.

Nuttie heard them drive off, with a burst of fresh misery of
indignation against her mother--now as a slave and a victim--now as
forgetting her old home.  It was chiefly in mutterings; she had
pretty well used up her tears, for, unconsciously perhaps, she had
worked them up as a defensive weapon against being carried to the
party; and now that the danger was over, her head throbbed, her eyes
burnt, and her throat ached too much for her to wish to cry any more.
She had not felt physically like this, since the day, seven years
ago, when she and Mildred Sharpe had been found suspiciously toying
with the key of the arithmetic, and had been debarred from trying for
the prize.  Then she felt debased and guilty; now she felt, or ought
to feel, like a heroine maintaining the right.

She got up and set herself to rights as well as she could.  Martin,
who had been allowed to know that she had lost an old friend, petted
and pitied her, and brought her a substantial meal with her tea,
after which she set out to evensong at the church at the end of the
square, well veiled under a shady hat, and with a conviction that
something ought to happen.

Nothing did, however, happen; she met no one whom she knew, the
psalms were not particularly appropriate, and her attention wandered
away to the scene at home.  She did not come back, as she was sure
she ought to have done, soothed, exhilarated, and refreshed, but
rather in a rasped state of mind, and a conscience making a vehement
struggle to believe itself in the right--a matter in which she
thoroughly succeeded.

She wrote a long letter to Mary Nugent, and shed some softer tears
over it, then she built a few castles on her future escape from the
power of her father; and then she picked up Reata, and became
absorbed in it, regretting only the weakness of her eyes, and the
darkening of the summer evening.

She was still reading when the others came home.  Her mother kissed
her, but looked so languid and tired-out that Nuttie was shocked, and
Martin declared that she ought not to go down to dinner.

A tete-a-tete dinner between father and daughter was too dreadful to
Alice's imagination to be permitted, so she dressed and went down,
looking like a ghost.  Mr. Egremont scowled at Nuttie, Nuttie scowled
at him, each considering it the fault of the other, and when at last
it was over, Alice gave up the struggle, and went off to bed, leaving
a contrite message that her headache would be better to-morrow.

'All your accursed folly and obstinacy,' observed Mr. Egremont, when
Nuttie, with a tone of monition gave him the message.

'I should call it the consequence of being dragged out with a sore
heart,' returned Nuttie--a little speech she had prepared ever since
she had seen how knocked up her mother was.

'Then I should recommend keeping your ideas to yourself,' he
answered, looking at her in his annihilating manner.

She was put down. She thought afterwards of a hundred things that she
could have said to him, but she was crushed for the present, and when
he went out she could only betake herself to Reata, and forget all
about it as much as she could.

When she went upstairs, at the end of the third volume, Martin was on
the watch, and would not let her go into the room.

'I have been at hand, ma'am, without her guessing it, and I am happy
to say her tears has had a free course when she was in bed.  Yes,
ma'am, suppressed grief is always dangerous.'

Mrs. Egremont was still prostrate with fatigue and headache the next
day, and Nuttie had all the quiet luxuriating in reminiscences she
desired.  Her father was vexed and angry, and kept out of the way,
but it must be confessed that Nuttie's spirits had so much risen by
the afternoon that it was a sore concession to consistency when she
found herself not expected at Blanche's last little afternoon dance
at Lady Kirkaldy's!


CHAPTER XX.


'If I cannot once or twice in a quarter bear out a knave against
 an honest man, I have but very little credit with your Worship.'
                                               II. King Henry IV.


Another cause besides Ursula's recalcitrance and her mother's ailment
contributed to disturb Mr. Egremont, and bring him home.  His agent,
by name Bulfinch, a solicitor at Redcastle, came to him with
irrefragable proofs of gross peculation on the part of the bailiff
who managed the home farm which supplied the house and stables, and
showed him that it was necessary to make a thorough investigation and
change of system.

In point of fact, Mr. Egremont greatly preferred being moderately
cheated to exerting himself to investigate, but this was going beyond
moderation, and the explosion had been too public to be passed over.
So he came home and sat by, while his wife and Mr. Bulfinch did the
work for him, and made it evident to him that the frauds had been of
long standing, and carried on with the connivance of the coachman, of
Gregorio,--who had before Mrs. Egremont's arrival acted as house
steward,--and of the former cook.  Indeed, it was the housekeeper
whom Mrs. Egremont had left in charge, whose refusal to connive had
brought about the discovery.

Gregorio's share in all was sufficiently evident, and Alice's heart
leapt with hope.  Her husband would be wholly her own if his evil
genius were once departed, but Mr. Egremont would not see it.  He had
no objection to sacrifice the coachman and all his underlings, with
the bailiff and his entire family, and felt none of the pity that
Alice had for the pretty, silly, half-educated daughters; but as to
the valet--Pooh! pooh! the poor fellow had been out of the way all
this time--whatever he had done had been in the dark, ages long ago,
before Bridgefield knew its mistress; he was a foreigner, and that
was enough to prevent him from forgathering with the English.  It was
all their English prejudice.

'I can show you facts and figures, sir,' said Mr. Bulfinch.

'I daresay, a year or more old.  Why, I was an unprotected carcase
then--a mere prey--the fellow only did after his kind.'

Alice held her tongue then, but made an effort in private.  'Indeed,
I don't think you know; I am afraid Gregorio is not altered.  I found
him out in his charges about the wine, and the servants' wages at
Nice, only you wouldn't listen.'

'His little perquisites, my dear child!  Come, nonsense, these
foreign fellows don't pretend to have the morals you ascribe to the
native flunkey--generally without foundation either--they are much of
a muchness as to that; but your Frenchman or Italian does it more
neatly, and is a dozen times better servant than the other is.'

'But--'

'Oh, ay!  I know you don't like him.  But he knows his manners to
you, I hope?' said Mr. Egremont, with a suddenness that made her wish
she could truthfully say he did not.

'Yes, he always is--is respectful, but somehow I see it is under
protest.'

Mr. Egremont laughed.  'Rivals--yes, I see; why, you don't consider
the sore trial of having a full-grown mistress turned in upon him!
Look here, you keep the keys already, but the new fellow at the farm
and all the rest of them shall account to you for everything--
Gregorio and all.  Won't that satisfy you?'

''Tis not only the money, but I think Gregorio is a bad--not a good--
man.'

'Ho, ho! she wants to advertise for a pious footman and coachman! eh?
No, I thank you, my dear Edda, I agree with--who was it who said,
"Volez moi, mais sans m'ennuyer."'

The Rectory likewise had hoped for Gregorio's dismissal, and there
were grave looks when Alice had to confess that nothing would move
her husband against him.  The Canon even lashed himself up to say,
'I tell you how it is, Alwyn, you'll never do any good with your
household, while you keep that fellow.'

'I am not aware what description of good you expect me to do with it,
Will,' coolly answered the elder brother in a disconcerting tone.

Poor Alice, on her side, thought of the Little Master, and then
wondered if it was uncharitable to do so.  For she knew it had become
war to the knife with Gregorio!  Whether his master told him, or
whether it were his own evil conscience, or the wonderful intuition
of servants, he certainly knew of the pressure for his dismissal, and
he visited it on her as much as he durst.

Outwardly deferential, he could thwart and annoy her in a hundred
ways, from making love to the housemaids to making evil suggestions
to his master, yet never giving her any overt cause of complaint.  He
could worry and sting her under the politest exterior, and he knew
very well that the most effectual form of annoyance was the
persuading his master that any discomfort or lassitude was to be
removed by some form of narcotic.  This would have the further
advantage of stupefying Mr. Egremont, and making him more ready to
lapse under the old influence; while the duration and strength of the
new one was already a surprise to Gregorio.

But there was no doubt that Mrs. Egremont had profited by her year of
training.  She looked tired, and less youthful and pretty, but she
had gained in grace and importance as well as in style, and was much
more really the mistress of Bridgefield.  Her shyness had passed
away, and she knew now to take her place in society, though still she
was somewhat silent.  And her husband depended upon her entirely for
all his correspondence, for much of his occupation and amusement, and
even for the regulation of his affairs.  In the household, Gregorio
was little more than his personal attendant, and she had the general
management, even of the other men-servants.  The Canoness might well
say it had turned out better than she expected.

And Nuttie had become more womanly, and had acquired the indefinable
polish given by a London season.  She had learnt the art of
conversation, and could make herself agreeable to her uncle, or to
any one else who came in her way.  Even May allowed that she had
something in her, and cultivated her more than before; but, on the
other hand, even the Rectory could perceive that there was now an
absolute alienation between her and her father, and what might before
have been fear had become dislike.  If she had to refer to him,
especially if her plans for herself or her mother were crossed, there
was always a tone of bitterness or of sarcasm about her; and her
greater boldness and freedom of speech would occasionally manifest
itself towards him.  DANILOVICH embassy:
Calle 120 APO AA 34020 telephone:
Flag description: five horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
red (double width), white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a
white disk on the hoist side of the red band
Economy Costa Rica
Economy - overview: Costa Rica's basically stable economy depends
on tourism, agriculture, and electronics exports.

Poverty has been substantially reduced over the past 15 years, and
a strong social safety net has been put into place.William Egremont was seriously considering of representing to
Ursula that her conduct was bad taste, bad policy, and, moreover, was
doing her mother's spirits and health serious harm; but it was a
delicate matter in which to meddle, and the good lady could not make
up her mind how far to surrender her brother-in-law's character and
allow a partial justification to Ursula.  She was a cautious woman,
and waited and watched her opportunities.

In the beginning of October Mr. and Mrs. Egremont were invited to a
great shooting party at Sir James Jerningham's.  The invitation did
not include Ursula.  Perhaps she had never dawned on their hostess's
imagination; perhaps it was that Lady Jerningham was well known to
dislike girls, or any one who might absorb young men's attention.
At any rate the omission was a cause of thankfulness to the party
concerned, and she did not neglect to worry her mother by a protest
against keeping such company as would be met at Waldicotes.

This, we are persuaded, would be matter of interest at any time, but
will be especially so during the coming summer and autumn, when,
it is reasonable enough to expect that Windsor will double its
number of curious visiters.

During the late King's reign, the Castle more resembled one wide,
vast solitude than the abode of a numerous court.

An occasional banquet enlivened its halls, though it only rendered
more painful the solitariness by which it was succeeded.

She only pleaded, as perhaps mother
ought not to have done with child.

'You know, Nuttie, it is not for my own pleasure, but your father's
eyesight makes him dislike to go anywhere without me now; and I
really should be uneasy about him.'

'Yes; he is all you care for,' said Nuttie.  'You sacrifice
everything you used to think essential, just to his will and
pleasure.'

'Oh, Nuttie, I hope not; I don't think I do!'

