Wallis appeared like the Slave of the Lamp. "It's all right, Wallis,"
she said, and ran. Wallis proceeded thereupon to wheel his master's
couch into the bedroom.

"If you're going to be moved, you'd better be dressed a little heavier,
sir," he said with the same amiable guilelessness, if the victim had but
noticed it, which Phyllis had used from her seat on the floor not long
before.

"Very well," said Allan resignedly from his cloud. And Wallis proceeded
to suit the action to the word.

Allan let him go on in unnoticing silence till it came to that totally
unfamiliar thing these seven years, a stand-up collar. A shiningly new
linen collar of the newest cut, a beautiful golden-brown knit tie, a
gray suit----

"What on earth?" inquired Allan, awakening from his lethargy. "I don't
need a collar and tie to keep me from getting cold on a journey across
the house. And where did you get those clothes? They look new."

Wallis laid his now fully dressed master back to a reclining
position--he had been propped up--and tucked a handkerchief into the
appropriate pocket as he replied, "Grant & Moxley's, sir, where you
always deal." And he wheeled the couch back to the day-room, over to its
very door.

It did not occur to Allan, as he was being carried downstairs by Wallis
and Arthur, another of the servants, that anything more than a change of
rooms was intended; nor, as he was carried out at its door to a long
closed carriage, that it was anything worse than his new keeper's
mistaken idea that drives would be good for him. He was a little
irritable at the length and shutupness of the drive, though, as his cot
had been swung deftly from the ceiling of the carriage, he was not
jarred. But when Wallis and Arthur carried the light pallet on which he
lay swiftly up a plank walk laid to the door of a private car--why then
it began to occur to Allan Harrington that something was happening.
And--which rather surprised himself--he did not lift a supercilious
eyebrow and say in a soft, apathetic voice, "Very we-ell!" Instead, he
turned his head towards the devoted Wallis, who had helped two
conductors swing the cot from the ceiling, and was now waiting for the
storm to break. And what he said to Wallis was this:

"What the deuce does this tomfoolery mean?" As he spoke he felt the
accumulated capacity for temper of the last seven years surging up
toward Wallis, and Arthur, and Phyllis, and the carriage-horses, and
everything else, down to the two conductors. Wallis seemed rather
relieved than otherwise. Waiting for a storm to break is rather wearing.

"Well, sir, Mrs. Harrington, she thought, sir, that--that a little move
would do you good. And you didn't want to be bothered, sir----"

"Bothered!" shouted Allan, not at all like a bored and dying invalid. "I
should think I did, when a change in my whole way of life is made! Who
gave you, or Mrs. Harrington, permission for this outrageous
performance! It's sheer, brutal, insulting idiocy!"

"Nobody, sir--yes, sir," replied Wallis meekly. "Would you care for a
drink, sir--or anything?"

"_No!_" thundered Allan.

"Or a fan?" ventured Wallis, approaching near with that article and
laying it on the coverlid. Allan's hand snatched the fan angrily--and
before he thought he had hurled it at Wallis! Weakly, it is true, for it
lighted ingloriously about five feet away; but he had _thrown_ it, with
a movement that must have put to use the muscles of the long-disused
upper arm. Wallis sat suddenly down and caught his breath.

"Mr. Allan!" he said. "Do you know what you did then? You _threw_, and
you haven't been able to use more than your forearm before! Oh, Mr.
Allan, you're getting better!"

Allan himself lay in astonishment at his feat, and forgot to be angry
for a moment. "I certainly did!" he said.

"And the way you lost your temper!" went on Wallis enthusiastically.
"Oh, Mr. Allan, it was beautiful! You haven't been more than to say
snarly since the accident! It was so like the way you used to throw
hair-brushes----"

But at the mention of his lost temper Allan remembered to lose it still
further. His old capacity for storming, a healthy lad's healthy young
hot-temperedness, had been weakened by long disuse, but he did fairly
well. By such marks of good sense and good will I perceived that she would
not be out of place at a Court where politeness of spirit and politeness
of heart ever go side by side, or, to put it better, where these
qualities are fused and united.

M. le Marquis de Montespan, scion of the old house of Pardaillan de
Gondrin, had preferred what he styled "my grace and beauty" to
the most wealthy partis of France.

He was himself possessed of wealth, and his fortune gave him every facility
for maintaining at Court a position of advantage and distinction.

At first the honour which both Queens were graciously pleased to
confer upon me gave my husband intense satisfaction. He affectionately
thanked the Duc and Duchesse de Navailles, and expressed his most
humble gratitude to the two Queens and to the King.

But it was not long before I perceived that he had altered his opinion.

The love-affair between Mademoiselle de la Valliere and the King
having now become public, M. de Montespan condemned this attachment in
terms of such vehemence that I perforce felt afraid of the consequences
of such censure. He talked openly about the matter in society, airing his
views thereanent. Impetuously and with positive hardihood, he expressed
his disapproval in unstinted terms, criticising and condemning the
prince's conduct.

       Once, at the ballet, when within two feet of the Queen, it was with
the utmost difficulty that he could be prevented from discussing
so obviously unfitting a question, or from sententiously moralising
upon the subject.

All at once the news of an inheritance in the country served to occupy his
attention. He did all that he could to make me accompany him on
this journey. He pointed out to me that it behoved no young wife
to be anywhere without her husband.
There were sleepy
birds to be heard, too, talking about how near sunset and their bedtime
had come, and a little brook splashed somewhere out of sight. Altogether
spring was to be seen and heard and felt, winningly insistent. Allan
forgave Wallis, not to speak of Phyllis and the conductors, to a certain
degree. He ordered the flapping black oilcloth curtain in front rolled
up so he could see out, and secretly enjoyed the drive, unforeseen
though it had been. His spine never said a word. Perhaps it, too,
enjoyed having a change from a couch in a dark city room.

They saw no one in their passage through the long, low old house.
Phyllis evidently had learned that Allan didn't like his carryings
about done before people.

Wallis seemed to be acting under a series of detailed orders. He and
Arthur carried their master to a long, well-lighted room at the end of
the house, and deftly transferred him to a couch much more convenient,
being newer, than the old one. On this he was wheeled to his adjoining
bedroom, and when Wallis had made him comfortable there, he left him
mysteriously for a while. It was growing dark by now, and the lights
were on. They were rose-shaded, Allan noticed, as the others had been at
home. Allan watched the details of his room with that vivid interest in
little changes which only invalids can know. There was an old-fashioned
landscape story paper on the walls, with very little repeat. Over it,
but not where they interfered with tracing out the adventures of the
paper people, were a good many pictures, quite incongruous, for they
were of the Remington type men like, but pleasant to see nevertheless.
The furniture was chintz-covered and gay. There was not one thing in
the room to remind a man that he was an invalid. It occurred to Allan
that Phyllis must have put a good deal of deliberate work on the place.
He lay contentedly, watching the grate fire, and trying to trace out the
story of the paper, for at least a half-hour. He found himself, at
length, much to his own surprise, thinking with a certain longing of his
dinner-tray. He was thinking of it more and more interestedly by the
time Wallis--trayless--came back.

"Mr. and Mrs. De Guenther and the young madam are waiting for you in the
living-room," he announced. "They would be glad if you would have supper
with them."

"Very well," said Allan amiably, still much to his own surprise. The
truth was, he was still enough awake and interested to want to go on
having things happen.

The room Wallis wheeled him back into was a long, low one, wainscoted
and bare-floored. It was furnished with the best imitation Chippendale
to be obtained in a hurry, but over and above there were cushioned
chairs and couches enough for solid comfort. There were more cheerful
pictures, the Maxfield Parrishes Phyllis had wanted, over the
green-papered walls. There was a fire here also. The room had no more
period than a girl's sentence, but there was a bright air of welcomeness
and informality that was winning. An old-fashioned half-table against
the wall was covered with a great many picknicky things to eat. Another
table had more things, mostly to eat with, on it. And there were the De
Guenthers and Phyllis. On the whole it felt very like a welcome-home.

Phyllis, in a satiny rose-colored gown he had never seen before, came
over to his couch to meet him. She looked very apprehensive and young
and wistful for the rôle of Bold Bad Hypnotist. She bent towards him
with her hand out, seemed about to speak, then backed, flushed, and
acted as if something had frightened her badly.

"Is she as afraid of me as all that?" thought Allan. Wallis must have
given her a lurid account of how he had behaved. His quick impulse was
to reassure her.

"Well, Phyllis, my dear, you certainly didn't bother me with plans
_this_ time!" he said, smiling. "This is a bully surprise!"

"I--I'm glad you like it," said his wife shyly, still backing away.

"Of course he'd like it," said Mrs. De Guenther's kind staccato voice
behind him. "Kiss your husband, and tell him he's welcome home, Phyllis
child!"

Now, Phyllis was tired with much hurried work, and overstrung. And
Allan, lying there smiling boyishly up at her, Allan seen for the first
time in these usual-looking gray man-clothes, was like neither the
marble Crusader she had feared nor the heartbroken little boy she had
pitied. He was suddenly her contemporary, a very handsome and attractive
young fellow, a little her senior. From all appearances, he might have
been well and normal, and come home to her only a little tired, perhaps,
by the day's work or sport, as he lay smiling at her in that friendly,
intimate way! It was terrifyingly different. Everything felt different.
All her little pieces of feeling for him, pity and awe and friendliness
and love of service, seemed to spring suddenly together and make
something else--something unplaced and disturbing. Her cheeks burned
with a childish embarrassment as she stood there before him in her
ruffled pink gown. What should she do?

It was just then that Mrs. De Guenther's crisply spoken advice came.
Phyllis was one of those people whose first unconscious instinct is to
obey an unspoken order. She bent blindly to Allan's lips, and kissed him
with a child's obedience, then straightened up, aghast. He would think
her very bold!

But he did not, for some reason. It may have seemed only comforting and
natural to him, that swift childish kiss, and Phyllis's honey-colored,
violet-scented hair brushing his face. Men take a great deal without
question as their rightful due.

The others closed around him then, welcoming him, laughing at the
surprise and the way he had taken it, telling him all about it as if
everything were as usual and pleasant as possible, and the present state
of things had always been a pleasant commonplace. And Wallis began to
serve the picnic supper.


XI


There were trays and little tables, and the food itself would have
betrayed a southern darky in the kitchen if nothing else had. It was the
first meal Allan had eaten with any one for years, and he found it so
interesting as to be almost exciting. Wallis took the plates invisibly
away when they were done, and they continued to stay in their
half-circle about the fire and talk it all over. Phyllis, tired to death
still, had slid to her favorite floor-seat, curled on cushions and
leaning against the couch-side. Allan could have touched her hair with
his hand. She thought of this, curled there, but she was too tired to
move. It was exciting to be near him, somehow, tired as she was.

Most of the short evening was spent celebrating the fact that Allan had
thrown something at Wallis, who was recalled to tell the story three
times in detail. Then there was the house to discuss, its good and bad
points, its nearnesses and farnesses.

"Let me tell you, Allan," said Mrs. De Guenther warmly at this point,
from her seat at the foot of the couch, "this wife of yours is a wonder.
Not many girls could have had a house in this condition two weeks after
it was bought."

Allan looked down at the heap of shining hair below him, all he could
see of Phyllis.

"Yes," he said consideringly. "She certainly is."

At a certain slowness in his tone, Phyllis sprang up. "You must be tired
to _death_!" she said. "It must be nearly ten. Do you feel worn out?"

Before he could say anything, Mrs. De Guenther had also risen, and was
sweeping away her husband.

"Of course he is," she said decisively. "What have we all been thinking
of? And we must go to bed, too, Albert, if you insist on taking that
early train in the morning, and I insist on going with you. Good-night,
children."

Wallis had appeared by this time, and was wheeling Allan from the room
before he had a chance to say much of anything but good-night. The De
Guenthers talked a little longer to Phyllis, and were gone also. Phyllis
flung herself full-length on the rugs and pillows before the fire, too
tired to move further.

Well, she had everything that she had wished for on that wet February
day in the library. Money, leisure to be pretty, a husband whom she
"didn't have to associate with much," rest, if she ever gave herself
leave to take it, and the rose-garden. She had her wishes, as uncannily
fulfilled as if she had been ordering her fate from a department store,
and had money to pay for it.... And back there in the city it was
somebody's late night, and that somebody--it would be Anna Black's turn,
wouldn't it?--was struggling with John Zanowskis and Sadie Rabinowitzes
by the lapful, just as she had. And yet--and yet they had really cared
for her, those dirty, dear little foreigners of hers. But she'd had to
work for their liking.... Perhaps--perhaps she could make Allan
Harrington like her as much as the children did. He had been so kind
to-night about the move and all, and so much brighter, her handsome
Allan in his gray, every-day-looking man-clothes! If she could stay
brave enough and kind enough and bright enough ... her eyelids
drooped.... Wallis was standing respectfully over her.

"Mrs. Harrington," he was saying, with a really masterly ignoring of her
attitude on the rug, "Mr. Harrington says you haven't bid him good-night
yet."

An amazing message! Had she been in the habit of it, that he demanded it
like a small boy? But she sprang up and followed Wallis into Allan's
room. He was lying back in his white silk sleeping things among the
white bed-draperies, looking as he always had before. Only, he seemed
too alive and awake still for his old rôle of Crusader-on-a-tomb.

"Phyllis," he began eagerly, as she sat down beside him, "what made you
so frightened when I first came? Wallis hadn't worried you, had he?"

"Oh, no; it wasn't that at all," said Phyllis. "And thank you for being
so generous about it all."

"I wasn't generous," said her husband. "I behaved like everything to old
Wallis about it. Well, what was it, then?"

"I--I--only--you looked so different in--_clothes_," pleaded Phyllis,
"like any man my age or older--as if you might get up and go to
business, or play tennis, or anything, and--and I was _afraid_ of you!
That's all, truly!"

She was sitting on the bed's edge, her eyes down, her hands quivering in
her lap, the picture of a school-girl who isn't quite sure whether she's
been good or not.

"Why, that sounds truthful!" said Allan, and laughed. It was the first
time she had heard him, and she gave a start. Such a clear, cheerful,
_young_ laugh! Maybe he would laugh more, by and by, if she worked hard
to make him.

"Good-night, Allan," she said.

"Aren't you going to kiss me good-night?" demanded this new Allan,
precisely as if she had been doing it ever since she met him. Evidently
that kiss three hours ago had created a precedent. Phyllis colored to
her ears. She seemed to herself to be always coloring now. But she
mustn't cross Allan, tired as he must be!

"Good-night, Allan," she said again sedately, and kissed his cheek as
she had done a month ago--years ago!--when they had been married. Then
she fled.

"Wallis," said his master dreamily when his man appeared again, "I want
some more real clothes. Tired of sleeping-suits. Get me some, please.
Good-night."

As for Phyllis, in her little green-and-white room above him, she was
crying comfortably into her pillow. She had not the faintest idea why,
except that she liked doing it. She felt, through her sleepiness, a
faint, hungry, pleasant want of something, though she hadn't an idea
what it could be. She had everything, except that it wasn't time for the
roses to be out yet. Probably that was the trouble.... Roses.... She,
too, went to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How did Mr. Allan pass the night?" Phyllis asked Wallis anxiously,
standing outside his door next morning. She had been up since seven,
speeding the parting guests and interviewing the cook and chambermaid.
Mrs. Clancy's choice had been cheerful to a degree, and black, all of
it; a fat Virginia cook, a slim young Tuskegee chambermaid of a pale
saddle-color, and a shiny brown outdoor man who came from nowhere in
particular, but was very useful now he was here. Phyllis had seen them
all this morning, and found them everything servants should be. Now she
was looking after Allan, as her duty was.

Wallis beamed from against the door-post, his tray in his hands.

"Mrs. Harrington, it's one of the best sleeps Mr. Allan's had! Four
hours straight, and then sleeping still, if broken, till six! And still
taking interest in things. Oh, ma'am, you should have heard him
yesterday on the train, as furious as furious! It was beautiful!"

"Then his spine wasn't jarred," said Phyllis thoughtfully. "Wallis, I
believe there was more nervous shock and nervous depression than ever
the doctors realized. And I believe all he needs is to be kept happy, to
be much, much better. Wouldn't it be wonderful if he got so he could
move freely from the waist up? I believe that may happen if we can keep
him cheered and interested."

Wallis looked down at his tray. "Yes, ma'am," he said. "Not to speak ill
of the dead, Mrs. Harrington, the late Mrs. Harrington was always saying
'My poor stricken boy,' and things like that--'Do not jar him with
ill-timed light or merriment,' and reminding him how bad he was. And she
certainly didn't jar him with any merriment, ma'am."

"What were the doctors thinking about?" demanded Phyllis indignantly.

"Well, ma'am, they did all sorts of things to poor Mr. Allan for the
first year or so. And then, as nothing helped, and they couldn't find
out what was wrong to have paralyzed him so, he begged to have them
stopped hurting him. So we haven't had one for the past five years."

"I think a masseur and a wheel-chair are the next things to get," said
Phyllis decisively. "And remember, Wallis, there's something the matter
with Mr. Allan's shutters. They won't always close the sunshine out as
they should."

Wallis almost winked, if an elderly, mutton-chopped servitor can be
imagined as winking.

"No, ma'am," he promised. "Something wrong with 'em. I'll remember,
ma'am."

Phyllis went singing on down the sunny old house, swinging her colored
muslin skirts and prancing a little with sheer joy of being twenty-five,
and prettily dressed, with a dear house all her own, and--yes--a dear
Allan a little her own, too! Doing well for a man what another woman has
done badly has a perennial joy for a certain type of woman, and this was
what Phyllis was in the very midst of. She pranced a little more, and
came almost straight up against a long old mirror with gilt cornices,
which had come with the house and was staying with it. Phyllis stopped
and looked critically at herself.

"I haven't taken time yet to be pretty," she reminded the girl in the
glass, and began then and there to take account of stock, by way of
beginning. Why--a good deal had done itself! Her hair had been washed
and sunned and sunned and washed about every ten minutes since she had
been away from the library. It was springy and three shades more golden.
She had not been rushing out in all weathers unveiled, nor washing
hastily with hard water and cheap library soap eight or ten times a day,
because private houses are comparatively clean places. So her complexion
had been getting back, unnoticed, a good deal of its original country
rose-and-cream, with a little gold glow underneath. And the tired
heaviness was gone from her eyelids, because she had scarcely used her
eyes since she had married Allan--there had been too much else to do!
The little frown-lines between the brows had gone, too, with the need of
reading-glasses and work under electricity. She was more rounded, and
her look was less intent. The strained Liberry Teacher look was gone.
The luminous long blue eyes in the glass looked back at her girlishly.
"Would you think we were twenty-five even?" they said. Phyllis smiled
irrepressibly at the mirrored girl.

"Yas'm," said the rich and comfortable voice of Lily-Anna, the cook,
from the dining-room door; "you sholy is pretty. Yas'm--a lady _wants_
to stay pretty when she's married. Yo' don' look much mo'n a bride,
ma'am, an' dat's a fac'. Does you want yo' dinnehs brought into de
sittin'-room regular till de gem'man gits well?"

"Yes--no--yes--for the present, any way," said Phyllis, with a mixture
of confusion and dignity. Fortunately the doorbell chose this time to
ring.

A business-like young messenger with a rocking crate wanted to speak to
the madam. The last item on Phyllis's shopping list had come.

"The wolfhound's doing fine, ma'am," the messenger answered in response
to her questions. "Like a different dog already. All he needed was
exercise and a little society. Yes'm, this pup's broken--in a manner,
that is. Your man picked you out the best-tempered little feller in the
litter. Here, Foxy--careful, lady! Hold on to his leash!"

There was the passage of the check, a few directions about
dog-biscuits, and then the messenger from the kennels drove back to the
station, the crate, which had been emptied of a wriggling six-months
black bull-dog, on the seat beside him.


XII


Allan, lying at the window of the sunny bedroom, and wondering if they
had been having springs like this all the time he had lived in the city,
heard a scuffle outside the door. His wife's voice inquired breathlessly
of Wallis, "Can Mr. Allan--see me?... Oh, gracious--_don't_, Foxy, you
little black gargoyle! Open the door, or--shut it--quick, Wallis!"

But the door, owing to circumstances over which nobody but the black dog
had any control, flew violently open here, and Allan had a flying vision
of his wife, flushed, laughing, and badly mussed, being railroaded
across the room by a prancingly exuberant French bull at the end of a
leash.

"He's--he's a cheerful dog," panted Phyllis, trying to bring Foxy to
anchor near Allan, "and I don't think he knows how to keep still long
enough to pose across your feet--he wouldn't become them anyhow--he's a
real man-dog, Allan, not an interior decoration.... Oh, Wallis, he has
Mr. Allan's slipper! Foxy, you little fraud! Did him want a drink,
angel-puppy?"

"Did you get him for me, Phyllis?" asked Allan when the tumult and the
shouting had died, and the caracoling Foxy had buried his hideous little
black pansy-face in a costly Belleek dish of water.

"Yes," gasped Phyllis from her favorite seat, the floor; "but you
needn't keep him unless you want to. I can keep him where you'll never
see him--can't I, honey-dog-gums? Only I thought he'd be company for
you, and don't you think he seems--cheerful?"

Allan threw his picturesque head back on the cushions, and laughed and
laughed.

"Cheerful!" he said. "Most assuredly! Why--thank you, ever so much,
Phyllis. You're an awfully thoughtful girl. I always did like bulls--had
one in college, a Nelson. Come here, you little rascal!"

He whistled, and the puppy lifted its muzzle from the water, made a
dripping dash to the couch, and scrambled up over Allan as if they had
owned each other since birth. Never was a dog less weighed down by the
glories of ancestry.

Allan pulled the flopping bat-ears with his most useful hand, and asked
with interest, "Why on earth did they call a French bull Foxy?"

"Yes, sir," said Wallis. "I understand, sir, that he was the most active
and playful of the litter, and chewed up all his brothers' ears, sir.
And the kennel people thought it was so clever that they called him
Foxy."

"The best-tempered dog in the litter!" cried Phyllis, bursting into
helpless laughter from the floor.

"That doesn't mean he's bad-tempered," explained master and man eagerly
together. Phyllis began to see that she had bought a family pet as much
for Wallis as for Allan. She left them adoring the dog with that
reverent emotion which only very ugly bull-dogs can wake in a man's
breast, and flitted out, happy over the success of her new toy for
Allan.

"Take him out when he gets too much for Mr. Allan," she managed to say
softly to Wallis as she passed him. But, except for a run or so for his
health, Wallis and Allan between them kept the dog in the bedroom most
of the day. Phyllis, in one of her flying visits, found the little
fellow, tired with play, dog-biscuits, and other attentions, snuggled
down by his master, his little crumpled black muzzle on the pillow close
to Allan's contented, sleeping face. She felt as if she wanted to cry.
The pathetic lack of interests which made the coming of a new little dog
such an event!

Before she hung one more picture, before she set up even a book from the
boxes which had been her father's, before she arranged one more article
of furniture, she telephoned to the village for the regular delivery of
four daily papers, and a half-dozen of the most masculine magazines she
could think of on the library lists. She had never known of Allan's
doing any reading. That he had cared for books before the accident, she
knew. At any rate, she was resolved to leave no point uncovered that
might, just possibly _might_, help her Allan just a little way to
interest in life, which she felt to be the way to recovery. He liked
being told stories to, any way.

"Do you think Mr. Allan will feel like coming into the living-room
to-day?" she asked Wallis, meeting him in the hall about two o'clock.

"Why, he's dressed, ma'am," was Wallis's astonishing reply, "and him and
the pup is having a fine game of play. He's got more use of that hand
an' arm, ma'am, than we thought."

"Do you think he'd care to be wheeled into the living-room about four?"
asked Phyllis.

"For tea, ma'am?" inquired Wallis, beaming. "I should think so, ma'am.
I'll ask, anyhow."

Phyllis had not thought of tea--one does not stop for such leisurely
amenities in a busy public library--but she saw the beauty of the idea,
and saw to it that the tea was there. Lily-Anna was a jewel. She built
the fire up to a bright flame, and brought in some daffodils from the
garden without a word from her mistress. Phyllis herself saw that the
victrola was in readiness, and cleared a space for the couch near the
fire. There was quite a festal feeling.

The talking-machine was also a surprise for Allan. Phyllis thought
afterward that she should have saved it for another day, but the
temptation to grace the occasion with it was too strong. She and Allan
were as excited over it as a couple of children, and the only drawback
to Allan's enjoyment was that he obviously wanted to take the records
out of her unaccustomed fingers and adjust them himself. He knew how, it
appeared, and Phyllis naturally didn't. However, she managed to follow
his directions successfully. She had bought recklessly of rag-time
discs, and provided a fair amount of opera selections. Allan seemed
equally happy over both. After the thing had been playing for
three-quarters of an hour, and most of the records were exhausted,
Phyllis rang for tea. It was getting a little darker now, and the
wood-fire cast fantastic red and black lights and shadows over the room.
It was very intimate and thrilling to Phyllis suddenly, the fire-lit
room, with just their two selves there. Allan, on his couch before the
fire, looked bright and contented. The adjustable couch-head had been
braced to such a position that he was almost sitting up. The bull-dog,
who had lately come back from a long walk with the gratified outdoor
man, snored regularly on the rug near his master, wakening enough to bat
his tail on the floor if he was referred to. The little tea-table was
between Allan and Phyllis, crowned with a bunch of apple-blossoms, whose
spring-like scent dominated the warm room. Phyllis, in her green gown,
her cheeks pink with excitement, was waiting on her lord and master a
little silently.

Allan watched her amusedly for awhile--she was as intent as a good child
over her tea-ball and her lemon and her little cakes.

"Say something, Phyllis," he suggested with the touch of mischief she
was not yet used to, coming from him.

"This is a serious matter," she replied gravely. "Do you know I haven't
made tea--afternoon tea, that is--for so long it's a wonder I know which
is the cup and which is the saucer?"

"Why not?" he asked idly, yet interestedly too.

"I was otherwise occupied. I was a Daughter of Toil," explained Phyllis
serenely, setting down her own cup to relax in her chair, hands behind
her head; looking, in her green gown, the picture of graceful, strong,
young indolence. "I was a librarian--didn't you know?"

"No. I wish you'd tell me, if you don't mind," said Allan. "About you, I
mean, Phyllis. Do you know, I feel awfully married to you this
afternoon--you've bullied me so much it's no wonder--and I really ought
to know about my wife's dark past."

Phyllis's heart beat a little faster. She, too, had felt "awfully
married" here alone in the fire-lit living-room, dealing so intimately
and gayly with Allan.

"There isn't much to tell," she said soberly.

"Come over here closer," commanded Allan the spoilt. "We've both had all
the tea we want. Come close by the couch. I want to see you when you
talk."

Phyllis did as he ordered.

"I was a New England country minister's daughter," she began. "New
England country ministers always know lots about Greek and Latin and how
to make one dollar do the work of one-seventy-five, but they never have
any dollars left when the doing's over. Father and I lived alone
together always, and he taught me things, and I petted him--fathers need
it, specially when they have country congregations--and we didn't bother
much about other folks. Then he--died. I was eighteen, and I had six
hundred dollars. I couldn't do arithmetic, because Father had always
said it was left out of my head, and I needn't bother with it. So I
couldn't teach. Then they said, 'You like books, and you'd better be a
librarian.' As a matter of fact, a librarian never gets a chance to
read, but you can't explain that to the general public. So I came to the
city and took the course at library school. Then I got a position in the
Greenway Branch--two years in the circulating desk, four in the
cataloguing room, and one in the Children's Department. The short and
simple annals of the poor!"

"Go on," said Allan.

"I believe it's merely that you like the sound of the human voice," said
Phyllis, laughing. "I'm going to go on with the story of the Five Little
Pigs--you'll enjoy it just as much!"

"Exactly," said Allan. "Tell me what it was like in the library,
please."

"It was rather interesting," said Phyllis, yielding at once. "There are
so many different things to be done that you never feel any monotony, as
I suppose a teacher does. But the hours are not much shorter than a
department store's, and it's exacting, on-your-feet work all the time. I
liked the work with the children best. Only--you never have any time to
be anything but neat in a library, and you do get so tired of being just
neat, if you're a girl."

"And a pretty one," said Allan. "I don't suppose the ugly ones mind as
much."

It was the first thing he had said about her looks. Phyllis's ready
color came into her cheeks. So he thought she was pretty!

"Do you--think I'm pretty?" she asked breathlessly. She couldn't help
it.

"Of course I do, you little goose," said Allan, smiling at her.

Phyllis plunged back into the middle of her story:

"You see, you can't sit up nights to sew much, or practise doing your
hair new ways, because you need all your strength to get up when the
alarm-clock barks next morning. And then, there's always the
money-worry, if you have nothing but your salary. Of course, this last
year, when I've been getting fifty dollars a month, things have been all
right. But when it was only thirty a month in the Circulation--well,
that was pretty hard pulling," said Phyllis thoughtfully. "But the
worst--the worst, Allan, was waking up nights and wondering what would
happen if you broke down for a long time. Because you _can't_ very well
save for sickness-insurance on even fifty a month. And the work--well,
of course, most girls' work is just a little more than they have the
strength for, always. But I was awfully lucky to get into children's
work. Some of my imps, little Poles and Slovaks and Hungarians mostly,
are the cleverest, most affectionate babies----"

She began to tell him stories of wonderful ten-year-olds who were
Socialists by conviction, and read economics, and dazed little atypical
sixteen-year-olds who read Mother Goose, and stopped even that because
they got married.

"You poor little girl!" said Allan, unheeding. "What brutes they were to
you! Well, thank Heaven, that's over now!"

"Why, Allan!" she said, laying a soothing hand on his. "Nobody was a
brute. There's never more than one crank-in-authority in any library,
they say. Ours was the Supervisor of the Left Half of the Desk, and
after I got out of Circulation I never saw anything of her."

Allan burst into unexpected laughter. "It sounds like a Chinese title of
honor," he explained. "'Grand Warder of the Emperor's Left
Slipper-Rosette,' or something of the sort."

"The Desk's where you get your books stamped," she explained, "and the
two shifts of girls who attend to that part of the work each have a
supervisor--the Right and Left halves. The one that was horrid had
favorites, and snapped at the ones that weren't. I wasn't under her,
though. My Supervisor was lovely, an Irishwoman with the most florid
hats, and the kindest, most just disposition, and always laughing. We
all adored her, she was so fair-minded."

"You think a good deal about laughing," said Allan thoughtfully. "Does it
rank as a virtue in libraries, or what?"

"You have to laugh," explained Phyllis. "If you don't see the laugh-side
of things, you see the cry-side. And you can't afford to be unhappy if
you have to earn your living. People like brightness best. And it's more
comfortable for yourself, once you get used to it."

"So that was your philosophy of life," said Allan. His hand tightened
compassionately on hers. "You _poor_ little girl!... Tell me about the
cry-side, Phyllis."

His voice was very moved and caressing, and the darkness was deepening
as the fire sank. Only an occasional tongue of flame glinted across
Phyllis's silver slipper-buckle and on the seal-ring Allan wore. It was
easy to tell things there in the perfumed duskiness. It was a great many
years since any one had cared to hear the cry-side. And it was so dark,
and the hand keeping hers in the shadows might have been any kind,
comforting hand. She found herself pouring it all out to Allan, there
close by her; the loneliness, the strain, the hard work, the lack of all
the woman-things in her life, the isolation and dreariness at night, the
over-fatigue, and the hurt of watching youth and womanhood sliding away,
unused, with nothing to show for all the years; only a cold hope that
her flock of little transient aliens might be a little better for the
guidance she could give them--


   Years hence in rustic speech a phrase,
   As in rude earth a Grecian vase.


And then, that wet, discouraged day in February, and the vision of Eva
Atkinson, radiantly fresh and happy, kept young and pretty by unlimited
money and time.

"Her children were so pretty," said Phyllis wistfully, "and mine, dear
little villains, were such dirty, untaught, rude little things--oh, it
sounds snobbish, but I'd have given everything I had to have a dainty,
clean little _lady_-child throw her arms around me and kiss me, instead
of my pet little handsome, sticky Polish Jewess. Up at home everything
had been so clean and old and still that you always could remember it
had been finished for three hundred years. And Father's clean, still old
library----"

Phyllis did not know how she was revealing to Allan the unconscious
motherhood in her; but Allan, femininely sensitive to unspoken things
from his long sojourn in the dark--Allan did. It was the mother-instinct
that she was spending on him, but mother-instinct of a kind he had never
known before; gayly self-effacing, efficient, shown only in its results.
And she could never have anything else to spend it on, he thought. Well,
he was due to die in a few years.... But he didn't want to. Living was
just beginning to be interesting again, somehow. There seemed no
satisfactory solution for the two of them.... Well, he'd be unselfish
and die, any way. Meanwhile, why not be happy? Here was Phyllis. His
hand clasped hers more closely.

"And when Mr. De Guenther made me that offer," she murmured, coloring in
the darkness, "I was tired and discouraged, and the years seemed so
endless! It didn't seem as though I'd be harming any one--but I wouldn't
have done it if you'd said a word against it--truly I wouldn't, dear."

