
But I've wandered a little off the track of my tale; I'll get back
on my course again.  Now you see what kind of speed I was making.
So, as I said, when I had been tearing along this way about thirty
years I begun to get uneasy.  Oh, it was pleasant enough, with a
good deal to find out, but then it was kind of lonesome, you know.
Besides, I wanted to get somewhere.  I hadn't shipped with the idea
of cruising forever.  First off, I liked the delay, because I
judged I was going to fetch up in pretty warm quarters when I got
through; but towards the last I begun to feel that I'd rather go
to--well, most any place, so as to finish up the uncertainty.

Well, one night--it was always night, except when I was rushing by
some star that was occupying the whole universe with its fire and
its glare--light enough then, of course, but I necessarily left it
behind in a minute or two and plunged into a solid week of darkness
again.  The stars ain't so close together as they look to be.
Where was I?  Oh yes; one night I was sailing along, when I
discovered a tremendous long row of blinking lights away on the
horizon ahead.  As I approached, they begun to tower and swell and
look like mighty furnaces.  Says I to myself--

"By George, I've arrived at last--and at the wrong place, just as I
expected!"

Then I fainted.  I don't know how long I was insensible, but it
must have been a good while, for, when I came to, the darkness was
all gone and there was the loveliest sunshine and the balmiest,
fragrantest air in its place.  And there was such a marvellous
world spread out before me--such a glowing, beautiful, bewitching
country.  The things I took for furnaces were gates, miles high,
made all of flashing jewels, and they pierced a wall of solid gold
that you couldn't see the top of, nor yet the end of, in either
direction.  I was pointed straight for one of these gates, and a-
coming like a house afire.  Now I noticed that the skies were black
with millions of people, pointed for those gates.  What a roar they
made, rushing through the air!  The ground was as thick as ants
with people, too--billions of them, I judge.

I lit.  I drifted up to a gate with a swarm of people, and when it
was my turn the head clerk says, in a business-like way--

"Well, quick!  Where are you from?"

"San Francisco," says I.

"San Fran--WHAT?" says he.

"San Francisco."

He scratched his head and looked puzzled, then he says--

"Is it a planet?"

By George, Peters, think of it!  "PLANET?" says I; "it's a city.
And moreover, it's one of the biggest and finest and--"

"There, there!" says he, "no time here for conversation.  We don't
deal in cities here.  Where are you from in a GENERAL way?"

"Oh," I says, "I beg your pardon.  Put me down for California."

I had him AGAIN, Peters!  He puzzled a second, then he says, sharp
and irritable--

"I don't know any such planet--is it a constellation?"

"Oh, my goodness!" says I.  "Constellation, says you?  No--it's a
State."

"Man, we don't deal in States here.  WILL you tell me where you are
from IN GENERAL--AT LARGE, don't you understand?"

"Oh, now I get your idea," I says.  "I'm from America,--the United
States of America."

Peters, do you know I had him AGAIN?  If I hadn't I'm a clam!  His
face was as blank as a target after a militia shooting-match.  He
turned to an under clerk and says--

"Where is America?  WHAT is America?"

The under clerk answered up prompt and says--

"There ain't any such orb."

"ORB?" says I.  "Why, what are you talking about, young man?  It
ain't an orb; it's a country; it's a continent.  Columbus
discovered it; I reckon likely you've heard of HIM, anyway.
America--why, sir, America--"

"Silence!" says the head clerk.  "Once for all, where--are--you--
FROM?"

"Well," says I, "I don't know anything more to say--unless I lump
things, and just say I'm from the world."

