But when a child goes yonder
   And leaves its mother here,
Its little feet must wander,
   It seems to me, in fear.
What paths of Eden beauty,
   What scenes of peace and rest,
Can bring content to one who went
   Forth from a mother's breast?

In palace gardens, lonely,
   A little child will roam
And weep for pleasures only
   Found in its humble home.
It is not won by splendour,
   Nor bought by costly toys;
To hide from harm on mother's arm
   Makes all its sum of joys.

It must be when the baby
   Goes journeying off alone,
Some angel (Mary, may be)
   Adopts it for her own.
Yet when a child is taken
   Whose mother stays below,
With weeping eyes, through Paradise,
   I seem to see it go.

With troops of angels trying
   To drive away its fear,
I seem to hear it crying,
   "I want my mamma here."
I do not court the fancy,
   It is not based on doubt,
It is a thought that comes unsought
   When baby souls sail out.


TO ANOTHER WOMAN'S BABY


I list your prattle, baby boy,
   And hear your pattering feet
With feelings more of pain than joy
   And thoughts of bitter-sweet.

While touching your soft hands in play
   Such passionate longings rise
For my wee boy who strayed away
   So soon to Paradise.

You win me with your infant art;
   But when our play is o'er,
The empty cradle in my heart
   Seems lonelier than before.

Sweet baby boy, you do not guess
   How oft mine eyes are dim,
Or that my lingering caress
   Is sometimes meant for HIM.


DIAMONDS


The tears of fallen women turned to ice
By man's cold pity for repentant vice.


RUBIES


The crimson life-drops from a virgin heart
Pierced to the core by Cupid's fatal dart.


SAPPHIRES


Lost rays of light that wandered off alone
   And down through space were hurled
From that great sapphire sun beyond our own
   Pale, puny little world.


TURQUOISE


A baby went to heaven while it slept,
   And, waking, missed its mother's arms, and wept.
Those angel tear-drops, falling earthward through
   God's azure skies, into the turquoise grew.


REFORM


The time has come when men with hearts and brains
Must rise and take the misdirected reins
Of government; too long left in the hands
Of aliens and of lackeys.  He who stands
And sees the mighty vehicle of State
Hauled through the mire to some ignoble fate
And makes not such bold protest as he can,
   Is no American,


A MINOR CHORD


I heard a strain of music in the street -
   A wandering waif of sound.  And then straightway
      A nameless desolation filled the day.
The great green earth that had been fair and sweet,
Seemed but a tomb; the life I thought replete
   With joy, grew lonely for a vanished May.
   Forgotten sorrows resurrected lay
Like bleaching skeletons about my feet.

Above me stretched the silent, suffering sky,
   Dumb with vast anguish for departed suns
      That brutal Time to nothingness has hurled.
The daylight was as sad as smiles that lie
   Upon the wistful, unkissed mouths of nuns,
      And I stood prisoned in an awful world.


DEATH'S PROTEST


Why dost thou shrink from my approach, O Man?
Why dost thou ever flee in fear, and cling
To my false rival, Life?  I do but bring
Thee rest and calm.  Then wherefore dost thou ban
And curse me?  Since the forming of God's plan
   I have not hurt or harmed a mortal thing,
   I have bestowed sweet balm for every sting,
And peace eternal for earth's stormy span.

The wild mad prayers for comfort sent in vain
   To knock at the indifferent heart of Life,
      I, Death, have answered.  Knowest thou not 'tis he,
My cruel rival, who sends all thy pain
   And wears the soul out in unending strife?
      Why dost thou hold to him, then, spurning me?


SEPTEMBER


My life's long radiant Summer halts at last,
And lo! beside my path way I behold
Pursuing Autumn glide:  nor frost nor cold
Has heralded her presence; but a vast
Sweet calm that comes not till the year has passed
   Its fevered solstice, and a tinge of gold
   Subdues the vivid colouring of bold
And passion-hued emotions.  I will cast

My August days behind me with my May,
   Nor strive to drag them into Autumn's place,
      Nor swear I hope when I do but remember.
Now violet and rose have had their day,
   I'll pluck the soberer asters with good grace
      And call September nothing but September.


WAIL OF AN OLD-TIMER


Each new invention doubles our worries an' our troubles,
   These scientific fellows are spoilin' of our land;
With motor, wire, an' cable, now'-days we're scarcely able
   To walk or ride in peace o' mind, an' 'tisn't safe to stand.

It fairly makes me crazy to see how tarnal lazy
   The risin' generation grows--an' science is to blame.
With telephones for talkin', an' messengers for walkin',
   Our young men sit an' loaf an' smoke, without a blush o' shame.

An' then they wer'n't contented until some one invented
   A sort o' jerky tape-line clock, to help on wasteful ways.
An' that infernal ticker spends money fur 'em quicker
   Than any neighbourhood o' men in good old bygone days.

The risin' generation is bent so on creation,
   Folks haven't time to talk or sing or cry or even laugh.
But if you take the notion to want some such emotion,
   They've got it all on tap fur you, right in the phonograph.

But now a crazy creature has introduced the feature
   Of artificial weather, I think we're nearly through.
For when we once go strainin' to keep it dry or rainin'
   To suit the general public, 'twill bust the world in two,


WAS, IS, AND YET-TO-BE


Was, Is, and Yet-to-Be
Were chatting over a cup of tea.

In tarnished finery smelling of must,
Was talked of people long turned to dust;

Of titles and honours and high estate,
All forgotten or out of date;

Of wonderful feasts in the long ago,
Of pride that perished with nothing to show.

"I loathe the present," said Was, with a groan;
"I live in pleasures that I HAVE known."

Ay, exactly so; drink up what? _the_
medicine; again a defined quantity; dregs and all,--still a
_definite_ quantity.

MR. HICKSON proceeds:

"The idea of the passage appears to be that
each of the acts should go beyond the last preceding in
extravagance.

'Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast?
woo't tear thyself?

Woo't drink up eisell?'
and then comes the climax--'eat a crocodile?'

Here is a regular succession of feats, the
last but one of which is sufficiently wild, though not unheard of,
and leading to the crowning extravagance.

The notion of drinking up a river would
be both unmeaning and out of place."

From this argument two conclusions are
the natural consequences: first, that from _drinking up_ wormwood,--a
feat "sufficiently wild but not unheard of," to eating a crocodile,
is only a "regular succession of events;" and, secondly, that the
"crowning extravagance," to eat a crocodile, is, after all, neither
"unmeaning" nor "out of place;" but, on the contrary, quite in
keeping and in orderly succession to a "drink up" of the bitter
infusion.

MR. SINGER (vol. ii., p. 241.)
says:

"Numerous passages of our old dramatic writers show that it was a
fashion with the gallants of the time to do some extravagant feat
as proof of their love."

I quite agree with him, if he mean to say that
the early dramatists ascribe to their gallants a fashion which in
reality belongs to the age of Du Gueslin and the Troubadours.

   DUAL


You say that your nature is double; that life
   Seems more and more intricate, complex, and dual,
Because in your bosom there wages the strife
   'Twixt an angel of light and a beast that is cruel -
An angel who whispers your spirit has wings,
And a beast who would chain you to temporal things.

I listen with interest to all you have told,
   And now let me give you my view of your trouble:
You are to be envied, not pitied; I hold
   THAT EVERY STRONG NATURE IS ALWAYS MADE DOUBLE.
The beast has his purpose; he need not be slain:
He should serve the good angel in harness and chain.

The body that never knows carnal desires,
   The heart that to passion is always a stranger,
Is merely a furnace with unlighted fires;
   It sends forth no warmth while it threatens no danger.
But who wants to shiver in cold safety there?
TOUCH FLAME TO THE FUEL! then watch it with care.

Those wild, fierce emotions that trouble your soul
   Are sparks from the great source of passion and power;
Throne reason above them, and give it control,
   And turn into blessing this dangerous dower.
By lightnings unguided destruction is hurled,
But chained and directed they gladden the world.


THE ALL-CREATIVE SPARK


Pain can go guised as joy, dross pass for gold,
   Vulgarity can masquerade as wit,
Or spite wear friendship's garments; but I hold
   That passionate feeling has no counterfeit.
Chief jewel from Jove's crown 'twas sent men, lent
For inspiration and for sacrament.

Jove never could have made the Universe
   Had he not glowed with passion's sacred fire;
Though man oft turns the blessing to a curse,
   And burns himself on his own funeral pyre,
Though scarred the soul be where its light burns bright,
Yet where it is not, neither is there might.

Yea, it was set in Jove's resplendent crown
   When he created worlds; that done, why, hence,
He cast the priceless, awful jewel down
   To be man's punishment and recompense.
And that is how he sees and hears our tears
Unmoved and calm from the eternal spheres.

But sometimes, since he parted with all passion,
   In trifling mood, to pass the time away,
He has created men in that same fashion,
   And many women (jesting as gods may),
Who have no souls to be inspired or fired,
Mere sport of idle gods who have grown tired.

And these poor puppets, gazing in the dark
   At their own shadows, think the world no higher;
And when they see the all-creative spark
   In other souls, they straightway cry out, "Fire!"
And shriek, and rave, till their dissent is spent,
While listening gods laugh loud in merriment.


BE NOT CONTENT


Be not content--contentment means inaction;
   The growing soul aches on its upward quest;
Satiety is twin to satisfaction;
   All great achievements spring from life's unrest.

The tiny roots, deep in the dark mould hiding,
   Would never bless the earth with leaf and flower
Were not an inborn restlessness abiding
   In seed and germ, to stir them with its power.

Were man contented with his lot forever,
   He had not sought strange seas with sails unfurled,
And the vast wonder of our shores had never
   Dawned on the gaze of an admiring world.

Prize what is yours, but be not quite contented.
   There is a healthful restlessness of soul
By which a mighty purpose is augmented
   In urging men to reach a higher goal.

So when the restless impulse rises, driving
   Your calm content before it, do not grieve;
It is the upward reaching of the spirit
   Of the God in you to achieve--achieve.


ACTION


For ever stars are winging
   Their swift and endless race;
For ever suns are swinging
   Their mighty globes through space.
Since by his law required
To join God's spheres inspired,
The earth has never tired,
   But whirled and whirled and whirled.
For ever streams are flowing,
For ever seeds are growing,
Alway is Nature showing
   That Action rules the world.

And since by God requested
   To BE, the glorious light
Has never paused or rested,
   But travelled day and night.
Yet pigmy man, unseeing
The purpose of his being,
Demands escape and freeing
   From universal force.
But law is law for ever,
And like a mighty lever
It thrusts him tow'rd endeavour,
   And speeds him on his course.


TWO ROSES


A humble wild-rose, pink and slender,
   Was plucked and placed in a bright bouquet,
Beside a Jacqueminot's royal splendour,
   And both in my lady's boudoir lay.

Said the haughty bud, in a tone of scorning,
   "I wonder why you are called a rose?
Your leaves will fade in a single morning;
   No blood of mine in your pale cheek glows.

"Your coarse green stalk shows dust of the highway,
   You have no depths of fragrant bloom;
And what could you learn in a rustic byway
   To fit you to lie in my lady's room?

"If called to adorn her warm, white bosom,
   What have you to offer for such a place,
Beside my fragrant and splendid blossom,
   Ripe with colour and rich with grace?"

Said the sweet wild-rose, "Despite your dower
   Of finer breeding and deeper hue,
Despite your beauty, fair, high-bred flower,
   It is I who should lie on her breast, not you.

"For small account is your hot-house glory
   Beside the knowledge that came to me
When I heard by the wayside love's old story
   And felt the kiss of the amorous bee."


SATIETY


To yearn for what we have not had, to sit
   With hungry eyes glued on the Future's gate,
Why, that is heaven compared to having it
   With all the power gone to appreciate.

Better to wait and yearn, and still to wait,
   And die at last with unappeased desire,
Than live to be the jest of such a fate,
   For that is my conception of hell-fire.


A SOLAR ECLIPSE


In that great journey of the stars through space
   About the mighty, all-directing Sun,
The pallid, faithful Moon has been the one
Companion of the Earth.  Her tender face,
Pale with the swift, keen purpose of that race
   Which at Time's natal hour was first begun,
   Shines ever on her lover as they run
And lights his orbit with her silvery smile.

Sometimes such passionate love doth in her rise,
   Down from her beaten path she softly slips,
And with her mantle veils the Sun's bold eyes,
   Then in the gloaming finds her lover's lips.
While far and near the men our world call wise
   See only that the Sun is in eclipse.


A SUGGESTION
To C. A. D.


Let the wild red-rose bloom.  Though not to thee
   So delicately perfect as the white
   And unwed lily drooping in the light,
Though she has known the kisses of the bee
   And tells her amorous tale to passers-by
In perfumed whispers and with untaught grace,
Still let the red-rose bloom in her own place;
   She could not be the lily should she try.

Why to the wondrous nightingale cry hush
   Or bid her cease her wild heart-breaking lay,
   And tune her voice to imitate the way
The whip-poor-will makes music, or the thrush?
   All airs of sorrow to one theme belong,
And passion is not copyrighted yet.
Each heart writes its own music.  Why not let
   The nightingale unchided sing her song?


THE DEPTHS


Not only sun-kissed heights are fair.  Below
The cold, dark billows of the frowning deep
Do lovely blossoms of the ocean sleep,
Rocked gently by the waters to and fro.
The coral beds with magic colours glow,
   And priceless pearl-encrusted molluscs heap
   The glittering rocks where shining atoms leap
Like living broken rainbows.

      Even so
We find the sea of sorrow.  Black as night
   The sullen surface meets our frightened gaze,
      As down we sink to darkness and despair.
But at the depths--such beauty! such delight!
   Such flowers as never grew in pleasure's ways!
      Ah! not alone are sun-kissed summits fair.


LIFE'S OPERA


Like an opera-house is the world, I ween,
Where the passionate lover of music is seen
   In the balcony near the roof:
While the very best seat in the first stage-box
Is filled by the person who laughs and talks
   Through the harmony's warp and woof.



THE SALT SEA-WIND



When Venus, mother and maker of blisses,
   Rose out of the billows, large-limbed, and fair,
She stood on the sands and blew sweet kisses
   To the salt sea-wind as she dried her hair.

And the salt sea-wind was the first to caress her
   To praise her beauty and call her sweet,
The first of the whole wide world to possess her,
   She, that creature of light and heat.

Though the sea is old with its sorrows and angers,
   And the world has forgotten why love was born,
Yet the salt sea-wind is full of the languors
   That Venus taught on her natal morn.

And now whoever dwells there by the ocean,
   And feels the wind on his hair and face,
Is stirred by a subtle and keen emotion,
   The lingering spell of that first embrace.



NEW YEAR



New Year, I look straight in your eyes -
   Our ways and our interests blend;
You may be a foe in disguise,
   But I shall believe you a friend.
We get what we give in our measure,
We cannot give pain and get pleasure;
I give you good will and good cheer,
And you must return it, New Year.

We get what we give in this life,
   Though often the giver indeed
Waits long upon doubting and strife
   Ere proving the truth of my creed.
But somewhere, some way, and for ever
Reward is the meed of endeavour;
And if I am really worth while,
New Year, you will give me your smile.

You hide in your mystical hand
   No "luck" that I cannot control,
If I trust my own courage and stand
   On the Infinite strength of my soul.
Man holds in his brain and his spirit
A power that is God-like, or near it,
And he who has measured his force
Can govern events and their course.

You come with a crown on your brow,
   New Year, without blemish or spot;
Yet you, and not I, sir, must bow,
   For time is the servant of thought
Whatever you bring me of trouble
Shall turn into good, and then double,
If my spirit looks up without fear
To the Source that you came from, New Year.



CONCENTRATION



The age is too diffusive.  Time and Force
   Are frittered out and bring no satisfaction.
   The way seems lost to straight determined action.
   Like shooting stars that zig-zag from their course
   We wander from our orbit's pathway; spoil
The role we're fitted for, to fail in twenty.
Bring empty measures, that were shaped for plenty,
   At last as guerdon for a life of toil.
There's lack of greatness in this generation
   Because no more man centres on one thought.
   We know this truth, and yet we heed it not:
The secret of success is Concentration.



THOUGHTS



Thoughts do not need the wings of words
   To fly to any goal.
Like subtle lightnings, not like birds,
   They speed from soul to soul.

Hide in your heart a bitter thought -
   Still it has power to blight;
Think Love--although you speak it not
   It gives the world more light.



LUCK



Luck is the tuning of our inmost thought
   To chord with God's great plan.
      That done, ah! know,
Thy silent wishes to results shall grow,
And day by day shall miracles be wrought.
Once let thy being selflessly be brought
   To chime with universal good, and lo!
   What music from the spheres shall through thee flow!
What benefits shall come to thee unsought!

Shut out the noise of traffic!  Rise above
   The body's clamour!  With the soul's fine ear
      Attune thyself to harmonies divine -
All, all are written in the key of Love.
   Keep to the score, and thou hast naught to fear;
      Achievements yet undreamed of shall be thine.