We was out and gone the minute the rain stopped. It was just broad day
then.  Metaphorically speaking, it's a symptom of the Hun To be always
bent on seeking after places in the sun; But I'd rather choose to follow
what my deadliest foes applaud Than to ostracise Apollo as an enervating
fraud.
Tom said he believed if we went to the sycamores we would find
that body laying there solitary and alone, and not a soul around.  Said
he believed the men chased the thieves so far into the woods that the
thieves prob'ly seen a good chance and turned on them at last, and maybe
they all killed each other, and so there wasn't anybody left to tell.

First we knowed, gabbling along that away, we was right at the sycamores.
The cold chills trickled down my back and I wouldn't budge another step,
for all Tom's persuading. But he couldn't hold in; he'd GOT to see if the
boots was safe on that body yet.  So he crope in--and the next minute out
he come again with his eyes bulging he was so excited, and says:

"Huck, it's gone!"

I WAS astonished! I says:

"Tom, you don't mean it."

"It's gone, sure.  There ain't a sign of it.  The ground is trampled
some, but if there was any blood it's all washed away by the storm, for
it's all puddles and slush in there."

At last I give in, and went and took a look myself; and it was just as
Tom said--there wasn't a sign of a corpse.

"Dern it," I says, "the di'monds is gone.  Don't you reckon the thieves
slunk back and lugged him off, Tom?"

"Looks like it.  It just does.  Now where'd they hide him, do you
reckon?"

"I don't know," I says, disgusted, "and what's more I don't care.
They've got the boots, and that's all I cared about.  He'll lay around
these woods a long time before I hunt him up."

Tom didn't feel no more intrust in him neither, only curiosity to know
what come of him; but he said we'd lay low and keep dark and it wouldn't
be long till the dogs or somebody rousted him out.

We went back home to breakfast ever so bothered and put out and
disappointed and swindled.  I warn't ever so down on a corpse before.


 CHAPTER VIII.  TALKING WITH THE GHOST

IT warn't very cheerful at breakfast.  Aunt Sally she looked old and
tired and let the children snarl and fuss at one another and didn't seem
to notice it was going on, which wasn't her usual style; me and Tom had a
plenty to think about without talking; Benny she looked like she hadn't
had much sleep, and whenever she'd lift her head a little and steal a
look towards her father you could see there was tears in her eyes; and as
for the old man, his things stayed on his plate and got cold without him
knowing they was there, I reckon, for he was thinking and thinking all
the time, and never said a word and never et a bite.

By and by when it was stillest, that nigger's head was poked in at the
door again, and he said his Marse Brace was getting powerful uneasy about
Marse Jubiter, which hadn't come home yet, and would Marse Silas please
--He was looking at Uncle Silas, and he stopped there, like the rest of
his words was froze; for Uncle Silas he rose up shaky and steadied
himself leaning his fingers on the table, and he was panting, and his
eyes was set on the nigger, and he kept swallowing, and put his other
hand up to his throat a couple of times, and at last he got his words
started, and says:

"Does he--does he--think--WHAT does he think! Tell him--tell him--" Then
he sunk down in his chair limp and weak, and says, so as you could hardly
hear him: "Go away--go away!"

