Preparations for the night having been made, and a fireplace dug out of
the bank of the creek near the water's edge, and walled up with stones to
some distance above the bank so that a perceptible draft was obtained, one
of the boys was directed to bring from the stores a bright new copper
kettle with a porcelain lining and a tight cover. Three flat stones were
placed together and formed a support for the pot.

"Pepper," said Swiftwater, "from this day to the time we go out, you are
to be captain of the Kettle. You are to see that it is kept clean and
filled with clear water from the creek at least once a day; that the water
is boiled and that these water jugs are kept filled and corked. I want to
ask the rest of you boys to drink, for a time at least, nothing but the
water that our friend Pepper turns out; none from the creek. A man's
health in a new country depends a good deal on how the water hits him, and
until you are acclimated it is the safest thing." The Scouts readily
promised to comply with the miner's request, and Pepper feeling that the
health of the camp was somehow in his charge felt not a little elated. He
issued orders at once for a supply of firewood, agreeing to carry the
water himself, which he did, filling the kettle which held about ten
gallons. He put on so many small airs while the boys were bringing in the
firewood and arranging it beneath the kettle that they began to dub him
"Health Officer," "Doctor," and poke fun at him in several ways. Finally
Dick came up and inspected the whole arrangement as if he had never seen
it before, and said:

"Hello, Grandma, makin' apple-butter or quince preserves?"

Pepper turned red but went on poking the fire. A minute or two later
Gerald strolled by with:

"Auntie, can't I have one of the doughnuts, now?"

Still Pepper struggled to preserve his temper and gave his whole dignified
attention to his new duties until:

"Mamma, how long fo' dat hog and hominy fit to eat?" and Rand dodged a
stick of firewood, as the infuriated Captain of the Kettle turned back to
the simmering pot. He was undisturbed for nearly an hour when Don strolled
up with an ostentatiously small armful of sticks and stayed only long
enough to ask:

"Seems to me that I smell braw parritch; or is it kail-brose ye would be
steaming there, gilly?"

Satisfied that a small conspiracy had been hatched against him the ruffled
Pepper bided his time. Suddenly, Jack came hurriedly toward him holding
his nose and pushing him away snatched off the cover of the kettle and
yelled dramatically:

"I told you so; I told you so; he can't even cook water; and now it's all
burned black."

The shout of laughter that went up was the last straw for the enraged
Pepper and jumping on his brother the two rolled over on the grass
together in one of those friendly tussles that had been frequent incidents
of their boyhood and that always served to bring Pepper's ruffled temper
down to normal temperature. Thereafter Pepper insisted in supplying his
own firewood and running the kettle without help, and resented any
interference with his duties.

The days that followed were busy, but uneventful. Swiftwater kept the camp
busy at something all the time and not many days passed before the camp
began to take on a look of permanency. He set up first what he called a
saw-pit, two big "horses," each made by driving fir poles into the ground
and crossing them and laying other sapling across these. The two horses
were about seven feet high and twelve feet apart. From one to the other of
these ran a sixteen foot plank. Spruce trees of medium size were then cut
down, divided into sixteen foot lengths, and typo squared with an ax.
These timbers were then raised to the top of the horses, and, while one
Indian mounted the log, the other stood underneath and with a long gang
saw "ripped" the timber into deals or boards, thick plank or scantling as
was needed for camp use. As this lumber began to pile up, he set the other
Indians at work clearing a place among the heavier trees, but not far from
the creek, for a sod house. It was to be some twenty feet square and was
to house Colonel Snow's lumbering gangs when they came in the following
winter.

"'Tenting on the old camp ground,' 's good enough, up here in the summer,"
he said to the boys, "but with the mercury loafing around sixty below
zero, canvas is no sort of shelter. A log house is better but it is almost
impossible to make the caulking of that weather-proof.

"Sod houses are the invention of the pioneer of the plains whose chief
recreation was going twenty miles to look at a tree four inches through.
Of course if we had the time we could saw out lumber enough to make a
'camp' that would be weather proof, but the sod house is insured against
fire, flood, lightning and wind and is as cosy as a cave; besides, it
takes a shorter time to build," and with this the miner led the boys, with
the exception of Gerald, who was to keep camp and oversee the four Indians
left there, to the boats, one of which the other two Indians had unmoored,
and when all were aboard, began to pole upstream.

About a half mile above the camp the woods receded from the creek and a
broad stretch of elevated meadow intervened. Early as it was, the short
grass was green and luxuriant, and what surprised the boys more than any
thing else was the number, variety and size of the wild flowers.

All hands had been supplied with long handled spades with sharp edges, and
as Swiftwater marked the turf out in strips five and ten feet long by two
feet wide, the boys quickly cut it out, while the Indians with a hand
barrow carried and loaded it onto the boat. It was cut to the bottoms of
the grass roots and was found to be of unusual thickness and tenacity, the
ten foot lengths folding up like matting without breaking.

The miner told the boys that its condition was due largely to the
shortness of the seasons; for while the grass grew with remarkable
rapidity, the underlying roots decayed much more slowly than in lower
latitudes, and in time made the turf a tough mass of twisted roots that it
was almost an impossibility to separate. Hence it was much better for
their purpose.

They spent the greater part of the day at the work, having brought food
and water with them, and when night came the boat was loaded as deeply as
was safe for her draught. She dropped slowly down the stream directed by
the Indians and was soon tied at her old moorings.

During the day, what Swiftwater called "the hold," had been excavated by
the Indians to a depth of about eighteen inches over the entire site of
the proposed house, and this had been filled in as solidly as possible
with small boulders from the creek. The crevices between the stones had
been filled with creek sand and the whole rammed hard. On this a solid
platform of two-inch planks had been laid by the sawyers and at intervals
of three feet long, thin stakes, sharpened at the top, had been driven
deeply into the ground just at the ends of the excavation. Thus all had
been prepared for the erection of the sod walls the next day.

Early the next morning Jack, who had determined to keep an eye on all the
details of a sod house in case he should ever want to erect one himself,
was wandering around the newly laid foundation, when suddenly there came
to his ear a muffled buzzing much like the drone of a distant grasshopper.
"This sounds like real summer," said Jack to himself, instinctively
looking around for the insect. As he approached one corner of the
foundation, the sound increased in strength, and less resembled the
grasshopper than something like the shaking of a bag of marbles. One of
the Indians was approaching the structure and as the sound caught his ear
he broke into a run with a deep guttural exclamation, at the same time
motioning to Jack to keep away from the foundation.

"Snake," he said. "Mooch bad. Killum."

He picked up a stake lying beside the platform and began to poke around
beneath it. As he reached forward to push the stake underneath, something
struck like a flash at the back of his hand, and at the same moment a
large rattlesnake uncoiled and slid from underneath the boards out into
the short grass. With a blow of the stake the Indian broke the snake's
back and then began to suck the two punctures on his knuckle, at the same
time keeping the hand tightly closed and the skin drawn tight.

For a moment Jack was horrified. Then the instincts of the Scouts and his
quickly working brain ran rapidly over the instructions of "first aid."
With a shout that brought the other boys and Swiftwater on the run he drew
from his pocket a small cord, doubled it into a slipnoose and placing it
on the Indian's wrist drew it so tight as to cut off the circulation. At
the same time he called to Rand to bring the medicine case. The miner, as
soon as he comprehended what the trouble was, also disappeared in the
direction of the tent. When Rand returned he had in his hand a solution of
permanganate of potash and a vial of strong ammonia. With each of these he
saturated the wound with some difficulty, however, as the aborigine
insisted for a time in keeping his lips to the wound as his own theory of
first aid. The hand and wrist had now swollen so much that the cord had
practically disappeared in the flesh and the Indian was evidently
suffering much pain. At this moment Swiftwater appeared with a small
gallon demijohn, from which he poured for the Indian a large tin cup full
of neat whisky. The red man swallowed it without a quiver and the miner
poured out another of similar size which the Indian also drank.

"That'll fix him," said Jim, "but I'm very glad you thought of that cord
Jack or we'd have been an Indian short. Those drugs you have will
neutralize the poison and I don't know but they would have been
sufficient, but I'm takin' no chances. This" (indicating the demijohn),
"is the old reliable snakebite cure, discovered by Columbus when he
discovered the rattlesnake over here and my mind naturally reverted to it
at the first jump. The worst of it is that the Injun won't be of much use
for a couple of days and I'm afraid all the other Siwashes will quit work
and go to huntin' rattlesnakes."

The work of building the sod house began soon after the morning meal, and
by night had made substantial progress. One of the side walls was built
higher than the other, and a roof of rough boards was laid on top of thick
planks which formed the top course of the walls. On this roof was laid a
course of sod, the grass of which began in a few days to grow lustily.

"'Taint everywhere," said Swiftwater, with a smile, "that a man can have
his lawn on the roof of his house."


CHAPTER IX.

AN HEIRLOOM RETURNED.


Rand, whose inquiring turn of mind was scarcely inferior to that of Jack,
but of a more profound and less transitory nature, had shown a strong
interest in the Indian boatmen from the beginning of their journey and had
struck up an especial friendship with the Indian whose dog had tackled the
wild cat and had been later crushed by the Kodiak bear. Yet nearly all the
selections are doubly significant and interesting if read upon the days
to which they are especially assigned. For example, on New Year's Day
it is suggested that one set one's house in order by reading Franklin's
"Rules of Conduct," Longfellow's "Psalm of Life," Bryant's "Thanatopsis,"
and Lowell's "To the Future"; on January 19th, Poe's Birthday, one is
directed to an excellent sketch of Poe and to typical examples of his
best work, "The Raven" and "The Cask of Amontillado"; and on October 31st,
Hallowe'en, one is reminded of Burns's "Tam O'Shanter" and Irving's
"Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
The references are explicit in each case, so that it is a matter of only
a few seconds to find each one.

For example, the reference to the "Cask of Amontillado" is 4-Pt. I
=67-77; which means that this tale is ten pages long and will be found in
Part I of volume 4, at page 67.
Excepting volumes 10-15 (Poetry), two volumes are bound in one in this set,
so it should be remembered that generally there are two pages numbered 67
in each book.

The daily selections can in most cases be read in from fifteen minutes
to half an hour, and Dr. Eliot, President Emeritus of Harvard, has said
that fifteen minutes a day devoted to good literature will give
every man the essentials of a liberal education. If time can be
found between breakfast and the work-hours for these few minutes
of reading, one will receive more benefit than if it is done during
the somnolent period which follows the day's work and dinner.Part of the carved lines of one creature formed the
features of another (if they could be dignified by the name of features),
and there was a sort of artistic continuity about the whole that aroused
Rand's interest and admiration. At the butt of the pole another Indian had
begun with two or three bean tins filled with crude colors evidently made
from vegetable dyes, to paint the carvings already finished. Rand pointed
to the pole, and asked:

"What?"

"Totem," grunted the Siwash. "Me chief." He further informed the young
Scout that it was his purpose to set it up in front of the camp. Just
then, Swiftwater came along and spoke to the Indian in his native Siwash.
The latter arose and stood for a moment erect, with his hand on his breast
with so dignified an air that Rand could scarcely recognize in the figure
before him the slouching round-shouldered aborigine, who went daily, so
stolidly, about the labor of the camp. Swiftwater listened to the rather
oratorical harangue which the Indian delivered, smiling at times, but
giving the man respectful attention. He even gave him half a salute, as he
turned and walked with Rand toward their own tent.

"I didn't know that we had with us a representative of the old Siwash
nobility. The tribal relations of these people are pretty well broken up
since we brought our boasted civilization and our whiskey up among their
homes, and they don't recognize the authority of their head men any more.
They have 'got onto' our most cherished principle that all men were
created free and equal, and the chiefs and their families have to hustle
for a living as hard as the lowest of them. Still, they cling to their
ancient dignities. That totem he's been carving is the insignia of his
clan or family, and as he couldn't bring the old family totem pole with
him, he carves one wherever he settles for a time, and sets it up. You
remember in old 'Ivanhoe,' Front de Boeuf and the Templar displayed their
banners on the castle walls whenever they came up for the week end, and
they really didn't have so much on this old rootdigger after all. I rather
like his spunk. Good family connections are really something to be proud
of if ye don't let 'em interfere with yer business, and they don't come
visitin' too often."

Something about the totem pole aroused Rand's imagination, and with the
other boys he went over to the shack to look at the "work of art" as Jack
insisted on calling it. Although the boys had seen totem poles in the city
museums, and one or two on their original ground in the Alaskan villages
that they had visited, there was something familiar about this one. As
they went over the various figures, trying to distinguish them from each
other and speculating on what they were supposed to represent, Pepper, who
had been inspecting the upper part of the work, where lack of color made
the figures less conspicuous, suddenly exclaimed:

"S-s-say, this fellow's family isn't so very old. Here's the ace of clubs,
and that couldn't have got over here before Columbus, and he didn't come
up this far."

"What's that?" said Rand. "Let's look at it." Then, for the first time,
the reason for the familiarity of the design struck him.

"Hey, boys," he cried, excitedly, "don't you see it?"

"What is it?" they cried in chorus, crowding around him.

"There, there, and there. The top of this totem is an exact replica of our
narwhal horn. Here's the mammoth, and here's the pile of tusks."

"Begorra, that's truth," said Gerald. "Looks as though he had copied it
from our ivory. Run and get it, Rand."

The young Scout leader, who had been made custodian of the treasure,
returned to the tent and brought out the relic. It was a short, broken
piece of the twisted horn of the narwhal or white whale, discolored, and
rubbed smooth as if with much handling. It was covered with rude etchings
evidently made with flints or sharp shells. As nearly as could be made
out, the figures represented a mammoth, an extinct creature of the
elephant tribe, a man beside a dogless sledge, a pile of mammoth tusks,
and a high cliff with an opening or cave at the top whose mouth was shaped
like the ace of clubs referred to by Pepper.

With the greatest care the boys went over the lines of the graven ivory
comparing the figures with the carvings of the hieroglyphics which the
"chief" had carved on his totem pole, and found them to be almost
identical, except for a few minor particulars caused by the relief work on
the totem, and less crudity in the carvings.

The Indians at this time of day were engaged at their work of sawing
lumber and in finishing the foundations of the sod house, where a ditch
was being dug, but it being near the hour of noon the man who had
described himself as a "chief" came to the shack to arrange for the
noonday meal.

Paradoxical as it may sound, one is not so apt to fall asleep over his book
in bed as in the post-prandial armchair. While one's body rests itself,
one's mind, remains alert, and, when the time for sleep comes at last,
it passes into unconsciousness, tranquilized and sweetened with thought
and pleasantly weary with healthy exercise.

One awakens, too, next morning, with, so to say, a very pleasant taste of
meditation in the mouth. Erasmus, again, has a counsel for the
bedtime reader, expressed with much felicity. "A little before you sleep,"
he says, "read something that is exquisite, and worth remembering;
and contemplate upon it till you fall asleep; and, when you awake
in the morning, call yourself to an account for it."

In an old Atlantic Monthly, from which, if I remember aright, he never
rescued it, Oliver Wendell Holmes has a delightful paper on the
delights of reading in bed, entitled "Pillow-Smoothing Authors."
Then, though I suppose we shall have the oculists against us, the cars are
good places to read in--if you have the power of detachment, and are able
to switch off your ears from other people's conversation.

It is a good plan to have a book with you in all places and at all times.

Most likely you will carry it many a day and never give it a single look,
but, even so, a book in the hand is always a companionable reminder of
that happier world of fancy, which, alas! most of us can only visit by
playing truant from the real world.The aborigines went back quietly to their labor in the afternoon, and the
boys who were at work with the miner, laying out the foundation for the
sawmill, took occasion in the intervals of their labor to tell Swiftwater
the story of the narwhal's horn, and the incident that had taken place at
noon. The guide listened with close attention, and at the finish of the
incident his face was rather grave.

"I'll talk with that main guy Siwash, some time this afternoon. Meantime,
I wish you would all leave this matter in my hands. It may turn out to be
of more importance to us than we think."

The Scouts readily agreed, and toward the middle of the afternoon the
miner left them and strolled over to where the Indians were at work on the
sod house, and calling the "chief" to one side walked away with him to the
bank of the creek.

"Well," said Jack, when they were all together at one end of the
foundation, "what do you think of it? There seems to be more in that horn
than we thought when we decided to bring it along with us."

"Yes," replied Rand, "and we seem to be coming out of the little end of
it."

"Faith," exclaimed Gerald, "it looks as if that Indian was going to hold
on to our relic, and the others seem as if they were going to stand by
him."

"They certainly have seen something like it before," commented Dick, "and
maybe it's worth more to them than to us. It was only a mere guess of
ours, after Colonel Snow undertook to interpret it to us, that there might
be anything behind it, and it was only because it had evidently come from
an Arctic country that we even thought of bringing it along with us."

"I think," said Rand, "that we shall have trouble getting it back, and I,
for one, propose that we leave the whole matter in the hands of Swiftwater
and try and get the true inwardness of the thing from him. It ought to be
a good story if we don't get anything else out of it." This view was
readily agreed to, and the afternoon's work was progressing satisfactorily
when Don, after deep thought, said:

"I've been listening to this Siwash language, and I haed me doots as to
whether it was a real language like Gaelic or English or just a rumble,
but when I heard that head man scream like a white man I concluded that
it's got some elements of a language."

The conference between the miner and the chief lasted for a half hour,
after which the latter returned to his work, and Swiftwater joined the
boys. His face was still grave, and simply remarking that he would
enlighten them at supper when the afternoon's work was completed.

"I'm a little bothered about this matter," said Swiftwater, after the
evening meal was concluded, "and would have given a good deal if it hadn't
happened. My experience with savages the world over has taught me that
while you may rob them and make war on them and get away with it, that you
cannot interfere safely with their religions or their traditions. Not that
we have intentionally done so, but it may have an effect after all.

"The chief told me a long story, a good deal of which I couldn't quite
make out the sense of, but it seems that you boys have in some way got
hold of an ancient treasure of his tribe many hundred years old, and
considered in some way, sacred. He says there were two of these relics,
that they were handed from generation to generation and carefully guarded.
At first they were merely the record of a buried treasure, the wealth of
the northern tribes being the ivory of the walrus and the narwhal and such
tusks of the mammoth as came to them through the melting of the glaciers.
The buried treasure was never found, and the tradition finally became
incorporated in the totem or coat of arms of the tribe.

"Many years ago this family of Siwashes was raided by tall red Indians
from the far southwest and the family scattered, and many women and
children and much loot taken. These ivory relics were among the loot, and
have been simply a legend of the remnants of the tribe ever since.

"The unexpected return of this relic has aroused a new spirit in them, and
I can see a little offishness and suspicion. While I do not expect any
trouble from them I want to be absolutely certain of them until we get
this work of Colonel Snow's done, and as I say, I should have been better
satisfied if the matter had not come up at this time."

"I want to suggest," said Rand, "that we Scouts surrender all claim to the
ivory, and tell the Indians that they are welcome to the relic."

"That might be a good idea, and I will go along with you and explain to
the Siwashes that it came into your hands accidentally."

The boys crossed over to the shack where the chief sat smoking with the
others. For some reason all work on the totem pole had been abandoned for
that night at least.

Rand, in his newly acquired jargon, explained to the aborigines that the
Scouts desired to present the heirloom to the tribe, and Swiftwater
supplemented this with a talk in the native tongue telling just how the
boys had come into possession of the horn.

The Indians listened gravely, without expression, except to nod eager
assent to the offer of the Scouts to relinquish the prized relic. The
chief even showed some cordiality, saying:

"Good! You come me potlatch," which Jim explained was an invitation to
visit him at his village on the occasion of a merrymaking similar to a
Christmas celebration.

The Scouts retired that night full of the mystery of the thing, feeling as
if they had come, somehow, into touch with a long dead past. Swiftwater
appeared more reassured, but took occasion to visit the shack before
turning in and found the aborigines all herded together with the dog in
the almost air tight hut, ventilation appearing to be a thing abhorrent to
them.

The first thing that became apparent when the boys and the miner threw
back the cheesecloth door of their tent that kept out the horde of
mosquitos in the early morning was the absolute silence of the forest. The
six Indians had taken one of the two boats, and with the dog had silently
drifted away during the night down the current of Gold.


CHAPTER X.

BUILDING THE CAMP.


The chagrin of Swiftwater Jim was almost too great for expression when the
discovery of the Indians' desertion was made.

"It was what I had feared," he said. "Still, I thought our talk last night
had absolutely satisfied them. I don't think they were so much afraid of
us as that they desired to be sure that the sacred bone got back safely to
their village, and they knew that a big feast would be made for them when
they returned. It would be useless to pursue them, for it would be a hard
trip back to White Horse, and there would be no certainty of our being
able to keep them if we got them back. Our work here is so nearly finished
that I believe if we turn to it heartily we can complete it in the time we
intended and get back to Skagway in time to meet Colonel Snow on his
return from the northwest. How about it?"

The Scouts, and especially Rand, felt themselves to be to a certain extent
responsible for the situation in which they found themselves that they
readily agreed to turn to and exert themselves to the utmost to finish up
the work of preparing the camp for the winter's work.

The sod house had been practically finished by the Indians before they
deserted, the only thing remaining to be done consisting of the hanging of
a pair of stout double doors on the casings that had been let into the sod
as the walls went up, the finishing of the windows and the erection of a
chimney for the big fireplace that had been built into the house at one
end.

The doors had nothing artistic or ornate about them, and in half a day
were constructed of rough lumber and hung on strong hinges from among the
hardware in stock. Instead of glass for the windows, which hard freezing
of the sod house and settling of the walls might have a tendency to
shatter, double sheets of mica, such as is used in the flexible tops of
automobiles, were set in and plastered with clay which was burnt to the
hardness and consistency of brick by a plumber's flash lamp sending out
the hot flame of burning gasoline in the hands of Swiftwater.

The construction of the chimney was a novel experience for the boys, who
knew little of the expedients that pioneers far from stone and lime were
compelled to resort to. It is true there were many boulders in the creek,
but skilled work was necessary to lay them, and the miner resorted to an
easier method.

A considerable amount of lumber sawed by the Indians remained, and this
was split up into stakes about two inches square. These were driven into
the walls of the house alongside of the fireplace and other stakes laid
across them at their outer ends.

As fast as this structure became a foot high it was plastered inside and
out with clay which was burnt hard with the blow lamp. Above the opening
in the fireplace the chimney was continued by putting of clay on the sod
wall and burning it in, making the chimney smaller for better draft.

The top of the chimney above the house was provided by constructing a
cratelike affair by fastening smaller pieces to four stout stakes and
setting these stakes down into the chimney and plastering the whole inside
and out with clay. After a hot fire had been kept up in the fireplace for
twenty-four hours to thoroughly bake the clay Swiftwater announced that
the sod house was finished.

This work was not accomplished without some inconvenience, and even
suffering to the boys as yet scarcely inured to hard labor. Blistered
hands and aching backs were the daily portion, and it was only by working
them in shifts of three that the miner was able to gradually break them
in. But pure air and good food worked wonders, and in a few days they
hardly felt the effects of a day's labor except in increased appetites and
sound sleep. As the days went on, however, the small pests of wood and
water that come with the summer increased in number, and almost drove the
boys frantic. The mosquito seemed to be always present day and night, and
despite the use of nettings and cheesecloth it seemed almost impossible to
keep them out of the tent. A worse plague if possible was the "black fly,"
a minute midge that bored deep into the skin and brought the blood with
every bite. There was also in lesser numbers a large striped fly that had
a habit of hanging on the spruces and birches in clusters, but came at
once to welcome the white man as an old friend.

His bite was like the cut of a knife. Swiftwater said he had never been
able to discover what this fly lived on when the white man was not there,
for it is matter of record that it would not touch an Indian or an
Eskimo.

As it became necessary to protect one's self against these tiny marauders,
Swiftwater dealt out to the boys small vials of a swarthy looking mixture
compounded of oil of cedar, oil of tar and pennyroyal. With this they
bathed their faces and hands frequently, which had the effect of
discouraging the pests and greatly reducing their attacks. The mixture
entered the pores of the skin, however, and it was not many days before
everyone of the Scouts was as tawny colored as the Siwashes who had left
them.

"You're not the only Injun in camp, now," said Jack, addressing Don, who
had been adopted into a tribe of Crees in the Canadian Rockies. "If this
Patrol should step into an Indian village now we'd be adopted offhand on
our complexions alone."

"I'm na so certain," replied Don, "but I think I could get along the rest
of my life in comfort if I never smelled pennyroyal again. 'Tis not a
perfume that grows on ye."

"It certainly has grown on us the last week," said Rand, "and I notice
that lately the mosquitos seem to be taking a liking to it. At least they
don't seem to mind it as they did at first."

