Levin let the tiller half go, and the _Ellenora Dennis_ swung round and
flapped her sails as if such news had driven all the wind out of them.

"Jack," Levin exclaimed, "Jimmy Phoebus says you've turned out a
reg'lar liar. Now I believe it, too."

"Hope I may die!" Jack Wonnell protested, "I never does lie: it's too
hard to find lies for things when people comes an' tells you, or you kin
see fur yourseff. Jimmy called me a liar fur sayin' Meshach Milburn was
gone into the Jedge's front do', but we saw him come out of it, didn't
we?"

"Yes, that was so; but this yer one is an awful lie."

"Well, Levin, purty yaller Roxy, she told me, an' she's too purty to
tell lies. I loves that gal like peach-an'-honey, Levin, an' I don't
keer whether she's white or no. She's mos' as white as me, an' a good
deal better."

"So you do talk to Roxy some?"

"Levin, I'll tell you all about it, an' you won't tell nobody. Well, I
picks magnoleys an' wild roses an' sich purty things fur Roxy to give
her missis, an' Roxy gives me cake, an' chicken, an' coffee at the back
door, knowin' I ain't got much to buy 'em with. Lord bless her! she
don't half know I don't think as much of them cakes an' snacks an' warm
rich coffee, as I do of her purty eyes. She's a white angel with a
little coffee in her blood, but it's ole Goverment Javey an' more than
half cream!"

Here Levin laughed loudly, and said that Jack must have learned that out
of a book.

"Oh," said Jack, shutting one eye hard and joining in the grin, "sence I
ben in love I kin say lots o' smart things like that. I have seen purty
little Roxy grow up from a chile, an' as she begin to round up and git
tall, says I: 'Nigger or no nigger, she's angel!' The white gals they
all throwed off on me, caze I wasn't earnin' nothin', an' I sot my eyes
on Roxy Custis an' I says: 'What kin I do fur to make her shine to me?'
So I kept a-follerin' of her everywhere, an' I see her one day comin'
along the road a-pickin' of the wild blossoms an' with her han' full of
'em, an' I says: 'Roxy, what you doin' of with them flowers?' 'They're
fur my missis, Miss Vesty,' says she; 'she lives on wild flowers, an'
they're all I has to give her, an' I want her to love me as much as
Virgie.' You see Levin, the t'other gal, Virgie, waits on Miss Custis,
an' Roxy she was a little jealous. Then I says: 'Roxy, I kin git you
flowers for your missis. I know whair the magnoleys is bloomin' the
whitest an' a-scentin' the whole day long.' 'Do you?' says she, 'Oh,
Mr. Wonnell, I would like to have a bunch of magnoleys to put on Miss
Vesty's toilet every day.' 'I'll git 'em fur you, Roxy,' says I, 'becaze
I allus thought you was a little beauty.' Says she: 'I'd give most
anything to surprise Miss Vesty with flowers every day,--rale wild
ones!' 'Then,' says I, 'Roxy, I'll git' em fur you for a kiss!' An' she
most a-blushed blood-red an' ran away."

"That's what I told you, Jack, she's raised too well to be talkin' to
white fellers."

"Nobody's raised too well," rejoined Jack Wonnell, "to be deef to love
and kindness. Says I to myself: 'Jack, you skeert that gal. Now say
nothin' mo' about the kiss, an' go git her the flowers every day, an'
she'll think mo' of you!' So away I went to King's Creek an' pulled the
magnoleys, an' I come to the do' an' asked ole Hominy to bring down Roxy
for a minute. Roxy she come, an' was gwyn to run away till she saw my
flowers, an' she stopped a minute an' says I: 'I jest got 'em for you,
Roxy, becaze I see you when you was a little chile.' She tuk 'em an'
says: 'It was very kind of you, sir,' an' kercheyed an' melted away.
Next day I was thar agin, Levin, an' I says, to make it seem like a
trade: 'Roxy, kin ye give me a cup of coffee?' 'Law, yes!' she says,
forgittin' her blushin' right away. So I kept shady on love an' put it
on the groun's of coffee, an', Levin, I everlastin'ly fotched the wild
flowers till that gal got to be a-lookin' fur me at the do' every day,
an' I'd hide an' see her come to the window an' peep fur me. One day she
says, as I was drinkin' of the coffee: 'Mr. Wonnell, what do you put
yourself at sech pains fur to 'blige a pore slave girl that ain't but
half white?' I thought a minute, so as to say something that wouldn't
skeer her off, an' I says: 'Roxy, it's becaze I'm sech a pore, worthless
feller that the white gals won't look at me!' The tears come right to
her eyes, an' she says: 'Mr. Wonnell, if I was white I would look at
you.' 'I believe you would,' says I, 'becaze you've got a white heart,
Roxy.'"

"Jack, you're a dog-gone smart lover," said Levin. "I didn't think you
had no kind of sense."

"Love-makin' is the best sense of all," said Jack, "it's that sense that
keeps the woods a-full of music, where the birds an' bees is twitterin'
and hummin' an' a-matin'. Love is the last sense to come, after you can
see, an' hear, an' feel, an' they're give to people to find out
something purty to love. Love was the whole day's work in the garding of
Eden befo' man got too industrious, an' it's all the work I do, an' I
hope I do it well."

"Now what did Roxy tell you about Meshach Milburn and Judge Custis?"

"You see, Levin, as I kept up the flower-givin', I could see a little
love start up in purty Roxy, but she didn't understand it, an' I was as
keerful not to skeer it as if it had been a snow-bird hoppin' to a crumb
of bread. She would talk to me about her little troubles, an' I listened
keerful as her mammy, becaze little things is what wimmin lives on, an'
a lady's man is only a feller patient with their little talk. The more I
listened the more she liked to tell me, an' I saw that Roxy was
a-thinkin' a great deal of me, Levin, without she or me lettin' of it
on.

"This mornin' she came to the door with her eyes jest wiped from
a-cryin'. Says I, 'Roxy, little dear, what ails you?' 'Oh, nothin','
says she, 'I can't tell you if thair is.' 'Here's your wild flowers for
Miss Vesty,' says I, 'beautiful to see!' 'Oh,' says Roxy, 'Miss Vesty
won't need 'em now.' Says I: 'Roxy, air you goin' to have all that
trouble on your mind an' not let me carry some of it?' 'Oh, my friend,'
she says, 'I must tell you, fur you have been so kind to me: don't
whisper it! But my master is in debt to Meshach Milburn, an' _he's_
married Miss Vesty, an' we think we're all gwyn to be sold or made to
live with that man that wears the bad man's hat.' Says I: 'Roxy,
darling, maybe I kin buy you.' 'Oh, I wish you was my master,' Roxy
said. An' jest at that minute, love bein' oncommon strong over me this
mornin', I took the first kiss from Roxy's mouth, an' she didn't say
nothin' agin it."

Here Jack Wonnell kissed the atmosphere several times with deep unction,
and ended by a low whoop and whistle, and looked at Levin Dennis with
one eye shut, as if to get Levin's opinion of all this.

"Well," Levin said, "I never ain't been in love yet. I 'spect I ought to
be. But mother is all I kin take keer of, and, pore soul! she's in so
much trouble over me that she can't love nobody else. I git drunk, an'
go off sailin' so long, an' spend my money so keerless, that if the Lord
didn't look out for her maybe she'd starve."

"Yes, Levin, you likes brandy as much as I likes the gals. You go off
for tarrapin, an' taters, an' oysters, an' peddles 'em aroun' Prencess
Anne, an' then somebody pulls you in the grog-shops an' away goes your
money, an' your mother ain't got no tea and coffee."

"Jack," said Levin, abruptly, "do you believe in ghosts?"

"I don't know, Levin. If I saw one maybe I would, but I'm too trashy for
ghosts to see me."

"Well, now," Levin said, "there's a ghost, or something, that looks out
for mother when I'm drunk or gone, an' it leaves tea and coffee in the
window for her."

