It was an hour of intense happiness, and he felt it to his inmost soul.
All the route was familiar to him after he had started from London; the
streets and suburbs rushing past him swiftly, and the meadows, in the
bright green and gold of spring, which followed them. He knew the
populous villages, with their churches, where he was himself well known.
Every station seemed almost like a home to him. As he drew nearer to
Upton he leaned through, the window to catch the first glimpse of his
own church, and the blue smoke rising from his own house; and a minute
or two afterward, with a gladness that was half a pain, he found himself
once more on the platform at Upton station.

"I am back again," he said, shaking hands with the station-master with a
hearty grasp that spoke something of his gladness. "Is all going on well
among you?"

"Yes, Mr. Chantrey; yes, sir," he answered. "You're welcome home, sir.
God bless you! You've been missed more than any of us thought of when
you went away. You're needed here, sir, more than you think of."

"Nothing has gone very wrong, I hope," said the rector, smiling. He had
faithfully done his best to provide a good substitute in "Warden, but it
was not in human nature not to feel pleased that no one could manage his
parish as well as himself.

"No, no, sir," replied the station-master, "nothing but what you'll put
right again at once by being at home yourself. No, there's nothing very
wrong, I may say. Upton meant to give you a welcome home to-morrow, with
arches of flowers and music. They'll be disappointed you arrived to-day,
I know."

David Chantrey laughed, thinking of the welcome they had given him when
he brought Sophy home as his young wife. His heart felt a new tenderness
for her, and a throb of impatience to find her. He bade a hasty
good-evening to the station-master, and walked off buoyantly toward the
High street, along which his path lay. The station-master and the
ticket-clerk watched him, and shook their heads significantly; but he
was quite unconscious of their scrutiny. Never had the quiet little town
seemed so lovely to him. The quaint irregular houses stood one-half of
them in shadow, and the rest in the level rays of the May sunset; the
chestnut-trees, with their young green leaves and their white blossoms
lighting up each branch to the very summit of them; the hawthorn bushes
here and there covered with snowy bloom; the children playing, and the
swallows darting to and fro overhead; the distant shout of the cuckoo,
and the deep low tone of the church clock just striking the hour--this
was the threshold of home to him; the outer court, which was dearer to
him and more completely his own than any other place in the wide world
could ever be.

No one was quick to recognize him in his somewhat foreign aspect; the
children at their play took no notice of him. All the tradespeople were
busy getting their shops a little in order before the shutters were put
up. He might perhaps pass through the street as far as Bolton Villa
without being observed, and so be sure of a perfectly quiet evening. But
as he thought so his heart gave a great bound, for there before him was
Sophy herself hurrying along the uneven causeway, now lost behind some
jutting building, and then seen once more, still hastening with quick,
unsteady steps, as if bent on some pressing errand. He did not try to
overtake her, though he could have done so easily. He felt that their
first meeting must not be in the street, for the tears that smarted
under his eyelids and dimmed his sight, and the quicker throbbing of his
pulses, warned him that such a meeting would be no common incident in
their lives. She had been his wife for nine years, and she was far
dearer to him now than she had been when he married her. Eighteen months
of their life together had been lost--a great price to pay for his
restored health. But now a long, happy union lay before them.

He had not followed her for more than a minute or two when she suddenly
turned and entered Ann Holland's little shop. Well, he could not take
her by surprise better in any other house in Upton. Perhaps it might
even be better than at Bolton Villa, amid its cumbrous surroundings; he
always thought of his aunt's house with a sort of shudder. If Sophy had
fortunately fixed upon this quiet house for paying the good old maid a
kindly visit, there was not another place except their own home where he
would rather receive her first greeting--that is if the drunken old
saddler did not happen to be in. He paused to inquire from the
journeyman, still at work in the shop; learning that Richard Holland was
not at home, he passed impatiently to the kitchen beyond. Ann Holland
was just closing the door of her little parlor, and David Chantrey
approached her, hardly able to control the agitation he felt.

"I saw my wife step in here," he said, holding out his hand to her, but
attempting to pass her and to open the door before which she still
stood. She could not speak for a moment, but she kept her post firmly in
opposition to him.

"My wife is here?" he asked, in a sharp impetuous tone.

"Yes; oh yes!" cried Ann Holland; "but wait a moment, Mr. Chantrey. Oh,
wait a little while. Don't go in and see her yet."

"Why not?" he asked again, a sudden terror taking hold of him.

"Sit down a minute or two, sir," she answered. "Mrs. Chantrey's ill,
just ailing a little. She is not prepared to meet you just yet. You were
not expected before to-morrow, and she's excited; she hardly knows what
she's saying or doing. You'd better not speak to her or see her till
she's recovered herself a little."

"Poor Sophy!" cried David Chantrey, with a tremor in his voice; "did she
see me coming, then? Go back to her, Miss Holland; she will want you. Is
there nothing I can do for her? It has been a hard time for her, poor
girl!"

Ann Holland went back into the parlor, and he smiled as he heard her
take the precaution of turning the key in the lock. He threw himself
into the three-cornered chair, and sat listening to the murmur of voices
on the other side of the door. It seemed a very peaceful home. The
quaintness and antiqueness of the homely kitchen chimed in with his
present feeling; he wanted no display or grandeur. This was no common
every-day world he was in; there was a strange flavor about every
circumstance. Impatient as he was to see Sophy, and hold her once more
in his arms, he could not but feel a sense of comfort and tranquillity
mingling with his more unquiet happiness. There was a fire burning
cheerily on the hearth, though it was a May evening. Coming from a
warmer climate, he felt chilly, and he bent over the fire, stretching
over it his long thin hands, which told plainly their story of mere
scholarly work and of health never very vigorous, Smiling all the time,
with the glow of the flame on his face, with its expression of tranquil
gladness, as of one who had long been buffeted about, but had reached
home at last, he sat listening till the voices ceased. A profound
silence followed, which lasted some time, before Ann Holland returned to
him saying softly, "She is asleep."


CHAPTER VII.

WORSE THAN DEAD


Ann Holland sat down on the other side of the hearth, opposite her
rector; but she could not lift up her eyes to his face. There was no on
in the world whom she loved so well. His forbearance and kindness toward
her unfortunate brother, who was the plague and shame of her life, had
completely won for him an affection that would have astonished him if he
could have known its devotion. This moment would have been one of
unalloyed delight to her had there been no trouble lurking for him, of
which he was altogether unaware. So rejoiced she was at his return that
it seemed as if no event in her monotonous life hitherto had been so
happy; yet she was terrified at the very thought of his coming
wretchedness. When Sophy had fled to her with the cry that her husband
was come, and she dared not meet him as she was, she had seen in an
instant that she must prevent it by some means or other. The hope that
Mr. Chantrey's return would bring about a reformation in his wife had
grown faint in her heart, for during the last few months the sin had
taken deeper and deeper root; and now, the day only before she expected
him, she had not had strength to resist the temptation to it. Sophy had
been crying hysterically, and trembling at the thought of meeting him as
she was; and she had made Ann promise to break to him gently the
confession she would otherwise be compelled to make herself. Ann Holland
sat opposite to him, with downcast eyes, and a face almost heart-broken
by the shame and sorrow she foresaw for him.

"She is asleep," he said, repeating her words in a lowered voice, as if
he was afraid of disturbing her.

"Yes," she answered.

"It is strange," he said, after a short pause; "strange she can sleep
now. Has she been ill? Sophy always assured me she was quite well and
strong. It is strange she can sleep when she knows I am here."

"She was very ill and low after you went, sir," she replied; "it was
like as if her heart was broken, parting with you and Master Charlie
both together. Dear, dear! it might have been better for her if you'd
been poor folks, and she'd had to work hard for you both. She'd just
nothing to do, and nobody to turn to for comfort, poor thing. Mrs.
Bolton meant to be kind, and was kind in her way: but she fell into a
low fever, and the doctors all ordered her as much wine and support as
ever she could take."

"I never heard of it," said Mr. Chantrey; "they never told me."

"No; they were fearful of your coming back too soon," she went, on;
"and, thank God, you are looking quite yourself again, sir. All Upton
will be as glad as glad can be, and the old church'll be crammed again.
Mr. Warden's done all a man could do; but everybody said he wasn't you
and we longed for you back again, but not too soon--no, no, not too
soon."

"But my wife," he said; "has she been ill all the time?"

For a minute or two she could not find words to answer his question. She
knew that it could not be long before he learned the truth, if not from
her or his wife, then from Mrs. Bolton or his friend Mr. Warden. It was
too much the common talk of the neighborhood for him to escape hearing
of it, even if she could hope that Mrs. Chantrey would have strength of
mind enough to cast off the sin at once. Now was the time to break it to
him gently, with quiet and friendly hints rather than with hard words.
But how was she to do it? How could she best soften the sorrow and
disgrace?

"Is my wife ill yet?" he demanded again, in a more agitated voice.

"Not ill now," she answered, "but she's not quite herself yet. You'll
help her, sir. You'll know how to treat her kindly and softly, and bring
her round again. There's a deal in being mild and patient with folks.
You know my poor brother, as fierce as a tiger, and that obstinate,
tortures would not move him; but he's like a lamb with you, Mr.
Chantrey. I think sometimes if he could live in the same house with you,
if he'd been your brother, poor fellow you'd save him; for he'll do
anything for you, short of keeping away from drink. You'll bring Mrs.
Chantrey round, I'm sure."

Mr. Chantrey smiled again, as the comparison between the drunken old
saddler and his own fair, sweet young wife, flitted across his brain.
Ann Holland, in her voluble flow of words, hit upon curious
combinations. Still she had not removed his anxiety about his wife. "Was
Sophy suffering from the effects of the low, nervous fever yet?

"Yes; I'll take care of my wife," he said, glancing toward the parlor
door; "it has been a sore trial, this long separation of ours. But it's
over now; and she is dearer to me than ever she was."

"Ay! love will do almost everything," she answered, sadly, "and I know
you will never get tired or worn out, if it's for years and years. A
thing like this doesn't come right all at once; but if it comes right at
last, we have cause to be thankful. Mr. Warden has not had full
patience; and Mrs. Bolton lost hers too soon. Neither of them knows it
as I know it. You can't storm it away; and it's no use raving at it.
Only love and patience can do it; and not that always. But we are bound
to bear with them, poor things! even to death. We cannot measure God's
patience with our measure."

Ann Holland's voice trembled, and her eyes filled with tears, which
glistened in the firelight. She could not bear to speak more plainly to
her rector, whom she loved and reverenced so greatly. She could not
think of him as being brought down on a level with herself, the sister
of a known drunkard. It seemed a horrible thing to her; this sorrow
hanging over him, of which he was so utterly unconscious. Mr. Chantrey
had fastened his eyes upon her as if he would read her inmost thoughts.
His voice trembled a little too, when he spoke.

"What has this to do with my wife?" he asked, "for what reason have my
aunt and Mr. Warden lost patience with her?"

"Oh! it's best for me to tell you, not them," she said, the tears
streaming down her cheeks; "it will be very hard for you to hear,
whoever says it. Everybody knows it; and it could never be kept from
you. But you can save her, Mr. Chantrey, if anybody can. It's best for
me to tell you at once. She was so ill, and low, and miserable; and the
doctors kept on ordering her wine, and things like that; and it was the
only thing that comforted her, and kept her up; and she got to depend
upon it to save her from loneliness and wretchedness, and now she can't
break herself of taking it--of taking too much."

"Oh! my God!" cried Mr. Chantrey. It was a cry from the very depths of
his spirit, as by a sudden flash he saw the full meaning of Ann
Holland's faltered words. Sophy had fled from him, conscious that she
was in no fit state to meet him after their long separation. She was
sleeping now the heavy sleep of excess. Was it possible that this was
true? Could it be anything but a feverish dream that he was sitting
there, and Ann Holland was telling him such an utterly incredible story?
Sophy, his wife, the mother of his child!

But Ann Holland's tearful face, with its expression of profound grief
and pity, was too real for her story to be a dream. He, David Chantrey,
the rector of Upton, whom all men looked up to and esteemed, had a wife,
who was whispered about among them all as a victim to a vile and
degrading sin. A strong shock of revulsion ran through his veins, which
had been thrilling with an unquiet happiness all the day. There was an
inexplicable, mysterious misery in it. If he had come home to find her
dead, he could have borne to look upon her lying in her coffin, knowing
that life could never be bright again for him; but he would have held up
his head among his fellow-men. It would have been no shame or
degradation either for him or her to have laid her in the tranquil
churchyard, beside their little child, where he could have seen her
grave through his vestry window, and gone from it to his pulpit, facing
his congregation, sorrowful but not disgraced. He was just coming back
to his people with higher aims, and greater resolves, determined to
fight more strenuously against every form of evil among them; and this
was the first gigantic sin, which met him on his own threshold and his
own hearth.

