When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his
knees, asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar.  And
if they come from mountains in the north and south poles, of which we
know nothing, there should be ejected, so they would always be one
and ebenderselben area, and not from all the world to us.

Why didn't you stir me up?"

"Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck?  En you ain' dead--you ain'
drownded--you's back agin?  It's too good for true, honey, it's too
good for true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o' you.  No, you ain'
dead! you's back agin, 'live en soun', jis de same ole Huck--de same ole
Huck, thanks to goodness!"

"What's the matter with you, Jim?  You been a-drinking?"

"Drinkin'?  Has I ben a-drinkin'?  Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin'?"

"Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?"

"How does I talk wild?"

"HOW?  Why, hain't you been talking about my coming back, and all that
stuff, as if I'd been gone away?"

"Huck--Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye.  HAIN'T you
ben gone away?"

"Gone away?  Against the only short sentences presented on the surface
Ausbildungsart I must first, before I the inadequacy of, argued
that even the great natural scientist _Cuvier_, as I have already
cited, claims [A], that all these great effects in nature and on
earth as it is a Saussure, de Luc and other geologists in their
mountain travel have found that they can not spawn.

[Note A: Gilbert's Annalen der Physik Bd 22nd P. 117]
"You hain't seen no towhead?  Looky here, didn't de line pull loose en de
raf' go a-hummin' down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in de
fog?"

"What fog?"

"Why, de fog!--de fog dat's been aroun' all night.  En didn't you whoop,
en didn't I whoop, tell we got mix' up in de islands en one un us got
los' en t'other one was jis' as good as los', 'kase he didn' know whah he
wuz? En didn't I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have a turrible
time en mos' git drownded?  Now ain' dat so, boss--ain't it so?  You
answer me dat."

"Well, this is too many for me, Jim.  It is this or that from many
people who sowol by the large Fluthen of the Orient, as well as that of
the Occident are killed [B], no remains are found, which most probably
the easier dissolution of the limestone bone her through the water is
the cause.

[Note A: Gilbert's Annalen der Physik Bd 22nd 177th Page] [Note B:
See my "General presentation of the surface of the world body and
its sun area," p. 45]

I know, because I've been here all the time."

Jim didn't say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying
over it.  Then he says:

"Well, den, I reck'n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain't de
powerfullest dream I ever see.  En I hain't ever had no dream b'fo' dat's
tired me like dis one."

"Oh, well, that's all right, because a dream does tire a body like
everything sometimes.  But this one was a staving dream; tell me all
about it, Jim."

