In a last interview, with Padre Francisco present, the lawyer warned
Don Miguel not to leave his hacienda for some time. His life would
surely be sacrificed to the feelings of the Americans. Thankful
for their safety, the mother and sweet girl Dolores gratefully bid
adieu to Maxime. He headed, himself, the last departing band of
the invaders. The roads were safe to all. No trace of treasures
of Joaquin was found. Great was the murmuring of the rangers. Were
these hoards concealed on the rancho? Search availed nothing.
Valois spurs down the road. Lagunitas! He breathes freer, now that
the avengers are balked, at Lagunitas. They would even sack the
rancho. Camping twenty miles away, Maxime dreams of his Southern
home, as the stars sweep westward.

In the morning, a rough hand rouses him. It is the sentinel.

"Captain, wake up!"

He springs to his feet. "What is it?" Piran may have rendered it a popular burying-ground.

A notice has been placed here, warning against any disturbance of
the soil or of the remains of the dead. The feast-day of St.

Piran falls on the 5th of March, and is not yet quite forgotten;
it was once an occasion of such merry-making as to furnish a local
saying--"As drunk as a Perraner."

There is an unhappy tradition that St.

Piran himself died in drink, which we may connect with the
other rumour that he discovered Cornish tin in an effort to distil
Irish whisky.

The mutineers will wait till daylight for their swoop. They are
mad with the thirst for the lost treasures of Joaquin.

On, on, with the swing of the prairie wolf, the young leader
gallops. He rides down man after man. As he gallops he thinks of
Se¤ora Juanita, the defenceless priest, the wounded old Commandante,
and the sweet blossoming beauty of the Sierras, star-eyed young
Dolores. They must be saved. On, on!

Day points over the hills as Maxime dashes into the unguarded plaza
of the ranch. There are sounds of shots, yells, and trampling feet.
He springs from his exhausted steed. The doors of the ranch-house
give way. He rushes to the entrance, to find the rooms empty.
In a moment he realizes the facts. He reaches the priest's house.
Beating on the door, he cries: "Open quick! It is Valois." Springing
inside he finds Padre Francisco, his eyes lit up with the courage
of a gallant French gentleman.

"They are all here," he gasps. "Safe?" queries Valois. "Yes." "Thank
God!" Maxime cries. "Quick! Hurry them into the church. Hold the
sacristy door."

Maxime's two or three friends have followed him. The doors are
closed behind them. The heavy adobe walls are shot-proof. The refuge
of the church is gained none too soon.

The mutineers spread through the padre's house. Pouring in through
the sacristy passage, they are faced in the gray dawn by Valois,
his eyes blazing. He holds a dragoon revolver in each hand. He is
a dead shot. Yet the mutineers are fearless.

"Give up the Greaser robber!" is their mad yell.

"Never!" cries Valois. "He is old and foolish, but he shall not be
abused. Let him answer to the law."

"Captain," cries one, "we don't want to hurt you, but we are going
to find Joaquin's plunder."

"The first man who moves over this threshold is a dead man!" cries
Valois.

No one cares to be first, but they rage wildly. They all gather
for a rush. Weapons are ominously clicking. As they come on, Padre
Francisco stands before them, pale and calm in the morning light.

"Kill me first, my friends," he says. His body covers Valois.

The knot of desperate men stand back. They cannot shoot an unarmed
priest, yet growling murmurs are heard: "Burn them out," "Go
ahead,"

"Shoot the old Greaser."

A sound of trampling hoofs drowns their cries. The main body
of the detachment, stung with shame, have galloped back to rescue
Valois. It is over. The mutineers sullenly retire in a body.

Three hours later the detachment rides off. The rebels have wandered
away. Guarded by the friends of the wild night-ride, Valois remains
at Lagunitas.

Francis Basset, who was associated with Grenville in the glorious
victory of Stamford Hill, Stratton, was knighted by Charles I.
after the fight of Braddoc Down. Some of his letters to his wife
at this time are preserved, and they compare with Bevil Grenville's
for touching simplicity and whole-hearted affection. His joy at
the victories, which seemed to have established the Royal cause
on a firm basis--at least in the West--is expressed in several of
these.

"Peace," he exclaims, "and I hope perpetual. Sadd houses I have seen
many, but a joyfuller pleasanter day never than this. Sende the
money, as much and as soone as you can. Sende to all our ffriends
at home, especially, this good news. I write this on my saddle.
Every friend will pardon the illness of it, and you chiefly, my
perfect joy." To this he adds in a postscript: "The Kinge and
army march presently for Plymouth. Jesus give the King it and
all. The King, in the hearing of thousands, as soon as he saw
me in ye morning, cryed to mee, 'Deare Mr. Sheriffe, I leave Cornwall
to you safe and sound.'"

The letter is addressed "To my Lady Bassett, at her Tehidy, joyfull.
After the success near Lostwithiel." It was not long, however, before
this joyfulness was turned to mourning.

Grenville and many another gallant Cornishman fell in battle;
stronghold after stronghold gave way before the irresistible
Fairfax; and Basset himself, after a brave defence of St.
Michael's Mount, had to yield and withdraw to a kind of exile at
Scilly. This dauntless loyalist was closely connected with the
town of St. Ives, which he represented in Parliament, and to which
he gave the silver goblet mentioned in the previous chapter.

Their
acts were a protest against the brutal Americans. They were goaded
on by the loss of all property rights. This harshness drove the
Indians, decimated, drunken, and diseased, from their patrimonial
lands. It has effected the final ruin of the native Californians.
Frontier greed and injustice have done a shameful work.

Maxime Valois blushes for his own nation. He realizes that indigenous
dwellers must go to the wall in poverty, to their death. They go
down before the rush of the wolf pack, hunting gold, always gold.

Taking the precaution to leave men to bear to him any messages
from the padre, Maxime leaves Lagunitas for Stockton. The affairs
of the community call him home. Property, covered by his investments,
has been exposed to fire and flood at Sacramento. Sari Francisco
has been half destroyed by a great conflagration. These calamities
make thousands penniless.

Before he rides away, old Don Miguel comes to say adieu to his savior,
once his prisoner. "Se¤or Americano," he murmurs, "be pleased to
come to my house." Followed by the padre, Valois enters. There Don
Miguel bids Donna Juanita and Dolores thank the man who saved his
life.

"I shall not be here long, Se¤or Abogado," he says; "I wish you and
the padre to watch over my wife and child. YOU are a 'caballero'
and 'buen Cristiano.'"

Padre Francisco has proved that the young leader is a true child
of the Church.

The finest horse on the rancho is led to the door. It is trapped
with Don Miguel's state equipment. With a wave of the hand, he
says:

"Se¤or, vayase V. con Dios. That horse will never fail you. It is
the pride of the Lagunitas herds."

Maxime promises to aid in any future juncture. He rides out from
lonely Lagunitas, near which tradition to-day locates those fabulous
deposits, the vanished treasures of Joaquin, the mountain robber.

A generation glides away. The riches, long sought for, are never
found. This blood-stained gold may lie hidden beneath the soil of
Mariposa, but it is beyond human ken.

There are wild rejoicings at Stockton. Harry Love, splendid in
gayest trappings, is the hero of the hour. The dead mountain tiger
was the last leader of resistance to the Americans. The humbled
Mexicans sink into the condition of wandering helots. The only
possession left is their unconquerable pride, and the sadness
which wraps them in a gloomy mantle.


CHAPTER IX.

THE STRANGER'S FOOT AT LAGUNITAS. VALOIS' SPANISH BRIDE.


Through the mines runs a paean of rejoicing. The roads are free;
Joaquin is slain at last. Butcher bravos tire of revenging past
deeds of blood. They slay the helpless Indians, or assassinate the
frightened native Californians. This rude revenge element, stirred
up by Harry Love's exploit, reaches from Klamath to the Colorado.
Yet the unsettled interior is destined to keep up the sporadic
banditti of the valleys for years. Every glen offers an easy ambush.
In the far future only, the telegraph and railway will finally cut
up the great State into localized areas of civilization.

All the whiskey-drinking and revolver-carrying bravos must be swept
into obscure graves before crime can cease. It becomes, however,
occasional only. While bloody hands are ready, the plotting brain
of Joaquin Murieta never is equalled by any future bandit.

Coming years bring Francisco Garcia, Sebastian Flores, and the "Los
Manilas" gang, whose seventeen years of bloodshed end finally at
the gallows of Los Angeles. Varrella and Soto, Tiburcio Vasquez,
Santos Lotello, Chavez, and their wild Mexican brothers, are all
destined to die by shot or rope.

"Tom Bell," "Jack Powers," and other American recruits in the army
of villany, have only changed sides in their crimes. All these
wretches merit the deaths awaiting them. The last purely international
element of discord vanishes from the records of crime.

Wandering Americans aptly learn stage-robbing. They are heirs of
the old riders. The glories of "Black Bart," the lone highwayman
of eighty stage-robberies, and the "train robbers," are reserved
for the future. But Black Bart never takes life. He robs only the
rich.

Valois appreciates that the day has arrived when legal land spoliation
of the Mexicans will succeed these violent quarrels. Nothing is left
to steal but their land. That is the object of contention between
lawyers, speculators, squatters, and the defenceless owners. With
luck they may get a few quaint notions and superstitions out of
the older people; but the younger folk are educated in a different
manner now--universal school systems tend to uniformity and usually
to a deadening of the imagination.

Two different forces are now in full
energy of action.

Hills are swept bodily into the river-beds, in the search for the
underlying gold. Rivers and meadows are filled up, sand covered,
and ruined. Forests are thrown down, to rot by wholesale. Tunnels
are blasted out. The face of nature is gashed with the quest for
gold. Banded together for destruction, the miners leave no useful
landmark behind them. All is washed away and sent seaward in the
choking river-channels.

The home-makers, in peaceful campaigns of seed-time and harvest,
develop new treasures. Great interests are introduced. The gold of
field, orchard, and harvest falls into the hands of the industrious
farmers. These are the men whose only weapons are scythe and
sickle. They are the real Fathers of the Pacific. Roving over the
interior, the miners leave a land as nearly ruined as human effort
can render it. Collins used the occasion as an opportunity for
proving that the Church in England was a Protestant Church more than
nine hundred years before the Reformation; while the zeal of Mr.
Haslam led him to an unfortunate attempt at restoring the oratory.

