Produced by David Widger


THE CRISIS

By Winston Churchill


CONTENTS

BOOK I

Volume 1.
I.     Which Deals With Origins
II.    The Mole
III.   The Unattainable Simplicity
IV.    Black Cattle
V.     The First Spark Passes
VI.    Silas Whipple
VII.   Callers

Volume 2.
VIII.   Bellegarde
IX.     A Quiet Sunday in Locust Street
X.      The Little House
XI.     The Invitation
XII.    "Miss Jinny"
XIII.   The Party


BOOK II.

Volume 3.
I.     Raw Material.
II.    Abraham Lincoln
III.   In Which Stephen Learns Something
IV.    The Question
V.     The Crisis
VI.    Glencoe

Volume 4.
VII.    An Excursion
VIII.   The Colonel is Warned
IX.     Signs of the Times
X.      Richter's Scar,
XI.     How a Prince Came
XII.    Into Which a Potentate Comes
XIII.   At Mr. Brinsmade's Gate
XIV.    The Breach becomes Too Wide
XV.     Mutterings

Volume 5.
XVI.    The Guns of Sumter
XVII.   Camp Jackson
XVIII.  The Stone that is Rejected
XIX.    The Tenth of May.
XX.     In the Arsenal
XXI.    The Stampede
XXII.   The Straining of Another Friendship
XXIII.  Of Clarence


BOOK III

Volume 6.
I.     Introducing a Capitalist
II.    News from Clarence
III.   The Scourge of War,
IV.    The List of Sixty
V.     The Auction
VI.    Eliphalet Plays his Trumps

Volume 7.
VII.    With the Armies of the West
VIII.   A Strange Meeting
IX.     Bellegarde Once More
X.      In Judge Whipple's Office
XI.     Lead, Kindly Light

Volume 8.
XII.    The Last Card
XIII.   From the Letters of Major Stephen Brice
XIV.    The Same, Continued
XV.     The Man of Sorrows
XVI.    Annapolis


THE CRISIS

BOOK I


CHAPTER I

WHICH DEALS WITH ORIGINS

Faithfully to relate how Eliphalet Hopper came try St. Louis is to betray
no secret. Mr. Hopper is wont to tell the story now, when his
daughter-in-law is not by; and sometimes he tells it in her presence, for
he is a shameless and determined old party who denies the divine right of
Boston, and has taken again to chewing tobacco.

When Eliphalet came to town, his son's wife, Mrs: Samuel D. (or S. Dwyer
as she is beginning to call herself), was not born. Gentlemen of Cavalier
and Puritan descent had not yet begun to arrive at the Planters' House,
to buy hunting shirts and broad rims, belts and bowies, and depart
quietly for Kansas, there to indulge in that; most pleasurable of
Anglo-Saxon pastimes, a free fight. Mr. Douglas had not thrown his bone
of Local Sovereignty to the sleeping dogs of war.

To return to Eliphalet's arrival,--a picture which has much that is
interesting in it. Behold the friendless boy he stands in the prow of the
great steamboat 'Louisiana' of a scorching summer morning, and looks with
something of a nameless disquiet on the chocolate waters of the
Mississippi. There have been other sights, since passing Louisville,
which might have disgusted a Massachusetts lad more. A certain deck on
the 'Paducah', which took him as far as Cairo, was devoted to cattle
--black cattle. Eliphalet possessed a fortunate temperament. The deck was
dark, and the smell of the wretches confined there was worse than it
should have been. And the incessant weeping of some of the women was
annoying, inasmuch as it drowned many of the profane communications of
the overseer who was showing Eliphalet the sights. Then a fine-linened
planter from down river had come in during the conversation, and paying
no attention to the overseer's salute cursed them all into silence, and
left.

Eliphalet had ambition, which is not a wholly undesirable quality. He
began to wonder how it would feel to own a few of these valuable
fellow-creatures. He reached out and touched lightly a young mulatto
woman who sat beside him with an infant in her arms. The peculiar dumb
expression on her face was lost on Eliphalet. The overseer had laughed
coarsely.

"What, skeered on 'em?" said he. And seizing the girl by the cheek, gave
it a cruel twinge that brought a cry out of her.

Eliphalet had reflected upon this incident after he had bid the overseer
good-by at Cairo, and had seen that pitiful coffle piled aboard a steamer
for New Orleans. And the result of his reflections was, that some day he
would like to own slaves.

A dome of smoke like a mushroom hung over the city, visible from far down
the river, motionless in the summer air. A long line of steamboats
--white, patient animals--was tethered along the levee, and the Louisiana
presently swung in her bow toward a gap in this line, where a mass of
people was awaiting her arrival. Some invisible force lifted Eliphalet's
eyes to the upper deck, where they rested, as if by appointment, on the
trim figure of the young man in command of the Louisiana. He was very
young for the captain of a large New Orleans packet. When his lips moved,
something happened. Once he raised his voice, and a negro stevedore
rushed frantically aft, as if he had received the end of a
lightning-bolt. Admiration burst from the passengers, and one man cried
out Captain Brent's age--it was thirty-two.

Eliphalet snapped his teeth together. He was twenty-seven, and his
ambition actually hurt him at such times. After the boat was fast to the
landing stage he remained watching the captain, who was speaking a few
parting words to some passengers of fashion. The body-servants were
taking their luggage to the carriages. Mr. Hopper envied the captain his
free and vigorous speech, his ready jokes, and his hearty laugh. All the
rest he knew for his own--in times to come. The carriages, the trained
servants, the obsequiousness of the humbler passengers. For of such is
the Republic.

Then Eliphalet picked his way across the hot stones of the levee, pushing
hither and thither in the rough crowd of river men; dodging the mules on
the heavy drays, or making way for the carriages of the few people of
importance who arrived on the boat. If any recollections of a cool, white
farmhouse amongst barren New England hills disturbed his thoughts, this
is not recorded. He gained the mouth of a street between the low houses
which crowded on the broad river front. The black mud was thick under his
feet from an overnight shower, and already steaming in the sun. The brick
pavement was lumpy from much travel and near as dirty as the street.
Here, too, were drays blocking the way, and sweaty negro teamsters
swinging cowhides over the mules. The smell of many wares poured through
the open doors, mingling with the perspiration of the porters. On every
side of him were busy clerks, with their suspenders much in evidence, and
Eliphalet paused once or twice to listen to their talk. It was tinged
with that dialect he had heard, since leaving Cincinnati.

Turning a corner, Eliphalet came abruptly upon a prophecy. A great drove
of mules was charging down the gorge of the street, and straight at him.
He dived into an entrance, and stood looking at the animals in startled
wonder as they thundered by, flinging the mud over the pavements.
A cursing lot of drovers on ragged horses made the rear guard.

Eliphalet mopped his brow. The mules seemed to have aroused in him some
sense of his atomity, where the sight of the pillar of smoke and of the
black cattle had failed. The feeling of a stranger in a strange land was
upon him at last. A strange land, indeed! Could it be one with his native
New England? Did Congress assemble from the Antipodes? Wasn't the great,
ugly river and dirty city at the end of the earth, to be written about in
Boston journals?

Turning in the doorway, he saw to his astonishment a great store, with
high ceilings supported by columns. The door was stacked high with bales
of dry goods. Beside him was a sign in gold lettering, "Carvel and
Company, Wholesale Dry Goods." And lastly, looking down upon him with a
quizzical expression, was a gentleman. There was no mistaking the
gentleman. He was cool, which Eliphalet was not. And the fact is the more
remarkable because the gentleman was attired according to the fashion of
the day for men of his age, in a black coat with a teal of ruffled shirt
showing, and a heavy black stock around his collar. He had a white
mustache, and a goatee, and white hair under his black felt hat. His face
was long, his nose straight, and the sweetness of its smile had a strange
effect upon Eliphalet, who stood on one foot.

"Well, sonny, scared of mules, are you?" The speech is a stately drawl
very different from the nasal twang of Eliphalet's bringing up. "Reckon
you don't come from anywhere round here?"

"No, sir," said Eliphalet. "From Willesden, Massachusetts."

"Come in on the 'Louisiana'?"

"Yes, sir." But why this politeness?

The elderly gentleman lighted a cigar. The noise of the rushing mules had
now become a distant roar, like a whirlwind which has swept by. But
Eliphalet did not stir.

"Friends in town?" inquired the gentleman at length.

"No, sir," sighed Mr. Hopper.

At this point of the conversation a crisp step sounded from behind and
wonderful smile came again on the surface.

"Mornin', Colonel," said a voice which made Eliphalet jump. And he swung
around to perceive the young captain of the Louisiana.

"Why, Captain Lige," cried the Colonel, without ceremony, "and how do you
find yourself to-day, suh? A good trip from Orleans? We did not look for
you so soon."

"Tolluble, Colonel, tolluble," said the young man, grasping the Colonel's
hand. "Well, Colonel, I just called to say that I got the seventy bales
of goods you wanted."

"Ephum" cried the Colonel, diving toward a counter where glasses were set
out,--a custom new to Eliphalet,--"Ephum, some of that very particular
Colonel Crittenden sent me over from Kentucky last week."

An old darkey, with hair as white as the Colonel's, appeared from behind
the partition.

"I 'lowed you'd want it, Marse Comyn, when I seed de Cap'n comin'," said
he, with the privilege of an old servant. Indeed, the bottle was beneath
his arm.

The Colonel smiled.

"Hope you'se well, Cap'n," said Ephum, as he drew the cork.

"Tolluble, Ephum," replied the Captain. "But, Ephum--say, Ephum!"

"Yes, sah."

"How's my little sweetheart, Ephum?"

"Bress your soul, sah," said Ephum, his face falling perceptibly, "bress
your soul, sah, Miss Jinny's done gone to Halcyondale, in Kaintuck, to
see her grandma. Ole Ephum ain't de same nigger when she's away."

The young Captain's face showed as much disappointment as the darkey's.

"Cuss it!" said he, strongly, "if that ain't too bad! I brought her a
Creole doll from New Orleans, which Madame Claire said was dressed finer
than any one she'd ever seen. All lace and French gewgaws, Colonel. But
you'll send it to her?"

"That I will, Lige," said the Colonel, heartily. "And she shall write you
the prettiest note of thanks you ever got."

"Bless her pretty face," cried the Captain. "Her health, Colonel! Here's
a long life to Miss Virginia Carvel, and may she rule forever! How old
did you say this was?" he asked, looking into the glass.

"Over half a century," said Colonel Carvel.

"If it came from the ruins of Pompeii," cried Captain Brent, "it might be
worthy of her!"

"What an idiot you are about that child, Lige," said the Colonel, who was
not hiding his pleasure. The Colonel could hide nothing. "You ruin her!"

The bluff young Captain put down his glass to laugh.

"Ruin her!" he exclaimed. "Her pa don't ruin her I eh, Ephum? Her pa
don't ruin her!"

"Lawsy, Marse Lige, I reckon he's wuss'n any."

"Ephum," said the Colonel, pulling his goatee thoughtfully, "you're a
damned impertinent nigger. I vow I'll sell you South one of these days.
Have you taken that letter to Mr. Renault?" He winked at his friend as
the old darkey faded into the darkness of the store, and continued: "Did
I ever tell you about Wilson Peale's portrait of my grandmother, Dorothy
Carvel, that I saw this summer at my brother Daniel's, in Pennsylvania?
Enter Sásha.

SÁSHA [to Nurse] Lisa is looking for you.

NURSE. I'm coming, I'm coming. [Exit].

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Nurse says she keeps on crying.... Why can't she control
herself?

SÁSHA.

Well really, mother, you are amazing!... A woman has left her husband,
her child's father, and you expect her to be calm!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well, not calm ... But what's done is done!

If I, her mother, not only allowed my daughter to leave her husband, but
am even glad she has done it, that shows he deserved it. One ought
to rejoice, not to grieve, at the chance of freeing oneself from
such a bad man!

SÁSHA. Mother, why say such things? You know it's not true! He's not
bad--but on the contrary, he's a wonderful man, in spite of his
weaknesses.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Yes indeed, a "wonderful" man--as soon as he has money
in his pocket--his own or other people's....

SÁSHA. Mother! He has never taken other people's!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Yes he has--his wife's! Where's the difference?

SÁSHA. But he gave all his property to his wife!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Of course, when he knew that otherwise he was sure
to squander it all!

SÁSHA. Squander or not, I only know that a wife must not separate from
her husband, especially from such a one as Fédya.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Then, in your opinion she ought to wait till he has
squandered everything, and brought his gipsy mistresses into the
house?

SÁSHA. He has no mistresses!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. That's the misfortune--he seems to have bewitched you
all! But not me--no!

He won't come over me!

I see through him, and he knows it. Had I been in Lisa's place I should
have left him a year ago.

SÁSHA. How lightly you say it!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Not lightly at all. It's not a light thing for me, as a
mother, to see my daughter divorced.

Believe me it's not!

But yet it is better than ruining a young life....

No, I'm thankful to God that she has at last made up her mind, and
that it is all over.

SÁSHA. Perhaps it's not all over!

    
     ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Oh! If he only consents to a
     divorce....

SÁSHA. What good will that do?

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. This good; that she is young, and may again be happy.

SÁSHA. Oh mother! It's dreadful to hear you speak so! Lisa can't love
another.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Why not, when she's free? Many a man a thousand times
better than your Fédya might turn up who would be only too happy
to marry Lisa.

SÁSHA. Mother, it's not right!

I know you're thinking of Victor Karénin....

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. And why shouldn't I? He has loved her these ten years, and
she loves him.

SÁSHA. Yes, but not as a husband!

They have been friends from childhood.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA.

We know those friendships! If only the obstacles were out of the
way!

Enter Maid.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What is it?

MAID. The mistress has sent the porter with a note for Mr.
Karénin.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What mistress?

MAID. _Our_ mistress--Mrs. Protásova.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well?

MAID. Mr. Karénin has sent back word that he will come round at
once.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA [surprised] We were just speaking of him! Only I can't
think why ... [to Sásha] Do you know?

SÁSHA. Perhaps I do, and perhaps I don't!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. You always have secrets!

SÁSHA. Lisa will tell you herself when she comes.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA [shakes her head.

To Maid] The samovár must be made to boil again. Take it,
Dounyásha.

Maid takes samovár, and exit.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA [to Sásha who has risen and is going out] It turns out just
as I told you! She sent for him at once....

SÁSHA. She may have sent for him for quite a different reason.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What for, then?

SÁSHA. Now, at this moment, Karénin is the same to her as old Nurse
Trífonovna.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well, you'll see.... Don't I know her? She has sent
for him to comfort her.

SÁSHA. Oh mother, how little you know her, to be able to
suppose ...!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well, we'll see!... And I am very, very glad.

SÁSHA. We _shall_ see! [Exit, humming a tune].

ANNA PÁVLOVNA [alone, shakes her head and mutters] It's all right,
it's all right!

Enter Maid.

MAID. Mr. Karénin has come.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well then, show him in, and tell your mistress.

Maid exit by inner door. Enter Karénin, who bows to Anna Pávlovna.

KARÉNIN. Your daughter wrote to me to come. I meant to come and see you
to-night, anyhow.

So I was very pleased ... Is Elisabeth Andréyevna[2] well?

[2] Elisabeth Andréyevna is the polite way of speaking of Mrs.
Protásova, otherwise Lisa.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Yes, she is well, but Baby is a bit restless. She will
be here directly. [In a melancholy voice] Ah yes! It is a sad time....
But you know all about it, don't you?

KARÉNIN. I do. I was here, you know, the day before yesterday, when his
letter came. But is it possible that everything is irrevocably
settled?

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Why of course! Naturally! To go through it all again would
be intolerable.

KARÉNIN. This is a case where the proverb applies: "Measure ten times before
you cut once." ...

It is very painful to cut into the quick.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Of course it is; but then their marriage has long had a
rift in it, so that the tearing asunder was easier than one would have
thought. He himself sees that, after what has occurred, it is impossible
for him to return.

KARÉNIN. Why so?

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. How can you expect it, after all his horrid goings-on--after
he swore it should not happen again, and that if it did he would renounce
all rights as a husband and set her perfectly free?

KARÉNIN. Yes, but how can a woman be free when she is bound by
marriage?

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. By divorce. He promised her a divorce, and we shall insist
on it.

KARÉNIN. Yes, but Elisabeth Andréyevna loved him so....

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Ah, but her love has suffered such trials that there can
hardly be anything left of it! Drunkenness, deception, and infidelity
... Can one love such a husband?

KARÉNIN.

Nothing is impossible to love.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. You talk of love! But how can one love such a man--a
broken reed, whom one can never depend on? Don't you know what it came
to ...? [Looks round at the door, and continues hurriedly] All his
affairs in a muddle, everything pawned, nothing to pay with! Then
their uncle sends 2,000 roubles to pay the interest on their mortgaged
estates, and he takes the money and disappears. His wife is left at
home, with a sick baby, waiting for him--and at last gets a note asking
her to send him his clothes and things!

KARÉNIN. Yes, yes; I know.

Enter Lisa and Sásha.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well, here is Victor Miháylovich,[3] obedient to your
summons.

[3] The polite way of naming Mr. Karénin.

KARÉNIN. Yes, but I am sorry I was delayed for a few minutes.

LISA. Thank you. I have a great favour to ask of you, and I have no one
to turn to but you.

KARÉNIN. Anything in my power ...

LISA. You know all about ...?

KARÉNIN. I do.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well then, I shall leave you [To Sásha] Come, we'll leave
them alone. [Exit with Sásha].

LISA. Yes, he wrote to me saying that he considers everything at an end
...

[struggling with her tears] ... and I was hurt!... and so ... In a word,
I consented to break--I answered, accepting his renunciation.

KARÉNIN. And now you repent?

LISA. Yes. I feel that I was wrong, and that I cannot do it. Anything is
better than to be separated from him. In short--I want you to give him
this letter.... Please, Victor, give him the letter, and tell him ...

and bring him back!

KARÉNIN [surprised] Yes, but how?

LISA. Tell him I ask him to forget everything, and to return. I might
simply send the letter, but I know him: his first impulse, as always,
will be the right one--but then someone will influence him, and he'll
change his mind and not do what he really wants to....

KARÉNIN. I will do what I can.

LISA. You're surprised at my asking _you_?

KARÉNIN. No.... Yet, to tell you the truth--yes, I am surprised.

LISA. But you are not angry?

KARÉNIN. As if I could be angry with you!

LISA. I asked you because I know you care for him.

KARÉNIN.

Him, and you too! You know that. I am thinking not of myself, but of you.
Thank you for trusting me!

I will do what I can.

LISA. I know.... I will tell you everything. To-day I went to
Afrémov's to find out where he was. I was told he had gone to the
gipsies--which is what I feared most of all.

I know he will get carried away if he is not stopped in time--and that's
what has to be done.... So you'll go?

KARÉNIN. Of course, and at once.
LISA. Go!... Find him, and tell him all is forgotten and I am waiting
for him.

KARÉNIN. But where am I to look for him?
LISA. He is with the gipsies. I went there myself.... I went as far
as the porch, and wished to send in the letter, but changed my mind
and decided to ask you. Here is the address.... Well, then, tell
him to return: tell him nothing has happened ... all is forgotten.
Do it for love of him, and for the sake of our friendship!
KARÉNIN. I will do all in my power! [Bows, and exit].
LISA. I can't, I can't! Anything rather than ... I can't!
Enter Sásha.

SÁSHA. Well, have you sent?

Lisa nods affirmatively.
SÁSHA. And he agreed?

LISA. Of course.
SÁSHA. But why just _him_? I don't understand.
LISA. But who else?
SÁSHA. Don't you know he is in love with you?
LISA. That's dead and gone. Whom would you have had me send?... Do
you think he _will_ come back?

SÁSHA. I am sure of it, because ...
Enter Anna Pávlovna. Sásha is silent.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. And where is Victor Miháylovich?

LISA. He's gone.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Gone! How's that?
LISA. I asked him to do something for me.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. "Do something?" Another secret!
LISA. It's not a secret. I simply asked him to give a letter into
Fédya's own hands.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Fédya? What--to Theodore Vasílyevich?
LISA. Yes, to Fédya.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. I thought all relations between you were over!
LISA. I can't part from him.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What? Are you going to begin all over again?
LISA. I wanted to, and tried ... but I can't! Anything you like--only
I can't part from him!
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Then do you want to have him back again?
LISA. Yes.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. To let that skunk into the house again?
LISA. Mother, I beg you not to speak so of my husband!
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. He _was_ your husband.
LISA. No, he is my husband still.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. A spendthrift, a drunkard, a rake ... and you can't
part from him?
LISA. Why do you torment me! You seem to want to do it.... It's
hard enough for me without that.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. I torment you! Well then, I'll go. I can't stand by
and see it....

Lisa is silent.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. I see! That's just what you want--I'm in your way....
I can't live so. I can't make you out at all! It's all so
new-fangled--first you make up your mind to separate, then you
suddenly send for a man who is in love with you ...
LISA. Nothing of the kind.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Karénin proposed to you ... and you send him to fetch
your husband! Why? To arouse jealousy?
LISA. Mother, what you are saying is terrible! Leave me alone!
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Very well! Turn your mother out of the house, and
let in your rake of a husband!... Yes, I will not remain here!
Good-bye, then--I leave you to your fate; you can do as you please!
[Exit slamming door].
LISA [drops into a chair] That's the last straw!
SÁSHA. Never mind.... It will be all right; we'll soon pacify
Mother.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA [passing through] Dounyásha! My trunk!
SÁSHA. Mother, listen!... [follows her out with a significant glance
to Lisa].

Curtain.

SCENE 2
A room in the gipsies' house. The choir is singing "Kanavela." Fédya
in his shirt-sleeves is lying prone on the sofa. Afrémov sits astride
a chair in front of the leader of the choir. An officer sits at a
table, on which are bottles of champagne and glasses. A musician
is taking notes.

AFRÉMOV. Fédya, are you asleep?
FÉDYA [rising] Don't talk.... Now let's have "Not at Eve."
GIPSY LEADER. That won't do, Theodore Vasílyevich! Let Másha sing
a solo now.
FÉDYA. All right! And then, "Not at Eve." [Lies down again].
OFFICER. Sing "Fateful Hour." 
GIPSY. All agreed?
AFRÉMOV. Go on!

OFFICER [to musician] Have you taken it down?
MUSICIAN. Quite impossible! It's different every time.... And the
scale is somehow different. Look here! [Beckons to a gipsy woman
who is looking on] Is this right? [Hums].
GIPSY. That's it, that's splendid!
FÉDYA. He'll never get it; and if he does take it down and shoves
it into an opera, he'll only spoil it!... Now, Másha, start off!
Let's have "Fateful Hour"--take your guitar. [Rises, sits down
opposite her, and gazes into her eyes].

Másha sings.
FÉDYA. That's good too! Másha, you're a brick!... Now then, "Not
at Eve"!

AFRÉMOV. No, wait! First, my burial song....
OFFICER. Why _burial_?
AFRÉMOV. Because, when I'm dead ... you know, dead and laid in my
coffin, the gipsies will come (you know I shall leave instructions
with my wife) and they will begin to sing "I Walked a Mile" ... and
then I'll jump out of my coffin!... Do you understand? [To the
musician] You just write this down. [To the gipsies] Well, rattle
along!

Gipsies sing.
AFRÉMOV. What do you think of that?... Now then, "My Brave
Lads"!

Gipsies sing.
Afrémov gesticulates and dances. The gipsies smile and continue
singing, clapping their hands. Afrémov sits down and the song
ends.

GIPSIES. Bravo! Michael Andréyevich![4] He's a real gipsy!
[4] The polite way of addressing Mr. Afrémov.
FÉDYA. Well, _now_ "Not at Eve"!

Gipsies sing.
FÉDYA. That's it! It's wonderful ... And where does it all happen--all
that this music expresses? Ah, it's fine!... And how is it man can
reach such ecstasy, and cannot keep it?
MUSICIAN [taking notes] Yes, it's most original.
FÉDYA. Not original--but the real thing!
AFRÉMOV [to gipsies] Well, have a rest now. [Takes the guitar and
sits down beside Kátya, one of the gipsies].
MUSICIAN. It's really simple, except the rhythm....
FÉDYA [waves his hand, goes to Másha, and sits down on sofa beside
her] Oh, Másha, Másha! How you do turn me inside-out!
MÁSHA. And how about what I asked you for?
FÉDYA. What? Money?... [Takes some out of his trouser-pocket] Here,
take it!

Másha laughs, takes it, and hides it in her bosom.
FÉDYA [to the gipsies] Who can make it out? She opens heaven for
me, and then asks for money to buy scents with! [To Másha] Why, you
don't in the least understand what you're doing!
MÁSHA. Not understand indeed! I understand that when I am in love,
I try to please my man, and sing all the better.
FÉDYA. Do you love me?

MÁSHA. Looks like it!
FÉDYA. Wonderful! [Kisses her].
Exeunt most of the gipsies. Some couples remain: Fédya with Másha,
Afrémov with Kátya, and the officer with Gásha. The musician writes.
A gipsy man strums a valse tune on the guitar.
FÉDYA. But I'm married, and your choir won't allow it....
MÁSHA. The choir is one thing, one's heart's another! I love those
I love, and hate those I hate.
FÉDYA. Ah! This is good! Isn't it?
MÁSHA. Of course it's good--we've jolly visitors, and are all
merry.

Enter gipsy man.
GIPSY [to Fédya] A gentleman is asking for you.
FÉDYA. What gentleman?
GIPSY. I don't know.... Well dressed, wears a sable overcoat--
FÉDYA. A swell? Well, ask him in. [Exit Gipsy].
AFRÉMOV. Who has come to see you here?
FÉDYA. The devil knows! Who can want me?
Enter Karénin. Looks round.
FÉDYA. Ah, Victor! I never expected _you_!... Take off your
coat!...
What wind has blown you here?Her first question dashed out the spark of his zeal.

"Oh," said she, "are you employed here?"

Thoughtless Virginia! You little know the man you have insulted by your
haughty drawl.

"Yes."

Then find Mr. Carvel, won't you, please? And tell him that his daughter
has come from Kentucky, and is waiting for him."

"I callate Mr. Carvel won't be here this morning," said Eliphalet. He
went back to the pile of dry goods, and began to work. But he was unable
to meet the displeasure in her face.

"What is your name?" Miss Carvel demanded.

"Hopper."

"Then, Mr. Hopper, please find Ephum, or Mr. Hood."

Two more bolts were taken off the truck. Out of the corner of his eye he
watched her, and she seemed very tall, like her father. She was taller
than he, in fact.

"I ain't a servant, Miss Carvel," he said, with a meaning glance at the
negress.

"Laws, Miss Jinny," cried she, "I may's 'ell find Ephum. I knows he's
loafin' somewhar hereabouts. An' I ain't seed him dese five month." And
she started for the back of the store.

"Mammy!"

The old woman stopped short. Eliphalet, electrified, looked up and
instantly down again.

"You say you are employed by Mr. Carvel, and refuse to do what I ask?"

"I ain't a servant," Mr. Hopper repeated doggedly. He felt that he was in
the right,--and perhaps he was.

It was at this critical juncture in the proceedings that a young man
stepped lightly into the store behind Miss Jinny. Mr. Hopper's eye was on
him, and had taken in the details of his costume before realizing the
import of his presence. He was perhaps twenty, and wore a coat that
sprung in at the waist, and trousers of a light buff-color that gathered
at the ankle and were very copious above. His features were of the
straight type which has been called from time immemorial patrician. He
had dark hair which escaped in waves from under his hat, and black eyes
that snapped when they perceived Miss Virginia Carvel. At sight of her,
indeed, the gold-headed cane stopped in its gyrations in midair.

"Why, Jinny!" he cried--"Jinny!"

Mr. Hopper would have sold his soul to have been in the young man's
polished boots, to have worn his clothes, and to have been able to cry
out to the young lady, "Why, Jinny!"

To Mr. Hopper's surprise, the young lady did not turn around. She stood
perfectly still. But a red flush stole upon her cheek, and laughter was
dancing in her eyes yet she did not move. The young man took a step
forward, and then stood staring at her with such a comical expression of
injury on his face as was too much for Miss Jinny's serenity. She
laughed. That laugh also struck minor chords upon Mr. Hopper's
heart-strings.

But the young gentleman very properly grew angry.

"You've no right to treat me the way you do, Virginia," he cried. "Why
didn't you let me know that you were coming home?" His tone was one of
authority. You didn't come from Kentucky alone!"

"I had plenty of attendance, I assure you," said Miss Carvel. "A
governor, and a senator, and two charming young gentlemen from New
Orleans as far as Cairo, where I found Captain Lige's boat. And Mr.
Brinsmade brought me here to the store. I wanted to surprise Pa," she
continued rapidly, to head off the young gentleman's expostulations. "How
mean of him not to be here!"

"Allow me to escort you home," said he, with ceremony:

"Allow me to decline the honah, Mr. Colfax," she cried, imitating him. "I
intend to wait here until Pa comes in."

Then Eliphalet knew that the young gentleman was Miss Virginia's first
cousin. And it seemed to him that he had heard a rumor, amongst the
clerks in the store; that she was to marry him one day.

"Where is Uncle Comyn?" demanded Mr. Colfax, swinging his cane with
impatience.

Virgina looked hard at Mr. Hopper.

"I don't know," she said.

"Ephum!" shouted Mr. Colfax. "Ephum! Easters where the deuce is that
good-for-nothing husband of yours?"

"I dunno, Marse Clarence. 'Spec he whah he oughtn't ter be."

Mr. Colfax spied the stooping figure of Eliphalet.

"Do you work here?" he demanded.

"I callate."

"What?"

"I callate to," responded Mr. Hopper again, without rising.

"Please find Mr. Hood," directed Mr. Colfax, with a wave of his cane,
"and say that Miss Carvel is here--"

Whereupon Miss Carvel seated herself upon the edge of a bale and giggled,
which did not have a soothing effect upon either of the young men. How
abominably you were wont to behave in those days, Virginia.

"Just say that Mr. Colfax sent you," Clarence continued, with a note of
irritation. "There's a good fellow."

Virginia laughed outright. Her cousin did not deign to look at her. His
temper was slipping its leash.

"I wonder whether you hear me," he remarked.

No answer.

"Colonel Carvel hires you, doesn't he? He pays you wages, and the first
time his daughter comes in here you refuse to do her a favor. By thunder,
I'll see that you are dismissed."

Still Eliphalet gave him no manner of attention, but began marking the
tags at the bottom of the pile.

It was at this unpropitious moment that Colonel Carvel walked into the
store, and his daughter flew into his arms.

"Well, well," he said, kissing her, "thought you'd surprise me, eh,
Jinny?"

"Oh, Pa," she cried, looking reproachfully up at his Face. "You knew
--how mean of you!"

"I've been down on the Louisiana, where some inconsiderate man told me,
or I should not have seen you today. I was off to Alton. But what are
these goings-on?" said the Colonel, staring at young Mr. Colfax, rigid as
one of his own gamecocks. He was standing defiantly over the stooping
figure of the assistant manager.

"Oh," said Virginia, indifferently, "it's only Clarence. He's so
tiresome. He's always wanting to fight with somebody."

"What's the matter, Clarence?" asked the Colonel, with the mild unconcern
which deceived so many of the undiscerning.

"This person, sir, refused to do a favor for your daughter. She told him,
and I told him, to notify Mr. Hood that Miss Carvel was here, and he
refused."

Mr. Hopper continued his occupation, which was absorbing. But he was
listening.

Colonel Carvel pulled his goatee, and smiled.

"Clarence," said he, "I reckon I can run this establishment without any
help from you and Jinny. I've been at it now for a good many years."

If Mr. Barbo had not been constitutionally unlucky, he might have
perceived Mr. Hopper, before dark that evening, in conversation with Mr.
Hood about a certain customer who lived up town, and presently leave the
store by the side entrance. He walked as rapidly as his legs would carry
him, for they were a trifle short for his body; and in due time, as the
lamps were flickering, he arrived near Colonel Carvel's large double
residence, on Tenth and Locust streets. Then he walked slowly along
Tenth, his eyes lifted to the tall, curtained windows. Now and anon they
scanned passers-by for a chance acquaintance.

Mr. Hopper walked around the block, arriving again opposite the Carvel
house, and beside Mr. Renault's, which was across from it. Eliphalet had
inherited the principle of mathematical chances. It is a fact that the
discreet sometimes take chances. Towards the back of Mr. Renault's
residence, a wide area was sunk to the depth of a tall man, which was
apparently used for the purpose of getting coal and wood into the cellar.
Mr. Hopper swept the neighborhood with a glance. The coast was clear, and
he dropped into the area.

Although the evening was chill, at first Mr. Hopper perspired very
freely. He crouched in the area while the steps of pedestrians beat above
his head, and took no thought but of escape. At last, however, he grew
cooler, removed his hat, and peeped over the stone coping. Colonel
Carvel's house--her house--was now ablaze with lights, and the shades not
yet drawn. There was the dining room, where the negro butler was moving
about the table; and the pantry, where the butler went occasionally; and
the kitchen, with black figures moving about. But upstairs on the two
streets was the sitting room. The straight figure of the Colonel passed
across the light. He held a newspaper in his hand. Suddenly, full in the
window, he stopped and flung away the paper. A graceful shadow slipped
across the wall. Virginia laid her hands on his shoulders, and he stooped
to kiss her. Now they sat between the curtains, she on the arm of his
chair and leaning on him, together looking out of the window.

How long this lasted Mr. Hopper could not say. Even the wise forget
themselves. But all at once a wagon backed and bumped against the curb in
front of him, and Eliphalet's head dropped as if it had been struck by
the wheel. Above him a sash screamed as it opened, and he heard Mr.
Renault's voice say, to some person below:

"Is that you, Capitaine Grant?"

"The same," was the brief reply.

"I am charmed that you have brought the wood. I thought that you had
forgotten me."

"I try to do what I say, Mr. Renault."

"Attendez--wait!" cried Mr. Renault, and closed the window.

Now was Eliphalet's chance to bolt. The perspiration had come again, and
it was cold. But directly the excitable little man, Renault, had appeared
on the pavement above him. He had been running.

"It is a long voyage from Gravois with a load of wood, Capitaine--I am
very grateful."

"Business is business, Mr. Renault," was the self-contained reply.

"Alphonse!" cried Mr. Renault, "Alphonse!" A door opened in the back
wall. "Du vin pour Monsieur le Capitaine."

"Oui, M'sieu."

Eliphalet was too frightened to wonder why this taciturn handler of wood
was called Captain, and treated with such respect.

"Guess I won't take any wine to-night, Mr. Renault," said he. "You go
inside, or you'll take cold."

Mr. Renault protested, asked about all the residents of Gravois way, and
finally obeyed. Eliphalet's heart was in his mouth. A bolder spirit would
have dashed for liberty. Eliphalet did not possess that kind of bravery.
He was waiting for the Captain to turn toward his wagon.

He looked down the area instead, with the light from the street lamp on
his face. Fear etched an ineffaceable portrait of him on Mr. Hopper's
mind, so that he knew him instantly when he saw him years afterward.
Little did he reckon that the fourth time he was to see him this man was
to be President of the United States. He wore a close-cropped beard, an
old blue army overcoat, and his trousers were tucked into a pair of muddy
cowhide boots.

Swiftly but silently the man reached down and hauled Eliphalet to the
sidewalk by the nape of the neck.

"What were you doing there?" demanded he of the blue overcoat, sternly.

Eliphalet did not answer. With one frantic wrench he freed himself, and
ran down Locust Street. At the corner, turning fearfully, he perceived
the man in the overcoat calmly preparing to unload his wood.


CHAPTER III

THE UNATTAINABLE SIMPLICITY

To Mr. Hopper the being caught was the unpardonable crime. And indeed,
with many of us, it is humiliation and not conscience which makes the
sting. He walked out to the end of the city's growth westward, where the
new houses were going up. He had reflected coolly on consequences, and
found there were none to speak of. Many a moralist, Mr. Davitt included,
would have shaken his head at this. Miss Crane's whole Puritan household
would have raised their hands in horror at such a doctrine.

Some novelists I know of, who are in reality celebrated surgeons in
disguise, would have shown a good part of Mr. Eliphalet Hopper's mental
insides in as many words as I have taken to chronicle his arrival in St.
Louis. They invite us to attend a clinic, and the horrible skill with
which they wield the scalpel holds us spellbound. For God has made all of
us, rogue and saint, burglar and burgomaster, marvellously alike. We read
a patent medicine circular and shudder with seven diseases. We peruse one
of Mr. So and So's intellectual tonics and are sure we are complicated
scandals, fearfully and wonderfully made.

Alas, I have neither the skill nor the scalpel to show the diseases of
Mr. Hopper's mind; if, indeed, he had any. Conscience, when contracted,
is just as troublesome as croup. Mr. Hopper was thoroughly healthy. He
had ambition, as I have said. But he was not morbidly sensitive. He was
calm enough when he got back to the boarding-house, which he found in as
high a pitch of excitement as New Englanders ever reach.

And over what?

Over the prospective arrival that evening of the Brices, mother and son,
from Boston. Miss Crane had received the message in the morning.
Palpitating with the news; she had hurried rustling to Mrs. Abner Reed,
with the paper in her hand.

"I guess you don't mean Mrs. Appleton Brice," said Mrs. Reed.

"That's just who I mean," answered Miss Crane, triumphantly,--nay,
aggressively.

He is worst off in the night; sleep very bad: and among his sore bodily
pains, ennui falls very heavy to a mind so restless.

He can paint, he can whittle, chisel: at last they even mount him
a table, in his bed, with joiner's tools, mallets, glue-pots, where
he makes small carpentry,--the talk to go on the while;--often at
night is the sound of his mallet audible in the Palace Esplanade;
and Berlin townsfolk pause to listen, with many thoughts of a
sympathetic or at least inarticulate character: "HM, WEH, IHRO
MAJESTAT: ACH GOTT, pale Death knocks with impartial foot at the
huts of poor men and the Palaces of Kings!"

[Pollnitz, ii. 539.]

Reverend Herr Roloff, whom they call Provost (PROBST, Chief Clergyman)
Roloff, a pious honest man and preacher, he, I could guess, has
already been giving spiritual counsel now and then; later interviews
with Roloff are expressly on record: for it is the King's private
thought, ever and anon borne in upon him, that death itself is in
this business.

Queen and Children, mostly hoping hitherto, though fearing too,
live in much anxiety and agitation.

The Crown-Prince is often over from Reinsberg; must not come too often, nor
even inquire too much: his affectionate solicitude might be mistaken for
solicitude of another kind! It is certain he is in no haste to be King;
to quit the haunts of the Muses, and embark on Kingship. Certain,
too, he loves his Father; shudders at the thought of losing HIM. And
yet again there will gleams intrude of a contrary thought; which the
filial heart disowns, with a kind of horror, "Down, thou impious
thought!"--We perceive he manages in general to push the crisis away from
him; to believe that real danger is still distant. His demeanor, so
far as we can gather from his Letters or other evidence, is amiable,
prudent, natural; altogether that of a human Son in those difficult
circumstances.

Poor Papa is heavy-laden: let us help to bear his burdens;--let
us hope the crisis is still far off!

--
Once, on a favorable evening, probably about the beginning of April,
when he felt as if improving, Friedrich Wilhelm resolved to dress,
and hold Tobacco-Parliament again in a formal manner, Let us look
in there, through the eyes of Pollnitz, who was of it, upon the
last Tobacco-Parliament:--
"A numerous party; Schwerin, Hacke, Derschau, all the chiefs and
commandants of the Berlin Garrison are there; the old circle full;
social human speech once more, and pipes alight; pleasant to the
King.

He does not himself smoke on this occasion; but he is unusually
lively in talk; much enjoys the returning glimpse of old days; and
the Tobacco circle was proceeding through its phases, successful
beyond common.

All at once the Crown-Prince steps in; direct from Reinsberg: [12th April,
1740? (_OEuvres,_ xxvii. part lst, p. 29); Pollnitz is dateless] an
unexpected pleasure. At sight of whom the Tobacco circle, taken on the
sudden, simultaneously started up, and made him a bow.

Rule is, in Tobacco-Parliament you do not rise--for anybody; and
they have risen.

Which struck the sick heart in a strange painful way. 'Hm, the Rising Sun?'
thinks he; 'Rules broken through, for the Rising Sun.

But I am not dead yet, as you shall know!'

ringing for his servants in great wrath; and had himself rolled out,
regardless of protestations and excuses.

'Hither, you Hacke!' said he.

"Hacke followed; but it was only to return on the instant, with the King's
order, 'That you instantly quit the Palace, all of you, and don't
come back!'

Solemn respectful message to his Majesty was of no effect, or of less;
they had to go, on those terms; and Pollnitz, making for his
Majesty's apartment next morning as usual, was twitched by a
Gens-d'arme, 'No admittance!'

And it was days before the matter would come round again, under earnest
protestations from the one side, and truculent rebukes from the
other."

[Pollnitz (abridged), ii. 50.]

Figure the Crown-Prince, figure the poor sick Majesty; and what a time
in those localities!

With the bright spring weather he seemed to revive; towards the end of
April he resolved for Potsdam, everybody thinking him much better, and
the outer Public reckoning the crisis of the illness over. He
himself knew other. It was on the 27th of the month that he went; he said,
"Fare thee well, then, Berlin; I am to die in Potsdam, then (ICH WERDE
IN POTSDAM STERBEN)!" The May-flowers came late; the weather was
changeful, ungenial for the sick man: this winter of 1740 had been
the coldest on record; it extended itself into the very summer; and
brought great distress of every kind;--of which some oral rumor
still survives in all countries.

Friedrich Wilhelm heard complaints of scarcity among the people; admonitions
to open his Corn-granaries (such as he always has in store against that
kind of accident); but he still hesitated and refused; unable to look
into it himself, and fearing deceptions.

For the rest, he is struggling between death and life; in general
persuaded that the end is fast hastening on. He sends for Chief Preacher
Roloff out to Potsdam; has some notable dialogues with Roloff, and
with two other Potsdam Clergymen, of which there is record still
left us.

In these, as in all his demeanor at this supreme time, we see the big
rugged block of manhood come out very vividly; strong in his
simplicity, in his veracity. Friedrich Wilhelm's wish is to know from
Roloff what the chances are for him in the other world,--which is not
less certain than Potsdam and the giant grenadiers to Friedrich
Wilhelm; and where, he perceives, never half so clearly before, he
shall actually peel off his Kinghood, and stand before God Almighty, no
better than a naked beggar.

Roloff's prognostics are not so encouraging as the King had hoped.
Surely this King "never took or coveted what was not his; kept true
to his marriage-vow, in spite of horrible examples everywhere; believed
the Bible, honored the Preachers, went diligently to Church, and
tried to do what he understood God's commandments were?"

To all which Roloff, a courageous pious man, answers with discreet
words and shakings of the head, "Did I behave ill, then; did I
ever do injustice?" Roloff mentions Baron Schlubhut the defalcating
Amtmann, hanged at Konigsberg without even a trial. "He had no trial;
but was there any doubt he had justice? A public thief, confessing he had
stolen the taxes he was set to gather; insolently offering, as if that
were all, to repay the money, and saying, It was not MANIER (good manners)
to hang a nobleman!" Roloff shakes his head, Too violent, your Majesty,
and savoring of the tyrannous. The poor King must repent.

"Well,--is there anything more?

Out with it, then; better now than too late!"--Much oppression, forcing men
to build in Berlin.--"Oppression?
was it not their benefit, as well as Berlin's and the Country's? I had
no interest in it other. Derschau, you who managed it?" and his Majesty
turned to Derschau. For all the smoking generals and company are still
here; nor will his Majesty consent to dismiss them from the presence
and be alone with Roloff: "What is there to conceal?

They are people of honor, and my friends." Derschau, whose feats in the
building way are not unknown even to us, answers with a hard face, It was
all right and orderly; nothing out of square in his building operations.
To which Roloff shakes his head: "A thing of public notoriety, Herr
General."--"I will prove everything before a Court," answers the Herr
General with still harder face; Roloff still austerely shaking his
head.

Hm!--And then there is forgiveness of enemies; your Majesty is bound to
forgive all men, or how can you ask to be forgiven? "Well, I will, I do;
you Feekin, write to your Brother (unforgivablest of beings), after I am
dead, that I forgave him, died in peace with him."--Better her Majesty
should write at once, suggests Roloff.--"No, after I am dead," persists
the Son of Nature,--that will be safer!

[Wrote accordingly, "not able to finish without many tears;" honest sensible
Letter (though indifferently spelt), "Berlin, 1st June, 1740;"--lies now
in State-Paper Office:
"ROYAL LETTERS, vol. xciv., Prussia, 1689-1777."] An unwedgeable
and gnarled big block of manhood and simplicity and sincerity; such as we
rarely get sight of among the modern sons of Adam, among the crowned
sons nearly never. At parting he said to Roloff, "You (ER, He) do not
spare me; it is right. You do your duty like an honest Christian man."
[_Notata ex ore Roloffi_ ("found among the Seckendorf Papers," no
date but "May 1740"), in Forster, ii. 154, 155; in a fragmentary
state:
completed in Pollnitz, ii. 545-549.]

Roloff, I perceive, had several Dialogues with the King; and stayed in
Potsdam some days for that object. The above bit of jotting is from the
Seckendorf Papers (probably picked up by Seckendorf Junior), and is dated
only "May." Of the two Potsdam Preachers, one of whom is "Oesfeld,
Chaplain of the Giant Grenadiers," and the other is "Cochius, Calvinist
Hofprediger," each published on his own score some Notes of dialogue
and circumstance; [Cochius the HOFPREDIGER'S (Calvinist Court-Chaplain's)
ACCOUNT of his Interviews (first of them "Friday, 27th May, 1740,
about 9 P.M."); followed by ditto from Oesfeld (Chaplain of the
Giants), who usually accompanied Cochius,--are in Seyfarth, _Geschichte
Friedrich des Grossen_ (Leipzig, 1783-1788), i.

(Beylage) 24-40. Seyfarth was "Regiments-Auditor" in Halle: his Work, solid
though stupid, consists nearly altogether of multifarious BEYLAGEN
(Appendices) and NOTES; which are creditably accurate, and often curious;
and, as usual, have no Index for an unfortunate reader.] which are
to the same effect, so far as they concern us; and exhibit the same
rugged Son of Nature, looking with all his eyesight into the near
Eternity, and sinking in a human and not inhuman manner amid the
floods of Time.

"Wa, Wa, what great God is this, that pulls down the strength of the
strongest Kings!"--
The poor King's state is very restless, fluctuates from day to day; he
is impatient of bed; sleeps very ill; is up whenever possible; rolls
about in his wheeled-chair, and even gets into the air: at one time looking
strong, as if there were still months in him, and anon sunk
in fainting weakness, as if he had few minutes to live. Friedrich at
Reinsberg corresponds very secretly with Dr. Eller; has other friends
at Potsdam whose secret news he very anxiously reads.

To the last he cannot bring himself to think it "serious." [Letter to
Eller, 25th May, 1740 (_OEuvres_ ), xvi. 184.]
On Thursday, 26th of May, an express from Eller, or the Potsdam friends,
arrives at Reinsberg: He is to come quickly, if he would see his Father
again alive! The step may have danger, too; but Friedrich, a world
of feelings urging him, is on the road next morning before the sun.

His journey may be fancied; the like of it falls to all men. Arriving at
last, turning hastily a corner of the Potsdam Schloss, Friedrich
sees some gathering in the distance: it is his Father in his ROLLWAGEN
(wheeled-chair),--not dying; but out of doors, giving orders about
founding a House, or seeing it done.

House for one Philips, a crabbed Englishman he has; whose tongue is none
of the best, not even to Majesty itself, but whose merits as a
Groom, of English and other Horses, are without parallel in those
parts.

Without parallel, and deserve a House before we die. Let us see it set
agoing, this blessed Mayday!

Of Philips, who survived deep into Friedrich's time, and uttered
rough sayings (in mixed intelligible dialect) when put upon in his
grooming, or otherwise disturbed, I could obtain no farther account:
the man did not care to be put in History (a very small service to
a man); cared to have a house with trim fittings, and to do his
grooming well, the fortunate Philips.

At sight of his Son, Friedrich Wilhelm threw out his arms; the Son
kneeling sank upon his breast, and they embraced with tears.

My Father, my Father; My Son, my Son!

It was a scene to make all by-standers and even Philips weep.--Probably
the emotion hurt the old King; he had to be taken in again straightway,
his show of strength suddenly gone, and bed the only place for him.
This same Friday he dictated to one of his Ministers (Boden, who
was in close attendance) the Instruction for his Funeral; a rude
characteristic Piece, which perhaps the English reader knows.

Too long and rude for reprinting here.

[Copy of it, in Seyfarth (ubi supra), i. 19-24.

Translated in Mauvillon (ii. 432-437); in &c.
&c.]
He is to be buried in his uniform, the Potsdam Grenadiers his escort;
with military decorum, three volleys fired (and take care they be
well fired, "NICHT PLACKEREN"), so many cannon-salvos;--and no fuss or
flaunting ceremony: simplicity and decency is what the tenant of
that oak coffin wants, as he always did when owner of wider dominions.

The coffin, which he has ready and beside him in the Palace this good while,
is a stout piece of carpentry, with leather straps and other
improvements; he views it from time to time; solaces his truculent
imagination with the look of it: "I shall sleep right well there,"
he would say.

The image he has of his Burial, we perceive, is of perfect visuality, equal
to what a Defoe could do in imagining.

All is seen, settled to the last minuteness: the coffin is to be borne
out by so and so, at such and such a door; this detachment is to
fall-in here, that there, in the attitude of "cover arms" (musket
inverted under left arm); and the band is to play, with all its
blackamoors, _O Haupt voll Blut und Wunden_ (O Head, all bleeding
wounded); a Dirge his Majesty had liked, who knew music, and had a
love for it, after his sort.

Good Son of Nature: a dumb Poet, as I say always; most dumb, but
real; the value of him great, and unknown in these babbling times.

It was on this same Friday night that Cochius was first sent for;
Cochius, and Oesfeld with him, "about nine o'clock."

For the next three days (Saturday to Monday) when his cough and many
sufferings would permit him, Friedrich Wilhelm had long private dialogues
with his Son; instructing him, as was evident, in the mysteries of State;
in what knowledge, as to persons and to things, he reckoned might be
usefulest to him. What the lessons were, we know not; the way of taking
them had given pleasure to the old man: he was heard to say, perhaps
more than once, when the Generals were called in, and the dialogue
interrupted for a while: "Am not I happy to have such a Son to leave
behind me!"

And the grimly sympathetic Generals testified assent; endeavored
to talk a little, could at least smoke, and look friendly; till the
King gathered strength for continuing his instructions to his
Successor.

All else was as if settled with him; this had still remained to do.

This once done (finished, Monday night), why not abdicate altogether; and
die disengaged, be it in a day or in a month, since that is now
the one work left?

Friedrich Wilhelm does so purpose.

His state, now as all along, was fluctuating, uncertain, restless.

He was heard murmuring prayers; he would say sometimes, "Pray for me; BETET
BETET."

And more than once, in deep tone: "Lord, enter not into judgment with
Thy servant, for in Thy sight shall no man living be justified!"

The wild Son of Nature, looking into Life and Death, into Judgment
and Eternity, finds that these things are very great.

This too is a characteristic trait: In a certain German Hymn (_Why fret
or murmur, then?_ the title of it), which they often sang to him, or
along with him, as he much loved it, are these words, "Naked I
came into the world, and naked shall I go,"--"No," said he "always
with vivacity," at this passage; "not quite nakid, I shall have my
uniform on:" Let us be exact, since we are at it!

After which the singing proceeded again. "The late Graf Alexander von
Wartenberg"--Captain Wartenberg, whom we know, and whose
opportunities--"was wont to relate this."

[Busching (in 1786), _Beitrage,_ iv. 100.]

Tuesday, 31st May, "about one in the morning," Cochius was again
sent for.

He found the King in very pious mood, but in great distress, and afraid
he might yet have much pain to suffer. Cochius prayed with him;
talked piously.

"I can remember nothing," said the King; "I cannot pray, I have forgotten
all my prayers."--"Prayer is not in words, but in the thought of the
heart," said Cochius; and soothed the heavy-laden man as he could.

"Fare you well," said Friedrich Wilhelm, at length; "most likely we shall
not meet again in this world."

Whereat Cochius burst into tears, and withdrew. About four, the King
was again out of bed; wished to see his youngest Boy, who had been
ill of measles, but was doing well: "Poor little Ferdinand, adieu,
then, my little child!"

This is the Father of that fine Louis Ferdinand, who was killed at Jena;
concerning whom Berlin, in certain emancipated circles of it, still
speaks with regret.

He, the Louis Ferdinand, had fine qualities; but went far a-roving,
into radicalism, into romantic love, into champagne; and was cut down on
the threshold of Jena, desperately fighting,--perhaps happily for him.

From little Ferdinand's room Friedrich Wilhelm has himself rolled into
Queen Sophie's.

"Feekin, O my Feekin, thou must rise this day, and help me what
thou canst.

This day I am going to die; thou wilt be with me this day!"

The good Wife rises: I know not that it was the first time she had
been so called; but it did prove the last. Friedrich Wilhelm
has decided, as the first thing he will do, to abdicate; and all
the Official persons and companions of the sick-room, Pollnitz among
them, not long after sunrise, are called to see it done.

Pollnitz, huddling on his clothes, arrived about five: in a corridor he
sees the wheeled-chair and poor sick King; steps aside to let him pass:
"'It is over (DAS IST VOLLBRACHT),' said the King, looking up to me as
he passed: he had on his nightcap, and a blue mantle thrown round
him."

He was wheeled into his anteroom; there let the company assemble;
many of them are already there.

The royal stables are visible from this room: Friedrich Wilhelm orders
the horses to be ridden out: you old Furst of Anhalt-Dessau my
oldest friend, you Colonel Hacke faithfulest of Adjutant-Generals,
take each of you a horse, the best you can pick out: it is my last
gift to you.

Dessau, in silence, with dumb-show of thanks, points to a horse, any horse:
"You have chosen the very worst," said Friedrich Wilhelm: "Take that
other, I will warrant him a good one!"

The grim old Dessauer thanks in silence; speechless grief is on that
stern gunpowder face, and he seems even to be struggling with tears.
"Nay, nay, my friend," Friedrich Wilhelm said, "this is a debt we
have all to pay."
The Official people, Queen, Friedrich, Minister Boden, Minister
Podewils, and even Pollnitz, being now all present, Friedrich Wilhelm makes
his Declaration, at considerable length; old General Bredow repeating it
aloud, [Pollnitz, ii. 561.] sentence by sentence, the King's own
voice being too weak; so that all may hear: "That he abdicates,
gives up wholly, in favor of his good Son Friedrich; that foreign
Ambassadors are to be informed; that you are all to be true and
loyal to my Son as you were to me"--and what else is needful.

To which the judicious Podewils makes answer, "That there must first
be a written Deed of his high Transaction executed, which shall
be straightway set about; the Deed once executed, signed and
sealed,--the high Royal will, in all points, takes effect."

Alas, before Podewils has done speaking, the King is like falling
into a faint; does faint, and is carried to bed: too unlikely any
Deed of Abdication will be needed.

Ups and downs there still were; sore fluctuating labor, as the poor
King struggles to his final rest, this morning.

He was at the window again, when the WACHT-PARADE (Grenadiers on Guard)
turned out; he saw them make their evolutions for the last time. [Pauli,
viii. 280.] After which, new relapse, new fluctuation. It was about eleven
o'clock, when Cochius was again sent for. The King lay speechless,
seemingly still conscious, in bed; Cochius prays with fervor, in
a loud tone, that the dying King may hear and join.

"Not so loud!" says the King, rallying a little. He had remembered that
it was the season when his servants got their new liveries; they had
been ordered to appear this day in full new costume:
"O vanity!

O vanity!"

Richter's big table; at the cuspidors;
at the engravings of Washington and Webster; at the window in the jog
which looked out on the court-house square; and finally at another
ground-glass door on which was printed:

               SILAS WHIPPLE

                PRIVATE

This, then, was the den,--the arena in which was to take place a
memorable interview. But the thought of waiting an hour for the dragon to
appear was disquieting. Stephen remembered that he had something over
nine hundred dollars in his pocket (which he had saved out of his last
year's allowance at the Law School). So he asked Mr. Richter, who was
dusting off a chair, to direct him to the nearest bank.

"Why, certainly," said he; "Mr. Brinsmade's bank on Chestnut Street." He
took Stephen to the window and pointed across the square. "I am sorry I
cannot go with you," he added, "but the Judge's negro, Shadrach, is out,
and I must stay in the office. I will give you a note to Mr. Brinsmade."

"His negro!" exclaimed Stephen. "Why, I thought that Mr. Whipple was an
Abolitionist."

Mr. Richter laughed.

"The man is free," said he. "The Judge pays him wages."

Stephen thanked his new friend for the note to the bank president, and
went slowly down the stairs. To be keyed up to a battle-pitch, and then
to have the battle deferred, is a trial of flesh and spirit.

As he reached the pavement, he saw people gathering in front of the wide
entrance of the Court House opposite, and perched on the copings. He
hesitated, curious. Then he walked slowly toward the place, and buttoning
his coat, pushed through the loafers and passers-by dallying on the
outskirts of the crowd. There, in the bright November sunlight, a sight
met his eyes which turned him sick and dizzy.

Against the walls and pillars of the building, already grimy with soot,
crouched a score of miserable human beings waiting to be sold at auction.
Mr. Lynch's slave pen had been disgorged that morning. Old and young,
husband and wife,--the moment was come for all and each. How hard the
stones and what more pitiless than the gaze of their fellow-creatures in
the crowd below! O friends, we who live in peace and plenty amongst our
families, how little do we realize the terror and the misery and the dumb
heart-aches of those days! Stephen thought with agony of seeing his own
mother sold before his eyes, and the building in front of him was lifted
from its foundation and rocked even as shall the temples on the judgment
day.

The oily auctioneer was inviting the people to pinch the wares. Men came
forward to feel the creatures and look into their mouths, and one brute,
unshaven and with filthy linen, snatched a child from its mother's lap
Stephen shuddered with the sharpest pain he had ever known. An ocean-wide
tempest arose in his breast, Samson's strength to break the pillars of
the temple to slay these men with his bare hands. Seven generations of
stern life and thought had their focus here in him,--from Oliver Cromwell
to John Brown.

Stephen was far from prepared for the storm that raged within him. He had
not been brought up an Abolitionist--far from it. Nor had his father's
friends--who were deemed at that time the best people in Boston--been
Abolitionists. Only three years before, when Boston had been aflame over
the delivery of the fugitive Anthony Burns, Stephen had gone out of
curiosity to the meeting at Faneuil Hall. How well he remembered his
father's indignation when he confessed it, and in his anger Mr. Brice had
called Phillips and Parker "agitators." But his father, nor his father's
friends in Boston had never been brought face to face with this hideous
traffic.

Hark! Was that the sing-song voice of the auctioneer He was selling the
cattle. High and low, caressing an menacing, he teased and exhorted them
to buy. The were bidding, yes, for the possession of souls, bidding in
the currency of the Great Republic. And between the eager shouts came a
moan of sheer despair. What was the attendant doing now? He was tearing
two of then: from a last embrace.

Three--four were sold while Stephen was in a dream

Then came a lull, a hitch, and the crowd began to chatter gayly. But the
misery in front of him held Stephen in a spell. Figures stood out from
the group. A white-haired patriarch, with eyes raised to the sky; a
flat-breasted woman whose child was gone, whose weakness made her
valueless. Then two girls were pushed forth, one a quadroon of great
beauty, to be fingered. Stephen turned his face away,--to behold Mr.
Eliphalet Hopper looking calmly on.

"Wal, Mr. Brice, this is an interesting show now, ain't it? Something we
don't have. I generally stop here to take a look when I'm passing." And
he spat tobacco juice on the coping.

Stephen came to his senses.

"And you are from New England?" he said.

Mr. Hopper laughed.

"Tarnation!" said he, "you get used to it. When I came here, I was a sort
of an Abolitionist. But after you've lived here awhile you get to know
that niggers ain't fit for freedom."

Silence from Stephen.

"Likely gal, that beauty," Eliphalet continued unrepressed. "There's a
well-known New Orleans dealer named Jenkins after her. I callate she'll
go down river."

"I reckon you're right, Mistah," a man with a matted beard chimed in, and
added with a wink: "She'll find it pleasant enough--fer a while. Some of
those other niggers will go too, and they'd rather go to hell. They do
treat 'em nefarious down thah on the wholesale plantations. Household
niggers! there ain't none better off than them. But seven years in a
cotton swamp,--seven years it takes, that's all, Mistah."

Stephen moved away. He felt that to stay near the man was to be tempted
to murder. He moved away, and just then the auctioneer yelled,
"Attention!"

"Gentlemen," he cried, "I have heah two sisters, the prope'ty of the late
Mistah Robe't Benbow, of St. Louis, as fine a pair of wenches as was ever
offe'd to the public from these heah steps--"

"Speak for the handsome gal," cried a wag.

"Sell off the cart hoss fust," said another.

The auctioneer turned to the darker sister:

"Sal ain't much on looks, gentlemen," he said, "but she's the best nigger
for work Mistah Benbow had." He seized her arm and squeezed it, while the
girl flinched and drew back. "She's solid, gentlemen, and sound as a
dollar, and she kin sew and cook. Twenty-two years old. What am I bid?"

Much to the auctioneer's disgust, Sal was bought in for four hundred
dollars, the interest in the beautiful sister having made the crowd
impatient. Stephen, sick at heart, turned to leave. Halfway to the corner
he met a little elderly man who was the color of a dried gourd. And just
as Stephen passed him, this man was overtaken by an old negress, with
tears streaming down her face, who seized the threadbare hem of his coat.
Stephen paused involuntarily.

"Well, Nancy," said the little man, "we had marvellous luck. I was able
to buy your daughter for you with less than the amount of your savings."

"T'ank you, Mistah Cantah," wailed the poor woman, "t'ank you, suh.
Praised be de name ob de Lawd. He gib me Sal again. Oh, Mistah Cantah"
(the agony in that cry), "is you gwineter stan' heah an' see her sister
Hester sol' to--to--oh, ma little Chile! De little Chile dat I nussed,
dat I raised up in God's 'ligion. Mistah Cantah, save her, suh, f'om dat
wicked life o' sin. De Lawd Jesus'll rewa'd you, suh. Dis ole woman'll
wuk fo' you twell de flesh drops off'n her fingers, suh."

And had he not held her, she would have gone down on her knees on the
stone flagging before him. Her suffering was stamped on the little man's
face--and it seemed to Stephen that this was but one trial more which
adversity had brought to Mr. Canter.

"Nancy," he answered (how often, and to how many, must he have had to say
the same thing), "I haven't the money, Nancy. Would to God that I had,
Nancy!"

She had sunk down on the bricks. But she had not fainted. It was not so
merciful as that. It was Stephen who lifted her, and helped her to the
coping, where she sat with her bandanna awry.

Stephen was not of a descent to do things upon impulse. But the tale was
told in after days that one of his first actions in St. Louis was of this
nature. The waters stored for ages in the four great lakes, given the
opportunity, rush over Niagara Falls into Ontario.

"Take the woman away," said Stephen, in a low voice, "and I will buy the
girl,--if I can."

The little man looked up, dazed.

"Give me your card,--your address. I will buy the girl, if I can, and set
her free."

He fumbled in his pocket and drew out a dirty piece of pasteboard. It
read: "R. Canter, Second Hand Furniture, 20 Second Street." And still he
stared at Stephen, as one who gazes upon a mystery. A few curious
pedestrians had stopped in front of them.

"Get her away, if you can, for God's sake," said Stephen again. And he
strode off toward the people at the auction. He was trembling. In his
eagerness to reach a place of vantage before the girl was sold, he pushed
roughly into the crowd.

But suddenly he was brought up short by the blocky body of Mr. Hopper,
who grunted with the force of the impact.

"Gosh," said that gentleman, "but you are inters'ted. They ain't begun to
sell her yet--he's waitin' for somebody. Callatin' to buy her?" asked Mr.
Hopper, with genial humor.

Stephen took a deep breath. If he knocked Mr. Hopper down, he certainly
could not buy her. And it was a relief to know that the sale had not
begun.

As for Eliphalet, he was beginning to like young Brice. He approved of
any man from Boston who was not too squeamish to take pleasure in a
little affair of this kind.

As for Stephen, Mr. Hopper brought him back to earth. He ceased
trembling, and began to think.

"Tarnation!" said Eliphalet. "There's my boss, Colonel Carvel across the
street. Guess I'd better move on. But what d'ye think of him for a real
Southern gentleman?"

"The young dandy is his nephew, Clarence Colfax. He callates to own this
town." Eliphalet was speaking leisurely, as usual, while preparing to
move. "That's Virginia Carvel, in red. Any gals down Boston-way to beat
her? Guess you won't find many as proud."

He departed. And Stephen glanced absently at the group. They were picking
their way over the muddy crossing toward him. Was it possible that these
people were coming to a slave auction? Surely not. And yet here they were
on the pavement at his very side.

She wore a long Talma of crimson cashmere, and her face was in that most
seductive of frames, a scoop bonnet of dark green velvet, For a fleeting
second her eyes met his, and then her lashes fell. But he was aware, when
he had turned away, that she was looking at him again. He grew uneasy. He
wondered whether his appearance betrayed his purpose, or made a question
of his sanity.

Sanity! Yes, probably he was insane from her point of view. A sudden
anger shook him that she should be there calmly watching such a scene.

Just then there was a hush among the crowd. The beautiful slave-girl was
seized roughly by the man in charge and thrust forward, half fainting,
into view. Stephen winced. But unconsciously he turned, to see the effect
upon Virginia Carvel.

Thank God! There were tears upon her lashes.

Here was the rasp of the auctioneer's voice:-- "Gentlemen, I reckon there
ain't never been offered to bidders such an opportunity as this heah.
Look at her well, gentlemen. I ask you, ain't she a splendid creature?"

Colonel Carvel, in annoyance, started to move on. "Come Jinny," he said,
"I had no business to bring you aver."

But Virginia caught his arm. "Pa," she cried, "it's Mr. Benbow's Hester.
Don't go, dear. Buy her for me You know that I always wanted her.
Please!"

The Colonel halted, irresolute, and pulled his goatee Young Colfax
stepped in between them.

"I'll buy her for you, Jinny. Mother promised you a present, you know,
and you shall have her."

Virginia had calmed.

"Do buy her, one of you," was all she said

"You may do the bidding, Clarence," said the Colonel, "and we'll settle
the ownership afterward." Taking Virginia's arm, he escorted her across
the street.

Stephen was left in a quandary. Here was a home for the girl, and a good
one. Why should me spend the money which meant so much to him. He saw the
man Jenkin elbowing to the front. And yet--suppose Mr. Colfax did not get
her? He had promised to buy her if he could, and to set her free:

Stephen had made up his mind: He shouldered his way after Jenkins.


CHAPTER V

THE FIRST SPARK PASSES

"Now, gentlemen," shouted the auctioneer when he had finished his oration
upon the girl's attractions, "what 'tin I bid? Eight hundred?"

Stephen caught his breath. There was a long pause no one cared to start
the bidding.

"Come, gentlemen, come! There's my friend Alf Jenkins. He knows what
she's worth to a cent. What'll you give, Alf? Is it eight hundred?"

Mr. Jenkins winked at the auction joined in the laugh.

"Three hundred!" he said.

The auctioneer was mortally offended. Then some one cried:--"Three
hundred and fifty!"

It was young Colfax. He was recognized at once, by name, evidently as a
person of importance.

"Thank you, Mistah Colfax, suh," said the auctioneer, with a servile wave
of the hand in his direction, while the crowd twisted their necks to see
him. He stood very straight, very haughty, as if entirely oblivious to
his conspicuous position.

"Three seventy-five!"

"That's better, Mistah Jenkins," said the auctioneer, sarcastically. He
turned to the girl, who might have stood to a sculptor for a figure of
despair. Her hands were folded in front of her, her head bowed down. The
auctioneer put his hand under her chin and raised it roughly. "Cheer up,
my gal," he said, "you ain't got nothing to blubber about now."

Hester's breast heaved and from her black eyes there shot a magnificent
look of defiance. He laughed. That was the white blood.

The white blood!

Clarence Colfax had his bid taken from his lips. Above the heads of the
people he had a quick vision of a young man with a determined face, whose
voice rang clear and strong,-- "Four hundred!"

Even the auctioneer, braced two ways, was thrown off his balance by the
sudden appearance of this new force. Stephen grew red over the sensation
he made. Apparently the others present had deemed competition with such
as Jenkins and young Colfax the grossest folly. He was treated to much
liberal staring before the oily salesman arranged his wits to grapple
with the third factor.

Four hundred from--from--from that gentleman. And the chubby index seemed
the finger of scorn.

"Four hundred and fifty!" said Mr. Colfax, defiantly.

Whereupon Mr. Jenkins, the New Orleans dealer, lighted a very long cigar
and sat down on the coping. The auctioneer paid no attention to this
manoeuvre. But Mr. Brice and Mr. Colfax, being very young, fondly
imagined that they had the field to themselves, to fight to a finish.

Here wisdom suggested in a mild whisper to Stephen that there was a last
chance to pull out. And let Colfax have the girl? Never. That was pride,
and most reprehensible. But second he thought of Mr. Canter and of Nancy,
and that was not pride.

"Four seventy-five!" he cried.

"Thank you, suh."

"Now fur it, young uns!" said the wag, and the crowd howled with
merriment.

"Five hundred!" snapped Mr. Colfax.

He was growing angry. But Stephen was from New England, and poor, and he
thought of the size of his purse. A glance at his adversary showed that
his blood was up. Money was plainly no consideration to him, and young
Colfax did not seem to be the kind who would relish returning to a young
lady and acknowledge a defeat.

Stephen raised the bid by ten dollars. The Southerner shot up fifty.
Again Stephen raised it ten. He was in full possession of himself now,
and proof against the thinly veiled irony of the oily man's remarks in
favor of Mr. Colfax. In an incredibly short time the latter's impetuosity
had brought them to eight hundred and ten dollars.

Then several things happened very quickly.

Mr. Jenkins got up from the curb and said, "Eight hundred and
twenty-five," with his cigar in his mouth. Scarcely had the hum of
excitement died when Stephen, glancing at Colfax for the next move, saw
that young gentleman seized from the rear by his uncle, the tall Colonel.
And across the street was bliss Virginia Carvel, tapping her foot on the
pavement.

"What are you about, sir?" the Colonel cried. "The wench isn't worth it."

"Mr. Colfax shook himself free.

"I've got to buy her now, sir," he cried.

"I reckon not," said the Colonel. "You come along with me."

Naturally Mr. Colfax was very angry. He struggled but he went. And so,
protesting, he passed Stephen, at whom he did not deign to glance. The
humiliation of it must have been great for Mr. Colfax. "Jinny wants her;
sir," he said, "and I have a right to buy her."

"Jinny wants everything," was the Colonel's reply. And in a single look
of curiosity and amusement his own gray eyes met Stephen's. They seemed
to regret that this young man, too, had not a guardian. Then uncle and
nephew recrossed the street, and as they walked off the Colonel was seen
to laugh. Virginia had her chin in the air, and Clarence's was in his
collar.

The crowd, of course, indulged in roars of laughter, and even Stephen
could not repress a smile, a smile not without bitterness. Then he
wheeled to face Mr. Jerkins. Out of respect for the personages involved,
the auctioneer had been considerately silent daring the event. It was Mr.
Brice who was now the centre of observation.

Come, gentlemen, come, this here's a joke--eight twenty-five. She's worth
two thousand. I've been in the business twenty yea's, and I neve' seen
her equal. Give me a bid, Mr.--Mr.--you have the advantage of me, suh."

"Eight hundred and thirty-five!" said Stephen.

"Now, Mr. Jerkins, now, suh! we've got twenty me' to sell."

"Eight fifty!" said Mr. Jerkins.

"Eight sixty!" said Stephen, and they cheered him.

Mr. Jenkins took his cigar out of his teeth, and stared.

"Eight seventy-five!" said he.

"Eight eighty-five!" said Stephen.

There was a breathless pause.

"Nine hundred!" said the trader.

"Nine hundred and ten!" cried Stephen.

At that Mr. Jerkins whipped his hat from off his head, and made Stephen a
derisive bow.

"She's youahs, suh," he said. "These here are panic times. I've struck my
limit. I can do bettah in Louisville fo' less. Congratulate you, suh
--reckon you want her wuss'n I do."

At which sally Stephen grew scarlet, and the crowd howled with joy.

"What!" yelled the auctioneer. "Why, gentlemen, this heah's a joke. Nine
hundred and ten dollars, gents, nine hundred and ten. We've just begun,
gents. Come, Mr. Jerkins, that's giving her away."

The trader shook his head, and puffed at his cigar.

"Well," cried the oily man, "this is a slaughter. Going at nine hundred
an' ten--nine ten--going--going--" down came the hammer--"gone at nine
hundred and ten to Mr.--Mr.--you have the advantage of me, suh."

An attendant had seized the girl, who was on the verge of fainting, and
was dragging her back. Stephen did not heed the auctioneer, but thrust
forward regardless of stares.

"Handle her gently, you blackguard," he cried.

The man took his hands off.

"Suttinly, sah," he said.

Hester lifted her eyes, and they were filled with such gratitude and
trust that suddenly he was overcome with embarrassment.

"Can you walk?" he demanded, somewhat harshly.

"Yes, massa."

"Then get up," he said, "and follow me."

She rose obediently. Then a fat man came out of the Court House, with a
quill in his hand, and a merry twinkle in his eye that Stephen resented.

"This way, please, sah," and he led him to a desk, from the drawer of
which he drew forth a blank deed.

"Name, please!"

"Stephen Atterbury Brice."

"Residence, Mr. Brice!"

Stephen gave the number. But instead of writing it clown, the man merely
stared at him, while the fat creases in his face deepened and deepened.
Finally he put down his quill, and indulged in a gale of laughter, hugely
to Mr. Brice's discomfiture.

"Shucks!" said the fat man, as soon as he could.

"What are you givin' us? That the's a Yankee boa'din' house."

"And I suppose that that is part of your business, too," said Stephen,
acidly.

The fat man looked at him, pressed his lips, wrote down the number,
shaken all the while with a disturbance which promised to lead to another
explosion. Finally, after a deal of pantomime, and whispering and
laughter with the notary behind the wire screen, the deed was made out,
signed, attested, and delivered. Stephen counted out the money grimly, in
gold and Boston drafts.

Out in the sunlight on Chestnut Street, with the girl by his side, it all
seemed a nightmare. The son of Appleton Brice of Boston the owner of a
beautiful quadroon girl! And he had bought hex with his last cent.

Miss Crane herself opened the door in answer to his ring. Her keen eyes
instantly darted over his shoulder and dilated, But Stephen, summoning
all his courage, pushed past her to the stairs, and beckoned Hester to
follow.

"I have brought this--this person to see my mother," he said

The spinster bowed from the back of her neck. She stood transfixed on a
great rose in the hall carpet until she heard Mrs. Brice's door open and
slam, and then she strode up the stairs and into the apartment of Mrs.
Abner Reed. As she passed the first landing, the quadroon girl was
waiting in the hall.


CHAPTER VI

SILAS WHIPPLE

The trouble with many narratives is that they tell too much. Stephen's
interview with his mother was a quiet affair, and not historic. Miss
Crane's boarding-house is not an interesting place, and the tempest in
that teapot is better imagined than described. Out of consideration for
Mr. Stephen Brice, we shall skip likewise a most affecting scene at Mr.
Canter's second-hand furniture store.

That afternoon Stephen came again to the dirty flight of steps which led
to Judge Whipple's office. He paused a moment to gather courage, and
then, gripping the rail, he ascended. The ascent required courage now,
certainly. He halted again before the door at the top. But even as he
stood there came to him, in low, rich tones, the notes of a German song.
He entered And Mr. Richter rose in shirt-sleeves from his desk to greet
him, all smiling.

"Ach, my friend!" said he, "but you are late. The Judge has been awaiting
you."

"Has he?" inquired Stephen, with ill-concealed anxiety.

The big young German patted him on the shoulder.

Suddenly a voice roared from out the open transom of the private office,
like a cyclone through a gap.

"Mr. Richter!"

"Sir!"

"Who is that?"

"Mr. Brice, sir."

"Then why in thunder doesn't he come in?"

Mr. Richter opened the private door, and in Stephen walked. The door
closed again, and there he was in the dragon's dens face to face with the
dragon, who was staring him through and through. The first objects that
caught Stephen's attention were the grizzly gray eye brows, which seemed
as so much brush to mark the fire of the deep-set battery of the eyes.
And that battery, when in action, must have been truly terrible.

The Judge was shaven, save for a shaggy fringe of gray beard around his
chin, and the size of his nose was apparent even in the full face.

Stephen felt that no part of him escaped the search of Mr. Whipple's
glance. But it was no code or course of conduct that kept him silent. Nor
was it fear entirely.

"So you are Appleton Brice's son," said the Judge, at last. His tone was
not quite so gruff as it might have been.

"Yes, sir," said Stephen.

"Humph!" said the Judge, with a look that scarcely expressed approval. "I
guess you've been patted on the back too much by your father's friends."
He leaned back in his wooden chair. "How I used to detest people who
patted boys on the back and said with a smirk, 'I know your father.' I
never had a father whom people could say that about. But, sir," cried the
Judge, bringing down his fist on the litter of papers that covered his
desk, "I made up my mind that one day people should know me. That was my
spur. And you'll start fair here, Mr. Brice. They won't know your father
here--"

If Stephen thought the Judge brutal, he did not say so. He glanced around
the little room,--at the bed in the corner, in which the Judge slept, and
which during the day did not escape the flood of books and papers; at the
washstand, with a roll of legal cap beside the pitcher.

"I guess you think this town pretty crude after Boston, Mr. Brice," Mr.
Whipple continued. "From time immemorial it has been the pleasant habit
of old communities to be shocked at newer settlements, built by their own
countrymen. Are you shocked, sir?"

Stephen flushed. Fortunately the Judge did not give him time to answer.

"Why didn't your mother let me know that she was coming?"

"She didn't wish to put you to any trouble, sir."

"Wasn't I a good friend of your father's? Didn't I ask you to come here
and go into my office?"

"But there was a chance, Mr. Whipple--"

"A chance of what?"

"That you would not like me. And there is still a chance of it," added
Stephen, smiling.

For a second it looked as if the Judge might smile, too. He rubbed his
nose with a fearful violence.

"Mr. Richter tells me you were looking for a bank," said he, presently.

Stephen quaked.

"Yes, sir, I was, but--"

But Mr. Whipple merely picked up the 'Counterfeit Bank Note Detector'.

"Beware of Western State Currency as you would the devil," said he.
"That's one thing we don't equal the East in--yet. And so you want to
become a lawyer?"

"I intend to become a lawyer, sir."

"And so you shall, sir," cried the Judge, bringing down his yellow fist
upon the 'Bank Note Detector'. "I'll make you a lawyer, sir. But my
methods ain't Harvard methods, sir."

"I am ready to do anything, Mr. Whipple."

The Judge merely grunted. He scratched among his papers, and produced
some legal cap and a bunch of notes.

"Go out there," he said, "and take off your coat and copy this brief. Mr.
Richter will help you to-day. And tell your mother I shall do myself the
honor to call upon her this evening."

Stephen did as he was told, without a word. But Mr. Richter was not in
the outer office when he returned to it. He tried to compose himself to
write, although the recollection of each act of the morning hung like a
cloud over the back of his head. Therefore the first sheet of legal cap
was spoiled utterly. But Stephen had a deep sense of failure. He had gone
through the ground glass door with the firm intention of making a clean
breast of the ownership of Hester. Now, as he sat still, the trouble grew
upon him. He started a new sheet, and ruined that: Once he got as far as
his feet, and sat down again. But at length he had quieted to the extent
of deciphering ten lines of Mr. Whipple's handwriting when the creak of a
door shattered his nerves completely.

He glanced up from his work to behold--none other than Colonel Comyn
Carvel.

Glancing at Mr. Richter's chair, and seeing it empty, the Colonel's eye
roved about the room until it found Stephen. There it remained, and the
Colonel remained in the middle of the floor, his soft hat on the back of
his head, one hand planted firmly on the gold head of his stick, and the
other tugging at his goatee, pulling down his chin to the quizzical
angle.

"Whoopee!" he cried.

The effect of this was to make one perspire freely. Stephen perspired.
And as there seemed no logical answer, he made none.

Suddenly Mr. Carvel turned, shaking with a laughter he could not control,
and strode into the private office the door slammed behind him. Mr.
Brice's impulse was flight. But he controlled himself.

First of all there was an eloquent silence. Then a ripple of guffaws.
Then the scratch-scratch of a quill pen, and finally the Judge's voice.

"Carvel, what the devil's the matter with you, sir?"

A squall of guffaws blew through the transom, and the Colonel was heard
slapping his knee.

"Judge Whipple," said he, his voice vibrating from suppressed explosions,
"I am happy to see that you have overcome some of your ridiculous
prejudices, sir."

"What prejudices, sir?" the Judge was heard to shout.

"Toward slavery, Judge," said Mr. Carvel, seeming to recover his gravity.
"You are a broader man than I thought, sir."

An unintelligible gurgle came from the Judge. Then he said.

"Carvel, haven't you and I quarrelled enough on that subject?"

"You didn't happen to attend the nigger auction this morning when you
were at the court?" asked the Colonel, blandly.

"Colonel," said the Judge, "I've warned you a hundred times against the
stuff you lay out on your counter for customers."

"You weren't at the auction, then," continued the Colonel, undisturbed.
"You missed it, sir. You missed seeing this young man you've just
employed buy the prettiest quadroon wench I ever set eyes on."

Now indeed was poor Stephen on his feet. But whether to fly in at the one
entrance or out at the other, he was undecided.

"Colonel," said Mr. Whipple, "is that true?"

"Sir!"
"MR. BRICE!"

It did not seem to Stephen as if he was walking when he went toward the
ground glass door. He opened it. There was Colonel Carvel seated on the
bed, his goatee in his hand. And there was the Judge leaning forward from
his hips, straight as a ramrod. Fire was darting from beneath his bushy
eyebrows. "Mr. Brice," said he, "there is one question I always ask of
those whom I employ. I omitted it in your case because I have known your
father and your grandfather before you. What is your opinion, sir, on the
subject of holding human beings in bondage?"

The answer was immediate,--likewise simple.

"I do not believe in it, Mr. Whipple."

The Judge shot out of his chair like a long jack-in-the box, and towered
to his full height.

"Mr. Brice, did you, or did you not, buy a woman at auction to-day?"

"I did, sir."

Mr. Whipple literally staggered. But Stephen caught a glimpse of the
Colonel's hand slipping from his chin cover his mouth.

"Good God, sir!" cried the Judge, and he sat down heavily. "You say that
you are an Abolitionist?"

"No, sir, I do not say that. But it does not need an Abolitionist to
condemn what I saw this morning."

"Are you a slave-owner, sir?" said Mr. Whipple.

"Yes, sir."

"Then get your coat and hat and leave my office, Mr. Brice."

Stephen's coat was on his arm. He slipped it on, and turned to go. He
was, if the truth were told, more amused than angry. It was Colonel
Carvel's voice that stopped him.

"Hold on, Judge," he drawled, "I reckon you haven't got all the packing
out of that case."

Mr. Whipple locked at him in a sort of stupefaction. Then he glanced at
Stephen.

"Come back here, sir," he cried. "I'll give you hearing. No man shall say
that I am not just."

Stephen looked gratefully at the Colonel.

"I did not expect one, sir," he said..

"And you don't deserve one, sir," cried the Judge.

"I think I do," replied Stephen, quietly.

The Judge suppressed something.

"What did you do with this person?" he demanded

"I took her to Miss Crane's boarding-house," said Stephen.

It was the Colonel's turn to explode. The guffaw which came from hire
drowned every other sound.

"Good God!" said the Judge, helplessly. Again he looked at the Colonel,
and this time something very like mirth shivered his lean frame. "And
what do you intend to do with her?" he asked in strange tones.

"To give her freedom, sir, as soon as I can find somebody to go on her
bond."

Again silence. Mr. Whipple rubbed his nose with more than customary
violence, and looked very hard at Mr. Carvel, whose face was inscrutable.
It was a solemn moment.

"Mr. Brice," said the Judge, at length, "take off your coat, sir I will
go her bond."

It was Stephen's turn to be taken aback. He stood regarding the Judge
curiously, wondering what manner of man he was. He did not know that this
question had puzzled many before him.

"Thank you, sir," he said.

His hand was on the knob of the door, when Mr. Whipple called him back
abruptly. His voice had lost some of its gruffness.

"What were your father's ideas about slavery, Mr. Brice?"

The young man thought a moment, as if seeking to be exact.

"I suppose he would have put slavery among the necessary evils, sir," he
said, at length. "But he never could bear to have the liberator mentioned
in his presence. He was not at all in sympathy with Phillips, or Parker,
or Summer. And such was the general feeling among his friends."

"Then," said the Judge, "contrary to popular opinion in the West and
South, Boston is not all Abolition."

Stephen smiled.

"The conservative classes are not at all Abolitionists, sir."

"The conservative classes!" growled the Judge, "the conservative classes!
I am tired of hearing about the conservative classes. Why not come out
with it, sir, and say the moneyed classes, who would rather see souls
held in bondage than risk their worldly goods in an attempt to liberate
them?"

Stephen flushed. It was not at all clear to him then how he was to get
along with Judge Whipple. But he kept his temper.

"I am sure that you do them an injustice, sir," he said, with more
feeling them he had yet shown. "I am not speaking of the rich alone, and
I think that if you knew Boston you would not say that the conservative
class there is wholly composed of wealthy people. Many of may father's
friends were by no means wealthy. And I know that if he had been poor he
would have held the same views."

Stephen did not mark the quick look of approval which Colonel Carvel gave
him. Judge Whipple merely rubbed his nose.

"Well, sir," he said, "what were his views, then?"

"My father regarded slaves as property, sir. And conservative people"
(Stephen stuck to the word) "respect property the world over. My father's
argument was this: If men are deprived by violence of one kind of
property which they hold under the law, all other kinds of property will
be endangered. The result will be anarchy. Furthermore, he recognized
that the economic conditions in the South make slavery necessary to
prosperity. And he regarded the covenant made between the states of the
two sections as sacred."

There was a brief silence, during which the uncompromising expression of
the Judge did not change.

"And do you, sir?" he demanded.

"I am not sure, sir, after what I saw yesterday. I--I must have time to
see more of it."

"Good Lord," said Colonel Carvel, "if the conservative people of the
North act this way when they see a slave sale, what will the
Abolitionists do? Whipple," he added slowly, but with conviction, "this
means war."

Then the Colonel got to his feet, and bowed to Stephen with ceremony.

"Whatever you believe, sir," he said, "permit me to shake your hand. You
are a brave man, sir. And although my own belief is that the black race
is held in subjection by a divine decree, I can admire what you have
done, Mr. Brice. It was a noble act, sir,--a right noble act. And I have
more respect for the people of Boston, now, sir, than I ever had before,
sir."

Having delivered himself of this somewhat dubious compliment (which he
meant well), the Colonel departed.

Judge Whipple said nothing.


CHAPTER VII

CALLERS

If the Brices had created an excitement upon their arrival, it was as
nothing to the mad delirium which raged at Miss Crane's boarding-house.
during the second afternoon of their stay. Twenty times was Miss Crane on
the point of requesting Mrs. Brice to leave, and twenty times, by the
advice of Mrs. Abner Deed, she desisted. The culmination came when the
news leaked out that Mr. Stephen Brice had bought the young woman in
order to give her freedom. Like those who have done noble acts since the
world began, Stephen that night was both a hero and a fool. The cream
from which heroes is made is very apt to turn.

"Phew!" cried Stephen, when they had reached their room after tea,
"wasn't that meal a fearful experience? Let's find a hovel, mother, and
go and live in it. We can't stand it here any longer."

"Not if you persist in your career of reforming an Institution, my son,"
answered the widow, smiling.

"It was beastly hard luck," said he, "that I should have been shouldered
with that experience the first day. But I have tried to think it over
calmly since, and I can see nothing else to have done." He paused in his
pacing up and down, a smile struggling with his serious look. "It was
quite a hot-headed business for one of the staid Brices, wasn't it?"

"The family has never been called impetuous," replied his mother. "It
must be the Western air."

He began his pacing again. His mother had not said one word about the
money. Neither had he. Once more he stopped before her.

"We are at least a year nearer the poor-house," he said; "you haven't
scolded me for that. I should feel so much better if you would."

"Oh, Stephen, don't say that!" she exclaimed. "God has given me no
greater happiness in this life than the sight of the gratitude of that
poor creature, Nancy. I shall never forget the old woman's joy at the
sight of her daughter. It made a palace out of that dingy furniture shop.
Hand me my handkerchief, dear."

Stephen noticed with a pang that the lace of it was frayed and torn at
the corner.

There was a knock at the door.

"Come in," said Mrs. Brice, hastily putting the handkerchief down.

Hester stood on the threshold, and old Nancy beside her.

"Evenin', Mis' Brice. De good Lawd bless you, lady, an' Miste' Brice,"
said the old negress.

"Well, Nancy?"

Nancy pressed into the room. "Mis' Brice!"

"Yes?"

"Ain' you gwineter' low Hester an' me to wuk fo' you?"

"Indeed I should be glad to, Nancy. But we are boarding."

"Yassm, yassm," said Nancy, and relapsed into awkward silence. Then
again, "Mis' Brice!"

"Yes, Nancy?"

"Ef you 'lows us t' come heah an' straighten out you' close, an' mend 'em
--you dunno how happy you mek me an' Hester--des to do dat much, Mis'
Brice."

The note of appeal was irresistible. Mrs. Brice rose and unlocked the
trunks.

"You may unpack them, Nancy," she said.

With what alacrity did the old woman take off her black bonnet and shawl!
"Whaffor you stannin' dere, Hester?" she cried.

"Hester is tired," said Mrs. Brice, compassionately, and tears came to
her eyes again at the thought of what they had both been through that
day.

"Tired!" said Nancy, holding up her hands. "No'm, she ain' tired. She des
kinder stupefied by you' goodness, Mis' Brice."

A scene was saved by the appearance of Miss Crane's hired girl.

"Mr. and Mrs. Cluyme, in the parlor, mum," she said.

If Mr. Jacob Cluyme sniffed a little as he was ushered into Miss Crane's
best parlor, it was perhaps because of she stuffy dampness of that room.
Mr. Cluyme was one of those persons the effusiveness of whose greeting
does not tally with the limpness of their grasp. He was attempting, when
Stephen appeared, to get a little heat into his hands by rubbing them, as
a man who kindles a stick of wood for a visitor. The gentleman had red
chop-whiskers,--to continue to put his worst side foremost, which
demanded a ruddy face. He welcomed Stephen to St. Louis with neighborly
effusion; while his wife, a round little woman, bubbled over to Mrs.
Brice.

"My dear sir," said Mr. Cluyme, "I used often to go to Boston in the
forties. In fact--ahem--I may claim to be a New Englander. Alas, no, I
never met your father. But when I heard of the sad circumstances of his
death, I felt as if I had lost a personal friend. His probity, sir, and
his religious principles were an honor to the Athens of America. I have
listened to my friend, Mr. Atterbury,--Mr. Samuel Atterbury,--eulogize
him by the hour."

Stephen was surprised.

"Why, yes," said he, "Mr. Atterbury was a friend."

"Of course," said Mr. Cluyme, "I knew it. Four years ago, the last
business trip I made to Boston, I met Atterbury on the street. Absence
makes no difference to some men, sir, nor the West, for that matter. They
never change. Atterbury nearly took me in his arms. Foreign Affairs under
such circumstances were supposed to be more impartially treated, so that
even Norway's lawful interests could receive due attention. But by the
amendment of the Constitution of 1885 the Swedish Foreign Minister
would be entirely subservient to Swedish Parliamentarism, which
made the employment of the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs,
in the protection of Norwegian interests, still more dissatisfactory
for Norway than formerly.

This is pretended to have become the source of the last twenty
year's Union struggle[9:2].

Now the state of the case is this, _the Foreign Minister's parliamentary
responsibility has not been increased by the amendment of the Constitution
in 1885_. Formerly he was--just as he is now-- responsible, as reporter,
in the first place for all _resolutions_ in Foreign affairs. The point
that was formally confirmed by law in 1885 was, that the Minister for
Foreign Affairs should also _prepare_ matters concerning foreign affairs.
According to the older version of the paragraph that was altered that
year (1885), the King was invested with greater rights in reference to
that side of the administration of foreign affairs.

Thus the amendment of the Constitution in 1885 only effected that
the actual influence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Sweden's
foreign policy was brought into harmony with the formal responsibility
he held in all cases for Sweden's Foreign policy.

It may be added that this constitutional amendment only confirmed the
old practice, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was formerly
regularly employed to prepare matters concerning foreign affairs, and
that his previous employment in the preparation of foreign affairs was
naturally carried out under observation of the responsibility in which
he stood for the resolutions taken, and was not inspired by any mysterious
personal relations to the King. The whole of this Norwegian notion of the
fatal influence on the Union in this constitutional amendment, is,
in fact, nothing but a manufactured theory containing no real grounds
whatsoever.

Now it must be observed that Norway had formerly no regular
parliamentary control over foreign affairs, _but the Swedish offer
of 1891 was just intended to give the Norwegian Storthing the right
to this control, to be exercised under the same conditions as those
in the Swedish Diet_.

But the Storthing refused (as previously mentioned) the Swedish
offer; it preferred to keep the quarrel alive, and in order to do
this, it was necessary to be able to refer to Swedish oppression.

[Sidenote: _The Norwegian radicals' method of taking matters into their
hands._]

The Swedish offer being thus refused, the Norwegian Union politics in 1891
took a new turn. The road was already pointed out by the veteran leader
of the Left Side (separatists) JOHAN SVERDRUP; it was indicated
»to take matters into our own hands».

The system was founded on the Norwegian Left Side State-law theory,
according to which Norway, as a Sovereign state, was entitled to its own
Minister for Foreign Affairs, its own diplomatic representatives and
consuls, all of which was proved with much craft by the Constitution of
Norway and the Act of Union between Sweden and Norway. The right
to one and all to which Norway, as a Sovereign power, was entitled,
should now be realized, independently and boldly, without consulting
Sweden.

By Royal Decree, the Storting having granted the means, a Norwegian
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norwegian Diplomatic Representatives
and consuls should be appointed without delay in the Norwegian
Council.

Thus the lines of the future politics of Norway were fixed by the
Separatists[10:1].

It is obvious, that the notion of the one Kingdom in a Union being able,
of its own accord without consulting the other Kingdom, to alter and
dissolve the bonds of Union, is theoretically inimical to the Union
itself, and in fact shows enormous disloyalty to the other half of the
Union.

A _Union_ policy of this sort is, of course, in spirit, completely
revolutionary, and at the outset has no place within the Union.
Nevertheless it has been followed under continued official protestations
of fidelity to the Union--the last speech of this sort was heard a short
time ago, when the well known road was fully marked out, right away to
the object so long hovering in view.

This is not the only piece of duplicity in Norwegian Union policy
of whech Sweden has had to complain.

There was a cautious beginning with »their own Consuls»; it was too venturesome
a task to begin the system at once with the question of their own
Minister for Foreign Affairs.

[Sidenote: _The real innecessity of having separate Consuls._]
On the side of Norway it has been claimed that the mercantile
interests of Norway demanded a Consular Service of its own[11:1].

In reality, it is an indisputable fact, even acknowledged by
Norwegians, that no essentially practical inconvenience has been
caused by the system of having a joint Consular Service.

The Circles most affected by the matter in Norway, Commercial men and
ship-owners--were in opposition for a long time; not even in 1891 did
the separatists venture to lay the Consular Committee's deliberations
on the subject before the mercantile authorities.

One Norwegian, who was well competent to judge of the matter, acknowledged
openly, when the question was first broached, that »the grounds of the
proposition for a complete separation as being of benefit to the shipping,
commerce, and industry of the country, are so weak, that it would be
impossible for them except, through persistent agitation to gain conviction,
either among the classes most interested, or amongst the masses of the
people». There are principally two reasons for the proposed reform, first
that Sweden and Norway have a different Tariff-System, secondly, the
frequent rivalry between Swedish and Norwegian trade articles of
export.

The first reason is baseless, as the different Tariff-Systems are
of importance chiefly for the imports, and not for the exports[12:1];
the second reason loses its chief point by the fact that consuls
are not commercial agents, that it is not their business to promote
trade for private individuals, but only to give reports of the
possibilities of trading with different countries.

It is also worthy of mention, that in Sweden not the slightest wish has
been expressed in this direction, though at present the majority
of the Consuls abroad are Norwegians.

And as regards the much-talked of fears, that in the administration of
the Consular Service by the Foreign Office, partiality might be exercised
in the interests of Sweden, the fact _that for a long time past
the whole of the mercantile portion of the Consuls' duties have,
on Norway's side, been performed by one of the Norwegian Government
Departements_, proves how vain those fears were.

[Sidenote: _The real object of raising the consular question._]

Norwegian separatists, among others MICHELSEN himself, long ago, in a
moment of rare sincerity, have acknowledged that other motives besides
the practical have been at the root of the claim for reform. A Norwegian
Consular Service meant, in itself, a step in the direction of the
rupture of the bonds of Union, and was therefore even then an object
worth striving for.

But it was also openly declared, that a Norwegian Consular Service would
necessarily be succeeded by a Norwegian diplomatic representation and a
Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs. »Directly they have got
the wedge fixed into the small end», wrote in 1892 President HANS
FORSSELL, »they will try to persuade us that there will be no danger
in letting them drive it in a bit».

Above all they considered that a Norwegian Consular Service would
by degrees disorganize the administration of the Foreign Office,
and on the grounds of the dominating rôle interests of economy play
in the Foreign politics of our day, it would by degrees expand into
a regular Norwegian Foreign Office.

[Sidenote: _Want of Union motives for Consular reform._]
The chief characteristic of this programme is the total absence of
any motive for it from a Union point of view.

Modern Norwegian Nationalism has only really thought of Sweden and
Norway, but not of the Union and its claims.

Whenever Sweden has ventured to advocate the cause of the Union, Norway
has begun to talk of the interests of Sweden.

If, at any time, the claims of the Union have been discussed in Norway,
they have usually been identical with those of Norway. The interests
of the Union demanded that Norway, without further parley, got
what its national sensitive feeling was pleased to decree as the
Sovereign Norway's right.

That is about the gist of the matter. The Norwegian policy has by
degrees become blind to the fact, that the interests of the Union
ought to demand a subordination of the inclination to decide arbitrarily
on points touching the Union, both for the sake of Sweden and--of
Norway.

[Sidenote: _Misinterpretation of the King's opposition._]
When therefore the King, in the interests of _the Union_, at first
opposed both the Consular reform itself and the manner of carrying
it out, they did not see the King of Norway, or the King of the
Union, only the King of Sweden, the veto of the King of Norway was
called the Swedish veto against the rightful claims of Norway.

This dishonest doctrine has gradually poisoned the minds of the people of
Norway, and it is this, that has brought about the rupture of the
Union.

[Sidenote: _The raising of the Consular question in 1891._]

Under strong protest from the Norwegian Right Side (Conservative), which
at that time looked upon a separate Consular Service under a mutual
diplomatic administration as introducing something hitherto unheard of in
the annals of history, the consular question was brought to the
decision by the Norwegian Left Side.

By an order of the Storthing, the method was established: the Consular
question was exclusively a Norwegian matter, which must be treated and
decided upon by Norwegian authorities of State alone; on the other hand
the _winding up_ of the joint Consular Service would be a cause of
negotiations with Sweden. In plain words, the Royal Decree must be
given in a Norwegian Cabinet Council, not in a so-called Joint
Cabinet consisting of both Swedish and Norwegian members, which
according to the Act of Union must decide in all questions »concerning
the two Kingdoms[14:1].»

And this one-sided right of decision was maintained in spite of the
common Consular statutes--the last in 1886 --having been confirmed
by a Joint Cabinet, and in spite of the fact that these statutes
prescribed the settlement of Consular Affairs in that Council alone.

Added to this, the relations of the future Norwegian Consular Service to
the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs and diplomatic representatives
had also to be arranged.

This matter might certainly be considered, to belong to the negotiations
relating to the winding up of the joint Consular Service. But if Norway
resolved that a separate Consular Service should be established
within a given time, it would be Norway's prerogative to dictate
the conditions of winding it up; Norway might without further
ceremony withdraw a portion of its Foreign affairs from the joint
Foreign administration.

Through its leader, EMIL STANG, the Norwegian Conservatives supported the
Union King's view that the matter was as yet too imperfectly
developed, and that it must be decided on in a joint Cabinet.

But in 1892 the Storthing resolved, with a majority of 14 votes,
on the establishment of a Norwegian Consular Service.

The King was prepared to refuse the sanction to this, in a Norwegian
Cabinet Council, and then and there began the conflict between King
and Council, as witnessed by the events of later times.

The character of this conflict may be mentioned already here, as
Norway, in fact, was even then, in 1892, on the eve of the revolution,
which has now broken out.

[Sidenote: _»The King and the Ministry» according to the Norwegian
Constitution._]
When the Constitution of Norway was framed in 1814, the Continent
was but little acquainted with the pure parliamentarism, with a
ruling Council and a powerless King.

The Constitution is instead based on the theory of the division of
the state power into three organs, and this is plainly stated in
the division of the Constitution.

The King's veto over legal questions is only suspensive, but he is not
represented as the helpless tool of Storthing and Council. The Cabinet
Council is certainly responsible to the Storthing, but only for its
own advice, not for the King's Decrees. The King is legally bound to
listen to the opinions of his ministers, but the right of making Decrees
according to his own judgment, is expressly reserved to him. Nor does the
Constitution of Norway recognize the law of refusing countersignature,
which is found for instance in the Swedish Constitution. In 1814 the
Storthing explicitly refused a proposition to give the Cabinet Council
this right, declaring that the King ought not to be deprived of
all his privileges.

All the King's Decrees must be countersigned by one of the Prime Ministers,
but this countersignature implies only the responsibility for the
agreement of the records with the resolutions taken. The greatest Norwegian
writers on State Law, have acknowledged that this is Norwegian
National Law[15:1].

Furthermore the Constitution originally did not recognize something
else remarkable for modern parliamentarism: the Ministers were not
even allowed to attend the debates of the Storthing.

Then came the Crisis of 1884, when the Norwegian Radicals with the Court
of impeachment a weapon, forced the King to capitulate, forced him to
summon a Radical Ministry, and to sanction an amendment of the Constitution,
by which the Ministery were allowed to attend the debates in the
Storthing.

By this means, the modern parliamentarism, with all its claims, elbowed
its way into Norwegian State life.

But the old prescriptions as to the responsibility of the Cabinet
Council, were retained, and they must naturally be interpreted as
of old.

The new parliamentary interpretation of these prescriptions of
responsibility, especially the right of refusing countersignature,
was opposed by the King, who adhered to the old only possible forms.

[Sidenote: _The development of the Consular question._]
Even in 1892 the Radical Cabinet STEEN did not venture to carry the
Consular question to an extreme.

They were contented to play with fire.

Before the King found an opportunity to give his definite answer to the
consular question, the Cabinet retired.

The Ministerial strike recently set on the political stage, was
even then in the perspective.

But the King having vainly tried to form a Conservative Ministry
and matters becoming serious, a retreat was sounded, the Storthing
itself taking the initiative, this time, strange to say, receiving
the hint from Mr MICHELSEN.

The requests of the Ministers to resign were withdrawn, and the
Consular Question was postponed to a future date.

The Norwegian masses were not as yet sufficiently impregnated with
the gospel of the dissolution of the Union--and Norway was not yet
armed for defence.

The following year the same tale began afresh.

The Storthing resolved on having a separate Consular Service, the
Ministers sent in their requests to resign, to avoid, as they
declared, rousing a constitutional dispute on the countersignature
question which might bring about consequences »that scarcely any
other political question had aroused in our present constitution».

This time the Conservatives stepped into the breach on behalf of the King
and the Union. For two years The Cabinet STANG opposed a furious Storthing,
while the King was powerless to form a parliamentary Radical
Ministry on reasonable terms.

This conflict naturally produced intense excitement, and the Radicals,
of course, saw in the King's opposition, Sweden's and the King's
of Sweden, not the King's of the United Kingdoms fighting a battle
against the destruction of the Union.

It is in this way that the Consular Question became magnified into a
question of National honour.

The blow given to their honour by the disloyalty of the Radicals to
the _Union_ was entirely ignored. The Consular question became by
degrees, the chief National question of the country.

[Sidenote: _The position in 1895._]
In the Spring of 1895 the situation in Norway was such that a
complete standstill was threatened, and all sorts of extravagant
plans were mooted on the Norwegian Radical Side.

It was then that in limited Swedish Conservatives circles a plan
was said to exist for making Norway come to an agreeable settlement
of the Union question, by main force.

This is a matter impossible to decide.

These reports spread like wildfire, and had the effect of oil upon fire.
And now at last Norway begins to think of her defence which of late
years she has neglected.

[Sidenote: _The Union Committee 1895-1908._]
The Norwegians meanwhile gave in as Norway was not ready.

The Storthing in Norway also consented to what Sweden had all along
endeavoured to obtain, viz. a general settlement.

The Union Committee 1895-1898 effected a couple of year's truce;
any real results were not to be expected.

The Norwegian Radicals had other plans than a reasonable settlement
of the Union question; its representatives in the Committee were
bound by their party programme, and insisted on having their own
Minister for Foreign affairs.

On the other side, the two representatives of the Swedish Conservatives
maintained the demand for a Union Parliament which the Norwegians
in the previous Union Committee had refused.

The Swedish and Norwegian majorities were very nearly balanced. They
were united in the opinion that the Union necessarily demanded a
joint Minister for Foreign affairs, but differed in everything else
on several points.

For instance, the Norwegian majority, characteristically would not
agree to limit the possibility for Norway (on the grounds of paragraph
25 in the Constitution) of withdrawing of her own accord, a greater
or smaller portion of Norwegian troops from the defending forces
of the Union[18:1].

In the Consular question there were also differences.

The Swedish members were unanimous in insisting on a joint Consular
Service for both Kingdoms. The Norwegian majority preferred, from all
points of view, a joint Consular Service to a separate one for
each Kingdom, and strongly emphasized the point that in all
circumstances the consuls ought to be personally and immediately
under the control of the Minister for Foreign affairs, as the limits
in the sphere of operations between the Consuls and the Diplomatic
Officials became more and more indefined.

But with evident respect to the opposing Norwegian opinions, it tried
to regulate the Consular Service, by joint terminable laws, nevertheless,
so worded, that not till the lapse of 15 years, the Kingdom that so
desired, might have the right to dissolve the joint Consular
Service[18:2].

[Sidenote: _Norway prepares again to the Consular Question._]
The Union Committee having failed, the Norwegian Radicals prepared for
another attack on the old lines. By passing the Flag Bill, they
prepared to renew negotiations on the Consular Question, while,
at the same time, they were busily engaged in strengthening their
defence and raising on the boundaries rumoured fortresses against
Sweden.

The Under Secretary of State, Dr.

SIGURD IBSEN, instituted an inquiry as to the feasibility of having
a separate Consular Service in conjunction with the existing Foreign
administration.

It was on this point that the Minister for Foreign affairs, for the
time being, Mr. LAGERHEIM, made a proposal, the consequences of
which brought about the present crisis.

FOOTNOTES:

[8:1] Compare NANSEN (page 48 and following).

[9:1] The Norwegians, as aforesaid, have generally looked upon Sweden's
maintaining its conception of the Union law as something very
criminal; this has been Norway's right alone

.

[9:2] Compare NANSEN (page 54). »The change in the Swedish Constitution in
1885 has therefore become the principal cause of the last twenty
years' strife in the union

.»

[10:1] On the Norwegian side, it has been said, that Sweden in 1885 adopted
the same method, when, by changing the Swedish Constitution by themselves,
they reorganized the Council for Foreign affairs. It must, however,
be observed, that, in this, Sweden is supported by its own right,
as acknowledged by the foremost Norwegian writers on state law and
Norwegian Conservatives, to undertake the management of foreign
policy.

This legal stand-point had been adopted in 1835, when a resolution was
passed in the _Swedish_ Cabinet to admit the Norwegian Minister
of State to the Ministeral Council.

The Norwegian claim to participate in the revision of the Swedish Constitution
is, however, unwarrantable, as Norway, in the indisputably unionistic
Stadtholder question in 1860 maintained that Sweden was not warranted
in interfering when revisions or changes were made in the Norwegian
Constitution

.

[11:1] Compare NANSEN (page 68 and following)

.

[12:1] It is a singular coincidence, that Norway in these days,
when it has brought the Consular question to a climax, has begun
to carry out a general rise in the Fiscal rates; the mercantile
interests of »the land of Free Trade» Norway evidently do not lie
so very deep after all

.

[14:1] The question as to when a matter shall be discussed in a
Joint Cabinet or not, has not been the smallest of the stumbling
blocks in the thorny path of the Union negotiations.

In Norway, to quote Mr HAGERUP, there has been quite a »sickly»
fear of having matters settled there.

On the Norwegian Left Side they have defended the opinion, that only those
matters which, being expressly mentioned in the Act of Union, as
being distinctively Union-matters ought to be brought there.

In Sweden it has been held, that the Act of Union has no power to
give an exhaustive account as to what matters belong to the Union
and which do not.

Whether it can be considered a matter which concerns both the
Kingdoms depends entirely on the exact nature of the matter itself.

_This latter conception has been adopted of old._ 
[15:1] Compare No.

I §§ 5, 15, 30, 31

.

[18:1] The Swedish majority had contemplated a provision in the Act
of Union, wherevy it became incumbent for both Kingdoms to place a
fixed minimum of fighting forces to the disposition of the Union

.

[18:2] NANSEN says (page 71) »Divisions arose partly over the resistance
from the Swedish side to the unanimous demand of the Norwegian
delegates for a separate Consular Service.»

This is, as plainly apparent, an extremely modified version of the
truth.

III.

[Sidenote: _His Excellency Mr. Lagerheim's Proposal._]

His Excellency Mr.

LAGERHEIM'S proposal implied an attempt to settle the Consular
Question itself, by retaining the existing Foreign Administration
and dissolving the joint Consular Service.

By doing this, he plainly foresaw that the Consular Question would
inevitably be raised afresh on the part of Norway.

It was necessary therefore to lead the work of reform in the quiet
paths of Union negotiations, in order to prevent the old attempts
on Norway's side »to take matters into her own hands», to the
detriment of the harmony in the Union.

If results in that way could be gained, negotiative operations might win
more confidence from distrustful Norwegian politicians.
You're old enough to know better,
Virginia. Mr. Vance was to have driven out for dinner. Have you seen him,
Clarence?"

"No, mother."

"He is so amusing," Mrs. Colfax continued, "and he generally brings
candy. I shall die of the blues before supper." She sat down with a grand
air at the head of the table, while Alfred took the lid from the silver
soup-tureen in front of her. "Jinny, can't you say something bright? Do I
have to listen to Clarence's horse talk for another hour? Tell me some
gossip. Will you have some gumbo soup?"

"Why do you listen to Clarence's horse talk?" said Virginia. "Why don't
you make him go to work!"

"Mercy!" said Mrs. Colfax, laughing, "what could he do?"

"That's just it," said Virginia. "He hasn't a serious interest in life."

Clarence looked sullen. And his mother, as usual, took his side.

"What put that into your head, Jinny," she said. "He has the place here
to look after, a very gentlemanly occupation. That's what they do in
Virginia."

"Yes," said Virginia, scornfully, "we're all gentlemen in the South. What
do we know about business and developing the resources of the country?
Not THAT."

"You make my head ache, my dear," was her aunt's reply. "Where did you
get all this?"

"You ask me because I am a girl," said Virginia. "You believe that women
were made to look at, and to play with,--not to think. But if we are
going to get ahead of the Yankees, we shall have to think. It was all
very well to be a gentleman in the days of my great-grandfather. But now
we have railroads and steamboats. And who builds them? The Yankees. We of
the South think of our ancestors, and drift deeper and deeper into debt.
We know how to fight, and we know how to command. But we have been ruined
by--" here she glanced at the retreating form of Alfred, and lowered her
voice, "by niggers."

Mrs. Colfax's gaze rested languidly on her niece's faces which glowed
with indignation.

"You get this terrible habit of argument from Comyn," she said. "He ought
to send you to boarding-school. How mean of Mr. Vance not to come! You've
been talking with that old reprobate Whipple. Why does Comyn put up with
him?"

"He isn't an old reprobate," said Virginia, warmly.

"You really ought to go to school," said her aunt. "Don't be eccentric.
It isn't fashionable. I suppose you wish Clarence to go into a factory."

"If I were a man," said Virginia, "and going into a factory would teach
me how to make a locomotive or a cotton press, or to build a bridge, I
should go into a factory. We shall never beat the Yankees until we meet
them on their own ground."

"There is Mr. Vance now," said Mrs. Colfax, and added fervently, "Thank
the Lord!"


CHAPTER IX

A QUIET SUNDAY IN LOCUST STREET

IF the truth were known where Virginia got the opinions which she
expressed so freely to her aunt and cousin, it was from Colonel Carvel
himself. The Colonel would rather have denounced the Dred Scott decision
than admit to Judge Whipple that one of the greatest weaknesses of the
South lay in her lack of mechanical and manufacturing ability. But he had
confessed as much in private to Captain Elijah Brent. The Colonel would
often sit for an hour or more, after supper, with his feet tucked up on
the mantel and his hat on the back of his head, buried in thought. Then
he would saunter slowly down to the Planters' House bar, which served the
purposes of a club in those days, in search of an argument with other
prominent citizens. The Colonel had his own particular chair in his own
particular corner, which was always vacated when he came in at the door.
And then he always had three fingers of the best Bourbon whiskey, no more
and no less, every evening.

He never met his bosom friend and pet antagonist at the Planters' House
bar. Judge Whipple, indeed, took his meals upstairs, but he never
descended,--it was generally supposed because of the strong slavery
atmosphere there. However, the Judge went periodically to his friend's
for a quiet Sunday dinner (so called in derision by St. Louisans), on
which occasions Virginia sat at the end of the table and endeavored to
pour water on the flames when they flared up too fiercely.

The Sunday following her ride to Bellegarde was the Judge's Sunday,
Certain tastes which she had inherited had hitherto provided her with
pleasurable sensations while these battles were in progress. More than
once had she scored a fair hit on the Judge for her father,--to the
mutual delight of both gentlemen. But to-day she dreaded being present at
the argument. Just why she dreaded it is a matter of feminine psychology
best left to the reader for solution.

The argument began, as usual, with the tearing apart limb by limb of the
unfortunate Franklin Pierce, by Judge Whipple.

"What a miserable exhibition in the eyes of the world," said the Judge.
"Franklin Pierce of New Hampshire" (he pronounced this name with infinite
scorn) "managed by Jefferson Davis of Mississippi!"

"And he was well managed, sir," said the Colonel.

"What a pliant tool of your Southern slaveholders! I hear that you are to
give him a plantation as a reward."

"No such thing, sir."

"He deserves it," continued the Judge, with conviction. "See the
magnificent forts he permitted Davis to build up in the South, the
arsenals he let him stock. The country does not realize this. But the day
will, come when they will execrate Pierce before Benedict Arnold, sir.
And look at the infamous Kansas-Nebraska act! That is the greatest crime,
and Douglas and Pierce the greatest criminals, of the century."

"Do have some more of that fried chicken, Judge," said Virginia.

Mr. Whipple helped himself fiercely, and the Colonel smiled.

"You should be satisfied now," said he. "Another Northern man is in the
White House."

"Buchanan!" roared the Judge, with his mouth full.

"Another traitor, sir. Another traitor worse than the first. He swallows
the Dred Scott decision, and smirks. What a blot on the history of this
Republic! O Lord!" cried Mr. Whipple, "what are we coming to? A Northern
man, he could gag and bind Kansas and force her into slavery against the
will of her citizens. He packs his Cabinet to support the ruffians you
send over the borders. The very governors he ships out there, his
henchmen, have their stomachs turned. Look at Walker, whom they are
plotting against in Washington. He can't stand the smell of this
Lecompton Constitution Buchanan is trying to jam down their throats.
Jefferson Davis would have troops there, to be sure that it goes through,
if he had his way. Can't you see how one sin leads to another, Carvel?
How slavery is rapidly demoralizing a free people?"

"It is because you won't let it alone where it belongs, sir," retorted
the Colonel. It was seldom that he showed any heat in his replies. He
talked slowly, and he had a way of stretching forth his hand to prevent
the more eager Judge from interrupting him.

"The welfare of the whole South, as matters now stand, sir, depends upon
slavery. Our plantations could not exist a day without slave labor. If
you abolished that institution, Judge Whipple, you would ruin millions of
your fellow-countrymen,--you would reduce sovereign states to a situation
of disgraceful dependence. And all, sir," now he raised his voice lest
the Judge break in, "all, sir, for the sake of a low breed that ain't fit
for freedom. You and I, who have the Magna Charta and the Declaration of
Independence behind us, who are descended from a race that has done
nothing but rule for ten centuries and more, may well establish a
Republic where the basis of stability is the self-control of the
individual--as long as men such as you and I form its citizens. Look at
the South Americans. How do Republics go there? And the minute you and I
let in niggers, who haven't any more self-control than dogs, on an equal
basis, with as much of a vote as you have,--niggers, sir, that have lived
like wild beasts in the depths of the jungle since the days of Ham,
--what's going to become of our Republic?"

"Education," cried the Judge.

But the word was snatched out of his mouth.

"Education isn't a matter of one generation. No, sir, nor two, nor three,
nor four. But of centuries."

"Sir," said the Judge, "I can point out negroes of intelligence and
learning."

"And I reckon you could teach some monkeys to talk English, and recite
the catechism, and sing emotional hymns, if you brought over a couple of
million from Africa," answered the Colonel, dryly, as he rose to put on
his hat and light a cigar.

It was his custom to offer a cigar to the Judge, who invariably refused,
and rubbed his nose with scornful violence.

Virginia, on the verge of leaving, stayed on, fascinated by the turn the
argument had taken.

"Your prejudice is hide-bound, sir," said Mr. Whipple.

"No, Whipple," said the Colonel, "when God washed off this wicked earth,
and started new, He saw fit to put the sons of Ham in subjection. They're
slaves of each other in Africa, and I reckon they're treated no better
than they are here. Abuses can't be helped in any system, sir, though we
are bettering them. Were the poor in London in the days of the Edwards as
well off as our niggers are to-day?"

The Judge snorted.

"A divine institution!" he shouted. "A black curse! Because the world has
been a wicked place of oppression since Noah's day, is that any reason
why it should so continue until the day of Judgment?"

The Colonel smiled, which was a sign that he was pleased with his
argument.

"Now, see here, Whipple," said he. "If we had any guarantee that you
would let us alone where we are, to manage our slaves and to cultivate
our plantations, there wouldn't be any trouble. But the country keeps on
growing and growing, and you're not content with half. You want
everything,--all the new states must abolish slavery. And after a while
you will overwhelm us, and ruin us, and make us paupers. Do you wonder
that we contend for our rights, tooth and nail? They are our rights."

"If it had not been for Virginia and Maryland and the South, this nation
would not be in existence."

The Colonel laughed.

"First rate, Jinny," he cried. "That's so."

But the Judge was in a revery. He probably had not heard her.

"The nation is going to the dogs," he said, mumbling rather to himself
than to the others. "We shall never prosper until the curse is shaken
off, or wiped out in blood. It clogs our progress. Our merchant marine,
of which we were so proud, has been annihilated by these continued
disturbances. But, sir," he cried, hammering his fist upon the table
until the glasses rang, "the party that is to save us was born at
Pittsburgh last year on Washington's birthday. The Republican Party,
sir."

"Shucks!" exclaimed Mr. Carvel, with amusement, "The Black Republican
Party, made up of old fools and young Anarchists, of Dutchmen and
nigger-worshippers. Why, Whipple, that party's a joke. Where's your
leader?"

"In Illinois," was the quick response.

"What's his name?"

"Abraham Lincoln, sir," thundered Mr. Whipple. "And to my way of thinking
he has uttered a more significant phrase on the situation than any of
your Washington statesmen. 'This government,' said he to a friend of
mine, 'cannot exist half slave and half free.'"

So impressively did Mr. Whipple pronounce these words that Mr. Carvel
stirred uneasily, and in spite of himself, as though he were listening to
an oracle. He recovered instantly.

"He's a demagogue, seeking for striking phrases, sir. You're too
intelligent a man to be taken in by such as he."

"I tell you he is not, sir."

"I know him, sir," cried the Colonel, taking down his feet. "He's an
obscure lawyer. Poor white trash! Torn down poor! My friend Mr.
Richardson of Springfield tells me he is low down. He was born in a log
cabin, and spends most of his time in a drug-store telling stories that
you would not listen to, Judge Whipple."

"I would listen to anything he said," replied the Judge. "Poor white
trash, sir! The greatest men rise from the people. A demagogue!" Mr.
Whipple fairly shook with rage. "The nation doesn't know him yet. But
mark my words, the day will come when it will. He was ballotted for
Vice-President in the Philadelphia convention last year. Nobody paid any
attention to that. If the convention had heard him speak at Bloomington,
he would have been nominated instead of Fremont. If the nation could have
heard him, he would be President to-day instead of that miserable
Buchanan. I happened to be at Bloomington. And while the idiots on the
platform were drivelling, the people kept calling for Lincoln. I had
never heard of him then. I've never forgot him since. He came ambling out
of the back of the hall, a lanky, gawky looking man, ridiculously ugly,
sir. But the moment he opened his mouth he had us spellbound. The
language which your low-down lawyer used was that of a God-sent prophet,
sir. He had those Illinois bumpkins all worked up,--the women crying,
and some of the men, too. And mad! Good Lord, they were mad--'We will say
to the Southern disunionists,' he cried,--'we will say to the Southern
disunionists, we won't go out of the Union, and you shan't.'"

There was a silence when the Judge finished. But presently Mr. Carvel
took a match. And he stood over the Judge in his favorite attitude,
--with his feet apart,--as he lighted another cigar.

"I reckon we're going to have war, Silas," said he, slowly; "but don't
you think that your Mr. Lincoln scares me into that belief. I don't count
his bluster worth a cent. No sirree! It's this youngster who comes out
here from Boston and buys a nigger with all the money he's got in the
world. And if he's an impetuous young fool; I'm no judge of men."

"Appleton Brice wasn't precisely impetuous," remarked Mr. Whipple. And he
smiled a little bitterly, as though the word had stirred a memory.

"I like that young fellow," Mr. Carvel continued. "It seems to be a kind
of fatality with me to get along with Yankees. I reckon there's a screw
loose somewhere, but Brice acted the man all the way through. He goa a
fall out of you, Silas, in your room, after the show. Where are you
going, Jinny?"

Virginia had risen, and she was standing very erects with a flush on her
face, waiting for her father to finish.

"To see Anne Brinsmade," she said. "Good-by, Uncle Silas."

She had called him so from childhood. Hers was the one voice that seemed
to soften him--it never failed. He turned to her now with a movement that
was almost gentle. "Virginia, I should like you to know my young Yankee,"
said he.

"Thank you, Uncle Silas," said the girl, with dignity, "but I scarcely
think that he would care to know me. He feels so strongly."

"He feels no stronger than I do," replied the Judge.

"You have gotten used to me in eighteen years, and besides," she flashed,
"you never spent all the money you had in the world for a principle."

Mr. Whipple smiled as she went out of the door.

"I have spent pretty near all," he said. But more to himself than to the
Colonel.

That evening, some young people came in to tea, two of the four big
Catherwood boys, Anne Brinsmade and her brother Jack, Puss Russell and
Bert, and Eugenie Renault. But Virginia lost her temper. In an evil
moment Puss Russell started the subject of the young Yankee who had
deprived her of Hester. Puss was ably seconded by Jack Brinsmade, whose
reputation as a tormentor extended far back into his boyhood. In vain;
did Anne, the peacemaker, try to quench him, while the big Catherwoods
and Bert Russell laughed incessantly. No wonder that Virginia was angry.
She would not speak to Puss as that young lady bade her good night. And
the Colonel, coming home from an evening with Mr, Brinsmade, found his
daughter in an armchair, staring into the sitting-room fire. There was no
other light in the room Her chin was in her hand, and her lips were
pursed.

"Heigho!" said the Colonel, "what's the trouble now?"

"Nothing," said Virginia.

"Come," he insisted, "what have they been doing to my girl?"

"Pa!"

"Yes, honey."

"I don't want to go to balls all my life. I want to go to
boarding-school, and learn something. Emily is going to Monticello after
Christmas. Pa, will you let me?"

Mr. Carvel winced. He put an arm around her. He, thought of his lonely
widowerhood, of her whose place Virginia had taken.

"And what shall I do?" he said, trying to smile.

"It will only be for a little while. And Monticello isn't very far, Pa."

"Well, well, there is plenty of time to think it over between now and
January," he said. "And now I have a little favor to ask of you, honey."

"Yes?" she said.

The Colonel took the other armchair, stretched his feet toward the blaze,
and stroked his goatee. He glanced covertly at his daughter's profile.
Twice he cleared hip throat.

"Jinny?"

"Yes, Pa" (without turning her head).

"Jinny, I was going to speak of this young. Brice. He's a stranger here,
and he comes of a good family, and--and I like him."

"And you wish me to invite him to my party," finished Virginia.

The Colonel started. "I reckon you guessed it," he said.

Virginia remained immovable. She did not answer at once. Then she said:

"Do you think, in bidding against me, that he behaved, like a gentleman?"

The Colonel blundered.

"Lord, Virginia," he said, "I thought you told the judge this afternoon
teat it was done out of principle."

Virginia ignored this. But she bit her lip

"He is like all Yankees, without one bit of consideration for a woman. He
knew I wanted Hester."

"What makes you imagine that he thought of you at all, my dear?" asked
her father, mildly, "He does not know you."

This time the Colonel scored certainly. The firelight saved Virginia.

"He overheard our conversation," she answered.

"I reckon that he wasn't worrying much about us. And besides, he was
trying to save Hester from Jennings."

"I thought that you said that it was to be my party, Pa," said Virginia,
irrelevantly.

The Colonel looked thoughtful, then he began to laugh.

"Haven't we enough Black Republican friends?" she asked.

"So you won't have him?" said the Colonel.

"I didn't say that I wouldn't have him," she answered.

The Colonel rose, and brushed the ashes from his goat.

"By Gum!" he said. "Women beat me."


CHAPTER X

THE LITTLE HOUSE

When Stephen attempted to thank Judge Whipple for going on Hester's bond,
he merely said, "Tut, tut."

The Judge rose at six, so his man Shadrach told Stephen. He had his
breakfast at the Planters' House at seven, read the Missouri Democrat,
and returned by eight. Sometimes he would say good morning to Stephen and
Richter, and sometimes he would not. Mr. Whipple was out a great part of
the day, and he had many visitors. He was a very busy man. Like a great
specialist (which he was), he would see only one person at a time. And
Stephen soon discovered that his employer did not discriminate between
age or sex, or importance, or condition of servitude. In short, Stephen's
opinion of Judge Whipple altered very materially before the end of that
first week. He saw poor women and disconsolate men go into the private
room ahead of rich citizens, who seemed content to wait their turn on the
hard wooden chairs against the wall of the main office. There was one
incident in particular, when a well-dressed gentleman of middle age paced
impatiently for two mortal hours after Shadrach had taken his card into
the sanctum. When at last he had been admitted, Mr. Richter whispered to
Stephen his name. It was that of a big railroad man from the East. The
transom let out the true state of affairs.

"See here, Callender," the Judge was heard to say, "you fellows don't
like me, and you wouldn't come here unless you had to. But when your road
gets in a tight place, you turn up and expect to walk in ahead of my
friends. No, sir, if you want to see me, you've got to wait."

Mr. Callender made some inaudible reply, "Money!" roared the Judge, "take
your money to Stetson, and see if you win your case."

Mr. Richter smiled at Stephen, as if in sheer happiness at this
vindication of an employer who had never seemed to him to need a defence.

Stephen was greatly drawn toward this young German with the great scar on
his pleasant face. And he was itching to know about that scar. Every day,
after coming in from dinner, Richter lighted a great brown meerschaum,
and read the St. Louis 'Anzeiger' and the 'Westliche Post'. Often he sang
quietly to himself:

          "Deutschlands Sohne
          Laut ertone
          Euer Vaterlandgesang.
          Vaterland! Du Land des Ruhmes,
          Weih' zu deines Heiligthumes
          Hutern, uns and unser Schwert."

There were other songs, too. And some wonderful quality in the German's
voice gave you a thrill when you heard them, albeit you could not
understand the words. Richter never guessed how Stephen, with his eyes on
his book, used to drink in those airs. And presently he found out that
they were inspired.

The day that the railroad man called, and after he and the Judge had gone
out together, the ice was broken.

"You Americans from the North are a queer people, Mr. Brice," remarked
Mr. Richter, as he put on his coat. "You do not show your feelings. You
are ashamed. The Judge, at first I could not comprehend him--he would
scold and scold. But one day I see that his heart is warm, and since then
I love him. Have you ever eaten a German dinner, Mr. Brice? No? Then you
must come with me, now."

It was raining, the streets ankle-deep in mud, and the beer-garden by the
side of the restaurant to which they went was dreary and bedraggled. But
inside the place was warm and cheerful. Inside, to all intents and
purposes, it was Germany. A most genial host crossed the room to give Mr.
Richter a welcome that any man might have envied. He was introduced to
Stephen.

"We were all 'Streber' together, in Germany," said Richter.

"You were all what?" asked Stephen, interested.

"Strivers, you might call it in English. In the Vaterland those who seek
for higher and better things--for liberty, and to be rid of oppression
--are so called. That is why we fought in '48 and lost. And that is why we
came here, to the Republic. Ach! I fear I will never be the great lawyer
--but the striver, yes, always. We must fight once more to be rid of the
black monster that sucks the blood of freedom--vampire. Is it not so in
English?"

Stephen was astonished at this outburst.

"You think it will come to war?"

"I fear,--yes, I fear," said the German, shaking his head. "We fear. We
are already preparing."

"Preparing? You would fight, Richter? You, a foreigner?"

"A foreigner!" cried Richter, with a flash of anger in his blue eyes that
died as suddenly as it came,--died into reproach. "Call me not a
foreigner--we Germans will show whether or not we are foreigners when the
time is ripe. This great country belongs to all the oppressed. Your
ancestors founded it, and fought for it, that the descendants of mine
might find a haven from tyranny. My friend, one-half of this city is
German, and it is they who will save it if danger arises. You must come
with me one night to South St. Louis, that you may know us. Then you will
perhaps understand, Stephen. You will not think of us as foreign swill,
but as patriots who love our new Vaterland even as you love it. You must
come to our Turner Halls, where we are drilling against the time when the
Union shall have need of us."

"You are drilling now?" exclaimed Stephen, in still greater astonishment.
The German's eloquence had made him tingle, even as had the songs.

"Prosit deine Blume!" answered Richter, smiling and holding up his glass
of beer. "You will come to a 'commerce', and see.

"This is not our blessed Lichtenhainer, that we drink at Jena. One may
have a pint of Lichtenhainer for less than a groschen at Jena. Aber," he
added as he rose, with a laugh that showed his strong teeth, "we
Americans are rich."

As Stephen's admiration for his employer grew, his fear of him waxed
greater likewise. The Judge's methods of teaching law were certainly not
Harvard's methods. For a fortnight he paid as little attention to the
young man as he did to the messengers who came with notes and cooled
their heels in the outer office until it became the Judge's pleasure to
answer them. This was a trifle discouraging to Stephen. But he stuck to
his Chitty and his Greenleaf and his Kent. It was Richter who advised him
to buy Whittlesey's "Missouri Form Book," and warned him of Mr. Whipple's
hatred for the new code. Well that he did! There came a fearful hour of
judgment. With the swiftness of a hawk Mr. Whipple descended out of a
clear sky, and instantly the law terms began to rattle in Stephen's head
like dried peas in a can. It was the Old Style of Pleading this time,
without a knowledge of which the Judge declared with vehemence that a
lawyer was not fit to put pen to legal cap.

"Now, sir, the pleadings?" he cried.

"First," said Stephen, "was the Declaration. The answer to that was the
Plea. The answer to that was the Replication. Then came the Rejoinder,
then the Surrejoinder, then the Rebutter, then the Surrebutter. But they
rarely got that far," he added unwisely.

"A good principle in Law, sir," said the Judge, "is not to volunteer
information."

Stephen was somewhat cast down when he reached home that Saturday
evening. He had come out of his examination with feathers drooping. He
had been given no more briefs to copy, nor had Mr. Whipple vouchsafed
even to send him on an errand. He had not learned how common a thing it
is with young lawyers to feel that they are of no use in the world.
Besides, the rain continued. This was the fifth day.

His mother, knitting before the fire in her own room, greeted him with
her usual quiet smile of welcome. He tried to give her a humorous account
of his catechism of the morning, but failed.

"I am quite sure that he doesn't like me," said Stephen.

His mother continued to smile.

"If he did, he would not show it," she answered.

"I can feel it," said Stephen, dejectedly.

"The Judge was here this afternoon," said his mother.

"What?" cried Stephen. "Again this week? They say that he never calls in
the daytime, and rarely in the evening. What did he say?"

"He said that some of this Boston nonsense must be gotten out of you,"
answered Mrs. Brice, laughing. "He said that you were too stiff. That you
needed to rub against the plain men who were building up the West. Who
were making a vast world-power of the original little confederation of
thirteen states. And Stephen," she added more earnestly, "I am not sure
but what he is right."

Then Stephen laughed. And for a long time he sat staring into the fire.

"What else did he say?" he asked, after a while.

"He told me about a little house which we might rent very cheaply. Too
cheaply, it seems. The house is on this street, next door to Mr.
Brinsmade, to whom it belongs. And Mr. Whipple brought the key, that we
might inspect it to-morrow."

"But a servant," objected Stephen, "I suppose that we must have a
servant."

His mother's voice fell.

"That poor girl whom you freed is here to see me every day. Old Nancy
does washing. But Hester has no work and she is a burden to Judge
Whipple. Oh, no," she continued, in response to Stephen's glance, "the
Judge did not mention that, but I think he had it in mind that Nester
might come. And I am sure that she would."

Sunday dawned brightly. After church Mrs. Brice and Stephen walked down
Olive Street, and stood looking at a tiny house wedged in between, two
large ones with scrolled fronts. Sad memories of Beacon Street filled
them both as they gazed, but they said nothing of this to each other. As
Stephen put his hand on the latch of the little iron gate, a gentleman
came out of the larger house next door. He was past the middle age,
somewhat scrupulously dressed in the old fashion, in swallowtail coat and
black stock. Benevolence was in the generous mouth, in the large nose
that looked like Washington's, and benevolence fairly sparkled in the
blue eyes. He smiled at them as though he had known them always, and the
world seemed brighter that very instant. They smiled in return, whereupon
the gentleman lifted his hat. And the kindliness and the courtliness of
that bow made them very happy. "Did you wish to look at the house,
madam?" he asked "Yes, sir," said Mrs. Brice.

"Allow me to open it for you," he said, graciously taking the key from
her. "I fear that you will find it inconvenient and incommodious, ma'am.
I should be fortunate, indeed, to get a good tenant."

He fitted the key in the door, while Stephen and his mother smiled at
each other at the thought of the rent. The gentleman opened the door, and
stood aside to let them enter, very much as if he were showing them a
palace for which he was the humble agent.

They went into the little parlor, which was nicely furnished in mahogany
and horsehair. And it had back of it a bit of a dining room, with a
little porch overlooking the back yard. Mrs. Brice thought of the dark
and stately high-ceiled dining-room she had known throughout her married
days: of the board from which a royal governor of Massachusetts Colony
had eaten, and some governors of the Commonwealth since. Thank God, she
had not to sell that, nor the Brice silver which had stood on the high
sideboard with the wolves and the shield upon it. The widow's eyes filled
with tears. She had not hoped again to have a home for these things, nor
the father's armchair, nor the few family treasures that were to come
over the mountains.

The gentleman, with infinite tact, said little, but led the way through
the rooms. There were not many of them. At the door of the kitchen he
stopped, and laid his hand kindly on Stephen's shoulder:-- "Here we may
not enter. This is your department, ma'am," said he.

Finally, as they stood without waiting for the gentleman, who insisted
upon locking the door, they observed a girl in a ragged shawl hurrying up
the street. As she approached them, her eyes were fixed upon the large
house next door. But suddenly, as the gentleman turned, she caught sight
of him, and from her lips escaped a cry of relief. She flung open the
gate, and stood before him.

"Oh, Mr. Brinsmade," she cried, "mother is dying. You have done so much
for us, sir,--couldn't you come to her for a little while? She thought if
she might see you once more, she would die happy." The voice was choked
by a sob.

Mr. Brinsmade took the girl's hand in his own, and turned to the lady
with as little haste, with as much politeness, as he had shown before.

"You will excuse me, ma'am," he said, with his hat in his hand.

The widow had no words to answer him. But she and her son watched him as
he walked rapidly down the street, his arm in the girl's, until they were
out of sight. And then they walked home silently.

Might not the price of this little house be likewise a piece of the
Brinsmade charity?


CHAPTER XI

THE INVITATION

Mr. Eliphalet Hopper, in his Sunday-best broadcloth was a marvel of
propriety. It seemed to Stephen that his face wore a graver expression on
Sunday when he met him standing on Miss Crane's doorstep, picking the
lint from his coat. Stephen's intention was not to speak. But he
remembered what the Judge had said to his mother, and nodded. Why,
indeed, should he put on airs with this man who had come to St. Louis
unknown and unrecommended and poor, who by sheer industry had made
himself of importance in the large business of Carvel &, Company? As for
Stephen Brice, he was not yet earning his salt, but existing by the
charity of Judge Silas Whipple.

"Howdy, Mr. Brice," said Mr. Hopper, his glance caught by the indefinable
in Stephen's costume. This would have puzzled Mr. Hopper's tailor more.

"Very well, thanks."

"A fine day after the rain."

Stephen nodded, and Mr. Hopper entered the hours after him.

"Be you asked to Virginia Carvel's party?" he asked abruptly.

"I do not know Miss Carvel," said Stephen, wondering how well the other
did. And if the truth be told, he was a little annoyed at Mr. Hopper's
free use of her name.

"That shouldn't make no difference," said Eliphalet with just a shade of
bitterness in his tone. "They keep open house, like all Southerners," Mr.
Hopper hesitated,--"for such as come well recommended. I 'most forgot,"
said he. "I callate you're not any too well recommended. I 'most forgot
that little transaction down to the Court House. They do say that she
wanted that gal almighty bad,--she was most awful cut up not to get her.
Served her right, though. I'm glad you did. Show her she can't have
everything her own way. And say," he added, with laughter, "how you did
fix that there stuckup Colfax boy! He'll never forgive you no more than
she. But," said Mr. Hopper, meditatively, "it was a durned-fool trick."

I think Stephen's critics will admit that he had a good right to be
angry, and that they will admire him just a little bit because he kept
his temper. But Mr. Hopper evidently thought he had gone too far.

"She ain't got no use for me, neither," he said.

"She shows poor judgment," answered Stephen.

"She's not long sighted, that's sure," replied Eliphalet, with emphasis.

At dinner Stephen was tried still further. And it was then he made the
determination to write for the newspapers in order to pay the rent on Mr.
Brinsmade's house. Miss Carvel's coming-out party was the chief topic.

"They do say the Colonel is to spend a sight of money on that ball," said
Mrs. Abner Reed. "I guess it won't bankrupt him." And she looked hard at
Mr. Hopper.

"I callate he ain't pushed for money," that gentleman vouchsafed.

"He's a good man, and done well by you, Mr. Hopper."

"So--so," answered Eliphalet. "But I will say that I done something for
the Colonel. I've saved him a hundred times my pay since I showed old
Hood the leaks. And I got a thousand dollar order from Wright & Company
this week for him."

"I dare say you'd keep a tight hand enough on expenses," said Miss Crane,
half in sarcasm, half in approval.

"If Colonel Carvel was doin' business in New England," said Eliphalet,
"he'd been bankrupt long ago."

"That young Clarence Colfax," Mrs. Abner Reed broke in, "he'll get a
right smart mint o' money when he marries Virginia. They do say her
mother left her independent. How now, Mr. Hopper?"

Eliphalet looked mysterious and knowing. He did not reply.

"And young Colfax ain't precisely a pauper," said Miss Crane.

"I'll risk a good deal that she don't marry Colfax," said Mr. Hopper.

"What on earth do you mean?" cried Mrs. Abner. It ain't broke off?"

"No," he answered, "it ain't broke off. But I callate she won't have him
when the time comes. She's got too much sense."

Heavy at heart, Stephen climbed the stairs, thanking heaven that he had
not been drawn into the controversy. A partial comprehension of Mr.
Hopper was dawning upon him. He suspected that gentleman of an aggressive
determination to achieve wealth, and the power which comes with it, for
the purpose of using that power upon those beneath him. Nay, when he
thought over his conversation, he suspected him of more,--of the
intention to marry Virginia Carvel.

It will be seen whether Stephen was right or wrong.

He took a walk that afternoon, as far out as a place called Lindell's
Grove, which afterward became historic. And when he returned to the
house, his mother handed him a, little white envelope.

"It came while you were out," she said.

He turned it over, and stared at his name written across the front in a
feminine hand In those days young ladies did not write in the bold and
masculine manner now deemed proper. Stephen stared at the note, manlike,
and pondered.

"Who brought it, mother?"

"Why don't you open it, and see?" asked his mother with a smile.

He took the suggestion. What a funny formal little note we should think
it now! It was not funny to Stephen--then. He read it, and he read it
again, and finally he walked over to the window, still holding it in his
hand.

Some mothers would have shown their curiosity. Mrs. Brice did not,
wherein she proved herself their superiors in the knowledge of mankind.

Stephen stood for a long while looking out into the gathering dusk. Then
he went over to the fireplace and began tearing the note into little
bits. Only once did he pause, to look again at his name on the envelope.

"It is an invitation to Miss Carvel's party," he said.

By Thursday of that week the Brices, with thanksgiving in their hearts,
had taken possession of Mr. Brinsmade's little house.


CHAPTER XII

"MISS JINNY"

The years have sped indeed since that gray December when Miss Virginia
Carvel became eighteen. Old St. Louis has changed from a pleasant
Southern town to a bustling city, and a high building stands on the site
of that wide and hospitable home of Colonel Carvel. And the Colonel's
thoughts that morning, as Ned shaved him, flew back through the years to
a gently rolling Kentucky countryside, and a pillared white house among
the oaks. He was riding again with Beatrice Colfax in the springtime.
Again he stretched out his arm as if to seize her bridle-hand, and he
felt the thoroughbred rear. Then the vision faded, and the memory of his
dead wife became an angel's face, far--so far away.

He had brought her to St. Louis, and with his inheritance had founded his
business, and built the great double house on the corner. The child came,
and was named after the noble state which had given so many of her sons
to the service of the Republic.

Five simple, happy years--then war. A black war of conquest which, like
many such, was to add to the nation's fame and greatness: Glory beckoned,
honor called--or Comyn Carvel felt them. In fact we perceive he has,
besides the inner obstacles and griefs, two classes of outward ones:
There are Lions on his path and also Dogs.
Lions are the Ex-Bishop of Mirepoix, and certain other dark Holy
Fathers, or potent orthodox Official Persons.

These, though Voltaire does not yet declare his heterodoxy (which,
indeed, is but the orthodoxy of the cultivated private circles), perceive
well enough, even by the HENRIADE, and its talk of 'tolerance,' horror of
'fanaticism' and the like, what this one's 'DOXY is; and how
dangerous he, not a mere mute man of quality, but a talking spirit
with winged words, may be;--and they much annoy and terrify him,
by their roaring in the distance.

Which roaring cannot, of course, convince; and since it is not permitted
to kill, can only provoke a talking spirit into still deeper strains of
heterodoxy for his own private behoof. These are the Lions on his
path:
beasts conscious to themselves of good intentions; but manifesting from
Voltaire's point of view, it must be owned, a physiognomy unlovely to a
degree. 'Light is superior to darkness, I should think,' meditates Voltaire;
'power of thought to the want of power!

The ANE DE MIREPOIX (Ass of Mirepoix), [Poor joke of Voltaire's,
continually applied to this Bishop, or Ex-Bishop,--who was thought,
generally, a rather tenebrific man for appointment to the FEUILLE
DES BENEFICES (charge of nominating Bishops, keeping King's conscience,
&c.); and who, in that capacity, signed himself ANC (by no means
"ANE," but "ANCIEN, Whilom") DE MIREPOIX,--to the enragement of
Voltaire often enough.] pretending to use me in this manner, is it
other, in the court of Rhadamanthus, than transcendent Stupidity,
with transcendent Insolence superadded?'

Voltaire grows more and more heterodox; and is ripening towards dangerous
utterances, though he, strives to hold in.

"The Dogs upon his path, again, are all the disloyal envious persons
of the Writing Class, whom his success has offended; and, more
generally, all the dishonest hungry persons who can gain a morsel
by biting him:
and their name is legion.

It must be owned, about as ugly a Doggery ('INFAME CANAILLE' he
might well reckon them) as has, before or since, infested the path
of a man.

They are not hired and set on, as angry suspicion might suggest; but
they are covertly somewhat patronized by the Mirepoix, or orthodox
Official class.

Scandalous Ex-Jesuit Desfontaines, Thersites Freron,--these are but
types of an endless Doggery; whose names and works should be blotted
out; whose one claim to memory is, that the riding man so often
angrily sprang down, and tried horsewhipping them into silence.

A vain attempt. The individual hound flies howling, abjectly petitioning
and promising; but the rest bark all with new comfort, and even
he starts again straightway.

It is bad travelling in those woods, with such Lions and such Dogs.
And then the sparsely scattered HUMAN Creatures (so we may call them in
contrast, persons of Quality for most part) are not always what they should
be.
The grand mansions you arrive at, in this waste-howling solitude,
prove sometimes essentially Robber-towers;--and there may be Armida
Palaces, and divine-looking Armidas, where your ultimate fate is
still worse.

_'Que le monde est rempli d'enchanteurs, je ne dis rien d'enchanteresses!'_

To think of it, the solitary Ishmaelite journeying, never so well
mounted, through such a wilderness: with lions, dogs, human robbers
and Armidas all about him; himself lonely, friendless under the
stars:--one could pity him withal, though that is not the feeling
he solicits; nor gets hitherto, even at this impartial distance.

"One of the beautiful creatures of Quality,--we hope, not an
Armida,--who came athwart Voltaire, in these times, was a Madame
du Chatelet; distinguished from all the others by a love of mathematics
and the pure sciences, were it nothing else.

She was still young, under thirty; the literary man still under
forty.

With her Husband, to whom she had brought a child, or couple of children,
there was no formal quarrel; but they were living apart, neither
much heeding the other, as was by no means a case without example
at that time; Monsieur soldiering, and philandering about, in
garrison or elsewhere; Madame, in a like humor, doing the best for
herself in the high circles of society, to which he and she belonged.

Most wearisome barren circles to a person of thought, as both she and
M. de Voltaire emphatically admitted to one another, on first
making acquaintance.

But is there no help?

"Madame had tried the pure sciences and philosophies, in Books: but how
much more charming, when they come to you as a Human Philosopher;
handsome, magnanimous, and the wittiest man in the world!

Young Madame was not regularly beautiful; but she was very piquant,
radiant, adventurous; understood other things than the pure sciences,
and could be abundantly coquettish and engaging.

I have known her scuttle off, on an evening, with a couple of adventurous
young wives of Quality, to the remote lodging of the witty M. de
Voltaire, and make his dim evening radiant to him.

[One of Voltaire's Letters.]

Then again, in public crowds, I have seen them; obliged to dismount to the
peril of Madame's diamonds, there being a jam of carriages, and
no getting forward for half the day.

In short, they are becoming more and more intimate, to the extremest
degree; and, scorning the world, thank Heaven that they are mutually
indispensable.

Cannot we get away from this scurvy wasp's-nest of a Paris, thought
they, and live to ourselves and our books?

"Madame was of high quality, one of the Breteuils; but was poor
in comparison, and her Husband the like.

An old Chateau of theirs, named Cirey, stands in a pleasant enough
little valley in Champagne; but so dilapidated, gaunt and vacant,
nobody can live in it.

Voltaire, who is by this time a man of ample moneys, furnishes the
requisite cash; Madame and he, in sweet symphony, concert the
plans: Cirey is repaired, at least parts of it are, into a boudoir
of the gods, regardless of expense; nothing ever seen so tasteful,
so magnificent; and the two withdraw thither to study, in peace,
what sciences, pure and other, they have a mind to.

They are recognized as lovers, by the Parisian public, with little audible
censure from anybody there,--with none at all from the easy Husband;
who occasionally even visits Cirey, if he be passing that way; and is
content to take matters as he finds them, without looking below the
surface. [See (whosoever is curious) Madame de Grafigny, _Vie Privee de
Voltaire et de Madame du Chatelet_ (Paris, 1820).

A six months of actual Letters written by poor Grafigny, while
sheltering at Cirey, Winter and Spring, 1738-1739; straitened there
in various respects,--extremely ill off for fuel, among other things.

Rugged practical Letters, shadowing out to us, unconsciously oftenest,
and like a very mirror, the splendid and the sordid, the seamy
side and the smooth, of Life at Cirey, in her experience of it.

Published, fourscore years after, under the above title.] For the Ten
Commandments are at a singular pass in cultivated France at this
epoch.

Such illicit-idyllic form of life has been the form of Voltaire's since
1733,"--for some three years now, when Friedrich and we first make
acquaintance with him.

"It lasted above a dozen years more: an illicit marriage after its
sort, and subject only to the liabilities of such.
Perhaps we may look in upon the Cirey Household, ourselves, at some future
time; and"--This Editor hopes not!

"Madame admits that for the first ten years it was, on the whole, sublime;
a perfect Eden on Earth, though stormy now and then.

[_Lettres Inedites de Madame la Marquise du Chastelet; auxquelles on a
joint une Dissertation_ (&c. of hers): Paris, 1806.] After ten
years, it began to grow decidedly dimmer; and in the course of few years
more, it became undeniably evident that M. de Voltaire 'did not love
me as formerly:'--in fact, if Madame could have seen it, M. de
Voltaire was growing old, losing his teeth, and the like; and did not
care for anything as formerly! Which was a dreadful discovery, and gave
rise to results by and by.

"In this retreat at Cirey, varied with flying visits to Paris, and kept
awake by multifarious Correspondences, the quantity of Literature done
by the two was great and miscellaneous.

By Madame, chiefly in the region of the pure sciences, in Newtonian
Dissertations, competitions for Prizes, and the like: really sound
and ingenious Pieces, entirely forgotten long since.

By Voltaire, in serious Tragedies, Histories, in light Sketches and deep
Dissertations:--mockery getting ever wilder with him; the satirical vein,
in prose and verse, amazingly copious, and growing more and more
heterodox, as we can perceive.

His troubles from the ecclesiastical or Lion kind in the Literary
forest, still more from the rabid Doggery in it, are manifold, incessant.
And it is pleasantly notable,--during these first ten years,--with
what desperate intensity, vigilance and fierceness, Madame watches
over all his interests and liabilities and casualties great and
small; leaping with her whole force into M. de Voltaire's scale of
the balance, careless of antecedences and consequences alike; flying,
with the spirit of an angry brood-hen, at the face of mastiffs, in
defence of any feather that is M. de Voltaire's.

To which Voltaire replies, as he well may, with eloquent gratitude; with
Verses to the divine Emilie, with Gifts to her, verses and gifts
the prettiest in the world;--and industriously celebrates the divine
Emilie to herself and all third parties.

"An ardent, aerial, gracefully predominant, and in the end somewhat
termagant female figure, this divine Emilie.

Her temper, radiant rather than bland, was none of the patientest on occasion;
nor was M. de Voltaire the least of a Job, if you came athwart him
the wrong way. I have heard, their domestic symphony was liable to furious
flaws,--let us hope at great distances apart:--that 'plates' in presence
of the lackeys, actual crockery or metal, have been known to fly
from end to end of the dinner-table; nay they mention 'knives'
(though only in the way of oratorical action); and Voltaire has
been heard to exclaim, the sombre and majestic voice of him risen
to a very high pitch: _'Ne me regardez tant de ces yeux hagards et
louches,_ Don't fix those haggard sidelong eyes on me in that way!'

--mere shrillness of pale rage presiding over the scene.

But we hope it was only once in the quarter, or seldomer: after which the
element would be clearer for some time.

A lonesome literary man, who has got a Brood Phoenix to preside over him,
and fly at the face of gods and men for him in that manner,
ought to be grateful.

"Perhaps we shall one day glance, personally, as it were, into Cirey
with our readers;"--Not with this Editor or his!

--"It will turn out beyond the reader's expectation.

Tolerable illicit resting-place, so far as the illicit can be
tolerable, for a lonesome Man of Letters, who goes into the illicit.
Helpfulness, affection, or the flattering image of such, are by
no means wanting: squalls of infirm temper are not more frequent
than in the most licit establishments of a similar sort.

Madame, about this time, has a swift Palfrey, 'ROSSIGNOL (Nightingale)'
the name of him; and gallops fairy-like through the winding valleys;
being an ardent rider, and well-looking on horseback.

Voltaire's study is inlaid with--the Grafigny knows all what:--mere
china tiles, gilt sculptures, marble slabs, and the supreme of taste
and expense: study fit for the Phoebus Apollo of France, so far
as Madame could contrive it.

Takes coffee with Madame, in the Gallery, about noon. And his bedroom, I
expressly discern, [_Letters of Voltaire._] looks out upon a running
brook, the murmur of which is pleasant to one."

Enough, enough.

We can perceive what kind of Voltaire it was to whom the Crown-Prince now
addressed himself; and how luminous an object, shining afar out of the
solitudes of Champagne upon the ardent young man, still so capable of
admiration.

Model Epic, HENRIADE; model History, CHARLES DOUZE; sublime Tragedies,
CISAR, ALZIRE and others, which readers still know though with less
enthusiasm, are blooming fresh in Friedrich's memory and heart;
such Literature as man never saw before; and in the background
Friedrich has inarticulately a feeling as if, in this man, there
were something grander than all Literatures: a Reform of human
Thought itself; a new "Gospel," good-tidings or God's-Message, by
this man;--which Friedrich does not suspect, as the world with
horror does, to be a new BA'SPEL, or Devil's-Message of bad-tidings!

A sublime enough Voltaire; radiant enough, over at Cirey yonder. To
all lands, a visible Phoebus Apollo, climbing the eastern steeps; with
arrows of celestial "new light" in his quiver; capable of stretching
many a big foul Python, belly uppermost, in its native mud, and
ridding the poor world of her Nightmares and Mud-Serpents in some
measure, we may hope!

--
And so there begins, from this point, a lively Correspondence between
Friedrich and Voltaire; which, with some interruptions of a notable
sort, continued during their mutual Life; and is a conspicuous
feature in the Biographies of both.

The world talked much of it, and still talks; and has now at last
got it all collected, and elucidated into a dimly legible form for
studious readers.

[Preuss, _OEuvres de Frederic,_ (xxi. xxii. xxiii., Berlin, 1853);
who supersedes the lazy French Editors in this matter.]

It is by no means the diabolically wicked Correspondence it was thought
to be; the reverse, indeed, on both sides;--but it has unfortunately
become a very dull one, to the actual generation of mankind.

Not without intrinsic merit; on the contrary (if you read intensely, and
bring the extinct alive again), it sparkles notably with epistolary grace
and vivacity; and, on any terms, it has still passages of biographical
and other interest: but the substance of it, then so new and
shining, has fallen absolutely commonplace, the property of all the
world, since then; and is now very wearisome to the reader.

No doctrine or opinion in it that you have not heard, with clear
belief or clear disbelief, a hundred times, and could wish rather not to
hear again.

The common fate of philosophical originalities in this world. As a
Biographical Document, it is worth a very strict perusal, if you are
interested that way in either Friedrich or Voltaire: finely
significant hints and traits, though often almost evanescent, so
slight are they, abound in this Correspondence; frankness, veracity
under graceful forms, being the rule of it, strange to say!

As an illustration of Two memorable Characters, and of their Century; showing
on what terms the sage Plato of the Eighteenth Century and his Tyrant
Dionysius correspond, and what their manners are to one another, it
may long have a kind of interest to mankind: otherwise it has not much
left.

In Friedrich's History it was, no doubt, an important fact, that
there lived a Voltaire along with him, twenty years his senior.

With another Theory of the Universe than the Voltaire one, how much
OTHER had Friedrich too been!

But the Theory called by Voltaire's name was not properly of Voltaire's
creating, but only of his uttering and publishing; it lay ready
for everybody's finding, and could not well have been altogether
missed by such a one as Friedrich.

So that perhaps we exaggerate the effects of Voltaire on him, though
undoubtedly they were considerable.

Considerable; but not derived from this express correspondence,
which seldom turns on didactic points at all; derived rather from
Voltaire's Printed WORKS, where they lay derivable to all the world.

Certain enough it is, Voltaire was at this time, and continued all
his days, Friedrich's chief Thinker in the world; unofficially, the
chief Preacher, Prophet and Priest of this Working King;--no better
off for a spiritual Trismegistus was poor Friedrich in the world!

On the practical side, Friedrich soon outgrew him,--perhaps had already
outgrown, having far more veracity of character, and an intellect far
better built in the silent parts of it, and trained too by hard
experiences to know shadow from substance;--outgrew him, and gradually
learned to look down upon him, occasionally with much contempt, in
regard to the practical.

But in all changes of humor towards Voltaire, Friedrich, we observe,
considers him as plainly supreme in speculative intellect; and has no
doubt but, for thinking and speaking, Nature never made such
another.

Which may be taken as a notable feature of Friedrich's History; and gives
rise to passages between Voltaire and him, which will make much
noise in time coming.

       Here, meanwhile, faithfully presented though
        in condensed form, is the starting of the Correspondence; First
Letter of it, and first Response.

Two Pieces which were once bright as the summer sunrise on both sides, but
are now fallen very dim; and have much needed condensation, and
abridgment by omission of the unessential,--so lengthy are they, so
extinct and almost dreary to us! Sublime "Wolf" and his "Philosophy,"
how he was hunted out of Halle with it, long since; and now shines
from Marburg, his "Philosophy" and he supreme among mankind: this,
and other extinct points, the reader's fancy will endeavor to
rekindle in some slight measure:-- 
TO M.

DE VOLTAIRE, AT CIREY (from the Crown-Prince).

"BERLIN, 8th August, 1736.

"MONSIEUR,--Although I have not the satisfaction of knowing you
personally, you are not the less known to me through your Works.

They are treasures of the mind, if I may so express myself; and
they reveal to the reader new beauties at every fresh perusal.

I think I have recognized in them the character of their ingenious Author,
who does honor to our age and to human nature. If ever the dispute on the
comparative merits of the Moderns and the Ancients should be
revived, the modern great men will owe it to you, and to you only,
that the scale is turned in their favor.

With the excellent quality of Poet you join innumerable others
more or less related to it. Never did Poet before put Metaphysics into
rhythmic cadence: to you the honor was reserved of doing it first.

"This taste for Philosophy manifested in your writings, induces me to
send you a translated Copy of the _Accusation and defence of M.

Wolf,_ the most celebrated Philosopher of our days; who, for having
carried light into the darkest places of Metaphysics, is cruelly accused
of irreligion and atheism. Such is the destiny of great men; their superior
genius exposes them to the poisoned arrows of calumny and envy.

I am about getting a Translation made of the _Treatise on God, the
Soul, and the World,"_--Translation done by an Excellency Suhm, as
has been hinted,--"from the pen of the same Author.

I will send it you when it is finished; and I am sure that the force
of evidence in all his propositions, and their close geometrical
sequence, will strike you.

"The kindness and assistance you afford to all who devote themselves
to the Arts and Sciences, makes me hope that you will not exclude
me from the number of those whom you find worthy of your instructions:--it
is so I would call your intercourse by Correspondence of Letters;
which cannot be other than profitable to every thinking being....
...

"beauties without number in your works. Your HENRIADE delights me.
The tragedy of CESAR shows us sustained characters; the sentiments in
it are magnificent and grand, and one feels that Brutus is either
a Roman, or else an Englishman _(ou un Romain ou un Anglais)._ Your
ALZIRE, to the graces of novelty adds...

"Monsieur, there is nothing I wish so much as to possess all your
Writings," even those not printed hitherto.

"Pray, Monsieur, do communicate them to me without reserve.

If there be amongst your Manuscripts any that you wish to conceal from
the eyes of the public, I engage to keep them in the profoundest
secrecy.

I am unluckily aware, that the faith of Princes is an object of little
respect in our days; nevertheless I hope you will make an exception from
the general rule in my favor.

I should think myself richer in the possession of your Works than in that
of all the transient goods of Fortune.

These the same chance grants and takes away: your Works one can make one's
own by means of memory, so that they last us whilst it lasts.

Knowing how weak my own memory is, I am in the highest degree select
in what I trust to it.

"If Poetry were what it was before your appearance, a strumming of
wearisome idyls, insipid eclogues, tuneful nothings, I should
renounce it forever:" but in your hands it becomes ennobled; a
melodious "course of morals; worthy of the admiration and the study
of cultivated minds (DES HONNETES GENS).

You"--in fine, "you inspire the ambition to follow in your footsteps. But
I, how often have I said to myself: 'MALHEUREUX, throw down a
burden which is above thy strength!

One cannot imitate Voltaire, without being Voltaire!'
"It is in such moments that I have felt how small are those advantages of
birth, those vapors of grandeur, with which vanity would solace us!

They amount to little, properly to nothing (POUR MIEUX DIRE, RIEN).
Nature, when she pleases, forms a great soul, endowed with faculties
that can advance the Arts and Sciences; and it is the part of Princes
to recompense his noble toils.

Ah, would Glory but make use of me to crown your successes! My only
fear would be, lest this Country, little fertile in laurels, proved
unable to furnish enough of them.

"If my destiny refuse me the happiness of being able to possess
you, may I, at least, hope one day to see the man whom I have admired
so long now from afar; and to assure you, by word of mouth, that I
am,--With all the esteem and consideration due to those who, following
the torch of truth for guide, consecrate their labors to the
Public,--Monsieur, your affectionate friend, 
"FREDERIC, P.

R. of Prussia."

[_OEuvres de Frederic,_ xxi. 6.]

By what route or conveyance this Letter went, I cannot say.

In general, it is to be observed, these Friedrich-Voltaire Letters--liable
perhaps to be considered contraband at BOTH ends of their course--do
not go by the Post; but by French-Prussian Ministers, by Hamburg
Merchants, and other safe subterranean channels.

Voltaire, with enthusiasm, and no doubt promptly, answers within three
weeks:--
TO THE CROWN-PRINCE, AT REINSBERG (from Voltaire).

"CIREY, 26th August, 1736.

"MONSEIGNEUR,--A man must be void of all feeling who were not infinitely
moved by the Letter which your Royal Highness has deigned to honor me
with. My self-love is only too much flattered by it: but my love of
Mankind, which I have always nourished in my heart, and which, I
venture to say, forms the basis of my character, has given me a
very much purer pleasure,--to see that there is, now in the world,
a Prince who thinks as a man; a PHILOSOPHER Prince, who will make
men happy.

"Permit me to say, there is not a man on the earth but owes thanks
for the care you take to cultivate by sound philosophy a soul that
is born for command.

But here was suddenly a woman of
twenty-eight, where only this evening we knew a slip of a girl. It was a
trick she had, to become majestic in a ball-gown. She held her head high,
as a woman should, and at her slender throat glowed the pearls of Dorothy
Manners.

The result of all this was to strike a little awe into the souls of many
of her playmates. Little Eugenie nearly dropped a curtsey. Belle Cluyme
was so impressed that she forgot for a whole hour to be spiteful. But
Puss Russell kissed her on both cheeks, and asked her if she really
wasn't nervous.

"Nervous!" exclaimed Jinny, "why?"

Miss Russell glanced significantly towards the doorway. But she said
nothing to her hostess, for fear of marring an otherwise happy occasion.
She retired with Jack Brim made to a corner, where she recited:--

     "Oh young Lochinvar is come out of the East;
     Of millions of Yankees I love him the least."

"What a joke if he should come!" cried Jack.

Miss Russell gasped.

Just as Mr. Clarence Colfax, resplendent in new evening clothes just
arrived from New York, was pressing his claim for the first dance with
his cousin in opposition to numerous other claims, the chatter of the
guests died away. Virginia turned her head, and for an instant the pearls
trembled on her neck. There was a young man cordially and unconcernedly
shaking hands with her father and Captain Lige. Her memory of that moment
is, strangely, not of his face (she did not deign to look at that), but
of the muscle of his shoulder half revealed as he stretched forth his
arm.

Young Mr. Colfax bent over to her ear.

"Virginia," he whispered earnestly, almost fiercely, Virginia, who
invited him here?"

"I did," said Virginia, calmly, "of course. Who invites any one here?"

"But!" cried Clarence, "do you know who he is?"

"Yes," she answered, "I know. And is that any reason why he should not
come here as a guest? Would you bar any gentleman from your house on
account of his convictions?"

Ah, Virginia, who had thought to hear that argument from your lips? What
would frank Captain Lige say of the consistency of women, if he heard you
now? And how give an account of yourself to Anne Brinsmade? What
contrariness has set you so intense against your own argument?

Before one can answer this, before Mr. Clarence can recover from his
astonishment and remind her of her vehement words on the subject at
Bellegarde, Mr. Stephen is making thither with the air of one who
conquers. Again the natural contrariness of women. What bare-faced
impudence! Has he no shame that he should hold his head so high? She
feels her color mounting, even as her resentment rises at his
self-possession, and yet she would have despised him had he shown
self-consciousness in gait or manner in the sight of her assembled
guests. Nearly as tall as the Colonel himself, he is plainly seen, and
Miss Puss in her corner does not have to stand on tiptoe. Mr. Carvel does
the honors of the introduction.

But a daughter of the Carvels was not to fail before such a paltry
situation as this. Shall it be confessed that curiosity stepped into the
breach? As she gave him her hand she was wondering how he would act.

As a matter of fact he acted detestably. He said nothing whatever, but
stood regarding her with a clear eye and a face by far too severe. The
thought that he was meditating on the incident of the auction sale
crossed through her mind, and made her blood simmer. How dared he behave
so! The occasion called for a little small talk. An evil spirit took
possession of Virginia. She turned.

"Mr. Brice, do you know my cousin, Mr. Colfax?" she said.

Mr. Brice bowed. "I know Mr. Colfax by sight," he replied.

Then Mr. Colfax made a stiff bow. To this new phase his sense of humor
did not rise. Mr. Brice was a Yankee and no gentleman, inasmuch as he had
overbid a lady for Hester.

"Have you come here to live, Mr. Brice?" he asked.

The Colonel eyed his nephew sharply. But Stephen smiled.

"Yes," he said, "if I can presently make enough to keep me alive." Then
turning to Virginia, he said, "Will you dance, Miss Carvel?"

The effrontery of this demand quite drew the breath from the impatient
young gentlemen who had been waiting their turn. Several of them spoke up
in remonstrance. And for the moment (let one confess it who knows),
Virginia was almost tempted to lay her arm in his. Then she made a bow
that would have been quite as effective the length of the room.

"Thank you, Mr. Brice," she said, "but I am engaged to Mr. Colfax."

Abstractedly he watched her glide away in her cousin's arms. Stephen had
a way of being preoccupied at such times. When he grew older he would
walk the length of Olive Street, look into face after face of
acquaintances, not a quiver of recognition in his eyes. But most probably
the next week he would win a brilliant case in the Supreme Court. And so
now, indifferent to the amusement of some about him, he stood staring
after Virginia and Clarence. Where had he seen Colfax's face before he
came West? Ah, he knew. Many, many years before he had stood with his
father in the mellow light of the long gallery at Hollingdean, Kent,
before a portrait of the Stuarts' time. The face was that of one of Lord
Northwell's ancestors, a sporting nobleman of the time of the second
Charles. It was a head which compelled one to pause before it. Strangely
enough,--it was the head likewise of Clarence Colfax.

The image of it Stephen had carried undimmed in the eye of his memory.
White-haired Northwell's story, also. It was not a story that Mr. Brice
had expected his small son to grasp. As a matter of fact Stephen had not
grasped it then--but years afterward. It was not a pleasant story,--and
yet there was much of credit in it to the young rake its subject,--of
dash and courage and princely generosity beside the profligacy and
incontinence.

The face had impressed him, with its story. He had often dreamed of it,
and of the lace collar over the dull-gold velvet that became it so well.
And here it was at last, in a city west of the Mississippi River. Here
were the same delicately chiselled features, with their pallor, and
satiety engraved there at one and twenty. Here was the same lazy scorn in
the eyes, and the look which sleeplessness gives to the lids: the hair,
straight and fine and black; the wilful indulgence--not of one life, but
of generations--about the mouth; the pointed chin. And yet it was a fact
to dare anything, and to do anything.

One thing more ere we have done with that which no man may explain. Had
he dreamed, too, of the girl? Of Virginia? Stephen might not tell, but
thrice had the Colonel spoken to him before he answered.

"You must meet some of these young ladies, sir."

It was little wonder that Puss Russell thought him dull on that first
occasion. Out of whom condescension is to flow is a matter of which
Heaven takes no cognizance. To use her own words, Puss thought him "stuck
up," when he should have been grateful. We know that Stephen was not
stuck up, and later Miss Russell learned that likewise. Very naturally
she took preoccupation for indifference. It is a matter worth recording,
however, that she did not tease him, because she did not dare. He did not
ask her to dance, which was rude. So she passed him back to Mr. Carvel,
who introduced him to Miss Renault and Miss Saint Cyr, and other young
ladies of the best French families. And finally, drifting hither and
thither with his eyes on Virginia, in an evil moment he was presented to
Mrs. Colfax. Perhaps it has been guessed that Mrs. Colfax was a very
great lady indeed, albeit the daughter of an overseer. She bore Addison
Colfax's name, spent his fortune, and retained her good looks. On this
particular occasion she was enjoying herself quite as much as any young
girl in the room, and, while resting from a waltz, was regaling a number
of gentlemen with a humorous account of a scandal at the Virginia
Spring's.

None but a great lady could have meted out the punishment administered to
poor Stephen. None but a great lady could have concerned it. And he, who
had never been snubbed before, fell headlong into her trap. How was the
boy to know that there was no heart in the smile with which she greeted
him? It was all over in an instant. She continued to talk about Virginia
Springs, "Oh, Mr. Brice, of course you have been there. Of course you
know the Edmunds. No? You haven't been there? You don't know the Edmunds?
I thought every body had been there. Charles, you look as if you were
just dying to waltz. Let's have a turn before the music stops."

And so she whirled away, leaving Stephen forlorn, a little too angry to
be amused just then. In that state he spied a gentleman coming towards
him--a gentleman the sight of whom he soon came to associate with all
that is good and kindly in this world, Mr. Brinsmade. And now he put his
hand on Stephen's shoulder. Whether he had seen the incident just past,
who can tell?

"My son," said he, "I am delighted to see you here. Now that we are such
near neighbors, we must be nearer friends. You must know my wife, and my
son Jack, and my daughter Anne."

Mrs. Brinsmade was a pleasant little body, but plainly not a fit mate for
her husband. Jack gave Stephen a warm grasp of the hand, and an amused
look. As for Anne, she was more like her father; she was Stephen's friend
from that hour.

"I have seen you quite often, going in at your gate, Mr. Brice. And I
have seen your mother, too. I like her," said Anne. "She has such a
wonderful face." And the girl raised her truthful blue eyes to his.

"My mother would be delighted to know you," he ventured, not knowing what
else to say. It was an effort for him to reflect upon their new situation
as poor tenants to a wealthy family.

"Oh, do you think so?" cried Anne. "I shall call on her to-morrow, with
mother. Do you know, Mr. Brice," she continued, "do you know that your
mother is just the person I should go to if I were in trouble, whether I
knew her or not?"

"I have found her a good person in trouble," said Stephen, simply. He
might have said the same of Anne.

Anne was enchanted. She had thought him cold, but these words belied
that. She had wrapped him in that diaphanous substance with which young
ladies (and sometimes older ones) are wont to deck their heroes. She had
approached a mystery--to find it human, as are many mysteries. But thank
heaven that she found a dignity, a seriousness,--and these more than
satisfied her. Likewise, she discovered something she had not looked for,
an occasional way of saying things that made her laugh. She danced with
him, and passed him back to Miss Puss Russell, who was better pleased
this time; she passed him on to her sister, who also danced with him, and
sent him upstairs for her handkerchief.

Nevertheless, Stephen was troubled. As the evening wore on, he was more
and more aware of an uncompromising attitude in his young hostess, whom
he had seen whispering to various young ladies from behind her fan as
they passed her. He had not felt equal to asking her to dance a second
time. Honest Captain Lige Breast, who seemed to have taken a fancy to
him, bandied him on his lack of courage with humor that was a little
rough. And, to Stephen's amazement, even Judge Whipple had pricked him
on.

It was on his way upstairs after Emily Russell's handkerchief that he ran
across another acquaintance. Mr. Eliphalet Hopper, in Sunday broadcloth,
was seated on the landing, his head lowered to the level of the top of
the high door of the parlor. Stephen caught a glimpse of the picture
whereon his eyes were fixed. Perhaps it is needless to add that Miss
Virginia Carvel formed the central figure of it.

"Enjoy in' yourself?" asked Mr. Hopper.

Stephen countered.

"Are you?" he asked.

"So so," said Mr. Hopper, and added darkly: "I ain't in no hurry. Just
now they callate I'm about good enough to manage the business end of an
affair like this here. I guess I can wait. But some day," said he,
suddenly barring Stephen's way, "some day I'll give a party. And hark to
me when I tell you that these here aristocrats 'll be glad enough to get
invitations."

Stephen pushed past coldly. This time the man made him shiver. The
incident was all that was needed to dishearten and disgust him. Kindly as
he had been treated by others, far back in his soul was a thing that
rankled. Shall it be told crudely why he went that night? Stephen Brice,
who would not lie to others, lied to himself. And when he came downstairs
again and presented Miss Emily with her handkerchief, his next move was
in his mind. And that was to say good-night to the Colonel, and more
frigidly to Miss Carvel herself. But music has upset many a man's
calculations.

The strains of the Jenny Lind waltz were beginning to float through the
rooms. There was Miss Virginia in a corner of the big parlor, for the
moment alone with her cousin. And thither Stephen sternly strode. Not a
sign did she give of being aware of his presence until he stood before
her. Even then she did not lift her eyes. But she said: "So you have come
at last to try again, Mr. Brice?"

And Mr. Brice said: "If you will do me the honor, Miss Carvel."

She did not reply at once. Clarence Colfax got to his feet. Then she
looked up at the two men as they stood side by side, and perhaps swept
them both in an instant's comparison.

The New Englander's face must have reminded her more of her own father,
Colonel Carvel. It possessed, from generations known, the power to
control itself. She afterwards admitted that she accepted him to tease
Clarence. Miss Russell, whose intuitions are usually correct, does not
believe this.

"I will dance with you," said Virginia.

But, once in his arms, she seemed like a wild thing, resisting. Although
her gown brushed his coat, the space between them was infinite, and her
hand lay limp in his, unresponsive of his own pressure. Not so her feet;
they caught the step and moved with the rhythm of the music, and round
the room they swung. More than one pair paused in the dance to watch
them. Then, as they glided past the door, Stephen was disagreeably
conscious of some one gazing down from above, and he recalled Eliphalet
Hopper and his position. The sneer from Eliphalet's seemed to penetrate
like a chilly draught.

All at once, Virginia felt her partner gathering up his strength, and by
some compelling force, more of wild than of muscle, draw her nearer.
Unwillingly her hand tightened under his, and her blood beat faster and
her color came and went as they two moved as one. Anger--helpless anger
--took possession of her as she saw the smiles on the faces of her
friends, and Puss Russell mockingly throwing a kiss as she passed her.
And then, strange in the telling, a thrill as of power rose within her
which she strove against in vain. A knowledge of him who guided her so
swiftly, so unerringly, which she had felt with no other man. Faster and
faster they stepped, each forgetful of self and place, until the waltz
came suddenly to a stop.

"By gum!" said Captain Lige to Judge Whipple, "you can whollop me on my
own forecastle if they ain't the handsomest couple I ever did see."


THE CRISIS

By Winston Churchill

BOOK II.


Volume 3.


CHAPTER I

RAW MATERIAL

Summer, intolerable summer, was upon the city at last. The families of
its richest citizens had fled. Even at that early day some braved the
long railroad journey to the Atlantic coast. Amongst these were our
friends the Cluymes, who come not strongly into this history. Some went
to the Virginia Springs. But many, like the Brinsmades and the Russells,
the Tiptons and the Hollingsworths, retired to the local paradise of
their country places on the Bellefontaine road, on the cool heights above
the river. Thither, as a respite from the hot office, Stephen was often
invited by kind Mr. Brinsmade, who sometimes drove him out in his own
buggy. Likewise he had visited Miss Puss Russell. But Miss Virginia
Carvel he had never seen since the night he had danced with her. This was
because, after her return from the young ladies' school at Monticello,
she had gone to Glencoe, Glencoe, magic spot, perched high on wooded
highlands. And under these the Meramec, crystal pure, ran lightly on sand
and pebble to her bridal with that turbid tyrant, the Father of Waters.

To reach Glencoe you spent two dirty hours on that railroad which (it was
fondly hoped) would one day stretch to the Pacific Ocean. You generally
spied one of the big Catherwood boys in the train, or their tall sister
Maude. The Catherwoods likewise lived at Glencoe in the summer. And on
some Saturday afternoons a grim figure in a linen duster and a silk
skull-cap took a seat in the forward car. That was Judge Whipple, on his
way to spend a quiet Sunday with Colonel Carvel.

To the surprise of many good people, the Judge had recently formed
another habit. At least once a week he would drop in at the little house
on Olive Street next to Mr. Brinsmade's big one, which was shut up, and
take tea with Mrs. Brice. Afterward he would sit on the little porch over
the garden in the rear, or on the front steps, and watch the bob-tailed
horse-cars go by. His conversation was chiefly addressed to the widow.
Rarely to Stephen; whose wholesome respect for his employer had in no
wise abated.

Through the stifling heat of these summer days Stephen sat in the outer
office, straining at the law. Had it not been for the fact that Mr.
Whipple went to his mother's house, despair would have seized him long
since. Apparently his goings-out and his comings-in were noted only by
Mr. Richter. Truly the Judge's methods were not Harvard methods. And if
there were pride in the young Bostonian, Mr. Whipple thought he knew the
cure for it.

It was to Richter Stephen owed a debt of gratitude in these days. He
would often take his midday meal in the down-town beer garden with the
quiet German. Then there came a Sunday afternoon (to be marked with a red
letter) when Richter transported him into Germany itself. Stephen's eyes
were opened. Richter took him across the Rhine. The Rhine was Market
Street, and south of that street was a country of which polite American
society took no cognizance.

Here was an epic movement indeed, for South St. Louis was a great sod
uprooted from the Fatherland and set down in all its vigorous crudity in
the warm black mud of the Mississippi Valley. Here lager beer took the
place of Bourbon, and black bread and sausages of hot rolls and fried
chicken. Here were quaint market houses squatting in the middle of wide
streets; Lutheran churches, square and uncompromising, and bulky Turner
Halls, where German children were taught the German tongue. Here, in a
shady grove of mulberry and locust, two hundred families were spread out
at their ease.

For a while Richter sat in silence, puffing at a meerschaum with a huge
brown bowl. A trick of the mind opened for Stephen one of the histories
in his father's library in Beacon Street, across the pages of which had
flitted the ancestors of this blue-eyed and great-chested Saxon. He saw
them in cathedral forests, with the red hair long upon their bodies. He
saw terrifying battles with the Roman Empire surging back and forth
through the low countries. He saw a lad of twenty at the head of rugged
legions clad in wild skins, sweeping Rome out of Gaul. Back in the dim
ages Richter's fathers must have defended grim Eresburg. And it seemed to
him that in the end the new Republic must profit by this rugged stock,
which had good women for wives and mothers, and for fathers men in whose
blood dwelt a fierce patriotism and contempt for cowardice.

This fancy of ancestry pleased Stephen. He thought of the forefathers of
those whom he knew, who dwelt north of Market Street. Many, though this
generation of the French might know it not, had bled at Calais and at
Agincourt, had followed the court of France in clumsy coaches to Blois
and Amboise, or lived in hovels under the castle walls. Others had
charged after the Black Prince at Poitiers, and fought as serf or noble.
in the war of the Roses; had been hatters or tailors in Cromwell's
armies, or else had sacrificed lands and fortunes for Charles Stuart.
These English had toiled, slow but resistless, over the misty Blue Ridge
after Boone and Harrod to this old St. Louis of the French, their
enemies, whose fur traders and missionaries had long followed the veins
of the vast western wilderness. And now, on to the structure builded by
these two, comes Germany to be welded, to strengthen or to weaken.

Richter put down his pipe on the table.

"Stephen," he said suddenly, "you do not share the prejudice against us
here?"

Stephen flushed. He thought of some vigorous words that Miss Puss Russell
had used on the subject of the Dutch."

"No," said he, emphatically.

"I am glad," answered Richter, with a note of sadness, in his voice. "Do
not despise us before you know more of us. We are still feudal in
Germany--of the Middle Ages. The peasant is a serf. He is compelled to
serve the lord of the land every year with so much labor of his hands.
The small farmers, the 'Gross' and 'Mittel Bauern', we call them, are
also mortgaged to the nobles who tyrannize our Vaterland. Our merchants
are little merchants--shopkeepers, you would say. My poor father, an
educated man, was such. They fought our revolution."

"And now," said Stephen, "why do they not keep their hold?"

Richter sighed.

"We were unused to ruling," he answered. "We knew not how to act--what to
do. You must remember that we were not trained to govern ourselves, as
are you of the English race, from children. Those who have been for
centuries ground under heel do not make practical parliamentarians. No;
your heritage is liberty--you Americans and English; and we Germans must
desert our native land to partake of it."

"And was it not hard to leave?" asked Stephen, gently.

The eyes of the German filled at the recollection, nor did he seem
ashamed of his tears.

"I had a poor old father whose life was broken to save the Vaterland, but
not his spirit," he cried, "no, not that. My father was born in 1797. God
directed my grandfather to send him to the Kolnisches gymnasium, where
the great Jahn taught. Jahn was our Washington, the father of Germany
that is to be.

"Then our Fatherland was French. Our women wore Parisian clothes, and
spoke the language; French immorality and atheism had spread like a
plague among us Napoleon the vile had taken the sword of our Frederick
from Berlin. It was Father Jahn (so we love to call him), it was Father
Jahn who founded the 'Turnschulen', that the generations to come might
return to simple German ways,--plain fare, high principles, our native
tongue; and the development of the body. The downfall of the fiend
Napoleon and the Vaterland united--these two his scholars must have
written in their hearts. All summer long, in their black caps and linen
pantaloons, they would trudge after him, begging a crust here and a
cheese there, to spread his teachings far and wide under the thatched
roofs.

"Then came 1811. I have heard my father tell how in the heat of that year
a great red comet burned in the sky, even as that we now see, my friend.
God forbid that this portends blood. But in the coming spring the French
conscripts filled our sacred land like a swarm of locusts, devouring as
they went. And at their head, with the pomp of Darius, rode that
destroyer of nations and homes, Napoleon. What was Germany then? Ashes.
But the red embers were beneath, fanned by Father Jahn. Napoleon at
Dresden made our princes weep. Never, even in the days of the Frankish
kings, had we been so humbled. He dragged our young men with him to
Russia, and left them to die moaning on the frozen wastes, while he drove
off in his sledge.

"It was the next year that Germany rose. High and low, rich and poor,
Jaeger and Landwehr, came flocking into the army, and even the old men,
the Landsturm. Russia was an ally, and later, Austria. My father, a last
of sixteen, was in the Landwehr, under the noble Blucher in Silesia, when
they drove the French into the Katzbach and the Neisse, swollen by the
rains into torrents. It had rained until the forests were marshes. Powder
would not burn. But Blucher, ah, there was a man! He whipped his great
sabre from under his cloak, crying 'Vorwarts! Vorwarts!' And the Landwehr
with one great shout slew their enemies with the butts of their muskets
until their arms were weary and the bodies were tossed like logs in the
foaming waters. They called Blucher Marachall Vorwarts!

"Then Napoleon was sent to Elba. But the victors quarrelled amongst
themselves, while Talleyrand and Metternich tore our Vaterland into
strips, and set brother against brother. And our blood, and the grief for
the widows and the fatherless, went for nothing."

Richter paused to light his pipe.

"After a while," he continued presently, "came the German Confederation,
with Austria at the head. Rid of Napoleon, we had another despot in
Metternich. But the tree which Jahn had planted grew, and its branches
spread. The great master was surrounded by spies. My father had gone to
Jena University, when he joined the Burschenschaft, or Students' League,
of which I will tell you later. It was pledged to the rescue of the
Vaterland. He was sent to prison for dipping his handkerchief in the
blood of Sand, beheaded for liberty at Mannheim. Afterwards he was
liberated, and went to Berlin and married my mother, who died when I was
young. Twice again he was in prison because the societies met at his
house. We were very poor, my friend. You in America know not the meaning
of that word. His health broke, and when '48 came, he was an old man. His
hair was white, and he walked the streets with a crutch. But he had saved
a little money to send me to Jena.

"He was proud of me. I was big-boned and fair, like my mother. And when I
came home at the end of a Semester I can see him now, as he would hobble
to the door, wearing the red and black and gold of the Burschenschaft.
And he would keep me up half the night-telling him of our 'Schlager'
fights with the aristocrats. My father had been a noted swordsman in his
day."

He stopped abruptly, and colored. For Stephen was staring at the jagged
scar, He had never summoned the courage to ask Richter how he came by it.

"Schlager fights?" he exclaimed.

"Broadswords," answered the German, hastily. "Some day I will tell you of
them, and of the struggle with the troops in the 'Breite Strasse' in
March. We lost, as I told you because we knew not how to hold what we had
gained.

"I left Germany, hoping to make a home here for my poor father. How sad
his face as he kissed me farewell! And he said to me: 'Carl, if ever your
new Vaterland, the good Republic, be in danger, sacrifice all. I have
spent my years in bondage, and I say to you that life without liberty is
not worth the living.' Three months I was gone, and he was dead, without
that for which he had striven so bravely. He never knew what it is to
have an abundance of meat. He never knew from one day to the other when
he would have to embrace me, all he owned, and march away to prison,
because he was a patriot." Richter's voice had fallen low, but now he
raised it. "Do you think, my friend," he cried, "do you think that I
would not die willingly for this new country if the time should come.
Yes, and there are a million like me, once German, now American, who will
give their lives to preserve this Union. For without it the world is not
fit to live in."

Stephen had food for thought as he walked northward through the strange
streets on that summer evening. Here indeed was a force not to be
reckoned, and which few had taken into account.


CHAPTER II

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

It is sometimes instructive to look back and see hour Destiny gave us a
kick here, and Fate a shove there, that sent us in the right direction at
the proper time. And when Stephen Brice looks backward now, he laughs to
think that he did not suspect the Judge of being an ally of the two who
are mentioned above. The sum total of Mr. Whipple's words and advices to
him that summer had been these. Stephen was dressed more carefully than
usual, in view of a visit to Bellefontaine Road. Whereupon the Judge
demanded whether he were contemplating marriage. Without waiting for a
reply he pointed to a rope and a slab of limestone on the pavement below,
and waved his hand unmistakably toward the Mississippi.

Miss Russell was of the opinion that Mr. Whipple had once been crossed in
love.

But we are to speak more particularly of a put-up job, although Stephen
did not know this at the time.

Towards five o'clock of a certain afternoon in August of that year, 1858,
Mr. Whipple emerged from his den. Instead of turning to the right, he
strode straight to Stephen's table. His communications were always a
trifle startling. This was no exception.

"Mr. Brice," said he, "you are to take the six forty-five train on the
St. Louis, Alton, and Chicago road tomorrow morning for Springfield,
Illinois."

"Yes sir."

"Arriving at Springfield, you are to deliver this envelope into the hands
of Mr. Abraham Lincoln, of the law firm of Lincoln & Herndon."

"Abraham Lincoln!" cried Stephen, rising and straddling his chair. "But,
sir--"

"Abraham Lincoln," interrupted the Judge, forcibly "I try to speak
plainly, sir. You are to deliver it into Mr. Lincoln's hands. If he is
not in Springfield, find out where he is and follow him up. Your expenses
will be paid by me. The papers are important. Do you understand, sir?"

Stephen did. And he knew better than to argue the matter with Mr.
Whipple. He had read in the Missouri Democrat of this man Lincoln, a
country lawyer who had once been to Congress, and who was even now
disputing the senatorship of his state with the renowned Douglas. In
spite of their complacent amusement, he had won a little admiration from
conservative citizens who did not believe in the efficacy of Judge
Douglas's Squatter Sovereignty. Likewise this Mr. Lincoln, who had once
been a rail-sputter, was uproariously derided by Northern Democrats
because he had challenged Mr. Douglas to seven debates, to be held at
different towns in the state of Illinois. David with his sling and his
smooth round pebble must have had much of the same sympathy and ridicule.

For Mr. Douglas, Senator and Judge, was a national character, mighty in
politics, invulnerable in the armor of his oratory. And he was known far
and wide as the Little Giant. Those whom he did not conquer with his
logic were impressed by his person.

Stephen remembered with a thrill that these debates were going on now.
One, indeed, had been held, and had appeared in fine print in a corner of
the Democrat. Perhaps this Lincoln might not be in; Springfield; perhaps
he, Stephen Brice, might, by chance, hit upon a debate, and see and hear
the tower of the Democracy, the Honorable Stephen A. Douglas.

But it is greatly to be feared that our friend Stephen was bored with his
errand before he arrived at the little wooden station of the Illinois
capital. Standing on the platform after the train pulled out, he summoned
up courage to ask a citizen with no mustache and a beard, which he swept
away when he spat, where was the office of Lincoln & Herndon. The
stranger spat twice, regarded Mr. Brice pityingly, and finally led him in
silence past the picket fence and the New England-looking meeting-house
opposite until they came to the great square on which the State House
squatted. The State House was a building with much pretension to beauty,
built in the classical style, of a yellow stone, with sold white blinds
in the high windows and mighty columns capped at the gently slanting
roof. But on top of it was reared a crude wooden dome, like a clay head
on a marble statue.

"That there," said the stranger, "is whar we watches for the County
Delegations when they come in to a meetin'." And with this remark,
pointing with a stubby thumb up a well-worn stair, he departed before
Stephen could thank him. Stephen paused under the awning, of which there
were many shading the brick pavement, to regard the straggling line of
stores and houses which surrounded and did homage to the yellow pile. The
brick house in which Mr. Lincoln's office was had decorations above the
windows. Mounting the stair, Stephen found a room bare enough, save for a
few chairs and law books, and not a soul in attendance. After sitting
awhile by the window, mopping his brow with a handkerchief, he went out
on the landing to make inquiries. There he met another citizen in shirt
sleeves, like unto the first, in the very act of sweeping his beard out
of the way of a dexterous expectoration.

"Wal, young man," said he, "who be you lookin' for here?"

"For Mr. Lincoln," said Stephen.

At this the gentleman sat down on the dirty top step; and gave vent to
quiet but annoying laughter.

"I reckon you come to the wrong place."

"I was told this was his office," said Stephen, with some heat.

"Whar be you from?" said the citizen, with interest.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," answered our friend.

"Wal," said the citizen, critically, "if you was from Philadelphy or
Boston, you might stand acquitted."

Stephen was on the point of claiming Boston, but wisely hesitated.

"I'm from St. Louis, with a message for Mr. Lincoln," he replied.

"Ye talk like y e was from down East," said the citizens who seemed in
the humor for conversation. "I reckon old Abe's' too busy to see you.
Say, young man, did you ever hear of Stephen Arnold Douglas, alias the
Little Giant, alias the Idol of our State, sir?"

This was too much for Stephen, who left the citizen without the
compliment of a farewell. Continuing around the square, inquiring for Mr.
Lincoln's house, he presently got beyond the stores and burning pavements
on to a plank walk, under great shade trees, and past old brick mansions
set well back from the street. At length he paused in front of a wooden
house of a dirty grayish brown, too high for its length and breadth, with
tall shutters of the same color, and a picket fence on top of the
retaining wall which lifted the yard above the plank walk. It was an ugly
house, surely. But an ugly house may look beautiful when surrounded by
such heavy trees as this was. Their shade was the most inviting thing
Stephen had seen. A boy of sixteen or so was swinging on the gate,
plainly a very mischievous boy, with a round, laughing, sunburned face
and bright eyes. In front of the gate was a shabby carriage with top and
side curtains, hitched to a big bay horse.

"Can you tell me where Mr. Lincoln lives?" inquired Stephen.

"Well, I guess," said the boy. "I'm his son, and he lives right here when
he's at home. But that hasn't been often lately."

"Where is he?" asked Stephen, beginning to realize the purport of his
conversations with citizens.

Young Mr. Lincoln mentioned the name of a small town in the northern part
of the state, where he said his father would stop that night. He told
Stephen that he looked wilted, invited him into the house to have a glass
of lemonade, and to join him and another boy in a fishing excursion with
the big bay horse. Stephen told young Mr. Lincoln that he should have to
take the first train after his father.

"Jimmy!" exclaimed the other, enviously, "then you'll hear the Freeport
debate."

Now it has been said that the day was scorching hot. And when Stephen had
got back to the wooden station, and had waited an hour for the
Bloomington express, his anxiety to hear the Freeport debate was not as
keen as it might have been. Late in the afternoon he changed at
Bloomington to the Illinois Central Railroad: The sun fell down behind
the cardboard edge of the prairie, the train rattled on into the north,
wrapped in its dust and Smoke, and presently became a long comet, roaring
red, to match that other comet which flashed in the sky.

By this time it may be said that our friend was heartily sick of his
mission, He tried to doze; but two men, a farmer and a clerk, got in at a
way station, and sat behind him. They began to talk about this man
Lincoln.

"Shucks," said the clerk, "think of him opposing the Little Giant."

"He's right smart, Sam," said the farmer. "He's got a way of sayin'
things that's clear. We boys can foller him. But Steve Douglas, he only
mixes you up."

His companion guffawed.

"Because why?" he shouted. "Because you ain't had no education: What does
a rail-sputter like Abe know about this government? Judge Douglas has
worked it all out. He's smart. Let the territories take care of
themselves. Besides, Abe ain't got no dignity. The fust of this week I
seen him side-tracked down the road here in a caboose, while Doug went by
in a special."

"Abe is a plain man, Sam," the farmer answered solemnly. "But you watch
out for him."

It was ten o'clock when Stephen descended at his destination. Merciful
night hid from his view the forlorn station and the ragged town. The
baggage man told him that Mr. Lincoln was at the tavern.

That tavern! Will words describe the impression it made on a certain
young man from Boston! It was long and low and ramshackly and hot that
night as the inside of a brick-kiln. As he drew near it on the single
plant walk over the black prairie-mud, he saw countrymen and politicians
swarming its narrow porch and narrower hall. Discussions in all keys were
in progress, and it, was with vast difficulty that our distracted young
man pushed through and found the landlord, This personage was the coolest
of the lot. Confusion was but food for his smiles, importunity but
increased his suavity. And of the seeming hundreds that pressed him, he
knew and utilized the Christian name of all. From behind a corner of the
bar he held them all at bay, and sent them to quarters like the old
campaigner he was.

"Now, Ben, tain't no use gettin' mad. You, and Josh way, an' Will, an'
Sam, an' the Cap'n, an' the four Beaver brothers, will all sleep in
number ten. What's that, Franklin? No, sirree, the Honerable Abe, and
Mister Hill, and Jedge Oglesby is sleepin' in seven." The smell of
perspiration was stifling as Stephen pushed up to the master of the
situation. "What's that? Supper, young man? Ain't you had no supper?
Gosh, I reckon if you can fight your way to the dinin' room, the gals'll
give you some pork and a cup of coffee."

After a preliminary scuffle with a drunken countryman in mud-caked boots,
Mr. Brice presently reached the long table in the dining-room. A sense of
humor not quite extinct made him smile as he devoured pork chops and
greasy potatoes and heavy apple pie. As he was finishing the pie, he
became aware of the tavern keeper standing over him.

"Are you one of them flip Chicagy reporters?" asked that worthy, with a
suspicious eye on Stephen's clothes.

Our friend denied this.

"You didn't talk jest like 'em. Guess you'll be here, tonight--"

"Yes," said Stephen, wearily. And he added, outs of force of habit, "Can
you give me a room?"

"I reckon," was the cheerful reply. "Number ten, There ain't nobody in
there but Ben Billings, and the four Beaver brothers, an' three more.
I'll have a shake-down for ye next the north window."

Stephen's thanks for the hospitality perhaps lacked heartiness. But
perceiving his host still contemplating him, he was emboldened to say:

"Has Mr. Lincoln gone to bed?"

"Who? Old Abe, at half-past ten? Wal I reckon you don't know him."

Stephen's reflections here on the dignity of the Senatorial candidate of
the Republican Party in Illinois were novel, at any rate. He thought of
certain senators he had seen in Massachusetts.

"The only reason he ain't down here swappin' yarns with the boys, is
because he's havin' some sort of confab with the Jedge and Joe Medill of
the 'Chicagy Press' and 'Tribune'."

"Do you think he would see me?" asked Stephen, eagerly. He was emboldened
by the apparent lack of ceremony of the candidate. The landlord looked at
him in some surprise.

"Wal, I reckon. Jest go up an' knock at the door number seven, and say
Tom Wright sent ye."

"How shall I know Mr. Lincoln?" asked Stephen.

"Pick out the ugliest man in the room. There ain't nobody I kin think of
uglier than Abe."

Bearing in mind this succinct description of the candidate, Stephen
climbed the rickety stairs to the low second story. All the bedroom doors
were flung open except one, on which the number 7 was inscribed. From
within came bursts of uproarious laughter, and a summons to enter.

He pushed open the door, and as soon as his eyes became, accustomed to
the tobacco smoke, he surveyed the room. There was a bowl on the floor,
the chair where it belonged being occupied. There was a very inhospitable
looking bed, two shake-downs, and four Windsor chairs in more or less
state of dilapidation--all occupied likewise. A country glass lamp was
balanced on a rough shelf, and under it a young man sat absorbed in
making notes, and apparently oblivious to the noise around him. Every
gentleman in the room was collarless, coatless, tieless, and vestless.
Some were engaged in fighting gnats and June bugs, while others battled
with mosquitoes--all save the young man who wrote, he being wholly
indifferent.

Stephen picked out the homeliest man in the room. There was no mistaking
him. And, instead of a discussion of the campaign with the other
gentlemen, Mr. Lincoln was defending what do you think? Mr. Lincoln was
defending an occasional and judicious use of swear words.

"Judge," said he, "you do an almighty lot of cussing in your speeches,
and perhaps it ain't a bad way to keep things stirred up."

"Well," said the Judge, "a fellow will rip out something once in a while
before he has time to shut it off."

Mr. Lincoln passed his fingers through his tousled hair. His thick lower
lip crept over in front of the upper one, A gleam stirred in the deep-set
gray eyes.

"Boys," he asked, "did I ever tell you about Sam'l, the old Quaker's
apprentice?"

There was a chorus of "No's" and "Go ahead, Abe?" The young man who was
writing dropped his pencil. As for Stephen, this long, uncouth man of the
plains was beginning to puzzle him. The face, with its crude features and
deep furrows, relaxed into intense soberness. And Mr. Lincoln began his
story with a slow earnestness that was truly startling, considering the
subject.

"This apprentice, Judge, was just such an incurable as you." (Laughter.)
"And Sam'l, when he wanted to, could get out as many cusses in a second
as his anvil shot sparks. And the old man used to wrastle with him nights
and speak about punishment, and pray for him in meeting. But it didn't do
any good. When anything went wrong, Sam'l had an appropriate word for the
occasion. One day the old man got an inspiration when he was scratching
around in the dirt for an odd-sized iron.

"'Sam'l,' says he, 'I want thee.'

"Sam'l went, and found the old man standing over a big rat hole, where
the rats came out to feed on the scraps.

"'Sam'l,' says he, 'fetch the tongs.'

"Sam'l fetched the tongs.

"'Now, Sam'l,' says the old man, 'thou wilt sit here until thou hast a
rat. Never mind thy dinner. And when thou hast him, if I hear thee swear,
thou wilt sit here until thou hast another. Dost thou mind?'"

Here Mr. Lincoln seized two cotton umbrellas, rasped his chair over the
bare boor into a corner of the room, and sat hunched over an imaginary
rat hole, for all the world like a gawky Quaker apprentice. And this was
a candidate for the Senate of the United States, who on the morrow was to
meet in debate the renowned and polished Douglas!

"Well," Mr. Lincoln continued, "that was on a Monday, I reckon, and the
boys a-shouting to have their horses shod. Maybe you think they didn't
have some fun with Sam'l. But Sam'l sat there, and sat there, and sat
there, and after a while the old man pulled out his dinner-pail. Sam'l
never opened his mouth. First thing you know, snip went the tongs." Mr.
Lincoln turned gravely around. "What do you reckon Sam'l said, Judge?"

The Judge, at random, summoned up a good one, to the delight of the
audience.

"Judge," said Mr. Lincoln, with solemnity, "I reckon that's what you'd
have said. Sam'l never said a word, and the old man kept on eating his
dinner. One o'clock came, and the folks began to drop in again, but
Sam'l, he sat there. 'Long towards night the boys collected 'round the
door. They were getting kind of interested. Sam'l, he never looked up."
Here Mr. Lincoln bent forward a little, and his voice fell to a loud,
drawling whisper. "First thing you know, here come the whiskers peeping
up, then the pink eyes a--blinking at the forge, then--!"

"Suddenly he brought the umbrellas together with whack.

"'By God,' yells Sam'l, 'I have thee at last!'"

Amid the shouts, Mr. Lincoln stood up, his long body swaying to and fro
as he lifted high the improvised tongs. They heard a terrified squeal,
and there was the rat squirming and wriggling,--it seemed before their
very eyes. And Stephen forgot the country tavern, the country politician,
and was transported straightway into the Quaker's smithy.


CHAPTER III

IN WHICH STEPHEN LEARNS SOMETHING

It was Mr. Lincoln who brought him back. The astonishing candidate for
the Senate had sunk into his chair, his face relaxed into sadness save
for the sparkle lurking in the eyes. So he sat, immobile, until the
laughter had died down to silence. Then he turned to Stephen.

"Sonny," he said, "did you want to see me?"

Stephen was determined to be affable and kind, and (shall we say it?) he
would not make Mr. Lincoln uncomfortable either by a superiority of
English or the certain frigidity of manner which people in the West said
he had. But he tried to imagine a Massachusetts senator, Mr. Sumner, for
instance, going through the rat story, and couldn't. Somehow,
Massachusetts senators hadn't this gift. And yet he was not quite sure
that it wasn't a fetching gift. Stephen did not quite like to be called
"Sonny." But he looked into two gray eyes, and at the face, and something
curious happened to him. H., July 3, 1915
My dear Tumulty:

I am heartily obliged to you for your telegrams. It is characteristic
of you to keep my mind free by such messages.

I am really having a most refreshing and rewarding time and am very thankful
to get it. I hope that you are not having depressing weather in Washington
and that you are finding it possible to make satisfactory arrangements
for the family, so that we can have the pleasure of having you
with us at the White House when I get back.

With warmest messages from us all, Affectionately yours,

(signed) Woodrow Wilson 
Hon.

Joseph P. Tumulty Washington, D.C.

This letter reveals the warm personal relations between the President
and his secretary.]

He listened with keen attention and then modestly remarked: "I value
very highly this tip and you may rest assured I shall cover these
matters in my next speech.

I meant that speech to be general."

In my ignorance of things past I did not know that the candidate had himself
written the platform adopted by the Trenton Convention, and in my ignorance
of the future I did not then know that one of the boldest and most
remarkable political campaigns in America was to be conducted on that
platform, and that after the election and inauguration of the nominee the
chief business of the legislation was destined to be the enactment
into law of each of the planks of the platform, a complete and
itemized fulfilment of preëlection promises, unusual in the history
of American politics.

At the time of my first conversation with the nominee I only knew
that the Convention had been dominated by the reactionary elements
in the party, that under this domination it had stolen the thunder
of the progressive elements of the party and of the New Idea
Republicans, and that the platform had been practically ignored by
the candidate in his first campaign speech.

In these circumstances, and smarting as I was under the recollection
of recent defeat, it is not strange that I thought I detected the old
political ruse of dressing the wolf in sheep's clothing, of using handsome
pledges as a mask to deceive the gullible, and that I assumed that this
scholarly amateur in politics was being used for their own purposes
by masters and veterans in the old game of thimblerig.

The candidate soon struck his gait and astonished me and all New
Jersey with the vigour, frankness, and lucidity of his speeches of
exposition and appeal.

No campaign in years in New Jersey had roused such universal interest.
There was no mistaking the character and enthusiasm of the greeting
the candidate received every place he spoke, nor the response his
thrilling speeches evoked all over the state.

Those who had gathered the idea that the head of the great university
would appear pedantic and stand stiff-necked upon an academic
pedestal from which he would talk over the heads of the common
people were forced, by the fighting, aggressive attitude of the
Doctor, to revise their old estimates.

The campaign had only begun when the leading newspapers of the
country, particularly the large dailies of New York, were taking
an interest in the New Jersey fight.

Those of us who doubted Woodrow Wilson's sincerity and his sympathy for
the great progressive measures for which we had been fighting in
the New Jersey Legislature were soon put at ease by the developments
of his campaign and his sympathetic attitude toward the things we
had so much at heart.

No candidate for governor in New Jersey had ever made so striking and moving
an appeal. Forgetting and ignoring the old slogans and shibboleths, he
appealed to the hearts and consciences of the people of the state. His
homely illustrations evoked expressions of delight, until it seemed
as if this newcomer in the politics of our state had a better
knowledge of the psychology of the ordinary crowd than the old
stagers who had spent their lives in politics.

His illustrations always went home.

For instance, speaking of progress, Doctor Wilson said that much
depended upon the action of the one who is supposed to be progressive.

"I can recall," he would say in trying to make his point, "the picture
of a poor devil of a donkey on a treadmill. He keeps on tramping, tramping,
tramping, but he never gets anywhere.

But," he continued, "there is a certain elephant that's tramping,
too, and how much progress is it making?"

And then, again, he would grow solemn when he spoke of the average
man. Turning aside from the humorous, he would strike a serious
note like this one:
You know that communities are not distinguished by exceptional men.

They are distinguished by the average of their citizenship. I often
think of the poor man when he goes to vote: a moral unit in his lonely
dignity.

The deepest conviction and passion of my heart is that the common people,
by which I mean all of us, are to be absolutely trusted. The peculiarity
of some representatives, particularly those of the Republican party,
is that when they talk about the people, they obviously do not include
themselves. Now if, when you think of the people, you are not thinking
about yourself, then you do not belong in America.

When I look back at the processes of history, when I look back at the
genesis of America, I see this written over every page, that the nations
are renewed from the bottom, not from the top; that the genius
which springs up from the ranks of unknown men is the genius which
renews the youth and the energy of the people; and in every age of the
world, where you stop the courses of the blood from the roots, you
injure the great, useful structure to the extent that atrophy,
death, and decay are sure to ensue.

This is the reason that an hereditary monarchy does not work; that is the
reason that an hereditary aristocracy does not work; that is the reason
that everything of that sort is full of corruption and ready to
decay.

So I say that our challenge of to-day is to include in the partnership all
those great bodies of unnamed men who are going to produce our future
leaders and renew the future energies of America. And as I confess that,
as I confess my belief in the common man, I know what I am saying. The
man who is swimming against the stream knows the strength of it. The
man who is in the mêlée knows what blows are being struck and what
blood is being drawn.

The man who is on the make is a judge of what is happening in America, not
the man who has made; not the man who has emerged from the flood,
not the man who is standing on the bank, looking on, but the man
who is struggling for his life and for the lives of those who are
dearer to him than himself.

That is the man whose judgment will tell you what is going on in
America, and that is the man by whose judgment I for one wish to
be guided--so that as the tasks multiply and the days come when all
will seem confusion and dismay, we may lift up our eyes to the hills
out of these dark valleys where the crags of special privilege
overshadow and darken our path, to where the sun gleams through the
great passage in the broken cliffs, the sun of God, the sun meant
to regenerate men, the sun meant to liberate them from their passion
and despair and to lift us to those uplands which are the promised
land of every man who desires liberty and achievement.

Speaking for the necessity of corporate reform in business, he
said:

I am not objecting to the size of these corporations. Nothing is big
enough to scare me.

What I am objecting to is that the Government should give them
exceptional advantages, which enables them to succeed and does not
put them on the same footing as other people.

I think those great touring cars, for example, which are labelled
"Seeing New York," are too big for the streets. You have almost to walk
around the block to get away from them, and size has a great deal
to do with the trouble if you are trying to get out of the way.

But I have no objection on that account to the ordinary automobile
properly handled by a man of conscience who is also a gentleman. I
have no objection to the size, power, and beauty of an automobile.

I am interested, however, in the size and conscience of the men who
handle them, and what I object to is that some corporation men are taking
"joy-rides" in their corporations.

Time and time again men were reminded of the great speeches of
Lincoln and thought they saw his fine spirit breathing through
sentences like these:
Gentlemen, we are not working for to-day, we are not working for
our own interest, we are all going to pass away.

But think of what is involved. Here are the tradition, and the fame, and
the prosperity, and the purity, and the peace of a great nation
involved.

For the time being we are that nation, but the generations that are
behind us are pointing us forward to the path and saying:
"Remember the great traditions of the American people," and all
those unborn children that will constitute the generations that are
ahead will look back to us, either at those who serve them or at
those who betray them.

Will any man in such circumstances think it worthy to stand and not
try to do what is possible in so great a cause, to save a country, to
purify a polity, to set up vast reforms which will increase the happiness
of mankind? God forbid that I should either be daunted or turned
away from a great task like this.

Speaking of the candidate who opposed him:

I have been informed that he has the best of me in looks. Now, it is
not always the useful horse that is most beautiful. If I had a big load
to be drawn some distance I should select one of those big, shaggy
kinds of horses, not much for beauty but strong of pull.

On one occasion, when he had been talking about his and Mr. Lewis's different
conceptions of the "constitutional governor", and telling his audience
how he, if elected, would interpret the election as a mandate from the
people to assist in and direct legislation in the interests of the people
of New Jersey at large, he paused an instant and then in those incisive
tones and with that compression of the lips which marked his more
bellicose words, he said curtly: "If you don't want that kind of a
governor, don't elect me."

Excerpts from the speeches cannot do justice to this remarkable campaign,
which Woodrow Wilson himself, after he had been twice elected
President of the United States, considered the most satisfying of
his political campaigns, because the most systematic and basic.

As Presidential candidate he had to cover a wide territory and touch
only the high spots in the national issues, but in his gubernatorial
campaign he spoke in every county of the state and in some counties
several times, and his speeches grew out of each other and were
connected with each other in a way that made them a popular treatise
on self-government.

He used no technical jargon and none of the stereotyped bombast of the
usual political campaign. He had a theme which he wanted to expound
to the people of New Jersey, which theme was the nature and character
of free government, how it had been lost in New Jersey through the
complicated involvements of invisible government, manipulated from behind
the scenes by adroit representatives of the corporate interest
working in conjunction with the old political machines; how under
this clever manipulation legislators had ceased to represent the
electorate and were, as he called them, only "errand boys" to do
the bidding of the real rulers of New Jersey, many of whom were not
even residents of the state, and how free government could be
restored to New Jersey through responsible leadership.

He was making an application to practical politics of the fundamental
principles of responsible government which he had analyzed in his
earlier writings, including the book on "Congressional Government."
Beneath the concrete campaign issues in New Jersey he saw the fundamental
principles of Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights and the Declaration
of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.

His trained habit of thinking through concrete facts to basic principles
was serving him well in this campaign; his trained habit of clear
exposition in the Princeton lecture hall was serving him well.

People heard from him political speaking of a new kind; full of
weighty instruction and yet so simply phrased and so aptly illustrated
that the simplest minded could follow the train of reasoning;
profound in political philosophy and yet at every step humanized
by one who believed government the most human of things because
concerned with the happiness and welfare of individuals; sometimes
he spoke in parables, homely anecdotes so applied that all could
understand; sometimes he was caustic when he commented on the
excessive zeal of corporations for strict constitutionalism, meaning
thereby only such legislation and judicial interpretations as would
defend their property rights--how they had secured those rights
being a question not discussed by these gentlemen; sometimes, though
not frequently, there would be purple patches of eloquence,
particularly when descanting on the long struggle of the inarticulate
masses for political representation.

One of the surprises of the campaign to those who had known him as an
orator of classic eloquence was the comparative infrequency of rhetorical
periods. It was as if he were now too deeply engaged with actualities
to chisel and polish his sentences. Of the many anecdotes which he told
during the campaign one of his favourites was of the Irishman digging
a cellar, who when asked what he was doing said: "I'm letting the darkness
out." Woodrow Wilson told the people of New Jersey that he was
"letting the darkness out" of the New Jersey political situation.

"Pitiless publicity" was one of his many phrases coined in the campaign
which quickly found currency, not only in New Jersey but throughout
the country, for presently the United States at large began to
realize that what was going on in New Jersey was symbolical of the
situation throughout the country, a tremendous struggle to restore
popular government to the people.

Since the founders of the Republic expounded free institutions to
the first electorates of this country there had probably been no
political campaign which went so directly to the roots of free
representative government and how to get it as that campaign which
Woodrow Wilson conducted in New Jersey in the autumn of 1910.

CHAPTER VII
THE CRISIS OF THE CAMPAIGN

The crisis of the campaign came when George L.

Record, Progressive leader in the ranks of the Republican party in Hudson
County, uttered a ringing challenge to the Democratic candidate
to debate the issues of the campaign with him.

The challenge contained an alternative proposition that the Democratic
candidate either meet Mr.

Record in joint debate in various parts of the state or that he
answer certain questions with reference to the control of the
Democratic party by what Mr.

Record called the "Old Guard." Mr.

Record's letter and challenge created a profound sensation throughout the
state and brought hope and comfort to the ranks of the Republican
party.

Record emphasized the Old Guard's control of the convention at which
Wilson was nominated, basing most of his questions upon this
character of political control, and openly challenging Wilson, the
Democratic candidate, to say whether the elements that were dominant
at Trenton in the Convention would be permitted by him, in case of
his election, to influence his action as governor.

For several days after the letter containing the challenge reached the
Democratic candidate, there was a great deal of apprehension in
the ranks of the Democratic party lest the candidate should decide
to ignore the Record challenge, thus giving aid and comfort to the
enemies of progressivism in the state, or, on the other hand, that
he would accept it and thus give Mr.

Record, who was a most resourceful public speaker and a leading exponent
of liberalism in the state, a chance to outwit him in public debate. The
latter practically demanded of the Democratic candidate that he
repudiate not only the Old Guard but the active management of his
campaign which had been taken over by James R.

Nugent, one of the leaders of Essex County, who daily accompanied the
Democratic candidate on his tour of the state.

For a time it looked as if Doctor Wilson would ignore entirely the
Record challenge. It was plainly evident from all sides that what
appeared to be his reluctance to take a stand in the matter had turned
support away at a time when the sentiment of the state was rapidly flowing
his way.

I accompanied the candidate on an automobile tour of the state and
in our little talks I sought to find out, in a diplomatic way, just
how his mind was running on the Record challenge and how he intended
to meet it.

In the automobile with us on this tour was James R. Nugent, then the
state chairman of the Democratic Committee. I ascertained that even he
knew nothing about the Princetonian's attitude toward the Record challenge.
A significant remark which the candidate dropped "between meetings"
gave me the first intimation that the Democratic candidate was,
to use a baseball expression, "on to the Record curve" and that he
would answer him in so emphatic and overwhelming a fashion that the
Republican campaign would never entirely recover from the blow.

We have the material for powerful leaders in Mr.
Blair and others" (Mr. Lincoln nodded at the name). "We are getting an
ever increasing population from New England, mostly of young men who will
take kindly to the new party." And then he added, thinking of his
pilgrimage the Sunday before: "South St. Louis is a solid mass of
Germans, who are all antislavery. But they are very foreign still, and
have all their German institutions."

"The Turner Halls?" Mr. Lincoln surprised him by inquiring.

"Yes. And I believe that they drill there."

"Then they will the more easily be turned into soldiers if the time
should come," said Mr. Lincoln. And he added quickly, "I pray that it may
not."

Stephen had cause to remember that observation, and the acumen it showed,
long afterward.

The train made several stops, and at each of them shoals of country
people filled the aisles, and paused for a most familiar chat with the
senatorial candidate. Many called him Abe. His appearance was the equal
in roughness to theirs, his manner if anything was more democratic,--yet
in spite of all this Stephen in them detected a deference which might
almost be termed a homage. There were many women among them. Had our
friend been older, he might have known that the presence of good women in
a political crowd portends something. As it was, he was surprised. He was
destined to be still more surprised that day.

When they had left behind them the shouts of the little down of Dixon,
Mr. Lincoln took off his hat, and produced a crumpled and not too
immaculate scrap of paper from the multitude therein.

"Now, Joe," said he, "here are the four questions I intend to ask Judge
Douglas. I am ready for you. Fire away."

"We don't care anything about the others," answered Mr. Medill. "But I
tell you this. If you ask that second one, you'll never see the United
States Senate."

"And the Republican party in this state will have had a blow from which
it can scarcely recover," added Mr. Judd, chairman of the committee.

Mr. Lincoln did not appear to hear them. His eyes were far away over the
wet prairie.

Stephen held his breath. But neither he, nor Medill, nor Judd, nor Hill
guessed at the pregnancy of that moment. How were they to know that the
fate of the United States of America was concealed in that Question,
--was to be decided on a rough wooden platform that day in the town of
Freeport, Illinois?

But Abraham Lincoln, the uncouth man in the linen duster with the tousled
hair, knew it. And the stone that was rejected of the builders was to
become the corner-stone of the temple.

Suddenly Mr. Lincoln recalled himself, glanced at the paper, and cleared
his throat. In measured tones, plainly heard above the rush and roar of
the train, he read the Question:

   "Can the people of a United States Territory, in any lawful way,
   against the wish of any citizen of the United States, exclude
   slavery from its limits prior to the formation of a State
   Constitution?"

Mr. Medill listened intently.

"Abe," said he, solemnly, "Douglas will answer yes, or equivocate, and
that is all the assurance these Northern Democrats want to put Steve
Douglas in the Senate. They'll snow you under."

"All right," answered Mr. Lincoln, quietly.

"All right?" asked Mr. Medill, reflecting the sheer astonishment of the
others; "then why the devil are you wearing yourself out? And why are we
spending our time and money on you?"

Mr. Lincoln laid his hand on Medill's sleeve.

"Joe," said he, "a rat in the larder is easier to catch than a rat that
has the run of the cellar. You know, where to set your trap in the
larder. I'll tell you why I'm in this campaign: to catch Douglas now, and
keep him out of the White House in 1860. To save this country of ours,
Joe. She's sick."

There was a silence, broken by two exclamations.

"But see here, Abe," said Mr. Medill, as soon as ever he got his breath,
"what have we got to show for it? Where do you come in?"

Mr. Lincoln smiled wearily.

"Nowhere, I reckon," he answered simply.

"Good Lord!" said Mr. Judd.

Mr. Medill gulped.

"You mean to say, as the candidate of the Republican party, you don't
care whether you get to the Senate?"

"Not if I can send Steve Douglas there with his wings broken," was the
calm reply.

"Suppose he does answer yes, that slavery can be excluded?" said Mr.
Judd.

"Then," said Mr. Lincoln, "then Douglas loses the vote of the great
slave-holders, the vote of the solid South, that he has been fostering
ever since he has had the itch to be President. Without the solid South
the Little Giant will never live in the White House. And unless I'm
mightily mistaken, Steve Douglas has had his aye as far ahead as 1860 for
some time."

Another silence followed these words. There was a stout man standing in
the aisle, and he spat deftly out of the open window.

"You may wing Steve Douglas, Abe," said he, gloomily, "but the gun will
kick you over the bluff."

"Don't worry about me, Ed," said Mr. Lincoln. "I'm not worth it."

In a wave of comprehension the significance of all this was revealed to
Stephen Brice, The grim humor, the sagacious statesmanship, and (best of
all)--the superb self sacrifice of it, struck him suddenly. I think it
was in that hour that he realized the full extent of the wisdom he was
near, which was like unto Solomon's.

Shame surged in Stephen's face that he should have misjudged him. He had
come to patronize. He had remained to worship. And in after years, when
he thought of this new vital force which became part of him that day, it
was in the terms of Emerson: "Pythagoras was misunderstood, and Socrates,
and Jesus, and Luther, and Copernicus, and Galileo, and Newton, and every
pure and wise spirit that ever took flesh. To be great is to be
misunderstood."

How many have conversed with Lincoln before and since, and knew him not!

If an outward and visible sign of Mr. Lincoln's greatness were needed,
--he had chosen to speak to them in homely parables. The story of Farmer
Bell was plain as day. Jim Rickets, who had life all his own way, was
none other than Stephen A. Douglas, the easily successful. The ugly
galoot, who dared to raise his eyes only to the pear, was Mr. Lincoln
himself. And the pear was the Senatorship, which the galoot had denied
himself to save Susan from being Mr. Rickets' bride.

Stephen could understand likewise the vehemence of the Republican leaders
who crowded around their candidate and tried to get him to retract that
Question. He listened quietly, he answered with a patient smile. Now and
then he threw a story into the midst of this discussion which made them
laugh in spite of themselves. The hopelessness of the case was quite
plain to Mr. Hill, who smiled, and whispered in Stephen's ear: "He has
made up his mind. They will not budge him an inch, and they know it."

Finally Mr. Lincoln took the scrap of paper, which was even more dirty
and finger-marked by this time, and handed it to Mr. Hill. The train was
slowing down for Freeport. In the distance, bands could be heard playing,
and along the track, line upon line of men and women were cheering and
waving. It was ten o'clock, raw and cold for that time of the year, and
the sun was trying to come out.

"Bob," said Mr. Lincoln, "be sure you get that right in your notes. And,
Steve, you stick close to me, and you'll see the show. Why, boys," he
added, smiling, "there's the great man's private car, cannon and all."

All that Stephen saw was a regular day-car on a sidetrack. A brass cannon
was on the tender hitched behind it.


CHAPTER V

THE CRISIS

Stephen A. Douglas, called the Little Giant on account of his intellect,
was a type of man of which our race has had some notable examples,
although they are not characteristic. Capable of sacrifice to their
country, personal ambition is, nevertheless, the mainspring of their
actions. They must either be before the public, or else unhappy. This
trait gives them a large theatrical strain, and sometimes brands them as
adventurers. Their ability saves them from being demagogues.

In the case of Douglas, he had deliberately renewed some years before the
agitation on the spread of slavery, by setting forth a doctrine of
extreme cleverness. This doctrine, like many others of its kind, seemed
at first sight to be the balm it pretended, instead of an irritant, as it
really was. It was calculated to deceive all except thinking men, and to
silence all save a merciless logician. And this merciless logician, who
was heaven-sent in time of need, was Abraham Lincoln.

Mr. Douglas was a juggler, a political prestidigitateur. He did things
before the eyes of the Senate and the nation. His balm for the healing of
the nation's wounds was a patent medicine so cleverly concocted that
experts alone could show what was in it. So abstruse and twisted were
some of Mr. Douglas's doctrines that a genius alone might put them into
simple words, for the common people.

The great panacea for the slavery trouble put forth by Mr. Douglas at
that time was briefly this: that the people of the new territories should
decide for themselves, subject to the Constitution, whether they should
have slavery or not, and also decide for themselves all other questions
under the Constitution. Unhappily for Mr. Douglas, there was the famous
Dred Scott decision, which had set the South wild with joy the year
before, and had cast a gloom over the North. The Chief Justice of the
United States had declared that under the Constitution slaves were
property,--and as such every American citizen owning slaves could carry
them about with him wherever he went. Therefore the territorial
legislatures might pass laws until they were dumb, and yet their settlers
might bring with them all the slaves they pleased.

And yet we must love the Judge. He was a gentleman, a strong man, and a
patriot. He was magnanimous, and to his immortal honor be it said that
he, in the end, won the greatest of all struggles. He conquered himself.
He put down that mightiest thing that was in him,--his ambition for
himself. And he set up, instead, his ambition for his country. He bore no
ill-will toward the man whose fate was so strangely linked to his, and
who finally came to that high seat of honor and of martyrdom which he
coveted. We shall love the Judge, and speak of him with reverence, for
that sublime act of kindness before the Capitol in 1861.

Abraham Lincoln might have prayed on that day of the Freeport debate:

"Forgive him, Lord. He knows not what he does." Lincoln descried the
danger afar, and threw his body into the breach.

That which passed before Stephen's eyes, and to which his ears listened
at Freeport, was the Great Republic pressing westward to the Pacific. He
wondered whether some of his Eastern friends who pursed their lips when
the Wrest was mentioned would have sneered or prayed. A young English
nobleman who was there that day did not sneer. He was filled instead with
something like awe at the vigor of this nation which was sprung from the
loins of his own. Crudeness he saw, vulgarity he heard, but Force he
felt, and marvelled.

America was in Freeport that day, the rush of her people and the surprise
of her climate. The rain had ceased, and quickly was come out of the
northwest a boisterous wind, chilled by the lakes and scented by the
hemlocks of the Minnesota forests. The sun smiled and frowned Clouds
hurried in the sky, mocking the human hubbub below. Cheering thousands
pressed about the station as Mr. Lincoln's train arrived. They hemmed him
in his triumphal passage under the great arching trees to the new
Brewster House. The Chief Marshal and his aides, great men before, were
suddenly immortal. The county delegations fell into their proper
precedence like ministers at a state dinner. "We have faith in Abraham,
Yet another County for the Rail-sputter, Abe the Giant-killer,"--so the
banners read. Here, much bedecked, was the Galena Lincoln Club, part of
Joe Davies's shipment. Fifes skirled, and drums throbbed, and the stars
and stripes snapped in the breeze. And here was a delegation headed by
fifty sturdy ladies on horseback, at whom Stephen gaped like a
countryman. Then came carryalls of all ages and degrees, wagons from this
county and that county, giddily draped, drawn by horses from one to six,
or by mules, their inscriptions addressing their senatorial candidate in
all degrees of familiarity, but not contempt. What they seemed proudest
of was that he had been a rail-splitter, for nearly all bore a
fence-rail.

But stay, what is this wagon with the high sapling flagstaff in the
middle, and the leaves still on it?

     "Westward the Star of Empire takes its way.
     The girls link on to Lincoln; their mothers were for Clay."

Here was glory to blind you,--two and thirty maids in red sashes and blue
liberty caps with white stars. Each was a state of the Union, and every
one of them was for Abraham, who called them his "Basket of Flowers."
Behind them, most touching of all, sat a thirty-third shackled in chains.
That was Kansas. Alas, the men of Kansas was far from being as sorrowful
as the part demanded,--in spite of her instructions she would smile at
the boys. But the appealing inscription she bore, "Set me free" was
greeted with storms of laughter, the boldest of the young men shouting
that she was too beautiful to be free, and some of the old men, to their
shame be it said likewise shouted. No false embarrassment troubled
Kansas. She was openly pleased. But the young men who had brought their
sweethearts to town, and were standing hand in hand with them, for
obvious reasons saw nothing: They scarcely dared to look at Kansas, and
those who did were so loudly rebuked that they turned down the side
streets.

During this part of the day these loving couples, whose devotion was so
patent to the whole world, were by far the most absorbing to Stephen. He
watched them having their fortunes told, the young women blushing and
crying, "Say!" and "Ain't he wicked?" and the young men getting their
ears boxed for certain remarks. He watched them standing open-mouthed at
the booths and side shows with hands still locked, or again they were
chewing cream candy in unison. Or he glanced sidewise at them, seated in
the open places with the world so far below them that even the insistent
sound of the fifes and drums rose but faintly to their ears.

And perhaps,--we shall not say positively,--perhaps Mr. Brice's thoughts
went something like this, "O that love were so simple a matter to all!"
But graven on his face was what is called the "Boston scorn." And no
scorn has been known like unto it since the days of Athens.

So Stephen made the best of his way to the Brewster House, the elegance
and newness of which the citizens of Freeport openly boasted. Mr. Lincoln
had preceded him, and was even then listening to a few remarks of burning
praise by an honorable gentleman. Mr. Lincoln himself made a few remarks,
which seemed so simple and rang so true, and were so free from political
rococo and decoration generally, that even the young men forgot their
sweethearts to listen. Then Mr. Lincoln went into the hotel, and the sun
slipped under a black cloud.

The lobby was full, and rather dirty, since the supply of spittoons was
so far behind the demand. Like the firmament, it was divided into little
bodies which revolved about larger bodies. But there lacked not here
supporters of the Little Giant, and discreet farmers of influence in
their own counties who waited to hear the afternoon's debate before
deciding. These and others did not hesitate to tell of the magnificence
of the Little Giant's torchlight procession the previous evening. Every
Dred-Scottite had carried a torch, and many transparencies, so that the
very glory of it had turned night into day. The Chief Lictor had
distributed these torches with an unheard-of liberality. But there lacked
not detractors who swore that John Dibble and other Lincolnites had
applied for torches for the mere pleasure of carrying them. Since dawn
the delegations had been heralded from the house-tops, and wagered on
while they were yet as worms far out or the prairie. All the morning
these continued to came in, and form in line to march past their
particular candidate. The second great event of the day was the event of
the special over the Galena roar, of sixteen cars and more than a
thousand pairs of sovereign lungs. With military precision they repaired
to the Brewster House, and ahead of then a banner was flung: "Winnebago
County for the Tall Sucker." And the Tall Sucker was on the steps to
receive them.

But Mr. Douglas, who had arrived the evening before to the booming of two
and thirty guns, had his banners end his bunting, too. The neighborhood
of Freeport was stronghold of Northern Democrats, ardent supporters of
the Little Giant if once they could believe that he did not intend to
betray them.

Stephen felt in his bones the coming of a struggle, and was thrilled.
Once he smiled at the thought that he had become an active partisan--nay,
a worshipper--of the uncouth Lincoln. Terrible suspicion for a
Bostonian,--had he been carried away? Was his hero, after all, a homespun
demagogue? Had he been wise in deciding before he had taught a glimpse of
the accomplished Douglas, whose name end fame filled the land? Stephen
did not waver in his allegiance. But in his heart there lurked a fear of
the sophisticated Judge and Senator and man of the world whom he had not
yet seen. In his notebook he had made a, copy of the Question, and young
Mr. Hill discovered him pondering in a corner of the lobby at dinnertime.
After dinner they went together to their candidate's room. They found the
doors open and the place packed, and there was Mr. Lincoln's very tall
hat towering above those of the other politicians pressed around him. Mr.
Lincoln took three strides in Stephen's direction and seized him by the
shoulder.

"Why, Steve," said he, "I thought you had got away again." Turning to a
big burly man with a good-natures face, who was standing by, he added.
"Jim, I want you to look out for this young man. Get him a seat on the
stands where he can hear."

Stephen stuck close to Jim. He never knew what the gentleman's last name
was, or whether he had any. It was but a few minutes' walk to the grove
where the speaking was to be. And as they made their way thither Mr.
Lincoln passed them in a Conestoga wagon drawn by six milk-white horses.
Jim informed Stephen that the Little Giant had had a six-horse coach. The
grove was black with people. Hovering about the hem of the crowd were the
sunburned young men in their Sunday best, still clinging fast to the
hands of the young women. Bands blared "Columbia, Gem of the Ocean."
Fakirs planted their stands in the way, selling pain-killers and ague
cures, watermelons and lemonade, Jugglers juggled, and beggars begged.
Jim said that there were sixteen thousand people in that grove. And he
told the truth.

Stephen now trembled for his champion. He tried to think of himself as
fifty years old, with the courage to address sixteen thousand people on
such a day, and quailed. What a man of affairs it must take to do that!
Sixteen thousand people, into each of whose breasts God had put different
emotions and convictions. He had never even imagined such a crowd as this
assembles merely to listen to a political debate. But then he remembered,
as they dodged from in front of the horses, what it was not merely a
political debate: The pulse of nation was here, a great nation stricken
with approaching fever. It was not now a case of excise, but of
existence.

This son of toil who had driven his family thirty miles across the
prairie, blanketed his tired horses and slept on the ground the night
before, who was willing to stand all through the afternoon and listen
with pathetic eagerness to this debate, must be moved by a patriotism
divine. In the breast of that farmer, in the breast of his tired wife who
held her child by the hand, had been instilled from birth that sublime
fervor which is part of their life who inherit the Declaration of
Independence. Instinctively these men who had fought and won the West had
scented the danger. With the spirit of their ancestors who had left their
farms to die on the bridge at Concord, or follow Ethan Allen into
Ticonderoga, these had come to Freeport. What were three days of bodily
discomfort! What even the loss of part of a cherished crop, if the
nation's existence were at stake and their votes might save it!

In the midst of that heaving human sea rose the bulwarks of a wooden
stand. But how to reach it? Jim was evidently a personage. The rough
farmers commonly squeezed a way for him. And when they did not, he made
it with his big body. As they drew near their haven, a great surging as
of a tidal wave swept them off their feet. There was a deafening shout,
and the stand rocked on its foundations. Before Stephen could collect his
wits, a fierce battle was raging about him. Abolitionist and Democrat,
Free Soiler and Squatter Sov, defaced one another in a rush for the
platform. The committeemen and reporters on top of it rose to its
defence. Well for Stephen that his companion was along. Jim was
recognized and hauled bodily into the fort, and Stephen after him. The
populace were driven off, and when the excitement died down again, he
found himself in the row behind the reporters. Young Mr. Hill paused
while sharpening his pencil to wave him a friendly greeting.

Stephen, craning in his seat, caught sight of Mr. Lincoln slouched into
one of his favorite attitudes, his chin resting in his hand.

But who is this, erect, compact, aggressive, searching with a confident
eye the wilderness of upturned faces? A personage, truly, to be
questioned timidly, to be approached advisedly. Here indeed was a lion,
by the very look of him, master of himself and of others. By reason of
its regularity and masculine strength, a handsome face. A man of the
world to the cut of the coat across the broad shoulders. Here was one to
lift a youngster into the realm of emulation, like a character in a play,
to arouse dreams of Washington and its senators and great men. For this
was one to be consulted by the great alone. A figure of dignity and
power, with magnetism to compel moods. Since, when he smiled, you warmed
in spite of yourself, and when he frowned the world looked grave.

The inevitable comparison was come, and Stephen's hero was shrunk once
more. He drew a deep breath, searched for the word, and gulped. There was
but the one word. How country Abraham Lincoln looked beside Stephen
Arnold Douglas!

Had the Lord ever before made and set over against each other two such
different men? Yes, for such are the ways of the Lord.

          ........................

The preliminary speaking was in progress, but Stephen neither heard nor
saw until he felt the heavy hand of his companion on his knee.

"There's something mighty strange, like fate, between them two," he was
saying. "I recklect twenty-five years ago when they was first in the
Legislatur' together. A man told me that they was both admitted to
practice in the S'preme Court in '39, on the same day, sir. Then you know
they was nip an' tuck after the same young lady. Abe got her. They've
been in Congress together, the Little Giant in the Senate, and now, here
they be in the greatest set of debates the people of this state ever
heard; Young man, the hand of fate is in this here, mark my words--"

There was a hush, and the waves of that vast human sea were stilled. A
man, lean, angular, with coat-tail: flapping-unfolded like a grotesque
figure at a side-show.

No confidence was there. Stooping forward, Abraham Lincoln began to
speak, and Stephen Brice hung his head and shuddered. Could this shrill
falsetto be the same voice to which he had listened only that morning?
Could this awkward, yellow man with his hands behind his back be he whom
he had worshipped? Ripples of derisive laughter rose here and there, on
the stand and from the crowd. Thrice distilled was the agony of those
moments!

But what was this feeling that gradually crept over him? Surprise?
Cautiously he raised his eyes. The hands were coming around to the front.
Suddenly one of them was thrown sharply back, with a determined gesture,
the head was raised,--and.--and his shame was for gotten. In its stead
wonder was come. But soon he lost even that, for his mind was gone on a
journey. And when again he came to himself and looked upon Abraham
Lincoln, this was a man transformed. The voice was no longer shrill. Nay,
it was now a powerful instrument which played strangely on those who
heard. The fourth or Lakeward side, however, which is one of the longer
pair, consists mainly of "Colonnade;" spacious Colonnade "with vases and
statues;" catching up the outskirts of said Towers, and handsomely
uniting everything.

   Beyond doubt, a dignified, substantial pile of stone-work; all of
   good proportions. Architecture everywhere of cheerfully serious,
   solidly graceful character; all of sterling ashlar; the
   due RISALITES (projecting spaces) with their attics and statues
atop, the due architraves, cornices and corbels,--in short the due
opulence of ornament being introduced, and only the due.

Genuine sculptors, genuine painters, artists have been busy; and in fact
all the suitable fine arts, and all the necessary solid ones, have
worked together, with a noticeable fidelity, comfortable to the very
beholder to this day.
General height is about forty feet; two stories of ample proportions:

the Towers overlooking them are sixty feet in height. Extent of outer
frontage, if you go all round, and omit the Colonnade, will be five
hundred feet and more: this, with the rearward face, is a thousand feet
of room frontage:--fancy the extent of lodging space. For "all
the kitchens and appurtenances are underground;" the "left front" (which
is a new part of the Edifice) rising comfortably over these.

Windows I did not count; but they must go high up into the Hundreds. No end
to lodging space. Way in a detached side-edifice subsequently built,
called Cavalier House, I read of there being, for one item, "fifty lodging
rooms," and for another "a theatre."

And if an English Duke of Trumps were to look at the bills for all that,
his astonishment would be extreme, and perhaps in a degree painful and
salutary to him.

In one of these Towers the Crown-Prince has his Library: a beautiful
apartment; nothing wanting to it that the arts could furnish, "ceiling
done by Pesne" with allegorical geniuses and what not,--looks out
on mere sky, mere earth and water in an ornamental state: silent
as in Elysium.

It is there we are to fancy the Correspondence written, the Poetries and
literary industries going on. There, or stepping down for a turn in the
open air, or sauntering meditatively under the Colonnade with its
statues and vases (where weather is no object), one commands the
Lake, with its little tufted Islands, "Remus Island" much famed
among them, and "high beech-woods" on the farther side.

The Lake is very pretty, all say; lying between you and the sunset;--with
perhaps some other lakelet, or solitary pool in the wilderness,
many miles away, "revealing itself as a cup of molten gold," at
that interesting moment.

What the Book-Collection was, in the interior, I know not except by mere
guess.

The Crown-Princess's Apartment, too, which remained unaltered at the
last accounts had of it, [From Hennert, namely, in 1778.] is very
fine;--take the anteroom for specimen: "This fine room," some twenty feet
height of ceiling, "has six windows; three of them, in the main
front, looking towards the Town, the other three, towards the
Interior Court.

The light from these windows is heightened by mirrors covering all the
piers (SCHAFTE, interspaces of the walls), to an uncommonly splendid
pitch; and shows the painting of the ceiling, which again is by the
famous Pesne, to much perfection. The Artist himself, too, has managed
to lay on his colors there so softly, and with such delicate
skill, that the light-beams seem to prolong themselves in the painted
clouds and air, as if it were the real sky you had overhead." There in
that cloud-region "Mars is being disarmed by the Love-goddesses, and
they are sporting with his weapons. He stretches out his arm towards the
Goddess, who looks upon him with fond glances. Cupids are spreading out
a draping." That is Pesne's luxurious performance in the ceiling.--"Weapon-festoons,
in basso-relievo, gilt, adorn the walls of this room; and two
Pictures, also by Pesne, which represent, in life size, the late King and
Queen [our good friends Friedrich Wilhelm and his Sophie], are worthy of
attention. Over each of the doors, you find in low-relief the Profiles
of Hannibal, Pompey, Scipio, Caesar, introduced as Medallions."
All this is very fine; but all this is little to another ceiling,
in some big Saloon elsewhere, Music-saloon, I think: Black Night,
making off, with all her sickly dews, at one end of the ceiling;
and at the other end, the Steeds of Phoebus bursting forth, and the
glittering shafts of Day,--with Cupids, Love-goddesses, War-gods,
not omitting Bacchus and his vines, all getting beautifully awake
in consequence.

A very fine room indeed;--used as a Music-saloon, or I know not what,--and
the ceiling of it almost an ideal, say the connoisseurs.

Endless gardens, pavilions, grottos, hermitages, orangeries, artificial
ruins, parks and pleasances surround this favored spot and its Schloss;
nothing wanting in it that a Prince's establishment needs,--except
indeed it be hounds, for which this Prince never had the least
demand.

Except the old Ruppin duties, which imply continual journeyings thither,
distance only a morning's ride; except these, and occasional commissions
from Papa, Friedrich is left master of his time and pursuits in this new
Mansion. There are visits to Potsdam, periodical appearances at Berlin;
some Correspondence to keep the Tobacco-Parliament in tune. But Friedrich's
taste is for the Literatures, Philosophies: a--young Prince bent
seriously to cultivate his mind; to attain some clear knowledge of this
world, so all-important to him.

And he does seriously read, study and reflect a good deal; his main
recreations, seemingly, are Music, and the converse of well-informed,
friendly men.

In Music we find him particularly rich. Daily, at a fixed hour of the
afternoon, there is concert held; the reader has seen in what kind of
room: and if the Artists entertained here for that function were
enumerated (high names, not yet forgotten in the Musical world), it would
still more astonish readers. I count them to the number of twenty or
nineteen; and mention only that "the two Brothers Graun" and "the
two Brothers Benda" were of the lot; suppressing four other Fiddlers
of eminence, and "a Pianist who is known to everybody."

[Hennert, p. 21.] The Prince has a fine sensibility to Music: does
himself, with thrilling adagios on the flute, join in these
harmonious acts; and, no doubt, if rightly vigilant against the
Nonsenses, gets profit, now and henceforth, from this part of his
resources.

He has visits, calls to make, on distinguished persons within reach;
he has much Correspondence, of a Literary or Social nature. For instance,
there is Suhm the Saxon Envoy translating _Wolf's Philosophy_ into
French for him; sending it in fascicles; with endless Letters to
and from, upon it,--which were then highly interesting, but are now
dead to every reader. The Crown-Prince has got a Post-Office established
at Reinsberg; leathern functionary of some sort comes lumbering round,
southward, "from the Mecklenburg quarter twice a week, and goes
by Fehrbellin," for the benefit of his Correspondences.

Of his calls in the neighborhood, we mean to show the reader one sample,
before long; and only one.

There are Lists given us of the Prince's "Court" at Reinsberg; and
one reads, and again reads, the dreariest unmemorable accounts of
them; but cannot, with all one's industry, attain any definite
understanding of what they were employed in, day after day, at
Reinsberg:--still more are their salaries and maintenance a mystery
to us, in that frugal establishment.

There is Wolden for Hofmarschall, our old Custrin friend; there is
Colonel Senning, old Marlborough Colonel with the wooden leg, who
taught Friedrich his drillings and artillery-practices in boyhood,
a fine sagacious old gentleman this latter.

There is a M. Jordan, Ex-Preacher, an ingenious Prussian-Frenchman, still
young, who acts as "Reader and Librarian;" of whom we shall hear a good
deal more.

"Intendant" is Captain (Ex-Captain) Knobelsdorf; a very sensible
accomplished man, whom we saw once at Baireuth; who has been to
Italy since, and is now returned with beautiful talents for
Architecture: it is he that now undertakes the completing of
Reinsberg, [Hennert, p.
29.] which he will skilfully accomplish in the course of the next
three years.

Twenty Musicians on wind or string; Painters, Antoine Pesne but one of them;
Sculptors, Glume and others of eminence; and Hof-Cavaliers, to we
know not what extent:--how was such a Court kept up, in harmonious
free dignity, and no halt in its finances, or mean pinch of any
kind visible?

The Prince did get in debt; but not deep, and it was mainly for the
tall recruits he had to purchase.

His money-accounts are by no means fully known to me: but I should
question if his expenditure (such is my guess) ever reached 3,000
pounds a year; and am obliged to reflect more and more, as the
ancient Cato did, what an admirable revenue frugality is!

Many of the Cavaliers, I find, for one thing, were of the Regiment Goltz;
that was one evident economy. "Rittmeister van Chasot," as the Books call
him: readers saw that Chasot flying to Prince Eugene, and know him
since the Siege of Philipsburg.

He is not yet Rittmeister, or Captain of Horse, as he became; but
is of the Ruppin Garrison; Hof-Cavalier; "attended Friedrich on his
late Prussian journey;" and is much a favorite, when he can be
spared from Ruppin.

Captain Wylich, afterwards a General of mark; the Lieutenant Buddenbrock
who did the parson-charivari at Ruppin, but is now reformed from
those practices:
all these are of Goltz.

Colonel Keyserling, not of Goltz, nor in active military duty here,
is a friend of very old standing; was officially named as "Companion"
to the Prince, a long while back; and got into trouble on his account
in the disastrous Ante-Custrin or Flight Epoch:
one of the Prince's first acts, when he got pardoned after Custrin,
was to beg for the pardon of this Keyserling; and now he has him
here, and is very fond of him.

A Courlander, of good family, this Keyserling; of good gifts too,--which,
it was once thought, would be practically sublime; for he carried off all
manner of college prizes, and was the Admirable-Crichton of Konigsberg
University and the Graduates there. But in the end they proved to be
gifts of the vocal sort rather: and have led only to what we see. A
man, I should guess, rather of buoyant vivacity than of depth or strength
in intellect or otherwise.
Excessively buoyant, ingenious; full of wit, kindly exuberance; a
loyal-hearted, gay-tempered man, and much a favorite in society as well
as with the Prince. If we were to dwell on Reinsberg, Keyserling would
come prominently forward.

Major van Stille, ultimately Major-General von Stille, I should also mention:
near twenty years older than the Prince; a wise thoughtful soldier
(went, by permission, to the Siege of Dantzig lately, to improve
himself); a man capable of rugged service, when the time comes.

His military writings were once in considerable esteem with
professional men; and still impress a lay reader with favorable
notions towards Stille, as a man of real worth and sense.

[_Campagnes du Roi de Prusse;_--a posthumous Book; ANTERIOR to the
Seven-Years War.]

OF MONSIEUR JORDAN AND THE LITERARY SET.

There is, of course, a Chaplain in the Establishment: a Reverend
"M.
Deschamps;" who preaches to them all,--in French no doubt.

Friedrich never hears Deschamps: Friedrich is always over at Ruppin on
Sundays; and there "himself reads a sermon to the Garrison," as part
of the day's duties.

Reads finely, in a melodious feeling manner, says Formey, who can
judge: "even in his old days, he would incidentally," when some
Emeritus Parson, like Formey, chanced to be with him, "roll out
choice passages from Bossuet, from Massillon," in a voice and with
a look, which would have been perfection in the pulpit, thinks
Formey.

[_Souvenirs d'un Citoyen_ (2de edition, Paris, 1797), i. 37.]
M.

Jordan, though he was called "LECTEUR (Reader)," did not read to
him, I can perceive; but took charge of the Books; busied himself
honestly to be useful in all manner of literary or quasi-literary
ways.

He was, as his name indicates, from the French-refugee department; a recent
acquisition, much valued at Reinsberg. As he makes a figure afterwards,
we had better mark him a little.

Jordan's parents were wealthy religious persons, in trade at Berlin;
this Jordan (Charles Etienne, age now thirty-six) was their eldest son.
It seems they had destined him from birth, consulting their own
pious feelings merely, to be a Preacher of the Gospel; the other
sons, all of them reckoned clever too, were brought up to secular
employments.

And preach he, this poor Charles Etienne, accordingly did; what
best Gospel he had; in an honest manner, all say,--though never
with other than a kind of reluctance on the part of Nature, forced
out of her course.

He had wedded, been clergyman in two successive country places;
when his wife died, leaving him one little daughter, and a heart
much overset by that event.

Friends, wealthy Brothers probably, had pushed him out into the
free air, in these circumstances: "Take a Tour; Holland, England;
feel the winds blowing, see the sun shining, as in times past: it
will do you good!"

Jordan, in the course of his Tour, came to composure on several points.
He found that, by frugality, by wise management of some peculium
already his, his little Daughter and he might have quietness at
Berlin, and the necessary food and raiment;--and, on the whole,
that he would altogether cease preaching, and settle down there,
among his Books, in a frugal manner.

Which he did;--and was living so, when the Prince, searching for that
kind of person, got tidings of him. And here he is at Reinsberg; bustling
about, in a brisk, modestly frank and cheerful manner: well liked
by everybody; by his Master very well and ever better, who grew
into real regard, esteem and even friendship for him, and has much
Correspondence, of a freer kind than is common to him, with little
Jordan, so long as they lived together.

Jordan's death, ten years hence, was probably the one considerable
pain he had ever given his neighbors, in this the ultimate section
of his life.

I find him described, at Reinsberg, as a small nimble figure, of
Southern-French aspect; black, uncommonly bright eyes; and a general
aspect of adroitness, modesty, sense, sincerity; good prognostics,
which on acquaintance with the man were pleasantly fulfilled.

For the sake of these considerations, I fished out, from the Old-Book
Catalogues and sea of forgetfulness, some of the poor Books he wrote;
especially a _Voyage Litteraire,_ [_Histoire d'un Voyage Litteraire
fait, en MDCCXXXIII., en France, en Angleterre et en Hollande_ (2de edition,
a La Haye, 1736).] Journal of that first Sanitary Excursion or Tour he
took, to get the clouds blown from his mind. A LITERARY VOYAGE which
awakens a kind of tragic feeling; being itself dead, and treating
of matters which are all gone dead.

So many immortal writers, Dutch chiefly, whom Jordan is enabled to report
as having effloresced, or being soon to effloresce, in such and
such forms, of Books important to be learned: leafy, blossomy Forest
of Literature, waving glorious in the then sunlight to Jordan;--and
it lies all now, to Jordan and us, not withered only, but abolished;
compressed into a film of indiscriminate PEAT.

Consider what that peat is made of, O celebrated or uncelebrated reader,
and take a moral from Jordan's Book! Other merit, except indeed clearness
and commendable brevity, the _Voyage Litteraire_ or other little Books
of Jordan's have not now. A few of his Letters to Friedrich, which exist,
are the only writings with the least life left in them, and this
an accidental life, not momentous to him or us.

Dryasdust informs me, "Abbe Jordan, alone of the Crown-Prince's cavaliers,
sleeps in the Town of Reinsberg, not in the Schloss:" and if I ask,
Why?--there is no answer. Probably his poor little Daughterkin was beside
him there?--

We have to say of Friedrich's Associates, that generally they were of
intelligent type, each of them master of something or other, and capable
of rational discourse upon that at least. Integrity, loyalty of character,
was indispensable; good humor, wit if it could be had, were much in
request. There was no man of shining distinction there; but they were the
best that could be had, and that is saying all.

Friedrich cannot be said, either as Prince or as King, to have been
superlatively successful in his choice of associates.

With one single exception, to be noticed shortly, there is not one of them
whom we should now remember except for Friedrich's sake;--uniformly
they are men whom it is now a weariness to hear of, except in a cursory
manner. One man of shining parts he had, and one only; no man ever of
really high and great mind.

The latter sort are not so easy to get; rarely producible on the
soil of this Earth! Nor is it certain how Friedrich might have managed
with one of this sort, or he with Friedrich;--though Friedrich
unquestionably would have tried, had the chance offered. For he loved
intellect as few men on the throne, or off it, ever did; and the
little he could gather of it round him often seems to me a fact tragical
rather than otherwise.

With the outer Berlin social world, acting and reacting, Friedrich
has his connections, which obscurely emerge on us now and then.

Literary Eminences, who are generally of Theological vesture; any
follower of Philosophy, especially if he be of refined manners withal,
or known in fashionable life, is sure to attract him; and gains
ample recognition at Reinsberg or on Town-visits.

But the Berlin Theological or Literary world at that time, still more the
Berlin Social, like a sunk extinct object, continues very dim in
those old records; and to say truth, what features we have of it do
not invite to miraculous efforts for farther acquaintance. Venerable
Beausobre, with his _History of the Manicheans, [_Histoire critique
de Manichee et du Manicheisme:_ wrote also _Remarques &c. sur le
Nouveau Testament,_ which were once famous; _Histoire de la
Reformation;_ &c.

&c. He is Beausobre SENIOR; there were two Sons (one of them born in second
wedlock, after Papa was 70), who were likewise given to writing.--See
Formey, _Souvenirs d'un Citoyen since, in Toland and the Republican Queen's
time, as a light of the world.

He is now fourscore, grown white as snow; very serene, polite, with
a smack of French noblesse in him, perhaps a smack of affectation
traceable too.

The Crown-Prince, on one of his Berlin visits, wished to see this
Beausobre; got a meeting appointed, in somebody's rooms "in the
French College," and waited for the venerable man.

Venerable man entered, loftily serene as a martyr Preacher of the Word,
something of an ancient Seigneur de Beausobre in him, too; for the rest,
soft as sunset, and really with fine radiances, in a somewhat twisted
state, in that good old mind of his. "What have you been reading lately,
M. de Beausobre?" said the Prince, to begin conversation. "Ah, Monseigneur,
I have just risen from reading the sublimest piece of writing that
exists."

--"And what?" "The exordium of St.

John's Gospel: _In the Beginning was the Word; and the Word was with
God, and the Word was--"_ Which somewhat took the Prince by surprise, as
Formey reports; though he rallied straightway, and got good conversation
out of the old gentleman.

To whom, we perceive, he writes once or twice, [_OEuvres de Frederic,_
121-126.

Dates are all of 1737; the last of Beausobre's years.]--a copy of his own
verses to correct, on one occasion,--and is very respectful and
considerate.

Formey tells us of another French sage, personally known to the
Prince since Boyhood; for he used to be about the Palace, doing
something.

This is one La Croze; Professor of, I think, "Philosophy" in the French
College: sublime Monster of Erudition, at that time; forgotten now, I fear,
by everybody. Swag-bellied, short of wind; liable to rages, to utterances
of a coarse nature; a decidedly ugly, monstrous and rather stupid
kind of man. Knew twenty languages, in a coarse inexact way.
Attempted deep kinds of discourse, in the lecture-room and elsewhere;
but usually broke off into endless welters of anecdote, not always
of cleanly nature; and after every two or three words, a desperate
sigh, not for sorrow, but on account of flabbiness and fat.

Formey gives a portraiture of him; not worth copying farther. The same
Formey, standing one day somewhere on the streets of Berlin, was
himself, he cannot doubt, SEEN by the Crown-Prince in passing; "who
asked M.

Jordan, who that was," and got answer:--is not that a comfortable fact?
Nothing farther came of it;--respectable Ex-Parson Formey, though ever
ready with his pen, being indeed of very vapid nature, not wanted at
Reinsberg, as we can guess.

There is M.

Achard, too, another Preacher, supreme of his sort, in the then Berlin
circles; to whom or from whom a Letter or two exist.

Letters worthless, if it were not for one dim indication: That, on inquiry,
the Crown-Prince had been consulting this supreme Achard on the
difficulties of Orthodoxy; [_OEuvres de Frederic,_ xvi. pp. 112-117:
date, March-June, 1736.] and had given him texts, or a text, to
preach from.

Supreme Achard did not abolish the difficulties for his inquiring
Prince,--who complains respectfully that "his faith is weak," and leaves
us dark as to particulars.

This Achard passage is almost the only hint we have of what might
have been an important chapter: Friedrich's Religious History at
Reinsberg.

The expression "weak faith" I take to be meant not in mockery, but
in ingenuous regret and solicitude; much painful fermentation,
probably, on the religious question in those Reinsberg years!

But the old "GNADENWAHL" business, the Free-Grace controversy, had taught
him to be cautious as to what he uttered on those points. The
fermentation, therefore, had to go on under cover; what the result
of it was, is notorious enough; though the steps of the process are
not in any point known.

Enough now of such details. Outwardly or inwardly, there is no History, or
almost none, to be had of this Reinsberg Period; the extensive records
of it consisting, as usual, mainly of chaotic nugatory matter,
opaque to the mind of readers.

There is copious correspondence of the Crown-Prince, with at least dates
to it for most part: but this, which should be the main resource, proves
likewise a poor one; the Crown-Prince's Letters, now or afterwards,
being almost never of a deep or intimate quality; and seldom turning
on events or facts at all, and then not always on facts interesting,
on facts clearly apprehensible to us in that extinct element.

The Thing, we know always, IS there; but vision of the Thing is only
to be had faintly, intermittently.
He was reflecting on these things when he got to his room, when there
came a knock at the door. It was Mammy Easter, in bright turban and
apron,--was hospitality and comfort in the flesh.

"Is you got all you need, suh?" she inquired.

Stephen replied that he had. But Mammy showed no inclination to go, and
he was too polite to shut the door:

"How you like Glencoe, Mistah Bride?"

He was charmed with it.

"We has some of de fust fam'lies out heah in de summer," said she. "But
de Colonel, he a'n't much on a gran' place laik in Kaintuck. Shucks, no,
suh, dis ain't much of a 'stablishment! Young Massa won't have no lawns,
no greenhouses, no nothin'. He say he laik it wil' and simple. He on'y
come out fo' two months, mebbe. But Miss Jinny, she make it lively. Las'
week, until the Jedge come we hab dis house chuck full, two-three young
ladies in a room, an' five young gemmen on trunnle beds."

"Until the Judge came?" echoed Stephen.

"Yassuh. Den Miss Jinny low dey all hatter go. She say she a'n't gwineter
have 'em noun' 'sturbin' a sick man. De Colonel 'monstrated. He done give
the Judge his big room, and he say he and de young men gwine ober to
Mista, Catherwood's. You a'n't never seen Miss Jinny rise up, suh! She
des swep' 'em all out" (Mammy emphasized this by rolling her hands) "an'
declah she gwine ten' to the Jedge herself. She a'n't never let me bring
up one of his meals, suh." And so she left Stephen with some food for
reflection.

Virginia was very gay at breakfast, and said that the Judge would see
Stephen; so he and the Colonel, that gentleman with his hat on, went up
to his room. The shutters were thrown open, and the morning sunlight
filtered through the leaves and fell on the four-poster where the Judge
sat up, gaunt and grizzled as ever. He smiled at his host, and then tried
to destroy immediately the effect of the smile.

"Well, Judge," cried the Colonel, taking his hand, "I reckon we talked
too much."

"No such thing, Carvel," said the Judge, forcibly, "if you hadn't left
the room, your popular sovereignty would have been in rags in two
minutes."

Stephen sat down in a corner, unobserved, in expectation of a renewal.
But at this moment Miss Virginia swept into the room, very cool in a pink
muslin.

"Colonel Carvel," said she, sternly, "I am the doctor's deputy here. I
was told to keep the peace at any cost. And if you answer back, out you
go, like that!" and she snapped her fingers.

The Colonel laughed. But the Judge, whose mind was on the argument,
continued to mutter defiantly until his eye fell upon Stephen.

"Well, sir, well, sir," he said, "you've turned up at last, have you? I
send you off with papers for a man, and I get back a piece of yellow
paper saying that he's borrowed you. What did he do with you, Mr. Brice?"

"He took me to Freeport, sir, where I listened to the most remarkable
speech I ever expect to hear."

"What!" cried the Judge, "so far from Boston?"

Stephen hesitated, uncertain whether to laugh, until he chanced to look
at Virginia. She had pursed her lips.

"I was very much surprised, sir," he said.

"Humph!" grunted Mr. Whipple, "and what did you chink of that ruffian,
Lincoln?"

"He is the most remarkable man that I have ever met, sir," answered
Stephen, with emphasis.

"Humph!"

It seemed as if the grunt this time had in it something of approval.
Stephen had doubt as to the propriety of discussing Mr. Lincoln there,
and he reddened. Virginia's expression bore a trace of defiance, and Mr.
Carvel stood with his feet apart, thoughtfully stroking his goatee. But
Mr. Whipple seemed to have no scruples.

"So you admired Lincoln, Mr. Brice?" he went on. "You must agree with
that laudatory estimation of him which I read in the Missouri Democrat."

Stephen fidgeted.

"I do, sir, most decidedly," he answered.

"I should hardly expect a conservative Bostonian, of the class which
respects property, to have said that. It might possibly be a good thing
if more from your town could hear those debates."

"They will read them, sir; I feel confident of it."

At this point the Colonel could contain himself no longer.

"I reckon I might tell the man who wrote that Democrat article a few
things, if I could find out who he is," said he.

"Pa!" said Virginia, warningly.

But Stephen had turned a fiery red, "I wrote it, Colonel Carvel," he
said.

For a dubious instant of silence Colonel Carvel stared. Then--then he
slapped his knees, broke into a storm of laughter, and went out of the
room. He left Stephen in a moist state of discomfiture.

The Judge had bolted upright from the pillows.

"You have been neglecting your law, sir," he cried.

"I wrote the article at night," said Stephen, indignantly.

"Then it must have been Sunday night, Mr. Brice."

At this point Virginia hid her face in her handkerchief which trembled
visibly. Being a woman, whose ways are unaccountable, the older man took
no notice of her. But being a young woman, and a pretty one, Stephen was
angry.

"I don't see what right you have to ask me that sir," he said.

"The question is withdrawn, Mr. Brice," said the Judge, "Virginia, you
may strike it from the records. And now, sir, tell me something about
your trip."

Virginia departed.

An hour later Stephen descended to the veranda, and it was with
apprehension that he discerned Mr. Carvel seated under the vines at the
far end. Virginia was perched on the railing.

To Stephen's surprise the Colonel rose, and, coming toward him, laid a
kindly hand on his shoulder.

"Stephen," said he, "there will be no law until Monday you must stay with
us until then. A little rest will do you good."

Stephen was greatly touched.

"Thank you, sir," he said. "I should like to very much. But I can't."

"Nonsense," said the Colonel. "I won't let the Judge interfere."

"It isn't that, sir. I shall have to go by the two o'clock train, I
fear."

The Colonel turned to Virginia, who, meanwhile, had sat silently by.

"Jinny," he said, "we must contrive to keep him."

She slid off the railing.

"I'm afraid he is determined, Pa," she answered. "But perhaps Mr. Brice
would like to see a little of the place before he goes. It is very
primitive," she explained, "not much like yours in the East."

Stephen thanked her, and bowed to the Colonel. And so she led him past
the low, crooked outbuildings at the back, where he saw old Uncle Ben
busy over the preparation of his dinner, and frisky Rosetta, his
daughter, playing with one of the Colonel's setters. Then Virginia took a
well-worn path, on each side of which the high grass bent with its load
of seed, which entered the wood. Oaks and hickories and walnuts and
persimmons spread out in a glade, and the wild grape twisted
fantastically around the trunks. All this beauty seemed but a fit setting
to the strong girlish figure in the pink frock before him. So absorbed
was he in contemplation of this, and in wondering whether indeed she were
to marry her cousin, Clarence Colfax, that he did not see the wonders of
view unrolling in front of him. She stopped at length beside a great
patch of wild race bushes. They were on the edge of the bluff, and in
front of them a little rustic summer-house, with seats on its five sides.
Here Virginia sat down. But Stephen, going to the edge, stood and
marvelled. Far, far below him, down the wooded steep, shot the crystal
Meramec, chafing over the shallow gravel beds and tearing headlong at the
deep passes.

Beyond, the dimpled green hills rose and fell, and the stream ran indigo
and silver. A hawk soared over the, water, the only living creature in
all that wilderness.

The glory of the place stirred his blood. And when at length he turned,
he saw that the girl was watching him.

"It is very beautiful," he said.

Virginia had taken other young men here, and they had looked only upon
her. And yet she was not offended. This sincerity now was as new to her
as that with which he had surprised her in the Judge's room.

And she was not quite at her ease. A reply to those simple words of his
was impossible. At honest Tom Catherwood in the same situation she would
have laughed, Clarence never so much as glanced at scenery. Her replies
to him were either flippant, or else maternal, as to a child.

A breeze laden with the sweet abundance of that valley stirred her hair.
And with that womanly gesture which has been the same through the ages
she put up her hand; deftly tucking in the stray wisp behind.

She glanced at the New Englander, against whom she had been in strange
rebellion since she had first seen him. His face, thinned by the summer
in town, was of the sternness of the Puritan. Stephen's features were
sharply marked for his age. The will to conquer was there. Yet justice
was in the mouth, and greatness of heart. Conscience was graven on the
broad forehead. The eyes were the blue gray of the flint, kindly yet
imperishable. The face was not handsome.

Struggling, then yielding to the impulse, Virginia let herself be led on
into the years. Sanity was the word that best described him. She saw him
trusted of men, honored of women, feared by the false. She saw him in
high places, simple, reserved, poised evenly as he was now.

"Why do you go in this afternoon?" she asked abruptly.

He started at the change in her tone.

"I wish that I might stay," he said regretfully. "But I cannot, Miss
Carvel."

He gave no reason. And she was too proud to ask it. Never before had she
stooped to urge young men to stay. The difficulty had always been to get
them to go. It was natural, perhaps, that her vanity was wounded. But it
hurt her to think that she had made the overture, had tried to conquer
whatever it was that set her against him, and had failed through him.

"You must find the city attractive. Perhaps," she added, with a little
laugh, "perhaps it is Bellefontaine Road."

"No," he answered, smiling.

"Then" (with a touch of derision), "then it is because you cannot miss an
afternoon's work. You are that kind."

"I was not always that kind," he answered. "I did not work at Harvard.
But now I have to or--or starve," he said.

For the second time his complete simplicity had disarmed her. He had not
appealed to her sympathy, nor had he hinted at the luxury in which he was
brought up. She would have liked to question Stephen on this former life.
But she changed the subject suddenly.

"What did you really think of Mr. Lincoln?" she asked.

"I thought him the ugliest man I ever saw, and the handsomest as well."

"But you admired him?"

"Yes," said Stephen, gravely.

"You believe with him that this government cannot exist half slave and
half free. Then a day will come, Mr. Brice, when you and I shall be
foreigners one to the other."

"You have forgotten," he said eagerly, "you have forgotten the rest of
the quotation. 'I do not expect the Union to be dissolved--I do not
expect the house to fall--but cease to be divided.' It will become all
one thing or all the other."

Virginia laughed. "That seemed to me very equivocal," said she. "Your
rail-sputter is well named."

"Will you read the rest of that speech?" he asked

"Judge Whipple is very clever. He has made a convert of you," she
answered.

"The Judge has had nothing to do with it," cried Stephen. "He is not
given to discussion with me, and until I went to Springfield had never
mentioned Lincoln's name to me."

Glancing at her, he surprised a sparkle of amusement in her eyes. Then
she laughed openly.

"Why do you suppose that you were sent to Springfield?" she asked.

"With an important communication for Mr. Lincoln," he answered.

"And that most important communication was--your self. There, now, I have
told you," said Virginia.

"Was myself? I don't understand."

Virginia puckered her lips.

"Then you haven't the sense I thought you had," she replied impatiently.
"Do you know what was in that note? No? Well, a year ago last June this
Black Republican lawyer whom you are all talking of made a speech before
a convention in Illinois. Judge Whipple has been crazy on the subject
ever since--he talks of Lincoln in his sleep; he went to Springfield and
spent two days with him, and now he can't rest until you have seen and
known and heard him. So he writes a note to Lincoln and asks him to take
you to the debate--"

She paused again to laugh at his amazement.

"But he told me to go to Springfield!" he exclaimed.

"He told you to find Lincoln. He knew that you would obey his orders, I
suppose."

"But I didn't know--" Stephen began, trying to come pass within an
instant the memory of his year's experience with Mr. Whipple.

"You didn't know that he thought anything about you," said Virginia.
"That is his way, Mr. Brice. He has more private charities on his list
than any man in the city except Mr. Brinsmade. Very few know it. He
thinks a great deal of you. But there," she added, suddenly blushing
crimson, "I am sorry I told you."

"Why?" he asked.

She did not answer, but sat tapping the seat with her fingers. And when
she ventured to look at him, he had fallen into thought.

"I think it must be time for dinner," said Virginia, "if you really wish
to catch the train."

The coldness in her voice, rather than her words, aroused him. He rose,
took one lingering look at the river, and followed her to the house.

At dinner, when not talking about his mare, the Colonel was trying to
persuade Stephen to remain. Virginia did not join in this, and her father
thought the young man's refusal sprang from her lack of cordiality.
Colonel Carvel himself drove to the station.

When he returned, he found his daughter sitting idly on the porch.

"I like that young man, if he is a Yankee," he declared.

"I don't," said Virginia, promptly.

"My dear," said her father, voicing the hospitality of the Carvels, "I am
surprised at you. One should never show one's feelings toward a guest. As
mistress of this house it was your duty to press him to stay."

"He did not want to stay."

"Do you know why he went, my dear," asked the Colonel.

"No," said Virginia.

"I asked him," said the Colonel.

"Pa! I did not think it of you!" she cried. And then, "What was it?" she
demanded.

"He said that his mother was alone in town, and needed him."

Virginia got up without a word, and went into Judge Whipple's room. And
there the Colonel found her some hours later, reading aloud from a
scrap-book certain speeches of Mr. Lincoln's which Judge Whipple had cut
from newspapers. And the Judge, lying back with his eyes half closed, was
listening in pure delight. Little did he guess at Virginia's penance!


THE CRISIS

By Winston Churchill


Volume 4.


CHAPTER VII

AN EXCURSION

I am going ahead two years. Two years during which a nation struggled in
agony with sickness, and even the great strength with which she was
endowed at birth was not equal to the task of throwing it off. In 1620 a
Dutch ship had brought from Guinea to his Majesty's Colony of Virginia
the germs of that disease for which the Nation's blood was to be let so
freely. During these years signs of dissolution, of death, were not
wanting.

In the city by the Father of Waters where the races met, men and women
were born into the world, who were to die in ancient Cuba, who were to be
left fatherless in the struggle soon to come, who were to live to see new
monsters rise to gnaw at the vitals of the Republic, and to hear again
the cynical laugh of Europe. But they were also to see their country a
power in the world, perchance the greatest power. My friend Patrick
grabbed him by the leg and dragged him into a shell-hole. Nothing but
an inherent respect for his cloth restrained Patrick from giving
the Dicky Bird the spanking of his life.

At 8 A.M.
the Hun countered heavily and hove the Antrims out. Patrick retreated in
good order, leading the Padre by an ear. The Antrims sat down,
licked their cuts, puffed some of the Woodbines, then went back and
pitchforked the Bosch in his tender spots. The Bosch collected fresh
help and bobbed up again. Business continued brisk all day, and when
night fell the Antrims were left masters of the position.

At 1 A.M. they were relieved by the Rutland Rifles, and a dog weary
battered remnant of the battalion crawled back to camp in a sunken road
a mile in the rear.

One or two found bivouacs left by the Rutlands, but the majority dropped
where they halted. My friend Patrick found a bivouac, wormed into
it and went to sleep. The next thing he remembers was the roof of his
abode caving in with the weight of two men struggling violently. Patrick
extricated himself somehow and rolled out into the grey dawn to find the
sunken road filled with grey figures, in among the bivouacs and shell
holes, stabbing at the sleeping Antrims.
Here and there men were locked together, struggling tooth and claw;
the air was vibrant with a ghastly pandemonium of grunts and shrieks;
the sunken road ran like a slaughter-house gutter. There was only one thing
to do, and that was to get out, so Patrick did so, driving before him
what men he could collect.

A man staggered past him, blowing like a walrus.

It was the Padre's batman, and he had his master tucked under one arm, in
his underclothes, kicking feebly.

Patrick halted his men beyond the hill crest, and there the Colonel joined
him, trotting on his stockinged feet. Other officers arrived, herding men.
"They must have rushed the Ruts., Sir," Patrick panted; "must be after
those guns just behind us." "They'll get 'em too," said the Colonel
grimly. "We can't stop 'em," said the Senior Captain. "If we counter at
once we might give the Loamshires time to come up--they're in
support, Sir--but--but, if they attack us, they'll get those guns--run
right over us."

The Colonel nodded. "Man, I know, I know; but look at 'em"--he pointed to
the pathetic remnant of his battalion lying out behind the crest--"they're
dropping asleep where they lie--they're beat to a finish--not another
kick left in 'em."
He sat down and buried his face in his hands.

The redoubtable Antrims had come to the end.

Suddenly came a shout from the Senior Captain, "Good Lord, what's
that fellow after?

Who the devil is it?"
They all turned and saw a tiny figure, clad only in underclothes, marching
deliberately over the ridge towards the Germans.

"Who is it?" the Colonel repeated. "Beggin' your pardon, the Reverend, Sir,"
said the Padre's batman as he strode past the group of officers.
"'E give me the slip, Sir. Gawd knows wot 'e's up to now."

He lifted up his voice and wailed after his master, "'Ere, you come back
this minute, Sir. You'll get yourself in trouble again. Do you 'ear me,
Sir?" But the Padre apparently did not hear him, for he plodded
steadily on his way.

The batman gave a sob of despair and broke into a double.

The Colonel sprang to his feet, "Hey, stop him, somebody!

Those swine'll shoot him in a second--child murder!"
Two subalterns ran forward, followed by a trio of N.C.O.'s. All along the
line men lifted their weary heads from the ground and saw the tiny
figure on the ridge silhouetted against the red east.

"Oo's that blinkin' fool?"
"The Padre."

"Wot's 'e doin' of?"

"Gawd knows."
A man rose to his knees, from his knees to his feet, and stumbled
forward, mumbling, "'E give me a packet of fags when I was broke."

"Me too," growled another, and followed his chum.

"They'll shoot 'im in a minute," a voice shouted, suddenly frightened.
"'Ere, this ain't war, this is blasted baby-killin'."
In another five seconds the whole line was up and jogging forward at a
lurching double. "And a little child shall lead them," murmured the Colonel
happily, as he put his best foot forwards; a miracle had happened,
and his dear ruffians would go down in glory.

But as they topped the hill crest came the shrill of a whistle from
the opposite ridge, and there was half a battalion of the Rutlands
back-casting for the enemy that had broken through their posts.

With wild yells both parties charged downwards into the sunken road.

When the tumult and shouting had died Patrick went in quest of the little
Padre.

He discovered him sitting on the wreck of his bivouac of the night;
he was clasping some small article to his bosom, and the look in
his face was that of a man who had found his heart's desire.

Patrick sat himself down on a box of bombs, and looked humbly at the
Reverend Paul. It is an awful thing for a man suddenly to find he has been
entertaining a hero unawares.

"Oh, Dicky Bird, Dicky Bird, why did you do it?" he inquired softly.

The Padre cocked his head on one side and commenced to ooze apologies
from every pore.

"Oh dear--you know how absurdly absent-minded I am; well, I suddenly
remembered I had left my teeth behind."
PATLANDER.

* * * * *

[Illustration: _Old Lady._ "And what regiment are you in?"
_The Sub._ "7th Blankshires.

But I'm attached to the 9th Wessex."
_Old Lady._ "Really!

Now _do_ tell me why the officers get so fond of regiments with
aren't their own

."]

* * * * *

"At Nottingham on Saturday the damages ranging from £7 10s. to £3
were ordered to be paid by a number of miners for absenteeism.

It was stated that, although absolved from military obligations by
reason of their occupation, there had been glaring neglect of
responsibility, some men having lost three ships a week."

--_Western Morning News_.

These mines are very tricky things.

* * * * *

THE AS.

The French, always so quick to give things names--and so liberal about
it that, to the embarrassment and undoing of the unhappy foreigner,
they sometimes invent fifty names for one thing--have added so many
words to the vocabulary since August, 1914, that a glossary, and
perhaps more than one, has been published to enshrine them.

Without the assistance of this glossary it is almost impossible to
read some of the numerous novels of poilu life.

So far as I am aware the latest creation is the infinitesimal word
"as," or rather, it is a case of adaptation.

Yesterday "as des carreaux" (to give the full form) stood simply for ace
of diamonds. To-day all France, with that swift assimilation which
has ever been one of its many mysteries, knows its new meaning and applies
it.

And what is this new "as"? I gather, without having had the advantage
of cross-examining a French soldier, that an "as" is an obscure hero,
one of the men, and they are by no means rare, who do wonderful
things but do not get into the papers or receive medals or any
mention in despatches.

We all know that many of the finest deeds performed in war escape
recognition.

One does not want to suggest that V.C.'s and D.S.O.'

s and Military Crosses and all the other desirable tokens of valour
are conferred wrongly.

Nothing of the kind. They are nobly deserved.

But probably there never was a recipient of the V.C. or the D.S.O. or the
Military Cross who could not--and did not wish to--tell his
Sovereign, when the coveted honour was being pinned to His breast,
of some other soldier not less worthy than himself of being decorated,
whose deed of gallantry was performed under less noticeable
conditions.

The performer of such a deed is an "as" and it is his luck to be a
not public hero. But why ace of diamonds? That I cannot explain.

The "as" can be found in every branch of the Army, and he is recognised
as one by his comrades, even although the world at large is ignorant.
Perhaps we shall find a word for his British correlative, who must be
numerically very strong too. The letter A alone might do it, signifying
anonymous. "Voila, un as!" says the French soldier, indicating one of these
brave modest fellows who chances to be passing. "You see that chap,"
one of our soldiers would say; "he's an A."
All that I know of the "as" I have gathered from the French satirical
paper, a child of the War, _La Baïonette_.

This paper comes out every week and devotes itself, as its forerunner,
_L'Assiette au Beurre_, used to do, to one theme at a time, one phase
or facet of the struggle, usually in the army, but also in civil
life, where changes due to the War steadily occur.

In the number dedicated to the glory of the "as" I find recorded an
incident of the French Army so moving that I want to tell it here,
very freely, in English. It was, says the writer, before the
attack at Carency, and he vouches for the accuracy of his report, for
he was himself present. In the little village of Camblain-l'Abbé a
regiment was assembled, and to them spoke their Captain.

The scene was the yard of a farm. I know so well what it was like. The
great manure heap in the middle; the carts under cover, with perhaps one
or two American reapers and binders among them; fowls pecking here
and there; a thin predatory dog nosing about; a cart-horse peering
from his stable and now and then scraping his hoofs; a very wide
woman at the dwelling-house door; the old farmer in blue linen
looking on; and there, drawn up, listening to their Captain, row
on row of blue-coated men, all hard-bitten, weary, all rather
cynical, all weather-stained and frayed, and all ready to go on for
ever.

This is what the Captain said--a tall thin man of about thirty, speaking
calmly and naturally as though he was reading a book. "I have just seen
the Colonel," he said; "he has been in conference with the Commandant,
and this is what has been settled.

In a day or two it is up to us to attack.

You know the place and what it all means. At such and such an hour we
shall begin. Very well. Now this is what will happen. I shall be
the first to leave the trench and go over the top, and I shall be
killed at once.

So far so good.

I have arranged with the two lieutenants for the elder of them to
take my place.

He also will almost certainly be killed.

Then the younger will lead, and after him the sergeants in turn,
according to their age, beginning with the oldest who was with me
at Saida before the War.

What will be left by the time you have reached the point I cannot
say, but you must be prepared for trouble, as there is a lot of
ground to cover, under fire.

But you will take the point and hold it. Fall out."

That captain was an "as."
* * * * *
[Illustration: "OW D'YER LIKE BEING PUT ON TRANSPORT WORK, MATE?"
"BLIMEY! WHAT THE DOOCE MADE ME TELL 'EM I'D ONCE DRUV A DONKEY!"]

* * * * *

Domestic Intelligence.

"Owing to doctor's orders Mrs. ---- has been obliged to cancel all her
engagements during Baby Week."

--_Morning Paper_

.

* * * * *

I STOOD AGAINST THE WINDOW.

I stood against the window And looked between the bars, And there were
strings of fairies Hanging from the stars; Everywhere and everywhere
In shining swinging chains, Like rainbows spun from moonlight And
twisted into skeins.

They kept on swinging, swinging, They flung themselves so high They
caught upon the pointed moon And hung across the sky; And when I
woke next morning There still were crowds and crowds In beautiful
bright bunches All sleeping on the clouds

.

* * * * *

From a constable's evidence:--

"In his attempt to arrest her she threw herself on the ground and
tried to smack his face."

--_Weekly Dispatch_.

The long arm of the law resents such presumptuous rivalry.

* * * * *
"ALL KINDS OF DEVILS MADE TO ORDER. ---- & ----, SHEFFIELD."--_The
Ironmonger._

This looks uncommonly like an offer to trade with the enemy

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Wife (to warrior, whose politeness to the waitress has
been duly noted)_. "HUM! YOU SEEM TO 'AVE COME BACK 'ALF FRENCH

."]

* * * * *

THE GIPSY SOLDIER
The gipsy wife came to my door with pegs and brooms to sell They make
by many a roadside fire and many a greenwood dell, With bee-skeps and
with baskets wove of osier, rush and sedge, And withies from the
river-beds and brambles from the hedge.

With her stately grace, like PHARAOH'S queen (for all her broken
shoon), You'd marvel one so tall and proud should ever ask a boon, But
"living's dear for us poor folk" and "money can't be had," And "her man's
in Mespotania" and "times is cruel bad!"
Yes, times is cruel bad, we know, and passing strange also, And
it's strange as anything I've heard that gipsy men should go To
lands through which their forbears trod from some unknown abode The
way that ended long ago upon the Portsmouth Road.

I wonder if the Eastern skies and Eastern odours seem Familiar to that
gipsy man, as memories of a dream; Does Tigris' flow stir ancient dreams
from immemorial rest Ere ever gipsy poached the trout of Itchen and of
Test?

Does something in him seem to know those red and arid lands Where dust of
ancient cities sleeps beneath the drifted sands?
Do Kurdish girls with lustrous eyes beneath their drooping lids And Eastern
babes look strangely like the Missis and the kids?

I wonder if the waving palms, when desert winds do blow, In their dry
rustling seem to sing a song he used to know; Or does he only curse the
heat and wish that he were laid Beneath the spread of RUFUS' oaks or
Harewood's beechen shade?

Well, luck be with the gipsy man and lead him safely home To the old familiar
caravan and ways he used to roam, And bring him as it brought his sires
from their far first abode To where the gipsy camp-fires burn along the
Portsmouth Road.

C. F. S.

* * * * *
"The Premier's principal speech was made in St. Andrew's Hall, where he
was presented with the Freedam of the City."--_Liverpool Post and Mercury._

Which he promptly passed on to the enemy.

* * * * *
"Skilled non-workers all over the Union have for some time been in great
demand, and enough of them are not available at the present time."--_Rand
Daily Mail_.

There are still a few that the old country could spare.

* * * * *
"Rhode Island Red, 200 year old pullets, laying, 5s.

each."--_Nottingham Guardian_.

We fancy it must have been one of these veterans that we met at dinner
the other night.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE BRUSILOFF HUG. THE KAISER. "I'M ALL FOR FRATERNISATION,
BUT I CALL THIS OVERDOING IT."]
* * * * *
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Monday, July 2nd.

_--On the Finance Bill Mr.

BONAR LAW exhibited a conciliatory disposition; and, indignantly
disclaiming the character of a kill-joy, made several welcome concessions
to the taxpayer. The late increase in the tobacco duty is to be halved,
so that the modest smoker may hope to fill his pipe for a penny
less per ounce. This hope, of course, is dependent upon the decision
of the all-powerful Trust.

[Illustration: NO KILL-JOY. MR. BONAR LAW.]
The Entertainments Tax also is to be modified, chiefly in its higher regions.
Intimately connected with this question is the case of the "deadhead,"
argued with the zeal that is according to knowledge by that eminent
playwright, Mr. HEMMERDE, who knows all about the free-list and its services
in "enabling the management to keep the house properly dressed"--this
refers, of course, to the front of the house--during the doubtful first
weeks of a new play.

Mr. HOGGE was in his place again. It had been reported that, consequent
upon a hasty pledge to remain in Liverpool until his candidate was
returned, he was now doomed for ever to wander an unquiet sprite upon
the banks of Mersey. But he has wisely determined that Parliament must
not suffer to please his private whim.

_Tuesday, July 3rd._--The House of Lords was crowded to hear Lord HARDINGE'S
comments upon the Mesopotamia Report. Even those critics in the Commons
who had declared that a civil servant should not take advantage of his
position as a peer to make a personal explanation would, I think, have
had no reason to complain of its character. His object was not to defend
himself, but to call attention to the splendid services that India
had rendered to the Empire during the War in other fields than
Mesopotamia. In his own phrase, "India was bled absolutely white during
the first few weeks of the War."

When the report comes up for formal discussion Lord CURZON will doubtless
have something to say, and will say it in vigorous fashion.
To-day, with the air and mien of a highly respectable undertaker, he
contented himself with acknowledging Lord HARDINGE'S contribution and
deprecated further debate.

Lord ROBERT CECIL, safely back from his travels, does not appear
to have kept himself up to date in the interval, for he was ignorant of
the refusal of the Allies to allow Greece to set up a republic,
although Mr.
KING, with his superior sources of information, knows all about it.

[Illustration: PARENTAL PRIDE. LORD DERBY.]
At the close of Questions a stalwart young man in khaki advanced
to the Table, and, amid the cheers of the Members and to the obvious
delight of Lord DERBY, who sat beaming with parental pride in the
Peers' Gallery, added the signature "STANLEY" to a roll which has
rarely been without that name since "the Rupert of debate" signed
it there close on a hundred years ago.

Excess profits provided the theme for some lively speeches to-day. Major
HAMILTON did not see why farmers should escape the tax, and instanced the
case of a potato-grower who had made ten thousand pounds out of a
couple of hundred acres.

Several Members connected with the shipping interest protested against
the tax. Mr.

LEIF-JONES implied that it was more disastrous than the U-boats,
and Mr.

HOUSTON loudly protested at being represented as a harpy.

By these complaints Mr.

BONAR LAW was absolutely unmoved, and for very good reason.

He had himself a few thousands invested in shipping, and, as he was
getting about fifty per cent., instead of the modest five per cent.
which he had anticipated, he had come to the conclusion that even
under present conditions the trade was doing pretty well.

After this confession of an involuntary profiteer the tax was agreed
to.

But the farmers, with next year's Budget in view, are praying that
the conscientious CHANCELLOR will not invest his surplus profits
in land.

_Wednesday, July 4th_.--We all know the ex-poacher-turned-game-keeper.

The converse process has taken place in the case of Lord PORTSMOUTH,
who, when he ceased to be a Minister of the Crown, became a bitter
critic of successive Administrations.

His complaints of our blockade policy were frigidly acknowledged by Lord
MILNER and hotly resented by Lord LANSDOWNE, upon whom Lord
PORTSMOUTH'S ruddy beard always has a provocative effect.

It is all very well to talk of being ruthless to neutrals, but if we had
adopted the noble lord's policy early in the War would the Union Jack
and the Stars and Stripes be to-day floating side by side all over
London?

Mr. LYNCH'S latest suggestion for the furtherance of his Republican propaganda
is that the COMMISSIONER OF WORKS should remove from the streets all
statues of deceased monarchs, and replace them by those of great leaders
of thought. Sir ALFRED MOND absolutely refused.

The worst kings sometimes make the best statues, and he is not prepared to
sacrifice JAMES II. from the Admiralty even to put Mr. LYNCH himself on
the vacant pedestal.

"P. R." came up smiling for another round, and, having secured the services
on this occasion of Mr. ASQUITH as judicious bottle-holder, was
expected to make a good fight of it. The EX-PREMIER scouted the notion
that the new plan of voting would fill the House with freaks and faddists,
a class from which, he hinted, it is not, even under present conditions,
entirely immune. But the majority evidently felt that there could not be
much amiss with a system which had returned such wise and patriotic
persons as themselves to Parliament, and they outed P.

R. by 201 to 169.

_Thursday, July 5th_.--It is hardly surprising that the Government has
decided not to proceed at present with its great scheme of nationalizing
the liquor-traffic. The announcement that, in order to meet the
requirements of the harvest-season, the brewers should be allowed
to increase the output of beer by one-third, brought a swarm of
hornets about the CHANCELLOR'S head.

Mr. LEIF-JONES (irreverently known as "Tea-leaf JONES") was horrified
at the thought that more grain and sugar should be diverted to this
pernicious liquid; Mr. DEVLIN and other champions of the trade were
almost equally annoyed because the harvest-beer was to be of a lower
specific gravity. The storm of "supplementaries" showed no sign of
abating, until the SPEAKER, who rarely fails to find the appropriate
phrase, remarked upon "This thirst for information," and so dissolved
the House in laughter.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Gunner (home on leave)_. "WAITER, MY NEIGHBOUR'S EFFORTS
WITH HIS SOUP (BY THE WAY, I'M SURE HE OUGHT TO BE INTERNED) ARE MORE
THAN I CAN BEAR. WOULD YOU OBLIGE ME BY ASKING THE BAND TO PUT UP A
BARRAGE?"]
* * * * *
THE WEARY WATCHER.

["Almost exactly a month ago--on May 30th--I advised my readers to 'Watch
Karolyi,' and now I emphasize the advice."--_"The Clubman" in The Evening
Standard, July 2nd_.]
Since very early in the War My Mentors in the Press Have never failed in
warning me, By way of S.O.S., To keep my eye on So-and-So In times of
storm and stress.

I think that WINSTON was the first Commended to my gaze, But very soon
I found my eyes-- Tired by the limelight's blaze-- Incapable of
following His strange and devious ways.

I watched the PRESIDENT and thought (Unjustly) he was canting; I
watched our late PRIME MINISTER When furious scribes were ranting,
And vigilantly bent my looks On HARDEN and on BRANTING.

I watched JONESCU, also JONES (Great KENNEDY) and HUGHES; I sought
illumination from BILLING'S momentous views; I watched Freemasons,
Socialists, And Salonica Jews.
And lately with emotions which Transcend the power of rhymes I've
scanned with reverential eye Those highly-favoured climes Ennobled
by the presence of The ruler of the T***s.
I've glued my eye on seer and sage, On Mecca's brave Sherif; I've
fastened it on what's-his-name, The famed Albanian chief, Till,
wearying of the watcher's task, At length I crave relief.
So when I'm bidden at this stage To start the game anew And keep
KAROLYI constantly And carefully in view, I think I'm wholly justified
In answering, "Nah Poo!" 
* * * * * 
AN EQUIVOCAL COMPLIMENT.
"Dundee," said one of its leading citizens at the luncheon, "will
stand by Mr. Churchill to the last letter."--_Daily Chronicle_.
Evidently "l" itself would not sever Mr. CHURCHILL'S connection
with his old friends.

* * * * *
"$20 buys a horse, good in his wind, if sold at once."--_Canadian
Paper_.It isn't the old
times, when we all went our own way and kept our old customers year in
and year out. You know that."

The Captain took a deep draught of the coffee which Jackson had laid
before him.

"Colonel Carvel," he said emphatically, "the fellow's a damned rascal,
and will ruin you yet if you don't take advice."

The Colonel shifted uneasily.

"The books show that he's honest, Lige."

"Yes," cried Lige, with his fist on the table. "Honest to a mill. But if
that fellow ever gets on top of you, or any one else, he'll grind you
into dust."

"He isn't likely to get on top of me, Lige. I know the business, and keep
watch. And now that Jinny's coming home from Monticello, I feel that I
can pay more attention to her--kind of take her mother's place," said the
Colonel, putting on his felt hat and tipping his chair. "Lige, I want
that girl to have every advantage. She ought to go to Europe and see the
world. That trip East last summer did her a heap of good. When we were at
Calvert House, Dan read her something that my grandfather had written
about London, and she was regularly fired. First I must take her to the
Eastern Shore to see Carvel Hall. Dan still owns it. Now it's London and
Paris."

The Captain walked over to the window, and said nothing. He did not see
the searching gray eyes of his old friend upon him.

"Lige!" said the Colonel.

The Captain turned.

"Lige, why don't you give up steamboating and come along to Europe?
You're not forty yet, and you have a heap of money laid by."

The Captain shook his head with the vigor that characterized him.

"This ain't no time for me to leave," he said. "Colonel; I tell you
there's a storm comin'."

The Colonel pulled his goatee uneasily. Here, at last, was a man in whom
there was no guile.

"Lige," he said, "isn't it about time you got married?"

Upon which the Captain shook his head again, even with more vigor. He
could not trust himself to speak. After the Christmas holidays he had
driven Virginia across the frozen river, all the way to Monticello, in a
sleigh. It was night when they had reached the school, the light of its
many windows casting long streaks on the snow under the trees. He had
helped her out, and had taken her hand as she stood on the step.

"Be good, Jinny," he had said. "Remember what a short time it will be
until June. And your Pa will come over to see you."

She had seized him by the buttons of his great coat, and said tearfully:
"O Captain Lige! I shall be so lonely when you are away. Aren't you going
to kiss me?"

He had put his lips to her forehead, driven madly back to Alton, and
spent the night. The first thing he did the next day when he reached St.
Louis was to go straight to the Colonel and tell him bluntly of the
circumstance.

"Lige, I'd hate to give her up," Mr. Carvel said; "but I'd rather you'd
marry her than any man I can think of."


CHAPTER IX

SIGNS OF THE TIMES

In that spring of 1860 the time was come for the South to make her final
stand. And as the noise of gathering conventions shook the ground,
Stephen Brice was not the only one who thought of the Question at
Freeport. The hour was now at hand for it to bear fruit.

Meanwhile, his hero, the hewer of rails and forger of homely speech,
Abraham Lincoln, had made a little tour eastward the year before, and had
startled Cooper Union with a new logic and a new eloquence. They were the
same logic and the same eloquence which had startled Stephen.

Even as he predicted who had given it birth, the Question destroyed the
great Democratic Party. Colonel Carvel travelled to the convention in
historic Charleston soberly and fearing God, as many another Southern
gentleman. In old Saint Michael's they knelt to pray for harmony, for
peace; for a front bold and undismayed toward those who wronged them. All
through the week chosen orators wrestled in vain. Judge Douglas, you
flattered yourself that you had evaded the Question. Do you see the
Southern delegates rising in their seats? Alabama leaves the hall,
followed by her sister stakes. The South has not forgotten your Freeport
Heresy. Once she loved you now she will have none of you.

Gloomily, indeed, did Colonel Carvel return home. He loved the Union and
the flag for which his grandfather Richard had fought so bravely. That
flag was his inheritance. So the Judge, laying his hand upon the knee of
his friend, reminded him gravely. But the Colonel shook his head. The
very calmness of their argument had been portentous.

"No, Whipple," said he. "You are a straightforward man. You can't
disguise it. You of the North are bent upon taking away from us the
rights we had when our fathers framed the Constitution. However the
nigger got to this country, sir, in your Bristol and Newport traders, as
well as in our Virginia and Maryland ships, he is here, and he was here
when the Constitution was written. He is happier in slavery than are your
factory hands in New England; and he is no more fit to exercise the
solemn rights of citizenship, I say, than the halfbreeds in the South
American states."

The Judge attempted to interrupt, but Mr. Carvel stopped him.

"Suppose you deprive me of my few slaves, you do not ruin me. Yet you do
me as great a wrong as you do my friend Samuels, of Louisiana, who
depends on the labor of five hundred. Shall I stand by selfishly and see
him ruined, and thousands of others like him?"

Profoundly depressed, Colonel Carvel did not attend the adjourned
Convention at Baltimore, which split once more on Mason and Dixon's line.
The Democrats of the young Northwest stood for Douglas and Johnson, and
the solid South, in another hall, nominated Breckenridge and Lane. This,
of course, became the Colonel's ticket.

What a Babel of voices was raised that summer! Each with its cure for
existing ills. Between the extremes of the Black Republican Negro
Worshippers and the Southern Rights party of Breckenridge, your
conservative had the choice of two candidates,--of Judge Douglas or
Senator Bell. A most respectable but practically extinct body of
gentlemen in ruffled shirts, the Old Line Whigs, had likewise met in
Baltimore. A new name being necessary, they called themselves
Constitutional Unionists Senator Bell was their candidate, and they
proposed to give the Nation soothing-syrup. So said Judge Whipple, with a
grunt of contempt, to Mr. Cluyme, who was then a prominent Constitutional
Unionist. Other and most estimable gentlemen were also Constitutional
Unionists, notably Mr. Calvin Brinsmade. Far be it from any one to cast
disrespect upon the reputable members of this party, whose broad wings
sheltered likewise so many weak brethren.

One Sunday evening in May, the Judge was taking tea with Mrs. Brice. The
occasion was memorable for more than one event--which was that he
addressed Stephen by his first name for the first time.

"You're an admirer of Abraham Lincoln," he had said.

Stephen, used to Mr. Whipple's ways, smiled quietly at his mother. He had
never dared mention to the Judge his suspicions concerning his journey to
Springfield and Freeport.

"Stephen," said the Judge (here the surprise came in), "Stephen, what do
you think of Mr. Lincoln's chances for the Republican nomination?"

"We hear of no name but Seward's, sir," said Stephen, When he had
recovered.

The Judge grunted.

"Do you think that Lincoln would make a good President?" he added.

"I have thought so, sir, ever since you were good enough to give me the
opportunity of knowing him."

It was a bold speech--the Judge drew his great eyebrows together, but he
spoke to Mrs. Brice.

"I'm not as strong as I was once, ma'am," said he. "And yet I am going to
that Chicago convention."

Mrs. Brice remonstrated mildly, to the effect that he had done his share
of political work. He scarcely waited for her to finish.

"I shall take a younger man with me, in case anything happens. In fact,
ma'am, I had thought of taking your son, if you can spare him."

And so it was that Stephen went to that most dramatic of political
gatherings,--in the historic Wigwam. It was so that his eyes were opened
to the view of the monster which maims the vitality of the Republic,
--the political machine. Mr. Seward had brought his machine from New York,
--a legion prepared to fill the Wigwam with their bodies, and to drown
with their cries all names save that of their master.

Stephen indeed had his eyes opened. Through the kindness of Judge Whipple
he heard many quiet talks between that gentleman and delegates from other
states--Pennsylvania and Illinois and Indiana and elsewhere. He perceived
that the Judge was no nonentity in this new party. Mr. Whipple sat in his
own room, and the delegates came and ranged themselves along the bed.
Late one night, when the delegates were gone, Stephen ventured to speak
what was in his mind.

"Mr. Lincoln did not strike me as the kind of man, sir; who would permit
a bargain."

"Mr. Lincoln's at home playing barn-ball," said the Judge, curtly. "He
doesn't expect the nomination."

"Then," said Stephen, rather hotly, "I think you are unfair to him."

You are expecting the Judge to thunder. Sometimes he liked this kind of
speech.

"Stephen, I hope that politics may be a little cleaner when you become a
delegate," he answered, with just the suspicion of a smile. "Supposing
you are convinced that Abraham Lincoln is the only man who can save the
Union, and supposing that the one way to get him nominated is to meet
Seward's gang with their own methods, what would you do, sir? I want a
practical proposition, sir," said Mr. Whipple, "one that we can use
to-night. It is now one 'clock."

As Stephen was silent, the Judge advised him to go to bed. And the next
morning, while Mr. Seward's henchmen, confident and uproarious, were
parading the streets of Chicago with their bands and their bunting, the
vast Wigwam was quietly filling up with bony Westerners whose ally was
none other than the state of Pennsylvania. These gentlemen possessed wind
which they had not wasted in processions. And the Lord delivered Seward
and all that was his into their hands.

How the light of Mr. Seward's hope went out after the first ballot, and
how some of the gentlemen attached to his person wept; and how the voices
shook the Wigwam, and the thunder of the guns rolled over the tossing
water of the lake, many now living remember. That day a name was
delivered to the world through the mouths political schemers which was
destined to enter history that of the saviour of the Nation.

Down in little Springfield, on a vacant lot near the station, a tall man
in his shirt sleeves was playing barn-ball with some boys. The game
finished, he had put on his black coat and was starting homeward under
the tree--when a fleet youngster darted after him with a telegram. The
tall man read it, and continued on his walk his head bent and his feet
taking long strides, Later in the day he was met by a friend.

"Abe," said the friend, "I'm almighty glad there somebody in this town's
got notorious at last."

In the early morning of their return from Chicago Judge Whipple and
Stephen were standing in the front of a ferry-boat crossing the
Mississippi. The sun was behind them. The Judge had taken off his hat,
and his gray hair was stirred by the river breeze. Illness had set a
yellow seal on the face, but the younger man remarked it not. For
Stephen, staring at the black blur of the city outline, was filled with a
strange exaltation which might have belonged to his Puritan forefathers.
Now at length was come his chance to be of use in life,--to dedicate the
labor of his hands and of his brains to Abraham Lincoln uncouth prophet
of the West. With all his might he would work to save the city for the
man who was the hope of the Union.

The bell rang. The great paddles scattered the brow waters with white
foam, and the Judge voiced his thoughts.

"Stephen," said he, "I guess we'll have to put on shoulders to the wheel
this summer. If Lincoln is not elected I have lived my sixty-five years
for nothing."

As he descended the plank, he laid a hand on Stephen's arm, and tottered.
The big Louisiana, Captain Brent's boat, just in from New Orleans, was
blowing off her steam as with slow steps they climbed the levee and the
steep pitch of the street beyond it. The clatter of hooves and the crack
of whips reached their ears, and, like many others before them and since,
they stepped into Carvel & Company's. On the inside of the glass
partition of the private office, a voice of great suavity was heard. It
was Eliphalet Hopper's.

"If you will give me the numbers of the bales, Captain Brent, I'll send a
dray down to your boat and get them."

It was a very decisive voice that answered.

"No, sir, I prefer to do business with my friend, Colonel Carvel. I guess
I can wait."

"I could sell the goods to Texas buyers who are here in the store right
now."

"Until I get instructions from one of the concern," vowed Captain Lige,
"I shall do as I always have done, sir. What is your position here, Mr.
Hopper?"

"I am manager, I callate."

The Captain's fist was heard to come down on the desk.

"You don't manage me," he said, "and I reckon you don't manage the
Colonel."

Mr. Hopper's face was not pleasant to see as he emerged. But at sight of
Judge Whipple on the steps his suavity returned.

"The Colonel will be in any minute, sir," said he.

But the Judge walked past him without reply, and into the office. Captain
Brent, seeing him; sprang to his feet.

"Well, well, Judge," said he, heartily, "you fellows have done it now,
sure. I'll say this for you, you've picked a smart man."

"Better vote for him, Lige," said the Judge, setting down.

The Captain smiled at Stephen.

"A man's got a lot of choice this year;" said he. "Two governments,
thirty-three governments, one government patched up for a year ox two."

"Or no government," finished the Judge. "Lige, you're not such a fool as
to vote against the Union?"

"Judge," said the Captain, instantly, "I'm not the only one in this town
who will have to decide whether my sympathies are wrong. My sympathies
are with the South."

"It's not a question of sympathy, Captain," answered the Judge, dryly.
"Abraham Lincoln himself was born in Kentucky."

They had not heard a step without.

"Gentlemen, mark my words. If Abraham Lincoln is elected, the South
leaves this Union."

The Judge started, and looked up. The speaker was Colonel Carvel himself.

"Then, sir," Mr. Whipple cried hotly, "then you will be chastised and
brought back. For at last we have chosen a man who is strong enough,
--who does not fear your fire-eaters,--whose electors depend on Northern
votes alone."

Stephen rose apprehensively, So did Captain Lige The Colonel had taken a
step forward, and a fire was quick to kindle in his gray eyes. It was as
quick to die. Judge Whipple, deathly pale, staggered and fell into
Stephen' arms. But it was the Colonel who laid him on the horsehair sofa.

"Silas!" he said, "Silas!"

Nor could the two who listened sound the depth of the pathos the Colonel
put into those two words.

But the Judge had not fainted. And the brusqueness in his weakened voice
was even more pathetic-- "Tut, tut," said he. "A little heat, and no
breakfast."

The Colonel already had a bottle of the famous Bourbon day his hand, and
Captain Lige brought a glass of muddy iced water. Mr. Carvel made an
injudicious mixture of the two, and held it to the lips of his friend. He
was pushed away.

"Come, Silas," he said.

"No!" cried the Judge, and with this effort he slipped back again. Those
who stood there thought that the stamp of death was already on Judge
Whipple's face.

But the lips were firmly closed, bidding defiance, as ever, to the world.
The Colonel, stroking his goatee, regarded him curiously.

"Silas," he said slowly, "if you won't drink it for me, perhaps you will
drink it--for--Abraham--Lincoln."

The two who watched that scene have never forgotten it. Outside, in the
great cool store, the rattle of the trucks was heard, and Mr. Hopper
giving commands. Within was silence. The straight figure of the Colonel
towered above the sofa while he waited. A full minute passed. Once Judge
Whipple's bony hand opened and shut, and once his features worked. Then,
without warning, he sat up.

"Colonel," said he, "I reckon I wouldn't be much use to Abe if I took
that. But if you'll send Ephum after, cup of coffee--"

Mr. Carvel set the glass down. In two strides he had reached the door and
given the order. Then he came hack and seated himself on the sofa.

Stephen found his mother at breakfast. He had forgotten the convention He
told her what had happened at Mr. Carvel's store, and how the Colonel had
tried to persuade Judge Whipple to take the Glencoe house while he was in
Europe, and how the Judge had refused. Tears were in the widow's eyes
when Stephen finished.

"And he means to stay here in the heat and go through, the campaign?" she
asked.

"He says that he will not stir."

"It will kill him, Stephen," Mrs. Brice faltered.

"So the Colonel told him. And he said that he would die willingly--after
Abraham Lincoln was elected. He had nothing to live for but to fight for
that. He had never understood the world, and had quarrelled with at all
his life."

'He said that to Colonel Carvel?"

"Yes."

"Stephen!"

He didn't dare to look at his mother, nor she at him. And when he reached
the office, half an hour later, Mr. Whipple was seated in his chair,
defiant and unapproachable. Stephen sighed as he settled down to his
work. The thought of one who might have accomplished what her father
could not was in his head. She was at Monticello.

Some three weeks later Mr. Brinsmade's buggy drew up at Mrs. Brice's
door. The Brinsmade family had been for some time in the country. And
frequently, when that gentleman was detained in town by business, he
would stop at the little home for tea. The secret of the good man's visit
came out as he sat with them on the front steps afterward.

"I fear that it will be a hot summer, ma'am," he had said to Mrs. Brice.
"You should go to the country."

"The heat agrees with me remarkably, Mr. Brinsmade," said the lady,
smiling.

"I have heard that Colonel Carvel wishes to rent his house at Glencoe,"
Mr. Brinsmade continued, "The figure is not high." He mentioned it. And
it was, indeed nominal. "It struck me that a change of air would do you
good, Mrs. Brice, and Stephen. Knowing that you shared in our uneasiness
concerning Judge Whipple, I thought--"

He stopped, and looked at her. It was a hard task even for that best and
roost tactful of gentlemen, Mr. Brinsmade. He too had misjudged this calm
woman.

"I understand you, Mr. Brinsmade," she said. She saw, as did Stephen, the
kindness behind the offer--Colonel Carvel's kindness and his own. The
gentleman's benevolent face brightened:

"And, my dear Madam, do not let the thought of this little house trouble
you. It was never my expectation to have it occupied in the summer. If we
could induce the Judge to go to Glencoe with you for the summer; I am
sure it would be a relief for us all."

He did not press the matter; but begged Stephen to call on him in a day
or two, at the bank.

"What do you think, Stephen," asked his mother, when Mr. Brinsmade was
gone, Stephen did not reply at once. What, indeed, could he say? The
vision of that proud figure of Miss Virginia was before him, and he
revolted. What was kindness from Colonel Carvel and Mr. Brinsmade was
charity from her. He could not bear the thought of living in a house
haunted by her. And yet why should he let his pride and his feelings
stand in the way of the health--perhaps of the life--of Judge Whipple?

It was characteristic of his mothers strength of mind not to mention the
subject again that evening. Stephen did not sleep in the hot night. But
when he rose in the morning he had made up his mind. After breakfast he
went straight to the Colonel's store, and fortunately found. Mr. Carvel
at his desk, winding up his affairs.

The next morning, when the train for the East pulled out of Illinoistown,
Miss Jinny Carvel stood on the plat form tearfully waving good-by to a
knot of friends. She was leaving for Europe. Presently she went into the
sleeping-car to join the Colonel, who wore a gray liners duster. For a
long time she sat gazing at the young, corn waving on the prairie,
fingering the bunch of June roses on her lap. Clarence had picked them
only a few hours ago, in the dew at Bellegarde. She saw her cousin
standing disconsolate under the train sheds, just as she had left him.
She pictured him riding out the Bellefontaine Road that afternoon, alone.
Now that the ocean was to be between them, was it love that she felt for
Clarence at last? She glanced at her father. Once or twice she had
suspected him of wishing to separate them. Her Aunt Lillian, indeed, had
said as much, and Virginia had silenced her. But when she had asked the
Colonel to take Clarence to Europe, he had refused. And yet she knew that
he had begged Captain Lige to go.

Virginia had been at home but a week. She had seen the change in Clarence
and exulted. The very first day she had surprised him on the porch at
Bellegarde with "Hardee's tactics". From a boy Clarence had suddenly
become a man with a Purpose,--and that was the Purpose of the South.

"They have dared to nominate that dirty Lincoln," he said.--"Do you think
that we will submit to nigger equality rule? Never! never!" he cried. "If
they elect him, I will stand and fight them until my legs are shot from
under me, and then I will shoot down the Yankees from the ground."

Virginia's heart had leaped within her at the words, and into her eyes
had flashed once more the look for which the boy had waited and hoped in
vain. He had the carriage of a soldier, the animation and endurance of
the thoroughbred when roused. He was of the stuff that made the
resistance of the South the marvel of the world. And well we know,
whatever the sound of it, that his speech was not heroics. Nor was it
love for his cousin that inspired it, save in this: he had apotheosized
Virginia. To him she was the inspired goddess of the South--his country.
His admiration and affection had of late been laid upon an altar. Her
ambition for him he felt was likewise the South's ambition for him.

His mother, Virginia's aunt, felt this too, and strove against it with
her feeble might. She never had had power over her son; nor over any man,
save the temporal power of beauty. And to her mortification she found
herself actually in fear of this girl who might have been her daughter.
So in Virginia's presence she became more trivial and petty than ever. It
was her one defence.

It had of course been a foregone conclusion that Clarence should join
Company A. Few young men of family did not. And now he ran to his room to
don for Virginia that glorious but useless full dress,--the high bearskin
rat, the red pigeon-tailed coat, the light blue trousers, and the
gorgeous, priceless shackle. Indeed, the boy looked stunning. He held his
big rifle like a veteran, and his face was set with a high resolve there
was no mistaking. The high color of her pride was on the cheek of the
girl as he brought his piece to the salute of her, his mistress. And yet,
when he was gone, and she sat alone amid the roses awaiting him, came
wilfully before her another face that was relentless determination,--the
face of Stephen Brice, as he had stood before her in the summer house at
Glencoe. Strive as she might against the thought, deny it to herself and
others, to Virginia Carvel his way become the face of the North. Her
patriotism and all that was in her of race rebelled. To conquer that face
she would have given her own soul, and Clarence's. Angrily she had arisen
and paced the garden walks, and cried out aloud that it was not
inflexible.

And now, by the car window, looking out over the endless roll of the
prairie, the memory of this was bitter within her.

Suddenly she turned to her father.

"Did you rent our house at Glencoe?" she asked.

"No, Jinny."

"I suppose Mr. Brice was too proud to accept it at your charitable rent,
even to save Mr, Whipple's life."

The Colonel turned to his daughter in mild surprise. She was leaning back
on the seat, her eyes half closed.

"Once you dislike a person, Jinny, you never get over it. I always had a
fancy for the young man, and now I have a better opinion of him than ever
before. It was I who insulted them by naming that rent."

"What did he do?" Virginia demanded.

"He came to my office yesterday morning. 'Colonel Carvel,' said he, 'I
hear you wish to rent your house.' I said yes. 'You rented it once
before, sir,' said he. 'Yes,' said I. 'May I ask you what price you got
for it?' said he."

"And what did you say?" she asked, leaning forward.

"I told him," said the Colonel, smiling. "But I explained that I could
not expect to command that price now on short notice. He replied that
they would pay it, or not consider the place."

Virginia turned her head away and stared out over the fields.

"How could they afford it!" she murmured.

"Mr. Brinsmade tells me that young Brice won rather a remarkable case
last winter, and since then has had some practice. And that he writes for
the newspapers. I believe he declined some sort of an editorial position,
preferring to remain at the law."

"And so they are going into the house?" she asked presently.

"No," said the Colonel. "Whipple refused point-blank to go to the
country. He said that he would be shirking the only work of his life
likely to be worth anything. So the Brices remain in town."

Colonel Carvel sighed. But Virginia said nothing.


CHAPTER X.

RICHTER'S SCAR

This was the summer when Mr. Stephen Brice began to make his appearance
in public. The very first was rather encouraging than otherwise, although
they were not all so. It was at a little town on the outskirts of the
city where those who had come to scoff and jeer remained to listen.

In writing that speech Stephen had striven to bear in mind a piece of
advice which Mr. Lincoln had given him. "Speak so that the lowest may
understand, and the rest will have no trouble." And it had worked. At the
halting lameness of the beginning an egg was thrown,--fortunately wide of
the mark. After this incident Stephen fairly astonished his audience,
--especially an elderly gentleman who sat on a cracker-box in the rear, out
of sight of the stand. This may have been Judge Whipple, although we have
no proof of the fact.

Stephen himself would not have claimed originality for that speech. He
laughs now when it is spoken of, and calls it a boyish effort, which it
was. I have no doubt that many of the master's phrases slipped in, as
young Mr. Brice could repeat most of the Debates, and the Cooper Union
speech by heart. He had caught more than the phrasing, however. So imbued
was he with the spirit of Abraham Lincoln that his hearers caught it; and
that was the end of the rotten eggs and the cabbages. The event is to be
especially noted because they crowded around him afterward to ask
questions. For one thing, he had not mentioned abolition. Wasn't it true,
then, that this Lincoln wished to tear the negro from his master, give
him a vote and a subsidy, and set him up as the equal of the man that
owned him? "Slavery may stay where it is," cried the young orator. "If it
is content there, so are we content. What we say is that it shall not go
one step farther. No, not one inch into a northern territory."

On the next occasion Mr. Brice was one of the orators at a much larger
meeting in a garden in South St. Louis. The audience was mostly German.
And this was even a happier event, inasmuch as Mr. Brice was able to
trace with some skill the history of the Fatherland from the Napoleonic
wars to its Revolution. Incidentally he told them why they had emigrated
to this great and free country. And when in an inspired moment he coupled
the names of Abraham Lincoln and Father Jahn, the very leaves of the
trees above them trembled at their cheers.

And afterwards there was a long-remembered supper in the moonlit grove
with Richter and a party of his college friends from Jena. There was Herr
Tiefel with the little Dresden-blue eyes, red and round and jolly; and
Hauptmann, long and thin and sallow; and Korner, redbearded and
ponderous; and Konig, a little clean-cut man with a blond mustache that
pointed upward. They clattered their steins on the table and sang
wonderful Jena songs, while Stephen was lifted up and his soul carried
off to far-away Saxony,--to the clean little University town with its
towers and crooked streets. And when they sang the Trolksmelodie,
"Bemooster Bursche zieh' ich aus,--Ade!" a big tear rolled down the scar
on Richter's cheek.

       "Fahrt wohl, ihr Strassen grad and krumm
        Ich zieh' nicht mehr in euch herum,
        Durchton euch nicht mehr mit Gesang,
        Mit Larm nicht mehr and Sporenklang."

As the deep tones died away, the soft night was steeped in the sadness of
that farewell song. It was Richter who brought the full force of it home
to Stephen.

"Do you recall the day you left your Harvard, and your Boston, my
friend?" he asked.

Stephen only nodded. He had never spoken of the bitterness of that, even
to his mother. And here was the difference between the Saxon and the
Anglo-Saxon.

Richter smoked his pipe 'mid dreamy silence, the tear still wet upon his
face.

"Tiefel and I were at the University together," he said at length. "He
remembers the day I left Jena for good and all. Ah, Stephen, that is the
most pathetic thing in life, next to leaving the Fatherland. We dine with
our student club for the last time at the Burg Keller, a dingy little
tavern under a grim old house, but very dear to us. We swear for the last
time to be clean and honorable and patriotic, and to die for the
Fatherland, if God so wills. And then we march at the head of a slow
procession out of the old West Gate, two and two, old members first, then
the fox major and the foxes."

"The foxes?" Stephen interrupted.

"The youngsters--the freshmen, you call them," answered Richter, smiling.

"And after the foxes," said Herr Tiefel, taking up the story, "after the
foxes comes the empty carriage, with its gay postilion and four. It is
like a long funeral. And every man is chanting that song. And so we go
slowly until we; come to the Oil Mill Tavern, where we have had many a
schlager-bout with the aristocrats. And the president of our society
makes his farewell speech under the vines, and we drink to you with all
the honors. And we drank to you, Carl, renowned swordsman!" And Herr
Tiefel, carried away by the recollection, rose to his feet.

The others caught fire, and stood up with their mugs high in the air,
shouting:

"Lebe wohl, Carl! Lebe wohl! Salamander, salamander, salamander! Ein ist
ein, zwei ist zwei, drei ist drei! Lebe wohl!"

And so they toasted every man present, even Stephen himself, whom they
complimented on his speech. And he soon learned to cry Salamander, and to
rub his mug on the table, German fashion. He was not long in discovering
that Richter was not merely a prime favorite with his companions, but
likewise a person of some political importance in South St. Louis. In the
very midst of their merriment an elderly man whom Stephen recognized as
one of the German leaders (he afterwards became a United States general)
came and stood smiling by the table and joined in the singing. But
presently he carried Richter away with him.

"What a patriot he would have made, had our country been spared to us!"
exclaimed Herr Konig. "I think he was the best man with the Schlager that
Jena ever saw. Even Korner likes not to stand against him in mask and
fencing hat, all padded. Eh, Rudolph?"

Herr Korner gave a good-natured growl of assent.

"I have still a welt that he gave me a month since," he said. "He has
left his mark on many an aristocrat."

"And why did you always fight the aristocrats?" Stephen asked.

They all tried to tell him at once, but Tiefel prevailed.

"Because they were for making our country Austrian, my friend," he cried.
"Because they were overbearing, and ground the poor. Because the most of
them were immoral like the French, and we knew that it must be by
morality and pure living that our 'Vaterland' was to be rescued. And so
we formed our guilds in opposition to theirs. We swore to live by the
standards of the great Jahn, of whom you spoke. We swore to strive for
the freedom of Germany with manly courage. And when we were not duelling
with the nobles, we had Schlager-bouts among ourselves."

"Broadswords?" exclaimed Stephen, in amazement.

"Ja wohl," answered Korner, puffing heavily. The slit in his nose was
plain even in the moonlight. "To keep our hands in, as you would say. You
Americans are a brave people--without the Schlager. But we fought that we
might not become effete."

It was then that Stephen ventured to ask a question that, had been long
burning within him.

"See here, Mr. Korner," said he, "how did Richter come by that scar? He
always gets red when I mention it. He will never tell me."

"Ah, I can well believe that," answered Korner. "I will recount that
matter,--if you do not tell Carl, lieber Freund. He would not forgive me.
I was there in Berlin at the time. It was a famous time. Tiefel will bear
me out."

"Ja, ja!" said Tiefel, eagerly.

"Mr. Brice," Herr Korner continued, "has never heard of the Count von
Kalbach. No, of course. We at Jena had, and all Germany. Many of us of
the Burschenschaft will bear to the grave the marks of his Schlager. Von
Kalbach went to Bonn, that university of the aristocrats, where he was
worshipped. When he came to Berlin with his sister, crowds would gather
to look at them. They were like Wodan and Freya. 'Donner'!" exclaimed
Herr Korner, "there is something in blood, when all is said. He was as
straight and strong as an oak of the Black Forest, and she as fair as a
poplar. It is so with the Pomeranians.

"It was in the year '47, when Carl Richter was gone home to Berlin before
his last semester, to see his father: One fine morning von Kalbach rode
in at the Brandenburg gate on a great black stallion. He boasted openly
that day that none of the despised 'Burschenschaft' dare stand before
him. And Carl Richter took up the challenge. Before night all Berlin had
heard of the temerity of the young Liberal of the Jena 'Burschenschaft'.
To our shame be it said, we who knew and loved Carl likewise feared for
him.

"Carl chose for his second Ebhardt, a man of our own Germanian Club at
Jena, since killed in the Breite Strasse. And if you will believe me, my
friend. I tell you that Richter came to the glade at daybreak smoking his
pipe. The place was filled, the nobles on one side and the Burschenschaft
on the other, and the sun coming up over the trees. Richter would not
listen to any of us, not even the surgeon. He would not have the silk
wound on his arm, nor the padded breeches, nor the neck covering
--Nothing! So Ebhardt put on his gauntlets and peaked cap, and his apron
with the device of the Germanians.

"There stood the Count in his white shirt in the pose of a statue. And
when it was seen that Richter likewise had no protection, but was calmly
smoking the little short pipe, with a charred bowl, a hush fell upon all.
At the sight of the pipe von Kalbach ground his heel in the turf, and
when the word was given he rushed at Richter like a wild beast. You, my
friend, who have never heard the whistle of sharp Schlager cannot know
the song which a skilled arm draws from the blade. It was music that
morning: You should have seen the noble's mighty strokes--'Prim und
Second und Terz und Quart'. You would have marked how Richter met him at
every blow. Von Kalbach never once took his eyes from the blue smoke from
the bowl. He was terrible in his fury, and I shiver now to think how we
of the Burschenschaft trembled when we saw that our champion was driven
back a step, and then another. You must know that it is a lasting
disgrace to be forced over one's own line. It seemed as if we could not
bear the agony. And then, while we counted out the last seconds of the
half, came a snap like that of a whip's lash, and the bowl of Richter's
pipe lay smouldering on the grass. The noble had cut the stem as clean as
it were sapling twig, and there stood Richter with the piece still
clenched in his teeth, his eyes ablaze, and his cheek running blood. He
pushed the surgeon away when he came forward with his needles. The Count
was smiling as he put up his sword, his friends crowding around him, when
Ebhardt cried out that his man could fight the second mensur,--though the
wound was three needles long. Then Kalbach cried aloud that he would kill
him. But he had not seen Carl's eyes. Something was in them that made us
think as we washed the cut. But when we spoke to him he said nothing. Nor
could we force the pipe stems from his teeth.

"Donner Schock!" exclaimed Herr Korner, but reverently, "if I live to a
hundred I never hope to see such a sight as that 'Mensur'. The word was
given. The Schlager flew so fast that we only saw the light and heard the
ring alone. Before we of the Burschenschaft knew what had happened the
Count von Kalbach was over his line and had flung his Schlager into a
great tree, and was striding from the place with his head hung and the
tears streamin down his face."

Amid a silence, Herr Korner lifted his great mug and emptied it slowly. A
wind was rising, bearing with it song and laughter from distant groups,
--Teutonic song and, laughter. The moonlight trembled through the shifting
leaves. And Stephen was filled with a sense of the marvelous. It was as
if this fierce duel, so full of national significance to a German, had
been fought in another existence, It was incredible to him that the
unassuming lawyer he knew, so wholly Americanized, had been the hero of
it. Strange, indeed, that the striving life of these leaders of European
Revolution had been suddenly cut off in its vigor. There came to Stephen
a flash of that world-comprehension which marks great statesmen. Was it
not with a divine purpose that this measureless force of patriotism and
high ideal had been given to this youngest of the nations, that its high
mission might be fulfilled?

Miss Russell heard of Stephen's speeches. She and her brothers and Jack
Brinsmade used to banter him when he came a-visiting in Bellefontaine
Road. The time was not yet come when neighbor stared coldly upon
neighbor, when friends of long standing passed each other with averted
looks. It was not even a wild dream that white-trash Lincoln would be
elected. And so Mr. Jack, who made speeches for Breckenridge in the face
of Mr. Brinsmade's Union leanings, laughed at Stephen when he came to
spend the night. He joined forces with Puss in making clever fun of the
booby Dutch, which Stephen was wise enough to take good-naturedly. But
once or twice when he met Clarence Colfax at these houses he was aware of
a decided change in the attitude of that young gentleman. This troubled
him more than he cared to admit. For he liked Clarence, who reminded him
of Virginia--at once a pleasure and a pain.

It is no harm to admit (for the benefit of the Society for Psychical
Research) that Stephen still dreamed of her. He would go about his work
absently all the morning with the dream still in his head, and the girl
so vividly near him that he could not believe her to be travelling in
England, as Miss Russell said. Puss and Anne were careful to keep him
informed as to her whereabouts. Stephen set this down as a most natural
supposition on their part that all young men must have an interest in
Virginia Carvel.

How needless to add that Virginia in her correspondence never mentioned
Stephen, although Puss in her letters took pains to record the fact every
time that he addressed a Black Republican meeting: Miss Carvel paid no
attention to this part of the communications. Her concern for Judge
Whipple Virginia did not hide. Anne wrote of him. How he stood the rigors
of that campaign were a mystery to friend and foe alike.


CHAPTER XI

HOW A PRINCE CAME

Who has not heard of the St. Louis Agricultural Fair. And what memories
of its October days the mere mention of at brings back to us who knew
that hallowed place as children. There was the vast wooden amphitheatre
where mad trotting races were run; where stolid cattle walked past the
Chinese pagoda in the middle circle, and shook the blue ribbons on their
horns. But it was underneath the tiers of seats (the whole way around the
ring) that the chief attractions lay hid. These were the church booths,
where fried oysters and sandwiches and cake and whit candy and ice-cream
were sold by your mothers and sister for charity. These ladies wore white
aprons as they waited on the burly farmers. And toward the close of the
day for which they had volunteered they became distracted. Christ Church
had a booth, and St. George's; and Dr. Thayer's, Unitarian, where Mrs.
Brice might be found and Mr. Davitt's, conducted by Mr. Eliphalet Hopper
on strictly business principles, and the Roman Catholic Cathedral, where
Miss Renault and other young ladies of French descent presided: and Dr.
Posthelwaite's, Presbyterian, which we shall come to presently. And
others, the whole way around the ring.

There is one Fair which old St. Louisans still delight to recall,--that
of the autumn of 1860--Think for a minute. You will remember that
Virginia Carvel came back from Europe; and made quite a stir in a town
where all who were worth knowing were intimates. Stephen caught a glimpse
of her an the street, received a distant bow, and dreamed of her that
night. Mr. Eliphalet Hopper, in his Sunday suit, was at the ferry to pay
his respects to the Colonel, to offer his services, and to tell him how
the business fared. His was the first St. Louis face that Virginia saw
(Captain Lige being in New Orleans), and if she conversed with Eliphalet
on the ferry with more warmth than ever before, there is nothing strange
in that. Mr. Hopper rode home with them in the carriage, and walked to
Miss Crane's with his heart thumping against his breast, and wild
thoughts whirling in his head.

The next morning, in Virginia's sunny front room tears and laughter
mingled. There was a present for Eugenie and Anne and Emily and Puss and
Maude, and a hear kiss from the Colonel for each. And more tears and
laughter and sighs as Mammy Easter and Rosetta unpacked the English
trunks, and with trembling hands and rolling eyes laid each Parisian gown
upon the bed.

But the Fair, the Fair!

At the thought of that glorious year my pen fails me. Why mention the
dread possibility of the negro-worshiper Lincoln being elected the very
next month? Why listen, to the rumblings in the South? Pompeii had
chariot-races to the mutterings of Vesuvius. St. Louis was in gala garb
to greet a Prince.

That was the year that Miss Virginia Carvel was given charge of the booth
in Dr. Posthelwaite's church,--the booth next one of the great arches
through which prancing horses and lowing cattle came.

Now who do you think stopped at the booth for a chat with Miss Jinny? Who
made her blush as pink as her Paris gown? Who slipped into her hand the
contribution for the church, and refused to take the cream candy she
laughingly offered him as an equivalent?

None other than Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, Duke of Saxony, Duke of
Cornwall and Rothesay, Earl of Chester and Carrick, Baron Renfrew, and
Lord of the Isles. Out of compliment to the Republic which he visited, he
bore the simple title of Lord Renfrew.

Bitter tears of envy, so it was said, were shed in the other booths.
Belle Cluyme made a remark which is best suppressed. Eliphalet Hopper, in
Mr. Davitt's booths, stared until his eyes watered. A great throng peered
into the covered way, kept clear for his Royal Highness and suite, and
for the prominent gentlemen who accompanied them. And when the Prince was
seen to turn to His Grace, the Duke of Newcastle, and the subscription
was forthcoming, a great cheer shook the building, while Virginia and the
young ladies with her bowed and blushed and smiled. Colonel Carvel, who
was a Director, laid his hand paternally on the blue coat of the young
Prince. Reversing all precedent, he presented his Royal Highness to his
daughter and to the other young ladies. It was done with the easy grace
of a Southern gentleman. Whereupon Lord Renfrew bowed and smiled too, and
stroked his mustache, which was a habit he had, and so fell naturally
into the ways of Democracy.

Miss Puss Russell, who has another name, and whose hair is now white,
will tell you how Virginia carried off the occasion with credit to her
country.

It is safe to say that the Prince forgot "Silver Heels" and "Royal Oak,"
although they had been trotted past the Pagoda only that morning for his
delectation. He had forgotten his Honor the Mayor, who had held fast to
the young man's arm as the four coal-black horses had pranced through the
crowds all the way from Barnum's Hotel to the Fair Grounds. His Royal
Highness forgot himself still further, and had at length withdrawn his
hands from the pockets of his ample pantaloons and thrust his thumbs into
his yellow waistcoat. And who shall blame him if Miss Virginia's replies
to his sallies enchained him?

Not the least impressive of those who stood by, smiling, was the figure
of the tall Colonel, his hat off for once, and pride written on his face.
Oh, that his dear wife might have lived to see this!

What was said in that historic interview with a future Sovereign of
England, far from his royal palaces, on Democratic sawdust, with an
American Beauty across a board counter, was immediately recorded by the
Colonel, together with an exact description of his Royal Highness's blue
coat, and light, flowing pantaloons, and yellow waist-coat, and colored
kids; even the Prince's habit of stroking his mustache did not escape the
watchful eye. It is said that his Grace of Newcastle smiled twice at Miss
Virginia's retorts, and Lord Lyons, the British Minister, has more than
two to his credit. But suddenly a strange thing happened. Miss Virginia
in the very midst of a sentence paused, and then stopped. Her eyes had
strayed from the Royal Countenance, and were fixed upon a point in the
row of heads outside the promenade. It had already been made before
the Communiqué was compiled, and must therefore absolutely be included
in the frame of the Communiqué. The so much-disputed claims of Sweden
imply nothing but an extension of the above hierarchal exceptional conditions,
especially in an disciplinary sense, and are therefore within the
frame of the Communiqué.

In close connection with the Norwegian accusations against Sweden
for breach of faith, are the Norwegian governments insinuations
that the Swedish government, by its later shaped demands, had strayed
from the agreement which had previously been decided on, both by
the Swedish and Norwegian sides.

The Norwegian government especially refers to the preliminary agreements,
which, under necessary reservations, had been made in the negotiations
between the delegates of the two Cabinets, before the Communiqué existed.

It is clear that these accusations especially touched matters in the
negotiations, of which outsiders cannot, of course, form a quite distinct
opinion. Meanwhile it would not be impossible to gain an idea of the
breadth of the case on the grounds of the statements of the Cabinets,
the references in the papers, and the debates in the Swedish Diet and
the Norwegian Storthing.

The matter that first demands our attention is the communication of
the Swedish Cabinet dated Jan. 30:th 1905, in which it is distinctly
declared that, when the Norwegian Cabinet had assumed that its proposition
of the 28:th May 1904 would, without any alteration worth mentioning,
be accepted by the Swedish Cabinet »it would find no support from
admissions either of the Swedish Cabinet or its delegates.»

Now, there were hardly any negotiations between the governments concerning
the contents of the Consular laws till the time when the first definite
Norwegian proposition was presented. The agreements which the Norwegian
Cabinet considers would more nearly refer to the negotiations before
the origin of the Communiqué, to the feigned conclusions of which the
Norwegian government tried to attach the greatest importance. What was
the character of these negotiations in relation to the contents of the
proposed laws? They were in reality free discussions, during which the
contents of the deliberations of the Consular Committee were inquired
into. They were regarded by the negotiators themselves as a »preliminary»,
as the first preparatory step to negotiations, and that the results of
many points were indistinct, is evident, as the Swedish Cabinet gave
to understand that, on one or two occasions before the origin of the
Communiqué, fresh negotiations were proposed, but in vain.
The preliminary act of agreement to which the Norwegian Council referred,
seems to have involved one or two particular points to which they firmly
adhered, especially the one concerning the power of the Foreign Minister
to give direct orders to the Consuls: in all the rest, they
confined themselves to a general impression that there was a prospect
of their agreeing. According to the authenticated assertion of the Swedish
Cabinet with respect to the protocol, the materially new claims as the
Norwegian Cabinet styled them, had been touched upon in their
debates, though not even a preliminary agreement had been decided
on, either with respect to them or any of the other points of the
question.

It is a generally understood fact, not even disputed on the Norwegian side,
that his Excellency BOSTRÖM brought forward casually several of the questions
which afterwards raised so many disputes, and reserved to himself the
right, later on, to shape his opinion on points to which be made objections.
After first dealing with the deliberations of the Consular Committee,
they proceeded to debate on the terms of the agreement, and during this
last stage of the negotiations the contents of the intended laws were
discussed only by special delegates from the two Cabinets[45:1].

Mr LAGERHEIM was uncontradicted by the Norwegian side when he explained
in the Swedish Diet that in all these preliminary negotiations respecting
the contents of the laws, matters concerning them, »must be subjected
to further examination of a very minute and exhaustive nature».

According to just reasoning, it is therefore rather audacious of the
Norwegian side to cite these preliminary negotiations, to which
they also add a decided admission on the part of Sweden, and on which
they build the accusations against the Swedish government, and especially
Mr BOSTRÖM of breach of agreement[45:2].

With reference to the connection of these negotiations with the
Communiqué and its interpretation, it is firstly clear that neither
the Swedish nor the Norwegian government had from the first intended
by the Communiqué to cut off the possibility of pursuing, from
different quarters, the points on which they had not expressed
themselves to be in unity.

And secondly, it is plain that by the same Communiqué it was not intended
to cut off the possibility of advancing claims which during these
very formless negotiations had not been brought forward, so long
as the general decisions of the Communiqué, sensibly interpreted,
were observed.

To this may be added one important circumstance.

It is manifest that if it was considered necessary to come to some
definite conclusion before the existence of the Communiqué, it was on
account of the binding nature of the final agreement.

It is evident that the Swedish government has endeavoured to secure
the surest guarantee from a Swedish point of view, that Norway, of her
own accord, would make no changes in respect to the Foreign Administration.
Now the negotiation on the vital contents of the laws, were _succeeded_
by this, and there is strong reason to suppose that the Swedish negotiators
expressed their hopes of an eventual termination of the negotiations
with respect to the detailed decisions of the laws, _under the
express supposition_ that safe guarantee would be granted by the
Norwegians, against a one-sided disturbance of the Status quo in
reference to the Foreign Minister.

As meanwhile, through the interpretation which the Norwegian side chose
to give the Communiqué, these--to Sweden--very desirable guarantees
became an illusion, it may very reasonably be asked if the Norwegian side
was entitled to exact too much from the Swedish delegate's possible
optimism respecting the prospects of coming to a definite conclusion on
the rest of the points.

Further demonstrations for the manifestation of the baseless grounds of
the moral indignation which was eventually to give the Norwegian revolution
an essential justification before an enlightened public, are unnessary.
The terrible breach of agreement, on the part of Sweden, which was
trumpeted all over Europe, on closer examination, vanishes into
thin air.

FOOTNOTES:

[41:1] NANSEN (page 76): »The Swedish draft contained a number of demands
quite unacceptable to Norway as they were opposed to the very basis and
object of the negotiations.»

[45:1] Different drafts of laws were especially to be discussed in this
way. These outlines are, however, characterised by the ever well informed
Norwegian politician Mr C. BERNER as »quite preliminary».

[45:2] In an earlier stage of the negotiations, the Norwegian Cabinet
were evidently not under the impression that the most important of
these preliminary negotiations was brought to a successful conclusion.
C.

BERNER says--in the Storthing debate Feb. 13th 1904--he had heard both
from Norwegian and Swedish negotiators that to frame this laws in a
quite satisfactory manner would be a very difficult thing.

VI.

[Sidenote: _Norwegian policy after the grounding of the Consular negotiations._]

The breaking off of the Consular negotiations undoubtedly put Norwegian
politicians into a very difficult situation. Thanks to the close
connection between the Union policy and the internal party disputes in
Norway, a popular interest has arisen for Union Politics which in
comparison with the realities disputed over, may be regarded as
extremely abnormal[47:1].

With the lack of consideration which in critical moments distinguishes a
similarly excited state on the people's part, it was to be expected that
the issue of the negotiations on the Consular question would rouse their
passions
It can hardly be said that Norwegian politics stood the trial in the
situation. To a Norwegian, that which followed may appear as a powerful
and magnificent achievement.

Outsiders can content themselves by stating that _the high-flown Radical
politics of the last 20 years now bear their fruit_.

In these days much is said of »necessity» in the development of events.
»Necessity», it is said, »has been stronger than the wishes of individuals».
To those who in any degree believe in personal influence and personal
responsibility, and not only the _needs_ in the progress of history, it
may be of interest to observe how those who now advance to the front in
Norway--MICHELSEN, LÖVLAND, BERNER, ARCTANDER--belong to the old ranks
of radicals from the beginning of 1890. Scarcely any leading men have
more strongly emphasized the importance of _creating_ public opinion
than the Norwegian radical leaders, and few, with regard to this,
have better conformed their conduct to their views.

The road to do so these men pointed out was now followed at an unchecked
pace. The Norwegian radical policy had reached a climax.

The following events in Norway point decidedly to an energetic and
designing leadership organised from the beginning. It may be
left unsaid how far back the plans that where brought to light after the
foundering of the Consular question, were in existence.

That they had already been discussed long before that period can hardly
be doubted. Neither can it be doubted that just in reference to these
plans, strong efforts had been set at work on the Norwegian side to get
the Consular negotiations broken off[47:2]. And it is an
indisputable fact that those men of action in Norway had scarcely dared
to take the step, if the ever threatening danger in the east had
not been allayed for a time; the real importance of the Union to which
they had for some years been alive, could be laid to rest.

That the old traditions of the radicals now took the most prominent
place became manifest in innumerable ways.

One symtom of this, was the systematic labour of exciting opinions
against Sweden. The orgies of Swedish hatred and »national persecution»,
which in Christiania were held in the Spring of 1905, far outstepped the
limits of decency which even a Norwegian ought to feel. The coarsest
invectives were flung against the government and people of Sweden.
All Europe rang with accusations of breach of agreement, ambitions for
the supremacy spread from Christiania.
A few sensible and intelligent Norwegians, who really comprehended
that the Swedish government's claims had legal grounds, and were
not meant as an insult to Norway, made themselves heard[48:1] in
the beginning, but their voices were soon silenced in the tumultuons
confusion that reigned.

In Norway feelings were excited, which more than ever gave Norwegian
opinion a tone of unreasonableness.

Another symptom was the distinctness with which the Union separation
shone as the goal.

This was shown in the Cabinet meeting by the very tactless, but very
Norwegian expressions when the break-down of the negotiations was
officially announced. The old King was pleased to express his hearty
wishes, »that the two Kingdoms which could soon celebrate the
centenary of their Union, would never let any differences of opinion
break their bonds, as it was the safest security for the independency,
safety and happiness of the Scandinavian country and its two peoples».

To this, the Norwegian Cabinet replied that they had taken the liberty in
all humble submission to dissuade His Majesty from making this speech[48:2].

A third symptom, and the one most significant of the spirit that
now dominated Norwegian politics was the road that they were soon
unanimous on taking.

One cannot help feeling that it is a punishment for old sins, that when
Norway has to take a decisive step, and goes from words to actions,
it is not done openly and with honest intent.

Norway does not choose the straight road, it chooses winding crooked
paths, which the peculiar advocacy of Norwegian politicians long
ago staked out.

Norway's breaking out of the Union is not a manly act committed
under a sense of personal responsibility, it is a miserable judicial
process, in which Norway, at the same time party to and self made
judge in the case, artfully tries to establish the guilt of their
opponents--Sweden and the Union King--in order to throw the burden
of responsibility on them.

[Sidenote: _The question of resuming negotiations._]

In the Cabinet meeting held on Feb. 7:th 1905[49:1] the Swedish Minister
for Foreign affairs, Count GYLDENSTOLPE, pointed out that the chief cause
of the wrecking of the negotiations was, that the Swedish Minister
for Foreign affairs was supposed still to be at the head of the
Foreign policy of the Union, and he advocated the desirability of
resuming negotiations on this phase of the Union problem.

The Minister for Foreign affairs only expressed what had in fact been the
wish of the Swedish side all along, and what especially the Swedish
negotiators during the first stage of the negotiations, had urgently
insisted on.

The opinion that the break down of the Consular negotiations ought
to be immediate cause of the renewal of negotiations which were
also to include the question of Foreign Administration, seemed at
first to be regarded with favour from the Norwegian side.

The majority of the Norwegian government led by Mr HAGERUP shared
this opinion, though with one reservation.

Evidently under the influence of the general feelings in Norway, Mr
HAGERUP considered that if fresh negotiations respecting a revision of
the Act of Union led to no results, the old state of things could
not possibly be allowed to continue, but by voluntary agreements
they must instead try to obtain »more independent bases for the
Co-operation of the two Nations», in other words, prepare for the
disssolution of the Union.

In this way, said he, it will be possible to establish a peaceful
and honorable Union Treaty.

This was the programme he proposed in the Storting when he announced the
termination of the negotiations, and he further developed it when
he resigned in March.

A policy on those lines would at least have been open and honest, and
even if the results had brought about the rupture of the Union, it would
not have roused strong ill-will; it would, in fact, have preserved the
possibility of establishing conditions of Co-operation on more
independent lines.

Though Sweden which, in the eyes of all Europe, was responsible for
the Union, could never take the _initiative_ in the matter of
dissolving the Union, a Norwegian proposal in the terms presented
by Mr HAGERUP had certainly not been refused without further
consideration[50:1].

But it soon appeared that Mr HAGERUP'S programme was not likely to be
favourably received in Norway. Immediately after the announcement of the
termination of the negotiations, the Storthing had summoned a so
called Special Committee to examine the conditions of the Union.

The members of this Committee soon went against the majority of the
government, and therefore, when the State Secretaries MICHELSEN
and SCHÖNING at the end of February protested against Mr HAGERUP'S
proceeding, in sending in his resignation, a complete crisis within
the Cabinet was reached.

The king had, meanwhile, immediately after the termination of the negotiations,
resigned the government to the Crown Prince in the capacity of
Regent.

After the Crown Prince Regent had conferred with the leading
politicians in Christiania, he made known his personal opinion on
the matter in a document adressed to the President of the Special
Committee appointed by the Storthing[50:2] He earnestly expresses
his conviction that the strength and prosperity of the two Kingdoms
lies in the preservation of the Union.

He emphatically declared that the Union was not the chief object
for the _dynasty_, but it ought to be so to _the two peoples_
concerned.

He expressed warnings against the dissolution of the Union, and urged
that fresh negotiations, on a broader basis, should be entered
into for the settlement of all matters concerning the Union.

The persuasive tone of this document could not fail to make an effect,
but the Norwegian press tried hard to explain away the contents by
informing the public of their wonderful discovery, that the document was
of no »Constitutional importance», and shrewdly trying to prove
that the Crown Prince had no legal right to make known his opinion
in that manner[51:1].

Those who now held the reins in Norway, had to carry out their plans
before the worked up excitement cooled down.

Therfore the way of the negotiations was so dangerous. The Crown Prince
found it necessary to consent to a change of Ministry. Mr MICHELSEN, who
was pointed out as the man equal to the situation, was summoned,
also a so called mixed Cabinet consisting of Ministers of different
parties; the two Prime Ministers, however, Mr MICHELSEN und Mr
LÖVLAND, were rank radicals.

In the beginning of March the Special Committee appointed by the Storthing
were able preliminarily to communicate the plan to be followed; it was
not a novel one, it was the old method from the beginning of the
nineties to take matters, especially those relating to the Consular
service, into »their own hands».

In the middle of March the Crown Prince returned to Stockholm, and
here twelve members of the Diet were immediately summoned, according
to decrees in the government regulations, in order to confer with the
Crown Prince Regent on the matter.

On the 5th April the Crown Prince, as Regent, dictated a proposal in
the joint Cabinet[51:2] that the two governments should immediately
open negotiations in view of the settlement of all matters concerning
the Union on the basis of the programme for a mutual Minister for
Foreign affairs and separate Consular services.

He, at the same time, declared himself willing to accept other proposals
for the settlement of the matter so long as the joint control of
Foreign affairs was allowed to remain undisturbed, as that was an
indispensable guarantee for the continuance of the Union[52:1].

On the publication of the Crown Prince-Regent's proposal, the Prime Minister
BOSTRÖM, against whom the wrath of the Norwegians had especially been
directed, resigned his office, which was immediately placed in the hands
of State Secretary RAMSTEDT. The Crown Prince's proposal was immediately
unanimously adopted on motions from the leading men in both Chambers of
the Diet[52:2].

_In this we thus find a clear and unevasive offer from Sweden to
Norway, for the establisment of full equality within the Union, and
that too in terms to which Sweden would never have consented but a
few years back_[52:3].

But the course of Norwegian politics could not be obstructed. The goal
was already in sight.

In a communication from the Norwegian government of the 17th April the
reasons for the refusal are set forth. They are typically Norwegian. It
refers to preceding negotiations, the failure of which is solely
accountable to the circumstance that on the part of Sweden it has
been found impossible to accede to all the Norwegian demands.

The termination of the Consular negotiations had especially »given ground
for great disappointment, and if increased by a renewal of similar
unfortunate experiments, will threaten the gravest danger to the
good relations existent between the two peoples».

The Norwegian government knows what means to employ to produce
»these good relations», namely, establishing its own Consular Service
in the way prognosticated in the past.

This accomplished, »that confidence, which is the mainspring of
every friendly and fruitful inquiry into difficult and delicate
relations in a Union, will have revived».

Norway is thus always the injured one, and there is never a thought that
Sweden on her part might have or possibly _could find_ cause for
displeausure over Norwegian Union Policy[53:1].

In a joint Cabinet in Stockholm on April 23rd the aforementioned
statements were carried[53:2].

The Swedish Cabinet found it impossible, for the present, to resume
negotiations. The Norwegian Cabinet stated imperatively--to those who
would believe it--that it is not the object of Norwegian action to have
the present Union dissolved(!)

, but they were in unity with the Swedish Cabinet. The Crown Prince deeply
deplored being forced to let these decisions remain final.

In the beginning of May the Swedish Diet resolved, on the basis of the
above mentioned motions, to address the King respecting the support
they had given the Crown Prince's resolution[54:1].

The Diet deeply deplored the refusal already given by the Norwegians,
but considered it possible that their unanimous support of the Crown
Prince's programme would lead eventually to more favourable
results.

[Sidenote: _Norwegian agitation._]

While these efforts on the part of the Regent and Sweden were being made
to bring Norway to reason, an energetic and designing agitation
was being carried on from Christiania.

The press went over almost entirely to the side of the programme;
from Trondhjem alone, where union partisanship was not altogether
inclined to submit to the dictates from Christiania, were heard
hesitations.

Strong efforts were made in the Storthing to win over the doubting
and unwilling ones, and they were in the main successful.

Then followed a most energetic propaganda in order to win European opinion
on Norway's side.

From the windows
might be seen, through the trees in the grounds, the Father of Waters
below. But the room is gloomy now, that once was gay, and a heavy coat of
soot is spread on the porch at the back, where the apple blossoms still
fall thinly in the spring. The huge black town has coiled about the place
the garden still struggles on, but the giants of the forest are dying and
dead. Bellefontaine Road itself, once the drive of fashion, is no more.
Trucks and cars crowd the streets which follow its once rural windings,
and gone forever are those comely wooded hills and green pastures,--save
in the memory of those who have been spared to dream.

Still the old house stands, begrimed but stately, rebuking the sordid
life around it. Still come into it the Brinsmades to marriage and to
death. Five and sixty years are gone since Mr. Calvin Brinsmade took his
bride there. They sat on the porch in the morning light, harking to the
whistle of the quail in the corn, and watching the frightened deer
scamper across the open. Do you see the bride in her high-waisted gown,
and Mr. Calvin in his stock and his blue tail-coat and brass buttons?

Old people will tell you of the royal hospitality then, of the famous men
and women who promenaded under those chandeliers, and sat down to the
game-laden table. In 1835 General Atkinson and his officers thought
nothing of the twenty miles from Jefferson Barracks below, nor of dancing
all night with the Louisville belles, who were Mrs. Brinsmade's guests.
Thither came Miss Todd of Kentucky, long before she thought of taking for
a husband that rude man of the people, Abraham Lincoln. Foreigners of
distinction fell in love with the place, with its open-hearted master and
mistress, and wrote of it in their journals. Would that many of our
countrymen, who think of the West as rough, might have known the quality
of the Brinsmades and their neighbors!

An era of charity, of golden simplicity, was passing on that October
night of Anne Brinsmade's ball. Those who made merry there were soon to
be driven and scattered before the winds of war; to die at Wilson's
Creek, or Shiloh, or to be spared for heroes of the Wilderness. Some were
to eke out a life of widowhood in poverty. All were to live soberly,
chastened by what they had seen. A fear knocked at Colonel Carvel's heart
as he stood watching the bright figures.

"Brinsmade," he said, "do you remember this room in May, '46?"

Mr. Brinsmade, startled, turned upon him quickly.

"Why, Colonel, you have read my very thoughts," he said. "Some of those
who were here then are--are still in Mexico."

"And some who came home, Brinsmade, blamed God because they had not
fallen," said the Colonel.

"Hush, Comyn, His will be done," he answered; "He has left a daughter to
comfort you."

Unconsciously their eyes sought Virginia. In her gown of faded primrose
and blue with its quaint stays and short sleeves, she seemed to have
caught the very air of the decorous century to which it belonged. She was
standing against one of the pilasters at the side of the room, laughing
demurely at the antics of Becky Sharp and Sir John Falstaff,--Miss Puss
Russell and Mr. Jack Brinsmade, respectively.

Mr. Tennyson's "Idylls" having appeared but the year before, Anne was
dressed as Elaine, a part which suited her very well. It was strange
indeed to see her waltzing with Daniel Boone (Mr. Clarence Colfax) in his
Indian buckskins. Eugenie went as Marie Antoinette. Tall Maude Catherwood
was most imposing as Rebecca; and her brother George made a towering
Friar Tuck, Even little fifteen-year-old Spencer Catherwood, the
contradiction of the family, was there. He went as the lieutenant
Napoleon, walking about with his hands behind his back and his brows
thoughtfully contracted.

The Indian summer night was mild. It was at tine very height of the
festivities that Dorothy Carvel and Mr. Daniel Boone were making their
way together to the porch when the giant gate-keeper of Kenilworth Castle
came stalking up the steps out of the darkness, brandishing his club in
their faces. Dorothy screamed, and even the doughty Daniel gave back a
step.

"Tom Catherwood! How dare you? You frightened me nearly to death."

"I'm sorry, Jinny, indeed I am," said the giant, repentant, and holding
her hand in his.

"Where have you been?" demanded Virginia, a little mollified. "What makes
you so late?"

"I've been to a Lincoln meeting," said honest Tom; "where I heard a very
fine speech from a friend of yours."

Virginia tossed her head.

"You might have been better employed," said she, and added, with dignity,
"I have no friends who speak at Black Republican meetings."

"How about Judge Whipple?" said Tom.

She stopped. "Did you mean the Judge?" she asked, over her shoulder.

"No," said Tom, "I meant--"

He got no further. Virginia slipped her arm through Clarence's, and they
went off together to the end of the veranda. Poor Tom! He passed on into
the gay drawing-room, but the zest had been taken out of his antics for
that night.

"Whom did he mean, Jinny?" said Clarence, when they were on the seat
under the vines.

"He meant that Yankee, Stephen Brice," answered Virginia, languidly. "I
am so tired of hearing about him."

"So am I," said Clarence, with a fervor by no means false. "By George, I
think he will make a Black Republican out of Tom, if he keeps on. Puss
and Jack have been talking about him all summer, until I am out of
patience. I reckon he has brains. But suppose he has addressed fifty
Lincoln meetings, as they say, is that any reason for making much of him?
I should not have him at Bellegarde. I am surprised that Mr. Russell
allows him in his house. I can see why Anne likes him."

"Why?"

"He is on the Brinsmade charity list."

"He is not on their charity list, nor on any other," said Virginia,
quickly. "Stephen Brice is the last person who would submit to charity."

"And you are the last person who I supposed would stand up for him,"
cried her cousin, surprised and nettled.

There was an instant's silence.

"I want to be fair, Max," she said quietly. "Pa offered them our Glencoe
House last summer at a low price, and they insisted on paying what Mr.
Edwards gave five years ago,--or nothing. You know that I detest a Yankee
as much as you do," she continued, indignation growing in her voice. "I
did not come out here with you to be insulted."

With her hand on the rail, she made as if to rise. Clarence was perforce
mollified.

"Don't go, Jinny," he said beseechingly. "I didn't mean to make you
angry--"

"I can't see why you should always be dragging in this Mr. Brice," she
said, almost tearfully. (It will not do to pause now and inquire into
Virginia's logic.) "I came out to hear what you had to tell me."

"Jinny, I have been made second lieutenant of Company A."

"Oh, Max, I am so glad! I am so proud of you!"

"I suppose that you have heard the result of the October elections,
Jinny."

"Pa said something about them to-night," she answered; why?"

"It looks now as if there were a chance of the Republicans winning," he
answered. But it was elation that caught his voice, not gloom.

"You mean that this white trash Lincoln may be President?" she exclaimed,
seizing his arm.

"Never!" he cried. "The South will not submit to that until every man who
can bear arms is shot down." He paused. The strains of a waltz mingled
with talk and laughter floated out of the open window. His voice dropped
to a low intensity. "We are getting ready in Company A," he said; "the
traitors will be dropped. We are getting ready to fight for Missouri and
for the South."

The girl felt his excitement, his exaltation.

"And if you were not, Max, I should disown you," she whispered.

He leaned forward until his face was close to hers.

"And now?" he said.

"I am ready to work, to starve, to go to prison, to help--"

He sank back heavily into the corner.

"Is that all, Jinny?"

"All?" she repeated. "Oh, if a woman could only do more!"

"And is there nothing--for me?"

Virginia straightened.

"Are you doing this for a reward?" she demanded.

"No," he answered passionately. "You know that I am not. Do you remember
when you told me that I was good for nothing, that I lacked purpose?"

"Yes, Max."

"I have thought it over since," he went on rapidly; "you were right. I
cannot work--it is not in me. But I have always felt that I could make a
name for myself--for you--in the army. I am sure that I could command a
regiment. And now the time is coming."

She did not answer him, but absently twisted the fringe of his buckskins
in her fingers.

"Ever since I have known what love is I have loved you, Jinny. It was so
when we climbed the cherry trees at Bellegarde. And you loved me then--I
know you did. You loved me when I went East to school at the Military
Institute. But it has not been the same of late," he faltered. "Something
has happened. I felt it first on that day you rode out to Bellegarde when
you said that my life was of no use. Jinny, I don't ask much. I am
content to prove myself. War is coming, and we shall have to free
ourselves from Yankee insolence. It is what we have both wished for. When
I am a general, will you marry me?"

For a wavering instant she might have thrown herself into his
outstretched arms. Why not, and have done with sickening doubts? Perhaps
her hesitation hung on the very boyishness of his proposal. Perhaps the
revelation that she did not then fathom was that he had not developed
since those childish days. But even while she held back, came the beat of
hoofs on the gravel below them, and one of the Bellegarde servants rode
into the light pouring through the open door. He called for his master.

Clarence muttered his dismay as he followed his cousin to the steps.

"What is it?" asked Virginia, alarmed.

"Nothing; I forgot to sign the deed to the Elleardsville property, and
Worington wants it to-night." Cutting short Sambo's explanations,
Clarence vaulted on the horse. Virginia was at his stirrup. Leaning over
in the saddle, he whispered: "I'll be back in a quarter of an hour Will
you wait?"

"Yes," she said, so that he barely heard.

"Here?"

She nodded.

He was away at a gallop, leaving Virginia standing bareheaded to the
night, alone. A spring of pity, of affection for Clarence suddenly welled
up within her. There came again something of her old admiration for a
boy, impetuous and lovable, who had tormented and defended her with the
same hand.

Patriotism, stronger in Virginia than many of us now can conceive, was on
Clarence's side. Ambition was strong in her likewise. Now was she all
afire with the thought that she, a woman, might by a single word give the
South a leader. That word would steady him, for there was no question of
her influence. She trembled at the reckless lengths he might go in his
dejection, and a memory returned to her of a day at Glencoe, before he
had gone off to school, when she had refused to drive with him. Colonel
Carvel had been away from home. She had pretended not to care. In spite
of Ned's beseechings Clarence had ridden off on a wild thoroughbred colt
and had left her to an afternoon of agony. Vividly she recalled his
home-coming in the twilight, his coat torn and muddy, a bleeding cut on
his forehead, and the colt quivering tame.

In those days she had thought of herself unreservedly as meant for him.
Dash and courage and generosity had been the beacon lights on her
horizon. But now? Were there not other qualities? Yes, and Clarence
should have these, too. She would put them into him. She also had been at
fault, and perhaps it was because of her wavering loyalty to him that he
had not gained them.

Her name spoken within the hall startled Virginia from her reverie, and
she began to walk rapidly down the winding drive. A fragment of the air
to which they were dancing brought her to a stop. It was the Jenny Lind
waltz. And with it came clear and persistent the image she had sought to
shut out and failed. As if to escape it now, she fairly ran all the way
to the light at the entrance and hid in the magnolias clustered beside
the gateway. It was her cousin's name she whispered over and over to
herself as she waited, vibrant with a strange excitement. It was as
though the very elements might thwart her wail. Clarence would be
delayed, or they would miss her at the house, and search. It seemed an
eternity before she heard the muffled thud of a horse cantering in the
clay road.

Virginia stood out in the light fairly between the gate posts. Too late
she saw the horse rear as the rider flew back in his seat, for she had
seized the bridle. The beams from the lamp fell upon a Revolutionary
horseman, with cooked hat and sword and high riding-boots. For her his
profile was in silhouette, and the bold nose and chin belonged to but one
man she knew. He was Stephen Brice. She gave a cry of astonishment and
dropped the rein in dismay. Hot shame was surging in her face. Her
impulse was to fly, nor could she tell what force that stayed her feet.

As for Stephen, he stood high in his stirrups and stared down at the
girl. She was standing full in the light,--her lashes fallen, her face
crimson. But no sound of surprise escaped him because it was she, nor did
he wonder at her gown of a gone-by century. Her words came first, and
they were low. She did not address him by name.

"I--I thought that you were my cousin," she said. "What must you think of
me!"

Stephen was calm.

"I expected it," he answered.

She gave a step backward, and raised her frightened eyes to his.

"You expected it?" she faltered.

"I can't say why," he said quickly, "but it seems to me as if this had
happened before. I know that I am talking nonsense--"

Virginia was trembling now. And her answer was not of her own choosing.

"It has happened before," she cried. "But where? And when?"

"It may have been in a dream," he answered her, "that I saw you as you
stand there by my bridle. I even know the gown you wear."

She put her hand to her forehead. Had it been a dream? And what mystery
was it that sent him here this night of all nights? She could not even
have said that it was her own voice making reply.

"And I--I have seen you, with the sword, and the powdered hair, and the
blue coat and the buff waistcoat. It is a buff waistcoat like that my
great-grandfather wears in his pictures."

"It is a buff waistcoat," he said, all sense of strangeness gone.

The roses she held dropped on the gravel, and she put out her hand
against his horse's flank. In an instant he had leaped from his saddle,
and his arm was holding her. She did not resist, marvelling rather at his
own steadiness, nor did she then resent a tenderness in his voice.

"I hope you will forgive me--Virginia," he said. "I should not have
mentioned this. And yet I could not help it."

She looked up at him rather wildly.

"It was I who stopped you," she said; "I was waiting for--"

"For whom?"

The interruption brought remembrance.

"For my cousin, Mr. Colfax," she answered, in another tone. And as she
spoke she drew away from him, up the driveway. But she had scarcely taken
five steps whey she turned again, her face burning defiance. "They told
me you were not coming," she said almost fiercely. "Why did you come?"

It was a mad joy that Stephen felt.

"You did not wish me to come?" he demanded.

"Oh, why do you ask that?" she cried. "You know I would not have been
here had I thought you were coming. Anne promised me that you would not
come."

What would she not have given for those words back again

Stephen took astride toward her, and to the girl that stride betokened a
thousand things that went to the man's character. Within its compass the
comparison in her mind was all complete. He was master of himself when he
spoke.

"You dislike me, Miss Carvel," he said steadily. "I do not blame you. Nor
do I flatter myself that it is only because you believe one thing, and I
another. But I assure you that it is my misfortune rather than my fault
that I have not pleased you,--that I have met you only to anger you."

He paused, for she did not seem to hear him. She was gazing at the
distant lights moving on the river. Had he come one step farther?--but he
did not. Presently she knew that he was speaking again, in the same
measured tone.

"Had Miss Brinsmade told me that my presence here would cause you
annoyance, I should have stayed away. I hope that you will think nothing
of the--the mistake at the gate. You may be sure that I shall not mention
it. Good night, Miss Carvel."

He lifted his hat, mounted his horse, and was gone. She had not even
known that he could ride--that was strangely the first thought. The
second discovered herself intent upon the rhythm of his canter as it died
southward upon the road. There was shame in this, mingled with a
thankfulness that he would not meet Clarence. She hurried a few steps
toward the house, and stopped again. What should she say to Clarence now?
What could she say to him?

But Clarence was not in her head. Ringing there was her talk with Stephen
Brice, as though it were still rapidly going on. His questions and her
replies--over and over again. Each trivial incident of an encounter real
and yet unreal! His transformation in the uniform, which had seemed so
natural. Though she strove to make it so, nothing of all this was
unbearable now, nor the remembrance of the firm torch of his arm about
her nor yet again his calling her by her name.

Absently she took her way again up the drive, now pausing, now going on,
forgetful. First it was alarm she felt when her cousin leaped down at her
side,--then dread.

"I thought I should never get back," he cried breathlessly, as he threw
his reins to Sambo. "I ought not to have asked you to wait outside. Did
it seem long, Jinny?"

She answered something, There was a seat near by under the trees. To lead
her to it he seized her hand, but it was limp and cold, and a sudden fear
came into his voice.

"Jinny!"

"Yes."

She resisted, and he dropped her fingers. She remembered long how he
stood in the scattered light from the bright windows, a tall, black
figure of dismay. She felt the yearning in his eyes. But her own
response, warm half an hour since, was lifeless.

"Jinny," he said, "what is the matter?"

"Nothing, Max. Only I was very foolish to say I would wait for you."

"Then--then you won't marry me?"

"Oh, Max," she cried, "it is no time to talk of that now. I feel to-night
as if something dreadful were to happen."

"Do you mean war?" he asked.

"Yes," she said. "Yes."

"But war is what we want," he cried, "what we have prayed for, what we
have both been longing for to-night, Jinny. War alone will give us our
rights--"

He stopped short. Virginia had bowed her head an her hands, and he saw
her shoulders shaken by a sob. Clarence bent over her in bewilderment and
anxiety.

"You are not well, Jinny," he said.

"I am not well," she answered. "Take me into the house."

But when they went in at the door, he saw that her eyes were dry.

Those were the days when a dozen young ladies were in the habit of
staying all night after a dance in the country; of long whispered talks
(nay, not always whispered) until early morning. And of late breakfasts.
Miss Russell had not been the only one who remarked Virginia's long
absence with her cousin; but Puss found her friend in one of those moods
which even she dared not disturb. Accordingly Miss Russell stayed all
night with Anne.

And the two spent most of the dark hours remaining in unprofitable
discussion as to whether Virginia were at last engaged to her cousin, and
in vain queried over another unsolved mystery. This mystery was taken up
at the breakfast table the next morning, when Miss Carvel surprised Mrs.
Brinsmade and the male household by appearing at half-past seven.

"Why, Jinny," cried Mr. Brinsmade, "what does this mean? I always thought
that young ladies did not get up after a ball until noon."

Virginia smiled a little nervously.

"I am going to ask you to take me to town when you go, Mr. Brinsmade."

"Why, certainly, my dear," he said. "But I under stood that your aunt was
to send for you this afternoon from Bellegarde."

Virginia shook her head. There is something I wis to do in town."

"I'll drive her in, Pa," said Jack. "You're too old. Will you go with me,
Jinny?"

"Of course, Jack."

"But you must eat some breakfast, Jinny," said Mrs Brinsmade, glancing
anxiously at the girl.

Mr. Brinsmade put down his newspaper.

"Where was Stephen Brice last night, Jack?" he asked. "I understood Anne
to say that he had spoke; of coming late."

"Why, sir," said Jack, "that's what we can't make out. Tom Catherwood,
who is always doing queer things, you know, went to a Black Republican
meeting last night, and met Stephen there. They came out in Tom's buggy
to the Russells', and Tom got into his clothes first and rode over.
Stephen was to have followed on Puss Russell's horse. But he never got
here. At least I can find no one who saw him. Did you, Jinny?"

But Virginia did not raise her eyes from her plate. A miraculous
intervention came through Mrs. Brinsmade.

"There might have been an accident, Jack," said that lady, with concern.
"Send Nicodemus over to Mrs. Russell's at once to inquire. You know that
Mr. Brice is a Northerner, and may not be able to ride."

Jack laughed.

"He rides like a dragoon, mother," said he. "I know, my dear, thou hast,
and wilt have, many temptations to combat with: thou wilt, doubtless,
be frequently importuned to continue with thy gay acquaintance, in
pursuit of that false glare of happiness, which the world, in too
bewitching and deceitful colours, holds out to the unwary traveller,
and which certainly ends in blinding the intellectual eye from
discovering the pure source of soul-felt pleasure resulting from a
humble heart, at peace with its God, its neighbour, and itself.

"Thee asks my advice, my dear friend, and without any premeditation
when I sat down, I find I have been attempting to give it; but it is
very evident thou art under the special care of an infinitely better
Instructor, who has already uttered His soft and heavenly voice, to teach
thee that the first step towards religion is true humility; because in
that state only we can feel the need we have of an arm, stronger than
human, to lean upon, to lead us out of and keep us from things which
hinder our access to, and confidence in, that boundless source of purity,
love, and mercy; who, amidst all the vicissitudes of time, is
disposed to be our Shepherd, Guardian, and Friend, in whom we may
trust and never be afraid; but this blessed confidence is not, cannot be
enjoyed by the gay, the giddy, proud, or abandoned votaries of this world."

Up to this time she had adopted none of the distinctive peculiarities
of the Society of Friends. Although from custom attending the meetings,
she did not confine herself to the services there; for we read such
entries as this, "I went to St. Peter's and heard a good sermon. The
common people seemed very much occupied, and wrapt up in the service,
which I was pleased to see; afterwards I went to the cathedral."

She had already commenced efforts to be useful to others, visiting the sick,
and teaching the children of her poorer neighbours, in Norwich,
or at Bramerton, then a quiet, pleasant village, where the family
usually resided in summer.

"I have some thoughts," she says, "of increasing by degrees my plan
for Sunday evening, and of having several poor children, at least,
to read in the Testament and religious books for an hour.

It might increase morality among the lower classes if the Scriptures
were oftener and better read to them."

Sunday school work she for herself discovered to be a profitable,
as she found it to be a delightful task.

All this time she was diligent in study, and in the intellectual culture
of her own mind, as we find from her Journal.

"I had a good lesson of French this morning, and read much in
Epictetus."

Later on, we find her intent
on the books of Dr.

Isaac Watts, his _Logic_ especially, which Dr. Johnson had commended strongly
to all who sought the "improvement of the mind."

IV.

AT COLEBROOK DALE, AND ON A JOURNEY TO WALES.

In the summer of 1798, John Gurney took the whole of his seven daughters
an excursion through parts of England and Wales. At Colebrook Dale,
where they saw several relatives, members of the Society of Friends,
Elizabeth Gurney received the deepest impressions. She was especially
struck with the veteran philanthropist, Richard Reynolds, who having made
a large fortune in his well-managed iron-works, spent his money and
time in seeking the moral good of the working people.

At Colebrook Dale also she spent some days with an elderly cousin,
Priscilla Hannah Gurney, cousin to the Earlham Gurneys by both
father and mother, her father being Joseph Gurney and her mother
Christiana Barclay.

Being left by her father alone for some days with this cousin, the influence
of the visit was very powerful on her. "She was exactly the person to
attract the young; she possessed singular beauty, and elegance of manner.
She was of the old school; her costume partook of this, and her
long retention of the black hood gave much character to her
appearance.

She had early renounced the world and its fascinations; left Bath, where
her mother and sister Christiana Gurney resided; became eventually
a minister among Friends; and found a congenial retreat for many
years at Colebrook Dale."

The travelling party went on to make a tour in Wales and to attend
the gathering of Friends at the Welsh half-yearly meeting. Most of the
Colebrook Dale Friends were present, and further converse with
Priscilla Gurney induced her niece to resolve openly to conform to
Quaker customs, though at what precise time she became professedly
a Friend we are not told.

They dared not answer him. And so he went back into his room, shutting
the door. That day no clients saw him, even those poor ones dependent on
his charity whom had never before denied. Richter and Stephen took
counsel together, and sent Shadrach out for his dinner.

Three weeks passed. There arrived a sparkling Sunday, brought down the
valley of the Missouri from the frozen northwest. The Saturday had been
soggy and warm.

Thursday had seen South Carolina leave that Union into which she was
born, amid prayers and the ringing of bells. Tuesday was to be Christmas
day. A young lady, who had listened to a solemn sermon of Dr.
Posthelwaite's, slipped out of Church before the prayers were ended, and
hurried into that deserted portion of the town about the Court House
where on week days business held its sway.

She stopped once at the bottom of the grimy flight of steps leading to
Judge Whipple's office. At the top she paused again, and for a short
space stood alert, her glance resting on the little table in the corner,
on top of which a few thumbed law books lay neatly piled. Once she made a
hesitating step in this direction. Then, as if by a resolution quickly
taken, she turned her back and softly opened the door of the Judge's
room. He was sitting upright in his chair. A book was open in his lap,
but it did not seem to Virginia that he was reading it.

"Uncle Silas," she said, "aren't you coming to dinner any more?"

He looked up swiftly from under his shaggy brows. The book fell to the
floor.

"Uncle Silas," said Virginia, bravely, "I came to get you to-day."

Never before had she known him to turn away from man or woman, but now
Judge Whipple drew his handkerchief from his pocket and blew his nose
violently. A woman's intuition told her that locked tight in his heart
was what he longed to say, and could not. The shiny black overcoat he
wore was on the bed. Virginia picked it up and held it out to him, an
appeal in her eyes.

He got into it. Then she handed him his hat. Many people walking home
from church that morning marvelled as they saw these two on Locust Street
together, the young girl supporting the elderly man over the slippery
places at the crossings. For neighbor had begun to look coldly upon
neighbor.

Colonel Carvel beheld them from his armchair by the sitting-room window,
and leaned forward with a start. His lips moved as he closed his Bible
reverently and marked his place. At the foot of the stairs he surprised
Jackson by waving him aside, for the Colonel himself flung open the door
and held out his hand to his friend. The Judge released Virginia's arm,
and his own trembled as he gave it.

"Silas," said the Colonel, "Silas, we've missed you."

Virginia stood by, smiling, but her breath came deeply. Had she done
right? Could any good come of it all? Judge Whipple did not go in at the
door--He stood uncompromisingly planted on the threshold, his head flung
back, and actual fierceness in his stare.

"Do you guess we can keep off the subject, Comyn?" he demanded.

Even Mr. Carvel, so used to the Judge's ways, was a bit taken aback by
this question. It set him tugging at his goatee, and his voice was not
quite steady as he answered:

"God knows, Silas. We are human, and we can only try."

Then Mr. Whipple marched in. It lacked a quarter of an hour of dinner,
--a crucial period to tax the resources of any woman. Virginia led the
talk, but oh, the pathetic lameness of it. Her own mind was wandering
when it should not, and recollections she had tried to strangle had
sprung up once more. Only that morning in church she had lived over again
the scene by Mr. Brinsmade's gate, and it was then that a wayward but
resistless impulse to go to the Judge's office had seized her. The
thought of the old man lonely and bitter in his room decided her. On her
knees she prayed that she might save the bond between him and her father.
For the Colonel had been morose on Sundays, and had taken to reading the
Bible, a custom he had not had since she was a child.

In the dining-room Jackson, bowing and smiling, pulled out the Judge's
chair, and got his customary curt nod as a reward. Virginia carved.

"Oh, Uncle Silas," she cried, "I am so glad that we have a wild turkey.
And you shall have your side-bone." The girl carved deftly, feverishly,
talking the while, aided by that most kind and accomplished of hosts, her
father. In the corner the dreaded skeleton of the subject grinned
sardonically. Were they going to be able to keep it off? There was to be
no help from Judge Whipple, who sat in grim silence. A man who feels his
soul burning is not given to small talk. Virginia alone had ever
possessed the power to make him forget.

"Uncle Silas, I am sure there are some things about our trip that we
never told you. How we saw Napoleon and his beautiful Empress driving in
the Bois, and how Eugenie smiled and bowed at the people. I never saw
such enthusiasm in my life. And oh, I learned such a lot of French
history. All about Francis the First, and Pa took me to see his chateaus
along the Loire. Very few tourists go there. You really ought to have
gone with us."

When baked stand aside to cool while you prepare the following
filling: The juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint sweet milk,
1 cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, butter
size of a walnut.

Cream together sugar, flour, yolks of eggs, then add lemon, mix
well then add to the scalded milk on the range and cook until thick.

Let cool, but do not allow to become quite cold, spread on the two
crusts, which have been baked.

When quite cold add 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar to the stiffly beaten whites
of the three eggs, spread on top of pies, sift 1 tablespoonful pulverized
sugar on top of meringue and set in a quick oven until fawn color. Serve
cold.

When mixing pie dough, should you have mixed more than needed at one time,
line _agate_ pie-tins with crust (never stand away in tin).

They may be kept several days in a cool place and used later for
crumb cakes or custards.

Or a crust might be baked and used later for lemon meringues, etc.

APPLE TART
Line pie-tins with rich pie crust, sift over each 1 tablespoonful flour
and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Place on the crust enough good, tart baking
apples, which have been pared, cored, halved and placed (flat
surface down) on the crust.

Put bits of butter over the top and between the apples, about 1 large
tablespoonful altogether, and sprinkle about 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
over, add about 1 tablespoonful of cold water when pies are ready
to place in oven.

These pies should be baked in a very hot oven. When apples are soft take
pies from oven and serve one pie, hot; stand the other one aside
until quite cold.

To the stiffly beaten white of one egg add one tablespoonful sugar.

Stir together and place a spoonful on the top of each half of apple
and place in oven until meringue has browned and serve pie cold.

Peach tarts may be made in a similar manner, omitting the meringue and
substituting peaches for apples.

RAISIN OR "ROSINA" PIE

"Rosina" pie, as Aunt Sarah called it, was composed of 1 lemon, 1 egg, 1
cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 cup large, blue, seeded raisins. Cover
the raisins with one cup of cold water; let soak two hours. Cream
egg and sugar together, add juice and grated rind of one quite
small lemon, or half a large one.

Mix the tablespoonful of flour smooth with a little cold water, add to
the mixture, then add raisins and to the water in which they were
soaked add enough water to fill the cup and cook until the mixture
thickens.

When cool fill pie-tins with the mixture, bake with upper and under crust
about 20 minutes in hot oven.

Aunt Sarah used a _generous_ tablespoonful of flour for this pie.

"SNITZ" PIE

Cover a bowlful of well-washed dried apples with cold water and allow to
soak over night. The following morning cook until tender and mash
through a colander.

If quite thick a small quantity of water should be added. Season with
sugar to taste. Some apples require more sugar than others. Add cinnamon,
if liked. Aunt Sarah never used any spices in these pies. Bake with two
crusts or place strips cross-wise over the pie of thinly rolled
dough, like lattice work.

These are typical "Bucks County" pies.

MARY'S RECIPE FOR PLAIN PUMPKIN PIE
Line a pie-tin, one holding 3 cups of liquid, with rich pastry. For the
filling for pie mix together the following: 1 cup of steamed pumpkin,
which had been mashed through a colander, 1 egg, beaten separately, 1
tablespoonful of flour, 2-1/2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1/8 teaspoonful
of salt, 1/2 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, same of ginger, 1-1/2 cups
of milk (scant measure).

The mixture should measure exactly 3 cups, after adding milk. Pour
this mixture into the pastry-lined pie-tin and bake in a moderate oven
until top of pie is a rich brown.

CHOCOLATE PIE
Melt one square of Baker's unsweetened chocolate, or 1/4 cup of
powdered cocoa, mix with this 1/2 cup of granulated sugar and 1/4
cup of corn starch.

When well mixed add yolks of 3 eggs, a pinch of salt, 2 cups of milk;
cook all together in a double boiler until thickened.
When cool flavor with vanilla. Fill pastry-lined pie crust with the mixture.
Beat the 3 whites of eggs to a froth, mix with a couple tablespoonfuls
of pulverized sugar, spread on top of pie, stand in oven until light
brown.

"PEBBLE DASH" OR SHOO-FLY PIE
Aunt Sarah made these to perfection and called them "Pebble Dash" pie.
They are not really pies, they resemble cakes, but having a crust
we will class them with pies.

She lined three small sized pie-tins with rich pie crust.

For the crumbs she placed in a bowl 3 cups of flour, 1 cup brown sugar
and 3/4 cup of butter and lard, mixed and rubbed all together with
the hands, not smooth, but in small rivels.

For the liquid part she used 1 cup baking molasses, 1 cup hot water,
1 teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in a few drops of vinegar and
stirred this into the molasses and water.

She divided the liquid among the three pans, putting one-third in
each crust, over which she sprinkled the crumbs.

Bake one-half hour in a moderate oven. These have the appearance
of molasses cakes when baked.

VANILLA CRUMB "CRUSTS"
Cook together a short time 1/2 cup molasses, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful
flour, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups cold water.

Moisten the flour with a little cold water before adding to the other
ingredients. When cooled add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour this mixture
in the bottom of each of four common sized pie-tins, lined with pastry,
and sprinkle over the following crumbs:

THE CRUMBS (FOR VANILLA CRUMB CRUSTS).

Two cups flour, 1/2 cup butter and lard, mixed, 1/2 teaspoonful soda and 1
cup sugar, rubbed together with the hands to form crumbs.

Scatter these crumbs over the four pies.

These are not thick pies, but simply what the recipe calls them--vanilla
"crusts."

"KASHA KUCHEN" OR CHERRY CAKE
Aunt Sarah sometimes filled the bottom crusts of two small pies
(either cheese pie or plain custard) with a layer of fresh cherries
and poured the custard over the top of the cherries and baked same
as a plain custard pie.

Aunt Sarah might be called extravagant by some, but she always made egg
desserts when eggs were cheap and plentiful, in the Spring. In
Winter she baked pies and puddings in which a fewer number of eggs
were used and substituted canned and dried fruits for fresh ones.

In summer she used fresh fruit when in season, ice cream and sherbets.
She never indulged in high-priced, unseasonable fruits--thought it
an extravagance for one to do so, and taught Mary "a wise expenditure
in time means wealth."

For banana custard pie she substituted sliced banana for cherries
on top of pie.

"RIVEL KUCHEN"
Place in a bowl 1 cup flour, 1/2 cup sugar (good measure), 1/2 cup butter
and lard, or all butter is better (scant measure).

Some like a little grating of nutmeg, especially if part lard is used.
Mix or crumb the ingredients well together with the hands to form small
lumps, or rivels. Line pie-tins with a rich pastry crust and strew the
rivels thickly over and bake in a quick oven. A couple tablespoons of
molasses spread over the crumbs is liked by some. This is a favorite
pie or cake of many Pennsylvania Germans.

AUNT SARAH'S LEMON MERINGUE

Two cups of water, 1-1/2 cups of sugar, 2 rounding tablespoonfuls of corn
starch, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 small lemons. Mix the water,
sugar and corn starch dissolved in a little cold water, pour in sauce-pan,
place on range and stir mixture until thickened.
Beat separately the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, then add both to
the above mixture. Remove from the fire, add the juice of two small lemons
and grated rind of one; add butter.

Fill two previously baked pastry shells with the cooled mixture. Beat the
remaining whites of egg (another white of an egg added improves the
appearance of the pie.)

Add one tablespoonful of pulverized sugar to each egg used; place
the stiffly beaten whites of egg rockily over tops of pies stand
in oven until a delicate shade of brown.

This is a delicious pie.

A COUNTRY BATTER PIE
Line two medium-sized pie-tins with pastry crust in which pour the following
mixture, composed of 1/2 cup of granulated sugar and one egg, creamed
together; then add 1/2 cup of cold water and the grated yellow
rind and juice of one lemon.

For the top of pies: Cream together 1 cup of sugar, 1/4 cup of lard
and 1 egg, then add 1/2 cup of sour milk alternately with 1-1/2
cups of flour, sifted with 1/2 teaspoonful of baking soda and 1/2
teaspoonful of cream of tartar.

Place 1/2 of this mixture on top of each pie. Bake in oven.

PUMPKIN PIE (AUNT SARAH'S RECIPE)
The best pumpkin for pie is of a deep orange yellow with a rough, warty
surface. Remove the soft, spongy pulp and seeds of the pumpkin, pare
and cut into small pieces. Steam until tender. Put in a colander to
drain, then mash through colander with wooden potato masher. For one
deep pie allow one pint of the stewed pumpkin, beat in 2 eggs, one at a
time, 1/2 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 1/2 teaspoonful grated
nutmeg, 1/2 teaspoonful cinnamon, 2/3 cup sugar, 1 scant pint milk.

Beat all together. This mixture should barely fill a quart measure. Pour
in a deep pie-tin lined with rich crust, grate nutmeg over the top of
pie and bake from 45 to 50 minutes in a moderate oven.

Have the oven rather hot when the pie is first put in to bake and then
reduce the heat, else the filling in the pie will boil and become watery.
If liked, two tablespoonfuls of brandy may be added to the mixture
before filling the crust. In that case, use two tablespoonfuls
less of milk.

WHITE POTATO CUSTARD (AUNT SARAH'S RECIPE)
Boil one medium-sized potato, mash fine, add 1 large tablespoonful
of butter and a generous 1/2 cup sugar. Beat to a cream. When the mixture
has cooled add yolks of 2 eggs, 1/2 cup sweet milk and grated rind and
juice of half a lemon. Lastly, stir in the stiffly beaten whites of the
two eggs. Bake in a medium-sized pie-tin with one crust in a moderately
hot oven about 25 minutes, until a rich brown on top. This is a delicious
pie and would puzzle a "Bucks County lawyer" to tell of what it
is composed.

"RHUBARB CUSTARD" PIE
Two cups of rhubarb, uncooked, do not skin it, cut in half-inch
pieces. Cream together 1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch, 2
eggs (reserve white of one egg). Add the 2 cups of rhubarb to this
mixture and place all in a pie-tin lined with pastry. Place in oven and
bake until rhubarb is tender. Remove from oven and when pie has cooled
spread over it the stiffly beaten white of the egg, to which
had been added one tablespoonful of sugar.

Place pie in oven and brown a light fawn color.

"LEMON APPLE" PIE
Grate the yellow rind from a lemon (discard the white part of rind), grate
the remainder of the lemon, also pare and grate 1 apple.

Add 1-1/2 cups of sugar, then add 2 well-beaten eggs. Pour this mixture
into 1 large pie-tin lined with rich pastry; place on a top crust, pinch
edges, moistened with water, together; bake in an oven with a steady heat.
When pie has baked sift pulverized sugar thickly over top and serve cold.
From these materials was baked a fair sized pie.

GREEN CURRANT PIE

Line a pie-tin with rich pastry; place oil this crust 2 tablespoonfuls
of flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; then add 2 cups of well-washed
and stemmed green currants, previously mixed with 1 tablespoonful
of cornstarch, moistened with a small quantity of cold water.

Add 1 cup of sugar (from which had been taken the 2 tablespoonfuls placed
on crust;) add 2 tablespoonfuls of water; cover with a top crust,
cut small vents in crust, bake in a moderate oven.

When crust loosens from side of pan the pie should be sufficiently
baked.

A COUNTRY "MOLASSES" PIE

Place in a mixing bowl 3/4 cup flour (generous measure), 1/2 cup granulated
sugar, 1 generous tablespoonful of butter.

Crumble all together with the hands until quite fine.

Then to 1/4 cup of New Orleans (baking) molasses add 1/4 cup of
boiling water and 1/4 teaspoonful of soda (saleratus).

Beat together the molasses, water and soda until the mixture is foamy
and rises to top of cup.

Then pour into a medium-sized pie-tin, lined with pie crust (the
pie-tin should not be small or the mixture, when baking, will rise
over top of pan).

Sprinkle the prepared crumbs thickly over the molasses mixture and
with a spoon distribute the crumbs well through the mixture.

Bake in a moderate oven from 25 to 30 minutes and you will have the
old-fashioned pie your Grandmother used to bake.

When her baking finished, she had dough remaining for an extra crust.
Children always called this "molasses candy pie," as 'twas quite different
from the "molasses cake batter" usually baked in crusts.

A MOCK CHERRY PIE

This pie was composed of 3/4 cup of chopped cranberries, 3/4 cup of
seeded and chopped raisins, 3/4 cup of sugar, 3/4 cup of cold water, 1
tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla all together and bake
with two crusts.

AUNT SARAH'S CUSTARD PIE
Line an agate pie-pan (one used especially for custards two inches in
depth, holding exactly one quart) with a rich pastry. Break five large
eggs in a bowl, heat lightly with an egg-beater and add 1/2 cup
of sugar.

Boil 3 cups of sweet milk, pour over the eggs and sugar, add 1
teaspoonful of butter and a pinch of salt, 1/2 teaspoonful of
vanilla.

The mixture should fill a one-quart measure. When the custard has cooled,
pour either into the deep pie-pan, lined with pastry, holding one quart,
or into two ordinary pie-tins holding one pint each.

Place the custard pie in a quick oven, that the crust may bake
before the custard soaks into the crust; then allow oven to cool
and when the custard is "set" (which should be in about 35 minutes)
remove from the oven and serve cold.

The custard should be the consistency of thick jelly. Scalding the milk
produces a richer custard.

PLAIN RHUBARB PIE

Line a pie-tin with rich crust, skin rhubarb and cut into half-inch pieces
a sufficient quantity to fill 3 cups.

Mix together 1 cup of sugar and 1/4 cup of flour. Place a couple
tablespoonfuls of this on the bottom crust of pie. Mix sugar and flour
remaining with 3 cups of rhubarb and fill the crust. Moisten the
edge of crust with water, place on top crust, press two edges of crust
together (having cut small vents in top crust to allow steam to escape).
Bake in a moderate oven about 30 minutes, when top crust has browned pie
should be baked.

MARY'S CREAM PIE
Bake crusts in each of two pie-tins.

For filling, 1 pint of milk, 1 generous tablespoonful of corn starch, 2
tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 yolks of eggs (well beaten), 1 teaspoonful
of vanilla.

Cook all together until mixture thickens and when cooled put in the two
baked crusts.

Mix the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of
pulverized sugar and spread over cream filling in pies and brown
lightly in oven.

Always prick the lower crust of a pie carefully with a fork to allow the
air to escape; this will prevent blisters forming in the crusts baked
before filling crusts with custards.

APPLE CUSTARD PIE
To 1 cup of hot apple sauce (unsweetened) add a tiny pinch of baking
soda, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 cup of sugar, grated rind and
juice of half a lemon or orange, 2 egg yolks, 1/2 cup of sweet cream
and 1 large teaspoonful of corn starch.

Line a pie-tin with pastry, pour in this mixture and bake. When the pie
has cooled spread over top a meringue composed of the two stiffly
beaten whites of eggs and two tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar
flavored with a little grated orange or lemon peel.

Brown top of pie in oven.

LEMON PIE WITH CRUMBS
Place in a bowl 1 cup (good measure) of soft, crumbled stale bread.

Pour over this one cup of boiling water, add 1 teaspoonful (good
measure) of butter and beat until smooth, then add 1 cup of sugar,
the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs.

This mixture should measure about 1 pint.

Pour into a pie-tin lined with rich pastry and bake.

When cold spread over a meringue made of the stiffly beaten whites
of the 2 eggs and 3 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar.

Place in the oven until the meringue is a light fawn color and serve
cold.

AUNT SARAH'S BUTTER SCOTCH PIE
Boil together 1 cup brown sugar and 2 tablespoons butter until a
soft, wax-like consistency.

Mix together 2 heaping teaspoons flour, yolk of 1 egg and 1 cup of
milk.

Beat until smooth; stir this into the sugar and butter mixture and cook
until thick. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, pour into baked crust and
spread over top the beaten white of 1 egg to which has been added
tablespoon sugar and brown in oven.

GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT

One peck of green tomatoes, chopped fine; 3 lemons, 2 seeded raisins, 5
pounds of granulated sugar, 1 cup of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of cloves,
1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon.
Cook tomatoes 3-3/4 hours, then add the other ingredients and cook all
together 30 minutes.

A small quantity of grated orange peel, finely minced citron, cider,
brandy or canned fruit juice may be added to improve the flavor of
the mince meat.

Fill air-tight jars with the hot mixture and screw on jar-tops.

This mince meat may be prepared in season when tomatoes are plentiful;
is both good and cheap and is a splendid substitute for old-fashioned
mince meat.

ORANGE MERINGUE (A PIE)

Into a bowl grate the yellow outside rind of a large, juicy orange;
add the juice and pulp, but not any of the tough part enclosing
sections.

Add 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 1 cup of granulated sugar, which had
been beaten to a cream with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolks of 3
eggs, 2 large tablespoonfuls of corn starch, mixed smoothly with a
little cold water, and 1 cup of boiling water.

Cook all together until thickened and when cool spread on a rather
large pie-tin, lined with a baked crust of superior pastry.

Add to the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls of
pulverized sugar.
Place meringue over top of pie and place in oven until a light fawn
color.

GRANDMOTHER'S RECIPE FOR "MINCE MEAT"
The day preceding that on which mince meat is to be prepared, boil 5
pounds of beef.

To the well-cooked, finely-chopped meat add 10 pounds of tart apples, chopped
into coarse bits; 2 pounds of finely-chopped suet, 2 pounds of large
blue raisins, seeded; 2 pounds of dried, cleaned currants, 1/2 pound
of finely-shaved citron, 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful
of cloves, 1 tablespoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 small tablespoonful of
salt, 1 pint of baking molasses, 1 pint of brandy or cider which had
been boiled down.

Mix all well together, add more spices, if liked, also juice of 1 orange
or lemon.
Place all ingredients in a large preserving kettle, allow the mixture
to heat through.

Fill glass jars, seal and stand away until used. Add more cider, should it
he required, when baking pies.

"TWENTIETH CENTURY" MINCE MEAT
Two pounds lean beef (uncooked), chopped fine, 1/2 pound beef suet,
shredded.

Put the beef and suet in a large stone jar, pour over it 2/3 of a
quart of whiskey.

Let stand covered with a lid for a week, then add 2 pounds large, seeded
raisins, 2 pounds Sultana raisins, 2 pounds currants, 1/2 pound
citron, juice and grated rind of 2 oranges and of 2 lemons, 1
teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon, 2 grated nutmegs,
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice, 1 pound sugar.

Let stand two weeks, then it is ready to use. When you wish to bake pies
take out as much of the mince meat as you wish to use and add chopped
apples, two parts of mince meat to one part chopped apples, and add
more sugar if not as sweet as liked. If too thick, add a little sherry
wine and water, mixed. Fill bottom crust with some of the mixture, cover
with top crust and bake.

There must be just enough liquor in the jar to cover the meat, as that
preserves it. This seems like a large quantity of liquor to use, but
much of the strength evaporates in baking, so that only an agreeable
flavor remains; that is, to those who like liquor in mince meat; some
people do not. Others there are who think mince meat not good unless
made with something stronger than cider.

Mince pies made by this recipe are excellent. This recipe was given
Mary by a friend, a noted housekeeper and cook.

A "DUTCH" RECIPE FOR PUMPKIN PIE
Line a medium-sized pie-tin with pastry. Cover the crust thickly
with thinly-sliced, uncooked pumpkin, cut in inch lengths. Place on the
pumpkin 1 tablespoonful of syrup molasses, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar,
1 tablespoonful flour and sweeten with sugar to taste, dust over the top
a little ground cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg; cover pie with a top
crust and bake in a moderately hot oven.

When baked the pumpkin filling in the pie should resemble diced
citron and the pie have somewhat the flavor of green tomato pie.

(The vinegar may be omitted and the result be a very good pie.)

MARY'S COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE

Line two medium-sized pie-tins with rich pastry and bake. For the custard
filling: 3 egg yolks, 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 quart of milk.

Cook all together, then add 1 tablespoonful of corn starch and one of
flour (moistened with a little cold water before adding). Cook
all together until the mixture thickens.

Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Allow the mixture to cool.

Grate one good-sized cocoanut, mix half of it with the custard and
fill into the two crusts.

Spread over the tops of the two pies the stiffly beaten whites of the three
eggs to which you have added a small quantity of sugar. Over this
sprinkle the remaining half of the grated cocoanut, stand in the oven a
few minutes, until top of pie is lightly browned.

GRAPE PIE

Pulp the grapes. Place pulp in a stew-pan and cook a short time. When
tender mash pulp through a sieve to remove seeds. Add skins to pulp.
Add one scant cup of sugar and rounded teaspoonful of butter. Line a pie
plate with rich pastry, sprinkle over one tablespoonful of flour.
Pour in the grape mixture and sift another tablespoonful of flour over
the top of mixture and cover with a top crust in which vents have
been cut, to allow the steam to escape, and bake in a hot oven.

Allow two small cups of grapes to one pie.

SOUR CHERRY PIE
One quart of cherries, 1/2 cup of flour for juicy sour cherries, (scant
measure of flour), 1-1/2 cups sugar.

Pit the cherries, saving cherry juice. Mix together sugar and flour and
place about 1/3 of this on a pie-tin lined with pastry. Fill with
cherries and juice and sprinkle remaining sugar and flour over.
Bake with an upper crust, having vents cut in to allow steam to
escape.

AUNT SARAH'S STRAWBERRY PIE
Make a rich crust, line a pie-tin and fill with clean, hulled
strawberries. Allow one quart to each pie. Sweeten to taste; sprinkle
a generous handful of flour over the berries, having plenty of flour
around the inside edge of pie. Use 1/2 cup of flour all together.
Cut a teaspoonful of butter into small bits over top of berries,
cover with top crust with vents cut in to allow steam to escape,
pinch edges of crust together to prevent juice escaping from pie,
and bake.

FLORENDINE PIE
To 2 apples, cooked soft and mashed fine (after having been pared
and cored) add the yolk of one egg (well beaten) one minute before
removing the cooked apple from the range. Then add 1 small cup of
sugar, a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, 1 teaspoonful
of flour; flavor with either lemon or vanilla. Line a pie-tin with
rich pastry crust. Pour in the mixture and bake in a quick oven.They will go, and be
swallowed up, and more will go to fill their places. Mr. Brice, people
will tell you that the war will be over in ninety days. But I tell you,
sir, that it will not be over in seven times ninety days." He brought
down his fist heavily upon the table. "This, sir, will be a war to the
death. One side or the other will fight until their blood is all let, and
until their homes are all ruins." He darted at Stephen one look from
under those fierce eyebrows. "Do you intend to go sir?"

Stephen met the look squarely. "No, sir," he answered, steadily, "not
now."

"Humph," said the Judge. Then he began what seemed a never-ending search
among the papers on his desk. At length he drew out a letter, put on his
spectacles and read it, and finally put it down again.

"Stephen," said Mr. Whipple, "you are doing a courageous thing. But if we
elect to follow our conscience in this world, we must not expect to
escape persecution, sir. Two weeks ago," he continued slowly, "two weeks
ago I had a letter from Mr. Lincoln about matters here. He mentions you."

"He remembers me!" cried Stephen

The Judge smiled a little. "Mr. Lincoln never forgets any one," said he.
"He wishes me to extend to you his thanks for your services to the
Republican party, and sends you his kindest regards."

This was the first and only time that Mr. Whipple spoke to him of his
labors. Stephen has often laughed at this since, and said that he would
not have heard of them at all had not the Judge's sense of duty compelled
him to convey the message. And it was with a lighter heart than he had
felt for many a day that he went out of the door.

Some weeks later, five regiments were mustered into the service of the
United States. The Leader was in command of one. And in response to his
appeals, despite the presence of officers of higher rank, the President
had given Captain Nathaniel Lyon supreme command in Missouri.

Stephen stood among the angry, jeering crowd that lined the streets as
the regiments marched past. Here were the 'Black Jaegers.' No wonder the
crowd laughed. Their step was not as steady, nor their files as straight
as Company A. There was Richter, his head high, his blue eyes defiant.
And there was little Tiefel marching in that place of second lieutenant
that Stephen himself should have filled. Here was another company, and at
the end of the first four, big Tom Catherwood. His father had disowned
him the day before, His two brothers, George and little Spencer, were in
a house not far away--a house from which a strange flag drooped.

Clouds were lowering over the city, and big drops falling, as Stephen
threaded his way homeward, the damp anal gloom of the weather in his very
soul. He went past the house where the strange flag hung against its
staff In that big city it flaunted all unchallenged. The house was thrown
wide open that day, and in its window lounged young men of honored
families. And while they joked of German boorishness and Yankee cowardice
they held rifles across their knees to avenge any insult to the strange
banner that they had set up. In the hall, through the open doorway, the
mouth of a shotted field gun could be seen. The guardians were the Minute
Men, organized to maintain the honor and dignity of the state of
Missouri.

Across the street from the house was gathered a knot of curious people,
and among these Stephen paused. Two young men were standing on the steps,
and one was Clarence Colfax. His hands were in his pockets, and a
careless, scornful smile was on his face when he glanced down into the
street. Stephen caught that smile. Anger swept over him in a hot flame,
as at the slave auction years agone. That was the unquenchable fire of
the war. The blood throbbed in his temples as his feet obeyed,--and yet
he stopped.

What right had he to pull down that flag, to die on the pavement before
that house?


CHAPTER XVII

CAMP JACKSON

What enthusiasm on that gusty Monday morning, the Sixth of May, 1861!
Twelfth Street to the north of the Market House is full three hundred
feet across, and the militia of the Sovereign State of Missouri is
gathering there. Thence by order of her Governor they are to march to
Camp Jackson for a week of drill and instruction.

Half a mile nearer the river, on the house of the Minute Men, the strange
flag leaps wildly in the wind this day.

On Twelfth Street the sun is shining, drums are beating, and bands are
playing, and bright aides dashing hither and thither on spirited
chargers. One by one the companies are marching up, and taking place in
line; the city companies in natty gray fatigue, the country companies
often in their Sunday clothes. But they walk with heads erect and chests
out, and the ladies wave their gay parasols and cheer them. Here are the
aristocratic St. Louis Grays, Company A; there come the Washington Guards
and Washington Blues, and Laclede Guards and Missouri Guards and Davis
Guards. Yes, this is Secession Day, this Monday. And the colors are the
Stars and Stripes and the Arms of Missouri crossed.

What are they waiting for? Why don't they move? Hark! A clatter and a
cloud of dust by the market place, an ecstasy of cheers running in waves
the length of the crowd. Make way for the dragoons! Here they come at
last, four and four, the horses prancing and dancing and pointing
quivering ears at the tossing sea of hats and parasols and ribbons. Maude
Catherwood squeezes Virginia's arm. There, riding in front, erect and
firm in the saddle, is Captain Clarence Colfax. Virginia is red and
white, and red again,--true colors of the Confederacy. How proud she was
of him now! How ashamed that she even doubted him! Oh, that was his true
calling, a soldier's life. In that moment she saw him at the head of
armies, from the South, driving the Yankee hordes northward and still
northward until the roar of the lakes warns them of annihilation. She saw
his chivalry sparing them. Yes, this is Secession Monday.

Down to a trot they slow, Clarence's black thorough-bred arching his long
neck, proud as his master of the squadron which follows, four and four.
The square young man of bone and sinew in the first four, whose horse is
built like a Crusader's, is George Catherwood. And Eugenie gives a cry
and points to the rear where Maurice is riding.

Whose will be the Arsenal now? Can the Yankee regiments with their
slouchy Dutchmen hope to capture it! If there are any Yankees in Twelfth
Street that day, they are silent. Yes, there are some. And there are
some, even in the ranks of this Militia--who will fight for the Union.
These are sad indeed.

There is another wait, the companies standing at ease. Some of the
dragoons dismount, but not the handsome young captain, who rides straight
to the bright group which has caught his eye, Colonel Carvel wrings his
gauntleted hand.

"Clarence, we are proud of you, sir," he says.

And Virginia, repeats his words, her eyes sparkling, her fingers
caressing the silken curve of Jefferson's neck.

"Clarence, you will drive Captain Lyon and his Hessians into the river."

"Hush, Jinny," he answered, "we are merely going into camp to learn to
drill, that we may be ready to defend the state when the time comes."

Virginia laughed. "I had forgotten," she said.

"You will have your cousin court-martialed, my dear," said the Colonel.

Just then the call is sounded. But he must needs press Virginia's hand
first, and allow admiring Maude and Eugenie to press his. Then he goes
off at a slow canter to join his dragoons, waving his glove at them, and
turning to give the sharp order, "Attention"! to his squadron.

Virginia is deliriously happy. Once more she has swept from her heart
every vestige of doubt. Now is Clarence the man she can admire. Chosen
unanimously captain of the Squadron but a few days since, Clarence had
taken command like a veteran. George Catherwood and Maurice had told the
story.

And now at last the city is to shake off the dust of the North. "On to
Camp Jackson!" was the cry. The bands are started, the general and staff
begin to move, and the column swings into the Olive Street road, followed
by a concourse of citizens awheel and afoot, the horse cars crowded.
Virginia and Maude and the Colonel in the Carvel carriage, and behind
Ned, on the box, is their luncheon in a hamper Standing up, the girls can
just see the nodding plumes of the dragoons far to the front.

Olive Street, now paved with hot granite and disfigured by trolley wires,
was a country road then. Green trees took the place of crowded rows of
houses and stores, and little "bob-tail" yellow cars were drawn by
plodding mules to an inclosure in a timbered valley, surrounded by a
board fence, known as Lindell Grove. It was then a resort, a picnic
ground, what is now covered by close residences which have long shown the
wear of time.

Into Lindell Grove flocked the crowd, the rich and the poor, the
proprietor and the salesmen, to watch the soldiers pitch their tents
under the spreading trees. The gallant dragoons were off to the west,
across a little stream which trickled through the grounds. By the side of
it Virginia and Maude, enchanted, beheld Captain Colfax shouting his
orders while his troopers dragged the canvas from the wagons, and
staggered under it to the line. Alas! that the girls were there! The
Captain lost his temper, his troopers, perspiring over Gordian knots in
the ropes, uttered strange soldier oaths, while the mad wind which blew
that day played a hundred pranks.

To the discomfiture of the young ladies, Colonel Carvel pulled his goatee
and guffawed. Virginia was for moving away.

"How mean, Pa," she said indignantly. "How car, you expect them to do it
right the first day, and in this wind?"

"Oh! Jinny, look at Maurice!" exclaimed Maude, giggling. "He is pulled
over on his head."

The Colonel roared. And the gentlemen and ladies who were standing by
laughed, too. Virginia did not laugh. It was all too serious for her.

"You will see that they can fight," she said. "They can beat the Yankees
and Dutch."

This speech made the Colonel glance around him: Then he smiled,--in
response to other smiles.

"My dear," he said, "you must remember that this is a peaceable camp of
instruction of the state militia. There fly the Stars and Stripes from
the general's tent. Do you see that they are above the state flag? Jinny;
you forget yourself."

Jinny stamped her foot

"Oh, I hate dissimulation," she cried, "Why can't we, say outright that
we are going to run that detestable Captain Lyon and his Yankees and
Hessians out of the Arsenal."

"Why not, Colonel Carvel?" cried Maude. She had forgotten that one of her
brothers was with the Yankees and Hessians.

"Why aren't women made generals and governors?" said the Colonel.

"If we were," answered Virginia, "something might be accomplished."

"Isn't Clarence enough of a fire-eater to suit you?" asked her father.

But the tents were pitched, and at that moment the young Captain was seen
to hand over his horse to an orderly, and to come toward them. He was
followed by George Catherwood.

"Come, Jinny," cried her cousin, "let us go over to the main camp."

"And walk on Davis Avenue," said Virginia, flushing with pride. "Isn't
there a Davis Avenue?"

"Yes, and a Lee Avenue, and a Beauregard Avenue," said George, taking his
sister's arm.

"We shall walk in them all," said Virginia.

What a scene of animation it was. The rustling trees and the young grass
of early May, and the two hundred and forty tents in lines of military
precision. Up and down the grassy streets flowed the promenade, proud
fathers and mothers, and sweethearts and sisters and wives in gala dress.
Wear your bright gowns now, you devoted women. The day is coming when you
will make them over and over again, or tear them to lint, to stanch the
blood of these young men who wear their new gray so well.

Every afternoon Virginia drove with her father and her aunt to Camp
Jackson. All the fashion and beauty of the city were there. The bands
played, the black coachmen flecked the backs of their shining horses, and
walking in the avenues or seated under the trees were natty young
gentlemen in white trousers and brass-buttoned jackets. All was not
soldier fare at the regimental messes. Cakes and jellies and even ices
and more substantial dainties were laid beneath those tents. Dress parade
was one long sigh of delight: Better not to have been born than to have
been a young man in St. Louis, early in Camp Jackson week, and not be a
militiaman.

One young man whom we know, however, had little of pomp and vanity about
him,--none other than the young manager (some whispered "silent partner")
of Carvel & Company. If Mr. Eliphalet had had political ambition, or
political leanings, during the half-year which had just passed, he had
not shown them. Mr. Cluyme (no mean business man himself) had pronounced
Eliphalet a conservative young gentleman who attended to his own affairs
and let the mad country take care of itself. This is precisely the wise
course Mr. Hopper chose. Seeing a regiment of Missouri Volunteers
slouching down Fifth street in citizens' clothes he had been remarked to
smile cynically. But he kept his opinions so close that he was supposed
not to have any.

On Thursday of Camp Jackson week, an event occurred in Mr. Carvel's store
which excited a buzz of comment. Mr. Hopper announced to Mr. Barbo, the
book-keeper, that he should not be there after four o'clock. To be sure,
times were more than dull. The Colonel that morning had read over some
two dozen letters from Texas and the Southwest, telling of the
impossibility of meeting certain obligations in the present state of the
country. The Colonel had gone home to dinner with his brow furrowed. On
the other hand, Mr. Hopper's equanimity was spoken of at the widow's
table.

At four o'clock, Mr. Hopper took an Olive Street car, tucking himself
into the far corner where he would not be disturbed by any ladies who
might enter. In the course of an hour or so, he alighted at the western
gate of the camp on the Olive Street road. Refreshing himself with a
little tobacco, he let himself be carried leisurely by the crowd between
the rows of tents. A philosophy of his own (which many men before and
since have adopted) permitted him to stare with a superior good nature at
the open love-making around him. He imagined his own figure,--which was
already growing a little stout,--in a light gray jacket and duck
trousers, and laughed. Eliphalet was not burdened with illusions of that
kind. These heroes might have their hero-worship. Life held something
dearer for him.

As he was sauntering toward a deserted seat at the foot of a tree, it so
chanced that he was overtaken by Mr. Cluyme and his daughter Belle. Only
that morning, this gentleman, in glancing through the real estate column
of his newspaper, had fallen upon a deed of sale which made him wink. He
reminded his wife that Mr. Hopper had not been to supper of late. So now
Mr. Cluyme held out his hand with more than common cordiality. When Mr.
Hopper took it, the fingers did not close any too tightly over his own.
But it may be well to remark that Mr. Hopper himself did not do any
squeezing. He took off his hat grudgingly to Miss Belle. He had never
liked the custom.

"I hope you will take pot luck with us soon again, Mr. Hopper," said the
elder gentleman. "We only have plain and simple things, but they are
wholesome, sir. Dainties are poor things to work on. I told that to his
Royal Highness when he was here last fall. He was speaking to me on the
merits of roast beef--"

"It's a fine day," said Mr. Hopper.

"So it is," Mr. Cluyme assented. Letting his gaze wander over the camp,
he added casually, "I see that they have got a few mortars and howitzers
since yesterday. I suppose that is the stuff we heard so much about,
which came on the 'Swon' marked 'marble.' They say Jeff Davis sent the
stuff to 'em from the Government arsenal the Secesh captured at Baton
Rouge. They're pretty near ready to move on our arsenal now."

Mr. Hopper listened with composure. He was not greatly interested in this
matter which had stirred the city to the quick. Neither had Mr. Cluyme
spoken as one who was deeply moved. Just then, as if to spare the pains
of a reply, a "Jenny Lind" passed them. Miss Belle recognized the
carriage immediately as belonging to an elderly lady who was well known
in St. Louis. Every day she drove out, dressed in black bombazine, and
heavily veiled. But she was blind. As the mother-in-law of the stalwart
Union leader of the city, Miss Belle's comment about her appearance in
Camp Jackson was not out of place.

"Well!" she exclaimed, "I'd like to know what she's doing here!"

Mr. Hopper's answer revealed a keenness which, in the course of a few
days, engendered in Mr. Cluyme as lusty a respect as he was capable of.

"I don't know," said Eliphalet; "but I cal'late she's got stouter."

"What do you mean by that?" Miss Belle demanded.

"That Union principles must be healthy," said he, and laughed.

Miss Cluyme was prevented from following up this enigma. The appearance
of two people on Davis Avenue drove the veiled lady from her mind.
Eliphalet, too, had seen them. One was the tall young Captain of
Dragoons, in cavalry boots, and the other a young lady with dark brown
hair, in a lawn dress.

"Just look at them!" cried Miss Belle. "They think they are alone in the
garden of Eden. Virginia didn't use to care for him. But since he's a
captain, and has got a uniform, she's come round pretty quick. I'm
thankful I never had any silly notions about uniforms."

She glanced at Eliphalet, to find that his eyes were fixed on the
approaching couple.

"Clarence is handsome, but worthless," she continued in her sprightly
way. "I believe Jinny will be fool enough to marry him. Do you think
she's so very pretty, Mr. Hopper?"

Mr. Hopper lied.

"Neither do I," Miss Belle assented. And upon that, greatly to the
astonishment of Eliphalet, she left him and ran towards them. "Virginia!"
she cried; "Jinny, I have something so interesting to tell you!"

Virginia turned impatiently. The look she bestowed upon Miss Cluyme was
not one of welcome, but Belle was not sensitive. Putting her arm through
Virginia's, she sauntered off with the pair toward the parade grounds,
Clarence maintaining now a distance of three feet, and not caring to hide
his annoyance.

Eliphalet's eyes smouldered, following the three until they were lost in
the crowd. That expression of Virginia's had reminded him of a time,
years gone, when she had come into the store on her return from Kentucky,
and had ordered him to tell her father of her arrival. He had smarted
then. And Eliphalet was not the sort to get over smarts.

"A beautiful young lady," remarked Mr. Cluyme. "And a deserving one, Mr.
Hopper. Now, she is my notion of quality. She has wealth, and manners,
and looks. And her father is a good man. Too bad he holds such views on
secession. I have always thought, sir, that you were singularly fortunate
in your connection with him."

There was a point of light now in each of Mr. Hopper's green eyes. But
Mr. Cluyme continued:

"What a pity, I say, that he should run the risk of crippling himself by
his opinions. Times are getting hard."

"Yes," said Mr. Hopper.

"And southwestern notes are not worth the paper they are written on--"

But Mr. Cluyme has misjudged his man. If he had come to Eliphalet for
information of Colonel Carvel's affairs, or of any one else's affairs, he
was not likely to get it. It is not meet to repeat here the long business
conversation which followed. Suffice it to say that Mr. Cluyme, who was
in dry goods himself, was as ignorant when he left Eliphalet as when he
met him. But he had a greater respect than ever for the shrewdness of the
business manager of Carvel & Company.

          .........................

That same Thursday, when the first families of the city were whispering
jubilantly in each other's ears of the safe arrival of the artillery and
stands of arms at Camp Jackson, something of significance was happening
within the green inclosure of the walls of the United States arsenal, far
to the southward.

The days had become alike in sadness to Stephen. Richter gone, and the
Judge often away in mysterious conference, he was left for hours at a
spell the sole tenant of the office. Fortunately there was work of
Richter's and of Mr. Whipple's left undone that kept him busy. This
Thursday morning, however, he found the Judge getting into that best
black coat which he wore on occasions. His manner had recently lost much
of its gruffness.

"Stephen," said he, "they are serving out cartridges and uniforms to the
regiments at the arsenal. Would you like to go down with me?"

"Does that mean Camp Jackson?" asked Stephen, when they had reached the
street.

"Captain Lyon is not the man to sit still and let the Governor take the
first trick, sir," said the Judge.

As they got on the Fifth Street car, Stephen's attention was at once
attracted to a gentleman who sat in a corner, with his children about
him. He was lean, and he had a face of great keenness and animation. He
had no sooner spied Judge Whipple than he beckoned to him with a kind of
military abruptness.

"That is Major William T. Sherman," said the Judge to Stephen. "He used
to be in the army, and fought in the Mexican War. He came here two months
ago to be the President of this Fifth Street car line."

They crossed over to him, the Judge introducing Stephen to Major Sherman,
who looked at him very hard, and then decided to bestow on him a vigorous
nod.

"Well, Whipple," he said, "this nation is going to the devil; eh?"

Stephen could not resist a smile. For it was a bold man who expressed
radical opinions (provided they were not Southern opinions) in a St.
Louis street car early in '61.

The Judge shook his head. "We may pull out," he said.

"Pull out!" exclaimed Mr. Sherman. "Who's man enough in Washington to
shake his fist in a rebel's face? Our leniency--our timidity--has
paralyzed us, sir."

By this time those in the car began to manifest considerable interest in
the conversation. Major Sherman paid them no attention, and the Judge,
once launched in an argument, forgot his surroundings.

"I have faith in Mr. Lincoln. He is calling out volunteers."

"Seventy-five thousand for three months!" said the Major, vehemently, "a
bucketful on a conflagration I tell you, Whipple, we'll need all the
water we've got in the North."

The Judge expressed his belief in this, and also that Mr. Lincoln would
draw all the water before he got through.

"Upon my soul," said Mr. Sherman, "I'm disgusted. Now's the time to stop
'em. The longer we let 'em rear and kick, the harder to break 'em. You
don't catch me going back to the army for three months. If they want me,
they've got to guarantee me three years. That's more like it." Turning to
Stephen, he added: "Don't you sign any three months' contract, young
man."

Stephen grew red. By this time the car was full, and silent. No one had
offered to quarrel with the Major. Nor did it seem likely that any one
would.

"I'm afraid I can't go, sir."

"Why not?" demanded Mr. Sherman.

"Because, sir," said the Judge, bluntly, "his mother's a widow, and they
have no money. He was a lieutenant in one of Blair's companies before the
call came."

The Major looked at Stephen, and his expression changed.

"Find it pretty hard?" he asked.

Stephen's expression must have satisfied him, but he nodded again, more
vigorously than before.

"Just you WAIT, Mr. Brice," he said. "It won't hurt you any."

Stephen was grateful. But he hoped to fall out of the talk. Much to his
discomfiture, the Major gave him another of those queer looks. His whole
manner, and even his appearance, reminded Stephen strangely of Captain
Elijah Brent.

"Aren't you the young man who made the Union speech in Mercantile Library
Hall?"

"Yes, sir," said the Judge. "He is."

At that the Major put out his hand impulsively, and gripped Stephen's.

"Well, sir," he said, "I have yet to read a more sensible speech, except
some of Abraham Lincoln's. Brinsmade gave it to me to read. Whipple, that
speech reminded me of Lincoln. It was his style. Where did you get it,
Mr. Brice?" he demanded.

"I heard Mr. Lincoln's debate with Judge Douglas at 'Freeport," said
Stephen; beginning to be amused.

The Major laughed.

"I admire your frankness, sir," he said. "I meant to say that its logic
rather than its substance reminded one of Lincoln."

"I tried to learn what I could from him, Major Sherman."

At length the car stopped, and they passed into the Arsenal grounds.
Drawn up in lines on the green grass were four regiments, all at last in
the blue of their country's service. Old soldiers with baskets of
cartridges were stepping from file to file, giving handfuls to the
recruits. Many of these thrust them in their pockets, for there were not
enough belts to go around. The men were standing at ease, and as Stephen
saw them laughing and joking lightheartedly his depression returned. It
was driven away again by Major Sherman's vivacious comments. For suddenly
Captain Lyon, the man of the hour, came into view.

"Look at him!" cried the Major, "he's a man after my own heart. Just look
at him running about with his hair flying in the wind, and the papers
bulging from his pockets. Not dignified, eh, Whipple? But this isn't the
time to be dignified. If there were some like Lyon in Washington, our
troops would be halfway to New Orleans by this time. Don't talk to me of
Washington! Just look at him!"

The gallant Captain was a sight, indeed, and vividly described by Major
Sherman's picturesque words as he raced from regiment to regiment, and
from company to company, with his sandy hair awry, pointing,
gesticulating, commanding. In him Stephen recognized the force that had
swept aside stubborn army veterans of wavering faith, that snapped the
tape with which they had tied him.

Would he be duped by the Governor's ruse of establishing a State Camp at
this time? Stephen, as he gazed at him, was sure that he would not. This
man could see to the bottom, through every specious argument. Little
matters of law and precedence did not trouble him. Nor did he believe
elderly men in authority when they told gravely that the state troops
were there for peace.

After the ranks were broken, Major Sherman and the Judge went to talk to
Captain Lyon and the Union Leader, who was now a Colonel of one of the
Volunteer regiments. Stephen sought Richter, who told him that the
regiments were to assemble the morning of the morrow, prepared to march.

"To Camp Jackson?" asked Stephen.

Richter shrugged his shoulders.

"We are not consulted, my friend," he said. "Will you come into my
quarters and have a bottle of beer with Tiefel?"

Stephen went. It was not their fault that his sense at their comradeship
was gone. To him it was as if the ties that had bound him to them were
asunder, and he was become an outcast.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE STONE THAT IS REJECTED

That Friday morning Stephen awoke betimes with a sense that something was
to happen. For a few moments he lay still in the half comprehension which
comes after sleep when suddenly he remembered yesterday's incidents at
the Arsenal, and leaped out of bed.

"I think that Lyon is going to attack Camp Jackson to-day," he said to
his mother after breakfast, when Hester had left the room.

Mrs. Brice dropped her knitting in her lap.

"Why, Stephen?"

"I went down to the Arsenal with the Judge yesterday and saw them
finishing the equipment of the new regiments. Something was in the wind.
Any one could see that from the way Lyon was flying about. I think he
must have proof that the Camp Jackson people have received supplies from
the South."

Mrs. Brice looked fixedly at her son, and then smiled in spite of the
apprehension she felt.

"Is that why you were working over that map of the city last night?" she
asked.

"I was trying to see how Lyon would dispose his troops. I meant to tell
you about a gentleman we met in the street car, a Major Sherman who used
to be in the army. Mr. Brinsmade knows him, and Judge Whipple, and many
other prominent men here. He came to St. Louis some months ago to take
the position of president of the Fifth Street Line. He is the keenest,
the most original man I have ever met. As long as I live I shall never
forget his description of Lyon."

"Is the Major going back into the army?" said Mrs. Brice, Stephen did not
remark the little falter in her voice. He laughed over the recollection
of the conversation in the street car.

"Not unless matters in Washington change to suit him," he said. "He thinks
that things have been very badly managed, and does not scruple to say so
anywhere. I could not have believed it possible that two men could have
talked in public as he and Judge Whipple did yesterday and not be shot
down. I thought that it was as much as a man's life is worth to mention
allegiance to the Union here in a crowd. And the way Mr. Sherman pitched
into the Rebels in that car full of people was enough to make your hair
stand on end."

"He must be a bold man," murmured Mrs. Brice.

"Does he think that the--the Rebellion can be put down?"

"Not with seventy-five thousand men, nor with ten times that number."

Mrs. Brice sighed, and furtively wiped her eyes with her handkerchief.

"I am afraid we shall see great misery, Stephen," she said.

He was silent. From that peaceful little room war and its horrors seemed
very far away. The morning sun poured in through the south windows and
was scattered by the silver on the sideboard. From above, on the wall,
Colonel Wilton Brice gazed soberly down. Stephen's eyes lighted on the
portrait, and his thoughts flew back to the boyhood days when he used to
ply his father with questions about it. Then the picture had suggested
only the glory and honor which illumines the page of history. Something
worthy to look back upon, to keep ones head high. The hatred and the
suffering and the tears, the heartrending, tearing apart for all time of
loving ones who have grown together,--these were not upon that canvas,
Will war ever be painted with a wart?

The sound of feet was heard on the pavement. Stephen rose, glancing at
his mother. Her face was still upon her knitting.

"I am going to the Arsenal," he said. "I must see what as happening."

To her, as has been said, was given wisdom beyond most women. She did not
try to prevent him as he kissed her good-by. But when the door had shut
behind him, a little cry escaped her, and she ran to the window to strain
her eyes after him until he had turned the corner below.

His steps led him irresistibly past the house of the strange flag,
ominously quiet at that early hour. At sight of it anger made him hot
again. The car for South St. Louis stood at the end of the line, fast
filling with curious people who had read in their papers that morning of
the equipment of the new troops. There was little talk among them, and
that little guarded.

It was a May morning to rouse a sluggard; the night air tingled into life
at the touch of the sunshine, the trees in the flitting glory of their
first green. Stephen found the shaded street in front of the Arsenal
already filled with an expectant crowd. Sharp commands broke the silence,
and he saw the blue regiments forming on the lawn inside the wall. Truly,
events were in the air,--great events in which he had no part.

As he stood leaning against a tree-box by the curb, dragged down once
more by that dreaded feeling of detachment, he heard familiar voices
close beside him. Leaning forward, he saw Eliphalet Hopper and Mr.
Cluyme. It was Mr. Cluyme who was speaking.

"Well, Mr. Hopper," he said, "in spite of what you say, I expect you are
dust as eager as I am to see what is going on. You've taken an early
start this morning for sightseeing."

Eliphalet's equanimity was far from shaken.

"I don't cal'late to take a great deal of stock in the military," he
answered. "But business is business. And a man must keep an eye on what
is moving."

Mr. Cluyme ran his hand through his chop whiskers, and lowered his voice.

"You're right, Hopper," he assented. "And if this city is going to be
Union, we ought to know it right away."

Stephen, listening with growing indignation to this talk, was unaware of
a man who stood on the other side of the tree, and who now came forward
before Mr. Hopper. He presented a somewhat uncompromising front. Mr.
Cluyme instantly melted away.

"My friend," said the stranger, quietly, "I think we have met before,
when your actions were not greatly to your credit. I do not forget a
face, even when I see it in the dark. Now I hear you utter words which
are a disgrace to a citizen of the United States. I have some respect for
a rebel. I have none for you, sir."

As soon as Stephen recovered from the shock of his surprise, he saw that
Eliphalet had changed countenance. The manner of an important man of
affairs, which he hay so assiduously cultivated, fell away from him. He
took a step backward, and his eyes made an ugly shift. Stephen rejoiced
to see the stranger turn his back on the manager of Carvel & Company
before that dignitary had time to depart, and stand unconcernedly there
as if nothing had occurred.

Then Stephen stared at him.

He was not a man you would look at twice, ordinarily, he was smoking a
great El Sol cigar. He wore clothes that were anything but new, a slouch
hat, and coarse grained, square-toed boots. His trousers were creased at
the knees. His head fell forward a little from his square shoulders, and
leaned a bit to one side, as if meditatively. He had a light brown beard
that was reddish in the sun, and he was rather short than otherwise.

This was all that Stephen saw. And yet the very plainness of the man's
appearance only added to his curiosity. Who was this stranger? His words,
his action, too, had been remarkable. The art of administering a rebuke
like that was not given to many men. It was perfectly quiet, perfectly
final. And then, when it was over, he had turned his back and dismissed
it.

Next Stephen began to wonder what he could know about Hopper. Stephen had
suspected Eliphalet of subordinating principles to business gain, and
hence the conversation with Mr. Cluyme had given him no shock in the way
of a revelation, But if Hopper were a rogue, ought not Colonel Carvel to
hear it? Ought not he, Stephen Brice, to ask this man with the cigar what
he knew, and tell Judge Whipple? The sudden rattle of drums gave him a
start, and cruelly reminded him of the gulf of prejudice and hatred fast
widening between the friends.

All this time the stranger stood impassively chewing his cigar, his hand
against the tree-box. A regiment in column came out of the Arsenal gate,
the Union leader in his colonel's uniform, on horseback at its head. He
pulled up in the street opposite to Stephen, and sat in his saddle,
chatting with other officers around him.

Then the stranger stepped across the limestone gutter and walked up to
the Colonel's horse, He was still smoking. This move, too, was surprising
enough, It argued even more assurance. Stephen listened intently.

"Colonel Blair, my name is Grant," he said briefly.

The Colonel faced quickly about, and held out his gloved hand cordially,
"Captain Ulysses Grant," said he; "of the old army?"

Mr. Grant nodded.

"I wanted to wish you luck," he said.

"Thank you, Grant," answered the Colonel. "But you? Where are you living
now?"

"I moved to Illinois after I left here," replied Mr. Grant, as quietly as
before, "and have been in Galena, in the Leather business there. I went
down to Springfield with the company they organized in Galena, to be of
any help I could. They made me a clerk in the adjutant general's office
of the state I ruled blanks, and made out forms for a while." He paused,
as if to let the humble character of this position sink into the
Colonel's comprehension. "Then they found out that I'd been quartermaster
and commissary, and knew something about military orders Now I'm a state
mustering officer. I came down to Belleville to muster in a regiment,
which wasn't ready. And so I ran over here to see what you fellows were
doing."

If this humble account had been delivered volubly, and in another tone,
it is probable that the citizen-colonel would not have listened, since
the events of that day were to crown his work of a winter. But Mr. Grant
possessed a manner of holding attention.. It was very evident, however;
that Colonel Blair had other things to think of. Nevertheless he said
kindly:

"Aren't you going in, Grant?"

"I can't afford to go in as a captain of volunteers," was the calm reply:
"I served nine years in the regular army and I think I can command a
regiment."

The Colonel, whose attention was called away at that moment, did not
reply. Mr. Grant moved off up the street. Some of the younger officers
who were there, laughed as they followed his retreating figure.

"Command a regiment!" cried one, a lieutenant whom Stephen recognized as
having been a bookkeeper at Edwards, James, & Doddington's, and whose
stiff blue uniform coat creased awkwardly. "I guess I'm about as fit to
command a regiment as Grant is."

"That man's forty years old, if he's a day," put in another. "I remember
when he came here to St. Louis in '54, played out. He'd resigned from the
army on the Pacific Coast. He put up a log cabin down on the Gravois
Road, and there he lived in the hardest luck of any man I ever saw until
last year. You remember him, Joe."

"Yep," said Joe. "I spotted him by the El Sol cigar. He used to bring a
load of wood to the city once in a while, and then he'd go over to the
Planters' House, or somewhere else, and smoke one of these long fellows,
and sit against the wall as silent as a wooden Indian. After that he came
up to the city without his family and went into real estate one winter.
But he didn't make it go. Curious, it is just a year ago this month than
he went over to Illinois. He's an honest fellow, and hard working enough,
but he don't know how. He's just a dead failure."

"Command a regiment!" laughed the first, again, as of this in particular
had struck his sense of humor. "I guess he won't get a regiment in a
hurry, There's lots of those military carpet-baggers hanging around for
good jobs now."

"He might fool you fellows yet," said the one caller, though his tone was
not one of conviction. "I understand he had a first-rate record an the
Mexican War."

Just then an aide rode up, and the Colonel gave a sharp command which put
an end to this desultory talk. As the First Regiment took up the march,
the words "Camp Jackson" ran from mouth to mouth on the sidewalks.
Catching fire, Stephen ran with the crowd, and leaping on passing street
car, was borne cityward with the drums of the coming hosts beating in his
ears.

In the city, shutters were going up on the stores. The streets were
filled with, restless citizens seeking news, and drays were halted here
and there on the corners, the white eyes and frenzied calls of the negro
drivers betraying their excitement. While Stephen related to his mother
the events of the morning, Hester burned the dinner. It lay; still
untouched, on the table when the throbbing of drums sent them to the
front steps. Sigel's regiment had swung into the street, drawing in its
wake a seething crowd.

Three persons came out of the big house next door. One was Anna
Brinsmade; and there was her father, his white hairs uncovered. The third
was Jack. His sister was cringing to him appealingly, and he struggling
in her grasp. Out of his coat pocket hung the curved butt of a pepperbox
revolver.

"Let me go, Anne!" he cried. "Do you think I can stay here while my
people are shot down by a lot of damned Dutchman?"

"John," said Mr. Brinsmade, sternly, "I cannot let you join a mob. I
cannot let you shoot at men who carry the Union flag."

"You cannot prevent me, sir," shouted the young man, in a frenzy. "When
foreigners take our flag for them own, it is time for us to shoot them
down."

Wrenching himself free, he ran down the steps and up the street ahead of
the regiment. Then the soldiers and the noisy crowd were upon them and
while these were passing the two stood there as in a dream. After that
silence fell upon the street, and Mr. Brinsmade turned and went back into
the house, his head bowed as in prayer. Stephen and his mother drew back,
but Anne saw them.

"He is a rebel," she faltered. "It will break my father's heart."

She looked at Stephen appealingly, unashamed of the tears in her eyes.
Then she, too went in.

"I cannot stay here mother," he said.

As he slammed the gate, Anne ran down the steps calling his name. He
paused, and she caught his sleeve.

"I knew you would go," she said, "I knew you would go. Oh, Stephen, you
have a cool head. Try to keep Jack--out of mischief."

He left her standing on the pavement. But when he reached the corner and
looked back he saw that she had gone in at his own little gate to meet
his mother. Then he walked rapidly westward. Now and again he was stopped
by feverish questions, but at length he reached the top of the second
ridge from the river, along which crowded Eighteenth Street now runs.
There stood the new double mansion Mr. Spencer Catherwood had built two
years before on the outskirts of the town, with the wall at the side, and
the brick stable and stable yard. As Stephen approached it, the thought
came to him how little this world's goods avail in times of trouble. One
of the big Catherwood boys was in the blue marching regiment that day,
and had been told by his father never again to darken his doors. Another
was in Clarence Colfax's company of dragoons, and still another had fled
southward the night after Sumter.

Stephen stopped at the crest of the hill, in the white dust of the
new-turned street, to gaze westward. Clouds were gathering in the sky,
but the sun still shone brightly, Half way up the rise two blue lines had
crawled, followed by black splotches, and at the southwest was the glint
of the sun on rifle barrels. Directed by a genius in the art of war, the
regiments were closing about Camp Jackson.

As he stood there meditating and paying no attention to those who hurried
past, a few familiar notes were struck on a piano. They came through the
wide-shuttered window above his head. Then a girl's voice rose above the
notes, in tones that were exultant:--

       "Away down South in de fields of cotton,
        Cinnamon seed and sandy bottom,
        Look away, look away, Look away, look away.
        Den I wish I was in Dixie's Land,
        Oh, oh! oh, oh!
        In Dixie's Land I'll take my stand,
        And live and die in Dixie's Land.
        Away, away, away.
        Away down South in Dixie."

The song ceased amid peals of girlish laughter. Stephen was rooted to the
spot.

"Jinny! Jinny Carvel, how dare you!" came through the shutters. "We shall
have a whole regiment of Hessians in here."

Old Uncle Ben, the Catherwoods' coachman, came out of the stable yard.
The whites of his eyes were rolling, half in amusement, half in terror.
Seeing Stephen standing there, he exclaimed:

"Mistah Brice, if de Dutch take Camp Jackson, is we niggers gwinter be
free?"

Stephen did not answer, for the piano had started again,

       "If ever I consent to be married,
        And who could refuse a good mate?
        The man whom I give my hand to,
        Must believe in the Rights of the State."

More laughter. Then the blinds were flung aside, and a young lady in a
dress of white trimmed with crimson stood in the window, smiling.
Suddenly she perceived Stephen in the road. Her smile faded. For an
instant she stared at him, and then turned to the girls crowding behind
her. What she said, he did not wait to hear. He was striding down the
hill.


CHAPTER XIX.

THE TENTH OF MAC

Would the sons of the first families surrender, "Never!" cried a young
lady who sat behind the blinds in Mrs. Catherwood's parlor. It seemed to
her when she stopped to listen for the first guns of the coming battle
that the tumult in her heart would drown their roar.

"But, Jinny," ventured that Miss Puss Russell who never feared to speak
her mind, "it would be folly for them to fight. The Dutch and Yankees
outnumber them ten to one, and they haven't any powder and bullets."

"And Camp Jackson is down in a hollow," said Maude Catherwood, dejectedly.
And yet hopefully, too, for at the thought of bloodshed she was near to
fainting.

"Oh," exclaimed Virginia, passionately, "I believe you want them to
surrender. I should rather see Clarence dead than giving his sword to a
Yankee."

At that the other two were silent again, and sat on through an endless
afternoon of uncertainty and hope and dread in the darkened room. Now and
anon Mr. Catherwood's heavy step was heard as he paced the hall. From
time to time they glanced at Virginia, as if to fathom her thought. She
and Puss Russell had come that day to dine with Maude. Mr. Catherwood's
Ben, reeking of the stable, had brought the rumor of the marching on the
camp into the dining-room, and close upon the heels of this the rumble of
the drums and the passing of Sigel's regiment. It was Virginia who had
the presence of mind to slam the blinds in the faces of the troops, and
the crowd had cheered her. It was Virginia who flew to the piano to play
Dixie ere they could get by, to the awe and admiration of the girls and
the delight of Mr. Catherwood who applauded her spirit despite the
trouble which weighed upon him. Once more the crowd had cheered,--and
hesitated. But the Dutch regiment slouched on, impassive, and the people
followed.

Virginia remained at the piano, her mood exalted patriotism, uplifted in
spirit by that grand song. At first she had played it with all her might.
Then she sang it. She laughed in very scorn of the booby soldiers she had
seen. A million of these, with all the firearms in the world, could not
prevail against the flower of the South. Then she had begun whimsically
to sing a verse of a song she had heard the week before, and suddenly her
exaltation was fled, and her fingers left the keys. Gaining the window,
trembling, half-expectant, she flung open a blind. The troops, the
people, were gone, and there alone in the road stood--Stephen Brice. The
others close behind her saw him, too, and Puss cried out in her surprise.
The impression, when the room was dark once more, was of sternness and
sadness,--and of strength. Effaced was the picture of the plodding
recruits with their coarse and ill-fitting uniforms of blue.

Virginia shut the blinds. Not a word escaped her, nor could they tell
why--they did not dare to question her then. An hour passed, perhaps two,
before the shrill voice of a boy was heard in the street below.

"Camp Jackson has surrendered!"

They heard the patter of his bare feet on the pavement, and the cry
repeated.

"Camp Jackson has surrendered!"

And so the war began for Virginia. Bitter before, now was she on fire.
Close her lips as tightly as she might, the tears forced themselves to
her eyes. Boil bottles and corks before bottling catsup.

Pour melted sealing-wax over corks to make them air-tight, unless
self-sealing bottles are used.

PICKLED BEETS

One cup of sharp vinegar, 1 cup of water, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 8
whole cloves and a pinch of black, and one of red pepper. Heat all
together and pour over beets which have been sliced after being boiled
tender and skins removed, and pack in glass jars which have been
sterilized and if jars are air-tight these keep indefinitely.

MARMALADES, PRESERVES AND CANNED FRUITS
Young housewives, if they would be successful in "doing up fruit,"
should be very particular about sterilizing fruit jars, both tops
and rubbers, before using.

Heat the fruit to destroy all germs, then seal in air-tight jars
while fruit is scalding hot.

Allow jars of canned fruit or vegetables to stand until perfectly
cold.

Then, even should you think the tops perfectly tight, you will probably be
able to give them another turn.

Carefully run the dull edge of a knife blade around the lower edge
of jar cap to cause it to fit tightly.

This flattens it close to the rubber, making it air-tight.

To sterilize jars and tops, place in a pan of cold water, allow water
to come to a boil and stand in hot water one hour.

For making jelly, use fruit, under-ripe. It will jell more easily,
and, not being as sweet as otherwise, will possess a finer flavor. For
jelly use an equal amount of sugar to a pint of juice. The old rule holds
good--a pound of sugar to a pint of juice. Cook fifteen to twenty
minutes. Fruit juice will jell more quickly if the sugar is heated in the
oven before being added.

For preserving fruit, use about 3/4 of a pound of sugar to 1 pound
of fruit and seal in air-tight glass jars.

For canning fruit, use from 1/3 to 1/2 the quantity of sugar that you
have of fruit.

When making jelly, too long cooking turns the mixture into a syrup that
will not jell. Cooking fruit with sugar too long a time causes fruit
to have a strong, disagreeable flavor.

Apples, pears and peaches were pared, cut in quarters and dried at the
farm for Winter use. Sour cherries were pitted, dried and placed in
glass jars, alternately with a sprinkling of granulated sugar. Pieces
of sassafras root were always placed with dried apples, peaches, etc.

"FRAU" SCHMIDT'S RECIPE FOR APPLE BUTTER
For this excellent apple butter take 5 gallons of cider, 1 bucket of
"Schnitz" (sweet apples were always used for the "Schnitz"), 2-1/2 pounds
of brown sugar and 1 ounce of allspice. The cider should be
boiled down to one-half the original quantity before adding the
apples, which had been pared and cored.

Cider for apple butter was made from sweet apples usually, but if made
from sour apples 4 pounds of sugar should be used. The apple butter
should be stirred constantly. When cooked sufficiently, the apple butter
should look clear and be thick as marmalade and the cider should not
separate from the apple butter. Frau Schmidt always used "Paradise"
apples in preference to any other variety of apple for apple butter.

CRANBERRY SAUCE

A delicious cranberry sauce, or jelly, was prepared by "Aunt Sarah" in
the following manner: Carefully pick over and wash 1 quart of cranberries,
place in a stew-pan with 2 cups of water; cook quickly a few moments
over a hot fire until berries burst open, then crush with a potato-masher.
Press through a fine sieve or a fruit press, rejecting skin and
seeds.

Add 1 pound of sugar to the strained pulp in the stew-pan. Return to the
fire and cook two or three minutes only.
Long, slow cooking destroys the fine flavor of the berry, as does brown
sugar. Pour into a bowl, or mold, and place on ice, or stand in a cool
place to become cold before serving, as an accompaniment to roast turkey,
chicken or deviled oysters.

PRESERVED "YELLOW GROUND CHERRIES"
Remove the gossamer-like covering from small yellow "ground cherries" and
place on range in a stew-pan with sugar. (Three-fourths of a pound of
sugar to one pound of fruit.) Cook slowly about 20 minutes, until the
fruit looks clear and syrup is thick as honey.

Seal in pint jars.

These cherries, which grow abundantly in many town and country gardens
without being cultivated, make a delicious preserve and a very appetizing
pie may be made from them also.

Aunt Sarah said she preferred these preserved cherries to strawberries.

Frau Schmidt preferred the larger "purple" ground cherries, which,
when preserved, greatly resembled "Guava" jelly in flavor.

"WUNDERSELDA" MARMALADE
This was composed of 2 quarts of the pulp and juice combined of
ripe Kieffer pears, which had been pared and cored, (Measured after
being run through a food chopper.)

The grated yellow rind and juice of five medium-sized tart oranges, and
6-1/2 cups granulated sugar. Cook all together about forty minutes, until
a clear amber colored marmalade.
Watch closely and stir frequently, as the mixture scorches easily.

This quantity will fill about twenty small jelly tumblers. If the marmalade
is to be kept some time, it should be put into air-tight glass jars.

The recipe for this delicious jam was original with the Professor's
wife, and Fritz Schmidt, being particularly fond of the confection, gave
it the name "Wunderselda," as he said "'twas not 'served often.'"

AUNT SARAH'S SPICED PEARS
Bartlett pears may be used, pared and cut in halves and core and
seeds removed, or small sweet Seckel pears may be pared.

Left whole, allow stems to remain, weigh, and to 7 pounds of either variety
of pear take one pint of good cider vinegar, 3 pounds granulated
sugar, a small cheese cloth bag containing several tablespoonfuls
of whole cloves and the same amount of stick cinnamon, broken in pieces;
all were placed in a preserving kettle and allowed to come to a boil. Then
the pears were added and cooked until tender. The fruit will look
clear when cooked sufficiently. Remove from the hot syrup with a perforated
spoon. Fill pint glass jars with the fruit. Stand jars in a warm oven
while boiling syrup until thick as honey. Pour over fruit, in jars, and
seal while hot.

PEACH MARMALADE
Thinly pare ripe peaches. Cut in quarters and remove pits. Place peaches
in a preserving kettle with 1/2 cup of water; heat slowly, stirring
occasionally. When fruit has become tender mash not too fine and
to every three pounds of peaches (weighed before being cooked) allow
1-1/2 pounds of granulated sugar. Cook sugar and fruit together about
three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently, until marmalade
looks clear.

Place in pint glass, air-tight jars. Aunt Sarah always preferred the
"Morris White," a small, fine flavored, white peach, which ripened quite
late in the fall, to any other variety from which to make preserves and
marmalade.

AUNT SARAH'S GINGER PEARS
4 pounds of fruit.
2 lemons.

1/4 pound of ginger root.

4 pounds of sugar.
1 cup water.

Use a hard, solid pear, not over ripe. Pare and core the fruit and
cut into thin slivers. Use juice of lemons and cut the lemon rind into
long, thin strips. Place all together in preserving kettle and cook
slowly one hour, or until the fruit looks clear. Should the juice
of fruit not be thick as honey, remove fruit and cook syrup a short
time, then add fruit to the syrup.

When heated through, place in pint jars and seal. This quantity will fill
four pint jars and is a delicious preserve.

PEAR AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE
2 ripe pineapples, 4 quarts Kieffer pears.
4 pounds granulated sugar.

Both pears and pineapples should be pared and eyes removed from the latter.
All the fruit should be run through food-chopper using all the
juice from fruit.

Mix sugar with fruit and juice and cook, stirring constantly until thick
and clear. (Watch closely, as this scorches easily if allowed to stand
a minute without stirring.) Pour into glass pint jars and seal
while hot.

Any variety of pear may be used, but a rather hard, solid pear is to be
preferred. A recipe given Mary which she found delicious.

GRAPE BUTTER
Separate pulp and skins of grapes. Allow pulp to simmer until tender,
then mash through a sieve and reject seeds.

Add pulp to skins. Take 1/2 pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Cook until
thick, seal in air-tight jars.

CANNED SOUR CHERRIES FOR PIES
Pit cherries and cover with cold water and let stand over night.

Drain in the morning. To 6 heaping cups of pitted cherries take 2
level cups of sugar, 1/2 cup water. Put all together into stew-pan on
range, cook a short time, then add 1 teaspoonful of corn starch mixed
with a little cold water and stir well through the cherries; let come to
a boil, put in jars and seal.

This quantity fills five pint jars. This is the way one country housekeeper
taught Mary to can common _sour_ cherries for pies and she thought
them fine.

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL
Cut orange peel in long, narrow strips, cover with cold water and boil 20
minutes. Pour off water, cover with cold water and boil another 20
minutes, then drain and take equal weight of peel and sugar. Let simmer
1 hour, then dip slices in granulated sugar. Stand aside to cool.

AUNT SARAH'S "CHERRY MARMALADE"
Pitted, red sour cherries were weighed, put through food-chopper, and
to each pound of cherries and juice add 3/4 pound of granulated
sugar.
Cook about 25 minutes until syrup is thick and fruit looks clear.
Fill marmalade pots, cover with parafine when cool, or use pint glass
jars and seal. One is sure of fruit keeping if placed in air-tight
jars.

AUNT SARAH'S QUINCE HONEY
Pour 1 quart of water, good measure, in an agate stew-pan on the range
with three pounds of granulated sugar. When boiling add 3 large,
grated quinces, after paring them.

Grate all but the core of quinces.
Boil from 20 to 25 minutes, until it looks clear. Pour into tumblers.
When cold, cover and stand away until used.

PICKLED PEACHES
Twelve pounds of peaches, 1 quart of vinegar, 3 pounds brown sugar.
Rub the fuzz from the peaches. Do not pare them. Stick half a dozen whole
cloves in each peach. Add spices to taste, stick-cinnamon, whole doves
and mace. Put spices in a small cheese cloth bag and do not remove the
bag, containing spices, when putting away the peaches.
Scald sugar, vinegar and spices together and pour over the peaches.
Cover closely and stand away. Do this twice, one day between. The third
time place all together in a preserving kettle. Cook a few minutes, then
place fruit in jars, about three-quarters filled.

Boil down the syrup until about one-quarter has boiled away, pour over the
peaches, hot, and seal in air-tight jars.

This is an old and very good recipe used by "Aunt Sarah" many
years.

CURRANT JELLY
Always pick currants for jelly before they are "dead ripe," and
never directly after a shower of rain.

Wash and pick over and stem currants.
Place in a preserving kettle five pounds of currants and 1/2 cup of water;
stir until heated through then mash with a potato masher. Turn into a
jelly bag, allow drip, and to every pint of currant juice add one pound
of granulated sugar; return to preserving kettle. Boil twenty minutes,
skim carefully, pour into jelly glasses.

When cold cover tops of glasses with melted parafine.

PINEAPPLE HONEY
Pineapple honey was made in a similar manner to quince honey, using one
large grated pineapple to one quart of cold water and three pounds of
sugar. Boil 20 minutes.

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE
Pare the pineapples, run through a food chopper, weigh fruit, and to
every pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Mix sugar
and fruit together and stand in a cool place over night. In the morning
cook until fruit is tender and syrup clear; skim top of fruit
carefully; fill jars and seal.

GRAPE CONSERVE
Wash and drain ten pounds of ripe grapes, separate the skins from the
pulp, stew pulp until soft, mash through a sieve, reject seeds.

Place pulp and skins in a preserving kettle, add a half pound of seeded
raisins and juice and pulp of 4 oranges. Measure and add to every quart
of this 3/4 of a quart of sugar. Cook slowly, until the consistency of
jam. A cup of coarsely-chopped walnut meats may be added, if liked, a
few minutes before removing jam from the range.

Fill pint jars and seal.

MARY'S RECIPE FOR RHUBARB JAM
Skin and cut enough rhubarb in half-inch pieces to weigh three pounds.

Add 1/2 cup cold water and 2 pounds of granulated sugar, and the
grated yellow rind and juice of 2 large oranges.

Cook all together, stirring occasionally to prevent scorching, a half
hour, or until clear. This is a delicious jam.

APPLE SAUCE
When making apple sauce, cut good, tart apples in halves after
paring them, cut out the cores, then cook, quickly as possible, in
half enough boiling water to cover them.

Cover the stew-pan closely.

This causes them to cook more quickly, and not change color.

Watch carefully that they do not scorch. When apples are tender, turn into
sieve. Should the apples be quite juicy and the water drained from the
apples measure a half pint, add a half pound of sugar, cook 15 or
20 minutes, until it jells, and you have a glass of clear, amber-colored
jelly.

Add 1 teaspoonful of butter and sugar to taste to the apple sauce,
which has been mashed through the sieve. Apple sauce made thus should
be almost the color of the apples before cooking.

If the apple sauce is not liked thick, add some of the strained apple
juice instead of making jelly; as some apples contain more juice
than others.

RHUBARB MARMALADE (AS FRAU SCHMIDT MADE IT)
Cut rhubarb into small pieces, put in stew-pan with just enough
water to prevent sticking fast.

When cooked tender, mash fine with potato masher, and to three cups
of rhubarb, measured before stewing, add 1 cup of granulated sugar,
also 1 dozen almonds which had been blanched and cut as fine as
possible, and stewed until tender, then added to hot rhubarb and
sugar.

Cook all together a short time. Serve either hot or cold. A large quantity
may be canned for Winter use.

The addition of almonds gave the marmalade a delicious flavor A good marmalade
may be made by adding the juice and thinly shaved outside peel of several
lemons to rhubarb. Put all together in kettle on range with sugar.
Cook over a slow fire until proper consistency. Turn into jars and
leave uncovered until day following, when cover and seal air-tight.

GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE
For this marmalade take 1 large grape fruit, 2 large oranges and 1
lemon. After thoroughly washing the outside of fruit, slice all
as thinly as possible, rejecting the seeds.

Measure and add three times as much water as you have fruit. Let all stand
over night. The next morning boil 15 minutes, stand over night again,
in a large bowl or agate preserving kettle. The next morning add 1 pound
(scant measure) of sugar to each pint of the mixture and boil until
it jells.

This is delicious if you do not object to the slightly bitter taste of the
grape fruit. Put in tumblers, cover closely with paraffin. This quantity
should fill 22 tumblers, if a large grape fruit is used.

ORANGE MARMALADE
Slice whole oranges very thin and cut in short pieces after washing
them.

Save the seeds. To each pound of sliced oranges add 3 pints of cold
water and let stand 24 hours.

Then boil all together until the chipped rinds are tender.

All the seeds should be put in a muslin bag and boiled with the
oranges.

Allow all to stand together until next day, then remove the bag of
seeds, and to every pound of boiled fruit add a half pound of sugar.

Boil continuously, stirring all the time, until the chips are quite
clear and the syrup thick as honey on being dropped on a cold dish.

The grated rind and juice of 2 lemons will improve the taste of
marmalade if added at last boiling.

When cooked sufficiently the marmalade should be clear. Pour at once into
glass jars and cover closely.

CHERRY RELISH
After sour cherries have been pitted, weigh them and cover with
vinegar and let stand 24 hours.

Take from the vinegar and drain well, then put into stone crocks
in layers, with sugar, allowing 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound of
cherries.

Stir twice each day for ten days, then fill air-tight jars and put
away for Winter use.

These are an excellent accompaniment to a roast of meat.

CANNED PEACHES

When canning peaches make a syrup composed of 1 cup of sugar to 2
cups of water.

Place in preserving kettle and when sugar has dissolved cook thinly pared
peaches, either sliced or cut in halves, in the hot syrup until
clear, watching closely that they do not cook too soft.

Place carefully in glass jars, pour hot syrup over and seal in jars.

Aunt Sarah also, occasionally, used a wash-boiler in which to can fruit.
She placed in it a rack made of small wooden strips to prevent the jars
resting on the bottom of the boiler; filled the jars with uncooked fruit
or vegetables, poured over the jars of fruit hot syrup and over the
vegetables poured water, placed the jars, uncovered, in the boiler; water
should cover about half the height of jars. Boil until contents of jars
are cooked, add boiling syrup to fill fruit jars and screw the tops on
tightly.

PEAR CONSERVE
Use 5 pounds of pears, not too soft or over-ripe, cut like dice.

Cover with water and boil until tender, then add 5 pounds of sugar. Peel 2
oranges, cut in dice the night before using; let diced orange peel
stand, covered with cold water until morning.

Then cook until orange peel is tender. Add this to the juice and pulp of
the two oranges. Add one pound of seeded raisins and cook all together
until thick honey.
Put in glass jars and seal.

LEMON HONEY

The juice of 3 lemons, mixed with 3 cups of sugar. Add 3 eggs, beating
1 in at a time. Add 2 cups of water and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Cook
all together 20 minute, until thick as honey.

CANNED STRING BEANS

Aunt Sarah used no preservative when canning beans. She gathered the
beans when quite small and tender, no thicker than an ordinary
lead-pencil, washed them thoroughly, cut off ends and packed them
into quart glass jars, filled to overflowing with cold water.

Placed jar tops on lightly, and stood them in wash boiler in the
bottom of which several boards had been placed.

Filled wash boiler with luke warm water about two-thirds as high
as tops of jars, cooked continuously three to four hours after water
commenced to boil.

Then carefully lifted jars from wash boiler, added boiling water to fill
jars to overflowing, screwed on cover and let stand until perfectly
cold, when give jar tops another turn with the hand when they should
be air-tight.

A good plan is to run the dull edge of a knife around the outer edge
of the jar to be sure it fits close to the rubber, and will not admit
air. Beans canned in this manner should keep indefinitely.

PRESERVED "GERMAN PRUNES" OR PLUMS
After washing fruit, piece each plum several times with a silver
fork, if plums be preserved whole. This is not necessary if pits
are removed. Weigh fruit and to each pound of plums take about 3/4
pound of granulated sugar. Place alternate layers of plums and sugar
in a preserving kettle, stand on the back of range three or four
hours, until sugar has dissolved, then draw kettle containing sugar
and plums to front of range and boil so minutes. Remove scum which
arises on top of boiling syrup. Place plums in glass jars, pour
boiling syrup over and seal.
A good rule is about four pounds of sugar to five pounds of
plums.
Should plums cook soft in less than 20 minutes, take from syrup
with a perforated skimmer, place in jars and cook syrup until as
thick as honey; then pour over fruit and seal up jars.
BUCKS COUNTY APPLE BUTTER
A genuine old-fashioned recipe for apple butter, as "Aunt Sarah"
made it at the farm. A large kettle holding about five gallons was
filled with sweet cider. This cider was boiled down to half the
quantity. The apple butter was cooked over a wood fire, out of
doors. The cider was usually boiled down the day before making the
apple butter, as the whole process was quite a lengthy one. Fill
the kettle holding the cider with apples, which should have been
pared and cored the night before at what country folks call an
"apple bee," the neighbors assisting to expedite the work. The
apples should be put on to cook as early in the morning as possible
and cooked slowly over not too hot a fire, being stirred constantly
with a long-handled "stirrer" with small perforated piece of wood
on one end. There is great danger of the apple butter burning if
not carefully watched and constantly stirred. An extra pot of boiling
cider was kept near, to add to the apple butter as the cider boiled
away. If cooked slowly, a whole day or longer will be consumed in
cooking. When the apple butter had almost finished cooking, about
the last hour, sweeten to taste with sugar (brown sugar was frequently
used). Spices destroy the true apple flavor, although Aunt Sarah
used sassafras root, dug from the near-by woods, for flavoring her
apple butter, and it was unexcelled. The apple butter, when cooked
sufficiently, should be a dark rich color, and thick like marmalade,
and the cider should not separate from it when a small quantity is
tested on a saucer. An old recipe at the farm called for 32 gallons
of cider to 8 buckets of cider apples, and to 40 gallons of apple
butter 50 pounds of sugar were used. Pour the apple butter in small
crocks used for this purpose. Cover the top of crocks with paper,
place in dry, cool store-room, and the apple butter will keep several
years. In olden times sweet apples were used for apple butter,
boiled in sweet cider, then no sugar was necessary. Small brown,
earthen pots were used to keep this apple butter in, it being only
necessary to tie paper over the top. Dozens of these pots, filled
with apple butter, might have been seen in Aunt Sarah's store-room
at the farm at one time.Getting up, he went over to the
bell-cord at the door and pulled it. Jackson came in hurriedly.

"Is my bag packed?"

"Yes, Marsa."

"Where are you going?" cried Virginia, in alarm.

"To Jefferson City, dear, to see the Governor. I got word this
afternoon."

"In the rain?"

He smiled, and stooped to kiss her.

"Yes," he answered, "in the rain as far as the depot, I can trust you,
Jinny. And Lige's boat will be back from New Orleans to-morrow or
Sunday."

The next morning the city awoke benumbed, her heart beating but feebly.
Her commerce had nearly ceased to flow. A long line of boats lay idle,
with noses to the levee. Men stood on the street corners in the rain,
reading of the capture of Camp Jackson, and of the riot, and thousands
lifted up their voices to execrate the Foreign City below Market Street.
A vague terror, maliciously born, subtly spread. The Dutch had broken up
the camp, a peaceable state institution, they had shot down innocent
women and children. What might they not do to the defenceless city under
their victorious hand, whose citizens were nobly loyal to the South? Sack
it? Yes, and burn, and loot it. Ladies who ventured out that day crossed
the street to avoid Union gentlemen of their acquaintance.

It was early when Mammy Easter brought the news paper to her mistress.
Virginia read the news, and ran joyfully to her aunt's room. Three times
she knocked, and then she heard a cry within. Then the key was turned and
the bolt cautiously withdrawn, and a crack of six inches disclosed her
aunt.

"Oh, how you frightened me, Jinny!" she cried. "I thought it was the
Dutch coming to murder us all, What have they done to Clarence?"

"We shall see him to-day, Aunt Lillian," was the joyful answer. "The
newspaper says that all the Camp Jackson prisoners are to be set free
to-day, on parole. Oh, I knew they would not dare to hold them. The whole
state would have risen to their rescue."

Mrs. Colfax did not receive these tidings with transports. She permitted
her niece to come into her room, and then: sank into a chair before the
mirror of her dressing-table, and scanned her face there.

"I could not sleep a wink, Jinny, all night long. I look wretchedly. I am
afraid I am going to have another of my attacks. How it is raining! What
does the newspaper say?"

"I'll get it for you," said Virginia, used to her aunt's vagaries.

"No, no, tell me. I am much too nervous to read it."

"It says that they will be paroled to-day, and that they passed a
comfortable night."

"It must be a Yankee lie," said the lady. "Oh, what a night! I saw them
torturing him in a thousand ways the barbarians! I know he had to sleep
on a dirty floor with low-down trash."

"But we shall have him here to-night, Aunt Lillian!" cried Virginia.
"Mammy, tell Uncle Ben that Mr. Clarence will be here for tea. We must
have a feast for him. Pa said that they could not hold them."

"Where is Comyn?" inquired Mrs. Colfax. "Has he gone down to see
Clarence?"

"He went to Jefferson City last night," replied Virginia. "The Governor
sent for him."

Mrs. Colfax exclaimed in horror at this news.

"Do you mean that he has deserted us?" she cried. "That he has left us
here defenceless,--at the mercy of the Dutch, that they may wreak their
vengeance upon us women? How can you sit still, Virginia? If I were your
age and able to drag myself to the street, I should be at the Arsenal
now. I should be on my knees before that detestable Captain Lyon, even if
he is a Yankee." Virginia kept her temper.

"I do not go on my knees to any man," she said. "Rosetta, tell Ned I wish
the carriage at once."

Her aunt seized her convulsively by the arm.

"Where are you going, Jinny?" she demanded. "Your Pa would never forgive
me if anything happened to you."

A smile, half pity, crossed the girl's anxious face.

"I am afraid that I must risk adding to your misfortune, Aunt Lillian,"
she said, and left the room.

Virginia drove to Mr. Brinsmade's. His was one of the Union houses which
she might visit and not lose her self respect. Like many Southerners,
when it became a question of go or stay, Mr. Brinsmade's unfaltering love
for the Union had kept him in. He had voted for Mr. Bell, and later had
presided at Crittenden Compromise meetings. In short, as a man of peace,
he would have been willing to sacrifice much for peace. And now that it
was to be war, and he had taken his stand uncompromisingly with the
Union, the neighbors whom he had befriended for so many years could not
bring themselves to regard him as an enemy. He never hurt their feelings;
and almost as soon as the war began he set about that work which has been
done by self-denying Christians of all ages,--the relief of suffering. He
visited with comfort the widow and the fatherless, and many a night in
the hospital he sat through beside the dying, Yankee and Rebel alike, and
wrote their last letters home.

And Yankee and Rebel alike sought his help and counsel in time of
perplexity or trouble, rather than hotheaded advice from their own
leaders.

Mr. Brinsmade's own carriage was drawn up at his door; and that gentleman
himself standing on the threshold. He came down his steps bareheaded in
the wet to hand Virginia from her carriage.

Courteous and kind as ever, he asked for her father and her aunt as he
led her into the house. However such men may try to hide their own trials
under a cheerful mien, they do not succeed with spirits of a kindred
nature. With the others, who are less generous, it matters not. Virginia
was not so thoughtless nor so selfish that she could not perceive that a
trouble had come to this good man. Absorbed as she was in her own
affairs, she forgot some of them in his presence. The fire left her
tongue, and to him she could not have spoken harshly even of an enemy.
Such was her state of mind, when she was led into the drawing-room. From
the corner of it Anne arose and came forward to throw her arms around her
friend.

"Jinny, it was so good of you to come. You don't, hate me?"

"Hate you, Anne dear!"

"Because we are Union," said honest Anne, wishing to have no shadow of
doubt.

Virginia was touched. "Anne," she cried, "if you were German, I believe I
should love you."

"How good of you to come. I should not have dared go to your house,
because I know that you feel so deeply. You--you heard?"

"Heard what?" asked Virginia, alarmed.

"That Jack has run away--has gone South, we think. Perhaps," she cried,
"perhaps he may be dead."  And tears came into the girl's eyes.

It was then that Virginia forgot Clarence. She drew Anne to the sofa and
kissed her.

"No, he is not dead," she said gently, but with a confidence in her voice
of rare quality. "He is not dead, Anne dear, or you would have heard."

Had she glanced up, she would have seen Mr. Brinsmade's eye upon her. He
looked kindly at all people, but this expression he reserved for those
whom he honored. A life of service to others had made him guess that, in
the absence of her father, this girl had come to him for help of some
kind.

"Virginia is right, Anne," he said. "John has gone to fight for his
principles, as every gentleman who is free should; we must remember that
this is his home, and that we must not quarrel with him, because we think
differently." He paused, and came over to Virginia. "There is something I
can do for you, my dear?" said he.

She rose. "Oh, no, Mr. Brinsmade," she cried. And yet her honesty was as
great as Anne's. She would not have it thought that she came for other
reasons. "My aunt is in such a state of worry over Clarence that I came
to ask you if you thought the news true, that the prisoners are to be
paroled. She thinks it is a--" Virginia flushed, and bit a rebellious
tongue. "She does not believe it."

Even good Mr. Brinsmade smiled at the slip she had nearly made. He
understood the girl, and admired her. He also understood Mrs. Colfax.

"I'll drive to the Arsenal with you, Jinny," he answered. "I know
Captain Lyon, and we shall find out certainly."

"You will do nothing of the kind, sir," said Virginia, with emphasis."
Had I known this--about John, I should not have come."

He checked her with a gesture. What a gentleman of the old school he was,
with his white ruffled shirt and his black stock and his eye kindling
with charity.

"My dear," he answered, "Nicodemus is waiting. I was just going myself to
ask Captain Lyon about John." Virginia's further objections were cut
short by the violent clanging of the door-bell, and the entrance of a
tall, energetic gentleman, whom Virginia had introduced to her as Major
Sherman, late of the army, and now president of the Fifth Street
Railroad. The Major bowed and shook hands. He then proceeded, as was
evidently his habit, directly to the business on which he was come.

"Mr. Brinsmade," he said, "I heard, accidentally, half an hour ago that
you were seeking news of your son. I regret to say, sir, that the news I
have will not lead to a knowledge of his whereabouts. But in justice to a
young gentleman of this city I think I ought to tell you what happened at
Camp Jackson."

"I shall be most grateful, Major. Sit down, sir."

But the Major did not sit down. He stood in the middle of the room. With
some gesticulation which added greatly to the force of the story, he gave
a most terse and vivid account of Mr. John's arrival at the embankment by
the grove--of his charging a whole regiment of Union volunteers. Here was
honesty again. Mr. Sherman did not believe in mincing matters even to a
father and sister.

"And, sir," said he, "you may thank the young man who lives next door to
you--Mr. Brice, I believe--for saving your son's life."

"Stephen Brice!" exclaimed Mr, Brinsmade, in astonishment.

Virginia felt Anne's hand tighten But her own was limp. A hot wave swept
over her, Was she never to hear the end of this man.

"Yes, sir, Stephen Brice," answered Mr. Sherman. "And I never in my life
saw a finer thing done, in the Mexican War or out of it."

Mr. Brinsmade grew a little excited. "Are you sure that you know him?"

"As sure as I know you," said the Major, with excessive conviction.

"But," said Mr. Brinsmade, "I was in there last night, I knew the young
man had been at the camp. I asked him if he had seen Jack. He told me
that he had, by the embankment. But he never mentioned a word about
saving his life."

"He didn't," cried the Major. "By glory, but he's even better than I
thought him, Did you see a black powder mark on his face?"

"Why, yes, sir, I saw a bad burn of some kind on his forehead."

"Well, sir, if one of the Dutchmen who shot at Jack had known enough to
put a ball in his musket, he would have killed Mr. Brice, who was only
ten feet away, standing before your son."

Anne gave a little cry--Virginia was silent--Her lips were parted. Though
she realized it not, she was thirsting %a hear the whole of the story.

The Major told it, soldier fashion, but well. How John rushed up to the
line. How he (Mr. Sherman) had seen Brice throw the woman down and had
cried to him to lie down himself how the fire was darting down the
regiment, and how men and women were falling all about them; and how
Stephen had flung Jack and covered him with his body.

It was all vividly before Virginia's eyes. Had she any right to treat
such a man with contempt? She remembered hour he had looked, at her when
he stood on the corner by the Catherwoods' house. And, worst of all, she
remembered many spiteful remarks she had made, even to Anne, the gist of
which had been that Mr. Brice was better at preaching than at fighting.
She knew now--and she had known in her heart before--that this was the
greatest injustice she could have done him.

"But Jack? What did Jack do?"

It was Anne who tremblingly asked the Major. But Mr. Sherman, apparently,
was not the man to say that Jack would have shot Stephen had he not
interfered. That was the ugly part of the story. John would have shot the
man who saved his life. To the day of his death neither Mr. Brinsmade nor
his wife knew this. But while Mr. Brinsmade and Anne had gone upstairs to
the sickbed, these were the tidings the Major told Virginia, who kept it
in her heart. The reason he told her was because she had guessed a part
of it.

Nevertheless Mr. Brinsmade drove to the Arsenal with her that Saturday,
in his own carriage. Forgetful of his own grief, long habit came to him
to talk cheerily with her. He told her many little anecdotes of his
travel, but not one of them did she hear. Again, at the moment when she
thought her belief in Clarence and her love for him at last secure, she
found herself drawing searching comparisons between him and the quieter
young Bostonian. In spite of herself she had to admit that Stephen's deed
was splendid. Was this disloyal? She flushed at the thought. Clarence had
been capable of the deed,--even to the rescue of an enemy. But--alas,
that she should carry it out to a remorseless end--would Clarence have
been equal to keeping silence when Mr. Brinsmade came to him? Stephen
Brice had not even told his mother, so Mr. Brinsmade believed.

As if to aggravate her torture, Mr. Brinsmade's talk drifted to the
subject of young Mr. Brice. This was but natural. He told her of the
brave struggle Stephen had made, and how he had earned luxuries, and
often necessities, for his mother by writing for the newspapers.

"Often," said Mr. Brinsmade, "often I have been unable to sleep, and have
seen the light in Stephen's room until the small hours of the morning."

"Oh, Mr. Brinsmade," cried Virginia. "Can't you tell me something bad
about him? Just once."

The good gentleman started, and looked searchingly at the girl by his
side, flushed and confused. Perhaps he thought--but how can we tell what
he thought? How can we guess that our teachers laugh at our pranks after
they have caned us for them? We do not remember that our parents have
once been young themselves, and that some word or look of our own brings
a part of their past vividly before them. Mr. Brinsmade was silent, but
he looked out of the carriage window, away from Virginia. And presently,
as they splashed through the mud near the Arsenal, they met a knot of
gentlemen in state uniforms on their way to the city. Nicodemus stopped
at his master's signal. Here was George Catherwood, and his father was
with him.

"They have released us on parole," said George. "Yes, we had a fearful
night of it. They could not have kept us--they had no quarters."

How changed he was from the gay trooper of yesterday! His bright uniform
was creased and soiled and muddy, his face unshaven, and dark rings of
weariness under his eyes.

"Do you know if Clarence Colfax has gone home?" Mr. Brinsmade inquired.

"Clarence is an idiot," cried George, ill-naturedly. Mr. Brinsmade, of
all the prisoners here, he refused to take the parole, or the oath of
allegiance. He swears he will remain a prisoner until he is exchanged."

"The young man is Quixotic," declared the elder Catherwood, who was not
himself in the best of humors.

"Sir," said Mr. Brinsmade, with as much severity as he was ever known to
use, "sir, I honor that young man for this more than I can tell you.
Nicodemus, you may drive on." And he slammed the door.

Perhaps George had caught sight of a face in the depths of the carriage,
for he turned purple, and stood staring on the pavement after his
choleric parent had gone on.

It was done. Of all the thousand and more young men who had upheld the
honor of their state that week, there was but the one who chose to remain
in durance vile within the Arsenal wall--Captain Clarence Colfax, late of
the Dragoons.

Mr. Brinsmade was rapidly admitted to the Arsenal, and treated with the
respect which his long service to the city deserved. He and Virginia were
shown into the bare military room of the commanding officer, and thither
presently came Captain Lyon himself. Virginia tingled with antagonism
when she saw this man who had made the city tremble, who had set an iron
heel on the flaming brand of her Cause. He, too, showed the marks of his
Herculean labors, but only on his clothes and person. His long red hair
was unbrushed, his boots covered with black mud, and his coat unbuttoned.
His face was ruddy, and his eye as clear as though he had arisen from
twelve hours' sleep. He bowed to Virginia (not too politely, to be sure).
Her own nod of are recognition did not seem to trouble him.

"Yes, sir," he said incisively, in response to Mr. Brinsmade's question,
"we are forced to retain Captain Colfax. He prefers to remain a prisoner
until he is exchanged. He refuses to take the oath of allegiance to the
United States.

"And why should he be made to, Captain Lyon? In what way has he opposed
the United States troops?"

It was Virginia who spoke. Both looked at her in astonishment.

"You will pardon me, Miss Carvel," said Captain Lyon, gravely, "if I
refuse to discuss that question with you." Virginia bit her tongue.

"I understand that Mr. Colfax is a near relative of yours, Miss Carvel,"
the Captain continued. "His friends may come here to see him during the
day. And I believe it is not out of place for me to express my admiration
of the captain's conduct. You may care to see him now--"

"Thank you," said Virginia, curtly.

"Orderly, my respects to Captain Colfax, and ask him if a he will be kind
enough to come in here. Mr. Brinsmade," said the Captain, "I should like
a few words with you, sir." And so, thanks to the Captain's delicacy,
when Clarence arrived he found Virginia alone. She was much agitated She
ran toward him as he entered the door, calling his name.

"Max, you are going to stay here?"

"Yes, until I am exchanged."

Aglow with admiration, she threw herself into his arms. Now, indeed, was
she proud of him. Of all the thousand defenders of the state, he alone
was true to his principles--to the South. Within sight of home, he alone
had chosen privation.

She looked up into his face, which showed marks of excitement and
fatigue. But above all, excitement. She knew that he could live on
excitement. The thought came to her--was it that which sustained him now?
She put it away as treason. Surely the touch of this experience would
transform the boy into the man. This was the weak point in the armor
which she wore so bravely for her cousin.

He had grown up to idleness. He had known neither care nor
responsibility. His one longing from a child had been that love of
fighting and adventure which is born in the race. Until this gloomy day
in the Arsenal, Virginia had never characterized it as a love of
excitement---as any thing which contained a selfish element. She looked
up into his face, I say, and saw that which it is given to a woman only
to see. His eyes burned with a light that was far away. Even with his
arms around her he seemed to have forgotten her presence, and that she
had come all the way to the Arsenal to see him. Her hands dropped limply
from his shoulders She drew away, as he did not seem to notice.

So it is with men. Above and beyond the sacrifice of a woman's life, the
joy of possessing her soul and affection, is something more desirable
still--fame and glory--personal fame and glory, The woman may share them,
of course, and be content with the radiance. When the Governor in making
his inauguration speech, does he always think of the help the little wife
has given him. And so, in moments of excitement, when we see far ahead
into a glorious future, we do not feel the arms about us, or value the
sweets which, in more humdrum days, we labored so hard to attain.

Virginia drew away, and the one searching glance she gave him he did not
see. He was staring far beyond; tears started in her eyes, and she turned
from him to look out over the Arsenal grounds, still wet and heavy with
the night's storm. The day itself was dark and damp. She thought of the
supper cooking at home. It would not be eaten now.

And yet, in that moment of bitterness Virginia loved him. Such are the
ways of women, even of the proudest, who love their country too. It was
but right that he should not think of her when the honor of the South was
at stake; and the anger that rose within her was against those nine
hundred and ninety-nine who had weakly accepted the parole.

"Why did Uncle Comyn not come?" asked Clarence.

"He has gone to Jefferson City, to see the Governor.."

"And you came alone?"

"No, Mr. Brinsmade brought me."

"And mother?"

She was waiting for that question. What a relief that should have come
among the first.

"Aunt Lillian feels very badly. She was in her room when I left. She was
afraid," (Virginia had to smile), "she was afraid the Yankees would kill
you."

"They have behaved very well for Yankees," replied he, "No luxury, and
they will not hear of my having a servant. They are used to doing their
own work. But they have treated me much better since I refused to take
their abominable oath."

"And you will be honored for it when the news reaches town."

"Do you think so, Jinny?" Clarence asked eagerly, "I reckon they will
think me a fool!"

"I should like to hear any one say so," she flashed out.

"No," said Virginia, "our friends will force them to release you. I do
not know much about law. But you have done nothing to be imprisoned for."

Clarence did not answer at once. Finally he said. "I do not want to be
released."

"You do not want to be released," she repeated.

"No," he said. "They can exchange me. If I remain a prisoner, it will
have a greater effect--for the South."

She smiled again, this time at the boyish touch of heroics. Experience,
responsibility, and he would get over that. She remembered once, long
ago, when his mother had shut him up in his room for a punishment, and he
had tortured her by remaining there for two whole days.

It was well on in the afternoon when she drove back to the city with Mr.
Brinsmade. Neither of them had eaten since morning, nor had they even
thought of hunger. Mr. Brinsmade was silent, leaning back in the corner
of the carriage, and Virginia absorbed in her own thoughts. Drawing near
the city, that dreaded sound, the rumble of drums, roused them. A shot
rang out, and they were jerked violently by the starting of the horses.
As they dashed across Walnut at Seventh came the fusillade. Virginia
leaned out of the window. Down the vista of the street was a mass of blue
uniforms, and a film of white smoke hanging about the columns of the old
Presbyterian Church Mr. Brinsmade quietly drew her back into the
carriage.

The shots ceased, giving place to an angry roar that struck terror to her
heart that wet and lowering afternoon. The powerful black horses galloped
on. Nicodemus tugging at the reins, and great splotches of mud flying in
at the windows. The roar of the crowd died to an ominous moaning behind
them. Then she knew that Mr. Brinsmade was speaking:-- "From battle and
murder, and from sudden death--from all sedition, privy conspiracy, and
rebellion,--Good Lord, deliver us."

He was repeating the Litany--that Litany which had come down through the
ages. They had chanted it in Cromwell's time, when homes were ruined and
laid waste, and innocents slaughtered. They had chanted it on the dark,
barricaded stairways of mediaeval Paris, through St. Bartholomew's night,
when the narrow and twisted streets, ran with blood. They had chanted it
in ancient India, and now it was heard again in the New World and the New
Republic of Peace and Good Will.

Rebellion? The girl flinched at the word which the good gentleman had
uttered in his prayers. Was she a traitor to that flag for which her
people had fought in three wars? Rebellion! She burned to blot it forever
from the book Oh, the bitterness of that day, which was prophecy of the
bitterness to come.

Rain was dropping as Mr. Brinsmade escorted her up her own steps. He held
her hand a little at parting, and bade her be of good cheer. Perhaps he
guessed something of the trial she was to go through that night alone
with her aunt, Clarence's mother. Mr. Brinsmade did not go directly home.
He went first to the little house next door to his. Mrs. Brice and Judge
Whipple were in the parlor: What passed between them there has not been
told, but presently the Judge and Mr. Brinsmade came out together and
stood along time in, the yard, conversing, heedless of the rain.


CHAPTER XXI

THE STAMPEDE

Sunday dawned, and the people flocked to the churches. But even in the
house of God were dissension and strife. From the Carvel pew at Dr.
Posthelwaite's Virginia saw men and women rise from their knees and walk
out--their faces pale with anger. At St. Mark's the prayer for the
President of the United States was omitted. Mr. Russell and Mr.
Catherwood nodded approvingly over the sermon in which the South was
justified, and the sanction of Holy Writ laid upon her Institution. With
not indifferent elation these gentlemen watched the departure of brethren
with whom they had labored for many years, save only when Mr. Brinsmade
walked down the aisle never to return. So it is that war, like a
devastating flood, creeps insistent into the most sacred places, and will
not be denied. Mr. Davitt, at least, preached that day to an united
congregation,--which is to say that none of them went out. Mr. Hopper,
who now shared a pew with Miss Crane, listened as usual with a most
reverent attention. The clouds were low and the streets wet as people
walked home to dinner, to discuss, many in passion and some in sorrow,
the doings of the morning. A certain clergyman had prayed to be delivered
from the Irish, the Dutch, and the Devil. Was it he who started the old
rumor which made such havoc that afternoon? Those barbarians of the
foreign city to the south, drunk with power, were to sack and loot the
city. How it flew across street and alley, from yard to yard, and from
house to house! Privileged Ned ran into the dining-room where Virginia
and her aunt were sitting, his eyes rolling and his face ashen with
terror, crying out that the Dutch were marching on the city, firebrands
in hand and murder in their hearts.

"De Gen'ral done gib out er procl'mation, Miss Jinny," he cried. "De
Gen'ral done say in dat procl'mation dat he ain't got no control ober de
Dutch soldiers."

Mrs. Colfax fainted.

"Oh Miss Jinny, ain't you gwineter Glencoe? Ain't you gwineter flee away?
Every fambly on dis here street's gwine away--is packin' up fo' de
country. Doan't you hear 'em, Miss Jinny? What'll your pa say to Ned of
he ain't make you clear out! Doan't you hear de carridges a-rattlin' off
to de country?"

Virginia rose in agitation, yet trying to be calm, and to remember that
the safety of the household depended upon her alone. That was her
thought,--bred into her by generations,--the safety of the household, of
the humblest slave whose happiness and welfare depended upon her father's
bounty. How she longed in that instant for her father or Captain Lige,
for some man's strength, to depend upon. Would there be wisdom in flight?

"Do you want to go, Ned?" she asked. She has seen her aunt swoon before,
and her maid Susan knows well what to do. "Do you want to go, Ned?"

"Laws Mussy, no, Miss Jinny. One nigger laik me doan't make no
difference. My Marsa he say: 'Whaffor you leave ma house to be ramsacked
by de Dutch?'

"What I gwineter answer? Oh Miss Jinny, you an' Miss Lill an' Mammy
Easter an' Susan's gwine with Jackson, an' de othah niggahs can walk.
Ephum an' me'll jes' put up de shutters an' load de Colonel's gun."

By this time the room was filled with excited negroes, some crying, and
some laughing hysterically. Uncle Ben had come in from the kitchen;
Jackson was there, and the women were a wailing bunch in the corner by
the sideboard. Old Ephum, impassive, and Ned stood together. Virginia's
eye rested upon them, and the light of love and affection was in it. She
went to the window. Yes, carriages were indeed rattling outside, though a
sharp shower was falling. Across the street Alphonse, M. Renault's
butler, was depositing bags and bundles on the steps. M. Renault himself
bustled out into the rain, gesticulating excitedly. Spying her at the
window, he put his hands to his mouth, cried out something, and ran in
again. Virginia flung open the sash and listened for the dreaded sound of
drums. Then she crossed quickly over to where her aunt was lying on the
lounge.

"O Jinny," murmured that lady, who had revived, "can't you do something?
Haven't you done anything? They will be here any moment to burn us, to
murder us--to--oh, my poor boy! Why isn't he here to protect his mother!
Why was Comyn so senseless, so thoughtless, as to leave us at such a
time!"

"I don't think there is any need to be frightened," said Virginia, with a
calmness that made her aunt tremble with anger. "It is probably only a
rumor. Ned, run to Mr. Brinsmade's and ask him about it."

However loath to go, Ned departed at once. All honor to those old-time
negroes who are now memories, whose devotion to their masters was next to
their love of God. A great fear was in Ned's heart, but he went. And he
believed devoutly that he would never see his young mistress any more.

And while Ned is running to Mr. Brinsmade's, Mrs. Colfax is summoning
that courage which comes to persons of her character at such times. She
gathers her jewels into a bag, and her fine dresses into her trunk, with
trembling hands, although she is well enough now. The picture of Clarence
in the diamond frame she puts inside the waist of her gown. No, she will
not go to Bellegarde. That is too near the city. With frantic haste she
closes the trunk, which Ephum and Jackson carry downstairs and place
between the seats of the carriage. Ned had had the horses in it since
church time. It is not safe outside. But where to go?

To Glencoe? It is three in the afternoon, and Jackson explains that, with
the load, they would not reach there until midnight, if at all. To
Kirkwood or Webster? Yes; many of the first families live there, and
would take them in for the night. Equipages of all sorts are passing,
--private carriages and public, and corner-stand hacks. The black drivers
are cracking whips over galloping horses.

Pedestrians are hurrying by with bundles under their arms, some running
east, and some west, and some stopping to discuss excitedly the chances
of each direction. From the river comes the hoarse whistle of the boats
breaking the Sabbath stillness there. It is a panic to be remembered.

Virginia leaned against the iron railing of the steps, watching the
scene, and waiting for Ned to return from Mr. Brinsmade's. Her face was
troubled, as well it might be. The most alarming reports were cried up to
her from the street, and she looked every moment for the black smoke of
destruction to appear to the southward. Around her were gathered the
Carvel servants, most of them crying, and imploring her not to leave
them. And when Mrs. Colfax's trunk was brought down and placed in the
carriage where three of them might have ridden to safety, a groan of
despair and entreaty rose from the faithful group that went to her heart.

"Miss Jinny, you ain't gwineter leave yo' ol mammy?"

"Hush, Mammy," she said. "No, you shall all go, if I have to stay myself.
Ephum, go to the livery stable and get another carriage."

She went up into her own deserted room to gather the few things she would
take with her--the little jewellery case with the necklace of pearls
which her great-grandmother had worn at her wedding. Rosetta and Mammy
Easter were of no use, and she had sent them downstairs again. With a
flutter she opened her wardrobe door, to take one last look at the gowns
there. You will pardon her. They were part of happier days gone by. She
fell down on her knees and opened the great drawer at the bottom, and
there on the top lay the dainty gown which had belonged to Dorothy
Manners. A tear fell upon one of the flowers of the stays. Irresistibly
pressed into her mind the memory of Anne's fancy dress ball,--of the
episode by the gate, upon which she had thought so often with burning
face.

The voices below grow louder, but she does not hear. She is folding the
gown hurriedly into a little package. It was her great-grandmother's; her
chief heirloom after the pearls. Silk and satin from Paris are left
behind. With one glance at the bed in which she had slept since
childhood, and at the picture over it which had been her mother's, she
hurries downstairs. And Dorothy Manners's gown is under her arm. On the
landing she stops to brush her eyes with her handkerchief. If only her
father were here!

Ah, here is Ned back again. Has Mr. Brinsmade come?

What did he say? Ned simply pointed out a young man standing on the steps
behind the negroes. Crimson stains were on Virginia's cheeks, and the
package she carried under her arm was like lead. The young man, although
he showed no signs of excitement, reddened too as he came forward and
took off his hat. But the sight of him had acurious effect upon Virginia,
of which she was at first unconscious. A sense of security came upon her
as she looked at his face and listened to his voice.

"Mr. Brinsmade has gone to the hospital, Miss Carvel," he said. "Mrs.
Brinsmade asked me to come here with your man in the hope that I might
persuade you to stay where you are."

"Then the Germans are not moving on the city?" she said.

In spite of himself, Stephen smiled. It was that smile that angered her,
that made her rebel against the advice he had to offer; that made her
forget the insult he had risked at her hands by coming there. For she
believed him utterly, without reservation. The moment he had spoken she
was convinced that the panic was a silly scare which would be food for
merriment in future years. And yet--was not that smile in derision of
herself--of her friends who were running away? Was it not an assumption
of Northern superiority, to be resented?

"It is only a malicious rumor, Miss Carvel," he answered. "You have been
told so upon good authority, I suppose," she said dryly. And at the
change in her tone she saw his face fall.

"I have not," he replied honestly, "but I will submit it to your own
judgment. Yesterday General Harney superseded Captain Lyon in command in
St. Louis. Some citizens of prominence begged the General to send the
troops away, to avoid further ill-feeling and perhaps--bloodshed." (They
both winced at the word.) "Colonel Blair represented to the General that
the troops could not be sent away, as they had been enlisted to serve
only in St. Louis; whereupon the General in his proclamation states that
he has no control over these Home Guards. That sentence has been twisted
by some rascal into a confession that the Home Guards are not to be
controlled. I can assure you, Miss Carvel," added Stephen, speaking with
a force which made her start and thrill, "I can assure you from a
personal knowledge of the German troops that they are not a riotous lot,
and that they are under perfect control. If they were not, there are
enough regulars in the city to repress them."

He paused. And she was silent, forgetful of the hub-bub around her. It
was then that her aunt called out to her, with distressing shrillness,
from the carriage:-- "Jinny, Jinny, how can you stand there talking to
young men when our lives are in danger?"

She glanced hurriedly at Stephen, who said gently; "I do not wish to
delay you, Miss Carvel, if you are bent upon going."

She wavered. His tone was not resentful, simply quiet. Ephum turned the
corner of the street, the perspiration running on his black face.

"Miss Jinny, dey ain't no carridges to be had in this town. No'm, not for
fifty dollars."

This was the occasion for another groan from the negroes, and they began
once more to beseech her not to leave them. In the midst of their cries
she heard her aunt calling from the carriage, where, beside the trunk,
there was just room for her to squeeze in.

"Jinny," cried that lady, frantically, "are you to go or stay? The
Hessians will be here at any moment. Oh, I cannot stay here to be
murdered!"

Unconsciously the girl glanced again at Stephen. He had not gone, but was
still standing in the rain on the steps, the one figure of strength and
coolness she had seen this afternoon. Distracted, she blamed the fate
which had made this man an enemy. How willingly would she have leaned
upon such as he, and submitted to his guidance. Unluckily at that moment
came down the street a group which had been ludicrous on any other day,
and was, in truth, ludicrous to Stephen then. At the head of it was a
little gentleman with red mutton-chop whiskers, hatless, in spite of the
rain beginning to fall. His face was the very caricature of terror. His
clothes, usually neat, were awry, and his arms were full of various
things, not the least conspicuous of which was a magnificent bronze
clock. It was this object that caught Virginia's eye. But years passed
before she laughed over it. Behind Mr. Cluyme (for it was he) trotted his
family. Mrs. Cluyme, in a pink wrapper, carried an armful of the family
silver; then came Belle with certain articles of feminine apparel which
need not be enumerated, and the three small Cluymes of various ages
brought up the rear.

Mr. Cluyme, at the top of his speed, was come opposite to the carriage
when the lady occupant got out of it. Clutching at his sleeve, she
demanded where he was going. The bronze clock had a narrow escape.

"To the river," he gasped. "To the river, madame!" His wife coming after
him had a narrower escape still. Mrs. Colfax retained a handful of lace
from the wrapper, the owner of which emitted a shriek of fright.

"Virginia, I am going to the river," said Mrs. Colfax. "You may go where
you choose. I shall send the carriage back for you. Ned, to the levee!"
Ned did not lift a rein.

"What, you black rascal! You won't obey me?"

Ned swung on his seat. "No, indeedy, Miss Lilly, I ain't a-gwine 'thout
young Miss. The Dutch kin cotch me an' hang me, but I ain't a-gwine
'thout Miss Jinny."

Mrs. Colfax drew her shawl about her shoulders with dignity.

"Very well, Virginia," she said. "Ill as I am, I shall walk. Bear witness
that I have spent a precious hour trying to save you. If I live to see
your father again, I shall tell him that you preferred to stay here and
carry on disgracefully with a Yankee, that you let your own aunt risk her
life alone in the rain. Come, Susan!"

Virginia was very pale. She did not run down the steps, but she caught
her aunt by the arm ere that lady had taken six paces. The girl's face
frightened Mrs. Colfax into submission, and she let herself be led back
into the carriage beside the trunk. Those words of Mrs. Colfax's stung
Stephen to righteous anger and resentment--for Virginia.

As to himself, he had looked for insult. He turned to go that he might
not look upon her confusion; and hanging on the resolution, swung on his
heel again, his eyes blazeing. He saw in hers the deep blue light of the
skies after an evening's storm. She was calm, and save for a little
quiver of the voice, mistress of herself as she spoke to the group of
cowering servants.

"Mammy," she said, "get up on the box with Ned. And, Ned, walk the horses
to the levee, so that the rest may follow. Ephum, you stay here with the
house, and I will send Ned back to keep you company."

With these words, clasping tightly the precious little bundle under her
arm, she stepped into the carriage. Heedless of the risk he ran, sheer
admiration sent Stephen to the carriage door.

"If I can be of any service, Miss Carvel," he said, "I shall be happy."

She glanced at him wildly.

"No," she cried, "no. Drive on, Ned!"

And as the horses slipped and started she slammed the door in his face.

Down on the levee wheels rattled over the white stones washed clean by
the driving rain. The drops pelted the chocolate water into froth, and a
blue veil hid the distant bluffs beyond the Illinois bottom-lands. Down
on the Levee rich and poor battled for places on the landing-stages, and
would have thrown themselves into the flood had there been no boats to
save them from the dreaded Dutch. Attila and his Huns were not more
feared. Oh, the mystery of that foreign city! What might not its
Barbarians do when roused? The rich and poor struggled together; but
money was a power that day, and many were pitilessly turned off because
they did not have the high price to carry them--who knew where?

Boats which screamed, and boats which had a dragon's roar were backing
out of the close ranks where they had stood wheel-house to wheel-house,
and were dodging and bumping in the channel. See, their guards are black
with people! Mrs. Colfax, when they are come out of the narrow street
into the great open space, remarks this with alarm. All the boats will be
gone before they can get near one. But Virginia does not answer. She is
thinking of other things than the steamboats, and wondering whether it
had not been preferable to be killed by Hessians.

Ned spies the 'Barbara Lane'. He knows that her captain, Mr. Vance, is a
friend of the family. What a mighty contempt did Ned and his kind have
for foot passengers! Laying about him with his whip, and shouting at the
top of his voice to make himself heard, he sent the Colonel's Kentucky
bays through the crowd down to the Barbara's landing stage, the people
scampering to the right and left, and the Carvel servants, headed by
Uncle Ben, hanging on to the carriage springs, trailing behind.

Here was a triumph for Ned, indeed! He will tell you to this day how Mr.
Catherwood's carriage was pocketed by drays and bales, and how Mrs.
James's horses were seized by the bridles and turned back. Ned had a head
on his shoulders, and eyes in his head. He spied Captain Vance himself on
the stage, and bade Uncle Ben hold to the horses while he shouldered his
way to that gentleman. The result was that the Captain came bowing to the
carriage door, and offered his own cabin to the ladies. But the niggers
---he would take no niggers except a maid for each; and he begged Mrs.
Colfax's pardon--he could not carry her trunk.

So Virginia chose Mammy Easter, whose red and yellow turban was awry from
fear lest she be left behind and Ned was instructed to drive the rest
with all haste to Bellegarde. Captain Vance gave Mrs. Colfax his arm, and
Virginia his eyes. He escorted the ladies to quarters in the texas, and
presently was heard swearing prodigiously as the boat was cast off. It
was said of him that he could turn an oath better than any man on the
river, which was no mean reputation.

Mrs. Colfax was assisted to bed by Susan. Virginia stood by the little
window of the cabin, and as the Barbara paddled and floated down the
river she looked anxiously for signals of a conflagration. Nay, in that
hour she wished that the city might burn. So it is that the best of us
may at times desire misery to thousands that our own malice may be fed.
Virginia longed to see the yellow flame creep along the wet, gray clouds.
Passionate tears came to her eyes at the thought of the humiliation she
had suffered,--and before him, of all men. Could she ever live with her
aunt after what she had said? "Carrying on with that Yankee!" The
horrible injustice of it!

Her anger, too, was still against Stephen. Once more he had been sent by
circumstances to mock her and her people. If the city would only burn,
that his cocksure judgment might for once be mistaken, his calmness for
once broken!

The rain ceased, the clouds parted, and the sun turned the muddy river to
gold. The bluffs shone May-green in the western flood of light, and a
haze hung over the bottom-lands. Not a sound disturbed the quiet of the
city receding to the northward, and the rain had washed the pall of smoke
from over it. On the boat excited voices died down to natural tones; men
smoked on the guards and promenaded on the hurricane deck, as if this
were some pleasant excursion. Women waved to the other boats flocking
after. Laughter was heard, and joking. Mrs. Colfax stirred in her berth
and began to talk.

"Virginia, where are we going?" Virginia did not move

"Jinny!"

She turned. In that hour she remembered that great good-natured man, her
mother's brother, and for his sake Colonel Carvel had put up with much
from his wife's sister in-law. She could pass over, but never forgive
what her aunt had said to her that afternoon. Mrs. Colfax had often been
cruel before, and inconsiderate. But as the girl thought of the speech,
staring out on the waters, it suddenly occurred to her that no lady would
have uttered it. In all her life she had never realized till now that her
aunt was not a lady. From that time forth Virginia's attitude toward her
aunt was changed.

She controlled herself, however, and answered something, and went out
listlessly to find the Captain and inquire the destination of the boat.
Not that this mattered much to her. At the foot of the companionway
leading to the saloon deck she saw, of all people, Mr. Eliphalet Hopper
leaning on the rail, and pensively expectorating on the roof of the
wheel-house. In another mood Virginia would have laughed, for at sight of
her he straightened convulsively, thrust his quid into his cheek, and
removed his hat with more zeal than the grudging deference he usually
accorded to the sex. Clearly Eliphalet would not have chosen the
situation.

"I cal'late we didn't get out any too soon, Miss Carvel," he remarked,
with a sad attempt at jocoseness. "There won't be a great deal in that
town when the Dutch get through with it."

"I think that there are enough men left in it to save it," said Virginia.

Apparently Mr. Hopper found no suitable answer to this, for he made none.
He continued to glance at her uneasily. There was an impudent tribute in
his look which she resented strongly.

"Where is the Captain?" she demanded.

"He's down below--ma'am," he replied. "Can--can I do anything?"

"Yes," she said, with abrupt maliciousness, "you may tell me where you
are going."

"I cal'late, up the Cumberland River. That's where she's bound for, if
she don't stop before she gets there Guess there ain't many of 'em
inquired where she was goin', or cared much," he added, with a ghastly
effort to be genial.

"Do you care?" she demanded, curiously. Eliphalet grinned.

"Not a great deal," he said. Then he felt called upon to defend himself.
"I didn't see any use in gettin' murdered, when I couldn't do anything."

She left him. He stared after her up the companionway, bit off a generous
piece of tobacco, and ruminated. If to be a genius is to possess an
infinite stock of patience, Mr. Hopper was a genius. There was patience
in his smile. But it was not a pleasant smile to look upon.

Virginia did not see it. She had told her aunt the news, and stood in the
breeze on the hurricane deck looking southward, with her hand shading her
eyes. The 'Barbara Lane' happened to be a boat with a record, and her
name was often in the papers. She had already caught up with and
distanced others which had had half an hour's start of her, and was near
the head of the procession.

Virginia presently became aware that people were gathering around her in
knots, gazing at a boat coming toward them. Others had been met which, on
learning the dread news, turned back. But this one kept her bow steadily
up the current, although she had passed within a biscuit-toss of the
leader of the line of refugees. It was then that Captain Vance's hairy
head appeared above the deck.

"Dang me!" he said, "if here ain't pig-headed Brent, steaming the
'Jewanita' straight to destruction."

"Oh, are you sure it's Captain Brent?" cried Virginia. The Captain looked
around in surprise.

"If that there was Shreve's old Enterprise come to life again, I'd lay
cotton to sawdust that Brent had her. Danged if he wouldn't take her
right into the jaws of the Dutch."

The Captain's words spread, and caused considerable excitement. On board
the Barbara Lane were many gentlemen who had begun to be shamefaced over
their panic, and these went in a body to the Captain and asked him to
communicate with the 'Juanita'. Whereupon a certain number of whistles
were sounded, and the Barbara's bows headed for the other side of the
channel.

As the Juanita drew near, Virginia saw the square figure and clean,
smooth-shaven face of Captain Lige standing in front of his wheel-house
Peace crept back into her soul, and she tingled with joy as the bells
clanged and the bucket-planks churned, and the great New Orleans packet
crept slowly to the Barbara's side.

"You ain't goin' in, Brent?" shouted the Barbara's captain.

"Why not?" responded Mr. Brent. At the sound of his voice Virginia could
have wept.

"The Dutch are sacking the city," said Vance. "Didn't they tell you?"

"The Dutch--hell!" said Mr, Brent, calmly. "Who's afraid of the Dutch?"

A general titter went along the guards, and Virginia blushed. Why could
not the Captain see her?

"I'm on my reg'lar trip, of course," said Vance. Out there on the sunlit
river the situation seemed to call for an apology.

"Seems to be a little more loaded than common," remarked Captain Lige,
dryly, at which there was another general laugh.

"If you're really goin' up," said Captain Vance, I reckon there's a few
here would like to be massacred, if you'll take 'em."

"Certainly," answered Mr. Brent; "I'm bound for the barbecue." And he
gave a command.

While the two great boats were manoeuvring, and slashing with one wheel
and the other, the gongs sounding, Virginia ran into the cabin.

"Oh, Aunt Lillian," she exclaimed, "here is Captain Lige and the Juanita,
and he is going to take us back with him. He says there is no danger."

It its unnecessary here to repeat the moral persuasion which Virginia
used to get her aunt up and dressed. That lady, when she had heard the
whistle and the gongs, had let her imagination loose. Turning her face to
the wall, she was in the act of repeating her prayers as her niece
entered.

A big stevedore carried her down two decks to where the gang-plank was
thrown across. Captain Lige himself was at the other end. His face
lighted, Pushing the people aside, he rushed across, snatched the lady
from the negro's arms, crying:

"Jinny! Jinny Carvel! Well, if this ain't fortunate." The stevedore's
services were required for Mammy Easter. And behind the burly shield thus
formed, a stoutish gentleman slipped over, all unnoticed, with a
carpet-bag in his hand It bore the initials E. H.

The plank was drawn in. The great wheels began to turn and hiss, the
Barbara's passengers waved good-by to the foolhardy lunatics who had
elected to go back into the jaws of destruction. Mrs. Colfax was put into
a cabin; and Virginia, in a glow, climbed with Captain Lige to the
hurricane deck. There they stood for a while in silence, watching the
broad stern of the Barbara growing smaller. "Just to think," Miss Carvel
remarked, with a little hysterical sigh, "just to think that some of
those people brought bronze clocks instead of tooth-brushes."

"And what did you bring, my girl?" asked the Captain, glancing at the
parcel she held so tightly under her arm.

He never knew why she blushed so furiously.


CHAPTER XXII

THE STRAINING OF ANOTHER FRIENDSHIP

Captain Lige asked but two questions: where was the Colonel, and was it
true that Clarence had refused to be paroled? Though not possessing
over-fine susceptibilities, the Captain knew a mud-drum from a lady's
watch, as he himself said. In his solicitude for Virginia, he saw that
she was in no state of mind to talk of the occurrences of the last few
days. So he helped her to climb the little stair that winds to the top of
the texas,--that sanctified roof where the pilot-house squats. He, ever
since the third month of him, when the poor Serene Father died ("May,
1703"), has been at Mirow with Mamma; getting what education there
was,--not too successfully, as would appear. Eight years ago, "in 1726,"
Mamma sent him off upon his travels; to Geneva, Italy, France: he
looked in upon Vienna, too; got a Lieutenant-Colonelcy in the
Kaiser's Service, but did not like it; soon gave it up; and returned
home to vegetate, perhaps to seek a wife,--having prospects of
succession in Strelitz.

For the Serene Half-Brother proves to have no children: were his
tailoring once finished in the world, our Prince of Mirow is Duke
in Chief.

On this basis the wedded last year; the little Wife has already
brought him one child, a Daughter; and has (as Friedrich notices)
another under way, if it prosper.

No lack of Daughters, nor of Sons by and by: eight years hence came the
little Charlotte,--subsequently Mother of England: much to her and
our astonishment. [Born (at Mirow) 19th May, 1744; married (London), 8th
September, 1761; died, 18th November, 1818 (Michaelis, ii.
445, 446; Hubner, t. 195; OErtel, pp. 43, 22).]
The poor man did not live to be Duke of Strelitz; he died, 1752, in little
Charlotte's eighth year; Tailor Duke SURVIVING him a few months.
Little Charlotte's Brother did then succeed, and lasted till 1794;
after whom a second Brother, father of the now Serene Strelitzes;--who
also is genealogically notable.

For from him there came another still more famous Queen: Louisa of
Prussia; beautiful to look upon, as "Aunt Charlotte" was not, in a
high degree; and who showed herself a Heroine in Napoleon's time,
as Aunt Charlotte never was called to do.

Both Aunt and Niece were women of sense, of probity, propriety; fairly
beyond the average of Queens.

And as to their early poverty, ridiculous to this gold-nugget
generation, I rather guess it may have done them benefits which the
gold-nugget generation, in its Queens and otherwise, stands far
more in want of than it thinks.

But enough of this Prince of Mirow, whom Friedrich has accidentally
unearthed for us.

Indeed there is no farther history of him, for or against.

He evidently was not thought to have invented gunpowder, by the public. And
yet who knows but, in his very simplicity, there lay something far
beyond the Ill Margraf to whom he was so quizzable? Poor down-pressed
brother mortal; somnambulating so pacifically in Sleepy Hollow yonder,
and making no complaint!

He continued, though soon with less enthusiasm, and in the end very rarely,
a visitor of Friedrich's during this Reinsberg time.

Patriotic English readers may as well take the few remaining vestiges,
too, before quite dismissing him to Sleepy Hollow.

Here they are, swept accurately together, from that Correspondence of
Friedrich with Papa:--

"REINSBERG, 18th NOVEMBER, 1736.... report most submissively that the
Prince of Mirow has again been here, with his Mother, Wife, Aunt,
Hofdames, Cavaliers and entire Household; so that I thought it was
the Flight out of Egypt [Exodus of the Jews].

I begin to have a fear of those good people, as they assured me they would
have such pleasure in coming often!"
"REINSBERG, 1st FEBRUARY, 1737." Let us give it in the Original too, as
a specimen of German spelling:--
_"Der Prints von Mihrau ist vohr einigen thagen hier gewessen und
haben wier einige Wasser schwermer in der See ihm zu Ehren gesmissen,
seine frau ist mit eber thoten Printzesin nieder geKomen.

--Der General schulenburg ist heute hier gekommen und wirdt morgen"_--That
is to say:--

"The Prince of Mirow was here a few days ago; and we let off, in
honor of him, a few water-rockets over the Lake: his Wife has been
brought to bed of a dead Princess.

General Schulenburg [with a small s] came hither to-day; and to-morrow
will"...

"REINSBERG, 28th MARCH, 1737.... Prince von Mirow was here yesterday; and
tried shooting at the popinjay with us; he cannot see rightly, and shoots
always with help of an opera-glass."

"RUPPIN, 20th OCTOBER, 1737. The Prince of Mirow was with us last Friday;
and babbled much in his high way; among other things, white-lied to
us, that the Kaiserinn gave him a certain porcelain snuff-box he was
handling; but on being questioned more tightly, he confessed to me he
had bought it in Vienna." [_Briefe an Vater,_ p. 71 (CARET in _OEuvres_
); pp. 85-114.--See Ib. 6th November, 1737, for faint trace of a visit;
and 25th September, 1739, for another still fainter, the last there
is.]
And so let him somnambulate yonder, till the two Queens, like winged Psyches,
one after the other, manage to emerge from him.

Friedrich's Letters to his Father are described by some Prussian Editors
as "very attractive, SEHR ANZIEHENDE BRIEFE;" which, to a Foreign reader,
seems a strange account of them.

Letters very hard to understand completely; and rather insignificant when
understood. They turn on Gifts sent to and sent from, "swans," "hams,"
with the unspeakable thanks for them; on recruits of so many inches; on
the visitors that have been; they assure us that "there is no sickness
in the regiment," or tell expressly how much:--wholly small facts; nothing
of speculation, and of ceremonial pipe-clay a great deal. We know already
under what nightmare conditions Friedrich wrote to his Father!

The attitude of the Crown-Prince, sincerely reverent and filial, though
obliged to appear ineffably so, and on the whole struggling under such
mountains of encumbrance, yet loyally maintaining his equilibrium, does
at last acquire, in these Letters, silently a kind of beauty to the best
class of readers.

But that is nearly their sole merit. By far the most human of them, that
on the first visit to Mirow, the reader has now seen; and may thank
us much that we show him no more of them.

[_Friedrich des Grossen Briefe an seinen Vater_ (Berlin, 1838)].
Reduced in size, by suitable omissions; and properly spelt; but with
little other elucidation for a stranger: in _OEuvres,_ xxvii. part 3d,
pp, 1-123 (Berlin, 1856).

Chapter IV. -- NEWS OF THE DAY.

While these Mirow visits are about their best, and much else at Reinsberg
is in comfortable progress, Friedrich's first year there just
ending, there come accounts from England of quarrels broken out
between the Britannic Majesty and his Prince of Wales.

Discrepancies risen now to a height; and getting into the very
Newspapers;--the Rising Sun too little under the control of the Setting,
in that unquiet Country!

Prince Fred of England did not get to the Rhine Campaign, as we saw:

he got some increase of Revenue, a Household of his own; and finally
a Wife, as he had requested: a Sachsen-Gotha Princess; who, peerless
Wilhelmma being unattainable, was welcome to Prince Fred.

She is in the family-way, this summer 1737, a very young lady still;
result thought to be due--When?

Result being potential Heir to the British Nation, there ought to have
been good calculation of the time when!

But apparently nobody had well turned his attention that way. Or if Fred
and Spouse had, as is presumable, Fred had given no notice to the
Paternal Majesty,--"Let Paternal Majesty, always so cross to me,
look out for himself in that matter."

Certain it is, Fred and Spouse, in the beginning of August, 1737, are out
at Hampton Court; potential Heir due before long, and no preparation
made for it. August 11th in the evening, out at solitary Hampton Court;
the poor young Mother's pains came on; no Chancellor there, no Archbishop
to see the birth,--in fact, hardly the least medical help, and of
political altogether none.

Fred, in his flurry, or by forethought,--instead of dashing off expresses,
at a gallop as of Epsom, to summon the necessary persons and appliances,
yoked wheeled vehicles and rolled off to the old unprovided Palace of
St. James's, London, with his poor Wife in person! Unwarned, unprovided;
where nevertheless she was safely delivered that same night,--safely, as
if by miracle. The crisis might have taken her on the very
highway:

never was such an imprudence. Owing, I will believe, to Fred's sudden
flurry in the unprovided moment,--unprovided, by reason of prior
desuetudes and discouragements to speech, on Papa's side. A shade of
malice there might also be.

Papa doubts not, it was malice aforethought all of it. "Had the potential
Heir of the British Nation gone to wreck, or been born on the highway,
from my quarrels with this bad Fred, what a scrape had I been in!" thinks
Papa, and is in a towering permanence of wrath ever since; the very
Newspapers and coffee-houses and populaces now all getting vocal with
it.

Papa, as it turned out, never more saw the face of Fred. Judicious
Mamma, Queen Caroline, could not help a visit, one visit to the
poor young Mother, so soon as proper: coming out from the visit,
Prince Fred obsequiously escorting her to her carriage, found a
crowd of people and populace, in front of St.

James's; and there knelt down on the street, in his fine silk breeches,
careless of the mud, to "beg a Mother's blessing," and show what a son
he was, he for his part, in this sad discrepancy that had risen! Mamma
threw a silent glance on him, containing volumes of mixed tenor;
drove off; and saw no more of Fred, she either. I fear, this kneeling in
the mud tells against Prince Fred; but in truth I do not know, nor
even much care. [Lord Hervey, _Memoirs of George the Second,_ ii. 362-370,
409.] What a noise in England about nothing at all!--What a noisy
Country, your Prussian Majesty! Foolish "rising sun" not restrainable
there by the setting or shining one; opposition parties bowling him about
among the constellations, like a very mad object!--
But in a month or two, there comes worse news out of England; falling
heavy on the heart of Prussian Majesty: news that Queen Caroline herself
is dead. ["Sunday evening, 1st December (20th Nov.), 1737." Ib. pp.
510-539.] Died as she had lived, with much constancy of mind, with a
graceful modest courage and endurance; sinking quietly under the load
of private miseries long quietly kept hidden, but now become too heavy,
and for which the appointed rest was now here.

Little George blubbered a good deal; fidgeted and flustered a good
deal: much put about, poor foolish little soul.

The dying Caroline recommended HIM to Walpole; advised his Majesty to
marry again.

_"Non, j'aurai des maitresses_ (No, I'll have mistresses)!"

sobbed his Majesty passionately.

_"Ah, mon Dieu, cela n'empeche pas_" (that does not an experience
of the case).

There is something stoically tragic in the history of Caroline with her
flighty vaporing little King: seldom had foolish husband so wise
a wife.

"Dead!" thought Friedrich Wilhelm, looking back through the whirlwinds
of life, into sunny young scenes far enough away: "Dead!"

--Walpole continued to manage the little King; but not for long; England
itself rising in objection.

Jenkins's Ear, I understand, is lying in cotton; and there are mad
inflammable strata in that Nation, capable of exploding at a great
rate.

From the Eastern regions our Newspapers are very full of events: War with
the Turk going on there; Russia and Austria both doing their best
against the Turk.

The Russians had hardly finished their Polish-Election fighting, when
they decided to have a stroke at the Turk,--Turk always an especial
eye-sorrow to them, since that "Treaty of the Pruth," and Czar
Peter's sad rebuff there:--Munnich marched direct out of Poland
through the Ukraine, with his eye on the Crimea and furious business
in that quarter.

This is his second Campaign there, this of 1737; and furious business
has not failed.

Last year he stormed the Lines of Perecop, tore open the Crimea; took
Azoph, he or Lacy under him; took many things: this year he had laid
his plans for Oczakow;--takes Oczakow,--fiery event, blazing in all the
Newspapers, at Reinsberg and elsewhere. Concerning which will the
reader accept this condensed testimony by an eye-witness?

"OCZAKOW, 13th JULY, 1737.

Day before yesterday, Feldmarschall Munnich got to Oczakow, as he
had planned,"--strong Turkish Town in the nook between the Black
Sea and the estuary of the Dnieper;--"with intention to besiege it.

Siege-train, stores of every sort, which he had set afloat upon the
Dnieper in time enough, were to have been ready for him at Oczakow. But
the flotilla had been detained by shallows, by waterfalls; not a boat was
come, nor could anybody say when they were coming. Meanwhile
nothing is to be had here; the very face of the earth the Turks have
burnt: not a blade of grass for cavalry within eight miles, nor a
stick of wood for engineers; not a hole for covert, and the ground
so hard you cannot raise redoubts on it: Munnich perceives he must
attempt, nevertheless.

"On his right, by the sea-shore, Munnich finds some remains of gardens,
palisades; scrapes together some vestige of shelter there (five thousand,
or even ten thousand pioneers working desperately all that first night,
11th July, with only half success); and on the morrow commences
firing with what artillery he has.

Much outfired by the Turks inside;--his enterprise as good as desperate,
unless the Dnieper flotilla come soon.

July 12th, all day the firing continues, and all night; Turks
extremely furious: about an hour before daybreak, we notice burning
in the interior, 'Some wooden house kindled by us, town got on fire
yonder,'--and, praise to Heaven, they do not seem to succeed in
quenching it again.

Munnich turns out, in various divisions; intent on trying something,
had he the least engineer furniture;--hopes desperately there may
be promise for him in that internal burning still visible.

"In the centre of Munnich's line is one General Keith, a deliberate stalwart
Scotch gentleman, whom we shall know better; Munnich himself is
to the right: Could not one try it by scalade; keep the internal
burning free to spread, at any rate?

'Advance within musket-shot, General Keith!' orders Munnich's
Aide-de-Camp cantering up.

'I have been this good while within it,' answers Keith, pointing
to his dead men.

Aide-de-Camp canters up a second time: 'Advance within half musket-shot,
General Keith, and quit any covert you have!'

Keith does so; sends, with his respects to Feldmarschall Munnich, his
remonstrance against such a waste of human life. Aide-de-Camp canters up
a third time:
'Feldmarschall Munnich is for trying a scalade; hopes General Keith
will do his best to co-operate!'

'Forward, then!' answers Keith; advances close to the glacis; finds a wet
ditch twelve feet broad, and has not a stick of engineer furniture.
Keith waits there two hours; his men, under fire all the while, trying
this and that to get across; Munnich's scalade going off ineffectual
in like manner:--till at length Keith's men, and all men, tire of
such a business, and roll back in great confusion out of shot-range.

Munnich gives himself up for lost.

And indeed, says Mannstein, had the Turks sallied out in pursuit at that
moment, they might have chased us back to Russia. But the Turks did
not sally. And the internal conflagration is not quenched, far from
it;--and about nine A.M. their Powder-Magazine, conflagration reaching it,
roared aloft into the air, and killed seven thousand of them," [Mannstein,
pp.
151-156.]--
So that Oczakow was taken, sure enough; terms, life only: and every remaining
Turk packs off from it, some "twenty thousand inhabitants young and
old" for one sad item.

--A very blazing semi-absurd event, to be read of in Prussian military
circles,--where General Keith will be better known one day.

Russian War with the Turk: that means withal, by old Treaties, aid
of thirty thousand men from the Kaiser to Russia.

Kaiser, so ruined lately, how can he send thirty thousand, and keep
them recruited, in such distant expedition?

Kaiser, much meditating, is advised it will be better to go frankly into
the Turk on his own score, and try for slices of profit from him
in this game.

Kaiser declares war against the Turk; and what is still more interesting
to Friedrich Wilhelm and the Berlin Circles, Seckendorf is named General
of it.

Feldzeugmeister now Feldmarschall Seckendorf, envy may say what it will,
he has marched this season into the Lower-Donau Countries,--going to
besiege Widdin, they say,--at the head of a big Army (on paper,
almost a hundred and fifty thousand, light troops and heavy)--virtually
Commander-in-Chief; though nominally our fine young friend Franz
of Lorraine bears the title of Commander, whom Seckendorf is to
dry-nurse in the way sometimes practised.

Going to besiege Widdin, they say.

So has the poor Kaiser been advised.

His wise old Eugene is now gone; [Died 30th April, 1736.]

I fear his advisers,--a youngish Feldzeugmeister, Prince of Hildburghausen,
the chief favorite among them,--are none of the wisest.
All Protestants, we observe, these favorite Hildburghausens, Schmettaus,
Seckendorfs of his; and Vienna is an orthodox papal Court;--and there is
a Hofkriegsrath (Supreme Council of War), which has ruined many a General,
poking too meddlesomely into his affairs! On the whole, Seckendorf will
have his difficulties. Here is a scene, on the Lower Donau, different
enough from that at Oczakow, not far from contemporaneous with it.

The Austrian Army is at Kolitz, a march or two beyond Belgrade:--
"KOLITZ, 2d JULY, 1737. This day, the Army not being on march, but
allowed to rest itself, Grand Duke Franz went into the woods to hunt.
Hunting up and down, he lost himself; did not return at evening; and, as
the night closed in and no Generalissimo visible, the Generalissimo AD
LATUS (such the title they had contrived for Seckendorf) was in much
alarm.

Generalissimo AD LATUS ordered out his whole force of drummers, trumpeters:
To fling themselves, postwise, deeper and deeper into the woods all
round; to drum there, and blow, in ever-widening circle, in prescribed
notes, and with all energy, till the Grand Duke were found.
Grand Duke being found, Seckendorf remonstrated, rebuked; a
thought too earnestly, some say, his temper being flurried,"--voice
snuffling somewhat in alt, with lisp to help:--"so that the Grand
Duke took offence; flung off in a huff: and always looked askance on the
Feldmarschall from that time;" [See _Lebensgeschichte des Grafen van
Schmettau_ (by his Son: Berlin, 1806), i. 27.]--quitting him altogether
before long; and marching with Khevenhuller, Wallis, Hildburghausen,
or any of the subordinate Generals rather.

Probably Widdin will not go the road of Oczakow, nor the Austrians prosper
like the Russians, this summer.

Pollnitz, in Tobacco-Parliament, and in certain Berlin circles foolishly
agape about this new Feldmarschall, maintains always, Seckendorf will
come to nothing; which his Majesty zealously contradicts,--his
Majesty, and some short-sighted private individuals still favorable
to Seckendorf.

[Pollnitz, _Memoiren,_ ii. 497-502.] Exactly one week after that singular
drum-and-trumpet operation on Duke Franz, the Last of the Medici dies
at Florence; [9th July (_Fastes de Louis XV._, p. 304).] and Serene Franz,
if he knew it, is Grand Duke of Tuscany, according to bargain: a
matter important to himself chiefly, and to France, who, for
Stanislaus and Lorraine's sake, has had to pay him some 200,000
pounds a year during the brief intermediate state.

OF BERG AND JULICH AGAIN; AND OF LUISCIUS WITH THE ONE RAZOR.

These remote occurrences are of small interest to his Prussian
Majesty, in comparison with the Pfalz affair, the Cleve-Julich succession,
which lies so near home. His Majesty is uncommonly anxious to have
this matter settled, in peace, if possible. Kaiser and Reich, with the
other Mediating Powers, go on mediating; but when will they decide?
This year the old Bishop of Augsburg, one Brother of the older Kur-Pfalz
Karl Philip, dies; nothing now between us and the event itself, but Karl
Philip alone, who is verging towards eighty: the decision, to be peaceable,
ought to be speedy!

Friedrich Wilhelm, in January last, sent the expert Degenfeld, once of
London, to old Karl Philip; and has him still there, with the most
conciliatory offers: "Will leave your Sulzbachs a part, then; will be
content with part, instead of the whole, which is mine if there be
force in sealed parchment; will do anything for peace!" To which
the old Kur-Pfalz, foolish old creature, is steadily deaf; answers
vaguely, negatively always, in a polite manner; pushing his Majesty
upon extremities painful to think of.

"We hate war; but cannot quite do without justice, your Serenity,"
thinks Friedrich Wilhelm: "must it be the eighty thousand iron ramrods,
then?" Obstinate Serenity continues deaf; and Friedrich Wilhelm's
negotiations, there at Mannheim, over in Holland, and through Holland
with England, not to speak of Kaiser and Reich close at hand,
become very intense; vehemently earnest, about this matter, for the
next two years.

The details of which, inexpressibly uninteresting, shall be spared the
reader.

Summary is, these Mediating Powers will be of no help to his Majesty;
not even the Dutch will, with whom he is specially in friendship:
nay, in the third year it becomes fatally manifest, the chief
Mediating Powers, Kaiser and France, listening rather to political
convenience, than to the claims of justice, go direct in Kur-Pfalz's
favor;--by formal treaty of their own, ["Versailles, 13th January,
1739" (Olrich, _Geschichte der Schlesischen Kriege,_ i. 13);
Mauvillon, ii 405-446; &c.]

France and the Kaiser settle, "That the Sulzbachers shall, as a preliminary,
get provisional possession, on the now Serenity's decease; and
shall continue undisturbed for two years, till Law decide between
his Prussian Majesty and them."

Two years; Law decide;--and we know what are the NINE-POINTS in a Law-case!
This, at last, proved too much for his Majesty.

Majesty's abstruse dubitations, meditations on such treatment by a
Kaiser and others, did then, it appears, gloomily settle into fixed
private purpose of trying it by the iron ramrods, when old Kur-Pfalz
should die,--of marching with eighty thousand men into the Cleve
Countries, and SO welcoming any Sulzbach or other guests that might
arrive.

Happily old Kur-Pfalz did not die in his Majesty's time; survived
his Majesty several years: so that the matter fell into other
hands,--and was settled very well, near a century after.

Of certain wranglings with the little Town of Herstal,--Prussian
Town (part of the Orange Heritage, once KING PEPIN'S Town, if that
were any matter now) in the Bishop of Liege's neighborhood, Town
highly insignificant otherwise,--we shall say nothing here, as they
will fall to be treated, and be settled, at an after stage.

Friedrich Wilhelm was much grieved by the contumacies of that paltry little
Herstal; and by the Bishop of Liege's high-flown procedures in
countenancing them;--especially in a recruiting ease that had fallen
out there, and brought matters to a head.

["December, 1738," is crisis of the recruiting case (_Helden-Geschichte,_
ii. 63); "17th February, 1739," Bishop's high-flown appearance in
it (ib. 67); Kaiser's in consequence, "10th April, 1739."]

The Kaiser too was afflictively high in countenancing the Bishop;---for
which both Kaiser and Bishop got due payment in time.

But his Prussian Majesty would not kindle the world for such a paltriness;
and so left it hanging in a vexatious condition. Such things, it is
remarked, weigh heavier on his now infirm Majesty than they were wont.
He is more subject to fits of hypochondria, to talk of abdicating. "All
gone wrong!" he would say, if any little flaw rose, about recruiting
or the like.

"One might go and live at Venice, were one rid of it!"

[Forster (place LOST).]

And his deep-stung clangorous growl against the Kaiser's treatment of
him bursts out, from time to time; though he oftenest pities the
Kaiser, too; seeing him at such a pass with his Turk War and
otherwise.

It was in this Pfalz business that Herr Luiscius, the Prussian
Minister in Holland, got into trouble; of whom there is a light
dash of outline-portraiture by Voltaire, which has made him memorable
to readers.

"No, Jinny," he answered quickly, "but things were mighty close. I was
afraid last night. The river was roarin'. They struck out straight
across, but they drifted and drifted like log-wood. And then she began to
fill, and all five of 'em to bail. Then---then she went down. The five
soldiers came up on that bit of an island below the Arsenal. They hunted
all night, but they didn't find Clarence. And they got taken off to the
Arsenal this morning."

"And how do you know?" she faltered.

"I knew that much this morning," he continued, "and so did your pa. But
the Andrew Jackson is just in from Memphis, and the Captain tells me that
he spoke the Memphis packet off Cape Girardeau, and that Clarence was
aboard. She picked him up by a miracle, after he had just missed a round
trip through her wheel-house."


THE CRISIS

By Winston Churchill

BOOK III


Volume 6.


CHAPTER I

INTRODUCING A CAPITALIST

A cordon of blue regiments surrounded the city at first from Carondelet
to North St. Louis, like an open fan. The crowds liked best to go to
Compton Heights, where the tents of the German citizen-soldiers were
spread out like so many slices of white cake on the green beside the
city's reservoir. Thence the eye stretched across the town, catching the
dome of the Court House and the spire of St. John's. Away to the west, on
the line of the Pacific railroad that led halfway across the state, was
another camp. Then another, and another, on the circle of the fan, until
the river was reached to the northward, far above the bend. Within was a
peace that passed understanding,--the peace of martial law.

Without the city, in the great state beyond, an irate governor had
gathered his forces from the east and from the west. Letters came and
went between Jefferson City and Jefferson Davis, their purport being that
the Governor was to work out his own salvation, for a while at least.
Young men of St. Louis, struck in a night by the fever of militarism,
arose and went to Glencoe. Prying sergeants and commissioned officers,
mostly of hated German extraction, thundered at the door of Colonel
Carvel's house, and other houses, there--for Glencoe was a border town.
They searched the place more than once from garret to cellar, muttered
guttural oaths, and smelled of beer and sauerkraut, The haughty
appearance of Miss Carvel did not awe them--they were blind to all manly
sensations. The Colonel's house, alas, was one of many in Glencoe written
down in red ink in a book at headquarters as a place toward which the
feet of the young men strayed. Good evidence was handed in time and time
again that the young men had come and gone, and red-faced commanding
officers cursed indignant subalterns, and implied that Beauty had had a
hand in it. Councils of war were held over the advisability of seizing
Mr. Carvel's house at Glencoe, but proof was lacking until one rainy
night in June a captain and ten men spurred up the drive and swung into a
big circle around the house. The Captain took off his cavalry gauntlet
and knocked at the door, more gently than usual. Miss Virginia was home
so Jackson said. The Captain was given an audience more formal than one
with the queen of Prussia could have been, Miss Carvel was infinitely
more haughty than her Majesty. Was not the Captain hired to do a
degrading service? Indeed, he thought so as he followed her about the
house and he felt like the lowest of criminals as he opened a closet door
or looked under a bed. He was a beast of the field, of the mire. How
Virginia shrank from him if he had occasion to pass her! Her gown would
have been defiled by his touch. And yet the Captain did not smell of
beer, nor of sauerkraut; nor did he swear in any language. He did his
duty apologetically, but he did it. He pulled a man (aged seventeen) out
from under a great hoop skirt in a little closet, and the man had a
pistol that refused its duty when snapped in the Captain's face. This was
little Spencer Catherwood, just home from a military academy.

Spencer was taken through the rain by the chagrined Captain to the
headquarters, where he caused a little embarrassment. No damning evidence
was discovered on his person, for the pistol had long since ceased to be
a firearm. And so after a stiff lecture from the Colonel he was finally
given back into the custody of his father. Despite the pickets, the young
men filtered through daily,--or rather nightly. Presently some of them
began to come back, gaunt and worn and tattered, among the grim cargoes
that were landed by the thousands and tens of thousands on the levee. And
they took them (oh, the pity of it!) they took them to Mr. Lynch's slave
pen, turned into a Union prison of detention, where their fathers and
grandfathers had been wont to send their disorderly and insubordinate
niggers. They were packed away, as the miserable slaves had been, to
taste something of the bitterness of the negro's lot. So came Bert
Russell to welter in a low room whose walls gave out the stench of years.
How you cooked for them, and schemed for them, and cried for them, you
devoted women of the South! You spent the long hot summer in town, and
every day you went with your baskets to Gratiot Street, where the
infected old house stands, until--until one morning a lady walked out
past the guard, and down the street. She was civilly detained at the
corner, because she wore army boots. After that permits were issued. If
you were a young lady of the proper principles in those days, you climbed
a steep pair of stairs in the heat, and stood in line until it became
your turn to be catechised by an indifferent young officer in blue who
sat behind a table and smoked a horrid cigar. He had little time to be
courteous. He was not to be dazzled by a bright gown or a pretty face; he
was indifferent to a smile which would have won a savage. His duty was to
look down into your heart, and extract therefrom the nefarious scheme you
had made to set free the man you loved ere he could be sent north to
Alton or Columbus. My dear, you wish to rescue him, to disguise him, send
him south by way of Colonel Carvel's house at Glencoe. Then he will be
killed. At least, he will have died for the South.

asks Elizabeth Gurney in her Journal.

V.

THE LAST YEAR AT HOME.

The early months of 1799 were passed in Norwich, where she engaged
in works which she believed to be right and useful. She visited the
poor, doing what she could to relieve distress, yet cautious lest she
should appear to do too much, telling her friends that in such charity
she was only agent for her father, who approved of her thus helping
others.

She held what are now called "mothers' meetings," reading and talking to a
little group of people about fifteen in number. Her "Sunday School" had
also gradually increased, till there were sometimes seventy poor children
receiving instruction from her. Cutting out and preparing clothes for
the poor, and occasional visits to hospitals, and once to Bedlam to
see a poor woman, were among the occupations of the winter months. She
had not yet, however, made any decisive change in her social habits, for
she occasionally accompanied her sisters to balls and other
entertainments, yet finding less and less satisfaction in what she
in calmer moments disapproved.

The doubtful, wavering condition of mind led her to think more seriously
of openly avowing her religious principles.

In the autumn her father travelled to the north of England, taking with
him his son Samuel and his daughters Priscilla and Elizabeth. He was going
to visit an estate belonging to him; also to attend the general meeting
at the Friends' School at Ackworth, after which they were going to
Scotland. All this expedition Elizabeth much enjoyed. At Ackworth she
took part in the examination of the scholars, and had pleasant
conversation with the headmaster Doctor Binns, and with Friends
assembled on the occasion.

At York they saw the wonderful Minster; at Darlington, found themselves
in a living colony of Friends; and Elizabeth was gratified by receiving
a note and a book of grammar from the famous Lindley Murray, whom
she had met and taken tea with at York.

Durham, Newcastle, Alnwick Castle, and Edinburgh, were successively
visited, and afforded abundant materials for entries in her Journal, and
for agreeable recollections after returning home.

VI.

MARRIAGE, AND SETTLEMENT IN LONDON.

On August 19, 1800, Elizabeth Gurney was married, at the Friends'
Meeting House, Norwich, to Joseph Fry, youngest son of William Storrs
Fry, of London. He had been to Earlham, and made an offer of marriage,
during the preceding year, but nothing had then been settled, Elizabeth
Gurney being afraid that any change at that time might interfere with
her spiritual welfare and her newly-formed plans of active usefulness.
But after some correspondence, when the proposal was renewed, she
felt it right to give her consent. It was the custom more generally
prevailing than now for the junior partner to reside in the house of
business, and in accordance with this, Joseph and Elizabeth Fry
prepared to establish themselves in Mildred's Court in the City, a
large, commodious and quiet house, since pulled down in consequence
of alterations in London. The parents of her husband occupied a
country-house at Plashet, Essex. The Fry family, like that of the
Gurneys, had long been members of the Society of Friends; but unlike
her own parents, they had adhered strictly to the tenets and the
habits of Quakers. She thus came to be surrounded by a large circle
of new connexions, different from her own early associates at
Norwich.The blood of the color-sergeant
is there, black now with age. But where are the tears of the sad women
who stitched the red and the white and the blue together?

The regiments marched through the streets and aboard the boats, and
pushed off before a levee of waving handkerchiefs and nags. Then
heart-breaking suspense. Later--much later, black headlines, and grim
lists three columns long,--three columns of a blanket sheet! "The City of
Alton has arrived with the following Union dead and wounded, and the
following Confederate wounded (prisoners)." Why does the type run
together?

In a never-ceasing procession they steamed up the river; those calm boats
which had been wont to carry the white cargoes of Commerce now bearing
the red cargoes of war. And they bore away to new battlefields thousands
of fresh-faced boys from Wisconsin and Michigan and Minnesota, gathered
at Camp Benton. Some came back with their color gone and their red cheeks
sallow and bearded and sunken. Others came not back at all.

Stephen Brice, with a pain over his heart and a lump in his throat,
walked on the pavement beside his old company, but his look avoided their
faces. He wrung Richter's hand on the landing-stage. Richter was now a
captain. The good German's eyes were filled as he said good-by.

"You will come, too, my friend, when the country needs you," he said.
"Now" (and he shrugged his shoulders), "now have we many with no cares to
go. I have not even a father--" And he turned to Judge Whipple, who was
standing by, holding out a bony hand.

"God bless you, Carl," said the Judge And Carl could scarce believe his
ears. He got aboard the boat, her decks already blue with troops, and as
she backed out with her whistle screaming, the last objects he saw were
the gaunt old man and the broad-shouldered young man side by side on the
edge of the landing.

Stephen's chest heaved, and as he walked back to the office with the
Judge, he could not trust himself to speak. Back to the silent office
where the shelves mocked them. The Judge closed the ground-glass door
behind him, and Stephen sat until five o'clock over a book. No, it was
not Whittlesey, but Hardee's "Tactics." He shut it with a slam, and went
to Verandah Hall to drill recruits on a dusty floor,--narrow-chested
citizens in suspenders, who knew not the first motion in right about
face. For Stephen was an adjutant in the Home Guards--what was left of
them.

One we know of regarded the going of the troops and the coming of the
wounded with an equanimity truly philosophical. When the regiments passed
Carvel & Company on their way riverward to embark, Mr. Hopper did not
often take the trouble to rise from his chair, nor was he ever known to
go to the door to bid them Godspeed. This was all very well, because they
were Union regiments. But Mr. Hopper did not contribute a horse, nor even
a saddle-blanket, to the young men who went away secretly in the night,
without fathers or mothers or sisters to wave at them. Mr. Hopper had
better use for his money.

One scorching afternoon in July Colonel Carvel came into the office, too
hurried to remark the pain in honest Ephum's face as he watched his
master. The sure signs of a harassed man were on the Colonel. Since May
he had neglected his business affairs for others which he deemed public,
and which were so mysterious that even Mr. Hopper could not get wind of
them. These matters had taken the Colonel out of town. But now the
necessity of a pass made that awkward, and he went no farther than
Glencoe, where he spent an occasional Sunday. Today Mr. Hopper rose from
his chair when Mr. Carvel entered,--a most unprecedented action. The
Colonel cleared his throat. Sitting down at his desk, he drummed upon it
uneasily.

"Mr. Hopper!" he said at length.

Eliphalet crossed the room quickly, and something that was very near a
smile was on his face. He sat down close to Mr. Carvel's chair with a
semi-confidential air,--one wholly new, had the Colonel given it a
thought. He did not, but began to finger some printed slips of paper
which had indorsements on their backs. His fine lips were tightly closed,
as if in pain.

"Mr. Hopper," he said, "these Eastern notes are due this week, are they
not?"

"Yes, sir."

The Colonel glanced up swiftly.

"There is no use mincing matters, Hopper. You know as well as I that
there is no money to pay them," said he, with a certain pompous attempt
at severity which characterized his kind nature. "You have served me
well. You have brought this business up to a modern footing, and made it
as prosperous as any in the town. I am sorry, sir, that those
contemptible Yankees should have forced us to the use of arms, and cut
short many promising business careers such as yours, sir. But we have to
face the music. We have to suffer for our principles.

"These notes cannot be met, Mr. Hopper." And the good gentleman looked
out of the window. He was thinking of a day, before the Mexican War, when
his young wife had sat in the very chair filled by Mr. Hopper now. "These
notes cannot be met," he repeated, and his voice was near to breaking.

The flies droning in the hot office made the only sound. Outside the
partition, among the bales, was silence.

"Colonel," said Mr. Hopper, with a remarkable ease, "I cal'late these
notes can be met."

The Colonel jumped as if he had heard a shot, and one of the notes fell
to the floor. Eliphalet picked it up tenderly, and held it.

"What do you mean, sir?" Mr. Carvel cried. "There isn't a bank in town
that will lend me money. I--I haven't a friend--a friend I may ask who
can spare it, sir."

Mr. Hopper lifted up his hand. It was a fat hand. Suavity was come upon
it like a new glove and changed the man. He was no longer cringing. Now
he had poise, such poise as we in these days are accustomed to see in
leather and mahogany offices. The Colonel glared at him uncomfortably.

"I will take up those notes myself, sir."

"You!" cried the Colonel, incredulously, "You?"

We must do Eliphalet justice. There was not a deal of hypocrisy in his
nature, and now he did not attempt the part of Samaritan. He did not beam
upon the Colonel and remind him of the day on which, homeless and
friendless, he had been frightened into his store by a drove of mules.
No. But his day,--the day toward which he had striven unknown and
unnoticed for so many years--the day when he would laugh at the pride of
those who had ignored and insulted him, was dawning at last. "]
* * * * *
THE MUD LARKS.

You have all seen it in the latest V.C. list--"The Reverend Paul Grayne,
Chaplain to the Forces, for conspicuous bravery and gallant example
in the face of desperate circumstances."

You have all pictured him, the beau-ideal of muscular Christian,
the Fighting Parson, eighteen hands high, terrific in wind and limb,
with a golden mane and a Greek profile; a Pekinese in the drawing-room,
a bull-dog in the arena; a soupçon of Saint FRANCIS with a dash of
JOHN L.

SULLIVAN--and all that.

But we who have met heroes know that they are very seldom of the
type which achieves the immortality of the picture post-card.

The stalwart with pearly teeth, lilac eyes and curly lashes is C3
at Lloyd's (Sir FRANCIS), and may be heard twice daily at the
Frivolity singing, "My Goo-goo Girl from Honolulu" to entranced
flappers; while the lad who has Fritzie D.

Hun backed on the ropes, clinching for time, is usually gifted with
bow legs, freckles, a dented proboscis and a coiffure after the
manner of a wire-haired terrier.

The Reverend Paul Grayne, V.C., sometime curate of Thorpington
Parva, in the county of Hampshire, was no exception to this rule.

Æsthetically he was a blot on the landscape; among all the heroes I have
met I never saw anything less heroically moulded.

He stood about five feet nought and tipped the beam at seven stone
nothing. He had a mild chinless face and his long beaky nose, round large
spectacles, and trick of cocking his head sideways when conversing,
gave him the appearance of an intelligent little dicky-bird.

I remember very well the occasion of our first meeting. I was in my troop
lines one afternoon, blackguarding a farrier, when a loud nicker
sounded on the road and a black cob, bearing a feebly protesting
padre upon his fat back, trotted through the gate, up to the lines
and began to swop How d'y'do's with my hairies.

The little Padre cocked his head on one side and oozed apologies from
every pore.

He hadn't meant to intrude, he twittered; Peter had brought him; it was
Peter's fault; Peter was very eccentric.

Peter, I gathered, was the fat cob, who by this time had butted
into the lines and was tearing at a hay net as if he hadn't had a
meal for years.

His alleged master looked at me hopeless, helpless.

What was he to do?
"Well, since Peter is evidently stopping to tea with my horses,"
said I, "the only thing you can do is to come to tea with us."

So I lifted him down and bore him off to the cow-shed inhabited by
our mess at the time and regaled him on chlorinated Mazawattee,
marmalade and dog biscuit.

An hour later, Peter willing, he left us.

We saw a lot of the Padre after that. Peter, it appeared, had taken quite
a fancy to us and frequently brought him round to meals. The Padre had
no word of say in the matter.

He confessed that, when he embarked upon Peter in the morning, he had
not the vaguest idea where mid-day would find him.
The
courts are abolished, and all transactions here in St. Louis are
invalid."

Eliphalet was about to speak.

"One moment, sir," cried the Colonel, standing up and towering to his
full height. "Law or no law, you shall have the money and interest, or
your security, which is this business. I need not tell you, sir, that my
word is sacred, and binding forever upon me and mine."

"I'm not afraid, Colonel," answered Mr. Hopper, with a feeble attempt at
geniality. He was, in truth, awed at last.

"You need not be, sir!" said the Colonel, with equal force. "If you were
--this instant you should leave this place." He sat down, and continued
more calmly: "It will not be long before a Southern Army marches into St.
Louis, and the Yankee Government submits." He leaned forward. "Do you
reckon we can hold the business together until then, Mr. Hopper?"

God forbid that we should smile at the Colonel's simple faith. And if
Eliphalet Hopper had done so, his history would have ended here.

"Leave that to me, Colonel," he said soberly.

Then came the reaction. The good Colonel sighed as he signed, away that
business which had been an honor to the, city where it was founded, I
thank heaven that we are not concerned with the details of their talk
that day. Why should we wish to know the rate of interest on those notes,
or the time? It was war-time.

Mr. Hopper filled out his check, and presently departed. It was the
signal for the little force which remained to leave. Outside, in the
store; Ephum paced uneasily, wondering why his master did not come out.
By lying on his face below the window he could just distinguish the shadowy
form of a lame man by the river edge.

He was moving to and fro, unchaining a boat moored to the steps,
which are more used in winter when the Pregel is a frozen roadway
than in summer.

"Marse Comyn, you know what I done promise young MISS long time ago,
befo'--befo' she done left us?"

"Yes, Ephum."

He saw the faithful old negro but dimly. Faintly he heard the pleading
voice.

"Marse Comyn, won' you give Ephum a pass down, river, ter fotch Cap'n
Lige?"

"Ephum," said the Colonel, sadly, "I had a letter from the Captain
yesterday. He is at Cairo. His boat is a Federal transport, and he is in
Yankee pay."

Ephum took a step forward, appealingly, "But de Cap'n's yo' friend, Marse
Comyn. He ain't never fo'get what you done fo' him, Marse Comyn. He ain't
in de army, suh."

"And I am the Captain's friend, Ephum," answered the Colonel, quietly.
"But I will not ask aid from any man employed by the Yankee Government.
No--not from my own brother, who is in a Pennsylvania regiments."

Ephum shuffled out, and his heart was lead as he closed the store that
night.

Mr. Hopper has boarded a Fifth Street car, which jangles on with many
halts until it comes to Bremen, a German settlement in the north of the
city. At Bremen great droves of mules fill the street, and crowd the
entrances of the sale stables there. Whips are cracking like pistol
shots, Gentlemen with the yellow cavalry stripe of the United States Army
are pushing to and fro among the drivers and the owners, and fingering
the frightened animals. A herd breaks from the confusion and is driven
like a whirlwind down the street, dividing at the Market House. They are
going to board the Government transport--to die on the battlefields of
Kentucky and Missouri.

Mr. Hopper alights from the car with complacency. He stands for a while
on a corner, against the hot building, surveying the busy scene,
unnoticed. Mules! Was it not a prophecy,--that drove which sent him into
Mr. Carvel's store?

Presently a man with a gnawed yellow mustache and a shifty eye walks out
of one of the offices, and perceives our friend.

"Howdy, Mr. Hopper?" says he.

Eliphalet extends a hand to be squeezed and returned. "Got them
vouchers?" he asks. He is less careful of his English here.

"Wal, I jest reckon," is the answer: The fellow was interrupted by the
appearance of a smart young man in a smart uniform, who wore an air of
genteel importance. He could not have been more than two and twenty, and
his face and manners were those of a clerk. The tan of field service was
lacking on his cheek, and he was black under the eyes.

"Hullo, Ford," he said, jocularly.

"Howdy, Cap," retorted the other. "Wal, suh, that last lot was an extry,
fo' sure. As clean a lot as ever I seed. Not a lump on 'em. Gov'ment
ain't cheated much on them there at one-eighty a head, I reckon."

Mr. Ford said this with such an air of conviction and such a sober face
that the Captain smiled. And at the same time he glanced down nervously
at the new line of buttons on his chest.

"I guess I know a mule from a Newfoundland dog by this time," said he.

"Wal, I jest reckon," asserted Mr. Ford, with a loud laugh. "Cap'n
Wentworth, allow me to make you acquainted with Mr. Hopper. Mr. Hopper,
Cap'n Wentworth."

The Captain squeezed Mr. Hoppers hand with fervor. "You interested in
mules, Mr. Hopper?" asked the military man.

"I don't cal'late to be," said. Mr. Hopper. Let us hope that our worthy
has not been presented as being wholly without a sense of humor. He
grinned as he looked upon this lamb in the uniform of Mars, and added,
"I'm just naturally patriotic, I guess. Cap'n, 'll you have a drink?"

"And a segar," added Mr. Ford.

"Just one," says the Captain. "It's d--d tiresome lookin' at mules all
day in the sun."

Well for Mr. Davitt that his mission work does not extend to Bremen, that
the good man's charity keeps him at the improvised hospital down town.
Mr. Hopper has resigned the superintendency of his Sunday School, it is
true, but he is still a pillar of the church.

The young officer leans against the bar, and listens to stories by Mr.
Ford, which it behooves no church members to hear. He smokes Mr. Hopper's
cigar and drinks his whiskey. And Eliphalet understands that the good
Lord put some fools into the world in order to give the smart people a
chance to practise their talents. Mr. Hopper neither drinks nor smokes,
but he uses the spittoon with more freedom in this atmosphere.

When at length the Captain has marched out, with a conscious but manly
air, Mr. Hopper turns to Ford-- "Don't lose no time in presenting them
vouchers at headquarters," says he. "Money is worth something now. And
there's grumbling about this Department in the Eastern papers, If we have
an investigation, we'll whistle. How much to-day?"

"Three thousand," says Mr. Ford. He tosses off a pony of Bourbon, but his
face is not a delight to look upon, "Hopper, you'll be a d--d rich man
some day."

"I cal'late to."

"I do the dirty work. And because I ain't got no capital, I only get four
per cent."

"Don't one-twenty a day suit you?"

"You get blasted near a thousand. And you've got horse contracts, and
blanket contracts besides. I know you. What's to prevent my goin' south
when the vouchers is cashed?" he cried. "Ain't it possible?"

"I presume likely," said Mr. Hopper, quietly. "Then your mother'll have
to move out of her little place."


CHAPTER II

NEWS FROM CLARENCE

The epithet aristocrat may become odious and fatal on the banks of the
Mississippi as it was on the banks of the Seine. Let no man deceive
himself! These are fearful times. Thousands of our population, by the
sudden stoppage of business, are thrown out of employment. When gaunt
famine intrudes upon their household, it is but natural that they should
inquire the cause. Hunger began the French Revolution.

Virginia did not read this editorial, because it appeared in that
abhorred organ of the Mudsills, the 'Missouri Democrat.' The wheels of
fortune were turning rapidly that first hot summer of the war time. Let
us be thankful that our flesh and blood are incapable of the fury of the
guillotine. But when we think calmly of those days, can we escape without
a little pity for the aristocrats? Do you think that many of them did not
know hunger and want long before that cruel war was over?

How bravely they met the grim spectre which crept so insidiously into
their homes!

"Virginia, child." said Mrs. Colfax, peevishly, one morning as they sat
at breakfast, "why do you persist it wearing that old gown? It has gotten
on my nerves, my dear. You really must have something new made, even if
there are no men here to dress for."

"Aunt Lillian, you must not say such things. I do not think that I ever
dressed to please men."

"Tut, tut; my dear, we all do. I did, even after married your uncle. It
is natural. We must not go shabby in such times as these, or be out of
fashion, Did you know that Prince Napoleon was actually coming here for a
visit this autumn? We must be ready for him. I am having a fitting at
Miss Elder's to-day."

Virginia was learning patience. She did not reply as she poured out her
aunt's coffee.

"Jinny," said that lady, "come with me to Elder's, and I will give you
some gowns. If Comyn had been as careful of his own money as of mine, you
could dress decently."

"I think I do dress decently, Aunt Lillian," answered the girl. "I do not
need the gowns. Give me the money you intend to pay for them, and I can
use it for a better purpose."

Mrs. Colfax arranged her lace pettishly.

"I am sick and tired of this superiority, Jinny." And in the same breath.
"What would you do with it?"

Virginia lowered her voice. "Hodges goes through the lines to-morrow
night. I should send it to Clarence." "But you have no idea where
Clarence is."

"Hodges can find him."

"Pshaw!" exclaimed her aunt, "I would not trust him. How do you know that
he will get through the Dutch pickets to Price's army? Wasn't Souther
captured last week, and that rash letter of Puss Russell's to Jack
Brinsmade published in the Democrat?" She laughed at the recollection,
and Virginia was fain to laugh too. "Puss hasn't been around much since.
I hope that will cure her of saying what she thinks of people."

"It won't," said Virginia.

"I'll save my money until Price drives the Yankees from the state, and
Clarence marches into the city at the head of a regiment," Mrs. Colfax
went on, "It won't be long now."

Virginia's eyes flashed.

"Oh, you can't have read the papers. And don't you remember the letter
Maude had from George? They need the bare necessities of life, Aunt
Lillian. And half of Price's men have no arms at all."

"Jackson," said Mrs. Colfax, "bring me a newspaper. Is there any news
to-day?"

"No," answered Virginia, quickly. "All we know is that Lyon has left
Springfield to meet our troops, and that a great battle is coming,
Perhaps--perhaps it is being fought to-day."

Mrs. Colfax burst into tears, "Oh, Jinny," she cried, "how can you be so
cruel!"

That very evening a man, tall and lean, but with the shrewd and kindly
eye of a scout, came into the sitting-room with the Colonel and handed a
letter to Mrs. Colfax. In the hall he slipped into Virginia's hand
another, in a "Jefferson Davis" envelope, and she thrust it in her gown
--the girl was on fire as he whispered in her ear that he had seen
Clarence, and that he was well. In two days an answer might be left at
Mr. Russell's house. But she must be careful what she wrote, as the
Yankee scouts were active.

Clarence, indeed, had proven himself a man. Glory and uniform became him
well, but danger and deprivation better. The words he had written,
careless and frank and boyish, made Virginia's heart leap with pride.
Mrs. Colfax's letter began with the adventure below the Arsenal, when the
frail skiff had sunk near the island, He told how he had heard the
captain of his escort sing out to him in the darkness, and how he had
floated down the current instead, until, chilled and weary, he had
contrived to seize the branches of a huge tree floating by. And how by a
miracle the moon had risen. When the great Memphis packet bore down upon
him, he had, been seen from her guards, and rescued and made much of; and
set ashore at the next landing, for fear her captain would get into
trouble. In the morning he had walked into the country, first providing
himself with butternuts and rawhide boots and a bowie-knife. Virginia
would never have recognized her dashing captain of dragoons in this
guise.

The letter was long for Clarence, and written under great difficulties
from date to date. For nearly a month he had tramped over mountains and
across river bottoms, waiting for news of an organized force of
resistance in Missouri. Begging his way from cabin to cabin, and living
on greasy bacon and corn pone, at length he crossed the swift Gasconade
(so named by the French settlers because of its brawling ways) where the
bridge of the Pacific railroad had been blown up by the Governor's
orders. Then he learned that the untiring Lyon had steamed up the
Missouri and had taken possession of Jefferson City without a blow, and
that the ragged rebel force had fought and lost at Booneville. Footsore,
but undaunted, he pushed on to join the army, which he heard was
retreating southward along the western tier of counties of the state.

On the banks of the Osage he fell in with two other young amen in as bad
a plight as himself. They travelled together, until one day some rough
farmers with shotguns leaped out of a bunch of willows on the borders of
a creek and arrested all three for Union spies. And they laughed when Mr.
Clarence tried to explain that he had not long since been the dapper
captain of the State Dragoons.

His Excellency, the Governor of Missouri (so acknowledged by all good
Southerners), likewise laughed when Mr. Colfax and the two others were
brought before him. His Excellency sat in a cabin surrounded by a camp
which had caused the dogs of war to howl for very shame.

"Colfax!" cried the Governor. "A Colfax of St. Louis in butternuts and
rawhide boots?"

"Give me a razor," demanded Clarence, with indignation, "a razor and a
suit of clothes, and I will prove it." The Governor laughed once more.

"A razor, young man! A suit of clothes You know not what you ask."

"Are there any gentlemen from St. Louis here?" George Catherwood was
brought in,--or rather what had once been George. Now he was a big
frontiersman with a huge blond beard, and a bowie, knife stuck into his
trousers in place of a sword. He recognized his young captain of dragoons
the Governor apologized, and Clarence slept that night in the cabin. The
next day he was given a horse, and a bright new rifle which the
Governor's soldiers had taken from the Dutch at Cole Camp on the way
south, And presently they made a junction with three thousand more who
were their images. This was Price's army, but Price had gone ahead into
Kansas to beg the great McCulloch and his Confederates to come to their
aid and save the state.

   "Dear mother, I wish that you and Jinny and Uncle Comyn could have
   seen this country rabble. How you would have laughed, and cried,
   because we are just like them. In the combined army two thousand
   have only bowie-knives or clubs. This is a very rich frozen dessert,
   too rich to be served alone. It should be served with lemon sherbet
   or frozen custard with a lemon flavoring, as it is better served
   with a dessert less rich and sweet.
   
   
   ICE CREAM MADE BY BEATING WITH PADDLE
   This recipe for a delicious and easily prepared ice cream was given
   Mary by a friend living in Philadelphia and is not original. She
   found the ice cream excellent and after having tried the recipe
   used no other.

                  A custard was made of 1 quart of scalded milk, 6 eggs, 3 cups of
sugar.

   The eggs were beaten light, then sugar was added, then the hot milk
   was poured over and all beaten together. She put all in a double
   boiler and stirred about ten minutes, until thick and creamy.

   A small pinch of soda was added to prevent curdling. When the
   custard was perfectly cold she stirred in three cups of sweet,
   cold cream, flavored with either vanilla or almond flavoring, and
   beat all together five minutes, then turned the mixture into the
   freezer, packed well with pounded ice and coarse salt. She covered
   the freezer with the ice and salt and threw a heavy piece
   of old carpet or burlap over the freezer to exclude the air.

She let it stand one hour, then carefully opened the can containing the
cream, not allowing any salt to get in the can. With a long, thin-handled
knife she scraped down the frozen custard from the sides of the
freezer, and with a thin wooden paddle beat it hard and fast for
about five minutes.

This made the cream fine and smooth. Any fruit may now be added, and should
be mixed in before the cream is covered. The cream should be beaten as
quickly as possible and covered as soon as the fruit has been added.

Aunt Sarah usually made peach ice cream when peaches were in season.
Fine ripe peaches were pared and pitted, then finely mashed, 2 small cups
of sugar being added to a pint of mashed peaches. She allowed the peach
mixture to stand one hour before adding to the beaten cream.
When the mashed peaches had been added to the cream, she fastened the lid
and drained off part of the water in outer vessel, packed more ice
and salt about the can in the freezer, placed a weight on top to
hold it down, covered closely with a piece of old carpet to exclude
the air, left it stand three or four hours.

   The beating was all the labor required. The dasher or crank was not
   turned at all when making the ice cream, and when frozen it was
   delicious.
   
   Mary was told by her Aunt of a friend in a small town, with a
   reputation for serving delicious ice cream, who always made ice
cream by beating with a paddle, instead of making it by turning a
crank in a freezer.

AUNT SARAH'S RECIPE FOR FROZEN CUSTARD
One quart of rich, sweet milk, 2 tablespoons of corn starch, 4 eggs,
1 cup of sugar, small tablespoon of vanilla. Cook the milk in a double
boiler, moisten corn starch with a little milk. Stir it into the hot milk
until it begins to thicken. Beat sugar and eggs together until creamy,
add to the hot milk, cook a minute, remove from fire, add the
vanilla, and when cool freeze.

Crush the ice into small pieces, for the finer the ice the quicker
the custard will freeze, then mix the ice with a fourth of the quantity
of coarse rock salt, about 10 pounds ice and 2 pounds salt will
be required to pack sides and cover top of a four-quart freezer.

Place can in tub, mix and fill in ice and salt around the can, turn the
crank very slowly until the mixture is thoroughly chilled. Keep hole in
top of tub open. When mixture is cold, turn steadily until it turns
rather hard. When custard is frozen, take out inside paddle, close the
freezer, run off the salt water, repack and allow to stand several
hours. At the end of that time it is ready to serve.

PINEAPPLE CREAM
This is a delicious dessert, taught Mary by Aunt Sarah. She used 1 quart
sweet cream, 1-1/2 cups sugar, beaten together.

It was frozen in an ice cream freezer. She then pared and cut the eyes
from one ripe pineapple and flaked the pineapple into small pieces
with a silver fork, sprinkled sugar over and let it stand until sugar
dissolved. She then stirred this into the frozen cream and added also
the beaten white of one egg. Packed ice and salt around freezer and
allowed it to stand several hours before using. Mary's Aunt always
cooked pineapple or used canned pineapple with a rich syrup when adding
fruit before the cream was frozen.

MARY'S RECIPE FOR PEACH CREAM

Mary made ice cream when peaches were plentiful; she used 1 quart of sweet
cream, sweetened to taste (about 2 cups sugar) and 2 quarts of ripe
peaches mashed and sweetened before adding to cream.

Freeze in ordinary manner. If peaches were not fine flavored, she added
a little almond flavoring.

LEMON SHERBET
This is the way Frau Schmidt taught Mary to make this dessert. She used
for the purpose 1 quart of water, 5 lemons, 2 tablespoons gelatine,
2 large cups sugar.

She soaked the gelatine in about 1 cup of water.

She squeezed out the juice of lemons, rejecting seeds and pulp. She allowed
a cup of water out of the quart to soak the gelatine. This mixture
was put in an ice cream freezer and frozen.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S FROZEN CUSTARD 
1-1/2 quarts milk.
2 cups sugar.
5 eggs.
2-1/2 tablespoonfuls of flour.

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Moisten flour (she preferred _flour_
to corn starch for this purpose) with a small quantity of cold milk,
and stir into the scalded milk.

Beat together egg yolks and sugar until light and creamy, then add the
stiffly beaten whites of eggs and stir all into the boiling milk. Cool
thoroughly, flavor with vanilla and freeze as you would ice cream. When
partly frozen crushed strawberries or peaches may be added in season. A
little more sugar should then he added to the fruit, making a dessert
almost equal to ice cream. In Winter one cup of dried currants may be
added, also one tablespoonful of sherry wine, if liked.

CARAMEL ICE CREAM
Scald one pint of sweet milk in a double boiler. Stir into it one cup of
sugar and one rounded tablespoonful of flour, which had been mixed
smoothly with a small quantity of the milk before scalding.

Add two eggs which had been beaten together until light and creamy. At the
same time the milk was being scalded, a fry-pan containing one cup of
granulated sugar was placed on the range; this should be watched
carefully, on account of its liability to scorch. When sugar has melted
it will be brown in color and liquid, like molasses, and should
then be thoroughly mixed with the foundation custard. Cook the whole
mixture ten minutes and stand aside to cool; when perfectly cold
add a pinch of salt, one quart of sweet cream, and freeze in the ordinary
manner.

CHERRY SHERBET
Aunt Sarah taught Mary to prepare this cheap and easily made dessert of
the various berries and fruits as they ripened. Currants, strawberries,
raspberries and cherries were used. They were all delicious and quickly
prepared. The ice for freezing was obtained from a near-by creamery.
The cherries used for this were not the common, sour pie cherries,
so plentiful usually on many "Bucks County Farms," but a fine,
large, red cherry, not very sour.

When about to prepare cherry sherbet, Mary placed over the fire a
stew-pan containing 1 quart of boiling water and 1 pound of granulated
sugar. Boiled this together 12 minutes.

She added 1 tablespoonful of granulated gelatine which had
been dissolved in a very little cold water. When the syrup had
cooled, she added the juice of half a lemon and 1 quart of pitted
cherries, mixed all together.

Poured it in the ice cream freezer, packed around well with coarse salt
and pounded ice. She used 1 part salt to 3 parts ice. She turned the
crank slowly at first, allowed it to stand a few minutes, then increased
the speed. When the mixture was firm she removed the dasher. She allowed
the water to remain with the ice and salt, as the ice-cold water
helped to freeze it. She filled in ice and salt around the can in the
freezer and on top of the can; covered the top of the freezer with a piece
of old carpet and allowed it to stand a couple of hours, when it was
ready to serve. Almost any fruit or fruit juice, either fresh or canned,
may be made into a delicious dessert by this rule.

One quart of boiling water and 1 pound of sugar boiled together to form
a syrup, then add 1 quart of juice or fruit and juice to measure exactly
one quart. Mix together according to directions and freeze.

GRAPE SHERBET
Grape sherbet was made in this manner: The grapes were washed, picked from
the stems and placed in a stew-pan over the fire.

When hot remove from the fire and mash with a potato-masher and strain
through a jelly bag, as if preparing to make jelly. Boil together 1 pound
of granulated sugar and 1 quart of water, about 12 minutes. While hot
add 1 pint of grape juice and 1 teaspoonful of granulated gelatine, which
had been dissolved in a very little cold water, to the hot syrup. When
the mixture was partly frozen add the stiffly beaten white of 1 egg
and 1 tablespoonful of pulverized sugar, beaten together. All were
stirred together, covered and stood away until cold. Then placed in a
freezer, iced as for ice cream, and frozen in the same manner as for
cherry sherbet. The juice of all berries or fruits may be extracted
in the same manner as that of grapes.

WINES AND SYRUPS--UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE
To 6 pounds of stemmed Concord grapes add 1 quart of water, allow them
to simmer on range until grapes have become soft. Strain through a
piece of cheese-cloth, being careful to press only the juice through,
not the pulp of the grapes. Return the grape juice to the preserving
kettle and add 3/4 of a pound of sugar. Allow the juice to just commence
to boil, as cooking too long a time spoils the flavor of the juice. Bottle
at once, while juice is hot. Bottles must be sterilized and air-tight
if you expect grape juice to keep.

Cover corks with sealing wax.

VINEGAR MADE FROM STRAWBERRIES
"Aunt Sarah" Landis possessed the very finest flavored vinegar for cooking
purposes, and this is the way it was made. She having a very plentiful
crop of fine strawberries one season, put 6 quarts of very ripe, mashed
strawberries in a five-gallon crock, filled the crock with water,
covered the top with cheese-cloth and allowed it to stand in a warm
place about one week, when it was strained, poured into jugs and
placed in the cellar, where it remained six months, perhaps longer,
when it became very sharp and sour, and had very much the appearance
of white wine with a particularly fine flavor.

This was not used as a beverage, but as a substitute for cider in
cooking.

BOILED CIDER FOR MINCE PIES

In Autumn, when cider was cheap and plentiful on the farm, 3 quarts
of cider was boiled down to one, or, in this proportion, for use in mince
meat during the Winter. A quantity prepared in this manner, poured
while hot in air-tight jars, will keep indefinitely.

LEMON SYRUP
Boil two cups of granulated sugar and one cup of water together for a few
minutes until the sugar is dissolved, then add the juice of six well-scrubbed,
medium-sized lemons; let come to a boil and add the grated yellow
rind of three of the lemons. Be careful not to use any of the white skin
of the lemons, which is bitter.

Put in air-tight glass jars. This quantity fills one pint jar. A couple
tablespoonfuls added to a tumbler partly filled with water and
chipped ice makes a delicious and quickly prepared drink on a hot
day.

EGG NOGG

Add to the stiffly beaten white of one egg the slightly beaten yolk of egg.
Pour into glass tumbler, fill with cold sweet milk, sweeten with
sugar to taste and a little grated nutmeg on top or a tablespoonful
of good brandy.

This is excellent for a person needing nourishment, and may be easily
taken by those not able to take a raw egg in any other form. The egg
nogg will be more easily digested if sipped slowly while eating a cracker
or slice of crisply toasted bread.

ROSE WINE
Gather one quart of rose leaves, place in a bowl, pour over one
quart of boiling water, let stand nine days, then strain, and to
each quart of strained liquid add one pound of granulated sugar.

Allow to stand until next day, when sugar will be dissolved. Pour into
bottles, cork tightly, stand away for six months before using.
Aunt Sarah had some which had been keeping two years and it was fine.

DANDELION WINE
Four good quarts of dandelion blossoms, four pounds of sugar, six
oranges, five lemons.

Wash dandelion blossoms and place them in an earthenware crock. Pour five
quarts of boiling water over them and let stand 36 hours. Then strain
through a muslin bag, squeezing out all moisture from dandelions. Put
the strained juice in a deep stone crock or jug and add to it the grated
rind and juice of the six oranges and five lemons.

Tie a piece of cheese-cloth over the top of jug and stand it in a
warm kitchen about one week, until it begins to ferment.

Then stand away from stove in an outer kitchen or cooler place, not in the
cellar, for three months. At the end of three months put in bottles.

This is a clear, amber, almost colorless liquid. A pleasant drink of
medicinal value. Aunt Sarah always used this recipe for making dandelion
wine, but Mary preferred a recipe in which yeast was used, as the
wine could be used a short time after making.

DANDELION WINE (MADE WITH YEAST)
Four quarts of dandelion blossoms. Pour over them four quarts of boiling
water; let stand 24 hours, strain and add grated rind and juice of two
oranges and two lemons, four pounds of granulated sugar and two
tablespoonfuls of home-made yeast. Let stand one week, then strain and
fill bottles.

GRAPE FRUIT PUNCH
Two cups of grape juice, 4 cups of water, 1-1/2 cups of sugar, juice of 3
lemons and 3 oranges, sliced oranges, bananas and pineapples.
Serve the punch in sherbet glasses, garnished with Marachino cherries.

A SUBSTITUTE FOR MAPLE SYRUP
A very excellent substitute for maple syrup to serve on hot griddle cakes
is prepared from 2 pounds of either brown or white sugar and 1-3/4
cups of water, in the following manner: Place the stew-pan containing
sugar and water on the back part of range, until sugar dissolves,
then boil from 10 to 15 minutes, until the mixture thickens to the
consistency of honey.

Remove from the range and add a few drops of vanilla or "mapleine"
flavoring. A tiny pinch of cream of tartar, added when syrup commences
to boil, prevents syrup granulating; too large a quantity of cream of
tartar added to the syrup would cause it to have a sour taste.

SALTED ALMONDS OR PEANUTS
Blanch 2 pounds of shelled almonds or peanuts (the peanuts, of course, have
been well roasted) by pouring 1 quart of boiling water over them.
Allow them to stand a short time. Drain and pour cold water over them, when
the skin may be easily removed.

Place in a cool oven until dry and crisp. Put a small quantity of butter
into a pan. When hot, throw in the nuts and stir for a few minutes,
sprinkle a little salt over.
Many young cooks do not know that salted peanuts are almost equally
as good as salted almonds and cheaper.

Peanuts should always be freshly roasted and crisp.

PEANUT BUTTER
When peanuts have been blanched, are cold, dry and crisp, run them through
a food chopper. Do not use the _very finest_ cutter, as that makes a soft
mass. Or they may be crushed with a rolling pin. Season with salt,
spread on thinly-sliced, buttered bread. They make excellent sandwiches.
Or run peanuts through food chopper which has an extra fine cutter
especially for this purpose.

The peanuts are then a thick, creamy mass. Thin this with a small quantity
of olive oil, or melted butter, if preferred. Season with salt and you
have "peanut butter," which, spread on slices of buttered bread, makes
a delicious sandwich, and may frequently take the place of meat
sandwiches.

Nuts, when added to salads, bread or cake, add to their food value.

A CLUB SANDWICH
On a thinly-cut slice of toasted bread lay a crisp lettuce leaf and
a thin slice of broiled bacon.

On that a slice of cold, boiled chicken and a slice of ripe tomato.

Place a spoonful of mayonnaise on the tomato, on this a slice of
toasted bread. Always use stale bread for toast and if placed in a
hot oven a minute before toasting it may be more quickly prepared.

CANDIES-WALNUT MOLASSES TAFFY
Place 2 cups of New Orleans molasses and 3/4 cup of brown sugar in
a stew-pan on the range and cook; when partly finished cooking (this
may be determined by a teaspoonful of the mixture forming a soft
ball when dropped in water), add 1 tablespoonful of flour, moistened
with a small quantity of water, and cook until a teaspoonful of the
mixture becomes brittle when dropped in cold water; at this stage
add 1 scant teaspoonful of baking soda (salaratus).

Stir, then add 1 cup of coarsely chopped black walnut meats; stir all
together thoroughly, and pour into buttered pans to become cool.

COCOANUT CREAMS

Grate 1 medium-sized cocoanut, place in a bowl, add 2 pounds of
confectioners' sugar, mix with the cocoanut; then add the stiffly
beaten white of 1 egg and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; knead this as
you would bread for 10 or 15 minutes.

If the cocoanut is a large or a dry one, about 1/2 pound more sugar
will be required.

Shape the mixture into small balls, press halves of English walnut meats
into each ball, or have them plain, if preferred.

Stand aside in a cool place a half hour. Melt a half cake of Baker's
unsweetened chocolate, add a half teaspoonful of paraffin, roll the
small balls in this chocolate mixture until thoroughly coated. Place on
waxed paper to dry. From the ingredients in this recipe was made 3
pounds of candy.

FUDGE (AS MADE BY MARY)
Two cups of granulated sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1/4 cup of butter, 1/4
cake or 2 squares of Baker's unsweetened chocolate.

Cook all together until when tried in water it forms a soft ball.
Remove from fire, flavor with vanilla, beat until creamy, pour in buttered
pan and when cooled cut in squares.

A DELICIOUS "CHOCOLATE CREAM" CANDY
Place in an agate stew-pan 2 cups of granulated sugar, 1 cup of sweet
milk, butter size of an egg. Cook all together until it forms a soft ball
when a small quantity is dropped into cold water. Then beat until creamy.
Add a half a cup of any kind of chopped nut meats.

Spread on an agate pie-tin and stand aside to cool.

For the top layer take 1 cup of sugar, 1/2 cup milk and butter size of
an egg, 2 small squares of a cake of Baker's unsweetened chocolate.

Cook together until it forms a soft ball in water. Beat until
creamy.

Add half a teaspoonful of vanilla, spread over top of first layer of candy
and stand away until it hardens and is quite cold.

MARY'S RECIPE FOR MOLASSES TAFFY
Four tablespoonfuls New Orleans molasses, 9 tablespoonfuls sugar,
3 tablespoonfuls water, 2 teaspoonfuls butter, 1 teaspoonful vanilla.

Boil all together until it becomes brittle when a small quantity
is dropped in water.

Pour the mixture into buttered pans and when cool enough to handle,
pull with the hands until a light creamy yellow shade.

Pull into long, thin strips, cut into small pieces with scissors. This
taffy is fine if boiled a long enough time to become crisp and brittle,
and you will be surprised at the quantity this small amount of
sugar and molasses will make.

RECIPE FOR MAKING HARD SOAP WITHOUT BOILING

To make hard soap without boiling, empty a can of "Lewis Perfumed Lye"
(or any other good, reliable brand of lye) into a stone jar with 1
tablespoonful powdered borax. Add 2-1/2 pints of cold water to the lye.
Stir until dissolved. Be very careful not to allow any of the lye to touch
hands or face. Wear old gloves when emptying can and stirring lye. Stand
the dissolved lye in a cool place. The tin cans containing the fat to
be used for soap (which have accumulated, been tried out, strained, and
put in empty tin cans at different times) should be placed in the
oven of range for a few minutes.

When warm they may be turned out readily into a large stew-pan.

Put over fire and when all has dissolved and melted, strain through
cheese-cloth bag into an agate dish pan. When weighed you should 5-1/2
pounds of clear fat. A recipe telling exact quantity of fat and lye
usually comes with can of lye. When temperature of fat is 120
degrees by your thermometer (luke-warm), the lye should have been allowed
to stand about 1 hour from the time it was dissolved.

It should then be the right temperature to mix with strained,
luke-warm fat or grease not over 80 degrees by thermometer.

Now slowly pour the dissolved lye over the fat (a half cup of ammonia
added improves soap), stir together until lye and grease are
thoroughly incorporated, and the mixture drops from the stirrer
like honey.

The soap may be scented by adding a few drops of oil of cloves, if
liked.

Stir the mixture with a small wooden paddle or stick. Stir slowly from 5
to 10 minutes, not longer, or the lye and fat may separate.

Pour all into a large agate dish pan lined with a piece of clean muslin.
Throw an old piece of carpet over the top and stand near the range
until evening, when, if made early in the morning, a solid cake of
soap, weighing 8-1/2 pounds, may be turned out on a bake-board
(previously covered with brown paper) and cut into 20 pieces of
good hard soap.

Lay the pieces of soap in a basket, cover to protect from dust, and
stand in a warm room to dry thoroughly before using.

Soap made according to these directions should be solid and almost
as white as ivory if the fat used has not been scorched.
This soap is excellent for scrubbing and laundry purposes. The
greater length of time the soap is kept, the better it will become.
The grease used may be clarified by adding water and cooking a short
time. Stand away and when cool remove fat from top, wiping off any
moisture that may appear. Soap-making is a _small economy_.I only beg of you one thing, that when you have
anything to complain of, you will bring it to me, and not mention it
before Pa. He has enough to worry him."

"Oh, Jinny," sobbed the lady, in tears again, "how can you be so cruel at
such a time, when my nerves are all in pieces?"

But she did not lift her voice at dinner, which was very poor indeed for
Colonel Carvel's house. All day long Virginia, assisted by Uncle Ben and
Aunt Easter, toiled in the stifling kitchen, preparing dainties which she
had long denied herself. At evening she went to the station at Fourteenth
Street with her father, and stood amongst the people, pressed back by the
soldiers, until the trains came in. Alas, the heavy basket which the
Colonel carried on his arm was brought home again. The first hundred to
arrive, ten hours in a hot car without food or water, were laid groaning
on the bottom of great furniture vans, and carted to the new House of
Refuge Hospital, two miles to the south of the city.

The next day many good women went there, Rebel and Union alike, to have
their hearts wrung. The new and cheap building standing in the hot sun
reeked with white wash and paint. The miserable men lay on the hard
floor, still in the matted clothes they had worn in battle. Those were
the first days of the war, when the wages of our passions first came to
appal us. Many of the wounds had not been tended since they were dressed
on the field weeks before.

Mrs. Colfax went too, with the Colonel and her niece, although she
declared repeatedly that she could not go through with such an ordeal.
She spoke the truth, for Mr. Carvel had to assist her to the
waiting-room. Then he went back to the improvised wards to find Virginia
busy over a gaunt Arkansan of Price's army, whose pitiful, fever-glazed
eyes were following her every motion. His frontiersman's clothes, stained
with blackened blood, hung limp over his wasted body. At Virginia's
bidding the Colonel ran downstairs for a bucket of fresh water, and she
washed the caked dust from his face and hands. It was Mr. Brinsmade who
got the surgeon to dress the man's wound, and to prescribe some of the
broth from Virginia's basket. For the first time since the war began
something of happiness entered her breast.

It was Mr. Brinsmade who was everywhere that day, answering the questions
of distracted mothers and fathers and sisters who thronged the place;
consulting with the surgeons; helping the few who knew how to work in
placing mattresses under the worst cases; or again he might have been
seen seated on the bare floor with a pad on his knee, taking down the
names of dear ones in distant states,--that he might spend his night
writing to them.

They put a mattress under the Arkansan. Virginia did not leave him until
he had fallen asleep, and a smile of peace was come upon his sunken face.
Dismayed at the fearful sights about her, awed by the groans that rose on
every side, she was choosing her way swiftly down the room to join her
father and aunt in the carriage below.

The panic of flight had seized her. She felt that another little while in
this heated, horrible place would drive her mad. She was almost at the
door when she came suddenly upon a sight that made her pause.

An elderly lady in widow's black was kneeling beside a man groaning in
mortal agony, fanning away the flies already gathering about his face. He
wore the uniform of a Union sergeant,--dusty and splotched and torn. A
small Testament was clasped convulsively in the fingers of his right
band. The left sleeve was empty. Virginia lingered, whelmed in pity,
thrilled by a wonderful womanliness of her who knelt there. Her face the
girl had not even seen, for it was bent over the man. The sweetness of
her voice held Virginia as in a spell, and the sergeant stopped groaning
that he might listen:

"You have a wife?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"And a child?"

The answer came so painfully.

"A boy, ma'am--born the week--before I came--away."

"I shall write to your wife," said the lady, so gently that Virginia
could scarce hear, "and tell her that you are cared for. Where does she
live?"

He gave the address faintly--some little town in Minnesota. Then he
added, "God bless you, lady."

Just then the chief surgeon came and stood over them. The lady turned her
face up to him, and tears sparkled in her eyes. Virginia felt them wet in
her own. Her worship was not given to many. Nobility, character,
efficiency,-all were written on that face. Nobility spoke in the large
features, in the generous mouth, in the calm, gray eyes. Virginia had
seen her often before, but not until now was the woman revealed to her.

"Doctor, could this man's life be saved if I took him to my home?"

The surgeon got down beside her and took the man's pulse. The eyes
closed. For a while the doctor knelt there, shaking his head. "He has
fainted," he said.

"Do you think he can be saved?" asked the lady again. The surgeon
smiled,--such a smile as a good man gives after eighteen hours of
amputating, of bandaging, of advising,--work which requires a firm hand,
a clear eye and brain, and a good heart.

"My dear Mrs. Brice," he said, "I shall be glad to get you permission to
take him, but we must first make him worth the taking. Another hour would
have been too late." He glanced hurriedly about the busy room, and then
added, "We must have one more to help us."

Just then some one touched Virginia's arm. It was her father.

"I am afraid we must go, dear," he said, "your aunt is getting
impatient."

"Won't you please go without me, Pa?" she asked. "Perhaps I can be of
some use."

The Colonel cast a wondering glance at the limp uniform, and went away.
The surgeon, who knew the Carvel family, gave Virginia a look of
astonishment. It was Mrs. Brice's searching gaze that brought the color
to the girl's, face.

"Thank you, my dear," she said simply.

As soon as he could get his sister-in-law off to Locust Street in the
carriage, Colonel Carvel came back. For two reeking hours he stood
against the newly plastered wall. Even he was surprised at the fortitude
and skill Virginia showed from the very first, when she had deftly cut
away the stiffened blue cloth, and helped to take off the rough bandages.
At length the fearful operation was finished, and the weary surgeon,
gathering up his box, expressed with all the energy left to him, his
thanks to the two ladies.

Virginia stood up, faint and dizzy. The work of her hands had sustained
her while it lasted, but now the ordeal was come. She went down the
stairs on her father's arm, and out into the air. All at once she knew
that Mrs. Brice was beside her, and had taken her by the hand.

"My dear?" she was saying, "God will reward you for this act. You have
taught many of us to-day a lesson we should have learned in our Bibles."

Virginia trembled with many emotions, but she answered nothing. The mere
presence of this woman had a strange effect upon the girl,--she was
filled with a longing unutterable. It was not because Margaret Brice was
the mother of him whose life had been so strangely blended with hers
--whom she saw in her dreams. And yet now some of Stephen's traits seemed
to come to her understanding, as by a revelation. Virginia had labored
through the heat of the day by Margaret Brice's side doing His work,
which levels all feuds and makes all women sisters. One brief second had
been needful for the spell.

The Colonel bowed with that courtesy and respect which distinguished him,
and Mrs. Brice left them to go back into the room of torment, and watch
by the sergeant's pallet. Virginia's eyes followed her up the stairs, and
then she and her father walked slowly to the carriage. With her foot on
the step Virginia paused.

"Pa," she said, "do you think it would be possible to get them to let us
take that Arkansan into our house?"

"Why, honey, I'll ask Brinsmade if you like," said the Colonel. "Here he
comes now, and Anne."

It was Virginia who put the question to him.

"My dear," replied that gentleman, patting her, "I would do anything in
the world for you. I'll see General Fremont this very afternoon.
Virginia," he added, soberly, "it is such acts as yours to-day that give
us courage to live in these times."

Anne kissed her friend.

"Oh, Jinny, I saw what you were doing for one of our men. What am I
saying?" she cried. "They are your men, too. This horrible war cannot
last. It cannot last. It was well that Virginia did not see the smile on
the face of the commanding general when Mr. Brinsmade at length got to
him with her request. This was before the days when the wounded arrived
by the thousands, when the zeal of the Southern ladies threatened to
throw out of gear the workings of a great system. But the General, had
had his eye on Mr. Carvel from the first. Therefore he smiled.

"Colonel Carvel," said Mr. Brinsmade, with dignity, "is a gentleman. When
he gives his word, it is sacred, sir."

"Even to an enemy," the General put in, "By George, Brinsmade, unless I
knew you, I should think that you were half rebel yourself. Well, well,
he may have his Arkansan."

Mr. Brinsmade, when he conveyed the news to the Carvel house, did not say
that he had wasted a precious afternoon in the attempt to interview his
Excellency, the Commander in-chief. It was like obtaining an audience
with the Sultan or the Czar. Citizens who had been prominent in affairs
for twenty years, philanthropists and patriotic-spirited men like Mr.
Brinsmade, the mayor, and all the ex-mayors mopped their brows in one of
the general's anterooms of the big mansion, and wrangled with beardless
youths in bright uniforms who were part of the chain. The General might
have been a Richelieu, a Marlborough. His European notions of uniformed
inaccessibility he carried out to the letter. He was a royal personage,
seldom seen, who went abroad in the midst of a glittering guard. It did
not seem to weigh with his Excellency that these simple and democratic
gentlemen would not put up with this sort of thing. That they who had
saved the city to the Union were more or less in communication with a
simple and democratic President; that in all their lives they had never
been in the habit of sitting idly for two hours to mop their brows.

On the other hand, once you got beyond the gold lace and the etiquette,
you discovered a good man and a patriot. It was far from being the
General's fault that Mr. Hopper and others made money in mules and
worthless army blankets. Such things always have been, and always will be
unavoidable when this great country of ours rises from the deep sleep of
security into which her sons have lulled her, to demand her sword. We
shall never be able to realize that the maintenance of a standing army of
comfortable size will save millions in the end. So much for Democracy
when it becomes a catchword.

The General was a good man, had he done nothing else than encourage the
Western Sanitary Commission, that glorious army of drilled men and women
who gave up all to relieve the suffering which the war was causing. Would
that a novel--a great novel--might be written setting forth with truth
its doings. The hero of it could be Calvin Brinsmade, and a nobler hero
than he was never under a man's hand. For the glory of generals fades
beside his glory.

It was Mr. Brinsmade's carriage that brought Mrs. Brice home from her
trying day in the hospital. Stephen, just returned from drill at Verandah
hall, met her at the door. She would not listen to his entreaties to
rest, but in the evening, as usual, took her sewing to the porch behind
the house, where there was a little breeze.

"Such a singular thing happened to-day, Stephen," she said. "It was while
we were trying to save the life of a poor sergeant who had lost his arm.
I hope we shall be allowed to have him here. He is suffering horribly."

"What happened, mother?" he asked.

"It was soon after I had come upon this poor fellow," she said. "I saw
the--the flies around him. And as I got down beside him to fan them away
I had such a queer sensation. I knew that some one was standing behind
me, looking at me. Then Dr. Allerdyce came, and I asked him about the
man, and he said there was a chance of saving him if we could only get
help. Then some one spoke up,--such a sweet voice. It was that Miss
Carvel my dear, with whom you had such a strange experience when you
bought Hester, and to whose party you once went. Do you remember that
they offered us their house in Glencoe when the Judge was so ill?"

"Yes," said Stephen.

"She is a wonderful creature," his mother continued. "Such personality,
such life! And wasn't it a remarkable offer for a Southern woman to make?
They feel so bitterly, and--and I do not blame them." The good lady put
down on her lap the night-shirt she was making. "I saw how it happened.
The girl was carried away by her pity. And, my dear, her capability
astonished me. One might have thought that she had always been a nurse.
The experience was a dreadful one for me--what must it have been for her.
After the operation was over, I followed her downstairs to where she was
standing with her father in front of the building, waiting for their
carriage. I felt that I must say something to her, for in all my life I
have never seen a nobler thing done. When I saw her there, I scarcely
knew what to say. Words seemed so inadequate. It was then three o'clock,
and she had been working steadily in that place since morning. I am sure
she could not have borne it much longer. Sheer courage carried her
through it, I know, for her hand trembled so when I took it, and she was
very pale. She usually has color, I believe. Her father, the Colonel, was
with her, and he bowed to me with such politeness. He had stood against
the wall all the while we had worked, and he brought a mattress for us. I
have heard that his house is watched, and that they have him under
suspicion for communicating with the Confederate leaders." Mrs. Brice
sighed. He seems such a fine character. I hope they will not get into any
trouble."

"I hope not, mother," said Stephen.

It was two mornings later that Judge Whipple and Stephen drove to the
Iron Mountain depot, where they found a German company of Home Guards
drawn up. On the long wooden platform under the sheds Stephen caught
sight of Herr Korner and Herr Hauptmann amid a group of their countrymen.
Little Korner came forward to clasp his hands. The tears ran on his
cheeks, and he could not speak for emotion. Judge Whipple, grim and
silent, stood apart. But he uncovered his head with the others when the
train rolled in. Reverently they entered a car where the pine boxes were
piled one on another, and they bore out the earthly remains of Captain
Carl Richter.

Far from the land of his birth, among those same oaks on Bloody Hill
where brave Lyon fell, he had gladly given up his life for the new
country and the new cause he had made his own.

That afternoon in the cemetery, as the smoke of the last salute to a hero
hung in the flickering light and drifted upward through the great trees,
as the still air was yet quivering with the notes of the bugle-call which
is the soldiers requiem, a tall figure, gaunt and bent, stepped out from
behind the blue line of the troops. It was that of Judge Whipple. He
carried in his hand a wreath of white roses--the first of many to be laid
on Richter's grave.

Poor Richter! How sad his life had been! And yet he had not filled it
with sadness. For many a month, and many a year, Stephen could not look
upon his empty place without a pang. He missed the cheery songs and the
earnest presence even more than he had thought. Carl Richter,--as his
father before him,--had lived for others. Both had sacrificed their
bodies for a cause. One of them might be pictured as he trudged with
Father Jahn from door to door through the Rhine country, or shouldering
at sixteen a heavy musket in the Landwehr's ranks to drive the tyrant
Napoleon from the beloved Fatherland Later, aged before his time, his
wife dead of misery, decrepit and prison-worn in the service of a
thankless country, his hopes lived again in Carl, the swordsman of Jena.
Then came the pitiful Revolution, the sundering of all ties, the elder
man left to drag out his few weary days before a shattered altar. In Carl
a new aspiration had sprung up, a new patriotism stirred. His, too, had
been the sacrifice. Happy in death, for he had helped perpetuate that
great Union which should be for all time the refuge of the oppressed.


CHAPTER IV

THE LIST OF SIXTY

One chilling day in November, when an icy rain was falling on the black
mud of the streets, Virginia looked out of the window. Her eye was caught
by two horses which were just skeletons with the skin stretched over
them. One had a bad sore on his flank, and was lame. They were pulling a
rattle-trap farm wagon with a buckled wheel. On the seat a man, pallid
and bent and scantily clad, was holding the reins in his feeble hands,
while beside him cowered a child of ten wrapped in a ragged blanket. In
the body of the wagon, lying on a mattress pressed down in the midst of
broken, cheap furniture and filthy kitchen ware, lay a gaunt woman in the
rain. Her eyes were closed, and a hump on the surface of the dirty quilt
beside her showed that a child must be there. From such a picture the
girl fled in tears. But the sight of it, and of others like it, haunted
her for weeks. Through those last dreary days of November, wretched
families, which a year since had been in health and prosperity, came to
the city, beggars, with the wrecks of their homes. The history of that
hideous pilgrimage across a state has never been written. Still they came
by the hundred, those families. Some brought little corpses to be buried.
The father of one, hale and strong when they started, died of pneumonia
in the public lodging-house. The walls of that house could tell many
tales to wring the heart. So could Mr. Brinsmade, did he choose to speak
of his own charities. He found time, between his labors at the big
hospital newly founded, and his correspondence, and his journeys of
love,--between early morning and midnight,--to give some hours a day to
the refugees.

Throughout December they poured in on the afflicted city, already
overtaxed. All the way to Springfield the road was lined with remains of
articles once dear--a child's doll, a little rocking-chair, a colored
print that has hung in the best room, a Bible text.

Anne Brinsmade, driven by Nicodemus, went from house to house to solicit
old clothes, and take them to the crowded place of detention. Christmas
was drawing near--a sorry Christmas, in truth. And many of the wanderers
were unclothed and unfed.

More battles had been fought; factions had arisen among Union men.
Another general had come to St. Louis to take charge of the Department,
and the other with his wondrous body-guard was gone.

The most serious problem confronting the new general--was how to care for
the refugees. A council of citizens was called at headquarters, and the
verdict went forth in the never-to-be-forgotten Orders No. 24.

"Inasmuch," said the General, "as the Secession army had driven these
people from their homes, Secession sympathizers should be made to support
them." He added that the city was unquestionably full of these.

Indignation was rife the day that order was published. Sixty prominent
"disloyalists" were to be chosen and assessed to make up a sum of ten
thousand dollars.

"They may sell my house over my head before I will pay a cent," cried Mr.
Russell. And he meant it. This was the way the others felt. Who were to
be on this mysterious list of "Sixty"? That was the all-absorbing
question of the town. It was an easy matter to pick the conspicuous ones.
Colonel Carvel was sure to be there, and Mr. Catherwood and Mr. Russell
and Mr. James, and Mr. Worington the lawyer. Mrs. Addison Colfax lived
for days in a fermented state of excitement which she declared would
break her down; and which, despite her many cares and worries, gave her
niece not a little amusement. For Virginia was human, and one morning she
went to her aunt's room to read this editorial from the newspaper:-- "For
the relief of many palpitating hearts it may be well to state that we
understand only two ladies are on the ten thousand dollar list."

"Jinny," she cried, "how can you be so cruel as to read me that, when you
know that I am in a state of frenzy now? How does that relieve me? It
makes it an absolute certainty that Madame Jules and I will have to pay.
DOCTOR [impressively] Yes, that's it.

Change it every half-hour if he's awake, but if he's asleep don't
disturb him. You need not paint the throat. The room must be kept at its
present temperature ...

LISA. But if he again begins to choke?

DOCTOR. He probably won't, but if he should, use the spray. And give him
the powders: one in the morning and the other at night. I will give you
the prescription now.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Have a cup of tea, doctor?

DOCTOR. No thanks.... My patients are expecting me.

Sits down to the table. Sásha brings him paper and ink.

LISA. So you're sure it is not croup?

DOCTOR [smiling] Perfectly certain!

KARÉNIN [to Lisa] And now have some tea, or, better still, go and lie
down!... Just see what you look like....

LISA. Oh, now I am alive again. Thank you, you are a true friend!

[Presses his hand. Sásha moves away angrily] I am so grateful to you,
dear friend! At such times one recog ...

KARÉNIN. What have I done? There's really no cause at all to thank me.

LISA. And who stopped up all night? Who fetched the very best
doctor?

KARÉNIN. I am already fully rewarded by the fact that Mísha is out of
danger; and above all by your kindness.

LISA [presses his hand again and laughs, showing him some money in
her hand] That's for the doctor; but I never know how to give it....

KARÉNIN. Neither do I.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Don't know what?

LISA. How to give money to a doctor.... He has saved more than my life,
and I give him money! It seems so unpleasant.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Let me give it. I know how. It's quite simple.

DOCTOR [rises and hands the prescription to Lisa] These powders are
to be well mixed in a tablespoonful of boiled water ...

[goes on talking].

Karénin sits at the table drinking tea; Sásha and Anna Pávlovna
come forward.

SÁSHA. I can't bear the way they go on! It's just as if she were in love
with him.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA.

Well, can it be wondered at?

SÁSHA. It's disgusting!

Doctor takes leave of everybody, and exit. Anna Pávlovna goes with
him.

LISA [to Karénin] He's so sweet now! As soon as even he was a little
better he at once began to smile and crow. I must go to him, but I don't
like leaving you.

KARÉNIN. You had better have a cup of tea, and eat something.

LISA. I don't want anything now. I am so happy after all that anxiety!...
[Sobs].

KARÉNIN. There! You see how worn out you are!

LISA. I'm so happy!... Would you like to have a look at him?

KARÉNIN. Of course.

LISA. Then come with me. [Exeunt].
ANNA PÁVLOVNA [returning to Sásha] What are you looking so glum
about?... I gave him the money quite well, and he took it.
SÁSHA. It's disgusting! She has taken him with her to the nursery.
It's just as if he were her _fiancé_ or her husband....
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Whatever does it matter to you? Why need you get
excited about it? Did you mean to marry him yourself?
SÁSHA. I? Marry that pikestaff? I'd rather marry I don't know whom,
than him! Such a thing never entered my head.... I am only disgusted
that, after Fédya, Lisa can be so attracted by a stranger.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Not a stranger, but an old playfellow!
SÁSHA. Don't I see by their smiles and looks that they are in
love?
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well, what is there to be surprised at in that? He
shares her anxiety about her baby, shows sympathy and helps her ...
and she feels grateful. Besides, why should she not love and marry
Victor?

SÁSHA. That would be disgusting--disgusting....
Enter Karénin and Lisa. Karénin silently takes leave. Sásha goes
of angrily.

LISA [to Anna Pávlovna] What's the matter with her?
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. I really don't know.
Lisa sighs, and is silent.

Curtain.

SCENE 2
Afrémov's sitting-room. Glasses of wine on the table. Afrémov,
Fédya, Stákhov (shaggy), Butkévich (close-shaven), and Korotkóv (a
tuft-hunter).
KOROTKÓV. And I tell you that he'll be out of the running! La Belle
Bois is the best horse in Europe.... Will you bet?
STÁKHOV. Don't, my dear fellow.... You know very well that nobody
believes you, or will bet with you.
KOROTKÓV. I tell you your Cartouche won't be in it!
AFRÉMOV. Stop quarrelling! Let me settle it ... ask Fédya--he'll
give you the right tip.
FÉDYA. Both horses are good. All depends on the jockey.
STÁKHOV. Gúsev is a rascal, and needs a firm hand on him.
KOROTKÓV [shouts] No!
FÉDYA. Wait a bit--I'll settle your differences.... Who won the
Moscow Derby?
KOROTKÓV. He did--but what of that? It was only chance.The Colonel shut the door. Then he turned toward Virginia, thoughtfully
pulled his goatee, and laughed gently. "Lordy, we haven't got three
hundred and fifty dollars to our names," said he.

The climate of St. Louis is capricious. That fierce valley of the
Missouri, which belches fitful blizzards from December to March, is
sometimes quiet. Then the hot winds come up from the Gulf, and sleet
melts, and windows are opened. In those days the streets will be fetlock
deep in soft mud. It is neither summer, nor winter, nor spring, nor
anything.

It was such a languorous afternoon in January that a furniture van,
accompanied by certain nondescript persons known as United States Police,
pulled up at the curb in front of Mr. Carvel's house. Eugenie, watching
at the window across the street, ran to tell her father, who came out on
his steps and reviled the van with all the fluency of his French
ancestors.

Mammy Easter opened the door, and then stood with her arms akimbo, amply
filling its place. Her lips protruded, and an expression of defiance hard
to describe sat on her honest black face.

"Is this Colonel Carvel's house?"

"Yassir. I 'low you knows dat jes as well as me." An embarrassed silence,
and then from Mammy, "Whaffor you laffin at?"

"Is the Colonel at home?"

"Now I reckon you knows dat he ain't. Ef he was, you ain't come here
'quirin' in dat honey voice." (Raising her own voice.) "You tink I dunno
whaffor you come? You done come heah to rifle, an' to loot, an' to steal,
an' to seize what ain't your'n. You come heah when young Marse ain't to
home ter rob him." (Still louder.) "Ned, whaffor you hidin' yonder? Ef
yo' ain't man to protect Marse Comyn's prop-ty, jes han' over Marse
Comyn's gun."

The marshal and his men had stood, half amused, more than half baffled by
this unexpected resistance. Mammy Easter looked so dangerous that it was
evident she was not to be passed without extreme bodily discomfort.

"Is your mistress here?"

This question was unfortunate in the extreme.

"You--you white trash!" cried Mammy, bursting with indignation. "Who is
you to come heah 'quiring fo' her! I ain't agwine--"

"Mammy!"

"Yas'm! Yas, Miss Jinny." Mammy backed out of the door and clutched at
her bandanna.

"Mammy, what is all this noise about?" The torrent was loosed once more.

"These heah men, Miss Jinny, was gwine f'r t' carry away all yo' pa's
blongin's. I jes' tol' 'em dey ain't comin' in ovah dis heah body."

The deputy had his foot on the threshold. He caught sight of the face of
Miss Carvel within, and stopped abruptly.

"I have a warrant here from the Provost Marshal, ma'am, to seize personal
property to satisfy a claim against Colonel Carvel."

Virginia took the order, read it, and handed it back. "I do not see how I
am to prevent you," she said. The deputy was plainly abashed.

"I'm sorry, Miss. I--I can't tell you how sorry I am. But it's got to be
done."

Virginia nodded coldly. And still the man hesitated. "What are you
waiting for?" she said.

The deputy wiped his muddy feet. He made his men do likewise. Then he
entered the chill drawing-room, threw open the blinds and glanced around
him.

"I expect all that we want is right here," he said. And at the sight of
the great chandelier, with its cut-glass crystals, he whistled. Then he
walked over to the big English Rothfield piano and lifted the lid.

The man was a musician. Involuntarily he rested himself on the mahogany
stool, and ran his fingers over the keys. They seemed to Virginia,
standing motionless in the ball, to give out the very chords of agony.

The piano, too, had been her mother's. It had once stood in the brick
house of her grandfather Colfax at Halcyondale. The songs of Beatrice lay
on the bottom shelf of the what-not near by. No more, of an evening when
they were alone, would Virginia quietly take them out and play them over
to the Colonel, as he sat dreaming in the window with his cigar,
--dreaming of a field on the borders of a wood, of a young girl who held
his hand, and sang them softly to herself as she walked by his side. And,
when they reached the house in the October twilight, she had played them
for him on this piano. Often he had told Virginia of those days, and
walked with her over those paths.

The deputy closed the lid, and sent out to the van for a truck. Virginia
stirred. For the first time she heard the words of Mammy Easter.

"Come along upstairs wid yo' Mammy, honey. Dis ain't no place for us, I
reckon." Her words were the essence of endearment. And yet, while she
pronounced them, she glared unceasingly at the intruders. "Oh, de good
Lawd'll burn de wicked!"

The men were removing the carved legs. Virginia went back into the room
and stood before the deputy.

"Isn't there something else you could take? Some jewellery?" She flushed.
"I have a necklace--"

"No, miss. This warrant's on your father. And there ain't nothing quite
so salable as pianos."

She watched them, dry-eyed, as they carried it away. It seemed like a
coffin. Only Mammy Easter guessed at the pain in Virginia's breast, and
that was because there was a pain in her own. They took the rosewood
what-not, but Virginia snatched the songs before the men could touch
them, and held them in her arms. They seized the mahogany velvet-bottomed
chairs, her uncle's wedding present to her mother; and, last of all, they
ruthlessly tore up the Brussels carpet, beginning near the spot where
Clarence had spilled ice-cream at one of her children's parties.

She could not bear to look into the dismantled room when they had gone.
It was the embodied wreck of her happiness. Ned closed the blinds once
more, and she herself turned the key in the lock, and went slowly up the
stairs.


CHAPTER V

THE AUCTION

"Stephen," said the Judge, in his abrupt way, "there isn't a great deal
doing. Let's go over to the Secesh property sales."

Stephen looked up in surprise. The seizures and intended sale of
secession property had stirred up immense bitterness and indignation in
the city. There were Unionists (lukewarm) who denounced the measure as
unjust and brutal. The feelings of Southerners, avowed and secret, may
only be surmised. Rigid ostracism was to be the price of bidding on any
goods displayed, and men who bought in handsome furniture on that day
because it was cheap have still, after forty years, cause to remember it.

It was not that Stephen feared ostracism. Anne Brinsmade was almost the
only girl left to him from among his former circle of acquaintances. Miss
Carvel's conduct is known. The Misses Russell showed him very plainly
that they disapproved of his politics. The hospitable days at that house
were over. Miss Catherwood, when they met on the street, pretended not to
see him, and Eugenie Renault gave him but a timid nod. The loyal families
to whose houses he now went were mostly Southerners, in sentiment against
forced auctions.

However, he put on his coat, and sallied forth into the sharp air, the
Judge leaning on his arm. They walked for some distance in silence.

"Stephen," said he, presently, "I guess I'll do a little bidding."

Stephen did not reply. But he was astonished. He wondered what Mr.
Whipple wanted with fine furniture. And, if he really wished to bid,
Stephen knew likewise that no consideration would stop him.

"You don't approve of this proceeding, sir, I suppose," said the Judge.

"Yes, sir, on large grounds. War makes many harsh things necessary."

"Then," said the Judge, tartly, "by bidding, we help to support starving
Union families. You should not be afraid to bid, sir."

Stephen bit his lip. Sometimes Mr. Whipple made him very angry.

"I am not afraid to bid, Judge Whipple." He did not see the smile on the
Judge's face.

"Then you will bid in certain things for me," said Mr. Whipple. Here he
hesitated, and shook free the rest of the sentence with a wrench.
"Colonel Carvel always had a lot of stuff I wanted. Now I've got the
chance to buy it cheap."

There was silence again, for the space of a whole block. Finally, Stephen
managed to say:-- "You'll have to excuse me, sir. I do not care to do
that."

"What?" cried the Judge, stopping in the middle of a cross-street, so
that a wagon nearly ran over his toes.

"I was once a guest in Colonel Carvel's house, sir. And--"

"And what?"

Neither the young man nor the old knew all it was costing the other to
say these things. The Judge took a grim pleasure in eating his heart. And
as for Stephen, he often went to his office through Locust Street, which
was out of his way, in the hope that he might catch a glimpse of
Virginia. He had guessed much of the privations she had gone through. He
knew that the Colonel had hired out most of his slaves, and he had
actually seen the United States Police drive across Eleventh Street with
the piano that she had played on.

The Judge was laughing quietly,--not a pleasant laugh to hear,--as they
came to Morgan's great warerooms. A crowd blocked the pavement, and
hustled and shoved at the doors,--roughs, and soldiers off duty, and
ladies and gentlemen whom the Judge and Stephen knew, and some of whom
they spoke to. All of these were come out of curiosity, that they might
see for themselves any who had the temerity to bid on a neighbor's
household goods. The long hall, which ran from street to street, was
packed, the people surging backward and forward, and falling roughly
against the mahogany pieces; and apologizing, and scolding, and swearing
all in a breath. The Judge, holding tightly to Stephen, pushed his way
fiercely to the stand, vowing over and over that the commotion was a
secession trick to spoil the furniture and stampede the sale. In truth,
it was at the Judge's suggestion that a blue provost's guard was called
in later to protect the seized property.

How many of those mahogany pieces, so ruthlessly tumbled about before the
public eye, meant a heartache! Wedding presents of long ago, dear to many
a bride with silvered hair, had been torn from the corner where the
children had played--children who now, alas, were grown and gone to war.
Yes, that was the Brussels rug that had lain before the fire, and which
the little feet had worn in the corner. Those were the chairs the little
hands had harnessed, four in a row, and fallen on its side was the
armchair--the stage coach itself. There were the books, held up to common
gaze, that a beloved parent had thumbed with affection. Yes, and here in
another part of the hall were the family horses and the family carriage
that had gone so often back and forth from church with the happy brood of
children, now scattered and gone to war.

As Stephen reached his place beside the Judge, Mr. James's effects were
being cried. And, if glances could have killed, many a bidder would have
dropped dead. The heavy dining-room table which meant so much to the
family went for a song to a young man recently come from Yankeeland,
whose open boast it was--like Eliphalet's secret one--that he would one
day grow rich enough to snap his fingers in the face of the Southern
aristocrats. Mr. James was not there. But Mr. Catherwood, his face
haggard and drawn, watched the sideboard he had given his wife on her
silver wedding being sold to a pawnbroker.

Stephen looked in vain for Colonel Carvel--for Virginia. He did not want
to see them there. He knew by heart the list of things which had been
taken from their house. He understood the feeling which had sent the
Judge here to bid them in. And Stephen honored him the more.

When the auctioneer came to the Carvel list, and the well-known name was
shouted out, the crowd responded with a stir and pressed closer to the
stand. And murmurs were plainly heard in more than one direction.

"Now, gentlemen, and ladies," said the seller, "this here is a genuine
English Rothfield piano once belonging to Colonel Carvel, and the
celebrated Judge Colfax of Kaintucky." He lingered fondly over the names,
that the impression might have time to sink deep. "This here magnificent
instrument's worth at the very least" (another pause) "twelve hundred
dollars. What am I bid?"

He struck a base note of the keys, then a treble, and they vibrated in
the heated air of the big hall. Had he hit the little C of the top
octave, the tinkle of that also might have been heard.

"Gentlemen and ladies, we have to begin somewheres. What am I bid?"

A menacing murmur gave place to the accusing silence. Some there were who
gazed at the Rothfield with longing eyes, but who had no intention of
committing social suicide. Suddenly a voice, the rasp of which penetrated
to St. Charles Street, came out with a bid. The owner was a seedy man
with a straw-colored, drunkard's mustache. He was leaning against the
body of Mrs. Russell's barouche (seized for sale), and those about him
shrank away as from smallpox. His hundred-dollar offer was followed by a
hiss. What followed next Stephen will always remember. When Judge Whipple
drew himself up to his full six feet, that was a warning to those that
knew him. As he doubled the bid, the words came out with the aggressive
distinctness of a man who through a long life has been used to
opposition. He with the gnawed yellow mustache pushed himself clear of
the barouche, his smouldering cigar butt dropping to the floor. But there
were no hisses now.

And this is how Judge Whipple braved public opinion once more. As he
stood there, defiant, many were the conjectures as to what he could wish
to do with the piano of his old friend. Those who knew the Judge (and
there were few who did not) pictured to themselves the dingy little
apartment where he lived, and smiled. Whatever his detractors might have
said of him, no one was ever heard to avow that he had bought or sold
anything for gain.

A tremor ran through the people. Could it have been of admiration for the
fine old man who towered there glaring defiance at those about him? "Give
me a strong and consistent enemy," some great personage has said, "rather
than a lukewarm friend." Three score and five years the Judge had lived,
and now some were beginning to suspect that he had a heart. Verily he had
guarded his secret well. But it was let out to many more that day, and
they went home praising him who had once pronounced his name with
bitterness.

This is what happened. Before he of the yellow mustache could pick up his
cigar from the floor and make another bid, the Judge had cried out a sum
which was the total of Colonel Carvel's assessment. Many recall to this
day how fiercely he frowned when the applause broke forth of itself; and
when he turned to go they made a path for him, in admiration, the length
of the hall, down which he stalked, looking neither to the right nor
left. Stephen followed him, thankful for the day which had brought him
into the service of such a man.

And so it came about that the other articles were returned to Colonel
Carvel with the marshal's compliments, and put back into the cold parlor
where they had stood for many years. The men who brought them offered to
put down the carpet, but by Virginia's orders the rolls were stood up in
the corner, and the floor left bare. And days passed into weeks, and no
sign or message came from Judge Whipple in regard to the piano he had
bought. Virginia did not dare mention it to the Colonel.

Where was it? It had been carried by six sweating negroes up the narrow
stairs into the Judge's office. Stephen and Shadrach had by Mr. Whipple's
orders cleared a corner of his inner office and bedroom of papers and
books and rubbish, and there the bulky instrument was finally set up. It
occupied one-third of the space. The Judge watched the proceeding grimly,
choking now and again from the dust that was raised, yet uttering never a
word. He locked the lid when the van man handed him the key, and thrust
that in his pocket.

Stephen had of late found enough to do in St. Louis. He was the kind of
man to whom promotions came unsought, and without noise. In the autumn he
had been made a captain in the Halleck Guards of the State Militia, as a
reward for his indefatigable work in the armories and his knowledge of
tactics. Twice his company had been called out at night, and once they
made a campaign as far as the Merimec and captured a party of recruits
who were destined for Jefferson Davis. Some weeks passed before Mr.
Brinsmade heard of his promotion and this exploit, and yet scarcely a day
went by that he did not see the young man at the big hospital. For
Stephen helped in the work of the Sanitary Commission too, and so strove
to make up in zeal for the service in the field which he longed to give.

After Christmas Mr. and Mrs. Brinsmade moved out to their place on the
Bellefontaine Road. This was to force Anne to take a rest. For the girl
was worn out with watching at the hospitals, and with tending the
destitute mothers and children from the ranks of the refugees. The
Brinsmade place was not far from the Fair Grounds,--now a receiving camp
for the crude but eager regiments of the Northern states. To Mr.
Brinsmade's, when the day's duty was done, the young Union officers used
to ride, and often there would be half a dozen of them to tea. That
house, and other great houses on the Bellefontaine Road with which this
history has no occasion to deal, were as homes to many a poor fellow who
would never see home again. Sometimes Anne would gather together such
young ladies of her acquaintance from the neighbor hood and the city as
their interests and sympathies permitted to waltz with a Union officer,
and there would be a little dance. To these dances Stephen Brice was
usually invited.

One such occasion occurred on a Friday in January, and Mr. Brinsmade
himself called in his buggy and drove Stephen to the country early in the
afternoon. He and Anne went for a walk along the river, the surface of
which was broken by lumps of yellow ice. Gray clouds hung low in the sky
as they picked their way over the frozen furrows of the ploughed fields.
The grass was all a yellow-brown, but the north wind which swayed the
bare trees brought a touch of color to Anne's cheeks. Before they
realized where they were, they had nearly crossed the Bellegarde estate,
and the house itself was come into view, standing high on the slope above
the withered garden. They halted.

"The shutters are up," said Stephen. "I understood that Mrs. Colfax had
come out here not long a--"

"She came out for a day just before Christina," said Anne, smiling, "and
then she ran off to Kentucky. I think she was afraid that she was one of
the two women on the list of Sixty."

"It must have been a blow to her pride when she found that she was not,"
said Stephen, who had a keen remembrance of her conduct upon a certain
Sunday not a year gone.

Impelled by the same inclination, they walked in silence to the house and
sat down on the edge of the porch. The only motion in the view was the
smoke from the slave quarters twisting in the wind, and the hurrying ice
in the stream.

"Poor Jinny!" said Anne, with a sigh, "how she loved to romp! What good
times we used to have here together!"

"Do you think that she is unhappy?" Stephen demanded, involuntarily.

"Oh, yes," said Anne. "How can you ask? But you could not make her show
it. The other morning when she came out to our house I found her sitting
at the piano. I am sure there were tears in her eyes, but she would not
let me see them. She made some joke about Spencer Catherwood running
away. What do you think the Judge will do with that piano, Stephen?"

He shook his head.

"The day after they put it in his room he came in with a great black
cloth, which he spread over it. You cannot even see the feet."

There was a silence. And Anne, turning to him timidly, gave him a long,
searching look.

"It is growing late," she said. "I think that we ought to go back."

They went out by the long entrance road, through the naked woods. Stephen
said little. Only a little while before he had had one of those vivid
dreams of Virginia which left their impression, but not their substance,
to haunt him. On those rare days following the dreams her spirit had its
mastery over his. He pictured her then with a glow on her face which was
neither sadness nor mirth,--a glow that ministered to him alone. And yet,
he did not dare to think that he might have won her, even if politics and
war had not divided them.

When the merriment of the dance was at its height that evening, Stephen
stood at the door of the long room, meditatively watching the bright
gowns and the flash of gold on the uniforms as they flitted past.
Presently the opposite door opened, and he heard Mr. Brinsmade's voice
mingling with another, the excitable energy of which recalled some
familiar episode. Almost--so it seemed--at one motion, the owner of the
voice had come out of the door and had seized Stephen's hand in a warm
grasp,--a tall and spare figure in the dress of a senior officer. The
military frock, which fitted the man's character rather than the man, was
carelessly open, laying bare a gold-buttoned white waistcoat and an
expanse of shirt bosom which ended in a black stock tie. The ends of the
collar were apart the width of the red clipped beard, and the mustache
was cropped straight along the line of the upper lip. The forehead rose
high, and was brushed carelessly free of the hair. The nose was almost
straight, but combative. A fire fairly burned in the eyes.

"The boy doesn't remember me," said the gentleman, in quick tones,
smiling at Mr. Brinsmade.

"Yes, sir, I do," Stephen made haste to answer. He glanced at the star on
the shoulder strap, and said. "You are General Sherman."

"First rate!" laughed the General, patting him. "First rate!"

"Now in command at Camp Benton, Stephen," Mr. Brinsmade put in. "Won't
you sit down, General?"

"No," said the General, emphatically waving away the chair. "No, rather
stand." Then his keen face suddenly lighted with amusement,--and
mischief, Stephen thought. "So you've heard of me since we met, sir?"
"Yes, General."

"Humph! Guess you heard I was crazy," said the General, in his downright
way.

Stephen was struck dumb.

"He's been reading the lies in the newspapers too, Brinsmade," the
General went on rapidly. "I'll make 'em eat their newspapers for saying I
was crazy. That's the Secretary of War's doings. Ever tell you what
Cameron did, Brinsmade? He and his party were in Louisville last fall,
when I was serving in Kentucky, and came to my room in the Galt House.
Well, we locked the door, and Miller sent us up a good lunch and wine,
After lunch, the Secretary lay on my bed, and we talked things over. He
asked me what I thought about things in Kentucky. I told him. I got a
map. I said, 'Now, Mr. Secretary, here is the whole Union line from the
Potomac to Kansas. Here's McClellan in the East with one hundred miles of
front. Here's Fremont in the West with one hundred miles. Here we are in
Kentucky, in the centre, with three hundred miles to defend. McClellan
has a hundred thousand men, Fremont has sixty thousand. You give us
fellows with over three hundred miles only eighteen thousand.' 'How many
do you want?' says Cameron, still on the bed. 'Two hundred thousand
before we get through,' said I. Cameron pitched up his hands in the air.
'Great God?' says he, 'where are they to come from?' 'The northwest is
chuck full of regiments you fellows at Washington won't accept,' said I.
'Mark my words, Mr. Secretary, you'll need 'em all and more before we get
done with this Rebellion.' Well, sir, he was very friendly before we
finished, and I thought the thing was all thrashed out. No, sir! he goes
back to Washington and gives it out that I'm crazy, and want two hundred
thousand men in Kentucky. Then I am ordered to report to Halleck in
Missouri here, and he calls me back from Sedalia because he believes the
lies."

Stephen, who had in truth read the stories in question a month or two
before, could not conceal his embarrassment He looked at the man in front
of him,--alert, masterful intelligent, frank to any stranger who took his
fancy,--and wondered how any one who had talked to him could believe
them.

Mr. Brinsmade smiled. "They have to print something, General," he said.

"I'll give 'em something to print later on," answered the General,
grimly. Then his expression changed. "Brinsmade, you fellows did have a
session with Fremont, didn't you? Anderson sent me over here last
September, and the first man I ran across at the Planters' House was
Appleton. '--What are you in town for?' says he. 'To see Fremont,' I
said. You ought to have heard Appleton laugh. 'You don't think Fremont'll
see you, do you?' says he. 'Why not?' 'Well,' says Tom, 'go 'round to his
palace at six to-morrow morning and bribe that Hungarian prince who runs
his body-guard to get you a good place in the line of senators and
governors and first citizens, and before nightfall you may get a sight of
him, since you come from Anderson. Not one man in a hundred,' says
Appleton, I not one man in a hundred, reaches his chief-of-staff.' Next
morning," the General continued in a staccato which was often his habit,
"had breakfast before daybreak and went 'round there. Place just swarming
with Californians--army contracts." (The General sniffed.) Saw Fremont.
Went back to hotel. More Californians, and by gad--old Baron Steinberger
with his nose hanging over the register."

"Fremont was a little difficult to get at, General," said Mr. Brinsmade.
"Things were confused and discouraged when those first contracts were
awarded. Fremont was a good man, and it wasn't his fault that the
inexperience of his quartermasters permitted some of those men to get
rich."

"No," said the General. "His fault! Certainly not. Good man! To be sure
he was--didn't get along with Blair. These court-martials you're having
here now have stirred up the whole country. I guess we'll hear now how
those fortunes were made. To listen to those witnesses lie about each
other on the stand is better than the theatre."

Stephen laughed at the comical and vivid manner in which the General set
this matter forth. He himself had been present one day of the sittings of
the court-martial when one of the witnesses on the prices of mules was
that same seedy man with the straw-colored mustache who had bid for
Virginia's piano against the Judge.

"Come, Stephen," said the General, abruptly, "run and snatch one of those
pretty girls from my officers. They're having more than their share."

"They deserve more, sir," answered Stephen. Whereupon the General laid
his hand impulsively on the young man's shoulder, divining what Stephen
did not say.

"Nonsense!" said be; "you are doing the work in this war, not we. We do
the damage--you repair it. If it were not for Mr. Brinsmade and you
gentlemen who help him, where would our Western armies be? Don't you go
to the front yet a while, young man. We need the best we have in
reserve." He glanced critically at Stephen. "You've had military training
of some sort?"

"He's a captain in the Halleck Guards, sir," said Mr. Brinsmade,
generously, "and the best drillmaster we've had in this city. He's seen
service, too, General."

Stephen reddened furiously and started to protest, when the General
cried:-- "It's more than I have in this war. Come, come, I knew he was a
soldier. Let's see what kind of a strategist he'll make. Brinsmade, have
you got such a thing as a map?" Mr. Brinsmade had, and led the way back
into the library. The General shut the door, lighted a cigar with a
single vigorous stroke of a match, and began to smoke with quick puffs.
Stephen was puzzled how to receive the confidences the General was giving
out with such freedom.

When the map was laid on the table, the General drew a pencil from his
pocket and pointed to the state of Kentucky. Then he drew a line from
Columbus to Bowling Green, through Forts Donelson and Henry.

"Now, Stephen," said he, "there's the Rebel line. Show me the proper
place to break it."

Stephen hesitated a while, and then pointed at the centre.

"Good!" said the General. "Very good!" He drew a heavy line across the
first, and it ran almost in the bed of the Tennessee River. He swung on
Mr. Brinsmade. "Very question Halleck asked me the other day, and that's
how I answered it. Now, gentlemen, there's a man named Grant down in that
part of the country. Keep your eyes on him. Ever heard of him, Brinsmade?
He used to live here once, and a year ago he was less than I was. Now
he's a general."

The recollection of the scene in the street by the Arsenal that May
morning not a year gone came to Stephen with a shock.

"I saw him," he cried; "he was Captain Grant that lived on the Gravois
Road. But surely this can't be the same man who seized Paducah and was in
that affair at Belmont."

"By gum!" said the General, laughing. "Don't wonder you're surprised.
Grant has stuff in him. They kicked him around Springfield awhile, after
the war broke out, for a military carpet-bagger. Then they gave him for a
regiment the worst lot of ruffians you ever laid eyes on. He fixed 'em.
He made 'em walk the plank. He made 'em march halfway across the state
instead of taking the cars the Governor offered. Belmont! I guess he is
the man that chased the Rebs out of Belmont. Then his boys broke loose
when they got into the town. That wasn't Grant's fault. The Rebs came
back and chased 'em out into their boats on the river. Brinsmade, you
remember hearing about that.

"Grant did the coolest thing you ever saw. He sat on his horse at the top
of the bluff while the boys fell over each other trying to get on the
boat. Yes, sir, he sat there, disgusted, on his horse, smoking a cigar,
with the Rebs raising pandemonium all around him. And then, sir," cried
the General, excitedly, "what do you think he did? Hanged if he didn't
force his horse right on to his haunches, slide down the whole length of
the bank and ride him across a teetering plank on to the steamer. And the
Rebs just stood on the bank and stared. They were so astonished they
didn't even shoot the man. You watch Grant," said the General. "And now,
Stephen," he added, "just you run off and take hold of the prettiest girl
you can find. If any of my boys object, say I sent you."

The next Monday Stephen had a caller. It was little Tiefel, now a first
lieutenant with a bristly beard and tanned face, come to town on a few
days' furlough. He had been with Lyon at Wilson's Creek, and he had a sad
story to tell of how he found poor Richter, lying stark on that bloody
field, with a smile of peace upon his face. Strange that he should at
length have been killed by a sabre!

It was a sad meeting for those two, since each reminded the other of a
dear friend they would see no more on earth. They went out to sup
together in the German style; and gradually, over his beer, Tiefel forgot
his sorrow. Stephen listened with an ache to the little man's tales of
the campaigns he had been through. So that presently Tiefel cried out:

"Why, my friend, you are melancholy as an owl. I will tell you a funny
story. Did you ever hear of one General Sherman? He that they say is
crazy?"

"He is no more crazy than I am," said Stephen, warmly--

"Is he not?" answered Tiefel, "then I will show you a mistake. You recall
last November he was out to Sedalia to inspect the camp there, and he
sleeps in a little country store where I am quartered. Now up gets your
General Sherman in the middle of the night,--midnight,--and marches up
and down between the counters, and waves his arms. So, says he, 'land
so,' says he, 'Sterling Price will be here, and Steele here, and this
column will take that road, and so-and-so's a damned fool. Is not that
crazy? So he walks up and down for three eternal hours. Says he, 'Pope
has no business to be at Osterville, and Steele here at Sedalia with his
regiments all over the place. They must both go into camp at La Mine
River, and form brigades and divisions, that the troops may be handled.'"

"If that's insanity," cried Stephen so strongly as to surprise the little
man; "then I wish we had more insane generals. It just shows how a
malicious rumor will spread. What Sherman said about Pope's and Steele's
forces is true as Gospel, and if you ever took the trouble to look into
that situation, Tiefel, you would see it." And Stephen brought down his
mug on the table with a crash that made the bystanders jump.

"Himmel!" exclaimed little Tiefel. But he spoke in admiration.

It was not a month after that that Sherman's prophecy of the quiet
general who had slid down the bluff at Belmont came true. The whole
country bummed with Grant's praises. Moving with great swiftness and
secrecy up the Tennessee, in company with the gunboats of Commodore
Foote, he had pierced the Confederate line at the very point Sherman had
indicated. Fort Henry had fallen, and Grant was even then moving to
besiege Donelson.

Mr. Brinsmade prepared to leave at once for the battlefield, taking with
him too Paducah physicians and nurses. All day long the boat was loading
with sanitary stores and boxes of dainties for the wounded. It was muggy
and wet--characteristic of that winter--as Stephen pushed through the
drays on the slippery levee to the landing.

He had with him a basket his mother had put up. He also bore a message to
Mr. Brinsmade from the Judge It was while he was picking his way along
the crowded decks that he ran into General Sherman. The General seized
him unceremoniously by the shoulder.

"Good-by, Stephen," he said.

"Good-by, General," said Stephen, shifting his basket to shake hands.
"Are you going away?"

"Ordered to Paducah," said the General. He pulled Stephen off the guards
into an empty cabin. "Brice," said he, earnestly, "I haven't forgotten
how you saved young Brinsmade at Camp Jackson. They tell me that you are
useful here. I say, don't go in unless you have to. I don't mean force,
you understand. But when you feel that you can go in, come to me or write
me a letter. That is," he added, seemingly inspecting Stephen's white
teeth with approbation, "if you're not afraid to serve under a crazy
man."

It has been said that the General liked the lack of effusiveness of
Stephen's reply.


CHAPTER VI

ELIPHALET PLAYS HIS TRUMPS

Summer was come again. Through interminable days, the sun beat down upon
the city; and at night the tortured bricks flung back angrily the heat
with which he had filled them. Great battles had been fought, and vast
armies were drawing breath for greater ones to come.

"Jinny," said the Colonel one day, "as we don't seem to be much use in
town, I reckon we may as well go to Glencoe."

Virginia, threw her arms around her father's neck. For many months she
had seen what the Colonel himself was slow to comprehend--that his
usefulness was gone. The days melted into weeks, and Sterling Price and
his army of liberation failed to come. The vigilant Union general and his
aides had long since closed all avenues to the South. For, one fine
morning toward the end of the previous summer, when the Colonel was
contemplating a journey, he had read that none might leave the city
without a pass, whereupon he went hurriedly to the office of the Provost
Marshal. There he had found a number of gentlemen in the same plight,
each waving a pass made out by the Provost Marshal's clerks, and waiting
for that officer's signature. The Colonel also procured one of these, and
fell into line. The Marshal gazed at the crowd, pulled off his coat, and
readily put his name to the passes of several gentlemen going east. Next
came Mr. Bub Ballington, whom the Colonel knew, but pretended not to.

"Going to Springfield?" asked the Marshal, genially.

"Yes," said Bub.

"Not very profitable to be a minute-man, eh?" in the same tone.

The Marshal signs his name, Mr, Ballington trying not to look indignant
as he makes for the door. A small silver bell rings on the Marshal's
desk, the one word: "Spot!" breaks the intense silence, which is one way
of saying that Mr. Ballington is detained, and will probably be lodged
that night at Government expense.

"Well, Colonel Carvel, what can I do for you this morning?" asked the
Marshal, genially.

The Colonel pushed back his hat and wiped his brow. "I reckon I'll wait
till next week, Captain," said Mr. Carvel. "It's pretty hot to travel
just now."

The Provost Marshal smiled sweetly. There were many in the office who
would have liked to laugh, but it did not pay to laugh at some people.
Colonel Carvel was one of them.

In the proclamation of martial law was much to make life less endurable
than ever. All who were convicted by a court-martial of being rebels were
to have property confiscated, and slaves set free. Then there was a
certain oath to be taken by all citizens who did not wish to have
guardians appointed over their actions. There were many who swallowed
this oath and never felt any ill effects. Mr. Jacob Cluyme was one, and
came away feeling very virtuous. It was not unusual for Mr. Cluyme to
feel virtuous. Mr. Hopper did not have indigestion after taking it, but
Colonel Carvel would sooner have eaten, gooseberry pie, which he had
never tasted but once.

That summer had worn away, like a monster which turns and gives hot gasps
when you think it has expired. It took the Arkansan just a month, under
Virginia's care, to become well enough to be sent to a Northern prison He
was not precisely a Southern gentleman, and he went to sleep over the
"Idylls of the King." But he was admiring, and grateful, and wept when he
went off to the boat with the provost's guard, destined for a Northern
prison. Virginia wept too. He had taken her away from her aunt (who would
have nothing to do with him), and had given her occupation. She nor her
father never tired of hearing his rough tales of Price's rough army.

His departure was about the time when suspicions were growing set. The
favor had caused comment and trouble, hence there was no hope of giving
another sufferer the same comfort. The cordon was drawn tighter. One of
the mysterious gentlemen who had been seen in the vicinity of Colonel
Carvel's house was arrested on the ferry, but he had contrived to be rid
of the carpet-sack in which certain precious letters were carried.

Throughout the winter, Mr. Hopper's visits to Locust Street had continued
at intervals of painful regularity. It is not necessary to dwell upon his
brilliant powers of conversation, nor to repeat the platitudes which he
repeated, for there was no significance in Mr. Hopper's tales, not a
particle. The Colonel had found that out, and was thankful. His manners
were better; his English decidedly better.

It was for her father's sake, of course, that Virginia bore with him.
Such is the appointed lot of women. She tried to be just, and it occurred
to her that she had never before been just. Again and again she repeated
to herself that Eliphalet's devotion to the Colonel at this low ebb of
his fortunes had something in it of which she did not suspect him. She
had a class contempt for Mr. Hopper as an uneducated Yankee and a person
of commercial ideals. But now he was showing virtues,--if virtues they
were,--and she tried to give him the benefit of the doubt. With his great
shrewdness and business ability, why did he not take advantage of the
many opportunities the war gave to make a fortune? For Virginia had of
late been going to the store with the Colonel,--who spent his mornings
turning over piles of dusty papers, and Mr. Hopper had always been at his
desk.

After this, Virginia even strove to be kind to him, but it was uphill
work. The front door never closed after one of his visits that suspicion
was not left behind. Antipathy would assert itself. Could it be that
there was a motive under all this plotting? He struck her inevitably as
the kind who would be content to mine underground to attain an end. The
dusk of evening had already closed over the city when de Casimir and
Charles at length came downstairs. No one had troubled to open the shutters
of such rooms as were not required; and these were many.

For Moscow was even at that day a great city, though less spacious
and more fantastic than it is to-day.

There was plenty of room for the whole army in the houses left empty by
their owners, so that many lodged as they had never lodged before and would
never lodge again.

The stairs were almost dark when Charles and his companion descended
them.

The rusted musket poised against the doorpost still indicated the
supposed presence of a sentry.

"Listen," said Charles, "I found him burrowing like a rat at a
cellar-door in the courtyard.

Perhaps he has got in."
They listened, but could hear nothing. Charles led the way towards the
courtyard. A glimmer of light guided him to the door he sought.
It stood open. Barlasch had succeeded in effecting an entry to the cellar,
where his experience taught him to seek the best that an abandoned
house contains.

Charles and de Casimir peered down the narrow stairs. By the light of
a candle Barlasch was working vigorously amid a confused pile of
cases, and furniture, and roughly tied bundles of clothing. He had laid
aside nothing, and his movements were attended by the usual rattle of
hollow-ware. They could see the perspiration gleaming on his face.
Even in this cellar there lingered the faint smell of sour smoke
that filled the air of Moscow.

De Casimir caught the gleam of jewellery, and went hurriedly
downstairs.

"What are you doing there, my friend?"

he asked, and the words were scarcely out of his mouth, when Barlasch
extinguished his candle.

There followed a dead silence, such as comes when a rodent is disturbed
at his work.

The two men on the cellar-stairs were conscious of the gaze of the
bright, rat-like eyes below.

De Casimir turned and followed Charles upstairs again.

"Come up," he said, "and go to your post."
There was no movement in response.

"Name of a dog," cried de Casimir, "is all discipline relaxed? Come up,
I tell you, and obey my orders."

He emphasized his command with the cocking of a pistol, and a slight
disturbance in the darkness of the cellar heralded the unwilling approach
of Barlasch, who climbed the stairs step by step like a schoolboy coming
to punishment.

"It is I who found the door, mon colonel, behind that pile of
firewood.

It is I who opened it.

What is down there is mine," he said, sullenly.

But the only reply that de Casimir made was to seize him by the arm
and jerk him away from the stairs.

"To your post," he said, "take your arm, and out into the street,
in front of the house.

That is your place."

But while he was still speaking, they were all startled by a sudden
disturbance in the cellar, and in the gloom a man stumbled up the
stairs and ran past them.

Barlasch had taken the precaution of bolting the huge front door, which
was large enough to give passage to a carriage.

The man, who exhaled an atmosphere of dust mingled with the disquieting
and all-pervading odour of smoke, rushed at the huge door and tugged
furiously at its handles.

Charles, who was on his heels, grasped his arm, but the man swung round
and threw him off as if he were a child. He had a hatchet in his hand
with which he aimed a blow at Charles, but missed him.
Barlasch was already going towards his musket, which stood in the corner
against the door-post, but the Russian saw his movement, and forestalled
him. Seizing the gun, he presented the bayonet to them, and stood with
his back to the door, facing the three men in a breathless silence. He
was a large man, dishevelled, with long hair tumbled about his
head, and light-coloured eyes, glaring like the eyes of a beast at
bay.

In the background de Casimir, quick and calm, had already covered him
with the pistol produced as a persuasive to Barlasch. For a second there
was silence, during which they all could hear the call to arms in the
street outside. The patrol was hurrying down the Petrovka, calling the
assembly.

The report of the pistol rang through the house, shaking the doors and
windows. The man threw up his arms and stood for a moment looking at de
Casimir with an expression of blank amazement. Then his legs
seemed to slip away from beneath him, and he collapsed to the floor.
He turned over with movements singularly suggestive of a child seeking
a comfortable position in bed, and lay quite still, his cheek on the
pavement and his staring eyes turned towards the cellar-door from which
he had emerged.

"He has his affair--that parishioner," muttered Barlasch, looking at him
with a smile that twisted his mouth to one side. And, as he spoke, the
man's throat rattled. De Casimir was reloading his pistol. So
persistent was the gaze of the dead man's eyes that de Casimir
turned on his heel to look in the same direction.

"Quick!" he exclaimed, pointing to the doorway, from which a lazy white
smoke emerged in thin puffs. "Quick, he has set fire to the house!"

"Quick--with what, mon colonel?" asked Barlasch.

"Why, go and fetch some men with a fire-engine."
"There are no fire-engines left in Moscow, mon colonel!"
"Then find buckets, and tell me where the well is."
"There are no buckets left in Moscow, mon colonel. We found that out last
night, when we wanted to water the horses.

The citizens have removed them. And there is not a well of which the
rope has not been cut.

They are droll companions, these Russians, I can tell you."
"Do as I tell you," repeated de Casimir, angrily, "or I shall put you
under arrest. Go and fetch men to help me to extinguish this fire."
By way of reply, Barlasch held up one finger in a childlike gesture
of attention to some distant sound.

"No, thank you," he said, coolly, "not for me.

Discipline, mon colonel, discipline. Listen, you can hear the
'assembly' as well as I.

It is the Emperor that one obeys.

One thinks of one's military career."

With knotted and shaking fingers he drew back the bolts and opened the
door. On the threshold he saluted.

"It is the call to arms, mes officiers," he said. Then, shouldering his
musket, he turned away, and all his clocks struck six. The bells of
the city churches seemed to greet him as he stepped into the street,
for in Moscow each hour is proclaimed with deafening iteration from
a thousand towers.

He looked down the Petrovka; from half the houses which bordered the
wide roadway--a street of palaces--the smoke was pouring forth in
puffs.

He went uphill towards the Red Square and the Kremlin, where the Emperor
had his head-quarters. It was to this centre that the patrols had converged.
Looking back, Barlasch saw, not one house on fire, but a hundred. The
smoke arose from every quarter of the city at once.

He hurried on, but was stopped by a crowd of soldiers, all laden
with booty, gesticulating, shouting, abusing one another.

It was Babel over again.

The riff-raff of sixteen nations had followed Napoleon to Moscow--to rob.
Half a dozen different tongues were spoken in one army corps. There
remained no national pride to act as a deterrent. No man cared what he
did. The blame would be laid upon France.

The crowd was collected in front of a high, many-windowed building
in flames.

"What is it?" Barlasch asked first one and then another.

But no one spoke his tongue. At last he found a Frenchman.

"It is the hospital."
"And what is that smell?

What is burning there?"
"Twelve thousand wounded," answered the man, with a sickening laugh.

And even as he spoke one or two of the wounded dragged themselves, half
burnt, down the wide steps. No one dared to approach them, for the walls
of the building were already bulging outwards.

One man was half covered with a sheet which was black, and his bare limbs
were black with smoke. All the hair was burnt from his head and face.
He stood for a moment in the doorway--a sight never to be
forgotten--and then fell headlong down the steps, where he lay
motionless.

Some one in the crowd laughed--a high cackle which was heard above
the roar of the fire and the deafening chorus of burning timbers.

Barlasch passed on, following some officers who were leading their horses
towards the Kremlin.

The streets were full of soldiers carrying burdens, and staggering beneath
the weight of their spoil.
Many were wearing priceless fur cloaks, and others walked in women's
wraps of sable and ermine.

Some wore jewellery, such as necklaces, on their rough uniforms,
and bracelets round their sunburnt wrists.

No one laughed at them, but only glanced enviously at the pillage.
All were in deadly earnest, and none graver than those who had found drink
and now regretted that they had given way to the temptation; for their
sober comrades had outwitted them in finding treasure.

One man gravely wore a gilt coronet crammed over the crown of his
shako.

He joined Barlasch, staggering along beside him.

"I come from the Cathedral," he explained, confidentially. "St.
Michael they call it.

They said there was great treasure there hidden in the cellars, but I
only found a company of old kings in their coffins. We stirred them up.
They were quiet enough when we found them, under their counterpanes of red
velvet. We stirred them up with the bayonet, and the dust got into
our throats and choked us.

Name of God, I am thirsty.

You have nothing in your bottle, comrade?"
"No."
Barlasch trudged on, all his possessions swinging and clanking together.
The confidential man turned towards him and lifted his water-bottle,
weighed it, and found it wanting.

"Name of a name, of a name, of a name," he muttered, walking on.

"Yes, there was nothing there. Even the silver plates on the coffins with
the names of those gentlemen were no thicker than a sword.

But I found a crown in the church itself. I borrowed it from St. Michael.
He had a sword in his hand, but he did not strike. No.

And there was only tinsel on the hilt. No jewels."
He walked on in silence for a few minutes, coughing out the smoke
and dust from his lungs.

It was almost dark, but the whole city was blazing now, and the sky glowed
with a red light that mingled with the remnants of a lurid sunset.

A strong wind blew the smoke and the flying sparks across the roofs.

"Then I went into the sacristy," continued the man, stumbling over
the dead body of a young girl and turning to curse her.

Barlasch looked at him sideways and cursed him for doing it, with
a sudden fierce eloquence.

For Papa Barlasch was a man of unclean lips.

"There was an old man in there, a sacristan. I asked him where he kept
the dishes, and he said he could not speak French. I jerked my bayonet
into him--name of a name! he soon spoke French."
Barlasch broke off these delicate confidences by a quick word of
command, and himself stood rigid in the roadway before the Imperial
Palace of the Kremlin, presenting arms. A man passed close by them on
his way towards a waiting carriage. He was stout and heavy- shouldered,
peculiarly square, with a thick neck and head set low in the shoulders.
On the step of the carriage he turned and surveyed the lurid sky
and the burning city to the east with an indifferent air.

Into his deep bloodshot eyes there flashed a sudden gleam of life and
power, as he glanced along the row of watching faces to read what was
written there.

It was Napoleon, at the summit of his dream, hurriedly quitting the
Kremlin, the boasted goal of his ambition, after having passed but one
night under that proud roof.

CHAPTER XVI. THE FIRST OF THE EBB.

Tho' he trip and fall He shall not blind his soul with clay.

The days were short, and November was drawing to its end when Barlasch
returned to Dantzig. Already the frost, holding its own against a sun
that seemed to linger in the North that year, exercised its sway almost
to midday, and drew a mist from the level plains.

The autumn had been one of unprecedented splendour, making the
imaginative whisper that Napoleon, like a second Joshua, could exact
obedience even from the sun.

A month earlier, soon after the retreat was ordered, the nights had begun
to be cold, but the days remained brilliant. Now the rivers were shrouded
in white mist, and still water was frozen.

Barlasch seemed to take it for understood that a billet holds good
throughout a whole campaign.

But the door of No. 36 Frauengasse was locked when he turned its iron
handle. He knocked, and waited on the step.

It was Desiree who opened the door at length--Desiree, grown older,
with something new in her eyes.

Barlasch, sure of his entree, had already removed his boots, which
he carried in his hand; this added to a certain surreptitiousness
in his attitude.

A handkerchief was bound over his left eye. He wore his shako still,
but the rest of his uniform verged on the fantastic. Under a light-blue
Bavarian cavalry cape he wore a peasant's homespun shirt, and he carried
no arms.

He pushed past Desiree rather unceremoniously, glad to get within doors.
He was very lame, and of his blue knitted stockings only the legs remained;
he was barefoot.

He limped towards the kitchen, glancing over his shoulder to make sure
that Desiree shut the door.

The chair he had made his own stood just within the open door of the
kitchen. It was nine o'clock in the morning, and Lisa had gone to market.
Barlasch sat down.

"Voila," he said, and that was all. But by a gesture he described the end
of the world.

Then he scowled at her with his available eye with suspicion, and she turned
away suddenly, as one may who has not a clear conscience.

"What is the matter with your eye?" she asked, in order to break the
silence. He laid aside his hat, and his ragged hair, quite white, fell
to his shoulders. By way of answer, he unknotted the bloodstained
dusky handkerchief, and looked up at her.

The hidden eye was uninjured and as bright as the other.

"Nothing," he answered, and he confirmed the statement by a low-born
wink.

More than once he glanced, with a glaring light in his eye, towards the
cupboard where Lisa kept the bread, and quite suddenly Desiree knew
that he was starving. She ran to the cupboard, and hurriedly set down on
the table before him what was there. It was not much--a piece of
cold meat and a whole loaf.

He had taken off his haversack, and was fumbling in it with unsteady
hands.

At last he found that which he sought. It was wrapped in a silk scarf
that must have come from Cashmere to Moscow, and from Moscow in his
haversack with pieces of horseflesh and muddy roots to Dantzig. With
that awkwardness in giving and taking which belongs to his class, he held
out to Desiree a little square "ikon" no bigger than a playing-card.

It was of gold, set with diamonds, and the faces of the Virgin and Child
were painted with exquisite delicacy.

"It is a thing to say your prayers to," he said gruffly.

By an effort he kept his eyes averted from the food on the table.

"I met a baker on the bridge," he said, "and offered it to him for a
loaf, but he refused."
And there was a whole history of human suffering and temptation--of
the human fall--in his curt laugh. While Desiree was looking at the
treasure in speechless admiration, he turned suddenly and took the
bread and meat in his grimy hands.

His crooked fingers closed over the loaf, making the crust crack, and
for a second the expression of his face was not human. Then he hurried
to the room that had been his, like a dog that seeks to hide its greed in
its kennel.

In a surprisingly short time he came back, the greyness all gone from his
face, though his eyes still glittered with the dry, hard light of
starvation. He went back to the chair near the door, and sat
down.

"Seven hundred miles," he said, looking down at his feet with a
shake of the head, "seven hundred miles in six weeks."

Then he glanced at her and out through the open door, to make sure none
could overhear.

"Because I was afraid," he added in a whisper. "I am easily frightened. I
am not brave."
Desiree shook her head and laughed. Women have from all time accepted the
theory that a uniform makes a man courageous.

"They had to abandon the guns," he went on, "soon after quitting
Moscow.

The horses were starving. There was a steep hill, and the guns were left
at the bottom.

Then I began to be afraid.

There were some marching with candelabras on their backs and nothing in
their carnassieres. They carried a million francs on their shoulders and
death in their faces. I was afraid. I carried salt-- salt--and
nothing else.

Then one day I saw the Emperor's face.
That was enough. The same night I crept away while the others slept
round the fire.

They looked like a masquerade. Some of them wore ermine. Oh! I was
afraid, I tell you. I only had the salt and some horse. There was plenty
of that on the road. And that toy. I found it in Moscow. I stood in a
cellar, as big as this room, full of such things.

But one thinks of one's life. I only carried salt, and that picture for you
. . . to say your prayers to. The good God will hear you, perhaps; He
has no time to listen to us others."
And he used the last words as a French peasant, which is a survival
of serfdom that has come down through the furnace of the Revolution.

"But I cannot take it," said Desiree. "It is worth a million francs."

He looked at her fiercely.

"You think that I look for something in return?"

"Oh no!" she answered, "I have nothing to give you in return. I am as
poor as you."
"Then we can be friends," he said. He was eyeing surreptitiously a mug of
beer which Desiree had set before him on the table. Some instinct, or
the teaching of the last two months, made it repugnant to him to eat or
drink beneath his neighbour's eye. He was a sorry- looking figure, not
far removed from the animals, and in his downward journey he had picked
up, perhaps, the instinct which none can explain, telling an animal to
take its food in secret.

Desiree went to the window, turning her back to him, and looked out into
the yard.

     She heard him drink, and set the mug down again with a
     gulp.

"You were in Moscow?"

she said at length, half turning towards him so that he could see her profile
and her short upper lip, which was parted as if to ask a question
which she did not put into words.

He looked her slowly up and down beneath his heavy eyebrows, his little
cunning eyes alight with suspicion. He watched her parted lips, which
were tilted at the corners, showing humour and a nature quick to laugh
or suffer.

Then he jerked his head upwards as if he saw the unasked question quivering
there, and bore her some malice for her silence.

"Yes!

I was in Moscow," he said, watching the colour fade from her face.

"And I saw him--your husband--there.

I was on guard outside his door the night we entered the city.

It was I who carried to the post the letter he wrote you.

He was very anxious that it should reach you. You received it--that
love-letter?"
"Yes," answered Desiree gravely, in no wise responding to a sudden forced
gaiety in Papa Barlasch, which was only an evidence of the shyness with
which rough men all the world over approach the subject of love. The
gaiety lapsed into a sudden silence. He waited for her to ask a question,
but in vain.

"I never saw him again," went on Barlasch, "for the 'general' sounded,
and I went out into the streets to find the city on fire.
In a great army, as in a large country, one may easily lose one's own
brother. But he will return--have no fear. He has good fortune--the fine
gentleman."
He stopped and scratched his head, looked at her sideways with a grimace
of bewilderment.

"It is good news I bring you," he muttered. "He was alive and well when
we began the retreat. He was on the staff, and the staff had horses and
carriages. They had bread to eat, I am told."
"And you--what had you?" asked Desiree, over her shoulder.

"No matter," he answered gruffly, "since I am here."
"And yet you believe in that man still," flashed out Desiree, turning
to face him.

Barlasch held up a warning finger, as if bidding her to be silent on a
subject on which she was not capable of forming a judgment. He wagged
his head from side to side and heaved a sigh.

"I tell you," he said, "I saw his face after Malo-Jaroslavetz; we
lost ten thousand that day.

And I was afraid. For I saw in it that he was going to leave us as he did
in Egypt. I am not afraid when he is there--not afraid of the Devil--or
the bon Dieu, but when Napoleon is not there--" He broke off with a gesture
describing abject terror.

"They say in Dantzig," said Desiree, "that he will never get back across
the Beresina, for the Russians are bringing two armies to stop him
there.

They say that the Prussians will turn against him."
"Ah--they say that already?"
"Yes."
He looked at her with a sudden light of anger in his eyes.

"Who has taught you to hate Napoleon?" he asked bluntly.

And again Desiree turned away from his glance as if she could not meet
it.

"No one," she answered.

"It is not the patron," said Barlasch, muttering his thoughts as he
hobbled to the door of his little room, and began unloading his
belongings with a view to ablution; for he was a self-contained
traveller, carrying with him all he required.

"It is not the patron. Because such a hatred as his cannot be
spoken of. It is not your husband, because Napoleon is his god."

He broke off with one of his violent jerks of the head, almost threatening
to dislocate his neck, and looked at her fixedly.

"It is because you have grown into a woman since I went away."
And out came his accusing finger, though Desiree had her back turned
towards him, and there was none other to see.

"Ah!" he said, with deadly contempt, "I see, I see!"
"Did you expect me to grow up into a man?" asked Desiree, over her
shoulder.
Barlasch stood in the doorway, his lips and jaw moving as if he
were masticating winged words. At length, having failed to find a
tremendous answer, he softly closed the door.
This was not the only wise old veteran of the Grand Army to see
which way the wind blew; for many another after the battle of Malo-
Jaroslavetz packed upon his back such spoil as he could carry, and
set off on foot for France. For the cold had come at length, and
not a horse in the French army was roughed for the snowy roads,
nor, indeed, had provision been made to rough them. This was a sign
not lost upon those who had horses to care for. The Emperor, who
forgot nothing, had forgotten this. He who foresaw everything, had
omitted to foresee the winter. He had ordered a retreat from Moscow,
in the middle of October, of an army in summer clothing, without
provision for the road. The only hope was to retreat through a new
line of country not despoiled by the enormous army in its advance
of every grain of corn, every blade of grass. But this hope was
frustrated by the Russians who, hemming them in, forced them to
keep the road along which they had made so triumphant a march on
Moscow.
Already, in the ranks, it was whispered that by the light of the
burning city some had perceived dark forms moving on the distant
plains--a Russian army passing westward in front of them to await
and cut them off at the passage of some river. The Russians had
fought well at Borodino: they fought desperately at Malo- Jaroslavetz,
which town was taken and retaken eleven times and left in cinders.
The Grand Army was no longer in a position to choose its way. It
was forced to cross again the battlefield of Borodino, where thirty
thousand dead lay yet unburied. But Napoleon was still with them,
his genius flashing out at times with something of the fire which
had taken men's breath away and burnt his name indelibly into the
pages of the world's history. Even when hard pressed, he never
missed a chance of attacking. The enemy never made a mistake that
he did not give them reason to rue it.
To the waiting world came at length the news that the winter, so
long retarded, had closed down over Russia. In Dantzig, so near the
frontier, a hundred rumours chased each other through the streets;
and day by day Antoine Sebastian grew younger and gayer. It seemed
as if a weight long laid upon his heart had been lifted at last.
He made a journey to Konigsberg soon after Barlasch's return, and
came back with eager eyes. His correspondence was enormous. He had,
it seemed, a hundred friends who gave him news and asked something
in exchange--advice, encouragement, warning. And all the while men
whispered that Prussia would ally herself to Russia, Sweden, and
England.A certain regiment, boldly led, crossed the bayou at a
narrow place and swept resistless across the sodden fields to where the
bank was steepest. The fire from the battery scorched the hair of their
heads. But there they stayed, scooping out the yellow clay with torn
hands, while the Parrotts, with lowered muzzles, ploughed the slope with
shells. There they stayed, while the blue lines quivered and fell back
through the forests on that short winter's afternoon, dragging their
wounded from the stagnant waters. But many were left to die in agony in
the solitude.

Like a tall emblem of energy, General Sherman stood watching the attack
and repulse, his eyes ever alert. He paid no heed to the shells which
tore the limbs from the trees about him, or sent the swamp water in thick
spray over his staff. Now and again a sharp word broke from his lips, a
forceful home thrust at one of the leaders of his columns.

"What regiment stayed under the bank?"

"Sixth Missouri, General," said an aide, promptly.

The General sat late in the Admiral's gunboat that night, but when he
returned to his cabin in the Forest Queen, he called for a list of
officers of the Sixth Missouri. His finger slipping down the roll paused
at a name among the new second lieutenants.

"Did the boys get back?" he asked. "Yes, General, when it fell dark."

"Let me see the casualties,--quick."

That night a fog rolled up from the swamps, and in the morning jack-staff
was hid from pilot-house. Before the attack could be renewed, a political
general came down the river with a letter in his pocket from Washington,
by virtue of which he took possession of the three army core, and their
chief, subpoenaed the fleet and the Admiral, and went off to capture
Arkansas Post.

Vicksburg had a breathing spell.

Three weeks later, when the army was resting at Napoleon, Arkansas, a
self-contained man, with a brown beard arrived from Memphis, and took
command. This way General U. S. Grant. He smoked incessantly in his
cabin. He listened. He spoke but seldom. He had look in his face that
boded ill to any that might oppose him. Time and labor be counted as
nothing, compared with the accomplishment of an object. Back to Vicksburg
paddled the fleet and transports. Across the river from the city, on the
pasty mud behind the levee's bank were dumped Sherman's regiments,
condemned to week of ditch-digging, that the gunboats might arrive at the
bend of the Mississippi below by a canal, out of reach of the batteries.
Day in and day out they labored, officer and men. Sawing off stumps under
the water, knocking poisonous snakes by scores from the branches, while
the river rose and rose and rose, and the rain crept by inches under
their tent flies, and the enemy walked the parapet of Vicksburg and
laughed. Two gunboats accomplished the feat of running the batteries,
that their smiles might be sobered.

To the young officers who were soiling their uniform with the grease of
saws, whose only fighting was against fever and water snakes, the news of
an expedition into the Vicksburg side of the river was hailed with caps
in the air. To be sure, the saw and axe, and likewise the levee and the
snakes, were to be there, too. But there was likely to be a little
fighting. The rest of the corps that was to stay watched grimly as the
detachment put off in the little 'Diligence' and 'Silver Wave'.

All the night the smoke-pipes were batting against the boughs of oak and
cottonwood, and snapping the trailing vines. Some other regiments went by
another route. The ironclads, followed in hot haste by General Sherman in
a navy tug, had gone ahead, and were even then shoving with their noses
great trunks of trees in their eagerness to get behind the Rebels. The
Missouri regiment spread out along the waters, and were soon waist deep,
hewing a path for the heavier transports to come. Presently the General
came back to a plantation half under water, where Black Bayou joins Deer
Creek, to hurry the work in cleaning out that Bayou. The light transports
meanwhile were bringing up more troops from a second detachment. All
through the Friday the navy great guns were heard booming in the
distance, growing quicker and quicker, until the quivering air shook the
hanging things in that vast jungle. Saws stopped, and axes were poised
over shoulders, and many times that day the General lifted his head
anxiously. As he sat down in the evening in a slave cabin redolent with
corn pone and bacon, the sound still hovered among the trees and rolled
along the still waters.

The General slept lightly. It was three o'clock Saturday morning when the
sharp challenge of a sentry broke the silence. A negro, white eyed,
bedraggled, and muddy, stood in the candle light under the charge of a
young lieutenant. The officer saluted, and handed the General a roll of
tobacco.

"I found this man in the swamp, sir. He has a message from the Admiral--"

The General tore open the roll and took from it a piece of tissue paper
which he spread out and held under the candle. He turned to a staff
officer who had jumped from his bed and was hurrying into his coat.

"Porter's surrounded," he said. The order came in a flash. In his challenge
Mr. Record had addressed to Doctor Wilson nineteen questions. Mr. Wilson's
reply was in part as follows:

You wish to know what my relations would be with the Democrats whose power
and influence you fear should I be elected governor, particularly
in such important matters as appointments and the signing of bills,
and I am very glad to tell you.

If elected I shall not either in the matter of appointments to office,
or assent to legislation, or in shaping any part of the policy of my
administration, submit to the dictation of any person, or persons,
"special interests," or organizations.

I will always welcome advice and suggestions from any citizens,
whether boss, leader, organization man, or plain citizen, and I shall
confidently seek the advice of influential and disinterested men
representative of the communities and disconnected from political
organizations entirely; but all suggestions and all advice will
be considered on its merits and no additional weight will be given
to any man's advice because of his exercising, or supposing that
he exercises, some sort of political influence or control.

I should deem myself for ever disgraced should I, in even the slightest
degree, coöperate in any such system. I regard myself as pledged to the
regeneration of the Democratic party.

Mr. Record also inquired: "Do you admit that the boss system exists as I
have described it?" "If so, how do you propose to abolish it?"
Mr. Wilson said:

Of course I admit it. Its existence is notorious. I have made it my
business for many years to observe and understand that system, and I
hate it as thoroughly as I understand it. You are quite right in saying
that the system is bipartisan; that it constitutes "the most dangerous
condition in the public life of our state and nation to- day"; and that
it has virtually, for the time being, "destroyed representative government
and in its place set up a government of privilege."

Just then a fusillade broke from the thickets, nipping the branches from
the cottonwoods about them.

"Form your line," said the General. "Drive 'em out."

The force swept forward, with the three picket companies in the swamp on
the right. And presently they came in sight of the shapeless ironclads
with their funnels belching smoke, a most remarkable spectacle. How
Porter had pushed them there was one of the miracles of the war.

Then followed one of a thousand memorable incidents in the life of a
memorable man. General Sherman, jumping on the bare back of a scrawny
horse, cantered through the fields. And the bluejackets, at sight of that
familiar figure, roared out a cheer that might have shaken the drops from
the wet boughs. The Admiral and the General stood together on the deck,
their hands clasped. And the Colonel astutely remarked, as he rode up in
answer to a summons, that if Porter was the only man whose daring could
have pushed a fleet to that position, Sherman was certainly the only man
who could have got him out of it.

"Colonel," said the General, "that move was well executed, sir. Admiral,
did the Rebs put a bullet through your rum casks? We're just a little
tired. And now," he added, wheeling on the Colonel when each had a glass
in his hand, "who was in command of that company on the right, in the
swamp? He handled them like a regular."

"He's a second lieutenant, General, in the Sixth Missouri. Captain
wounded at Hindman, and first lieutenant fell out down below. His name is
Brice, I believe."

"I thought so," said the General.

Some few days afterward, when the troops were slopping around again at
Young's Point, opposite Vicksburg, a gentleman arrived on a boat from St.
Louis. He paused on the levee to survey with concern and astonishment the
flood of waters behind it, and then asked an officer the way to General
Sherman's headquarters. The officer, who was greatly impressed by the
gentleman's looks, led him at once to a trestle bridge which spanned the
distance from the levee bank over the flood to a house up to its first
floor in the backwaters. The orderly saluted.

"Who shall I say, sir?"

The officer looked inquiringly at the gentleman, who gave his name.

The officer could not repress a smile at the next thing that happened.
Out hurried the General himself, with both hands outstretched.

"Bless my soul!" he cried, "if it isn't Brinsmade. Come right in, come
right in and take dinner. The boys will be glad to see you. I'll send and
tell Grant you're here. Brinsmade, if it wasn't for you and your friends
on the Western Sanitary Commission, we'd all have been dead of fever and
bad food long ago." The General sobered abruptly. "I guess a good many of
the boys are laid up now," he added.

"I've come down to do what I can, General," responded Mr. Brinsmade,
gravely. "I want to go through all the hospitals to see that our nurses
are doing their duty and that the stores are properly distributed."

"You shall, sir, this minute," said the General. He dropped instantly the
affairs which he had on hand, and without waiting for dinner the two
gentlemen went together through the wards where the fever raged. The
General surprised his visitor by recognizing private after private in the
cots, and he always had a brief word of cheer to brighten their faces, to
make them follow him with wistful eyes as he passed beyond them. "That's
poor Craig," he would say, "corporal, Third Michigan. They tell me he
can't live," and "That's Olcott, Eleventh Indiana. Good God!" cried the
General, when they were out in the air again, "how I wish some of these
cotton traders could get a taste of this fever. They keep well--the
vultures--And by the way, Brinsmade, the man who gave me no peace at all
at Memphis was from your city. Why, I had to keep a whole corps on duty
to watch him."

"What was his name, sir?" Mr. Brinsmade asked.

"Hopper!" cried the General, with feeling. "Eliphalet Hopper. As long as
I live I shall never forget it. How the devil did he get a permit? What
are they about at Washington?"

"You surprise me," said Mr. Brinsmade. "He has always seemed inoffensive,
and I believe he is a prominent member of one of our churches."

"I guess that's so," answered the General, dryly. "I ever I set eyes on
him again, he's clapped into the guardhouse. He knows it, too."

"Speaking of St. Louis, General," said Mr. Brinsmade, presently, "have
you ever heard of Stephen Brice? joined your army last autumn. You may
remember talking to him one evening at my house."

"He's one of my boys!" cried the General. "Remember him? Guess I do!" He
paused on the very brink of relating again the incident at Camp Jackson,
when Stephen had saved the life of Mr. Brinsmade's own son. "Brinsmade,
for three days I've had it on my mind to send for that boy. I'll have him
at headquarters now. I like him," cried General Sherman, with tone and
gesture there was no mistaking. And good Mr. Brinsmade, who liked
Stephen, too, rejoiced at the story he would have to tell the widow. "He
has spirit, Brinsmade. I told him to let me know when he was ready to go
to war. No such thing. He never came near me. The first thing I hear of
him is that he's digging holes in the clay of Chickasaw Bluff, and his
cap is fanned off by the blast of a Parrott six feet above his head. Next
thing he turns up on that little expedition we took to get Porter to sea
again. When we got to the gunboats, there was Brice's company on the
flank. He handled those men surprisingly, sir--surprisingly. I shouldn't
have blamed the boy if one or two Rebs got by him. But no, he swept the
place clean." By this time they had come back to the bridge leading to
headquarters, and the General beckoned quickly to an orderly.

"My compliments to Lieutenant Stephen Brice, Sixth Missouri, and ask him
to report here at once. At once, you understand!"

"Yes, General."

It so happened that Mr. Brice's company were swinging axes when the
orderly arrived, and Mr. Brice had an axe himself, and was up to his boot
tops in yellow mud.

The orderly, who had once been an Iowa farmer, was near grinning when he
gave the General's message and saw the lieutenant gazing ruefully at his
clothes.

Entering headquarters, Stephen paused at the doorway of the big room
where the officers of the different staffs were scattered about, smoking,
while the negro servants were removing the dishes from the table. The
sunlight, reflected from the rippling water outside, danced on the
ceiling. At the end of the room sat General Sherman, his uniform, as
always, a trifle awry. His soft felt hat with the gold braid was tilted
forward, and his feet, booted and spurred, were crossed. Small wonder
that the Englishman who sought the typical American found him in Sherman.

The sound that had caught Stephen's attention was the General's voice,
somewhat high-pitched, in the key that he used in telling a story. These
were his closing words.

"Sin gives you a pretty square deal, boys, after all. Generally a man
says, 'Well, I can resist, but I'll have my fun just this once.' That's
the way it happens. They tell you that temptation comes irresistibly.
Don't believe it. Do you, Mr. Brice? Come over here, sir. Here's a friend
of yours."

Stephen made his way to the General, whose bright eyes wandered rapidly
over him as he added:

"This is the condition my officers report in, Brinsmade,--mud from head
to heel."

Stephen had sense enough to say nothing, but the staff officers laughed,
and Mr. Brinsmade smiled as he rose and took Stephen's hand.

"I am delighted to see that you are well, sir," said he, with that formal
kindliness which endeared him to all. "Your mother will be rejoiced at my
news of you. You will be glad to hear that I left her well, Stephen."

Stephen inquired for Mrs. Brinsmade and Anne.

"They are well, sir, and took pleasure in adding to a little box which
your mother sent. Judge Whipple put in a box of fine cigars, although he
deplores the use of tobacco."

"And the Judge, Mr. Brinsmade--how is he?"

The good gentleman's face fell.

"He is ailing, sir, it grieves me to say. He is in bed, sir. But he is
ably looked after. Your mother desired to have him moved to her house,
but he is difficult to stir from his ways, and he would not leave his
little room. He is ably nursed. We have got old Nancy, Hester's mother,
to stay with him at night, and Mrs. Brice divides the day with Miss Jinny
Carvel, who comes in from Bellegarde every afternoon."

"Miss Carvel?" exclaimed Stephen, wondering if he heard aright. And at
the mention of her name he tingled.

"None other, sir," answered Mr. Brinsmade. "She has been much honored for
it. You may remember that the Judge was a close friend of her father's
before the war. And--well, they quarrelled, sir. The Colonel went South,
you know."

"When--when was the Judge taken ill, Mr. Brinsmade?" Stephen asked. The
thought of Virginia and his mother caring for him together was strangely
sweet.

"Two days before I left, sir, Dr. Polk had warned him not to do so much.
But the Doctor tells me that he can see no dangerous symptoms."

Stephen inquired now of Mr. Brinsmade how long he was to be with them.

"I am going on to the other camps this afternoon," said he. "But I should
like a glimpse of your quarters, Stephen, if you will invite me. Your
mother would like a careful account of you, and Mr. Whipple, and--your
many friends in St. Louis."

"You will find my tent a little wet, air," replied Stephen, touched.

Here the General, who had been sitting by watching them with a very
curious expression, spoke up.

"That's hospitality for you, Brinsmade!"

Stephen and Mr. Brinsmade made their way across plank and bridge to
Stephen's tent, and his mess servant arrived in due time with the package
from home. But presently, while they sat talking of many things, the
canvas of the fly was thrust back with a quick movement, and who should
come stooping in but General Sherman himself. He sat down on a cracker
box. Stephen rose confusedly.

"Well, well, Brice," said the General, winking at Mr. Brinsmade, "I think
you might have invited me to the feast. Where are those cigars Mr.
Brinsmade was talking about?"

Stephen opened the box with alacrity. The General chose one and lighted
it.

"Don't smoke, eh?" he inquired. "Why, yes, sir, when I can."

"Then light up, sir," said the General, "and sit down, I've been thinking
lately of court-martialing you, but I decided to come 'round and talk it
over with you first. That isn't strictly according to the rules of the
service. Look here, Mr. Brice, why did you leave St. Louis?"

"They began to draft, sir, and I couldn't stand it any longer."

"But you wouldn't have been drafted. You were in the Home Guards, if I
remember right. And Mr. Brinsmade tells me you were useful in many ways
What was your rank in the Home Guards?"

"Lieutenant colonel, sir."

"And what are you here?"

"A second lieutenant in temporary command, General."  "You have commanded
men?"

"Not in action, sir. I felt that that was different."

"Couldn't they do better for you than a second-lieutenancy?"

Stephen did not reply at once, Mr. Brinsmade spoke up, "They offered him
a lieutenant-colonelcy."

The General was silent a moment: Then he said "Do you remember meeting me
on the boat when I was leaving St. Louis, after the capture of Fort
Henry?"

Stephen smiled. "Very well, General," he replied, General Sherman leaned
forward.

"And do you remember I said to you, 'Brice, when you get ready to come
into this war, let me know.' Why didn't you do it?"

Stephen thought a minute. Then he said gravely, but with just a suspicion
of humor about his mouth:-- "General, if I had done that, you wouldn't be
here in my tent to-day."

Like lightning the General was on his feet, his hand on Stephen's
shoulder.

"By gad, sir," he cried, delighted, "so I wouldn't."


CHAPTER VIII

A STRANGE MEETING

The story of the capture of Vicksburg is the old, old story of failure
turned into success, by which man is made immortal. It involves the
history of a general who never retraced his steps, who cared neither for
mugwump murmurs nor political cabals, who took both blame and praise with
equanimity. Through month after month of discouragement, and work gone
for naught, and fever and death, his eyes never left his goal. And by
grace of the wisdom of that President who himself knew sorrow and
suffering and defeat and unjust censure, General Grant won.

Boldness did it. The canal abandoned, one red night fleet and transports
swept around the bend and passed the city's heights, on a red river. The
Parrotts and the Dahlgrens roared, and the high bluffs flung out the
sound over the empty swamp land.

Then there came the landing below, and the cutting loose from a base
--unheard of. Corps behind cursed corps ahead for sweeping the country
clear of forage. Battles were fought. Confederate generals in Mississippi
were bewildered.

One night, while crossing with his regiment a pontoon bridge, Stephen
Brice heard a shout raised on the farther shore. Sitting together on a
log under a torch, two men in slouch hats were silhouetted. That one
talking with rapid gestures was General Sherman. The impassive profile of
the other, the close-cropped beard and the firmly held cigar that seemed
to go with it,--Stephen recognized as that of the strange Captain Grant
who had stood beside him in the street by the Arsenal He had not changed
a whit. Motionless, he watched corps after corps splash by, artillery,
cavalry, and infantry, nor gave any sign that he heard their plaudits.

At length the army came up behind the city to a place primeval, where the
face of the earth was sore and tortured, worn into deep gorges by the
rains, and flung up in great mounds. Stripped of the green magnolias and
the cane, the banks of clay stood forth in hideous yellow nakedness, save
for a lonely stunted growth, or a bare trunk that still stood tottering
on the edge of a banks its pitiful withered roots reaching out below. The
May weather was already sickly hot.

First of all there was a murderous assault, and a still more murderous
repulse. Three times the besiegers charged, sank their color staffs into
the redoubts, and three times were driven back. Then the blue army
settled into the earth and folded into the ravines. Three days in that
narrow space between the lines lay the dead and wounded suffering untold
agonies in the moist heat. Then came a truce to bury the dead, to bring
back what was left of the living.

The doomed city had no rest. Like clockwork from the Mississippi's banks
beyond came the boom and shriek of the coehorns on the barges. The big
shells hung for an instant in the air like birds of prey, and then could
be seen swooping down here and there, while now and anon a shaft of smoke
rose straight to the sky, the black monument of a home.

Here was work in the trenches, digging the flying sap by night and
deepening it by day, for officers and men alike. From heaven a host of
blue ants could be seen toiling in zigzags forward, ever forward, along
the rude water-cuts and through the hills. A waiting carrion from her
vantage point on high marked one spot then another where the blue ants
disappeared, and again one by one came out of the burrow to hurry down
the trench,--each with his ball of clay.

In due time the ring of metal and sepulchred voices rumbled in the ground
beneath the besieged. Counter mines were started, and through the narrow
walls of earth commands and curses came. Above ground the saps were so
near that a strange converse became the rule. It was "Hello, Reb!"
"Howdy, Yank!" Both sides were starving, the one for tobacco and the
other for hardtack and bacon. These necessities were tossed across,
sometimes wrapped in the Vicksburg news-sheet printed on the white side
of a homely green wall paper. At other times other amenities were
indulged in. Hand-grenades were thrown and shells with lighted fuses
rolled down on the heads of acquaintances of the night before, who
replied from wooden coehorns hooped with iron.

The Union generals learned (common item in a siege) that the citizens of
Vicksburg were eating mule meat. Not an officer or private in the
Vicksburg armies who does not remember the 25th of June, and the hour of
three in an afternoon of pitiless heat. Silently the long blue files
wound into position behind the earth barriers which hid them from the
enemy, coiled and ready to strike when the towering redoubt on the
Jackson road should rise heavenwards. By common consent the rifle crack
of day and night was hushed, and even the Parrotts were silent. Stillness
closed around the white house of Shirley once more, but not the stillness
it had known in its peaceful homestead days. This was the stillness of
the death prayer. Eyes staring at the big redoubt were dimmed. At last,
to those near, a little wisp of blue smoke crept out.

Then the earth opened with a quake. The sun was darkened, and a hot blast
fanned the upturned faces. In the sky, through the film of shattered
clay, little black dots scurried, poised, and fell again as arms and legs
and head less trunks and shapeless bits of wood and iron. Scarcely had
the dust settled when the sun caught the light of fifty thousand
bayonets, and a hundred shells were shrieking across the crater's edge.
Earth to earth, alas, and dust to dust! Men who ran across that rim of a
summer's after-noon died in torture under tier upon tier of their
comrades,--and so the hole was filled.

An upright cannon marks the spot where a scrawny oak once stood on a
scarred and baked hillside, outside of the Confederate lines at
Vicksburg. Under the scanty shade of that tree, on the eve of the
Nation's birthday, stood two men who typified the future and the past. As
at Donelson, a trick of Fortune's had delivered one comrade of old into
the hands of another. Now she chose to kiss the one upon whom she had
heaped obscurity and poverty and contumely. He had ceased to think or
care about Fortune. And hence, being born a woman, she favored him.

The two armies watched and were still. They noted the friendly greeting
of old comrades, and after that they saw the self-contained Northerner
biting his cigar, as one to whom the pleasantries of life were past and
gone. The South saw her General turn on his heel. The bitterness of his
life was come. Both sides honored him for the fight he had made. But war
does not reward a man according to his deserts.

The next day--the day our sundered nation was born Vicksburg surrendered:
the obstinate man with the mighty force had conquered. See the gray
regiments marching silently in the tropic heat into the folds of that
blue army whose grip has choked them at last. Silently, too, the blue
coats stand, pity and admiration on the brick-red faces. The arms are
stacked and surrendered, officers and men are to be parolled when the
counting is finished. The formations melt away, and those who for months
have sought each other's lives are grouped in friendly talk. The coarse
army bread is drawn eagerly from the knapsacks of the blue, smoke quivers
above a hundred fires, and the smell of frying bacon brings a wistful
look into the gaunt faces. Tears stand in the eyes of many a man as he
eats the food his Yankee brothers have given him on the birthday of their
country.

Within the city it is the same. Stephen Brice, now a captain in General
Lauman's brigade, sees with thanksgiving the stars and stripes flutter
from the dome of that court-house which he had so long watched from afar.

Later on, down a side street, he pauses before a house with its face
blown away. On the verge of one of its jagged floors is an old
four-posted bed, and beside it a child's cot is standing pitifully,--the
tiny pillow still at the head and the little sheets thrown across the
foot. So much for one of the navy's shells.

While he was thinking of the sadness of it all, a little scene was acted:
the side door of the house opened, a weeping woman came out, and with her
was a tall Confederate Colonel of cavalry. Gallantly giving her his arm,
he escorted her as far as the little gate, where she bade him good by
with much feeling. With an impulsive movement he drew some money from his
pocket, thrust it upon her, and started hurriedly away that he might not
listen to her thanks. Such was his preoccupation that he actually brushed
into Stephen, who was standing beside a tree. He stopped and bowed.

"Excuse me, seh," he said contritely. "I beg your pardon, seh."

"Certainly," said Stephen, smiling; it was my fault for getting in your
way."

"Not at all, seh," said the cavalry Colonel; "my clumsiness, seh." He did
not pass on, but stood pulling with some violence a very long mustache.
"Damn you Yankees," he continued, in the same amiable tone, "you've
brought us a heap of misfortune. Why, seh, in another week we'd been
fo'ced to eat niggers."

The Colonel made such a wry face that Stephen laughed in spite of
himself. He had marked the man's charitable action, and admired his
attempt to cover it. The Colonel seemed to be all breadth, like a card.
His shoulders were incredible. The face was scant, perchance from lack of
food, the nose large, with a curved rim, and the eyes blue gray. He wore
clay-flecked cavalry boots, and was six feet five if an inch, so that
Stephen's six seemed insignificant beside him.

"Captain," he said, taking in Stephen's rank, "so we won't qua'l as to
who's host heah. One thing's suah," he added, with a twinkle, "I've been
heah longest. Seems like ten yeahs since I saw the wife and children down
in the Palmetto State. I can't offer you a dinner, seh. We've eaten all
the mules and rats and sugar cane in town." (His eye seemed to
interpolate that Stephen wouldn't be there otherwise.) "But I can offer
you something choicer than you have in the No'th."

Whereupon he drew from his hip a dented silver flask. The Colonel
remarked that Stephen's eyes fell on the coat of arms.

"Prope'ty of my grandfather, seh, of Washington's Army. My name is
Jennison,--Catesby Jennison, at your service, seh," he said. "You have
the advantage of me, Captain."

"My name is Brice," said Stephen.

The big Colonel bowed decorously, held out a great, wide hand, and
thereupon unscrewed the flask. Now Stephen had never learned to like
straight whiskey, but he took down his share without a face. The exploit
seemed to please the Colonel, who, after he likewise had done the liquor
justice, screwed on the lid with ceremony, offered Stephen his arm with
still greater ceremony, and they walked off down the street together.
Stephen drew from his pocket several of Judge Whipple's cigars, to which
his new friend gave unqualified praise.

On every hand Vicksburg showed signs of hard usage. Houses with gaping
chasms in their sides, others mere heaps of black ruins; great trees
felled, cabins demolished, and here and there the sidewalk ploughed
across from curb to fence.

"Lordy," exclaimed the Colonel. "Lordy I how my ears ache since your
damned coehorns have stopped. At Marienwerder, Barlasch and Desiree found
themselves in the midst of that bustle and confusion which attends the
arrival or departure of an army corps. The majority of the men were young
and of a dark skin.

They seemed gay, and called out salutations to which Barlasch replied
curtly enough.

"They are Italians," said he to his companion; "I know their talk
and their manners.

To you and me, who come from the North, they are like children.
See that one who is dancing.

It is some fete. What is to-day?"

"It is New Year's Day," replied Desiree.

"New Year's Day," echoed Barlasch.

"Good.

And we have been on the road since six o'clock; and I, who have
forgotten to wish you--" He paused and called cheerily to the horses, which
had covered more than forty miles since leaving their stable at Thorn.
"Bon Dieu!" he said in a lower tone, glancing at her beneath the ice-bound
rim of his fur cap, "Bon Dieu--what am I to wish you, I wonder?"
Desiree did not answer, but smiled a little and looked straight in
front of her.

Barlasch made a movement of the shoulders and eyebrows indicative of a
hidden anger.

"We are friends," he asked suddenly, "you and I?"

"Yes."

"We have been friends since--that day--when you were married?"
"Yes," answered Desiree.

"Then between friends," said Barlasch, gruffly; "it is not necessary
to smile--like that--when it is tears that are there."

Desiree laughed.

"Would you have me weep?"

she asked.

"It would hurt one less," said Barlasch, attending to his horses.

They were in the town now, and the narrow streets were crowded.
Many sick and wounded were dragging themselves wearily along. A few carts,
drawn by starving horses, went slowly down the hill.

But there was some semblance of order, and thus men had the air and carriage
of soldiers under discipline. Barlasch was quick to see it.

"It is the Fourth Corps. The Viceroy's army. They have done well.
He is a soldier, who commands them. Ah! There is one I know."
He threw the reins to Desiree, and in a moment he was out on the snow.
A man, as old, it would seem, as himself, in uniform and carrying
a musket, was marching past with a few men who seemed to be under
his orders, though his uniform was long past recognition.

He did not perceive, for some minutes, that Barlasch was coming towards
him, and then the process of recognition was slow.

Finally, he laid aside his musket, and the two old men gravely kissed
each other.

Quite forgetful of Desiree, they stood talking together for twenty
minutes.

Then they gravely embraced once more, and Barlasch returned to the
sleigh.

He took the reins, and urged the horses up the hill without commenting
on his encounter, but Desiree could see that he had heard news.

The inn was outside the town, on the road that follows the Vistula northwards
to Dirschau and Dantzig.

The horses were tired, and stumbled on the powdery snow which was
heavy, like sand, and of a sandy colour.

Here and there, by the side of the road, were great stains of blood and
the remains of a horse that had been killed, and eaten raw.

The faces of many of the men were smeared with blood, which had
dried on their cheeks and caked there.

Nearly all were smoke-grimed and had sore eyes.

At last Barlasch spoke, with the decisive air of one who has finally
drawn up a course of action in a difficult position.

"He comes from my own country, that man.

You heard us? We spoke together in our patois. I shall not see him again.
He has a catarrh. When he coughs there is blood.

Alas!"
Desiree glanced at the rugged face half turned away from her. She was not
naturally heartless; but she quite forgot to sympathize with
the elderly soldier who had caught a cold on the retreat from Moscow;
for his friend's grief lacked conviction. Barlasch had heard news which
he had decided to keep to himself.

"Has he come from Vilna?" asked Desiree.

"From Vilna--oh yes. They are all from Vilna."
"And he had no news"--persisted she, "of--Captain Darragon?"
"News--oh no! He is a common soldier, and knows nothing of the
officers on the staff.

We are the same--he and I--poor animals in the ranks. A little gentleman
rides up, all sabretasche and gold lace.

It is an officer of the staff.

'Go down into the valley and get shot,' he says.

And--bon jour! we go. No--no. He has no news, my poor comrade."

They were at the inn now, and found the huge yard still packed with sleighs
and disabled carriages, and the stables ostentatiously empty.

"Go in," said Barlasch; "and tell them who your father is--say Antoine
Sebastian and nothing else. I would do it myself, but when it is
so cold as that, the lips are stiff, and I cannot speak German
properly.

They would find out that I am French, and it is no good being French
now.

My comrade told me that in Konigsberg, Murat himself was ill-received by
the burgomaster and such city stuff as that."

It was as Barlasch foretold. For at the name of Antoine Sebastian the
innkeeper found horses--in another stable.

It would take a few minutes, he said, to fetch them, and in the
meantime there were coffee and some roast meat--his own dinner.

Indeed, he could not do enough to testify his respect for Desiree,
and his commiseration for her, being forced to travel in such weather
through a country infested by starving brigands.

Barlasch consented to come just within the inner door, but refused to sit
at the table with Desiree. He took a piece of bread, and ate it
standing.

"See you," he said to her when they were left alone, "the good God has
made very few mistakes, but there is one thing I would have altered.
If He intended us for such a rough life, He should have made the
human frame capable of going longer without food.

To a poor soldier marching from Moscow to have to stop every three hours
and gnaw a piece of horse that has died--and raw--it is not amusing."

He watched Desiree with a grudging eye. For she was young, and had
eaten nothing for six freezing hours.

"And for us," he added; "what a waste of time!"
Desiree rose at once with a laugh.

"You want to go," she said. "Come, I am ready."

"Yes," he admitted, "I want to go. I am afraid--name of a dog! I am
afraid, I tell you. For I have heard the Cossacks cry, 'Hurrah!
Hurrah!'

And they are coming."
"Ah!"

said Desiree, "that is what your friend told you."
"That, and other things."
He was pulling on his gloves as he spoke, and turned quickly on his heel
when the innkeeper entered the room, as if he had expected one of those
dread Cossacks of Toula who were half savage. But the innkeeper carried
nothing more lethal in his hand than a yellow mug of beer, which
he offered to Barlasch.

And the old soldier only shook his head.

"There is poison in it," he muttered.

"He knows I am a Frenchman."
"Come," said Desiree, with her gay laugh, "I will show you that
there is no poison in it."

She took the mug and drank, and handed the measure to Barlasch.

It was a poor thin beer, and Barlasch was not one to hide his opinion
from the host, to whom he made a reproving grimace when he returned the
empty mug. But the effect upon him was nevertheless good, for he took the
reins again with a renewed energy, and called to the horses gaily
enough.

"Allons," he said; "we shall reach Dantzig safely by nightfall, and there
we shall find your husband awaiting us, and laughing at us for our
foolish journey."

But being an old man, the beer could not warm his heart for long,
and he soon lapsed again into melancholy and silence.

Nevertheless, they reached Dantzig by nightfall, and although it was a
bitter twilight--colder than the night itself--the streets were
full.

Men stood in groups and talked. In the brief time required to journey
to Thorn something had happened. Something happened every day in Dantzig;
for when history wakes from her slumber and moves, it is with a heavy
and restless tread.

"What is it?"

asked Barlasch of the sentry at the town gate, while they waited
for their passports to be returned to them.

"It is a proclamation from the Emperor of Russia--no one knows how
it has got here."

"And what does he proclaim--that citizen?"
"He bids the Dantzigers rise and turn us out," answered the soldier,
with a grim laugh.

"Is that all?"
"No, comrade, that is not all," was the answer in a graver voice.

"He proclaims that every Pole who submits now will be forgiven and set
at liberty; the past, he says, will be committed to an eternal oblivion
and a profound silence--those are his words."
"Ah!"
"Yes, and half the defenders of Dantzig are Poles--there are your
passports--pass on."

They drove through the dark streets where men like shadows hurried
silently about their business.

The Frauengasse seemed to be deserted when they reached it. It was
Mathilde who opened the door.

She must have been at the darkened window, behind the curtain. Lisa had
gone home to her native village in Sammland in obedience to the
Governor's orders.
Sebastian had not been home all day. Charles had not returned, and
there was no news of him.

Barlasch, wiping the snow from his face, watched Desiree, and made
no comment.

CHAPTER XXIV. MATHILDE CHOOSES.

But strong is fate, O Love, Who makes, who mars, who ends.

Desiree was telling Mathilde the brief news of her futile journey,
when a knock at the front door made them turn from the stairs where
they were standing.

It was Sebastian's knock. His hours had been less regular of late. He
came and went without explanation.

When he had freed his throat from his furs, and laid aside his
gloves, he glanced hastily at Desiree, who had kissed him without
speaking.

"And your husband?" he asked curtly.

"It was not he whom we found at Thorn," she answered. There was something
in her father's voice--in his quick, sidelong glance at her--that
caught her attention. He had changed lately. From a man of dreams he
had been transformed into a man of action. It is customary to designate
a man of action as a hard man. Custom is the brick wall against
which feeble minds come to a standstill and hinder the progress
of the world. Sebastian had been softened by action, through which his
mental energy had found an outlet.

But to-night he was his old self again--hard, scornful, incomprehensible.

"I have heard nothing of him," said Desiree.

Sebastian was stamping the snow from his boots.

"But I have," he said, without looking up.

Desiree said nothing. She knew that the secret she had guarded so
carefully--the secret kept by herself and Louis--was hers no longer.
In the silence of the next moments she could hear Barlasch breathing on
his fingers, within the kitchen doorway just behind her.
Mathilde made a little movement.

She was on the stairs, and she moved nearer to the balustrade and held to
it breathlessly. For Charles Darragon's secret was De Casimir's too.

"These two gentlemen," said Sebastian slowly, "were in the secret
service of Napoleon. They are hardly likely to return to Dantzig."
"Why not?"

asked Mathilde.

"They dare not."
"I think the Emperor will be able to protect his officers," said Mathilde.

"But not his spies," replied Sebastian coldly.

"Since they wore his uniform, they cannot be blamed for doing their
duty.

They are brave enough. They would hardly avoid returning to Dantzig
because--because they have outwitted the Tugendbund."
Mathilde's face was colourless with anger, and her quiet eyes
flashed.

She had been surprised into this sudden advocacy, and an advocate who
displays temper is always a dangerous ally. Sebastian glanced at her
sharply. She was usually so self-controlled that her flashing eyes and
quick breath betrayed her.

"What do you know of the Tugendbund?" he asked.

But she would not answer, merely shrugging her shoulders and closing her
thin lips with a snap.

"It is not only in Dantzig," said Sebastian, "that they are unsafe.
It is anywhere where the Tugendbund can reach them."

He turned sharply to Desiree. His wits, cleared by action, told him
that her silence meant that she, at all events, had not been surprised.
She had, therefore, known already the part played by De Casimir and Charles,
in Dantzig, before the war.

"And you," he said, "you have nothing to say for your husband."
"He may have been misled," she said mechanically, in the manner of
one making a prepared speech or meeting a foreseen emergency. It had
been foreseen by Louis d'Arragon.

The speech had been, unconsciously, prepared by him.

"You mean, by Colonel de Casimir," suggested Mathilde, who had
recovered her usual quiet.

And Desiree did not deny her meaning.
Sebastian looked from one to the other.

It was the irony of Fate that had married one of his daughters to
Charles Darragon, and affianced the other to De Casimir.

His own secret, so well kept, had turned in his hand like a concealed
weapon.

They were all startled by Barlasch, who spoke from the kitchen door,
where he had been standing unobserved or forgotten.

He came forward to the light of the lamp hanging overhead.

"That reminds me . . . " he said a second time, and having secured their
attention, he instituted a search in the many pockets of his nondescript
clothing. He still wore a dirty handkerchief bound over one eye. It
served to release him from duty in the trenches or work on the frozen
fortifications.

By this simple device, coupled with half a dozen bandages in various parts
of his person, where a frost- bite or a wound gave excuse, he passed
as one of the twenty-five thousand sick and wounded who encumbered
Dantzig at this time, and were already dying at the rate of fifty a
day.

"A letter . . . " he said, still searching with his maimed hand.
"You mentioned the name of the Colonel de Casimir. It was that which
recalled to my mind . . . " He paused, and produced a letter carefully
sealed. He turned it over, glancing at the seals with a reproving jerk
of the head, which conveyed as clearly as words a shameless confession
that he had been frustrated by them . . . "this letter.

I was told to give it you, without fail, at the right moment."
It could hardly be the case that he honestly thought this moment might
be so described. But he gave the letter to Mathilde with a gesture of grim
triumph. Perhaps he was thinking of the cellar in the Palace on the
Petrovka at Moscow, and the treasure which he had found there.

"It is from the Colonel de Casimir," he said, "a clever man," he added,
turning confidentially to Sebastian, and holding his attention by
an upraised hand.

"Oh! . . . a clever man."
Mathilde, her face all flushed, tore open the envelope, while Barlasch,
breathing on his fingers, watched with twinkling eye and busy lips.

The letter was a long one. Colonel de Casimir was an adept at explanation.
There was, no doubt, much to explain. Mathilde read the letter carefully.
It was the first she had ever had--a love- letter in its guise--with
explanations in it. Love and explanation in the same breath. Assuredly De
Casimir was a daring lover.

"He says that Dantzig will be taken by storm," she said at length, "and
that the Cossacks will spare no one."

"Does it signify," inquired Sebastian in his smoothest voice, "what
Colonel de Casimir may say?"
His grand manner had come back to him. He made a gesture with his hand
almost suggestive of a ruffle at the wrist, and clearly insulting to
Colonel de Casimir.

"He urges us to quit the city before it is too late," continued
Mathilde, in her measured voice, and awaited her father's reply. He took
snuff with a cold smile.

"You will not do so?" she asked.

And by way of reply, Sebastian laughed as he dusted the snuff from his
coat with his pocket- handkerchief.

"He asks me to go to Cracow with the Grafin, and marry him," said Mathilde
finally. And Sebastian only shrugged his shoulders. The suggestion was
beneath contempt.

"And . . . ?" he inquired with raised eyebrows.

"I shall do it," replied Mathilde, defiance shining in her eyes.

"At all events," commented Sebastian, who knew Mathilde's mind, and met
her coldness with indifference, "you will do it with your eyes
open, and not leap in the dark, as Desiree did. I was to blame
there; a man is always to blame if he is deceived. With you . .
.
Bah! you know what the man is. But you do not know, unless he tells
you in that letter, that he is even a traitor in his treachery. He
has accepted the amnesty offered by the Czar; he has abandoned
Napoleon's cause; he has petitioned the Czar to allow him to retire
to Cracow, and there live on his estates."
"He has no doubt good reasons for his action," said Mathilde.
"Two carriages full," muttered Barlasch, who had withdrawn to the
dark corner near the kitchen door. But no one heeded him.
"You must make your choice," said Sebastian, with the coldness of
a judge. "You are of age. Choose."
"I have already chosen," answered Mathilde. "The Grafin leaves to-
morrow. I will go with her."
She had, at all events, the courage of her own opinions--a courage
not rare in women, however valueless may be the judgment upon which
it is based. And in fairness it must be admitted that women usually
have the courage not only of the opinion, but of the consequence,
and meet it with a better grace than men can summon in
misfortune.
Sebastian dined alone and hastily. Mathilde was locked in her room,
and refused to open the door. Desiree cooked her father's dinner
while Barlasch made ready to depart on some vague errand in the
town.
"There may be news," he said. "Who knows? And afterwards the patron
will go out, and it would not be wise for you to remain alone in
the house." 
"Why not?"
Barlasch turned and looked at her thoughtfully over his shoulder.
"In some of the big houses down in the Niederstadt there are forty
and fifty soldiers quartered--diseased, wounded, without discipline.
There are others coming. I have told them we have fever in the
house. It is the only way. We may keep them out; for the Frauengasse
is in the centre of the town, and the soldiers are not needed in
this quarter. But you--you cannot lie as I can. You laugh--ah! A
woman tells more lies; but a man tells them better.
Push the bolts, when I am gone."
After his dinner, Sebastian went out, as Barlasch had predicted.
He said nothing to Desiree of Charles or of the future. There was
nothing to be said, perhaps. He did not ask why Mathilde was absent.
In the stillness of the house, he could probably hear her moving
in her rooms upstairs.
He had not been long gone when Mathilde came down, dressed to go
out. She came into the kitchen where Desiree was doing the work of
the absent Lisa, who had reluctantly gone to her home on the Baltic
coast. Mathilde stood by the kitchen table and ate some bread.
"The Grafin has arranged to quit Dantzig to-morrow," she said. "I
am going to ask her to take me with her."
Desiree nodded and made no comment. Mathilde went to the door, but
paused there. Without looking round, she stood thinking deeply.
They had grown from childhood together--motherless--with a father
whom neither understood. Together they had faced the difficulties
of life; the hundred petty difficulties attending a woman's life
in a strange land, among neighbours who bear the sleepless grudge
of unsatisfied curiosity. They had worked together for their daily
bread. And now the full stream of life had swept them together from
the safe moorings of childhood.

"Will you come too?"She was troubled.

The Doctor came but every other day now, in the afternoon. It was his
custom to sit for a while on the porch chatting cheerily with Virginia,
his stout frame filling the rocking-chair. Dr. Polk's indulgence was
gossip--though always of a harmless nature: how Mr. Cluyme always managed
to squirm over to the side which was in favor, and how Maude Catherwood's
love-letter to a certain dashing officer of the Confederate army had been
captured and ruthlessly published in the hateful Democrat. It was the
Doctor who gave Virginia news of the Judge, and sometimes he would
mention Mrs. Brice. Then Clarence would raise his head; and once (she saw
with trepidation) he had opened his lips to speak.

One day the Doctor came, and Virginia looked into his face and divined
that he had something to tell her. He sat but a few moments, and when he
arose to go he took her hand.

"I have a favor to beg of you, Jinny," he said, "Judge has lost his nurse.
Do you think Clarence could spare you for a little while every day? I
shouldn't ask it," Dr. Polk continued, somewhat hurriedly for him, "but
the Judge cannot bear a stranger near him, and I am afraid to have him
excited while in this condition."

"Mrs. Brice is ill?" she cried. And Clarence, watching, saw her color go.

"No," replied Dr. Polk, "but her son Stephen has come home from the army.
He was transferred to Lauman's brigade, and then he was wounded." He
jangled the keys in his pocket and continued "It seems that he had no
business in the battle. Johnston in his retreat had driven animals into
all the ponds and shot them, and in the hot weather the water was soon
poisoned. Mr. Brice was scarcely well enough to stand when they made the
charge, and he is now in a dreadful condition He is a fine fellow," added
the Doctor, with a sigh, "General Sherman sent a special physician to the
boat with him. He is--" Subconsciously the Doctor's arm sought Virginia's
back, as though he felt her swaying. But he was looking at Clarence, who
had jerked himself forward in his chair, his thin hands convulsively
clutching at the arms of it. He did not appear to see Virginia.

"Stephen Brice, did you say?" he cried, "will he die?"

In his astonishment the Doctor passed his palm across his brow, and for a
moment he did not answer. Virginia had taken a step from him, and was
standing motionless, almost rigid, her eyes on his face.

"Die?" he said, repeating the word mechanically; "my God, I hope not. The
danger is over, and he is resting easily. If he were not," he said
quickly and forcibly, "I should not be here."

The Doctor's mare passed more than one fleet--footed trotter on the road.
to town that day. And the Doctor's black servant heard his master utter
the word "fool" twice, and with great emphasis.

For a long time Virginia stood on the end of the porch, until the heaving
of the buggy harness died on the soft road, She felt Clarence gaze upon
her before she turned to face him.

"Virginia!" He had called her so of late. "Yes, dear."

"Virginia, sit here a moment; I have something to tell you."

She came and took the chair beside him, her heart beating, her breast
rising and falling. She looked into his eyes, and her own lashes fell
before the hopelessness there But he put out his fingers wasted by
illness, and she took them in her own.

He began slowly, as if every word cost him pain.

"Virginia, we were children together here. I cannot remember the time
when I did not love you, when I did not think of you as my wife. All I
did when we played together was to try to win your applause. That was my
nature I could not help it. Do you remember the day I climbed out on the
rotten branch of the big pear tree yonder to get you that pear--when I
fell on the roof of Alfred's cabin? I did not feel the pain. It was
because you kissed it and cried over me. You are crying now," he said
tenderly. "Don't, Jinny. It isn't to make you sad that I am saying this.

"I have had a great deal of time to think lately, Jinny, I was not
brought up seriously,--to be a man. I have been thinking of that day just
before you were eighteen, when you rode out here. How well I remember it.
It was a purple day. The grapes were purple, and a purple haze was over
there across the river. You had been cruel to me. You were grown a woman
then, and I was still nothing but a boy. Do you remember the doe coming
out of the forest, and how she ran screaming when I tried to kiss you?
You told me I was good for nothing. Please don't interrupt me. It was
true what you said, that I was wild and utterly useless, I had never
served or pleased any but myself,--and you. I had never studied or
worked, You were right when you told me I must learn something,--do
something,--become of some account in the world. I am just as useless to
day."

"Clarence, after what you have done for the South?"

He smiled with peculiar bitterness.

"What have I done for her?" he added. "Crossed the river and burned
houses. I could not build them again. Floated down the river on a log
after a few percussion caps. That did not save Vicksburg."

"And how many had the courage to do that?" she exclaimed.

"Pooh," he said, "courage! the whole South has it, Courage! If I did not
have that, I would send Sambo to my father's room for his ebony box and
blow my brains out. No, Jinny, I am nothing but a soldier of fortune. I
never possessed any quality but a wild spirit for adventure, to shirk
work. I wanted to go with Walker, you remember. I wanted to go to Kansas.
I wanted to distinguish myself," he added with a gesture. "But that is
all gone now, Jinny. I wanted to distinguish myself for you. Now I see
how an earnest life might have won you. No, I have not done yet."

She raised her head, frightened, and looked at him searchingly.

"One day," he said, "one day a good many years ago you and I and Uncle
Comyn were walking along Market Street in front of Judge Whipple's
office, and a slave auction was going on. A girl was being sold on whom
you had set your heart. There was some one in the crowd, a Yankee, who
bid her in and set her free. Do you remember him?"

He saw her profile, her lips parted, her look far away, She inclined her
head.

"Yes," said her cousin, "so do I remember him. He has crossed my path
many times since, Virginia. And mark what I say--it was he whom you had
in mind on that birthday when you implored me to make something of
myself, It was Stephen Brice."

Her eyes flashed upon him quickly.

"Oh, how dare you?" she cried.

"I dare anything, Virginia," he answered quietly. "I am not blaming you.
And I am sure that you did not realize that he was the ideal which you
had in mind."

The impression of him has never left it. Fate is in it. Again, that night
at the Brinsmades', when we were in fancy dress, I felt that I had lost
you when I got back. He had been there when I was away, and gone again.
And--and--you never told me."

"It was a horrible mistake, Max," she faltered. "I was waiting for you
down the road, and stopped his horse instead. It--it was nothing--"

"It was fate, Jinny. In that half-hour I lost you. How I hated that man,"
he cried, "how I hated him?"

"Hated!" exclaimed Virginia, involuntarily. "Oh, no!"

"Yes," he said, "hated! I would have killed him if I could. But now--"

"But now?"

"Now he has saved my life. I have not--I could not tell you before: He
came into the place where I was lying in Vicksburg, and they told him
that my only chance was to come North, I turned my back upon him,
insulted him. Yet he went to Sherman and had me brought home--to you,
Virginia. If he loves you,--and I have long suspected that he does--"

"Oh, no," she cried, hiding her face "No."

"I know he loves you, Jinny," her cousin continued calmly, inexorably.
"And you know that he does. You must feel that he does. It was a brave
thing to do, and a generous. He knew that you were engaged to me. He
thought that he was saving me for you. He was giving up the hope of
marrying you himself."

Virginia sprang to her feet. Unless you had seen her then, you had never
known the woman in her glory.

"Marry a Yankee!" she cried. "Clarence Colfax, have you known and loved
me all my life that you might accuse me of this? Never, never, never!"
Transformed, he looked incredulous admiration.

"Jinny, do you mean it?" he cried.

In answer she bent down with all that gentleness and grace that was hers,
and pressed her lips to his forehead. Long after she had disappeared in
the door he sat staring after her.

But later, when Mammy Easter went to call her mistress for supper, she
found her with her face buried in the pillows.


CHAPTER X

IN JUDGE WHIPPLE'S OFFICE

After this Virginia went to the Judge's bedside every day, in the
morning, when Clarence took his sleep. She read his newspapers to him
when he was well enough. She read the detested Missouri Democrat, which I
think was the greatest trial Virginia ever had to put up with. To have
her beloved South abused, to have her heroes ridiculed, was more than she
could bear. Once, when the Judge was perceptibly better, she flung the
paper out of the window, and left the room. He called her back
penitently.

"My dear," he said, smiling admiration, "forgive an old bear. A selfish
old bear, Jinny; my only excuse is my love for the Union. When you are
not here, I lie in agony, lest she has suffered some mortal blow unknown
to me, Jinny. And if God sees fit to spare our great country, the day
will come when you will go down on your knees and thank Him for the
inheritance which He saved for your children. You are a good woman, my
dear, and a strong one. I have hoped that you will see the right. That
you will marry a great citizen, one unwavering in his service and
devotion to our Republic." The Judge's voice trembled with earnestness as
he spoke. And the gray eyes under the shaggy brows were alight with the
sacred fire of his life's purpose. Undaunted as her spirit was, she could
not answer him then.

Once, only once, he said to her: "Virginia, I loved your father better
than any man I ever knew. Please God I may see him again before I die."

He never spoke of the piano. But sometimes at twilight his eyes would
rest on the black cloth that hid it.

Virginia herself never touched that cloth to her it seemed the shroud
upon a life of happiness that was dead and gone.

Virginia had not been with Judge Whipple during the critical week after
Stephen was brought home. But Anne had told her that his anxiety was a
pitiful thing to see, and that it had left him perceptibly weaker.
Certain it was that he was failing fast. So fast that on some days
Virginia, watching him, would send Ned or Shadrach in hot haste for Dr.
Polk.

At noon Anne would relieve Virginia,--Anne or her mother,--and frequently
Mr. Brinsmade would come likewise. For it is those who have the most to
do who find the most time for charitable deeds. As the hour for their
coming drew near, the Judge would be seeking the clock, and scarce did
Anne's figure appear in the doorway before the question had arisen to his
lips--"And how is my young Captain to-day?"

That is what he called him,--"My young Captain." Virginia's choice of her
cousin, and her devotion to him, while seemingly natural enough, had
drawn many a sigh from Anne. She thought it strange that Virginia herself
had never once asked her about Stephen's condition and she spoke of this
one day to the Judge with as much warmth as she was capable of.

"Jinny's heart is like steel where a Yankee is concerned. If her best
friend were a Yankee--"

Judge Whipple checked her, smiling.

"She has been very good to one Yankee I know of," he said. "And as for
Mrs. Brice, I believe she worships her."

"But when I said that Stephen was much better to-day, she swept out of
the room as if she did not care whether he lived or died."

"Well, Anne," the Judge had answered, "you women are a puzzle to me. I
guess you don't understand yourselves," he added.

That was a strange month in the life of Clarence Colfax,--the last of his
recovery, while he was waiting for the news of his exchange. Bellegarde
was never more beautiful, for Mrs. Colfax had no whim of letting the
place run down because a great war was in progress. Though devoted to the
South, she did not consecrate her fortune to it. Clarence gave as much as
he could.

Whole afternoons Virginia and he would sit in the shaded arbor seat; or
at the cool of the day descend to the bench on the lower tier of the
summer garden, to steep, as it were, in the blended perfumes of the roses
and the mignonettes and the pinks. He was soberer than of old. Often
through the night he pondered on the change in her. She, too, was grave.
But he was troubled to analyze her gravity, her dignity. Was this merely
strength of character, the natural result of the trials through which she
had passed, the habit acquired of being the Helper and comforter instead
of the helped and comforted? Long years afterward the brightly colored
portrait of her remained in his eye,--the simple linen gown of pink or
white, the brown hair shining in the sunlight, the graceful poise of the
head. And the background of flowers--flowers everywhere, far from the
field of war.

Sometimes, when she brought his breakfast on a tray in the morning, there
was laughter in her eyes. In the days gone by they had been all laughter.

They were engaged. She was to be his wife. He said it over to himself
many, many times in the day. He would sit for a space, feasting his eyes
upon her until she lifted her look to his, and the rich color flooded her
face. He was not a lover to sit quietly by, was Clarence. And yet, as the
winged days flew on, that is what he did, It was not that she did not
respond to his advances, he did not make them. Nor could he have told
why. Was it the chivalry inherited from a long life of Colfaxes who were
gentlemen? Not wholly. Something of awe had crept into his feeling for
her.

As the month wore on, and the time drew near for him to go back to the
war, a state that was not quite estrangement, and yet something very like
it, set in. Poor Clarence. Doubts bothered him, and he dared not give
them voice. By night he would plan his speeches,--impassioned, imploring.
To see her in her marvellous severity was to strike him dumb. Horrible
thought! Whether she loved him, whether she did not love him, she would
not give him up. Through the long years of their lives together, he would
never know. He was not a weak man now, was Clarence Colfax. He was merely
a man possessed of a devil, enchained by the power of self-repression
come upon her whom he loved.

And day by day that power seemed to grow more intense,--invulnerable.
Among her friends and in the little household it had raised Virginia to
heights which she herself did not seem to realize. She was become the
mistress of Bellegarde. Mrs. Colfax was under its sway, and doubly
miserable because Clarence would listen to her tirades no more.

"When are you to be married?" she had ventured to ask him once. Nor had
she taken pains to hide the sarcasm in her voice.

His answer, bringing with it her remembrance of her husband at certain
times when it was not safe to question him, had silenced her. Addison
Colfax had not been a quiet man. When he was quiet he was dangerous.

"Whenever Virginia is ready, mother," he had replied. Whenever Virginia
was ready! He knew in his heart that if he were to ask her permission to
send for Dr, Posthelwaite to-morrow that she would say yes. Tomorrow
came,--and with it a great envelope, an official, answer to Clarence's
report that he was fit for duty once more. He had been exchanged. He was
to proceed to Cairo, there to await the arrival of the transport
Indianapolis, which was to carry five hundred officers and men from
Sandusky Prison, who were going back to fight once more for the
Confederacy. O that they might have seen the North, all those brave men
who made that sacrifice. That they might have realized the numbers and
the resources and the wealth arrayed against them!

It was a cool day for September, a perfect day, an auspicious day, and
yet it went the way of the others before it. This was the very fulness of
the year, the earth giving out the sweetness of her maturity, the corn in
martial ranks, with golden plumes nodding. The forest still in its glory
of green. They walked in silence the familiar paths, and Alfred, clipping
the late roses for the supper table, shook his white head as they passed
him. The sun, who had begun to hurry on his southward journey, went to
bed at six. The few clothes Clarence was to take with him had been packed
by Virginia in his bag, and the two were standing in the twilight on the
steps of the house, when Ned came around the corner. He called his young
mistress by name, but she did not hear him. He called again.

"Miss Jinny!"

She started as from a sleep, and paused.

"Yes, Mr. Johnson," said she, and smiled. He wore that air of mystery so
dear to darkeys.

"Gemmen to see you, Miss Jinny."

"A gentleman!" she said in surprise. "Where?"

The negro pointed to the lilac shrubbery.

"Thar!"

"What's all this nonsense, Ned?" said Clarence, sharply: "If a man is
there, bring him here at once."

"Reckon he won't come, Marse Clarence." said Ned, "He fearful skeered ob
de light ob day. He got suthin very pertickler fo' Miss Jinny."

"Do you know him?" Clarence demanded.

"No sah--yessah--leastwise I'be seed 'um. Name's Robimson."

The word was hardly out of his mouth before Virginia had leaped down the
four feet from the porch to the flower-bed and was running across the
lawn toward the shrubbery. Parting the bushes after her, Clarence found
his cousin confronting a large man, whom he recognized as the carrier who
brought messages from the South.

"What's the matter, Jinny?" he demanded.

"Pa has got through the lines," she said breathlessly. "He--he came up to
see me. Where is he, Robinson?"

"He went to Judge Whipple's rooms, ma'am. They say the Judge is dying. I
reckoned you knew it, Miss Jinny," Robinson added contritely.

"Clarence," she said, "I must go at once."

"I will go with you," he said; "you cannot go alone." In a twinkling Ned
and Sambo had the swift pair of horses harnessed, and the light carriage
was flying over the soft clay road toward the city. As they passed Mr.
Brinsmade's place, the moon hung like a great round lantern under the
spreading trees about the house. Clarence caught a glimpse of his
cousin's face in the light. She was leaning forward, her gaze fixed
intently on the stone posts which stood like monuments between the bushes
at the entrance. Then she drew back again into the dark corner of the
barouche. She was startled by a sharp challenge, and the carriage
stopped. Looking out, she saw the provost's guard like black card figures
on the road, and Ned fumbling for his pass.

On they drove into the city streets until the dark bulk of the Court
House loomed in front of them, and Ned drew rein at the little stairway
which led to the Judge's rooms. Virginia, leaping out of the carriage,
flew up the steps and into the outer office, and landed in the Colonel's
arms.

"Jinny!"

"Oh, Pa!" she cried. "Why do you risk your life in this way? If the
Yankees catch you--"

"They won't catch me, honey," he answered, kissing her. Then he held her
out at arm's length and gazed earnestly into her face. Trembling, she
searched his own. "Pa, how old you look!"

"I'm not precisely young, my dear," he said, smiling. His hair was nearly
white, and his face scared. But he was a fine erect figure of a man,
despite the shabby clothes he wore, and the mud-bespattered boots.

"Pa," she whispered, "it was foolhardy to come here. Why did you come to
St. Louis at all?"

"I came to see you, Jinny, I reckon. And when I got home to-night and
heard Silas was dying, I just couldn't resist. He's the oldest friend
I've got in St. Louis, honey and now--now--"

"Pa, you've been in battle?"

"Yes," he said.

"And you weren't hurt; I thank God for that," she whispered. After a
while: "Is Uncle Silas dying?"

"Yes, Jinny; Dr. Polk is in there now, and says that he can't last
through the night. Silas has been asking for you, honey, over and over.
He says you were very good to him,--that you and Mrs. Brice gave up
everything to nurse him."

"She did," Virginia faltered. "She was here night and day until her son
came home. She is a noble woman--"

"Her son?" repeated the Colonel. "Stephen Brice? Silas has done nothing
the last half-hour but call his name. He says he must see the boy before
he dies. Polk says he is not strong enough to come."

"Oh, no, he is not strong enough," cried Virginia. The Colonel looked
down at her queerly. "Where is Clarence?" he asked.

She had not thought of Clarence. She turned hurriedly, glanced around the
room, and then peered down the dark stairway.

"Why, he came in with me. I wonder why he did not follow me up?"

"Virginia."

"Yes, Pa."

"Virginia, are you happy?"

"Why, yes, Pa."

"Are you going to marry Clarence?" he asked.

"I have promised," she said simply.

Then after a long pause, seeing her father said nothing, she added,
"Perhaps he was waiting for you to see me alone. I will go down to see if
he is in the carriage."

The Colonel started with her, but she pulled him back in alarm.

"You will be seen, Pa," she cried. "How can you be so reckless?"

He stayed at the top of the passage, holding open the door that she might
have light. When she reached the sidewalk, there was Ned standing beside
the horses, and the carriage empty.

"Ned!"

"Yass'm, Miss Jinny."

"Where's Mr. Clarence?"

"He done gone, Miss Tinny."

"Gone?"

"Yass'm. Fust I seed was a man plump out'n Willums's, Miss Jinny. He was
a-gwine shufflin' up de street when Marse Clarence put out after him,
pos' has'e. Den he run."

She stood for a moment on the pavement in thought, and paused on the
stairs again, wondering whether it were best to tell her father. Perhaps
Clarence had seen--she caught her breath at the thought and pushed open
the door.

"Oh, Pa, do you think you are safe here?" she cried. "Why, yes, honey, I
reckon so," he answered. "Where's Clarence?"

"Ned says he ran after a man who was hiding in an entrance. Pa, I am
afraid they are watching the place."

"I don't think so, Jinny. I came here with Polk, in his buggy, after
dark."

Virginia, listening, heard footsteps on the stairs, and seized her
father's sleeve.

"Think of the risk you are running, Pa," she whispered. She would have
dragged him to the closet. But it was too late. The door opened, and Mr.
Brinsmade entered, and with him a lady veiled.

At sight of Mr. Carvel Mr. Brinsmade started back in surprise. How long
he stared at his old friend Virginia could not say. It seemed to her an
eternity. But Mrs. Brice has often told since how straight the Colonel
stood, his fine head thrown back, as he returned the glance. Then Mr.
Brinsmade came forward, with his hand outstretched.

"Comyn," said he, his voice breaking a little, "I have known you these
many years as a man of unstained honor. You are safe with me. I ask no
questions. God will judge whether I have done my duty."

Mr. Carvel took his friend's hand. "Thank you, Calvin," he said. "I give
you my word of honor as a gentleman that I came into this city for no
other reason than to see my daughter. And hearing that my old friend was
dying, I could not resist the temptation, sir--"

Mr. Brinsmade finished for him. And his voice shook.

"To come to his bedside. How many men do you think would risk their lives
so, Mrs. Brice?"

"Not many, indeed, Mr. Brinsmade," she answered. "Thank God he will now
die happy. I know it has been much on his mind."

The Colonel bowed over her hand.

"And in his name, madam,--in the name of my oldest and best friend,--I
thank you for what you have done for him. I trust that you will allow me
to add that I have learned from my daughter to respect and admire you. I
hope that your son is doing well."

"He is, thank you, Colonel Carvel. If he but knew that the Judge were
dying, I could not have kept him at home. Dr. Polk says that he must not
leave the house, or undergo any excitement."

Just then the door of the inner room opened, and Dr. Polk came out. He
bowed gravely to Mrs. Brice and Mr. Brinsmade, and he patted Virginia.

"The Judge is still asleep," he said gently. "And--he may not wake up in
this world."

Silently, sadly, they went together into that little room where so much
of Judge Whipple's life had been spent. How little it was! And how
completely they filled it,--these five people and the big Rothfield
covered with the black cloth. Virginia pressed her father's arm as they
leaned against it, and brushed her eyes. The Doctor turned the wick of
the night-lamp.

What was that upon the sleeper's face from which they drew back? A smile?
Yes, and a light. The divine light which is shed upon those who have
lived for others, who have denied themselves the lusts of the flesh, For
a long space, perhaps an hour, they stayed, silent save for a low word
now and again from the Doctor as he felt the Judge's heart. Tableaux from
the past floated before Virginia's eyes. Of the old days, of the happy
days in Locust Street, of the Judge quarrelling with her father, and she
and Captain Lige smiling nearby. And she remembered how sometimes when
the controversy was finished the Judge would rub his nose and say:

"It's my turn now, Lige."

Whereupon the Captain would open the piano, and she would play the hymn
that he liked best. It was "Lead, Kindly Light."

What was it in Silas Whipple's nature that courted the pain of memories?
What pleasure could it have been all through his illness to look upon
this silent and cruel reminder of days gone by forever? She had heard
that Stephen Brice had been with the Judge when he had bid it in. She
wondered that he had allowed it, for they said that he was the only one
who had ever been known to break the Judge's will. Virginia's eyes rested
on Margaret Brice, who was seated at the head of the bed, smoothing the
pillows The strength of Stephen's features were in hers, but not the
ruggedness. Her features were large, indeed, yet stanch and softened. The
widow, as if feeling Virginia's look upon her, glanced up from the
Judge's face and smiled at her. The girl colored with pleasure, and again
at the thought which she had had of the likeness between mother and son.

Still the Judge slept on, while they watched. And at length the thought
of Clarence crossed Virginia's mind.

Why had he not returned? Perhaps he was in the office without. Whispering
to her father, she stole out on tiptoe. The office was empty. Descending
to the street, she was unable to gain any news of Clarence from Ned, who
was becoming alarmed likewise.

Perplexed and troubled, she climbed the stairs again. No sound came from
the Judge's room Perhaps Clarence would be back at any moment. Perhaps
her father was in danger. She sat down to think,--her elbows on the desk
in front of her, her chin in her hand, her eyes at the level of a line of
books which stood on end.--Chitty's Pleadings, Blackstone, Greenleaf on
Evidence. Absently; as a person whose mind is in trouble, she reached out
and took one of them down and opened it. Across the flyleaf, in a high
and bold hand, was written the name, Stephen Atterbury Brice.

It was his desk! She was sitting in his chair!

She dropped the book, and, rising abruptly, crossed quickly to the other
side of the room. Then she turned, hesitatingly, and went back. This was
his desk--his chair, in which he had worked so faithfully for the man who
lay dying beyond the door. For him whom they all loved--whose last hours
they were were to soothe. Wars and schisms may part our bodies, but
stronger ties unite our souls. Through Silas Whipple, through his mother,
Virginia knew that she was woven of one piece with Stephen Brice. In a
thousand ways she was reminded, lest she drive it from her belief. She
might marry another, and that would not matter.

She sank again into his chair, and gave herself over to the thoughts
crowding in her heart. How the threads of his life ran next to hers, and
crossed and recrossed them. The slave auction, her dance with him, the
Fair, the meeting at Mr. Brinsmade's gate,--she knew them all. Her love
and admiration for his mother. Her dreams of him--for she did dream of
him. And now he had saved Clarence's life that she might marry her
cousin. Was it true that she would marry Clarence? That seemed to her
only a dream. It had never seemed real. Again she glanced at the
signature in the book, as if fascinated by the very strength of it. She
turned over a few pages of the book, "Supposing the defendant's counsel
essays to prove by means of--" that was his writing again, a marginal,
note. There were marginal notes on every page--even the last was covered
with them, And then at the end, "First reading, February, 1858. They
came to Dantzig not to fight, but to lie down and rest. They were the
last of the great army--the reinforcements dragged to the frontier which
many of them had never crossed. For those who had been to Moscow were few
and far between.

The army of Moscow had perished at Malo-Jaroslavetz, at the Beresina, in
Smolensk and Vilna.

These fugitives had fled to Dantzig for safety; and Rapp in crossing
the bridge had made a grimace, for he saw that there was no safety
here.

The fortifications had been merely sketched out.

The ditches were full of snow, the rivers were frozen.

All work was at a standstill.
Dantzig lay at the mercy of the first-comer.

In twenty-four hours every available smith was at work, forging ice-
axes and picks.

Rapp was going to cut the frozen Vistula and set the river free. The
Dantzigers laughed aloud.

"It will freeze again in a night," they said. And it did. So Rapp set
the ice-cutters to work again next day. He kept boats moving day and night
in the water, which ran sluggish and thick, like porridge, with
the desire to freeze and be still.

He ordered the engineers to set to work on the abandoned fortifications.

But the ground was hard like granite, and the picks sprang back in
the worker's grip, jarring his bones, and making not so much as a
mark on the surface of the earth.

Again the Dantzigers laughed.

"It is frozen three feet down," they said.

The thermometer marked between twenty and thirty degrees of frost
every night now.

And it was only December--only the beginning of the winter.

The Russians were at the Niemen, daily coming nearer.
Dantzig was full of sick and wounded. The available troops were worn
out, frost-bitten, desperate. There were only a few doctors, who were
without medical stores; no meat, no vegetables, no spirits, no forage.

No wonder the Dantzigers laughed. Rapp, who had to rely on
Southerners to obey his orders--Italians, Africans, a few Frenchmen,
men little used to cold and the hardships of a Northern winter--Rapp
let them laugh.

He was a medium-sized man, with a bullet-head and a round chubby face, a
small nose, round eyes, and, if you please, side-whiskers.

Never for a moment did he admit that things looked black. He lit enormous
bonfires, melted the frozen earth, and built the fortifications that had
been planned.

"I took counsel," he said, long afterwards, "with two engineer
officers whose devotion equalled their brilliancy--Colonel Richemont
and General Campredon."

Soldiers might for all time study with advantage the acts of such
obscure and almost forgotten men as these.

For, through them, Napoleon was now teaching the world that a fortified
place might be made stronger than any had hitherto suspected. That
he should turn round and teach, on the other hand, that a city
usually considered impregnable could be taken without great loss
of life, was only characteristic of his splendid genius, which,
like a towering tree, grew and grew until it fell.

The days were very short now, and it was dark when the sappers--
whose business it was to keep the ice moving in the river at that
spot where the Government building-yard abuts the river front to-
day--were roused from their meditations by a shout on the farther
bank.

They pushed their clumsy boat through the ice, and soon perceived against
the snowy distance the outline of a man wrapped, swaddled, disguised
in the heaped-up clothing so familiar to Eastern Europe at this time.

The joke of seeing a grave artilleryman clad in a lady's ermine cloak had
long since lost its savour for those who dwelt near the Moscow
road.

"Ah! comrade," said one of the boatmen, an Italian who spoke French
and had learnt his seamanship on the Mediterranean, by whose waters
he would never idle again.

"Ah! you are from Moscow?"

"And you, countryman?"

replied the new-comer, with a non-committing readiness, as he
stumbled over the gunwale.

"And you--an old man?"

remarked the Italian, with the easy frankness of Piedmont.

By way of reply, the new-comer held out one hand roughly swathed
in cloth, and shook it from side to side slowly, taking exception
to such personal matters on a short acquaintance.

"A week ago, when I quitted Dantzig on a mission to Kowno," he said,
with a careless air, "one could cross the Vistula anywhere.

I have been walking on the bank for half a league looking for a way
across.

One would think there is a General in Dantzig now."

"There is Rapp," replied the Italian, poling his boat through the
floating ice.

"He will be glad to see me."

The Italian turned and looked over his shoulder.

Then he gave a curt, derisive laugh.

"Barlasch--of the Old Guard!" explained the new-comer, with a careless
air.

"Never heard of him."

Barlasch pushed up the bandage which he still wore over his left
eye, in order to get a better sight of this phenomenal ignoramus,
but he made no comment.

On landing he nodded curtly, at which the boatman made a quick
gesture and spat.

"You have not the price of a glass in your purse, perhaps," he
suggested.

Barlasch disappeared in the darkness without deigning a reply.

Half an hour later he was on the steps of Sebastian's house in the
Frauengasse. On his way through the streets a hundred evidences of energy
had caught his attention, for many of the houses were barricaded, and
palisades were built at the end of the streets running down towards
the river.

The town was busy, and everywhere soldiers passed to and fro. Like Samuel,
Barlasch heard the bleating of sheep and the lowing of oxen in his
ears.

The houses in the Frauengasse were barricaded like others--many of the lower
windows were built up.

The door of No. 36 was bolted, and through the shutters of the upper
windows no glimmer of light penetrated to the outer darkness of
the street.

Barlasch knocked and waited. He thought he could hear surreptitious
movements within the house. Again he knocked.

"Who is that?" asked Lisa just within, on the mat. She must have been
there all the time.

"Barlasch," he replied.

And the bolts which he, in his knowledge of such matters, himself had
oiled, were quickly drawn.

Inside he found Lisa, and behind her Mathilde and Desiree.

"Where is the patron?" he asked, turning to bolt the door again.

"He is out, in the town," answered Desiree, in a strained voice.
"Where are you from?"
"From Kowno."
Barlasch looked from one face to the other. His own was burnt red, and
the light of the lamp hanging over his head gleamed on the icicles
suspended to his eyebrows and ragged whiskers.

In the warmth of the house his frozen garments began to melt, and from
his limbs the water dripped to the floor with a sound like rain. Then he
caught sight of Desiree's face.

"He is alive, I tell you that," he said abruptly. "And well, so far as
we know. It was at Kowno that we got news of him. I have a letter."
He opened his cloak, which was stiff like cardboard and creaked when he
bent the rough cloth. Under his cloak he wore a Russian peasant's sheepskin
coat, and beneath that the remains of his uniform.

"A dog's country," he muttered, as he breathed on his fingers.

At last he found the letter, and gave it to Desiree.

"You will have to make your choice," he commented, with a grimace indicative
of a serious situation, "like any other woman. No doubt you will choose
wrong."

Desiree went up two steps in order to be nearer the lamp, and they all
watched her as she opened the letter.

"Is it from Charles?" asked Mathilde, speaking for the first time.

"No," answered Desiree, rather breathlessly.

Barlasch nudged Lisa, indicated his own mouth, and pushed her towards the
kitchen.

He nodded cunningly to Mathilde, as if to say that they were now free
to discuss family affairs; and added, with a gesture towards his inner
man--

"Since last night--nothing."
In a few minutes Desiree, having read the letter twice, handed it to her
sister. It was characteristically short.

"We have found a man here," wrote Louis d'Arragon, "who travelled as far
as Vilna with Charles. There they parted. Charles, who was ordered to
Warsaw on staff work, told his friend that you were in Dantzig,
and that, foreseeing a siege of the city, he had written to you to
join him at Warsaw.

This letter has doubtless been lost. I am following Charles to Warsaw,
tracing him step by step, and if he has fallen ill by the way, as so many
have done, shall certainly find him. Barlasch returns to bring you to
Thorn, if you elect to join Charles. I will await you at Thorn,
and if Charles has proceeded, we will follow him to Warsaw."
Barlasch, who had watched Desiree, now followed Mathilde's eyes as
they passed to and fro over the closely written lines.

As she neared the end, and her face, upon which deep shadows had been
graven by sorrow and suspense, grew drawn and hopeless, he gave a
curt laugh.

"There were two," he said, "travelling together--the Colonel de
Casimir and the husband of--of la petite.

They had facilities--name of God!--two carriages and an escort. In the
carriages they had some of the Emperor's playthings--holy pictures,
the imperial loot-- I know not what.

Besides that, they had some of their own--not furs and candlesticks
such as we others carried on our backs, but gold and jewellery
enough to make a man rich all his life."

"How do you know that?"

asked Mathilde, a dull light in her eyes.

"I--I know where it came from," replied Barlasch, with an odd smile.
"Allez!

you may take it from me." And he muttered to himself in the patois of the
Cotes du Nord.

"And they were safe and well at Vilna?" asked Mathilde.

"Yes--and they had their treasure.

They had good fortune, or else they were more clever than other
men; for they had the Imperial treasure to escort, and could take
any man's horse for the carriages in which also they had placed
their own treasure.

It was Captain Darragon who held the appointment, and the other--the
Colonel--had attached himself to him as volunteer.

For it was at Vilna that the last thread of discipline was broken, and
every man did as he wished."
"They did not come to Kowno?" asked Mathilde, who had a clear mind, and
that grasp of a situation which more often falls to the lot of the
duller sex.

"They did not come to Kowno.

They would turn south at Vilna.

It was as well. At Kowno the soldiers had broken into the magazines-- the
brandy was poured out in the streets. The men were lying there, the drunken
and the dead all confused together on the snow.

But there would be no confusion the next morning; for all would be
dead."

"Was it at Kowno that you left Monsieur d'Arragon?"

asked Desiree, in a sharp voice.

"No--no. We quitted Kowno together, and parted on the heights above
the town.

He would not trust me--monsieur le marquis--he was afraid that I
should get at the brandy.

And he was right. I only wanted the opportunity. He is a strong
one--that!"

And Barlasch held up a warning hand, as if to make known to all and sundry
that it would be inadvisable to trifle with Louis d'Arragon.

He drew the icicles one by one from his whiskers with a wry face
indicative of great agony, and threw them down on the mat.

"Well," he said, after a pause, to Desiree, "have you made your
choice?"

Desiree was reading the letter again, and before she could answer,
a quick knock on the front door startled them all.

Barlasch's face broke into that broad smile which was only called forth
by the presence of danger.

"Is it the patron?" he asked in a whisper, with his hand on the heavy
bolts affixed by that pious Hanseatic merchant who held that if God be
in the house there is no need of watchmen.

"Yes," answered Mathilde. "Open quickly."
Sebastian came in with a light step. He was like a man long saddled
with a burden of which he had at length been relieved.

"Ah! What news?" he asked, when he recognised Barlasch.

"Nothing that you do not know already, monsieur," replied Barlasch,
"except that the husband of Mademoiselle is well and on the road
to Warsaw.

Here--read that."
And he took the letter from Desiree's hand.

"I knew he would come back safely," said Desiree; and that was all.

Sebastian read the letter in one quick glance--and then fell to thinking.

"It is time to quit Dantzig," said Barlasch quietly, as if he had divined
the old man's thoughts. "I know Rapp. There will be trouble--here, on the
Vistula."
But Sebastian dismissed the suggestion with a curt shake of the head.

Barlasch's attention had been somewhat withdrawn by a smell of cooking
meat, to which he opened his nostrils frankly and noisily after the manner
of a dog.

"Then it remains," he said, looking towards the kitchen, "for Mademoiselle
to make her choice."
"There is no choice," replied Desiree, "I shall be ready to go with you--when
you have eaten."
"Good," said Barlasch, and the word applied as well to Lisa, who was
beckoning to him.

CHAPTER XXI. ON THE WARSAW ROAD.

Oft expectation fails, and most oft there Where it most promises; and oft
it hits Where hope is coldest and despair most sits.

Love, it is said, is blind. But hatred is as bad. In Antoine Sebastian
hatred of Napoleon had not only blinded eyes far-seeing enough in
earlier days, but it had killed many natural affections.

Love, too, may easily die--from a surfeit or a famine. Hatred never dies;
it only sleeps.

Sebastian's hatred was all awake now. It was aroused by the disasters
that had befallen Napoleon; of which disasters the Russian campaign
was only one small part.

For he who stands above all his compeers must expect them to fall upon him
should he stumble.
Napoleon had fallen, and a hundred foes who had hitherto nursed their
hatred in a hopeless silence were alert to strike a blow should he
descend within their reach.

When whole empires had striven in vain to strike, how could a mere
association of obscure men hope to record its blow? The Tugendbund had
begun humbly enough; and Napoleon, with that unerring foresight
which raised him above all other men, had struck at its base. For an
association in which kings and cobblers stand side by side on an
equal footing must necessarily be dangerous to its foes.

Sebastian was not carried off his feet by the great events of the
last six months. They only rendered him steadier. For he had waited
a lifetime. It is only a sudden success that dazzles. Long waiting
nearly always ensures a wise possession.
Sebastian, like all men absorbed in a great thought, was neglectful
of his social and domestic obligations. Has it not been shown that
he allowed Mathilde and Desiree to support him by giving dancing
lessons? But he was not the ordinary domestic tyrant who is familiar
to all--the dignified father of a family who must have the best of
everything, whose teaching to his offspring takes the form of an
unconscious and solemn warning. He did not ask the best; he hardly
noticed what was offered to him; and it was not owing to his demand,
but to that feminine spirit of self-sacrifice which has ruined so
many men, that he fared better than his daughters.
If he thought about it at all, he probably concluded that Mathilde
and Desiree were quite content to give their time and thought to
the support of himself--not as their father, but as the motive power
of the Tugendbund in Prussia.Serve your city, serve your state, but above all serve your
country."

He paused to catch his breath, which was coming painfully now, and
reached out his bony hand to seek Stephen's. "I was harsh with you at
first, my son," he went on. "I wished to try you. And when I had tried
you I wished your mind to open, to keep pace with the growth of this
nation. I sent you to see Abraham Lincoln that you might be born again
--in the West. You were born again. I saw it when you came back--I saw it
in your face. O God," he cried, with sudden eloquence. "I would that his
hands--Abraham Lincoln's hands--might be laid upon all who complain and
cavil and criticise, and think of the little things in life: I would that
his spirit might possess their spirit!"

He stopped again. They marvelled and were awed, for never in all his days
had such speech broken from this man. "Good-by, Stephen," he said, when
they thought he was not to speak again. "Hold the image of Abraham
Lincoln in front of you. Never forget him. You--you are a man after his
own heart--and--and mine."

The last word was scarcely audible. They started for ward, for his eyes
were closed. But presently he stirred again, and opened them.

"Brinsmade," he said, "Brinsmade, take care of my orphan girls. Send
Shadrach here."

The negro came forth, shuffling and sobbing, from the doorway.

"You ain't gwine away, Marse Judge?"

"Yes, Shadrach, good-by. You have served me well, I have left you
provided for."

Shadrach kissed the hand of whose secret charity he knew so much. Then
the Judge withdrew it, and motioned to him to rise. He called his oldest
friend by name. And Colonel Carvel came from the corner where he had been
listening, with his face drawn.

"Good-by, Comyn. You were my friend when there was none other. You were
true to me when the hand of every man was against me. You--you have
risked your life to come to me here, May God spare it for Virginia."

At the sound of her name, the girl started. She came and bent over him.
And when she kissed him on the forehead, he trembled.

"Uncle Silas!" she faltered.

Weakly he reached up and put his hands on her shoulders. He whispered in
her ear. The tears came and lay wet upon her lashes as she undid the
button at his throat.

There, on a piece of cotton twine, hung a little key, She took it off,
but still his hands held her.

"I have saved it for you, my dear," he said. "God bless you--" why did
his eyes seek Stephen's?--"and make your life happy. Virginia--will you
play my hymn--once more--once more?"

They lifted the night lamp from the piano, and the medicine. It was
Stephen who stripped it of the black cloth it had worn, who stood by
Virginia ready to lift the lid when she had turned the lock. The girl's
exaltation gave a trembling touch divine to the well-remembered chords,
and those who heard were lifted, lifted far above and beyond the power of
earthly spell.

       "Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom
        Lead Thou me on
        The night is dark, and I am far from home;
        Lead Thou me on.
        Keep Thou my feet! I do not ask to see
        The distant scene; one step enough for me."

A sigh shook Silas Whipple's wasted frame, and he died.


THE CRISIS

By Winston Churchill


Volume 8.


CHAPTER XII

THE LAST CARD

Mr. Brinsmade and the Doctor were the first to leave the little room
where Silas Whipple had lived and worked and died, Mr. Brinsmade bent
upon one of those errands which claimed him at all times. He took
Shadrach with him. Virginia sat on, a vague fear haunting her,--a fear
for her father's safety. Where was Clarence? What had he seen? Was the
place watched? These questions, at first intruding upon her sorrow,
remained to torture her.

Softly she stirred from the chair where she had sat before the piano, and
opened the door of the outer office. A clock in a steeple near by was
striking twelve. The Colonel did not raise his head. Only Stephen saw her
go; she felt his eyes following her, and as she slipped out lifted hers
to meet them for a brief instant through the opening of the door. Then it
closed behind her.

First of all she knew that the light in the outer office was burning
dimly, and the discovery gave her a shock. Who had turned it down? Had
Clarence? Was he here? Fearfully searching the room for him, her gaze was
held by a figure in the recess of the window at the back of the room. A
solid, bulky figure it was, and, though uncertainly outlined in the
semi-darkness, she knew it. She took a step nearer, and a cry escaped
her.

The man was Eliphalet Hopper. He got down from the sill with a motion at
once sheepish and stealthy. Her breath caught, and instinctively she gave
back toward the door, as if to open it again.

"Hold on!" he said. "I've got something I want to say to you, Miss
Virginia."

I can tell you that, at all events."
"Thank you," said Desiree. She had nothing against de Casimir. She had
only seen him once or twice, and she knew him to be Charles's friend,
and in some sense his patron. For de Casimir held a high position in
Dantzig. She was quite ready to like him since Charles liked him; but
she intended to do so at her own range. It is always the woman who
measures the distance.

Desiree made a little movement as if to continue on her way; and de
Casimir instantly stood aside, with a bow.

"Shall I find your father at home?" he asked.

"I think so.

He was at home when I left," she answered, responding to his salute
with a friendly nod.

De Casimir watched her go and stood for a moment in reflection, as if
going over in his mind that which had passed between them.

"I must try the other one," he said to himself as he turned down
the Pfaffengasse.

He continued his way at a leisurely pace. At the corner of the Frauengasse
he lingered in the shadow of the linden trees, and while so doing
saw Antoine Sebastian quit the door of No.
36, going in the opposite direction towards the river, and pass out
through the Frauenthor on to the quay.

He made a little gesture of annoyance on being told by the servant that
Sebastian was out. After a moment's reflection, he seemed to make up his
mind to ignore the conventionalities.

"It is merely," he said in his friendly and confidential manner to the
servant, in perfect German, "that I have news from Monsieur Darragon,
the husband of Mademoiselle Desiree.

Madame is out--you say. Well, then, what is to be done?"
He had a most charming, grave manner of asking advice which few
could resist.

The servant nodded at him with a twinkle of understanding in her
eye.

"There is Fraulein Mathilde."

"But . . . well, ask her if she will do me the honour of speaking to me
for an instant. I leave it to you . . . ."
"But come in," protested the servant. "Come upstairs. She will see you;
why not?"

And she led the way upstairs.

Papa Barlasch, sitting just within the kitchen door, where he sat all
day doing nothing, glanced upwards through his overhanging eyebrows
at the clink of spurs and the clatter of de Casimir's sword against
the banisters.

He had the air of a watchdog.

Mathilde was not in the drawing-room, and the servant left the visitor
there alone, saying that she would seek her mistress. There were
one or two books on the tables. One table was rather untidy; it was
Desiree's. A writing-desk stood in the corner of the room.
It was locked--and the lock was a good one. De Casimir was an observant
man. He had time to make this observation, and to see that there were no
letters in Desiree's work-basket; to note the titles of the books and the
absence of name on the flyleaf, and was looking out of the window
when the door opened and Mathilde came in.

This was a day when women were treated with a great show of deference,
while in reality they had but little voice in the world's affairs.

De Casimir's bow was deeper and more elaborate than would be considered
polite to-day.

On standing erect he quickly suppressed a glance of surprise.

Mathilde must have expected him. She was dressed in white, and her hair was
tied with a bright ribbon. In her cheeks, usually so pale, was a
little touch of colour. It may have been because Desiree was not
near, but de Casimir had never known until this moment how pretty
Mathilde really was. There was something in her eyes, too, which
gripped his attention.Even he could not fathom the
appeal, the yearning, in their dark blue depths. And yet what he saw
there made him tremble. She turned away, trembling too.

"Please sit down," she entreated. "He--he won't touch me again while you
are here."

Eliphalet Hopper raised himself from the desk, and one of the big books
fell with a crash to the floor. Then they saw him shrink, his eyes fixed
upon some one behind them. Before the Judge's door stood Colonel Carvel,
in calm, familiar posture, his feet apart, and his head bent forward as
he pulled at his goatee.

"What is this man doing here, Virginia?" he asked. She did not answer
him, nor did speech seem to come easily to Mr. Hopper in that instant.
Perhaps the sight of Colonel Carvel had brought before him too, vividly
the memory of that afternoon at Glencoe.

All at once Virginia grasped the fulness of the power in this man's
hands. At a word from him her father would be shot as a spy--and Stephen
Brice, perhaps, as a traitor. But if Colonel Carvel should learn that he
had seized her,--here was the terrible danger of the situation. Well she
knew what the Colonel would do. Would. Stephen tell him? She trusted in
his coolness that he would not.

Before a word of reply came from any of the three, a noise was heard on
the stairway. Some one was coming up. There followed four seconds of
suspense, and then Clarence came in. She saw that his face wore a
worried, dejected look. It changed instantly when he glanced about him,
and an oath broke from his lips as he singled out Eliphalet Hopper
standing in sullen aggressiveness, beside the table.

"So you're the spy, are you?" he said in disgust. Then he turned his back
and faced his uncle. "I saw, him in Williams's entry as we drove up. He
got away from me."

A thought seemed to strike him. He strode to the open window at the back
of the office, and looked out, There was a roof under it.

"The sneak got in here," he said. "He knew I was waiting for him in the
street. So you're the spy, are you?"

Mr. Hopper passed a heavy hand across the cheek where Stephen had struck
him.

"No, I ain't the spy," he said, with a meaning glance at the Colonel.

"Then what are you doing here?" demanded Clarence, fiercely.

"I cal'late that he knows," Eliphalet replied, jerking his head toward
Colonel Carvel. "Where's his Confederate uniform? What's to prevent my
calling up the provost's guard below?" he continued, with a smile that
was hideous on his swelling face.

It was the Colonel who answered him, very quickly and very clearly.

"Nothing whatever, Mr. Hopper," he said. "This is the way out." He
pointed at the door. Stephen, who was watching him, could not tell
whether it were a grim smile that creased the corners of the Colonel's
mouth as he added. "You might prefer the window."

Mr. Hopper did not move, but his eyes shifted to Virginia's form. Stephen
deliberately thrust himself between them that he might not see her.

"What are you waiting for?" said the Colonel, in the mild voice that
should have been an ominous warning. Still Mr. Hopper did not move. It
was clear that he had not reckoned upon all of this; that he had waited
in the window to deal with Virginia alone. But now the very force of a
desire which had gathered strength in many years made him reckless. His
voice took on the oily quality in which he was wont to bargain.

"Let's be calm about this business, Colonel," he said. "We won't say
anything about the past. But I ain't set on having you shot. There's a
consideration that would stop me, and I cal'late you know what it is."

Then the Colonel made a motion. But before he had taken a step Virginia
had crossed the room swiftly, and flung herself upon him.

"Oh, don't, Pa!" she cried. "Don't! Tell him that I will agree to it.
Yes, I will. I can't have you--shot." The last word came falteringly,
faintly.

"Let me go,--honey," whispered the Colonel, gently. His eyes did not
leave Eliphalet. He tried to disengage himself, but her fingers were
clasped about his neck in a passion of fear and love. And then, while she
clung to him, her head was raised to listen. The sound of Stephen Brice's
voice held her as in a spell. His words were coming coldly, deliberately,
and yet so sharply that each seemed to fall like a lash.

"Mr. Hopper, if ever I hear of your repeating what you have seen or heard
in this room, I will make this city and this state too hot for you to
live in. I know you. I know how you hide in areas, how you talk sedition
in private, how you have made money out of other men's misery. And, what
is more, I can prove that you have had traitorous dealings with the
Confederacy. General Sherman has been good enough to call himself a
friend of mine, and if he prosecutes you for your dealings in Memphis,
you will get a term in a Government prison, You ought to be hung. Colonel
Carvel has shown you the door. Now go."

And Mr, Hopper went.


CHAPTER XIII

FROM THE LETTERS OF MAJOR STEPHEN BRICE

Of the Staff of General Sherman on the March to the Sea, and on the March
from Savannah Northward.

HEADQUARTERS MILITARY DIVISION OF THE MISSISSIPPI GOLDSBORO, N.C. I'd
give the whole lot for one French woman!

AFRÉMOV. Yes, we know you--and your æsthetics!... I'll go and see who it
is. [Exit].

STÁKHOV. If it's Másha, bring her in here! We'll make her sing.... No,
the gipsies aren't what they used to be. Tanyúsha, now--by Gad!

BUTKÉVICH. And I believe they're just the same.

STÁKHOV. Just the same? When instead of their own pieces they sing empty
drawing-room songs?

BUTKÉVICH. Some drawing-room songs are very good.

KOROTKÓV. Will you bet I don't get them to sing a drawing-room song so that
you won't know it from one of their own?

STÁKHOV. Korotkóv always wants to bet!

Enter Afrémov.

AFRÉMOV. I say, you fellows, it's not Másha--and there's no room he
can ask her into but this. Let us clear out to the billiard room.
[Exeunt].

Enter Fédya and Sásha.

SÁSHA [confused] Fédya, forgive me if it's unpleasant--but for God's
sake hear me!... [Her voice trembles].

Fédya walks up and down the room. Sásha sits down, and follows him with her
eyes.

SÁSHA. Fédya! Come home!

FÉDYA. Just listen to me, Sásha ... I quite understand you, Sásha dear,
and in your place I should do the same--I should try to find some
way to bring back the old state of affairs.

But if you were me, if--strange as it sounds--you, dear sensitive girl,
were in my place ... you would certainly have done as I did, and
have gone away and ceased to spoil someone else's life.

SÁSHA. Spoil? How? As if Lisa could live without you!

FÉDYA. Oh, Sásha dear! Dear heart!... She can, she can! And she will
yet be happy--far happier than with me.

SÁSHA. Never!

FÉDYA. It seems so to you [Takes her hand] ... But that's not the
point.
The chief thing is, that _I_ can't!... You know, one folds a piece
of thick paper this way and that a hundred times and still it holds
together; but fold it once more, and it comes in half.... So it was
with Lisa and me. It hurts me too much to look into her eyes--and
she feels the same, believe me!

SÁSHA. No, no!
FÉDYA. You say "No," but you yourself know that it is "Yes"!
SÁSHA. I can only judge by myself. If I were in her place, and you
answered as you are doing, it would be dreadful!
FÉDYA. Yes, for _you_ ... [Pause; both are agitated].
SÁSHA [rises] Must things really remain so?

FÉDYA. I suppose ...
SÁSHA. Fédya come back!
FÉDYA. Thank you, Sásha dear! You will always remain a precious
memory to me.... But good-bye, dear heart!... Let me kiss you.
[Kisses her forehead].
SÁSHA [agitated] No, I don't say good-bye, and I don't believe, and
won't believe ... Fédya!
FÉDYA. Well then, listen! But give me your word that what I tell
you, you won't repeat to anybody--do you promise?
SÁSHA. Of course!
FÉDYA. Well then, listen, Sásha.... It's true that I am her husband
and the father of her child, but I am--superfluous! Wait, wait--don't
reply.... You think I'm jealous? Not at all! In the first place, I
have no right; secondly, I have no cause. Victor Karénin is her old
friend and mine too."Yes, sir."

Pointing with his arm.

"Went beyond lines there with small party. Rebel battery on summit. Had
to git. Fired on. Next day I thought Rebels would leave in the night. Got
up before daylight, fixed telescope on stand, and waited. Watched top of
Kenesaw. No Rebel. Saw one blue man creep up, very cautious, looked
around, waved his hat. Rebels gone. Thought so."

This gives you but a faint idea of the vividness of his talk. When we
make a halt for any time, the general officers and their staffs flock to
headquarters to listen to his stories. When anything goes wrong, his
perception of it is like a lightning flash,--and he acts as quickly.

By the way, I have just found the letter he wrote me, offering this staff
position. Please keep it carefully, as it is something I shall value all
my life.

   GAYLESVILLE, ALABAMA, October 25, 1864.

   MAJOR STEPHEN A. BRICE:

   Dear Sir,--The world goes on, and wicked men sound asleep. Davis
   has sworn to destroy my army, and Beauregard has come to do the
   work,--so if you expect to share in our calamity, come down. I
   offer you this last chance for staff duty, and hope you have had
   enough in the field. I do not wish to hurry you, but you can't get
   aboard a ship at sea. So if you want to make the trip, come to
   Chattanooga and take your chances of meeting me.

               Yours truly,

                  W. T. SHERMAN, Major General.

One night--at Cheraw, I think it was--he sent for me to talk to him. I
found him lying on a bed of Spanish moss they had made for him. He asked
me a great many questions about St. Louis, and praised Mr. Brinsmade,
especially his management of the Sanitary Commission.

"Brice," he said, after a while, "you remember when Grant sent me to beat
off Joe Johnston's army from Vicksburg. You were wounded then, by the
way, in that dash Lauman made. Grant thought he ought to warn me against
Johnston.

"'He's wily, Sherman,' said he. 'He's a dangerous man.'

"'Grant,' said I, 'you give me men enough and time enough to look over
the ground, and I'm not afraid of the devil.'"

Nothing could sum up the man better than that. And now what a trick of
fate it is that he has Johnston before him again, in what we hope will
prove the last gasp of the war! He likes Johnston, by the way, and has
the greatest respect for him.

I wish you could have peeped into our camp once in a while. In the rare
bursts of sunshine on this march our premises have been decorated with
gay red blankets, and sombre gray ones brought from the quartermasters,
and white Hudson's Bay blankets (not so white now), all being between
forked sticks. It is wonderful how the pitching of a few tents, and the
busy crackle of a few fires, and the sound of voices--sometimes merry,
sometimes sad, depending on the weather, will change the look of a lonely
pine knoll. You ask me how we fare. I should be heartily ashamed if a
word of complaint ever fell from my lips. But the men! Whenever I wake up
at night with my feet in a puddle between the blankets, I think of the
men. The corduroy roads which our horses stumble over through the mud,
they make as well as march on. Our flies are carried in wagons, and our
utensils and provisions. They must often bear on their backs the little
dog-tents, under which, put up by their own labor, they crawl to sleep,
wrapped in a blanket they have carried all day, perhaps waist deep in
water. The food they eat has been in their haversacks for many a weary
mile, and is cooked in the little skillet and pot which have also been a
part of their burden. Then they have their musket and accoutrements, and
the "forty rounds" at their backs. Patiently, cheerily tramping along,
going they know not where, nor care much either, so it be not in retreat.
Ready to make roads, throw up works, tear up railroads, or hew out and
build wooden bridges; or, best of all, to go for the Johnnies under hot
sun or heavy rain, through swamp and mire and quicksand. They marched ten
miles to storm Fort McAllister. And how the cheers broke from them when
the pop pop pop of the skirmish line began after we came in sight of
Savannah! No man who has seen but not shared their life may talk of
personal hardship.

We arrived at this pretty little town yesterday, so effecting a junction
with Schofield, who got in with the 3d Corps the day before. I am writing
at General Schofield's headquarters. There was a bit of a battle on
Tuesday at Bentonville, and we have come hither in smoke, as usual. But
this time we thank Heaven that it is not the smoke of burning homes,
--only some resin the "Johnnies" set on fire before they left.

I must close. General Sherman has just sent for me.

               ON BOARD DESPATCH BOAT "MARTIN."
                  AT SEA, March 25, 1865.

DEAR MOTHER: A most curious thing has happened. But I may as well begin
at the beginning. When I stopped writing last evening at the summons of
the General, I was about to tell you something of the battle of
Bentonville on Tuesday last. Mower charged through as bad a piece of wood
and swamp as I ever saw, and got within one hundred yards of Johnston
himself, who was at the bridge across Mill Creek. Of course we did not
know this at the time, and learned it from prisoners.

As I have written you, I have been under fire very little since coming to
the staff. When the battle opened, however, I saw that if I stayed with
the General (who was then behind the reserves) I would see little or
nothing; I went ahead "to get information" beyond the line of battle into
the woods. I did not find these favorable to landscape views, and just as
I was turning my horse back again I caught sight of a commotion some
distance to my right. The Rebel skirmish line had fallen back just that
instant, two of our skirmishers were grappling with a third man, who was
fighting desperately. It struck me as singular that the fellow was not in
gray, but had on some sort of dark clothes.

I could not reach them in the swamp on horseback, and was in the act of
dismounting when the man fell, and then they set out to carry him to the
rear, still farther to my right, beyond the swamp. I shouted, and one of
the skirmishers came up. I asked him what the matter was.

"We've got a spy, sir," he said excitedly.

"A spy! Here?"

"Yes, Major. He was hid in the thicket yonder, lying flat on his face. He
reckoned that our boys would run right over him and that he'd get into
our lines that way. Tim Foley stumbled on him, and he put up as good a
fight with his fists as any man I ever saw."

Just then a regiment swept past us. That night I told the General, who
sent over to the headquarters of the 17th Corps to inquire. The word came
back that the man's name was Addison, and he claimed to be a Union
sympathizer who owned a plantation near by. He declared that he had been
conscripted by the Rebels, wounded, sent back home, and was now about to
be pressed in again. He had taken this method of escaping to our lines.
It was a common story enough, but General Mower added in his message that
he thought the story fishy. This was because the man's appearance was
very striking, and he seemed the type of Confederate fighter who would do
and dare anything. He had a wound, which had been a bad one, evidently
got from a piece of shell. But they had been able to find nothing on him.
Sherman sent back word to keep the man until he could see him in person.
It was about nine o'clock last night when I reached the house the General
has taken. A prisoner's guard was resting outside, and the hall was full
of officers. They said that the General was awaiting me, and pointed to
the closed door of a room that had been the dining room. I opened it.

Two candles were burning in pewter sticks on the bare mahogany table.
There was the General sitting beside them, with his legs crossed, holding
some crumpled tissue paper very near his eyes, and reading. He did not
look up when I entered. I was aware of a man standing, tall and straight,
just out of range of the candles' rays. He wore the easy dress of a
Southern planter, with the broad felt hat. The head was flung back so
that there was just a patch of light on the chin, and the lids of the
eyes in the shadow were half closed.

My sensations are worth noting. For the moment I felt precisely as I had
when I was hit by that bullet in Lauman's charge. I was aware of
something very like pain, yet I could not place the cause of it. But this
is what since has made me feel queer: you doubtless remember staying at
Hollingdean, when I was a boy, and hearing the story of Lord Northwell's
daredevil Royalist ancestor,--the one with the lace collar over the
dull-gold velvet, and the pointed chin, and the lazy scorn in the eyes.
Those eyes are painted with drooping lids. The first time I saw Clarence
Colfax I thought of that picture--and now I thought of the picture first.

The General's voice startled me.

"Major Brice, do you know this gentleman?" he asked.

"Yes, General."

"Who is he?"

"His name is Colfax, sir--Colonel Colfax, I think"

"Thought so," said the General.

I have thought much of that scene since, as I am steaming northward over
green seas and under cloudless skies, and it has seemed very unreal. I
should almost say supernatural when I reflect how I have run across this
man again and again, and always opposing him. I can recall just how he
looked at the slave auction, which seem, so long ago: very handsome, very
boyish, and yet with the air of one to be deferred to. It was
sufficiently remarkable that I should have found him in Vicksburg. But
now--to be brought face to face with him in this old dining room in
Goldsboro! And he a prisoner. He had not moved. I did not know how he
would act, but I went up to him and held out my hand, and said.--"How do
you do, Colonel Colfax?"

I am sure that my voice was not very steady, for I cannot help liking him
And then his face lighted up and he gave me his hand. And he smiled at me
and again at the General, as much as to say that it was all over. He has
a wonderful smile.

"We seem to run into each other, Major Brice," said he.

The pluck of the man was superb. I could see that the General, too, was
moved, from the way he looked at him. And he speaks a little more
abruptly at such times.

"Guess that settles it, Colonel," he said.

"I reckon it does, General," said Clarence, still smiling. The General
turned from him to the table with a kind of jerk and clapped his hand on
the tissue paper.

"These speak for themselves, sir," he said. "It is very plain that they
would have reached the prominent citizens for whom they were intended if
you had succeeded in your enterprise. You were captured out of uniform
You know enough of war to appreciate the risk you ran. Any statement to
make?"

"No, sir."

"Call Captain Vaughan, Brice, and ask him to conduct the prisoner back."

"May I speak to him, General?" I asked. The General nodded.

I asked him if I could write home for him or do anything else. That
seemed to touch him. Some day I shall tell you what he said.

Then Vaughan took him out, and I heard the guard shoulder arms and tramp
away in the night. The General and I were left alone with the mahogany
table between us, and a family portrait of somebody looking down on us
from the shadow on the wall. A moist spring air came in at the open
windows, and the candles flickered. After a silence, I ventured to say:

"I hope he won't be shot, General."

"Don't know, Brice," he answered. "Can't tell now. Hate to shoot him, but
war is war. Magnificent class he belongs to--pity we should have to fight
those fellows."

He paused, and drummed on the table. "Brice," said he, "I'm going to send
you to General Grant at City Point with despatches. I'm sorry Dunn went
back yesterday, but it can't be helped. Can you start in half an hour?"

"Yes, sir."

"You'll have to ride to Kinston. The railroad won't be through until
to-morrow: I'll telegraph there, and to General Easton at Morehead City.
He'll have a boat for you. Tell Grant I expect to run up there in a day
or two myself, when things are arranged here. You may wait until I come."

"Yes, sir."

I turned to go, but Clarence Colfax was on my mind "General?"

"Eh! what?"

"General, could you hold Colonel Colfax until I see you again?"

It was a bold thing to say, and I quaked. And he looked at me in his keen
way, through and through "You saved his life once before, didn't you?"

"You allowed me to have him sent home from Vicksburg, sir."

He answered with one of his jokes--apropos of something he said on the
Court House steps at Vicksburg. Perhaps I shall tell it to you sometime.

"Well, well," he said, "I'll see, I'll see. Thank God this war is pretty
near over. I'll let you know, Brice, before I shoot him."

I rode the thirty odd miles to Kinston in--little more than three hours.
A locomotive was waiting for me, and I jumped into a cab with a friendly
engineer. Soon we were roaring seaward through the vast pine forests. It
was a lonely journey, and you were much in my mind. My greatest
apprehension was that we might be derailed and the despatches captured;
for as fast as our army had advanced, the track of it had closed again,
like the wake of a ship at sea. Guerillas were roving about, tearing up
ties and destroying bridges.

There was one five-minute interval of excitement when, far down the
tunnel through the forest, we saw a light gleaming. The engineer said
there was no house there, that it must be a fire. But we did not slacken
our speed, and gradually the leaping flames grew larger and redder until
we were upon them.

Not one gaunt figure stood between them and us. Not one shot broke the
stillness of the night. As dawn broke I beheld the flat, gray waters of
the Sound stretching away to the eastward, and there was the boat at the
desolate wharf beside the warehouse, her steam rising white in the chill
morning air.


CHAPTER XIV

THE SAME, CONTINUED

             HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES,
              CITY POINT, VIRGINIA, March 28, 1865.

DEAR MOTHER: I arrived here safely the day before yesterday, and I hope
that you will soon receive some of the letters I forwarded on that day.
It is an extraordinary place, this City Point; a military city sprung up
like a mushroom in a winter. And my breath was quite taken away when I
first caught sight of it on the high table-land. The great bay in front
of it, which the Appomattox helps to make, is a maze of rigging and
smoke-pipes, like the harbor of a prosperous seaport. There are gunboats
and supply boats, schooners and square-riggers and steamers, all huddled
together, and our captain pointed out to me the 'Malvern' flying Admiral
Porter's flag. Barges were tied up at the long wharves, and these were
piled high with wares and flanked by squat warehouses. Although it was
Sunday, a locomotive was puffing and panting along the foot of the ragged
bank.

High above, on the flat promontory between the two rivers, is the city of
tents and wooden huts, the great trees in their fresh faint green
towering above the low roofs. At the point of the bluff a large flag
drooped against its staff, and I did not have to be told that this was
General Grant's headquarters.

There was a fine steamboat lying at the wharf, and I had hardly stepped
ashore before they told me she was President Lincoln's. I read the name
on her--the 'River Queen'. Yes, the President is here, too, with his wife
and family.

There are many fellows here with whom I was brought up in Boston. I am
living with Jack Hancock, whom you will remember well. He is a captain
now, and has a beard.

But I must go on with my story. I went straight to General Grant's
headquarters,--just a plain, rough slat house such as a contractor might
build for a temporary residence. Only the high flagstaff and the Stars
and Stripes distinguish it from many others of the same kind. A group of
officers stood chatting outside of it, and they told me that the General
had walked over to get his mail. He is just as unassuming and democratic
as "my general." General Rankin took me into the office, a rude room, and
we sat down at the long table there. Presently the door opened, and a man
came in with a slouch hat on and his coat unbuttoned. He was smoking a
cigar. We rose to our feet, and I saluted.

It was the general-in-chief. He stared at me, but said nothing.

"General, this is Major Brice of General Sherman's staff. He has brought
despatches from Goldsboro," said Rankin.

He nodded, took off his hat and laid it on the table, and reached out for
the despatches. While reading them he did not move, except to light
another cigar. I am getting hardened to unrealities,--perhaps I should
say marvels, now. Our country abounds in them. It did not seem so strange
that this silent General with the baggy trousers was the man who had
risen by leaps and bounds in four years to be general-in-chief of our
armies. His face looks older and more sunken than it did on that day in
the street near the Arsenal, in St. Louis, when he was just a military
carpet-bagger out of a job. He is not changed otherwise. But how
different the impressions made by the man in authority and the same man
out of authority!

He made a sufficient impression upon me then, as I told you at the time.
That was because I overheard his well-merited rebuke to Hopper. But I
little dreamed that I was looking on the man who was to come out of the
West and save this country from disunion. And how quietly and simply he
has done it, without parade or pomp or vainglory. Of all those who, with
every means at their disposal, have tried to conquer Lee, he is the only
one who has in any manner succeeded. He has been able to hold him
fettered while Sherman has swept the Confederacy. And these are the two
men who were unknown when the war began.

When the General had finished reading the despatches, he folded them
quickly and put them in his pocket.

"Sit down and tell me about this last campaign of yours, Major," he said.

I talked with him for about half an hour. I should rather say talked to
him. He is a marked contrast to Sherman in this respect. I believe that
he only opened his lips to ask two questions. You may well believe that
they were worth the asking, and they revealed an intimate knowledge of
our march from Savannah. I was interrupted many times by the arrival of
different generals, aides, etc. He sat there smoking, imperturbable.
Sometimes he said "yes" or "no," but oftener he merely nodded his head.
Once he astounded by a brief question an excitable young lieutenant, who
floundered. The General seemed to know more than he about the matter he
had in hand.

When I left him, he asked me where I was quartered, and said he hoped I
would be comfortable.

Jack Hancock was waiting for me, and we walked around the city, which
even has barber shops. Everywhere were signs of preparation, for the
roads are getting dry, and the General preparing for a final campaign
against Lee. Poor Lee! What a marvellous fight he has made with his
material. I think that he will be reckoned among the greatest generals of
our race.

Of course, I was very anxious to get a glimpse of the President, and so
we went down to the wharf, where we heard that he had gone off for a
horseback ride. They say that he rides nearly every day, over the
corduroy roads and through the swamps, and wherever the boys see that
tall hat they cheer. They know it as well as the lookout tower on the
flats of Bermuda Hundred. He lingers at the campfires and swaps stories
with the officers, and entertains the sick and wounded in the hospitals.
Isn't it like him?

He hasn't changed, either. I believe that the great men don't change.
Away with your Napoleons and your Marlboroughs and your Stuarts. These
are the days of simple men who command by force of character, as well as
knowledge. Thank God for the American! I believe that he will change the
world, and strip it of its vainglory and hypocrisy.

In the evening, as we were sitting around Hancock's fire, an officer came
in.

"Is Major Brice here?" he asked. I jumped up.

"The President sends his compliments, Major, and wants to know if you
would care to pay him a little visit."

If I would care to pay him a little visit! That officer had to hurry to
keep up with the as I walked to the wharf. He led me aboard the River
Queen, and stopped at the door of the after-cabin.

Mr. Lincoln was sitting under the lamp, slouched down in his chair, in
the position I remembered so well. It was as if I had left him but
yesterday. He was whittling, and he had made some little toy for his son
Tad, who ran out as I entered.

When he saw me, the President rose to his great height, a sombre,
towering figure in black. He wears a scraggly beard now. But the sad
smile, the kindly eyes in their dark caverns, the voice--all were just
the same. I stopped when I looked upon the face. It was sad and lined
when I had known it, but now all the agony endured by the millions, North
and South, seemed written on it.

"Don't you remember me, Major?" he asked.

The wonder was that he had remembered me! I took his big, bony hand,
which reminded me of Judge Whipple's. Yes, it was just as if I had been
with him always, and he were still the gaunt country lawyer.

"Yes, sir," I said, "indeed I do."

He looked at me with that queer expression of mirth he sometimes has.

"Are these Boston ways, Steve?" he asked. "They're tenacious. I didn't
think that any man could travel so close to Sherman and keep 'em."

"They're unfortunate ways, sir," I said, "if they lead you to misjudge
me."

He laid his hand on my shoulder, just as he had done at Freeport.

"I know you, Steve," he said. "I shuck an ear of corn before I buy it.
I've kept tab on you a little the last five years, and when I heard
Sherman had sent a Major Brice up here, I sent for you."

What I said was boyish. "I tried very hard to get a glimpse of you
to-day, Mr. Lincoln. I wanted to see you again."

He was plainly pleased.

"I'm glad to hear it, Steve," he said. "Then you haven't joined the ranks
of the grumblers? You haven't been one of those who would have liked to
try running this country for a day or two, just to show me how to do it?"

"No, sir," I said, laughing.

"Good!" he cried, slapping his knee. "I didn't think you were that kind,
Steve. Now sit down and tell me about this General of mine who wears
seven-leagued boots. What was it--four hundred and twenty miles in fifty
days? How many navigable rivers did he step across?" He began to count on
those long fingers of his. "The Edisto, the Broad, the Catawba, the
Pedee, and--?"

"The Cape Fear," I said.

"Is--is the General a nice man?" asked Mr. Lincoln, his eyes twinkling.

"Yes, sir, he is that," I answered heartily. "And not a man in the army
wants anything when he is around. You should see that Army of the
Mississippi, sir. They arrived in Goldsboro' in splendid condition."

He got up and gathered his coat-tails under his arms, and began to walk
up and down the cabin.

"What do the boys call the General?" he asked.

I told him "Uncle Billy." And, thinking the story of the white socks
might amuse him, I told him that. It did amuse him.

"Well, now," he said, "any man that has a nickname like that is all
right. That's the best recommendation you can give the General--just say
'Uncle Billy.'" He put one lip over the other. "You've given 'Uncle
Billy' a good recommendation, Steve," he said. "Did you ever hear the
story of Mr. Wallace's Irish gardener?"

"No, sir."

"Well, when Wallace was hiring his gardener he asked him whom he had been
living with.

"'Misther Dalton, sorr.'

"'Have you a recommendation, Terence?'

"'A ricommindation is it, sorr? Sure I have nothing agin Misther Dalton,
though he moightn't be knowing just the respict the likes of a
first-class garthener is entitled to.'"

He did not laugh. He seldom does, it seems, at his own stories. But I
could not help laughing over the "ricommindation" I had given the
General. He knew that I was embarrassed, and said kindly:-- "Now tell me
something about 'Uncle Billy's Bummers.' I hear that they have a most
effectual way of tearing up railroads."

I told him of Poe's contrivance of the hook and chain, and how the
heaviest rails were easily overturned with it, and how the ties were
piled and fired and the rails twisted out of shape. The President
listened to every word with intense interest.

"By Jing!" he exclaimed, "we have got a general. Caesar burnt his bridges
behind him, but Sherman burns his rails. Now tell me some more."

He helped me along by asking questions. Then I began to tell him how the
negroes had flocked into our camps, and how simply and plainly the
General had talked to them, advising them against violence of any kind,
and explaining to them that "Freedom" meant only the liberty to earn
their own living in their own way, and not freedom from work.

"We have got a general, sure enough," he cried. "He talks to them
plainly, does he, so that they understand? I say to you, Brice," he went
on earnestly, "the importance of plain talk can't be overestimated. Any
thought, however abstruse, can be put in speech that a boy or a negro can
grasp. Any book, however deep, can be written in terms that everybody can
comprehend, if a man only tries hard enough. When I was a boy I used to
hear the neighbors talking, and it bothered me so because I could not
understand them that I used to sit up half the night thinking things out
for myself. I remember that I did not know what the word demonstrate
meant. So I stopped my studies then and there and got a volume of Euclid.
Before I got through I could demonstrate everything in it, and I have
never been bothered with demonstrate since."

I thought of those wonderfully limpid speeches of his: of the Freeport
debates, and of the contrast between his style and Douglas's. And I
understood the reason for it at last. I understood the supreme mind that
had conceived the Freeport Question. And as I stood before him then, at
the close of this fearful war, the words of the Gospel were in my mind.
'So the last shall be first, and the first, last; for many be called, but
few chosen.'

How I wished that all those who have maligned and tortured him could talk
with him as I had talked with him. To know his great heart would disarm
them of all antagonism. They would feel, as I feel, that his life is so
much nobler than theirs, and his burdens so much heavier, that they would
go away ashamed of their criticism.

He said to me once, "Brice, I hope we are in sight of the end, now. I hope
that we may get through without any more fighting. I don't want to see
any more of our countrymen killed. And then," he said, as if talking to
himself, "and then we must show them mercy--mercy."

I thought it a good time to mention Colfax's case. He has been on my mind
ever since. Mr. Lincoln listened attentively. Once he sighed, and he was
winding his long fingers around each other while I talked.

"I saw the man captured, Mr. Lincoln," I concluded, "And if a
technicality will help him out, he was actually within his own skirmish
line at the time. The Rebel skirmishers had not fallen back on each side
of him."

"Brice," he said, with that sorrowful smile, "a technicality might save
Colfax, but it won't save me. Is this man a friend of yours?" he asked.

That was a poser.

"I think he is, Mr. Lincoln. I should like to call him so. I admire him."
And I went on to tell of what he had done at Vicksburg, leaving out,
however, my instrumentality in having him sent north. The President used
almost Sherman's words.

"By Jing!" he exclaimed. (That seems to be a favorite expression of his.)
"Those fellows were born to fight. If it wasn't for them, the South would
have quit long ago." Then he looked at me in his funny way, and said,
"See here, Steve, if this Colfax isn't exactly a friend of yours, there
must be some reason why you are pleading for him in this way."

"Well, sir," I said, at length, "I should like to get him off on account
of his cousin, Miss Virginia Carvel." And I told him something about Miss
Carvel, and how she had helped you with the Union sergeant that day in
the hot hospital. And how she had nursed Judge Whipple."

"She's a fine woman," he said. "Those women have helped those men to
prolong this war about three years.

"And yet we must save them for the nation's sake. They are to be the
mothers of our patriots in days to come. Is she a friend of yours, too,
Steve?"

What was I to say?

"Not especially, sir," I answered finally. I have had to offend her
rather often. But I know that she likes my mother."

"Why!" he cried, jumping up, "she's a daughter of Colonel Carvel. I
always had an admiration for that man. An ideal Southern gentleman of the
old school,--courteous, as honorable and open as the day, and as brave as
a lion. You've heard the story of how he threw a man named Babcock out of
his store, who tried to bribe him?"

"I heard you tell it in that tavern, sir. And I have heard it since." It
did me good to hear the Colonel praised.

"I always liked that story," he said. "By the way, what's become of the
Colonel?"

"He got away--South, sir," I answered. "He couldn't stand it. He hasn't
been heard of since the summer of '63. They think he was killed in Texas.
But they are not positive. They probably never will be," I added. He was
silent awhile.

"Too bad!" he said. "Too bad. What stuff those men are made of! And so
you want me to pardon this Colfax?"

"It would be presumptuous in me to go that far, sir," I replied. "But I
hoped you might speak of it to the General when he comes. And I would be
glad of the opportunity to testify."

He took a few strides up and down the room.

"Well, well," he said, "that's my vice--pardoning, saying yes. It's
always one more drink with me. It--" he smiled--"it makes me sleep
better. I've pardoned enough Rebels to populate New Orleans. Why," he
continued, with his whimsical look, "just before I left Washington, in
comes one of your Missouri senators with a list of Rebels who are shut up
in McDowell's and Alton. I said:-- "'Senator, you're not going to ask me
to turn loose all those at once?'

"He said just what you said when you were speaking of Missouri a while
ago, that he was afraid of guerilla warfare, and that the war was nearly
over. I signed 'em. And then what does he do but pull out another batch
longer than the first! And those were worse than the first.

"'What! you don't want me to turn these loose, too?'

"'Yes, I do, Mr. President. I think it will pay to be merciful.'

"'Then durned if I don't,' I said, and I signed 'em."

                  STEAMER "RIVER QUEEN."
               ON THE POTOMAC, April 9, 1865.

DEAR MOTHER: I am glad that the telegrams I have been able to send
reached you safely. I have not had time to write, and this will be but a
short letter.

You will be surprised to see this heading. I am on the President's boat,
in the President's party, bound with him for Washington. And this is how
it happened: The very afternoon of the day I wrote you, General Sherman
himself arrived at City Point on the steamer 'Russia'. I heard the
salutes, and was on the wharf to meet him. That same afternoon he and
General Grant and Admiral Porter went aboard the River Queen to see the
President. How I should have liked to be present at that interview! After
it was over they all came out of the cabin together General Grant silent,
and smoking, as usual; General Sherman talking vivaciously; and Lincoln
and the Admiral smiling and listening. That was historic! I shall never
expect to see such a sight again in all my days. You can imagine my
surprise when the President called me from where I was standing at some
distance with the other officers. He put his hand on my shoulder then and
there, and turned to General Sherman.

"Major Brice is a friend of mine, General," he said. "I knew him in
Illinois."

"He never told me that," said the General.

"I guess he's got a great many important things shut up inside of him,"
said Mr. Lincoln, banteringly. "But he gave you a good recommendation,
Sherman. He said that you wore white socks, and that the boys liked you
and called you 'Uncle Billy.' And I told him that was the best
recommendation he could give anybody."

I was frightened. But the General only looked at me with those eyes that
go through everything, and then he laughed.

"Brice," he said, "You'll have my reputation ruined."

"Sherman," said Mr. Lincoln, "you don't want the Major right away, do
you? Let him stay around here for a while with me. I think he'll find it
interesting." He looked at the general-in-chief, who was smiling just a
little bit. "I've got a sneaking notion that Grant's going to do
something."

Then they all laughed.

"Certainly, Mr. Lincoln," said my General, "you may have Brice. Be
careful he doesn't talk you to death--he's said too much already."

That is how I came to stay.

I have no time now to tell you all that I have seen and heard. I have
ridden with the President, and have gone with him on errands of mercy and
errands of cheer. The Pine HORACE, part of the Pine VIRGIL too, still exist
in the libraries of the curious; and are doubtless known to the proper
parties, though much forgotten by others of us. To Friedrich, scanning
the Pine phenomenon with interest then brand-new, it seemed an admirable
tribute to classical genius; and the idea occurred to him, "Is not
there, by Heaven's blessing, a living genius, classical like those
antique Romans, and worthy of a like tribute?"

Friedrich's idea was, That Voltaire being clearly the supreme of
Poets, the HENRIADE, his supreme of Poems, ought to be engraved like
FLACCUS; text and all, with vignettes, tail-pieces, classical borderings
beautifully symbolic and exact; by the exquisite burin of Pine. Which
idea the young hero-worshipper, in spite of his finance-difficulties, had
resolved to realize; and was even now busy with it, since his return
from Loo. "Such beautiful enthusiasm," say some readers; "and in
behalf of that particular demi-god!" Alas, yes; to Friedrich he was the
best demi-god then going; and Friedrich never had any doubt about
him.

For the rest, this heroic idea could not realize itself; and we
are happy to have nothing more to do with Pine or the HENRIADE.
Correspondences were entered into with Pine, and some pains taken:
Pine's high prices were as nothing; but Pine was busy with his VIRGIL;
probably, in fact, had little stomach for the HENRIADE; "could not
for seven years to come enter upon it:" so that the matter had to
die away; and nothing came of it but a small DISSERTATION, or Introductory
Essay, which the Prince had got ready,--which is still to be found
printed in Voltaire's Works [_OEuvres, xiii. 393-402._] and in
Friedrich's, if anybody now cared much to read it.

Preuss says it was finished, "the 10th August, 1739;" and that minute
fact in Chronology, with the above tale of Hero-worship hanging to it,
will suffice my readers and me.

But there is another literary project on hand, which did take
effect;--much worthy of mention, this year; the whole world having
risen into such a Chorus of TE DEUM at sight of it next year.

In this year falls, what at any rate was a great event to Friedrich, as
literary man:

          the printing of his first
        Book,--assiduous writing of it with an eye
        to print. The Book is that "celebrated ANTI-MACHIAVEL,"
        ever-praiseworthy Refutation of Machiavel's
        PRINCE; concerning which there are such immensities of Voltaire
Correspondence, now become, like the Book itself, inane to all
readers.

          This was the chosen soul's employment of Friedrich, the flower of
life to him, at Reinsberg, through the yea?

1739.

It did not actually get to press till Spring 1740; nor actually
come out till Autumn,--by which time a great change had occurred
in Friedrich's title and circumstances: but we may as well say here
what little is to be said of it for modern readers.

"The Crown-Prince, reading this bad Book of Machiavel's, years ago,
had been struck, as all honest souls, especially governors or
apprentices to governing, must be, if they thought of reading such
a thing, with its badness, its falsity, detestability; and came by
degrees, obliquely fishing out Voltaire's opinion as he went along,
on the notion of refuting Machiavel; and did refute him, the best
he could.

Set down, namely, his own earnest contradiction to such ungrounded noxious
doctrines; elaborating the same more and more into clear logical
utterance; till it swelled into a little Volume; which, so excellent was
it, so important to mankind, Voltaire and friends were clear for publishing.
Published accordingly it was; goes through the press next Summer (1740),
under Voltaire's anxious superintendence: [Here, gathered from
Friedrich's Letters to Voltaire, is the Chronology of the little
Enterprise:--1738, MARCH 21, JUNE 17, "Machiavel a baneful man,"
thinks Friedrich.

"Ought to be refuted by somebody?" thinks he (date not known). 1739,
MARCH 22, Friedrich thinks of doing it himself. Has done it, DECEMBER
4;--"a Book which ought to be printed," say Voltaire and the
literary visitors. 1740, APRIL 26, Book given up to Voltaire for
finished; Book appears, "end of SEPTEMBER," when a great change had
occurred in Friedrich's title and position.] for the Prince has at
length consented; and Voltaire hands the Manuscript, with mystery
yet with hints, to a Dutch Bookseller, one Van Duren at the Hague,
who is eager enough to print such an article.

Voltaire himself--such his magnanimous friendship, especially if one have
Dutch Lawsuits, or business of one's own, in those parts--takes
charge of correcting; lodges himself in the 'Old Court' (Prussian
Mansion, called VIEILLE COUR, at the Hague, where 'Luiscius,'
figuratively speaking, may 'get an alms' from us); and therefrom
corrects, alters; corresponds with the Prince and Van Duren, at a
great rate.

Keeps correcting, altering, till Van Duren thinks he is spoiling
it for sale;--and privately determines to preserve the original
Manuscript, and have an edition of that, with only such corrections
as seem good to Van Duren.

A treasonous step on this mule of a Bookseller's part, thinks Voltaire;
but mulishly persisted in by the man. Endless correspondence, to right
and left, ensues; intolerably wearisome to every reader.

And, in fine, there came out, in Autumn next,"--the Crown-Prince
no longer a Crown-Prince by that time, but shining conspicuous under
Higher Title,--"not one ANTI-MACHIAVEL only, but a couple or a trio
of ANTI-MACHIAVELS; as printed 'at the Hague;' as reprinted 'at
London' or elsewhere; the confused Bibliography of which has now
fallen very insignificant.

First there was the Voltaire text, Authorized Edition, 'end of September,
1740;' then came, in few weeks, the Van Duren one; then, probably,
a third, combining the two, the variations given as foot-notes:--in
short, I know not how many editions, translations, printings and
reprintings; all the world being much taken up with such a message
from the upper regions, and eager to read it in any form.

"As to Friedrich himself, who of course says nothing of the ANTI-MACHIAVEL
in public, he privately, to Voltaire, disowns all these editions; and
intends to give a new one of his own, which shall be the right article;
but never did it, having far other work cut out for him in the
months that came.

But how zealous the worlds humor was in that matter, no modern
reader can conceive to himself.

In the frightful Compilation called HELDEN-GESCHICHTE, which we sometimes
cite, there are, excerpted from the then 'Bibliotheques' (NOUVELLE
BIBLIOTHEQUE and another; shining Periodicals of the time, now gone
quite dead), two 'reviews' of the ANTI-MACHIAVEL, which fill modern readers
with amazement: such a DOMINE DIMITTAS chanted over such an article!--These
details, in any other than the Biographical point of view, are now
infinitely unimportant."
Truly, yes! The Crown-Prince's ANTI-MACHIAVEL, final correct edition
(in two forms, Voltaire's as corrected, and the Prince's own as
written), stands now in clear type; [Preuss, _OEuvres de Frederic,_
viii.
61-163.] and, after all that jumble of printing and counter-printing,
we can any of us read it in a few hours; but, alas, almost none of
us with the least interest, or, as it were, with any profit whatever.

So different is present tense from past, in all things, especially
in things like these!

It is sixscore years since the ANTI-MACHIAVEL appeared.

The spectacle of one who was himself a King (for the mysterious
fact was well known to Van Duren and everybody) stepping forth to
say with conviction, That Kingship was not a thing of attorney
mendacity, to be done under the patronage of Beelzebub, but of human
veracity, to be set about under quite Other patronage; and that,
in fact, a King was the "born servant of his People" (DOMESTIQUE
Friedrich once calls it), rather than otherwise: this, naturally
enough, rose upon the then populations, unused to such language,
like the dawn of a new day; and was welcomed with such applauses
as are now incredible, after all that has come and gone!

Alas, in these sixscore years, it has been found so easy to profess and
speak, even with sincerity! The actual Hero-Kings were long used to be
silent; and the Sham-Hero kind grow only the more desperate for us, the
more they speak and profess!--This ANTI-MACHIAVEL of Friedrich's is a
clear distinct Treatise; confutes, or at least heartily contradicts,
paragraph by paragraph, the incredible sophistries of Machiavel.

Nay it leaves us, if we sufficiently force our attention, with the comfortable
sense that his Royal Highness is speaking with conviction, and honestly
from the heart, in the affair:
but that is all the conquest we get of it, in these days. Treatise
fallen more extinct to existing mankind it would not be easy to name.

Perhaps indeed mankind is getting weary of the question altogether.

Machiavel himself one now reads only by compulsion.

"What is the use of arguing with anybody that can believe in Machiavel?"
asks mankind, or might well ask; and, except for Editorial purposes,
eschews any ANTI-MACHIAVEL; impatient to be rid of bane and antidote
both.

Truly the world has had a pother with this little Nicolo Machiavelli and
his perverse little Book:--pity almost that a Friedrich Wilhelm,
taking his rounds at that point of time, had not had the "refuting"
of him; Friedrich Wilhelm's method would have been briefer than
Friedrich's!

But let us hope the thing is now, practically, about completed.

And as to the other question, "Was the Signor Nicolo serious in this perverse
little Book; or did he only do it ironically, with a serious inverse
purpose?"

we will leave that to be decided, any time convenient, by people
who are much at leisure in the world!

--
The printing of the ANTI-MACHIAVEL was not intrinsically momentous
in Friedrich's history; yet it might as well have been dispensed
with.

He had here drawn a fine program, and needlessly placarded it for the
street populations: and afterwards there rose, as could not fail
on their part, comparison between program and performance; scornful
cry, chiefly from men of weak judgment, "Is this King an ANTI-Machiavel,
then?

Pfui!" Of which,--though Voltaire's voice, too, was heard in it,
in angry moments,--we shall say nothing: the reader, looking for
himself, will judge by and by.

And herewith enough of the ANTI-MACHIAVEL. Composition of ANTI-MACHIAVEL
and speculation of the Pine HENRIADE lasted, both of them, all
through this Year 1739, and farther: from these two items, not to
mention any other, readers can figure sufficiently how literary a
year it was.

FRIEDRICH IN PREUSSEN AGAIN; AT THE STUD OF TRAKEHNEN. A TRAGICALLY
GREAT EVENT COMING ON.

In July this year the Crown-Prince went with Papa on the Prussian Review-journey.
["Set out, 7th July" (_OEuvres,_ xxvii. part 1st, 67 n.).] Such attendance
on Review-journeys, a mark of his being well with Papa, is now becoming
usual; they are agreeable excursions, and cannot but be instructive
as well.

On this occasion, things went beautifully with him.

Out in those grassy Countries, in the bright Summer, once more he
had an unusually fine time;--and two very special pleasures befell
him.

First was, a sight of the Emigrants, our Salzburgers and other, in their
flourishing condition, over in Lithuania yonder.

Delightful to see how the waste is blossoming up again; busy men, with
their industries, their steady pious husbandries, making all things green
and fruitful:
horse-droves, cattle-herds, waving cornfields;--a very "SCHMALZGRUBE
(Butter-pit)" of those Northern parts, as it is since called.

[Busching, Erdbeschreibung, ii. 1049.]

The Crown-Prince's own words on this matter we will give; they are
in a Letter of his to Voltaire, perhaps already known to some
readers;--and we can observe he writes rather copiously from those
localities at present, and in a cheerful humor with everybody.

"INSTERBURG, 27th JULY, 1739 (Crown-Prince to Voltaire).... Prussian
Lithuania is a Country a hundred and twenty miles long, by from sixty to
forty broad; ["Miles ENGLISH," we always mean, UNLESS &c.] it was ravaged
by Pestilence at the beginning of this Century; and they say three
hundred thousand people died of disease and famine."

Ravaged by Pestilence and the neglect of King Friedrich I.; till
my Father, once his hands were free, made personal survey of it,
and took it up, in earnest.

"Since that time," say twenty years ago, "there is no expense that the
King has been afraid of, in order to succeed in his salutary views.

He made, in the first place, regulations full of wisdom; he rebuilt wherever
the Pestilence had desolated: thousands of families, from the ends
of Europe," seventeen thousand Salzburgers for the last item, "were
conducted hither; the Country repeopled itself; trade began to
flourish again;--and now, in these fertile regions, abundance reigns
more than it ever did.

"There are above half a million of inhabitants in Lithuania; there are
more towns than there ever were, more flocks than formerly, more wealth
and more productiveness than in any other part of Germany. And all this
that I tell you of is due to the King alone: who not only gave the
orders, but superintended the execution of them; it was he that
devised the plans, and himself got them carried to fulfilment; and
spared neither care nor pains, nor immense expenditures, nor promises
nor recompenses, to secure happiness and life to this half-million
of thinking beings, who owe to him alone that they have possessions
and felicity in the world.

"I hope this detail does not weary you.

I depend on your humanity extending itself to your Lithuanian
brethren, as well as to your French, English, German, or other,--all
the more as, to my great astonishment, I passed through villages
where you hear nothing spoken but French.

--I have found something so heroic, in the generous and laborious way in
which the King addressed himself to making this desert flourish
with inhabitants and happy industries and fruits, that it seemed
to me you would feel the same sentiments in learning the circumstances
of such a re-establishment.

I daily expect news of you from Enghien" [in those Dutch-Lawsuit
Countries]....

The divine Emilie;... the Duke [D'Aremberg, Austrian Soldier, of
convivial turn,--remote Welsh-Uncle to a certain little Prince de
Ligne, now spinning tops in those parts; [Born 23d May, 1735, this
latter little Prince; lasted till 13th December, 1814 ("DANSE, MAIS
IL NE MARCHE PAS").] not otherwise interesting], whom Apollo contends
for against Bacchues....

Adieu. NE M'OUBLIEZ PAS, MON CHER AMI." [_OEuvres,_ xxi. 304, 305.]
This is one pleasant scene, to the Crown-Prince and us, in those grassy
localities.

And now we have to mention that, about a fortnight later, at Konigsberg one
day, in reference to a certain Royal Stud or Horse-breeding Establishment
in those same Lithuanian regions, there had a still livelier
satisfaction happened him; satisfaction of a personal and filial
nature.

The name of this Royal Stud, inestimable on such ground, is
Trakehnen,--lies south of Tilsit, in an upper valley of the Pregel
river;--very extensive Horse-Establishment, "with seven farms under
it," say the Books, and all "in the most perfect order," they need
hardly add, Friedrich Wilhelm being master of it.

Well, the Royal Party was at Konigsberg, so far on the road homewards
again from those outlying parts, when Friedrich Wilhelm said one
day to his Son, quite in a cursory manner, "I give thee that Stud
of Trakehnen; thou must go back and look to it;" which struck Fritz
quite dumb at the moment.

For it is worth near upon 2,000 pounds a year (12,000 thalers); a welcome
new item in our impoverished budget; and it is an undeniable sign
of Papa's good-humor with us, which is more precious still.

Fritz made his acknowledgments, eloquent with looks, eloquent with voice,
on coming to himself; and is, in fact, very proud of his gift, and
celebrates it to his Wilhelmina, to Camas and others who have
a right to know such a thing. Grand useful gift; and handed over by
Papa grandly, in three business words, as if it had been a brace of
game: "I give it thee, Fritz!" A thing not to be forgotten. "At bottom,
Friedrich Wilhelm was not avaricious" (not a miser, only a man grandly
abhorring waste, as the poor vulgar cannot do), "not avaricious," says
Pollnitz once; "he made munificent gifts, and never thought of them more."
This of Trakehnen,--perhaps there might be a whiff of coming Fate concerned
in it withal: "I shall soon be dead, not able to give thee anything,
poor Fritz!"

To the Prince and us it is very beautiful; a fine effulgence of the inner
man of Friedrich Wilhelm. The Prince returned to Trakehnen, on this glad
errand; settled the business details there; and, after a few days, went
home by a route of his own;--well satisfied with this Prussian-Review
journey, as we may imagine.

[SEE EARLIER---Prussian Review-journey (placing of hyphen)]
One sad thing there was, though Friedrich did not yet know how sad,
in this Review-journey: the new fit of illness that overtook his
Majesty.

From Pollnitz, who was of the party, we have details on that head.
In his Majesty's last bad illness, five years ago, when all seemed
hopeless, it appears the surgeons had relieved him,--in fact recovered
him, bringing off the bad humors in quantity,--by an incision in
the foot or leg.

In the course of the present fatigues, this old wound broke out again;
which of course stood much in the way of his Majesty; and could
not be neglected, as probably the causes of it were.

A regimental surgeon, Pollnitz says, was called in; who, in two
days, healed the wound,--and declared all to be right again; though
in fact, as we may judge, it was dangerously worse than before.

"All well here," writes Friedrich; "the King has been out of order,
but is now entirely recovered (TOUT A FAIT REMIS)."

["Konigsberg, 30th July, 1739," to his Wife (_OEuvres,_ xxvi. 6).]
Much reviewing and heavy business followed at Konigsberg;--gift of
Trakehnen, and departure of the Crown-Prince for Trakehnen, winding it
up. Directly on the heel of which, his Majesty turned homewards, the
Crown-Prince not to meet him till once at Berlin again. Majesty's first
stage was at Pillau, where we have been.

At Pillau, or next day at Dantzig, Pollnitz observed a change in his
Majesty's humor, which had been quite sunshiny all this journey
hitherto.

At Dantzig Pollnitz first noticed it; but at every new stage it
grew worse, evil accidents occurring to worsen it; and at Berlin
it was worst of all;--and, alas, his poor Majesty never recovered
his sunshine in this world again!

Here is Pollnitz's account of the journey homewards:--
"Till now," till Pillau and Dantzig, "his Majesty had been in
especially good humor; but in Dantzig his cheerfulness forsook
him;--and it never came back.

He arrived about ten at night in that City [Wednesday, 12th August, or
thereby]; slept there; and was off again next morning at five. He drove
only thirty miles this day; stopped in Lupow [coast road through
Pommern], with Herr von Grumkow [the late Grumkow's Brother], Kammer
President in this Pommern Province. From Lupow he went to a poor Village
near Belgard, EIGHTY miles farther;"--last village on the great road,
Belgard lying to left a little, on a side road;--"and stayed there
overnight.

"At Belgard, next morning, he reviewed the Dragoon Regiment von Platen;
and was very ill content with it. And nobody, with the least
understanding of that business, but must own that never did Prussian
Regiment manoeuvre worse. Conscious themselves how bad it was, they lost
head, and got into open confusion.

The King did all that was possible to help them into order again. He
withdrew thrice over, to give the Officers time to recover themselves;
but it was all in vain. The King, contrary to wont, restrained himself
amazingly, and would not show his displeasure in public. He got into
his carriage, and drove away with the Furst of Anhalt," Old Dessauer,
"and Von Winterfeld," Captain in the Giant Regiment, "who is now
Major-General von Winterfeld; [Major-General since 1743, of high
fame; fell in fight, 7th September, 1757.] not staying to dine with
General von Platen, as was always his custom with Commandants whom
he had reviewed.

He bade Prince Wilhelm and the rest of us stay and dine; he himself
drove away,"--towards the great road again, and some uncertain
lodging there.

"We stayed accordingly; and did full justice to the good cheer,"--though
poor Platen would certainly look flustered, one may fancy.

"But as the Prince was anxious to come up with his Majesty again,
and knew not where he would meet him, we had to be very swift with
the business.

"We found the King with Anhalt and Winterfeld, by and by; sitting in a
village, in front of a barn, and eating a cold pie there, which the
Furst of Anhalt had chanced to have with him; his Majesty, owing
to what he had seen on the parade-ground, was in the utmost ill-humor
(HOCHST UBLER LAUNE).

Next day, Saturday, he went a hundred and fifty or two hundred
miles; and arrived in Berlin at ten at night.

Not expected there till the morrow; so that his rooms were locked,--her
Majesty being over in Monbijou, giving her children a Ball;"
[Pollnitz, ii. 534-537.]

--and we can fancy what a frame of mind there was!

Nobody, not at first even the Doctors, much heeded this new fit of
illness; which went and came: "changed temper," deeper or less deep
gloom of "bad humor," being the main phenomenon to by-standers.

But the sad truth was, his Majesty never did recover his sunshine;
from Pillau onwards he was slowly entering into the shadows of the
total Last Eclipse; and his journeyings and reviewings in this world
were all done.

Ten months hence, Pollnitz and others knew better what it had been!--

Chapter VII. -- LAST YEAR OF REINSBERG: TRANSIT OF BALTIMORE AND OTHER
PERSONS AND THINGS.

Friedrich had not been long home again from Trakehnen and Preussen, when
the routine of things at Reinsberg was illuminated by Visitors, of
brilliant and learned quality; some of whom, a certain Signor Algarotti
for one, require passing mention here. Algarotti, who became a permanent
friend or satellite, very luminous to the Prince, and was much
about him in coming years, first shone out upon the scene at this
time,--coming unexpectedly, and from the Eastward as it chanced.

On his own score, Algarotti has become a wearisome literary man to
modern readers: one of those half-remembered men; whose books seem
to claim a reading, and do not repay it you when given.

Treatises, of a serious nature, ON THE OPERA; setting forth, in
earnest, the potential "moral uses" of the Opera, and dedicated to
Chatham; _Neutonianismo per le Donne_ (Astronomy for Ladies): the
mere Titles of such things are fatally sufficient to us; and we
cannot, without effort, nor with it, recall the brilliancy of
Algarotti and them to his contemporary world.

Algarotti was a rich Venetian Merchant's Son, precisely about the
Crown-Prince's age; shone greatly in his studies at Bologna and
elsewhere; had written Poesies (RIME); written especially that
_Newtonianism for the Dames_ (equal to Fontenelle, said Fame, and
orthodox Newtonian withal, not heterodox or Cartesian); and had
shone, respected, at Paris, on the strength of it, for three or
four years past: friend of Voltaire in consequence, of Voltaire and
his divine Emilie, and a welcome guest at Cirey; friend of the
cultivated world generally, which was then laboring, divine Emilie
in the van of it, to understand Newton and be orthodox in this
department of things.

Algarotti did fine Poesies, too, once and again; did Classical Scholarships,
and much else: everywhere a clear-headed, methodically distinct, concise
kind of man.

A high style of breeding about him, too; had powers of pleasing, and used
them: a man beautifully lucent in society, gentle yet impregnable there;
keeping himself unspotted from the world and its discrepancies,--really
with considerable prudence, first and last.

He is somewhat of the Bielfeld type; a Merchant's Son, we observe, like
Bielfeld; but a Venetian Merchant's, not a Hamburg's; and also of
better natural stuff than Bielfeld.

The President sighed But the light in her eyes was reflected in his own.
It has been truly said that Abraham Lincoln knew the human heart.

The officer still stood facing the President, the girl staring at his
profile. The door closed behind him. "Major Brice," said Mr. Lincoln,
when you asked me to pardon Colonel Colfax, I believe that you told me he
was inside his own skirmish lines when he was captured."

"Yes, sir, he was."

Suddenly Stephen turned, as if impelled by the President's gaze, and so
his eyes met Virginia's. He forgot time and place,--for the while even
this man whom he revered above all men. He saw her hand tighten on the
arm of her chair. He took a step toward her, and stopped. Mr. Lincoln was
speaking again.

"He put in a plea, a lawyer's plea, wholly unworthy of him, Miss
Virginia. He asked me to let your cousin off on a technicality. What do
you think of that?"

"Oh!" said Virginia. Just the exclamation escaped her--nothing more. The
crimson that had betrayed her deepened on her cheeks. Slowly the eyes she
had yielded to Stephen came back again and rested on the President. And
now her wonder was that an ugly man could be so beautiful.

"I wish it understood, Mr. Lawyer," the President continued, "that I am
not letting off Colonel Colfax on a technicality. I am sparing his life,"
he said slowly, "because the time for which we have been waiting and
longing for four years is now at hand--the time to be merciful. Let us
all thank God for it."

Virginia had risen now. She crossed the room, her head lifted, her heart
lifted, to where this man of sorrows stood smiling down at her.

"Mr. Lincoln," she faltered, "I did not know you when I came here. I
should have known you, for I had heard him--I had heard Major Brice
praise you. Oh," she cried, "how I wish that every man and woman and
child in the South might come here and see you as I have seen you to-day.
I think--I think that some of their bitterness might be taken away."

Abraham Lincoln laid his hands upon the girl. And Stephen, watching, knew
that he was looking upon a benediction.

"Virginia," said Mr. Lincoln, "I have not suffered by the South, I have
suffered with the South Your sorrow has been my sorrow, and your pain has
been my pain. What you have lost, I have lost. And what you have gained,"
he added sublimely, "I have gained."

He led her gently to the window. The clouds were flying before the wind,
and a patch of blue sky shone above the Potomac. With his long arm he
pointed across the river to the southeast, and as if by a miracle a shaft
of sunlight fell on the white houses of Alexandria.

"In the first days of the war," he said, "a flag flew there in sight of
the place where George Washington lived and died. I used to watch that
flag, and thank God that Washington had not lived to see it. And
sometimes, sometimes I wondered if God had allowed it to be put in irony
just there." His voice seemed to catch. "That was wrong," he continued.
"I should have known that this was our punishment--that the sight of it
was my punishment. Before we could become the great nation He has
destined us to be, our sins must be wiped out in blood. You loved that
flag, Virginia. You love it still.

"I say in all sincerity, may you always love it. May the day come when
this Nation, North and South, may look back upon it with reverence.
Thousands upon thousands of brave Americans have died under it for what
they believed was right. But may the day come again when you will love
that flag you see there now--Washington's flag--better still."

He stopped, and the tears were wet upon Virginia's lashes. She could not
have spoken then.

Mr. Lincoln went over to his desk and sat down before it. Then he began
to write, slouched forward, one knee resting on the floor, his lips
moving at the same time. When he got up again he seemed taller than ever.

"There!" he said, "I guess that will fix it. I'll have that sent to
Sherman. I have already spoken to him about the matter."

They did not thank him. It was beyond them both. He turned to Stephen
with that quizzical look on his face he had so often seen him wear.

"Steve," he said, "I'll tell you a story. The other night Harlan was here
making a speech to a crowd out of the window, and my boy Tad was sitting
behind him.

"'What shall we do with the Rebels?' said Harlan to the crowd.

"'Hang 'em!' cried the people. "'No,' says Tad, 'hang on to 'em.'

"And the boy was right. That is what we intend to do,--hang on to 'em.
And, Steve," said Mr. Lincoln, putting his hand again on Virginia's
shoulder, "if you have the sense I think you have, you'll hang on, too."

For an instant he stood smiling at their blushes,--he to whom the power
was given to set apart his cares and his troubles and partake of the
happiness of others. For of such was his happiness.

Then the President drew out his watch. "Bless me!" he said, "I am ten
minutes behind my appointment at the Department. Miss Virginia, you may
care to thank the Major for the little service he has done you. You can
do so undisturbed here. Make yourselves at home."

As he opened the door he paused and looked back at them. The smile passed
from his face, and an ineffable expression of longing--longing and
tenderness--came upon it.

Then he was gone.

For a space, while his spell was upon them, they did not stir. Then
Stephen sought her eyes that had been so long denied him. Then press all
moisture from the cabbage, having it as dry as possible; stand the earthen
bowl containing the cabbage in the sun for a couple of hours.

Take a sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover the cabbage.

A little water may be added to the vinegar if too sour. Add 1 cup sugar to
a gallon of vinegar and a small quantity of celery seed, pepper,
mace, allspice and cinnamon.

Boil all about five minutes and pour at once over the cabbage. The hot
vinegar will restore the bright red color to the cabbage.

Keep in stone jar.

MUSTARD PICKLES
24 cucumbers, 1 quart of small onions, 6 peppers, 2 heads of
cauliflower, 4 cups of sugar, or less; celery or celery seed, 3
quarts of good vinegar, 1/2 pound of ground yellow mustard, 1
tablespoonful turmeric powder, 3/4 cup of flour.

The seeds were removed from the cucumbers and cucumbers were cut
in inch-length pieces, or use a few medium-sized cucumbers cut in
several pieces and some quite small cucumbers.

(The quantity of cucumbers when measured should be the same as if the
larger ones had been used.)

One quart of small whole onions, 6 peppers, red, green and yellow, two of
each, cut in small pieces.

Place all together in an agate preserving kettle and let stand in salt
water over night. In the morning put on the range, the vegetables in
agate kettle, let boil a few minutes, then drain well.

Take three quarts of good vingar, 4 cups of sugar, if liked quite
sweet; 2 teaspoons of either celery seed or celery cut in small
pieces.

Put the vinegar, sugar and celery in a preserving kettle, stand on stove
and let come to a boil; then add the other ingredients. When boiling
have ready a half pound of ground mustard, 3/4 cup of flour, 1 tablespoon
of turmeric powder, all mixed to a smooth paste with a little water.
Cook until the mixture thickens. Add all the other ingredients and boil
until tender. Stir frequently to prevent scorching.

Can while hot in glass air-tight jars.

AUNT SARAH'S CUCUMBER PICKLES
Always use the cucumbers which come late in the season for pickles.

Cut small green cucumbers from vine, leaving a half-inch of stem.

Scrub with vegetable brush, place in a bowl and pour over a brine
almost strong enough to float an egg; 3/4 cup of salt to seven cups
of cold water is about the right proportion.

Allow them to stand over night in this brine. Drain off salt water
in the morning.

Heat a small quantity of the salt water and pour over small onions which
have been "skinned." Use half the quantity of onions you have of cucumbers,
or less.

Allow the onions to stand in hot salt water on back of range a short
time.

Heat 1 cup of good sharp cider vinegar, if too sour, add 1/2 cup
of water, also add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a couple of whole cloves;
add cucumbers and onions (drained from salt water, after piercing
each cucumber several times with a silver fork).

Place a layer at a time in an agate stew-pan containing hot vinegar.

Allow them to remain a few minutes until heated through, when fill
heated glass jars with cucumbers and onions; pour hot vinegar over
until jars are quite full.

Place rubbers on jars and screw on tops.

These pickles will be found, when jars are opened in six months'
time, almost as crisp and fine as when pickles are prepared, when
taken fresh from the vines in summer.

Allow jars to stand 12 hours, when screw down tops again.

Press a knife around the edge of jar tops before standing away to
be sure the jars are perfectly air-tight.

"ROT PFEFFERS" FILLED WITH CABBAGE

Cut the tops from the stem end of twelve sweet (not hot) red peppers or
"rot pfeffers," as Aunt Sarah called them. Carefully remove seeds,
do not break outside shell of peppers.

Cut one head of cabbage quite fine on a slaw-cutter; add to the
cabbage 1 even tablespoonful of fine salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of whole
yellow mustard seed (a very small amount of finely shredded, hot,
red pepper may be added if liked quite peppery).

Mix all together thoroughly, fill peppers with this mixture, pressing
it rather tightly into the shells; place tops on pepper cases, tie
down with cord.

Place upright in stone jar, in layers; cover with cold vinegar. If
vinegar is very strong add a small quantity of water. Tie heavy paper
over top of jar and stand away in a cool place until used. These may be
kept several months and will still be good at the end of that
time.

AN OLD RECIPE FOR SPICED PICKLES
500 small cucumbers.
2 oz. of allspice.
3 gallons vinegar.
1/4 pound of black pepper.
3 quarts salt.
1 oz cloves.
6 ounces of alum.

Horseradish to flavor.

Add sugar according to strength of vinegar. Place cucumbers and pieces
of horseradish in alternate layers in a stone jar, then put salt over
them and cover with boiling water.

One
side of it looked out on the trees in Freshwater Lane; and the other
across the roof of the low house opposite to where the sun danced on the
blue and white waters of the Chesapeake.

"Honey," said Virginia, as they stood in the deep recess of the window,
"wouldn't it be nice if we could live here always, away from the world?
Just we two! But you would never be content to do that," she said,
smiling reproachfully. "You are the kind of man who must be in the midst
of things. In a little while you will have far more besides me to think
about."

He was quick to catch the note of sadness in her voice. And he drew her
to him.

"We all have our duty to perform in the world, dear," he answered. "It
cannot be all pleasure."

"You--you Puritan!" she cried. "To think that I should have married a
Puritan! What would my great-great-great-great-grandfather say, who was
such a stanch Royalist? Why, I think I can see him frowning at me now,
from the door, in his blue velvet goat and silverlaced waistcoat."

"He was well punished," retorted Stephen, "his own grandson was a Whig,
and seems to have married a woman of spirit."

"She had spirit," said Virginia. "I am sure that she did not allow my
great-grandfather to kiss her--unless she wanted to."

And she looked up at him, half smiling, half pouting; altogether
bewitching.

"From what I hear of him, he was something of a man," said Stephen.
"Perhaps he did it anyway."

"I am glad that Marlborough Street isn't a crowded thoroughfare," said
Virginia.

When they had seen the dining room, with its carved mantel and silver
door-knobs, and the ballroom in the wing, they came out, and Stephen
locked the door again. They walked around the house, and stood looking
down the terraces,--once stately, but crumbled now,--where Dorothy had
danced on the green on Richard's birthday. Beyond and below was the
spring-house, and there was the place where the brook dived under the
ruined wall,--where Dorothy had wound into her hair the lilies of the
valley before she sailed for London.

The remains of a wall that had once held a balustrade marked the outlines
of the formal garden. The trim hedges, for seventy years neglected, had
grown incontinent. The garden itself was full of wild green things coming
up through the brown of last season's growth. But in the grass the blue
violets nestled, and Virginia picked some of these and put them in
Stephen's coat.

"You must keep them always," she said, "because we got them here."

They spied a seat beside a hoary trunk. There on many a spring day Lionel
Carvel had sat reading his Gazette. And there they rested now. The sun
hung low over the old-world gables in the street beyond the wall, and in
the level rays was an apple tree dazzling white, like a bride. The sweet
fragrance which the day draws from the earth lingered in the air.

It was Virginia who broke the silence.

"Stephen, do you remember that fearful afternoon of the panic, when you
came over from Anne Brinsmade's to reassure me?"

"Yes, dear," he said. "But what made you think of it now?"

She did not answer him directly.

"I believed what you said, Stephen. But you were so strong, so calm, so
sure of yourself. I think that made me angry when I thought how
ridiculous I must have been."

He pressed her hand.

"You were not ridiculous, Jinny." She laughed.

"I was not as ridiculous as Mr. Cluyme with his bronze clock. But do you
know what I had under my arm--what I was saving of all the things I
owned?"

"No," he answered; "but I have often wondered." She blushed.

"This house--this place made me think of it. It was Dorothy Manners's
gown, and her necklace. I could not leave them. They were all the
remembrance I had of that night at Mr. Brinsmade's gate, when we came so
near to each other."

"Virginia," he said, "some force that we cannot understand has brought us
together, some force that we could not hinder. It is foolish for me to
say so, but on that day of the slave auction, when I first saw you, I had
a premonition about you that I have never admitted until now, even to
myself."

She started.

"Why, Stephen," she cried, "I felt the same way!"

"And then," he continued quickly, "it was strange that I should have gone
to Judge Whipple, who was an intimate of your father's--such a singular
intimate. And then came your party, and Glencoe, and that curious
incident at the Fair."

"When I was talking to the Prince, and looked up and saw you among all
those people."

He laughed.

"That was the most uncomfortable of all, for me."

"Stephen," she said, stirring the leaves at her feet, "you might have
taken me in your arms the night Judge Whipple died--if you had wanted to.
But you were strong enough to resist. I love you all the more for that."

Again she said:-- "It was through your mother, dearest, that we were most
strongly drawn together. I worshipped her from the day I saw her in the
hospital. I believe that was the beginning of my charity toward the
North."

"My mother would have chosen you above all women, Virginia," he answered.

In the morning came to them the news of Abraham Lincoln's death. And the
same thought was in both their hearts, who had known him as it was given
to few to know him. How he had lived in sorrow; how he had died a martyr
on the very day of Christ's death upon the cross. And they believed that
Abraham Lincoln gave his life for his country even as Christ gave his for
the world.

And so must we believe that God has reserved for this Nation a destiny
high upon the earth.

Many years afterward Stephen Brice read again to his wife those sublime
closing words of the second inaugural:--

   "With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the
   right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish
   the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him
   who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his children
  --to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace
   among ourselves and with all nations."




AFTERWORD

The author has chosen St. Louis for the principal scene of this story for
many reasons. Grant and Sherman were living there before the Civil War,
and Abraham Lincoln was an unknown lawyer in the neighboring state of
Illinois. It has been one of the aims of this book to show the remarkable
contrasts in the lives of these great men who came out of the West. This
old city of St. Louis, which was founded by Laclede in 1765, likewise
became the principal meeting-place of two great streams of emigration
which had been separated, more or less, since Cromwell's day. To be sure,
they were not all Cavaliers who settled in the tidewater Colonies. The
divergencies referred especially to the conception of Union Law by the
Norwegian Radicals, according to which Norway had the right
to have her own Minister for Foreign affairs, and consequently was entitled
to appoint one without agreeing with Sweden. As the proposed laws were
based upon the presupposition that the Swedish Minister for Foreign affairs
would continue the administration of the Foreign affairs of the Union,
the question now arose as to whether a Norwegian Minister of Foreign
affairs could be appointed unless Sweden consented to the suspension
of the Consular Laws, or whether the Consular Laws would become extinct
of themselves, if Norway made use of her assumed rights in the
matter.

The scope of this
book has not permitted the author to introduce the peasantry and trading
classes which formed the mass in this movement. But Richter, the type of
the university-bred revolutionist which emigrated after '48, is drawn
more or less from life. And the duel described actually took place in
Berlin.

St. Louis is the author's birthplace, and his home, the home of those
friends whom he has known from childhood and who have always treated him
with unfaltering kindness. He begs that they will believe him when he
says that only such characters as he loves are reminiscent of those he
has known there. The city has a large population,--large enough to
include all the types that are to be found in the middle West.

One word more. This book is written of a time when feeling ran high. It
has evidently been privately expressed by the negotiating party
in Norway, during the latter stage of the negotiations, and it was
indirectly referred to by Prime Minister HAGERUP when he announced in the
Storthing, that the negotiations were broken off.Abraham Lincoln loved the South as well as the North.




The European press was well supplied with materials for forming an
opinion of the situation, and with articles in German and English
newspapers, it became possible to persuade the doubting ones at
home, that Norway's cause was a righteous one,--all Europe saw that.

     [Sidenote: _Proposal from the Special Committee of the
     Storthing._]
     When the ground was thus well prepared
     the Special Committee of the Storthing presented their
     proposals.
     
     This recommends as before mentioned the old well-known
     tactics of the first days of the Consular
     dispute. The modifications which were added were only designed
     to hasten events, so that agitated minds should not have time
     to reflect, and reason in some
     way be restored.
     d