"When school was out, the boys began to think about doing something to
earn a little money. Henry was passing the drug store one day when he
noticed a sign in the window--'Boy Wanted, Apply in Person.' He went
into the store at once, and asked for the job.

"The druggist took him to a little room back of the store. 'Here,' he
said, 'is a chest of nails and bolts. You may sort them.'

"The boy worked for a while, and then he said to himself, 'What a queer
job this is!' He went back into the store and said to the druggist, 'If
that is all you have for me to do, I don't believe I want the job.'

"'Very well,' said the druggist, 'that is all I have for you to do just
now.' He paid Henry for the work he had already done, and the boy went
home.

"The druggist went back to the little room, and found bolts and nails
scattered all over the floor. He put them back in the chest; and then
he hung his sign in the window again.

"The next day Joe passed by and saw the sign; and he too went in and
asked for the job. The druggist took him to the little room and showed
him the chest of nails, and told him to sort them.

"When the boy had worked only a little while, he went back to the druggist
and said, 'Those rusty old nails are no good. Why don't you let me throw
them all away? I don't like this kind of job, anyway.'

"'All right,' said the druggist; and he paid Joe for what he had done,
and let him go. As he put the nails and bolts back in the chest he said
to himself, 'I am willing to pay more than this to find a really honest
boy.'

"Later Joe and Henry, sauntering down the street together, saw the same
sign in the window--'Boy Wanted. Apply in Person.'

"'Guess he doesn't want a boy very bad,' said Joe. 'That's no job--sorting
those old rusty things. Did you find anything in the chest besides bolts
and nails, Henry?'

"'I'm not telling _everything_ I found,' said Henry with a laugh.

"Joe looked up, puzzled and a little alarmed. 'Now I wonder--' he
began--but broke off suddenly and started to talk about something else.

"A few days later Charles passed by the drug store and saw the sign in
the window. He went in and told the druggist he would like to have the
job.

"'Are Joe and Henry friends of yours?' asked the druggist, looking at
him sharply.

"'Oh, no, sir.' replied Charles quickly. 'We used to be good friends;
but something happened between us that I don't like to tell; and they
wouldn't have anything to do with me afterward.'

"'I'm glad to hear that,' said the druggist. 'I rather think you're the
boy I want.'

"For two or three hours Charles worked steadily, now and then whistling
a snatch of tune. Then he went to the druggist and said, 'I have finished
the job you gave me. What shall I do next?'

"The druggist went to the little room to see how Charles had done his
work. The boy had found some boxes lying about; and he had placed the
bolts in one, the nails in another, and the screws in a third.

"'And see what I found!' exclaimed Charles. 'It was lying under those
old crooked bolts in the bottom of the chest.' And he handed the druggist
a five-dollar gold-piece.

"The druggist took the money and said with a smile, 'Now you may place
the bolts and screws back in the chest just as you have them arranged
in the boxes.'

"After he had done that, Charles was sent on a few errands; and then he
was dismissed for the day.

"A few days later the druggist gave Charles a key and said, 'You may
come early in the morning and open the store, and do the sweeping and
dusting.'

"At the end of the first week, when Charles received his pay-envelope,
he found the five-dollar gold-piece along with the week's wages.

"One morning not long afterward, when Charles was sweeping the floor,
he found a few pennies lying near the counter. He picked them up and
laid them on the shelf, and told the druggist about them. Another day
he found some pennies, a dime, and two nickels. These too he laid on the
shelf, telling the druggist where he had found them.

"About a month later, when he was sweeping one morning, he found a bright,
shiny new dollar. How he did wish he might keep it for himself!

"'The druggist would never know it,' whispered a tiny voice.

"But just at that instant, Bee Honest began to buzz around his ears.
'Don't forget what Mother told you,' said the bee. 'She said she would
never be ashamed of you, as long as you were perfectly honest.'

"Charles turned the shiny dollar over and over in his hand. The bee kept
on buzzing--'Never do anything that will make your mother ashamed of
you. Be honest! Be honest!'

"'Yes,' said Charles at last, 'I will.' He laid the dollar up on the
shelf; and when the druggist came in, he told him about it.

"The druggist smiled and patted him on the shoulder. 'You are an honest
boy,' was all he said. And at the end of the week, Charles found the
shiny dollar in his pay-envelope, beside his usual wages.

"A few weeks later, the druggist began to give Charles large sums of
money to take to the bank for him. 'I have found that I can trust you,
my boy,' he would say.

"Charles worked in the store all that summer; and when school opened
again, he helped the druggist mornings and evenings. His tired mother
did not have to take in so many washings now; for Charles always gave
her his money at the end of the week.

"After he had finished school, the druggist gave him a steady job in the
store, with good wages.

"'Charles,' said the druggist one day, 'do you remember the day you
sorted bolts and nails for me?'

"'Indeed I do,' answered Charles. 'How glad I was to find work that day,
so I could help my mother a little! And I shall never forget how surprised
I was when I found a five-dollar gold-piece at the bottom of the chest.'

"'I put it there on purpose,' said the druggist. 'I wanted to find out
what sort of boy you were.'

"'You did!' exclaimed the astonished boy.

"'Yes; and when you brought it to me I was pretty sure that I had found
an honest boy. But I wanted to be able to trust you with large sums of
money, so I tested you still further. I left pennies and nickels and a
dime on the floor; and last of all, a dollar. When you picked them all
up, and laid them on the shelf, and told me about them--I knew then that
I could safely trust you.'

"'I should like to ask you,' said Charles suddenly--'was there a
gold-piece lying in the bottom of that chest when Joe and Henry sorted the
nails, too?'

"'Yes,' said the druggist, 'each of them found a gold-piece there; and
each of them kept it for himself.'

"'So you lost ten dollars!' exclaimed Charles.

"'Yes, lost ten dollars hunting for an honest boy. But it was worth
it--for I found one at last!'"

"Is that the end of the story?" asked Joyce, as Grandma paused.

"Not quite," said Grandpa, who had been listening. "Tell them what
happened to Henry and Joe."

"Oh yes; I must not forget to tell you about them," said Grandma. "Soon
after Charles started working for the druggist, Henry was caught stealing
some things from a department store. He was arrested; but his father
paid the fine, so he was allowed to go free.

"But his dishonest habits soon got him into trouble again. He broke into
a house while the family was away, and stole some money. He was sent to
a reformatory for boys; and he had to stay there a long time. After that,
he never could keep a job long; for he was so dishonest that no one could
depend on him.

"Joe did not get into so much trouble in his boyhood; but after he became
a man he forged a check, and was sent to the penitentiary."

"How much better it would have been," said Joyce thoughtfully, "if Henry
and Joe had only listened to the bee in the first place."

"Yes indeed;" said Grandma, "I have often thought of that; for I am sure
the bee talked to them, as well as to Charles."

"Maybe," said little Don softly, "they didn't have a Grandma to tell
them how to be good."

"Maybe not," said Grandpa, smiling as he rose to take the little fellow
in to bed.

"Didn't they ever change into good men?" asked Joyce.

"I'm afraid not," answered Grandma. "That's the saddest part of the whole
story. They felt the sting of the bee as long as they lived."


Bee Truthful

[Illustration]

Every day Joyce and Don went out to meet the mailman; and how glad they
were this morning when he brought them a letter from Mother! Mother and
Daddy were having a good time at the lake; and there was a picture of
Daddy smiling at them, as he held up a day's catch of fish.

"What a string of fish!" exclaimed Grandpa, when they showed it to him.
"And what fine big ones they are!"

"I wish," said Don, "that we could go fishing, Grandpa."

Grandpa whispered something in his ear; and the little fellow began to
dance about and clap his hands.

"What is it?" asked Joyce excitedly.

"Only that we're going fishing tomorrow," said Grandpa. "We'll start out
bright and early in the morning, take our lunch, and spend the day at
the river."

Joyce and Grandma were busy all morning about the house; and in the
afternoon they baked cookies, and got the lunch as nearly ready as they
could for the trip. Grandpa and Don went out to the garden to dig bait.

They soon had a can full of worms; and then Don found a larger can, and
filled that, too. When Grandpa said they had enough, Don covered the
worms with loose dirt and set the cans out in the shed. Then they got
out the fishing tackle.

Late in the afternoon, Grandma called the children and asked them to
catch a chicken for her, so she could get it ready for their picnic
lunch.

The children asked if they might pick off the feathers. They had watched
Grandma do it so many times, they thought it would be an easy job. But
when they tried it, they found it was not so easy after all. They turned
the chicken round and round, picking first in one place and then in
another. It took them a long time to get all the feathers off.

Then Grandma cut up the chicken and put it in a crock, and took it to
the spring house to keep it cool. "I will fry it in the morning," she said.

How quickly the day passed by! It was already time to do the evening
chores. Grandma was trying to teach the brown and white calf to drink
milk from a pail. Grandpa was busy in the barn, so she called the children
to come and help her.

The calf was kept in a lot near the orchard. "I want you to drive him
to the corner of the fence for me," said Grandma. "Then I will try to
coax him to drink the milk."

But the little creature was not so easy to manage. As soon as they had
driven him into the corner, he would back away; and off he would go
again, across the lot.

After this had happened several times, Don said, "Just wait, Grandma;
when we get him into the corner again, I will hold him there."

So the next time, he grabbed the calf about the neck and jumped on his
back. Instantly the calf turned and galloped across the lot. When he
reached the farther side, he turned again, and Don rolled off on the
soft grass.

Just then, Grandpa came to the rescue. He drove the calf to the corner
and held him there, while Grandma coaxed him to drink from the pail.

"We must go to bed early tonight," said Grandpa as they started for the
house. "We want to reach the river by the time the sun comes up."

"But you'll tell us a story first, won't you, Grandma?" asked Don.

"Yes," said Grandma, as she sank into her comfortable old rocking chair
in the kitchen.

"About another bee?" asked Joyce. "Which one?"

"Bee Truthful," answered Grandma. "Boys and girls who will not listen
to him often come to grief--as the boy did that I shall tell you about.

