 Chatham concluded by expressing his
fears that such a measure might shake the confidence of his majesty's
Protestant subjects in England and Ireland, and totally alienate the
hearts of all his American subjects. The bill, however, passed by
twenty-six to seven, and received the royal assent on the 22nd of June;
the corporation of London having ineffectually petitioned the king to
refuse it.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

On the same day that his majesty gave his assent to the above-mentioned
bill, he prorogued parliament. In his speech he expressed his approval
of that bill, conceiving it likely to produce the best effect in
quieting the minds, and promoting the happiness of the Canadians. His
majesty also applauded the temper and firmness, and general concurrence
of parliament in the measures they had adopted with reference to
Massachusets Bay; at the same time assuring them that nothing depending
on him should be wanting to render those measures effectual. At
the close of this session, Lord North, notwithstanding his many
embarrassments, appeared to be more firmly seated in office than ever.
Even Chatham himself was obliged to confess his success, efficiency, and
the solidity of his position; asserting that no minister in any age
ever held a better tenure. It was necessary that North should be well
supported, for he had difficulties before him which would soon have
compelled him to resign, and to seek solace in the shades of retirement,
had not the voice of parliament been with him.


PROCEEDINGS AT BOSTON.

During the deliberations of the British parliament, the Bostonians and
people of Massachusets Bay had continued their outrages. The assembly
and populace alike showed their utter aversion to the British government
in language and actions which could not be misunderstood. The mob
destroyed every cargo of tea that arrived in the port, and the
assembly showed its hostility by petitioning for the removal of the
chief-justice, Peter Oliver, Esq., because he had taken his majesty's
grant. The house further resolved to impeach the chief-justice in their
own name, and in the name of all the inhabitants of the province; and
when the governor denounced their proceedings as unconstitutional, they
drew up articles according to this resolution, charging him with high
crimes and misdemeanors. The governor, however, refused to take any step
in the matter, and this only tended to exasperate them still more. 
Snowt. Here, Peter Quince.

Quin. You, Pyramus's father; myself, Thisby's father; Snug the joiner,
you the Lion's part; I hope there is a play fitted.

Snug. Have you the Lion's part written? Pray you, if it be, give it me,
for I am slow of study.

Quin. You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.

Bot. Let me play the Lion too, I will roar, that I will do any man's
heart good to hear me. I will roar, that I will make the Duke
say, let him roar again, let him roar again!
Quin. If you should do it too terribly, you would fright the Dutchess
and the Ladies, that they would shriek, and that were enough to
hang us all.

All. That would hang us every mother's son.

Bot.On the other hand, the mob spent their
impotent rage on Hutchinson by burning him in effigy. The reception
which Gage met with on landing seemed to augur well for his
administration, and his prospect seemed the more cheering because he was
united to an American lady, and from long residence in the colony, had
made many friends. But there was a strong under-current at work which
threatened to sweep away all the authority which any governor might
possess however popular he might be as a man. And this was made more
impetuous at this time by the intelligence which arrived concerning
the Boston Port Bill. This intelligence was received a few days before
General Gage arrived, and although the Bostonians gave him a hearty
welcome, they soon displayed what feelings they possessed upon the
subject. On the very next day after they had given him this welcome, a
numerous town meeting took the bill into consideration, and resolved,
"That it is the opinion of this town, that, if the other colonies come
into a joint resolution to stop all importation from, and exportation
to Great Britain, and every part of the West Indies, till the act be
repealed, the same will prove the salvation of North America and her
liberties; and that the impolicy, injustice, inhumanity, and cruelty of
the act exceed all our powers of expression: we, therefore, leave it to
the just censure of others, and appeal to God and the world." In order
to spread disaffection, the act was printed and widely circulated
throughout the colonies. Nor were the presses of Boston alone engaged
in this work. Other colonies had thousands of copies struck off, and in
some the copy of the act was accompanied with comments, and with a
black border, while the vendors cried it about under the title of "A
barbarous, cruel, bloody, and inhuman murder." In some places it
was burned with great solemnity; in others, as at Philadelphia,
subscriptions were set on foot for the relief of those Bostonians who
should be deprived of the means of subsistence by the operations of the
act; while in Virginia the assembly which was then sitting, adopted
a proposal that the first day of June, on which the Post Bill was
to commence, should be a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer, to
implore heaven to avert the evils of civil war, to inspire the Americans
with firmness in support of their rights, and to turn the hearts of king
and parliament to moderation and justice. For this vote, Lord Dunmore,
the governor of the province of Virginia, dissolved the assembly, and
the members then repaired to a tavern, where they agreed to articles
of association, in which they pronounced the Boston Port Bill to be
the result of a system having for its object the reduction of the
inhabitants of British America to slavery. At this meeting it
was declared that tea ought not to be used by any well-wisher to
constitutional liberty; and that from the course pursued by the East
India Company in favour of arbitrary taxation, the people ought not to
purchase any of their commodities, except saltpetre and spices, until
their grievances should be redressed. It was also declared that an
attack on one colony was an attack upon all, and that it should be
resisted by their united councils. Quin. Pat, pat! and here's a marvellous
convenient place for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our stage,
this hawthorn brake our tyring house, and we will do it in action,
as we will do it before the Duke.

Bot. Peter Quince.
Quin. What say'st thou, Bully Bottom?
Bot. There are things in this Comedy of Pyramus and Thisby, that
will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself,
which the Ladies cannot abide. How answer you that?
Snout. By'rlaken, a parlous fear!

Starv.Finally, this meeting of the dissolved assembly of Virginia,
agreed that the members who should be elected under the new writs then
issuing, should meet in convention at Williamsburgh, on the first of
August, for the purpose of appointing delegates to sit in congress.
This was a monster stride in the march of revolution, and it was easy to
foresee its ultimate and awful consequences.

The first of June was not only observed as a day of fasting and
humiliation in Virginia, but also at Philadelphia, Boston, and other
places. Shops were closed, and the church-bells tolled dolefully; but
whether prayer was offered in sincerity and truth, and in calm devotion,
demands a doubt; for when men's passions are inflamed, there can be no
fitness for acts of piety. In the mean time the assembly of Massachusets
Bay met at Boston, on the 25th of May, for the last time. On that day,
General Gage laid before them some common business of the province, and
then announced the painful necessity he was under of removing them and
all public offices to Salem, by the first of June, in conformity with
the recent acts of parliament. He adjourned them to the 7th of June,
then to meet at Salem, and on that day they re-assembled at the place
appointed, and named a committee to consider and report the state of
the province. Some of the committee named were for pursuing mild and
conciliatory measures, and seeing this, Mr. Samuel Adams conferred with
Mr. Warren on the necessity of obtaining a better display of spirit.
Warren engaged to keep the committee in play, while Adams should be
secretly engaged in winning over members to their party. In a few days
Adams succeeded in gaining over and concerting measures with more than
thirty members, and it was then resolved to proceed at once to business.
On the 17th of May they ordered the doors to be locked, and that no one
should be permitted to go in or out. They hoped by this plan to keep
all friends of government from giving any information concerning
their councils, and to finish their business before the governor could
interfere with a prorogation or dissolution. One member favourable to
government, however, contrived to get out, and to give information of
what was doing within. The governor sent his secretary to dissolve
them, but he was refused admittance, and he read the proclamation of
dissolution upon the stairs leading to the chamber in the hearing of
several members, who, like himself, could not obtain admittance. By this
time, however, the committee had done all they wanted to do: they had
appointed a committee to meet other provincial committees on the 1st
of September, at Philadelphia; had voted £500 for its use; had chosen
a treasurer; and having no money in hand, had recommended the towns and
districts of the province to raise the sum by equitable proportions,
according to the last provincial tax. This was a gross insult to the
governor, and the committee exulted in having had the opportunity of
offering it. Their feelings of triumph, however, do no honour to human
nature, since that triumph, such as it was, was obtained by the paltry
artifice of obtaining possession of the house to the exclusion of all
such members as would have voted against the measure they had proposed
and carried.

On the 1st of June, exactly as the clock struck twelve, the custom-house
of Boston was shut up, and all lawful business ceased in its port. 
repeated Groslow; "impossible!"
"It is nevertheless true," returned the sailor. "See here; nothing in our
wake, and here is the end of the rope."
It was then that Groslow uttered the cry which the guardsmen heard
from their boat.

"What is the matter?" demanded Mordaunt, emerging from the hatchway,
his torch in his hand, and rushing towards the stern.
"The matter is, that your enemies have escaped you. They have cut
the rope, and saved themselves in the boat."Nature, they said, by the formation of their harbour,
forbade their becoming rivals with that convenient mart, and were it
otherwise they must be dead to every idea of justice, and lost to all
feelings of humanity, if they could indulge one thought of acquiring
wealth, and building up their fortunes upon the ruin of their suffering
neighbours. These certainly were sentiments honourable to humanity, but
unfortunately they were coupled with others of a different character.
The petitioners repeated the old saying, which was now become
notoriously false, that they still ardently wished to preserve their
connexion with the British empire: and yet the people of Salem falsified
their assertion on the very next day after it was made, by joining a
general association, which by this time had been got up by many of the
committees of correspondence, and which was called "a solemn league
and covenant," after the famous bond of their Puritan forefathers.
The nature of this league may be seen from the document which all its
members signed. It declared that the compact had been entered into as
the only means of avoiding the horrors of slavery, or the carnage and
desolation of civil war; that those who subscribed to it covenanted in
the presence of God to suspend all commercial intercourse with Great
Britain till the Boston Port Bill should be restored; and that they
would have no dealings with persons who would not sign it, or should
afterwards violate it, but would publish their names as enemies to
their country, and as men excommunicated or cut off from all social
intercourse. This league spread rapidly through all the states;
thousands joined it of their own free will, and others were impelled to
subscribe to it through fear. In most places, indeed, it was conceived
more dangerous to oppose the popular will, than to risk a war with Great
Britain. And it was in vain that the governor sought to stem the onward
progress of the tide of revolution. He issued a proclamation, forbidding
such unlawful and traitorous combinations, and warned the people against
countenancing them; but his orders were disregarded, and his very power
questioned. In Boston all became sullen and threatening, and General
Gage at length deemed it advisable to take means more efficacious than
proclamations in repressing tumult. A detachment of artillery, with some
regiments of infantry were ordered to encamp near Boston, and these were
soon reinforced by fresh troops from Great Britain and Ireland. But it
was soon found that the troops could not be depended upon:--bought by
gills of ardent spirits and promises of reward, many, and especially the
raw recruits, deserted their ranks; and General Gage next placed a guard
on the Isthmus, called Boston-neck, which joins the peninsula whereon
the town is built to the main land. Bot. Well, I will undertake it.
What beard were I best to play it in?

Quin. Why what you will.

Bot. I will discharge it in either your straw-colour'd beard, your
orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your
French-crown-colour'd beard, your perfect yellow.The exciting cry produced the effect that was wished
far and near. Even those provinces which had hitherto been slow to join
the Bostonians in their hostility towards government, now earnestly
exhorted them to brave their supposed doom, as the eye of all America
was upon them; and the hands of all the Americans ready to be stretched
forth for their deliverance.

In conformity to the bill for regulating the government of Massachusets
Bay, General Gage reorganised the Massachusets council. Commissions
arrived in August for the new council, and thirty-six were appointed,
but twelve out of that number refused to accept office; and even those
who did accept office, were soon glad, for the most part, to throw
up their commissions, from the odium which they had incurred and the
threats by which they were intimidated. General Gage, however, issued
writs for convening an assembly in October. But order and law were now
out of the question in Boston. The juries would not serve under the new
judges, and the very officers refused, from disaffection or fear, to
summon them. The colonists had now, in fact, begun to arm, to collect
warlike stores, and to train the youth to military exercises. Nothing
was to be seen or heard of except the purchasing of arms and ammunition,
the casting of balls, and the making of all those preparations
which testified immediate and determined resistance. If that may
be, then all is well. Come, sit down every mother's son, and
rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin; and when you have spoken
your speech, enter into that brake, and so every one according to his
cue.

Enter Puck.

Puck.The people now rose in arms, and threatened to attack the
troops. Several thousands marched from all quarters for this purpose,
and though they did not come to blows, they threw every possible
obstruction in the way of those employed in constructing the works on
Boston-neck, burning the materials by night, sinking the boats laden
with bricks, and overturning the trucks laden with timber. The governor
saw clearly that scenes of bloodshed were at hand, and though thus
braved, he mercifully forbore to commence them.

In the mean time the committees of correspondence in order to fan the
flames of sedition into one universal conflagration, had been spreading
abroad rumours of massacres, and of attacks on Boston both by land and
sea. It was in this state of affairs that a meeting of delegates from
all the neighbouring towns was called, and which was held, in spite
of the governor's proclamation. This meeting passed resolutions
more decidedly hostile to the British government than any previously
promulgated. my fine fellow," said Porthos, "we have you now, I think,
without a chance of escape."
"Oh, Porthos!" murmured the Count de la Fère.

"For heaven's sake, Athos," replied Porthos, "cease your eternal generosity,
which is ridiculous under such circumstances. For my part I declare to
you, that if he comes within my reach, I will split his skull with the
oar."
D'Artagnan, who had just finished his colloquy with Aramis, stood up
in the boat.

"Sir," said he to the swimmer, "be so good as to betake yourself in
some other direction. The vessel which you intended for our coffin
is scarcely yet at the bottom of the sea, and your present situation
is a bed of roses compared to that in which you intended to put us."

"Gentlemen!" said Mordaunt in despairing accents, "I swear to you
that I sincerely repent. I am too young to die. I was led away by
a natural resentment; I wished to revenge my mother. You would all
have acted as I have done."
"Pshaw!" said D'Artagnan, who saw that Athos was becoming more and
more softened by Mordaunt's supplications. The swimmer was again
within three or four fathoms of the boat. The approach of death
seemed to give him supernatural strength.
"Alas!" said he, "I am going to die, then. And yet I was right to
avenge my mother. And besides, if it were a crime, I repent of it,
and you ought to pardon me."
A wave that passed over his head, interrupted his entreaties. He
again emerged, and made a stroke in the direction of the boat.
D'Artagnan took his oar in both hands.Their resolutions concluded
thus:--"Should our enemies by any sudden manoeuvre, render it necessary
for us to ask aid of our brethren in the country, some one of the
committee of correspondence, or a select man from the town where
hostilities shall commence or be expected, or from the town adjoining,
shall despatch couriers with written messages to the select men, or
committees of correspondence in the vicinity, who shall send others to
committees more remote, until sufficient assistance be obtained: the
expense of couriers to be defrayed by the county, until otherwise
ordered by the provincial assembly." The meeting also drew up a petition
of remonstrance to the governor, respecting the fortification of
Boston-neck, in which they plainly stated that although they had
no inclination to commence hostilities, they were resolved,
notwithstanding, to resist the late acts of the British parliament at
all hazards. Gage replied, that it was his duty to preserve the peace,
and to erect such works as should protect his soldiers from surprise: at
the same time he assured them that his artillery should not be employed
unless hostile proceedings on their part rendered it necessary.

By this time the people of Virginia had taken one of the front ranks
in the march of revolution and independence. On the 1st of August,
Jefferson and other members of the convention met as appointed, to
agree as to instructions for the delegates to be sent to the approaching
congress. Jefferson had drawn up a violent paper, but falling sick, it
was presented by Peyton Randolph. The sum and substance of this paper
was, in fact, that the Virginians should claim an absolute independence
and sovereignty. The leap, however, which Jefferson proposed to take was
far too long for the mass of his fellow-citizens as yet to take; but the
document was deemed worthy of being printed, and it was published under
the title of "A summary View of the Rights of British America." The
members of this convention, however, took a leap which did not fall far
short of that which Jefferson proposed. The instructions they prepared,
at least, made it manifest unto all men, that, although they professed
loyalty to the sovereign, their aim was to undermine his throne; or, in
other words, to obtain independence. They averred their allegiance to
King George, declared that they sincerely approved of a constitutional
connexion with their mother country, and even professed a willingness to
submit to reasonable regulations and restrictions on their commerce--but
this was only a preamble to sentiments teeming with rebellion and
hostility to the king whom they professed to obey, and the country with
which they asserted they still wished to be connected. In this section
of their instructions the Virginians instructed their deputies at
congress to cooperate cordially with Massachusets Bay and the other
colonies; declared that the proclamation issued by General Gage
was alarming, and illegal, and such as would justify resistance and
reprisals if attempted to be carried into effect; agreed to send speedy
and liberal relief to the Bostonians, and to abide by such alterations
in their present articles as congress might recommend and the delegates
of Virginia assent to; and bound themselves not to export any tobacco
after the 10th of August, and in lieu of its cultivation to encourage
manufactures; to deal with no merchants who raised the price of articles
during the present crisis, and to require the county committees to
publish the name of those who would not conform to their regulations.
The convention finished by choosing the delegates who were to represent
them in congress.

