The Woman's Business has always suffered from lack of facility in
adapting itself to new forms of expression. The natural task found, a
method of handling it in a fashion sufficiently acceptable to prevent
family revolts mastered, and the woman usually is as fixed as a star
in its orbit. She resents changes of method, new interpretations, and
fresh expressions. It is she, not man, who stands an immovable
mountain in the path of militant feminism.

In this course she is following her nature. An instinct more powerful
than logic tells her that she must preserve the thing she is making,
that center for which she is responsible, that place where her child
is born and reared, where her mate retreats, to be reassured that the
effort to which he has committed himself is worth while, where all the
community to which she belongs is served and strengthened. If this
place is preserved, she must do it. Man, an experimenter and
adventurer, cannot.

Changes she fears. She sees them as disturbers of her plans and her
ideals. But the changes will not stay. They gather about her retreat,
beat at the doors, creep in at the windows, win her husband and
children from her very arms. The home on which she depended to keep
them becomes impotent. While she stands an implacable guardian of a
form of truth, truth has moved on, broadened its outlook, and clothed
itself in new expressions.

It is entirely understandable that the woman who sees herself left
behind with her dead gods should cry out against change as the ruin of
her hopes. It is equally understandable that those who find themselves
adrift should doubt the home as an institution. At the bottom of the
revolt of thousands of our "uneasy women" of to-day lies this doubt.
The home failed them, and with the logic of limited experience they
cast it out of their calculations.

But the home is one of the unescapable facts of nature and
society--unescapable because the child demands it. One of the earliest
convictions of the child is that he has a _right_ to a home. To him it
appears as the great necessity. He cannot see himself outside of it.
To be at large in the world throws him into panic. The sacrifices and
pains very young children suffer uncomplainingly, particularly in
great cities and factory towns, is a pathetic enough demonstration of
what the word means to them. Mere children by the hundreds support
families terrified by the thought of their collapse. The orphan
forever dreams of the day when a home will be found for him. The child
whose parents seek freedom, leaving him to school or servants, never
fails to nourish a sense of injustice. Whatever one generation may
decide as to the futility or burdensomeness of the home, the oncoming
child will force its return.

To keep this permanent place abreast with growing truth, that is the
obligation of the woman. It is the failure to do this that produces
what we may call the homeless daughter; that girl who loved and often
served to the point of folly, finds herself in a group where none of
the imperative needs the day has awakened in her are met.

One of the first of these needs is for what we call "economic
independence." The spirit of our day and of our system of government
is personal, material independence for all. Under the old régime the
girl had her economic place. The family was a small community. It
provided for most of its own wants, hence the girl must be taught
household arts and science, all of the fine traditional knowledge and
skill which made, not drudges, but skilled managers, skilled cooks and
needlewomen, skilled hostesses and nurses. She had a _business_ to
learn under the old régime, and there was an authority, often severely
enforced no doubt, which made her learn it well. There was the same
appraising of the efficiency of the girl for her business there was
of the boy for his.

The girl of to-day rarely has any such systematic training for the
material side of her business, nor is a dignified place provided for
her in well-to-do families. Her place is parasitical and demoralizing.
Take the young girl who has been what we call "educated"; that is, one
who has gone through college and has not found a talent which she is
eager to develop. As the contents of both were identical, a clairvoyant
Spirit that could answer No. 1 could answer No.
2, but nothing less than superhuman power could extract the paper from
No. 2 without so tearing the envelope as to betray an un-Spiritual
origin.Her ideas of scientific management, if she
has any, are treated as revolutionary. Her help is not needed. There
is no place for her.

The daughters of the very poor often have better fortune than she in
this respect. They, from very early years, have known that they were
necessary to the family. Almost invariably they accept heavy and
sometimes cruel burdens cheerfully, even proudly. It is the pride of
knowing themselves important to those whom they love. One of the
difficult things to combat in enforcing the laws which forbid children
under fourteen working, is the child's desire to help. He may hate the
hardship, but at least there is in his lot none of that hopeless sense
of futility which comes over the girl of high spirit when she realizes
she has no practical value in the group to which she belongs. "Not
needed"--that is one of the tragic experiences of the young girl in
the well-to-do family. To save herself, to meet the truth of her day
which has taken hold of her, she must seek a productive place; that
is, leave home, seek work. If she has some special talent, knows what
she wants to do, she is fortunate indeed. With the majority it is
work, something to do, a place where they can be independently
productive, that is sought.

The girl of the family in moderate circumstances is no better off. She
must contribute in some way, and there is no scientific management in
her home--no study of ways and means which enables her to contribute
and remain at home. She is driven outside in order to support herself.
I cannot but believe that here is one of the gravest weaknesses in our
educational machinery, this failure to give the girl inclined to
remain at home a training which would enable her to help make more of
a limited income. Nothing is so rare to-day as the fine habit of
making much of little. A dollar mixed with brains is worth five in
every place where dollars are used. Particularly is this true in the
household. The failure to teach how to mix brains and dollars, and to
inspire respect for the undertaking, annually drives thousands of
girls into our already overburdened industrial system who would be
healthier and happier at home and who would render there a much
greater economic service. Such work as is being done in certain
Western agricultural colleges for girls, in the Carnegie School for
Women in Pittsburg, in Miss Kittridge's Household Centers in New York
City, is a recognition of this need of making scientific
managers--trained household workers--of young women. There is no more
practical way of relieving the industrial strain.

It is not always the dependent and so humiliating position a girl
finds herself in that drives her from home. It is frequently the
discovery that she is a member of a group that has no responsible
place in the community; that regards itself as a purely isolated,
unrelated, irresponsible unit,--an atom without affinities! The home
can be, if it will, the most antisocial force in existence, for it
can, if it will, exist practically for itself. That excessive
individualism, which is responsible for so many evils in our country,
has encouraged this isolation. The girl who finds herself without a
productive place at home at the same time finds none of the fine
inspiration which comes from fitting herself into a social scheme and
helping to do its work. The spirit of the age is social. She feels its
call, she sees how unresponsive, even antipathetic, to it her home is.
She concludes that if she is to serve she must seek something to do in
some remote city. The attraction the Social Settlement has for the
girl finds its base here. The loss to communities of their educated
young women, who find no response to their need, no place to serve in
their own society, is incalculable.

It is not infrequent that a girl who may have by some chance of
fortune a sufficient sense of independence in her home, who knows
herself needed there, and is ready to perform the service, is driven
out by the persistence of that spirit of parental authority, which
looks upon it as a duty to rule the life, particularly of the
daughter, as long as she is at home. There is nothing clearer than
that the old domination of one person by another is a thing of the
past. A new spirit of coöperation and friendly direction has come into
the world. The home which it does not pervade cannot keep its young.

The most essential thing for a woman to understand is that her
business is _not to order_ her daughter's life, but to assist that
daughter to shape it herself. She should be prepared to say to her:
"The most interesting and important thing in the world for you is to
work out your own particular life. You must build it from the place
where you stand and with the materials in your hands. Nobody else ever
stood in your particular place or ever will stand in one identical;
nobody ever has or can possess the same materials. You alone can fuse
the elements. Hold your place; do not try to shift into the place that
another occupies. Keep your eye on what you have to work with, not on
what somebody else has. The ultimate result, the originality, flavor,
distinction, usefulness of your life, depend on the care, the
reverence, and the intelligence with which you work up and out from
where you are and with what you have."

It is only the woman who is prepared to say something like that to her
daughter, to help her to see it, and to rise to it that has brought
into her home the spirit of to-day.

Where there is failure at any one of these points, and if one fails,
all probably will, since they are obvious elements in the liberal view
of life, the girl must go forth if her life is to go progressively on.
She must seek work, less for the sake of work than for the sake of
life. The Medium (repeating for the information of Mr. Furness):
Somebody proposed a glass and there were three raps.

Dr. Koenig inquires of the Medium whether the meaning intended to
be conveyed by the sounds is that the Spirits desire to have the
glass plate procured.The girl goes forth to seek work. She has almost invariably the idea
that work outside the home has less of drudgery in it, _i.e._ less
routine and meanness, more excitement. She is unprepared for the years
of steady grinding labor which she must go through to earn her bread
in any trade or profession. She learns that work is work whether done
in kitchen, sewing room, countinghouse, studio, or editor's sanctum,
and all that keeps the operations which consume the bulk of the
worker's time in any of these places from being drudgery is that he
keeps before him the end for which they are performed. The first
disillusionment comes, then, when she faces the necessity of a long
steady pull for years if she is to "arrive."

