"Thank God!" said Schönau earnestly, for he had feared her hesitation
would result in a third refusal. "You should have said that five years
ago, Regine, but better late than never. It's all right at last."

And with these words the persevering man folded her in his arms with
affectionate tenderness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sun shone down warm and bright on the meadow land and penetrated
even into the forest depths. It fell across the pathway of General von
Falkenried and his son and daughter, who were sauntering along under
the high firs on the way which led to Burgsdorf.

Falkenried did not seem the same man he had been for the past ten years.
The war which, despite its victories and final triumph, had made so many
old before their time, had affected him apparently in a different
manner. Sharke's agent, was bustling about, and I found him engaged with
a fat, pompous little fellow, the auctioneer, from a neighbouring
town.

"Sad business this, Mr. ----," said he, "Fernlands is in a sad taking
about it, I believe, but things of this kind will occur, you know; and
I always say what can't be cured must be endured, eh."
I turned with an ill-concealed expression of disgust from this man, and
entered the house in search of my friend, for N---- would not quit the
old place to the last. There is something melancholy in viewing a
sale at any time--the disarrangement of the furniture--the cheerless
and chilling aspect of the rooms--the dirt, the bustle, and the
heartless indifference one witnesses to the misfortunes of others--all
come home forcibly to the feelings.

The dark curly locks
were beginning to grow again over the high, broad forehead, so like his
father's.

The young wife by his side, so beautiful, so winning always, was
lovelier than ever now, for joy and happiness had set their seal on her
bright, girlish face! Who would recognize in this slender, graceful
figure, clad in a simple, summer frock, the proud, cold court beauty in
her laces and jewels? The smile, the tone in which she spoke to her
father and husband, Frau von Wallmoden had never known, for it was Ada
Falkenried who had learned it.

"You can go no farther to-day," said the general, standing still. "You
have a long walk back, and Hartmut is not strong enough for much yet.
The physician was very decided about his not exerting himself."

"If you only knew, father, how hard it was to be mistaken for an invalid
when I am getting so well and strong again," said Hartmut. "I am getting
strong enough--"

"To bring on a relapse by your folly," his father answered. "You have
never learned patience, and it is altogether owing to Ada that you are
as strong as you are."

"If it hadn't been for her there would be no Hartmut to-day," said her
husband, giving her a glance of tenderest love. "I believe the case was
almost hopeless when she came to me!"

"The physicians at least gave no hope, when I telegraphed for Ada in
response to your cry. I entered; the room was stripped of part of its
furniture, the books lying dispersed in heaps over the floor or on
the massive table, at the side of which N---- was seated on the
only chair left in the apartment.

He was at first unconscious of my entrance.

"You know best what you have been to Hartmut and me, my child. I thank
God for bringing him back to me through your nursing. And you are right
in detaining him here, although the physician says he could travel now.
He must first learn to know his fatherland and his home to which he was
so long a stranger."

"First learn?" said Ada, reprovingly. "What he read to you and to me
to-day shows that he has long since learned it; his new poem breathes a
different spirit from his wild, passionate 'Arivana.'"

