It is now seen more clearly than at any earlier period, that most of the
planets possess special characteristics which distinguish them from one
another, and that such an origin as Laplace suggested--the slow cooling
and contraction of one vast sun-mist or nebula, besides presenting
inherent difficulties--many think them impossibilities--in itself does
not afford an adequate explanation of these peculiarities. Hence has
arisen what is termed the Meteoritic theory, which has been ably
advocated for many years by Sir Norman Lockyer, and with some
unimportant modifications is now becoming widely accepted. Briefly, this
theory is, that the planets have been formed by the slow aggregation of
solid particles around centres of greatest condensation; but as many of
my readers may be altogether unacquainted with it, I will here give a
very clear statement of what it is, from Professor J.W. Gregory's
presidential address to the Geological Section of the British
Association of the present year. He began by saying that these modern
views were of far more practical use to men of science than that of
Laplace, and that they give us a history of the world consistent with
the actual records of geology. He then continues:

"According to Sir Norman Lockyer's Meteoritic Hypothesis, nebulae,
comets, and many so-called stars consist of swarms of meteorites which,
though normally cold and dark, are heated by repeated collisions, and so
become luminous. They may even be volatilised into glowing meteoric
vapour; but in time this heat is dissipated, and the force of gravity
condenses a meteoritic swarm into a single globe. 'Some of the swarms
are,' says Lockyer, 'truly members of the solar system,' and some of
these travel round the sun in nearly circular orbits, like planets. They
may be regarded as infinitesimal planets, and so Chamberlain calls them
'planetismals.'

"The planetismal theory is a development of the meteoritic theory, and
presents it in an especially attractive guise. It regards meteorites as
very sparsely distributed through space, and gravity as powerless to
collect them into dense groups. So it assigns the parentage of the solar
system to a spiral nebula composed of planetismals, and the planets as
formed from knots in the nebula, where many planetismals had been
concentrated near the intersections of their orbits. These groups of
meteorites, already as dense as a swarm of bees, were then packed closer
by the influence of gravity, and the contracting mass was heated by the
pressure, even above the normal melting-point of the material, which was
kept rigid by the weight of the overlying layers."

Now, adopting this theory as the last word of science upon the subject
of the origin of planets, we see that it affords immense scope for
diversity in results depending on the total _amount_ of matter available
within the range of attraction of an incipient planetary mass, and the
_rates_ at which this matter becomes available. _In oblong 4to, cloth
gilt,_
The Book of Nonsense. 27th Edition, 110 Illustrations printed in
outline as originally published.

More Nonsense. Third Edition. 104 Illustrations.

_In small 4to, cloth gilt,_
Nonsense Songs and Stories. 7th Edition.

Nonsense Botany and Nonsense Alphabets. 162 Illustrations. Fifth
Edition.

MR. RUSKIN
says, in his _List of the Best Hundred Authors_--"Surely the most
beneficent and innocent of all looks yet produced is 'The Book of
Nonsense,' with its corollary carols, inimitable and refreshing,
and perfect in rhythm. I really don't know any author to whom I am
half so grateful for my idle self as Edward Lear. I shall put him
first of my hundred authors." 

LONDON AND NEW YORK:
FREDERICK WARNE & CO.But the internal heat acquired by a
planet while forming in this manner will depend upon the rate at which
it aggregates and the velocity with which the planetismals' fall into
it, and this velocity will increase with its mass and consequent force
of gravity. In the early stages of a planet's growth it will probably
remain cold, the small amount of heat produced by each impact being lost
by radiation before the next one occurs; and with a small and slowly
aggregating planet this condition will prevail till it approaches its
full size. Then only will its gravitative force be sufficient to cause
incoming matter to fall upon it with so powerful an impact as to produce
intense heat. Further, the compressive force of a small planet will be a
less effective heat-producing agency than in the case of a larger one.

WITH ORIGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS BY WILLIAM FOSTER

LONDON & NEW YORK FREDERICK WARNE AND CO.
1889
_ALL RIGHTS RESERVED._ 

_PUBLISHERS' PREFACE._
The almost general desire to have THE OWL and THE PUSSY-CAT, THE
DUCK and THE KANGAROO, in a distinct form from Mr.This
being admitted, I suggest the following course of events as quite
possible, and not even improbable, in the case of this planet. During
the whole of its early growth, and till it acquired nearly its present
diameter, its rate of aggregation was so slow that the planetismals
falling upon it, though they might have been heated and even partially
liquefied by the impact, were never in such quantity as to produce any
considerable heating effect on the whole mass, and each local rise of
temperature was soon lost by radiation. The planet thus grew as a solid
and cold mass, compacted together by the impact of the incoming matter
as well as by its slowly increasing gravitative force. But when it had
attained to within perhaps 100, perhaps 50 miles, or less, of its
present diameter, a great change occurred in the opportunity for further
growth. Some large and dense swarm of meteorites, perhaps containing a
number of bodies of the size of the asteroids, came within the range of
the sun's attraction and were drawn by it into an orbit which crossed
that of Mars at such a small angle that the planet was able at each
revolution to capture a considerable number of them. The result might
then be that, as in the case of the earth, the continuous inpour of the
fresh matter first heated, and later on liquefied the greater part of it
as well perhaps as a thin layer of the planet's original surface; so
that when in due course the whole of the meteor-swarm had been captured,
Mars had acquired its present mass, but would consist of an intensely
heated, and either liquid or plastic thin outer shell resting upon a
cold and solid interior.

The size and position of the two recently discovered satellites of Mars,
which are believed to be not more than ten miles in diameter, the more
remote revolving around its primary very little slower than the planet
rotates, while the nearer one, which is considerably less distant from
the planet's surface than its own antipodes and revolves around it more
than three times during the Martian day, may perhaps be looked upon as
the remnants of the great meteor-swarm which completed the Martian
development, and which are perhaps themselves destined at some distant
period to fall into the planet. About 1000 volumes are added each month;
and very large purchases are made of all new and popular works.

Books are delivered at members' residences for five cents each
delivery.

TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP:
TO CLERKS, $1 INITIATION, $3 ANNUAL DUES.