Wet and bruised he crept away, a sadder and a wiser boy, inwardly
resolved to have nothing more to do with things which did not
concern him.

C. J. BLAKE.
[Illustration: A Cliff-dwelling of North America.]
WONDERFUL CAVERNS.

VII.Early perceiving that nine out of ten were only the stupid instruments of
the tenth man, the world over, I resolved to go into the system, and did,
and improved on it so as to make _nineteen_ out of _twenty_ tools to
_me_,--that is all. I have no great fault to find with men generally,
though I always despised the whole herd; for I knew that, if they used me
well, it was only because they dared not do otherwise. I don't write this,
however, to preach upon that, but to let you know another thing, to chew
upon.

"You call me a murderer; and I want to tell you that _you_ are the _son_ of
a murderer, and therefore stand on a par with my family, even at that. Your
father, when we used to operate together in smuggling, being once hard
chased, on an out-of-the-way road, by one of the custom-house crew, knocked
him down with a club, and finished with the blow, to save a thousand
dollars' worth of silk. But I sacredly kept his secret; yes, even to this
day, besides making one good fortune for him, and being on the point of
making him another. And yet he betrayed and turned against me. Yes, in that
affair about the missing peltries, he betrayed me, out and out, and spoilt
every thing. That was his unpardonable sin, with me. I resolved he should
die for it; and he _did_. I didn't want to kill you, but couldn't suffer
you to become a witness. No, I never had any thing against you, except for
allowing matters to take the turn that drove my daughter to anticipate you
in breaking off the match. But it was just as well, as it turned out. Avis,
in the position of _lady abbess_ of a convent in one of your eastern
cities, which it is settled she will have, will stand quite as high, I
guess, as in the position of lady Elwood.

"I have done, now, except to ask one favor,--the only one I will ever ask
of _any_ man,--and that is, that you won't publish my name, and couple it
with the unlucky miss-go of last night; so that my wife and daughter, who
know I am in this region, but not my business, may never learn that the
captain of the _Black Rover_ and I are one. The soldier said no more. His
heart was too full of joy and gratitude, for that was indeed a post of
honour.

Some months later the Castle of Rambouillet had a new gate-keeper,
an old wooden-legged sergeant of Sapeurs, wearing the coveted medal
on his well-brushed uniform!

X.

THE CASHMERE STAG.

India is rich in animals of the deer kind. To name only a few, there are
the Sambur, the beautiful Axis Deer, the small, but fierce, Hog Deer,
the Rusa Deer, the Bahrainga Deer, and the noble Cashmere Deer. The
habits of these animals are exceedingly varied. Some live upon the
hills, while others frequent the low lands and the jungles, and are
never seen upon the higher ground.But the cheering thought was not to be enjoyed without the drawback of
being compelled to witness one more and a concluding horror.

As Elwood and his beautiful companion were on the point of retiring from
deck, their attention was suddenly arrested by a light, crashing sound,
high up the tall side of the frigate. They looked, and caught sight of
broken pieces of board or panelling flying out, as if beat or kicked from
what appeared to have been a closed port-hole. Presently the body of a man,
whom they at once recognized, was protruded through the ample aperture he
had evidently thus effected, till he brought himself to a balance on the
outer edge. Then came the sharp cry from some one of the frigate's
officers:

