In the same debate, Sir, Mr. Burk, from South Carolina, supported a duty
on hemp, for the express purpose of encouraging its growth on the strong
lands of South Carolina. "Cotton," he said, "was also in contemplation
among them, and, if good seed could be procured, he hoped might succeed."
Afterwards, Sir, the cotton was obtained, its culture was protected, and
it did succeed. Mr. Smith, a very distinguished member from the same
state, observed: "It has been said, and justly, that the States which
adopted this Constitution expected its administration would be conducted
with a favorable hand. The manufacturing States wished the encouragement
of manufactures, the maritime States the encouragement of shipbuilding,
and the agricultural States the encouragement of agriculture."

Sir, I will detain the Senate by reading no more extracts from these
debates. I have already shown a majority of the members of South Carolina,
in this very first session, acknowledging this power of protection, voting
for its exercise, and proposing its extension to their own products.
Similar propositions came from Virginia; and, indeed, Sir, in the whole
debate, at whatever page you open the volume, you find the power admitted,
and you find it applied to the protection of particular articles, or not
applied, according to the discretion of Congress. No man denied the power,
no man doubted it; the only questions were, in regard to the several
articles proposed to be taxed, whether they were fit subjects for
protection, and what the amount of that protection ought to be. Will
gentlemen, Sir, now answer the argument drawn from these proceedings of
the first Congress? Will they undertake to deny that that Congress did act
on the avowed principle of protection? Or, if they admit it, will they
tell us how those who framed the Constitution fell, thus early, into this
great mistake about its meaning? Will they tell us how it should happen
that they had so soon forgotten their own sentiments and their own
purposes? I confess I have seen no answer to this argument, nor any
respectable attempt to answer it. And, Sir, how did this debate terminate?
What law was passed? There it stands, Sir, among the statutes, the second
law in the book. It has a _preamble_, and that preamble expressly
recites, that the duties which it imposes are laid "for the support of
government, for the discharge of the debts of the United States, and
_the encouragement and protection of manufactures_." Until, Sir, this
early legislation, thus coeval with the Constitution itself, thus full and
explicit, can be explained away, no man can doubt of the meaning of that
instrument in this respect.

Mr. President, this power of _discrimination_, thus admitted, avowed,
and practised upon in the first revenue act, has never been denied or
doubted until within a few years past. It was not at all doubted in 1816,
when it became necessary to adjust the revenue to a state of peace. On the
contrary, the power was then exercised, not without opposition as to its
expediency, but, as far as I remember or have understood, without the
slightest opposition founded on any supposed want of constitutional
authority. Certainly, South Carolina did not doubt it. The tariff of 1816
was introduced, carried through, and established, under the lead of South
Carolina. Even the minimum policy is of South Carolina origin. The
honorable gentleman himself supported, and ably supported, the tariff of
1816. He has informed us, Sir, that his speech on that occasion was sudden
and off-hand, he being called up by the request of a friend. I am sure the
gentleman so remembers it, and that it was so; but there is, nevertheless,
much method, arrangement, and clear exposition in that extempore speech.
It is very able, very, very much to the point, and very decisive. And in
another speech, delivered two months earlier, on the proposition to repeal
the internal taxes, the honorable gentleman had touched the same subject,
and had declared "_that a certain encouragement ought to be extended at
least to our woollen and cotton manufactures_." I do not quote these
speeches, Sir, for the purpose of showing that the honorable gentleman has
changed his opinion: my object is other and higher. I do it for the sake
of saying that that cannot be so plainly and palpably unconstitutional as
to warrant resistance to law, nullification, and revolution, which the
honorable gentleman and his friends have heretofore agreed to and acted
upon without doubt and without hesitation. Sir, it is no answer to say
that the tariff of 1816 was a revenue bill. So are they all revenue bills.
The point is, and the truth is, that the tariff of 1816, like the rest,
_did discriminate_; it did distinguish one article from another; it
did lay duties for protection. Look to the case of coarse cottons under
the minimum calculation: the duty on these was from sixty to eighty per
cent. Something beside revenue, certainly, was intended in this; and, in
fact, the law cut up our whole commerce with India in that article.

It is, Sir, only within a few years that Carolina has denied the
constitutionality of these protective laws. The gentleman himself has
narrated to us the true history of her proceedings on this point. He says,
that, after the passing of the law of 1828, despairing then of being able
to abolish the system of protection, political men went forth among the
people, and set up the doctrine that the system was unconstitutional.
"_And the people_," says the honorable gentleman, "_received the
doctrine_." This, I believe, is true, Sir. The people did then receive
the doctrine; they had never entertained it before. Down to that period,
the constitutionality of these laws had been no more doubted in South
Carolina than elsewhere. And I suspect it is true, Sir, and I deem it a
great misfortune, that, to the present moment, a great portion of the
people of the State have never yet seen more than one side of the
argument. I believe that thousands of honest men are involved in scenes
now passing, led away by one-sided views of the question, and following
their leaders by the impulses of an unlimited confidence. Depend upon it,
Sir, if we can avoid the shock of arms, a day for reconsideration and
reflection will come; truth and reason will act with their accustomed
force, and the public opinion of South Carolina will be restored to its
usual constitutional and patriotic tone.

But, Sir, I hold South Carolina to her ancient, her cool, her
uninfluenced, her deliberate opinions. I hold her to her own admissions,
nay, to her own claims and pretensions, in 1789, in the first Congress,
and to her acknowledgments and avowed sentiments through a long series of
succeeding years. I hold her to the principles on which she led Congress
to act in 1816; or, if she have changed her own opinions, I claim some
respect for those who still retain the same opinions. Her husband,
you scoundrel, do you want me to catch? Brakenbury. I urge Eu'r graces to
verzeihn, as well as no longer to speak with the noble duke. Clarence.
We know your order, Brakenbury, And wolln obey. Gloster. We are the
Verworfnen The Queen and must already obey.'s brother, lives well! I
want to go to the king, And what some would like you need me, should I
also mention Edward's widow sister, I will perform to bring you befrein.
However, this deep disgrace in brotherhood touches me deeper than you
think you can. Clarence. I know it, they both do not like us. Gloster.
well, arresting Eu'r will not last: I make you free, otherwise I located
for you. However you have patience. Clarence. I must, leb wohl! (Clarence
with Brakenbury and from the guard.) Gloster. just go down the road,
you never wiederkehrst, Einfält'ger Clarence! As much as I love you,
soon I will send your soul to heaven, When he Was' from our hands to
take. But who comes here? neubefreite of Hastings? (Hastings occurs.)
Hastings. Vergnügte morning gnäd'gen my Lord! Gloster. The same my dear
eunuch! Be very welcome in the open air. How did Eu'r graces in
arresting? Hastings. Geduldig , noble lord, as you probably should, but
I hope that once abzustatten thanks, The fault was at the arrests.

Gloster. Certainly, certainly! Clarence and will also: your enemies are the
same and have managed to resist him. Hastings. Yes, unfortunately, the
Eagles locked up, And Gei'r hawk and steal freely, however. Gloster. What's
new there? Hastings . So nothing bad out there, than here at home. The
prince is sickly, weak and melancholy, And his physicians fear
immensely. Gloster. Now, in St. Paul! the news is bad. Oh, he has
long kept bad diet, and consumed his royal person. It is a heartbreak, when
one's mind. Sagt, he keeps the bed? Hastings. He's doing. Gloster. Is not
progress, I follow you soon after. (from Hastings). He can not live, I
hope, can not die, Eh 'George with extra post goes to heaven.

I want them, and rush him to Clarence With lies wohlgestählten, trift'gen
reasons; And if my deep plan I do not succeed, Clarence Did not a day
more to live. Then God take King Edward Grace And let me make the world
live there. After marriage then I Warwicks youngest daughter. Ermordet 'I
have her husband and father, The fastest way to g'nugzutun prostitute, is
that I myself werd her husband and father. I will because, out of
love not only as a deeply hidden purposes else half, the marriage they
must reach me. But I do have the bill without a host, yet breathes Clarence,
Eduard enthroned and reigns: When they were out, then the Müh
'rewarded. (Ab) SECOND SCENE London. A andre street. (King Henry the
Sixth corpse in a coffin open hereingetragen, Tressel, Berkeley, and
nobles with halberds accompany them, this Princess Anne as a bearer of
suffering.) Anna. Set down your honorable load - Wofern Honor lowers itself
into a coffin - However, I complain to the funeral ceremony the case
of the early pious Lancaster. You eiskalt portrait of a Holy King!
Des Lancaster House erblichne ash! Loser rest of the blood royal blood!
enjoy it's up your mind that he is the poor hear Anna Jammer The woman
was Eduards thy son, strangles from the hand that these wounds suggested.
In this window, which is opened, your life to dismiss träufl 'I see! helpless
balm of my poor eyes. Cursed the hand that these cracks made! Cursed the
heart, the heart had 'to do it! Cursed the blood that the blood sacked!
healing Loser fate meet the poor, the wretched us by thy death,
as I may wish vipers, spiders, toads, and all toxic Gewürm, which
lives on.

Did he ever a child, so it's mißgeboren, neglected and soon brought
to light, Des Greulich unnatural shape the view of the hopeful
mother schreck; And that legacy is his misfortune!

Did he ever a woman, now, let them His death to make much more miserable,
as my young Ehgemahl and you!
For an effect so general, a cause of equal extent must exist.
No cause, local or partial, can produce consequences so general and
universal. In some parts of the country, indeed, local causes may in some
degree add to the flame; but no local cause, nor any number of local
causes, can account for the generally excited state of the public mind.

In portions of the country devoted to agriculture and manufactures, we
hear complaints of want of market and low prices. Yet there are other
portions of the country, which are consumers, and not producers, of food
and manufactures; and, as purchasers, they should, it would seem, be
satisfied with the low prices of which the sellers complain; but in these
portions, too, of the country, there are dissatisfaction and discontent.
Everywhere we find complaining and a desire for change.

There are those who think that this excitement among the people will prove
transitory and evanescent. I am not of that opinion. So far as I can
judge, attention to public affairs among the people of the United States,
has increased, is increasing, and is not likely to be diminished; and this
not in one part of the country, but all over it. This certainly is the
fact, if we may judge from recent information. The breeze of popular
excitement is blowing everywhere. It fans the air in Alabama and the
Carolinas; and I am of opinion, that, when it shall cross the Potomac, and
range along the Northern Alleghanies, it will grow stronger and stronger,
until, mingling with the gales of the Empire State, and the mountain
blasts of New England, it will blow a perfect hurricane.

There are those, again, who think these vast popular meetings are got up
by effort; but I say that no effort could get them up, and no effort can
keep them down. There must, then, be some general cause that animates the
whole country. What is that cause? It is upon this point I propose to give
my opinion to-day. I have no design to offend the feelings of any, but I
mean in perfect plainness to express my views to the vast multitude
assembled around. I know there are among them many who from first to last
supported General Jackson. I know there are many who, if conscience and
patriotism permitted, would support his successor; and I should ill repay
the attention with which they may honor me by any reviling or
denunciation. Again, I come to play no part of oratory before you. If
there have been times and occasions in my life when I might be supposed
anxious to exhibit myself in such a light, that period has passed, and
this is not one of the occasions. I come to dictate and prescribe to no
man. If my experience, not now short, in the affairs of government,
entitle my opinions to any respect, those opinions are at the service of
my fellow-citizens. What I shall state as facts, I hold myself and my
character responsible for; what I shall state as opinions, all are alike
at liberty to reject or to receive. I ask such consideration for them only
as the fairness and sincerity with which they are uttered may claim.

What, then, has excited the whole land, from Maine to Georgia, and gives
us assurance, that, while we are meeting here in New York in such vast
numbers, other like meetings are holding throughout all the States? That
this cause must be general is certain, for it agitates the whole country,
and not parts only.

When that fluid in the human system indispensable to life becomes
disordered, corrupted, or obstructed in its circulation, not the head or
the heart alone suffers; but the whole body--head, heart, and hand, all
the members, and all the extremities--is affected with debility,
paralysis, numbness, and death. The analogy between the human system and
the social and political system is complete; and what the lifeblood is to
the former, circulation, money, currency, is to the latter; and if that be
disordered or corrupted, paralysis must fall on the system.

The original, leading, main cause, then, of all our difficulties and
disasters, is the disordered state of the circulation. This is, perhaps,
not a perfectly obvious truth; and yet it is one susceptible of easy
demonstration. In order to explain this the more readily, I wish to bring
your minds to the consideration of the internal condition, and the vast
domestic trade, of the United States. Our country is not a small province
or canton, but an empire, extending over a large and diversified surface,
with a population of various conditions and pursuits. It is in this
variety that consists its prosperity; for the different parts become
useful one to the other, not by identity, but by difference, of
production, and thus each by interchange contributes to the interest of
the other. Hence, our internal trade, that which carries on this exchange
of the products and industry of the different portions of the United
States, is one of our most important interests, I had almost said the most
important. Its operations are easy and silent, not always perceptible, but
diffusing health and life throughout the system by the intercourse thus
promoted, from neighborhood to neighborhood, and from State to State.

This circuit of trade, in a country of such great extent as ours, demands,
more than in any country under heaven, a uniform currency for the whole
people; that what is money in Carolina shall be so elsewhere; that what
the Kentucky drover receives, what the planter of Alabama sells for, what
the laborer in New York gets in pay for his work, and carries home to
support his family, shall be of ascertained and uniform value.

This is not the time nor the occasion for an essay or dissertation on
money; but I mean distinctly to express the opinion, that until the
general government shall take in hand the currency of the country, until
that government shall devise some means, I say not what, of raising the
whole currency to the level of gold and silver, there can be no
prosperity.

Let us retrace briefly the history of the currency question in this
country, a most important branch of the commercial question. I appeal to
all who have studied the history of the times, and of the Constitution,
whether our fathers, in framing the Constitution which should unite us in
common rights and a common glory, had not also among their chief objects
to provide a uniform system of commerce, including a uniform system of
currency for the whole country. I especially invite the ingenuous youth of
the country to go back to the history of those times, and particularly to
the Virginia resolutions of 1786, and to the proceedings of the convention
at Annapolis, and they will there find that the prevailing motive for
forming a general government was, to secure a uniform system of commerce,
of customhouse duties, and a general regulation of the trade, external and
internal, of the whole country. What is his appearance Beßrung, Lords?
Buckingham. The best hope Eu'r husband speaks cheerfully. Elizabeth.
Gott geb 'him salvation! Bespracht you with him? Buckingham. Yes, gnäd'ge
woman: he wants the Duke Gloster With your brothers again And
reconcile this with the upper ridges and said His Highness before
they appear.

Elizabeth. Wär's all good! But this will never be I fear our happiness has
its Höh '. (Gloster and Hastings.) Gloster. You do me wrong, and I will
not tolerate it. Who are they to complain to the king, I was think
, hard and sweet 'it is not? When Holy Paul, who loves him the top, Who
will be the ear with Zankgerüchten anfüllt.

Who, among all those that, in the
honest convictions of their hearts, cried, Hurrah for Jackson! believed or
expected or desired that he would interfere with the Bank of the United
States, or destroy the circulating medium of the country? [Here there
arose a cry from the crowd, "None! None!"] I stand here upon the fact, and
defy contradiction from any quarter, that there was no complaint then,
anywhere, of the bank. There never before was a country, of equal extent,
where exchanges and circulation were carried on so cheaply, so
conveniently, and so securely. General Jackson was inaugurated in March,
1829, and pronounced an address upon that occasion, which I heard, as I
did the oath which he took to support the Constitution. In that address
were enumerated various objects, requiring, as he said, reform; but among
them was not the Bank of the United States, nor the currency. This was in
March, 1829. In December, 1829, General Jackson came out with the
declaration (than which none I have ever heard surprised me more), that
"the constitutionality of the Bank of the United States might be well
questioned," and that it had failed to furnish a sound and uniform
currency to the country.

What produced this change of views? Down to March of the same year,
nothing of this sort was indicated or threatened. What, then, induced the
change? [A voice from the crowd said, "Martin Van Buren."] If that be so,
it was the production of mighty consequences by a cause not at all
proportioned. I will state, in connection with, and in elucidation of,
this subject, certain transactions, which constitute one of those
contingencies in human affairs, in which casual circumstances, acting upon
the peculiar temper and character of a man of very decided temper and
character, affect the fate of nations. A movement was made in the summer
of 1829, for the purpose of effecting a change of certain officers of the
branch of the Bank of the United States in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Mr.
Richard. Gloster. Hey? Margaretha. I called thee not. Gloster. So I ask for
forgiveness, for I thought you called me all these bitter names.
Margaretha. That, I did well, but want to answer 'I do not. O let Finally
I get my curse!
At the same time,
Mr. Woodbury addressed a letter to the then Secretary of the Treasury, Mr.
Ingham, suggesting that his department should, on _political
grounds_, obtain from the mother bank the removal of the branch
president. This letter was transmitted to the president of the mother
bank, and reached him about the same time with the other, so that, looking
upon this picture and upon that, upon one letter, which urged the removal
on political grounds, and upon the other, which denied that political
considerations entered into the matter at all, he concluded to let things
remain as they were. Appeals were then artfully made to the President of
the United States. His feelings were enlisted, and it is well known that,
when he had an object in view, his character was to go ahead.[2] I mean to
speak no evil nor disrespect of General Jackson. He has passed off the
stage to his retirement at the Hermitage, which it would be as well,
perhaps, that friends should not disturb, and where I sincerely wish he
may, in tranquillity, pass the residue of his days. You Mißgeburt fully
Mael! burrowing pig! you who was stamped on the birth of the slave of
nature, the son of hell! You eyesore for heavy bosom of mother! You Ekler
offspring from the father's loins! Du Lump of honor! you are my
disgust - Gloster.General Jackson put forth the pretension, that
appointments by the bank should have regard to the wishes of the treasury;
the matter was formally submitted to the directors of the bank, and they
as formally determined that the treasury could not rightly or properly
have any thing to say in the matter. A long and somewhat angry
correspondence ensued; for General Jackson found in the president of the
bank a man who had something of his own quality. The result was that the
bank resisted, and refused the required acquiescence in the dictation of
the treasury.

