Distributed Proofreading Team from page images generously made available
by the Kentuckiana Digital Library (http://kdl.kyvl.org/)


Note: Images of the original pages are available through
      the Kentuckiana Digital Library. See
      http://kdl.kyvl.org/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=kyetexts;cc=
      kyetexts;xc=1&idno=B92-165-30098685&view=toc


THE LIFTED BANDAGE

by

MARY RAYMOND SHIPMAN ANDREWS

Author of "The Perfect Tribute," etc.

New York
Charles Scribner's Sons

1910


The man let himself into his front door and, staggering lightly, like a
drunken man, as he closed it, walked to the hall table, and mechanically
laid down his hat, but still wearing his overcoat turned and went into
his library, and dropped on the edge of a divan and stared out through
the leaded panes of glass across the room facing him. The grayish skin
of his face seemed to fall in diagonal furrows, from the eyes, from the
nose, from the mouth. He sat, still to his finger-tips, staring.

Finch. Dated August and September, 1725.

Letter from W. Edwards to Mathew Hutton. Dated Burly, December 11th,
1725.

Letters containing A Proposal of Marriage from the Duke of Somerset to
Lady C.

Finch. Dated 1725.

Letter from the Duke of Somerset to the Earl of Winchelsea on the same
subject.

Letters between Lord Granville and the Duke of Somerset, as to
Titles on the Death of the Duke's Grandson.

Dated November and December, 1744.

Autograph Notes from George III. to Charles, Earl of Egremont, on
Public Business. Dated 1762 and 1763.

Letter of Lord Lyttleton to the Earl of Egremont, inclosing
Complimentary Verses to Lady Egremont.

Dated January 1st, 1761.

A Particular of the Duchess of Somerset's Debts. Dated October 7th,
1697.

Holograph Letter from Charles II. to the Countess of Northumberland,
proposing the Marriage of his son George with her Grand-daughter, the
Percy Heiress.

Letter from Lord Hertford to his Father, consenting to marry.

The Commencement of a Letter of Lord Nelson's, &c. &c.

Any information relative to the above will be thankfully received and a
liberal Reward paid on restoration of the Papers.

Apply to MESSRS. RYMER, A. MURRAY, & RYMER, No. 5. Whitehall, London.

* * * * *

This Day is published,
A CATALOGUE of a very Choice and Valuable Collection of Books, Ancient
and Modern, in the English and Foreign Languages, and Books of
Prints, in very fine condition, also some beautifully Illuminated
Manuscripts upon Vellum, including a most splendid Vellum MS. of
the Latin Bible, in two very large volumes folio, written circa
1380; also a richly Illuminated Copy of Ferdosi's Shah Nameh, in
Persian, with Thirty-seven beautiful Paintings:--principally bound
by the best Binders, Derome, Bozerian, Kalthoeber, Walther, Lewis,
Clarke, Bedford, Riviere, Aitken, &c.: selected from the Libraries
of the Rev.

Dr. Hawtrey, Provost of Eton; Very Rev. Dr.
Butler, Dean of Peterborough, formerly Head Master of Harrow; Right
Hon.
Warren Hastings, formerly Governor-General of India; Rev. R. J.
Coates, Sopworth House, Gloucestershire, collected by him during
the last sixty years, with great taste and judgment, regardless of
expense; S. Freeman, Esq., Fawley Court (built by Inigo Jones),
Henley-on-Thames; John Miller, Esq., of Lincoln's Inn; and various
other Libraries sold in London and the Country, with some private
purchases. Now on sale at the prices affixed, by
JOSEPH LILLY, 19. King Street, Covent Garden, London.
This Valuable Catalogue will be forwarded to any gentleman inclosing
Two Postage Stamps to prepay it. It may also be seen attached to
the "Gentleman's Magazine" for November.The newcomer stood silent a minute, two minutes; a young man in clerical
dress, boyish, with gray, serious eyes. At length he spoke.

"May I come in? It's Dick."

The man's head turned slowly and his look rested inquiringly on his
nephew. It was a minute before he said, as if recognizing him, "Dick.
Yes." And set himself as before to the persistent gazing through the
window.

"I lost you at the court-house," the younger man said. "I didn't mean to
let you come home alone."

"Thank you, Dick." It seemed as if neither joy nor sorrow would find a
way into the quiet voice again.

The wind roared; the boughs rustled against the glass; the fire, soberly
settled to work, steamed and crackled; the clock ticked indifferently;
there was no other sound in the room; the two men were silent, the one
staring always before him, the other sitting with a hand on the older
man's hand, waiting. Minutes they sat so, and the wintry sky outside
darkened and lay sullenly in bands of gray and orange against the
windows; the light of the logs was stronger than the daylight; it
flickered carelessly across the ashiness of the emotionless face. The
young man, watching the face, bent forward and gripped his other hand on
the unresponsive one in his clasp.

"Uncle," he asked, "will it make things worse if I talk to you?"

"No, Dick."

Nothing made a difference, it seemed. Silence or words must simply fall
without effect on the rock bottom of despair. The young man halted, as
if dismayed, before this overpowering inertia of hopelessness; he drew a
quick breath.

"A coroner's jury isn't infallible. I don't believe it of Jack--a lot of
people don't believe it," he said.

The older man looked at him heavily. "You'd say that. Jack's friends
will. I've been trained to weigh evidence--I must believe it."

"Listen," the young man urged. "Don't shut down the gates like that. I'm
not a lawyer, but I've been trained to think, too, and I believe you're
not thinking squarely. There's other evidence that counts besides this.
There's Jack--his personality."

"It has been taken into consideration."

"It can't be taken into consideration by strangers--it needs years of
intimacy to weigh that evidence as I can weigh it--as you--You know best
of all," he cried out impulsively, "if you'll let yourself know, how
impossible it was. That Jack should have bought that pistol and taken it
to Ben Armstrong's rooms to kill him--it was impossible--impossible!"
The clinched fist came down on the black broadcloth knee with the
conviction of the man behind it. The words rushed like melted metal,
hot, stinging, not to be stopped. The judge quivered as if they had
stung through the callousness, touched a nerve. A faint color crawled
to his cheeks; for the first time he spoke quickly, as if his thoughts
connected with something more than gray matter.

"You talk about my not allowing myself to believe in Jack. You seem
not to realize that such a belief would--might--stand between me and
madness. I've been trying to adjust myself to a possible scheme of
living--getting through the years till I go into nothingness. I can't.
All I can grasp is the feeling that a man might have if dropped from
a balloon and forced to stay gasping in the air, with no place in it,
nothing to hold to, no breath to draw, no earth to rest on, no end to
hope for. There is nothing beyond."

"Everything is beyond," the young man cried triumphantly. "'The end,' as
you call it, is an end to hope for--it is the beginning. The beginning
of more than you have ever had--with them, with the people you care
about."

The judge turned a ghastly look upon the impetuous, bright face. "If
I believed that, I should be even now perfectly happy. I don't see how
you Christians can ever be sorry when your friends die--it's childish;
anybody ought to be able to wait a few years. But I don't believe it,"
he said heavily, and went on again as if an inertia of speech were
carrying him as an inertia of silence had held him a few minutes before.
"When my wife died a year ago it ended my personal life, but I could
live Jack's life. I was glad in the success and honor of it. "Yes,"
went on Warble, unperturbed. "Want to see 'em?"
They did, and all went to look at the eight dozen custard pies in
the pantry windows.

"Whoopee!" shouted Petticoat, "here's where I take the helm! Cut out the
rest of the formal supper, and let's have a pie eating contest."
It warmed the cockles of Warble's heart to see how they all fell
in with this suggestion.

Could it be? Was she really having some effect on their terrible aestheticism
at last?

Absorbed in her thoughts, she ate her pies and when the contest was over
the prize was awarded to Warble Petticoat. "Oh," she cried,
astounded.

"I wasn't in the game at all! The hostess never should be.
I was just eating what I wanted."
"You're a dear," Marigold Leathersham said to her. "I'm going to love
you.
How your husband must adore you, you pretty thing."
"Yes, he does." Warble stated. "At least, he says so."
"He's a truthful man," Marigold declared, "you'd know that just to
look at him.

There's something in his face just now--"

"It's pie," said Warble, "he's very fond of it."
To Warble's great delight there were enough pies left for her final
entertainment.

"Folks," she said, "this is a Mack Sennett party, and it wouldn't be
complete without throwing custard pies. So we will choose sides."
Judge Drinkwater and Goldwin Leathersham were made captains and they
chose sides.

The party being thus divided, they bombarded each other with custard
pies after the manner of certain comedians, till there wasn't a round
of ammunition left.

Then Iva Payne said she felt sick and wanted to go home and of course
just for that they all had to go.

"The nicest party ever!"

they chorused at parting. "So novel and _naïve_-- so quite entirely out
of the ordinary."

As the last pied guest disappeared she turned wearily to her Petticoat.

"I tell you, Warb," he said, "you are sure one corker! You put 'em to
sleep all right! Now you've shown 'em how, you bet they won't go on
having their stupid highbrow intellectural old gatherings. Hop
along to bed, little tired Lollipop."
His long lithe arms gathered her forcefully to him, and her irritation
at his strength was lost in her admiration of his grace and skill
in imparting affection.

* * * * * 
From _The Butterfly Centerpiece_:
The Mack Sennett party at the home of Dr. Bill Petticoat was a
hundred per cent success. Little Lady Petticoat is nobody's fool.
She knows that a lucky punch is her only chance. A short, swift
hook, straight from the shoulder. The pretty Warble is a perpetual
promise of joy, yet she shows symptoms of curvature of the soul--and
it is, so far, a toss-up whether she will have her passport _viséd_
or be given the gate.

* * * * *
The week after, the Leathershams gave a party. The gilt-chaired
audience listened to Sable Caviaro the new Russian violinist and
Slubber D.
Gullion, who discoursed on the Current Trend of Current Bolshe
Vikings.
The refreshing episode consisted of champagne and Saratoga chips.That's what the jury get from the facts, but it seems to me they're
begging the question. There are a hundred hypotheses that would fit
the case of Jack's innocence--why is it reasonable to settle on the
one that means his guilt? This is my idea. Jack and Ben Armstrong had
been friends since boyhood and Jack, quick-tempered as he was, was
warm-hearted and loyal. It was like him to decide suddenly to go to Ben
and make friends. He had been to a play in the evening which had more
or less that _motif_; he was open to such influences. It was like
the pair of them, after the reconciliation, to set to work looking at
Jack's new toy, the pistol. It was a brand-new sort, and the two have
been interested always in guns--I remember how I, as a youngster, was
impressed when Ben and Jack bought their first shot-guns together. Jack
had got the pistol at Mellingham's that evening, you know--he was likely
to be keen about it still, and then--it went off. There are plenty of
other cases where a man has shot his friend by accident--why shouldn't
poor Jack be given the benefit of the doubt? The telephone wouldn't
work; Jack rushed out with the same idea which struck Mr. Newbold later,
of getting Dr. Avery--and fell down the shaft.

"For me there is no doubt. I never knew him to hold malice. He was
violent sometimes, but that he could have gone about for hours with
a pistol in his pocket and murder in his heart; that he could have
planned Ben Armstrong's death and carried it out deliberately--it's
a contradiction in terms. It's impossible, being Jack. You must know
this--you know your son--you know human nature."

The rapid _résumé_ was but an impassioned appeal. It was the elect
and select of the intellect; it was the whole show--the very Wholly
of Whollies.

To belong to it was canonization.

Though some of its members also belonged to the Toddletopsis Club,
it meant their leading a double life.

The Restless Sexteen were mostly young married women with their
husbands as nonresident members.

They studied higher psychology and broader psychopathy. The wrestled
with and threw Einstein and let themselves dream again with
Freud.
Psychoanalysis was their washpot, and over the fourth dimension did
they cast their shoes.

Their afternoon digest was held at Faith Loveman's and Warble went.

The Loveman home was an abstract bungalow, which showed rather plainly
the iron hand in the velvet glove influence of the Japanese.

The large light hall had a built-in abstract table, and on this was an
enormous bronze plaque which held a thin layer of water on which
rested one pansy.

Faith's devotion to the Doctrine of Elimination allowed nothing else
in the hall, but in the living room there were three whole pieces
of furniture besides, of course, the caterer's gilt chairs brought in
to hold the restless sex as they tried to rest from their
restlessness.

Faith Loveman looked curiously at Warble.

"You can't be very restless," she observed, "you'd be thinner."
Warble smiled engagingly.
"I do want to be thinner," she conciliated, "how can I?"
And, somehow, that started them all off. They restlessly gave advice,
recommended certain exercises, uncertain drugs and most unattractive
diets.
They told their own experiences, extolled or berated their masseuses,
scribbled addresses of corsetieres for one another, and in their
interest and restless excitement they forgot all about Warble and
she wanted to go home.
But she had her mission to perform, and she waited until they
restlessly changed the subject.
They discussed current plays and seemed to get out of them far more
than the author ever put in.They are living still. Perhaps
they're close to you now. You've bound a bandage over your eyes, you've
covered the vision of your spirit, so that you can't see; but that
doesn't make nothingness of God's world. It's there--here--close,
maybe. A more real world than this--this little thing." With a boyish
gesture he thrust behind him the universe. "What do we know about the
earth, except effects upon our consciousness? It's all a matter of
inference--you know that better than I. The thing we do know beyond
doubt is that we are each of us a something that suffers and is happy.
How is that something the same as the body--the body that gets old
and dies--how can it be? You can't change thought into matter--not
conceivably--everybody acknowledges that. Why should the thinking part
die then, because the material part dies? When the organ is broken is
the organist dead? The body is the hull, the covering, and when it has
grown useless it will fall away and the live seed in it will stand free
to sunlight and air--just at the beginning of life, as a plant is when
it breaks through earth in the spring. It's the seed in the ground,
and it's the flower in the sunlight, but it's the same thing--the same
life--it is--it _is_." The boy's intensity of conviction shot like
a flame across the quiet room.

"It is the same thing with us too. The same spirit-substance underlies
both worlds and there is no separation in space, only in view-point.
Life goes on--it's just transfigured. It's as if a bandage should be
lifted from our eyes and we should suddenly see things in whose presence
we had been always."

The rushing, eager voice stopped. He bent and laid his hand on the older
man's and stared at his face, half hidden now in the shadows of the
lowering fire. There was no response. The heavy head did not lift and
the attitude was unstirred, hopeless. As if struck by a blow he sprang
erect and his fingers shut hard. He spoke as if to himself, brokenly.

"He does not believe--a single word--I say. I can't help him--I
_can't_ help him."

Suddenly the clinched fists flung out as if of a power not their own,
and his voice rang across the room.

"God!" The word shot from him as if a thunderbolt fell with it. "God!
Lift the bandage!"

A log fell with a crash into the fire; great battling shadows blurred
all the air; he was gone.

The man, startled, drew up his bent shoulders, and pushed back a lock of
gray hair and stared about, shaking, bewildered. The ringing voice, the
word that had flashed as if out of a larger atmosphere--the place was
yet full of these, and the shock of it added a keenness to his misery.
His figure swung sideways; he fell on the cushions of the sofa and his
arms stretched across them, his gray head lying heedless; sobs that tore
roots came painfully; it was the last depth. Out of it, without his
volition, he spoke aloud.

"God, God, God!" his voice said, not prayerfully, but repeating the
sound that had shocked his torture. The word wailed, mocked, reproached,
defied--and yet it was a prayer. Out of a soul in mortal stress that
word comes sometimes driven by a force of the spirit like the force of
the lungs fighting for breath--and it is a prayer.

"God, God, God!" the broken voice repeated, and sobs cut the words. And
again. Over and over, and again the sobbing broke it.

As suddenly as if a knife had stopped the life inside the body, all
sound stopped. A movement shook the man as he lay face down, arms
stretched. Then for a minute, two minutes, he was quiet, with a quiet
that meant muscles stretched, nerves alert. This book is written with a
power of observation to which the Government Attorney has rendered
justice. And it is here that I would call your attention to it, because
if the accusation is without foundation, it must fall. This book is
written with a power truly remarkable for observing the smallest
details. An article in the _Artiste_, signed Flaubert, has served as
yet another text for the accusation. Let the Government Attorney note,
first that this article is foreign to the indictment; then, that we will
hold him innocent and moral in the eyes of this tribunal on one condition,
which is, that he will have the goodness to read the entire article
from the place of the cutting.

The most noticeable thing in M. Flaubert's book is what some accounts have
called a fidelity wholly Daguerreian in the reproduction of the type
of things, and in the intimate nature of the thought of the human
heart;--and this reproduction becomes more powerful still by the magic
of his style. Now notice, that if he had applied this fidelity only
to the scenes of degradation, you could say with reason: the author
has been pleased to paint the scenes of degradation with that power of
description which is peculiarly his own. From the first to the last page
of his book, he keeps close to all the facts in Emma's life, without
any kind of reserve, from her infancy in her father's house, to her
education in the convent, sparing nothing.

And those of us who have read the book from beginning to end can say--and
this is a notable point which should put him in a favorable light with
you, not only bringing him acquittal, but removing from him every kind
of misunderstanding--that when he comes to the difficult parts, precisely
at the time of degradation, in place of doing as some classic authors
have done, (as the Public Attorney knows full well, but whom he
forgot when he wrote his address) a few pages of whose writings I
have with me here, (not to read to you but for you to run through
in Court--and I might quote a few lines here presently), in place
of doing as our great classic authors, our great masters have done,
who never hesitate at description when they have come to the scene
of a union of the senses between man and woman, M.

Flaubert contents himself with a word. All his descriptive power disappears,
because his thought is chaste; because where he might write in his
own manner and with the magic of his style, he feels that there are some
things that should not be described or even touched upon. The Public
Attorney finds that he has still said too much. When I have shown him
some men who, in great philosophical works, have delighted in
descriptions of these things, and when in the light of this fact I
have shown that this man, who possesses the descriptive faculty to so
high a degree and who, far from using it, desists and abstains from
it, I shall indeed have the right to ask why this accusation has been
brought?

In
a moment another man stood there, of his own age, iron-gray,
strong-featured.

"Dick told me I might come," he said. "Shall I trouble you? May I stay
with you awhile?"

The judge put out his hand friendlily, a little vaguely, much as he had
put it out to the fire. "Surely," he said, and the newcomer was all at
once aware of his look. He started.

"You're not well," he said. "You must take something--whiskey--Miller----"

The butler moved in the room making lights here and there, and he came
quickly.

"No," the judge said. "I don't want anything--I don't need anything.
It's not as you think. I'll tell you about it."

Miller was gone; Dick's father waited, his gaze fixed on the judge's
face anxiously, and for moments no word was spoken. The judge gazed into
the fire with the rapt, smiling look which had so startled his
brother-in-law. At length:

"I don't know how to tell you," he said. "There seem no words. Something
has happened, yet it's difficult to explain."

"Something happened?" the other repeated, bewildered but guarded. "I
don't understand. Has some one been here? Is it about--the trial?"

"No." A slight spasm twisted the smiling lines of the man's mouth, but
it was gone and the mouth smiled still.

A horror-struck expression gleamed for a second from the anxious eyes of
the brother-in-law, but he controlled it quickly. He spoke gently. "Tell
me about it--it will do you good to talk."

The judge turned from the fire, and at sight of his flushed cheeks and
lighted eyes the other shrank back, and the judge saw it. "You needn't
be alarmed," he said quietly. "Nothing is wrong with me. But something
has happened, as I told you, and everything--is changed." His eyes
lifted as he spoke and strayed about the room as if considering a change
which had come also to the accustomed setting.

A shock of pity flashed from the other, and was mastered at once. "Can
you tell me what has happened?" he urged. The judge, his face bright
with a brightness that was dreadful to the man who watched him, held his
hand to the fire, turning it about as if enjoying the warmth. The other
shivered. There was silence for a minute. I asked, lightly touching one
of the excrescences that felt like an imperial pint of ginger-beer
(WHITE 1880).

"You seem bursting with broiled bones. All no use. No more all-night
sittings _this_ side of Easter."
[Illustration: Portrait of a Member of Parliament examining the
Signatures to a Petition against the Local-Veto Bill, to see if
they are genuine or not.

(_Vide_ Report of the Proceedings in the Commons, March 28, which suggests
that they are obtained in Public Houses.)]

"No, my boy, you're wrong," said CAINE. "Fact is, I'm going off to
the country, and these protuberances you observe about my person
are phonograms.

All labelled, you see," he said, taking out cylinders from several
pockets. "Here are a few remarks on Registration; that's my Local-Veto
Speech; and here is an entirely new view of the Home-Rule question. If
you like to come over to my house at Clapham--close by, you know,
busses every ten minutes--you shall have a night's thorough enjoyment.

Leave you in the room by yourself with the phonograph. Pop in one of
these cylinders; set the phonograph whizzing; and you'll hear me
on Local Veto.

Take out cylinder, put in another, and you'll know more about Home Rule
in five minutes than you ever dreamt.
Can only let you have them for to-night. To-morrow they go down to
Yorkshire, and thro' Easter Recess I shall be delivering, at various
places, six speeches every night, I myself comfortably making holiday
in Wales."

"Thank you," I said; "but, if you'll excuse me, I think I'll go home and
go to bed." In truth, a little depressed. Here's a nice prospect for
the holidays! Bad enough to have Members working off at public
meetings speeches that had been closured in Commons.

But if every man is, during the recess, to multiply himself by phonography,
the last state of this country will be worse than the first.

_Business done._--Adjourned for Easter Holidays. Just escaped sitting
over Good Friday. Back next Thursday.
A day ago, two hours ago, I should have
answered in that tone. We have been trained in the same school, and have
thought alike. Dick was here a while ago and said things--you know what
Dick would say. You know how you and I have been sorry for the lad--been
indulgent to him--with his keen, broad mind and that inspired
self-forgetfulness of his--how we've been sorry to have such qualities
wasted on a parson, a religion machine. We've thought he'd come around
in time, that he was too large a personality to be tied to a treadmill.
We've thought that all along, haven't we? Older he gets, the younger he
seems. His work to-day should make the eight-hours' man blush. At bay
in Downing Street since twelve o'clock with two hostile deputations.
Came from Ulster and the City, resolved to beard Home-Rule Lion in his
den.
Alone he met them; one down, the other come on; no interval of rest;
picked men from Ulster, Selected Captains from the City, surged around
table at which he sat. Hardly left him time to reply. Having
politely conducted Ulster to door, enter the City Fathers, fresh
and eager for fray.The other man sat before him, bent forward, his hands on his knees,
listening, dazed. There was a quality in the speaker's tone which made
it necessary to take his words seriously. Yet--the other sighed and
relaxed a bit as he waited, watched. The calm voice went on.

"The largest event of my life has happened in the last hour, in this
room. It was this way. When Dick went out I--went utterly to pieces.
It was the farthest depth. Out of it I called on God, not knowing what
I did. And he answered. That's what happened. As if--as if a bandage
had been lifted from my eyes, I was--I was in the presence of
things--indescribable. There was no change, only that where I was blind
before I now saw. I don't mean vision. I haven't words to explain what
I mean. But a world was about me as real as this; it had perhaps always
been there; in that moment I was first aware of it. I knew, as if a door
had been opened, what heaven means--a condition of being. And I knew
another thing more personal--that, without question, it was right with
those I thought I had lost and that the horror which seemed blackest
I have no need to dread. Banger are too terrible to be faced. I
demand civil rights for the army.

THE ORDERLY (chuckling). Wot oh, General! Wot oh!

MITCHENER. Hold your tongue.

(He goes to the door and calls.) Mrs. Farrell! (Returning, and again
addressing the Orderly.) Civil rights don't mean the right to be uncivil.
(Pleased with his own wit.) Almost a pun. Ha ha!

MRS. FARRELL.

Whats the matther now? (She comes to the table.)
MITCHENER (to the Orderly). I have private business with Mrs.
Farrell. Outside, you infernal blackguard.

THE ORDERLY (arguing, as usual). Well, I didnt ask to-- (Mitchener seizes
him by the nape; rushes him out; and slams the door).

MITCHENER. Excuse the abruptness of this communication, Mrs.
Farrell; but I know only one woman in the country whose practical ability
and force of character can maintain her husband in competition
with the husband of Mrs.

Banger. I have the honor to propose for your hand.

MRS. FARRELL. Dye mean you want to marry me?

MITCHENER. I do.

MRS. FARRELL. No thank you.

Id have to work for you just the same; only I shouldnt get any wages for
it.

BALSQUITH. That will be remedied when women get the vote.

Ive had to promise that.

MITCHENER (winningly). Mrs. Farrell: you have been charwoman here now
ever since I took up my duties. Have you really never, in your more
romantic moments, cast a favorable eye on my person?

MRS. FARRELL.

Ive been too busy casting an unfavorable eye on your cloze and on the
litther you make with your papers.

MITCHENER (wounded). Am I to understand that you refuse me?

MRS. FARRELL. Just wait a
bit. (She takes Mitchener's chair
and rings up the telephone.)

Double three oh seven Elephant.
MITCHENER. I trust youre not ringing for the police, Mrs.
Farrell. I assure you Im perfectly sane.
MRS. FARRELL (into the telephone). Is that you, Eliza? (She listens
for the answer.) Not out of bed yet! Go and pull her out by the
heels, the lazy sthreel; and tell her her mother wants to speak to
her very particularly about General Mitchener. (To Mitchener.) Dont
you be afeard: I know youre sane enough when youre not talkin about
the Germans. (Into the telephone.) Is that you, Eliza? (She listens
for the answer.) Dye remember me givin you a clout on the side of
the head for tellin me that if I only knew how to play me cards I
could marry any general on the staff instead o disgracin you be
bein a charwoman? (She listens for the answer.) Well, I can have
General Mitchener without playing any cards at all.He
started instantly, and came on here when he had read the papers, and
realized the bearing his letter would have on the trial. He has
travelled day and night. He hoped to get here in time. Jack and Ben
thought he was in New York. They wrote to ask him to go
duck-shooting--with them. And, father--here's the most startling point
of it all." As the man waited, watching his son's face, he groaned
suddenly and made a gesture of despair.

"Don't, father--don't take it that way. It's good--it's glorious--it
clears Jack. My uncle will be almost happy. But I wouldn't tell him at
once--I'd be careful," he warned the other.

"What was it--the startling point you spoke of?"

"Oh--surely--this. The letter to Charley Owen spoke of Jack's new
pistol--that pistol. Jack said they would have target-shooting with it
in camp. They were all crack shots, you know. He said he had bought it
that evening, and that Ben thought well of it. Ben signed the letter
after Jack, and then added a postscript. It clears Jack--it clears him.
Doesn't it, father? But I wouldn't tell my uncle just yet. He's not fit
to take it in for a few hours--don't you think so?"

"No, I won't tell him--just yet."

The young man's wide glance concentrated with a flash on his father's
face. "What is it? You speak queerly. You've just come from there.
How is he--how is my uncle?"

There was a letterbox at the corner, a foot from the older man's
shoulder. He put out his hand and held to the lid a moment before he
answered. His voice was harsh.

"Your uncle is--perfectly happy," he said. "He's gone mad."