"To marry this woman--to marry--to marry!" He thought of his father and
mother, and their perfect companionship. "What right have you in this
case, to be so intimate with her, to seek her company so constantly?"

He started to go to the window that looks down on the garden, thinking to
see her there, but checked himself. He knew now why the garden had grown
to mean so much to him. He tried to realize what his life would be
without this woman who had so grown into it.

Dan Matthews was no weakling who could amuse himself with a hundred
imitation love affairs. In his veins ran the fierce, red blood of a
strong race that had ruled by the simple strength of manhood their
half-wild mountain wilderness. As the tiny stream, flowing quietly
through peaceful meadow, still woodland, and sunny pasture--growing
always broader and deeper as it runs--is unconscious of its quiet power
until checked by some barrier, and rising, swelling to a mighty
flood--seeks to clear its path; so Dan's love had grown. In the fields
of friendship it had gained always depth and power until now--coming to
the barrier--it rose in all its strength--a flood of passion that shook
every nerve and fibre of the man's being, a mighty force that would not
be denied.

Going to the other window he saw the cast-iron monument. And as he looked
at the figure so immovable, so hideously rigid and fixed in the act of
proclaiming an issue that belonged to a dead age, he felt as if his heart
would burst with wild rage at the whole community, people and church.

"What right had he to the companionship of this woman?"

"The right that God has given to every man--nay to every beast and
bird--the right to seek his mate; the right of the future. What right,
indeed, had anyone to challenge him, to say that he should not win her
if he could? If he could--"

As suddenly as the rage had come it left him, and he shrank hopeless
within himself, cowering before the thought of his position in life, and
of her attitude toward the church and its ministers.

"The Elder and his people need give themselves no uneasiness," he
thought. "The barrier was too well-built to be swept aside by love of
man and woman."

He saw that now, even the old friendship between them would be
impossible. He wondered if his going out of her life would make any
ripple in its calm, even current; if she would care very much?

The Elder had asked, "Why has she remained in Corinth?"

"Could it be--No, no! That would be too much. It was her interest in
Grace Conner alone that held her."

So Big Dan faced this thing against which the very strength of his
manhood was his greatest weakness, and facing it he, too, was afraid to
go into the garden--as he thought--to meet her. He must gain a little
self-control first. He must grow better acquainted with this thing that
had come upon him so quickly.

Following the instinct of his ancestors to face trouble in the open, he,
too, set out, bound for a long tramp across the country. Perhaps he would
go as far even as John Gardner's, and spend the night there. He went up
the street for a block before turning north, lest his friends in the
garden hail him. Then walking quickly he pushed on towards the outskirts
of town, on the old Academy Hill road.


CHAPTER XXXIII.

HEARTS' TRAGEDIES

"So she sent him away to fight his battle alone, knowing it was the only
way such a battle could be rightly fought."


When Miss Farwell, under the oak tree in the Academy yard, turned her
eyes from the far blue roll of hills to see Dan Matthews coming through
the gap in the tumble-down fence, it was as if he had appeared in answer
to her thoughts, and the intensity of her emotions at the moment,
frightened her.

Her first impulse was to escape. Then she sat still, watching him as if
fascinated, while her trembling fingers picked at the young grass by her
side. With his face turned toward the valley below, Dan came slowly
across the weed-grown yard, unconscious of the presence of the young
woman on the knoll. Then he looked in her direction. With her face turned
quickly half-aside, she saw him stop suddenly as if halted by the same
feeling that had so moved her.

For a full minute he stood there as if questioning his senses. The girl
sat very still. Once she thought he would turn back--then he came on
eagerly, as he had come that day from the water when he had looked up to
see her on the river bank. And then he stood before her as he had stood
that other day long weeks ago, with the sunlight on his red-brown hair.

There was now no word of formal greeting. None was needed. Each seemingly
knew the travail of soul of the other.

Dropping down on the grass by her side he said quietly, as if it were
unnecessary that he should speak at all, "I thought you were in the
garden this afternoon."

"And I thought you were in the garden," she returned.

He looked at her in wondering gladness, saying, "I had a caller. After
that I could not go."

"And I--I too had a caller; and after that I--I could not go." The words
were spoken almost in a whisper. Her trembling fingers were picking again
at the short young grass; she was looking far away beyond the sweeping
line of blue. One foot had slipped a little from under the protecting
shelter of the blue skirt. He saw with a flush of anger that the shoe was
very shabby. The skirt, too, showed unmistakable signs of wear. He
controlled himself with difficulty, saying, "Your caller was--?"

"Miss Charity Jordan. And yours?"

"Elder Jordan." Dan looked away, and when he spoke again he said
bitterly, "Then I suppose you know?"

At his tone and manner she turned her face quickly to his, permitting him
for the first time to search her eyes. It was as if she wanted to comfort
him, to reassure him.

"Yes!" she said softly, gladly, triumphantly, "Yes, I know!"

Something in her confident reply caused the minister to forget all his
half-formed resolutions. His work, his life, the possible outcome, the
world itself--were lost in the overpowering rush of the passion-flood
that swept his being. His deep voice trembled. "Then you know that I
love you--love you!"

He repeated the simple words as if laying his whole self--body, soul and
spirit, at her feet.

And the woman, in very wonder at the fullness of the offering, was as one
transfixed and could find no word fit to express her acceptance of the
gift.

"It is my right to tell you this," he said proudly--defiantly almost, as
though challenging some unseen spirit or power. "And it is your right to
answer me."

"Yes," she said, "it is our right."

"Then you do care for me, Hope? I am not mistaken--you do?"

"Can you doubt it?" she asked.

He moved quickly toward her but she checked him, and while the love in
her eyes answered to the mastering passion in his, she seemed in some
subtle manner to build up a protecting wall between them, a wall to guard
them both.

"I do not understand," he faltered.

"You must think," she bade him quietly, firmly. "Don't you see that,
while it is right for you to tell me what you have, and right for me to
tell you how proud--how glad your words have made me, and how with all
my heart and life I--I--love you, this--," her voice faltered now, "don't
you see that this must be all?"

"All?" he questioned.

"All," she answered. "Everything that I said to you the first day that we
met here is still true. Don't you see that I can never, never be more to
you than I am now?"

As one who hears himself sentenced to life-exile Big Dan dropped his
head, burying his face in his hands.

And seeing him so, such a figure of helpless strength, the woman's gray
eyes filled with tears, that were not yet permitted to fall. In his
presence she would be strong--afterwards her own heart should have its
way.

Once her hand went out, slowly towards the shaggy red-brown hair, but
was silently withdrawn, and the trembling white fingers again plucked
the young blades of grass.

So they sat, these two--face to face with their hearts' tragedy,
each--for the other's sake--striving to be strong.

"Tell me," he said at last, raising his head but not looking her in the
face, and speaking in tones that were strained and hard, "if I were
anything else, if I were engaged in any other work, would you be my
wife?"

"Why do you ask that?"

"Because I must know," he answered almost harshly.

"If you were a common laborer, a business or professional man, if your
work was anything honorable and right, save what it is--yes, gladly; oh,
how gladly!"

"Then," he burst forth hotly, "I will give up my work. I will be
something else!"

"You would give up your ministry for me?" she questioned doubtfully;
"your chosen life work?"

His voice sank to a hoarse whisper. "Yes, and if it need be--my religion,
my God."

As he finished speaking she laid her hand on his arm. "Hush, oh hush!
That is not worthy of you; it is not true to our love. You are beside
yourself."

He continued eagerly, "But I have learned that other work is just as
holy, just as sacred, as the work of the preacher and the church. You do
not know how in the past months I have been teaching this. Why should I
not give my life to some of these other ministries?"

"Because it is not some other work that calls you now. These other
ministries are not yours," she answered gently. "I have learned to love
you because you are so truly yourself, because you are so true to
yourself. You must not disappoint me now. And you will not," she
continued, confidently, "I know that you will not."

At last when he had argued, protested and pleaded until she was so beset
by both his passion and her own that she felt her strength going, she
said: "Don't, oh please don't! I cannot listen to more of this now. It
is not fair to either of us. You must have time to think alone. I believe
I know you even better than you know yourself. You must leave me now. You
must promise that you will not try to see me again until tomorrow
afternoon at this same hour. I will be in the garden with the others
until four o'clock, when I will go to the house alone. If then you have
decided that you can, with all truthfulness to yourself and me, give up
your ministry, come to me and I will be your wife. But whether you come
or not you must always believe that I love you, that I shall always love
you, as my other self, and that I shall never, never doubt your love for
me."

So she sent him away to fight his battle alone, knowing it was the only
way such a battle could be rightly fought, and because she wanted him,
for his own sake, to have the certainty of a self-won victory, never
doubting in her own heart what that victory would be or what it would
mean to her. She indeed knew him better than he knew himself.


CHAPTER XXXIV.

SACRIFICED

"Standing in the midst of these things, so much a part of his chosen
life that they seemed a vital part of himself, he heard the voices in
the garden."


Alone in his little study--the door locked--Big Dan battled with himself.
Everywhere in the room were things that cried aloud to him of his
ministry; his library--books of peculiar interest to ministers, papers
and pamphlets filled with matters of the church, written for church men,
his sermons--one lying half-finished on the study table, the very
pictures on the walls and the unanswered letters on his desk. Standing in
the midst of these things, so much a part of his chosen life that they
seemed a vital part of himself, he heard, the voices in the garden. He
knew that she was there.

Since the beginning men like Dan Matthews have fought for women like Hope
Farwell. For such women such men have committed every crime, endured
every hardship, braved every danger, made every sacrifice, accomplished
every great thing. Few of the race today are strong enough to feel such
passion. It was primitive--but it was more. For there had been bred into
this man something stronger than his giant physical strength--a spirit, a
purpose, fitting such a body.

The little clock on the mantel struck the hour. Softly, slowly, the
sweet-toned notes rang out:

One! Two! Three! Four!

With face white and drawn Dan went to the window. All that afternoon,
knowing that she was there, he had denied himself even the sight of her.
Now he would see her.

He watched as, without a glance toward his window, the young woman left
her friends and went slowly into the house. Five--ten--fifteen--twenty
minutes! The ticking of the little clock seemed to beat on Dan's brain
with sledge-hammer blows.

Then he saw her come out on the front porch of the cottage. Slowly she
walked out into the yard, until screened from the street by the big lilac
bush. Turning she faced toward his window. She waved a greeting. She even
beckoned to him to come. The man swayed and put out his hand to grip the
window casing. Again she beckoned him--come. When he did not leave his
place and only waved a hand in return, she went slowly back into the
house.

Then Dan Matthews, minister--man, staggered back from the window to fall
on his knees in prayer.

It was perhaps two hours before sunrise when Dr. Harry's horse stopped
suddenly in a dark stretch of timber six miles from town. Dimly the man
in the buggy saw a figure coming toward him.

"Hello!" he said sharply; "what do you want?"

The man in the road laughed a strange, hoarse, mirthless laugh, saying as
he continued to advance, "I thought it must be you. You nearly ran me
down." And Dan climbed in by the physician's side.

The minister made no explanation, nor did his friend, after the first few
surprised questions, press him. But when they were turning in towards
Dan's gate the big fellow burst forth, "Don't stop, Harry--not here! For
God's sake, if you love me, take me on to your house for a little while!"

Then did Dr. Harry guess the truth that later he came to know.


CHAPTER XXXV.

THE TIE THAT BINDS

"The Ally was there in power. The day of the rack, the thumbscrew and
the stake, is long past: in place of these instruments of religious
discipline we have--the Ally."


All the next day Dan remained at Dr. Harry's home, returning to his own
rooms in the evening. Early the following morning he was to take the
train for the annual gathering of the denomination, that was to be held
in a distant city. He would be away from Corinth three days at least.

The minister's little study, when he had lighted the lamp that night,
seemed filled with a spirit that was never there before. It was as if,
during his absence, some unseen presence had moved in to share the
apartment with him. The very books and papers impressed him as intimate
companions, as if, in thus witnessing and--in truth--taking part in the
soul-struggle of the man, they had entered into a closer relation to
him, a relation sacred and holy. He was conscious, too, of an atmosphere
of privacy there that he had never sensed before, and, for the first
time in his life, he drew the window shades.

In the battle that Hope Farwell had set for him to fight Dan had sought
to be frankly honest with himself, and to judge himself coldly, without
regard to the demands of his heart. If he had erred at all it was in an
over-sensitiveness to conscience, for conscience has ever been a tricky
master, often betraying its too-willing slaves to their own self-injury.
It is, a large question whether one has a greater right to injure himself
than to harm another.

Dan could not admit, even to himself, that he had in any way neglected
the church, or fallen short of his duties as a hired shepherd. But after
all, was he not to some degree in error in his judgment of his people?
Had he not, perhaps, misunderstood the spirit that moved them? He had
come to Corinth from his school with the thought fixed in his mind that
the church was _all_ right. Had he not, by the unexpected and brutal
directness of his experience, been swung to the other extreme, conceiving
conditions as all wrong?

Groping in the dark of his ministry he had come to feel more and more
keenly his inexperience. After all, was he right in taking the hard,
seldom-traveled path, or was not the safe way of the church fathers the
true way? Was not his failure to put himself in tune with things as he
found them, only his own inability to grasp the deeper meanings of those
things? He had come to doubt those leaders whom he had been taught to
follow, but he had come to doubt more his own ability to lead, or even
to find the way for himself. It was this doubt that had led him to decide
as Hope Farwell knew he would.

_For Big Dan could not turn from the church and his chosen work without
the same certainty that had led him to it._

Least of all could he, after that which Hope had made so clear, go to her
with a shadow of doubt in his mind.

His convictions were not, as yet, convincing. His new-born love for the
woman bulked too large in his life for him to trust his own motives. So
it came that he had chosen at such cost to himself, and--making the
greatest sacrifice possible to one of his nature--turned to give himself
wholly to that which he still felt to be his ministry.

He looked forward now with eagerness to the gathering of church men to
which he was going on the morrow. There he would meet the great leaders
of his church, those with life-long experience in the work to which he
had given himself; those whose names were household names in the homes
of his people. There he would come into touch with the spirit of the
church as a whole, not merely the spirit of his own local congregation,
and in the deliberations of the convention, in their reports of work
accomplished, of conditions throughout the country, and in the plans for
work to be done, he would find--he must find--the key that would put him
in full harmony with those who were his fellow-workers.

Dan's thoughts were interrupted by a familiar knock at the door. The old
Doctor entered.

Of the recently-renewed talk of the community regarding Dan and Hope, and
of the growing sentiment of Memorial Church the Doctor knew all that Dan
knew--with this more. From long observation he understood, as Dan did
not, the real significance of this revival of activities by the Ally, and
the part that Judge Strong had in its inspiration. Concerning Dan and
Hope he could only conjecture, but the Doctor's conjectures amounted
almost to certainties. That the lad so dear to him was passing through
some tremendous crisis he knew, for he had talked with Dr. Harry that
afternoon. It seems that much important evidence might [321] come from
an extension of this line of work. Perhaps it might even throw some
light on the intimate nature of the bud-variations of ever-sporting varieties
in general. Sectional variations remain to be tested as to the
degree of inheritance exhibited, and the different occurrences as to
the breadth of the streaks require similar treatment.

In ordinary horticultural practice it is desirable to give some guarantee
as to what may be expected to come from the seeds of brightly
striped flowers.

Neither the pure red type, nor the nearly yellow racemes are the object
of the culture, as both of them may be had pure from their, own
separate varieties.

In order to insure proper striping, both extremes are usually
rejected and should be rooted out as soon as the flowering period
begins.

Similarly the broad-striped ones should be rejected, as they give a too
large amount of uniform red flowers.
Clearly, but not broadly striped individuals always yield the most
reliable seed.

Summing up once more the results of our pedigree-experiment, we may
assert that the striped variety of the snapdragon is wholly permanent,
including the two opposite types of uniform color and of stripes.

It must have been so since it first originated from the invariable
uniform [322] varieties, about the middle of the last century, in
the nursery of Messrs.

Vilmorin, and probably it will remain so as long as popular taste supports
its cultivation.

He could not know of the real motive that
prompted the Doctor's strange interest in this great meeting of church
men.

The next morning at an early hour they were off: Dan, the old Doctor,
some six or eight of the active women leaders of the congregation,
Charity, and Judge Strong. The Ally went also. There was no little
surprise expressed, in a half-jesting manner, by the company, at the
presence of Dr. Oldham, and there was much putting together of heads in
whispered consultation as to what it might mean. The Judge and his
competent associates, with the Ally, kept very much together and left
Dan and his friend as much to themselves. Whenever the young minister,
prompted by his thoughts of the last few hours, approached the group
there was a significant hush, while his pleasantries were met by very
formal, and as evidently forced, monosyllables, which very soon sent him
back to his seat again with a face that made the old Doctor say things
under his breath.

"Look here, Dan," said the old physician, as they neared their
destination, "I understand that at these meetings the visiting delegates
are always entertained at the homes of the local church people. I'm not a
delegate, so I go to a hotel. You come with me; be my guest. Tell 'em you
have already accepted an invitation to stop with a friend. Don't worry,
they'll be glad enough to have one less to care for, and I want you."

The young man eagerly accepted.

At the meeting was the usual gathering of the usual types. There were
the leaders, regularly appointed by the denomination, who were determined
to keep that which had been committed to them, at any cost; and to this
end glorified, in the Lord's service, the common, political methods of
distributing the places of conspicuous honor and power, upon program and
committee, among those friends and favorites who could be depended upon
to respond most emphatically, or who were--in the vernacular--"safe."
Equally active, with methods as familiar but not equally in evidence--for
one must be careful--were the would-be leaders, who--"for the glory of
Christ"--sought these same seats of the mighty, and who were assisted by
those who aspired to become their friends and favorites--joint heirs in
their success should they succeed. Then there were the self-constituted
leaders who pushed and pulled and scrambled to the front; content if they
could, only for the moment, be thought by the multitude to be something
more than they were; who were on their feet instantly to speak upon every
question with ponderous weight of words, and were most happy if they
could fill some vacant chair on the platform. There were the heresy
hunters who sniffed with hound-like eagerness for the scent of doctrinal
weakness in the speeches of their brothers; and upon every proposed
movement of the body, guarded with bulldog fidelity, the faith of their
fathers. There were also the young preachers who came to look with awe on
the doings of the great ones, to learn how it was done and to watch for a
possible opening whereby they might snatch their bit of glory here on
earth.

Many there were of this latter class who, from the highest religious
motives, had answered the call to the ministry as to something sacred
and holy, even as had Dan. These young men, though they knew it not,
were there to learn how their leaders--while theoretically depending
upon God for their strength and guidance in managing the affairs of the
church--depended actually upon the very methods which, when used by the
world in its affairs, they stamped ungodly.

The Ally was there in power. The day of the rack, the thumbscrew and the
stake, is long past: in place of these instruments of religious
discipline we have--the Ally.

Mostly those on the firing line were ministers, though here and there a
prominent woman leader pushed to the front. The rest were brothers and
sisters, mainly sisters; who like other mortals, always backed their
favorites in the race that was set before them all. These prayed
sincerely and devoutly that somehow, in ways beyond their bewildered
ken, the good God would bless the efforts that were being made for
righteousness and truth, hoping thus for heavenly results from very
worldly methods.

Judge Strong was an old campaigner. A heavy contributor to the general
work and missionary funds to which the leaders looked for the practical
solution of their modest bread and butter problems, he had the ears of
them all. Nor was the Elder slow to use his advantage. He could speak his
mind with frankness here, for these great men of the church lived far
from Corinth and, while knowing much of the Elder--the church man, knew
nothing of the Judge--the citizen and neighbor. More than this such
reports as the Elder had to make must, in the very nature of things, for
the good of the cause, be strictly private.

While the Judge was holding these little confidential chats with the
leaders, and the leaders were holding equally confidential chats with
their friends and favorites, and these in turn were doing as they had
been done by, the Elder's assistants, assigned to various church homes
in the city, were confidentially exchanging confidences with their
hostesses. And this is the simple truth of the whole matter, and the way
it all came about.

Dan was introduced to the secretary. "Ah--yes, Brother Matthews of
Corinth! Glad to meet you. Ah, excuse me I--ah, see a brother over there
with whom I must speak."

Dan was presented to the treasurer. "Oh yes, I have heard of you--at
Corinth. Why, hello, Brother Simpkins"--catching a passing preacher by
the arm--"glad to see you! How are you and how is the work?"

Dan introduced himself to one or two of those whom he had hungered to
see, those who were noted in the church papers for their broad wisdom
and saintly character, and somehow Dan felt rebuked for his forwardness
when each, from his pedestal, looked at him and said, "Oh yes; Brother
Matthews! I have heard of you, Brother Matthews!"

During the forenoon session of the second day the order of business was
reports of the churches. In response to roll call, one after the other,
the representatives of the various congregations would tell what they
had done and what they were going to do. Dr. Oldham remarked later, "No
one told what they had failed to do, or what they were not going to do."

As a rule the ministers reported for their own churches, save when some
delegate whom the pastor knew to be peculiarly qualified, was present.
Generally speaking the ministers consider the value of such a report to
be greatly increased if it can be given by some such member. The minister
himself always sees that the report is properly prepared.

Judge Strong, without consulting Dan, responded to the call for the
Memorial Church. There was a distinct hush, and heads went forward in
interest. The Elder regretted to report that, while they had held their
regular services every Sabbath, and their preacher was the most popular
preacher in Corinth, the conversions for some reason had not been as
numerous as in some previous years. But Memorial Church could be depended
upon to remedy that very soon, for they were contemplating a great
revival meeting to begin as soon as a competent evangelist could be
secured. [Loud applause from the professional evangelists present.] They
felt that a series of good old Jerusalem gospel sermons would put them
again to the front in the matter of additions. [Loud applause from the
defenders of the faith.]

Dan listened in silent amazement. This was the first he had heard of a
meeting in Corinth. The Doctor saw the boy's face grow burning red.

The Elder continued his report, touching every department of the church
in like vein, and finished by "regretting exceedingly that their offering
for the missionary, and for the general work for the present year, had
fallen short of previous years." The Judge did not explain that he had
subtracted from his part in the church offering an amount exceeding the
shortage, which amount he had added to his usual personal subscription.
As for the regular expenses of the congregation, he went on, they had
been cared for.

"And," remarked the state secretary in a loud voice, rising instantly as
the Judge sat down, "I want you all to know that Judge Strong's personal
contribution to our funds is larger this year than ever before. We who
know Brother Strong's splendid Christian generosity will understand how
the regular expenses of Memorial Church have been paid." Whereupon the
leaders-who-were and the leaders-who-would-like-to-be joined with one
accord in loud applause.

Not a preacher there but understood exactly what the Elder's report
signified.

Following the reports of the churches came the introductions of the new
pastors. Skilfully the preachers were marshaled upon the platform, Big
Dan towering at the foot of the line. Stunned and embarrassed as he was
by the Judge's report, the boy would not have gone forward at all, had
not the Doctor fairly pushed him into the aisle. The old philosopher told
himself grimly that the lad might as well get all that was coming to him.
In the ceremony that followed Dan got it.

One after the other the ministers were introduced by the secretary, who
had a glowing word for each. "Brother Williams who has done such
marvelous work at Baxter." [Loud applause for Brother Williams.] "Brother
Hardy who is going to do a wonderful work at Wheeler." [Louder applause
for Brother Hardy.] And so on down the line. Not one, from big church or
little, from city pulpit or country district, but secured the boosting
comment and the applause; for this was Christian enthusiasm.

Dan's turn came at last. His face was now white.

"And this," shouted the secretary, "is Brother Matthews, the present
pastor of our church at Corinth." There was a hush still and significant;
for this was church policy.

After a moment's silence the secretary continued, "Please sing hymn
three-hundred and one:

'Blest be the tie that binds
Our hearts in Christian love.'

Everybody sing!" And the denominational papers agreed that they made a
joyful noise unto the Lord.

Were the high officials and their mates on this ship of salvation to be
blamed? Not a bit of it! The Elder's report made Dan "unsafe"--and he
was. They were right. More than this, the Lord needed the Judge's
influence--and money.

When the young minister came back to his seat his old friend thought his
face the saddest he had ever seen.

At lunch the Doctor told Dan that he was going to call upon several
friends that afternoon, and among them mentioned the superintendent of a
famous steel plant in the city. Agreeing to meet at dinner in the evening
they parted, Dan going alone to the convention building. At the door he
paused.

Several ministers, chatting gaily with friends passing in for the opening
of the afternoon session, looked curiously at the stalwart, irresolute
figure standing there alone. Two or three greeted him with a word. All
were sorry for him; for not one but understood the meaning of the
incidents of the morning.

An hour later the superintendent of the great steel works greeted, with
admiring eyes, the big clean-looking fellow and wondered at the look of
sadness on his face.

"I am in the city with my friend, Dr. Oldham," explained Dan. "I expected
to find him here. He told me at lunch that he was coming."

"Oldham in town? Good!" exclaimed the man of affairs. "Of course he would
look me up, but he hasn't been here yet. Glad to meet any friend of the
Doctor's. Sit down, Mr. Matthews; he'll be in presently, no doubt. Or
perhaps while you're waiting, you would care to look about." At Dan's
eager reply he touched a bell and, to the man who appeared, he said,
"Jack, show Mr. Matthews around. A friend of my friend, Dr. Oldham."

And so the Doctor found the boy standing in the very heart of the great
plant, where the brawny workmen, naked to the waist--their bodies shining
with sweat and streaked with grime, wrestled with the grim realities of
life.

For a little while the Doctor watched him; then, tapping him on the
shoulder, shouted in his ear, above the roar of the furnace, the hissing
of steam and the crash and clank of iron and steel. "Almost as good as a
fishing trip, heh Dan?"

Back in the office again the superintendent introduced them to a
gray-haired, smooth faced, portly gentleman--the president of the steel
company, a well-known capitalist. The great man repeated Dan's name,
looking him over the while.

"Matthews. By your name and your build, sir, you are related to the
Grant Matthews who owns Dewey Bald."

"He is my father, sir," returned Dan, delighted.

"Ah yes. Through my interests in the lead and zinc industry, I am
familiar with your part of the country, sir. I have met your father
several times. It is not easy to forget such a man."

Dan now remembered the president's name, having heard it in connection
with the mines on Jake creek, near his home.

The capitalist continued, "I have tried several times to persuade your
father to open up that hill of his. He has a fortune in that mountain,
sir, a fortune! Are you interested in mining, Mr. Matthews?"

"Not directly, sir."

"No? Well, if your people should ever decide to develop that property
come to me; I know what it is. We would be glad to talk it over with you.
Good-bye, sir; glad to have met you. Good day, Doctor." And he was gone.

The Doctor and Dan dined with the genial superintendent and his family
that evening and the next morning set out for Corinth.


CHAPTER XXXVI.

GOOD-BYE

"But the big house for Dr. Harry is still empty when he returns from his
long drives; empty save for his dreams."


When Hope Farwell dismissed Dan that afternoon in the old Academy yard,
because she feared both for her lover and for herself, she had not for a
moment questioned what Dan's decision would be. With all the gladness
that their love had brought, there was in her heart no hope; for she
exacted of herself the same fidelity to her religious convictions that
she demanded of Dan. It would be as wrong for her to accept the church
as for him to reject it. So she had gone to the limit of her strength
for his sake. But when she reached again the privacy of her room, her
woman nature had its way. With the morning, strength returned
again--strength and calmness. Quietly she went about; for, while she had
left the whole burden of decision upon Dan, her heart was with her lover
in his fight.

At the appointed hour she left her friends in the garden and went into
the house as she had planned. She did not expect him but she had said
that she would wait his coming. Her heart beat painfully as the slow
minutes passed, bringing by his absence, proof that she had not misjudged
him. Then she went outside and looking up saw him standing at his window;
smiling, she even beckoned to him. She wished to make the victory
certain, final and complete. Very quietly she returned to her room. She
did not again enter the garden.

And now the young woman was conscious that she also had a part to do.
For every reason she must not remain in Corinth. She explained her plans
to Grace, for she could not leave the girl, and the two commenced to make
their simple preparations for the journey. Feeling that her strength was
not equal to the strain which another meeting with Dan would occasion,
there was no one left to bid good-bye save Deborah and Denny and--Dr.
Abbott.

Dr. Abbott's faithful Jim was waiting, ready for a long trip into the
country, when Miss Farwell reached the physician's home. Harry himself,
dressed for the drive, met her at the door.

"You were just answering a call," said the nurse. "I will not keep you,
Doctor."

"Not answering a call, just making a visit," he said, "and there is no
need at all for me to hurry, Miss Farwell." He led her to the library.

"I came to tell you good-bye," she said. "I could not go away without
thanking you, Dr. Abbott, for all your kindness to me."

The strong hands of the physician, so firm and sure in their professional
duties, trembled, as the man placed his hat and gloves on the table.

"To tell me 'good-bye,'" he repeated blankly.

"Yes," she answered, "I cannot remain longer in Corinth."

Harry's face flushed.

"Miss Farwell you do not know how sorry I am for my failure to--"

She interrupted, "Please don't Doctor. I know how you have tried," her
eyes filled, "and I know all that you have done. You understand it has
been for Grace--" she paused. "Grace will go with me. I am sure Dr. Double
tuberous begonias are ordinarily absolutely sterile throughout the
summer, but towards autumn the new flowers become less and less
altered, producing some normal stamens and pistils among the majority
of metamorphosed organs.

The
words were as frank as from one man to another.

Harry was thinking of his friend, the minister, of the meeting in the
night, and Dan's plea to be taken to the doctor's home, where he had
remained until late the evening before he left for the church convention.
Why was she leaving Corinth while Dan was away attending the convention?
Did she know that he was gone? What did it all mean? Could it be--! He
started from his chair.

"I may see you again, then? You will be glad to see me, Miss Farwell?
Hope--tell me, surely you know what I would say! I would have said it
long ago but you would not let me. Tell me if there is any chance for
me--ever?"

She had risen to her feet and into her face there came a look of tender
sadness. She did not turn away, and the man, looking into those gray
eyes, knew that she spoke truly when she said, "I am sorry, Dr. Abbott,
oh so sorry! No, there can never be, for you more than my regard and
friendship." Her voice trembled. "I know how it hurts because for
me--for us--too, there is no chance."

Then Harry Abbott understood.

She left him in the library. Outside she paused a moment to bestow a
good-bye caress upon the doctor's horse and then she quickly went away.

Other helpers have now taken the place of the faithful old Mam Liz and
Uncle George, for these true souls have gone to the Master of all who
truly serve. But the big house for Dr. Harry is still empty when he
returns from his long drives; empty save for his dreams.

Dr. Harry will never leave Corinth. When the old Doctor berates him
roughly for wearing himself out for those who never express their
appreciation, and from whom he can never hope to receive a fee, he
laughingly retorts in kind, charging the Doctor himself with having
consigned to him such unprofitable patients. He will never give up his
patients; neither will he give up his dreams.

