Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Tamiko I. Camacho and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


Supreme Personality

FUN IN LIVING

A Doubt, Fear, and Worry Cure

If you are not grander and handsomer at
eighty than at eighteen, your spiritual, mental
and physical cash register has been out
of working order more than fifty years.

You can worry yourself a big lot, but
you can't build a happy home on the lot.

THOUGHT WAVES

Will Make You a World Builder

Method and Codes, how to Create and
transmit them for Healing, Guidance
and Personal Power.

PRICE 25 CENTS

ONE HUNDREDTH THOUSAND


If your religion makes you miserable, change it for a happy
philosophy.

[Illustration: DR. DELMER EUGENE CROFT]

If you catch the gleam of a possibility to-day that seems too good to
be true, grasp it, believe it, endeavor towards it, and tomorrow it
will be true.


=Supreme PERSONALITY=

BY

DR. DELMER EUGENE CROFT Psychotherapist and Lecturer.

Personality is founded upon self-consciousness, with self-governed
intelligence and self-directed action.

       *       *       *       *       *

The purpose of this Course of Lessons is to kill Doubt, Fear, and
Worry, Cure the habit of growing old, develop your limitless Psychic,
Mental and Bodily forces, bring you back to Nature, renew your cosmos,
and help you lay a pipe line to the power house of the Universe to
supply forever your Supreme CapacitiesAnd so amidst th' enamour'd waves he swims, The god of gold of
purpose gilt his limbs, That, this word _gilt_ including double
sense, The double guilt of his incontinence Might be express'd,
that had no stay t' employ The tresure which the love-god let him
joy In his dear Hero, with such sacred thrift As had beseem'd so
sanctified a gift; But, like a greedy vulgar prodigal, Would on the
stock dispend, and rudely fall, Before his time, to that unblessed
blessing Which, for lust's plague, doth perish with possessing:
Joy graven in sense, like snow in water, wasts; Without preserve
of virtue, nothing lasts.

       What man is he, that with a wealthy eye Enjoys a beauty richer than
the sky, Through whose white skin, softer than soundest sleep, With
damask eyes the ruby blood doth peep, And runs in branches through
her azure veins, Whose mixture and first fire his love attains;
Whose both hands limit both love's deities, And sweeten human
thoughts like paradise; Whose disposition silken and is kind,
Directed with an earth-exempted mind;-- Who thinks not heaven with
such a love is given?

And who, like earth, would spend that dower of heaven, With rank
desire to joy it all at first?

What simply kills our hunger, quencheth thirst, Clothes but our
nakedness, and makes us live, Praise doth not any of her favours
give:
But what doth plentifully minister Beauteous apparel and delicious
cheer, So order'd that it still excites desire, And still gives
pleasure freeness to aspire, The palm of Bounty ever moist preserving;
To Love's sweet life this is the courtly carving.

Thus Time and all-states-ordering Ceremony Had banish'd all offence:
Time's golden thigh Upholds the flowery body of the earth In sacred
harmony, and every birth Of men and actions makes legitimate; Being
us'd aright, the use of time is fate.

Yet did the gentle flood transfer once more This prize of love
home to his father's shore, Where he unlades himself of that false
wealth That makes few rich,--treasures compos'd by stealth; And to
his sister, kind Hermione, (Who on the shore kneel'd, praying to
the sea For his return,) he all love's goods did show, In Hero
seis'd for him, in him for Hero.

       His most kind sister all his secrets knew, And to her, singing,
like a shower, he flew, Sprinkling the earth, that to their tombs
took in Streams dead for love, to leave his ivory skin, Which yet
a snowy foam did leave above, As soul to the dead water that did
love; And from thence did the first white roses spring (For love
is sweet and fair in every thing), And all the sweeten'd shore, as
he did go, Was crown'd with odorous roses, white as snow.

Love-blest Leander was with love so fill'd, That love to all that
touch'd him he instill'd; And as the colours of all things we see,
To our sight's powers communicated be, So to all objects that in
compass came Of any sense he had, his senses' flame Flow'd from his
parts with force so virtual, It fir'd with sense things mere
insensual.

       Now, with warm baths and odours comforted, When he lay down, he
kindly kiss'd his bed, As consecrating it to Hero's right, And vow'd
thererafter, that whatever sight Put him in mind of Hero or her
bliss, Should be her altar to prefer a kiss.

Then laid he forth his late-enriched arms, In whose white circle Love
writ all his charms, And made his characters sweet Hero's limbs, When
on his breast's warm sea she sideling swims; And as those arms, held
up in circle, met, He said, "See, sister, Hero's carquenet!

Which she had rather wear about her neck, Than all the jewels that
do Juno deck."

But, as he shook with passionate desire To put in flame his other secret
fire, A music so divine did pierce his ear, As never yet his ravish'd
sense did hear; When suddenly a light of twenty hues Brake through the
roof, and, like the rainbow, views Amaz'd Leander: in whose beams
came down The goddess Ceremony, with a crown Of all the stars; and
Heaven with her descended:
Her flaming hair to her bright feet extended, By which hung all the
bench of deities; And in a chain, compact of ears and eyes, She led
Religion: all her body was Clear and transparent as the purest
glass, For she was all presented to the sense:
Devotion, Order, State, and Reverence, Her shadows were; Society,
Memory; All which her sight made live, her absence die.

       A rich disparent pentacle she wears, Drawn full of circles and
strange characters.

Her face was changeable to every eye; One way look'd ill, another
graciously; Which while men view'd, they cheerful were and holy,
But looking off, vicious and melancholy.

       The snaky paths to each observed law Did Policy in her broad bosom
draw.

One hand a mathematic crystal sways, Which, gathering in one line
a thousand rays From her bright eyes, Confusion burns to death, And all
estates of men distinguisheth:
By it Morality and Comeliness Themselves in all their sightly figures
dress.

Her other hand a laurel rod applies, To beat back Barbarism and
Avarice, That follow'd, eating earth and excrement And human limbs;
and would make proud ascent To seats of gods, were Ceremony slain.
The Hours and Graces bore her glorious train; And all the sweets
of our society Were spher'd and treasur'd in her bounteous eye.

       Thus she appear'd, and sharply did reprove Leander's bluntness in
his violent love; Told him how poor was substance without rites,
Like bills unsign'd; desires without delights; Like meats unseason'd;
like rank corn that grows On cottages, that none or reaps or sows;
Not being with civil forms confirm'd and bounded, For human dignities
and comforts founded; But loose and secret all their glories hide;
Fear fills the chamber, Darkness decks the bride.

She vanish'd, leaving pierc'd Leander's heart With sense of his
unceremonious part, In which, with plain neglect of nuptial rites,
He close and flatly fell to his delights:
And instantly he vow'd to celebrate All rites pertaining to his
married state.

       So up he gets, and to his father goes, To whose glad ears he doth
his vows disclose.

The nuptials are resolv'd with utmost power; And he at night would
swim to Hero's tower, From whence he meant to Sestos' forked bay
To bring her covertly, where ships must stay, Sent by his father,
throughly rigg'd and mann'd, To waft her safely to Abydos' strand.

There leave we him; and with fresh wing pursue Astonish'd Hero, whose
most wished view I thus long have forborne, because I left her So out
of countenance, and her spirits bereft her:
To look of one abashed is impudence, When of slight faults he hath
too deep a sense.
Her blushing het her chamber: she look'd out, And all the air she
purpled round about; And after it a foul black day befell, Which
ever since a red morn doth foretell, And still renews our woes for
Hero's woe; And foul it prov'd, because it figur'd so The next
night's horror; which prepare to hear; I fail, if it profane your
daintiest ear.

Then, ho, most strangely-intellectual fire, That, proper to my soul,
hast power t'inspire Her burning faculties, and with the wings Of
thy unsphered flame visit'st the springs Of spirits immortal!

       Now (as swift as Time Doth follow Motion) find th' eternal clime
Of his free soul, whose living subject stood Up to the chin in the
Pierian flood, And drunk to me half this Musæan story, Inscribing
it to deathless memory:
Confer with it, and make my pledge as deep, That neither's draught
be consecrate to sleep; Tell it how much his late desires I tender
(If yet it know not), and to light surrender My soul's dark offspring,
willing it should die To loves, to passions, and society.

Sweet Hero, left upon her bed alone, Her maidenhead, her vows, Leander
gone, And nothing with her but a violent crew Of new-come thoughts,
that yet she never knew, Even to herself a stranger, was much like
Th' Iberian city that War's hand did strike By English force in
princely Essex' guide, When Peace assur'd her towers had fortified,
And golden-finger'd India had bestow'd Such wealth on her, that
strength and empire flow'd Into her turrets, and her virgin waist
The wealthy girdle of the sea embrac'd; Till our Leander, that made
Mars his Cupid, For soft love suits with iron thunders chid; Swum
to her town, dissolv'd her virgin zone; Led in his power, and made
Confusion Run through her streets amaz'd, that she suppos'd She had
not been in her own walls enclosed, But rapt by wonder to some
foreign state, Seeing all her issue so disconsolate, And all her
peaceful mansions possess'd With war's just spoil, and many a foreign
guest From every corner driving an enjoyer, Supplying it with power
of a destroyer.

       So far'd fair Hero in th' expugned fort Of her chaste bosom; and
of every sort Strange thoughts possess'd her, ransacking her breast
For that that was not there, her wonted rest.

She was a mother straight, and bore with pain Thoughts that spake
straight, and wish'd their mother slain; She hates their lives, and
they their own and hers:
Such strife still grows where sin the race prefers:
Love is a golden bubble, full of dreams, That waking breaks, and
fills us with extremes.

She mus'd how she could look upon her sire, And not show that
without, that was intire; For as a glass is an inanimate eye, And
outward forms embraceth inwardly, So is the eye an animate glass,
that shows In forms without us; and as Phœbus throws His beams
abroad, though he in clouds be clos'd, Still glancing by them till
he find oppos'd A loose and rorid vapour that is fit T' event his
searching beams, and useth it To form a tender twenty-colour'd eye,
Cast in a circle round about the sky; So when our fiery soul, our
body's star, (That ever is in motion circular,) Conceives a form,
in seeking to display it Through all our cloudy parts, it doth
convey it Forth at the eye, as the most pregnant place, And that
reflects it round about the face.

And this event, uncourtly Hero thought, Her inward guilt would in
her looks have wrought; For yet the world's stale cunning she
resisted, To bear foul thoughts, yet forge what looks she listed,
And held it for a very silly sleight, To make a perfect metal
counterfeit.
Glad to disclaim herself, proud of an art That makes the face a
pandar to the heart.
Those be the painted moons, whose lights profane Beauty's true heaven,
at full still in their wane; Those be the lapwing faces that still
cry, "Here 'tis!" when that they vow is nothing nigh:
Base fools! when every moorish fool can teach That which men think the
height of human reach.
But custom, that the apoplexy is Of bed-rid nature and lives led
amiss, And takes away all feeling of offence, Yet braz'd not Hero's
brow with impudence; And this she thought most hard to bring to
pass, To seem in countenance other than she was, As if she had two
souls, one for the face, One for the heart, and that they shifted
place As either list to utter or conceal What they conceiv'd, or
as one soul did deal With both affairs at once, keeps and ejects
Both at an instant contrary effects; Retention and ejection in her
powers Being acts alike; for this one vice of ours, That forms the
thought, and sways the countenance, Rules both our motion and our
utterance.

These and more grave conceits toil'd Hero's spirits; For, though the
light of her discoursive wits Perhaps might find some little hole
to pass Through all these worldly cinctures, yet, alas!
There was a heavenly flame encompass'd her,-- Her goddess, in whose
fane she did prefer Her virgin vows, from whose impulsive sight She
knew the black shield of the darkest night Could not defend her,
nor wit's subtlest art:
This was the point pierc'd Hero to the heart; Who, heavy to the
death, with a deep sigh, And hand that languish'd, took a robe was
nigh, Exceeding large, and of black cypress made, In which she sate,
hid from the day in shade, Even over head and face, down to her
feet; Her left hand made it at her bosom meet, Her right hand lean'd
on her heart-bowing knee, Wrapp'd in unshapeful folds, 'twas death
to see; Her knee stay'd that, and that her falling face; Each limb
help'd other to put on disgrace:
No form was seen, where form held all her sight; But, like an embryon
that saw never light, Or like a scorched statue made a coal With
three-wing'd lightning, or a wretched soul Muffled with endless
darkness, she did sit:
The night had never such a heavy spirit.

Yet might a penetrating eye well see How fast her clear tears melted
on her knee Through her black veil, and turn'd as black as it,
Mourning to be her tears.

Then wrought her wit With her broke vow, her goddess' wrath, her
fame,-- All tools that enginous despair could frame:
Which made her strew the floor with her torn hair, And spread her
mantle piece-meal in the air.

Like Jove's son's club, strong passion struck her down And with a piteous
shriek enforc'd her swoun:

Her shriek made with another shriek ascend The frighted matron that
on her did tend; And as with her own cry her sense was slain, So
with the other it was call'd again.

She rose, and to her bed made forced way, And laid her down even
where Leander lay; And all this while the red sea of her blood Ebb'd
with Leander: but now turn'd the flood, And all her fleet of spirits
came swelling in, With child of sail, and did hot fight begin With
those severe conceits she too much mark'd:
And here Leander's beauties were embark'd.

He came in swimming, painted all with joys, Such as might sweeten
hell: his thought destroys All her destroying thoughts; she thought
she felt His heart in hers, with her contentions melt, And chide
her soul that it could so much err, To check the true joys he
deserv'd in her.

Her fresh heat-blood cast figures in her eyes, And she suppos'd she
saw in Neptune's skies How her star wander'd, wash'd in smarting
brine, For her love's sake, that with immortal wine Should be
embath'd, and swim in more heart's-ease Than there was water in the
Sestian seas.

Then said her Cupid-prompted spirit: "Shall I Sing moans to such
delightsome harmony?

Shall slick-tongu'd Fame, patch'd up with voices rude, The drunken
bastard of the multitude, (Begot when father Judgment is away, And,
gossip-like, says because others say, Takes news as if it were too
hot to eat, And spits it slavering forth for dog-fees meat,) Make
me, for forging a fantastic vow, Presume to bear what makes grave
matrons bow?

Good vows are never broken with good deeds, For then good deeds
were bad: vows are but seeds, And good deeds fruits; even those
good deeds that grow From other stocks than from th' observed vow.

That is a good deed that prevents a bad; Had I not yielded, slain
myself I had.

Hero Leander is, Leander Hero; Such virtue love hath to make one
of two.

If, then, Leander did my maidenhead git, Leander being myself, I
still retain it:
We break chaste vows when we live loosely ever, But bound as we
are, we live loosely never:
Two constant lovers being join'd in one, Yielding to one another,
yield to none.

We know not how to vow till love unblind us, And vows made ignorantly
nerver bind us.

Too true it is, that, when 'tis gone, men hate The joys as vain
they took in love's estate:
But that's since they have lost the heavenly light Should show them
way to judge of all things right.

When life is gone, death must implant his terror:
As death is foe to life, so love to error.

Before we love, how range we through this sphere, Searching the
sundry fancies hunted here!

Now with desire of wealth transported quite Beyond our free humanity's
delight; Now with ambition climbing falling towers, Whose hope to
scale, our fear to fall devours; Now rapt with pastimes, pomp, all
joys impure:
In things without us no delight is sure.

But love, with all joys crown'd, within doth sit:
O goddess, pity love, and pardon it!"

Thus spake she weeping: but her goddess' ear Burn'd with too stern
a heat, and would not hear.

Ay me!

hath heaven's strait fingers no more graces For such as Hero than
for homeliest faces?

       Yet she hop'd well, and in her sweet conceit Weighing her arguments,
she thought them weight, And that the logic of Leander's beauty,
And them together, would bring proofs of duty; And if her soul,
that was a skillful glance Of heaven's great essence, found such
imperance In her love's beauties, she had confidence Jove lov'd him
too, and pardon'd her offence:
Beauty in heaven and earth this grace doth win, It supples rigour,
and it lessens sin.

Thus, her sharp wit, her love, her secrecy, Trooping together,
made her wonder why She should not leave her bed, and to the temple;
Her health said she must live; her sex, dissemble.

She view'd Leander's place, and wish'd he were Turn'd to his place,
so his place were Leander.

"Ay me," said she, "that love's sweet life and sense Should do it
harm! my love had not gone hence, Had he been like his place: O blessed
place, Image of constancy!

Thus my love's grace Parts nowhere, but it leaves something behind
Worth observation: he renowns his kind:
His motion is, like heaven's, orbicular, For where he once is, he
is ever there.

This place was mine; Leander, now 'tis thine, Thou being myself, then
it is double mine, Mine, and Leander's mine, Leander's mine.
O, see what wealth it yields me, nay, yields him!
For I am in it, he for me doth swim.

Rich, fruitful love, that, doubling self estates, Elixir-like contracts,
though separates!
Dear place, I kiss thee, and do welcome thee, As from Leander
ever sent to me."

THE FOURTH SESTIAD
THE ARGUMENT OF THE FOURTH SESTIAD

Hero, in sacred habit deckt, Doth private sacrifice effect.

Her scarf's description, wrought by Fate; Ostents that threaten her
estate; The strange, yet physical, events, Leander's counterfeit
presents.

In thunder Cyprides descends, Presaging both the lovers' ends:
Ecte, the goddess of remorse, With vocal and articulate force
Inspires Leucote, Venus' swan, T' excuse the beauteous Sestian.

Venus, to wreak her rites' abuses, Creates the monster Eronusis,
Inflaming Hero's sacrifice With lightning darted from her eyes; And
thereof springs the painted beast That ever since taints every
breast.

Now from Leander's place she rose, and found Her hair and rent robe
scatter'd on the ground; Which taking up, she every piece did lay
Upon an altar, where in youth of day She us'd t' exhibit private
sacrifice:
Those would she offer to the deities Of her fair goddess and her powerful
son, As relics of her late-felt passion; And in that holy sort she
vow'd to end them, In hope her violent fancies, that did rend them,
Would as quite fade in her love's holy fire, As they should in the
flames she meant t' inspire.
Then she put on all her religious weeds, That deck'd her in her
secret sacred deeds; A crown of icicles, that sun nor fire Could
ever melt, and figur'd chaste desire; A golden star shin'd in her naked
breast, In honour of the queen-light of the east.

In her right hand she held a silver wand, On whose bright top
Peristera did stand, Who was a nymph, but now transform'd a dove,
And in her life was dear in Venus' love; And for her sake she ever since
that time Choos'd doves to draw her coach through heaven's blue
clime.
Her plenteous hair in curled billows swims On her bright shoulder: her
harmonious limbs Sustain'd no more but a most subtile veil, That hung
on them, as it durst not assail Their different concord; for the
weakest air Could raise it swelling from her beauties fair; Nor did
it cover, but adumbrate only Her most heart-piercing parts, that a
blest eye Might see, as it did shadow, fearfully, All that
all-love-deserving paradise:
It was as blue as the most freezing skies; Near the sea's hue, for
thence her goddess came:
On it a scarf she wore of wondrous frame; In midst whereof she
wrought a virgin's face, From whose each cheek a fiery blush did
chase Two crimson flames, that did two ways extend, Spreading the
ample scarf to either end; Which figur'd the division of her mind,
Whiles yet she rested bashfully inclined, And stood not resolute
to wed Leander; This serv'd her white neck for a purple sphere, And
cast itself at full breadth down her back:
There, since the first breath that begun the wrack Of her free quiet
from Leander's lips, She wrought a sea, in one flame, full of ships;
But that one ship where all her wealth did pass, Like simple
merchants' goods, Leander was; For in that sea she naked figur'd
him; Her diving needle taught him how to swim, And to each thread
did such resemblance give, For joy to be so like him it did
live:
Things senseless live by art, and rational die By rude contempt of
art and industry.

Scarce could she work, but, in her strength of thought, She
fear'd she prick'd Leander as she wrought, And oft would shriek so,
that her guardian, frighted, Would staring haste, as with some
mischief cited:
They double life that dead things' grief sustain; They kill that feel
not their friends' living pain.
Sometimes she fear'd he sought her infamy; And then, as she was
working of his eye, She thought to prick it out to quench her ill;
But, as she prick'd, it grew more perfect still:
Trifling attempts no serious acts advance; The fire of love is blown
by dalliance.
In working his fair neck she did so grace it, She still was working
her own arms t' embrace it.
That, and his shoulders, and his hands were seen Above the stream; and
with a pure sea-green She did so quaintly shadow every limb, All might
be seen beneath the waves to swim.
In this conceited scarf she wrought beside A moon in change, and
shooting stars did glide In number after her with bloody beams; Which
figur'd her affects in their extremes, Pursuing nature in her
Cynthian body, And did her thoughts running on change imply; For maids
take more delight, when they prepare, And think of wives' states, than
when wives they are.
Beneath all these she wrought a fisherman, Drawing his nets from forth
the ocean; Who drew so hard, ye might discover well The toughen'd sinews
in his neck did swell:
His inward strains drave out his blood-shot eyes And springs of sweat
did in his forehead rise; Yet was of naught but of a serpent sped,
That in his bosom flew and stung him dead:
And this by Fate into her mind was sent, Not wrought by mere instinct
of her intent.
At the scarf's other end her hand did frame, Near the fork'd point
of the divided flame, A country virgin keeping of a vine, Who
did of hollow bulrushes combine Snares for the stubble-loving
grasshopper, And by her lay her scrip that nourish'd her.
Within a myrtle shade she sate and sung; And tufts of waving reeds
about her sprung Where lurk'd two foxes, that, while she applied Her
trifling snares, their thieveries did divide, One to the vine, another
to her scrip, That she did negligently overslip; By which her fruitful
vine and wholesome fare She suffer'd spoil'd, to make a childish
snare.
These ominous fancies did her soul express, And every finger made
a prophetess, To show what death was hid in love's disguise, And
make her judgment conquer Destinies.

O, what sweet forms fair ladies' souls do shroud, Were they made
seen and forced through their blood; If through their beauties,
like rich work through lawn, They would set forth their minds with
virtues drawn, In letting graces from their fingers fly, To still
their eyas thoughts with industry:
That their plied wits in number'd silks might sing Passion's huge
conquest, and their needles leading Affection prisoner through their
own-built cities, Pinion'd with stories and Arachnean ditties.
Proceed we now with Hero's sacrifice:
She odours burn'd, and from their smoke did rise Unsavoury fumes, that
air with plagues inspir'd; And then the consecrated sticks she fir'd,
On whose pale frame an angry spirit flew, And beat it down still
as it upward grew; The virgin tapers that on th' altar stood, When
she inflam'd them, burn'd as red as blood:
All sad ostents of that too near success, That made such moving beauties
motionless.
Then Hero wept; but her affrighted eyes She quickly wrested from the
sacrifice, Shut them, and inwards for Leander look'd.
Search'd her soft bosom, and from thence she pluck'd His lovely
picture: which when she had view'd, Her beauties were with all
love's joys renew'd; The odours sweeten'd, and the fires burn'd
clear, Leander's form left no ill object there:
Such was his beauty, that the force of light, Whose knowledge
teacheth wonders infinite, The strength of number and proportion,
Nature had plac'd in it to make it known, Art was her daughter, and
what human wits For study lost, entomb'd in drossy spirits.
The radiant, life giving
rays of the sun that ten thousand, thousand years ago warmed mother
earth into vernal spring life, are the same life giving rays that
shall bring again the spring-tide. Life never grows old, it only
changes form. Your life is perpetual, then your youth may be
perpetual. The human race is ever young, its units fall off. You
should be younger at sixty, than at sixteen, because you have more
of life. Growing old is a habit. People travel along the years up
the hill of life, till they reach a certain point where they begin to
THINK they must be growing old. Think its time to sag. Think its time
to droop. Think its time to begin the process of decay. Then begin to
talk about it. To write letters about it. To feel around for it. To
look for it in others. Finally the habit they inherited from the race
is on, and they are old. Life is endless, but you can think it short,
"The power of an endless life," is within you, but by thinking you can
turn it to the white ashes of old age. THINK YOUTH AND YOU STAY YOUNG.

=YOUTH IS GROWTH:= Keep growing and you keep young. A new idea
will make you feel younger. Develop it and it will develop you.
Quicken your mental throb with new ideas. Begin now. Stop talking
about being too old to grow. You pass by trees daily, a hundred, two
hundred years old, still they are growing. The rose bush on a wall in
China is supposed to be over a thousand years old, it bears more
roses now, than when it was a mere slip of a vine of only one hundred.
Gladstone at eighty-two was a growing statesman, and elected prime
minister of England for the fourth time. Cato at eighty began to study
Greek, and renewed the youth of his mind. Donald Davis is a growing
hunter at one hundred and three. Goddard Diamond was a growing teacher
of health, when he was one hundred and eleven. I know a bright, cheery
lady who is just beginning a new study for decorating china, along
with her household cares, and she is eighty-eight. Also another woman
who has taken up a new process of enlarging drawings into water-colors
and she is eighty-one years young. The fig tree withered when the
Master of Life found it not growing, producing, creating. When you
stop growing you will wither by the same law. Grow something, create
something, produce something and the law of youth will pervade your
Being.

=YOUTH IS OBSERVING THE LAW:= Observing the law of health, the
law of mind, the law of growth, the law of harmony, the law of
production, the law of expression, the law of beauty, the law of
selflessness. Keep your bodily forces up. Rebuild destroyed tissue.
Keep the system free of waste. Stop poisoning your body with anger,
hate, jealousy, fear. Keep your mind sweet. Think cheerfully. Avoid
mental turmoil and excitement. Two great enemies of youth are worry
and fear. The next is selfishness. Think every morning when you
rise--"This new day is new life. It is fresh from the hand of God. It
is mine to use. I will increase it unto the Perfect Day." Grow in each
day, and make each day grow. Check discord. Quit useless discussion
for it weakens and withers. Stop quarreling. Check complainings. Root
criticism out of your life. You are bigger than these things. Get into
harmony. You are of the world, upon worlds, universe unto universe.
Study your words to make them have beauty, your walk to have grace,
your personality to make it magnetic, your smile to give courage and
comfort, your presence to have it healing, helping, inspiring. "If
there be any virtue in whatsoever things are lovely, think on those
things."

=YOUTH IS LOVING WORK:= Like what you do. Do what makes you and
others happy. Enter your daily work with joy. Adjust it until you do
like it. Learn to love work for the happiness it brings. Put joy
into your work in the morning and you will find it multiplied into
happiness at night. Work is a law of youth. Inaction is decay. Inertia
is death. Men and women do not usually lose their positions, they
drive their positions away from them. The law of work will not stand
personal abuse, any more than the law of beauty will endure brutality.
Form an ideal of your work, make a mental picture of it, simplify it,
orderly it, beautify it, then glorify it. Start the process in the
slightest degree and you will get a result. Put a new shock absorber
on your disposition. Bring your fine sensibilities to your work, be
big morally, be deep mentally, and work with confident expectation.
Put rules and system into your daily task. Exercise your self-control,
your self-possession, self-mastery, march up to your task with
efficiency backed up by a dominant will. Realize your Supreme
Personality in your work. Put the absolute "I AM," into your purpose
of toil. Put dominating decision "I HAVE DECIDED," into your efforts.
Put invincible determination, "I WILL," into your complex problem. Put
irresistible confidence, "I SHALL ACHIEVE," into your ardent desires.
You will then love work. When you come to love work you will not
exhaust yourself in it, you will not tire your brain and body with its
friction, because you will not work with selfish purposes, but work to
enrich the world. "Love is the fulfilling of the law."

=YOUTH IS SUPREME CHEERFULNESS:= To be funless is to be lifeless.
Good cheer is the tonic of youth. If you are so sad you cannot laugh
at something, then laugh at nothing. "Laugh and the world"--you know
it. An ounce of smiles will give you more real life than seven tons
of solemncholy. Cheerfulness and prosperity go hand in hand. Bathe in
mirth. Frolic in some sunshine daily, even if you live in Pittsburgh
and have to make your own sunshine. Make fun, don't always buy it.
You can cure disease and kill the Devil with laughter. Cultivate an
infectious laugh. Mirth makes work easy. Read humor and learn to tell
it. Practice telling a good, funny story. Be a quick wit. There is a
bright side to everything in this world, even to a dark-lantern. The
end of the film is sure to be jolly. Good cheer attracts good luck.
Cheer up. If you haven't a smile get one of somebody and wear it as
your own. "Let thine heart cheer thee." Give it out-let. Go to sleep
with a smile on your face and you will awaken with a joy in your
heart. Let your humor be rich humor. Laughter is the cipher-key to a
man. It is one of the most delightful sounds of earth. Most utterly
lost is the day you laugh not. Mirth clears the mirrors of the mind.
A person who does not laugh is not healthy. "A merry heart doeth good,
like a medicine." To forget your sorrow begin to cultivate joy. Keep
away from sad people, or you will be sad. Stop rehearsing your grief,
you only enlarge it. If you suffer grief, find someone in trouble and
cheer them, encourage them, help them, and you will deliver yourself.
You will comfort yourself when you comfort another. You cannot lose a
loved one, tho absent from the earth plane they are nearer than ever.
Life and love never change. Death is an unreality thought made. Our
friends take on a new embodiment that is glorified in life and spirit.
When you believe you were "created in His image," and "are a partaker
of the divine nature," it is easier to believe, "you shall arise in
His likeness." Some day we shall all believe we have not disfigured,
morally broken natures, but Divine Natures, supreme in limitless
power. Traditions, teachings, education, environment of generations of
thinking have disfigured, morally broken, sin burdened humanity. All
are thought created conditions. Thought made limitations. Thought
made original sins. System cultivated human wrongs. Institutionalized
teachings of error. But you should know the universe is one undivided
Soul. You are a yoke-fellow with God. You are a part of One Complete
Life. You are a lobe of the Infinite Brain. You are a Supreme
Personality of Absolute Personality. Nothing that has life is
God-damned.

Where love is only a dream, the marriage is an alarm clock.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you cannot endure your mother-in-law, you can begin your plans at
once to live alone, when your children are married.

       *       *       *       *       *

A quarrel between two people to settle things, is a good deal like a
dog fight in a flower bed, the only things that get settled are the
flowers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nearly always when you hear the lusty wail of a boy with energy plus
filling the air, you can look in at the window and find a woman's hand
at the seat of his trouble.

       *       *       *       *       *

You can over-work your notion of neatness. A woman in Vermont crippled
her usefulness for life, by mopping a hole thru her kitchen floor and
falling into the cellar.

       *       *       *       *       *


=Lesson Third

A SUPREME DAILY-LIFE METHOD


A CENTRAL PLAN:= Do your mental work in the morning, your manual
work in the afternoon. Do not dictate letters in the afternoon; from
ten to twelve in the morning is best. The brain is usually at low ebb
at three o'clock in the afternoon. Do not have your desk so that you
have to look side-wise at persons approaching you. It blunts your
personality. By no means have people enter behind you, it is the most
negative psychic influence possible. Let your position in your office
be such that when anyone approaches your eyes will fall upon them as
near a straight level as possible. Plan your workroom for efficiency.
No matter how small, how large, or if it be but a bench. Put your
character stamp on the plan of the work you do. Go to that work as
a King goes to his throne. Centralize your work. Plan it. Work your
plan.

=HAVE A SYSTEM OF ORDER=: Set your mind in order first. If you
are living as I have taught in the lessons that have gone before,
then your mind will assume a supreme command of order almost at once.
Classify what you do. Keep matters separate. Do the big things first.
As you classify, drop the non-essentials. Weed out the useless. Never
spend a minute of your morning hours winding up a string or folding a
piece of wrapping paper. Do that when your brain tide has ebbed out
in the afternoon, or not at all. Don't hunt for a pin, or sharpen a
pencil, or manicure your nails after you reach your work of the
day. Classify your movements, eliminate the useless. Energize your
movements. Move with enthusiasm. Put elastic cheer into your step.
Wear rubber heels of quiet manners. Simplify your work. Keep it
straight, after a little it will keep you straight. Don't fall over
your work, nor step on it, or sit on it. Simplify by stopping the
waste of words, waste of material, waste of time. Jollify your work.
Put fun into each day's round of toil. Be original in plans and ideas.

=CULTIVATE YOUR EFFICIENCY=: To all the above add mental energy.
Develop insight, grow new business brain cells. Do not overload your
stomach with food, nor your body with clothing. Study directness.
Master application. At Niagara Falls I saw two giant dynamos
generating twenty-five thousand horse power, their efficiency was kept
in perfect balance by a little automatic nickle gate. Your efficiency
is kept in balance by little, invisible and automatic thought neurons.
A clear brain is the test of efficiency. Plans, orders, system,
application, give efficiency. Efficiency is positive thinking.
Freedom-thinking, above fear-thinking. Get out and keep out of
negative thinking. Just as soon as you drop negative thinking your
mind will begin to rise to a new brilliance of expression. One big
element in efficiency is silence. It is the strongest thing to be
silent. Noise is emptiness, weakness, inefficiency. Silence is the law
of greatness; noise the breaking of the law.

=DEVELOP YOUR POWER TO REST:= That person is wise who knows how
to rest. It is a powerful thing to rest successfully. Over-fed
persons, or animals, do not rest, they are stupefied. Rest is filling
your capacities with energy. "Sleep knits up the ravelled sleeve of
care," or it should. Rest is relaxing the nerves and muscles. Rest is
reconstructing broken down cellular tissues. Rest is restringing the
harp of the senses, retuning the rhythmic harmonies of the spirit.
Rest lets down the tension. When you sit down, let what you sit on
hold you. When you lie down, do not try to hold yourself on the bed.
Rest is the opposite of labor. Rest is recreation. Rest with sleep
is a divine restorative. When you cannot rest, or sleep, you are
expending energy without production. Try this little code for rest
and sleep: "My mind is empty, my soul is at rest." Repeat it with your
eyes closed and your body relaxed. Say it just as you would imagine
the swing of the pendulum of an old fashion hall clock. I never knew
it to fail of inducing sleep. Never rest or sleep with light falling
on your eyes. Shut out the world and noise.

=GROW THE FRUITS OF THE SPIRIT:= Love, Joy, Peace, Gentleness,
Goodness, Faith, Meekness, Temperance, against such there is no law.
Do not sit down and wish for them, nor wait for someone to bring them
to you, even God will not bring them to you. Grow them. Cultivate
them. Produce them. No power on this earth can defeat you, make you
fail, or over-throw you if you fill your Spirit with them. As you
work, use them. Take them with you to the store, the factory, the
shop, the mill, to your bench. Take them with you to the office, the
counting-room, the court-room, and to your throne-room. Take them
with you to the battle field, to the halls of justice, to the senate
chamber, to the presidential chair. Take them with you thru the
streets, along the highways, and over the unbeaten paths of your life.
Take them with you down the rivers, and out into the storm driven sea.
Chain them to the wheel of your ship, sail on thru the starless night
alone. Trust them, for they are the initiative of the Supreme in you.

=TRAIN YOUR VOICE:= Take your snarling, growling, snapping,
whining voice away into the jungle and leave it to the wild beasts.
Take your sobbing, sniveling, trembling, dolorous, sanctimonious voice
down into some dismal swamp and bury it. Train your voice as you
would tune a harp. Your voice is an index of character. Keep it on
the level. Let it "speak as one having authority." Charm it with
modulation. Make it ripple with music. Allow no thrust of anger
to ruffle it. Intensify it with determination. Strengthen it with
courage. Give it dominion and power. When other voices are hot and
spuming around you, keep your voice cool. Never allow your voice to
become dull, dubious, uncertain, shrinking, or hollow. Voice tones
that are round, rhythmic, full measured. Have a serene and reposeful
voice. Look at what you speak. Reflect your soul in your voice. Let
the manner of your voice be calm, smooth, collected, but energized
with positive forces. Have a cheerful voice, a voice that makes one
think of sunshine and smiles.

=HOW TO LOVE RELATIVES:= To love your relatives be away from home
all you can. To have them love you keep about three hundred miles
between you and them. Thousands of homes and lives are wrecked by two
families of the same family trying to live under the same roof. Noah
would have foundered with the Ark ten days after the flood started if
he had taken more than two out of any one family with him. Cain would
never have killed Abel if Adam hadn't made the fool blunder of trying
to keep his two sons everlastingly with him. Of course there was some
excuse in the fact that in those days New York and Paris were not
brilliantly attractive cities. If there is any one thing outside a
church row, that tickles the devil into a frenzy of laughter it is
when a young married couple go home to live with the family. There is
about as much real life joy and harmony in it as there would be in a
jungle picnic of monkeys and parrots. There is just one place where
large families can dwell together peaceably--the grave-yard. It
is contrary to natural law that families of grown ups, should live
together. When a cub bear is old enough, big enough to hunt for food,
and comes back after he once goes out, his mother gives him a mauling
that makes him feel he would rather starve than come back again. Does
she love him? Of course she loves him to the limit of her instinct,
loves him to the point of pride that she wants him to be a brave,
daring, self-reliant master of the forest. When the whelps of a lion
get to be more than playful kittens, the mother leads them into the
jungle, slips away, leaving them to hunt. The young lions may return
to the old home, but their father and mother have moved away to a
distant den. To evolve their natures, to become supreme denizens of
the forest they must rely upon their own prowess. Take the eagle, when
the mother eagle by instinct knows the wings of her babies have become
strong enough to support their bodies, she pushes them out of the
eyrie. They fly, or will be dashed to death on the rocks. They always
fly. But you say human beings are not bears, lions, or eagles. Well,
humans could well afford to attend the Nature College of the wild
animals of the woods, to learn the ethics of health, happiness and the
development of the individual.

Treat your relatives royally, then let them alone. Keep out of their
affairs, try to keep them out of your affairs. Be kind, generous,
sympathetic. But keep out of the danger zone. Insist upon living by
yourself, living your own life, thinking your own thoughts, playing
your part in life's drama. Parents wish they could hold their
children, the way to hold them is to let go of them. If you love
them you will let go. Love is unselfish. God sent His only Son on the
loneliest journey ever taken, and He came back crowned with glory.
God can live with lots of people you and I can't. Abraham amounted
to something, God said to him: "Get thee out." "And he went out, not
knowing whither." He staid until he became the head of a people as
numberless and brilliant as the stars of the heaven. But Isaac hung
around home, lived on his father's greatness, and the only real thing
he did that was worth while was to re-dig some wells his father had
dug before him. The first time he saw his sweetheart Rebecca, whom
another man had to go and get for him, he lifted up his voice and
cried like a boob. He had become soft on the mutton and grape juice
of his father. Tender little doves flit around the home cote, but the
eagle sweeps from sun to sun. Anyhow, in these modern days children
are very largely bringing up their parents.

       *       *       *       *       *

To kill a quarrel, shut your mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a world of sense in the saying; "Sell your hammer and buy a
horn."

       *       *       *       *       *

There is one place we can bear a boil, and smile--on the other
fellow's neck.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many people possess more than a thousand acres of possibilities, and
have about half an acre under cultivation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The best way to exterminate mosquitoes would be to start a plan to
cultivate them as a money making commodity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stop nagging, twitting, insinuating, suspecting those whose love you
wish to hold. You assassinate love when you ridicule it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Temper is the yeast of personality. No man or woman ever rises in
the world without it. A razor, knife, ax, or writer, actor, minister,
without it, isn't worth a damn in any market. Never lose your temper,
lose all things, but keep your temper.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I see people who are great stickers as to form, or attitude, in
prayer, they remind me of my old neighbor, Saxby, who fell into Bill
Smith's well. He said: "The prayingest prayer I ever said, was in that
well standing on my head."

       *       *       *       *       *

Do you know the meanest thing about the worst boy on your street? I
will tell you. It is the fact that you do not like him, and he knows
it. God never made a mean boy. Parents have made some, towns have made
some, and cities have made a host.


=Lesson Fourth

THE SUPREME LAW OF SUCCESS


SELLING POWER=: Study out plans. Approach your customer or the
public, with a definite plan. Here is one of simple power: Attract
the attention, secure the interest, carry the conviction, demand the
decision, then in any line of business you will have your order book
full. Selling power is confidence backed up by the will. Success is
ambition and desire driven by the will. Do you desire success? How
much? When you desire it as a starving man has hunger for food, you
will win. Want to attain your ambition? How much? When your ambition
becomes a thirst, a burning consuming thirst, such as the lost
traveler has in the blistering sands of the desert, then you will
achieve. What you want is not opportunity, the world is flooded with
golden opportunities. What you want is not a fair chance, chances
gleam in your future sky fairer than the endless myriads of stars that
encrust with glittering splendor the evening heavens. What you do
want is concentration, confidence, self-reliance, desire, ambition,
PERSONAL POWER.

=POWER OF ATTRACTION=: Make your purpose brilliant. Keep it
clear. Seek to energize it with positives. Do not lumber up your plan.
Centralize it. Modify it. Create it as a necessity. Form into it the
indispensable. Then embody yourself into it. See that nothing about
you defeats, or neutralizes attraction. Have a burning interest in
your proposition. Look for fulfillment. Anticipate success. Make the
world feel that you know you are right. Stop asking folks if they
think you will succeed. Of course they do not, because they have not.
Hold your mind relaxed in Silence. Make your desire active. Set your
wishes in motion. Confidence attracts confidence. Positives attract
positives. Bring out your latent forces, they only need arousing.
THINK AND ACT.

=YOUR MENTAL ATTITUDE:= Have faith in yourself. Arouse faith in
others. Think in the affirmative. Assert your hope and confidence.
Root out every doubt. Help someone out of their slough of doubt
and despondency. Believe in the world, in life, in growth, in
possibilities. Let your faith be as big and bright as the sun. "Cast
not away your confidence which hath great recompense of reward."
"Dwell in confidence." "Hold fast your confidence and hope unto the
end." Keep your mental attitude independent. Keep it brave. Think of
money as a means, not as an end. Seek wealth for the power of service
it gives. Have a generous mental attitude. Help others succeed. Banish
fear, worry, indecision, timidity, irresolution, anxiety from your
mental attitude, they paralyze effort. Trust yourself. Trust others.
Have a mental attitude that is supreme, divine, and absolute. Spend
your last dollar like a king. Gird the loins of your mind with "I
WILL." "I CAN." All the mountains of difficulty will melt before your
presence.

=AMBITION AND DESIRE:= Ambition is idealism. Desire is faith. You
cannot have either without the possibility of their fulfillment.
Desires come from Supreme Intelligence in the Universe, and they are
divine. Therefore, they are real, possible of positive realization.
Keep them sacred. Let them become the ideals of your life. Make them
glow with the fires of your energies. They spell success and victory.
They will crown your life, if you will breathe your life into
them. Let your ambition make you irrepressible. Avoid reactionary
influences. Keep away from dull, stupid, inactive people.

=CREATIVE FORCE AND HARMONY:= Be original. Think original
thoughts, put them into form. Invent and produce. Create ideas. Feel
complete in yourself. Do not stand in wonder at what others have done,
right at your feet lies a secret that will enrich the world and make
you famous. A thinker discovered a substitute for the artist camel's
hair brush by taking the hair from inside a cow's ear. If you work
in an office think up some out-door vocation. Grow something, raise
something, get interested in animals. Study the market near you,
create, produce, or raise something to sell. If not for money, for
the forces of life the work gives. At Sestos Hero dwelt; Hero the
fair, Whom young Apollo courted for her hair, And offer'd as a dower
his burning throne, Where she should sit, for men to gaze upon.

The outside of her garments were of lawn, The lining purple silk, with
gilt stars drawn; Her wide sleeves green, and border'd with a
grove, Where Venus in her naked glory strove To please the careless
and disdainful eyes Of proud Adonis, that before her lies; Her
kirtle blue, whereon was many a stain, Made with the blood of
wretched lovers slain.

Upon her head she ware a myrtle wreath, From whence her veil
reach'd to the ground beneath:
Her veil was artificial flowers and leaves, Whose workmanship
both man and beast deceives:
Many would praise the sweet smell as she past, When 'twas the odour
which her breath forth cast; And there for honey bees have sought
in vain, And, beat from thence, have lighted there again.
About her neck hung chains of pebble-stone, Which, lighten'd by her
neck, like diamonds shone.

She ware no gloves; for neither sun nor wind Would burn or parch
her hands, but, to her mind, Or warm or cool them, for they took delight
To play upon those hands, they were so white.
Buskins of shell, all silver'd, used she, And branch'd with blushing
coral to the knee; Where sparrows perch'd, of hollow pearl and gold,
Such as the world would wonder to behold:
Those with sweet water oft her handmaid fills, Which, as she went, would
cherup through the bills.
Some say, for her the fairest Cupid pin'd, And, looking in her face,
was strooken blind.
But this is true; so like was one the other, As he imagin'd Hero
was his mother; And oftentimes into her bosom flew, About her naked
neck his bare arms threw, And laid his childish head upon her breast,
And, with still panting rock, there took his rest.

So lovely-fair was Hero, Venus' nun, As Nature wept, thinking
she was undone, Because she took more from her than she left, And of
such wondrous beauty her bereft:
Therefore, in sign her treasure suffer'd wrack, Since Hero's
time hath half the world been black.
Amorous Leander, beautiful and young, (Whose tragedy divine Musæus
sung,) Dwelt at Abydos; since him dwelt there none For whom
succeeding times make greater moan.
His dangling tresses, that were never shorn, Had they been cut, and
unto Colchos borne, Would have allur'd the venturous youth of Greece
To hazard more than for the golden fleece.
Fair Cynthia wish'd his arms might be her sphere; Grief makes her pale,
because she moves not there.
His body was as straight as Circe's wand; Jove might have sipt out nectar
from his hand.
Even as delicious meat is to the tast, So was his neck in touching, and
surpast The white of Pelops' shoulder: I could tell ye, How smooth his
breast was, and how white his belly; And whose immortal fingers did
imprint That heavenly path with many a curious dint That runs along
his back; but my rude pen Can hardly blazon forth the loves of men,
Much less of powerful gods: let it suffice That my slack Muse sings
of Leander's eyes; Those orient cheeks and lips, exceeding his
That leapt into the water for a kiss Of his own shadow, and, despising
many, Died ere he could enjoy the love of any.

Had wild Hippolytus Leander seen, Enamour'd of his beauty had he
been:
His presence made the rudest peasant melt, That in the vast uplandish
country dwelt; The barbarous Thracian soldier, mov'd with nought, Was
mov'd with him, and for his favour sought.
Some swore he was a maid in man's attire, For in his looks were all
that men desire,-- A pleasant-smiling cheek, a speaking eye, A brow
for love to banquet royally; And such as knew he was a man, would say,
"Leander, thou art made for amorous play:
Why art thou not in love, and lov'd of all?
Though thou be fair, yet be not thine own thrall." The men of
wealthy Sestos every year, For his sake whom their goddess held so
dear, Rose-cheek'd Adonis, kept a solemn feast:
Thither resorted many a wandering guest To meet their loves: such as had
none at all, Came lovers home from this great festival; For every
street, like to a firmament, Glister'd with breathing stars, who,
where they went, Frighted the melancholy earth, which deem'd Eternal
heaven to burn, for so it seem'd, As if another Phaëton had got The
guidance of the sun's rich chariot.If you belong to
the Nettle family, impersonate the Violet. You may be so homely that
your face pains you, but think of the impersonations of beauty you
can buy at the drug store. Impersonate silence. A young lady in
Philadelphia lost her voice and she had nineteen proposals that year.
Impersonate form. You may be as angular as the streets in Boston, yet
almost any department store will shape you up. You may be so fat that
you haven't seen your feet in years, still you can impersonate so much
good nature that men will be attracted to you as flowers to the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

Have confidence in everything you do, even when you eat sausages at a
quick lunch next door to the dog-catcher.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hell is not paved with good intentions. Hell is paved with
sanctimonious pretensions.

       *       *       *       *       *

When you get up, where does your lap go? When you love, where does
your hate go?

       *       *       *       *       *

After you have walked the floor all night trying to get the baby to
sleep, you can at least be thankful that you do not live in Greenland
where the nights are six months long.

       *       *       *       *       *

Avoid hot words in anger, you might tell the truth. A Chicago father
thrashed his son for being out late at night. Then added: "When I
was your age my father would not let me be out after dark." The boy
answered: "Then you must have had a devil of a father." The old man
came back hotly: "I had a damn sight better father than you have."

Fretting is like a rocking chair, you can do a great deal of agitating
in it without getting anywhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

Do not kick at the squirrel that runs up to you in the park; it may be
only mistaken identity--he thought he saw a nut.

       *       *       *       *       *

Children radiate truth, they intuitively feel and express it. Elsie
had been bad and her mother sent her upstairs to talk it over with
God. After an hour she came down stairs singing; her mother asked her
what God had said to her. "O," she replied, "God said, Great Scott,
Elsie, don't feel badly, there are a lot of worse people in this house
than you are."

       *       *       *       *       *


=Lesson Fifth

SUPREME BODY BUILDING METHOD


HEALTH, HARMONY, POWER, SERVICE:= That is what a supreme body
gives. Do not always be taking care of your health, take care of your
body and you will generate health. Thought animates the body with
health. This is an age of electrification. We are fed, lighted,
heated, and transported by electricity. In the lightning pace we are
going, the body is neglected. Give three minutes morning and night
to the exercises below and you will straighten, develop, heal, and
energize your body. Enter upon these exercises as you would an arena
of conquest where you expected to win the great prize of life.

=THE BREATH IS LIFE:= Take a deep, full, abdominal breath with
each body building exercise, inhale through the nose and expel
forcefully through the mouth. NEVER HOLD YOUR BREATH.

=FIRST EXERCISE:= Stand erect, drop hands to the side, clinch
your fists tightly, then with muscular tension raise fists and arms
slowly high above the head, taking a deep, full, abdominal breath
as you raise them, relax and expel the breath forcefully through the
mouth. Repeat 5 times.

=SECOND EXERCISE:= Place the left hand flat in the right, clasp
them, resisting with the left, lift with the right, putting full
strength into the effort, until the hands are lifted above the head,
taking deep breath as in the first exercise. Relax, expel breath.
Then repeat with the right hand resisting the left. Repeat exercise 5
times.

=THIRD EXERCISE:= Grasp the hands firmly above the head, letting
them be at rest on top of the head. Then pull hard from right to left
slowly, taking the deep, full abdominal breath with each movement,
relaxing and expelling as above. This and the above exercise are
wonderful in their effect in developing the lungs and rounding out the
development of the shoulders and chest. Repeat 5 times.

=FOURTH EXERCISE:= Grasp hands in front, level with chest, pull
from right to left hard, taking deep, full abdominal breath with each
movement. Relax and expel breath same as above.

=FIFTH EXERCISE:= Grasp the hands behind the back, taking deep,
full abdominal breath, lift the hands as far up on the back as
possible. Relax, expel breath. Always draw in the breath as you
move through the exercise, having a full breath when the movement is
completed, then expel.

=SIXTH EXERCISE:= Place right hand over right hip, clench the
left fist, raise it slowly, drawing the deep breath, and bending the
body to the right as far as possible. Relax, expel breath. Now repeat
with the left hand placed over the left hip. Repeat 5 times.

=SEVENTH EXERCISE:= Grasp hands in front of breast, pulling hard,
swing the body as far right and left as possible without moving the
feet, take deep breath with each movement. Repeat 5 times.

=EIGHTH EXERCISE:= Raise hands above the head, take a deep breath
and bend the body, try to touch floor with finger, not bending the
knees. Love paints his longings in sweet virgins' eyes:
Rise, youths!

Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!
Rise, virgins! let fair nuptial loves enfold Your fruitless breasts:
the maidenheads ye hold Are not your own alone, but parted are;
Part in disposing them your parents share, And that a third part
is; so must ye save Your loves a third, and you your thirds must
have.

Love paints his longings in sweet virgins' eyes:
Rise, youths! Love's rites claim more than banquets; rise!

Herewith the amorous spirit, that was so kind To Teras' hair, and
comb'd it down with wind.

Still as it, comet-like, brake from her brain, Would needs have Teras
gone, and did refrain To blow it down: which, staring up, dismay'd
The timorous feast; and she no longer stay'd; But, bowing to the
bridegroom and the bride, Did, like a shooting exhalation, glide
Out of their sights: the turning of her back Made them all shriek,
it look'd so ghastly black.

O hapless Hero! that most hapless cloud Thy soon-succeeding tragedy
foreshow'd.

       Thus all the nuptial crew to joys depart; But much-wrung Hero stood
Hell's blackest dart:
Whose wound because I grieve so to display, I use digressions thus
t'increase the day.

THE SIXTH SESTIAD

       THE ARGUMENT OF THE SIXTH SESTIAD
Leucote flies to all the Winds, And from the Fates their outrage
blinds, That Hero and her love may meet.

Leander, with Love's complete fleet Mann'd in himself, puts forth to
seas; When straight the ruthless Destinies, With Até, stirs the
winds to war Upon the Hellespont: their jar Drowns poor Leander.

       Hero's eyes, Wet witnesses of his surprise, Her torch blown out,
grief casts her down Upon her love, and both doth drown:
In whose just ruth the god of seas Transforms them to th'
Acanthides.

No longer could the Day nor Destinies Delay the Night, who now did
frowning rise Into her throne; and at her humorous breasts Visions
and Dreams lay sucking: all men's rests Fell like the mists of death
upon their eyes, Day's too-long darts so kill'd their faculties.

       The Winds yet, like the flowers, to cease began; For bright Leucote,
Venus' whitest swan, That held sweet Hero dear, spread her fair
wings, Like to a field of snow, and message brings From Venus to
the Fates, t'entreat them lay Their charge upon the Winds their
rage to stay, That the stern battle of the seas might cease, And
guard Leander to his love in peace.

The Fates consent;--ay me, dissembling Fates!
They show'd their favours to conceal their hates, And draw Leander
on, lest seas too high Should stay his too obsequious destiny:
Who like a fleering slavish parasite, In warping profit or a
traitorous sleight, Hoops round his rotten body with devotes, And
pricks his descant face full of false notes; Praising with open
throat, and oaths as foul As his false heart, the beauty of an owl;
Kissing his skipping hand with charmed skips, That cannot leave,
but leaps upon his lips Like a cock-sparrow, or shameless quean
Sharp at a red-lipp'd youth, and naught doth mean Of all his antic
shows, but doth repair More tender fawns, and takes a scatter'd
hair From his tame subject's shoulder; whips and calls For everything
he lacks; creeps 'gainst the walls With backward humbless, to give
needless way:
Thus his false fate did with Leander play.

       First to black Eurus flies the white Leucote.

(Born 'mongst the negroes in the Levant sea, On whose curl'd head[s]
the glowing sun doth rise,) And shows the sovereign will of Destinies,
To have him cease his blasts; and down he lies.
Next, to the fenny Notus course she holds, And found him leaning,
with his arms in folds, Upon a rock, his white hair full of showers;
And him she chargeth by the fatal powers, To hold in his wet cheeks
his cloudy voice.

To Zephyr then that doth in flowers rejoice:
To snake-foot Boreas next she did remove, And found him tossing of
his ravish'd love, To heat his frosty bosom hid in snow; Who with
Leucote's sight did cease to blow.

Thus all were still to Hero's heart's desire; Who with all speed
did consecrate a fire Of flaming gums and comfortable spice, To
light her torch, which in such curious price She held, being object
to Leander's sight, That naught but fires perfum'd must give it
light.

She lov'd it so, she griev'd to see it burn, Since it would
waste, and soon to ashes turn:
Yet, if it burn'd not, 'twere not worth her eyes; What made it nothing,
gave it all the prize.
Sweet torch, true glass of our society!
What man does good, but he consumes thereby?
But thou wert lov'd for good, held high, given show; Poor virtue loath'd
for good, obscur'd, held low:
Do good, be pin'd,--be deedless good, disgrac'd; Unless we feed
on men, we let them fast.
Yet Hero with these thoughts her torch did spend:
When bees make wax, Nature doth not intend It should be made a
torch; but we, that know The proper virtue of it, make it so, And,
when 'tis made, we light it: nor did Nature Propose one life to
maids; but each such creature Makes by her soul the best of her
true state, Which without love is rude, disconsolate, And wants
love's fire to make it mild and bright, Till when, maids are but
torches wanting light.

Thus 'gainst our grief, not cause of grief, we fight:
The right of naught is glean'd, but the delight.
Up went she: but to tell how she descended, Would God she were not dead,
or my verse ended!
She was the rule of wishes, sum, and end, For all the parts that did
on love depend:
Yet cast the torch his brightness further forth; But what shines
nearest best, holds truest worth.

Leander did not through such tempests swim To kiss the torch,
although it lighted him:
But all his powers in her desires awaked, Her love and virtues
cloth'd him richly naked.
Men kiss but fire that only shows pursue; Her torch and Hero, figure
show and virtue.
Now at oppos'd Abydos naught was heard But bleating flocks, and many a
bellowing herd, Slain for the nuptials; cracks of falling woods;
Blows of broad axes; pourings out of floods.

The guilty Hellespont was mix'd and stain'd With bloody torrent
that the shambles rain'd; Not arguments of feast, but shows that bled,
Foretelling that red night that followed.
More blood was spilt, more honours were addrest, Than could have
graced any happy feast; Rich banquets, triumphs, every pomp employs
His sumptuous hand; no miser's nuptial joys.
Air felt continual thunder with the noise Made in the general
marriage-violence; And no man knew the cause of this expense, But
the two hapless lords, Leander's sire, And poor Leander, poorest
where the fire Of credulous love made him most rich surmis'd:
As short was he of that himself so priz'd, As is an empty gallant
full of form, That thinks each look an act, each drop a storm, That
falls from his brave breathings; most brought up In our metropolis,
and hath his cup Brought after him to feasts; and much palm bears
For his rare judgment in th' attire he wears; Hath seen the hot
Low-Countries, not their heat, Observe their rampires and their
buildings yet; And, for your sweet discourse with mouths, is heard
Giving instructions with his very beard; Hath gone with an ambassador,
and been A great man's mate in travelling, even to Rhene; And then
puts all his worth in such a face As he saw brave men make, and
strives for grace To get his news forth: as when you descry A ship,
with all her sail contends to fly Out of the narrow Thames with
winds unapt, Now crosseth here, then there, then his way rapt, And
then hath one point reach'd, then alters all, And to another crooked
reach doth fall Of half a bird-bolt's shoot, keeping more coil Than
if she danc'd upon the ocean's toil; So serious is his trifling
company, In all his swelling ship of vacantry, And so short of
himself in his high thought Was our Leander in his fortunes brought,
And in his fort of love that he thought won; But otherwise he scorns
comparison.

O sweet Leander, thy large worth I hide In a short grave!
ill-favour'd storms must chide Thy sacred favour; I in floods of ink
Must drown thy graces, which white papers drink, Even as thy beauties
did the foul black seas; I must describe the hell of thy decease, That
heaven did merit: yet I needs must see Our painted fools and
cockhorse peasantry Still, still usurp, with long lives, loves, and
lust, The seats of Virtue, cutting short as dust Her dear-bought
issue: ill to worse converts, And tramples in the blood of all
deserts.

Night close and silent now goes fast before The captains
and the soldiers to the shore, On whom attended the appointed fleet
At Sestos' bay, that should Leander meet, Who feign'd he in another
ship would pass:
Which must not be, for no one mean there was To get his love home, but
the course he took.

Forth did his beauty for his beauty look, And saw her through
her torch, as you behold Sometimes within the sun a face of gold,
Form'd in strong thoughts, by that tradition's force That says a god
sits there and guides his course.
His sister was with him; to whom he show'd His guide by sea, and said,
"Oft have you view'd In one heaven many stars, but never yet In one
star many heavens till now were met.
See, lovely sister! see, now Hero shines, No heaven but her appears;
each star repines, And all are clad in clouds, as if they mourn'd To
be by influence of earth out-burn'd.
Yet doth she shine, and teacheth Virtue's train Still to be constant
in hell's blackest reign, Though even the gods themselves do so entreat
them As they did hate, and earth as she would eat them." Off went his
silken robe, and in he leapt, Whom the kind waves so licorously cleapt,
Thickening for haste, one in another, so, To kiss his skin, that
he might almost go To Hero's tower, had that kind minute lasted.

But now the cruel Fates with Até hasted To all the Winds, and made
them battle fight Upon the Hellespont, for either's right Pretended
to the windy monarchy; And forth they brake, the seas mix'd with
the sky, And toss'd distress'd Leander, being in hell, As high as
heaven: bliss not in height doth dwell.

The Destinies sate dancing on the waves, To see the glorious Winds
with mutual braves Consume each other: O, true glass, to see How ruinous
ambitious statists be To their own glories! Poor Leander cried For
help to sea-born Venus she denied; To Boreas, that, for his Atthæa's
sake, He would some pity on his Hero take, And for his own love's
sake, on his desires; But Glory never blows cold Pity's fires.

Then call'd he Neptune, who, through all the noise, Knew with
affright his wreck'd Leander's voice, And up he rose; for haste
his forehead hit 'Gainst heaven's hard crystal; his proud waves he
smit With his fork'd sceptre, that could not obey; Much greater
powers than Neptune's gave them sway.

       They lov'd Leander so, in groans they brake When they came near
him; and such space did take 'Twixt one another, loath to issue on,
That in their shallow furrows earth was shown, And the poor lover
took a little breath:
But the curst Fates sate spinning of his death On every wave, and
with the servile Winds Tumbled them on him.

And now Hero finds, By that she felt, her dear Leander's state:
She wept, and pray'd for him to every Fate; And every Wind that
whipp'd her with her hair About the face, she kiss'd and spake it
fair, Kneel'd to it, gave it drink out of her eyes To quench his
thirst: but still their cruelties Even her poor torch envi'd, and
rudely beat The baiting flame from that dear food it eat; Dear, for
it nourish'd her Leander's life; Which with her robe she rescu'd
from their strife:
But silk too soft was such hard hearts to break; And, she, dear
soul, even as her silk, faint, weak, Could not preserve it; out,
O, out it went!

       Leander still call'd Neptune, that now rent His brackish curls, and
tore his wrinkled face, Where tears in billows did each other chase;
And, burst with ruth, he hurl'd his marble mace At the stern Fates;
it wounded Lachesis That drew Leander's thread, and could not miss
The thread itself, as it her hand did hit, But smote it full, and
quite did sunder it.

The more kind Neptune rag'd, the more he raz'd His love's life fort,
and kill'd as he embrac'd:
Anger doth still his own mishap increase; If any comfort live, it
is in peace.

       O thievish Fates, to let blood, flesh, and sense, Build two fair
temples for their excellence, To rob it with a poison'd influence!

Though souls' gifts starve, the bodies are held dear In ugliest things;
sense-sport preserves a bear:
But here naught serves our turns: O heaven and earth, How most-most
wretched is our human birth!

       And now did all the tyrannous crew depart, Knowing there was a storm
in Hero's heart, Greater than they could make, and scorn'd their
smart.

She bow'd herself so low out of her tower, That wonder 'twas she
fell not ere her hour, With searching the lamenting waves for
him:

       Like a poor snail, her gentle supple limb Hung on her turret's top,
so most downright, As she would dive beneath the darkness quite,
To find her jewel;--jewel!

--her Leander, A name of all earth's jewels pleas'd not her Like his
dear name: "Leander, still my choice, Come naught but my Leander! O my
voice, Turn to Leander! henceforth be all sounds, Accents, and phrases,
that show all griefs' wounds, Analys'd in Leander! O black
change!

Trumpets, do you, with thunder of your clange, Drive out this
change's horror!

       My voice faints:

Where all joy was, now shriek out all complaints!" Thus cried she; for
her mixed soul could tell Her love was dead: and when the Morning
fell Prostrate upon the weeping earth for woe, Blushes, that bled
out of her cheeks, did show Leander brought by Neptune, bruis'd and
torn With cities' ruins he to rocks had worn, To filthy usuring
rocks, that would have blood, Though they could get of him no other
good.

       She saw him, and the sight was much-much more Than might have serv'd
to kill her: should her store Of giant sorrows speak?

--Burst,--die,--bleed, And leave poor plaints to us that shall
succeed.

       She fell on her love's bosom, hugg'd it fast, And with Leander's
name she breath'd her last.

Neptune for pity in his arms did take them, Flung them into the
air, and did awake them Like two sweet birds, surnam'd th' Acanthides,
Which we call Thistle-warps, that near no seas Dare ever come, but
still in couples fly, And feed on thistle-tops, to testify The
hardness of their first life in their last; The first, in thorns
of love, that sorrows past:
And so most beautiful their colours show As none (so little) like
them; her sad brow A sable velvet feather covers quite, Even like
the forehead-cloth that, in the night, Or when they sorrow, ladies
use to wear:
Their wings, blue, red, and yellow, mix'd appear; Colours that, as
we construe colours, paint Their states to life;--the yellow shows
their saint, The dainty Venus, left them; blue, their truth; The
red and black, ensigns of death and ruth.

       And this true honour from their love-death sprung,-- They were the
first that ever poet sung.

MINOR POEMS BY CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE

THE PASSIONATE SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE

COME live with me, and be my love; And we will all the pleasures
prove That hills and valleys, dales and fields, Woods or steepy
mountain yields.

       

And we will sit upon the rocks, Seeing the shepherds feed their
flocks By shallow rivers, to whose falls Melodious birds sing
madrigals.

And I will make thee beds of roses, And a thousand fragrant posies;
A cap of flowers, and a kirtle Embroider'd all with leaves of myrtle

A gown made of the finest wool Which from our pretty lambs we pull;
Fair-lined slippers for the cold, With buckles of the purest gold;
A belt of straw and ivy-buds, With coral clasps and amber studs:
An if these pleasures may thee move, Come live with me, and be my
love.

The shepherd-swains shall dance and sing For thy delight each
May morning:
If these delights thy mind may move, Then live with me, and be my
love.

FRAGMENT
_First printed in "England's Parnassus,"_ 1600
I WALK'D along a stream, for pureness rare, Brighter than sun-shine;
for it did acquaint The dullest sight with all the glorious prey
That in the pebble-paved channel lay.

No molten crystal, but a richer mine, Even Nature's rarest alchymy ran
there,-- Diamonds resolv'd, and substance more divine, Through whose
bright-gliding current might appear A thousand naked nymphs, whose ivory
shine, Enamelling the banks, made them more dear Than ever was that
glorious palace' gate Where the day-shining Sun in triumph sate.

It may be
light green, or yellow, or pink, or one of the blues. You will soon
be able to quickly tell which gives the greater relief. Use only one
color at a time. You will find that after a little you can summon to
your mind the color you desire without even using the actual color in
the Monochrome.

=IN CASE OF INJURIES:= In case of injuries, swellings,
inflammation, local pain, apply both hands where possible. Have the
palm of the hands always moist. To start the process of thinking that
will arouse the magnetic currents, think of the affected part as
WELL. Think of the pain as LEAVING. Now, in treating the heart for
palpitation, think of it as quiet, as strong, praise the heart for its
wonderful endurance and power thru the past years, think of the strong
abounding heart of an ox, or moose, and think that strength into your
heart, that your heart is like it in power. You will see a decided
improvement. Use the colors of the Monochrome in such cases as will
give you the best vibration, the color that best responds to you. Try
the Red, Violet, Blue. Most "heart troubles" are not heart troubles at
all, but troubles of digestion. Give attention to diet, and keep your
intestinal tract clear.

=TREATING THE EYES AND EARS:= In all troubles of the eyes and
ears apply the hands over the eyes, letting the palms rest firmly but
not pressingly upon the eye, with the fingers up over the forehead, of
course having the eyes closed. Also treat with one palm over the
eye and the other at the base of the brain. Use the colors of the
Monochrome that give the highest intensity of magnetic response. The
Purple, Violet, Blues, and Green. In treating the ears, do the same.
Place the palm on each side of the neck. Also treat the throat with
both palms, and with single treatment of one palm. IT IS NOT NECESSARY
THAT BOTH HANDS BE USED AT ONCE, but it increases the force to do so.

=TREATING THE SOLAR PLEXUS:= Treat the solar plexus daily by
resting both hands lightly but firmly over the pit of the stomach. Use
the colors crimson, dark blue, violet, and purple. Untwist your solar
plexus by cheerful thinking, get new life force into its withered
and neglected condition. Invalidism is only a withered solar plexus.
Cultivate laughter to arouse it, work at laughter until you sweat
profusely, do the same by walking, and other exercises. Stimulate life
in your solar plexus and you will return to youth. As I have said, the
solar plexus is the great magnetic centre, keep it actively healthy,
bathe it with sunshine. In treating the kidneys, place the palm of the
hands over them flatly, and use the colors as above.

TREAT THE STOMACH AND LIVER WITH THE SAME COLORS Also treat the
LUNGS. The length of time for a treatment can vary from 2 minutes
to any length. Oft'times the soothing effect will induce sleep. As
placing the palms over the temples for nervous headache. The more
you develop the magnetism the more readily will the effect be
accomplished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Provoke an evil and you produce it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The place to feel for the poor is in your pocket.

       *       *       *       *       *

A kiss is something like gossip, it goes from mouth to mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chewing gum is like worrying, a useless waste of energy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Keeping close tabs on the calendar and clock, induces the creepy
feeling of old age.

       *       *       *       *       *

Have nothing to do with useless people, you cannot get wool by
shearing a hydraulic ram.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Mothers of America will in a near by day, reset the cornerstones
of this Republic.

       *       *       *       *       *

Never stop a man running with a hat box in his hand, it may be his
wife's hat that he is trying to get home before the style changes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dress youthfully, keep out of shadows, love the sunlight, fresh air,
the world, and the people in the world. LIVE FOR OTHERS.

       *       *       *       *       *


"Let the howlers howl,
Let the growlers growl,
Let the scowlers scowl,
  And the gee-gaws go it.
You keep in the light,
Be brave in your fight,
You'll win alright,
  And I know it."


--_Anon_.


=Lesson Ninth=

=THE SUPREME LAW OF TELEPATHY=


=LIFE IS SPIRIT:= "The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord."
Just in the degree you THINK AND EXERCISE your Supreme Nature will you
know the Power of the Spirit. Spirit is the essence and manifestation
of life. Thru it you shall Realize, shall Experience, shall See, shall
Know, shall Live. "His ministering spirits go to and fro thru all the
earth doing His good pleasure." Nothing can come except we attract and
draw it. Nothing can stay with us when we LET GO. All are made one by
the spirit. You are an enthroned BEING. Around you are forces of the
spirit waiting to do your bidding. The moment you attract them, the
windows of the Universe are opened and the power of the spirit is
poured upon you. It is everywhere. It's glory fills the earth, radiant
in the glories of the sunset, shining in the soft light of the moon,
gleaming in the lovely stars. Waiting to minister to your needs, to
fulfill your desires, to comfort you, to restore you, to endow you
with power. YOU ARE OF THE SUPREME SPIRIT.

=THE LAW OF TELEPATHY:= It is a supreme law whereby one soul may
reach and minister unto another soul. It is spirit manifested thru
thought waves. It is magnetism spiritualized. It is a mystical
wonder of spiritual manifestations. It inspires visions, dreams,
premonitions, and thru vibration of wave-thoughts gives universal
communion, soul companionship, to the children of Light. To use the
law, sit in Silence, relaxed. Summon a mental picture of the person
you wish to reach. Get clearly as possible the actual presence in your
mind. Then begin to send the wave thoughts by repeating impressively
to yourself, or aloud, the message of your code. Never try to do this
when tired, exhausted, or excited. THINK INTENTLY on the message and
your desire to reach the mind of the person you wish to aid. Students
should practice both sending and receiving Telepathic messages and
influences daily. Never think that the will, condition, or temperament
of the person to whom they are directed, will retard, obstruct or
destroy your work. Act in Supreme command. Put all the intense force
of your WILL into your wave-thoughts, magnetic ethers will be your
messengers. You will likely get a direct response in a wave unison, or
it may come later after your work is done. The student should bear in
mind also that they may and should develop original work, make new and
personal codes. The purpose of codes is to unify the wave motion and
keep the mind intense. Beware of selfish purpose, revenge, hate; these
are the Destroying Angel, sure to return to you.

=TELEPATHIC CODE FOR HEALING:= I bring you healing. You are
Supreme over all bodily conditions. You shall not suffer. Pain shall
leave you. Strength is thine. You shall not die, but live. Perfect
Good is in you and you are a part of it. I see you well. You are
delivered. You are uplifted. Arise and walk. Go forth to thy desire.
Every organ and function of your body is full of health. I see you as
a part of the Supreme Life whole, active, happy, strong.

=TELEPATHIC CODE FOR GUIDANCE:= No evil shall befall thee. You
are safe. Fear shall not assail you. You are greater than all dangers.
You shall have light with you. Wisdom shall be a lamp to thy feet.
Courage shall illumine you. Faith and Hope shall be close to you. You
shall not be deceived. You shall prevail. That which you seek shall be
revealed unto you. Your heart's desire shall be granted. You shall not
err. You shall reach your aims, and shall achieve your purpose.

=TELEPATHIC CODE FOR SUCCESS:= All power is yours. You are
supreme. Wealth, possessions, friends, position and happiness are for
you. Ways shall open before you. Opportunity will be revealed to you.
Bright possibilities shall be made manifest to you. You shall see
an open door. Abundance is yours. Power to supply your needs will be
given to you. Doubts shall clear away leaving you free. The eyes of
your mind shall be filled with light. You shall be guided to plenty.

=TELEPATHIC CODE FOR FRIENDS:= All ways are open between us. I am
calling to you. My soul and mind are open to you. No wrong shall
endure between us. The springs of kindness shall be open to us. I
am listening to your spirit. We shall be led into Truth, Love and
Happiness. Our love is perfect. We shall not err. You hear the voice
of my wish for you. You know my mind. All promises in truth are
perfect. All is light, there is no darkness between us. There is no
distance, or obstacle between us. Your mind answers to my mind, your
heart to my heart, your soul to my soul. When tempted, I am near to
with-hold you. When disheartened I will inspire you. Day and night
are the same, you shall not falter. Our vision shall be made real. Our
desires, heart longings, soul hunger shall be satisfied. Our future
hopes shall be actualized. Our destinies realized in the pavilions
of Silence. Your life and my life are the radiant units of the Life
Perfect.

=BUILD THE WORLD WITH THOUGHT WAVES:= The dire curse of this
world is idleness. Some are working too hard, while a vast multitude
idly look on. Don't be a looker, be a doer. Don't be a knocker, be a
booster. Idleness is a sin: "The wages of sin is death." That is why
people who stop working soon die off. "If a man will not work, neither
shall he eat." He can't eat long. He loses his appetite, spoils his
digestion, gets heart failure. When you retire from business, from
work, from active aggressive occupation, you want to buy your lot
in the grave-yard at once. "If I were rich", do you say? Stuff and
nonsense, if you were rich you would be unbearably meaner than you are
now, a hundred times more stupidly useless. What you need is PUNCH.
You have lost your Grip, Grit and Punch. And no matter if you are
ninety years old you can get them all back. How? Listen.

Build the World with Thought Waves. Begin with your WORLD, what is it?
The kitchen or the school-room? The ditch or the mayor's chair? The
field or as superintendent of a railroad? A brickyard or a bank? A
bench or a pulpit? A loom or grand opera? A pick or a pen? Take a look
at your world, what is it? Now plan it, then breathe life into your
plan. You cannot help others until you help yourself. You cannot save
others and not be worth saving yourself. You are Supreme and this is
your ultimate hour. You are under the law of liberty, go to your own.
Free of all outward restraints, forms, commands and laws you are an
absolute unit of God power in the universe. You shall be judged
only by this law of liberty, the best in you and the highest good of
others.

Use this personal code as you work:

=PERSONAL CODE:= I am power. I am life. I am energy. I am
fearless. I am strong. I am free. I am success. I am well. Faith is
clear, bright, shining within me. I shall be guided. I shall be given
wisdom. I shall triumph.

That personal code given ten minutes a day will double your power of
efficiency in six months. Stick to it. Each day drive it harder. Bring
out your abilities, insight, courage, daring, and boost yourself.
Energy is something you generate just as the dynamo generates
electricity. Start your mental and physical dynamo. Freight thought
waves with your desires and send them out. They will come back richly
laden for you. Load your smiles, heart throbs, good wishes, onto
thought waves and send them out, to serve others, cheer others, give
hope to others, to help others across the hard places. They will come
back bearing to you, "some thirty fold, some sixty fold, and some an
hundred fold." Happiness comes thru loving service.

The student should have faith in the work entered upon. It is founded
upon law and fact. Some day the law will be made fully clear and
operative in all departments of life. The wireless telegraph is a step
in the demonstration. Recently a young woman, in Elizabeth, N.J. was
awakened by thought waves after all medical applications had failed to
arouse her from a six days' sleep. An acquaintance of the author's
was warned by wave thoughts from his mother to avoid danger. He was
so deeply impressed that he delayed a day, his western trip, and so
missed the train that went down at Ashtabula. A husband who was some
miles distant transacting business received the thought waves from his
wife that she was in danger. He hastened with all speed and found his
home in flames. A young lady felt the impress of thought waves from a
young man to whom she was engaged, and decided not to join a boating
party. On the return trip the pleasure launch took fire and six of the
party perished. A whole volume could be filled with most interesting
cases of positive results of Telepathy, or thought waves. But let the
student begin and test the marvels of this mystical power.

       *       *       *       *       *

Never "squeal." Live with, stand by, die for, your friends. The
seventh circle of hell is reserved for "squealers."


=THE LAST WORD=:


Start now. "Get thee out." "Launch out into the deep." Darkness shall
be a pavilion around you. Angels of Light stand by your side.
This Supreme hour is yours. Set sail. Realize yourself as Supreme,
Infinite, Immortal, then Divine. Crown with glory your individuality.
"Now are we the Sons of God." Limitless life, boundless capacities of
power. Shut your eyes to the flesh, shut your ears to the world, shut
your heart to fear, shut your soul to hate. Stick to the chase until
you get the trophy. Search for the Holy Grail until true love's
untiring ministry the cup in your unselfish hand sparkles and flashes
in the crimson and sapphire glory of your quest. Burst from your
chrysalis of doubt and the Supreme wings of the Spirit shall sweep you
forward to triumph. There is no gloom in God's universe except what we
make ourselves. The skies sparkle with possibilities, calling you
into their glowing fields of power and service. Get passion into
your chilled soul. Master fate. Span the universe. Hurl forth the
thunderbolts of your energy and the mountains of difficulty will be
cast into the sea. Take your place in the sun. Stop reviling God by
saying you are a worm of the dust, a miserable sinner, and that there
is no good within you. Quit damning yourself. Nothing is impossible.
You hold the key to the Universe. Mind is Supreme. Thought limitless.
Weave your Spirit out of sunbeams. Seize the glittering stars and they
will become your chariots. You and the Universe of God are one. To-day
is eternal. This shining moment is everlasting. Sad Hero wrung him
by the hand, and wept, Saying, "Let your vows and promises be
kept":
Then standing at the door, she turn'd about, As loathe to see
Leander going out.
And now the sun, that through th' horizon peeps, As pitying these
lovers, downward creeps; So that in silence of the cloudy night,
Though it was morning, did he take his flight.

       But what the secret trusty night conceal'd, Leander's amorous habit
soon reveal'd:
With Cupid's myrtle was his bonnet crown'd, About his arms the
purple riband wound, Wherewith she wreath'd her largely-spreading
hair; Nor could the youth abstain, but he must wear The sacred ring
wherewith she was endow'd, When first religious chastity she vow'd;
Which made his love through Sestos to be known, And thence unto
Abydos sooner blown Than he could sail; for incorporeal Fame, Whose
weight consists in nothing but her name, Is swifter than the wind,
whose tardy plumes Are reeking water and dull earthly fumes.

Home when he came, he seem'd not to be there, But, like exiled air
thrust from his sphere, Set in a foreign place; and straight from
thence, Alcides-like, by mighty violence, He would have chas'd away
the swelling main, That him from her unjustly did detain.

       Like as the sun in a diameter Fires and inflames objects removed
far, And heateth kindly, shining laterally; So beauty sweetly
quickens when 'tis nigh, But being separated and remov'd, Burns
where it cherish'd, murders where it lov'd.

Therefore even as an index to a book, So to his mind was young Leander's
look.

       O, none but gods have power their love to hide!

Affection by the countenance is descried; The light of hidden fire itself
discovers, And love that is conceal'd betrays poor lovers.

       His secret flame apparently was seen:
Leander's father knew where he had been, And for the same mildly
rebuk'd his son, Thinking to quench the sparkles new-begun.

Tall men, sun crowned, who live above the fog
In public duty and in private thinking."


J.G. HOLLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Author of these Lessons has been a student of Psychotherapy,
Mental Suggestions, and the Laws of Personal Power, for twenty-eight
years. During that time has lectured extensively in the United States,
and by direct and indirect personal advice has helped many thousands
of men and women to overcome severe forms of mental, physical and
personal conditions, restoring them to active usefulness.

If your friends cannot secure these lessons of their bookseller, have
them send direct to the Author, enclosing twenty-five cents coin.

No person among all the millions of the earth can make you unhappy,
except yourself.

       *       *       *       *       *


=MY NEW METHOD OF
MENTAL INDUCTION
with
PERSONAL ADVICE AND INSTRUCTION

Develops Four Psychic Forces=

Let me help you solve your difficult personal problems, situations, or
conditions. I can aid you to be free of mental confusion, distracting
circumstances, and entangling difficulties. I will help you to open
new paths, create new conditions, obtain new vision, and achieve
a positive mastery. A world of new realities, rich opportunities,
brilliant possibilities awaits your gifts, talents and abilities.
You may, and should have, success, happiness, harmony and love. You
possess sources of dynamic energy, intuition, initiative and inductive
power. Your age does not matter, you can start anew. STATE YOUR CASE
CLEARLY AND BRIEFLY. I will also answer for you five questions upon
personal matters concerning which you may desire special information,
advice, or guidance. Your confidence is kept inviolate. Thru my new
Method of Mental Induction, I work for you and with you daily for the
full realization of your desires. The natural civet employed as a
cosmetic by this animal forbade the notion of using it for food,
and it was thrown with its family into the river, after being
deprived of its glossy skin.

       As evening approached, and as all eyes were exploring the banks for
a suitable camping-ground, a spacious and even beach was fixed upon
as offering all the requisite conveniences.

It was agreed to halt there.

Attaining the locality, however, they were amazed to find all the
traces of a previous occupation.

       



       *       *       *       *       *

There once was a man who found a fat white grub eating his cucumber
vines; he did not swear at it, but took it out to sea and caught
a shad with it that supplied food for himself and family of nine
children for a whole day. That is initiative.