In the South Australian Register of the 27th of November of last year, it
is stated that a Mr. Hunt, one of the auctioneers in Sydney, offered for
sale thirteen tons of pure copper ore of colonial manufacture, from ore
the produce of the Burra Burra, in ingots weighing 80 lbs. each; the ore
having been smelted by Mr. James at Mr. Smith's foundry at Newtown. This
copper was however bought in at 80 pounds, the limit being 85 pounds
per ton.

It will give the reader some idea of the character of this prodigious
mine, and of the profits arising from it, to know, that during the four
months preceding the 23rd October, 1847, the directors declared and paid
three dividends, amounting to 200 per cent. on the subscribed capital,
and that the credits of the Association on the 30th September were
104,694 pounds 4 shillings 8 pence. The Burra Burra mine however is not
the only one of importance. Several others have of late been discovered,
and South Australia may be said to be a thriving country in every sense of
the word, and one in which those profitable interests will rapidly
increase.

We have hitherto been speaking of the mines of South Australia as the
sources of wealth, and as the sudden, if not the remote cause of the
prosperity of that province. It now becomes our duty to consider how far
the discovery of the mines has benefited or interfered with the other
branches of industry and sources of wealth; and as regards both these, it
must be admitted that their discovery has had an injurious effect. The
high rate of wages given by the proprietors of mines, not only to the
miners, but to all whom they employ, draws the labourers from every other
occupation to engage with them. The consequence has been a general want
of labourers throughout the whole colony, still more severely felt by
reason of the previous want of labour in the labour market. Every man who
could obtain sufficient money to purchase a dray and team of bullocks,
hurried to the mines for a load of ore to take to the port, and disdained
any ordinary employment when by carting ore he could earn 6 or 7 pounds in
a fortnight. The labourer was quite right in going where he received the
best remuneration for his services; but the consequences were in many
instances fatal to their former employers. Many farmers were unable to
put in seed or to cultivate their land; many, after having done so, were
unable to gather it, and had it not been for the use of Mr. Ridley's
machine, the loss in the crops would have been severely felt. Not only
did the farmers suffer, but the stock-holders, and the colonists
generally. The want of hands, indeed, was felt by all classes of the
community, since the natural consequence of the high wages given by the
mining proprietors to the men they employed, tended still more to depress
the labour market, and to increase the demand upon it by leading many of
the more frugal labourers to purchase land with the money they were
enabled to save. As landed proprietors they not only withdrew their
labour from the market, but in their turn became employers; but I feel
called upon to say at the same time, that equal distress was felt in the
neighbouring colonies for working hands, where no mines had been
discovered, and where they could not therefore possibly have interfered.

From what has been said of the province of South Australia, and setting
its mines entirely out of the question, the description that has been
given of its pastoral and agricultural capabilities, of its climate, and
of the prospects of success which present themselves to the intending
emigrant, it will naturally be inferred that the impression I have
intended to convey is, that, as a colony, it is most peculiarly adapted
for a British population, whether rural or other. The state of the colony
is now such, that the way of the emigrant in landing is straight before
him, for with honesty, sobriety, and industry, he cannot lose it. When I
stated, in a former part of my work, that I would not take upon myself to
give advice, which if followed, and not successfully, might subject me to
the reproach of any one, I referred to those who have similar means of
acquiring information to myself, and whose stakes, being considerable,
make the responsibility of giving advice the greater. With the lower
orders--the working classes--the case is different. They have not the
means of acquiring information on these matters, and it becomes the duty
of those who can promote their welfare to do so. I am quite aware that
there are many of my poor countrymen who would gladly seek a better home
than they possess at this moment, but who, clinging to the spot where
they were born, disheartened at the thought of abandoning their hearth,
and bound by early recollections to their native country, cannot make up
their minds to turn their backs on the companions of their youth, and the
haunts of their childhood.

Such a feeling undoubtedly claims our sympathy and respect. It is that
very feeling,--the love of Home,--the belief that they can no where be
happier, which has been the strength of England, and has given her sons
the heart to love, and the spirit to defend her. But the period however,
when those feelings were so strong, has passed away,--more general ones
have taken their place, and the circumstances of the times have so
changed, that neither hearth nor home have the same attractions; a
restlessness pervades the community, and a desire to escape from those
scenes, and that spot which they or their forefathers once thought the
most hallowed upon earth. But two circumstances have militated against
the migration of the rural population in this country, to the Australian
colonies, at all events.

The one has been an apprehension as to the length and nature of the
voyage; the other the expense, more especially to a family man. Had it
not been for these causes, the Australian colonies would not have had to
complain of the want of labour. The truth is, that the ignorance which
prevails in the inland counties as to any matters connected with foreign
parts, and the little means the labouring classes possess of defraying
their own expenses, has kept them, except in a few instances, from
seeking to go to that distant part of the world, which assuredly holds
out to them the brightest prospect, and is most like their own home. They
may however rest satisfied that the voyage to Australia is as safe as
that to New York, that it is far more pleasant as regards the weather,
and that little or no sickness has ever thinned the number of those who
have embarked for the Australian colonies. The expense of the voyage is
certainly greater than that of a passage to the Canadas, or to the United
States, but it is to be hoped that the means of transport will soon be at
their command. I would only in this place offer the remarks I
conscientiously think the case requires, as one who, having witnessed the
happiness of thousands in the land of which he is speaking, would gladly
be instrumental in opening the way for thousands more of his countrvmen
to the same happy destiny. Having been both to Canada and the Australian
colonies, if I were asked which of the two I preferred, I should
undoubtedly say the latter. I do not desire to disparage the Canadas by
this assertion, for I know that they have advantages in their soil and in
the magnificence of their rivers beyond comparison, but Australia, on the
other hand, has advantages over our transatlantic possessions, such as
her increased distance from England, cannot counterbalance. Her climate,
in the first place, is surpassing fine. There the emigrant is spared the
trouble of providing against the severities of a Canadian winter. That
season passes over his head almost without his knowledge, and the ground,
instead of being a broad sheet of snow, is covered with vegetation. Her
lands, unencumbered by dense forests, are clear and open to the plough,
or are so lightly wooded as to resemble a park, rather than a wild and
untouched scene of nature. Instead of having to toil with the saw and the
axe to clear his ground before he can cultivate it, and instead of
consuming a year's provisions before he can expect any return, he can
there run the plough from one end to the other of his enclosures, without
meeting a stone or a root to turn its point, and at once reap the produce
of the soil. These surely are advantages of no ordinary kind, and, if the
expense of a voyage to the Australian colonies is greater than that to
America, I cannot but think that the contingent expenses to which the
Canadian or Union emigrant is put, before he can consider himself as
finally settled down, must necessarily exceed those of the Australian.

As before observed, the aspect of South Australia, and indeed of many
parts of the neighbouring colonies, is essentially English. There, as in
England, you see the white-washed cottage, and its little garden stocked
with fruit trees of every kind, its outward show of cleanliness telling
that peace and comfort are within. To sever oneself from our kindred, and
to abandon the dwelling of our fathers, is a sacrifice of no imaginary
magnitude, whether we are rich or poor, and the prospects of reward
should be bright indeed to compensate for it. I conclude that it has been
to combat the reluctance in the lower orders to leave their homes, that
inducements too highly coloured in many instances, have been held out to
them, the consequence of which has been that many, whose expectations
were excited, suffered proportionate disappointment at the outset of
their career as emigrants. Convinced of the injurious tendency of such a
practice, and regarding it as a culpable and cruel mockery of
misfortunes, which, having been unavoidable, claim our best sympathies, I
should not have said so much as I have done on this important subject,
had I not felt justified in so doing. The reader may rest assured that to
the sober, the honest, and the industrious, the certainty of success in
South Australia is beyond all doubt. An individual with these qualities
may experience disappointment on landing, but he must recollect that this
is always a period of anxiety, and the circumstances in which he first
finds himself placed, may not come up to his expectations; his useful
qualities and regular habits cannot be immediately known, and we seldom
alter our condition, even for the better, without some trouble or
vexation.

I have, in the course of my remarks, in my recommendation of the
Australian colonies as being favourable to the views of emigrants, given
a preference to South Australia. I have done so because I am better
acquainted with its condition than with that of either of the other
settlements. Of it I have spoken as to what I know; but, of the others,
to a great extent, from hearsay. The character however of those colonies
needs no recommendation from me. As far as its pastoral and agricultural
capabilities go, I believe Port Phillip to be as fine a district as any
in the world. The advantages indeed of the Australian colonies must be
nearly equal, from the fact that the pursuits of their respective
inhabitants are so nearly the same. Local circumstances may give some
parts of the continent a preference over others, but, as points of
emigration there is little choice. The southern portions are not subject
to the withering droughts to which parts of the eastern coast are liable,
and may be preferred on that account, but still there are districts in
New South Wales as unexceptionable as any in Port Phillip or South
Australia.

It now remains to make some observations on the present state of society
in the last-mentioned colony; for it appears to me, that in order to give
a correct picture of it, some notice on that head is required. I think
too, I am the more called upon to do so, because many very mistaken
notions are held of it. As in most of Her Majesty's possessions, so in
South Australia, the Government officers form a prominent, and I may say,
distinct class. Colonel Robe, the late Governor of the province, made
Government House the seat of the most unmeasured hospitality, which he
exercised beyond the point to which there was any public call upon him.
His table was covered with every delicacy the season could afford, his
wines were of the very best, and there was a quiet but effective manner
about him, which gained universal esteem. As a soldier, he was
exceedingly particular in the order and appearance of his establishment,
nor was there anything wanting to complete the comfort of it. The number
of the colonists who assembled round him occasionally, was from 50 to 60;
on more public festive occasions they exceeded 300, and I may add, that
on both, the scene differed not in the slightest degree from that of
similar parties in this country, save that there was less of formality in
the interchange of friendly communications between the visitors. Except
also in giving a tone to society, and setting an irreproachable example
to the community, the officers of the Government are exceedingly retired,
their salaries are too limited to enable them to follow the example of
their chief.

They live quietly, and as gentlemen, are ever happy to see their friends,
but public parties are seldom given by any of them. Prudence indeed calls
upon them to refrain from those displays, which they cannot reasonably
afford, and the consequence was, that a warmer intimacy existed in their
quiet intercourse with each other, than could have sprung from more
formal entertainments.

The truth is, the salaries of the Government officers, bear no proportion
to the means of the majority of the settlers, who have risen into
affluence from a combination of circumstances, that have been
unprecedented in the history of colonization. There are few private
individuals in the province, who have not, at one time or other,
benefited by some speculation, but I am not aware that any one of the
Government officers have any private interests in the colony, if I except
the possession of a section or two of land, on which they have built and
reside, nor do I know that any of them have allowed a spirit of
speculation to interfere with public duties.

Amongst the leading or upper classes of society, there are many very
estimable persons. I do not mention names, but my recollection will bear
me back to the many happy days I have spent with them, and certainly any
one not desiring an extended circle of acquaintance could no where,
whether amongst gentlemen or the ladies, find individuals more worthy of
his regard or friendship than in the still limited society of South
Australia.

Many of the tradesmen having succeeded in business, or acquired an
independence from their interests in the mines, have retired, and live in
suburban residences, which they have built in well selected situations,
and with considerable taste. Attached to the customs of Home, many of the
citizens of Adelaide possess carriages of one kind or another, and are
fond of devoting their Sunday evenings to visiting places in the
neighbourhood. As regards the lower classes, I do not think there is in
any of Her Majesty's possessions, a greater amount of mechanical genius
and enterprise than amongst the mechanics of South Australia. I speak
confidently on this head, since I have had very many points referred to
me, which have long satisfied me of this fact.

There are many societies in South Australia, of which the lower orders
are members, all of them tending to promote social interests. The order
of Odd Fellows is prominent amongst these, and spreads a feeling
throughout all classes which cannot fail of doing good, for the charities
of this order are extensive, and it supports a well-attended school.
Taking then the lower orders of the province in the aggregate, they may
be said to be thoroughly English, both in their habits and principles.

In speaking of the upper classes I did not notice a portion of them
included under the denomination of the "Squatters." It is a name that
grates harshly on the ear, but it conceals much that is good behind it;
they in truth are the stockholders of the province, those in whom its
greatest interests would have been vested if the mines had not been
discovered. Generally speaking, the squatters are young men who, rather
than be a burthen on their families, have sought their fortunes in
distant lands, and carried out with them almost to the Antipodes the
finest principles and feelings of their forefathers. With hearts as warm
as the climate in which they live, with a spirit to meet any danger, and
an energy to carry them through any reverse of fortune, frank, generous,
and hospitable, the squatters of the Australian colonies are undoubtedly
at the head of their respective communities, and will in after days form
the landed, as they do now the pastoral interests, from whom every thing
will be expected that is usually required of an English country
gentleman. Circumstanced as they are at the present moment, most of them
leading a solitary life in the bush, and separated by such distances from
each other as almost to preclude the possibility of intercourse, they are
thus cut off as it were from society, which tends to give them feelings
that are certainly prejudicial to their future social happiness, but I
would fain hope that the time is coming round when these gentlemen will
see that they have it very much in their own power to shorten the
duration of many of the sacrifices they are now called upon to make, and
that they will look to higher and to more important duties than those
which at present engage their attention.

The views taken by the late Sir George Gipps of the state of society in
the distant interior of New South Wales is perfectly correct, nor can
there be any doubt but that it entails evils on the stock-holders
themselves which, on an abstract view of the question, I cannot help
thinking they have it in their power to lessen, or entirely to remove,
when an influx of population shall take place; but, however regular their
establishments may be, they cannot, as single men, have the same
influence over those whom they employ, or the settlers around them, as if
they were married; for it is certainly true, that the presence of females
puts a restraint on the most vicious, and that wherever they are,
especially in a responsible character, they must do good. I do not know
anything, indeed, that would more conduce to the moral improvement of the
settlers, and people around them, than that squatters should permanently
fix themselves, and embrace that state in which they can alone expect
their homes to have real attractions. That they will ultimately settle
down to this state there cannot, I think, be a doubt, and however
repugnant it may be to them at the present moment to rent lands, on the
occupation of which any conditions of purchase is imposed, I feel assured
that many of the squatters will hereafter have cause to thank the
Secretary of State for having anticipated their future wants, and enabled
them to secure permanent and valuable interests on such easy terms.
Nothing, it appears to me, can be more convincing in proof of the real
anxiety of Earl Grey for the well being of the Australian provinces than
the late regulations for the occupation of crown lands.

I believe I am right in stating that every word of those regulations was
penned by Earl Grey himself, and certainly, apart from local prejudices,
I am sure a disinterested person would admit the care and thought they
evince, and how calculated they are to promote the best interests of the
squatters, and the future social and moral improvement of the people
under their influence. There seems to me to run throughout the whole of
these regulations an earnest desire to place the stockholder on a sure
footing, and to remove all causes of anxiety arising from the precarious
tenure upon which they formerly held property.

There is another division of the population of South Australia I have
hitherto omitted to mention, I mean the German emigrants. They now number
more than 2000, and therefore form no inconsiderable portion of the
population of the province. These people have spread over various
districts, but still live in communities, having built five or six
villages.

The Germans of South Australia are quiet and inoffensive, frugal and
industrious. They mix very little with the settlers, and, regarded as a
portion of the community, are perhaps too exclusive, as not taking a due
share in the common labour, or rendering their assistance on occasions
when the united strength of the working classes is required to secure a
general good--as the gathering in of the harvest, or such similar
occasions. Their religious observances are superintended by different
pastors, all of them very respectable persons. The oldest of these is Mr.
Kavel, to whom the Germans look with great confidence, and hold in
deserved esteem. Many of the Germans have been naturalized, and have
acquired considerable property in various parts of the province, but very
few have taken to business, or reside in Adelaide as shopkeepers. The
women bring their market or farm produce into the city on their backs,
generally at an early hour of the morning, and the loads some of them
carry are no trifle. Here, however, as in their native country, the women
work hard, and certainly bear their fair proportion of labour. The houses
of the Germans are on the models of those of their native country, and
are so different in appearance from the general style, as to form really
picturesque objects. There is nowhere about Adelaide a prettier ride than
through the village of Klemzig, on the right bank of the Torrens, that
having been the first of the German settlements. The easy and unmolested
circumstances of these people should make them happy, and lead them to
rejoice that in flying from persecution at home they were guided to such
a country as that in which they now dwell, and I have no doubt that as a
moral and religious people, they are thankful for their good fortune, and
duly appreciate the blessings of Providence.

