"Salt yo' food, suh, with humor," he would say. "Season it with wit,
and sprinkle it all over with the charm of good-fellowship, but never
poison it with the cares of yo' life. It is an insult to yo' digestion,
besides bein', suh, a mark of bad breedin'."

"Now, Major," began the colonel, turning to me, loosening the string
around a package of papers, and spreading them out like a game of
solitaire, "draw yo' chair closer. Fitz, hand me the map."

A diligent search revealed the fact that the map had been left at the
office, and so the colonel proceeded without it, appealing now and
then to Fitz, who leaned over his chair, his arm on the table.

"Befo' I touch upon the financial part of this enterprise, Major, let
me show you where this road runs," said the colonel, reaching for the
casters. "I am sorry I haven't the map, but we can get along very well
with this;" and he unloaded the cruets.

"This mustard-pot, here, is Caartersville, the startin'-point of our
system. This town, suh, has now a population of mo' than fo' thousand
people; in five years it will have fo'ty thousand. From this point the
line follows the bank of the Big Tench River--marked by this
caarvin'-knife--to this salt-cellar, where it crosses its waters by
an iron bridge of two spans, each of two hundred and fifty feet. Then,
suh, it takes a sharp bend to the southard and stops at my estate, the
roadbed skirtin' within a convenient distance of Caarter Hall.

"Please move yo' arm, Fitz. I haven't room enough to lay out the city
of Fairfax. Thank you.

"Just here," continued the colonel, utilizing the remains of the cheese,
"is to be the future city of Fairfax, named after my ancestor, suh,
General Thomas Wilmot Fairfax of Somerset, England, who settled here
in 1680. From here we take a course due nawth, stopping at Talcottville
eight miles, and thence nawthwesterly to Warrentown and the broad
Atlantic; in all fifty miles."

"Any connecting road at Warrentown?" I asked.

"No, suh, nor anywhere else along the line. It is absolutely virgin
country, and this is one of the strong points of the scheme, for there
can be no competition;" and the colonel leaned back in his chair, and
looked at me with the air of a man who had just informed me of a legacy
of half a million of dollars and was watching the effect of the news.

I preserved my gravity, and followed the imaginary line with my eye,
bounding from the mustard-pot along the carving-knife to the salt-cellar
and back in a loop to the cheese, and then asked if the Big Tench could
not be crossed higher up, and if so why was it necessary to build
twelve additional miles of road.

"To reach Carter Hall," said Fitz quietly.

"Any advantage?" I asked in perfect good faith.

The colonel was on his feet in a moment.

"Any advantage? Major, I am surprised at you! A place settled mo' than
one hundred years ago, belongin' to one of the vehy fust fam'lies of
Virginia, not to be of any advantage to a new enterprise like this!
Why, suh, it will give an air of respectability to the whole thing
that nothin' else could ever do. Leave out Caarter Hall, suh, and you
pa'alize the whole scheme. Am I not right, Fitz?"

"Unquestionably, Colonel. It is really all the life it has," replied
Fitz, solemn as a graven image, blowing a cloud of smoke through his
nose.

These discs surround the tibial spine and are otherwise shaped to
fit perfectly between the articular portions of the femur and
tibia.

Collateral ligaments (internal and external lateral) pass from the
distal end of the femur to the proximal portion of the tibia. The
mesial (internal) arises from the internal condyle of the femur and is
attached to a rough area below the margin of the medial (internal)
condyle of the tibia.

The lateral (external), shorter and thicker, arises from the depression
on the lateral epicondyle and inserts to the head of the
fibula.

The crucial or interosseus, anterior and posterior, are situated
between the femur and tibia, and according to Smith,[34] the crucial
ligaments are necessary to properly join the two bones, because of the
character of the structure of the articular ends of the femur and
tibia.

The femeropatella ligaments are two thin bands which reinforce the
capsular ligament. They arise from the lateral aspects of the femur,
just above the condyles and are inserted to the corresponding
surfaces of the patella.

The patellar ligaments are three strong bands which arise from the
antero-inferior surface of the patella, and are inserted to the
anterior aspect of the tuberosity of the tibia.

Taken as a whole, the tarsal bones, interarticulating and articulating
with the tibia and metatarsal bones form the hock joint and this
articulation is analagous to the carpus.

As with the carpus, there is less movement in the inferior portion
of the joint than in the superior part of the articulation.

The chief articulating parts are the tibia with the tibial tarsal bone
(astragulus).

[Illustration: Fig. 42--Muscles of lower part of thigh, leg and foot;
lateral view, o', Fascia lata; q, q', q", biceps femoris; r,
semitendinosus; 21', lateral condyle of tibia. The extensor brevis is
visible in the angle between the long and lateral extensor tendons.

(After Ellenberger-Baum, Anat. für Künstler.)

    (From Sisson's "Anatomy of the
    Domestic Animals.")]

    The capsular ligament is attached around the
    margin of the articular surfaces of the tibia, to the tarsal bones,
the collateral ligaments (internal and external lateral) and to the
metatarsus.

    [Illustration: Fig. 43--Right stifle
    joint; lateral view.

    The femoro-patellar capsule was filled with
    plaster-of-Paris and then removed after the cast was set.

  The femoro-tibial capsule and most of the lateral patellar ligament
are removed.

    M. Lateral meniscus.
    
    (From Sisson's "Anatomy of the Domestic Animals.")]

  The common ligaments of the tarsal joint are the collateral, the
plantar (calcaneo-metatarsal and c. cuboid) and dorsal ligaments
(oblique).

The medial (internal lateral) ligament serves to join the medial
(internal) tibial malleolus with tibial tarsal (astragalus) and other
tarsal bones.

The lateral (external lateral) ligament is inserted to the lateral (external)
tibial malleolus and its distal portions are attached to the tibial
tarsal (astragalus), fibular tarsal (calcaneum) bone, fourth tarsal
(cuboid) and metatarsus bones.

[Illustration: Fig. 44--Left stifle joint; medial view. The capsules
are removed. (From Sisson's "Anatomy of the Domestic Animals.")]

The plantar ligament (calcaneo-cuboid) is a strong flat band which
is attached to the plantar surface of the fibular and fourth tarsal
bones (calcaneum and cuboid) and the head of the lateral metatarsal
(external small) bone.

The dorsal (oblique) ligament is attached above to the distal
tuberosity on the inner side of the tibia.

suggested Fitz.

"Certainly, suh."

"Any money in Cartersville?"

"No, suh, not much; but we can _subscribe_, can't we? The name
and influence of our leadin' citizens would give tone and dignity to
any subscription list. Think of this, suh!" and the colonel traced
imaginary inscriptions on the back of Fitz's prospectus with his
forefinger, voicing them as he went on:--

    The Hon. JOHN PAGE LOWNES,    Member of the State Legislature..
1,000 shares
    The Hon. I.B. KERFOOT,
    Jedge of the District Court of
    Fairfax County....... 1,000 shares
    Major THOMAS C. Information
    relating to both the original and the renewal registration is
included in each entry.

References from the names of renewal claimants, joint authors, editors,
etc. and from variant forms are interfiled.

ABBOTT, EDITH.
The colonel studied the document for another brief moment and struck
another snag.

