Produced by Mary Starr


THE FLYING-U'S LAST STAND

By B. M. Bower


CONTENTS

     1. OLD WAYS AND NEW

     2. ANDY GREEN'S NEW ACQUAINTANCE

     3. THE KID LEARNS SOME THINGS ABOUT HORSES

     4. ANDY TAKES A HAND IN THE GAME

     5. THE HAPPY FAMILY TURN NESTERS

     6. THE FIRST BLOW IN THE FIGHT

     7. THE COMING OF THE COLONY

     8. FLORENCE GRACE HALLMAN SPEAKS PLAINLY

     9. A current of excitement seemed to involve the three visitors.

     Fever gain that dominated the evening to talk business again reappear.

     Now, Tonic was not so insignificant as to don Ramon and I thought
to see in him a certain aura of a man of genius.

     Estraza The role of containing the hopes and hardships of
     the two women remained on the table.

     There were eight thousand reais.

     Don Ramon could do whatever he wanted.

     They relied on him as if her father.

     

     

     

     

     

     THE FIGHT GOES ON

     22. LAWFUL IMPROVEMENTS

     23. THE WATER QUESTION AND SOME GOSSIP

     24. THE KID IS USED FOR A PAWN IN THE GAME

     25. "LITTLE BLACK SHACK'S ALL BURNT UP!"

     26. ROSEMARY ALLEN DOES A SMALL SUM IN ADDITION

     27. "IT'S AWFUL EASY TO GET LOST"

     28. AS IT TURNED OUT


THE FLYING U'S LAST STAND


CHAPTER 1. OLD WAYS AND NEW

Progress is like the insidious change from youth to old age, except that
progress does not mean decay. The change that is almost imperceptible
and yet inexorable is much the same, however. You will see a community
apparently changeless as the years pass by; and yet, when the years have
gone and you look back, there has been a change. It is not the same.
It never will be the same. It can pass through further change, but it
cannot go back. Men look back sick sometimes with longing for the things
that were and that can be no more; they live the old days in memory--but
try as they will they may not go back. With intelligent, persistent
effort they may retard further change considerably, but that is the most
that they can hope to do. Civilization and Time will continue the march
in spite of all that man may do.

That is the way it was with the Flying U. Old J. G. Whitmore fought
doggedly against the changing conditions--and he fought intelligently
and well. When he saw the range dwindling and the way to the watering
places barred against his cattle with long stretches of barbed wire, he
sent his herds deeper into the Badlands to seek what grazing was in the
hidden, little valleys and the deep, sequestered canyons. He cut more
hay for winter feeding, and he sowed his meadows to alfalfa that he
might increase the crops. He shipped old cows and dry cows with his fat
steers in the fall, and he bettered the blood of his herds and raised
bigger cattle. Therefore, if his cattle grew fewer in number, they
improved in quality and prices went higher, so that the result was much
the same.

It began to look, then, as though J. G. Whitmore was cunningly besting
the situation, and was going to hold out indefinitely against the
encroachments of civilization upon the old order of things on the range.
And it had begun to look as though he was going to best Time at his own
game, and refuse also to grow old; as though he would go on being the
same pudgy, grizzled, humorously querulous Old Man beloved of his men,
the Happy Family of the Flying U.

Sometimes, however, Time will fill a four-flush with the joker, and then
laugh while he rakes in the chips. J. G. Whitmore had been going his way
and refusing to grow old for a long time--and then an accident, which
is Time's joker, turned the game against him. Finally, as always, in severe
cases, the Großvezier Did he sign, he would like him to quickly sehn.
The Großvezier came angerannt; The Sultan took his hand, pulled him out
the window and asked, full power: "Are you aware of what the castle ,
yesterday stood still here? teased me, it seems, my pair of eyes.

"The Großvezier was most affected, however, he soon gathered." Lord, "he
said," is now not open to what I have long been considered safe,
Although I do not you agreed?

This castle, I repeat, 'be free, So quickly vanished as built, it was a
work of magic. "The Sultan, the blasphemous word no longer be managed
widerstehn, cerise Ward in the face and he was boiling with rage and
cursed: "plague and murder! A crook, cunning and deceitful, has to me,
pulled the nose! Where is the Schurk ', the daring? Today is his blood
verschäumen!"

Top that, "Lord, let's just lined , until he returns from hunting. ""
Nothing there! That would be too much protection, "said the Sultan,
wildly;" From the executioner werd 'him the reward, the man with
treason vergilt. Geh' chic 'thirty horsemen after him! They should draw
on him, arrest and humiliation Tied up and swear before grinding my face!
"13 [Illustration: A] On his way back to the city of words, clueless
and cheerful, Traf Aladdin thirty riders.

Their captain greeted politely smooth, And he, of homesickness
already elated And in the opinion, that would Vorausgesandt in his honor,
was surrounded by a blow. "ziemt me, my prince, enlighten you," began
the captain, "but a spokesman, The mischief reports does not like. We
grew from the Sultan, our Lord ordered thee as state criminals in prison
and to prisoners lead before his face. "" Tell only what hab 'because I
committed? "cried Aladdin, with hot cheeks. Top that: "Prince, I do not
know." "Well, since you have me. performs, what your office, I followed
'you will, is it also certainly is not right and proper fault What
happens to me."

He promoted by horse fetched , on the arms and neck with chains fixed
umschnürt And so to the horror and pity of the people in the city. The
favorite of all was in distress! You did not know for whatever reason,
saw him only a threat of danger and wanted to drum, to rapidly Bunde
united to tell him the freedom to create. Part metallne seized weapons,
another stone, Knüttel, bars, the locking tabs and spatial path;
With their prisoner could hardly until you reach the palace. The Sultan,
who has already Nah'n their Estim had from the old, ordered the executioner,
at once the shame of his trust deceived, with a sharp string The
Frevlerhaupt herabzuhauen.

There was no time limit he verliehn, through defense to save; The
executioner was called after him off the chains, it niederknien , then
tape it to the eyes, lifted the indicative sword, as ordered, on order
of the ruler Wink quickly spread to the huge auszuholen. [Illustration:
Aladdin's worst hour] Because - what is it? What booms and gellt What
swells and swirls, brandend, brausend? From the many thousands of people
are in uproar surrounded the palace.

It rips and shakes the walls, you break them from stone to stone, And
long may it not last longer, Da plunge them smashed, and all doors
gape splintering. "O Lord, remember!" For it turns shaking the Sultan
Großvezier, "review of how entrepreneurial pack trays, Wholly become
ungovernable, like a giant animal Grimmen To pile up against your
walls! The man has also bewitches your people, and if you enforce this
ruling, then it will be the Palace storm. "The Sultan drove appals
together. He found out that through the death of Prince Aladdin's
kingdom in the flames would blaze up. So he bade the executioner just
perplexed Vorm String, life to him, took the bandage, the away from
him, and excited the crowds with Ward Trompetenstoß proclaimed,
The Sultan was short and good, As much sinned Aladdin Him to pardon
rested .

This word, full of noise, applause umtönt, poured oil into the
angry waves; The rebel rose after all the house pacifies and reconciles.
But Aladdin, when he was freed, raised to the old hands: "Lord," he asked
flehentlich, "Completing The grace that you dedicated to me, And tell
me, by what crimes deserve 'such I a criminal? "" Oh, do you still do
erfrechen, to do as you would know not? Come, "cried the Sultan, "come
here! Your pride Castle, where it may lie?

Zeig 'mir's! I can not find's more." When Aladdin risen, he let him
through the window And look harsh asked, "What you see there?"
CHAPTER 2. ANDY GREEN'S NEW ACQUAINTANCE

Andy Green, chief prevaricator of the Happy Family of the Flying U--and
not ashamed of either title or connection--pushed his new Stetson back
off his untanned forehead, attempted to negotiate the narrow passage
into a Pullman sleeper with his suitcase swinging from his right hand,
and butted into a woman who was just emerging from the dressing-room. He
butted into her so emphatically that he was compelled to swing his left
arm out very quickly, or see her go headlong into the window opposite;
for a fullsized suitcase propelled forward by a muscular young man may
prove a very efficient instrument of disaster, especially if it catches
one just in the hollow back of the knee. The woman tottered and grasped
Andy convulsively to save herself a fall, and so they stood blocking the
passage until the porter arrived and took the suitcase from Andy with a
tip-inviting deference.

Andy apologized profusely, with a quaint, cowpunchery phrasing that
caused the woman to take a second look at him. And, since Andy Green
would look good to any woman capable of recognizing--and appreciating--a
real man when she saw him, she smiled and said it didn't matter in the
least.

That was the beginning of the acquaintance. Andy took her by her plump,
chiffon-veiled arm and piloted her to her seat, and he afterward tipped
the porter generously and had his own belongings deposited in the
section across the aisle. Then, with the guile of a foreign diplomat, he
betook himself to the smoking-room and stayed there for three quarters
of an hour. He was not taking any particular risk of losing the
opportunity of an unusually pleasant journey, for the dollar he had
invested in the goodwill of the porter had yielded the information that
the lady was going through to Great Falls. Since Andy had boarded the
train at Harlem there was plenty of time to kill between there and Dry
Lake, which was his destination.

The lady smiled at him rememberingly when finally he seated himself
across the aisle from her, and without any serious motive Andy smiled
back. So presently they were exchanging remarks about the journey. Later
on, Andy went over and sat beside her and conversation began in earnest.
Her name, it transpired, was Florence Grace Hallman. Andy read it
engraved upon a card which added the information that she was engaged
in the real estate business--or so the three or four words implied.
"Homemakers' Syndicate, Minneapolis and St. Paul," said the card. Andy
was visibly impressed thereby. He looked at her with swift appraisement
and decided that she was "all to the good."

Florence Grace Hallman was tall and daintily muscular as to figure. Her
hair was a light yellow--not quite the shade which peroxide gives,
and therefore probably natural. Her eyes were brown, a shade too close
together but cool and calm and calculating in their gaze, and her
eyebrows slanted upward a bit at the outer ends and were as heavy as
beauty permitted. Her lips were very red, and her chin was very firm.
She looked the successful business woman to her fingertips, and she was
eminently attractive for a woman of that self-assured type.

Andy was attractive also, in a purely Western way. His gray eyes were
deceivingly candid and his voice was pleasant with a little, humorous
drawl that matched well the quirk of his lips when he talked. He was
headed for home--which was the Flying U--sober and sunny and with enough
money to see him through. He told Florence Hallman his name, and said
that he lived "up the road a ways" without being too definite. Florence
Hallman lived in Minneapolis, she said; though she traveled most of the
time, in the interests of her firm.

Yes, she liked the real estate business. One had a chance to see the
world, and keep in touch with people and things. She liked the West
especially well. Since her firm had taken up the homeseekers' line she
spent most of her time in the West.

They had supper--she called it dinner, Andy observed--together, and Andy
Green paid the check, which was not so small. It was after that, when
they became more confidential, that Florence Hallman, with the egotism
of the successful person who believes herself or himself to be of keen
interest to the listener spoke in greater detail of her present mission.

Her firm's policy was, she said, to locate a large tract of government
land somewhere, and then organize a homeseekers' colony, and settle
the land-hungry upon the tract--at so much per hunger. She thought it
a great scheme for both sides of the transaction. The men who wanted
claims got them. The firm got the fee for showing them the land--and
certain other perquisites at which she merely hinted.

She thought that Andy himself would be a success at the business. She
was quick to form her opinions of people whom she met, and she knew that
Andy was just the man for such work. Andy, listening with his candid,
gray eyes straying often to her face and dwelling there, modestly failed
to agree with her. He did not know the first thing about the real estate
business, he confessed, nor very much about ranching. Oh, yes--he lived
in this country, and he knew THAT pretty well, but--

"The point is right here," said Florence Grace Hallman, laying her pink
fingertips upon his arm and glancing behind her to make sure that they
were practically alone--their immediate neighbors being still in the
diner. "I'm speaking merely upon impulse--which isn't a wise thing to
do, ordinarily. But--well, your eyes vouch for you, Mr. Green, and we
women are bound to act impulsively sometimes--or we wouldn't be women,
would we?" She laughed--rather, she gave a little, infectious giggle,
and took away her fingers, to the regret of Andy who liked the feel of
them on his forearm.

"The point is here. I've recognized the fact, all along, that we need
a man stationed right here, living in the country, who will meet
prospective homesteaders and talk farming; keep up their enthusiasm;
whip the doubters into line; talk climate and soil and the future of the
country; look the part, you understand."

"So I look like a rube, do I?" Andy's lips quirked a half smile at her.

"No, of course you don't!" She laid her fingers on his sleeve again,
which was what Andy wanted--what he had intended to bait her into doing;
thereby proving that, in some respects at least, he amply justified Hiss
Hallman in her snap judgment of him.

"Of course you don't look like a rube! I don't want you to. But you
do look Western--because you are Western to the bone Besides, you look
perfectly dependable. Nobody could look into your eyes and even think
of doubting the truth of any statement you made to them." Andy snickered
mentally at that though his eyes never lost their clear candor. "And,"
she concluded, "being a bona fide resident of the country, your word
would carry more weight than mine if I were to talk myself black in the
face!"

"That's where you're dead wrong," Andy hastened to correct her.

"Well, you must let me have my own opinion, Mr. Green. You would be
convincing enough, at any rate. You see, there is a certain per cent
of--let us call it waste effort--in this colonization business. We
have to reckon on a certain number of nibblers who won't bite"--Andy's
honest, gray eyes widened a hair's breadth at the frankness of her
language--"when they get out here. They swallow the folders we send
out, but when they get out here and see the country, they can't see it
as a rich farming district, and they won't invest. They go back home and
knock, if they do anything.

"My idea is to stop that waste; to land every homeseeker that boards our
excursion trains. And I believe the way to do that is to have the right
kind of a man out here, steer the doubtfuls against him--and let his
personality and his experience do the rest. They're hungry enough to
come, you see; the thing is to keep them here. A man that lives right
here, that has all the earmarks of the West, and is not known to be
affiliated with our Syndicate (you could have rigs to hire, and drive
the doubtfuls to the tract)--don't you see what an enormous advantage
he'd have? The class I speak of are the suspicious ones--those who are
from Missouri. They're inclined to want salt with what we say about the
resources of the country. Even our chemical analysis of the soil, and
weather bureau dope, don't go very far with those hicks. They want to
talk with someone who has tried it, you see."

"I--see," said Andy thoughtfully, and his eyes narrowed a trifle. "On
the square, Miss Hallman, what are the natural advantages out here--for
farming? What line of talk do you give those come-ons?"

Miss Hallman laughed and made a very pretty gesture with her two ringed
hands. "Whatever sounds the best to them," she said. "If they write and
ask about spuds we come back with illustrated folders of potato crops
and statistics of average yields and prices and all that. If it's dairy,
we have dairy folders. And so on. It isn't any fraud--there ARE
sections of the country that produce almost anything, from alfalfa to
strawberries. You know that," she challenged.

"Sure. But I didn't know there was much tillable land left lying around
loose," he ventured to say.

Again Miss Hallman made the pretty gesture, which might mean much or
nothing. "There's plenty of land 'lying around loose,' as you call it.
How do you know it won't produce, till it has been tried?"

"That's right," Andy assented uneasily. "If there's water to put on
it--"

"And since there is the land, our business lies in getting people
located on it. The towns and the railroads are back of us. That is, they
look with favor upon bringing settlers into the country. It increases
the business of the country--the traffic, the freights, the merchants'
business, everything."

Andy puckered his eyebrows and looked out of the window upon a great
stretch of open, rolling prairie, clothed sparely in grass that was
showing faint green in the hollows, and with no water for miles--as
he knew well--except for the rivers that hurried through narrow bottom
lands guarded by high bluffs that were for the most part barren. The
land was there, all right. But--

"What I can't see," he observed after a minute during which Miss
Florence Hallman studied his averted face, "what I can't see is, where
do the settlers get off at?"

"At Easy street, if they're lucky enough," she told him lightly. "My
business is to locate them on the land. Getting a living off it is
THEIR business. And," she added defensively, "people do make a living on
ranches out here."

"That's right," he agreed again--he was finding it very pleasant to
agree with Florence Grace Hallman. "Mostly off stock, though."

"Yes, and we encourage our clients to bring out all the young stock they
possibly can; young cows and horses and--all that sort of thing. There's
quantities of open country around here, that even the most optimistic
of homeseekers would never think of filing on. They can make out, all
right, I guess. We certainly urge them strongly to bring stock with
them. It's always been famous as a cattle country--that's one of our
highest cards. We tell them--"

"How do you do that? Do you go right to them and TALK to them?"

"Yes, if they show a strong enough interest--and bank account. I follow
up the best prospects and visit them in person. I've talked to fifty
horny-handed he-men in the past month."

"Then I don't see what you need of anyone to bring up the drag," Andy
told her admiringly. "If you talk to 'em, there oughtn't be any drag!"

"Thank you for the implied compliment. But there IS a 'drag,' as you
call it. There's going to be a big one, too, I'm afraid--when they get
out and see this tract we're going to work off this spring." She stopped
and studied him as a chess player studies the board.

"I'm very much tempted to tell you something I shouldn't tell," she said
at length, lowering her voice a little. "Remember, Andy Green was a very
good looking man, and his eyes were remarkable for their clear, candid
gaze straight into your own eyes. Even as keen a business woman as
Florence Grace Hallman must be forgiven for being deceived by them. I'm
tempted to tell you where this tract is. You may know it."

"You better not, unless you're willing to take a chance," he told her
soberly. "If it looks too good, I'm liable to jump it myself."

Miss Hallman laughed and twisted her red lips at him in what might be
construed as a flirtatious manner. She was really quite taken with Andy
Green. "I'll take a chance. I don't think you'll jump it. Do you know
anything about Dry Lake, up above Havre, toward Great Falls--and the
country out east of there, towards the mountains?"

The fingers of Andy Green closed into his palms. His eyes, however,
continued to look into hers with his most guileless expression.

"Y-es--that is, I've ridden over it," he acknowledged simply.

"Well--now this is a secret; at least we don't want those mossback
ranchers in there to get hold of it too soon, though they couldn't
really do anything, since it's all government land and the lease has
only just run out. There's a high tract lying between the Bear Paws
and--do you know where the Flying U ranch is?"

"About where it is--yes."

"Well, it's right up there on that plateau--bench, you call it out here.
There are several thousand acres along in there that we're locating
settlers on this spring. We're just waiting for the grass to get nice
and green, and the prairie to get all covered with those blue, blue wind
flowers, and the meadow larks to get busy with their nests, and then
we're going to bring them out and--" She spread her hands again. It
seemed a favorite gesture grown into a habit, and it surely was more
eloquent than words. "These prairies will be a dream of beauty, in a
little while," she said. "I'm to watch for the psychological time to
bring out the seekers. And if I could just interest you, Mr. Green, to
the extent of being somewhere around Dry Lake, with a good team that
you will drive for hire and some samples of oats and dry-land spuds and
stuff that you raised on your claim--" She eyed him sharply for one so
endearingly feminine. "Would you do it? There'd be a salary, and besides
that a commission on each doubter you landed. And I'd just love to have
you for one of my assistants."

"It sure sounds good," Andy flirted with the proposition, and let his
eyes soften appreciably to meet her last sentence and the tone in which
she spoke it. "Do you think I could get by with the right line of talk
with the doubters?"

"I think you could," she said, and in her voice there was a cooing
note. "Study up a little on the right dope, and I think you could
convince--even me."

"Could I?" Andy Green knew that cooing note, himself, and one a shade
more provocative. "I wonder!"

A man came down the aisle at that moment, gave Andy a keen glance and
went on with a cigar between his fingers. Andy scowled frankly, sighed
and straightened his shoulders.

"That's what I call hard luck," he grumbled, "got to see that man before
he gets off the train--and the h--worst of it is, I don't know just what
station he'll get off at." He sighed again. "I've got a deal on," he
told her confidentially, "that's sure going to keep me humping if I pull
loose so as to go in with you. How long did you say?"

"Probably two weeks, the way spring is opening out here. I'd want you
to get perfectly familiar with our policy and the details of our scheme
before they land. I'd want you to be familiar with that tract and be
able to show up its best points when you take seekers out there. You'd
be so much better than one of our own men, who have the word 'agent'
written all over them. You'll come back and--talk it over won't you?"
For Andy was showing unmistakable symptoms of leaving her to follow the
man.

"You KNOW it," he declared in a tone of "I won't sleep nights till this
thing is settled--and settled right." He gave her a smile that rather
dazzled the lady, got up with much reluctance and with a glance that had
in it a certain element of longing went swaying down the aisle after the
man who had preceded him.

Andy's business with the man consisted solely in mixing cigarette smoke
with cigar smoke and of helping to stare moodily out of the window.
Words there were none, save when Andy was proffered a match and muttered
his thanks. The silent session lasted for half an hour. Then the man got
up and went out, and the breath of Andy Green paused behind his nostrils
until he saw that the man went only to the first section in the car and
settled there behind a spread newspaper, invisible to Florence Grace
Hallman unless she searched the car and peered over the top of the paper
to see who was behind.

After that Andy Green continued to stare out of the window, seeing
nothing of the scenery but the flicker of telegraph posts before his
eyes that were visioning the future.

The Flying U ranch hemmed in by homesteaders from the East, he saw;
homesteaders who were being urged to bring all the stock they could, and
turn it loose upon the shrinking range. Homesteaders who would fence
the country into squares, and tear up the grass and sow grain that might
never bear a harvest. Homesteaders who would inevitably grow poorer upon
the land that would suck their strength and all their little savings
and turn them loose finally to forage a living where they might.
Homesteaders who would ruin the land that ruined them.... It was not a
pleasing picture, but it was more pleasing than the picture he saw of
the Flying U after these human grass hoppers had settled there.

The range that fed the Flying U stock would feed no more and hide their
ribs at shipping time. That he knew too well. Old J. G. Whitmore and
Chip would have to sell out. And that was like death; indeed, it IS
death of a sort, when one of the old outfits is wiped out of existence.
It had happened before--happened too often to make pleasant memories for
Andy Green, who could name outfit after outfit that had been forced out
of business by the settling of the range land; who could name dozens
of cattle brands once seen upon the range, and never glimpsed now from
spring roundup until fall.

Must the Flying U brand disappear also? The good old Flying U, for whose
existence the Old Man had fought and schemed since first was raised the
cry that the old range was passing? The Flying U that had become a part
of his life? Andy let his cigarette grow cold; he roused only to swear
at the porter who entered with dust cloth and a deprecating grin.

After that, Andy thought of Florence Grace Hallman--and his eyes were
not particularly sentimental. There was a hard line about his mouth
also; though Florence Grace Hallman was but a pawn in the game, after
all, and not personally guilty of half the deliberate crimes Andy laid
upon her dimpled shoulders. With her it was pure, cold-blooded business,
this luring of the land-hungry to a land whose fertility was at best
problematical; who would, for a price, turn loose the victims of her
greed to devastate what little grazing ground was left.

The train neared Havre. Andy roused himself, rang for the porter and
sent him after his suitcase and coat. Then he sauntered down the aisle,
stopped beside Florence Grace Hallman and smiled down at her with a
gleam behind the clear candor of his eyes.

"Hard luck, lady," he murmured, leaning toward her. "I'm just simply
loaded to the guards with responsibilities, and here's where I get off.
But I'm sure glad I met yuh, and I'll certainly think day and night
about you and--all you told me about. I'd like to get in on this land
deal. Fact is, I'm going to make it my business to get in on it. Maybe
my way of working won't suit you--but I'll sure work hard for any boss
and do the best I know how."

"I think that will suit me," Miss Hallman assured him, and smiled
unsuspectingly up into his eyes, which she thought she could read so
easily. Only a month or so escaped And how acquaintance, has elapsed,
the whole period of three, sent by his new mother continued For Sultan,
who immediately recognized and to be reminded gegebnes word.

With Free Bat mute the prince on his knees, Grant pos' he Aladdin, What
he deigned to promise, bedungne As the deadline passed. The Sultan
was the reminder embarrassing.

He was so unlikely, that the enthusiasm of the young man after so many
weeks still had not been extinguished, because what he unwisely promised,
was never seriously been. Could 'er husband to his child may well
have a son erlesen, The was not born a prince? And yet before the open
denial Of scheuend, moved in He disputes his opponent aside and asked
Großvezier powerful after his opinion. "Lord," said the equally powerful,
"If you want your word does not hurt, just such a price for the
princess to fix that, if purchasers of the abundance of money and
Well, even without the same, despite all the stress sail And shame
abziehn must be full.

"The advice seemed clever the Sultan; therefore become the mother hurriedly
round he said:" Good woman, I gave my word and hold 'is sacred. Your
son should not encounter obstacles, but to know what he Morgengabe prey,
And whether he really gaining on the high bride is not afraid of
sacrifice, Mach 'I gave him one on the condition: I fordre that he
had forty basins of the heaviest gold should send me The all full
to the edge of magnificent jewels stuck me was the same gift, every
stone in the whole kingdom of Far surpassing beauty, these Hertragen
Cargo heads forty black slaves in rich, auserlesner garb, Led forty
young white The still wasteful Gleiss.

This is the condition.

He is just passed this test, then - listen, that's loud, I promise - if
my daughter his wife. "The step-parent home worrying, however, by the
glimmer of hope gelabt, Des ruler Fordrung werd 'always on her son in
every germ of desire clownish choke. But as a consolation from this
inspired you clearly enumerated him, What he should send the Sultan, And
thought that he is comfortable frightened to surrender, he called
with radiant face And exuberant exult: "Nothing more?

egg, the sultan is mistaken in believing that the condition he me
into the hunt is Bockhorn. he mentioned, I lacked the conquest Such
a test piece of the power? I can 'him quite satisfying andre whims.
He will amaze, And thou no less. Give only eight! "He went into his
chamber, rubbed the lamp, until the Spirit appeared to him the servile
to serve as always was ready.

He described claims of the monarch asked him in detail and then determine
whether it could create all of Him and bang case. The spirit replied:
"Naturally."

"Well," said Aladdin, "so hurry, order the whole flight I Tand He can
send . 'The spirit vanished, and was not much greater scope now, while
you as the eyelids Zuschließt and opens, as told with forty black
slaves, and with forty young white, apparently extensive train
Getting on the road need to' cover, Weil House and a yard not far
enough.

Each of the black wore on his head a golden basin, And every dam had in
abundance Demant, beryls and pearls, emerald, sapphire, topaz, ruby
from the highest charm of the colors and even superior to the many
fruits which Aladdin The Magic Garden was once picked.

Once the plant as far as a success, he called the mother, with a rigid,
wide aufgerissnen eyes gaffte. "Look," he said, "must await the Sultan?
confess' that I managed to place What he is now ausbedang! now but not
long hesitate And bring my Morgengabe straight into the palace,
thus my great haste he remembers how much desire I have, my heart
after so much Sturmgebraus to control the port in marriage.

"The step-mother thus requires the wondrous train of slaves. That was a
Aufsehn!

Each house Entströmten greedy browser, So that soon young and old people
to a thick wall on all roads was concentrated. What had any legs, ran
what some lungs had cried with voices like trumpets piercing, you
should come and be amazed sehn . unanimous was the promulgation of the
ruling everywhere loudly that in the city since its founding One
such effort compatriots never, never the slave of noble form, from
habit and attitude encountered, So brightly decorated as diverse
clothed with the finest materials. schöner In order - because to
the modes Schwarzenbeck One was white as a convoy - Hinwandelten
they pair for pair.

These gemstones shine, forty times the levels of sham Lautrer gold -
Was the general Begeistrung without borders 9.

[Illustration: D] The message was like a lightning stocky doorman at
the ear, Eh 'open gate of the palace of the train approached excellence.
SAHN you the pretty front man of the eighties with slaves bowing to
a foreign king and wanted to drum for Him Ehrbezeugung kiss the hem
of his robe. But the replied: "Give room And you prefer bent down in
front of the right. I'm just one of the servants in our great men
Sold." As the train climbed the stairs hinan; The Black arg had to drag
her to heavy load of gold, And of the white she mentored the bright
hall of the Diwan.

Long been prepared and extremely excited, the Sultan ordered that
they resort Grant.

Prior art in fairness to him ranked in half-circles they hurried to
their treasure at the foot of the throne set up, what after
wohlversehnem Office Both the dark than the brightening niederwarfen
whole.

[Illustration: The disturbed wedding] The mother is now approaching the
throne, and spoke with many tributes: "This sends Aladdin, my son, sublime,
what you conditioned. He hopes that it will And you liked the princess
too."

The Sultan, hardly a word about lallen able, with neck stretched And
convinced wants to tease him a delusion of the senses, soon looked puzzled
at the forty sparkling pool with content from their greater scope than
whole countries, Soon on the princely robes of the eighties be like a
slave And according to Großvezier said: "Verily, the sky will punish me
if a gift like this The Sultan daughters here was the essence!

"" So it is, "agreed that when, as he einsah that the node is not much
more to solve it.

How would the prince nor his word Zurückziehn can be used as recipients
of such unprecedented Hort? He asked now no longer even after the
candidate's rank and status and all other properties, for each
preference could 'pledge as his immense wealth liable. "Geh'," he said
drum in a mild tone to mother, 'meld' him with warm feelings that I
and open arms to greet him as a son. "So now, after a great battle the
difficulties cleared away, you are allowed to 'bring him a customer, that
everything he had dreamed, for what it impossible subject," What madness
as she was Olten, And what him their doubts Addiction Verargt as
sacrilegious verstiegen Him now as a ripe fruit ready was in the
womb to fly.

But he, though overflowing happy, had no time entfliehn, in order to
do what his inevitable coronation of the work appeared. He was the
spirit of a new coming, and said as soon genaht this: "Prepare
me now And take a bath ', after I made me a dress, so rich and grand,
How else is just a bear king." He felt it Covers soon be powerful and
moving through the air. A beautiful room, on all the walls with colored
marble, received him, then operated, maintained by delicate, invisible
hands, he took the bath in a mild, fragrance-filled by flood. Secondly,
refreshed and rested, Could 'he look in a mirror that he is to his
advantage throughout Transforms, and was pretty nice.

Instead of the previous outfit, the poor still had betraying chute, he
found clothes, So beautifully, so with gold embroidered that each prince
and prince as Neider After they had hingeblickt. As soon as he finished
dressed, appeared on his mind Wink, And he bade him: "Show 'flink you,
I've since given to me what's missing.

A noble horse slowdown 'I know the beauty of all of the sultan in Cover
Stalle; For this also a retinue of slaves, to respect those same clothes
on pomp and stateliness, The my gift to the Sultan brought; Eight slaves
then escorted to my mother, each of which you have a If so delicious
garb bring that across the country soon andre nothing more talk.

Also a bag with ten thousand gold pieces brauch 'ich noch. Ans Only
quick work! "The Spirit entschwebte sausend, And everything was in an
instant to suppose. Den Slaves were Aladdin command, And to her mother
hinzueilen a state dress anzuziehn. The bare gold, he had to distribute
fine slaves, with the instructions, you should be found on the entire
length of the path with the full hand feeding of poverty throw into the
crowd. He rose Bathing and moved in the middle of the ropes through the
streets out. Even experts were not in the sense that he had never
ridden, because with the finest Ebenmaß And decency he sat in the
saddle.

[Illustration: Aladdin ride to the castle of the sultan's] many
- , massive, not to count the people in turn Lief herbei; stunning
swung from all throats Of Beifallruf and cheering cry, especially
if, from Sklaventroß dramatically as unusual blessing To the left
to right as rain hail from golden coins are spilled.

Who was the Knights' high to Ross? When could name him no mention, not
even one of ten, the more recently seen him, the old Aladdin
recognize.

He recently still poor, unsightly, Sah himself now no longer similar
to the lamp, because the wonders of the secret forces Belonged power,
the lucky, they brought up, too, express the nobility anzuheften. So
on the day was crystal clear, That all the glory, so proud of it, by his
merit, he was worthy.

He was fast becoming the center of each eye; jauchzend pointed to the sky
of the people praise him and treat him like this world richest
and most perfect salvation. Until the Palace Where the meantime
because, like he rose from the horse. The Ushers formed two lines
from door to door to the reception Increased lend dignity; This
phasing he gently along, joined in the hall and before the throne.

The Sultan, his harrend know, was very surprised and built both of
its splendor, as his habit and his attitude, step towards him, pulled him
trust Him wehrend, on his knees to fall , To his father, and left breast,
As he bade him welcome, sit him tightly to his left. "illustrious prince,"
said Aladdin, "I thank thee, that my Erkühnen, instead saying it hard
to atone, So nachsichtsvoll me verziehn .

I knew nothing excused myself, as my heart that, by compulsion holdem
vanquished, in accepts urge the lovely Princess pays homage to, And
that love, violence flares up in my interior and loht, non-ending,
unstoppable until my life itself extinguished in death. "" My
friend, "Put half in jest, the Sultan," so by this unholy fire
scorched about sehn thy heart, stop ', I now you far too expensive.

If this is the means to kill yourself, How do I know what you will
heal.

"He gave a sign. Flight yell music of flutes and cymbals. Drauf He
led him affectionately For wonderful addition to Hall, what is
already on golden plates was served up a meal leckres, The cellars
of the imperial was Furnished with the best wine.

The Sultan ate with him alone; The Großvezier and all the Lord Of Rank of
blood and circled the table vollbesetzen from afar had zusehn And
as they dined. 10 [Illustration: N] Desserts From ward at Aladdin
Sultan paternally addressed the question whether it is comfortable,
the wedding soon to vollziehn.

He replied: "Lord, you know, How much I ask for happiness, The Princess
promises to me. However, so I Range According to their wedding soon in
our impeccable rooms A new home might offer her, nor let me for a short
time line. a castle, with each versehn Zier, Do I want to build. way I
drum a decent plot. "Sultan The so:" My son, you have the choice. Here
in front of the palace where, as you see, a empty scene, Where your
palace enough room. Just let it be built as quickly as possible,
because, believe me, I can not wait to see you married. "After the vow
that he is sure the construction will strongly encourage, Participated
Aladdin with solemn farewell hug, climbed on a horse, and trotted through
the streets with the same retinue back to the house, Umbrandet again by
the masses of the people with loud cheering Braus. Daheim barely
arrived, he conjured the spirit again, and said: "Even your previous work
stood With power and speed out. But on the immensely works, Das is now
indispensable to me, I need your full strength.

Thou shalt in the shortest possible time degrees opposite the palace
of the sultan me a proud castle build by the ground floor up to the
roof Flagpole The Sultan's daughter, my wife, despite her very
discerning eye to future habitation fit.

What a rock for the building you want to use, whether of marble blocks,
snow white with fine black veins, Ob jasper, agate whether, glaze,
make the 'I am in your discretion; But thou - this condition "I only
- not forgetting a large hall in the upper floor of the crowned by a
dome, on the walls With gold and silver was embellished.

Also, in order to donate palest light, He twenty-four count window; The
framework was alabaster, The Grid shalt thou with jewels from
bepflastern unmatched brilliance. wohlverwahrten On a square is
also a treasure of gold Gemünzten laid, The for me, my life is
enriched.

Also, I want that one true escape from galleys at the right places,
addition pantries each variety, and stables full of noble breeding.
Ingleichen be inside the castle peopled with an army of servants
and maids .-- All created 'my desire, And if you're ready, come
back .

'When he bade the spirit of this, the evening sun Sank down. On the next
day about Morgenrot Published in the spirit of his bed: "Complete is
what you ordered; review," he said, "whether you like it."

He was wearing pointed him to the site. As Aladdin was very surprised!
There stood, built in one night, a castle, as yet no full half-century
working people have prevailed. He really believed only to dream, As
the Spirit of him in all areas Herumgeleitete.

There was His mission completed, point by point, by far surpassed even
that arch, columns, pillars, arches of the highest beauty, a swarm
from everywhere Dienstbeflissnen; At Silver nativity in the stable
Beautiful cents, foxes, mold, mouth stock of every kind, not sparing
In Küch 'chambers and even verfacht; The treasure in safe custody,
by a faithful Normally guarded, with giant gold-filled bags, heaped,
getürmt up at the ceiling.

After the Aladdin Whole from the ground from prestigious, especially since
too large nor Kuppelsaal, said he, blinded by the splendor, for
the spirit: "I must applaud you, have been met exemplary From you
my desires and my will.

Now only herbeigeschafft A long carpet of damasks From fairylike colors
shimmer; Thou shalt, commanding 'I , from the palace of the Sultan him
to the room, the mistress of this castle wide. Him to be their new
home add hike her foot path. "The spirit in the momentum away, and
anyway that's Aladdin versah, Lag damastne the carpet there. The Spirit
came back without resting And bore him to the house undaunted, degree
than the gates at the palace of the sultan were open. The gatekeeper
wondered much as over there, close to their noses, where yesterday
the empty place And only was overgrown with grass, A miracle
building high and lofty tower you saw in the air.

The message running with Gesumm Buoyed around in the palace, the court
made very stunned faces, and the Großvezier Lief, when he for a while
stier the mysterious spook beglotzt, the Sultan, and said indignantly
"Who is an art piece prides, The experience defies any, is in the
covenant with magic!"

The Sultan gave the answer: "Oh, You must not think the worst. What is
more there, too? A man who so to give the interview, the drum my princely
Vertrau'n chose my husband's daughter, the may well allow the fun, A
castle in one night to bau'n. He gives as the richest man in the world
your just one obvious sign that one with a lot of money equivalent
Virtually everything can be achieved. The building dates back to golden
sources, and if thou seek him as the fruit of magic arts, adding
that Sun is talking to you from the jealousy. "- The Hour, as since
the two discussed, was in her house, the Aladdin's mother made it,
with that state to hold, the slaves whom you donated, and did, after
whose reign your plaster was completed in the near future, from
them to keep the train on its way to the palace .

Aladdin Also, in the father at home allerletztenmal guest, fallow to
rest after a short pause. vielbewährte The magic lamp he picked wisely
with, ascended his nimble horse and rode to his castle Gradaus ramp.
[Illustration: The Sultan sees the Aladdin's Castle] The solemn
Sound Of Joy drums, whistles and trumpets of the mother yell for
reception.

The cause of the uproar does not greatly matter, except that the Kid
became so rapturously engaged in watching the foolery of the Happy
Family that he forgot all about Silver. And since sugar produces thirst,
and Silver had not smelled water since morning, he licked the last sweet
grain from the inside of the nose bag and then walked out of the stall
and the stable and made for the creek--and a horse cannot drink with
a nose bag fastened over his face. All he can do, if he succeeds in
getting his nose into the water, is to drown himself most expeditiously
and completely.

Silver reached the creek unseen, sought the deepest hole and tried to
drink. Since his nose was covered with the bag he could not do so but he
fussed and splashed and thrust his head deeper until the water ran into
the bag from the top. He backed and snorted and strangled, and in a
minute he fell. Fortunately he struggled a little, and in doing so he
slid backward down the bank so that his head was up the slope a and the
water ran out of the bag, which was all that saved him.

He was a dead horse, to all appearances at least, when Slim spied him
and gave a yell to bring every human being on the ranch at a run. The
Kid came with the rest, gave one scream and hid his face in the Little
Doctor's skirts, and trembled so that his mother was more frightened
for him than for the horse, and had Chip carry him to the house where he
could not watch the first-aid efforts of the Happy Family.

They did not say anything, much. By their united strength they pulled
Silver up the bank so that his limp head hung downward. Then they began
to work over him exactly as if he had been a drowned man, except that
they did not, of course, roll him over a barrel. They moved his legs
backward and forward, they kneaded his paunch, they blew into his
nostrils, they felt anxiously for heart-beats. They sweated and gave up
the fight, saying that it was no use. They saw a quiver of the muscles
over the chest and redoubled their efforts, telling one another
hopefully that he was alive, all right. They saw finally a quiver of the
nostrils as well, and one after another they laid palms upon his heart,
felt there a steady beating and proclaimed the fact profanely.

They pulled him then into a more comfortable position where the sun
shone warmly and stood around him in a crude circle and watched for
more pronounced symptoms of recovery, and sent word to the Kid that his
string was going to be all right in a little while.

The information was lost upon the Kid, who wept hysterically in his
Daddy Chip's arms listen to anything they told him. He had seen Silver
stretched out dead, with his back in the edge of the creek and his feet
sprawled at horrible angles, and the sight obsessed him and forbade
comfort. He had killed his string; nothing was clear in his mind save
that, and he screamed with his face hidden from his little world.

The Little Doctor, with anxious eyes and puckered eyebrows, poured
something into a teaspoon and helped Chip fight to get it down the Kid's
throat. And the Kid shrieked and struggled and strangled, as is the way
of kids the world over, and tried to spit out the stuff and couldn't, so
he screamed the louder and held his breath until he was purple, and his
parents were scared stiff. The Old Man hobbled to the door in the midst
of the uproar and asked them acrimoniously why they didn't make that
doggoned Kid stop his howling; and when Chip, his nerves already
strained to the snapping point, told him bluntly to get out and mind
his own business, he hobbled away again muttering anathemas against the
whole outfit.

The Countess rushed in from out of doors and wanted to know what under
the shinin' sun was the matter with that kid, and advised his frantic
parents to throw water in his face. Chip told her exactly what he had
told the Old Man, in exactly the same tone; so the Countess retreated,
declaring that he wouldn't be let to act that way if he was her kid, and
that he was plumb everlastingly spoiled.

The Happy Family heard the disturbance and thought the Kid was being
spanked for the accident, which put every man of them in a fighting
humor toward Chip, the Little Doctor, the Old Man and the whole world.
Pink even meditated going up to the White House to lick Chip--or
at least tell him what he thought of him--and he had plenty of
sympathizers; though they advised him half-heartedly not to buy in to
any family mixup.

It was into this storm centre that Andy Green rode headlong with his own
burden of threatened disaster.


CHAPTER 4. ANDY TAKES A HAND IN THE GAME

Andy Green was a day late in arriving at the Flying U. First he lost
time by leaving the train thirty miles short of the destination marked
on his ticket, and when he did resume his journey on the next train, he
traveled eighty-four miles beyond Dry Lake, which landed him in Great
Falls in the early morning. There, with the caution of a criminal
carefully avoiding a meeting with Miss Hallman, he spent an hour in
poring over a plat of a certain section of Chouteau County, and in
copying certain description of unoccupied land.

He had not slept very well the night before and he looked it. He had
cogitated upon the subject of land speculations and the welfare of his
outfit until his head was one great, dull ache; but he stuck to his
determination to do something to block the game of the Homeseekers'
Syndicate. Just what that something would be he had not yet decided. But
on general principles it seemed wise to learn all he could concerning
the particular tract of land about which Florence Grace Hallman had
talked.

The day was past when range rights might be defended honorably with
rifles and six-shooters and iron nerved men to use them--and I fear
that Andy Green sighed because it was so. Give him the "bunch" and free
swing, and he thought the Homeseekers would lose their enthusiasm before
even the first hot wind blew up from the southwest to wither their
crops. But such measures were not to be thought of; if they fought at
all they must fight with the law behind them--and even Andy's optimism
did not see much hope from the law; none, in fact, since both the law
and the moneyed powers were eager for the coming of homebuilders into
that wide land. All up along the Marias they had built their board
shacks, and back over the benches as far as one could see. There was
nothing to stop them, everything to make their coming easy.

Andy scowled at the plat he was studying, and admitted to himself that
it looked as though the Home Seekers' Syndicate were going to have
things their own way; unless--There he stuck. There must be some
way out; never in his life had he faced a situation which had been
absolutely hopeless; always there had been some chance to win, if a man
only saw it in time and took it. In this case it was the clerk in the
office who pointed the way with an idle remark.

"Going to take up a claim, are you?"

Andy looked up at him with the blank stare of preoccupation, and changed
expression as the question filtered into his brain and fitted somehow
into the puzzle. He grinned, said maybe he would, folded the sheet of
paper filled with what looked like a meaningless jumble of letters
and figures, bought a plat of that township and begged some government
pamphlets, and went out humming a little tune just above a whisper. At
the door he tilted his hat down at an angle over his right eye and took
long, eager steps toward an obscure hotel and his meagre baggage.

There was no train going east until midnight, and he caught that train.
This time he actually got off at Dry Lake, ate a hurried breakfast, got
his horse out of the livery stable and dug up the dust of the lane with
rapid hoof-beats so that he rode all the way to the first hill followed
by a rolling, gray cloud that never quite caught him.

When he rode down the Hog's Back he saw the Happy Family bunched around
some object on the creek-bank, and he heard the hysterical screaming of
the Kid up in the house, and saw the Old Man limping excitedly up and
down the porch. A man less astute than Andy Green would have known that
some thing had happened. He hurried down the last slope, galloped along
the creek-bottom, crossed the ford in a couple of leaps and pulled up
beside the group that surrounded Silver.

"What's been taking place here?" he demanded curiously, skipping the
usual greetings.

"Hell," said the Native Son succinctly, glancing up at him.

"Old Silver looked over the fence into Kingdom Come," Weary enlarged the
statement a little. "Tried to take a drink with a nose bag on. I guess
he'll come through all right."

"What ails the Kid?" Andy demanded, glancing toward the house whence
issued a fresh outburst of shrieks.

The Happy Family looked at one another and then at the White House.

"Aw, some folks hain't got a lick of sense when it comes to kids," Big
Medicine accused gruffly.

"The Kid," Weary explained, "put the nose bag on Silver and then left
the stable door open."

"They ain't--spanking him for it, are they?" Andy demanded
belligerently. "By gracious, how'd a kid know any better? Little bit of
a tad like that--"

"Aw, they don't never spank the Kid!" Slim defended the parents loyally.
"By golly, they's been times when I would-a spanked him, if it'd been
me. Countess says it's plumb ridiculous the way that Kid runs over
'em--rough shod. If he's gittin' spanked now, it's the first time."

"Well," said Andy, looking from one to another and reverting to his own
worry as he swung down from his sweating horse, "there's something worse
than a spanked kid going to happen to this outfit if you fellows don't
get busy and do something. There's a swarm of dry-farmers coming in
on us, with their stock to eat up the grass and their darned fences
shutting off the water--"

"Oh, for the Lord's sake, cut it out!" snapped Pink. "We ain't in the
mood for any of your joshes. We've had about enough excitement for
once."

"Ah, don't be a damn' fool," Andy snapped back. "There's no josh about
it. I've got the whole scheme, just as they framed it up in Minneapolis.
I got to talking with a she-agent on the train, and she gave the whole
snap away; wanted me to go in with her and help land the suckers. I laid
low, and made a sneak to the land office and got a plat of the land, and
all the dope--"

"Get any mail?" Pink interrupted him, in the tone that took no notice
whatever of Andy's ill news.

"Time I was hearing from them spurs I sent for." Andy silently went
through his pockets and produced what mail he had gleaned from the
post-office, and led his horse into the shade of the stable and pulled
off the saddle. Every movement betrayed the fact that he was in the
grip of unpleasant emotions, but to the Happy Family he said not another
word.

The Happy Family did not notice his silence at the time. But afterwards,
when the Kid had stopped crying and Silver had gotten to his feet and
wobbled back to the stable, led by Chip, who explained briefly and
satisfactorily the cause of the uproar at the house, and the boys had
started up to their belated dinner, they began to realize that for a
returned traveler Andy Green was not having much to say.

They asked him about his trip, and received brief answers. Had he been
anyone else they would have wanted to know immediately what was eatin'
on him; but since it was Andy Green who sat frowning at his toes and
smoking his cigarette as though it had no comfort or flavor, the boldest
of them were cautious. For Andy Green, being a young man of vivid
imagination and no conscience whatever, had fooled them too often with
his lies. They waited, and they watched him covertly and a bit puzzled.

Silence and gloom were not boon companions of Andy Green, at any time.
So Weary, having the most charitable nature of any among them, sighed
and yielded the point of silent contention.

"What was all that you started to tell us about the dry-farmers, Andy?"
he asked indulgently.

"All straight goods. But there's no use talking to you bone-heads.
Instead of profit a blank! Prematurely had his anger forever on the miracle
of the lamp Born Together zugeriegelt, And all his art and list would
'him, no one unsealed. So, with himself in argem strife, From
wrath of shame and torture, He's avoided longer to linger, and again
traveled one thousand miles soaring back into where it came from.
3 [Illustration: W] Who portrays Aladdin horror as he was helpless,
like a fink in a bird catcher nets, was entangled by the Zaubrers
Wink !

Pink pointed out amusedly. "He'd fool anybody that didn't know
him, all right."

"And he fools the fellows that do know him, oftener than anybody else,"
added the Native Son negligently. "You're fooled right now if you think
that's all acting. That HOMBRE has got something on his mind."

"Well, by golly, it ain't dry-farmers," Slim asserted boldly.

"If you fellows wouldn't say it was a frame-up between us two, I'd go
after him and find out. But..."

"But as it stands, we'd believe Andy Green a whole lot quicker'n what we
would you," supplemented Big Medicine loudly. "You're dead right there."

"What was it he said about it?" Weary wanted to know. "I wasn't paying
much attention, with the Kid yelling his head off and old Silver gaping
like a sick turkey, and all. What was it about them dryfarmers?"

"He said," piped Pink, "that he'd got next to a scheme to bring a big
bunch of dry-farmers in on this bench up here, with stock that they'd
turn loose on the range. That's what he said. He claims the agent wanted
him to go in on it."

"Mamma!" Weary held a match poised midway between his thigh and his
cigarette while he stared at Pink. "That would be some mixup--if it was
to happen." His sunny blue eyes--that were getting little crow's-feet
at their corners--turned to look after the departing Andy. "Where's the
josh?" he questioned the group.

"The josh is, that he'd like to see us all het up over it, and makin'
war-talks and laying for the pilgrims some dark night with our six-guns,
most likely," retorted Pink, who happened to be in a bad humor because
in ten minutes he was due at a line of post-holes that divided the big
pasture into two unequal parts. "He can't agitate me over anybody's
troubles but my own. Happy, I'll help Bud stretch wire this afternoon if
you'll tamp the rest uh them posts."

"Aw, you stick to your own job! How was it when I wanted you to help
pull the old wire off that hill fence and git it ready to string down
here? You wasn't crazy about workin' with bob wire then, I noticed. You
said--"

"What I said wasn't a commencement to what I'll say again," Pink began
truculently, and so the subject turned effectually from Andy Green.

Weary smoked meditatively while they wrangled, and when the group broke
up for the afternoon's work he went unobtrusively in search of Andy.
He was not quite easy in his mind concerning the alleged joke. He had
looked full at the possibilities of the situation--granting Andy had
told the truth, as he sometimes did--and the possibilities had not
pleased him. He found Andy morosely replacing some broken strands in his
cinch, and he went straight at the mooted question.

Andy looked up from his work and scowled. "This ain't any joke with me,"
he stated grimly. "It's something that's going to put the Flying U
out of business if it ain't stopped before it gets started. I've been
worrying my head off ever since day before yesterday; I ain't in the
humor to take anything off those imitation joshers up there--I'll tell
yuh that much."

"Well, but how do you figure it can be stopped?" Weary sat soberly down
on the oats box and absently watched Andy's expert fingers while they
knotted the heavy cotton cord through the cinch-ring. "We can't stand
'em off with guns."

Andy dropped the cinch and stood up, pushing back his hat and then
pulling it forward into place with the gesture he used when he was very
much in earnest. "No, we can't. But if the bunch is game for it there's
a way to block their play--and the law does all our fighting for us. We
don't have to yeep. It's like this, Weary counting Chip and the Little
Doctor and the Countess there's eleven of us that can use our rights up
here on the bench. I've got it all figured out. If we can get Irish and
Jack Bates to come back and help us out, there's thirteen of us. And
we can take homesteads along the creeks and deserts back on the bench,
and--say, do you know how much land we can corral, the bunch of us? The
silver bowls and plates Bracht 'er this as often as it was time To
goldsmith out that always was ready, the full amount to reimburse
him. Henceforth drum was it easy, convenient and comfortable to live,
but unfortunately, because it never questionable fortunes behind
the fact that envy creeps And you must be careful before envying
people, they avoided despite good drink and good food any pomp in
her house and her clothes and held behind sich'rem This castle the
secret golden Bronnen, The unversiegbar them flowed.

Four years have been so verronnen. At a pretty young man was Aladdin
herangereist, straight and slender as a pine. Bärtchen A tiny, delicately
curved, shoot the edge over his lip, And nobody had more the boor,
once the turmoil in the idle time missed in recognized him. His gaze was
now no longer tarnished by inertia, his mind through serious handling
forces rehearsed on a variety of shops. The man driving a whole,
your work, costumes, fear, hope in every craft, every office Lag
as a book in front of him now open.

He had a lot of traffic maintained in exchange offices, shops and
merchants in his speeches and doing a noble nature increased. Now he
was also from the same customer, not what he once dared to dream: That
all the fiery colored fruits from trees of that garden magic No colored
glass, as he thought, but the delicious gems. He took probably eight,
from fear, you can 'steal him drum, It somebody to tell.

The mother's self-he failed strict. Durchwandelnd one day the streets,
heard he ungewohntermaßen A loud Bumbum and Schnettretteng.

To the sound of drums and trumpets Rief public a herald that you should
close every house and not enter the road more. Bedrulbudur namely
princess, the sultan's daughter, wanted to go today For the bathwater,
and comfortable Saved Gegaff in front of people. Because curiosity
loht doubly fierce, if you encounter a ban, Ward at once by this procedure
in Aladdin awakens the desire, the Sultan's daughter from her uncovered
to maintaining a veil.

He therefore slipped on light soles to the bathroom door and crouched
liable cats then furtively behind a pillar shaft. He had not long
geharrt, as already a large state with women from the princess seam.
They took nothing of his presence merkend, entirely at ease in her
veil from the anteroom, Aladdin And, just three steps Removes,
managed according to your desire to face hüllenlos schaun.

Was also - except for the mother - so far from Him unvermummten Frau'n
no face to come, Sun was a shock he realized that this was the best here.
[Illustration: Aladdin overhears the princess] reduction in rich curls
flood their raft chestnut brown hair to her dark eyes glow Her look
was decent and full of goodness, the softly rounded cheeks, soft
as peach and rose bloom, The lips two coral equal. your growth and
career was without reproach And their lovely shape betrayed in
Reizen tausendfalt Hold bliss combined with nobility.

No wonder drum that Aladdin, After Magnificent disappeared forever as yet
tied And that seemed like magic. Although solidifies to rock and ore
to stir He could not, Could 'He felt like his heart in his chest
knocked audible.

Even when he was last violently Of loszureißen was willing, however,
persecuted him relentlessly on the way to house their images. The
mother's was an easy thing, being completely and utterly changed from
being equal seen him on the forehead. Drobe you wondered, and began to
auszuforschen Him why He so distracted, distraught and silent, whether
he might head to a dispute? An annoyance?

A annoyances? But he, like a hard nut to crack, remained inaccessible
and secretive. Even as the evening on the table from her a braungebratner
rabbit was driven into the nose and the seductive scent penetrated
him, pushed him, the man confessed his increasingly used as Good
eaters, overruling the fork and the knife did not bite And to.

As they noted that at the gates Heut every means was lost, and both
remained silent for the bet. He dreamed awake, sighed deeply, and at
last went to bed; But it is doubtful whether he slept. 5 [Illustration:
A] thing in the morning - at the spinning wheel Saß already anxious wife
fully dimmer thoughts - joined in. And her son sat down opposite her.
"Oh, mother," emphasized he stated "I just forgive my behavior
yesterday; Pardon me, your questions that I owe you the answer remained.
But if you's with me right verübelt, Tonight I want to open dir
gestehn: I can, as far as I nachgegrübelt, Not summarize what happens
to me geschehn.

I'm not sick, but rather had 'the worst pain I felt when this mysterious
fever, That rages inside me and dug. With the name I know not to call and
do not know how one's fixes, but you'll certainly know's, if you
hear what I experienced.

"Plan he gave her exact science, as yesterday at the Sultan Badegang
daughter succeeded him, your face Freed from the background of the veil
to see, And like this picture since that time his heart to come
to knitting invisible to the beautiful fairy.

"In short," said he closed his Schildrung, "No doubt, for my deadly woe
Gibt's no help, no Mildrung, it would be because that immediately
yourself, yes, even heal me from all troubles and complaints; thus taken
my resolution: Princess Bedrulbudur must be forever on the My will!
"The mother, who by their spiders jettisoning listened eagerly, cried
from laughing: "Are you of your senses? Yes, you're so totally
infatuated? impossible to start such a vested Think only fool." "No,
mother," he said, "no, you are mistaken; wusst Although 'I do that
You'll laugh, but my resolve is firm and rigid. And if you say ten,
entglitten Be all my mind, it remains, the Sultan Will I ask his
daughter to hand. "" My son, "the mother began seriously "So that you
learn quite consider how your speech is childish, Answer me: who should
dare Please forward this to him?" "You yourself," cried Aladdin quickly.
"I? God forbid me before! Even the thought makes me tremble! How you
allowed your eyes to a rise upwards Sultan child? Did you forget that a
tailor Bescheidnen rank was your father, all your ancestors
Unfortunately hunger?

And, then ask me, not for our ruler's son nor a prince from niedrem
professional, if he in his home country has no prospect of a throne?
"They preached only deaf ears." Nom's madness, rated 'it Eigensinn, I
have sworn to me once, And nothing shakes me in it. As long as I am
of the sky under construction Not krachend buries its own expense,
werd 'ich nicht ruhn and rest, until the princess my wife.

Yes, if you do not want to die miserable sehn on heut'gen day, then
you must, kost 'what it may be, in my name to advertise it.

"[Illustration: A herald proclaims the Middle of the princess] The mother
was very embarrassed. him to renounce his plan to move by persuasion,
Schien hopelessly in such folly. Again, she tried it with kindness: "God
knows that for my poor part, I am all the time to get your salvation
with all my strength trying. vollbrächt For you" I the worst case,
the worst act of suitable driving; For verily, their child's sake
Does a mother joyfully everything.

Yes, if you liked a girl, neither too posh nor too rich, non-line
würd 'ich, but you pave your way to the goals, in your name to
frei'n And you my blessing verleihn.

But take just coincidence that I'll do your will, daring before the Sultan
träte With such frevelnden seekers - Würd 'I vorgelassen überhaupt?
Würd' immediately after a failure to charge me in the arms And hold
me carry out the door? Take However, it's that I succeeded, through
all the pleading crowd to the Sultan himself nah'n me, And he who
has mercy for all, heat's also his last subject, allow me to speak
freely - How then implying "I request your ?

What is a merit you own? Can I use your name to show in honor of any book?
Can you by a seltne performance, through a forbearance vielgerühmte
art give the nerve to be at this highest flehn favor? And it should
be bear in mind that one must appear before the sultan was not without a
precious gift.

You yourself will hardly vermeinen, find it in your Have A jewel of so
noble sheen, That I can offer is' a gift of the Lord of the greatest
country in the morning. "" Oh, if I grade Consider this, "Staggered
Aladdin calmly," Then me new courage verliehn.

I would have nothing to Sultan Presents For a good enough? correctly 'but
you pretty things, The dazumal I took with me, When I finstrem mouth of
the cave had escaped with skin, And my lack of experience colored
glasses for viewing.

Längst but was revelation to me; Lernt 'I by the jewelers but the
difference from wrong and real.

Juwelen are not too bad, To a crown to adorn By auserlesne color 'and be
kind, I can promise you, the Sultan, if he respected them, violence
in the eyes sting, he apparently overflowing of grace.

"The Magic Fruit Nutshell Participated in total he made the ark, What
to Today, they rested, and ordered them carefully in a beautiful old
vase, the base of his mother a birthday settings on your behalf. Yes
indeed, common Glase Kam Lautrer this fire no more now with the Gefunkel
you blinded by daylight in the evening as half-darkness.

After the sublime sheen to the two long geletzt, Aladdin picked the word.
"What now?

Sag ', mother, you still doubt that my gift from the Sultan estimates?
You become so competitive' I, in the palace with this gift well
received.

Say, what objection you have, you refuse To me my request? "Although
'it is not convincing, however, because he asked for wild and
wild, So they knew no advice as reluctant to bend." Well, my son's
because you ask, Will I venture to take me, Will defying my heart I'm
scared about the heavy gear easy.

Just do not give me the guilt, if it later entquillt a disaster Born,
And if we just anger the Lord punished as a malefactor. "" Why not
equal the worst believe?

"replied the son of her Fair. "And if 'he really zürnend snort, then
certainly helps me further my happiness.

The lamp, which has been in years On request soaks us profusely and feeds,
Will I continue to be in danger as assisted send their minds." So wusst
'He also extremely handily their last resistance with all kinds
of reasons to break And it declared itself prepared to vorzusprechen
When Sultan tomorrow, If it's in the field of possibility. 6
[Illustration: V] Before a loud impatience aroused Even before day,
in the Dämmerschein Son of the mother, and she put yourself in her
party dress into it.

The vase, filled to the brim with jewels, was in the linen from her
carefully wrapped up, a fine white cloth on the inside, as a coarser
coat, apparently, after the four Knotted ends with skillful hands,
the gift was as a bundle.

It made so uneasy after the palace on the way and degree as they arrived
there, Ward opened the Torgeheg '. first went inside the Großvezier
In other high dignitaries, lackeys, Reisig and hunters; Behind urged,
almost numberless, In a dense swarm of all the people of the ruler
at the Diwan Top calculated today, the bounty from a beam above
Abzugewinnen.

So, to half and half pushed, they came to the wide, bright hall ,
What is the Diwan was held.

There sat the Sultan in person, Umwogt folds of his purple, your opposite
on the throne, The Großvezier at his side, then, his pursuit of
Winks, A very impressive escort of government officials the right
and left.

Whoever in turn called to analyze stages of the throne, presented his
petition, the established language to justify a sentence, receives
notice and must 'admit hinwieder the neighbor's place.

The mother was still a long' is not truth, but before they are legally
bethought, Diwan passed the short hour. The prince stood up,
fired the number of Harrenden and progressive in the league with his
court from the floor. The swarm went, and they went in vain as another
Bemühn, post house, where they greatly disappointed with the son and
mißgestimmt received. His displeasure was not hidden, but she felt free
of guilt, gently urged him to patience and gave her word that she
would tomorrow from a new hingehn .-- What agony!

The poor boy was sitting on coals. After fruitless They had seven attempts
yet again, always with the same history: They came and saw the
sultan enthroned, the right to speak, to warn and reward, And again
he broke on to it before the series was.

So there would probably unabwendlich you change date by day, a full year
Maintained, it would not last the gaze of the ruler noticed because
no petition in your hand you will always be by all the rearmost
throne grad response.

So, when the Divan was ended on the seventh day and it is precisely in
his zurückbegeben chamber, he became the voice turned Großvezier:
"for some time Remarks' I know, how every day when I think sitting,
compared to my throne Expect up an old.

She wears what is in a cloth is beaten And so until the end still.
Kannst you tell me what she wants? "" Probably they want to complain,
"replied the Großvezier." You know yes, Lord, how often women suffering
a minor before thee with great verbiage again chew.

Maybe you have too little flour on your market weighed, maybe they
cheated during the change. "The Sultan gave him command it, you nächstesmal
his condition. And really, next day, immediately after we opened the door,
they patiently stand there again.

The sultan waved before the meeting, as he saw them the Großvezier, and
that the Supreme nodded To watch out.

The flight of the mother gave a sign with him to go, then bade the
Front, in her soft, And they brought up to the throne. They threw it -
because this seemed due after your general practice - Vorm Sultan down
to the abdomen, the ground with their foreheads touching.

But he ordered her aufzustehn And said: "Good woman, every day Hab 'ich
dich since there motionless near the entrance waiting sehn. What is
to say that you begehrst?

" They threw himself down again, and only breathed before excitation
hoarse: "Before, sublime and Mr. Kaiser, the cause of me you know me The
steps led to this, the humility Hear full Please, That my incredible
desire mercy You forgive in advance; Because I pass almost before
trepidation. Appears yes but my task even myself too brash. "The Sultan,
for their courage to make Ließ moment the whole bunch of people
by removing the guards and asked the court to take him with the
woman alone to leave; back remained the only Großvezier.

"You can," said he then spoke to her, "now safely take you a heart. Whatever
your desire is to teach you, it's anticipated, to pledge my word,
forgiveness.

So speak freely! "Since the dissolved band The Mother Tongue. Without
weitre Scheubeck Reported wahrheit they stray, By what secret
adventures Of Aladdin his daughter, your son, genaht how violently
it since eating wild fire; how honest they are under his strained
him cool, but as he possessed a passion for this course pushed.

Only his threat that he die, if not hand it to their advertising, but The
indeed compared with him, no less far unattainable in the firmament as
a star, Be it finally falteringly diminished.

The Sultan, not outraged yet mockingly said The question, after he listened
quietly, "What in the cloth they wear verhüllt. Immediately they took the
set as desired the gift of the Son, and presented before the foot
of the throne, the fully loaded vessel.

The rulers of the colorful slips Dazzled, mentioned in the dream And
hardly believe his eyes when the sight of all the precious stones, so
great and magnificent, as yet no time of his life his compatriots, and
in consideration Saß he absorbed quite a while without sound. But then
he cried joyfully drunk: "How beautiful, how delicious! As completed,
"Did any one in his hand and said, turned to Großvezier:" Tell ',
whether in my whole country in all countries of this earth It was
like A complete ever found?

"with applause giving gesture Was this Großvezier him, What he continued:
"Do you want to say that I am a man of this kind can be a gift,
not without many 'me to remember the son-election can?"

The Großvezier was very affected by this word. For years now would allow
him the sultan hoped he would his own son with the princess marry once.
He said his ear drum him softly: "Yes, Lord, I can not deny that this
gift of the highest prices, the Sultan's daughter is worthy of ;
But give me three months period.

My son, the former for you to determine your husband have the honor,
Ensures this gift in the shade by one of two rich value. "That seemed
the Sultan a Flause; But he gave his request, Because he was his favorite,
and said to mother-friendly: "Go home to your son and meld 'him this:
The application, which he pointed out, had I not returned, three
months are needed but, eh' husband to someone I give my child, To
geziemend device. After this time come back. "The mother went back home,
And this time their limbs quivered faintheartedness Not before, no
luck before. 7 [Illustration: W] Who would have put into words
summarize, How blessed our young hero, after he ordered the mother,
"What the Sultan notify him leave!

O joy, that after a long thirst, after many nights without sleep, the
message from the mouth of the prince surpassed his wildest hope! He
danced around in the room, swore in the fiery effusions of gratitude
on Mother And always overwhelmed them with kisses. Three complete month
were admittedly as vorgeschriebne waiting for his endless yearning far.
It was therefore certainly forgiven him that the objective expectation
And he constantly tormented by clock Not weeks, days, hours only, but
also counted the minutes .-- had expired two months, one morning when the
mother is unaware of what to buy, went to the market.

A loud Getos' The cheerfulness Schollmeier her, as if 'a celebration
approaching, With wreaths of flowers for Ward hurry home for house
decorated, and lights were a hundred times on high ladders
Hinaufgereicht For glory lights on the roof.

Honest to grandma, if Andy's lyin' it's goin' to be
the prof't'blest lie HE ever told, er anybody else. I don't care a cuss
about whether them dry-farmers is fixin' to light here or not. That
there land-pool looks good to ME, and I'm comin' in on it with all four
feet!"

Big Medicine was nothing less than a human land slide when once he threw
himself into anything, be it a fight or a frolic. Now he blocked the
way to the door with his broad shoulders and his big bellow and his
enthusiasm, and his pale, frog-like eyes fixed their protruding stare
accusingly upon the reluctant ones.

"Cal, you git up there and git that plat and bring it here," he ordered.
"And fer criminy sakes git that table cleared off, Patsy, so's't we kin
have a place to lay it! What's eatin' on you fellers, standin' around
like girls to a party, waitin' fer somebody to come up and ast you to
dance! Ain't you got head enough to see what a cinch we got, if we only
got sense enough to play it! Honest to grandma you make me sick to look
at yuh! Down in Conconino County the boys wouldn't stand back and wait
to be purty-pleased into a thing like this. You're so scared Andy's got
a josh covered up somewheres, you wouldn't take a drink uh whisky if he
ast yuh up to the bar! You'd pass up a Chris'mas turkey, by cripes, if
yuh seen Andy washin' his face and lookin' hungry! You'd--"

What further reproach he would have heaped upon them was interrupted by
Chip, who opened the door just then and bumped Big Medicine in the back.
In his hand Chip carried the land plat and the pamphlets, and in his
keen, brown eyes he carried the light of battle for his outfit. The eyes
of Andy Green sent bright glances from him to Big Medicine, and on
to the others. He was too wise then to twit those others with their
unbelief. His wisdom went farther than that; for he remained very
much in the background of the conversation and contented himself with
answering, briefly and truthfully, the questions they put to him about
Florence Grace Hallman and the things she had so foolishly divulged
concerning her plans.

Chip spread the plat upon an end of the table hastily and effectually
cleared by a sweep of Big Medicine's arm, and the Happy Family crowded
close to stare down at the checker-board picture of their own familiar
bench land. They did not doubt, now--nor did they Hang back reluctantly.
Instead they followed eagerly the trail Chip's cigarette-yellowed finger
took across the map, and they listened intently to what he said about
that trail.

The clause about grazing the land, he said, simplified matters a whole
lot. It was a cinch you couldn't turn loose and dry-farm that land and
have even a fair chance of reaping a harvest. But as grazing land they
could hold all the land along One Man Creek--and that was a lot. And the
land lying back of that, and higher up toward the foothills, they
could take as desert. And he maintained that Andy had been right in
his judgment: If they all went into it and pulled together they
could stretch a line of claims that would protect the Badland grazing
effectually.

"I wouldn't ask you fellows to go into this," said Chip, straightening
from his stooping over the map and looking from one sober face to
another, "just to help the outfit. But it'll be a good thing for you
boys. It'll give you a foothold--something better than wages, if you
stay with your claims and prove up. Of course, I can't say anything
about us buying out your claims--that's fraud, according to Hoyle;
but you ain't simple-minded--you know your land won't be begging for a
buyer, in case you should ever want to sell.

"There's another thing. This will not only head off the dry-farmers
from overstocking what little range is left--it'll make a dead-line for
sheep, too. We've been letting 'em graze back and forth on the bench
back here beyond our leased land, and not saying much, so long as they
didn't crowd up too close, and kept going. With all our claims under
fence, do you realize what that'll mean for the grass?"

"Josephine! There's feed for considerable stock, right over there on our
claims, to say nothing of what we'll cover," exclaimed Pink.

"I'd tell a man! And if we get water on the desert claims--" Chip
grinned down at him. "See what we've been passing up, all this time.
We've had some of it leased, of course--but that can't be done again.
There's been some wire-pulling, and because we ain't politicians we got
turned down when the Old Man wanted to renew the lease. I can see now
why it was, maybe. This dry-farm business had something to do with it,
if you ask me."

"Gee whiz! And here we've been calling Andy a liar," sighed Cal Emmett.

"Aw, jest because he happened to tell the truth once, don't cut no ice,"
Happy Jack maintained with sufficient ambiguity to avert the natural
consequences.

"Of course, it won't be any gold-mine," Chip added dispassionately.
"But it's worth picking up, all right; and if it'll keep out a bunch
of tight-fisted settlers that don't give a darn for anything but what's
inside their own fence, that's worth a lot, too."

"Say, my dad's a farmer," Pink declared defiantly in his soft treble.
"And while I think of it, them eastern farmers ain't so worse--not the
brand I've seen, anyway. They're narrow, maybe--but they're human.
Damn it, you fellows have got to quit talking about 'em as if they were
blackleg stock or grasshoppers or something."

"We ain't saying nothing aginst farmers AS farmers, Little One" Big
Medicine explained forebearingly. "As men, and as women, and as kids,
they're mighty nice folks. My folks have got an eighty-acre farm in
Wisconsin," he confessed unexpectedly, "and I think a pile of 'em. But
if they was to come out here, trying to horn in on our range, I'd lead
'em gently to the railroad, by cripes, and tell 'em goodbye so's't
they'd know I meant it! Can't yuh see the difference?" he bawled,
goggling at Pink with misleading savageness in his ugly face.

"Oh, I see," Pink admitted mildly. "I only just wanted to remind you
fellows that I don't mean anything personal and I don't want you to.
Say, what about One Man Coulee?" he asked suddenly. "That's marked
vacant on the map. I always thought--"

"Sure, you did!" Chip grinned at him wisely, "because we used it for
a line camp, you thought we owned a deed to it. Well, we don't. We had
that land leased, is all."

"Say, by golly, I'll file on that, then," Slim declared selfishly. For
One Man coulee, although a place of gruesome history, was also desirable
for one or two reasons. There was wood, for instance, and water, and a
cabin that was habitable. There was also a fence on the place, a corral
and a small stable. "If Happy's ghost don't git to playin' music too
much," he added with his heavy-handed wit.

"No, sir! You ain't going to have One Man coulee unless Andy, here, says
he don't want it!" shouted Big Medicine. "I leave it to Chip if Andy
hadn't oughta have first pick. He's the feller that's put us onto this,
by cripes, and he's the feller that's going to pick his claim first."

Chip did not need to sanction that assertion. The whole Happy Family
agreed unanimously that it should be so, except Slim, who yielded a bit
unwillingly.

Till midnight and after, they bent heads over the plat and made plans
for the future and took no thought whatever of the difficulties that
might lie before them. For the coming colony they had no pity, and
for the balked schemes of the Homeseekers' Syndicate no compunctions
whatever.

So Andy Green, having seen his stratagem well on the way to success,
and feeling once more the well-earned confidence of his fellows, slept
soundly that night in his own bed, serenely sure of the future.


CHAPTER 6. THE FIRST BLOW IN THE FIGHT

Letters went speeding to Irish and Jack Bates, absent members of the
Happy Family of the Flying U; letters that explained the situation with
profane completeness, set forth briefly the plan of the proposed pool,
and which importuned them to come home or make haste to the nearest
land-office and file upon certain quarter-sections therein minutely
described. Those men who would be easiest believed wrote and signed
the letters, and certain others added characteristic postscripts best
calculated to bring results.

After that, the Happy Family debated upon the boldness of going in
a body to Great Falls to file upon their claims, or the caution of
proceeding instead to Glasgow where the next nearest land-office might
be found. Slim and Happy Jack favored caution and Glasgow. The others
sneered at their timidity, as they were wont to do.

"Yuh think Florence Grace Hallman is going to stand guard with a
six-gun?" Andy challenged at last. "She's tied up till her colony gets
there. She can't file on all that land herself, can she?" He smiled
reminiscently. "The lady asked me to come up to the Falls and see her,"
he said softly. "I'm going. The rest of you can take the same train, I
reckon--she won't stop you from it, and I won't. And who's to stop you
from filing? The land's there, open for settlement. At least it was
open, day before yesterday."

"Well, by golly, the sooner we go the better," Slim declared fussily.
"That fencin' kin wait. We gotta go and git back before Chip wants to
start out the wagons, too."

"Listen here, hombres," called the Native Son from the window, where
he had been studying the well-thumbed pamphlet containing the homestead
law. "If we want to play dead safe on this, we all better quit the
outfit before we go. Call for our time. I don't like the way some of
this stuff reads."

"I don't like the way none of it reads," grumbled Happy Jack. "I betche
we can't make it go; they's some ketch to it. We'll never git a patent.
I'll betche anything yuh like."

"Well, pull out of the game, then!" snapped Andy Green, whose nerves
were beginning to feel the strain put upon them.

"I ain't in it yet," said Happy Jack sourly, and banged the door shut
upon his departure.

Andy scowled and returned to studying the map. Finally he reached for
his hat and gloves in the manner of one who has definitely made up his
mind to some thing.

"Well, the rest of you can do as you darned please," he delivered his
ultimatum from the doorway. "I'm going to catch up my horse, draw a
month's wages and hit the trail. I can catch the evening train to
the Falls, easy, and be ready to file on my chunk first thing in the
morning."

"Ain't in any rush, are yuh?" Pink inquired facetiously. "If I had my
dinner settled and this cigarette smoked, I might go along--provided you
don't take the trail with yuh."

"Hold on, boys, and listen to this," the Native Son called out
imperatively. "I think we better get a move on, too; but we want to get
a fair running start, and not fall over this hump. Listen here! We've
got to swear that it is not for the benefit of any other person, persons
or corporation, and so on; and farther along it says we must not act
in collusion with any person, persons or corporation, to give them the
benefit of the land. There's more of the same kind, too, but you see--"

"Well, who's acting in collusion? What's collusion mean anyhow?" Slim
demanded aggressively.

"It means what we're aiming to do--if anybody could prove it on us,"
explained the Native Son. "My oldest brother's a lawyer, and I caught
some of it from him. And my expert, legal advice is this: to get into a
row with the Old Man, maybe--anyway, quit him cold, so we get our time.
We must let that fact percolate the alleged brains of Dry Lake and
vicinity--and if we give any reason for taking claims right under the
nose of the Flying U, why, we're doing it to spite the Old Man. Sabe?
Otherwise we're going to have trouble--unless that colony scheme is just
a pipe dream of Andy's."

The Happy Family had learned to respect the opinions of the Native Son,
whose mixture of Irish blood with good Castilian may have had something
to do with his astuteness. Once, as you may have heard, the Native Son
even scored in a battle of wits with Andy Green, and scored heavily.
And he had helped Andy pull the Flying U out of an extremely ticklish
situation, by his keen wit saving the outfit much trouble and money.
Wherefore they heeded now his warning to the extent of unsmilingly
discussing the obstacle he had pointed out to them. One after another
they read the paragraph which they had before passed over too hastily,
and sensed the possibilities of its construction. Afterward they went
into serious consultation as to ways and means, calling Happy Jack back
so that he might understand thoroughly what must be done. For the Happy
Family was nothing if not thorough, and their partisanship that had been
growing insensibly stronger through the years was roused as it had not
been since Dunk Whittaker drove sheep in upon the Flying U.

The Old Man, having eaten a slice of roast pork the size of his two
hands, in defiance of his sister's professional prohibition of the
indulgence, was sitting on the sunny side of the porch trying to ignore
the first uneasy symptoms of indigestion. The Little Doctor had taken
his pipe away from him that morning, and had badgered him into taking
a certain decoction whose taste lingered bitterly. The paper he was
reading was four days old and he disagreed with its political policy,
and there was no telling when anyone would have time to go in after the
mail and his favorite paper. Ranch work was growing heavier each year in
proportion to the lightening of range work. He was going to sow another
twenty acres of alfalfa, and to do that he must cut down the size of his
pasture--something that always went against the grain. He had not been
able to renew his lease of government land,--which also went against the
grain. And the Kid, like the last affliction which the Lord sent unto
Job--I've forgotten whether that was boils or the butchery of his
offspring--came loping down the length of the porch and kicked the Old
Man's bunion with a stubby boot-toe.

Thus was born the psychological moment when the treachery of the Happy
Family would cut deepest.

They came, bunched and talking low-voiced together with hatbrims hiding
shamed eyes, a type-true group of workers bearing a grievance. Not a man
was absent--the Happy Family saw to that! Even Patsy, big and sloppy and
bearing with him stale kitchen odors, limped stolidly in the rear beside
Slim, who looked guilty as though he had been strangling somebody's
favorite cat.

The Old Man, bent head-foremost over his growing paunch that he might
caress his outraged bunion, glared at them with belligerent curiosity
from under his graying eyebrows. The group came on and stopped short
at the steps--and I don't suppose the Happy Family will ever look such
sneaks again whatever crime they may commit. The Old Man straightened
with a grunt of pain because of his lame back, and waited. Which made it
all the harder for the Happy Family, especially for Andy Green who had
been chosen spokesman--for his sins perhaps.

"We'd like our time," blurted Andy after an unpleasant silence, and
fixed his eyes frigidly upon the lowest rung of the Old Man's chair.

"Oh, you would, hunh? The whole bunch of yuh?" The Old Man eyed them
incredulously.

"Yes, the whole bunch of us. We're going to quit."

The Old Man's jaw dropped a little, but his eyes didn't waver from
their Hangdog faces. "Well, I never coaxed a man to stay yet," he stated
grimly, "and I'm gittin' too old in the business to start coaxin' now.
Dell!" He turned stiffly in his chair so that he faced the open door.
"Bring me my time and check books outa the desk!"

A gray hardness came slowly to the Old Man's face while he waited, his
seamed hands gripping the padded arms of his chair. A tightness pulled
at his lips behind the grizzled whiskers. It never occurred to him now
that the Happy Family might be perpetrating one of their jokes. He had
looked at their faces, you see. They meant to quit him--quit him cold
just as spring work was beginning. They were ashamed of themselves,
of course; they had a right to be ashamed, he thought bitterly. It
hurt--hurt so that he would have died before he would ask for excuse,
reason, grievance, explanation--for whatever motive impelled them. So he
waited, and he gripped the arms of his chair, and he clamped his mouth
shut and did not speak a word.

The Happy Family had expected him to swear at them stormily; to accuse
them of vile things; to call them such names as his memory could seize
upon or his ingenuity invent. They had been careful to prepare a list of
plausible reasons for leaving then. They had first invented a gold
rumor that they hoped would sound convincing, but Andy had insisted upon
telling him straightforwardly that they did not favor fence-building and
ditch-digging and such back-breaking toil; that they were range men
and they demanded range work or none; that if they must dig ditches and
build fences and perform like menial tasks, they preferred doing it
for themselves. "That," said Andy, "makes us out such dirty, low-down
sons-of-guns we'd have to climb a tree to look a snake in the eye, but
it's got the grain of truth that'll make it go down. We DON'T love this
farming graft, and the Old Man knows it. He's heard us kicking often
enough. That's where it'll git him. He'll believe this last stretch of
fence is what made us throw him down, and he'll be so mad he'll cuss us
out till the neighbors'll think the smoke's a prairie fire. We'll get
our time, all right' and the things he'll say will likely make us so
hot we can all talk convincing when we hit town. Keep a stiff upper lip,
boys. We got to do it, and he'll make us mad, so it won't be as hard as
you imagine."

The theory was good, and revealed a knowledge of human nature that
made one cease to wonder why Andy was a prince of convincing liars. The
theory was good--nothing in the world was the matter with it, except
that in this particular instance it did not work. The Old Man did not
ask for their reasons, excuses or explanations. Neither did he say
anything or do anything to make them mad. He just sat there, with his
face gray and hard, and said nothing at all.

The Little Doctor appeared with the required books and a fountain pen;
saw the Happy Family standing there like condemned men at the steps;
saw the Old Man's face, and trembled wide-eyed upon the verge of speech.
Then she decided that this was no time for questioning and hurried,
still wide of eye, away from sight of them. The Happy Family did not
look at one another--they looked chiefly at the wall of the house.

The Old Man reckoned the wages due each one, and wrote a check for the
exact amount. And he spoke no word that did not intimately concern the
matter in hand. He still had that gray, hard look in his face that froze
whatever explanation they would otherwise have volunteered. And when
he handed the last man--who was Patsy--his check, he got up stiffly and
turned his back on them, and went inside and closed the door while yet
they lingered, waiting to explain.

At the bunk-house, whence they walked silently, Slim turned suddenly
upon their leader. His red face had gone a sallow white, and the whites
of his eyes were veined with red.

"If that there land business falls down anywhere because you lied to us,
Andy Green' I'll kill you fer this" he stated flatly.

"If it Does, Slim, I'll stand and let yuh shoot me as full of lead as
you like," Andy promised, in much the same tone. Then he strove to shake
off the spell of the Old Man's stricken silence. "Buck up, boys. He'll
thank us for what we aim to do--when he knows all about it."

"Well, it seems to me," sighed Weary lugubriously, "we mighta managed it
without hitting the Old Man a wallop in the back, like that."

"How'n hell did I know he'd take it the way he did?" Andy questioned
sharply, and began throwing his personal belongings into his "war-bag"
as if he had a grudge against his own clothes.

"Aw, looks to me like he was glad to git shet of us!" grumbled Happy
Jack. "I betche he's more tickled than sorry, right now."

It was an exceedingly unhappy Family that rode up the Hog's Back upon
their private mounts, and away from the Flying U; in spite of Chip's
assurance that he would tell the Old Man all about it as soon as he
could, it was an ill-humored Family that rode into Dry Lake and cashed
their several checks at the desk of the General store which also did
an informal banking business, and afterwards took the train for Great
Falls.

The news spread through the town that old J. G. Whitmore had fired the
Happy Family in a bunch for some unforgivable crime against the peace
and dignity of the outfit, and that the boys were hatching up some
scheme to get even. From the gossip that was rolled relishfully upon the
tongues of the Dry Lake scandal lovers, the Happy Family must have been
more than sufficiently convincing.


CHAPTER 7. THE COMING OF THE COLONY

If you would see northern Montana at its most beautiful best, you should
see it in mid-May when the ground-swallows are nesting and the meadow
larks are puffing their throats and singing of their sweet ecstasy
with life; when curlews go sailing low over the green, grassy billows,
peering and perking with long bills thrust rapier-wise through the sunny
stillness, and calling shrilly, "Cor-r-ECK, cor-r-eck!"--which, I take
it, is simply their opinion of world and weather given tersely in plain
English. You should see the high prairies then, when all the world
is a-shimmer with green velvet brocaded brightly in blue and pink and
yellow flower-patterns; when the heat waves go quivering up to meet the
sun, so that the far horizons wave like painted drop-scenes stirred by a
breeze; when a hypnotic spell of peace and bright promises is woven over
the rangeland--you should see it then, if you would love it with a sweet
unreason that will last you through all the years to come.

The homeseekers' Syndicate, as represented by Florence Grace
Hallman--she of the wheat-yellow hair and the tempting red lips and the
narrow, calculating eyes and stubborn chin--did well to wait for the
spell of the prairies when the wind flowers and the lupines blue the
hillsides and the new grass paints green the hollows.

There is in us all a deep-rooted instinct to create, and never is that
instinct so nearly dominant as in the spring when the grass and the
flowers and the little, new leaves and the birds all sing the song of
Creation together. Then is when case-hardened city dwellers study the
bright array of seed-packets in the stores, and meditate rashly upon
the possibilities of back-yard gardening. Then is when the seasoned
country-dwellers walk over their farms in the sunset and plan largely
for harvest time. Then is when the salaried-folk read avidly the
real-estate advertisements, and pore optimistically over folders and
dream of chicken ranches and fruit ranches and the like. Surely, then,
the homeseekers' Syndicate planned well the date of their excursion into
the land of large promise (and problematical fulfillment) which lay east
of Dry Lake.

Rumors of the excursion seeped through the channels of gossip and set
the town talking and chuckling and speculating--after the manner of very
small towns.

Rumors grew to definite though erroneous statements of what was to take
place. Definite statements became certified facts that bore fruit in
detailed arrangements.

Came Florence Grace Hallman smilingly from Great Falls, to canvass the
town for "accommodations." Florence Grace Hallman was a capable woman
and a persuasive one, though perhaps a shade too much inclined to take
certain things for granted--such as Andy's anchored interest in her and
her project, and the probability of the tract remaining just as it had
been when last she went carefully over the plat in the land office.
Florence Grace Hallman had been busy arranging the details of the coming
of the colony, and she had neglected to visit the land office
lately. Since she cannily represented the excursion as being merely a
sight-seeing trip--or some such innocuous project--she failed also to
receive any inkling of recent settlements.

On a certain sunny morning in mid-May, the Happy Family stood upon the
depot platform and waited for the westbound passenger, that had attached
to it the special car of the homeseekers' Syndicate. The Happy Family
had been very busy during the past three weeks. They had taken all the
land they could, and had sighed because they could still look from their
claims upon pinnacles as yet unclaimed save by the government. They had
done well. From the south line of Meeker's land in the very foothills
of the Bear Paws, to the north line of the Flying U, the chain of
newly-filed claims remained unbroken. It had taken some careful work
upon the part of the Happy Family to do this and still choose land
not absolutely worthless except from a scenic viewpoint. But they had
managed it, with some bickering and a good deal of maneuvering. Also
they had hauled loads of lumber from Dry Lake, wherewith to build their
monotonously modest ten-by-twelve shacks with one door and one
window apiece and a round hole in the roof big enough for a length of
stove-pipe to thrust itself aggressively into the open and say by its
smoke signal whether the owner was at home. And now, having heard of the
mysterious excursion due that day, they had come to see just what would
take place.

"She's fifteen minutes late," the agent volunteered, thrusting his head
through the open window. "Looking for friends, boys?"

"Andy is," Pink informed him cheerfully. "The rest of us are just
hanging around through sympathy. It's his girl coming."

"Well, I guess he thinks he needs a housekeeper now," the agent grinned.
"Why don't you fellows get busy now and rustle some cooks?"

"Girls don't like to cook over a camp-fire," Cal Emmett told him
soberly. "We kinda thought we ought to build our shacks first."

"You can pick you out some when the train gets in," said the agent,
accepting a match from Weary. "There's a carload of--" He pulled in his
head hurriedly and laid supple fingers on the telegraph key to answer a
call, and the Happy Family moved down to the other end of the platform
where there was more shade.

The agent presently appeared pushing the truck of outgoing express,
a cheap trunk and a basket "telescope" belonging to one of the hotel
girls--who had quit her job and was sitting now inside waiting for
the train and seeing what she could of the Flying U boys through the
window--and the mail sack. He placed the truck where the baggage car
would come to a halt, stood for a minute looking down the track where a
smudge of smoke might at any moment be expected to show itself over the
low ridge of a hill, glanced at the lazy group in the patch of shade and
went back into the office.

"There's her smoke," Cal Emmett announced in the midst of an apathetic
silence.

Weary looked up from whittling a notch in the end of a platform plank
and closed his jack-knife languidly.

Andy pushed his hat backward and then tilted it forward over one eyebrow
and threw away his cigarette.

"Wonder if Florence Grace will be riding point on the bunch?" he
speculated aloud. "If she is, I'm liable to have my hands full. Florence
Grace will sure be sore when she finds out how I got into the game."

"Aw, I betche there ain't no such a person," said Happy Jack, doubter to
the last.

"I wish there wasn't," sighed Andy. "Florence Grace is kinda getting
on my nerves. If I done what I feel like doing, I'd crawl under the
platform and size up the layout through a crack. Honest to gracious,
Boys, I hate to meet that lady."

They grinned at him heartlessly and stared at the black smudge that was
rolling toward them. "She's sure hittin' her up," Pink vouchsafed with a
certain tenseness of tone. That train was not as ordinary trains; dimly
they felt that it was relentlessly bringing them trouble, perhaps;
certainly a problem--unless the homeseekers hovered only so long as
it took them to see that wisdom lay in looking elsewhere for a home.
Still--

"If this was August instead of May, I wouldn't worry none about them
pilgrims staying long," Jack Bates voiced the thought that was uppermost
in their minds.

"There comes two livery rigs to haul 'em to the hotel," Pink pointed out
as he glanced toward town. "And there's another one. Johnny told me every
room they've got is spoke for, and two in every bed."

"That wouldn't take no crowd," Happy Jack grumbled, remembering the
limitations of Dry Lake's hotel. "Here come Chip and the missus. Wonder
what they want?"

The Little Doctor left Chip to get their tickets and walked quickly
toward them.

"Hello, boys! Waiting for someone, or just going somewhere?"

"Waiting. Same to you, Mrs. Chip," Weary replied.

"To me? Well, we're going up to make our filings. Claude won't take a
homestead, because we'll have to stay on at the Flying U, of course, and
we couldn't hold one. But we'll both file desert claims. J. G. hasn't
been a bit well, and I didn't dare leave him before--and of course
Claude wouldn't go till I did. That the passenger coming, or a freight?"

"It's the train--with the dry-farmers," Andy informed her with a glance
at the nearing smoke-smudge.

"Is it? We aren't any too soon then, are we? I left Son at home--and he
threatened to run away and live with you boys. I almost wish I'd brought
him along. He's been perfectly awful. So have the men Claude hired to
take your places, if you want to know, boys. I believe that is what
made J. G. sick--having those strange men on the place. He's been like a
bear."

"Didn't Chip tell him--"

"He did, yes. He told him right away, that evening. But--J. G. has such
stubborn ideas. We couldn't make him believe that anyone would be crazy
enough to take up that land and try to make a living farming it. He--"
She looked sidewise at Andy and pursed her lips to Keep from smiling.

"He thinks I lied about it, I suppose," said that young man shrewdly.

"That's what he says. He pretends that you boys meant to quit, and just
thought that up for an excuse. He'll be all right--you mustn't pay any
attention--"

"Here she comes!"

A black nose thrust through a Deep cut that had a curve to it. At their
feet the rails began to hum. The Little Doctor turned hastily to see if
Chip were coming. The agent came out with a handful of papers and stood
waiting with the rest. Stragglers moved quickly, and the discharged
waitress appeared and made eyes covertly at Pink, whom she considered
the handsomest one of the lot.

The train slid up, slowed and stopped. Two coaches beyond the platform a
worried porter descended and placed the box-step for landing passengers,
and waited. From that particular coach began presently to emerge a
fluttering, exclaiming stream of humanity--at first mostly feminine.
They hovered there upon the cindery path and lifted their faces to watch
for others yet to come, and the babble of their voices could be, heard
above the engine sounds.

The Happy Family looked dumbly at one another and drew back closer to
the depot wall.

"Aw, I knowed there was some ketch to it!" blurted Happy Jack with
dismal satisfaction. "That there ain't no colony--It's nothin' but a
bunch of schoolma'ams!"

"That lady ridin' point is the lady herself," Andy murmured, edging
behind Weary and Pink as the flutter came closer. "That's Florence Grace
Hallman, boys."

"Well, by golly, git out and speak your little piece, then!" muttered
Slim, and gave Andy an unexpected push that sent him staggering out into
the open just as the leaders were coming up.

"Why, how de do, Mr. Green!" cried the blonde leader of the flock. "This
is an unexpected pleasure, I'm sure."

"Yes ma'am, it is," Andy assented mildly, with an eye cocked sidewise in
search of the guilty man.

The blonde leader paused, her flock coming to a fluttering, staring
stand behind her. The nostrils of the astonished Happy Family caught a
mingled odor of travel luncheons and perfume.

"Well, where have you been, Mr. Green? Why didn't you come and see me?"
demanded Florence, Grace Hallman in the tone of one who has a right
to ask leading questions. Her cool, brown, calculating eyes went
appraisingly over the Happy Family while she spoke.

"I've been right around here, all the time," Andy gave meek account of
himself. "I've been busy."

"Oh. Did you go over the tract, Mr. Green?" she lowered her voice.

"Yes-s--I went over it."

"And what do you think of it--privately?"

"Privately--it's pretty big." Andy sighed. The bigness of that tract had
worried the Happy Family a good deal.

"Well, the bigger the better. You see I've got 'em started." She
flicked a glance backward at her waiting colony. "You men are perfectly
exasperating! Why didn't you tell me where you were and what you were
doing?" She looked up at him with charming disapproval. "I feel like
shaking you! I could have made good use of you, Mr. Green."

"I was making pretty good use of myself," Andy explained, and wished he
knew who gave him that surreptitious kick on the ankle. Did the chump
want an introduction? Well! In that case--

"Miss Hallman, if you don't mind I'd like to introduce some men I
rounded up and brought here," he began before the Happy Family could
move out of the danger zone of his imagination. "Representative
citizens, you see. You can sic your bunch onto 'em and get a lot of
information. This is Mr. Weary Davidson, Miss Hallman: He's a hayseed
that lives out that way and he talks spuds better than anything else.
And here's Slim--I don't know his right name--he raises hogs to a
fare-you-well. And this is Percy Perkins"--meaning Pink--"and he's
another successful dryfarmer. Goats is his trade. He's got a lot of 'em.
And Mr. Jack Bates, he raises peanuts--or he's trying 'em this year--and
has contracts to supply the local market. Mr. Happy Jack is our local
undertaker. He wants to sell out if he can, because nobody ever dies
in this country and that makes business slow. He's thinking some of
starting a duck-ranch. This man"--indicating Big Medicine--"has got
the finest looking crop of volunteer wild oats in the country. He knows
all about 'em. Mr. Emmett, here, can put you wise to cabbage-heads;
that's his specialty. And Mr. Miguel Rapponi is up here from Old Mexico
looking for a favorable location for an extensive rubber plantation. The
natural advantages here are simply great for rubber.

"I've gone to some trouble gathering this bunch together for you, Miss
Hallman. I don't reckon you knew there was that many dry-farmers in the
country. They've all got ranches of their own, and the prettiest folders
you ever sent under a four-cent stamp can't come up to what these men
can tell you. Your bunch won't have to listen to one man, only--here's
half a dozen ready and waiting to talk."

Miss Hallman was impressed. A few of the closest homeseekers she
beckoned and introduced to the perspiring Happy Family--mostly feminine
homeseekers, of whom there were a dozen or so. The men whom the hotel
had sent down with rigs waited impatiently, and the unintroduced male
colonists stared at the low rim of Lonesome Prairie and wondered if over
there lay their future prosperity.

When the Happy Family finally made their escape, red-faced and muttering
threats, Andy Green had disappeared, and no one knew when he went or
where. He was not in Rusty Brown's place when the Happy Family went to
that haven and washed down their wrongs in beer. Pink made a hurried
trip to the livery stable and reported that Andy's horse was gone.

They were wondering among themselves whether he would have the nerve to
go home and await their coming--home at this stage of the game meaning
One Man coulee, which Andy had taken as a homestead and desert claim and
where the Happy Family camped together until such time as their claim
shacks were habitable. Some thought that he was hiding in town, and
advised a thorough search before they took to their horses. The Native
Son--he of mixed Irish and Spanish blood--told them with languid
certainty that Andy was headed straight for the camp because he would
figure that in camp was where they would least expect to find him.

The opinions of the Native Son were usually worth adopting. In this
case, however, it brought them into the street at the very moment when
Florence Grace Hallman and two homeseekers had ventured from the hotel
in search of them. Slim and Jack Bates and Cal Emmett saw them in time
and shied across the street and into the new barber shop where they sat
themselves down and demanded unnecessary hair-cuts and a shampoo apiece,
and spied upon their unfortunate fellows through the window while they
waited; but the others met the women fairly since it was too late to
turn back without making themselves ridiculous.

"I was wondering," began Miss Hallman in her brisk, business tone,
"if some of you gentlemen could not help us out in the matter of
conveyances. I have made arrangements for most of my guests, but we
simply can't squeeze another one into the rigs I have engaged--and I've
engaged every vehicle in town except a wheelbarrow I saw in the back
yard of the hotel."

"How many are left out?" asked Weary, since no one else showed any
symptoms of speech.

"Oh, not many, thank goodness. Just us three here. You've met Miss
Allen, Mr. Davidson--and Miss Price. And so have you other gentlemen,
because I introduced you at the depot. I went blandly ahead and told
everybody just which rig they were to ride in, and put three in a seat,
at that, and in counting noses I forgot to count our own--"

"I really don't see how she managed to overlook mine," sighed Miss
Allen, laying a dainty, gloved finger upon a nose that had the tiniest
possible tilt to it. "Nobody ever overlooked my nose before; it's almost
worth walking to the tract."

Irish, standing close beside Weary and looking enough like him to be
a twin instead of a mere cousin, smiled down at her with traitorous
admiration. Miss Allen's nose was a nice nose, and above it twinkled a
pair of warm brown eyes with humorous little wrinkles, around them; and
still above them fluffed a kinky-curly mass of brown hair. Weary looked
at her also, but he did not smile, because she looked a little like his
own schoolma'am, Miss Ruty Satterly--and the resemblance hurt a sore
place in his heart.

"--So if any of you gentlemen could possibly take us out to the tract,
we'd be eternally grateful, besides keeping our independence intact with
the usual payment. Could you help us out?"

"We all came in on horseback," Weary stated with a gentle firmness that
was intended to kill their hopes as painlessly as possible.

"Wouldn't there be room on behind?" asked Miss Allen with hope still
alive and flourishing.

"Lots of room," Weary assured her. "More room than you could possibly
use."

"But isn't there any kind of a rig that you could buy, beg, borrow or
steal?" Miss Hallman insisted. "These girls came from Wisconsin to take
up claims, and I've promised to see that they get the best there is
to be had. They are hustlers, if I know what the word means. I have a
couple of claims in mind, that I want them to see--and that's why
we three hung back till the rest were all arranged for. I had a rig
promised that I was depending on, and at the last minute discovered it
was not to be had. Some doctor from Havre came and got it for a trip
into the hills. There's no use talking; we just must get out to the
tract as soon as the others do--a little sooner wouldn't hurt. Couldn't
you think of some way?"

"We'll try," Irish promised rashly, his eyes tying to meet Miss Allen's
and succeeding admirably.

"What has become of Mr. Green?" Miss Hallman demanded after she had
thanked Irish with a smile for the qualified encouragement.

"We don't know," Weary answered mildly. "We were trying to locate him
ourselves."

"Oh, were you? He seems a rather uncertain young man. I rather counted
on his assistance; he promised--"

"Mr. Irish has thought of a rig he can use, Miss Hallman," said the
Allen girl suddenly. "He's going to drive us out himself. Let's hurry
and get ready, so we can start ahead of the others. How many minutes
will it take you, Mr. Irish, to have that team here, for us?"

Irish turned red. He HAD thought of a rig, and he had thought of driving
them himself, but he could not imagine how Miss Allen could possibly;
have known his thoughts. Then and there he knew who would occupy the
other half of the front seat, in case he did really drive the team he
had in mind.

"I told you she's a hustler," laughed Miss Hallman. "She'll be raising
bigger crops than you men--give her a year to get started. Well, girls,
come on, then."

They turned abruptly away, and Irish was left to his accounting with the
Happy Family. He had not denied the thoughts and intentions imputed to
him by the twinkling-eyed Miss Allen. They walked on toward the livery
stable--where was manifested an unwonted activity--waiting for Irish to
clear himself; which he did not do.

"You going to drive them women out there?" Pink demanded after an
impatient silence.

"Why not? Somebody'll have to."

"What team are you going to use!" asked Jack Bates.

"Chip's" Irish did not glance around, but kept striding down the middle
of the road with his hands stuck deep in his pockets.

"Don't you think you need help, amigo?" the Native Son insinuated
craftily. "You can't talk to three girls at once; I could be hired to go
along and take one off your hands. That should help some."

"Like hell you will!" Irish retorted with characteristic bluntness. Then
he added cautiously, "Which one?"

"That old girl with the blue eyes should not be permitted to annoy the
driver," drawled the Native Son. "Also, Florence Grace might want some
intelligent person to talk to."

"Well, I got my opinion of any man that'll throw in with that bunch,"
Pink declared hotly. "Why don't you fellows keep your own side the
fence. What if they are women farmers? They can do just as much
harm--and a darn sight more. You make me sick."

"Let 'em go," Weary advised calmly. "They'll be a lot sicker when the
ladies discover what they've helped do to that bench-land. Come on,
boys--let's pull out, away from all these lunatics. I hate to see them
get stung, but I don't see what we can do about it--only, if they come
around asking me what I think of that land, I'm going to tell 'em."

"And then they'll ask you why you took claims up there, and you'll
tell 'em that, too--will you?" The Native Son turned and smiled at him
ironically.

That was it. They could not tell the truth without harming their own
cause. They could not do anything except stand aside and see the thing
through to whatever end fate might decree. They thought that Irish and
the Native Son were foolish to take Chip's team and drive those women
fifteen miles or so that they might seize upon land much better left
alone; but that was the business of Irish and the Native Son, who did
not ask for the approval of the Happy Family before doing anything they
wanted to do.

The Happy Family saddled and rode back to the claims, gravely discussing
the potentialities of the future. Since they rode slowly while they
talked, they were presently overtaken by a swirl of dust, behind which
came the matched browns which were the Flying U's crack driving team,
bearing Irish and Miss Allen of the twinkling eyes upon the front seat
of a two seated spring-wagon that had seen far better days than this.
Native Son helped to crowd the back seat uncomfortably, and waved a hand
with reprehensible cheerfulness as they went rattling past.

The Happy Family stared after them with frowning disapproval, and Weary
turned in the saddle and looked ruefully at his fellows.

"Things won't ever be the same around here," he predicted soberly.
"There goes the beginning of the end of the Flying U, boys--and we ain't
big enough to stop it."


CHAPTER 8. FLORENCE GRACE HALLMAN SPEAKS PLAINLY

Andy Green rode thoughtfully up the trail from his cabin in One Man
coulee, his hat tilted to the south to shield his face from the climbing
sun, his eyes fixed absently upon the yellow soil of the hillside. Andy
was facing a problem that concerned the whole Happy Family--and the
Flying U as well. He wanted Weary's opinion, and Miguel Rapponi's, and
Pink's--when it came to that, he wanted the opinion of them all.

Thus far the boys had been wholly occupied with getting their shacks
built and in rustling cooking outfits and getting themselves settled
upon their claims with an air of convincing permanency. Also they had
watched with keen interest--which was something more vital than mere
curiosity--developments where the homeseekers were concerned, and had
not given very much thought to their next step, except in a purely
general way.

They all recognized the fact that, with all these new settlers buzzing
around hunting claims where there was some promise of making things
grow, they would have to sit very tight indeed upon their own land if
they would avoid trouble with "jumpers." Not all the homeseekers were
women. There were men, plenty of them; a few of them were wholly lacking
in experience it is true, but perhaps the more greedy for land because
of their ignorance. The old farmers had looked askance at the high, dry
prairie land, where even drinking water must be hauled in barrels
from some deep-set creek whose shallow gurgling would probably cease
altogether when the dry season came on the heels of June. The old
farmers had asked questions that implied doubt. They had wanted to know
about sub-soil, and average rainfall, and late frosts, and markets. The
profusely illustrated folders that used blue print for emphasis here and
there, seemed no longer to satisfy them.

The Happy Family did not worry much about the old farmers who knew the
game, but there were town men who had come to see the fulfillment of
their dreams; who had burned their bridges, some of them, and would
suffer much before they would turn back to face the ridicule of their
friends and the disheartening task of getting; a fresh foothold in the
wage-market. These the Happy Family knew for incipient enemies once
the struggle for existence was fairly begun. And there were the
women--daring rivals of the men in their fight for independence--who
had dreamed dreams and raised up ideals for which they would fight
tenaciously. The Sultan cried, "You Strolch, surely excuse your boys
piece! I will be glad to abandon the castle, however, give me my child
back! Otherwise let my word to you, despite your head herunterschlagen,
as if a block of pine." Lord, a period of forty days, Grant to me! "
Aladdin asked. "I should be 'I fall short Verlornes wiederzuerringen,
Mich. entziehn not my punishment." The Sultan said: "Well, let's, I want
you this time vergönnen. but you would at any price can escape the
Rächerarm . sorry, with their main Schlich Aladdin as ejected from
away, and the same sizes, at whose friendship he believed yesterday to
have him followed the foot to bend before him, avoids today returned
his greeting and unloving him back .

What could 'he do? Where to turn? He ran in confused and curly head,
around the town from house to house, from door to door to all ends
Durchwandernd without having to understand, in what intention, asked
each abgeriss'nen wrong with speeches, whether anyone gesehn his palace.
Gar yet some have been affected by, others laughed him out again,
presumably because they thought it was not true in mind.

After he was so tired look with three days herumgeschlendert, Will 'in the
city, where his skill bejammernswert be changed, he no longer dwell, but
without a plan trollte Getting out into the field. Unendlich stood before
him to the world; only aware 'it is not where it should. "Woe to me I
was so bettelarm That my sad lot curse! "So he cried out in bittrem
Harm." If I were the earth and through perseverance pilgrim every year,
Where to find 'my lover again? Far better that the eyelids Death closes
on me forever!

"He approached And like a river ', in order to shorten his agony, to
engage in decision despairing over head into the waves crash. It was
around sunset, the fire ball with flashing Schien last farewell to him
the wave. A jerk, a start - and he jumped. The shore at this point was
particularly steep, and its rim surrounded a bare rock band in rough
rugged Gefallen, apparently of Springer of life on a hang And rocks
that ring on the finger, he still wore, it is rubbed. That was his
luck because alsobald As the water vapor condenses, stand erect before
him mightily same spirit form Schreck, Der once it appeared in the tomb,
And cried: "I am a servant of the ring. I stop to is your right; Sag ',
thus I can you serve? "[Illustration: The Spirit leads Aladdin to Africa]
Top Aladdin:" O Spirit, For the second time save me from death and
bring 'before the morning loht, My Castle back to the old site,
"The spirit moved" This bid is not compatible with my reign.

I serve only the ring. You have to keep the spirit of the lamp. ""
Well probably, but if you know where my castle is currently located,
"Aladdin voice," commanding "I you force this ring, which binds thee:
Befördre me immediately Gradaus from here to his new place! "Hardly
was the sentence pronounced, as it was boosted after the giant Africa,
at that place, Where now the middle of a meadow, the building stood, and
He sat there sänftlich down on the grass. While it remained hidden
from Aladdin, that he arrived in the interior of Africa was, but he
recovered from all the tortures, all the worries, as he well-known
construction Despite dark night in the star shimmer maintained, even
sealing the room before seeing the apartment of his wife to serve,
and they slept there probably already firmly and deeply. Aufsehn to noise
and to avoid violence, he held back, How's it was hard, so close to
happiness until tomorrow morning to be modest.

He stretched, from the long torment exhausted, under a palm tree from
the slumber, and the stalks of grass gently rocked him. 14
[Illustration: E] awakened from sweet bird songs he Hob with gestählten
limbs from camp early, and steered From longing for his joy was his
first look at the building, it seemed like the new gift. The Princess,
who with grief and a thousand fears night after night in all of the time
found little slumber, was awakened. But who describes her Bliss, since
before the window in the beam of sun aufgegangnen just witnessed her
husband lives in bodily form! first hundred times they alternated
Kußhände, greetings Flüsterworte, then slipped through a small gate,
he furtively into their chamber. understood that the Neuvereinten Of
herzten to in the exuberance umschlungen were endlessly long and wept
hot tears of joy in their reunion intoxication. Recently, however, broke
the affection exchange Holden Significantly Aladdin and said: "Forgive
me, my beloved wife, I have to, eh, we sue each other, what we experienced
in these days, especially after you remain inconspicuous The lamp ask
the while I hunting pulled the Saale was in a locker. "" Ah, "sighed
she," was only mildly, I was so deceived himself. forebodes me a
long time that we reached her this blow.

"top Aladdin:" Since they do I am foolish to do so, lay the blame on
me. But now, we better consider what the injury heals. So tell me
where they hingeraten. "As soon as they notified to him, he cried:"
Now I smell the roast! the dealer kenn 'I! This scoundrel, Ever heard
wollt' er destroy me. "They went to it to report how imperceptibly at
night through the air kidnapped morning upon awakening here in
this foreign country findings, called Africa, and how the guy with
a cheeky smile as her Lord Castle presented.

Zornesfunken Top Aladdin with the eye: "Such Erzhalunken Has never seen
the world. Say, you do not maybe know where he keeps hidden the lamp?"
She replied: "Well maintaining Could I, under the dress that he concealed
them consistently in your pocket. Since I'm here, he comes every day
to visit some time and submit it to establish myself unbearably Ekler
With homage to torture. Yes, even more, he called for bold I would
choose him for the husband, because you no longer alive seist. My
father did to you in anger, the head can herunterschlagen. This song, he
always began from the front, although I fervently declared him to
hate.

The Met him vain delusion that I have to resist the duration of failure,
when the sadness around you gradually dismissed. So hab 'ich always
before his cunning and his wickedness gezittert Until today, when
you're with me. "" He should, "Aladdin cried bitterly," What andres
bloom than he thinks. Be comforted only! from this evil, nefarious,
full confining enemy Werd 'ich hopefully redeem ourselves. What happens,
trust me with confidence to the decision, And you'll see later I come
back in disguise, is not amazed.

"Once he leaves his palace walls, he went across and met in a palm
grove after a short Wandrung a farmer. He asked this after the way to
next town, and whether his dress to go with him he was ready. The
farmer was not slow, for this His costume of stranger stuff schäbig
effort Aladdin And after he gently Geschlüpft was in the old pieces,
step on the path he beschriebnen City preclude came in.

And wonders' in a grocer, a certain Pülverlein Whether to have it. The
Merchants' nodded, said just because the buyer's patched garb of a
proof of poverty seemed, the high price. But when the stranger does not
misplace a piece of gold pulled from the bag, Bracht 'er the powder
and it weighed a lot from him.

On Kam same routes back to the castle Aladdin And said to his wife:
"Listen! needed for my Wagestück Is your advice to me. I implore you
drum, you must follow my advice!

Throw yourself into your beautiful state, Schmücke 'with you and jewelery
tighteners, To the kidnapper if he is approaching, with a warmer greeting
receive. To avoid any suspicion beirrt him, suppose you, as if you
forget me, When you's still so sour, And Lad 'him to dinner. As soon as
he with thee cheekier comfort in sitting at table, let him kredenzen a
cup filled with wine, in this mischievous Before you powder dispersed,
and ask him politely for you to honor him in a train auszuleeren. From
this request, he is delighted the wine hinuntertrinken And lifeless on
the floor to fall, Before the draft, he still regretted it.

"If this game is also quite insidious Your occurred, so she promised
that you will do what is necessary. He hid for the rest of the day
in a remote wing of the castle. When the distant hill, the twilight
with her gray tissue slowly overarching, Rief Bedrulbudur their wives,
with whose assistance they began Asc Wonderful to decorate. Full of
care was a wonderful dress, and to your delight Adorned with flickering
smoothness. Your belt, their tighteners were even as the frost in their
hair tightly filled with diamonds, And around his neck, the necklace
- Welch still so great princess would have been happy with their
estimated?

She looked after the cleaning was completed, your image in a mirror and
thought to themselves: "Where a man lives, the not so much charm dazzled
in front of me had to stretch their arms?" She rose to this Kuppelsaal
gallery, which has a meal for the table stood with two people.
They had not long 'geharrt, As the time for the usual hour The
Zaubrer From occurred and solidifies so much jewelry in rich league
with so much beauty stopped.

They hold progressively blessed him, as if his visit to her love, and
did, as if only seinetwegen It is so tempting and beautifully
dressed.

Hesitantly, he took the place, still no word powerful. "Friend, you should
be the opposite in my mood to wonder," she smiled, "To hear, like
I am now no longer grieve.

Because of my father that my husband's Grimm dead, which thou hast convinced
me. Put also that I tiefgebeugt With Heart wounds incurable Lament want
'to him constantly, but he would no longer alive. I give' his
Grabesrast And because my ankles broke, I am determined to to
comfort me, And when you invite me to guest.

"[Illustration: Aladdin gets the magic lamp back] The Zaubrer formed
exulting in, had won the game, was already in the spirit of the objective
of the wildest desire, And thanked faltering continued with her on
the table. How tempting it to him now their eyes are raised, since it
seemed to him no doubt, she had looked at him vergafft and want to get
engaged with him. An abundant meal was applied, and a slave varied
wine.

Even donated the princess that poured unobservable without Zagen The
powder in score cup And said: "Wilt thou joyful courage Prepare,
then as wackrer carouser drinking 'on my vine Well this is blood!"

"Yes, you love, you dear, That at thy well-being and our federal
government! "So he called hochbeglückt and emptied from the cup to the
bottom.

After a short wheeze last he fell unconscious from behind. brought by
a servant Kam Aladdin herbeigelaufen. umschlang As Bedrulbudur him, he
said:" Embark to your room, because some still remains for me to do so,
but you succeeded in this.

"After they are removed, he lost no time. He tore the dress at the
corpse, pulled the wonderful rich Stolen lamp out of it, had the
picture entseelte Jammer Fort creation of two strong servants out into
the night Gefilde So the vultures his memory, if it's lust after dining,
then Berief in the usual manner and the spirit said: "Bring 'My Castle
immediately to his old job!" not yet completed was the Word, as already
in the spirit winds Fast With almost imperceptible enforcement The
building was through the air. 15 [Illustration: D] The Sultan of up
To infinity now his daughter is gegrämt, War before Verwundrung as
paralyzed as the morning wide and representational, Returned to the
old place to him, The Castle herübergrüßte. The sight gave him for serving
affliction ample replacement. He had a horse to saddle, trotted back to
the castle, had to speed to his many children and their lacking
tenderness erlabte his father's heart.

Then wollt 'er know what unfortunate chaining you were suddenly snatched
from him, and what their life circumstance is to thank. With scant
strokes Narrated by the terrible Black artists, by the magic power to
the castle at night abducted; How shameful of the depressed you already
believed him to be tempted, until her husband is a success, list
to list him obzusiegen.

My father was so happy And when Aladdin now also add to the room was, as
he put it on his chest and said, "here below If you are exposed to the
mistake. Forgive me, if Übereilung, My son, I blindly hurt you. You
broke my test pain healing, By me my child free And they have guarded
against disgrace, thanks to 'I give you for all time. "- Celebrations
in the whole country was the return of the young pair. verdüsterte your
luck no shade. But not the last test's, the two had to exist. Zaubrer The
fact that a life possessed of great tenacity, War of the powder, when
the vultures The Fraß it passed, in reality only been stunned, by his
apparent awoken the next day and soon recovered. He vowed And of Racheglut
sparked vollgepfropft with poison and venom, he wanted to retaliate
against non-stop enthusiasm and fürder not rust, and drums for the third
he began ringing over hill and valley, the trip to the Far East.
After a whole year of walking difficulty, hardship and danger
Hardly arrived in the capital, he was a new trick to keep in Umschau
term.

He heard it from a pious, elderly miracle perpetrator narrative, which
was Fatime And with simply sublime sense of silent prayer left in a
hermitage abgeschiednen. Through alleys, the he described it Schlich to
her little home With a dark night like a thief, in their urge to poor
room, awoke with the raw shaking terrified, held a dagger to her and
said: "Thou shalt entseelt once pale, Will you not my rule after!
"You have to 'leave him her clothes as well as the veil and hood, the
addition consecrated rosary.

Although the robber they showed very submissive, yes, even helpful to
the robbery the hand he offered, he Stach precaution dead in front of a
mirror then Schor away the beard of the cutthroat, threw himself into
his victim's clothes, and when the sun rose up, he disguises on
the street.

The one said to another: "Look, there goes hand in hand, the pious woman,"
And a large crowd surrounded him fully rings And thanks feeling followed,
blessing hegend wishes, according to him in the castle area .- - When the
princess, the throng, From Kuppelsaal herunterlugend, sentiment
and bargain learned that all of these colorful people of the track
Fatime folge whose virtue and holiness have long known her as the
subject of worship And as the example of pious morality, since they
thought that their gezieme, The woman is heraufzubitten.

The supposed Fatime came a messenger, to bring them. The Zaubrer, not on
his victory more doubting, smiled furtively, as he with her erstieg the
hall, And caught after he entered, with Such fervor in praying that the
princess bowed full obeisance. Since the worst They are adjusted with
raised voice, And just behind veils glattgeschorenes showed his face,
Detected 'And it does not Bedrulbudur said "Leave me the favor lust Fatime
that because you are constantly on our stove and good religious
teachings to give me change. "The abgefeimte Tückebold Stated like
agree, That it was what he wanted!"

A quiet room is available in the castle, "was the princess continued
faithful in their emphasis," And worship your responsibility you
will, without interference. Only but may you be honest Gestehn me how
you like the castle. "The Zaubrer had to answer.

"Is hardly its equal in the world, And yet, despite the waste of
space And the tastes of the color choice, depresses me that in this
room still lacking something to complete."

"What is it?" Seemingly on their insistence replied the villain:
'Forgive', from this dome must 'a bird's egg Des Roch hang. "She asked,
where you probably would. Zaubrer The drauf:" Is this big Gewaltig
Roch and only nests on precipitous peaks mountain walls. "She thanked
the Council and led the wrong saint, still unsuspecting, in their
own rooms.

[Illustration: Aladdin slay the magician disguised] To back room, the
princess felt now, at the Angel of Zaubrers severally, that lack
, The ever they perceived .-- As Aladdin a ride home from her coming
forward progressively, so it was strange uneasy that he asked about
the reason.

You need 'him to reveal their desires, And he, when he wants it known,
Gab her his word, to meet him. He went immediately into his chamber And
she rubbed lamp, which was now locked in a tray sure. When the spirit
soared, he said: "You turn to hurry, command 'ich dir. There is no us The
room still an egg of the bird Roch. Here's to me within three minutes!
"Hardly was the word entflohn, as the Spirit began to be so terrible
thunder, For schrei'n to whimper and moan, that listening to him
and passed And Sehn trembling, he fell to the ground.

"miserable," roared the giant, with a clatter, "the margin you have to
thank me for my labor to the torture? bids, I will be on my swing as
a ceiling decoration for his room you bring my own father?

Be happy if not my thunder blast you and your castle turns into ashes.
I know about your luck, you have not made yourself so you acted. Your
mortal enemy the moment in your guest.
And fate played them a scurvy trick
in spite of their caution, for just as they rode down the Hog's Back and
across the ford, Florence Grace Hallman rode away from the White House
and met them fairly at the stable.

Florence Grace smiled a peculiar smile as she went past them. A smile
that promised she would not forget; a smile that told them how sure
she felt of having caught them fairly. With the smile went a chilly,
supercilious bow that was worse than a direct cut, and which the Happy
Family returned doubtfully, not at all sure of the rules governing
warfare with a woman.


CHAPTER 9. THE HAPPY FAMILY BUYS A BUNCH OF CATTLE

With the Kid riding gleefully upon Weary's shoulder they trooped up the
path their own feet had helped wear deep to the bunk-house. They looked
in at the open door and snorted at the cheerlessness of the place.

"Why don't you come back here and stay?" the Kid demanded. "I was going
to sleep down here with you--and now Doctor Dell won't let me. These
hobees are no good. They're damn' bone-head. Daddy Chip says so. I wish
you'd come back, so I can sleep with you. One man's named Ole and he's
got a funny eye that looks at the other one all the time. I wish you'd
come back."

The Happy Family wished the same thing, but they did not say so. Instead
they told the Kid to ask his mother if he couldn't come and visit them
in their new shacks, and promised indulgences that would have shocked
the Little Doctor had she heard them. So they went on to the house,
where the Old Man sat on the porch looking madder than when they had
left him three weeks before.

"Why don't yuh run them nesters outa the country?" he demanded peevishly
when they were close enough for speech. "Here they come and accuse me
to my face of trying to defraud the gov'ment. Doggone you boys, what
you think you're up to, anyway? What's three or four thousand acres when
they're swarming in here like flies to a butcherin'? They can't make a
living--serve 'em right. What you doggone rowdies want now?"

Not a cordial welcome, that--if they went no deeper than his words. But
there was the old twinkle back of the querulousness in the Old Man's
eyes, and the old pucker of the lips behind his grizzled whiskers.
"You've got that doggone Kid broke to foller yuh so we can't keep him
on the ranch no more," he added fretfully. "Tried to run away twice,
on Silver. Chip had to go round him up. Found him last time pretty near
over to Antelope coulee, hittin' the high places for town. Might as well
take yuh back, I guess, and save time running after the Kid."

"We've got to hold down our claims," Weary minded him regretfully. In
three weeks, he could see a difference the Old Man, and the change hurt
him.

Lines were deeper drawn, and the kind old eyes were a shade more sunken.

"What's that amount to?" grumbled the Old Man, looking from one to the
other under his graying eye brows. "You can't stop them dry-farmers from
taking the country. Yuh might as well try to dip the Missouri dry with a
bucket. They'll flood the country with stock--"

"No, they won't," put in Big Medicine, impatient for the real meat of
their errand. "By cripes, we got a scheme to beat that--you tell 'im,
Weary."

"We want to buy a bunch of cattle from you," Weary said obediently. "We
want to graze our claims, instead of trying to crop the land. We haven't
any fence up, so we'll have to range-herd our stock, of course. I--don't
hardly think any nester stock will get by us, J. G. And seeing our land
runs straight through from Meeker's line fence to yours, we kinda think
we've got the nesters pretty well corralled. They're welcome to the
range between Antelope coulee and Dry Lake, far as we're concerned. Soon
as we can afford it," he added tranquilly, "we'll stretch a fence along
our west line that'll hold all the darn milkcows they've a mind to ship
out here."

"Huh!" The Old Man studied them quizzically, his chin on his chest.

"How many yuh want?" he asked abruptly.

"All you'll sell us. We want to give mortgages, with the stock for
security."

"Oh, yuh do, ay? What if I have to foreclose on yuh?" The pucker of his
lips grew more pronounced. "Where do you git off at, then?"

"Well, we kinda thought we could fix it up to save part of the increase
outa the wreck, anyway."

"Oh. That's it ay?" He studied them another minute. "You'll want all my
best cows, too, I reckon--all that grade stock I shipped in last spring.
Ay?"

"We wouldn't mind," grinned Weary, glancing at the others roosting at
ease along the edge of the porch.

"Think you could handle five-hundred head--the pick uh the bunch?"

"Sure, we could! We'd rather split 'em up amongst us, though--let every
fellow buy so many. We can throw in together on the herding."

"Think you can keep the milk-cows between you and Dry Lake, ay?" The Old
Man chuckled--the first little chuckle since the Happy Family left him
so unceremoniously three weeks before. "How about that, Pink?"

"Why, I think we can," chirped Pink cheerfully.

"Huh! Well, you're the toughest bunch, take yuh up one side and down
the other, I ever seen keep onta jail--I guess maybe you can do it. But
lemme tell you boys something--and I want you to remember it: You don't
want to git the idea in your heads you're going to have any snap; you
ain't. If I know B from a bull's foot, you've got your work cut out for
yuh. I've been keeping cases pretty close on this dry-farm craze, and
this stampede for claims. Folks are land crazy. They've got the idea
that a few acres of land is going to make 'em free and independent--and
it don't matter much what the land is, or where it is. So long as it's
land, and they can git it from the government for next to nothing,
they're satisfied. And yuh want to remember that. Yuh don't want to take
it for granted they're going to take a look at your deadline and back
up. If they ship in stock, they're going to see to it that stock don't
starve. You'll have to hold off men and women that's making their last
stand, some of 'em, for a home of their own. They ain't going to give
up if they can help it. You get a man with his back agin the wall, and
he'll fight till he drops. I don't need to tell yuh that."

The Happy Family listened to him soberly, their eyes staring broodily at
the picture he conjured.

"Well, by golly, we're makin' our last stand, too," Slim blurted with
his customary unexpectedness. "Our back's agin the wall right now. If we
can't hold 'em back from takin' what little range is left, this outfit's
going under. We got to hold 'em, by golly, er there won't be no more
Flying U."

"Well," said Andy Green quietly, "that's all right. We're going to hold
'em."

The Old Man lifted his bent head and looked from one to another. Pride
shone in his eyes, that had lately stared resentment. "Yuh know, don't
yuh, the biggest club they can use?" He leaned forward a little, his
lips working under his beard.

"Sure, we know. We'll look out for that." Weary smiled hearteningly.

"We want a good lawyer to draw up those mortgages," put in the Native
Son lazily. "And we'll pay eight per cent. interest."

"Doggonedest crazy bunch ever I struck," grumbled the Old Man with
grateful insincerity. "What you fellers don't think of, there ain't any
use in mentioning. Oh, Dell! Bring out that jug Blake sent me! Doggoned
thirsty bunch out here--won't stir a foot till they sample that wine!
Got to get rid of 'em somehow--they claim to be full uh business as
a jack rabbit is of fleas! When yuh want to git out and round up them
cows? Wagon's over on Dry creek som'ers--or ought to be. Yuh might take
your soogans and ride ove' there tomorrow or next day and ketch 'em.
I'll write a note to Chip and tell 'im what's to be done. And while
you're pickin' your bunch you can draw wages just the same as ever, and
help them double-dutch blisterin' milk-fed pilgrims with the calf crop."

"We'll sure do that," promised Weary for the bunch. "We can start in the
morning, all right."

"Take a taste uh this wine. None of your tobacco-juice stuff; this comes
straight from Fresno. Senator Blake sent it the other day. Fill up that
glass, Dell! What yuh want to be so doggone stingy fer? Think this bunch
uh freaks are going to stand for that? They can't git the taste outa
less'n a pint. This ain't any doggone liver-tonic like you dope out."

The Little Doctor smiled understandingly and filled their glasses with
the precious wine from sunland. She did not know what had happened, but
she did know that the Old Man had seized another hand-hold on life in
the last hour, and she was grateful. She even permitted the Kid to
take a tiny sip, just because the Happy Family hated to see him refused
anything he wanted.

So Flying U coulee was for the time being filled with the same old
laughter and the same atmosphere of care-free contentment with life. The
Countess stewed uncomplainingly in the kitchen, cooking dinner for the
boys. The Old Man grumbled hypocritically at them from his big chair,
and named their faults in the tone that transmuted them into virtues.
The Little Doctor heard about Miss Allen and her three partners, who
were building a four-room shack on the four corners of four claims, and
how Irish had been caught more than once in the act of staring fixedly
in the direction of that shack. She heard a good many things, and she
guessed a good many more.

By mid afternoon the Old Man was fifty per cent brighter and better than
he had been in the morning, and he laughed and bullied them as of old.
When they left he told them to clear out and stay out, and that if he
caught them hanging around his ranch, and making it look as if he were
backing them and trying to defraud the government, he'd sic the dog onto
them. Which tickled the Kid immensely, because there wasn't any dog to
sic.


CHAPTER 10. WHEREIN ANDY GREEN LIES TO A LADY

In the soft-creeping dusk came Andy Green, slouched in the saddle with
the weariness of riding since dawn; slouched to one side and singing,
with his hat far back on his head and the last of a red sunset tinting
darkly the hills above him. Tip-toe on a pinnacle a great, yellow star
poised and winked at him knowingly. Andy's eyes twinkled answer as he
glanced up that way. "We've got her going, old-timer," he announced
lazily to the star.

Six miles back toward the edge of the "breaks" which are really the
beginning of the Badlands that border the Missouri River all through
that part of Montana, an even five hundred head of the Flying U's best
grade cows and their calves were settling down for the night upon a
knoll that had been the bed-ground of many a herd. At the Flying U
ranch, in the care of the Old Man, were the mortgages that would make
the Happy Family nominal owners of those five hundred cows and their
calves. In the morning Andy would ride back and help bring the herd upon
its spring grazing ground, which was the claims; in the meantime he was
leisurely obeying an impulse to ride into One Man coulee and spend
the night under his own roof. And, say what you will, there is a
satisfaction not to be denied in sleeping sometimes under one's own
roof; and it doesn't matter in the least that the roof is made of
prairie dirt thrown upon cottonwood poles. So he sang while he rode, and
his voice boomed loud in the coulee and scared long stilled echoes into
repeating the song:

        "We're here because we're here, because we're here,
        because we're here,

        "We're here because we're here, because we're here,
        because we're here--"

That, if you please, is a song; there are a lot more verses exactly
like this one, which may be sung to the tune of Auld Lang Syne with much
effectiveness when one is in a certain mood. So Andy sang, while his
tired horse picked its way circumspectly among the scattered rocks of
the trail up the coulee.

        "It's time you're here, it's time you're here,
        It's time that you were here--"

mocked an echo not of the hills.

Andy swore in his astonishment and gave his horse a kick as a mild hint
for haste. He thought he knew every woman-voice in the neighborhood--or
had until the colony came--but this voice, high and sweet and with a
compelling note that stirred him vaguely, was absolutely strange. While
he loped forward, silenced for the moment, he was conscious of a swift,
keen thankfulness that Pink had at the last minute decided to stay in
camp that night instead of accompanying Andy to One Man. He was in
that mood when a sentimental encounter appealed to him strongly; and a
woman's voice, singing to him from One Man cabin, promised undetermined
adventure.

He did not sing again. There had been something in the voice that held
him quiet, listening, expectant. But she also was silent after that
last, high note--like a meadow lark startled in the middle of his song,
thought Andy whimsically.

He came within sight of the cabin, squatting in the shadow of the grove
at its back. He half expected to see a light, but the window was
dark, the door closed as he had left it. He felt a faint, unreasoning
disappointment that it was so. But he had heard her. That high note that
lingered upon the word "here" still tingled his senses. His eyes sent
seeking glances here and there as he rode up.

Then a horse nickered welcomingly, and someone rode out from the deeper
shadow at the corner of the cabin, hesitated as though tempted to
flight, and came on uncertainly. They met full before the cabin, and the
woman leaned and peered through the dusk at Andy.

"Is this--Mr. Mallory--Irish?" she asked nervously. "Oh dear! Have I
gone and made a fool of myself again?"

"Not at all! Good evening, Miss Allen." Andy folded his hands upon the
saddle horn and regarded her with a little smile, Keen for what might
come next.

"But you're not Irish Mallory. I thought I recognized the voice, or I
wouldn't have--" She urged her horse a step closer, and Andy observed
from her manner that she was not accustomed to horses. She reined as if
she were driving, so that the horse, bewildered, came sidling up to him.
"Who are you?" she asked him sharply.

"Me? Why, I'm a nice young man--a lot better singer than Irish. I guess
you never heard him, did you?" He kept his hands folded on the horn, his
whole attitude passive--a restful, reassuring passivity that lulled her
uneasiness more than words could have done.

"Oh, are you Andy Green? I seem to connect that name with your
voice--and what little I can see of you."

"That's something, anyway." Andy's tone was one of gratitude. "It's two
per cent. better than having to tell you right out who I am. I met you
three different times, Miss Allen," he reproached.

"But always in a crowd," she defended, "and I never talked with you,
particularly."

"Oh, well, that's easily fixed," he said. "It's a nice night," he added,
looking up appreciatively at the brightening star-sprinkle. "Are you
living on your claim now? We can talk particularly on the way over."

Miss Allen laughed and groped for a few loose hairs, found them and
tucked them carefully under her hatcrown. Andy remembered that gesture;
it helped him to visualize her clearly in spite of the deepening night.

"How far have you ridden today, Mr. Green?" she asked irrelevantly.

"Since daylight, you mean? Not so very far counting miles--We were
trailing a herd, you see. But I've been in the saddle since sunrise,
except when I was eating."

"Then you want a cup of coffee, before you ride any farther. If I get
down, will you let me make it or you? I'd love to. I'm crazy to see
inside your cabin, but I only rode up and tried to peek in the window
before you came. I have two brothers and a cousin, so I understand men
pretty well and I know you can talk better when you aren't hungry."

"Are you living on your claim?" he asked again, without moving.

"Why, yes. We moved in last week."

"Well, we'll ride over, then, and you can make coffee there. I'm not
hungry right now."

"Oh." She leaned again and peered at him, trying to read his face. "You
don't WANT me to go in!"

"Yes, I do--but I don't. If you stayed and made coffee, tomorrow you'd
be kicking yourself for it, and you'd be blaming me." Which, considering
the life he had lived, almost wholly among men, was rather astute of
Andy Green.

"Oh." Then she laughed. "You must have some sisters, Mr. Green." She was
silent for a minute, looking at him. "You're right," she said quietly
then. "I'm always making a fool of myself, just on the impulse of the
moment. The girls will be worried about me, as it is. But I don't want
you to ride any farther, Mr. Green. What I came to say need not take
very long, and I think I can find my way home alone, all right."

"I'll take you home when you're ready to go," said Andy quietly. All at
once he had wanted to shield her, to protect her from even so slight an
unconventionality as making his coffee for him. He had felt averse to
putting her at odds with her conventional self, of inviting unfavorable
criticism of himself; dimly, because instinct rather than cold analysis
impelled him. What he had told her was the sum total of his formulated
ideas.

"Well, I'm ready to go now, since you insist on my being conventional.
I did not come West with the expectation of being tied to a book of
etiquette, Mr. Green. But I find one can't get away from it after all.
Still, living on one's own claim twelve miles from a town is something!"

"That's a whole lot, I should say," Andy assured her politely, and
refrained from asking her what she expected to do with that eighty
acres of arid land. He turned his tired horse and rode alongside her,
prudently waiting for her to give the key.

"I'm not supposed to be away over here, you know," she began when they
were near the foot of the bluff up which the trail wound seeking the
easiest slopes and avoiding boulders and deep cuts. "I'm supposed to
be just out riding, and the girls expected me back by sundown. But I've
been trying and trying to find some of you Flying U boys--as they call
you men who have taken so much land--on your claims. I don't know that
what I could tell you would do you a particle of good--or anyone else.
But I wanted to tell you, anyway, just to clear my own mind."

"It does lots of good just to meet you," said Andy with straightforward
gallantry. "Pleasures are few and far between, out here."

"You said that very nicely, I'm sure," she snubbed. "Well, I'm going
to tell you, anyway--just on the chance of doing some good." Then she
stopped.

Andy rode a rod or two, glancing at her inquiringly, waiting for her to
go on. She was guiding her horse awkwardly where it needed only to be
let alone, and he wanted to give her a lesson in riding. But it seemed
too early in their acquaintance for that, so he waited another minute.

"Miss Hallman is going to make you a lot of trouble," she began
abruptly. "I thought perhaps it might be better for you--all of
you--if you knew it in advance, so there would be no sudden anger and
excitement. All the settlers are antagonistic, Mr. Green--all but me,
and one or two of the girls. They are going to do everything they can to
prevent your land-scheme from going through. You are going to be watched
and--and your land contested--"

"Well, we'll be right there, I guess, when the dust settles," he filled
in her thought unmoved.

"I--almost hope so," she ventured. "For my part, I can see the
side--your side. I can see where it is very hard for the cattle men to
give up their range. It is like the big plantations down south, when
the slaves were freed. It had to be done, and yet it was hard upon those
planters who depended on free labor. They resented it deeply; deeply
enough to shed blood--and that is one thing I dread here. I hope, Mr.
Green, that you will not resort to violence. I want to urge you all
to--to--"

"I understand," said Andy softly. "A-course, we're pretty bad when we
get started, all right. We're liable to ride up on dark nights and shoot
our enemies through the window--I can't deny it, Miss Allen. And if it
comes right to a show-down, I may as well admit that some of us would
think nothing at all of taking a man out and hanging him to the first
three we come to, that was big enough to hold him. But now that ladies
have come into the country, a-course we'll try and hold our tempers
down all we can. Miss Hallman, now--I don't suppose there's a man in the
bunch that would shoot her, no matter what she done to us. We take pride
in being polite to women. You've read that about us, haven't you, Miss
Allen? And you've seen us on the stage--well, it's a fact, all right.
Bad as we are, and wild and tough, and savage when we're crossed, a lady
can just do anything with us, if she goes at it the right way."

"Thank you. I felt sure that you would not harm any of us. Will you
promise not to be violent--not to--to--"

Andy sat sidewise in the saddle, so that he faced her. Miss Allen could
just make out his form distinctly; his face was quite hidden, except
that she could see the shine of his eyes.

"Now, Miss Allen," he protested with soft apology "You musta known what
to expect when you moved out amongst us rough characters. You know I can
make any promises about being mild with the men that try to get the best
of us. If you've got friends--brothers--anybody here that you think a
lot of Miss Allen, I advise you to send 'em outa the country, before
trouble breaks loose; because when she starts she'll start a-popping.
I know I can't answer for my self, what I'm liable to do if they bother
me; and I'm about the mildest one in the bunch. What the rest of the
boys would do--Irish Mallory for instance--I hate to think, Miss Allen.
I--hate--to--think!"

Afterwards, when he thought it all over dispassionately, Andy
wondered why he had talked to Miss Allen like that. He had not done
it deliberately, just to frighten her--yet he had frightened her to a
certain extent. He had roused her apprehension for the safety of her
neighbors and the ultimate well-being of himself and his fellows. She
had been so anxious over winning him to more peaceful ways that she had
forgotten to give him any details of the coming struggle. Andy was sorry
for that. He wished, on the way home, that he knew just what Florence
Grace Hallman intended to do.

Not that it mattered greatly. Whatever she did, Andy felt that it would
be futile. The Happy Family were obeying the land laws implicitly,
except as their real incentive had been an unselfish one. He could not
feel that it was wrong to try and save the Flying U; was not loyalty a
virtue? And was not the taking of land for the preservation of a fine,
fair dealing outfit that had made itself a power for prosperity and
happiness in that country, a perfectly laudable enterprise? Andy
believed so.

I swore to witness Juanito Peña. Your family ...! But is it great
if it did? Could anyone who wanted to marry, without fear of trouble or
protests. He was apart, she felt isolated in the midst of their own. And
the poor boy, as if suddenly appreciate the truth of his situation,
he said it with such bitterness, almost with tears in her eyes,
which was stirred Tonic showing softer. She appreciated, it was
thought very honored to earn their attention, did not understand the
affair, because he had only seen in the novels, but allowed him to
continue talking with her, as friends rather than married, and if the
time showed that their characteristics are understood and committed,
then the .... flushing of the couple completed their words.

Juanito no longer need to release the compressed stream of verbosity and
hit, talked about his future, drawing furious brushstrokes with the picture
of happiness. I had money ... Alcira sell the garden of ... buy a tent.
_Las Three Rosas_ for example ... were married ... have children, many
children, because it tastes of their young shy, loved dolls ... It would
be a model husband .... Dry but stopped to see Tonic blush, guiding
eyes of reproach for the freedom with which it made its illusions. Finally,
as would what was good and what life would be so rich if married
and living outside the circle of stupid claims of his family.

It suddenly was not that bad was life Juanito. He spent the day thinking
about your Tonic, leaving the shop at times that it had to go out
for some task of his parishioners, and the street was next to her,
proud as a winner, fearing that he saw his mother and wanting at the
same time meet their sisters, so they learn to "distinguish" and not
by a pazguato were unable to have a girlfriend.

For it, Tonic, rhenium with the press, he was once so neglected,
wishing to hold a few necks hard and shiny as marble, and with great
astonishment of the sisters, is breaking free from the direction
of the mother, always stingy with him, and making a costume like
that of his brother Rafael.

Everything was going well: Juanito was young and strong. He felt something
moving in his veins again, it was warm and sparkling wine that swept the
ancient coiling and horchata. Tonic that had already called him
Juanito, not Mr. Pena, ceremonious with that accent that made us laugh,
but had not yet been determined to correspond to your tute, and he always
planted a "you" like a house, ensuring that it caused flushing speak
otherwise .... What an innocent! As if it was not the son of a former
shopkeeper Market! Anyway, it's all walk. What I was concerned
something Juanito, in the midst of his happiness, was the care that he
had with his mother, loving glances, the 'my son,' said in a flattering
tone, with the softness caress of a mimosa. ¡Bad, bad! Juanito trembled
seeing approaching the bereaved demand, "sablazo 'mother, accompanied by
tears and poignant lament about how much it costs to children's education.
And the request was made, finally, at the beginning of Holy Week, an
evening when Juanito, after eating in a hurry, went out to Tonic
with sight before entering the store.

The poor guy was dumbfounded by the maternal confiding .... Damn! The
situation was more serious than he imagined. No longer were ten or
twelve thousand real casting her mom to the neck with water, now
it was thousands of pesetas, of thousands of hard and needed to resign
or pay to the family situation was made public, because creditors,
and rude people with no guts, no other passion than the money, were
able to discredit two quarters for a decent lady. - I will die of it,
Juanito mine, these things are not for me. Oh, God! How much it costs
to raise children and hold the rank of a family!

You, my son, only you can take your mother bailed .... Three thousand
hard ...! You know what that is? So three thousand hard I have to
point to the day after Easter. I have been threatened, I have been called
deceptive, because I can not afford ... ¡Tricky!

   ¡A lady like me ...! I can not suffer such disgrace. And if
   I leave my children, I die, yes sir ... feel it upsets me that
these are going to kill.

   Giovannino, despite being warned to get rid of the
   blandishments of his mother, and is not intended to enter into
commitments, she felt something inside them that rise up, rise up
to his face as a heat wave ....

   Cheater! Her mother! Not applied the wrong adjective, but the
   blind affection, which made her love her mother, rebelábase to
such an offense, he moved to the point that their ojazos was quiet
and kind to ensure lagrimones anger.

With head movements nodded to all statements of her mother. Yes, it was
necessary to fix things, the honor of the family could not be a
matter for four usurers, who, thanks to some waste paper signed by
Doña Manuela thoughtlessness with such freshness as demanded fifteen
thousand pesetas for a loan of eleven thousand.

Had to pay, but ... What about the money? Where to find the money? And
the widow, to reach this conclusion, he looked fixedly, giving to
understand that it was the solution. - We must find the money, Mama.

Could you talk coa doña Clara, this friend who, he says the uncle, is
the arranger of these entanglements. - Dona Clara ... ¡Point bold! My
son, you, as you are so buenazo not know people. That is such a doña
Clara, which only goes where you can get, and then back to a decent
person to see it in a hurry. Our situation is very bad, bad finished. And
in the ears of the young in droves agolpáronse the shameful secrets,
made in a low voice, trembling, not remorse, but the humiliation
implied by the confession of the house, even your own son. All
mortgaged farm, and if sold, would not amount to half the debts. Your
signature on a multitude of notes, and so discredited, that he
would his own goalkeeper a hard money lenders the best of it.

Maturities to be meeting unavoidable pain to discredit the family ...
and they pay nothing, absolutely nothing, the most complete lack of
means to save the situation. The needs of the house away with
everything. She had already gone to the most distressing to their dignity.
If now is the season of opera, neither she nor her children could wear
the jewels that the poor, proud and admired Juanito. They were in home
loans.

And the silver, giving the air a very elegant dining room, large
chandeliers of the hall, had not left home to launder Platero, where a
company was born jewelry. All for a few thousand reais, which had been
drained water at the screening of debts and expenses, of infinite
holes. - This I tell you, Juanito, because you are the most formal
of the house and I need your advice.

But by God! Not a word to the girls who do not know the pobrecitas
the situation.

Feel humiliated, and I do not want my daughters to be considered inferior
to her friends. What Juanito was less worried that their sisters might
think. His instincts honest businessman, a friend of regularity, in
thinking about sublevábanse half so shameful to acquire money. For him,
home loans were horrible dens, lairs of larceny, was called upon
contaminated losing their dignity. -- - And you went there?

- asked with painful expression -. Have you entered those houses? Doña
Manuela replied with pride.

Who! Did she ...?

Why who took your child? Though ruined, not because it had lost its dignity.
For such commissions are worth Doña Clara, who had friends among the
lenders, and did the "operation", saying that the objects were of a
distinguished lady whose name he could not disclose.

Doña Manuela what streets were strong suspicions that her friend was
operating his distress, kept the "peaks" of the amounts provided
by the lenders.

The widow was proud of the great lords who believe in a good tone for
his shamelessly steal left servants. When they finished the revelations
about the situation of the house, the widow looked her son's response.
He was their only hope.

Hated his brother, who could trust their sentences? A Juanito only to his
dear Juanito, as Rafael, a poor boy, stuck in the elegant world,
knew nothing of the "material" of life or property as was his older
brother.

But the kind hortera was harder than his mother expected. The love had
transformed him, but instead of dreaming of her instincts excited
economy dominated the passions of his father, which his uncle and Mr.
Eugenio called "blood trade". Let nobody touch her garden Alcira. It
is not that much love a farm that he only saw once or twice a year.
Wanted to convert into money soon, but the eight thousand clean hard to
gain from it were the basis for their future, the realization of
their dreams, and established the means of making the owner of Tonic in
a large tent fabric.

Doña Manuela experienced great surprise to stumble with a tenacity that
he had never alleged in his son. Resolutely refused to sign another
promissory note guaranteeing the loan from his mother, and at least
consenting even mortgaging his orchard to purchase three thousand
duros. - No, Mom - I said timidly, but firmly - you can not.

Later you will know that this is not possible. I need my money, and
besides, I hate that mortgages, notes and loans from moneylenders.

As the uncle, that is for the people lost. But wanted to save his
mother's commitment encogíasele heart to see her as beautiful,
as "Madam", with watery eyes and forehead furrowed by wrinkles painful,
and I was looking for a mentally half out of the situation. It was
possible that Antonio Cuadros, how quickly enriched .... But no. The
strong gesture of his mother gave him to understand that not
consenting to aid his self-injury.

Maybe later she would not say no when friends resume now, since the
departure of Andresito were pretty cool. And John, not daring to
name his uncle, stopped proposing solutions. - I do not garden
consent ....

But do not you cry, Mom .... Do not cry ....

What a devil! For everything there is a remedy in this world. If not spent
in this house ...!

You are not angry, Mum.

Yes, I know everything that is going to say, the propriety of the family,
the need to uphold the good name, should be placed well to the
girls ....

The truth is that it takes three thousand hard, and that are not
acquired in a few days saving. The garden does not consent, it
again .... But anyway, so you're not sad, I promise you handle the
case. I fix and I have little power or next week we will have that
money. Giovannino But like love, slow to deliver on its
promises.

Tonic with their love, that perfect honeymoon, the desire to assist all
parties, talking about his future, he had so distracted, if not forgotten
his promises, his performance was always deferring to the next day. Her
mother threw questions on the table looks; him apart was how to 'that'
and when he apologized to their jobs in the shop, shocked at the gesture
of pain doña Manuela. It was on Holy Thursday morning when Juanito was
decided to undertake the matter. The store was closed. Tonic leave
home with his old friend, and he, not knowing what to do, decidióse to
go in search of his uncle. At eleven went to the street.

The mother and sisters were giving the last hand played in the
circumstances: the crisp silk dress, the veil of Blonda, grip and the
string of gold and pearl.

Iban one of the main churches to sit behind the desk of a community request
of foreign origin, when that smart people read the seasons. Giovannino,
despite the annual ¡usual sintióse impressed by the appearance of the
city . Shops closed, the quiet cobbled without a wheel is moved, the
people dressed in black, with solemn air. It seemed that the city
passed an epidemic, depopulating houses and crowd noise from the
streets. The deep silence turbábanlo occasionally tercet blind
that caught the arm and hitting the ground with their sticks to be
oriented by iban Creek without fear of being hit, bursts into
poetic lamentations, complaining tone on the passion and death of
the Redeemer.

The steps of the passers on the pavement sounded like a harsh and noisy
rubbing and aglomerábase people at the gates of the temples, dark and
deep mouths started the cold streets of the dense fog inside. The
soldiers, in uniform gala and rigid hands into the gloves of cotton,
went to visit the stations, disturbed the general silence of the
measured drag their feet and the pervading atmosphere of that smell of
health, sweaty mixture of meat, leather and coarse wool.

Maestrantes the knights wore their dark uniforms, the John the Red
Cross, and to replace officers and veterans of the battalion was
attached to harness the military to accompany the lady to visit the
temples and wear the chest pass on the freshly scraped crosses.

It was a brilliant parade of authorities and uniforms, he admired the
papanatas; Chicuelo groups and women crowded to Eccehomos to be
exhibited in the streets on a pedestal images stained with bloody
brushstrokes of vermilion, the crown of thorns on lació manes waving
and dust that the wind, a cane in his hands and feet with a tray
and an old pedigüeño cents.

Giovannino Upon arrival to the neighborhood of the Pious Schools entered
a narrow street where the house of his grandparents, an endless
facade painted light blue, which, he ran out of sympathy, rip some
thick wall balconies and windows, a great distance from each other.

Giovannino recalled her childhood. Pelon boy was playing with the kids
in the neighborhood - the days when his uncle invited you to lunch -
at the huge portal, dark, dripping with moisture from her paved with
pebbles.

The memories of childhood still waking him in the sight of the old
staircase with its mahogany handrail, topped by a fuzzy Leoncito
and expenses, and their levels of tiles of the previous century,
in which ships on a sea veíanse purple, flags larger than the old,
thick legs smooth white hat with peaks huertanas and baskets of
fruit, all in garish colors and toasted.

Vicenta, the old maid's uncle, was the one who opened the gate that
blocked the stairwell. Juanito was the only relative of whom Mr
tolerated the old servant.

He greeted her with a smile of dark and toothless mouth, and as usual, did
not ask for his mother or his sisters. Hated those relatives of the
master, knowing the low esteem in which the latter had. Don Juan
was up in the arcades, feeding the pigeons and chickens. The maid and
the nephew spoke at a landing of the stairs, which were from some
rooms. He knew perfectly, and remained in his memory with all
details outlandish.
So the man yawned and went in to his breakfast.

Many times that day he stood at the corner of his shack with the glasses
sweeping the bench-land. Toward noon the cattle drifted into a coulee
where there was water. In a couple of hours they drifted leisurely
back upon high ground and scattered to their feeding, still watched and
tended by the two horsemen who looked the most harmless of individuals.
One was fat and red-faced and spent at least half of his time lying
prone upon some slope in the shade of his horse. The other was thin
and awkward, and slouched in the saddle or sat upon the ground with his
knees drawn up and his arms clasped loosely around them, a cigarette
dangling upon his lower lip, himself the picture of boredom.

There was nothing whatever to indicate that events were breeding in that
peaceful scene, and that adventure was creeping close upon the watcher.
He went in from his fourth or fifth inspection, and took a nap.

That night he was awakened by a pounding on the side of the shack where
was his window. By the time he had reached the middle of the floor--and
you could count the time in seconds--a similar pounding was at the door.
He tried to open the door and couldn't. He went to the window and could
see nothing, although the night had not been dark when he went to
bed. He shouted, and there was no reply; nor could he hear any talking
without. His name, by the way, was H. J. Owens, though his name does not
matter except for convenience in mentioning him. Owens, then, lighted a
lamp, and almost instantly was forced to reach out quickly and save it
from toppling, because one corner of the shack was lifting, lifting...

Outside, the Happy Family worked in silence. Before they had left One
Man Coulee they had known exactly what they were to do, and how to do
it. They knew who was to nail the hastily constructed shutter over the
window. They knew who was to fasten the door so that it could not be
opened from within. They knew also who were to use the crow-bars, who
were to roll the skids under the shack.

There were twelve of them--because Bert Rogers had insisted upon
helping. In not many more minutes than there were men, they were in
their saddles, ready to start. The shack lurched forward after the
straining horses. Once it was fairly started it moved more easily than
you might think it could do, upon crude runners made of cottonwood logs
eight inches or so in diameter and long enough for cross pieces bolted
in front and rear. The horses pulled it easily with the ropes tied to
the saddle-horns, just as they had many times pulled the roundup wagons
across mirey creeks or up steep slopes; just as they had many times
pulled stubborn cattle or dead cattle--just as they had been trained
to pull anything and everything their masters chose to attach to their
ropes.

Within, Owens called to them and cursed them. When they had just gained
an even pace, he emptied his revolver through the four sides of the
shack. But he did not know where they were, exactly, so that he was
compelled to shoot at random. And since the five shots seemed to have
no effect whatever upon the steady progress of the shack, he decided to
wait until he could see where to aim. There was no use, he reflected,
in wasting good ammunition when there was a strong probability that he
would need it later.

After a half hour or more of continuous travel, the shack tilted on a
steep descent. H. J. Owens blew out his lamp and swore when a box came
sliding against his shins in the dark. The descent continued until it
was stopped with a jolt that made him bite his tongue painfully, so that
tears came into the eyes that were the wrong shade of blue to please
Andy Green. He heard a laugh cut short and a muttered command, and that
was all. The shack heaved, toppled, righted itself and went on down, and
down, and down; jerked sidewise to the left, went forward and then swung
joltingly the other way. When finally it came to a permanent stand it
was sitting with an almost level floor.

Then the four corners heaved upward, two at a time, and settled with a
final squeal of twisted boards and nails. There was a sound of confused
trampling, and after that the lessening sounds of departure. Mr. Owens
tried the door again, and found it still fast. He relighted the lamp,
carried it to the window and looked upon rough boards outside the glass.
He meditated anxiously and decided to remain quiet until daylight.

The Happy Family worked hard, that night. Before daylight they were in
their beds and snoring except the two who guarded the cattle. Each was
in his own cabin. His horse was in his corral, smooth-coated and dry.
There was nothing to tell of the night's happenings,--nothing except the
satisfied grins on their faces when they woke and remembered.


CHAPTER 12. SHACKS, LIVE STOCK AND PILGRIMS PROMPTLY AND PAINFULLY REMOVED

     "I'm looking rather seedy now, while holding down my
          claim,
     And my grub it isn't always served the best,
     And the mice play shyly round me as I lay me down to rest In
     my little old sod shanty on my claim.
     Oh, the hinges are of leather and the windows have no glass,
     And the roof it lets the howling blizzards in,
     And I hear the hungry kiote as he sneaks up through
             grass--

"Say! have they got down the hill yet, Pink;" Pink took his cigarette
from his fingers, leaned and peered cautiously through the grimy window.
"Unh-huh. They're coming up the flat."

Whereupon Andy Green, ostentatiously washing his breakfast dishes,
skipped two or three verses and lifted his voice in song to fit the
occasion.

     "How I wish that some kind-hearted girl would pity on me
             take,
     And relieve me of the mess that I am in!
     Oh, the angel, how I'd bless her if her home with me she'd
             make,
     In my little old sod shanty--

"Got her yet?" And he craned his neck to look. "Aw, they've pulled up,
out there, listening!"

     "My clothes are plastered o'er with dough, I'm looking like a
             fright,
     And everything is scattered round the room--"

"Why don't yuh stop that caterwauling?" Pink demanded fretfully. "You'll
queer the whole play if you keep it up. They'll swear you're drunk!"

There was sense in that. Andy finished the line about remaining two
happy lovers in his little old sod shanty, and went to the door with the
dishpan. He threw out the water, squeezed the dishrag in one hand and
gave the inside of the pan a swipe before he appeared to discover that
Miss Allen and Florence Grace Hallman were riding up to his door. As a
matter of fact, he had seen them come over the top of the bluff and had
long ago guessed who they were.

He met them with a smile of surprised innocence, and invited them
inside. They refused to come, and even Miss Allen showed a certain
reproachful coolness toward him. Andy felt hurt at that, but he did not
manifest the fact. Instead he informed them that it was a fine morning.
And were they out taking a look around?

They were. They were looking up the men who had perpetrated the outrage
last night upon four settlers.

"Outrage?" Andy tilted the dishpan against the cabin wall, draped the
dishrag over the handle and went forward, pulling down his sleeves.
"What outrage is that, Miss Hallman? Anybody killed?"

Miss Hallman watched him with her narrowed glance. She saw the quick
glance he gave Miss Allen, and her lids narrowed still more. So that
was it! But she did not swerve from her purpose, for all this unexpected
thrust straight to the heart of her self-love.

"You know that no one was killed. But you damaged enough property to
place you on the wrong side of the law, Mr. Green. Not one of those
shacks can be gotten out of the gulch except in pieces!"

Andy smiled inside his soul, but his face was bewildered; his eyes fixed
themselves blankly upon her face. "Me? Damaging property? Miss Hallman,
you don't know me yet!" Which was perfectly true. "What shacks are you
talking about? In what gulch? All the shacks I've seen so far have been
stuck up on bald pinnacles where the blizzards will hit 'em coming
and going next winter." He glanced again at Miss Allen with a certain
sympathetic foretaste of what she would suffer next winter if she stayed
in her shack.

"Don't try to play innocent, Mr. Green." Florence Grace Hallman drew her
brows together. "We all know perfectly well who dragged those shacks off
the claims last night."

"Don't you mean that you think you know? I'm afraid you've kinda taken
it for granted I'd be mixed up in any deviltry you happened to hear
about. I've got in bad with you--I know that--but just the same, I hate
to be accused of everything that takes place in the country. All this is
sure interesting news to me. Whereabouts was they taken from? And when,
and where to? Miss Allen, you'll tell me the straight of this, won't
you? And I'll get my hoss and you'll show me what gulch she's talking
about, won't you?"

Miss Allen puckered her lips into a pout which meant indecision, and
glanced at Florence Grace Hallman. And Miss Hallman frowned at being
shunted into the background and referred to as she, and set her teeth
into her lower lip.

"Miss Allen prefers to choose her own company," she said with distinct
rudeness. "Don't try to wheedle her--you can't do it. And you needn't
get your horse to ride anywhere with us, Mr. Green. It's useless. I just
wanted to warn you that nothing like what happened last night will be
tolerated. We know all about you Flying U men--you Happy Family." She
said it as if she were calling them something perfectly disgraceful.
"You may be just as tough and bad a you please--you can't frighten
anyone into leaving the country or into giving up one iota of their
rights. I came to you because you are undoubtedly the ring-leader of the
gang." She accented gang. "You ought to be shot for what you did
last night. And if you keep on--" She left the contingency to his
imagination.

"Well, if settling up the country means that men are going to be shot
for going to bed at dark and asleeping till sun-up, all I've got to say
is that things ain't like they used to be. We were all plumb peaceful
here till your colony came, Miss Hallman. Why, the sheriff never got out
this way often enough to know the trails! He always had to ask his way
around. If your bunch of town mutts can't behave themselves and leave
each other alone, I don't know what's to be done about it. We ain't
hired to keep the peace."

"No, you've been hired to steal all the land you can and make all the
trouble you can. We understand that perfectly."

Andy shook his head in meek denial, and with a sudden impulse turned
toward the cabin. "Oh, Pink!" he called, and brought that boyish-faced
young man to the door, his eyes as wide and as pure as the eyes of a
child.

Pink lifted his hat with just the proper degree of confusion to impress
the girls with his bashfulness and his awe of their presence. His eyes
were the same pansy-purple as when the Flying U first made tumultuous
acquaintance with him. His apparent innocence had completely fooled the
Happy Family, you will remember. They had called him Mamma's Little Lamb
and had composed poetry and horrific personal history for his benefit.
The few years had not changed him. His hair was still yellow and curly.
The dimples still dodged into his cheeks unexpectedly; he was still much
like a stick of dynamite wrapped in white tissue and tied with a ribbon.
He looked an angel of innocence, and in reality he was a little devil.

Andy introduced him, and Pink bowed and had all the appearance of
blushing--though you will have to ask Pink how he managed to create that
optical illusion. "What did you want?" he asked in his soft, girlish
voice, turning to Andy bashfully. But from the corner of his eye Pink
saw that a little smile of remembrance had come to soften Miss Hallman's
angry features, and that the other girl was smiling also. Pink hated
that attitude of pleasant patronage which women were so apt to take
toward him, but for the present it suited his purpose to encourage it.

"Pink, what time was it when we went to bed last night?" Andy asked him
in the tone of one who wished to eliminate all doubt of his virtue.

"Why--it was pretty early. We didn't light the lamp at all, you
remember. You went to bed before I did--we couldn't see the cards--" He
stopped confusedly, and again he gave the two women the impression that
he blushed. "We weren't playing for money," he hurriedly explained.
"Just for pastime. It's--pretty lonesome--sometimes."

"Somebody did something to somebody last night," Andy informed Pink
with a resentful impatience. "Miss Hallman thinks we're the guilty
parties--me in particular, because she don't like me. It's something
about some shacks--damaging property, she called it. Just what was it
you said was done, Miss Hallman?" He turned his honest, gray eyes toward
her and met her suspicious look steadily.

Miss Hallman bit her lip. She had been perfectly sure of the guilt of
Andy Green, and of the others who were his friends. Now, in spite of
all reason she was not so sure. And there had been nothing more tangible
than two pairs of innocent-looking eyes and the irreproachable manners
of two men to change her conviction.

"Well, I naturally took it for granted that you did it," she weakened.
"The shacks were moved off eighties that you have filed upon, Mr.
Green. Mr. Owens told me this morning that you men came by his place
and threatened him yesterday, and ordered him to move. No one else would
have any object in molesting him or the others." Her voice hardened
again as her mind dwelt upon the circumstances. "It must have been you!"
she finished sharply.

Whereupon Pink gave her a distressed look that made Miss Hallman flush
unmistakably. "I'm just about distracted, this morning," she apologized.
"I took it upon myself to see these settlers through--and everybody
makes it just as hard as possible for me. Why should all you fellows
treat us the way you do? We--"

"Why, we aren't doing a thing!" Pink protested diffidently. "We thought
we'd take up some claims and go to ranching for ourselves, when we
got discharged from the Flying U. We didn't mean any harm--everybody's
taking up claims. We've bought some cattle and we're going to try
and get ahead, like other folks. We--I wanted to cut out all this
wildness--"

"Are those your cattle up on the hill? Some men shipped in four carloads
of young stock, yesterday, to Dry Lake. They drove them out here
intending to turn them on the range, and a couple of men--"

"Four men," Miss Allen corrected with a furtive twinkle in her eyes.

"Some men refused to let them cross that big coulee back there. They
drove the cattle back toward Dry Lake, and told Mr. Simmons and Mr.
Chase and some others that they shouldn't come on this bench back here
at all. That was another thing I wanted to see you men about."

"Maybe they were going to mix their stock up with ours," Pink ventured
mildly.

"Your men shot, and shot, and shot--the atmosphere up there is shot so
full of holes that the wind just whistles through!" Miss Allen informed
then gravely, with her eyebrows all puckered together and the furtive
little twinkle in her eyes. "And they yelled so that we could hear them
from the house! They made those poor cows and those poor, weenty calves
just go trotting back across the coulee. My new book on farming says
you positively must not hurry cattle. It--oh, it does something to the
butter-fat--joggles it all up or something--I'll lend you the book.
I found the chapter on Proper Treatment of Dairy Stock, and I watched
those men with the book in my hands. Why, it was terribly unscientific,
the way they drove those cow-critters!"

"I'll come over and get the book," Andy promised her, with a look in
his eyes that displeased Miss Hallman very much. "We're ashamed of our
ignorance. We'd like to have you learn us what's in the book."

"I will. And every week--just think of that! I'm to get a real farm
paper."

"I'd like to borrow the paper too," Andy declared instantly.

"Oh, and--what's going to be done about all those bullet-holes?
They--they might create a draught--"

"We'll ride around that way and plug 'em up," Andy assured her solemnly.
"Whenever you've got time to show me about where they're at."

"It will be a pleasure. I can tell where they are, but they're too
high for me to reach. Wherever the wind whistles there's a hole in the
atmosphere. And there are places where the air just quivers, so you can
see it. That is the shock those bold, bad men gave it with the words
they used. They--used--words, Mr. Green! If we could scheme some way to
pull out all those wrinkles--I do love a nice, clean, smooth atmosphere
where I live. It's so wrinkly--"

"I'll attend to all that, right away."

Miss Hallman decided that she had nothing further to say to Mr. Green.
She wheeled her horse rather abruptly and rode off with a curt goodbye.
Miss Allen, being new at the business of handling a horse, took more
time in pulling her mount around. While her back was turned to Florence
Grace and her face was turned toward Pink and Andy, she gave them a
twinkling glance that had one lowered eyelid to it, twisted her lips,
and spoke sharply to her horse. They might make of it what they would.
Florence Grace looked back impatiently--perhaps suspiciously also--and
saw Miss Allen coming on with docile haste.

So that ended the interview which Miss Hallman had meant to be so
impressive. A lot of nonsense that left a laugh behind and the idea that
Miss Allen at least did not disapprove of harassing claim-jumpers. Andy
Green was two hundred per cent. more cheerful after that, and his brain
was more active and his determination more fixed. For all that he stared
after them thoughtfully.

"She winked at us--if I've got eyes in my head. What do you reckon she
meant, Pink?" he asked when the two riders had climbed over the ridge.
"And what she said about the bold, bad men shooting holes that have
to be plugged up--and about liking a nice, smooth atmosphere? Do you
suppose she meant that it's liable to take bold, bad men to clean the
atmosphere, or--"

"What difference does it make what she meant? There's jumpers left--two
on Bud's place--and he's oary-eyed over it, and was going to read 'em
the riot act proper, when I left to come over here. And a couple of men
drove onto that south eighty of Mig's with a load of lumber, just as I
come by. Looks to me like we've got our hands full, Andy. There'll be
holes to plug up somewhere besides in the atmosphere, if you ask me."

"Long as they don't get anything on us I ain't in the state of mind
where I give a darn. That little brown-eyed Susan'll keep us posted if
they start anything new--what did she mean by that wink, do you reckon?"

"Ah, don't get softening of the emotions," Pink advised impatiently.
"That's the worst thing we've got to steer clear of, Andy! All them
women in the game is going to make it four times as hard to stand 'em
off. Irish is foolish over this one you're gettin' stuck on--you'll be
fighting each other, if you don't look out. That Florence Grace lady
ain't so slow--she's going to use the women to keep us fellows guessing."

Andy sighed. "We can block that play, of course," he said. "Come on,
Pink, let's go round up the boys and see what's been taking place with
them cattle. Shipped in four carloads already, have they?" He began
pulling on his chaps rather hurriedly. "Worst of it is, you can't
stampede a bunch of darned tame cows, either," he complained.

They found Irish and the Native Son on day-herd, with the cattle
scattered well along the western line of the claims. Big Medicine,
Weary, Cal Emmett and Jack Bates were just returning from driving the
settlers' stock well across Antelope Coulee which had been decided upon
as a hypothetical boundary line until such time as a fence could be
built.

They talked with the day-herders, and they talked with the other four.
Chip came up from the ranch with the Kid riding proudly beside him on
Silver, and told them that the Honorable Mr. Blake was at the Flying U
and had sent word that he would be pleased to take the legal end of
the fight, if the Happy Family so desired. Which was in itself a vast
encouragement. The Honorable Blake had said that they were well within
their rights thus far, and advised them to permit service of the contest
notices, and to go calmly on fulfilling the law. Which was all very well
as far as it went, providing they were permitted to go on calmly.

"What about them cattle they're trying to git across our land?" Slim
wanted to know. "We got a right to keep 'em off, ain't we?"

Chip said that he thought they had, but to make sure, he would ask the
Honorable Blake. Trespassing, he said, might be avoided--

Right there Andy was seized with an idea. He took Chip--because of his
artistic talents which, he said, had been plumb wasted lately--to one
side. After wards they departed in haste, with Pink and Weary galloping
close at their heels. In a couple of hours they returned to the boundary
where the cattle still fed all scattered out in a long line, and behind
them drove Pink and Weary in the one wagon which the Family possessed.

"It oughta help some," grinned Andy, when the Native Son came curiously
over to see what it was they were erecting there on the prairie. "It's a
fair warning, and shows 'em where to head in at."

The Native Son read the sign, which was three feet long and stood nailed
to two posts ready for planting solidly in the earth. He showed his
even, white teeth in a smile of approval. "Back it up, and it ought to
do some good," he said.

They dug holes and set the posts, and drove on to where they meant to
plant another sign exactly like the first. That day they planted twelve
sign-boards along their west line. They might not do any good, but they
were a fair warning and as such were worth the trouble.

That afternoon Andy was riding back along the line when he saw a rider
pull up at the first sign and read it carefully. He galloped in haste to
the spot and found that his suspicions were correct; it was Miss Allen.

"Well," she said when he came near, "I suppose that means me. Does it?"
She pointed to the sign, which read like this:

WARNING!! NO TRESPASSING EAST OF HERE All Shacks, Live-Stock and
Pilgrims Promptly AND Painfully Removed From These Premises

"I'm over the line," she notified him, pulling her horse backward a few
feet. "You're getting awfully particular, seems to me. Oh, did you know
that a lot of men are going to play it's New Year's Eve and hold watch
meetings tonight?"

"Never heard a word about it," he declared truthfully, and waited for
more.

"That's not strange--seeing it's a surprise party. Still--I'm sure you
are expected to--attend."

"And where is all this to take place?" Andy looked at her intently,
smiling a little.

"Oh, over there--and there--and there." She pointed to three new
shacks--the official dwellings of certain contestants. "Stag parties,
they are, I believe. But I doubt if they'll have any very exciting time;
most of these new settlers are too busy getting the ground ready for
crops, to go to parties. Some people are pretty disgusted, I can tell
you, Mr. Green. Some people talk about ingratitude and wonder why the
colony doesn't hang together better. Some people even wonder why it is
that folks are interested mainly in their own affairs, and decline to
attend watch meetings and--receptions. So I'm afraid very few, except
your nearest neighbors, will be present, after all might I ask when you
expect to--to MOVE again, Mr. Green?"

Smiling still, Andy shook his head. "I expect to be pretty busy this
spring," he told her evasively. "Aren't any of you ladies invited to
those parties, Miss Allen?"

"Not a one. But let me tell you something, Mr. Green. Some folks think
that perhaps we lady-settlers ought to organize a club for the well
being of our intellects. Some folks are trying to get up parties
just for women--see the point? They think it would be better for
the--atmosphere."

"Oh." Andy studied the possibilities of such a move. If Florence Grace
should set the women after them, he could see how the Happy Family would
be hampered at every turn. "Well, I must be going. Say, did you know
this country is full of wild animals, Miss Allen? They prowl around
nights. And there's a gang of wild men that hang out up there in those
mountains--they prowl around nights, too. They're outlaws. They kill
off every sheriff's party that tries to round them up, and they kidnap
children and ladies. If you should hear any disturbance, any time, don't
be scared. Just stay inside after dark and keep your door locked. And if
you should organize that ladies' club, you better hold your meetings in
the afternoon, don't you think?"

When he had ridden on and left her, Andy was somewhat ashamed of such
puerile falsehoods. But then, she had started the allegorical method of
imparting advice, he remembered. So presently went whistling to round up
the boys and tell them what he had learned.


CHAPTER 13. IRISH WORKS FOR THE CAUSE

Big Medicine with Weary and Chip to bear him company, rode up to the
shack nearest his own, which had been hastily built by a raw-boned Dane
who might be called truly Americanized. Big Medicine did not waste time
in superfluities or in making threats of what he meant to do. He called
the Dane to the door--claim-jumpers were keeping close to their cabins,
these days--and told him that he was on another man's land, and asked
him if he meant to move.

"Sure I don't intend to move!" retorted the Dane with praiseworthy
promptness. "I'm going to hold 'er down solid."

"Yuh hear what says, boys." Big Medicine turned to his companions "He
ain't going to git off'n my land, he says. Weary, yuh better go tell the
bunch I need'em."

Weary immediately departed. He was not gone so very long, and when he
returned the Happy Family was with him, even to Patsy who drove the
wagon with all the ease of a veteran of many roundups. The Dane tried
bluster, but that did not seem to work. Nothing seemed to work, except
the Happy Family.

Does not have quite so many with disdain? Now you'll see. And started
to flirt with the lieutenant, with Fernando Gallardo, who was in the
balcony, in uniform, outside the shaved head and dark, besieging the
girl with the half dozen gallant words in his repertoire for the cases
conquest.

Amparo and the lieutenant, on the edge of the balcony, almost returning
back to the square and isolated from the youth group that talked
and laughed with them, had the look of real boyfriends he serious,
solemn, carrying the hand the third button on the warrior, which is
where the heart was involved, sometimes looking at the sky, all to
give more strength and sincerity to what he said, and it somewhat ironic
sonrisilla, denying with graceful movements of the head and getting
some sometimes look to see if the 'POSM "still there.

Nothing mattered Andresito, but despite this, I felt some satisfaction
thinking that was behind her, seeing everything. ¡Provides both liked to
suffer ... suffer as a poet of the damned that Dante's poem, which had
never been able to finish reading.

Because it was a "celebrated Vate" in the Catholic Youth and Christian
ideas were, if not in the light of such treachery would have been
able to drown their sorrow committing the most heinous barrabasada,
for example, giving a sad farewell to the thankless, and after
throwing at the head cauldron of boiling oil which turned fritters.

But do not kill, firstly, beliefs and be a poet. Fried death was not among
the suicides of men of genius. But if not killed, revenge would know
he was a man down and when you require one lieutenant and accounts. Kill
him, yes sir, kill him and then, what a scene so tragic! Lieutenant at
his feet, crossed a thrust; Amparito, disheveled, sollozante, lashed
out at the sky and giant ghost as he erected the steel in the
bloodied hands and a smile on his face desperate, hellish, insane,
something to remind the last act of _Don Álvaro_.

And the poor boy tightened his grip jonquil tense, that his imagination
was "Toledo Steel", and thought disorder in Lope de Vega, Quevedo,
Cervantes and Lord Byron, in all the great men who, according phrase
Andresito, had bad fleas, and so gave a thrust to write.

Dance calm, cheerful and insolent rascals; see the _falla_, bourgeois
kind; reid hens Cacarica mujercillas contortions that are celebrating
the stooge! All not know that the volcano roars a few steps you do not
know that there is a man who prepares the most horrible of tragedies,
and tomorrow, when the newspapers come out in the extensive list
of what happened, can not imagine that the beast is contained in
humane killing of the opponent, until the bride and the mother, if
it decides to go down, the couple was "sweet and nice" which, like
a pale dead, was indeed a pole near the cafeteria.

Yes, kill and die later was determined. And looked at the balcony, trying
to give their eyes the most blatant expression of challenge, but was
strongly in the lieutenant. A good backs, their heads dark was not
a victim, he was hanging from a waist and sprat, according to
reports Andresito, had a reputation among his cronies in the rough.

He was not afraid, God Live! What was it? But it looked, it was a vulgarity,
detail of a bad taste, foul blows in the street with a pestle
without other company than the muías of your battery.

No sir, its aggressive plan was scrapped. What would say in the Catholic
Youth?

An author who had caused delusions of enthusiasm with that sweet
ode to the Virgin: / * _Señora_, _tú that sabes_ _The Secret of the
song .... aves_ * / A man who knew so many lindezas make, not
fighting with that guy string.

The poets will come otherwise. I just locked in immense pain, sad stanzas
throw in the face of the ungrateful, for it to fail under the most
terrible of punishments .... Was determined: abominaría the world and
its' empty pump 'would withdraw to a desert monk would be, but not as
those bearded, smelly and iban zarrapastrosos to the streets, saddlebags
to the neck, but according to figure: white and puffin melancholic,
wearing flannel fine, the red cross to the chest and eyes up, as
if _filase_ the tender regret, endless wounds of souls: a faithful
imitation of Gayarre in the last act of _The Favorita_.

Andresito And, as if is seen as wearing white, poetry by wandering
the jungle, with his hair cut in flequillo and arms crossed over his
chest, humming with sweet voice and lacrimosa "_Spirito gentil_ ..."
Some stopped smiling when he heard the song and tristona off, which
seemed salirle of heels, but I did brave the event of curious! As if a
great soul was not in their pain, above the vulgarity! And looked
to the balcony. Were no longer there. The infamous had gotten into the
room and be surrounded at that moment, with the delight of first
love, to use the wavering confianzudo tute.

And ... it down, alone with his despair, but know revenge. His dreams
of revenge as he moved, he felt close to bursting into sobs. And
I cried, yes sir, had a finger in the eye and withdrawing wet with
tears. ¡Mourn a man like him! Ah, the thankless ...! But a blow dry
cough, spasmodic, choking him back to reality.

I was enveloped in smoke blue, and subtle spicy escaped the cooker
fritters; an oily mist, unbearable, able to mourn and to cough
stooge of the _falla_ And the first thing she saw the back of his
dreams was a pair of old, looking onto the door of the cafeteria,
watched him with mocking smile. They were two good customers, with
the gorrilla drop on the forehead, eyes glassy and lagrimeantes, and
violet, wet nose, a yoke happy, united by the yoke of the fraternal
spirit, that while there tavern open, declared, as the doctor Pangloss,
that this world is the best of all possible worlds. With a dirty
handkerchief of grass in his hand, driven by shouting at the desk
_Espantagosos_, but the oddities of that gentleman who spoke only
on the balcony and looked across the street caught his attention
and the insolence of loving cheerful drunks, pusiéronse to contemplate,
laughing at his gestures painful.

Andresito Seeing that I looked, signs hiciéronle friendly as if you
knew your lifetime. Come one people ... francota! What if he accepted
a cup? No sir, thank you very much, did not have the habit of drinking
....

Well, since that was lost, that they should be offered in good will,
to see him so sad. Good luck and care to leave soon!

And the two old, who only needed a few drinks for _falla_ the owners
of the plaza and around the world, in the cafeteria metiéronse to
continue the work.

Andresito remained stiff in his place, without moving the feet, legs
numb and sore neck to look at the top. And the ungrateful not
reappeared! Friends in the balcony, Concha, sister, flirting with Roberto,
and within them, seeking solitude and quiet twilight .... My God!
What things would you say that the gross two stars to keep away from
such embobada balcony, despite the music and animation that it was
the square ...

More torment the poor boy, the two old cynics in the cafeteria speak loudly,
and more efforts made by his words obsessed him, made him forget his
role as poet desperate and unhappy, which in essence was satisfied.
They were in the café's door, like two kids playing, with taps on the
abdomen and gifts with each other fritters, accompanied by Latin and
signs in the air, as if administered communion. Go a couple of 'points'
happy! All parishioners laughed and until the same cafetinero desarrugaba
frown, even though they knew the end of such jokes and how much it cost
to put them on the street. But drinking again tornáronse gloomy.
Looked to the light spirits, and the cups up high and eyes, as if
hypnotized them white liquid hacíanse mutual confidences, laboriously
dragging syllables.

The oldest was disappointed, he had been "injured" the heart, and swore
it perjuraba, with terrible blows on the chest, it sounded like a
drum.

Your buddy should believe him, he was a man of experience and had seen a
lot. Does the policy ...? a farce, an official of volatineros. The City
Council ... a den of thieves, all of which fell into the "big house"
was to steal. The other interrupted him .... The City Council ... There
was a touch.

Let him go to him with Councils! Had worked as a dog for the candidacy
of the party handing out ballots to the doors of colleges, had a dispute
with a municipality that wanted to keep him tied up, and suffered
... all for the party and the candidate ... and now offered as a
reward as a pawn in the cobbles working nine hours in the sun and
seven real.

Thank you very much, he wanted to be employed by those in the
fresh and smoked. Before leaving on the cobblestones in the spine, he
preferred to live without working. Hunger did not care ....

While there oil refining "as the house _Espantagosos_, the stomach would
be good .... Now, after the disappointment had been "retired to private
life, and could say out loud, as his companion, all the house of
the people were thieves.

And for this assertion is well seated, has been swallowed a sip of brandy.
- _Espantagosos_ ... _mesura_! Who ...? Is he? They were cool! There
were no more cups. You discredit the establishment with his ugly words,
the guards would take him for agreeing ojeriza in your home such
blasphemies against Excellency corporation, and - this was the main
thing - to those known from ancient parish, which, when lighting
Really, it cost a disgust make the money.

Already had enough, if you wanted something more had to pay upfront.
What disrespect! Try and have a council who, after retiring to private
life ...! And looked fiercely at cafetinero, while far-fetched with
fury in their rags, with the indignation of a fatal and irreparable
offense. From the pocket of the shirt left a coin mold, the cap of the
sudador another two cents, and the windows of broken shoes sacábanse some
piece of copper filthy and sweaty. Was the angry looks of the cents-up
before leaving home, behind their women, anger and hunger enemy
that two men of good fun at the tavern.

With lords of great pride, threw his handful of copper on the counter,
and slapped the owner. If you wanted more could get on all fours, which
they still have money left for taparle, if needed. He said this
with Olympian disdain, as if they had at hand all the millions of the
Bank of Spain in small change. Andresito half saw this scene, coreada
by the laughter of the patrons. The ungrateful not reappeared, and he
was exhausted by the pain and so many hours a seedling. Do not go amiss
to sit, even in the cafeteria, but no; Sign up here! die while standing,
as the ancient Romans. Obscurecía.

The square was filled, the adjacent streets were still throwing
up new crowds, and there were a force iodos elbowing and pushing, as
if they were elastic walls of the houses. Around the _falla_ agitábase
a wave relamidos hair, visor of caps with yellow and white blouses.
The ladies in refugiábanse portals, steep on the tips of toes to see
better, to their husbands caught pequeñuelos by the armpits and
holding a pulse to cover the latest contortions of the stooge.
Even during the day and was already impatient the crowd. - Fueeego ...
¡Fueeego ...!-- shouted a chorus of the white blouse. The two drunken
brothers grabbed the shoulders, with the wet nance almost
together, asomábanse to the door of the cafeteria with malignant
chuckle to think that bother the owner . - Fire ...!

Fire ... And then hurriedly got to scream at the tavern, feigning shock,
as Chicuelo just a prank. _falla_ The organizers resisted. Had to wait
for closing night. But the crowd was dominated by that impatience among
the people levantina, just as expressed by a so others feel infected.
- Fueeego ..! ¡Fueeego ...!-- still howling from the four sides of the
square.

And the mouth of a dead left a stone pavers accurate, the stooge
left trembling in the center, half llevándosele Tupe. Applause
and laughter, and a few minutes all served in white infants of the
orchestra. Had to start at once. Cafetinero The orders shouted from the
door, and the guild is desgañitaban Brac and around the _falla_ asking
a bit of calm, while a companion was introduced in the square of canvas
with two bottles of oil . Transparent screens when a red spot that
expands rapidly among incessant crackling, the crowd launched an "oh!"
Of satisfaction. Began to burn the old mats, chairs and other furniture
pick out in the attic of the neighborhood and crowded inside the
_falla_. The red glow lit up the bottom of the figurehead. - To touch
_Marsellesa_! - Yelled a vozarrón anonymous accent imperative. A shudder
seemed to run through the crowd, jumping on a balcony after balcony. -
Yes, the _Marsellesa_ ... la_Marsellesa_ come!

- repeated thousands of voices in a threatening expression, as if
someone refuses to advance their demands. The musicians, who packed their
instruments, looked scared at the threatening crowd. Attempted to
refuse, but the thought of falling rocks in the alley faded its
purposes of resistance.

The music began to play, chill the Flugelhorns, sounded the drums
and cymbals like a distant storm, and the whole square spread an
atmosphere of wellbeing, reflected in the faces. ...

The _Marsellesa_ And the government at the stake! What more could one ask
for?

And enthusiasm southern heated brains, the eyes move was laughing
mirages. All were dominated by a southern optimism. The tongues of
fire began to emerge from inside the _falla_, licking the clothing
of the stooge. - Bravooo ...

¡Vítooor! Nobody thought it was wood and cardboard. The enthusiasm I
had savage, it was believed that the same government that are
burned to the _Marsellesa_ and industrialists dreamed awake in the
reduction of the contribution, with the white blouse in the suppression
of consumption and the tax on wine and women, and almost enternecidas
cry, they always end up in the fifth.

The music was still the roaring _Marsellesa_, and the crowd, some
of the heartburn, upset by the dream and the song, believing that
the thing was at home, shouting to the whole lung, "Long live the
Republic!"

which municipal Azores to the poor and made them look all around,
looking for a place in which to escape the crowds. The fire grew quickly.
The flames restless, moving from one place to another, as fans waved
the skirts of the fractions, low white muslin and satin ribbons of babies.
Fire toys as a beast with their victims before devouring them. Suddenly,
he prey on those ornaments, and devoured in a second, then as a
black spitting Pavese, that hover over the heads of the crowd.

Had that ended the incident, sensitive readers might still read and
think well of Irish. But one of the players was not quite sober, and he
was a poor loser and a pugnacious individual anyway, with a square
face and a thick neck that went straight up to the top of his head. His
underlip pushed out, and when Irish turned away, to cash in his chips,
this pugnacious one reached over and took a look at the cards Irish had
held.

It certainly was as rotten a hand as a man could hold. Suits all mixed,
and not a face card or a pair in the lot. The pugnacious player had
held a king high straight, and he had stayed until Irish sent in all his
chips. He gave a bellow and jumped up and hit Irish a glancing blow back
of the ear. Let us not go into details. You know Irish--or you should
know him by this time. A man who will get away with a bluff like
that should be left alone or brained in the beginning of the
fight--especially when he can look down on the hair of a six-foot man,
and has muscles hardened by outdoor living. When the dust settled, two
chairs were broken and some glasses swept off the bar by heaving bodies,
and two of the three players had forgotten their troubles. The third was
trying to find the knob on the back door, and could not because of the
buzzing in his head and the blood in his eyes. Irish had welts and two
broken knuckles and a clear conscience, and he was so mad he almost
wound up by thrashing Rusty, who had stayed behind the bar and taken
no hand in the fight. Rusty complained because of the damage to his
property, and Irish, being the only one present in a condition to
listen, took the complaint as a personal insult.

He counted his money to make sure he had it all, evened the edges of the
package of bank notes and thrust the package into his pocket. If Rusty
had kept his face closed about those few glasses and those chairs, he
would have left a "bill" on the bar to pay for them, even though he did
need every cent of that money. He told Rusty this, and he accused him of
standing in with the nesters and turning down the men who had helped him
make money' all these years.

"Why, darn your soul, I've spent money enough over this bar to buy out
the whole damn joint, and you know it!" he cried indignantly. "If you
think you've got to collect damages, take it outa these blinkety-blink
pilgrims you think so much of. Speak to 'em pleasant, though, or you're
liable to lose the price of a beer, maybe! They'll never bring you the
money we've brought you, you--"

"They won't because you've likely killed 'em both," Rusty retorted
angrily. "You want to remember you can't come into town and rip things
up the back the way you used to, and nobody say a word. You better
drift, before that feller that went out comes back with an officer. You
can't--"

"Officer be damned!" retorted Irish, unawed.

He went out while Rusty was deciding to order him out, and started for
the stable. Halfway there he ducked into the shadow of the blacksmith
shop and watched two men go up the street to Rusty's place, walking
quickly. He went on then, got his horse hurriedly without waiting to
cinch the saddle, led him behind the blacksmith shop where he would
not be likely to be found, and tied him there to the wreck of a freight
wagon.

Then he went across lots to where Fred Wilson, manager of the general
store, slept in a two-room shack belonging to the hotel. The door was
locked--Fred being a small man with little trust in Providence or in
his overt physical prowess--and so he rapped cautiously upon the window
until Fred awoke and wanted to know who in thunder was there.

Irish told his name, and presently went inside. "I'm pulling outa town,
Fred," he explained, "and I don't know when I'll be in again. So I want
you to take an order for some posts and bob wire and steeples. I--"

"Why didn't you come to the store?" Fred very naturally demanded,
peevish at being wakened at three o'clock in the morning. "I saw you in
town when I closed up."

"I was busy. Crawl back into bed and cover up, while I give you the
order. I'll want a receipt for the money, too--I'm paying in advance,
so you won't have any excuse for holding up the order. Got any thing to
write on?"

Fred found part of an order pad and a pencil, and crept shivering into
his bed. The offer to pay in advance had silenced his grumbling, as
Irish expected it would. So Irish gave the order--thirteen hundred cedar
posts, I remember--I don't know just how much wire, but all he would
need.

"Holy Macintosh! Is this for YOU?" Fred wanted to know as he wrote it
down.

"Some of it. We're fencing our claims. If I don't come after the stuff
myself, let any of the boys have it that shows up. And get it here as
quick as you can--what you ain't got on hand--"

Fred was scratching his jaw meditatively with the pencil, and staring
at the order. "I can just about fill that order outa stock on hand," he
told Irish. "When all this land rush started I laid in a big supply of
posts and wire. First thing they'd want, after they got their shacks up.
How you making it, out there?"

"Fine," said Irish cheerfully, feeling his broken knuckles. "How much is
all that going to cost? You oughta make us a rate on it, seeing it's a
cash sale, and big."

"I will." Fred tore out a sheet and did some mysterious figuring,
afterwards crumpling the paper into a little wad and hipping it behind
the bed. "This has got to be on the quiet, Irish. I can't sell wire and
posts to those eastern marks at this rate, you know. This is just for
you boys--and the profit for us is trimmed right down to a whisper." He
named the sum total with the air of one who confers a great favor.

Irish grinned and reached into his pocket. "You musta knocked your
profit down to fifty percent.," he fleered. "But it's a go with me." He
peeled off the whole roll, just about. He had two twenties left in
his hand when he stopped. He was very methodical that night. He took a
receipt for the money before he left and he looked at it with glistening
eyes before he folded it with the money. "Don't sell any posts and wire
till our order's filled, Fred," he warned. "We'll begin hauling right
away, and we'll want it all."

He let himself out into the cool starlight, walked in the shadows to
where he had left his horse, mounted and rode whistling away down the
lane which ended where the hills began.


CHAPTER 14. JUST ONE THING AFTER ANOTHER

A gray clarity of the air told that daylight was near. The skyline
retreated, the hills came out of the duskiness like a photograph in the
developer tray. Irish dipped down the steep slope into Antelope Coulee,
cursing the sprinkle of new shacks that stood stark in the dawn on
every ridge and every hilltop, look where one might. He loped along the
winding trail through the coulee's bottom and climbed the hill beyond.
At the top he glanced across the more level upland to the east and his
eyes lightened. Far away stood a shack--Patsy's, that was. Beyond that
another, and yet another. Most of the boys had built in the coulees
where was water. They did not care so much about the view--over which
Miss Allen had grown enthusiastic.

He pulled up in a certain place near the brow of the hill, and looked
down into the narrower gulch where huddled the shacks they had moved. He
grinned at the sight. His hand went involuntarily to his pocket and the
grin widened. He hurried on that he might the sooner tell the boys of
their good luck; all the material for that line fence bought and paid
for--there would certainly laugh when they heard where the money had
come from!

First he thought that he would locate the cattle and tell his news to
the boys on guard. At least twenty years ago .... It's neat, right?
Windows closed, shutters wired up so that between the sun and the air
.... I spent a lot of money: at least twelve hard, but I have a loft in
which criarían perfectly all feathered animals that come into the square
round for half a year. The only drawback is the damned rats. There is
no dust that could trap them.

It seems that looms to stop the rats piles. And what daring! Behead
the chicks, eat the offspring, and any day that I go down to devour
Vicenta and me! And what they are shameless ... Look ... look! And while
drawing one end of the large workshop, grabbed a piece of wood and
threw it with force to the site waving the terrible rodent. The bullet,
passing through the machine, bouncing off a post and fell almost at
the foot of man. - ...

He ran away! ¡Figúrate what they will do when those damned alone!
Are pigeons and chickens eat more than I do, break the eggs, and that
I keep expenses to give. Thought the day unless I kill all the animals,
and ended the fun. And while he said this, not to be down, picked up
a loom in the pan full of beans, tossing with a falsetto voice! _pul_!
_pul_ ...! endless, and threw handfuls to the ground, swirling around his
hens and pigeons, shocking, aggressive, competing with one mana
furious peck. Giovannino remained desolate appearance of the porch,
the roof beams of which hung many flags of cobwebs; looms, which
were flat in their layers of dust formation which involved dozens
of years, the windows, with their locks and moldy up some trellis
on which the sun threw light bars having danced in a world of
molecules.

Young confusedly remembered the greatness that had heard of Don
Eugenio: memories of the glorious art of silk, the brilliant work
of _velluters_ than fifty years before the launch were dancing there,
from dawn till night, and felt some shame, a strange uneasiness, as
if it were to be the remains of a dead city and still vibrate in the
recent outbreak of the catastrophe. That was a vault that he had not
removed the scaffolding, the ruin and the silence had passed through
there, petrified the workshop, before loud and deafening. The
melancholy of the young Don Juan seemed to communicate, which no longer
showed their birds grains . - How is this! Is not that sad truth ...?
And thank goodness for you, I've known good times, when reigned
here since the dawn of a crash two thousand demons, and down, your
grandfather and I felt the roof shake the drive of the machine,
while arreglábamos of accounts or sacábamos the locker rooms for
the rich teach buyers ....

Ah, what those times ... and the old man was touched, her skin
coloreábase, gesticulating enthusiastically, and her eyes sparkled
as if seeing this movie a hundred looms and active and industrious
crowd around them. -- Here in these workshops were the wealth and honor
of Valencia; _velluters_ worked here, people who learned on his tonillo
was the prototype of pedantry, but it was respectable to be the faithful
guardian of traditional customs, the sustaining that Valencian
character, sober, happy and dicharachero, which has almost disappeared.

What those men! They had their faults, Juanito, but nonetheless, I will
not change for men today. His character was fine as silk, used to work
hard, and often complicated, were meticulous, and as lovers of equity
that even counts as a joke that the Guild did stop once to pick up the
procession of pall a step that had been eating it in the window. That
would be ridiculous, but I was excited. With men and had no fear of being
robbed, and trust between workers and owners was complete.

The entered apprentice weaver in a factory, and only leaving to go
to the cemetery. All workers in the house I saw. They were like the
family .... Oh, what those times ... and Don Juan, for his animated
enthusiasm rancid, around the eyes to better see the beautiful picture
of the past. - Today - continued supporting its words with nerve pataditas
-- Now, all dead because of the damn Lyons gabachos those devilish
machines that we have ruined .... There is no longer in the mulberry
orchard in the barracks has lost the memory of cocoon crops and has
killed an industry ... no industry, an art that we, Christians but
old, directly and legitimately inherited from our grandparents Moors
....

And this is progress? What about other people steal their livelihood ...
Well I _futro_ in him and those who defend them. And the old, always
cautious and well-behaved, encouraging the imagination, was as
strong as incorrect gesture to express the contempt it deserved progress
convicted. - It is not that I curse the progress - said later, as if
they repented - above all I like to go to Madrid in less than a day, when
my time was required in nine of galley and make a will. But it infuriates
me that was fine and very point, Mr Progreso come and go bad with
his zeal to revolutionize everything. Callari if the art of silk had won
something with our ruined, but I rebelled at the sight of it there,
thus depriving it, nor is it art or anything.

Industrialism vile: scam and nothing more. Where are the fabrics
of pure silk that a dagger could not cross?

Where they spent the velvets of grandparents to grandchildren, as if
you leave the store? That ended, and now only the silk of Lyons, 'look
at me and not touch me "bad cotton, genres do not last a year, with
the crap that these ladies are so proud of the day .... Is not this,
Juanito? Can not you see you like that? The nephew answered yes to all
with headbands, very concerned in it for the way you expose the
pretension that led him there. The adoption of Juanito tempered the
wrath of man. - Do not believe me why forge illusions. This is dead good
and dead. It is not the fault of there, but the people here. No more
taste. Today it is a horror that is rich and colorful, the gentlemen
dressed as the servants, all go dark, as sacristans, the vest is the
garment that gives glory to the person and preaches its kind, is of
the same fabric the pants, no longer holds on the belly velvet flowers,
those striped hundred colors that were once in my youth, and the
tenants to fit the shirt and the fungus, as assistants, and they
laugh when out of the fund ark of the satin chupetín his grandparents,
the strip of silk scarves and flowers, that looked at the dances
in the garden ....

What about women? I do not talk about them .... ¡Brave morons! Neither of
the alleluia world upside down ....

They dress like men, fluff with English, they ugly as hell with those
buried colors, dull, gloomy, and in summer spend, the more, of
three real percale with what they believe to go so elegant.

Oh, those days of mine! Premieres least was less variety, but
things looked good and solid, who spent dozens of years in closets
without having to drive value to mothball the tooth. Everything is lost!
Bye, damask curtains! Abura, Chinese-silk! Now decorate the halls with
a rough cloth, fabric and fuzzy rough, and when not, the thing to have
"character" (what a word!)

, Throw blankets Jerez hand and arm decorated tavern. And old, both with
a bristly mustache and eyes throwing sparks, Mongolians, and BRAC
was moving furiously, as if they shed their indignation in the face
of one invisible.

His voice echoes woke in the immense porch, quieter than usual by being
calm in the streets, despite the fact that chickens and pigeons pecking
around him, taking grandeur of the scene, Don Juan seemed to be a
biblical character a prophet to desperate wailing lament the ruins
of the beloved city.

But it was not the man capable of delivering miser long bursts with
indignation to this lyric. - But we'll see, boy ... What have you
been ...? Something brings you here. I guess your concern. Juanito-babble
surprised by this unexpected question. Yes ... Something had to tell his
uncle, but he shocked both his eyes questions, calm, waiting for
his response to that, it boggles your thoughts and did not know how
to get started. - It's all about the mom ....

If you know, man ...! It's in very tight situation. And quickly, without
taking breath, as if you throw it away from a suffocating weight fired
claims Doña Manuela, demand that fifteen thousand pesetas, an
amount necessary to save family honor. - Y well, boy: what do we
want to tell with all this - You ... as a brother ... and uncle of
mine who is .... it could - I can, you know ...?

Nothing, absolutely nothing, and your mother's case. The old man said
this with an accent that did not give rise to doubts. Not be expected
to back in his refusal. - Is that still do not know your mother?
Do not you have said many times ... who is? What should you ...? Well
paid, and if you do not have to do it, who suffers the consequences. I
have sworn not to reach out to see if the water neck. If God sends a
person arregladita and economic, the blood of my veins would, but to
a wasteful, just remember that your brother in trouble, and when you
have four quarters despises his advice, that I do not or this. And
getting the nail of the thumb between the teeth pulled with force,
causing a crack. - sure she is the one that sent you here. - No,
uncle, can you believe me.

I come by my own will. - Well - said the smiling old Ladino - is
that she has asked you to you the money, and come to see if they sack
me. Enrojecióse Juanito's face at seeing his uncle guessed partly
true. - Do not deny, boy, it makes you face treason .... Listen to me
well if you are so fool that let you exploit your mother, do not
have the love of your uncle. What your father left you to you is, not
to have it eat your siblings pups Pajares. Let's see, say the truth:
Do not you Manuela has got into his traps?

Do not you have to sign a promissory note? The truth and nothing but
the truth. The old man's gaze was fixed, inquisitorial, peering, but
Juanito had to lie calmly. - No, sir, I have signed nothing. - I
believe you, and welcome.

Lots of eye, kid! Your mother is hungry for money, and certainly not
lose sight of your fortunita. I do not want to rob you. When I die,
you'll have more, something more than the garden of Alcira; not
remain in the street, as your mother, your sisters and _perdis_ of
Rafaelito ....

But I repeat: you do not want stolen. In addition, do not take to heart
so that the ruin of your mother. She lives in the trap in his own element,
and you know out of this mess as the other. Still has to be pulling
something, and when he has no shirt, resale, tenlo insurance. It is
those people who do not die until the last Ochavo spend.

Giovannino A rude language bothers you that I live so injured his mother,
his idol, but the guy he had always professed great affection and respect,
and its fluctuating between the two affections, restricting to remain
silent. More than half an hour listening to the grievances was that Don
Juan had with his sister, born to hate it with a married doctor Pajares,
which survived despite the time elapsed. - Bye, Juanito, and not
listen to your mother -- said to fire on the stairs -.

You have to do is worry less of your family who has never thought
of you, and prepare your future. Go settle down thinking, and if you
find a good girl, and small landowners, which is not easy, nor will you
most cases. Need to be merchant family. Bye, kid. Come the afternoon
together and make the stations. The boy left the house, carrying on their
shoulders a veritable pot of crickets.

It was true what the guy said: it wanted to explode. The luxuries and
prodigality of the family had to pay him, he gets that in his house
had occupied an intermediate place between the servants and their
brothers! Would not give a penny, that are fixed as his mother could.
Nothing should therefore pay him full in the store, meeting its increased
costs. But all-purpose power desvaneciéronse subservient to the views
of his mother. How beautiful it was! With its ojazos lagrimeantes and
tender, the Virgin appeared to have the heart of bristling swords. He
does not abandon it would be a bad son if it was the disdain with
which cariñazo mother showed him the good lady as soon as he was
struggling for money. - Well, Mom, do not you cry.

I can not find who we give, but I am willing to sign whatever you want,
giving as security the garden. That you created me to discard much of
that money. - I will return it to you, my son, I will return soon -
said the arrogant lady embracing and Juanito mojándole the face with her
tears. And I said with all his soul, with good faith when cheats are
saved, who trust blindly in the future and believe their fortunes improve
in the future. -- -Okay, Mom - Juanito said that in the midst of his
enternecimiento not cegaba -.

Sign, but only fifteen thousand pesetas. Long pause. Doña Manuela, thoughtful:
- Look, my son, fifteen thousand pesetas not be fair. You can sign of
sixteen thousand. Do not say no, rich mine. Complete your sacrifice.
Dinerillo a need to pay certain accounts, and further, we will pass
Easter at our house Burjasot, friends come and we must be good. Above
all, the dignity of the family and not look ridiculous. So do not turn
the gesture, my boy, look to be sixteen thousand ....

Oh, what weight I've taken off ...! VI had left the table and the family
still remained Visanteta to praise the merits of the _paella_ they
had served when friends began to arrive. - Mom - Amparito cried from
the front door - the Lopez, who in his Phaeton. ¡Street! The tram stopped
at the corner .... If you are the "judges"! Oh, and also the father of
Andresito, guiding his _charrette_ ...! You seem to have gathered!

All at once ...! Come, Conchita, Mom! Look how cute is Mr. Cuadros guiding
her carriage! It seems that throughout his life has not done anything
else ... And the guests of Mrs. Manuela entered the house, confused
with some other families, greeting women with a shooting and kissing all
praising the qualities of the 'possession "that the widow had
Burjasot Pajares.

_chalet_ Was one that seemed to escape from a box of toys, a building
contract, as nice as fragile, with its red roofs and stairways with
plaster vases, located in the heart of a garden carved into the rocks,
with two dozen trees that phthisic Gemi melancholically martyred by the
roots of hard rock layer that spans located just above the ground. Despite
its decorative aspect of opera, which Ms Manuela such enthusiasm, such
_chalet_ not going to be a neighborhood home, tucked away as it
was among other buildings of the same class, all fragile and
pretentious, with its garden bedding and on the gate in gold letters,
the titles campanudos Villa Teresa, Villa Marie, etc., depending
on the name of the owner.

The widow had committed and lost forever one hundred hanegadas of
rice land to produced very good quarters, to purchase that shiny
mousetrap and fragile, which became the title of Villa-Conchita, not
without protests and tantrums of Amparo. He believed that a "village"
for the summer is the complement of a distinguished family who have
a car, and in the talks, speaking to her friends, llenábase go on about
their "nice little hotel" in Burjasot and countless amenities
enclosing .

The house was bad, but the scenery magnificent. The hotels - which had
called, not to upset doña Manuela - occupies the gentle slope of a barren
hill, was a magnificent viewpoint from which the valley is covered
with all their esplendideces.

In front, Burjasot, prolonged roof line with its bell as a pointed
spear, beyond the dark mass of pines, Valencia shrink, Lilliputian,
which a city of dolls, all bristling with fine bell towers and Moorish
minarets as successful, and ultimately, in the edge of the horizon,
between the green of the valley and the blue sky, the harbor, like a
forest of winter, marking the atmosphere pure and clear the agglomeration
of the masts of their ships.

The day was beautiful, a real Sunday Easter. Spring enardecía blood, and
the whole city, solemnized the return of good weather, lanzábase
field, lifting him into a nest of buzz. Invited the Doña Manuela
saw walking distance of the famous Silos Burjasot, gigantic stone
platform, square hole plateau stretches from the mouth of the deep
reservoirs in which ants swarm a cheerful and noisy: it sounded
corrosive guitars, accordions and castanets accompanying jubilant
dances, formal groups of people brought shame to the games of childhood;
Dozens of boys engaged in giving flight to their kites with grotesque
painted figurehead, which date back to moving the tails were worried
the effect of patches applied to the skin of the infinite blue of
the landscape and gave a range of Chinese-pañolón or Manila.

At home Doña Manuela, ladies, robbed of their hats and shawls, and
men smoking with the confidence that you are at home, contemplating the
joy from balconies popular. Bastábales head back a little, and his
sight fell on vast plain, quiet and shining, with its infinite shades of
green, which deslumhraban, rinse the sun of spring.

They clinched and pounded and smashed
until Pink sickened at the sight and tore them apart and swore at them
for crazy men and implored them to have some sense. They let the cattle
that had been gathered with so much trouble drift away into the gulches
and draws where they must be routed out of the brush again, or perhaps
lost for days in that rough country.

When the first violence of their rage had like the storm settled to a
cold steadiness of animosity, the two remounted painfully and turned
back upon each other.

Big Medicine and Pink drew close together as against a common foe, and
Irish cursed them both and rode away--whither he did not know nor care.


CHAPTER 15. THE KID HAS IDEAS OF HIS OWN

The Old Man sat out in his big chair on the porch, smoking and staring
dully at the trail which led up the bluff by way of the Hog's Back to
the benchland beyond. Facing him in an old, cane rocking chair, the
Honorable Blake smoked with that air of leisurely enjoyment which
belongs to the man who knows and can afford to burn good tobacco and who
has the sense to, burn it consciously, realizing in every whiff its rich
fragrance. The Honorable Blake flicked a generous half-inch of ash from
his cigar upon a porch support and glanced shrewdly at the Old Man's
abstracted face.

"No, it wouldn't do," he observed with the accent of a second
consideration of a subject that coincides exactly with the first. "It
wouldn't do at all. You could save the boys time, I've no doubt--time
and trouble so far as getting the cattle back where they belong
is concerned. I can see how they must be hampered for lack of
saddle-horses, for instance. But--it wouldn't do, Whitmore. If they
come to you and ask for horses don't let them have them. They'll manage
somehow--trust them for that. They'll manage--" "But doggone it, Blake,
it's for--"

"Sh-sh--" Blake held up a warning hand. "None of that, my dear Whitmore!
These young fellows have taken claims in--er--good faith." His bright
blue eyes sparkled with a sudden feeling. "In the best of good faith, if
you ask me. I--admire them intensely for what they have started out to
do. But--they have certain things which they must do, and do alone. If
you would not thwart them in accomplishing what they have set out to do,
you must go carefully; which means that you must not run to their aid
with your camp-wagons and your saddle-horses, so they can gather the
cattle again and drive them back where they belong. You would not be
helping them. They would get the cattle a little easier and a little
quicker--and lose their claims."

"But doggone it, Blake, them boys have lived right here at the Flying
U--why, this has been their home, yuh might say. They ain't like the
general run of punchers that roam around, workin' for this outfit and
for that; they've stuck. Why, doggone it, what they done here when I
got hurt in Chicago and they was left to run themselves, why, that alone
puts me under obligations to help 'em out in this scrape. Anybody could
see that. Ain't I a neighbor? Ain't neighbors got a right to jump in and
help each other? There ain't no law agin--"

"Not against neighbors--no." Blake uncrossed his perfectly trousered
legs and crossed them the other way, after carefully avoiding any
bagging tendency. "But this syndicate--or these contestants--will try to
prove that you are not a neighbor only, but a--backer of the boys in a
land-grabbing scheme. To avoid--"

"Well, doggone your measly hide, Blake, I've told you fifty times
I ain't!" The Old Man sat forward in his chair and shook his fist
unabashed at his guest. "Them boys cooked that all up amongst
themselves, and went and filed on that land before ever I knowed a thing
about it. How can yuh set there and say I backed 'em? And that blonde
Jezebel--riding down here bold as brass and turnin' up her nose at Dell,
and callin' me a conspirator to my face!"

"I sticked a pin in her saddle blanket, Uncle Gee-gee. I'll bet she
wished she'd stayed away from here when her horse bucked her off."
The Kid looked up from trying to tie a piece of paper to the end of a
brindle kitten's switching tail, and smiled his adorable smile--that had
a gap in the middle.

"Hey? You leave that cat alone or he'll scratch yuh. Blake, if you can't
see--"

"He! He's a her and her name's Adeline. Where's the boys, Uncle
Gee-gee?"

"Hey? Oh, away down in the breaks after their cattle that got away. You
keep still and never mind where they've gone." His mind swung back to
the Happy Family, combing the breaks for their stock and the stock of
the nesters, with an average of one saddle-horse apiece and a camp outfit
of the most primitive sort--if they had any at all, which he doubted.
The Old Man had eased too many roundups through that rough country not
to realize keenly the difficulties of the Happy Family.

"They need horses," he groaned to Blake, "and they need help. If you
knowed the country and the work as well as I do you'd know they've got
to have horses and help. And there's their claims--fellers squatting
down on every eighty--four different nesters fer every doggoned one of
the bunch to handle! And you tell me I got to set here and not lift a
hand. You tell me I can't put men to work on that fence they want built.
You tell me I can't lend 'em so much as a horse!"

Blake nodded. "I tell you that, and I emphasize it," he assured the
other, brushing off another half inch of ash from his cigar. "If you
want to help those boys hold their land, you must not move a finger."

"He's wiggling all of 'em!" accused the Kid sternly, and pointed to the
Old Man drumming irritatedly upon his chair arms. "He don't want to help
the boys, but I do. I'll help 'em get their cattle, Mr. Blake. I'm one
of the bunch anyway. I'll lend 'em my string."

"You've been told before not to butt in to grownup talk," his uncle
reproved him irascibly. "Now you cut it out. And take that string
off'n that cat!" he added harshly. "Dell! Come and look after this kid!
Doggone it, a man can't talk five minutes--"

The Kid giggled irrepressibly. "That's one on you, old man. You saw
Doctor Dell go away a long time ago. Think she can hear yuh when she's
away up on the bench?"

"You go on off and play!" commanded the Old Man. "I dunno what yuh want
to pester a feller to death for--and say! Take that string off'n that
cat!"

"Aw gwan! It ain't hurting the cat. She likes it." He lifted the kitten
and squeezed her till she yowled. "See? She said yes, she likes it."

The Old Man returned to the trials of the Happy Family, and the Kid
sat and listened, with the brindle kitten snuggled uncomfortably, head
downward in his arms.

The Kid had heard a good deal, lately, about the trials of his beloved
"bunch." About the "nesters" who brought cattle in to eat up the grass
that belonged to the cattle of the bunch. The Kid understood that
perfectly--since he had been raised in the atmosphere of range talk.
He had heard about the men building shacks on the claims of the Happy
Family--he understood that also; for he had seen the shacks himself,
and he had seen where there had been slid down hill into the bottom of
Antelope Coulee. He knew all about the attack on Patsy's cabin and
how the Happy Family had been fooled, and the cattle driven off and
scattered. The breaks--he was a bit hazy upon the subject of breaks. He
had heard about them all his life. The stock got amongst them and had to
be hunted out. He thought--as nearly as could be put in words--that it
must be a place where all the brakes grow that are used on wagons and
buggies. These were of wood, therefore they must grow somewhere. They
grew where the Happy Family went sometimes, when they were gone for
days and days after stock. They were down there now--it was down in the
breaks, always--and they couldn't round up their cattle because they
hadn't horses enough. They needed help, so they could hurry back and
slide those other shacks off their claims and into Antelope Coulee
where they had slid the others. On the whole, the Kid had a very fair
conception of the state of affairs. Claimants and contestants--those
words went over his head. But he knew perfectly well that the nesters
were the men that didn't like the Happy Family, and lived in shacks on
the way to town, and plowed big patches of prairie and had children that
went barefooted in the furrows and couldn't ride horses to save their
lives. Pilgrim kids, that didn't know what "chaps" were--he had talked
with a few when he went with Doctor Dell and Daddy Chip to see the sick
lady.

After a while, when the Honorable Blake became the chief speaker and
leaned forward and tapped the Old Man frequently on a knee with his
finger, and used long words that carried no meaning, and said contestant
and claimant and evidence so often that he became tiresome, the Kid slid
off the porch and went away, his small face sober with deep meditations.

He would need some grub--maybe the bunch was hungry without any
camp-wagons. The Kid had stood around in the way, many's the time, and
watched certain members of the Happy Family stuff emergency rations into
flour sacks, and afterwards tie the sack to their saddles and ride off.
He knew all about that, too.

He hunted up a flour sack that had not had all the string pulled out of
it so it was no longer a sack but a dish-towel, and held it behind his
back while he went cautiously to the kitchen door. The Countess was
nowhere in sight--but it was just as well to make sure. The Kid went in,
took a basin off the table, held it high and deliberately dropped it
on the floor. It, made a loud bang, but it did not elicit any shrill
protest from the Countess; therefore the Countess was nowhere around.
The Kid went in boldly and filled his four-sack so full it dragged on
the floor when he started off.

At the door he went down the steps ahead of the sack, and bent his small
back from the third step and pulled the sack upon his shoulders. It
wobbled a good deal, and the Kid came near falling sidewise off the last
step before he could balance his burden. But he managed it, being
the child of his parents and having a good deal of persistence in
his makeup; and he went, by a roundabout way, to the stable with the
grub-sack bending him double. Still it was not so very heavy; it was
made bulky by about two dozen fresh-made doughnuts and a loaf of bread
and a jar of honey and a glass of wild-currant jelly and a pound or so
of raw, dried prunes which the Kid called nibblin's because he liked to
nibble at them, like a prairie dog at a grass root.

Getting that sack tied fast to the saddle after the saddle was on
Silver's back was no easy task for a boy who is six, even though he is
large for his age. Still, being Chip's Kid and the Little Doctor's he
did it--with the help of the oats box and Silver's patient disposition.

There were other things which the bunch always tied on their saddles; a
blanket, for instance, and a rope. The Kid made a trip to the bunk-house
and pulled a gray blanket off Ole's bed, and spent a quarter of an hour
rolling it as he had seen the boys roll blankets The oats box, with
Silver standing beside it, came in handy again. He found a discarded
rope and after much labor coiled it crudely and tied it beside the
saddle-fork.

The Kid went to the door, stood beside it and leaned away over so that
he could peek out and not be seen Voices came from the house--the voice
of the Old Man; to be exact, high-pitched and combative. The Kid looked
up the bluff, and the trail lay empty in the afternoon sun. Still, he
did not like to take that trail. Doctor Dell might come riding down
there almost any minute. The Kid did not want to meet Doctor Dell just
right then.

He went back, took Silver by the bridle reins and led him out of the
barn and around the corner where he could not be seen from the White
House. He thought he had better go down the creek, and out through the
wire gate and on down the creek that way. He was sure that the "breaks"
were somewhere beyond the end of the coulee, though he could not have
explained why he was sure of it. Perhaps the boys, in speaking of the
breaks, had unconsciously tilted heads in that direction.

The Kid went quickly down along the creek through the little pasture,
leading Silver by the reins. He was terribly afraid that his mother
might ride over the top of the hill and see him and call him back.
If she did that, he would have to go, of course. Deliberate, open
disobedience had never yet occurred to the Kid as a moral possibility.
If your mother or your Daddy Chip told you to come back, you had to
come; therefore he did not want to be told to come. Doctor Dell had told
him that he could go on roundup some day--the Kid had decided that this
was the day, but that it would be foolish to mention the decision to
anyone. People had a way of disagreeing with one's decisions--especially
Doctor Dell, she always said one was too little. The Kid thought he was
getting pretty big, since he could stand on something and put the saddle
on Silver his own self, and cinch it and everything; plenty big enough
to get out and help the bunch when they needed help.

He did not look so very big as he went trudging down alongside the
creek, stumbling now and then in the coarse grass that hid the scattered
rocks. He could not keep his head twisted around to look under Silver's
neck and watch the hill trail, and at the same time see where he was
putting his feet. And if he got on Silver now he would be seen and
recognized at the first glance which Doctor Dell would give to the
coulee when she rode over the brow of the hill. Walking beside Silver's
shoulder, on the side farthest from the bluff, he might not be seen at
all; Doctor Dell might look and think it was just a horse walking along
the creek his own self.

The Kid was extremely anxious that he should not be seen. The bunch
needed him. Uncle Gee-gee said they needed help. The Kid thought they
would expect him to come and help with his "string", He helped Daddy
Chip drive the horses up from the little pasture, these days; just
yesterday he had brought the whole bunch up, all by his own self, and
had driven them into the big corral alone, and Daddy Chip had stood
by the gate and watched him do it. Daddy Chip had lifted him down from
Silver's back, and had squeezed him hard, and had called him a real, old
cowpuncher. The Kid got warm all inside him when he, thought of it.

When a turn in the narrow creek-bottom hid him completely from the ranch
buildings and the hill trail, the Kid led Silver alongside a low bank,
climbed into the saddle. Then he made Silver lope all the way to the
gate.

He had some trouble with that gate. It was a barbed wire gate, such as
bigger men than the Kid sometimes swear over. It went down all right,
but when he came to put it up again, that was another matter. He simply
had to put it up before he could go on. You always had to shut gates
if you found them shut--that was a law of the range which the Kid had
learned so long ago he could not remember when he had learned And there
was another reason--he did not want em to know he had passed that way,
if they took a notion to call him back. So he worked and he tugged and
he grew so red in the face it looked as if he were choking. But he got
the gate up and the wire loop over the stake--though he had to hunt up
an old piece of a post to stand on, and even then had to stand on his
toes to reach the loop--since he was Chip's Kid and the Little Doctor's.

He even remembered to scrape out the tell-tale prints of his small feet
in the bare earth there, and the prints of Silver's feet where he went
through. Yarns he had heard the Happy Family tell, in the bunk-house on
rainy days, had taught him these tricks. He was extremely thorough in
all that he did--being a good deal like his dad--and when he went the
grass, no one would have suspected that he had passed that way.

After a while he left that winding creek-bottom and climbed a long
ridge. Then he went down hill and pretty soon he climbed another hill
that made old Silver stop and rest before he went on to the top. The
Kid stood on the top for a few minutes and stared wistfully out over
the tumbled mass of hills, and deep hollows, and hills, and hill and
hills--till he could not see where they left off. He could not see any
of the bunch; but then, he could not see any brakes growing anywhere,
either. The bunch was down in the brakes--he had heard that often enough
to get it fixed firmly in his mind. Well, when he came to where the
brakes grew--and he would know them, all right, when he saw them!--he
would find the bunch. He thought they'd be s'prised to see him ride up!
The bunch didn't know that he could drive stock all his own self, and
that he was a real, old cowpuncher now. He was a lot bigger. He didn't
have to hunt such a big rock, or such a high bank, to get on Silver now.
He thought he must be pretty near as big as Pink, any way. They would
certainly be s'prised!

The brakes must be farther over. Maybe he would have to go over on the
other side of that biggest hill before he came to the place where they
grew. He rode unafraid down a steep, rocky slope where Silver picked his
way very, very carefully, and sometimes stopped and smelt of a ledge or
a pile of rocks, and then turned and found some other way down.

The Kid let him choose his path--Daddy Chip had taught him to leave
the reins loose and let Silver cross ditches and rough places where he
wanted to cross. So Silver brought him safely down that hill where
even the Happy Family would have hesitated to ride unless the need was
urgent.

He could not go right up over the next hill--there was a rock ledge that
was higher than his head when he sat on Silver. He went down a narrow
gulch--ah, an awfully narrow gulch! Sometimes he was afraid Silver
was too fat to squeeze through; but Silver always did squeeze through
somehow. And still there were no brakes growing anywhere. Just
choke-cherry trees, and service-berries, and now and then a little flat
filled with cottonwoods and willows--familiar trees and bushes that he
had known all his six years of life.

So the Kid went on and on, over hills or around hills or down along the
side of hill. But he did not find the Happy Family, and he did not find
the brakes. He found cattle that had the Flying U brand--they had a
comfortable, homey look. One bunch he drove down a wide coulee, hazing
them out of the brush and yelling "HY-AH!" at them, just the way the
Happy Family yelled. He thought maybe these were the cattle the Happy
Family were looking for; so he drove them ahead of him and didn't let
one break back on him and he was the happiest Kid in all Montana with
these range cattle, that had the Flying U brand, galloping awkwardly
ahead of him down that big coulee.


CHAPTER 16. "A RELL OLD COWPUNCHER"

The hills began to look bigger, and kind of chilly and blue in the
deep places. The Kid wished that he could find some of the boys. He was
beginning to get hungry, and he had long ago begun to get tired. But he
was undismayed, even when he heard a coyote yap-yap-yapping up a brushy
canyon. It might be that he would have to camp out all night. The
Kid had loved those cowboy yarns where the teller--who was always the
hero--had been caught out somewhere and had been compelled to make a
"dry camp." His favorite story of that type was the story of how Happy
Jack had lost his clothes and had to go naked through the breaks. It was
not often that he could make Happy Jack tell him that story--never when
the other boys were around. And there were other times; when Pink had
got lost, down in the breaks, and had found a cabin just--in--TIME, with
Irish sick inside and a blizzard just blowing outside, and they were mad
at each other and wouldn't talk, and all they had to eat was one weenty,
teenty snow-bird, till the yearling heifer came and Pink killed it and
they had beefsteak and got good friends again. And there were other
times, that others of the boys could tell about, and that the Kid
thought about now with pounding pulse. It was not all childish fear of
the deepening shadows that made his eyes big and round while he rode
slowly on, farther and farther into the breaks.

He still drove the cattle before him; rather, he followed where the
cattle led. He felt very big and very proud--but he did wish he could
find the Happy Family! Somebody ought to stand guard, and he was getting
sleepy already.

Silver stopped to drink at a little creek of clear, cold water. There
was grass, and over there was a little hollow under a rock ledge. The
sky was all purple and red, like Doctor Dell painted in pictures, and up
the coulee, where he had been a little while ago, it was looking kind
of dark. The Kid thought maybe he had better camp here till morning. He
reined Silver against a bank and slid off, and stood looking around
him at the strange hills with the huge, black boulders that looked like
houses unless you knew, and the white cliffs that looked--queer--unless
you knew they were just cliffs.

For the first time since he started, the Kid wished guiltily that his
dad was here or--he did wish the bunch would happen along! He wondered
if they weren't camped, maybe, around that point. Maybe they would
hear him if he hollered as loud as he could, which he did, two or three
times; and quit because the hills hollered back at him and they wouldn't
stop for the longest time--it was just like people yelling at him from
behind these rocks.

The Kid knew, of course, who they were; they were Echo-boys, and they
wouldn't hurt, and they wouldn't let you see them. They just ran away
and hollered from some other place. There was an Echo-boy lived up on
the bluff somewhere above the house. You could go down in the little
pasture and holler, and the Echo-boy would holler back The Kid was not
afraid--but there seemed to be an awful lot of Echo-boys down in these
hills. They were quiet after a minute or so, and he did not call again.

The Kid was six, and he was big for his age; but he looked very little,
there alone in that deep coulee that was really more like a canyon--very
little and lonesome and as if he needed his Doctor Dell to take him on
her lap and rock him. It was just about the time of day when Doctor Dell
always rocked him and told him stories--about the Happy Family, maybe.
The Kid hated to be suspected of baby ways, but he loved these tunes,
when his legs were tired and his eyes wanted to go shut, and Doctor
Dell laid her cheek on his hair and called him her baby man. Nobody knew
about these times--that was most always in the bed room and the boys
couldn't hear.

The Kid's lips quivered a little. Doctor Dell would be surprised when
he didn't show up for supper, he guessed. He turned to Silver and to his
man ways, because he did not like to think about Doctor Dell just right
now.

"Well, old feller, I guess you want your saddle off, huh?" he quavered,
and slapped the horse upon the shoulder. He lifted the stirrup--it was
a little stock saddle, with everything just like a big saddle except
the size; Daddy Chip had had it made for the Kid in Cheyenne, last
Christmas--and began to undo the latigo, whistling self-consciously and
finding that his lips kept trying to come unpuckered all the time,
and trying to tremble just the way they did when he cried. He had no
intention of crying.

"Gee! I always wanted to camp out and watch the stars," he told Silver
stoutly. "Honest to gran'ma, I think this is just--simply--GREAT! I bet
them nester kids would be scared. Hunh!"


That helped a lot. The Kid could whistle better after that. He pulled of
the saddle, laid it down on its side so that the skirts would not bend
out of shape--oh, he had been well-taught, with the whole Happy Family
for his worshipful tutors!--and untied the rope from beside the fork.
"I'll have to anchor you to a tree, old-timer," he told the horse
briskly. "I'd sure hate to be set afoot in this man's country!" And a
minute later--"Oh, funder! I never brought you any sugar!"

Would you believe it, that small child of the Flying U picketed his
horse where the grass was best, and the knots he tied were the knots his
dad would have tied in his place. He unrolled his blanket and carried
it to the sheltered little nook under the ledge, and dragged the bag of
doughnuts and the jelly and honey and bread after it. He had heard about
thievish animals that will carry off bacon and flour and such. He knew
that he ought to hang his grub in a tree, but he could not reach up as
far as the fox who might try to help himself, so that was out of the
question.

The Kid ate a doughnut while he studied the matter out for himself. "If
a coyote or a skink came pestering around ME, I'd frow rocks at him," he
said. So when he had finished the doughnut he collected a pile of rocks.
He ate another doughnut, went over and laid himself down on his stomach
the way the boys did, and drank from the little creek. It was just a
chance that he had not come upon water tainted with alkali--but fate is
kind sometimes.

So the Kid, trying very, very hard to act just like his Daddy Chip and
the boys, flopped the blanket vigorously this way and that in an effort
to get it straightened, flopped himself on his knees and folded the
blanket round and round him until he looked like a large, gray cocoon,
and cuddled himself under the ledge with his head on the bag of
doughnuts and his wide eyes fixed upon the first pale stars and his
mind clinging sturdily to his mission and to this first real, man-sized
adventure that had come into his small life.

It was very big and very empty--that canyon. He lifted his yellow head
and looked to see if Silver were there, and was comforted at the sight
of his vague bulk close by, and by the steady KR-UP, KR-UP of bitten
grasses.

"I'm a rell ole cowpuncher, all right," he told himself bravely; but
he had to blink his eyelashes pretty fast when he said it. A "rell ole
cowpuncher" wouldn't cry! He was afraid Doctor Dell would be AWFULLY
s'prised, though...

An unexpected sob broke loose, and another. He wasn't afraid--but...
Silver, cropping steadily at the grass which must be his only supper,
turned and came slowly toward the Kid in his search for sweeter
grass-tufts. The Kid choked off the third sob and sat up ashamed. He
tugged at the bag and made believe to Silver that his sole trouble was
with his pillow.

"By cripes, that damn' jelly glass digs right into my ear," he
complained aloud, to help along the deception. "You go back,
old-timer--I'm all right. I'm a--rell--ole cowpuncher; ain't I,
old-timer? We're makin' a dry-camp, just like--Happy Jack. I'm a
rell--ole--" The Kid went to sleep before he finished saying it. There
is nothing like the open air to make one sleep from dusk till dawn. The
rell ole cowpuncher forgot his little white bed in the corner of the big
bedroom. He forgot that Doctor Dell would be awfully s'prised, and that
Daddy Chip would maybe be cross--Daddy Chip was cross, sometimes. The
rell ole cowpuncher lay with his yellow curls pillowed on the bag of
doughnuts and the gray blanket wrapped tightly around him, and slept
soundly; and his lips were curved in the half smile that came often to
his sleeping place and made him look ever so much like his Daddy Chip.


CHAPTER 17. "LOST CHILD"

"Djuh find 'im?" The Old Man had limped down to the big gate and stood
there bare headed under the stars, waiting, hoping--fearing to hear the
answer.

"Hasn't he showed up yet?" Chip and the Little Doctor rode out of the
gloom and stopped before the gate. Chip did not wait for an answer. One
question answered the other and there was no need for more. "I brought
Dell home," he said. "She's about all in--and he's just as likely to
come back himself as we are to run across him. Silver'll bring him home,
all right. He can't be--yuh can't lose a horse. You go up to the house
and lie down, Dell. I--the Kid's all right."

His voice held all the tenderness of the lover, and all the
protectiveness of the husband and all the agony of a father--but Chip
managed to keep it firm and even for all that. He lifted the Little
Doctor bodily from the saddle, held her very close in his arms for a
minute, kissed her twice and pushed her gently through the gate.

"You better stay right here," he said authoritatively, "and rest and
look after J.G. You can't do any good riding--and you don't want to be
gone when he comes." He reached over the gate, got hold of her arm and
pulled her towards him. "Buck up, old girl," he whispered, and kissed
her lingeringly. "Now's the time to show the stuff you're made of. You
needn't worry one minute about that kid. He's the goods, all right. Yuh
couldn't lose him if you tried. Go up and go to bed."

"Go to bed!" echoed the Little Doctor and sardonically. "J.G., are you
sure he didn't say anything about going anywhere?"

"No. He was settin' there on the porch tormenting the cat." The Old
Man swallowed a lump. "I told him to quit. He set there a while after
that--I was talkin'' to Blake. I dunno where he went to. I was--"

"'S that you, Dell? Did yuh find 'im?" The Countess came flapping down
the path in a faded, red kimono. "What under the shinin' sun's went with
him, do yuh s'pose? Yuh never know what a day's got up its sleeve--'n
I always said it. Man plans and God displans--the poor little tad'll be
scairt plumb to death, out all alone in the dark--"

"Oh, for heaven's sake shut up!" cried the tortured Little Doctor, and
fled past her up the path as though she had some hope of running away
from the tormenting thoughts also. "Poor little tad, all alone in the
dark,"--the words followed her and were like sword thrusts through the
mother heart of her. Then Chip overtook her, knowing too well the hurt
which the Countess had given with her blundering anxiety. Just at the
porch he caught up with her, and she clung to him, sobbing wildly.

"You don't want to mind what that old hen says," he told her brusquely.
"She's got to do just so much cackling or she'd choke, I reckon. The
Kid's all right. Some of the boys have run across him by this time, most
likely, and are bringing him in. He'll be good and hungry, and the scare
will do him good." He forced himself to speak as though the Kid had
merely fallen on the corral fence, or something like that. "You've got
to make up your mind to these things," he argued, "if you tackle raising
a boy, Dell. Why, I'll bet I ran off and scared my folks into fits fifty
times when I was a kid."

"But--he's--just a baby!" sobbed the Little Doctor with her face pressed
hard against Chip's strong, comforting shoulder.

"He's a little devil!" amended Chip fiercely. "He ought to be walloped
for scaring you like this. He's just as capable of looking after himself
as most kids twice his size. He'll get hungry and head for home--and if
he don't know the way, Silver does; so he can't--"

"But he may have fallen and--"

"Come, now! Haven't you got any more sense than the Countess? If you
insist of thinking up horrors to scare yourself with, I don't know
as anybody can stop you. Dell! Brace up and quit worrying. I tell
you--he's--all right!"

That did well enough--seeing the Little Doctor did not get a look
at Chip's face, which was white and drawn, with sunken, haggard eyes
staring into the dark over her head. He kissed her hastily and told her
he must go, and that he'd hurry back as soon as he could. So he went
half running down the path and passed the Countess and the Old Man
without a word; piled onto his horse and went off up the hill road
again.

They could not get it out of their minds that the Kid must have ridden
up on the bluff to meet his mother, had been too early to meet her--for
the Little Doctor had come home rather later than she expected to
do--and had wandered off to visit the boys, perhaps, or to meet his
Daddy Chip who was over there some where on the bench trying to figure
out a system of ditches that might logically be expected to water the
desert claims of the Happy Family--if they could get the water.

They firmly believed that the kid had gone up on the hill, and so they
hunted for him up there. The Honorable Blake had gone to Dry Lake and
taken the train for Great Falls, before ever the Kid had been really
missed. The Old Man had not seen the Kid ride up the hill--but he
had been sitting with his chair turned away from the road, and he was
worried about other things and so might easily have missed seeing him.
The Countess had been taking a nap, and she was not expected to know
anything about his departure. And she had not looked into the doughnut
jar--indeed, she was so upset by supper time that, had she looked, she
would not have missed the doughnuts. For the same reason Ole did not
miss his blanket. Ole had not been near his bed; he was out riding and
searching and calling through the coulee and up toward the old Denson
place.

No one dreamed that the Kid had started out with a camp-outfit--if one
might call it that--and with the intention of joining the Happy Family
in the breaks, and of helping them gather their cattle. How could they
dream that? How could they realize that a child who still liked to
be told bedtime stories and to be rocked to sleep, should harbor such
man-size thoughts and ambitions? How could they know that the Kid was
being "a rell ole cowpuncher"?

That night the whole Happy Family, just returned from the Badlands and
warned by Chip at dusk that the Kid was missing, hunted the coulees that
bordered the benchland. A few of the nesters who had horses and could
ride them hunted also. The men who worked at the Flying U hunted, and
Chip hunted frantically. Chip just about worshipped that kid, and in
spite of his calmness and his optimism when he talked to the Little
Doctor, you can imagine the state of mind he was in.

At sunrise they straggled in to the ranch, caught up fresh horses,
swallowed a cup of coffee and what food they could choke down and
started out again. At nine o'clock a party came out from Dry Lake,
learned that the Kid was not yet found, and went out under a captain to
comb systematically through the hills and the coulees.

Before night all the able-bodied men in the country and some who were
not--were searching. It is astonishing how quickly a small army will
volunteer in such an emergency; and it doesn't seem to matter very much
that the country seems big and empty of people ordinarily. They come
from somewhere, when they're needed.

The Little Doctor--oh, let us not talk about the Little Doctor. Such
agonies as she suffered go too deep for words.

The next day after that, Chip saddled a horse and let her ride beside
him. Chip was afraid to leave her at the ranch--afraid that she would
go mad. So he let her ride--they rode together. They did not go far from
the ranch. There was always the fear that someone might bring him in
while they were gone. That fear drove them back, every hour or two. Then
another fear would drive them forth again.

Up in another county there is a creek called Lost Child Creek. A child
was lost--or was it two children?--and men hunted and hunted and hunted,
and it was months before anything was found. Then a cowboy riding that
way found--just bones. Chip knew about that creek which is called Lost
Child. He had been there and he had heard the story, and he had seen
the--father and had shuddered--and that was long before he had known the
feeling a father has for his child. What he was deadly afraid of now
was that the Little Doctor would hear about that creek, and how it had
gotten its name.

What he dreaded most for himself was to think of that creek. He kept
the Little Doctor beside him and away from that Job's comforter, the
Countess, and tried to keep her hope alive while the hours dragged their
leaden feet over the hearts of them all.

A camp was hastily organized in One Man Coulee and another out beyond
Denson's place, and men went there to the camps for a little food and
a little rest, when they could hold out no longer. Chip and the Little
Doctor rode from camp to camp, intercepted every party of searchers they
glimpsed on the horizon, and came back to the ranch, hollow-eyed and
silent for the most part. Revived the "blood trade" of his father,
instinctively grabbing his uncle, Don Juan, and inspired by the
atmosphere of games played and victorious million paper breathed
continuously in the shop next to his principal, had finally decided,
ignoring the Positive goods and materials to be launched in the
stock market fever.

The act of blind trust of his girlfriend and his old friend fearlessly
delivering savings to the almighty Don Ramón Morte had finally decided.
Would it be more cowardly than those two women? Alcira sold his orchard,
and the eight thousand who gave hard swelled the torrent of gold, a pulse
of blind trust, would fall into the boxes philanthropist banker . A
portion of its capital is invested in protecting his eminent role
of the state and the other, which was the most narrow, began playing
Brokerage, always behind tables and without daring to imitate its
boldness coups.

Some hesitation sometimes felt mysterious terrors at the thought that
his fortune was at the mercy of a whim of chance, but not why I
lost confidence, and nothing had reserved its capital to meet the
maturity of the promissory notes he had made his mother sign. Why
such caution? There was more to listen to your principal and the
powerful banker. Eight thousand and triple bend is hard in a very
short time and then I could pay the debts and marry maternal Tonic.

But meanwhile, they did not his mother with him. The loved, still worshiping
with almost religious respect, but of money, or a Ochavo. Doña Manuela
knew everything, and thus placed his son at the same level as his brother.
Oops relatives! One could die in the street, well assured that no one
come to your rescue.

Y doña Manuela, infuriated by how difficult the situation, his hands tense
scratched trim his coat. Only one hope remained to him but did not want
to think about it because it elevábase as a voice of protest. I was
sure that some people would give him the slightest indication that
money that caused him much anguish. Undoubtedly, Mr. Cuadros was not
difficult to save a friend for a few thousand real, that every month
he counted their earnings by thousands of hard, but just thought
that he undertook, was reborn in Doña Manuela scruples he believed
dead for ever .

Aware of life, understood the importance of that benefit and which
necessarily had to occur. A month earlier it would not have hesitated
to turn to its former subsidiary, despite how much it hurt his pride. But
now, think of the boldness that was allowed the day of Corpus
Christi and many others made by the bolsista in their daily visits,
Doña Manuela stopped embarrassed, and to be lighted the salon, had seen
his flush. She did so many years not remembered for anything Melchor Pena
sentíalo wander around like a guardian spirit of honest widowhood. The
doctor, from her second husband, was not agreed to anything. The
one good piece, with their infidelities, had no right to hold accountable
for what they could do. What most surprised him was that caused it is
showing now such terrible scruples, when following her first widowhood
had fallen easily and insensibly into Pajares arms. Love then had
drowned all concerns, but now it was a disgraceful exploitation
of a sale that was only supposed caused him embarrassment and shame.

The pride he could regain his seat. Cuadros, despite his fortune,
be kept under the former, the husband of the maid Teresa, a poor devil
who had always treated her with contempt. Why that man would lose his
reputation of honest women, sustained for many years at the expense of
sacrifices that kept the mystery? No, before misery. Doña Manuela And,
drunk with the power of resolution, I thought in poverty as a thing
unknown, but that was to sound pleasant to be the salvation of their
honor.

Work she and her daughters. Duchess also, to princesses and queens
were in poverty, faced with dignity. Y doña Manuela, revising its limited
historical knowledge, and felt flattered his pride almost as a
sovereign dethroned falling into poverty.

This was enough to affirm its decision. When Rafael and Juanito came
home, the family moved to the dining room. The dinner was sad. It seemed
that the body lying down in the dirt on the block, there on the table,
looking with glazed eyes and motionless on their former masters. At the
end of the dinner, the two brothers went out, each going their own
thing. Juanito had changed his habits.

Not returned home until eleven o'clock, and after making a short visit
to Tonic and Micaela, went to a café where people come together,
and Exchange were assessed daily opinions and prophecies of "ups"
and "downside" . At nine p.m. Pajares received a visit from his dad and
Andresito. Doña Manuela, seeing his former dependent, blush, as if he
could guess the thoughts that had troubled earlier.

Mr. Cuadros showed a joyful and radiant, as if the news is happy that
the court had given Nelet. So, the horse was dead? We now explain why
iban that afternoon walk on the Alameda. It was to feel the loss,
because one horse replace _Brillante_ had a decent will cost some money,
but what a devil! four or five thousand reais not to ruin anyone.
And the Lord spoke of the money tables showing disrespect reversing the
head and pulling the belly as if I had lined with banknotes. Andresito
Girls talked about with the piano, and Doña Manuela, calm and in possession
of itself, I looked fixedly at his former subordinate.

The shocked the contempt with which this man spoke of money, and
received a bloody sarcasm as the assumption that four or five thousand
reais meant nothing to her. And thinking this, his eyes instinctively
went to the marble from a console, where it had been exhibited in
magnificent silver candlesticks now stored in the Monte de Piedad,
and also looked cheap stickers that adorn the walls of the room, replacing
two large tables inherited from his father, by Juan de Juanes, by whom
he had given the need to live for a month.

The man, blinded by his fortune, he did not know what she said. Like it
was some years before, had farms that sell or pawn and threw the money
into your hands full. But now carefully hidden and shameful poverty
had taught her the value of money. Mr. Cuadros, always ignorant of
the true situation of the house, Ms Manuela terribly bothered. I
wanted to appear friendly, and that the offers were made sarcastic. Was
responsible for the purchase of the horse. How it would it is cheaper,
for a beast as beautiful as _Brillante_ only have to pay about three
thousand reais.

He knew the most famous lighters. The horse rode his son had bought
almost a bicoca, and now hoped to have the same luck. - What you
should Manuela, is to buy the horse as soon as possible because if people
see you walking the many days like today, will make malicious comments.
Those of us at some point in our debernos look much things. And the lucky
silly, speaking of the height, closed his eyes as if the feeling
of vertigo that are at the top. What caused the greatest impact in Doña
Manuela was the claim that people would make comments if they are
not displayed in public as ever. Now reappeared the haughtiness of his
character, shudder to think of mortifying shame they speak of their
ruin. She was not to deal with resignation misery. I was determined.
Had argued that in height, using all means and then, come all, to
just think about what caused him so much shame.

And Mrs vain to assert its resolution, seeking examples and remember
what they had so often heard in the murmurings of the infamous gatherings:
the innumerable cases of ladies like her very decent, well-regarded
by society, and who had made the same sacrifices to save the prestige
of their homes.

And supported by the pernicious example of those women who had both
criticized, looked under his old eyes that revealed impudor a
reasoned and calm. At last - I thought it to be content - Mr
Cuadros, though coarse and vulgarote, a man was acceptable and did not
have to resign herself as other women to seek protection of a
valetudinarian disgusting.

The guessed something bolsista eyes of the wife of his former principal.
And credulity of his skull missing and innocent old body back with
some pride, as if he were convinced that their personal items had
influenced so amazing achievement. He ended the visit at midnight, and
when father and son were on their way the door, accompanied by the ladies
of the house, Doña Manuela changed his last words with Mr Tables.
- We - the lady said - that you will buy the horse.

I hope that tomorrow will have made my order. - Oh, sure ...! You know
all the things that interest me as my own business. - So, you come
tomorrow at three and I will give him the money. - Would you shut up?
And settle accounts later .... But, finally, come to have the pleasure
of chatting a bit. And Mr. Cuadros left home satisfied itself bufando
satisfaction Conton as a couple and looking at some pity to his son, who
was walking beside shy and it shrunk.

A sunny optimism made him forget that his father was. Ah! If instead
of the fifty-odd years he had that pazguato, war had much to give in
the world! The next day, Mr. Cuadros was punctual at three in the
afternoon came in the house of Doña Manuela and pleasantly surprised
to see that the lady was alone in the living room, dressed in the most
elegant of gowns and face with the finest refined menjurjes toilet girls.
The bolsista felt like a rebirth of life, something reminiscent of his
fevers young, when first being dependent joking and chasing the
maid Teresa in the back of _Las Three Rosas_.

The girls were sent home by his mother 'the judges. "Juanito was in the
shop, and as Raphael, was not to wait until well into the night. In
the dining oíase noise that covered the dried Visanteta, the only one
who learned of the visit of Mr. and Tables what was that long. She
heard the laughter of the lady off and hauling some furniture, as if
they were driven to violence, but one girl was cautious and reserved,
which only dealt with their actions, without pausing to interpret the
others.

The day following the family could go out and ride in their carriage,
and a couple more horses and better print _Brillante_ held that the
vacuum that the death had left in the manger.

Incurred in the bitterness was forgotten before that Sunday as an
abundance rarely enjoyed in that house. Doña Manuela had money, started
to pay the accounts regularly, do not bother suppliers and demanding
payment of arrears, and the French dressmaker, after pocketing a
few thousand real thought lost forever, the girls did Pajares
lucirlos for new costumes at the fair in July.

All was quiet in the house and doña Manuela, and the content of the family
affected _Las Three Rosas_, where the simple Teresa felt happy. She
knew her husband had broken definitively with Clarita, that "bad skin"
that lived on the streets of the port.

No longer paid him the terms of the mezzanine, or attending to his mad
spending. What's more, a charitable soul that she had not heard that
he lost cheating, taunting him with the boys of the stock exchange and
Antonio showed repentance, not willing to protect more women from such
ilk.

Poor Teresa, when you think that your was the old lady who had done
such a miracle, bringing her husband to the track, I felt such gratitude,
that she could not talk about it without tears leap. What a good person
was doña Manuela! She only knew Mr catechize Cuadros. X Juanito was
delivered to the agitation and fear of trusting their future to
the whims of chance.

He, as methodical and careful to meet their obligations, leaving the
store to go to the Markets with his principal, or where they met their
colleagues from financial exploitation. ¡Valiente thing cared _Las Three
Rosas_! No longer wanted to be the owner of the shop. The early gains
obtained with sweet ease, he was blinded and only thought to be a
millionaire in enslaving fortune, now laughing at those times that
I dreamed of the existence Tonic and monotonous routine of quiet
bourgeois, Ochavo after amassing a Ochavo capital to spend old age
in peace.

His girlfriend practically restrain their financial enthusiasms. Do not
be tempted to fortune, and now that they favor, it was crazy not to
withdraw in time. But Juanito refused to hear it. What do women know
of business? Why would stay in the middle of the road, where it could
continue its principal until paradise of millionaires? Enamorado
increasingly Tonic, he praised the idea of getting married
immediately, but this same honey impulsábale to expect.

It was better to contain their desire for a few months, one year at most,
let their capital, by flipping the stock market, grows like a snowball,
and when he possessed the long-awaited and respectable one million,
making the transformation was complete: enjoy watching the poor costurerilla
became, under the direction of their vain mother in law, in elegant
lady with a big house, carriage and other ornaments of wealth.

The desire to reach as soon as possible to this desired end was what made
her bold and quell fears of a likely collapse. Those who had known him
in times asombrábanse by the radical change in its character.

His uncle, Don Juan and did not speak with him.

One day was broken by the family, are close to hit his nephew. - Juanito,
you're a fool - said the miser with lips trembling in anger, brush
mustache erizándosele -. I always thought that your character had
more than your father that my sister and we loved you, but now I see
that fooled me.

You lost bad company, the atmosphere you live a lie, examples of wasteful
your mother and your silly advice from the principal that an oracle
in the business because they earn money blindly by a mockery of the
capricious Hopefully, some day and pay all together, giving me the
pleasure of being able to laugh to see him shirtless.

And you will pass the same. Well if you go ...! Selling the garden to
become owner of Three Rosas_ and _Las marry that girl, which I
understand is a good person would have given pleasure to your uncle.
And if you're missing something, I was here to answer. So I'd come to
say: 'Uncle, I need this, and another beyond it, we were at the end of
the street. But now, you understand? Count for nothing with me. As
if that were not my nephew. I've come to like all of your family, and I
can not love.

I thought you wanted it to be which was next to my bed at the time
of my death, and to recount the four quarters to me, I said: 'This
is for the guy. "But now I'm disappointed. Come, come, become a millionaire
in the stock market, and if you stay beggar, do not come looking for me,
because what we do is laugh at your uncle to see what you're gross. The
break with his uncle was saddened to Juanito. Had not known another
father, and also in their calculations trader, had always included the
hope of being the heir of Don Juan.

But the turmoil in the stock market, and especially earnings, despite
the shock of it breaking. When the end of the month, he received
the "differences", said with surprise: "It seems impossible that we
censor ourselves to such a degree of exploitation. But bah! Who do
these people if stale ', and between, not just the rancid included his
uncle, but Don Eugenio, the founder of _Las Three Rosas_, also expressed
great dissatisfaction to the young. Whenever Juanito was in the store
with the old merchant, he soon threw glances of compassion and contempt.
Sometimes coming up with a murmuring tone of reproach: - ¡Ay, Juanito,
Juanito ...! I am lost. That demon you drag tables to perdition ....
Do not defend him, do not try justificarte.

Now you doing very well so you can convince, but the fry will laugh.
And the old man turned away with the confidence that the facts would
come to support their predictions. Only in Juanito house was applause
and appreciation. His mother wanted him more since he was handed
over to business. His son was no longer dependent on a trade, it was
a bolsista, and this always provides higher social status.

Moreover, their gains were a source of hope for the widow, but was satisfied
that all your needs in the present, not left to feel concerned about the
future. The good fortune of Juanito could solidify the prestige of the
house. The proximity of the show in July to the family concerned. Never
had such pleasant evenings in the house of birds. At night after dinner
came Mr Tables, Teresa and her son, and began the joyful reunion. By
the balconies open penetrated the breath of neon caliginoso summer
full of enervating perfumes. The plazuela animábase. The heat resulting
from their hovel close to the people of the lower floors and the doors
were blocked by the white circle shadows sitting in low chairs and
breathing loudly.

Up on the roof covering the plaza as a sheet of satin Transparency
apelillado infinite points of light, sky of summer with its mysterious
and opaque transparency. In the dark distinguíanse balconies, including
flower pots and put the botija cool, light clothing silhouettes confusing.
Other open and illuminated, left out, like those of birds, the click
sound of the piano, sometimes accompanied by rhythmic drip of new
irrigated pots.

In the circle of the square partíanse huge watermelons, and women with
moquero on the chest to get rid of stains, devouring slices as half
moons, red juice dripping mouth.

In a door whispering guitar with wistful rasgueo replying from another
accordion with his nasal and shrill shriek. And the noise of the
plaza, the people laughing, shouting to be crossed between the
circle and popular music, with the cool fall evening in the lounge of
the birds, serve as accompaniment to the dull conversation of the chat.
Girls with Andresito, made plans for the next event.

Rigodones remembered in the Hall of Agriculture and joyful waltzes
in Trade; thinking about the costumes they had brought the French
dressmaker, and kept intact for the coup in Alameda on the first
night of the show, and even felt its evil little joy considering the
fact that his friends in the cause elegance. Calm and happiness had
returned to that house. So Conchita, despite his grumpy and irascible
character, felt blessed to see Roberto "returned to the fold" which shows
more love than before.

In the evening, leaving his friend Rafael, attended the gathering of
the birds and not happy with the long held talks there with his girlfriend,
even in the mornings, when it was in the toilet Amparo, the bred in the
Market and Mom in the bed, climbed the ladder and the landing before
the door of the room, talking over an hour with Conchita until Doña
Manuela stood and began moving the house. The great concern of the
family were three of bullfights, the loudest celebration of the show.
The gathering had already completed their projects. Mr. Cuadros buy
one of the best stage for the two families, and those of the same
bird that Teresa, proponíanse deslumbar audiences with its elegance.

The girls had prepared their costumes' Manola 'countless times and
had been tested front of the mirror to learn how to register with
simplicity and good taste of the white blanket blonde. As for the
two breasts, they felt wearing dark suits of silk, with costly mantillas
black, the two gifted by Mr. Cuadros. Now is the day of the first run.
"Oh, I'll take care of you," the Kid comforted. "I'll give you a
doughnut if you're hungry. I've got some left, but you'll have to pick
out the glass where the jelly broke on it." He reined closer to the bank
and slid off and began untying the sadly depleted bag from behind
the cantle. Miss Allen offered to do it for him, and was beautifully
snubbed. The Kid may have been just a frightened, lost little boy before
he met her--but that was a secret hidden in the silences of the deep
canyons. Now he was a real old cowpuncher, and he was going to take care
of Miss Allen because men always had to take care of women.

Miss Allen offended him deeply when she called him Claude. She was told
bluntly that he was Buck, and that he belonged to the Flying U outfit,
and was riding down here to help the bunch gather some cattle. "But I
can't find the brakes," he admitted grudgingly. "That's where the bunch
is--down in the brakes; I can't seem to locate them brakes."

"Don't you think you ought to go home to your mother?" Miss Allen asked
him while he was struggling with the knot he had tied in the bag.

"I've got to find the bunch. The bunch needs me," said the Kid. "I--I
guess Doctor Dell is s'prised--"

"Who's Doctor Dell? Your mother? Your mother has just about cried
herself sick, she's so lonesome without you."

The Kid looked at her wide-eyed. "Aw, gwan!" he retorted after a minute,
imitating Happy Jack's disbelief of any unpleasant news. "I guess you're
jest loadin' me. Daddy Chip is takin' care of her. He wouldn't let her
be lonesome."

The Kid got the sack open and reached an arm in to the shoulder. He
groped there for a minute and drew out a battered doughnut smeared
liberally with wild currant jelly, and gave it to Miss Allen with an
air of princely generosity and all the chivalry of all the Happy Family
rolled into one baby gesture. Miss Allen took the doughnut meekly and
did not spoil the Kid's pleasure by hugging him as she would have
liked to do. Instead she said: "Thank you, Buck of the Flying U," quite
humbly. Then something choked Miss Allen and she turned her back upon
him abruptly.

"I've got one, two, free, fourteen left," said the Kid, counting them
gravely. "If I had 'membered to bring matches," he added regretfully,
"I could have a fire and toast rabbit legs. I guess you got some glass,
didn't you? I got some and it cutted my tongue so the bleed came--but I
never cried," he made haste to deny stoutly. "I'm a rell ole cowpuncher
now. I just cussed." He looked at her gravely. "You can't cuss where
women can hear," he told Miss Allen reassuringly. "Bud says--"

"Let me see the doughnuts," said miss Allen abruptly. "I think you ought
to let me keep the lunch. That's the woman's part. Men can't bother with
lunch--"

"It ain't lunch, it's grub," corrected the Kid. But he let her have the
bag, and Miss Allen looked inside. There were some dried prunes that
looked like lumps of dirty dough, and six dilapidated doughnuts in a
mess of jelly, and a small glass jar of honey.

"I couldn't get the cover off," the Kid explained, "'theut I busted
it, and then it would all spill like the jelly. Gee I-I wish I had a
beefsteak under my belt!"

Miss Allen leaned over with her elbows on the bank and laughed and
laughed. Miss Allen was closer to hysterics than she had ever been in
her life. The Kid looked at her in astonishment and turned to Silver,
standing with drooping head beside the bank. Miss Allen pulled herself
together and asked him what he was going to do.

"I'm going to LOCATE your horse," he said, "and then I'm going to take
you home." He looked at her disapprovingly. "I don't like you so very
much," he added. "It ain't p'lite to laugh at a feller all the time."

"I won't laugh any more. I think we had better go home right away," said
Miss Allen contritely. "You see, Buck, the bunch came home. They--they
aren't hunting cattle now. They want to find you and tell you. And your
father and mother need you awfully bad, Buck. They've been looking all
over for you, everywhere, and wishing you'd come home."

Buck looked wistfully up and down the canyon. His face at that moment
was not the face of a real old cowpuncher, but the sweet, dirty,
mother-hungry face of a child. "It's a far ways," he said plaintively.
"It's a million miles, I guess I wanted to go home, but I couldn't des'
'zactly 'member--and I thought I could find the bunch, and they'd know
the trail better. Do you know the trail?"

Miss Allen evaded that question and the Kid's wide, wistful eyes. "I
think if we start out, Buck, we can find it. We must go toward the sun,
now. That will be towards home. Shall I put you on your horse?"

The Kid gave her a withering glance and squirmed up into the saddle with
the help of both horn and cantle and by the grace of good luck. Miss
Allen gasped while she watched him.

The Kid looked down at her triumphantly. He frowned a little and flushed
guiltily when he remembered something. "'Scuse me," he said. "I guess
you better ride my horse. I guess I better walk. It ain't p'lite for
ladies to walk and men ride."

"No, no!" Miss Allen reached up with both hands and held the Kid from
dismounting. "I'll walk, Buck. I'd rather. I--why, I wouldn't dare ride
that horse of yours. I'd be afraid he might buck me off." She pinched
her eyebrows together and pursed up her lips in a most convincing
manner.

"Hunh!" Scorn of her cowardice was in his tone. "Well, a course I ain't
scared to ride him."

So with Miss Allen walking close to the Kid's stirrup and trying her
best to keep up and to be cheerful and to remember that she must not
treat him like a little, lost boy but like a real old cowpuncher,
they started up the canyon toward the sun which hung low above a dark,
pine-covered hill.


CHAPTER 19. HER NAME WAS ROSEMARY

Andy Green came in from a twenty-hour ride through the Wolf Butte
country and learned that another disaster had followed on the heels of
the first; that miss Allen had been missing for thirty-six hours. While
he bolted what food was handiest in the camp where old Patsy cooked for
the searchers, and the horse wrangler brought up the saddle-bunch just
as though it was a roundup that held here its headquarters, he heard all
that Slim and Cal Emmett could tell him about the disappearance of Miss
Allen.

One fact stood significantly in the foreground, and that was that Pink
and the Native Son had been the last to speak with her, so far as anyone
knew. That was it--so far as anyone knew. Andy's lips tightened. There
were many strangers riding through the country, and where there are many
strangers there is also a certain element of danger. That Miss Allen was
lost was not the greatest fear that drove Andy Green forth without sleep
and with food enough to last him a day or two.

First he meant to hunt up Pink and Miguel--which was easy enough, since
they rode into camp exhausted and disheartened while he was saddling
a fresh horse. From them he learned the direction which Miss Allen had
taken when she left them, and he rode that way and never stopped until
he had gone down off the benchland and had left the fringe of coulees
and canyons behind. Pink and the Native Son had just come from down in
here, and they had seen no sign of either her or the Kid. Andy intended
to begin where they had left off, and comb the breaks as carefully as
it is possible for one man to do. He was beginning to think that the
Badlands held the secret of the Kid disappearance, even though they had
seen nothing of him when they came out four days ago. Had he seen Chip
he would have urged him to send all the searchers--and there were two
or three hundred by now--into the Badlands and keep them there until the
Kid was found. But he did not see Chip and had no time to hunt him up.
And having managed to evade the supervision of any captain, and to keep
clear of all parties, he meant to go alone and see if he could find a
clue, at least.

It was down in the long canyon which Miss Allen had followed, that Andy
found hoof-prints which he recognized. The horse Miss Allen had ridden
whenever he saw her--one which she had bought somewhere north
of town--had one front foot which turned in toward the other.
"Pigeon-toed," he would have called it. The track it left in soft soil
was unmistakable. Andy's face brightened when he saw it and knew that he
was on her trail. The rest of the way down the canyon he rode alertly,
for though he knew she might be miles from there by now, to find the
route she had taken into the Badlands was something gained.

The flat, which Andy knew very well--having driven the bunch of cattle
whose footprints had so elated Miss Allen--he crossed uneasily. There
were so many outlets to this rich little valley. He tried several of
them, which took time; and always when he came to soft earth and saw no
track of the hoof that turned in toward the other, he would go back and
ride into another gulch. And when you are told that these were many, and
that much of the ground was rocky, and some was covered with a thick mat
of grass, you will not be surprised that when Andy finally took up her
trail in the canyon farthest to the right, it was well towards noon. He
followed her easily enough until he came to the next valley, which he
examined over and over before he found where she had left it to push
deeper into the Badlands. And it was the same experience repeated when
he came out of that gulch into another open space.

He came into a network of gorges that would puzzle almost anyone, and
stopped to water his horse and let him feed for an hour or so. A man's
horse meant a good deal to him, down here on such a mission, and even
his anxiety could not betray him into letting his mount become too
fagged.

After a while he mounted and rode on without having any clue to follow;
one must trust to chance, to a certain extent, in a place like this. He
had not seen any sign of the Kid, either, and the gorges were filling
with shadows that told How low the sun was sliding down the sky. At that
time he was not more than a mile or so from the canyon up which Miss
Allen was toiling afoot toward the sun; but Andy had no means of knowing
that. He went on with drooping head and eyes that stared achingly here
and there. That was the worst of his discomfort--his eyes. Lack of sleep
and the strain of looking, looking, against wind and sun, had made them
red-rimmed and bloodshot. Miss Allen's eyes were like that, and so were
the eyes of all the searchers.

In spite of himself Andy's eyes closed now. He had not slept for two
nights, and he had been riding all that time. Before he realized it he
was asleep in the saddle, and his horse was carrying him into a gulch
that had no outlet--there were so many such!--but came up against a hill
and stopped there. The shadows deepened, and the sky above was red and
gold.

Andy woke with a jerk, his horse having stopped because he could go no
farther. But it was not that which woke him. He listened. He would have
sworn that he had heard the shrill, anxious whinney of a horse not far
away. He turned and examined the gulch, but it was narrow and grassy and
had no possible place of concealment, and save himself and his own horse
it was empty. And it was not his own horse that whinnied--he was sure of
that. Also, he was sure that he had-not dreamed it. A horse had called
insistently. Andy knew horses too well not to know that there was
anxiety and rebellion in that call.

He waited a minute, his heart beating heavily. He turned and
started back down the gulch, and then stopped suddenly. He heard it
again--shrill, prolonged, a call from somewhere; where, he could not
determine because of the piled masses of earth and rock that flung the
sound riotously here and there and confused him as to direction.

Then his own horse turned his head and looked toward the left, and
answered the call. From far off the strange horse made shrill reply.
Andy got down and began climbing the left-hand ridge on the run, tired
as he was. Not many horses ranged down in here--and he did not believe,
anyway, that this was any range horse. It did not sound like Silver,
but it might be the pigeon-toed horse of Miss Allen. And if it was, then
Miss Allen would be there. He took a deep breath and went up the last
steep pitch in a spurt of speed that surprised himself.

At the top he stood panting and searched the canyon below him. Just
across the canyon was the high peak which Miss Allen had climbed afoot.
But down below him he saw her horse circling about in a trampled place
under a young cottonwood.

You would never accuse Andy Green of being weak, or of having unsteady
nerves, I hope.

But it is the truth that he felt his knees give way while he looked;
and it was a minute or two before he had any voice with which to call to
her. Then he shouted, and the great hill opposite flung back the echoes
maddeningly.

He started running down the ridge, and brought up in the canyon's bottom
near the horse. It was growing shadowy now to the top of the lower
ridges, although the sun shone faintly on the crest of the peak. The
horse whinnied and circled restively when Andy came near. Andy needed no
more than a glance to tell him that the horse had stood tied there for
twenty-four hours, at the very least. That meant....

Andy turned pale. He shouted, and the canyon mocked him with echoes. He
looked for her tracks. At the base of the peak he saw the print of her
riding boots; farther along, up the slope he saw the track again. Miss
Allen, then, must have climbed the peak, and he knew why she had done
so. But why had she not come down again?

There was only one way to find out, and he took the method in the
face of his weariness. He climbed the peak also, with now and then a
footprint to guide him. He was not one of these geniuses at trailing who
could tell, by a mere footprint, what had been in Miss Allen's mind when
she had passed that way; but for all that it seemed logical that she had
gone up there to see if she could not glimpse the kid--or possibly the
way home.

At the top he did not loiter. He saw, before he reached the height,
where Miss Allen had come down again--and he saw where she had, to avoid
a clump of boulders and a broken ledge, gone too far to one side. He
followed that way. She had descended at an angle, after that, which took
her away from the canyon.

In Montana there is more of daylight after the sun has gone than there
is in some other places. Andy, by hurrying, managed to trail Miss Allen
to the bottom of the peak before it grew really dusky. He knew that she
had been completely lost when she reached the bottom, and had probably
wandered about at random since then. At any rate, there were no tracks
anywhere save her own, so that he felt less anxiety over her safety
than, when he had started out looking for her.

Andy knew these breaks pretty well. He went over a rocky ridge, which
Miss Allen had not tried to cross because to her it seemed exactly in
the opposite direction from where she had started, and so he came to her
horse again. He untied the poor beast and searched for a possible trail
over the ridge to where his own horse waited; and by the time he had
found one and had forced the horse to climb to the top and then descend
into the gulch, the darkness lay heavy upon the hills.

He picketed Miss Allen's horse with his rope', and fashioned a hobble
for his own mount. Then he ate a little of the food he carried and sat
down to rest and smoke and consider how best he could find Miss Allen
or the Kid--or both. He believed Miss Allen to be somewhere not far
away--since she was afoot, and had left her lunch tied to the saddle.
She could not travel far without food.

After a little he climbed back up the ridge to where he had noticed a
patch of brush, and there he started a fire. Not a very large one, but
large enough to be seen for a long distance where the vision was not
blocked by intervening hills. Then he sat down beside it and waited
and listened and tended the fire. It was all that he could do for
the present, and it seemed pitifully little. If she saw the fire, he
believed that she would come; if she did not see it, there was no hope
of his finding her in the dark. Had there been fuel on the high peak,
he might have gone up there to start his fire; but that was out of the
question, since the peak was barren.

Heavy-eyed, tired in every fibre of his being, Andy dragged up a dead
buck-bush and laid the butt of it across his blaze. Then he lay down
near it--and went to sleep as quickly as if he had been chloroformed.

It may have been an hour after that--it may have been more. He sat up
suddenly and listened. Through the stupor of his sleep he had heard Miss
Allen call. At least, he believed he had heard her call, though he knew
he might easily have dreamed it. He knew he had been asleep, because the
fire had eaten part of the way to the branches of the bush and had died
down to smoking embers. He kicked the branch upon the coals and a blaze
shot up into the night. He stood up and walked a little distance away
from the fire so that he could see better, and stood staring down into
the canyon.

From below he heard a faint call--he was sure of it. The wonder to him
was that he had heard it at all in his sleep. His anxiety must have been
strong enough even then to send the signal to his brain and rouse him.

He shouted, and again he heard a faint call. It seemed to be far down
the canyon. He started running that way.

The next time he shouted, she answered him more clearly. And farther
along he distinctly heard and recognized her voice. You may be sure he
ran, after that!

After all, it was not so very far, to a man who is running recklessly
down hill. Before he realized how close he was he saw her standing
before him in the starlight. Andy did not stop. He kept right on running
until he could catch her in his arms; and when he had her there he held
her close and then he kissed her. That was not proper, of course--but a
man does sometimes do terribly improper things under the stress of big
emotions; Andy had been haunted by the fear that she was dead.

Well, Miss Allen was just as improper as he was, for that matter. She
did say "Oh!" in a breathless kind of way, and then she must have known
who he was. There surely could be no other excuse for the way she clung
to him and without the faintest resistance let him kiss her.

"Oh, I've found him!" she whispered after the first terribly
unconventional greetings were over. "I've found him, Mr. Green. I
couldn't come up to the fire, because he's asleep and I couldn't carry
him, and I wouldn't wake him unless I had to. He's just down here--I was
afraid to go very far, for fear of losing him again. Oh, Mr. Green! I--"

"My name is Andy," he told her. "What's your name?"

"Mine? It's--well, it's Rosemary. Never mind now. I should think you'd
be just wild to see that poor little fellow--he's a brick, though."

"I've been wild," said Andy, "over a good many things--you, for one.
Where's the Kid?"

They went together, hand in hand--terribly silly, wasn't it?--to where
the Kid lay wrapped in the gray blanket in the shelter of a bank. Andy
struck a match and held it so that he could see the Kid face--and Miss
Allen, looking at the man whose wooing had been so abrupt, saw his mouth
tremble and his lashes glisten as he stared down while the match-blaze
lasted.

"Poor little tad--he's sure a great Kid," he said huskily when the match
went out. He stood up and put his arm around Miss Allen just as though
that was his habit. "And it was you that found him!" he murmured with
his face against hers. "And I've found you both, thank God."


CHAPTER 20. THE RELL OLE COWPUNCHER GOES HOME

I don't suppose anything can equal the aplomb of a child that has always
had his own way and has developed normally. The Kid, for instance, had
been wandering in the wild places--this was the morning of the sixth
day. The whole of Northern Montana waited anxiously for news of him. The
ranch had been turned into a rendezvous for searchers. Men rode as long
as they could sit in the saddle. Women were hysterical in the affection
they lavished upon their own young. And yet, the Kid himself opened his
eyes to the sun and his mind was untroubled save where his immediate
needs were concerned. He sat up thinking of breakfast, and he spied
Andy Green humped on his knees over a heap of camp-fire coals, toasting
rabbit-hams--the joy of it--on a forked stick. Opposite him Miss Allen
crouched and held another rabbit-leg on a forked stick. The Kid sat
up as if a spring had been suddenly released, and threw off the gray
blanket.

"Say, I want to do that too!" he cried. "Get me a stick, Andy, so I can
do it. I never did and I want to!"

Andy grabbed him as he came up and kissed him--and the Kid wondered at
the tremble of Andy's arms. He wondered also at the unusual caress; but
it was very nice to have Andy's arms around him and Andy's cheek against
his, and of a sudden the baby of him came to the surface.

"I want my Daddy Chip!" he whimpered, and laid his head down on Andy's
shoulder. "And I want my Doctor Dell and my--cat! She's lonesome for
me. And I forgot to take the string off her tail and maybe it ain't
comfortable any more!"

"We're going to hit the trail, old-timer, just as soon as we get outside
of a little grub." Andy's voice was so tender that Miss Allen gulped
back a sob of sympathy. "You take this stick and finish roasting the
meat, and then see what you think of rabbit-hams. I hear you've been a
real old cowpuncher, Buck. The way you took care of Miss Allen proves
you're the goods, all right. Not quite so close, or you'll burn it,
Buck. That's better. I'll go get another stick and roast the back."

The Kid, squatting on his heels by the fire, watched gravely the
rabbit-leg on the two prongs of the willow stick he held. He glanced
across at Miss Allen and smiled his Little Doctor smile.

"He's my pal," he announced. "I bet if I stayed we could round up all
them cattle our own selves. And I bet he can find your horse, too.
He--he's 'customed to this country. I'd a found your horse today, all
right--but I guess Andy could find him quicker. Us punchers'll take
care of you, all right." The rabbit-leg sagged to the coals and began to
scorch, and the Kid lifted it startled and was grateful when Miss Allen
did not seem to have seen the accident.

"I'd a killed a rabbit for you," he explained, "only I didn't have no
gun or no matches so I couldn't. When I'm ten my Daddy Chip is going to
give me a gun. And then if you get lost I can take care of you like
Andy can. I'll be ten next week, I guess." He turned as Andy came back
slicing off the branches of a willow the size of his thumb.

"Say, old-timer, where's the rest of the bunch?" he inquired casually.
"Did you git your cattle rounded up?"

"Not yet." Andy sharpened the prongs of his stick and carefully impaled
the back of the rabbit.

"Well, I'll help you out. But I guess I better go home first--I guess
Doctor Dell might need me, maybe."

"I know she does, Buck." Andy's voice had a peculiar, shaky sound that
the Kid did not understand. "She needs you right bad. We'll hit the high
places right away quick."

Since Andy had gone at daybreak and brought the horses over into
this canyon, his statement was a literal one. They ate hurriedly and
started--and Miss Allen insisted that Andy was all turned around, and
that they were going in exactly the wrong direction, and blushed and
was silent when Andy, turning his face full toward her, made a kissing
motion with his lips.

"You quit that!" the Kid commanded him sharply. "She's my girl I guess I
found her first 'fore you did, and you ain't goin' to kiss her."

After that there was no lovemaking but the most decorous conversation
between these two.

Flying U Coulee lay deserted under the warm sunlight of early forenoon.
Doña Manuela Walk the narrow alley that formed the huertanas, sitting in
silletas esparto, taking in the filthy lap balance, and the baskets,
placed upside down, the fresh vegetables. There, the dark bunches of
spinach, cabbage big as roses and white fuzzy Blonda enclosed in cases
of leaves, the endive with shades of ivory, the humble turnip color of
earth, spiky yet subtle hair-like roots, the celery, vegetable
hair, keeping his cool loops in the wind fields, and radishes,
running, standing out as drops of blood on the soft bed of vegetables.

Further, showing rows of sandbags for their open mouths potatoes of
Aragon, painted skin, and after they _churros_, shy and humble, who
were waiting to buy the crop, booted a ground force in thankless
scratching their entire year bowels without juice. Doña Manuela began
their shopping, with vendors taking a series of fierce haggling,
more than usual economy.

Nelet, lifting the lids of the basket, was fixing on the inside
bundles of fresh vegetables, while the lady did not make an instant
calm her almoner, paying and receiving pieces of silver coins with
disgust and filthy green.

I was already exhausted Article vegetables now to something else. And
crossing the stream, went to the sidewalk in front of the Principal,
where the sellers casquijo, What a din of a thousand devils!

Well known stairs near San Juan, with their dark caves, sheltered from
the noisy tinsmiths.

A loud hammering, an incessant trac trac-beaten brass leaving each of the
covachuelas, whose entries murky, empavesadas with lamps and lanterns,
alcuzas and coberteras, all new, clean and bright, they remembered the
Loriga sidewalks scales Legionnaires Romans. Doña Manuela fled the
crash, which seemed nervous, but before reaching the Major had to stop
between surprised and afraid. In the stream, people screaming swirls
and some others laughed and threw exclamations indecent, clicking
the tongue as if it was a dog fight. Scared the first time by the
violent waves of the crowd who came to her, I did not know whether
to flee or follow your curiosity, that still retained.

What was that ...? Will beat? The crowd made way, and fast, with a blind
impulse, as spurred by the terror, spent a dozen girls disheveled,
greñudas in flip-flops, with almost dirty loose flap and carrying in her
hands, drawn instinctively to reduce barriers, a pair mean cotton,
three lemons, a few bunches of parsley, horn combs, articles, in
order, which can be bought with a few cents at any juncture.

That herd dirty, frightened and miserable, with the pallor of
hunger in the meat and the madness of terror in his eyes, was the piracy
market, the outcasts who were outside the law, who could not pay
the license for the Municipality sale, and to distinguish in the
distance and the Levite blue cap golden sheriff, avisábanse with
instinctive cries, as the herds to the danger, and began furious
race, pushing pedestrians, sliding between his legs and fell to
rise immediately, opening holes in the mass of humanity that
obstructed the plaza.

People laughed at this exodus galop, celebrating the pursuit of the
sheriff. Nobody understood what was unfortunate for those losing their
paltry merchandise back to the desperate father's hovel, where the mother
looked ready to seize the couple of actual gain or administer a
beating.

Doña Manuela also laughed a little, then the Given the noisy persecution
departed, and came after the market casquijo, looking for candy wild
people with rumination fruition at Christmas, forgetting the rest of
the year. The sales came to the door of the main buyers codeábanse with
the sentry, and two officers of the guard, with his hands tucked
into the mulch and the restless legs hit by sword, walked through
the crowd looking faces nice.

He was difficult to put fear in the foot mats of esparto rounded
edges and high, which amontonábanse forming pyramid, shiny brown
color of chocolate and hazelnuts, which exhaled the pungent scent
of the woods.

Walnuts threw their bags on a merry-CLOC CLOC whenever the buyer's hand
removed to assess their quality, and a little more inside, like a treasure
hard to keep, in a small bag of the aristocracy casquijo, sweet
acorns attracting the eye of the lustful.

Just make your purchase Doña Manuela when the head was again felt in
the back a friendly pat. He was a gentleman advanced in years, with
a square top hat, so rare that it should belong to a remote fashion,
if this fashion is that it had existed.

He was smooth in an old coat, on which peeked from under a esportilla
shopping, and to smooth over frayed velvet showed his face red and
full, in which the salient details, apart from the wrinkles were a
whisker of brush and a few eyebrows canosas so oblique that made
the recall of Chinese fans. - John!

- exclaimed Doña Manuela. Visanteta provided with an elbow to the coachman
and spoke in his ear. Don Juan was the brother of the lady, all those who
spoke ill at home, albeit with a certain respect, calling par
'uncle'. Ojillos The Don Juan, restless and researchers in their
revolvíanse deep basins surrounded by cracks . While his gaze was
lost in the bottom of the cot Nelet that was open at his feet, he said
with a chuckle that mocking doña Manuela, according own confession,
he "requemaba blood ': - Shopping, huh ...? I too am going dancing for
the market for more than an hour. ¡Válgame God, how is everything! I
understand that the poor can not eat .... Girl, if you start and you'll
take home half market .... That's acorn, right? Food rich, who can
spend. That people only buy what money. - What you did not purchase?
- Doña Manuela said smiling, while not hiding the fact that he produced
his brother's words. - Who ...? Do I ...? Good going! A mí nadie me scam.
And when I say it looked at the seller as much outrage if an enemy
of public tranquility, but the palurdo, and motionless with his hands
tucked into the belt, not deigned to repair in the ferocity of the
aggressive greedy. - Also - don Juan continued - what I want that?

Those who do not have teeth, we must abstain from many things, thank
you very much if you can eat soup with garlic and had to pay .... I
bought something: a few chestnuts and walnuts, but not for me, is for
Vincent, who is old but already has an enviable teeth. Little thing.
You see you ... for me and the maid low-need. In addition, everything
goes through the roof, and there is little money .... ¡Je, je ... And
the old man laughed as though enjoying inwardly repeating his
sister in all the tones that it was very poor. - Come on, shut up
- Doña Manuela said with trembling voice, without hiding his
irritation as - -.

I do not ever hear you talk about poverty only need to ask me a handout.
- Women, do not be irritated .... I do not think I need charity, I am
poor, but I still have not to die of hunger, and above all, order
and economy, without wanting to appear more than it really is, what
happens anyone so richly.

And these words stressed the old with the accent and mocking eyes fixing
on her sister. - John, all life will be miserable one. How much money
you save is ...? You gonna take him to another world? - I ...? I think
everything possible to delay that trip, and I have time to waste before
the four quarters to keep ....

I do not want anyone to laugh at me after his death. Púsose Doña
Manuela serious than what was said by his brother, so guess in their
eyes. Perhaps because of this Don Juan changed his conversation. - Di,
Manuela, and Juanito - In the shop. If I have time to go see him. -
Tell her to come tomorrow. Although it is a big, I do not want to deprive
him of the taste as a bonus when he was a Chicuelo. The old man, saying
it no longer showed the ironic smile and seemed to speak sincerely. -
Also go to see girls and Rafael. - Let them come - answered Don
Juan, who reappeared in the galling smile -.

I'll give you a penny in bonuses, all you can afford a poor guy. -
Shut up, greedy ... I am ashamed. You can die of starvation by not
spending a penny .... Why do not you come eat with us tomorrow? Festive
and affectionate tone with which she said these words more alarmed at the
seriousness Juan irritated moments before. - Who ...? Do I ...? I
have made my preparations, I do not want to offend my old Vicenta,
proposed showcased as a cook. Look, I too expense, although I am
poor. And when I say this, drawing a messenger Pillet, still within walking
distance, a fat capon and shiny in her arms. Doña Manuela moved the
lower lip in a gesture of contempt. -- ¡Valiente purchase! And that's
all for Christmas?

Do not ruin ... or fill many stomach. - Not everyone is as rich as
you, marquise, and can not go to buy a couple of servants. Only
those millions can be rumbosos. And after these words, which were intended
to enclose galling, Don Juan is dismissed, as if her sister wanted
to stay mad at him. - Bye, Manuela, to purchase long and well. -
Bye, greedy ....

And the two brothers were separated, smiling, as if changing phrases in
it and loving affection rebosase. The lady continued, passing between
honey positions, where the wasps flap, apelotonándose varnish on small
jars. Doña Manuela went along the winding alleys formed by the tables
near the market of flowers.

There was all the aristocracy of the market, the blue blood of resale,
the girls prettier and midwives skinned roasted meats and splendid, with
its garnish of pearls and silk scarves in bright colors. Doña Manuela
still doing their shopping, stopping at the strange and unusual
products for the station that can provide a fertile garden whose
guts never lie and that makes the climate in greenhouses.

Bed sheets were aligned and placed with certain art peppers and tomatoes,
with their fake product rubicundeces almost artificial, green peas
in their sleeves, all tasty and exotic, but very expensive, when
they heard that their prices retreating to the astonishment good
burghers of that spirit by the market economy with iban espuerta
frayed under the layer.

The two were reared its increasingly heavy baskets, and continued
difficulty with the lady through the compact crowd which had shaken
and restless at the entrance to the New Market, with porches, in
full afternoon sun, and humidity were lobreguez mouth of a cave.
where there was more unbearable was the monotonous buzz of the
market.

The roof of the portico under impact and enlarge the voices of
buyers. A sickening stench of raw meat permeated the environment, and
on-line counters ostentábanse red costillares outstanding hooks, the
legs of a bull with its embedded muscles hovering between yellow
grease with a harmony of tone reminiscent of the flag, and skinned
kids with ears, watery eyes and the stomach opened, as if emerging
from a Herod exterminating innocent.

Meanwhile, Nelet and Visanteta baskets filled to the brim, and in the
face of two raised marked the gesture was in a bad mood. Go buy one!
Doña Manuela bag seemed a bottomless pitcher who was watering the
whole ESP market.

Butcheries left to enter the market of fruit, between the two arcades.
Arremolinábase people at the entrances, and where there was doña
Manuela realized for the first time the persecution suffered annoying.
Repeatedly felt a timid hand sliding down over his waist, but now
was more: it was a pinch that was a shameless tormented in their
roundness boldly good girl. ...

He came back quickly head you watch it and it was fine ...! A venerable
sir, looking santito, entertain such crap! Doña Manuela launched a harsh
look at the old geezer kindly face, which decreased the satyr, the
smooth lifting of the layer with bold hands. Continued the aggrieved lady
but a few steps, stopped the scandal that erupted in his back.

A slap rang and the voice of the entire lung Visanteta screaming: '_Tío
morra_,' repeating the phrase countless times with the fury of a
savage virtue he wants the whole world know your rude chastity.

People parábase between amazed and curious, the coachman laughed opening
its jaws in a span, and the old geezer, crestfallen, as if not read
anything with him, quietly escurríase among the crowd. Was that the rider
of the garden, the first to feel pinch of the old pirate, had
replied with a slap, happy in the background of someone who tested
his virtue.

The lady made her quiet, very upset by the scandal, and continued gait,
while Nelet, happy for this incident that broke the monotonous of
purchases, like a stubborn asked the girl what the site had pinched, and
felt a shiver of pleasure every time she, blushing, he called
'animal' and "shameless."

The journey continued along a table in which, under the awning of
wood were stacked fruit time: apples with yellow glowing transparency
of the wax pears Cinderellas and tied in bunches and rough hanging
from nails oranges golden pyramids forming on a piece of burlap, and
melons dull for a long, strangled by the cord that held the costillares
days before the hut, with bark blanducha, but keeping in inside the
freshness of the snow and the bland sweetness of honey. At one end of
the market, about Repeso, bakers tables crowded with white and brown
books, long ones, such as boats, and round with festoons and others,
such as hats of Paje and a little beyond the 'uncles' Elche after
showing her big hats lattice formed by bunches of yellow dates
rabid.

When the lady and her servants returned to the main square, detuviéronse
at the entrance to the market of flowers. An intense perfume of heliotrope
and purple came from there, lost in the heavy atmosphere of the square.
Doña Manuela was immobile, mentally reviewing their purchases to find
out what was missing. The crowd shook with nervous wave, firing and
screaming laughter. Now, Chicuelo selling unlicensed persons ran into
the street of San Fernando, and again the herd of misery, greñudo,
dirty, falling with the clothes, went to the Azores and sad chancleteo
fast, rolling around, showing the pale starved wolverine and the crowd
happy. Doña Manuela gave his orders. The two could return home and re
Nelet with espuerta empty.

Was to buy the turkey, the nougat and other things I had in memory. She
aguardaría in the 'shop'. And this word was enough to understand that,
as home of Doña Manuela, the 'shop' was par for the establishment of _Las
Three Rosas_, and beyond not recognizing another store in Valencia.
placed between the street of San Fernando and the blankets in the most
crowded market, participated in the nature of these two trade
routes of the city.

It was rustic and urban one time offered to huertanos a varied assortment
of blankets, belts and silk scarves, and the people of the Indian city
of cheaper, more colorful the muslin. Marched to his desk the bizarre
Labrador and the modest lady, attracted by the abundance of those kinds
of trade to the flat-footed hated claims, showing the title paid
_Casa founded in 1832_, and estimated their pride in stating that
all genera were in the country, without mixture of English and
French fabrics. detúvose Doña Manuela upon arrival in front of the
store and covered the outside with a glance.

The first floor, and covering the label ajado the house, _Antonio
Cuadros_, _sucesor Garcia and Peña_, hanging long curtains made of
blankets that appeared mosaics, complicated orladas with tight rows of
borlajes and madrone, obscure bands, tinged in places with caps red and
blue clothes pins, silk handkerchiefs with a dozen pieces, undulating
waves and pearly, and percale prints, showing fantastic birds and
branches with chimeric rabid which shocked pleasantly colorful beauty
to the garden. In the central window was the sample the house, which had
become famous for the establishment: a dummy dressed as a farmer, with
three roses in hand, that through the glass, staring at passersby with
crystal eyes, sends the smile on her face wax, dotted by the tracks
of a hundred generations of flies.

They had to take the work in shifts on account of having their own
cattle to watch day and night. Sometimes it happened that a man tamped
posts or helped stretch wire all day, and then stood guard two or three
hours on the herd at night; which was wearing on the temper. Sometimes,
because they were tired, they quarreled over small things.

New shipments of cattle, too, kept coming to Dry Lake. Invariably these
would be driven out towards Antelope Coulee--farther if the drivers
could manage it--and would have to be driven back again with what
patience the Happy Family could muster. No one helped them among the
settlers. There was every attitude among the claim-dwellers, from open
opposition to latent antagonism. None were quite neutral--and yet the
Happy Family did not bother any save these who had filed contests to
their claims, or who took active part in the cattle driving.

The Happy Family were not half as brutal as they might have been. In
spite of their no-trespassing signs they permitted settlers to drive
across their claims with wagons and water-barrels, to haul water from
One Man Creek when the springs and the creek in Antelope Coulee went
dry.

They did not attempt to move the shacks of the later contestants off
their claims. Though they hated the sight of them and of the owners who
bore themselves with such provocative assurance, they grudged the time
the moving would take. Besides that the Honorable Blake had told them
that moving the shacks would accomplish no real, permanent good. Within
thirty days they must appear before the register and receiver and file
answer to the contest, and he assured them that forbearance upon their
part would serve to strengthen their case with the Commissioner.

It goes to prove how deeply in earnest they were, that they immediately
began to practice assiduously the virtues of mildness and forbearance.
They could, he told them, postpone the filing of their answers until
close to the end of the thirty days; which would serve also to delay
the date of actual trial of the contests, and give the Happy Family more
time for their work.

Their plans had enlarged somewhat. They talked now of fencing the whole
tract on all four sides, and of building a dam across the mouth of a
certain coulee in the foothills which drained several miles of rough
country, thereby converting the coulee into a reservoir that would
furnish water for their desert claims. It would take work, of course;
but the Happy Family; were beginning to see prosperity on the trail
ahead and nothing in the shape of hard work could stop them from coming
to hang-grips with fortune.

Chip helped them all he could, but he had the Flying U to look after,
and that without the good team-work of the Happy Family which had kept
things moving along so smoothly. The team-work now was being used in a
different game; a losing game, one would say at first glance.

So far the summer had been favorable to dry-farming. The more
enterprising of the settlers had some grain and planted potatoes upon
freshly broken soil, and these were growing apace. They did not know
about these scorching August winds, that might shrivel crops in a day.
They did not realize that early frosts might kill what the hot winds
spared. They became enthusiastic over dry-farming, and their resentment
toward the Happy family increased as their enthusiasm waxed strong. The
Happy Family complained to one another that you couldn't pry a nester
loose from his claim with a crowbar.

In this manner did civilization march out and take possession of the
high prairies that lay close to the Flying U. They had a Sunday School
organized, with the meetings held in a double shack near the trail to
Dry Lake. The Happy family, riding that way, sometimes heard voices
mingled in the shrill singing of some hymn where, a year before, they
had listened to the hunting song of the coyote.

Eighty acres to the man--with that climate and that soil they never
could make it pay; with that soil especially since it was mostly barren.
The Happy Family knew it, and could find it in their hearts to pity the
men who were putting in dollars and time and hard work there. But for
obvious reasons they did not put their pity into speech.

They fenced their west line in record time. There was only one gate
in the whole length of it, and that was on the trail to Dry Lake. Not
content with trusting to the warning of four strands of barbed wire
stretched so tight that they hummed to the touch, they took turns in
watching it--"riding fence," in range parlance--and in watching the
settlers' cattle.

To H. J. Owens and his fellow contestants they paid not the slightest
attention, because the Honorable Blake had urged them personally to
ignore any and all claimants. To Florence Grace Hallman they gave no
heed, believing that she had done her worst, and that her worst was
after all pretty weak, since the contests she had caused to be filed
could not possibly be approved by the government so long as the Happy
Family continued to abide by every law and by-law and condition and
requirement in their present through-going and exemplary manner.

You should have seen how mild-mannered and how industrious the Happy
Family were, during these three weeks which followed the excitement of
the Kid's adventuring into the wild. You would have been astonished,
and you would have made the mistake of thinking that they had changed
permanently and might be expected now to settle down with wives and
raise families and hay and cattle and potatoes, and grow beards,
perhaps, and become well-to-do ranchers.

The Happy Family were almost convinced that they were actually leaving
excitement behind them for good and all. They might hold back
the encroaching tide of immigration from the rough land along the
river--that sounded like something exciting, to be sure. But they must
hold back the tide with legal proceedings and by pastoral pursuits, and
that promised little in the way of brisk, decisive action and strong
nerves and all these qualities which set the Happy Family somewhat apart
from their fellows.


CHAPTER 23. THE WATER QUESTION AND SOME GOSSIP

Miss Rosemary Allen rode down into One Man Coulee and boldly up to the
cabin of Andy Green, and shouted musically for him to come forth. Andy
made a hasty pass at his hair with a brush, jerked his tie straight
and came out eagerly. There was no hesitation in his manner. He went
straight up to her and reached up to pull her from the saddle, that he
might hold her in his arms and kiss her--after the manner of bold young
men who are very much in love. But Miss Rosemary Allen stopped him with
a push that was not altogether playful, and scowled at him viciously.

"I am in a most furious mood today," she said. "I want to scratch
somebody's eyes out! I want to say WORDS. Don't come close, or I might
pull your hair or something, James." She called him James because that
was not his name, and because she had learned a good deal about his
past misdeeds and liked to take a sly whack at his notorious tendency to
forget the truth, by calling him Truthful James.

"All right; that suits me fine. It's worth a lot to have you close
enough to pull hair. Where have you been all this long while?" Being
a bold young man and very much in love, he kissed her in spite of her
professed viciousness.

"Oh, I've been to town--it hasn't been more than three days since we
met and had that terrible quarrel James. What was it about?" She frowned
down at him thoughtfully. "I'm still furious about it--whatever it is.
Do you know, Mr. Man, that I am an outlaw amongst my neighbors, and that
our happy little household, up there on the hill, is a house divided
against itself? I've put up a green burlap curtain on my southwest
corner, and bought me a smelly oil stove and I pos-i-tively refuse to
look at my neighbors or speak to them. I'm going to get some lumber and
board up that side of my house.

"Those three cats--they get together on the other side of my curtain and
say the meanest things!"

Andy Green had the temerity to laugh. "That sounds good to me," he told
her unsympathetically. "Now maybe you'll come down and keep house for me
and let that pinnacle go to thunder. It's no good anyway, and I told you
so long ago. That whole eighty acres of yours wouldn't support a family
of jackrabbits month. What--"

"And let those old hens say they drove me off? That Kate Price is
the limit. The things she said to me you wouldn't believe. And it all
started over my going with little Buck a few times to ride along your
fence when you boys were busy. I consider that I had a perfect right to
ride where I pleased. Of course they're furious anyway, because I don't
side against you boys and--and all that. When--when they found out
about--you and me, James, they said some pretty sarcastic things, but I
didn't pay any attention to that. Poor old freaks, I expected them to be
jealous, because nobody ever pays any attention to THEM. Kate Price is
the worst--she's an old maid. The others have had husbands and can act
superior.

"Well, I didn't mind the things they said then; I took that for granted.
But a week or so ago Florence Hallman came, and she did stir things up
in great style! Since then the girls have hardly spoken to me except to
say something insulting. And Florence Grace came right out and called me
a traitor; that was before little Buck and I took to 'riding fence' as
you call it, for you boys. You imagine what they've been saying since
then!"

"Well, what do you care? You don't have to stay with them, and you know
it. I'm just waiting--"

"Well, but I'm no quitter, James. I'm going to hold down that claim
now if I have to wear a sixshooter!" Her eyes twinkled at that idea.
"Besides, I can stir them up now and then and get them to say things
that are useful. For instance, Florence Hallman told Kate Price about
that last trainload of cattle coming, and that they were going to cut
your fence and drive them through in the night--and I stirred dear
little Katie up so she couldn't keep still about that. And therefore--"
She reached out and gave Andy Green's ear a small tweek--"somebody found
out about it, and a lot of somebodys happened around that way and just
quietly managed to give folks a hint that there was fine grass somewhere
else. That saved a lot of horseflesh and words and work, didn't it?"

"It sure did." Andy smiled up at her worshipfully. "Just the same--"

"But listen here, nice, level-headed Katiegirl has lost her temper since
then, and let out a little more that is useful knowledge to somebody.
There's one great weak point in the character of Florence Hallman; maybe
you have noticed it. She's just simply GOT to have somebody to tell
things to, and she doesn't always show the best judgment in her choice
of a confessional--"

"I've noticed that before," Andy Green admitted, and smiled
reminiscently. "She sure does talk too much--for a lady that has so much
up her sleeve."

"Yes--and she's been making a chum of Katie Price since she discovered
what an untrustworthy creature I am. I did a little favor for Irish
Mallory, James. I overheard Florence Grace talking to Kate about that
man who is supposed to be at death's door. So I made a trip to
Great Falls, if you please, and I scouted around and located the
gentleman--well, anyway, I gave that nice, sleek little lawyer of yours
a few facts that will let Irish come back to his claim."

"Irish has been coming back to his claim pretty regular as it is," Andy
informed her quietly. "Did you think he was hiding out, all this time?
Why"--he laughed at her--"you talked to him yourself, one day, and
thought it was Weary. Remember when you came over with the mail? That
was Irish helping me string wire. He's been wearing Weary's hat and
clothes and cultivating a twinkle to his eyes--that's all."

"Why, I--well, anyway, that man they've been making a fuss over is just
as well as you are, James. They only wanted to get Irish in jail and
make a little trouble--pretty cheap warfare at that, if you want my
opinion."

"Oh, well--what's the odds? While they're wasting time and energy that
way, we're going right along doing what we've laid out to do. Say, do
you know I'm kinda getting stuck on this ranch proposition. If I just
had a housekeeper--"

Miss Rosemary Allen seldom let him get beyond that point, and she
interrupted him now by wrinkling her nose at him in a manner that made
Andy Green forget altogether that he had begun a sentence upon a subject
forbidden. Later she went back to her worries; she was a very persistent
young woman.

"I hope you boys are going to attend to that contest business right
away," she said, with a pucker between her eyes and not much twinkle in
them. "There's something about that which I don't quite understand.
I heard Florence Hallman and Kate talking yesterday about it going by
default. Are you sure it's wise to put off filing your answers so long?
When are you supposed to appear, James?"

"Me? On or before the twenty-oneth day of July, my dear girl. They
lumped us up and served us all on the same day--I reckon to save
shoe-leather; therefore, inasmuch as said adverse parties have got over
a week left--"

"You'd better not take a chance, waiting till the last day in the
afternoon," she warned him vaguely. "Maybe they think you've forgotten
the date or something--but whatever they think, I believe they're
counting on your not answering in time. I think Florence Hallman knows
they haven't any real proof against you. I know she knows it. She's
perfectly wild over the way you boys have stuck here and worked. And
from what I can gather, she hasn't been able to scrape up the weentiest
bit of evidence that the Flying U is backing you--and of course that
is the only ground they could contest your claims on. So if it comes to
trial, you'll all win; you're bound to. I told Kate Price so--and those
other old hens, yesterday, and that's what we had the row over."

"My money's on you, girl," Andy told her, grinning. "How are the
wounded?"

"The wounded? Oh, they've clubbed together this morning and are washing
hankies and collars and things, and talking about me. And they have
snouged every speck of water from the barrel--I paid my share for the
hauling, too--and the man won't come again till day after tomorrow with
more. Fifty cents a barrel, straight, he's charging now, James. And you,
boys with a great, big, long creekful of it that you can get right
in and swim in! I've come over to borrow two water-bags of it, if you
please, James I never dreamed water was so precious. Florence Hallman
ought to be made to lie on one of these dry claims she's fooled us into
taking. I really don't know, James, what's going to become of some of
these poor farmers. You knew, didn't you, that Mr. Murphy spent nearly
two hundred dollars boring a well--and now it's so strong of alkali they
daren't use a drop of it? Mr. Murphy is living right up to his name and
nationality, since then. He's away back there beyond the Sands place,
you know. He has to haul water about six miles. Believe me, James,
Florence Hallman had better keep away from Murphy! I met him as I was
coming out from town, and he called her a Jezebel!"

"That's mild!" Andy commented dryly. "Get down, why don't you? I want
you to take a look at the inside of my shack and see how bad I need a
housekeeper--since you won't take my word for it. I hope every drop of
water leaks outa these bags before you get home. I hope old Mister falls
down and spills it. I've a good mind not to let you have any, anyway.
Maybe you could be starved and tortured into coming down here where you
belong."

"Maybe I couldn't. I'll get me a barrel of my own, and hire Simpson
to fill it four times a week, if you please! And I'll put a lid with a
padlock on it, so Katie dear can't rob me in the night--and I'll use a
whole quart at a time to wash dishes, and two quarts when I take a bath!
I shall," she asserted with much emphasis, "lie in luxury, James!"

Andy laughed and waved his hand toward One Man Creek. "That's all
right--but how would you like to have that running past your house, so
you could wake up in the night and hear it go gurgle-gurgle? Wouldn't
that be all right?"

Rosemary Allen clasped her two gloved hands together and drew a long
breath. "I should want to run out and stop it," she declared. "To think
of water actually running around loose in this world!! And think of us
up on that dry prairie, paying fifty cents a barrel for it--and a lot
slopped out of the barrel on the road!" She glanced down into Andy's
love-lighted eyes, and her own softened. She placed her hand on his
shoulder and shook her head at him with a tender remonstrance.

"I know, boy--but it isn't in me to give up anything I set out to do,
any more than it is in you. You wouldn't like me half so well if I could
just drop that claim and think no more about it. I've got enough money
to commute, when the time comes, and I'll feel a lot better if I
go through with it now I've started. And--James!" She smiled at him
wistfully. "Even if it is only eighty acres, it will make good pasture,
and--it will help some, won't it?"

After that you could not expect Andy Green to do any more badgering or
to discourage the girl. He did like her better for having grit and a
mental backbone--and he found a way of telling her so and of making the
assurance convincing enough.

He filled her canvas water-bags and went with her to carry them, and he
cheered her much with his air-castles. Afterwards he took the team and
rustled a water-barrel and hauled her a barrel of water and gave
Kate Price a stony-eyed stare when she was caught watching him
superciliously; and in divers ways managed to make Miss Rosemary Allen
feel that she was fighting a good fight and that the odds were all in
her favor and in the favor of the Happy Family--and of Andy Green in
particular. She felt that the spite of her three very near neighbors
was really a matter to laugh over, and the spleen of Florence Hallman a
joke.

But for all that she gave Andy Green one last warning when he climbed
up to the spring seat of the wagon and unwound the lines from the
brake-handle, ready to drive back to his own work. She went close to the
front wheel, so that eavesdroppers could not hear, and held her front
hair from blowing across her earnest, wind-tanned face while she looked
up at him.

"Now remember, boy, do go and file your answer to those contests--all
of you!" she urged. "I don't know why--but I've a feeling some kind of
a scheme is being hatched to make you trouble on that one point. And if
you see Buck, tell him I'll ride fence with him tomorrow again. If you
realized how much I like that old cowpuncher, you'd be horribly jealous,
James."

"I'm jealous right now, without realizing a thing except that I've got
to go off and leave you here with a bunch of lemons," he retorted--and
he spoke loud enough so that any eavesdroppers might hear.


CHAPTER 24. THE KID IS USED FOR A PAWN IN THE GAME

Did you ever stop to think of the tremendous moral lesson in the Bible
tale of David and Goliath? And how great, human issues are often decided
one way or the other by little things? Not all crises are passed in the
clashing of swords and the boom of cannon. It was a pebble the size of
your thumbend, remember, that slew the giant.

In the struggle which the Happy Family was making to preserve the
shrunken range of the Flying U, and to hold back the sweeping tide of
immigration, one might logically look for some big, overwhelming element
to turn the tide one way or the other. With the Homeseekers' Syndicate
backing the natural animosity of the settlers, who had filed upon
semiarid land because the Happy Family had taken all of the tract that
was tillable, a big, open clash might be considered inevitable.

And yet the struggle was resolving itself into the question of whether
the contest filings should be approved by the land-office, or the
filings of the Happy Family be allowed to stand as having been made in
good faith. Florence Hallman therefore, having taken upon herself the
leadership in the contest fight, must do one of two things if she would
have victory to salve the hurt to her self-esteem and to vindicate the
firm's policy in the eyes of the settlers.

She must produce evidence of the collusion of the Flying U outfit with
the Happy Family, in the taking of the claims. Or she must connive
to prevent the filing of answers to the contest notices within the
time-limit fixed by law, so that the cases would go by default. That,
of course, was the simplest--since she had not been able to gather any
evidence of collusion that would stand in court.

There was another element in the land struggle--that was the soil and
climate that would fight inexorably against the settlers; but with them
we have little to do, since the Happy Family had nothing to do with them
save in a purely negative way.

A four-wire fence and a systematic patrol along the line was having its
effect upon the stock question. If the settlers drove their cattle south
until they passed the farthest corner of Flying U fence, they came plump
against Bert Rogers' barbed boundary line. West of that was his father's
place--and that stretched to the railroad right-of-way, fenced on either
side with a stock-proof barrier and hugging the Missouri all the way
to the Marias--where were other settlers. If they went north until they
passed the fence of the Happy Family, there were the Meeker holdings to
bar the way to the very foot of Old Centennial, and as far up its sides
as cattle would go.

The Happy Family had planned wisely when they took their claims in a
long chain that stretched across the benchland north of the Flying U.
Florence Grace knew this perfectly well--but what could she prove?
The Happy Family had bought cattle of their own, and were grazing them
lawfully upon their own claims. A lawyer had assured her that there was
no evidence to be gained there. They never went near J. G. Whitmore, nor
did they make use of his wagons, his teams or his tools or his money;
instead they hired what they needed, openly and from Bert Rogers. They
had bought their cattle from the Flying U, and that was the extent of
their business relations--on the surface. And since collusion had been
the ground given for the contests, it will be easily seen what slight
hope Florence Grace and her clients must have of winning any contest
suit. Still, there was that alternative--the Happy Family had been so
eager to build that fence and gather their cattle and put them back on
the claims, and so anxious lest in their absence the settlers should
slip cattle across the dead line and into the breaks, that they had
postponed their trip to Great Falls as long as possible. The Honorable
Blake had tacitly advised them to do so; and the Happy Family never gave
a thought to their being hindered when they did get ready to attend to
it.

But--a pebble killed Goliath.

H. J. Owens, whose eyes were the wrong shade of blue, sat upon a rocky
hilltop which overlooked the trail from Flying U Coulee and a greater
portion of the shack-dotted benchland as well, and swept the far
horizons with his field glasses. Just down the eastern slope, where
the jutting sandstone cast a shadow, his horse stood tied to a dejected
wild-currant bush. He laid the glasses across his knees while he
refilled his pipe, and tilted his hatbrim to shield his pale blue eyes
from the sun that was sliding past midday.

H. J. Owens looked at his watch, nevertheless, as though the position
of the sun meant nothing to him. He scowled a little, stretched a
leg straight out before him to ease it of cramp, and afterwards moved
farther along in the shade. The wind swept past with a faint whistle,
and laid the ripening grasses flat where it passed. A cloud shadow moved
slowly along the slope beneath him, and he watched the darkening of the
earth where it touched, and the sharp contrast of the sun-yellowed sea
of grass all around it. H. J. Owens looked bored and sleepy; yet he did
not leave the hilltop--nor did he go to sleep.

Instead, he lifted the glasses, turned them toward Flying U Coulee a
half mile to the south of him, and stared long at the trail. After a few
minutes he made a gesture to lower the glasses, and then abruptly fixed
them steadily upon one spot, where the trail wound up over the crest
of the bluff. He looked for a minute, and laid the glasses down upon a
rock.

H. J. Owens fumbled in the pocket of his coat, which he had folded and
laid beside him on the yellow gravel of the hill. He found something he
wanted, stood up, and with his back against a boulder he faced to the
southwest. He was careful about the direction. He glanced up at the sun,
squinting his eyes at the glare; he looked at what he held in his hand.

A glitter of sun on glass showed briefly. H. J. Owens laid his palm over
it, waited while he could count ten, and took his palm away. Replaced
it, waited, and revealed the glass again with the sun glare upon it
full. He held it so for a full minute, and slid the glass back into his
pocket.

He glanced down toward Flying U Coulee again--toward where the trail
stretched like a brown ribbon through the grass. He seemed to be in
something of a hurry now--if impatient movement meant anything--yet he
did not leave the place at once. Doña Manuela enjoyed absolute freedom,
as he had never dreamed of. Came when I wanted, down to the store
sometimes, like someone who goes to a place of entertainment to
distract people and seeing new faces, and it was absolute master
of all the money in the house, with great discontent of Don Eugenio
and greedy _Fraile_ . - You do not know my daughter - a father said
Melchor -.

If you continue as tolerant, little developed. With Manolita must be rigid
and not allow it to tap a Ochavo.
The Kid was going to see Rosemary Allen and take a ride with her along
the new fence; but he pulled up with the air of condescension which
was his usual attitude toward "nesters," and in response to the twisted
smile of H. J. Because different kinds of fruits bright delusion every tree on the
show, part bright, sometimes dark, white and blue, red, yellow,
purple and green, And all in colored slips as Transparent innrem
Glühn.

There were loud gems.
"There ain't any bears got very close, there ain't. I guess
you musta swallered something Andy told you." He looked at H. J. Owens
tolerantly.

"No sir. I never talked to Andy about this." Had he been perfectly
truthful he would have added that he had not talked with Andy about
anything whatever, but he let it go. "This is a bear den I found myself;
There's two little baby cubs, Buck, and I was wondering if you wouldn't
like to go along and get one for a pet. You could learn it to dance and
play soldier, and all kinds of stunts."

The Kid's eyes shone, but he was wary. This man was a nester, so it
would be just at well to be careful "Where 'bouts is it?" he therefore
demanded in a tone of doubt that would have done credit to Happy Jack.

"Oh, down over there in the hills. It's a secret, though, till we get
them out. Some fellows are after them for themselves, Buck. They want
to--skin 'em."

"The mean devils!" condemned the Kid promptly. "I'd take a fall outa
them if I ketched 'em skinning any baby bear cubs while I was around."

H. J. Owens glanced behind him with an uneasiness not altogether
assumed.

"Let's go down into this next gully to talk it over, Buck," he suggested
with an air of secretiveness that fired the Kid's imagination. "They
started out to follow me, and I don't want 'em to see me talking to you,
you know."

The Kid went with him unsuspectingly. In all the six years of his life,
no man had ever offered him injury. Fear had not yet become associated
with those who spoke him fair. Nesters he did not consider friends
because they were not friends with his bunch. Personally he did not know
anything about enemies. This man was a nester--but he called him Buck,
and he talked very nice and friendly, and he said he knew where there
were some little baby bear cubs. The Kid had never before realized how
much he wanted a bear cub for a pet. So do our wants grow to meet our
opportunities.

H. J. Owens led the way into a shallow draw between two low hills,
glancing often behind him and around him until they were shielded by the
higher ground. He was careful to keep where the grass was thickest and
would hold no hoofprints to betray them, but the Kid never noticed. He
was thinking how nice it would be to have a bear cub for a pet. But it
was funny that the Happy Family had never found him one, if there were
any in the country.

He turned to put the question direct to H. J. Owens, I but that
gentleman forestalled him.

"You wait here a minute, Buck, while I ride back on this hill a little
ways to see if those fellows are on our trail," he said, and rode off
before the Kid could ask him the question.

The Kid waited obediently. He saw H. J. Owens get off his horse and go
sneaking up to the brow of the hill, and take some field glasses out
of his pocket and look all around over the prairie with them. The sight
tingled the Kid's blood so that he almost forgot about the bear cub. It
was almost exactly like fighting Injuns, like Uncle Gee-gee told about
when he wasn't cross.

In a few minutes Owens came back to the Kid, and they went on slowly,
keeping always in the low, grassy places where there would be no tracks
left to tell of their passing that way. Behind them a yellow-brown cloud
drifted sullenly with the wind. Now and then a black flake settled past
them to the ground. A peculiar, tangy smell was in the air--the smell of
burning grass.

H. J. Owens related a long, full-detailed account of how he had been
down in the hills along the river, and had seen the old mother bear
digging ants out of a sand-hill for her cubs.

She and Nelet, who marched with care to spare the turkey trips entered
again in the Trench, looking for dessert, the outlet of an established
turronero portal.

There was the Jijona with sombrerón velvet, black cloth dress and
wide-necked shirt under a silver brooch. Beside the woman, with her
round face and rosy apple and hair straightening cruelly toward the
neck, falling into thick braid in the back of the scarf showy colors.
Table white, immaculate purity, supported, forming column, the boxes
containing the rough film floury nougat, drawers peladillas grapes
and pointed, neatly kept, shiny and transparent as wax, and with a
fine amber color . doña Manuela When re-entering the market was
beginning to sunset and increased competition at times.

All side vomiting crowd inside the square, where the twilight spread
to thousands of luminous points. Gas shining in the stores, the major
vendors lit their big reverberations of brass, and poor huertanas
contentábanse with a tallow candle guarded by a cone of paper. - What
a nice ...! Look, Nelet! And the lady remained a few moments watching the
fantastic aspect of the original square as lighting.

A shower of stars had fallen on the market. The jostling of the crowd
turned to reality. Was to leave the square, where once again stopped
the squad pursued Chicuelo vendors.

Now do not run. Marched to the passage, shy, dumbfounded, commenting in
a low voice, as far a companion that unhappy, squirming and screaming
like a fierecilla into the trap, was dragged by a sheriff.

The miserable herd went to doña Manuela chancleteo with sad, and the lady
could not repress a movement of repulsion to those who curl hair
greñudas and served as a framework for squalid and dirty faces, which
took the appearance of skin peel. Great God, what people! Y doña
Manuela, seeing such facade, by a strange relationship of thoughts,
pinned her purse with both hands, as if someone were to steal it.

J. Owens shook his head as though he could
not find words to express the surprise of the Kid's family.

The Kid smiled his Little Doctor smile. "I'd tell a man!" he assented
enthusiastically. "I bet the Countess would holler when she seen it. She
scares awful easy. She's scared of a mice, even! Huh! The father cut off
his arm is paralyzed, Sah, finally, with such Rangen Be nothing clever
to start, and got sick and died of grief Bursch, now fifteen year 'already
old, large, slender, almost by male figure, instead of the trousers
to sit down for his mother to support, went on in public places without
a goal Herumzulungern And to waste his days in raw Müßiggängerfreuden,
In a blunt fun and wild game. Once, when he was in the usual way with
the streets raufte youth, Merkt 'er that eagerly after him lugend
a third man with black beard and African robes Vorüberschlendern
He apparently approached.

The stranger remained resistant stand before him and said: "Forgive,
my young friend, and let me know: Who is your father?" Staggered Aladdin:
"gave me a long time already it rough hand of death snatched.

In life he was called Mustapha." The tears rolled bright as the
stranger on both cheeks, "O fortunate that I, my son, you meet," he
said with gentle scale; "You're my beloved nephew.

Your father was my brother heart, but I'm constantly on the trip early
one hundred weeks, To sehn. drum, the pain I'm in the news yet from his
sad fate; Hab 'ich but like you at first glances at the similarities
detected! "Top bade him greet the mother and pulled out a bag Chen and
gave him money. In swift feet Aladdin ran happily home to his mother
very clearly the whole trade to tell. The mother could 'he does not conceal
how much she was surprised Drobe. With little things done right's!
Where was the uncle come here, since they never heard from a brother
Mustaphas? But because the yellow did sound funny, they broke the head
is not long, And in the evening both grad wanted from their barren
Mahle nibble, as the man with full bottles and fruit in the room
came, To myself to invite guest. emotion overwhelmed by sheer look
'he was, as woll' er From here a new swim in tears, And said:
"Expensive sister, well went out forty years, since I leave the
home country, in order strangers foothold And the dream of fortunes
after half the earth to roam; It can be good understand that my
brother never spoke to me.

But now finally come home And bleak because of his stove him alive,
I no longer think longingly I looked at the - at least now I Will
his child, what I can, doing sake.

"To Aladdin handily here, he began to ask him kindly to what he tarnish
craft guild zeal And what was. The boy remained silent lay still; The
mother said sorrowfully: "No craft has he ever practiced, because
he certainly will not learn. Since to help no warning and no Schelten,
I verily believe that there are still rare, it was such a lazybones.

He brings me to the Bettelstab, And soon weis' I gave him the door.
His father would be in grave Umdrehn if he case. " The stranger called
out the boy in a mild, fatherly tone: "That is not wohlgetan, my son,
but something just pushes forced, then it will be a slightly denatured.
professions, there is much on earth; grad You do not have to be a tailor,
And if you do not craft, I will gladly oblige me, In the finest
urban bazaars you like to set up a shop with stuff Linne, silk
goods, carpets and fabrics, valuable, and apparently winning new
purchase brings you prosperity. confess me openly: How you take on
this proposal?

"
Florence Grace Hallman had, upon one of her periodical visits among her
"clients," warned them of the danger of prairie fires and urged them to
plow and burn guards around all their buildings. A few of the settlers
had done so and were comparatively safe in the face of that leaping, red
line. But there were some who had delayed--and these must fight now if
they would escape.

The Happy Family, to a man, had delayed; rather they had not considered
that there was any immediate danger from fire; it was too early in the
season for the grass to be tinder dry, as it would become a month or six
weeks later. They were wholly unprepared for the catastrophe, so far as
any expectation of it went. But for all that they knew exactly what to
do and how to go about doing it, and they did not waste a single minute
in meeting the emergency.

While the Kid was riding with H. J. Owens into the hills, his friends,
the bunch, were riding furiously in the opposite direction. And that
was exactly what had been planned beforehand. There was an absolute
certainty in the minds of those who planned that it would be so,
Florence Grace Hallman, for instance, knew just what would furnish
complete occupation for the minds and the hands of the Happy Family
and of every other man in that neighborhood, that afternoon. Perhaps a
claim-shack or two would go up in smoke and some grass would burn. But
when one has a stubborn disposition and is fighting for prestige and
revenge and the success of ones business, a shack or two and a few acres
of prairie grass do not count for very much.

For the rest of that afternoon the boys of the Flying U fought side by
side with hated nesters and told the inexperienced how best to fight.
For the rest of that afternoon no one remembered the Kid, or wondered
why H. J. Owens was not there in the grimy line of fire-fighters who
slapped doggedly at the leaping flames with sacks kept wet from the
barrels of water hauled here and there as they were needed. No one had
time to call the roll and see who was missing among the settlers. No one
dreamed that this mysterious fire that had crept up out of a coulee
and spread a black, smoking blanket over the hills where it passed, was
nothing more nor lees than a diversion while a greater crime was being
committed behind their backs.

In spite of them the fire, beaten out of existence at one point, gained
unexpected fury elsewhere and raced on. In spite of them women and
children were in actual danger of being burned to death, and rushed
weeping from flimsy shelter to find safety in the nearest barren coulee.
The sick lady whom the Little Doctor had been tending was carried out on
her bed and laid upon the blackened prairie, hysterical from the fright
she had received. The shack she had lately occupied smoked while
the tarred paper on the roof crisped and curled; and then the whole
structure burst into flames and sent blazing bits of paper and boards to
spread the fire faster.

Fire guards which the inexperienced settlers thought safe were jumped
without any perceptible check upon the flames. The wind was just right
for the fanning of the fire. It shifted now and then erratically and
sent the yellow line leaping in new directions. Florence Grace Hallman
was in Dry Lake that day, and she did not hear until after dark how
completely her little diversion had been a success; how more than
half of her colony had been left homeless and hungry upon the charred
prairie. Florence Grace Hallman would not have relished her supper, I
fear, had the news reached her earlier in the evening.

At Antelope Coulee the Happy Family and such of the settlers as they
could muster hastily for the fight, made a desperate stand against
the common enemy. Flying U Coulee was safe, thanks to the permanent
fire-guards which the Old Man maintained year after year as a matter
of course. But there were the claims of the Happy Family and all the
grassland east of there which must be saved.

Men drove their work horses at a gallop after plows, and when they
had brought them they lashed the horses into a trot while they plowed
crooked furrows in the sun-baked prairie sod, just over the eastern
rim of Antelope Coulee. The Happy Family knelt here and there along the
fresh-turned sod, and started a line of fire that must beat up against
the wind until it met the flames, rushing before it. Backfiring is
always a more or less, ticklish proceeding, and they would not trust the
work to stranger.

Every man of them took a certain stretch of furrow to watch, and ran
backward and forward with blackened, frayed sacks to beat out the
wayward flames that licked treacherously through the smallest break in
the line of fresh soil. They knew too well the danger of those little,
licking flame tongues; not one was left to live and grow and race
leaping away through the grass.

They worked--heavens, how they worked!--and they stopped the fire there
on the rim of Antelope Coulee. Florence Grace Hallman would have been
sick with fury, had she seen that dogged line of fighters, and the
ragged hem of charred black ashes against the yellow-brown, which showed
how well those men whom she hated had fought.

So the fire was stopped well outside the fence which marked the boundary
of the Happy Family's claims. All west of there and far to the north the
hills and the coulees lay black as far as one could see--which was to
the rim of the hills which bordered Dry Lake valley on the east. Here
and there a claim-shack stood forlorn amid the blackness. Here and there
a heap of embers still smoked and sent forth an occasional spitting of
sparks when a gust fanned the heap. Men, women and children stood about
blankly or wandered disconsolately here and there, coughing in the acrid
clouds of warm grass cinders kicked up by their own lagging feet.

No one missed the Kid. Some scruples to be fools, but what do you want?
After many years of commercial probity, prosperity slowly but surely
can not enjoy this life of turmoil and shock that I notice about myself,
let alone see a profit in peace and immoral crash. - But why is it bother
you so much? - said the young man with conciliatory tone -. It is best
to run things. Don Antonio earns too much money so they can make a dent
his words.
The Little Doctor had troubles of her own to occupy her mind She had
ridden hurriedly up the hill and straight to the shack of the sick
woman, when first she discovered that the prairie was afire. And she had
found the sick woman lying on a makeshift bed on the smoking, black area
that was pathetically safe now from fire because there was nothing more
to burn.

"Little black shack's all burnt up! Everything's black now. Black hills,
black hollows, black future, black world, black hearts--everything
matches--everything's black. Sky's black, I'm black--you're
black--little black shack won't have to stand all alone any more--little
black shack's just black ashes--little black shack's all burnt up!" And
then the woman laughed shrilly, with that terrible, meaningless laughter
of hysteria.

She was a pretty woman, and young. Her hair was that bright shade of red
that goes with a skin like thin, rose-tinted ivory. Her eyes were big
and so dark a blue that they sometimes looked black, and her mouth was
sweet and had a tired droop to match the mute pathos of her eyes. Her
husband was a coarse lout of a man who seldom spoke to her when they
were together. The Little Doctor had felt that all the tragedy of
womanhood and poverty and loneliness was synthesized in this woman with
the unusual hair and skin and eyes and expression. In reality, nothing
lost. The money earned is taken ill, the devil. What we now have is
an honest and purchased the work force. Believe me, Antonio, to live as
God, with calmness and modesty, to educate your child to be a man
advantage, and without repeating some of the locurillas do not want
to talk. No Tientes to luck, which is treacherous. He thinks that a
second coup to leave your wife and your son in a position to beg.
Cuadros, who had defeated the forces of private to discuss their alleged
infallibility of moves in a stock exchange, answered affirmatively to
the old and everyone seemed to accept their advice, but This was
by no less determined to follow his big man, sustained a fall as a
sure means of winning the dream million.

And both he and Juanito manteníanse firm, despite continued rising and
was not the slightest chance that they could fulfill the predictions of
Don Ramón. Something more than the miserable business of concern
to Juanito. One night, after the withdrawal of Tonic and accompany
her friend in his walk through the fair, met at the door with his
brother Rafael, who took the handkerchief to the face to hide
something like that bother you.

Up to light of the comedor, saw Rafael with a bruised eye and nose
dirty blood.

The elegant young man, admiration and pride of the mother, smelled of wine,
and swearing in the most crude explaining what has just happened. Nada,
a minor thing. He had fought with a friend, with slaps and sticks in
the middle of the bridge when Real iban the show at the last minute.
I would say is, accepting of drunken grunts Juanito parental care, he
did everything he knew to cure contusions. The poor boy, seeing his
brother brutally beaten, he revived the love of yore, when exercised
babysitting, sacrificing to care for their siblings.

The next day, made inquiries to find out exactly what happened, and
the calaverillas IPO, which it knew of the quarrel, he learned with
cruel accuracy. Those who had beaten his brother was Roberto del Campo.
The two had dinner in a _restaurant_ to celebrate the good that had
hits in the roulette of _Sportsman Club_.

They had a friendly drunk, and then go to the fair, the dispute was a
consequence of certain statements of the infamous Roberto elegant.
That miserable things had ensured that the poor did blush Juanito:
repulsive intimacy with his girlfriend in the morning when they spoke
on the stairs; secrets, finally, that Juanito was libelous, and that
could only reveal him as a scoundrel. His friend had answered the
confidences with a slap and then came the quarrel, which went so
badly Rafael.

Giovannino was shocked by the incident.

That was what filled the
mind of Andy Green to the exclusion of everything else except the fire.
He was in a hurry to deliver his message to Patsy, so that he could hunt
up the Little Doctor and speak her hospitality for the girl he meant to
marry just as soon as he could persuade her to stand with him before a
preacher.

He found the Little Doctor still fighting a dogged battle with death for
the life of the woman who laughed wildly because her home was a heap
of smoking embers. The Little Doctor told him to send Rosemary Allen on
down to the ranch, or take her himself, and to tell the Countess to send
up her biggest medicine case immediately. She could not leave, she said,
for some time yet. She might have to stay all night--or she would if
there was any place to stay. She was half decided, she said, to have
someone take the woman in to Dry Lake right away, and up to the hospital
in Great Falls. She supposed she would have to go along. Would Andy tell
J. G. to send up some money? Clothes didn't matter--she would go the way
she was; there were plenty of clothes in the stores, she declared. And
would Andy rustle a team, right away, so they could start? If they went
at all they ought to catch the evening train. The Little Doctor was
making her decisions and her plans while she talked, as is the way with
those strong natures who can act promptly and surely in the face of an
emergency.

By the time she had thought of having a team come right away, she had
decided that she would not wait for her medicine-case or for money. She
could get all the money she needed in Dry Lake; and she had her little
emergency case with her. Since she was going to take the woman to a
hospital, she said, there was no great need of more than she had with
her. She was a thoughtful Little Doctor. At the last minute she detained
Andy long enough to urge him to see that Miss Allen helped herself
to clothes or anything she needed; and to send a goodbye message to
Chip--in case he did not show up before she left--and a kiss to her
manchild.

Andy was lucky. He met a man driving a good team and spring wagon, with
a barrel of water in the back. He promptly dismounted and helped the man
unload the water-barrel where it was, and sent him bumping swiftly over
the burned sod to where the Little Doctor waited. So Fate was kinder to
the Little Doctor than were those who would wring anew the mother heart
of her that their own petty schemes might succeed. She went away with
the sick woman laughing crazily because all the little black shacks
were burned and now everything was black so everything matched
nicely--nicely, thank you. She was terribly worried over the woman's
condition, and she gave herself wholly to her professional zeal and
never dreamed that her manchild was at that moment riding deeper and
deeper into the Badlands with a tricky devil of a man, looking for a
baby bear cub for a pet.

Neither did Chip dream it, nor any of the Happy Family, nor even Miss
Rosemary Allen, until they rode down into Flying U Coulee at supper-time
and were met squarely by the fact that the Kid was not there. The Old
Man threw the bomb that exploded tragedy in the midst of the little
group. He heard that "Dell" had gone to take a sick woman to the
hospital in Great Falls, and would not be back for a day or so,
probably.

"What'd she do with the Kid?" he demanded. "Take him with her?"

Chip stared blankly at him, and turned his eyes finally to Andy's face.
Andy had not mentioned the Kid to him.

"He wasn't with her," Andy replied to the look. "She sent him a kiss and
word that he was to take care of Miss Allen. He must be somewhere around
here."

"Well, he ain't. I was looking fer him myself," put in the Countess
sharply. "Somebody shut the cat up in the flour chest and I didn't study
much on what it was done it! If I'd a got my hands on 'im--"

"I saw him ride up on the hill trail just before the fire started,"
volunteered Rosemary Allen. "I had my opera glasses and was looking for
him, because I like to meet him and hear him talk. He said yesterday
that he was coming to see me today. And he rode up on the hill in sight
of my claim. I saw him." She stopped and looked from one to the other
with her eyebrows pinched together and her lips pursed.

"Listen," she went on hastily. "Maybe it has nothing to do with
Buck--but I saw something else that was very puzzling. I was going to
investigate, but the fire broke out immediately and put everything else
out of my mind. A man was up on that sharp-pointed knoll off east of
the trail where it leaves this coulee, and he had field glasses and
was looking for something over this way. I thought he was watching the
trail. I just caught him with the glasses by accident as I swung them
over the edge of the benchland to get the trail focused. He was watching
something--because I kept turning the glasses on him to see what he was
doing.

"Then Buck came into sight, and I started to ride out and meet him. I
hate to leave the little mite riding alone anywhere--I'm always afraid
something may happen. But before I got on my horse I took another look
at this man on the hill. He had a mirror or something bright in his
hands. I saw it flash, just exactly as though he was signaling to
someone--over that way." She pointed to the west. "He kept looking that
way, and then back this way; and he covered up the piece of mirror with
his hand and then took it off and let it shine a minute, and put it in
his pocket. I know he was making signals.

"I got my horse and started to meet little Buck. He was coming along
the trail and rode into a little hollow out of sight. I kept looking and
looking toward Dry Lake--because the man looked that way, I guess. And
in a few minutes I saw the smoke of the fire--"

"Who was that man?" Andy took a step toward her, his eyes hard and
bright in their inflamed lids.

"The man? That Mr. Owens who jumped your south eighty."

"Good Lord, what fools!" He brushed past her without a look or another
word, so intent was he upon this fresh disaster. "I'm going after the
boys, Chip. You better come along and see if you can pick up the Kid's
trail where he left the road. It's too bad Florence Grace Hallman ain't
a man! I'd know better what to do if she was."

"Oh, do you think--?" Miss Rosemary looked at him wide-eyed.

"Doggone it, if she's tried any of her schemes with fire and--why,
doggone it, being a woman ain't going to help her none!" The Old Man,
also, seemed to grasp the meaning of it almost as quickly as had Andy.
"Chip, you have Ole hitch up the team. I'm going to town myself, by
thunder, and see if she's going to play any of her tricks on this outfit
and git away with it! Burnt out half her doggoned colony tryin' to git
a whack at you boys! Where's my shoes? Doggone it, what yuh all standin'
round with your jaws hangin' down for? We'll see about this fire-settin'
and this--where's them shoes?"

The Countess found his shoes, and his hat, and his second-best coat and
his driving gloves which he had not worn for more months than anyone
cared to reckon. Miss Rosemary Allen did what she could to help, and
wondered at the dominant note struck by this bald old man from the
moment when he rose stiffly from his big chair and took the initiative
so long left to others.

While the team was being made ready the Old Man limped here and there,
collecting things he did not need and trying to remember what he must
have, and keeping the Countess moving at a flurried trot. Chip and Andy
were not yet up the bluff when the Old Man climbed painfully into the
covered buggy, took the lines and the whip and cut a circle with the
wheels on the hard-packed earth as clean and as small as Chip himself
could have done, and went whirling through the big gate and across the
creek and up the long slope beyond. He shouted to the boys and they rode
slowly until he overtook them--though their nerves were all on edge and
haste seemed to them the most important thing in the world. But habit is
strong--it was their Old Man who called to them to wait.

"You boys wait to git out after that Owens," he shouted when he passed
them. "If they've got the Kid, killing's too good for 'em!" The brown
team went trotting up the grade with back straightened to the pull of
the lurching buggy, and nostrils flaring wide with excitement. The Old
Man leaned sidewise and called back to the two loping after him in the
obscuring dust-cloud he left behind.

"I'll have that woman arrested on suspicion uh setting prairie fires!"
he called. "I'll git Blake after her. You git that Owens if you have-to
haze him to hell and back! Yuh don't want to worry about the Kid,
Chip--they ain't goin' to hurt him. All they want is to keep you boys
huntin' high and low and combin' the breaks to find 'im. I see their
scheme, all right."


CHAPTER 27. "ITS AWFUL EASY TO GET LOST"

The Kid wriggled uncomfortably in the saddle and glanced at the
narrow-browed face of H. J. Owens, who was looking this way and that at
the enfolding hills and scowling abstractedly. The Kid was only six, but
he was fairly good at reading moods and glances, having lived all his
life amongst grown-ups.

"It's a pretty far ways to them baby bear cubs," he remarked. "I bet
you're lost, old-timer. It's awful easy to get lost. I bet you don't
know where that mother-bear lives."

"You shut up!" snarled H. J. Owens. The Kid had hit uncomfortably close
to the truth.

"You shut up your own self, you darned pilgrim." the Kid flung back
instantly. - What? - That the love you very much; .... that - Ah!
...!-- Exclaimed that he was smiling Tonic -.

I also want you as a good friend, as a formal couple, particularly as
formal. Do not be so, would not agree to join me as often, which can
lead to assumptions. You see, said the other day .... the neighbors - No
es eso.

I not only want you as a friend: I love her ... you know? I love her and
I am that brave man that you spoke last night, my wife can do it
without abandoning the poor Micaela. Tonic showed stunned by the statement.
The long time on this before, but I come to doubt it given the timidity
of that big boy. Trying to smile as if to take the words of Juanito
joke, but it was blush, had stopped looking at the ground, and so
the two were disturbed in the middle of the street that left the
umbrella in the open and the rain fell on his shoulders.

The silence was painful. Juanito was frightened by the seriousness of
tone. The seamstress is thinking, and at last she spoke. She appreciated
the offer of Mr. Peña, but could not agree. He was honest and modest man
that he wanted, if not more than one dependent on trade, may accept
... But she is unaware of who was his family? Aware of a parishioner
friend of his mother and his sisters. Were some of the ladies who
live in true luxury, without appealing to seamstresses or homemade
ornaments; coach had ...

Finally, _una great familia_ - this highlighted by a speech from admiring
and respectful - and it was not fair or legal to her, a poor day
laborer, aspires to much.

Giovannino felt joy and compassion at a time. Regocijábale know that
Tonic was not indifferent to the position and that of his family
was the only obstacle.

¡Valiente position! Pity the ignorance of the young and was coming
to tell you that anyone was imbecile conceit luxury, pure bambolla
but sintióse dominated by fears of submissive and obedient child,
and even in the glow of the flickering lantern thought immediately
see mom's face made by a majestic gesture of indignation. did not
deny that his family was in "good position", but what mattered that?

He wanted, and did not need more. I did not think to stop being a
trader, his future was to be the owner of a store, so what better
than to marry a woman landowner, shining in the school's work and the
economy, and loves to be aware that your house? The poor boy, broken brake
shyness, speaking with passion, meneaba arms to assert their words,
did not see that crazy dance the umbrella, that was open, and several
times was close to putting a rod through the eyes of the young.

But Tonic is not convinced. Impresionábale accent really dependent, but
could not master the fear that it inspired a respectful family surrounded
by the prestige of wealth and elegance. So all the arguments of Juanito
answered by moving his head negatively.

It passed over quarter of an hour in the street in the rain, calling
the attention of the few passers-by that a couple of so forgotten
herself made malicious comments. Finally, the seamstress seemed to soften.
I think, maybe the next day could be your answer.

And after this promise, that Juanito was a joy. Tonic had six hits on
the knocker of his house and disappeared, closing the door of the ladder.
The young man was amazed. The last smile of Tonic fluttering in front
of him with his wings of gold, lighting the road. Impregnated felt
indefinable perfume of the young, and walked timidly, as if it had
adhered to the outside something precious and fragile that it could
emerge to accelerate their progress.

Borrachera of The sweet love fallen apart Juanito. Specifically, he had
said nothing Tonic, but despite this, the young, instinctive trust,
believe in their happiness, and that night was the first in satisfaction
and calm, after the tantrums and concerns that had occurred shyness
sobered his character. Now ... Oh, it was now a man, and he acknowledged
tantico a happy and proud of his courage. The seamstress was not more
explicit on the following day. The stand-bright "Juanito's family was
an idea that had crossed into the brain. She was not anybody: that a
poor seamstress, used to suffer the impertinence of the ladies could
not afford to show sensitivity and self-esteem ... but that of marrying
the victim to be humble and resigned that fall on the contempt of the
family was outside the limit of their patience.

He kept scanning each jagged peak and each gloomy
canyon as they passed, and he seemed uneasy about something. The Kid
knew what it was, all right; H. J. Owens was lost.

They came to a wide, flat-bottomed coulee with high ragged bluffs
shutting it in upon every side. The Kid dimly remembered that coulee,
because that was where Andy got down to tighten the cinch on Miss
Allen's horse, and looked up at her the way Daddy Chip looked at Doctor
Dell sometimes, and made a kiss with his lips--and got called down for
it, too. The Kid remembered.

He looked at the man, shut his mouth tight and wheeled Silver suddenly
to the left. He leaned forward as he had always seen the Happy Family do
when they started a race, and struck Silver smartly down the rump with
the braided romal on his bridle-reins. H. J. Owens was taken off his
guard and did nothing but stare open-mouthed until the Kid was well
under way; then he shouted and galloped after him, up the little flat.

He might as well have saved his horse's wind and his own energy. He was
no match for little Buck Bennett, who had the whole Flying U outfit to
teach him how to ride, and the spirit of his Daddy Chip and the little
Doctor combined to give him grit and initiative. H. J. Owens pounded
along to the head of the coulee, where he had seen the Kid galloping
dimly in the dusk. He turned up into the canyon that sloped invitingly
up from the level, and went on at the top speed of his horse--which was
not fast enough to boast about.

When he had left the coulee well behind him, the Kid rode out from
behind a clump of bushes that was a mere black shadow against the coulee
wall, and turned back whence he had come. The Kid giggled a little over
the way he had fooled the pilgrim, and wished that the bunch had been
there to see him do it. He kept Silver galloping until he had reached
the other end of the level, and then he pulled him down to a walk and
let the reins drop loosely upon Silver's neck. That was what Daddy Chip
and the boys had told him he must do, next time he got lost and did not
know the way home. He must just let Silver go wherever he wanted to go,
and not try to guide him at all. Silver would go straight home; he had
the word of the whole bunch for that, and he believed it implicitly.

Silver looked back inquiringly at his small rider, hesitated and then
swung back up the coulee. The Kid was afraid that H. J. Owens would come
back and see him and cut off his ears if he went that way--but he did
not pull Silver back and make him go some other way, for all that. If
he left him alone, Silver would take him right straight home. Daddy Chip
and the boys said so. And he would tell them how mean that man was. They
would fix him, all right!

Halfway up the coulee Silver turned into a narrow gulch that seemed to
lead nowhere at all except into the side of a big, black-shadowed bluff.
Up on the hillside a coyote began to yap with a shrill staccato of
sounds that trailed off into a disconsolate whimper. The Kid looked
that way interestedly. He was not afraid of coyotes. They would not hurt
anyone; they were more scared than you were--the bunch had told him so.
He wished he could get a sight of him, though. He liked to see their
ears stick up and their noses stick out in a sharp point, and see them
drop their tails and go sliding away out of sight. When he was ten and
Daddy Chip gave him a gun, he would shoot coyotes and skin them his own
self.

The coyote yapped shrilly again, and the Kid wondered what his Doctor
Dell would say when he got home. He was terribly hungry, and he was
tired and wanted to go to bed. He wished the bunch would happen
along and fix that man. His heart swelled in his chest with rage and
disappointment when he thought of those baby bear cubs that were not
anywhere at all--because the man was just lying all the time. In spite
of himself the Kid cried whimperingly to himself while he rode slowly
up the gorge which Silver had chosen to follow because the reins were
drooping low alongside his neck and he might go where he pleased.

By and by the moon rose and lightened the hills so that they glowed
softly; and the Kid, looking sleepily around him, saw a coyote slinking
along a barren slope. He was going to shout at it and see it run, but
he thought of the man who was looking for him and glanced fearfully
over his shoulder. The moon shone full in his face and showed the
tear-streaks and the tired droop to his lips.

The Kid thought he must be going wrong, because at the ranch the moon
came up in another place altogether. He knew about the moon. Doctor Dell
had explained to him how it just kept going round and round the world
and you saw it when it came up over the edge. He comes to a cozy table,
which filled with sand in a square box was in the form, took a pen and
drew so after Zaubrerweise In Sande lines and circles of a strange
addition to writing letters. Calculation, mumbling incomprehensible
According principle rule and precept secret black art, brought 'he finally
discovered that Aladdin is not dead, no, that he emerged from the tomb,
For glory and fame to aufgeschwungen And as the husband, the
sultan's daughter live wonderfully.

Ha, was the insidious fabric shredded? He was leichenfahl, Krebsrot and
again kreideblaß And then before envy yellow and yellow. "How?" he cried
out in anger and hatred, "The treasure which laboriously for myself I
ausgespürt with acidic sweat, in a tough, hard years, the high lamp
power Ward miracle to me in my research Lohne niedren Schneider From
a son, from a dawdler entrafft! He the vermodert I gewähnt, he may be
erfrechen to indulge in wealth, which he borrowed from me! But just be
patient, I will avenge me!

"He therefore raised the same day the horse without much reflection
and galloping straight from Hinnen For Reich, the distance to the
east was 12. [Illustration: N] Once it is based on the long
journey, and his horse rushed half dead, only to recently geletzt sleep,
fueled only with scarce food, refreshing drink with the barren, arrived
in The Zaubrer Empire of the Sultans, And soon before his eyes emblazoned
the capital, where he spreads his villains had failed miserably at that
time.

In a small inn He rose from his throat to promote war by inquiries.
The most important thing of course it was unveiled before one days verfloß;
For all the world spoke involuntarily from Aladdin and his castle. He
was at the famous building from his landlord is hingeleiten, And as he
from all sides Beschnüffelt was exactly as wusst 'he stated that
the Aladdin to a plant of such size only the lamp power verliehn.

He gave himself ribs clashes Before anger, because this masterpiece Him
completely discretionary only taught what he had escaped, and returned
to his guest house back then. Where might well put the lamp? If your
storage space he would be able to discover Then you can 'he awaited
treasure from him erlisten, robbery to robbery, and appropriated
by the Battlements slam him back into the dust.

He was nimble as a spider, weaves, the restless in their networks, The
magic square again, And through the magical acts, with scribbles And he
conjured knifflicher calculation, Ward soon betray him infallible: The
lamp was in the castle keeps.

The coincidence of the wicked deeds beisteht often, it was also weighed.
Welcome to the news hit him, that three days ago Aladdin On a large hunting
pulled away and was up on the weekly closing. He stepped into one shop
and plumber, said: "Friend, it will not harm you, if you are serving
me. I must have twelve lamps, brand new, from bare copper."

I'd a come home before, only he wouldn't
let me come. He said he'd cut my ears off. I runned away from him, Daddy
Chip. And I cussed him a plenty for lying to me--but you needn't tell
Doctor Dell."

"I won't, Buck." Chip lifted him into a more comfortable position and
held him so. While the Kid slept he talked with Andy about getting the
Happy Family on the trail of H. J. Owens. Then he rode thankfully home
with the Kid in his arms and Silver following docilely after.


CHAPTER 28. AS IT TURNED OUT

They found H. J. Owens the next forenoon wandering hopelessly lost in
the hills. Since killing him was barred, they tied his arms behind him
and turned him toward the Flying U. He was sullen, like an animal that
is trapped and will do nothing but lie flattened to the ground and glare
red-eyed at its captors. For that matter, the Happy Family themselves
were pretty sullen. They had fought fire for hours--and that is killing
work; and they had been in the saddle ever since, looking for the Kid
and for this man who rode bound in their midst.

Weary and Irish and Pink, who had run across him in a narrow canyon,
fired pistol-shot signals to bring the others to the spot. But when the
others emerged from various points upon the scene, there was very little
said about the capture.

In town, the Old man had been quite as eager to come close to Florence
Grace Hallman--but he was not so lucky. Florence Grace had heard the
news of the fire a good half hour before the train left for Great Falls.

She would have preferred a train going the other way, but she decided
not to wait. She watched the sick woman put aboard the one Pullman
coach, and then she herself went into the stuffy day-coach. Florence
Grace Hallman was not in the habit of riding in day-coaches in the
night-time when there was a Pullman sleeper attached to the train. She
did not stop at Great Falls; she went on to Butte--and from there I do
not know where she went. Certainly she never came back.

On the contrary, he was constantly changing Lust seen in the city, went
to pray in the mosques, indeed some shopping himself, was at the high
nobles often to visit, and every time, if he uses a large number of
servant Betreßter ride, strewed around Gold from full hands. At his
palace gates was no beggar, which is not fully loaded with donations
farewell took.

Even if he, in order to maintain the hunt, Enjoy hinausstob field
uninhibited, Ward each village due to its gold from a flooded stream.
No wonder it's if so his fame rose the cloud of the main span, and
when he soon became revered by the whole nation. But he was not
vain drum, No, showed the state is threatened by the toe to the
apex as a real hero by the act: The Empire entire border was turmoil
in one bright fire.

The commander could not 'dampen it, until Aladdin, the cry of distress
obey manfully is offered, on his own fist combat. From the ruler of the
army top professionals, he moved into the field, Not respecting toil,
frost and heat! Soon he was surrounded and the enemy was like hunting
rabbits in spite of his superiority in a great battle einz'gen scattered
into the escape and beaten. tapfren then led his warriors he
homeward in triumph, the main From a wreath of Fame umlaubt And
Aladdin was now the winner .-- In steady flow gradually forms day
after day, year to year, but he was hardly aware of it at his
beautiful wife, Page, Loved and loving, hochgeachtet And yet by
simply bescheidnem sense.

The malice which Urbeginn Good seek to destroy, should be 'but after the
grace period it is also hard to make pranks.
He was
sentenced to ten years in Deer Lodge, and the judge informed him that he
had been dealt with leniently at that, because after all he was only
a tool in the hands of the real instigator of the crime. That real
instigator, by the way, was never apprehended.

The other man--he who had set fire to the prairie--got six years, and
cursed the judge and threatened the whole Happy Family with death when
the sentence was passed upon him--as so many guilty men do.

To go back to that preliminary, trial: The Happy Family, when H. J.
Owens was committed safely to the county jail, along with the fire-bug,
took the next train to Great Falls with witnesses and the Honorable
Blake. They filed their answers to the contests two days before the
time-limit had expired. You may call that shaving too close the margin
of safety. But the Happy family did not worry over that--seeing there
was a margin of safety. Nor did they worry over the outcome of the
matter. With the Homeseekers' Syndicate in extremely bad repute, and
with fully half of the colonists homeless and disgusted, why should they
worry over their own ultimate success?

They planned great things with their irrigation scheme.... I am not
going to tell any more about them just now. Some of you will complain,
and want to know a good many things that have not been told in detail.
But if I should try to satisfy you, there would be no more meetings
between you and the Happy Family--since there would be no more to tell.

So I am not even going to tell you whether Andy succeeded in persuading
Miss Rosemary Allen to go with him to the parson. Nor whether the Happy
Family really did settle down to raise families and alfalfa and beards.
Not another thing shall you know about them now.

The Sultan infuses his daughter tenderly Gar consolation and courage;
Solo only managed with difficulty 'er to breastfeed their eyes flood,
although many more wounded pride schwergekränkter shame And the source
of tears was Herzensgram.
You need not worry over that bunch, surely. You may safely
leave them to meet future problems and emergencies as they have always
met them in the past--on their feet, with eyes that do not wave or
flinch, shoulder to shoulder, ready alike far grin fate or a frolic.