THE CASE OF THE REGISTERED LETTER

By Augusta Groner


Translated by Grace Isabel Colbron


INTRODUCTION TO JOE MULLER

Joseph Muller, Secret Service detective of the Imperial Austrian police,
is one of the great experts in his profession. "That's--all," said Washington.
"Come!"
And he moved away toward our tent.

He seemed to think some apology necessary for the simplicity of the
ceremonial. "If," said he, "Chapman [the interpreter]--he tell--we sleep
here to-morrow--we put dead man--in ground--when sun he ver' litt';
an' Yoseph he come--an' you come--an' I come--all come--white man
an' Injun."
"He was a fine-looking young man," I remarked, alluding to the dead
Indian.
Washington was pleased by the compliment to his departed brother.One cause is the fact that in early
youth a miscarriage of justice gave him several years in prison, an
experience which cast a stigma on his name and which made it impossible
for him, for many years after, to obtain honest employment. But the
world is richer, and safer, by Muller's early misfortune. For it was
this experience which threw him back on his own peculiar talents for
a livelihood, and drove him into the police force. Had he been able to
enter any other profession, his genius might have been stunted to a mere
pastime, instead of being, as now, utilised for the public good.

Then, the red tape and bureaucratic etiquette which attaches to every
governmental department, puts the secret service men of the Imperial
police on a par with the lower ranks of the subordinates. Muller's
official rank is scarcely much higher than that of a policeman, although
kings and councillors consult him and the Police Department realises to
the full what a treasure it has in him. But official red tape, and his
early misfortune... prevent the giving of any higher official standing
to even such a genius. Born and bred to such conditions, Muller
understands them, and his natural modesty of disposition asks for no
outward honours, asks for nothing but an income sufficient for his
simple needs, and for aid and opportunity to occupy himself in the way
he most enjoys.

Joseph Muller's character is a strange mixture. The kindest-hearted man
in the world, he is a human bloodhound when once the lure of the trail
has caught him. He scarcely eats or sleeps when the chase is on, he does
not seem to know human weakness nor fatigue, in spite of his frail body.
Once put on a case his mind delves and delves until it finds a clue,
then something awakes within him, a spirit akin to that which holds
the bloodhound nose to trail, and he will accomplish the apparently
impossible, he will track down his victim when the entire machinery of
a great police department seems helpless to discover anything. The high
chiefs and commissioners grant a condescending permission when Muller
asks, "May I do this? ... or may I handle this case this way?"
both parties knowing all the while that it is a farce, and that the
department waits helpless until this humble little man saves its honour
by solving some problem before which its intricate machinery has stood
dazed and puzzled.

By fugitive poetry we mean the work of those usually classed as song-writers
and lyrists, leaving out the big guns, if we have had any of the latter
tribe since Milton, who was himself strongest in short poems. Most modern
poets have made their début in the periodical press, and those who
did not have shown a painful tendency to run to epic. The age
respectfully declines epics.

We should not despair of the suggested revival. Ours is not the first
period that has suffered under the dealers in _concetti_. They have had
things somewhat their own way before--in the century which included
Spenser and Donne, for instance. Our euphuists may pass away like those
of the Elizabethan era, or, like the best of them, live in spite
of faults with which they were gratuitously trammelled.

E. B.

* * * * *

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Bits of Travel at Home. By H. H. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

The author's present home we should incline to fix in Colorado, but
she includes New England and California in her travels, and finds something
beautiful to describe wherever she goes within those broad limits.

The Yosemite, the Big Trees, the Mormons, the Chinese, the snow-sheds,
drawing-room cars, agates, prairie-and mountain-flowers, New Hampshire
life and scenery, and an infinity of like material, are readably,
and not incongruously, presented in her little book.

Population is so sparse and Nature so redundant in the scene of
most of her descriptions as to render them sometimes a little
lifeless, and oblige her to depend too solely upon her powers of
landscape painting with the pen.

We miss the human element, as we do in the vast, however luxuriant,
pictures of Bierstadt and Moran--artists who preceded her on
the same sketching-ground. Not that she fails to make the most of
what Nature places before her. Rather, she makes too much of it, and
lavishes whole pages on truthful, minute and vivid, but bewildering,
detail of mountain, river, rock, plain, plants and sea.

She is enraptured, for example, with Lake Tahoe and with the wild
flowers of California and Colorado, and enables us to understand
why she is so; but the raptures are not shared by the reader, partly
for the very reason that they are so elaborately explained.

Printer's ink, when used as a pigment or pencil, should be used
sparingly, with a few, sharp, clear, bold touches, and without
painful finish or niggling.

What amplification would not weaken instead of heightening the effect
of "the copse-wood gray that waved and wept on Loch Achray"? Breadth,
distance and atmosphere are obscured by H. H.'s carefully itemized
foregrounds.

But the itemizing is done admirably and con amore by one who is a
botanist, a poet and an observer.

The Great Desert is no desert to her: no square foot of it is barren. Even
the sage-brush has a charm, if only from its dim likeness to a miniature
olive tree, both being glaucous and hoary.

An oasis of irrigated clover on Humboldt River is made a theme for
an idyl.

The vast rocks, when bare even of moss, are at least rich and various in
tint and form, and have plenty of meaning to her.

A traveller between Omaha and San Francisco might well carry this pocket
volume as a lorgnette. It will show him what he might otherwise miss,
and make more visible to him what he sees. It belongs to a high class
of railroad literature, and is in style and matter so full of movement
as to suggest the railway to readers by the fireside.

Putnam's Art Handbooks. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

This series of manuals for beginners with pencil and palette will include
five small books. The two before us treat of "Landscape Painting" and
"Sketching from Nature." Both are old acquaintances, reprinted
respectively from the thirty-fourth and thirty-eighth London editions.
When they first came under our eye, more years ago than we need state,
they bore the imprint of a London firm of color-dealers, and were
loaded down with advertisements and less direct recommendations of their
wares to an extent that rather obscured the valuable and interesting
part of the publications.

This rubbish has been swept away in the American edition, so that the
tyro can get at what he needs to know more readily, and use it with
more confidence, than when he was puzzled to distinguish between
solid instruction and hollow puffery.

The notes added by the American editor are very scant, and yet so sensible
as to enhance one's regret at their paucity and meagreness.
"Oh, if you would," murmured Miss Graumann, with something more of hope
in her voice. The expression of sympathetic interest on the face of
the newcomer had already won her confidence for him. Her slight figure
straightened up in the chair, and the two men sat down opposite her,
prepared to listen to her story.

"I will tell you all I know and understand about this matter,
gentlemen," she began. "My name is Babette Graumann, and I live with my
nephew, Albert Graumann, engineering expert, in the village of Grunau,
which is not far from the city of G--. My nephew Albert, the dearest,
truest--" sobs threatened to overcome her again, but she mastered them
bravely. "Albert is now in prison, accused of the murder of his friend,
John Siders, in the latter's lodgings in G--."

"Yes, that is the gist of what you have already told me," said the
commissioner. "Muller, Miss Graumann believes her nephew innocent,
contrary to the opinion of the local authorities in G--. She has come
to ask for some one from here who could ferret out the truth of this
matter. You are free now, and if we find that it can be done without
offending the local authorities--"

"Who is the commissioner in charge of the case in G--?" asked Muller.

"Commissioner Lange is his name, I believe," replied Miss Graumann.

"H'm!" Muller and the commissioner exchanged glances.

"I think we can venture to hear more of this," said the commissioner,
as if in answer to their unspoken thought. "Can you give us the details
now, Madam? Who is, or rather who was, this John Siders?"

"John Siders came to our village a little over a year ago," continued
Miss Graumann. "He came from Chicago; he told us, although he was
evidently a German by birth. He bought a nice little piece of property,
not far from our home, and settled down there. He was a quiet man and
made few friends, but he seemed to take to Albert and came to see us
frequently. Albert had spent some years in America, in Chicago, and
Siders liked to talk to him about things and people there. But one day
Siders suddenly sold his property and moved to G--. Two weeks later he
was found dead in his lodgings in the city, murdered, and now--now they
have accused Albert of the crime."

"On what grounds?--oh, I beg your pardon, sir; I did not mean--"

"That's all right, Muller," said the commissioner. "As you may have to
undertake the case, you might as well begin to do the questioning now."

"They say"--Miss Graumann's voice quavered--"they say that Albert was
the last person known to have been in Siders' room; they say that it was
his revolver, found in the room. That is the dreadful part of it--it was
his revolver. He acknowledges it, but he did not know, until the police
showed it to him, that the weapon was not in its usual place in his
study. They tell me that everything speaks for his guilt, but I cannot
believe it--I cannot. He says he is innocent in spite of everything. I
believe him. I brought him up, sir; I was like his own mother to him. He
never knew any other mother. He never lied to me, not once, when he was
a little boy, and I don't believe he'd lie to me now, now that he's a
man of forty-five. He says he did not kill John Siders. Oh, I know, even
without his saying it, that he would not do such a thing."

"Can you tell us anything more about the murder itself?" questioned
Muller gently. "Is there any possibility of suicide? Or was there a
robbery?"

"They say it was no suicide, sir, and that there was a large sum of
money missing. But why should Albert take any one else's money? He has
money of his own, and he earns a good income besides--we have all that
we need. Oh, it is some dreadful mistake! There is the newspaper account
of the discovery of the body. Perhaps Mr. Muller might like to read
that." She pointed to a sheet of newspaper on the desk. The commissioner
handed it to Muller. It was an evening paper, dated G--, September
24th, and it gave an elaborate account, in provincial journalese, of the
discovery that morning of the body of John Siders, evidently murdered,
in his lodgings. The main facts to be gathered from the long-winded
story were as follows:

John Siders had rented the rooms in which he met his death about ten
days before, paying a month's rent in advance. The lodgings consisted of
two rooms in a little house in a quiet street. It was a street of simple
two-story, one and two family dwellings, occupied by artisans and small
tradespeople. There were many open spaces, gardens and vacant lots in
the street. The house in which Siders lodged belonged to a travelling
salesman by the name of Winter. The man was away from home a great deal,
and his wife, with her child and an old servant, lived in the lower
part of the house, while the rooms occupied by Siders were in the upper
story. Siders lived very quietly, going out frequently in the afternoon,
but returning early in the evening. He had said to his landlady that he
had many friends in G--. But during the time of his stay in the house he
had had but one caller, a gentleman who came on the evening of the 23rd
of September. The old maid had opened the door for him and showed him
to Mr. Siders' rooms. She described this visitor as having a full black
beard, and wearing a broad-brimmed grey felt hat. Nobody saw the man
go out, for the old maid, the only person in the house at the time, had
retired early. Mrs. Winter and her little girl were spending the night
with the former's mother in a distant part of the city. The next morning
the old servant, taking the lodger's coffee up to him at the usual hour,
found him dead on the floor of his sitting-room, shot through the heart.
The woman ran screaming from the house and alarmed the neighbours. A
policeman at the corner heard the noise, and led the crowd up to the
room where the dead man lay. It was plain to be seen that this was not
a case of suicide. Everywhere were signs of a terrible struggle. The
furniture was overturned, the dressing-table and the cupboard were open
and their contents scattered on the floor, one of the window curtains
was torn into strips, as if the victim had been trying to escape by way
of the window, but had been dragged back into the room by his murderer.
An overturned ink bottle on the table had spattered wide, and added to
the general confusion. In the midst of the disorder lay the body of the
murdered man, now cold in the rigour of death.

The police commissioner arrived soon, took possession of the rooms, and
made a thorough examination of the premises. A letter found on the desk
gave another proof, if such were needed, that this was not a case of
suicide. This letter was in the handwriting of the dead man, and read as
follows:

Dear Friend:

I appreciate greatly all the kindness shown me by yourself and your good
wife. I have been more successful than I thought possible in overcoming
the obstacles you know of. Therefore, I shall be very glad to join you
day after to-morrow, Sunday, in the proposed excursion. I will call for
you at 8 A.M.--the cab and the champagne will be my share of the trip.
We'll have a jolly day and drink a glass or two to our plans for the
future.

With best greetings for both of you,

Your old friend,

John

G----, Friday, Sept. 23rd.


An envelope, not yet addressed, lay beside this letter. It was clear
that the man who penned these words had no thought of suicide. On
the contrary, he was looking forward to a day of pleasure in the near
future, and laying plans for the time to come. The murderer's bullet had
pierced a heart pulsing with the joy of life.

This was the gist of the account in the evening paper. Muller read
it through carefully, lingering over several points which seemed to
interest him particularly. Then he turned to Miss Babette Graumann. "And
then what happened?" he asked.

"Then the Police Commissioner came to Grunau and questioned my nephew.
They had found out that Albert was Mr. Siders' only friend here. And
late that evening the Mayor and the Commissioner came to our house with
the revolver they had found in the room in G--, and they--they--" her
voice trembled again, "they arrested my dear boy and took him away."

"Have you visited him in prison? What does he say about it himself?"

"He seems quite hopeless. He says that he is innocent--oh, I know he
is--but everything is against him. He acknowledges that it was he who
was in Mr. Siders' room the evening before the murder. He went there
because Siders wrote him to come. He says he left early, and that John
acted queerly. He knows they will not believe his story. This worry and
anxiety will kill him. He has a serious heart trouble; he has suffered
from it for years, and it has been growing steadily worse. I dare not
think what this excitement may do for him." Miss Graumann broke down
again and sobbed aloud. Muller laid his hands soothingly on the little
old fingers that gripped the arm of the chair.

"Did your nephew send you here to ask for help?" he inquired very
gently.

"Oh, no" The old lady looked up at him through her tears. "No, he would
not have done that. I'm afraid that he'll be angry if he knows that I
have come. He seemed so hopeless, so dazed. I just couldn't stand it.
It seemed to me that the police in G---- were taking things for granted,
and just sitting there waiting for an innocent man to confess, instead
of looking for the real murderer, who may be gone, the Lord knows where,
by now!" Miss Graumann's faded cheeks flushed a delicate pink, and she
straightened up in her chair again, while her eyes snapped defiance
through the tears that hung on their lashes.

A faint gleam twinkled up in Muller's eyes, and he did not look at his
chief. Doctor von Riedau's own face glowed in a slowly mounting flush,
and his eyes drooped in a moment of conscious embarrassment at some
recollection, the sting of which was evidently made worse by Muller's
presence. But Commissioner von Riedau had brains enough to acknowledge
his mistakes and to learn from them. He looked across the desk at Miss
Graumann. "You are right, Madam, the police have made that mistake more
than once. And a man with a clear record deserves the benefit of the
doubt. We will take up this case. Detective Muller will be put in charge
of it. And that means, Madam, that we are giving you the very best
assistance the Imperial Police Force affords."

Miss Babette Graumann did not attempt to speak. In a wave of emotion she
stretched out both little hands to the detective and clasped his warmly.
"Oh, thank you," she said at last. "I thank you. He's just like my own
boy to me; he's all the child I ever had, you know."

"But there are difficulties in the way," continued the commissioner in
a business-like tone. "The local authorities in G---- have not asked for
our assistance, and we are taking up the case over their heads, as it
were. I shall have to leave that to Muller's diplomacy. He will come to
G---- and have an interview with your nephew. Then he will have to use
his own judgment as to the next steps, and as to how far he may go in
opposition to what has been done by the police there."

"And then I may go back home?" asked Miss Graumann. "Go home with the
assurance that you will help my poor boy?"

"Yes, you may depend on us, Madam. Is there anything we can do for you
here? Are you alone in the city?"

"No, thank you. There is a friend here who will take care of me. She
will put me on the afternoon express back to G--."

"It is very likely that I will take that train myself," said Muller. "If
there is anything that you need on the journey, call on me."

"Oh, thank you, I will indeed! Thank you both, gentlemen. And now
good-bye, and God bless you!"

The commissioner bowed and Muller held the door open for Miss Graumann
to pass out. There was silence in the room, as the two men looked after
the quaint little figure slowly descending the stairs.

"A brave little woman," murmured the commissioner.

"It is not only the mother in the flesh who knows what a mother's love
is," added Muller.

Next morning Joseph Muller stood in the cell of the prison in G----
confronting Albert Graumann, accused of the murder of John Siders.

The detective had just come from a rather difficult interview with
Commissioner Lange. But the latter, though not a brilliant man, was at
least good-natured. He acknowledged the right of the accused and his
family to ask for outside assistance, and agreed with Muller that it was
better to have some one in the official service brought in, rather than
a private detective whose work, in its eventual results, might bring
shame on the police. Muller explained that Miss Graumann did not want
her nephew to know that it was she who had asked for aid in his behalf,
and that it could only redound to his, Lange's, credit if it were
understood that he had sent to Vienna for expert assistance in this
case. It would be a proof of his conscientious attention to duty,
and would insure praise for him, whichever way the case turned out.
Commissioner Lange saw the force of this argument, and finally gave
Muller permission to handle the case as he thought best, rather relieved
than otherwise for his own part. The detective's next errand was to the
prison, where he now stood looking up into the deep-set, dark eyes of a
tall, broad-shouldered, black-bearded man, who had arisen from the cot
at his entrance. A comfort is that flight is not his forte. He is
generally to be found by the exploring penknife or trowel close by
the scene of his crime, and is thus easily subjected to condign punishment.
But his wife, family and friends survive in different spots of the adjacent
underworld, to give evidence of their existence only in subsequent
havoc. The titillative rake or the peremptory hoe does not help you
much in their discovery; for their color is that of the soil, their
size as various as that of bits of gravel, and they are not easily
perceptible to a cursory glance from the ordinary height of the eye. Here
is where keener optics than yours, sharpened perhaps by a keener
impulse--that of the stomach--come to the rescue. The catbird, whose
imploring mew you listened to from your bed some time before thinking
proper to respond to it, is intently watching operations from the other
end of the border or the square. His lusty youngsters have been
trained, after the good old fashion, to early hours, and they are
impatient for breakfast. Their parent sees what you do not, and
astonishes you by suddenly pouncing upon a bit of earth you have just
broken and seizing a stout worm. This stranger, if presentable to the
family circle, he is at once off with, his spouse taking his place
in the field.

Or the youngsters may still be _in futuro_. All the same: whatever
turns up is welcome to him. His appetite seems as insatiable as that of
half a dozen nestlings: they, you know, will eat three or four
times their own weight in twelve hours.

He is thus immensely useful to you, but your appreciation of that fact is
as nothing to his estimate of your value to him.

He accepts you as a being sent for his benefit. You are a part of his
scheme of providence. True, he pities while he rejoices over you. Your
blindness and stupidity in not seeing the fat and luscious tidbits
he snaps up from almost beneath your feet is of course a subject
of wonder and disdain. But he learns to make allowances for you, and
comes to view your failings charitably, especially as they enure
to his benefit, and so lean to Virtue's side.

Fear of you he has none. Indeed, you inspire in him a certain sense of
protection, for in your presence his habitual vigilance is lulled,
and his apprehensive glances over his right and left shoulders
fall to a lower figure per minute.

He has learned there to feel safe from hawk and cat, and knows enough
of other birds to be sure that none of them will "jump" his little
claim of fifty feet square whereof you are the moving centre. His
individual audacity gives him the sway of that small empire, and he
doubts not that you will support him in acting up to the motto of the
Iron Crown of the Lombards. His cousin the robin may, and very probably
does, hover on the outskirts, but an exact distance measures the
comparative boldness and familiarity of the two species.

The catbird is, say, ten yards more companionable than his red-vested
relative in the latter's most genial and trustful mood; and his faith is
of a more robust type and less easily and permanently weakened by rebuffs.
The robin rarely hovers round you, but likes to have the whole premises
quietly to himself. His attachment does not take a personal hue, but is
rather to locality. His acquaintanceship with you is never so
intimate as that of the catbird, who soon recognizes your step,
your dress and the peculiar touch and cadence of your hoe, even as
a college oarsman will identify the stroke of a chum or a rival a
quarter of a mile off.

If the robin does fix your individuality in his mind, he deigns to
make no sign thereof. At most he accepts you as part of the mechanism
of creation. You make no draft upon his bump of reverence. He does
not set you on his Olympus. This mark of the spirit which makes him,
on the whole, a more respectable and dignified character than his less
gayly-dressed cousin tends in some sense to commend him the less to you,
since we all like the homage of the "inferior animals," birds or voters.
You half dislike the independence of the robin, who is equally at
home in the parterre or the forest, on the gravel-walk or in the
upper air.

On the other you have more hold.

He is rarely seen higher than twenty feet above ground, and is
strictly an appendage of the shrubbery and the orchard.

Even in his unhappy voice there is a domestic tone, closely imitated as
it is from Grimalkin.

Imitated, we say, for we have never been able fully to believe that
this mew is the bird's original note.

We shall ever incline to the impression that it is an acquired
dialect, picked up in the mere wantonness born of a conscious and
exceptional power of mimicry.

E. C. B.

A NEW AND INDIGNANT ITALIAN POET.

Mrs. Leo Hunter's selection of an "Expiring Frog" as a subject for
poetical composition has lately been surpassed by a new Italian
poet.

The latter, Signer Giovanni Rizzi, has just published at Milan a small
volume of sonnets, chiefly ironical in character, in which he gives
vent to his disgust at the positive and materialistic tendencies of the
present day.
I asked a casual question once or twice as to
his home and family, but he evaded me every time, and would not give a
direct answer. He was evidently a German by birth and education, a
man with university training, and one who knew life thoroughly. He had
delightful manners, and when he could forget his shyness for a while, he
could be very agreeable. The ladies of my family came to like him, and
encouraged him to call frequently. Then the thing happened that I should
not have believed possible. My ward, Miss Roemer, a quiet, reserved
girl, fell in love with this man about whom none of us knew anything, a
man with a past of which he did not care to speak.

"I was not in any way satisfied with the match, and they seemed
to realise it. For Siders managed to persuade the girl to a secret
engagement. I discovered it a month or two ago, and it made me very
angry. I did not let them see how badly I felt, but I warned Lora not to
have too much to do with the boy, and I set about finding out something
regarding his earlier life. It was my duty to do this, as I was the
girl's guardian. She has no other relative living, and no one to turn to
except my aunt and myself. I wrote to Mr. Richard Tressider in Chicago,
the owner of the factory in which I had been employed while there. John
had told me that Tressider had been his client during the four years in
which he practiced law in Chicago. I received an answer about the middle
of August. Mr. Tressider had been able to find out only that John was
born in the town of Hartberg in a certain year. This was enough. I took
leave of absence for a few days and went to Hartberg, which, as you
know, is about 140 miles from here. Three days later I knew all that I
wanted to know. John Siders was not the man's real name, or, rather, it
was only part of his name. His full name was Theodor John Bellmann, and
his mother was an Englishwoman whose maiden name was Siders. His father
was a county official who died at an early age, leaving his widow and
the boy in deepest poverty. Mrs. Bellmann moved to G----to give music
lessons. Theodor went to school there, then finally to college, and was
an excellent pupil everywhere. But one day it was discovered that he
had been stealing money from the banker in whose house he was serving
as private tutor to the latter's sons. A large sum of money was missing,
and every evidence pointed to young Bellmann as the thief. He denied
strenuously that he was guilty, but the District Judge (it was the
present Prosecuting Attorney Schmidt in G--) sentenced him. He spent
eight months in prison, during which time his mother died of grief at
the disgrace. There must have been something good in the boy, for he
had never forgotten that it was his guilt that struck down his only
relative, the mother who had worked so hard for him. He had atoned for
this crime of his youth, and during the years that have passed since
then, he had been an honest, upright man."

Graumann paused a moment and pressed his hand to his heart again. His
voice had grown weaker, and he breathed hard. Finally he continued: "I
commanded my ward to break off her engagement, as I could not allow her
to marry a man who was a freed convict. Siders sold his property
some few weeks after that and moved to G--. Eleonora acquiesced in my
commands, but she was very unhappy and allowed me to see very little of
her. Then came the events of the evening of September 23rd, the events
which have turned out so terribly. I will try to tell you the story just
as it happened, so far as I am concerned. I had seen nothing of John
since he left this town. He had made several attempts before his
departure for G---- to change my opinion, and my decision as to his
marriage to my ward. But I let him see plainly that it was impossible
for him to enter our family with such a past behind him. He asserted
his innocence of the charges against him, and declared that he had been
unjustly accused and imprisoned. I am afraid that I was hard towards
him. I begin to understand now, as I never thought I should, what it
means to be accused of crime. I begin to realise that it is possible for
every evidence to point to a man who is absolutely innocent of the deed
in question. I begin to think now that John may have been right, that
possibly he also may have been accused and sentenced on circumstantial
evidence alone. I have thought much, and I have learned much in these
terrible days."

The prisoner paused again and sat brooding, his eyes looking out into
space. Muller respected his suffering and sat in equal silence, until
Graumann raised his eyes to his again. "Then came the evening of the
23rd of September?"

"Yes, that evening--it's all like a dream to me." Graumann began again.
"John wrote me a letter asking me to come to see him on that evening. I
tore up the letter and threw it away--or perhaps, yes, I remember now, I
did not wish Eleonora to see that he had written me. He asked me to come
to see him, as he had something to say to me, something of the greatest
importance for us both. He asked me not to mention to any one that I was
to see him, as it would be wiser no one should know that we were
still in communication with each other. There was a strain of nervous
excitement visible in his letter. I thought it better to go and see
him as he requested; I felt that I owed him some little reparation for
having denied him the great wish of his heart. It was my duty to make up
to him in other ways for what I had felt obliged to do. I knew him for
a nervous, high-strung man, overwrought by brooding for years on what he
called his wrongs, and I did not know what he might do if I refused his
request. It was not of myself I thought in this connection, but of the
girl at home who looked to me for protection.

"I had no fear for myself; it never occurred to me to think of taking a
weapon with me. How my revolver--and it is undoubtedly my revolver, for
there was a peculiar break in the silver ornamentation on the handle
which is easily recognisable--how this revolver of mine got into his
room, is more than I can say. Until the Police Commissioner showed it to
me two or three days ago, I had no idea that it was not in the box in
my study where it is ordinarily kept." Graumann paused again and looked
about him as if searching for something. He rose and poured himself out
a glass of water. "Let me put some of this in it," said Muller. "It will
do you good." From a flask in his pocket he poured a few drops of brandy
into the water. Graumann drank it and nodded gratefully. Then he took up
his story again.

"I never discovered why Siders had sent for me. When I arrived at the
appointed time I found the door of the house closed. I was obliged to
ring several times before an old servant opened the door. She seemed
surprised that it had been locked. She said that the door was always
unlatched, and that Mr. Siders himself must have closed it, contrary to
all custom, for she had not done it, and there was no one else in the
house but the two of them. Siders was waiting for me at the top of the
stairs, calling down a noisy welcome.

"When I asked him finally what it was so important that he wanted to
say to me, he evaded me and continued to chatter on about commonplace
things. Finally I insisted upon knowing why he had wanted me to come,
and he replied that the reason for it had already been fulfilled, that
he had nothing more to say, and that I could go as soon as I wanted to.
He appeared quite calm, but he must have been very nervous. For as I
stood by the desk, telling him what I thought of his actions, he moved
his hand hastily among the papers there and upset the ink stand. I
jumped back, but not before I had received several large spots of ink on
my trousers. He was profuse in his apologies for the accident, and tried
to take out the spots with blotting paper. Then at last, when I insisted
upon going, he looked out to see whether there was still a light on the
stairs, and led me down to the door himself, standing there for some
time looking after me.

"I was slightly alarmed as well as angry at his actions. I believe
that he could not have been quite in his right mind, that the strain of
nervousness which was apparent in his nature had really made him ill.
For I remember several peculiar incidents of my visit to him. One
of these was that he almost insisted upon my taking away with me,
ostensibly to take care of them, several valuable pieces of jewelry
which he possessed. He seemed almost offended when I refused to do
anything of the kind. Then, as I parted from him at the door, not in a
very good humour I will acknowledge, he said to me: 'You will think of
me very often in the future--more often than you would believe now!'

"This is all the truth, and nothing but the truth, about my visit to
John Siders on the evening of September 23rd. As it had been his wish
I said nothing to the ladies at home, or to any one else about the
occurrence. And as I have told you, I destroyed his letter asking me to
come to him.

"The following day about noon, the Commissioner of Police from G----
called at my office in the factory, and informed me bluntly that John
Siders had been found shot dead in his lodgings that morning. I was
naturally shocked, as one would be at such news, in spite of the fact
that I had parted from the man in anger, and that I had no reason to
be particularly fond of him. What shocked me most of all was the sudden
thought that John had taken his own life. It was a perfectly natural
thought when I considered his nervousness, and his peculiar actions of
the evening before. I believe I exclaimed, 'It was a suicide!' almost
without realising that I was doing so. The commissioner looked at me
sharply and said that suicide was out of the question, that it was an
evident case of murder. He questioned me as to Siders' affairs, of which
I told only what every one here in the village knew. I did not consider
it incumbent upon me to disclose to the police the disgrace of the man's
early life. I had been obliged to hurt him cruelly enough because of
that, and I saw no necessity for blackening his name, now that he was
dead. Also, as according to what the commissioner said, it was a case
of murder for robbery, I did not wish to go into any details of our
connection with Siders that would cause the name of my ward to be
mentioned. After a few more questions the commissioner left me. I was
busy all the afternoon, and did not return to my home until later than
usual. I found my aunt somewhat worried because Miss Roemer had left the
house immediately after our early dinner, and had not yet returned. We
both knew the girl to be still grieving over her broken engagement,
and we dreaded the effect this last dreadful news might have on her.
We supposed, however, that she had gone to spend the afternoon with a
friend, and were rather glad to be spared the necessity of telling her
at once what had happened. I had scarcely finished my supper, when
the door bell rang, and to my astonishment the Mayor of Grunau was
announced, accompanied by the same Police Commissioner who had visited
me in my office that morning. The Mayor was an old friend of mine and
his deeply grave face showed me that something serious had occurred. It
was indeed serious! and for some minutes I could not grasp the meaning
of the commissioner's questions. Finally I realised with a tremendous
shock that I--I myself was under suspicion of the murder of John Siders.
The description given by the old servant of the man who had visited
Siders the evening before, the very clothes that I wore, my hat and the
trousers spotted by the purple ink, led to my identification as this
mysterious visitor. The servant had let me in but she had not seen me go
out.

"Then I discovered--when confronted suddenly with my own revolver which
had been found on the floor of the room, some distance from the body of
the dead man, that this same revolver had been identified as mine by my
ward, Eleonora Roemer, who had been to the police station at G---- in
the early afternoon hours. Some impulse of loyalty to her dead lover,
some foolish feminine fear that I might have spoken against him in my
earlier interviews with the commissioner had driven the girl to this
step. A few questions sufficed to draw from her the story of her secret
engagement, of its ending, and of my quarrel with John. I will say for
her that I am certain she did not realise that all these things were
calculated to cast suspicion on me. The poor girl is too unused to the
ways of police courts, to the devious ways of the law, to realise what
she was doing. The sight of my revolver broke her down completely
and she acknowledged that it was mine. That is all. Except that I was
arrested and brought here as you see. I told the commissioner the story
of my visit to John Siders exactly as I told it to you, but it was plain
to be seen that he did not believe me. It is plain to be seen also, that
he is firmly convinced of my guilt and that he is greatly satisfied with
himself at having traced the criminal so soon."

"And yet he was not quite satisfied," said Muller gently. "You see that
he has sent to the Capital for assistance on the case." Muller felt this
little untruth to be justified for the sake of the honour of the police
force.

"Yes, I'm surprised at that," said Graumann in his former tone of
weariness. "What do you think you will be able to do about it?"

"I must ask questions here and there before I can form a plan of
campaign," replied Muller. "What do you think about it yourself? Who do
you think killed Siders?"

"How can I know who it was? I only know it is not I," answered Graumann.

"Did he have any enemies?"

"No, none that I knew of, and he had few friends either."

"You knew there was a sum of money missing from his rooms?"

"Yes, the sum they named to me was just about the price that he had
received for the sale of his property here. They did me the honour to
believe that if I had taken the money at all, I had done so merely as a
blind. At least they did not take me for a thief as well as a murderer.
If the money is really missing, it was for its sake he was murdered I
suppose."

"Yes, that would be natural," said Muller. "And you know nothing of any
other relations or connections that the man may have had? Anything that
might give us a clue to the truth?"

"No, nothing. He stood so alone here, as far as I knew. Of course, as I
told you, his actions of the evening before having been so peculiar--and
as I knew that he was not in the happiest frame of mind--I naturally
thought of suicide at once, when they told me that he had been found
shot dead. Then they told me that the appearance of the room and many
other things, proved suicide to have been out of the question. I know
nothing more about it. I cannot think any more about it. I know only
that I am here in danger of being sentenced for the crime that I never
committed--that is enough to keep any man's mind busy." asked Miss King
primly.--"We have had tea of course, Hyacinthe, but we will have
some infused for you at once."

"Perhaps Hyacinthe doesn't like tea," suggested Miss Juliet with her thin,
once-pretty hand on the rope.

"Not like tea? Absurd! Was not her father an Englishman, I should like
to know? Our niece is not a heathen, Juliet."
"But, aunt," smiled Hyacinthe, "I do not like tea, after all. You
are both so kind to me," sighed she: "I hope you will not ever
regret my coming to England and to you."If
it is of any comfort to you, I can tell you that during a long career as
police detective I have been most astonishingly fortunate in the cases I
have undertaken. I am hoping that my usual good luck will follow me here
also. I am hoping it for your sake."

The man on the cot took the hand the detective offered him and
pressed it firmly. "You will let me know as soon as you have found
anything--anything that gives me hope?"

"I will indeed. And now save your strength and do not worry. I will help
you if it is in my power."

After leaving the prison, Muller took the train for the village of
Grunau, about half an hour distant from the city. He found his way
easily to Graumann's home, an attractive old house set in a large garden
amid groups of beautiful old trees. When he sent up his card to Miss
Graumann, the old lady tripped down stairs in a flutter of excitement.

"Did you see him?" she asked. "You have been to the prison? What do you
think? How does he seem?"

"He seems calm to-day," replied Muller, "although the confinement and
the anxiety are evidently wearing on him."

"And you heard his story? And you believe him innocent?"

"I am inclined to do so. Shall he, or shall he not, put a certain question
to her, or leave the matter at rest for ever?
Being a person well used to gratifying himself, he asks his
question:
"Supposing that it had not been true, what would you have had to
say to me then?"

Muller paced up and down the large sunny room, casting a glance over the
handsome old pieces of furniture and the family portraits on the wall.
It was evidently the home of generations of well-to-do, well-bred
people, the narrow circle of whose life was made rich by congenial
duties and a comfortable feeling of their standing in the community.

While he was studying one of the portraits more carefully, he became
aware that there was some one in the room. He turned and saw a tall
blond girl standing by the door. She had entered so softly that even
Muller's quick ear had not heard the opening of the door.

"Do you wish to speak to me?" she said, coming down into the room. "I am
Eleonora Roemer"

Her face, which could be called handsome in its even regularity of
feature and delicate skin, was very pale now, and around her eyes were
dark rings that spoke of sleepless nights. Grief and mental shock were
preying upon this girl's mind. "She is not the one to make a confidant
of those around her," thought Muller to himself. Then he added aloud:
"If it does not distress you too much to talk about this sad affair, I
will be very grateful if you will answer a few questions."

"I will tell you whatever I can," said the girl in the same low even
tone in which she had first spoken. "Miss Graumann tells me that you
have come from Vienna to take up this case. It is only natural that we
should want to give you every assistance in our power."

"What is your opinion about it?" was Muller's next remark, made rather
suddenly after a moment's pause.

The directness of the question seemed to shake the girl out of her
enforced calm. A slow flush mounted into her pale cheeks and then died
away, again leaving them whiter than before. "I do not know--oh, I do
not know what to believe."

In them you shall hear how these voyagers, in their poor barkentines
of from ten to two hundred tons, entered into this region of enormous
tides, of floating hordes of mountainous icebergs, of flaming signs
in the sky--into all the horrors, in fact, of an Arctic winter and
night, darkened still deeper for them by nameless superstitious
terrors.

They went down to these deeps in very much the temper with which a
living man now-a-days would adventure into hell.
The icy peaks of the far-off land they knew were glittering silver,
and the sea was full of malignant spirits which guarded it.

A mountain-magnet lay hid under the sea, dragging the ships down
to it (as late, indeed, as 1830 skilled Danish navigators declared that
they felt the stress from it, and fled in terror): the unnatural tides
were the breathing of angry Demigorgon. There were, however, other sights
and sounds not to be explained in even this reasonable fashion.

On a fair day and a calm sea panic would seize the soul of every man
on board, and the ship would turn and beat homeward, "as one who
knows a frightful fiend doth follow him behind."

It is the mystery of the lost colony, however, which ought to be opened
by some competent hand.

In 1406, Queen Margaret, it will be remembered, laid an interdict upon
trade with them: for two centuries afterward not even a passing
barkentine touched upon the Greenland shore.

At the end of that time, when explorers were sent from the civilized world
in search of the long-forgotten colonists, they had utterly vanished.

There, to this day, are their dwellings and churches, solidly built of
stone in an architectural style which Graah fifty years ago described
as simple and elegant: there are even the ruins of the monastery
which the Zeni brothers declare was heated by a magical hot sulphurous
spring, the waters of which were conveyed through the building by
pipes.

"No, I do not know of any enemies, or even of any friends he had there.
When the terrible thing happened that clouded his past, when he had
regained his freedom, after his term of imprisonment, there was no one
left whom he cared to see again. He does not seem to have borne any
malice towards the banker who accused him of the theft. The evidence
was so strong against him that he felt the suspicion was justified. But
there was hatred in his heart for one man, for the Justice who sentenced
him, Justice Schmidt, who is now Attorney General in G--."

"The man who, in the name of the State, will conduct this case?" asked
Muller quickly.

"Yes, I believe it is so. Is it not an irony that this man, the only one
whom John really hated, should be the one to avenge him now?"

"H'm! yes. But did you know of any friends in G--?"

"No, none at all."

"No friends whom he might have made while he was in America and then met
again in Germany?"

"No, he never spoke of any such to me. He told me that he made few
friends. He did not seek them for he was afraid that they might find out
what had happened and turn from him. He was morbidly sensitive and could
not bear the disappointment."

"Why did he return to Germany?"

"He was lonely and wanted to come home again. He had made money in
America--John was very clever and highly educated--but his heart longed
for his own tongue and his own people."

Muller took a folded piece of paper from his pocket. "Do you know this
handwriting?"

Miss Roemer read the few lines hastily and her voice trembled as she
said: "This is John's handwriting. I know it well. This is the letter
that was found on the table?"

"Yes, this letter appears to be the last he had written in life. Do you
know to whom it could have been written? The envelope, as I suppose you
know from the newspaper reports, was not addressed. Do you know of any
friends with whom he could have been on terms of sufficient intimacy to
write such a letter? Do you know what these plans for the future could
have been? It would certainly be natural that he should have spoken to
you first about them."

"No; I cannot understand this letter at all," replied the girl. "I have
thought of it frequently these terrible days. I have wondered why it was
that if he had friends in the city, he did not speak to me of them. He
repeatedly told me that he had no friends there at all, that his life
should begin anew after we were married."

"And did he have any particular plans, in a business way, perhaps?"

"No; he had a comfortable little income and need have no fear for the
future. John was, of course, too young a man to settle down and do
nothing. But the only definite plans he had made were that we should
travel a little at first, and then he would look about him for a
congenial occupation. I always thought it likely he would resume a law
practice somewhere. I cannot understand in the slightest what the plans
are to which the letter referred."

"And do you think, from what you know of his state of mind when you saw
him last, that he would be likely so soon to be planning pleasures like
this?"

"No, no indeed! John was terribly crushed when my guardian insisted on
breaking off our engagement. Until my twenty-fourth birthday I am
still bound to do as my guardian says, you know. John's life and early
misfortune made him, as I have already said, morbidly sensitive and the
thought that it would be a bar to anything we might plan in the future,
had rendered him so depressed that--and it was not the least of my
anxieties and my troubles--that I feared... I feared anything might
happen."

"You feared he might take his own life, do you mean?"

"Yes, yes, that is what I feared. But is it not terrible to think that
he should have died this way--by the hand of a murderer?"

"H'm! And you cannot remember any possible friend he may have
found--some schoolboy friend of his youth, perhaps, with whom he had
again struck up an acquaintance."

"Oh, no, no, I am positive of that. John could not bear to hear the
names even of the people he had known before his misfortune. Still, I do
remember his once having spoken of a man, a German he had met in Chicago
and rather taken a fancy to, and who had also returned to Germany."

"Could this possibly have been the man to whom the letter is addressed?"

"No, no. This friend of John's was not married; I remember his
saying that. And he lived in Germany somewhere--let me think--yes, in
Frankfort-on-Main."

"And do you remember the man's name?"

"No, I cannot, I am sorry to say. John only mentioned it once. It was
only by a great effort that I could remember the incident at all."

"And has it not struck you as rather peculiar that this friend, the one
to whom the cordial letter was addressed, did not come forward and make
his identity known? G---- is a city, it is true, but it is not a very
large city, and any man being on terms of intimate acquaintance with one
who was murdered would be apt to come forward in the hope of throwing
some light on the mystery."

"Why, yes, I had not thought of that. It is peculiar, is it not? But
some people are so foolishly afraid of having anything to do with the
police, you know."

"That is very true, Miss Roemer. Still it is a queer incident and
something that I must look into."

"What do you believe?" asked the girl tensely.

"I am not in a position to say as yet. When I am, I will come to you and
tell you."

"Then you do not think that my guardian killed John--that there was a
quarrel between the men?"

"There is, of course, a possibility that it may have been so. You know
your guardian better than I do, naturally. Our knowledge of a man's
character is often a far better guide than any circumstantial evidence."

"My guardian is a man of the greatest uprightness of character. But he
can be very hard and pitiless sometimes. And he has a violent temper
which his weak heart has forced him to keep in control of late years."

"All this speaks for the possibility that there may have been a quarrel
ending in the fatal shot. But what I want to know from you is this--do
you think it possible, that, this having happened, Albert Graumann would
not have been the first to confess his unpremeditated crime? Is not
this the most likely thing for a man of his character to do? Would he so
stubbornly deny it, if it had happened?"

The girl started. "I had not thought of that! Why, why, of course, he
might have killed John in a moment of temper, but he was never a man to
conceal a fault. He is as pitiless towards his own weakness, as towards
that of others. You are right, oh, you must be right. Oh, if you could
take this awful fear from my heart! Even my grief for John would be
easier to bear then."

Muller rose from his chair. "I think I can promise you that this load
will be lifted from your heart, Miss Roemer."

"Then you believe--that it was just a case of murder for robbery? For
the money? And John had some valuable jewelry, I know that."

"I do not know yet," replied Muller slowly, "but I will find out, I
generally do."

"Oh, to think that I should have done that poor man such an injustice!
It is terrible, terrible! This house has been ghastly these days.
His poor aunt knows that he is innocent--she could never believe
otherwise--she has felt the hideous suspicion in my mind--it has made
her suffering worse--will they ever forgive me?"

"Her joy, if I can free her nephew, will make her forget everything. Go
to her now, Miss Roemer, comfort her with the assurance that you also
believe him to be innocent. I must hasten back to G---- and go on with
this quest."

The girl stood at the doorway shaded by the overhanging branches of
two great trees, looking down the street after the slight figure of the
detective. "Oh, it is all easier to hear, hard as it is, easier now that
this horrible suspicion has gone from my mind--why did I not think of
that before?"

Alone in the corner of the smoking compartment in the train to G--,
Muller arranged in his mind the facts he had already gathered. He had
questioned the servants of John Siders' former household, had found
that the dead man received very few letters, only an occasional business
communication from his bank. Of the few others, the servants knew
nothing except that he had always thrown the envelopes carelessly in the
waste paper basket and had never seemed to have any correspondence which
he cared to conceal. No friend from elsewhere had ever visited him in
Grunau, and he had made few friends there except the Graumann family.

The facts of the case, as he knew them now, were such as to make it
extremely doubtful that Graumann was the murderer. Muller himself had
been inclined to believe in the possibility of a quarrel between the two
men, particularly when he had heard that Graumann himself was in love
with his handsome ward. But the second thought that came to him then,
impelled by the unerring instinct that so often guided him to the truth,
was the assurance that in a case of this kind, in a case of a quarrel
terminating fatally, a man like Albert Graumann would be the very first
to give himself up to the police and to tell the facts of the case.
Albert Graumann was a man of honour and unimpeachable integrity. Such
a man would not persist in a foolish denial of the deed which he had
committed in a moment of temper. There would be nothing to gain from it,
and his own conscience would be his severest judge. "The disorder in the
room?" thought Muller. "It'll be too late for that now. I suppose they
have rearranged the place. I can only go by what the local detectives
have seen, by the police reports. But I do not understand this extreme
disorder. There is no reason why there should be a struggle when the
robber was armed with a pistol. If Siders was supposed to have been
interrupted when writing a letter, interrupted by a thief come with
intent to steal, a thief armed with a revolver, the sight of this weapon
alone would be sufficient to insure his not moving from his seat. I
can understand the open drawers and cupboard; that is explained by the
thief's hasty search for booty. But the torn window curtain and the
overturned chairs are peculiar.

"Of course there is always a possibility that the thief might have
entered one room while Siders was in the other; that the latter might
have surprised the robber in his search for money or valuables, and that
there might have been a hand-to-hand struggle before the intruder could
pull out his revolver. Oh, if I could only have seen the body! This
is working under terrific difficulties. The marks of a hand-to-hand
struggle would have been very plain on the clothes and on the person of
the murdered man. But this letter? I do not understand this letter at
all. It is the dead man's handwriting, that we know, but why did not the
friend to whom it was addressed come forward and make himself known? As
far as I can learn from the police reports in G--, there was no personal
interest shown, no personal inquiries made about the dead man. There was
only the natural excitement that a murder would create. Now a family,
expecting to make a pleasure excursion with a friend in a day or two
and suddenly hearing that this friend had been found murdered in his
lodgings, would be inclined to take some little personal interest in
the matter. It was a grand old place, not quite three hours from town,
with winding broad avenues and glimpses of sweeping smooth lawns
between the oaks and beeches. And the company which the mistress of
Stokeham had gathered about her this autumn was, if possible, a more
congenial and yet varied one than usual. Having no children of her own,
Lady Dering enjoyed especially the society of young people, and generally
contrived to have a goodly number of them about her--Mildred
and Mabel Masham, Lady Isobel French, Lady Florence Ffolliott, her
cousin the little Viscount Harleigh--who was very far gone in love
with his uncle's daughter, by the by--the Hon.

Hugh Leroy Chandoce and a host of others.

Her ladyship, telegram in hand, has just knocked at Florence Ffolliott's
door. Florence is a special favorite with the old lady:
she approves thoroughly of her engagement, which was formally announced
at Stokeham last year, and of the man of her choice, who at the
present moment is lighting a cigar and cogitating in a somewhat
ruffled frame of mind over the piece of news he has just been made
acquainted with by his hostess.

"Florence, my dear," says her ladyship, "I am the most fortunate woman in
the world. I have been longing for a new star in my domestic firmament,
and, behold! it dawns. I expected to have her here some time, but not
so early as this; and the charming creature sends me a telegram
that she arrives by the eleven-o'clock express this morning:
I have just sent to the station for her.

I met Roy on my way to you, and conveyed the intelligence to him, but
of course he only looked immensely bored: these absurd men! they never
can take an interest in but one woman at a time." Lady Florence's
quick color came naturally enough.

"Now, my child, guess the name of the new luminary."
"I'm quite sure I can't," says the girl, her roses paling to their usual
pink. "Tell me, dear Lady Dering: suspense is terrible;" and she laughs
merrily.

"Hyacinthe King, the great actress, my dear: could anything be more
delicious?" Lady Dering has been absent on the Continent during the season,
and is utterly ignorant of all the _on dits_ of the day.

"Charming!" murmurs Florence Ffolliott with the interested inflection of
thorough good breeding; but her hands, lying clasped together on her
lap, clasp each other cruelly.

"Yes," continues her ladyship. "I knew her father in my young days--Ernest
King--the Kings of Essex, you know?" Florence nods assent. "He was
the handsomest fellow imaginable, married a lovely Greek girl; and here
comes his daughter startling the world with her genius twenty odd
years after my little flirtation with him. It makes one feel old,
child--old.

I called on her the last day I was in London, but she was out; so
then I wrote and begged her to come to Stokeham when she could. Now I
must leave you, dear. What are you reading? Poetry, of course. I
never read anything else either when I was your age and was engaged to
Sir Harry." The bright, stately lady laughs gayly as she goes, and
Florence Ffolliott sits before her fire until luncheon-time, turning
over a dozen wild fancies in her brain--fancies that do no honor
either to the man she loves or the woman whom she cannot help
disliking heartily.

But her just, and withal generous, soul dismisses them at last, and she
bows her head to the blow and acknowledges it to be what it is--an
accident.

That the advent of Hyacinthe King in their midst should have created
no sensation among the party assembled at Stokeham would scarcely be a
reasonable proposition: it did, and not only the excitement that the
coming of a renowned meteor of the theatrical firmament might be expected
to occasion in a house full of British subjects, but an undertone of
surmise, and some sarcasms, between those--the majority--who were well
enough aware of Roy Chandoce's peculiar infatuation for the beautiful
young player.

The pair were watched keenly, it must be confessed, but with a courtesy
and _savoir faire_ that admitted no betrayal of this absolutely human
curiosity--by none more keenly and more guardedly than by Lady Florence
Ffolliott.
Neither she nor they discovered aught in the conduct of either the man
or the woman to find fault with or cavil at.

Hyacinthe was quickly voted a "man's woman" by the women, and as quickly
pronounced a "thorough enigma" by the men, not one of whom had
succeeded, even after the lapse of fourteen days, in arousing in her that
which is most dear to the masculine soul, a preference--although it
be a mild, a shamming or an evanescent preference--for one of them
above another. Sir Vane Masham set her down over his third dinner's
sherry as "an iceberg," in which kind opinion the little viscount joined,
with the amendment of "polar refrigerator." Young Arthur French,
who was very hard hit indeed, said she was like a "beautiful,
heartless marble statue," but the poet, who had made verses on her,
called her a "white lily with a heart of flame."Upon a
second careful examination, however, he found that in one of the vest
pockets there was a little extra pocket, like a change pocket, and in
it he found a crumpled piece of paper. He took it out, smoothed and read
it. It was a post office receipt for a registered letter. The date was
still clear, but the name of the person to whom the letter had been
addressed was illegible. The creases of the paper and a certain
dampness, as if it had been inadvertently touched by a wet finger, had
smeared the writing. But the letter had been sent the day before the
death of John Siders, and it had been registered from the main post
office in G--. This was sufficient for Muller. Then he turned to the
desk. Here also there was nothing that could help him. But a sudden
thought, came to him, and he took up the blotting pad. This, to his
delight, was in the form of a book with a handsome embroidered cover. It
looked comparatively new and was, as Muller surmised, a gift from Miss
Roemer to her betrothed. But few of the pages had been used, and on two
of them a closely written letter had been blotted several times, showing
that there had been several sheets of the letter. Muller held it up to
the looking-glass, but the repeated blotting had blurred the writing
to such an extent that it was impossible to decipher any but a few
disconnected words, which gave no clue. On a page further along on
the blotter, however, he saw what appeared to be the impression of an
address. He held it up to the glass and gave a whistle of delight. The
words could be plainly deciphered here:

                      "MR. LEO PERNBURG,
                      "FRANKFURT AM MAIN,
                      "MAINZER LANDSTRASSE."

and above the name was a smear which, after a little study, could be
deciphered as the written word "Registered."

With this page of the blotter carefully tucked away in his pocketbook,
Muller hurried to the post office, arriving just at closing hour. He
made himself known at once to the postmaster, and asked to be shown
the records of registered letters sent on a certain date. Here he found
scheduled a letter addressed to Mr. Leo Pernburg, Frankfurt am Main,
sent by John Siders, G--, Josef Street 7.

Muller then hastened to the telegraph office and despatched a lengthy
telegram to the postal authorities in Frankfurt am Main. When the answer
came to him next morning, he packed his grip and took the first express
train leaving G--. He first made a short visit, however, to Albert
Graumann's cell in the prison. Muller was much too kind-hearted not to
relieve the anxiety of this man, to whom such mental strain might easily
prove fatal. He told Graumann that he was going in search of evidence
which might throw light on the death of Siders, and comforted the
prisoner with the assurance that he, Muller, believed Graumann innocent,
and believed also that within a day or two he would return to G---- with
proofs that his belief was the right one.

Three days later Muller returned to Grunau and went at once to the
Graumann home. It was quite late when he arrived, but he had already
notified Miss Roemer by telegram as to his coming, with a request that
she should be ready to see him. He found her waiting for him, pale and
anxious-eyed, when he arrived. "I have been to Frankfurt am Main," he
said, "and I have seen Mr. Pernburg--"

"Yes, yes, that is the name; now I remember," interrupted the girl
eagerly. "That is the name of John's friend there."

"I have seen Mr. Pernburg and he gave me this letter." Muller laid a
thick envelope on the girl's lap.

She looked down at it, her eyes widening as if she had seen a ghost.
"That--that is John's writing," she exclaimed in a hoarse whisper.
"Where did it come from?"

"Pernburg gave it to me. The day before his death John Siders sent him
this letter, requesting that Pernburg forward it to you before a certain
date. When I explained the circumstances to Mr. Pernburg, he gave me the
letter at once. I feel that this paper holds the clue to the mystery.
Will you open it?"

With trembling hands the girl tore open the envelope. It enclosed still
another sealed envelope, without an address. But there was a sheet of
paper around this letter, on which was written the following:


My beloved Eleonore:

Before you read what I have to say to you here I want you to promise
me, in memory of our love and by your hope of future salvation, that you
will do what I ask you to do.

I ask you to give the enclosed letter, although it is addressed to you,
to the Judge who will preside in the trial against Graumann. The letter
is written to you and will be given back to you. For you, the beloved of
my soul, you are the only human being with whom I can still communicate,
to whom I can still express my wishes. But you must not give the letter
to the Judge until you have assured yourself that the prosecuting
attorney insists upon Graumann's guilt. In case he is acquitted, which I
do not think probable, then open this letter in the presence of Graumann
himself and one or two witnesses. For I wish Graumann, who is innocent,
to be able to prove his innocence.

You will know by this time that I have determined to end my life by my
own hand. Forgive me, beloved. I cannot live on without you--without
the honour of which I was robbed so unjustly.

God bless you.

One who will love you even beyond the grave, Remember your promise. It
was given to the dead.

JOHN.


"Oh, what does it all mean?" asked Eleonora, dropping the letter in her
lap.

"It is as I thought," replied Muller. "John Siders took his own life,
but made every arrangement to have suspicion fall upon Graumann."

"But why? oh, why?"

"It was a terrible revenge. But perhaps--perhaps it was just
retribution. Graumaun would not understand that Siders could have been
suspected of, and imprisoned for, a theft he had not committed. He must
know now that it is quite possible for a man to be in danger of sentence
of death even, for a crime of which he is innocent."

"Oh, my God! It is terrible." The girl's head fell across her folded
arms on the table. Deep shuddering sobs shook her frame.

Muller waited quietly until the first shock had passed. Finally her sobs
died away and she raised her head again. "What am I to do?" she asked.

"You must open this letter to-morrow in the presence of the Police
Commissioner and Graumaun."

"But this promise? This promise that he asks of me--that I should wait
until the trial?"

"You have not given this promise. Would you take it upon yourself to
endanger your guardian's life still more? Every further day spent in his
prison, in this anxiety, might be fatal."

"But this promise? The promise demanded of me by the man to whom I had
given my love? Is it not my duty to keep it?"

Muller rose from his chair. His slight figure seemed to grow taller,
and the gentleness in his voice gave way to a commanding tone of firm
decision.

"Our duty is to the living, not to the dead. The dead have no right to
drag down others after them. Believe me, Miss Roemer, the purpose
that was in your betrothed's mind when he ended his own life, has been
fulfilled. Albert Graumann knows now what are the feelings of a man
who bears the prison stigma unjustly. He will never again judge his
fellow-men as harshly as he has done until now. His soul has been
purged in these terrible days; have you the right to endanger his life
needlessly?"

"Oh, I do not know! I do not know what to do."

"I have no choice," said Muller firmly. "It is my duty to make known
the fact to the Police Commissioner that there is such a letter in
existence. The Police Commissioner will then have to follow his duty in
demanding the letter from you. Mr. Pernburg, Sider's friend, saw this
argument at once. Although he also had a letter from the dead man,
asking him to send the enclosure to you, registered, on a certain date,
he knew that it was his duty to give all the papers to the authorities.
Would it not be better for you to give them up of your own free will?"
Muller took a step nearer the girl and whispered: "And would it not be
a noble revenge on your part? You would be indeed returning good for
evil."

Eleonora clasped her hands and her lips moved as if in silent prayer.
Then she rose slowly and held out the letters to Muller. "Do what you
will with them," she said. "My strength is at an end."

The next day, in the presence of Commissioner Lange and of the accused
Albert Graumann, Muller opened the letter which he had received from
Miss Roemer and read it aloud. The girl herself, by her own request, was
not present. Both Muller and Graumann understood that the strain of this
message from the dead would be too much for her to bear. This was the
letter:


G---- September 21st.

My beloved:

When you put this letter in the hands of the Judge, I will have found in
death the peace that I could never find on earth. There was no chance
of happiness for me since I have realised that I love you, that you love
me, and that I must give you up if I am to remain what I have always
been--in spite of everything--a man of honour.

In that hour of disaster and of woe no Frenchman, for all the boasted
chivalry of the race, was at hand to aid or protect the fair lady who had
so long queened it at the Tuileries.

The Austrian ambassador, the Italian minister, the Corsican Pietrio planned
and managed her escape from the palace. She took refuge in the house
of an American, her dentist, Dr. Thomas W.
Evans.

He it was who got her out of Paris and accompanied her to the seacoast,
placing his own carriage at her disposal. She crossed the Channel in the
yacht of an English gentleman.

Thus guarded by aliens, she passed from the land of her queenship to that
of exile.
To-day, in her abode at Chiselhurst, the widow of Napoleon III.
attracts scarcely less of the world's interest and attention than
she did as throned empress and queen of Fashion.He naturally did not know me again.
I, myself, brought the conversation around to a professional subject.
I asked him if it were not possible that circumstantial evidence could
lie; if the entire past, the reputation of the accused would not be a
factor in his favour. The Judge denied it. It was his opinion, beyond a
doubt, that circumstantial evidence was sufficient to convict anyone.

My soul rose within me. This infallibility, this legal arrogance,
aroused my blood. "That man should have a lesson!" I said to myself.

But I had forgotten it all--all my anger, all my hatred and bitterness,
when I met you. I dare not trust myself to think of you too much, now
that everything is arranged for the one last step. It takes all my
control to keep my decision unwavering while I sit here and tell you how
much your love, your great tenderness, your sweet trust in me, meant to
me.

Let me talk rather of Albert Graumann. Ladies who make a profession of
pleasing become irresistibly alluring.
Actresses have abundant hair, fine teeth, all physical beauty, because
they train themselves to beauty, though not originally better endowed
than most others.I still cannot believe that this was Graumann's opinion. I
am forced to think that it was an excuse only on his part, an excuse to
keep us apart, an excuse to keep you for himself.

You are lost to me now. There is nothing more in life for me. If the
injustice of mankind has stained my honour beyond repair, has robbed me
of every chance of happiness at any time and in any place, then I die
easily, beloved, for there is little charm in such a life as would be
mine after this.

But I do not wish to die quite in vain. There are two men who have
touched my life, who need the lesson my death can teach them. These men
are Albert Graumann and the prosecuting attorney Gustav Schmidt, the man
who once condemned me so cruelly. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Hallock's American Club List and Sportsman Glossary. By Charles Hallock.
New York: Forest and Stream Publishing Co.
Shooting Stars, as observed from the "Sixth Column" of the _Times_.
By W. L. Alden. New York: G. P.My
letter, given to the Presiding Judge after the Attorney has made his
speech, will cause him humiliation, will ruin his brilliant arguments
and cast ridicule upon him.

Do not think me hard or revengeful. I do not hate anyone now that death
is so near. But is it inhuman that I should want to teach these two men
a lesson? a lesson which they need, believe me, and it is such a slight
compensation for the torture these last eight years have been to me!

And now I will explain in detail all the circumstances. I have arranged
that Albert Graumann shall come to me on the evening of September 23rd
between 7 and 8 o'clock. Washington was delighted with it after he
had been initiated into the mystery of its consumption. He did not stop
at the white. "What you call--_him_?"
"Asparagus."
"Spalagus--spalagus? Goo-oo-d!"
"Did you never eat asparagus before, Washington?"I will
send this letter this evening to my friend Pernburg in Frankfurt am
Main. In case anything should happen that would render impossible for
me to carry out my plans, I will send Pernburg another letter asking him
not to carry out the instructions of the first.

I can now proceed to tell you what will happen here to-morrow evening,
the 23rd of September.

Albert Graumann will come to me, unknown to his family or friends, as I
have asked him to come. I will so arrange it that the old servant will
see him come in but will not see him go out. My landlady will not be in
my way, for she has already told me that she will spend the night of
the 23rd with her mother, in another part of the city. It is to be a
birthday celebration I believe, so that I can be certain her plans will
not be changed.

Graumann and I will be alone, therefore, with no reliable witnesses
near. I will keep him there for a little while with commonplace
conversation, for I have nothing to say to him. If he moves near the
desk I will upset the inkbottle. The spots on his clothes will be
another evidence against him. I will endeavour to get him to keep my
jewelry which is, as you know, of considerable value. I will tell him
that I am going away for a while and ask him to take charge of it for
me. I, myself, will take him down to the door and let him out, when I
have satisfied myself that the old servant is in bed or at least at the
back of the house. The revolver which shall end my misery is Graumann's
property. I took it from its place without his knowledge.

The 10,000 gulden which I told my landlady were still in the house,
and which would therefore be thought missing after my death, I have
deposited in a bank in Frankfort in your name. He knows then that she
has only looked at Love, and that the thoughtless harmony of his
life is done for him.

"May I see you sometimes?" he cries as she makes a step onward.

"When you will," she replies, going farther along the narrow passage, and
then looking back at him clearly. "I have found you: I am very
content. And if you thought I loved you--Well, Love, you know, was a
blind god, and so must ever be content to look at happiness through
another's eyes."
And now, good-bye to life. People have called me eccentric, they may be
right. This last deed of mine at least, is out of the ordinary. No one
will say now that ended my life in a moment of darkened mind, in a rush
of despair. My brain is perfectly clear, my heart beats calmly, now that
I have arranged everything for my departure from this world of falsehood
and unreality. My last deed shall go to prove to the world how little
actual, apparent facts can be trusted.

The one thing real, the one thing true in all this world of falsehood
was your love and your trust. I thank you for it.

                                                 THEODOR BELLMANN,
                                                 known as
                                                 JOHN SIDERS.

Joseph Muller refuses to take any particular credit for this case. The
letter would have come in time to prevent Graumann's conviction without
his assistance, he says. says Mandarin Number One.--"Dog of a son have I
none, but my cat of a daughter is well," says Mandarin Number Two.

To set up for an invariably agreeable person you must adjust yourself
to the peculiarities of others. You must talk of books to
bookworms:
you must be musical with musicians, scientific with savants.

Furthermore, you have to make believe all the time that you are
enjoying yourself. The belle is a lady who has an air of enjoying
herself with whomsoever she talks.And he told Muller himself
that the few days of life which might remain to him were a gift to him
from the detective. He felt that his weak heart would not have stood the
strain and the disgrace of an open trial, even if that trial ended in
acquittal. Two months later he was found dead in his bed, a calm smile
on his lips.

Before he died he had learned that it was the undaunted courage of his
timid little old aunt that had brought Muller to take charge of the case
and to free her beloved nephew from the dreaded prison. And the last
days that these two passed together were very happy.

But as aforesaid, Muller refuses to have this case included in the
list of his successes. He did not change the ultimate result, he merely
anticipated it, he says.