In any case, if the State deprives them of their property, along with
that of other ecclesiastical bodies, it is not the State that ought
to claim the spoil.--The State is not their heir, and their land,
furniture, and rentals are in their very nature devoted to a special
purpose, although they have no designated proprietor. This treasure,
which consists of the accumulations of fourteen centuries, has been
formed, increased, and preserved, in view of a certain object. The
millions of generous, repentant, or devout souls who have made a gift
of it, or have managed it, did so with a certain intention. It was their
desire to ensure education, beneficence, and religion, and nothing else.
Their legitimate intentions should not be frustrated: the dead have
rights in society as well as the living, for it is the dead who have
made the society which the living enjoy, and we receive their heritage
only on the condition of executing their testamentary act.--Should
this be of ancient date, it is undoubtedly necessary to make a liberal
interpretation of it; to supplement its scanty provisions, and to take
new circumstances into consideration. The requirements for which it
provided have often disappeared; for instance, after the destruction of
the Barbary pirates, there were no more Christians to be ransomed; and
only by transferring an endowment can it be perpetuated.--But if, in the
original institution, several accessory and special clauses have become
antiquated, there remains the one important, general intention, which
manifestly continues imperative and permanent, that of providing for a
distinct service, either of charity, of worship, or of instruction. Let
the administrators be changed, if necessary, also the apportionment of
the legacy bequeathed, but do not divert any of it to services of an
alien character; it is inapplicable to any but that purpose or to others
strictly analogous. The four milliards of investment in real property,
the two hundred millions of ecclesiastical income, form for it an
express and special endowment. This is not a pile of gold abandoned on
the highway, which the exchequer can appropriate or assign to those who
live by the roadside. Authentic titles to it exist, which, declaring its
origin, fix its destination, and your business is simply to see that
it reaches its destination. Such was the principle under the ancient
régime, in spite of grave abuses, and under forced exactions. When the
ecclesiastical commission suppressed an ecclesiastical order, it was not
for the purpose of making its possessions over to the public treasury,
but to apply these to seminaries, schools, and hospitals. In 1789, the
revenues of Saint-Denis supported Saint-Cyr; those of Saint Germain went
to the Economats, and the Government, although absolute and needy, was
sufficiently honest to adjust that confiscation was robbery. The greater
our power, the greater the obligation to be just, and honesty always
proves in the end to be the best policy.--It is, therefore, both just
and useful that the Church, as in England and in America, that superior
education, as in England and in Germany, that special instruction, as in
America, and that diverse endowments for public assistance and utility,
should be unreservedly secured in the maintenance of their heritage. The
State, as testamentary executor of this inheritance, strangely abuses
its mandate when it pockets the bequest in order to choke the deficit of
its own treasury, risking it in bad speculations, and swallowing it
up in its own bankruptcy, until of this vast treasure, which has been
heaped up for generations for the benefit of children, the infirm,
the sick and the poor, not enough is left to pay the salary of a
school-mistress, the wages of a parish nurse, or for a bowl of broth in
a hospital.[2248]

The Assembly remains deaf to all these arguments, and that which makes
its refuse to listen is not financial distress.--The Archbishop of Aix,
M. de Boisjelin, offered, in the name of the clergy, to liquidate
at once the debt of three hundred millions, which was urgent, by a
mortgage-loan of four hundred millions on the ecclesiastical property,
which was a very good expedient; for at this time the credit of the
clergy is the only substantial one. It generally borrows at less than
five per cent., and more money has always been offered to it than it
wanted, whilst the State borrows at ten per cent., and, at this moment,
there are no lenders.--But, to our new revolutionary statesmen,
the cost-benefit of a service is of much less consequence than the
application of a principle. In conformity with the Social Contract they
establish the maxim that in the State there is no need of corporate
bodies: they acknowledge nothing but, on the one hand, the State, the
depositary of all public powers, and, on the other hand, a myriad of
solitary individuals. Special associations, specific groups, collateral
corporations are not wanted, even to fulfill functions which the State
is incapable of fulfilling. "As soon as one enters a corporation," says
and orator, "one must love it as one loves a family;"[2249] whereas
the affections and obedience are all to be monopolized by the State.
Moreover, on entering into an order a man receives special aid and
comfort from it, and whatever distinguishes one man from another, is
opposed to civil equality. Hence, if men are to remain equal and become
citizens they must be deprived of every rallying point that might
compete with that of the State, and give to some an advantage over
others. All natural or acquired ties, consequently, which bound men
together through geographical position, through climate, history,
pursuits, and trade, are sundered. The old provinces, the old provincial
governments, the old municipal administrations, parliaments, guilds
and masterships, all are suppressed. The groups which spring up most
naturally, those which arise through a community of interests, are
all dispersed, and the broadest, most express, and most positive
interdictions are promulgated against their revival under any pretext
whatever.[2250] France is cut up into geometrical sections like a
chess-board, and, within these improvised limits, which are destined
for a long time to remain artificial, nothing is allowed to subsist
but isolated individuals in juxtaposition. There is no desire to spare
organized bodies where the cohesion is great, and least of all that
of the clergy. "Special associations," says Mirabeau,[2251] "in the
community at large, break up the unity of its principles and destroy
the equilibrium of its forces. Large political bodies in a State are
dangerous through the strength which results from their coalition and
the resistance which is born out of their interests." ii--That of the
clergy, besides, is inherently bad,[2252] because "its system is in
constant antagonism to the rights of man." An institution in which a
vow of obedience is necessary is "incompatible" with the constitution.
Congregations "subject to independent chiefs are out of the social pale
and incompatible with public spirit." As to the right of society over
these, and also over the Church, this is not doubtful. "Corporate bodies
exist only through society, and, in destroying them, society merely
takes back the life she has imparted to them." "They are simply
instruments fabricated by the law.[2253] What does the workman do
when the tool he works with no longer suits him? He breaks or alters
it."--This primary sophism being admitted the conclusion is plain. Since
corporate bodies are abolished they no longer exist, and since they no
longer exist, they cannot again become proprietors.

"Your aim was to destroy ecclesiastical orders,[2254] because their
destruction was essential to the safety of the State. If the clergy
preserve their property, the clerical order is not destroyed: you
necessarily leave it the right of assembling; you sanction its
independence." In no case must ecclesiastics hold possessions. "If they
are proprietors they are independent, and if they are independent they
will associate this independence with the exercise of their functions."
The clergy, cost what it will, must be in the hands of the State, as
simple functionaries and supported by its subsidies. It would be too
dangerous for a nation, "to admit in its bosom as proprietors a large
body of men to whom so many sources of credit already give so great
power. As religion is the property of all, its ministers, through this
fact alone, should be in the pay of the nation;" they are essentially
"officers of morality and instruction," and "salaried" like judges and
professors. Let us fetch them back to this condition of things, which
is the only one compatible with the rights of man, and ordain that
"the clergy, as well as all corporations and bodies with power of
inheritance, are now, and shall be for ever incapable of holding any
personal or landed estate."[2255]

Who, now, is the legitimate heir of all these vacated possessions?
Through another sophism, the State, at once judge and party in the
cause, assigns them to the State:

"The founders presented them to the Church, that is to say, to the
nation."[2256] "Since the nation has permitted their possession by
the clergy, she may re-demand that which is possessed only through her
authorization." "The principle must be maintained that every nation is
solely and veritably proprietor of the possessions of its clergy."

This principle, it must be noted, as it is laid down, involves the
destruction of ecclesiastical and lay corporations, along with the
confiscation of all their possessions, and soon we shall see appearing
on the horizon the final and complete decree[2257] by which the
Legislative Assembly,

"considering that a State truly free should not suffer any corporation
within its bosom, not even those which, devoted to public instruction,
deserve well of the country," not even those "which are solely devoted
to the service of the hospitals-and the relief of the sick," suppresses
all congregations, all associations of men or of women, lay or
ecclesiastical, all endowments for pious, charitable, and missionary
purposes, all houses of education, all seminaries and colleges, and
those of the Sorbonne and Navarre. Add to these the last sweep of the
broom: under the Legislative Assembly the division of all communal
property, except woods: under the Convention, the abolition of all
literary societies, academies of science and of literature, the
confiscation of all their property, their libraries, museums, and
botanical gardens; the confiscation of all communal possessions
not previously divided; and the confiscation of all the property of
hospitals and other philanthropic establishments.[2258]--The abstract
principle, proclaimed by the Constituent Assembly, reveals, by degrees,
its exterminating virtues. France now, owing to it, contains nothing but
dispersed, powerless, ephemeral individuals, and confronting them,
the State, the sole, the only permanent body that has devoured all
the others, a veritable Colossus, alone erect in the midst of these
insignificant dwarfs.

Substituted for the others, it is henceforth to perform their duties,
and spend the money well which they have expended badly.--In the first
place, it abolishes tithes, not gradually and by means of a process of
redemption, as in England, but at one stroke, and with no indemnity,
on the ground that the tax, being an abusive, illegitimate impost, a
private tax levied by individuals in cowl and cassock on others in
smock frocks, is a vexatious usurpation, and resembles the feudal
dues. It is a radical operation, and in conformity with principle.
Unfortunately, the puerility of the thing is so gross as to defeat its
own object. In effect, since the days of Charlemagne, all the estates
in the country which have been sold and resold over and over again
have always paid tithes, and have never been purchased except with this
charge upon them, which amounts to about one-seventh of the net revenue
of the country. Take off this tax and one-seventh is added to the
income of the proprietor, and, consequently, a seventh to his capital. A
present is made to him of one hundred francs if his land is worth seven
hundred-francs, and of one thousand if it is worth seven thousand,
of ten thousand if it is worth seventy thousand, and of one hundred
thousand if it is worth seven hundred thousand. Some people gain six
hundred thousand francs by this act, and thirty thousand francs in
Income.[2259] Through this gratuitous and unexpected gift, one hundred
and twenty-three millions of revenue, and two milliards and a half of
capital, is divided among the holders of real estate in France, and in
a manner so ingenious that the rich receive the most. Such is the effect
of abstract principles. To afford a relief of thirty millions a year
to the peasants in wooden shoes, an assembly of democrats adds thirty
millions a year to the revenue of wealthy bourgeois and thirty millions
a year to opulent nobles. The first part of this operation moreover, is
but another burden to the State; for, in taking off the load from
the holders of real property, it has encumbered itself, the State
henceforth, without pocketing a penny, being obliged to defray the
expenses of worship in their place.--As to the second part of the
operation, which consists in the confiscation of four milliards of real
estate, it proves, after all, to be ruinous, although promising to
be lucrative. It makes the same impression on our statesmen that the
inheritance of a great estate makes on a needy and fanciful upstart.
Regarding it as a bottomless well of gold, he draws upon it without
stint and strives to realize all his fancies; as he can afford to pay
for it all, he is free to smash it all. It is thus that the Assembly
suppresses and compensates magisterial offices to the amount of four
hundred and fifty millions; financial securities and obligations to the
amount of three hundred and twenty-one millions; the household charges
of the King, Queen, and princes, fifty-two millions; military services
and encumbrances, thirty-five millions; enfeoffed tithes, one hundred
millions, and so on.[2260] "In the month of May, 1789," says Necker,
"the re-establishment of order in the finances were mere child's-play."
At the end of a year, by dint of involving itself in debt, by increasing
its expenses, and by abolishing or abandoning its income, the State
lives now on the paper-currency it issues, eats up its capital, and
rapidly marches onward to bankruptcy. Never was such a vast inheritance
so quickly reduced to nothing, and to less than nothing.

Meanwhile, we can demonstrate, from the first few months, what use the
administrators will be able to make of it, and the manner in which
they will endow the service to which it binds them.--No portion of this
confiscated property is reserved for the maintenance of public worship,
or to keep up the hospitals, asylums, and schools. Not only do all
obligations and all productive real property find their way into the
great national crucible to be converted into assignats[2261], but a
number of special buildings, all monastic real estate and a portion
of the ecclesiastical real estate, diverted from its natural course,
becomes swallowed up in the same gulf. At Besançon,[2262] three churches
out of eight, with their land and treasure, the funds of the chapter,
all the money of the monastic churches, the sacred vessels, shrines,
crosses, reliquaries, votive offerings, ivories, statues, pictures,
tapestry, sacerdotal dresses and ornaments, plate, jewels and precious
furniture, libraries, railings, bells, masterpieces of art and of piety,
all are broken up and melted in the Mint, or sold by auction for almost
nothing. This is the way in which the intentions of the founders and
donors are carried out.--How are so many communities, which are deprived
of their rentals, to support their schools, hospices, and asylums? Even
after the decree[2263] which, exceptionally and provisionally, orders
the whole of their revenue to be accounted for to them, will it be paid
over now that it is collected by a local administration whose coffers
are always empty, and whose intentions are almost always hostile? Every
establishment for benevolent and educational purposes is evidently
sinking, now that the special streams which nourished them run into and
are lost in the dry bed of the public treasury.[2264] Already, in 1790,
there are no funds with which to pay the monks and nuns their small
pensions for their maintenance. In Franche-Comté the Capuchins of Baume
have no bread, and, to live, they are obliged to re-sell, with the
consent of the district, a portion of the stores of their monastery
which had been confiscated. The Ursuline nuns of Ornans live on the
means furnished them by private individuals in order to keep up the only
school which the town possesses. The Bernardine nuns of Pontarlier are
reduced to the lowest stage of want: "We are satisfied," the district
reports, "that they have nothing to put into their mouths. We have
to contribute something every day amongst ourselves to keep them
from starving."[2265] Only too thankful are they when the local
administration gives them something to eat, or allows others to give
them something. In many places it strives to famish them, or takes
delight in annoying them. In March, 1791, the department of Doubs, in
spite of the entreaties of the district, reduces the pension of the
Visitant nuns to one hundred and one livres for the choristers, and
fifty for the lay-sisters. Two months before this, the municipality of
Besançon, putting its own interpretation on the decree which allowed
nuns to dress as they pleased, enjoins them all, including even the
sisters of charity, to abandon their old costume, which few among them
had the means of replacing.--Helplessness, indifference, or malevolence,
such are the various dispositions which are encountered among the new
authorities whose duty it is to support and protect them. To let loose
persecution there is now only needed a decree which puts the civil power
in conflict with religious convictions. That decree is promulgated,
and, on the 12th of July, 1790, the Assembly establishes the civil
constitution of the clergy.

Notwithstanding the confiscation of ecclesiastical property, and
the dispersion of the monastic communities, the main body of the
ecclesiastical corps remains intact: seventy thousand priests
ranged under the bishops, with the Pope in the center as the
commander-in-chief. There is no corporation more solid, more
incompatible, or more attacked. For, against it are opposed implacable
hatreds and fixed opinions: the Gallicanism of the jurists who, from
St. Louis downwards, are the adversaries of ecclesiastical power; the
doctrine of the Jansenists who, since Louis XIII., desire to bring back
the Church to its primitive form; and the theory of the philosophers
who, for sixty years, have considered Christianity as a mistake and
Catholicism as a scourge. At the very least the institution of a clergy
in Catholicism is condemned, and they think that they are moderate if
they respect the rest.

"WE MIGHT CHANGE THE RELIGION,"

say the deputies in the tribune.[2266] Now, the decree affects
neither dogma nor worship; it is confined to a revision of matters of
discipline, and on this particular domain which is claimed for the
civil power, it is pretended that demolition and re-construction may
be effected at discretion without the concurrence of the ecclesiastical
power.

Here there is an abuse of power, for an ecclesiastical as well as civil
society has the right to choose its own form, its own hierarchy, its own
government.--On this point, every argument that can be advanced in favor
of the former can be repeated in favor of the latter, and the moment one
becomes legitimate the other becomes legitimate also. The justification
for a civil or of a religious community or society may be the
performance of a long series of services which, for centuries, it has
rendered to its members, the zeal and success with which it discharges
its functions, the feelings of gratitude they entertain for it, the
importance they attribute to its offices, the need they have of it, and
their attachment to it, the conviction imprinted in their minds that
without it they would be deprived of a benefit upon which they set more
store than upon any other. This benefit, in a civil society, is the
security of persons and property. In the religious society it is
the eternal salvation of the soul. iii In all other particulars the
resemblance is complete, and the titles of the Church are as good as
those of the State. Hence, if it be just for one to be sovereign and
free on its own domain, it is just for the other to be equally sovereign
and free, If the Church encroaches when it assumes to regulate the
constitution of the State, then the State also encroaches when it
pretends to regulate the constitution of the Church. If the former
claims the respect of the latter on its domain, the latter must show
equal respect for the former on its ground. The boundary-line between
the two territories is, undoubtedly, not clearly defined and frequent
contests arise between the two. Sometimes these may be forestalled or
terminated by each shutting itself up within a wall of separation, and
by their remaining as much as possible indifferent to each other, as
is the case in America. At another, they may, by a carefully considered
contract,[2267] each accord to the other specific rights on the
intermediate zone, and both exercise their divided authority on that
zone, which is the case in France. In both cases, however, the two
powers, like the two societies, must remain distinct. It is necessary
for each of them that the other should be an equal, and not a
subordinate to which it prescribes conditions. Whatever the civil system
may be, whether monarchical or republican, oligarchic or democratic, the
Church abuses its credit when it condemns or attacks it. Whatever may be
the ecclesiastical system, whether papal, Episcopalian, Presbyterian, or
congregational, the State abuses its strength when, without the assent
of the faithful, it abolishes their systems or imposes a new one upon
them. Not only does it violate right, but its violence, most frequently,
is fruitless. It may strike as it will, the root of the tree is beyond
its reach, and, in the unjust war which it wages against an institution
as vital as itself, it often ends in getting the worst of it.

Unfortunately, the Assembly, in this as in other matters, being
preoccupied with principles, fails to look at practical facts; and,
aiming to remove only the dead bark, it injures the living trunk.--For
many centuries, and especially since the Council of Trent, the vigorous
element of Catholicism is much less religion itself than the Church.
Theology has retired into the background, while discipline has come
to the front. Believers who, according to Church law, are required to
regard spiritual authority as dogma, in fact attach their faith to the
spiritual authority much more than to the dogma.--

