Produced by Jeff Kaylin and Andrew Sly


Jane Field

A Novel

By

Mary E. Wilkins

  Author of "A Humble Romance, and other stories"
  "A New England Nun, and other stories"
  "Young Lucretia, and other stories"

Illustrated

New York

Harper & Brothers Publishers


Chapter I


Amanda Pratt's cottage-house was raised upon two banks above the
road-level. Angl. Scot._ at Edinburgh. Having enlisted himself in
the pay of the booksellers, among other works, I suspect, he condescended
to practise some literary impositions; for he has reprinted Father
Parsons famous libel against the Earl of Leicester, under the title
of _Secret Memoirs of Robert Dudley, E. of L._, 1706, with a preface
pretending it was printed from an old MS."

The same instructive writer adds:

"Drake was a lover of literature; he left behind him a version of
Herodotus, and a system of anatomy, once the most popular and
curious of its kind.

After all this turmoil of his literary life, neither his masked lady
nor the flaws in his indictments availed him; government brought
a writ of error, severely prosecuted him; and abandoned, as usual,
by those for whom he had annihilated a genius which deserved a
better fate, his perturbed spirit broke out into a fever, and he
died raving against cruel persecutors, and patrons not much more
humane."

Another book before me, and one which shared the fate of Drake's in
Edinburgh, is _The Superiority and Direct Dominion of the Imperial
Crown of England over the Crown and Kingdom of Scotland, the true
Foundation of a compleat Union reasserted_; 4to. London, 1705. This
had appeared the year before, but was reproduced to answer the
objections to it from the other side. It was written by William
Attwood, Esq.

If it required a nice discrimination to discover the offence of
Drake, there was no such dubiety about this book, which goes the
whole length of Scottish vassalage; and Mr.

Attwood would lead us to believe that he knocks over the arguments
of Hodges and Anderson[6] for Scottish independence with as much
ease as he would ninepins

.

{348}

Unfortunately these subjects are again forced upon us, and a reference
to some of the books I have cited will enable gentlemen who are curious
upon the point to judge for themselves in the matter of the
present agitation of "Justice to Scotland."
J. O.

[Footnote 6: Jas.

Hodges, a Scotch gentleman, who supported the Independency in a
work entitled _War betwixt the Two Kingdoms considered_, for which,
says Attwood, "he had 4800 Scots Punds given him for nothing but
begging the question, and bullying England with the terror of her
arms."

"An Historical Essay, showing that the Crown of Scotland is
Independent; wherein the gross Errors of a late book, entitled 'The
Superiority and Direct Dominion,' &c., and some other books for
that purpose, are exposed by Jas.

Anderson, A.M., Writer to His Majesty's Signet," Edin. 1705. For
this work Anderson received the thanks of the Scottish parliament,
as well as some pecuniary reward.

(Chalmers' _Life of Ruddiman_.)

Babcock, with grim apology.

There were two curious features about Amanda Pratt's parlor: one was
a gentle monotony of details; the other, a certain savor of the sea.
It was like holding a shell to one's ear to enter Amanda's parlor.
There was a faint suggestion of far-away sandy beaches, the breaking
of waves, and the rush of salt winds. In the centre of the
mantel-shelf stood a stuffed sea-gull; on either side shells were
banked. The fire-place was flanked by great branches of coral, and on
the top of the air-tight stove there stood always in summer-time,
when there was no fire, a superb nautilus shell, like a little pearl
vessel. The corner what-not, too, had its shelves heaped with shells
and coral and choice bits of rainbow lava from volcanic islands.
Between the windows, instead of the conventional mahogany cardtable,
stood one of Indian lacquer, and on it was a little inlaid cabinet
that was brought from over seas. The whole room in this little inland
cottage, far beyond the salt fragrance of the sea, seemed like one of
those marine fossils sometimes found miles from the coast. It
indicated the presence of the sea in the lives of Amanda's race. Her
grandfather had been a seafaring man, and so had her father, until
late in life, when he had married an inland woman, and settled down
among waves of timothy and clover on her paternal acres.

Amanda was like her mother, she had nothing of the sea tastes in her
nature. She was full of loyal conservatism toward the marine
ornaments of her parlor, but she secretly preferred her own braided
rugs, and the popular village fancy-work, in which she was quite
skilful. On each of her chairs was a tidy, and the tidies were all
alike; in the corners of the room were lambrequins, all worked after
the same pattern in red worsted and beads. On one wall hung a group
of pictures framed in cardboard, four little colored prints of
crosses twined with flowers, and they were all alike. "Why didn't you
get them crosses different?" many a neighbor had said to her--these
crosses, with some variation of the entwining foliage, had been very
popular in the rural neighborhood--and Amanda had replied with quick
dignity that she liked them better the way she had them. Amanda
maintained the monotony of her life as fiercely as her fathers had
pursued the sea. She was like a little animal born with a rebound to
its own track, from whence no amount of pushing could keep it long.

Mrs. Babcock glanced sharply around the room as she sewed; she was
anxious to divert Amanda's mind from the mats. "Don't the moths ever
git into that stuffed bird over there?" she asked suddenly,
indicating the gull on the shelf with a side-wise jerk of her head.

"No; I ain't never had a mite of trouble with 'em," replied Amanda.
"I always keep a little piece of camphor tucked under his wing
feathers."

"Well, you're lucky. Mis' Jackson she had a stuffed canary-bird all
eat up with 'em. She had to put him in the stove; couldn't do nothin'
with him. She felt real bad about it. She'd thought a good deal of
the bird when he was alive, an' he was stuffed real handsome, an'
settin' on a little green sprig. She use to keep him on her parlor
shelf; he was jest the right size. It's a pity your bird is quite so
big, ain't it?"

"I s'pose he's jest the way he was made," returned Amanda shortly.

"Of course he is. I ain't findin' no fault with him; all is, I
thought he was kind of big for the shelf; but then birds do perch on
dreadful little places."  Mrs. Babcock, full of persistency in
exposing herself to rebuffs, was very sensitive and easily cowed by
one. "Let me see--he's quite old. Your grandfather bought him, didn't
he?" said she, in a mollifying tone.

Amanda nodded. "He's a good deal older than I am," said she.

"It's queer how some things that ain't of no account really in the
world last, while others that's worth so much more don't," Mrs.
Babcock remarked, meditatively. "Now, there's that bird there,
lookin' jest as nice and handsome, and there's the one that bought
him and brought him home, in his grave out of sight."

"There's a good many queer things in this world," rejoined Amanda,
with a sigh.

"I guess there is," said Mrs. Babcock. "Now you can jest look round
this room, an' see all the things that belonged to your folks that's
dead an' gone, and it seems almost as if they was immortal instead of
them. An' it's goin' to be jest the same way with us; the clothes
that's hangin' up in our closets are goin' to outlast us. Well,
there's one thing about it--this world ain't _our_ abidin'-place."

Mrs. Babcock shook her head resolutely, and began to fold up her
work. She rolled the unbleached cloth into a hard smooth bundle, with
the scissors, thimble, and thread inside, and the needle quilted in.

"You ain't goin'?" said Amanda.

"Yes, I guess I must. I've got to be home by half-past five to get
supper, an' I thought I'd jest look in at Mis' Field's a minute. Do
you s'pose she's to home?"

"I shouldn't wonder if she was. I ain't seen her go out anywhere."

"Well, I dun'no' when I've been in there, an' I dun'no' but she'd
think it was kinder queer if I went right into the house and didn't
go near her."

Amanda arose, letting the mat slide to the floor, and went into the
bedroom to get Mrs. Babcock's bonnet and light shawl.

"I wish you wouldn't be in such a hurry," said she, using the village
formula of hospitality to a departing guest.

"It don't seem to me I've been in much of a hurry. I've stayed here
the whole afternoon."

Suddenly Mrs. Babcock, pinning on her shawl, thrust her face close to
Amanda's. "I want to know if it's true Lois Field is so miserable?"
she whispered.

"Well, I dun'no'. She don't look jest right, but she an' her mother
won't own up but what she's well."

"Goin' the way Mis' Maxwell did, ain't she?"

"I dun'no'. I'm worried about her myself--dreadful worried. Lois is a
nice girl as ever was."

"She ain't give up her school?"

Amanda shook her head.

"I shouldn't think her mother'd have her."

"I s'pose she feels as if she'd got to."  Mrs. Babcock dropped her
voice still lower. "They're real poor, ain't they?"

"I guess they ain't got much."

"I s'pose they hadn't. Well, I hope Lois ain't goin' down. I heard
she looked dreadful. Mis' Jackson she was in yesterday, talkin' about
it. Well, you come over an' see me, Mandy. Bring your sewin' over
some afternoon."

"Well, mebbe I will. I don't go out a great deal, you know."

The two women grimaced to each other in a friendly fashion, then
Amanda shut her door, and Mrs. Babcock pattered softly and heavily
across the little entry, and opened Mrs. Field's door. She pressed
the old brass latch with a slight show of ceremonious hesitancy, but
she never thought of knocking. There was no one in the room, which
had a clean and sparse air. The chairs all stood back against the
walls, and left in the centre a wide extent of faded carpet, full of
shadowy gray scrolls.

cried she;--"the Kite is safe among the boughs; I can see its long
tail hanging down.

But do look here! the Kite has made us a present of five young rooks;
two are fluttering among the golden pippins, and three are hopping
and gaping among the gingerbread-nuts."
James White scarcely looked at the rooks; he said he had more
important business to attend to.

He took off his jacket, and immediately began to climb up
the tree. In less than twenty minutes he succeeded in
bringing down the Kite, with only two small rents in its
left shoulder, and the loss of one wing, all of which he said he
could easily repair.

We took the five young rooks home with us, and had great amusement
in rearing and feeding them, and as soon as they were old enough, we
took them out into their native fields, and let them fly directly under
the tree where they were born.

An Autumn Flood.

"I am going," said Mary's mamma, on another evening, to tell you a
story about Scotland, and about some children who went there by
sea, in a large steam-ship.

Their names were Charlotte, Helen, and Robert, and they went with
their papa and mamma to visit their uncle and aunt. They went in August,
when the weather is fine, and the days are long. They left home in
the evening, for the steamer was to start at ten o'clock at night.

There was a great bustle when they came to the place where the ships
lie in the river Thames. Many people were getting their trunks
and boxes in, and hurrying about.

They liked to see all this bustle, and to see their own trunks
and boxes put in. Then they stepped on board, across a wide,
firm plank, and jumped for joy to find themselves really in the
ship, and going to Scotland.

It was such a large steamer!

They were surprised to see what a length it was. Then they went into
a handsome cabin, called the saloon, beautifully lighted, with a
great many people in it; and after being there a little while they
grew very tired, and their mamma took them to the cabin where they
were to sleep.

When they saw their beds, they all began to laugh. They looked just
like beds made on shelves, one above another. Two were on one side
and two on the other, of a kind of closet.

But they soon crept in, Charlotte and Helen one above another, and
little Robert opposite.

The fourth bed was for their nurse, who was going with them. They were
all soon asleep.

They never knew when the steamer began to go fast down the river
towards the sea.

In the morning when they awoke, first one and then another heard a
constant "thump, thump!

bump, bump!" going on.

This noise was made by the great engine that turned the paddle-wheels,
and moved the ship on. And they felt the ship shaking, and trembling,
and rocking, and then they were surprised to hear that they were already
out of the river Thames, and had got into the salt sea.
They were in a great hurry to be dressed, and when they ran up on
the deck they saw the land on one side of them, and numbers of ships
all round them, with their white sails shining in the sun, for it
was a very fine morning.

They tried to count them, but it was very difficult; Charlotte counted
a hundred, and Helen a hundred and ten. As to little Robert, he was
too delighted to keep steady enough to count, and after trying
once or twice, declared that there must be a thousand.

Very soon they were called to breakfast in the saloon, and sat by
their papa and mamma very happily; but they ran away before they
had finished, to see a town called Yarmouth, by which they passed
so closely that they could see the houses, and bathing machines,
and people.

All the morning they had plenty to look at.
They met other steamers, and fishing-boats, and ships, and saw
different places on the coast. But before dinner-time they had lost
sight of land, and saw nothing all round them but sea, and did
not meet so many ships and boats. Their papa then took them to see
the engine, and the great fires down in the engine-room, and made
them look at the paddle-wheels, that go foaming round and round.

Then came dinner-time, and they were very hungry; and afterwards
they amused themselves with running about on the deck and reading
story books.

Soon after tea they went to bed and fell fast asleep.

Next morning they were glad to see the coast again.

They were passing high cliffs and dark rocks, and they saw many
sea-birds; gulls, with large flapping wings, that gave a strange,
wild cry; and divers--pretty little creatures, that swam, riding
along on the waves, and every now and then dipped down quite under,
and then came up again at a little distance.

On went the great steam-ship, and soon their papa told them that
the land they now saw was Scotland.

Presently they came to some very fine rocks, higher than any they
had seen, and then they passed some rocky islands.

Now they began to see a great many large white birds flying about,
stretching out their long necks, and their papa told them that
these were called Solan geese, and that they had their nests on a
great rock, standing out in the sea, called the Bass Rock.

They soon came in sight of it, and when they passed near it they
could see that its sides were all white with hundreds of these geese
that were sitting there, and great numbers were flying in the air
over it and round it.

When they were able to leave off looking at all this, they saw on
the top of the high cliff opposite to the Bass Rock a large ruined
castle, called Tantallon Castle, which they thought very beautiful.

"Do you remember reading about the Black Douglas in 'Tales of a
Grandfather'?"

asked their papa.

"O, yes," said first one, and then another.

"Well, that was his castle," he replied.

[Illustration]

They looked at Tantallon Castle for a long time, as long as it was
in sight.

Charlotte said it was a great pity it was so ruined, and Robert wished
he could see where the drawbridge used to be.

Now there began to be a great bustle in the ship, for they were
getting near Edinburgh, where they were to land. At last Edinburgh was
in sight. It is the capital city of Scotland, just as London is
of England, and it is very beautiful. They saw it quite plain from
the sea, with hills behind it and on each side of it, of many
forms; some bare and rocky, others clothed with trees.

When they came quite opposite to it, a gun was fired in the ship.

It made such a noise that everybody started, and some of the ladies
screamed.

Charlotte and Helen did not like it; but Robert did very much indeed.

Very soon afterwards they came up to a fine pier, stretching out
into the sea, and there they all landed.

"So now they were in Scotland," said Willie.

They found their uncle's carriage waiting for them, and it took them
to his house in the country, about fifteen miles off.

Well, at this place they were very happy. There was plenty of green
grass to play about upon, and there were large, spreading trees, and
sheep, and cows, and horses, and ponies; and there was a nice garden,
with plenty of fruit and flowers. But what I am going to tell you
most about is a little river that ran along just outside the garden
wall; because this little river was the cause of a curious adventure,
that happened in the month of September, after they had been several
weeks in this pleasant place.

This river was narrow, and rather deep in some places; but in others
it was broader, and very shallow. It was so shallow in dry weather
that you could cross it without wetting your feet, by choosing some
part where there were large stones standing up, and where there was
not much water.

But then you must go steadily.

Charlotte could do it very easily; Helen generally stopped short,
after she had placed her foot on the second stone, and turned back;
but as to Robert, he jumped from stone to stone, and a day hardly
ever passed that he did not go souse into the water, and get quite
wet half up his legs.

The proper way to cross was by a long plank, laid from one bank
to the other, or by a little wooden bridge not far off.

You would hardly think that such a little gentle river as this could
suddenly swell into a foaming flood, and do all manner of mischief.

But so it was.

This river rose, or began to flow, among a range of hills at some
miles distance; and when you are older, you will understand how it
is that rivers that rise among hills or mountains are apt to overflow
when there is much rain.

It happened one day, when all the family, except the children, had
gone out on a visit, that it rained from morning till night, and when
night came it still rained heavily. In the morning, when nurse
went to dress the children, she told them to look out of the window.

Their surprise was great to see the little stream, that they were
used to step across, changed into a wide, rapid, foaming river.

It made such a sound that they could hear it quite plain in their
bed-room.

It no longer looked clear and blue, but was thick, muddy, and of
the color of red clay.

They did not like to see it so; and what was worse it still rained,
and the water rose more and more.

The plank across it had been carried away in the night by the water,
and had gone swimming down the stream.

Before they had done breakfast, they heard that the wooden bridge
was broken down; and now, when they looked out, they saw that the
water had spread half over the meadow on the opposite side. The trees
were standing in it, and looked as if they grew in a lake.

The cows were all collected on a high bank, among some trees, and
were lowing and appearing quite angry and offended at this strange
conduct in the river.

The sheep had gone as far as they could out to the very hedge, to
keep on dry ground.

The ponies had found a high part of the field, that had water all round
it, so that it looked like a green island, and were feeding quite
contentedly.

Now and then they looked up, and shook their manes, as much as to say,
"You can't get at us. It's of no use to want a ride."
At last it stopped raining, and the children were well wrapped up,
and put on good thick shoes, and went out to look at all this nearer.

On their way they met the gardener running down to try to save his
stack of pea-sticks; but he was too late, it was already swimming
away; all his fine stack, that he had piled up ready for spring;
and he had had so many more important things to take care of that
he had not had time to remove it sooner.

Many things now came floating down on the water. Young trees, branches,
parts of railings and fences, broken bridges and planks, all went
hurrying along, and the water foamed, and roared, and surged, and
looked quite fearful.

While they all stood looking on, the gardener still lamenting
over his pea-sticks, they saw something that looked like a large
covered basket come floating along. It chanced that it passed
very near the bank on which they stood, and little Robert cried
out, "Stop it!"

and began to try to reach it with a long pole he had in his hands,
with which he had been pretending to be a ship, and holding this
up for the mast. He could not reach it; but the gardener took
the pole, and after failing once or twice, managed to push and
poke at the basket till he got it so near that the dairy-maid and
nurse reached it with their hands, and pulled it to the bank.

It was only covered with a few arched sticks, over which a white cloth
was fastened.

They all crowded round it to see what it contained.

They lifted up the white cloth. O, wonder and surprise! What did
they see?

"What was it? _What_ did they see?"

cried Mary and Willie both at once.

They saw a pretty little baby fast asleep, and at its feet a cat coiled
up comfortably.

"And was the baby not hurt, mamma?"
No, it was quite safe, and did not awake directly.

Puss awoke and jumped out, and ran off before any one could stop
her.

The gardener said, that the basket, which they now saw to be a cradle,
must have floated away from some cottage in the village just above.

"Some poor woman is perhaps now in great grief about her child," said
he.

[Illustration]

"But we've got it safe," said Charlotte. "We'll take great care of
it, and give it back to her.

Let us take it into a warm room."
As she said this the baby opened its eyes and began to cry. Nurse
lifted it up and tried to quiet it, and they all went in with it,
the children kissing its poor little red arms, and saying all sorts
of soothing things to it.

When they got into the house, nurse asked for some warm whey with a
little sugar in it.

She said that was the best thing for such a little baby; and it sucked
it in, and seemed to like it, and soon began to smile, and crow,
and kick about its feet, and throw about its arms.

The children were quite delighted at this; and now being happy about
the baby they began to think of poor puss; and Robert and Helen went
out to look for her. They found her just outside the house door,
mewing and making a great fuss.

Helen ran away and got a saucer full of milk, and put it down in
the lobby. At this, puss began to walk slowly in, and then ran
up to it and lapped it all up; and then she let Helen take her up,
and carry her into the room where the baby was.

While they were all engaged in this way, they heard sounds of voices
shouting and calling out near the river, and ran to the window to
see what it was.

They saw far out, on the other side of the water, near the edge of
the meadow, five or six men and a woman, and the gardener was
making signs and calling out to them.

"O!" said nurse, "you may be sure that is the poor mother of the baby."

"Let us run out and hold up the baby, to show her it is safe!" cried
Charlotte. "Come quick!

O, how happy she will be!"
Nurse wrapped up the baby in a warm shawl, and out they went.

Helen carried the cat, and little Robert came bustling after them with
the cradle, shouting as loud as he could, "They're all safe!
here they are! look here!"
When the gardener saw them coming, he ran and caught up little
Charlotte in his arms, and nurse gave her the baby, and she held
it up as high as she could.

The poor woman, who was indeed the mother, saw it directly,
and seemed hardly able to bear so much joy, for her husband who was
by her, threw his arm round her as if to prevent her falling down.
She clasped her hands together--then held them out towards her
child--then raised them upwards.

Mary and Willie could not sit still any longer, they both jumped up,
and began to clap their hands and dance for joy.

"Did she come to the house to bring away her baby?" asked Mary.

Yes; she walked about two miles off, to a part of the river where
there was a stone bridge; it was impossible to get across nearer, so
she came in about an hour.

"But did she see that puss was there?"

said Willie.

O, yes; I forgot to tell you that after she had a little recovered
of the first joy of seeing her child safe, nurse held up Helen with
puss in her arms, and Robert climbed up on the stump of a tree, and
held up the cradle as high as he could.

"And then what did they do when the mother came?" said Mary.

She kissed her baby, and cried over it, and held it a long time in
her arms; and her husband, who came also, told them that the flood
had risen so suddenly that it had carried away part of the wall of
their cottage, and swept away everything they had, while he and his
wife were trying to save their stack of wood; and that when they
turned round, at the sound of the rushing water, they found that
the cradle was gone; and then they forgot every thing else, and ran
with several of their neighbors by the side of the river; but never
hoped to find their child alive.

"But it _was_ alive, and safe, and well," said Mary, "with these
kind little girls and little Robert."

And when their uncle and aunt came home they were very kind to the
father and mother.

They had their cottage built up again and furnished, and gave them
help in putting their garden in order, and there always continued
to be kind feeling between them.

As to the baby, it grew up to be a fine strong boy, and its parents
named it Robert, in memory of the little boy who had helped to
save it from the water.

The Little Milk-maid.

There was once a little Milk-maid, who lived at a farm-house. Her name
was Sally. On the summer mornings she used to be up and dressed at
five o'clock. Then she took her bright milk-pail on her head, and
her three-legged stool in her hand, and called her little dog
Trusty, and tripped over the dewy grass to the stile that led to the
field where the cows fed. The wild thyme gave out a sweet scent
as she walked along; and the green leaves glistened in the sun,
for the dew was still on them; and the lark flew up high, and his
song came pouring down over her head.

When she got to the stile, she saw all the four cows quite at the
other side of the field. One was called Dapple, one Brindle, one
Frisky, and one Maggie.

They saw her get over the stile, but never stirred a step towards
her. Dapple looked up for a moment, and then began eating again;
Brindle did not seem to mind her; Maggie was lying down, and
did not move; and Frisky lashed her tail and shook her head, and
went on eating.

"O, this will never do!" said Sally. "Trusty, Trusty! go and bring me
Dapple."

Dapple was brown all over, except a white face and tail. Trusty ran
behind Dapple, and barked two or three times, just to tell her to move
on. And she began to walk slowly and gravely towards Sally.
Then Sally put down her little three-legged stool, and sat down by
Dapple and milked her. When she had done, she gave her a pat,
and said, "Now you may go." Then Dapple began to eat again.

"Now, Trusty," said Sally, "go and bring me Brindle." Brindle was all
white. Trusty ran up to her, and she began to walk on; but when she
had got to the middle of the field, she stopped to eat, and Trusty
was obliged to bark pretty sharply, and tell her it was shameful
of her.

Then she went on and was milked.

Sally next sent Trusty to bring Frisky. She was brown and white,
prettily spotted; but she was sometimes quite naughty when she was
milked, and this time she seemed to mean to be so; for, as soon as
Trusty got up to her, she set off and galloped up to Sally. Then,
just as Sally began to milk her, she walked on, and left her and her
stool behind, and very nearly knocked the pail over besides. So
Sally had to get up, and move stool and pail onwards, and then she
said, "Stand still, Frisky," and stroked and patted her.

So she stood still, and was very good.

"Now, Trusty, bring pretty Maggie," said Sally. Maggie was
black and white, and very gentle and pretty.

She came directly, and stood quite still, and was milked.

Then they were all done.

Sally now lifted the pail, which was quite full, on her head, and carried
it so firmly and steadily, that she had not to put her hand up to
it, not even when she got over the stile, and in this way she walked
along back to the farm.

Then she went into the cool, fresh dairy, and Trusty lay down at the
door. The dairy had a stone shelf all round it, with shallow round
pans ranged along it, all filled with sweet, rich milk, covered
with thick, yellow cream.

Here she took down her pail; and first she filled a large jug with the
new milk for breakfast.
She then poured all the rest into two or three pans, like the others
on the shelf.

Next, she took a flat wooden spoon, and skimmed the cream off several
of the others, and poured it all into a square wooden machine,
called a churn. It had a handle which turned round. She threw in some
salt, and then began to turn the handle round and round, and it
turned a wheel inside, and the wheel beat and splashed the cream
round and round in the churn.

Presently she looked in, and said, "It's not come yet." Then
she turned the handle round again for some time. At last, when
she looked in, there was a large lump of fine fresh butter, and
all about it a thin white liquid, called butter-milk, and all the cream
was gone. She took out the butter, and put it into a bowl of cold
spring water, and made it up into three large rolls with two flat
wooden knives.

Next she cut off three or four slices, made them up into nice little
rounds, and pressed them with a wooden stamp, with a rose-bud
and leaves cut out upon it, and when she took it off, there were the
rose-bud and leaves marked on the butter.

Then Sally poured all the butter-milk, and all the milk from which
she had skimmed the cream, into a clean wooden pail, and stirred
in some barley meal, and carried it off to the pig-sty.

She stood outside the paling of the pigs' little yard, and called,
"Pig--pig--pig!" and out came the pigs from their sty, little and
big, grunting and squeaking and scrambling, and tumbling over
one another.

Then she poured all her pailful into the pigs' trough, and then
they began squeaking and grunting and scrambling more than ever,
and put their long noses in, some of them up to their eyes, and
some got their feet in, and all of them gobbled it up as fast as
they possibly could.

After Sally had fed the pigs, she took out some corn, and went to the
poultry yard, and called, "Chuck--chuck--chuck!" and then the
cocks and hens, and ducks and geese, came running round her, crowing
and clucking, and quacking, and cackling, and the pigeons flew down
and helped to eat, and all of them pecked up the corn, as fast as
they could.

In the afternoon they had boiled potatoes and sopped bread and
vegetables, and curd, too, if Sally had been making whey.

When Sally had done all this, she went back into her room, and
opened the bed curtains; and there was lying a little rosy-cheeked
girl with light curly hair. And when Sally looked at her, she opened
two large blue eyes, and held out her arms, and Sally kissed her,
and said, "Are you ready to get up, little Annie?"

And she said, "Yes." This was Sally's little sister, that her kind
mistress let her have with her to love and take care of.

Then Sally took up little Annie, and got a large brown pan for
her bath, and stood her in it, and brought a jug of fresh cold water
to pour over her.

Little Annie stood very still, but when the water was coming, she held
up her hands and said, "Will it be cold?"
"O, no!" said Sally; "it's a beautiful warm morning." Then she washed
and dressed little Annie, and afterwards they had their breakfast
together in a nice comfortable kitchen. Sally had a good appetite
after having been so busy, and little Annie had a large basin
of boiled bread and milk, and she always gave some to Trusty. This was
the end of the little Milk-maid's morning work.

* * * * * 

THE ROSE-BUD STORIES.

GOING TO THE COTTAGE.

EGGS AND CHICKENS.

THE GOAT AND HER KID.

BERTHA AND THE BIRD.

THE DUCK HOUSE.

MAY DAY AT THE COTTAGE.

ADVENTURE OF A KITE.

A DAY IN THE WOODS.

THE PET LAMB.

TWO DEAR FRIENDS.

LITTLE AMY'S BIRTHDAY.

CHRISTMAS EVE AT THE COTTAGE.

* * * *

*
Folks say Green River ain't very healthy. They say these
low meadow-lands are bad. I worried enough about it after my Abby
died, thinkin' what might have been done. It does seem to me that if
something was done right away, Lois might get up; but there ain't no
use waitin'. I've seen young girls go down; it seems sometimes as if
there wa'n't nothin' more to them than flowers, an' they fade away in
a day. I've been all through it. Mis' Field, you don't mind my
speakin' so, do you? Oh, Mis' Field, don't feel so bad! I'm real
sorry I said anythin'."

Mrs. Field was shaking with great sobs. "I ain't--blamin' you," she
said, brokenly.

Mrs. Green got out her own handkerchief. "Mis' Field, I wouldn't have
spoken a word, but--I felt as if something ought to be done, if there
could be; an'--I thought--so much about my--poor Abby. Lois always
makes me think of her; she's jest about her build; an'--I didn't know
as you--realized."

"I realized enough," returned Mrs. Field, catching her breath as she
walked on.

"Now I hope you don't feel any worse because I spoke as I did," Mrs.
Green said, when they reached the gate of the Pratt house.

"You ain't told me anything I didn't know," replied Mrs. Field.

Mrs. Green felt for one of her distorted hands; she held it a second,
then she dropped it. Mrs. Field let it hang stiffly the while. It was
a fervent demonstration to them, the evidence of unwonted excitement
and the deepest feeling. When Mrs. Field entered her sitting-room,
the first object that met her eyes was Lois' face. She was tilted
back in the rocking-chair, her slender throat was exposed, her lips
were slightly parted, and there was a glassy gleam between her
half-open eyelids. Her mother stood looking at her.

Suddenly Lois opened her eyes wide and sat up. "What are you standing
there looking at me so for, mother?" she said, in her weak, peevish
voice.

"I ain't lookin' at you, child. I've jest come home from meetin'. I
guess you've been asleep."

"I haven't been asleep a minute. I heard you open the outside door."

Mrs. Field's hand verged toward the letter in her pocket. Then she
began untying her bonnet.

Lois arose, and lighted another lamp. "Well, I guess I'll go to bed,"
said she.

"Wait a minute," her mother returned.

Lois paused inquiringly.

"Never mind," her mother said, hastily. "You needn't stop. I can tell
you jest as well to-morrow."

"What was it?"

"Nothin' of any account. Run along."


Chapter II


The next morning Lois had gone to her school and her mother had not
yet shown the letter to her. She went about as usual, doing her
housework slowly and vigorously. Mrs. Field's cleanliness was
proverbial in this cleanly New England neighborhood. It almost
amounted to asceticism; her rooms, when her work was finished, had
the bareness and purity of a nun's cell. There was never any bloom of
dust on Mrs. Field's furniture; there was only the hard, dull glitter
of the wood. Her few chairs and tables looked as if waxed; the paint
was polished in places from her doors and window-casings; her
window-glass gave out green lights like jewels; and all this she did
with infinite pains and slowness, as there was hardly a natural
movement left in her rheumatic hands. But there was in her nature an
element of stern activity that must have its outcome in some
direction, and it took the one that it could find. Jane had used to
take in sewing before her hands were diseased. In her youth she had
learned the trade of a tailoress; when ready-made clothing, even for
children, came into use, she made dresses. Her dresses had been
long-waisted and stiffly boned, with high, straight biases, seemingly
fitted to her own nature instead of her customers' forms; but they
had been strongly and faithfully sewed, and her stitches held fast as
the rivets on a coat of mail. Now she could not sew. She could knit,
and that was all, besides her housework, that she could do.

This morning, while dusting a little triangular what-not that stood
in a corner of her sitting-room, she came across a small box that
held some old photographs. The box was made of a kind of
stucco-work--shells held in place by a bed of putty. Amanda Pratt had
made it and given it to her. Mrs. Field took up this box and dusted
it carefully; then she opened it, and took out the photographs one by
one.

After a while she stopped; she did not take out any more, but she
looked intently at one; then she replaced all but that one, got
painfully up from the low foot-stool where she had been sitting, and
went out of her room across the entry to Amanda's, with the
photograph in her hand.

Amanda sat at her usual window, sewing on her rug. The sunlight came
in, and her shadow, set in a bright square, wavered on the floor; the
clock out in the kitchen ticked. Amanda looked up when Mrs. Field
entered. "Oh, it's you?" said she. "I wondered who was comin'. Set
down, won't you?"

Mrs. Field went over to Amanda and held out the photograph. "I want
to see if you can tell me who this is."

Amanda took the photograph and held it toward the light. She
compressed her lips and wrinkled her forehead. "Why, it's you, of
course--ain't it?"

Mrs. Field made no reply; she stood looking at her.

"Why, ain't it you?" Amanda asked, looking from the picture to her in
a bewildered way.

"No; it's Esther."

"Esther?"

"Yes, it's Esther."

"Well, I declare! When was it took?"

"About ten years ago, when she was in Elliot."

"Well, all I've got to say is, if anybody had asked me, I'd have said
it was took for you yesterday. Why, Mis' Field, what's the matter?"

"There ain't anything the matter."

"Why, you look dreadfully."

Mrs. Field's face was pale, and there was a curious look about her
whole figure. It seemed as if shrinking from something, twisting
itself rigidly, as a fossil tree might shrink in a wind that could
move it.

"I feel well 'nough," said she. "I guess it's the light."

"Well, mebbe 'tis," replied Amanda, still looking anxiously at her.
"Of course you know if you feel well, but you do look dreadful white
to me. Don't you want some water, or a swaller of cold tea?"

"No, I don't want a single thing; I'm well enough."  Mrs. Field's
tone was almost surly. She held out her hand for the photograph. "I
must be goin'," she continued; "I ain't got my dustin' done. I jest
come across this, an' I thought I'd show it to you, an' see what you
said."

"Well, I shouldn't have dreamed but what it was yours; but then you
an' your sister did look jest alike. I never could tell you apart
when you first came here."

"Folks always said we looked alike. We always used to be took for
each other when we was girls, an' I think we looked full as much
alike after our hair begun to turn. Mine was a little lighter than
hers, an' that made some difference betwixt us before. It didn't show
when we was both gray."

"I shouldn't have thought 'twould. Well, I must say, I shouldn't
dream but what that picture was meant for you."

Mrs. Field took her way out of the room.

"How's Lois this mornin'?" Amanda called after her.

"About the same, I guess."

"I saw her goin' out of the yard this mornin', an' I thought she
walked dreadful weak."

"I guess she don't walk any too strong."

When Mrs. Field was in her own room she stowed away the photograph in
the shell box; then she got a little broom and brushed the shell-work
carefully; she thought it looked dusty in spite of her rubbing.

When the dusting was done it was time for her to get her dinner
ready. Indeed, there was not much leisure for Mrs. Field all day. She
seldom sat down for long at a time. From morning until night she kept
up her stiff resolute march about her house.

At half-past twelve she had the dinner on the table, but Lois did not
come. Her mother went into the sitting-room, sat down beside a
window, and watched. The town clock struck one. Mrs. Field went
outdoors and stood by the front gate, looking down the road. She saw
a girl coming in the distance with a flutter of light skirts, and she
exclaimed with gladness, "There she is!"  The girl drew nearer, and
she saw it was Ida Starr in a dress that looked like Lois'.

The girl stopped when she saw Mrs. Field at the gate. "Good-morning,"
said she.

"Good-mornin', Ida."

"It's a beautiful day."

Mrs. Field did not reply; she gazed past her down the road, her face
all one pale frown.

The girl looked curiously at her. "I hope Lois is pretty well this
morning?" she said, in her amiable voice.

Mrs. Field responded with a harsh outburst that fairly made her start
back.

"No," she cried out, "she ain't well; she's sick. She wa'n't fit to
go to school. She couldn't hardly crawl out of the yard. She ain't
got home, an' I'm terrible worried. I dun'no' but she's fell down."

"Maybe she just thought she wouldn't come home."

"No; that ain't it. She never did such a thing as that without saying
something about it; she'd know I'd worry."

Mrs. Field craned her neck farther over the gate, and peered down the
road. Beside the gate stood two tall bushes, all white with flowers
that grew in long white racemes, and they framed her distressed face.

"Look here, Mrs. Field," said the girl, "I'll tell you what I'll do.
The school-house isn't much beyond my house; I'll just run over there
and see if there's anything the matter; then I'll come back right
off, and let you know."

"Oh, will you?"

"Of course I will. Now don't you worry, Mrs. Field; I don't believe
it's anything."

The girl nodded back at her with her pretty smile; then she sped away
with a light tilting motion. Mrs. Field stood a few minutes longer,
then she went up the steps into the house. She opened Amanda Pratt's
door instead of her own, and went through the sitting-room to the
kitchen, from whence she could hear the clink of dishes.

"Lois ain't got home yet," said she, standing in the doorway.

Amanda set down the dish she was wiping. "Mis' Field, what do you
mean?"

"What I say."

"Ain't she got home yet?"

"No, she ain't."

"Why, it's half-past one o'clock! She ain't comin'; it's time for
school to begin. Look here, Mis' Field, I guess she felt kind of
tired, an' thought she wouldn't come."

Mrs. Field shook her head with a sort of remorselessness toward all
comfort. "She's fell down."

"Oh, Mis' Field! you don't s'pose so?"

"The Starr girl's gone to find out."

Mrs. Field turned to go.

"Hadn't you better stay here till she comes?" asked Amanda,
anxiously.

"No; I must go home."  Suddenly Mrs. Field looked fiercely around.
"I'll tell you what 'tis, Mandy Pratt, an' you mark my words! I ain't
goin' to stan' this kind of work much longer! I ain't goin' to see
all the child I've got in the world murdered; for that's what it
is--it's murder!"

Mrs. Field went through the sitting-room with a stiff rush, and
Amanda followed her.

"Oh, Mis' Field, don't take on so--don't!" she kept saying.

Mrs. Field went through the house into her own kitchen. The little
white-laid table stood against the wall; the tea-kettle steamed and
rocked on the stove; the room was full of savory odors. Mrs. Field
set the tea-kettle back where it would not boil so hard. These little
household duties had become to her almost as involuntary as the tick
of her own pulses. No matter what hours of agony they told off, the
pulses ticked; and in every stress of life she would set the
tea-kettle back if it were necessary. Amanda stood in the door,
trembling. All at once there was a swift roll of wheels in the yard
past the window. "Somebody's come!" gasped Amanda. Mrs. Field rushed
to the back door, and Amanda after her. There was a buggy drawn up
close to the step, and a man was trying to lift Lois out.

Mrs. Field burst out in a great wail. "Oh, Lois! Lois! She's
dead--she's dead!"

"No, she ain't dead," replied the man, in a drawling, jocular tone.
"She's worth a dozen dead ones--ain't you, Lois? I found her layin'
down side of the road kind of tuckered out, that's all, and I thought
I'd give her a lift. Don't you be scared, Mis' Field. Now, Lois, you
jest rest all your heft on me."

Lois' pale face and little reaching hands appeared around the wing of
the buggy. Amanda ran around to the horse's head. He did not offer to
start; but she stood there, and said, "Whoa, whoa," over and over, in
a pleading, nervous voice. She was afraid to touch the bridle; she
had a great terror of horses.

The man, who was Ida Starr's father, lifted Lois out, and carried her
into the house. She struggled a little.

"I can walk," said she, in a weakly indignant voice.

Mr. Starr carried her into the sitting-room and laid her down on the
sofa. She raised herself immediately, and sat up with a defiant air.

"Oh, dear child, do lay down," sobbed her mother.

She put her hand on Lois' shoulder and tried to force her gently
backward, but the girl resisted.

"Don't, mother," said she. "I don't want to lie down."

Amanda had run into her own room for the camphor bottle. Now she
leaned over Lois and put it to her nose. "Jest smell of this a
little," she said. Lois pushed it away feebly.

"I guess Lois will have to take a little vacation," said Mr. Starr.
"I guess I shall have to see about it, and let her have a little
rest."

He was one of the school committee.

"I don't need any vacation," said Lois, in a peremptory tone.

"I guess we shall have to see about it," repeated Mr. Starr. There
was an odd undertone of decision in his drawling voice. He was a
large man, with a pleasant face full of double curves. "Good-day,"
said he, after a minute. "I guess I must be goin'."

"Good-day," said Lois. "I'm much obliged to you for bringing me
home."

"You're welcome."

Amanda nodded politely when he withdrew, but Mrs. Field never looked
at him. She stood with her eyes fixed upon Lois.

"What are you looking at me so for, mother?" said Lois, impatiently,
turning her own face away.

Mrs. Field sank down on her knees before the sofa. "Oh, my child!"
she wailed. "My child! my child!"

She threw her arms around the girl's slender waist, and clung to her
convulsively. Lois cast a terrified glance up at Amanda.

"Does she think I ain't going to get well?" she asked, as if her
mother were not present.

"Of course she don't," replied Amanda, with decision. She stooped and
took hold of Mrs. Field's shoulders. "Now look here, Mis' Field,"
said she, "you ain't actin' like yourself. You're goin' to make Lois
sick, if she ain't now, if you go on this way. You get up an' make
her a cup of tea, an' get her somethin' to eat. Ten chances to one,
that's all that ailed her. I don't believe she's eat enough to-day to
keep a cat alive."

"I know all about it," moaned Mrs. Field. "It's jest what I expected.
Oh, my child! my child! I have prayed an' done all I could, an' now
it's come to this. I've got to give up. Oh, my child! my child!"

It was to this mother as though her daughter was not there, although
she held her in her arms. She was in that abandon of grief which is
the purest selfishness.

Amanda fairly pulled her to her feet. "Mis' Field, I'm ashamed of
you!" said she, severely. "I should think you were beside yourself.
Here's Lois better--"

"No, she ain't better. I know."

Mrs. Field straightened herself, and went out into the kitchen.

Lois looked again at Amanda, in a piteous, terrified fashion. "Oh,"
said she, "you don't think I'm so very sick, do you?"

"Very sick? No; of course you ain't. Your mother got dreadful nervous
because you didn't come home. That's what made her act so. You look a
good deal better than you did when you first came in."

"I feel better," said Lois. "I never saw mother act so in my life."

"She got all wrought up, waitin'. If I was you, I'd lay down a few
minutes, jest on her account. I think it would make her feel easier."

"Well, I will, if you think I'd better; but there ain't a mite of
need of it."

Lois laid her head down on the sofa arm.

"That's right," said Amanda. "You can jest lay there a little while.
I'm goin' out to tell your mother to make you a cup of tea. That'll
set you right up."

Amanda found Mrs. Field already making the tea. She measured it out
carefully, and never looked around. Amanda stepped close to her.

"Mis' Field," she whispered, "I hope you wa'n't hurt by what I said.
I meant it for the best."

"I sha'n't give way so again," said Mrs. Field. Her face had a
curious determined expression.

"I hope you don't feel hurt?"

"No, I don't. I sha'n't give way so again."  She poured the boiling
water into the teapot, and set it on the stove.

Amanda looked at a covered dish on the stove hearth. "What was you
goin' to have for dinner?" said she.

"Lamb broth. I'm goin' to heat up some for her. She didn't eat hardly
a mouthful of breakfast."

"That's jest the thing for her. I'll get out the kettle and put it on
to heat. I dun'no' of anything that gits cold any quicker than lamb
broth, unless it's love."

Amanda put on a cheerful air as she helped Mrs. Field. Presently the
two women carried in the little repast to Lois.

"She's asleep," whispered Amanda, who went first with the tea.

They stood looking at the young girl, stretched out her slender
length, her white delicate profile showing against the black arm of
the sofa.

Her mother caught her breath. "She's got to be waked up; she's got to
have some nourishment, anyhow," said she. "Come, Lois, wake up, and
have your dinner."

Lois opened her eyes. All the animation and defiance were gone from
her face. She was so exhausted that she made no resistance to
anything. She let them raise her, prop her up with a pillow, and
nearly feed her with the dinner. Then she lay back, and her eyes
closed.

Amanda went home, and Mrs. Field went back to the kitchen to put away
the dinner dishes. She had eaten nothing herself, and now she poured
some of the broth into a cup, and drank it down with great gulps
without tasting it. It was simply filling of a necessity the lamp of
life with oil.

After her housework was done, she sat down in the kitchen with her
knitting. There was no sound from the other room.

The latter part of the afternoon Amanda came past the window and
entered the back door. She carried a glass of foaming beer. Amanda
was famous through the neighborhood for this beer, which she
concocted from roots and herbs after an ancient recipe. It was
pleasantly flavored with aromatic roots, and instinct with agreeable
bitterness, being an innocently tonic old-maiden brew.

"I thought mebbe she'd like a glass of my beer," whispered Amanda. "I
came round the house so's not to disturb her. How is she?"

"I guess she's asleep. I ain't heard a sound."

Amanda set the glass on the table. "Don't you think you'd ought to
have a doctor, Mis' Field?" said she.

It seemed impossible that Lois could have heard, but her voice came
shrilly from the other room: "No, I ain't going to have a doctor;
there's no need of it. I sha'n't like it if you get one, mother."

"No, you sha'n't have one, dear child," her mother called back. "She
was always jest so about havin' a doctor," she whispered to Amanda.

"I'll take in the beer if she's awake," said Amanda.

Lois looked up when she entered. "I don't want a doctor," said she,
pitifully, rolling her blue eyes.

"Of course you sha'n't have a doctor if you don't want one," returned
Amanda, soothingly. "I thought mebbe you'd like a glass of my beer."

Lois drank the beer eagerly, then she sank back and closed her eyes.
"I'm going to get up in a minute, and sew on my dress," she murmured.

But she did not stir until her mother helped her to bed early in the
evening.

The next day she seemed a little better. Luckily it was Saturday, so
there was no worry about her school for her. She would not lie down,
but sat in the rocking-chair with her needle-work in her lap. When
any one came in, she took it up and sewed. Several of the neighbors
had heard she was ill, and came to inquire. She told them, with a
defiant air, that she was very well, and they looked shocked and
nonplussed. Some of them beckoned her mother out into the entry when
they took leave, and Lois heard them whispering together.

The next day, Sunday, Lois seemed about the same. She said once that
she was going to church, but she did not speak of it again. Mrs.
Field went. She suggested staying at home, but Lois was indignant.

"Stay at home with me, no sicker than I am! I should think you were
crazy, mother," said she.

So Mrs. Field got out her Sunday clothes and went to meeting. As soon
as she had gone, Lois coughed; she had been choking the cough back.
She stood at the window, well back that people might not see her, and
watched her mother pass down the street with her stiff glide. Mrs.
Field's back and shoulders were rigidly steady when she walked; she
might have carried a jar of water on her head without spilling it,
like an Indian woman. Lois, small and slight although she was, walked
like her mother. She held herself with the same resolute stateliness,
when she could hold herself at all. The two women might, as far as
their carriage went, have marched in a battalion with propriety.

Lois felt a certain relief when her mother had gone. Even when Mrs.
Field made no expression of anxiety, there was a covert distress
about her which seemed to enervate the atmosphere, and hinder the
girl in the fight she was making against her own weakness. Lois had a
feeling that if nobody would look at her nor speak about her illness,
she could get well quickly of herself.

As for Mrs. Field, she was no longer eager to attend meeting; she
went rather than annoy Lois. She was present at both the morning and
afternoon services. They still had two services in Green River.

Jane Field, sitting in her place in church through the long sermons,
had a mental experience that was wholly new to her. She looked at the
white walls of the audience-room, the pulpit, the carpet, the pews.
She noted the familiar faces of the people in their Sunday gear, the
green light stealing through the long blinds, and all these
accustomed sights gave her a sense of awful strangeness and
separation. And this impression did not leave her when she was out on
the street mingling with the homeward people; every greeting of an
old neighbor strengthened it. She regarded the peaceful village
houses with their yards full of new green grass and flowering bushes,
and they seemed to have a receding dimness as she neared some awful
shore. Even the click of her own gate as she opened it, the sound of
her own feet on the path, the feel of the door-latch to her hand--all
the little common belongings of her daily life were turned into so
many stationary landmarks to prove her own retrogression and fill her
with horror.

To-day, when people inquired for Lois, her mother no longer gave her
customary replies. She said openly that her daughter was real
miserable, and she was worried about her.

"I guess she's beginning to realize it," the women whispered to each
other with a kind of pitying triumph. For there is a certain
aggravation in our friends' not owning to even those facts which we
deplore for them. It is provoking to have an object of pity balk.
Mrs. Field's assumption that her daughter was not ill had half
incensed her sympathizing neighbors; even Amanda had marvelled
indignantly at it. But now the sudden change in her friend caused her
to marvel still more. She felt a vague fear every time she thought of
her. After Lois had gone to bed that Sunday night, her mother came
into Amanda's room, and the two women sat together in the dusk. It
was so warm that Amanda had set all the windows open, and the room
was full of the hollow gurgling of the frogs--there was some low
meadow-land behind the house.

"I want to know what you think of Lois?" said Mrs. Field, suddenly;
her voice was high and harsh.

"Why, I don't know, hardly, Mis' Field."

"Well, I know. She's runnin' down. She won't ever be any better,
unless I can do something. She's dyin' for the want of a little
money, so she can stop work an' go away to some healthier place an'
rest. She is; the Lord knows she is."  Mrs. Field's voice was solemn,
almost oratorical.

Amanda sat still; her long face looked pallid and quite unmoved in
the low light; she was thinking what she could say.

But Mrs. Field went on; she was herself so excited to speech and
action, the outward tendency of her own nature was so strong, that
she failed to notice the course of another's. "She is," she repeated,
argumentatively, as if Amanda had spoken, or she was acute enough to
hear the voice behind silence; "there ain't any use talkin'."

There was a pause, a soft wind came into the room, the noise of the
frogs grew louder, a whippoorwill called; it seemed as if the wide
night were flowing in at the windows.

"What I want to know is," said Mrs. Field, "if you will take Lois in
here to meals, an' look after her a week or two. Be you willin' to?"

"You ain't goin' away, Mis' Field?"  There was a slow and contained
surprise in Amanda's tone.

"Yes, I be; to-morrow mornin', if I live, on the early train. I be,
if you're willin' to take Lois. I don't see how I can leave her any
other way as she is now. You sha'n't be any loser by it, if you'll
take her."

"Where be you goin', Mis' Field?"

"I don't want you to say anything about it. I don't want it all over
town."

"I sha'n't say anything."

"Well, I'm goin' down to Elliot."

"You be?"

"Yes, I be. Old Mr. Maxwell's dead. I had a letter a night or two
ago."

Amanda gasped, "He's dead?"

"Yes."

"What was the matter, do you know?"

"They called it paralysis. It was sudden."

Amanda hesitated. "I s'pose--you know anything about--his property?"
said she.

"Yes; he left it all to my sister."

"Why, Mis' Field!"

"Yes; he left every cent of it to her."

"Oh, ain't it dreadful she's dead?"

"It's all been dreadful right along," said Mrs. Field.

"Of course," said Amanda, "I know she's better off than she'd be with
all the money in the world; it ain't that; but it would do so much
good to the livin'. Why, look here, Mis' Field, I dun'no' anything
about law, but won't you have it if your sister's dead?"

"I'm goin' down there."

"It seems as if you'd ought to have somethin' anyway, after all
you've done, lettin' his son have your money an' everything."

Amanda spoke with stern warmth. She had known about this grievance of
her neighbor's for a long time.

"I'm goin' down there," repeated Mrs. Field.

"I would," said Amanda.

"I hate to leave Lois," said Mrs. Field; "but I don't see any other
way."

"I'll take her," said Amanda, "if you're willin' to trust her with
me."

"I've got to," replied Mrs. Field.

"Well, I'll do the best I can," replied Amanda.

She was considerably shaken. She felt her knees tremble. It was as if
she were working a new tidy or rug pattern. Any variation of her
peaceful monotony of existence jarred her whole nature like heavy
wheels, and this was a startling one.

She wondered how Mrs. Field could bring herself to leave Lois. It
seemed to her that she must have hopes of all the old man's property.

After Mrs. Field had gone home, and she, primly comfortable in her
starched and ruffled dimities, lay on her high feather-bed between
her smooth sheets, she settled it in her own mind that her neighbor
would certainly have the property. She wondered if she and Lois would
go to Elliot to live, and who would live in her tenement. The change
was hard for her to contemplate, and she wept a little. Many a
happiness comes to its object with outriders of sorrows to others.

Poor Amanda bemoaned herself over the changes that might come to her
little home, and planned nervously her manner of living with Lois
during the next week. Amanda had lived entirely alone for over twenty
years; this admitting another to her own territory seemed as grave a
matter to her as the admission of foreigners did to Japan. Indeed,
all her kind were in a certain way foreigners to Amanda; and she was
shy of them, she had so withdrawn herself by her solitary life, for
solitariness is the farthest country of them all.

Amanda did not sleep much, and it was very early in the morning--she
was standing before the kitchen looking-glass, twisting the rosettes
of her front hair--when Mrs. Field came in to say good-by. Mrs. Field
was gaunt and erect in her straight black clothes. She had her black
veil tied over her bonnet to protect it from dust, and the black
frame around her strong-featured face gave her a rigid, relentless
look, like a female Jesuit. Lois came faltering behind her mother.
She had a bewildered air, and she looked from her mother to Amanda
with appealing significance, but she did not speak.

"Well, I've come to say good-by," said Mrs. Field.

Amanda had one side of her front hair between her lips while she
twisted the other; she took it out. "Good-by, Mis' Field," she said.
"I'll do the best I can for Lois. How soon do you s'pose you'll be
back?"

"It's accordin' to how I get along. I've been tellin' Lois she ain't
goin' to school to-day. She's afraid Mr. Starr will put Ida in if she
don't; but there ain't no need of her worryin'; mebbe a way will be
opened. I want you to lookout she don't go. There ain't no need of
it."

"I'll do the best I can," said Amanda, with a doubtful glance at
Lois.

Lois said nothing, but her pale little mouth contracted obstinately.
She and Amanda followed her mother to the door. The departing woman
said good-by, and went down the steps over the terraces. She never
looked back. She went on out the gate, and turned into the long road.
She had a mile walk to the railroad station.

Amanda and Lois went back into the sitting-room.

"When did she tell you she was going?" Lois asked suddenly.

"Last night."

"She didn't tell me till this morning."

Lois held her head high, but her eyes were surprised and pitiful, and
the corners of her mouth drooped. She faced about to the window with
a haughty motion, and watched her mother out of sight, a gaunt, dark
old figure disappearing under low green elm branches.


Chapter III


It was many years since Mrs. Field had taken any but the most trivial
journeys. Elliot was a hundred and twenty miles away. She must go to
Boston; then cross the city to the other depot, where she would take
the Elliot train. This elderly unsophisticated woman might very
reasonably have been terrified at the idea of taking this journey
alone, but she was not. She never thought of it.

The latter half of the road to the Green River station lay through an
unsettled district. There were acres of low birch woods and lusty
meadow-lands. This morning they were covered with a gold-green dazzle
of leaves. To one looking across them, they almost seemed played over
by little green flames; now and then a young birch tree stood away
from the others, and shone by itself like a very torch of spring.
Mrs. Field walked steadily through it. She had never paused to take
much thought of the beauty of nature; to-day a tree all alive and
twinkling with leaves might, for all her notice, have been naked and
stiff with frost.

She did not seem to walk fast, but her long steps carried her over
the ground well. It was long before train-time when she came in sight
of the little station with its projecting piazza roofs. She entered
the ladies' room and bought her ticket, then she sat down and waited.
There were two other women there--middle-aged countrywomen in awkward
wool gowns and flat straw bonnets, with a certain repressed
excitement in their homely faces. They were setting their large,
faithful, cloth-gaitered feet a little outside their daily ruts, and
going to visit some relatives in a neighboring town; they were almost
overcome by the unusualness of it.

Jane Field was a woman after their kind, and the look on their faces
had its grand multiple in the look on hers. She had not only stepped
out of her rut, but she was going out of sight of it forever.

She sat there stiff and silent, her two feet braced against the
floor, ready to lift her at the signal of the train, her black
leather bag grasped firmly in her right hand.

The two women eyed her furtively. One nudged the other. "Know who
that is?" she whispered. But neither of them knew. They were from the
adjoining town, which this railroad served as well as Green River.

Sometimes Mrs. Field looked at them, but with no speculation; the
next moment she looked in the same way upon the belongings of the
little country depot--the battered yellow settees, the time-tables,
the long stove in its tract of littered sawdust, the man's face in
the window of the ticket-office.

"Dreadful cross-lookin', ain't she?" one of the women whispered in
the other's ear.

Jane heard the whisper, and looked at them. The women gave each other
violent pokes, they reddened and tittered nervously, then they tried
to look out of the window with an innocent and absent air. But they
need not have been troubled. Jane, although she heard the whisper
perfectly, did not connect it with herself at all. She never thought
much about her own appearance; this morning she had as little vanity
as though she were dead.

When the whistle of the train sounded, the women all pushed anxiously
out on the platform.

"Is this the train that goes to Boston?" Mrs. Field asked one of the
other two.

"I s'pose so," she replied, with a reciprocative flutter. "I'm goin'
to ask so's to be sure. I'm goin' to Dale."

"I always ask," her friend remarked, with decision.

When the train stopped, Mrs. Field inquired of a brakeman. She was
hardly satisfied with his affirmative answer. "Are you the
conductor?" said she, sternly peering.

The young fellow gave a hurried wave of his hand toward the
conductor, "There he is, ma'am."

Mrs. Field asked him also, then she hoisted herself into the car.
When she had taken her seat, she put the same question to a woman in
front of her.

It was a five-hours' ride to Boston. Mrs. Field sat all the while in
her place with her bag in her lap, and never stirred. There was a
look of rigid preparation about her, as if all her muscles were
strained for an instant leap.

Two young girls in an opposite seat noticed her and tittered. They
had considerable merriment over her, twisting their pretty silly
faces, and rolling their blue eyes in her direction, and then
averting them with soft repressed chuckles.

Occasionally Mrs. Field looked over at them, thought of her Lois, and
noted their merriment gravely. She never dreamed that they were
laughing at her. If she had, she would not have considered it twice.

It was four o'clock when Mrs. Field arrived in Boston. She had been
in the city but once before, when she was a young girl. Still she set
out with no hesitation to walk across the city to the depot where she
must take the cars for Elliot. She could not afford a carriage, and
she would not trust herself in a street car. She knew her own head
and her old muscles; she could allow for their limitations, and
preferred to rely upon them.

Every few steps she stopped and asked a question as to her route,
listening sharply to the reply. Then she went straight enough,
speeding between the informers like guide-posts. This old provincial
threaded the city streets as unappreciatively as she had that morning
the country one. Once in a while the magnificence of some shop
window, a dark flash of jet, or a flutter of lace on a woman's dress
caught her eye, but she did not see it. She had nothing in common
with anything of that kind; she had to do with the primal facts of
life. Coming as she was out of the country quiet, she was quite
unmoved by the thundering rush of the city streets. She might have
been deaf and blind for all the impression it had upon her. Her own
nature had grown so intense that it apparently had emanations, and
surrounded her with an atmosphere of her own impenetrable to the
world.

It was nearly five o'clock when she reached her station, and the
train was ready. It was half-past five when she arrived in Elliot.
She got off the train and stalked, as if with a definite object,
around the depot platform. She did not for one second hesitate or
falter. She went up to a man who was loading some trunks on a wagon,
and asked him to direct her to Lawyer Tuxbury's office. Her voice was
so abrupt and harsh that the man started.

"Cross the track, an' go up the street till you come to it, on the
right-hand side," he answered. Then he stared curiously after her as
she went on.

Lawyer Tuxbury's small neat sign was fastened upon the door of the L
of a large white house. There was a green yard, and some newly
started flower-beds. In one there was a clump of yellow daffodils.
Two yellow-haired little girls were playing out in the yard. They
both stood still, staring with large, wary blue eyes at Mrs. Field as
she came up the path. She never glanced toward them.

She stood like a black-draped statue before the office door, and
knocked. Nobody answered.

She knocked again louder. Then a voice responded "Come in."  Mrs.
Field turned the knob carefully, and opened the door. It led directly
into the room. There was a dull oil-cloth carpet, some beetling cases
of heavy books, a few old arm-chairs, and one battered leather
easy-chair. A great desk stood against the farther wall, and a man
was seated at it, with his back toward the door. He had white hair,
to which the sunlight coming through the west window gave a red-gold
tinge.

Mrs. Field stood still, just inside the door. Apart from anything
else, the room itself had a certain awe-inspiring quality for her.
She had never before been in a lawyer's office. She was fully
possessed with the rural and feminine ignorance and holy fear of all
legal appurtenances. From all her traditions, this office door should
have displayed a grinning man or woman trap, which she must warily
shun.

She eyed the dusty oil-cloth--the files of black books--the
chairs--the man at the desk, with his gilded white head. He wrote on
steadily, and never stirred for a minute. Then he again sang out,
sharply, "Come in."

He was deaf, and had, along with his insensibility to sounds, that
occasional abnormal perception of them which the deaf seem sometimes
to possess. He often heard sounds when none were recognizable to
other people.

Now, evidently having perceived no result from his first response, he
had heard this second knock, which did not exist except in his own
supposition and the waiting woman's intent. Eight days after, I returned
to see Mr. Bridgar, unto whom I said that hee did not take sufficient
care to preserve his men; that I had 2 of them at my Fort, who
told me of the losse of his shipp, which hee owned. I told him I
would assist him, & would send him his 2 men & what else hee desired.
I also offer'd him one of our Barques, with provisions requisit
to convey him in the Spring unto the bottom of the Bay, which hee
refused.

I assured him of all the servis that lay in my power, treating him
with all civillity could bee for the Esteeme that I ever bore
unto the English nation. As for Mr. Bridgar, I had no great caus
to bee over well pleased with him, being advised that hee spake
ill of mee in my absence, & had said publickly unto his people that
hee would destroy my Trade, should hee give 6 axes & proportionably
of other Goods unto the Indians for a Bevor Skin.

[Footnote: The Company's early standard for trading was: "For 1 Gun,
one with another, 10 good Skins, that is, winter beavor; 12 Skins
for the biggest sort, 10 for the mean, and 8 for the smallest.

Powder, a beaver for 1/2 a lb.

A beaver for 4 lb. of shot. A beaver for a great and little hatchet. A
beaver for 6 great knives or 8 jack-knives. Beads, a beaver for
1/2 a lb. Six beavers for one good laced coat. Five beavers for one
red plain coat. Coats for women, laced, two yards, six beavers. Coats
for women, plain, Five beavers. Tobacco, a beaver for 1 lb. Powder-horns,
a beaver for a large one and two small ones. Kettles, a beaver for one
lb. of Kettle. Looking-glasses and combs, 2 skins."]

I have an attestation heerof to shew. I stayed 2 dayes on this voyadge
with Mr.

Bridgar, having then a reall intent to serve him, seeing hee was
not in a condition to hurt me; & returning unto my habitation, I
called at Young Gwillim's fort in the Island, where I intended to
execute my dessigne, it being now time.

When I arrived at the fort, I told young Gwillim his father continued
ill, & that hee referr'd all unto me, upon which I said unto him
touching his father & of his resolution, hee earnestly desired I
would goe back with him & take him along with me, disguised as
before, that hee might see him; but I disswaded him from this, &
put in his head rather to come see our habitation, & how wee lived.

I knew hee had a desire to doe soe, therefore I would sattisfy his
curiosity. Having, therefore, perswaded him to this, wee parted
next morning betimes. Hee took his Carpenter along with him, & wee
arrived at our habitation, Young Gwillim & his man being sufficiently
tired. I thought it not convenient that young Gwillim should
see the 2 Englishmen that was at our House. I kept them privat,
& fitted them to bee gon next morning, with 2 of my men, to goe
athwart the woods unto their habitation, having promis'd Mr. Bridgar
to send them unto him. I gave them Tobacco, Cloaths, & severall
other things Mr. Bridgar desired; but when they were to depart,
one of the Englishmen fell at my feet & earnestly desired that I
would not send him away. I would not have granted his request but
that my Brother-in-Law desired me to do it, & that it would also
ease Mr. Bridgar's charge, who wanted provisions; so I sufferred the
other to depart along with my 2 men, having given them directions.

I caused young Gwillem to see them going, telling him I sent them unto
our Fort up the river.

I continued a whole moneth at quiet, treating young Guillem, my new
guest, with all civillity, which hee abused in severall particulars;
for having probably discovered that wee had not the strength that
I made him beleeve wee had, hee unadvisedly speak threatning words
of me behind my back, calling me Pyrate, & saying hee would trade
with the Indians in the Spring in spight of me.

Hee had also the confidence to strike one of my men, but I connived
at it. But one day discoursing of the privilledges of new England, he
had the confidence to speak slightly of the best of Kings, wherupon
I called him pittyfull Dogg for talking after that manner, & told
him that for my part, having had the honour to have ben in his
majesty's servis, I would pray for his majesty as long as I lived.

Hee answered mee with harsh words that hee would return back to his
fort, & when hee was there, that would not dare talk to him as I did.
I could not have a fairer opportunity to begin what I dessigned.
Upon which I told the young foole that I brought him from his fort
& would carry him thither againe when I pleas'd, not when hee liked.

Hee spake severall other impertinencys, that made me tell him that
I would lay him up safe enough if hee behaved not himself wiser. Hee
asked me if hee was a prisoner. I told him I would consider of it,
& that I would secure my Trade, seeing hee threatened to hinder it.
After which I retired & gave him leave to bee inform'd by the
Englishman how that his father & the company's shipp were lost, &
the bad condition Mr.

Bridgar was in. I left a french man with them that understood English,
but they knew it not. When I went out, young Gwillim bid the
Englishman make his escape & goe tell his master that hee would
give him 6 Barrills of Powder & other provisions if hee would attempt
to deliver him out of my hands. The Englishman made no reply, neither
did hee tell me of what had ben proposed unto him. I understood it by
my frenchman, that heard the whole matter, & I found it was high
time to act for my owne safety.

That evning I made no shew of any thing, but going to bed I asked
our men if the fier Locks that wee placed at night round our fort
to defend us from thos that would attack us were in order.

At this word of fire Locks young Gwillim, who knew not the meaning
of it, was suddenly startled & would have run away, thinking wee
intended to kill him.

I caused him to bee stay'd, & freed him of his feare. But next
morning I made him an unwelcom compliment; I told him that I was
going to take his shipp & fort.

Hee answered very angrily that if I had 100 men I could not effect it,
& that his men would kill 40 before they could come neere the pallissade.
I was nothing discouradged at his bravado, knowing very well that
I should compasse my dessigne. I made account that 2 of my men would
have stay'd in the fort for hostages, but having what libberty they
would, one of them returned to our habitation without my order.

I was angry at it, but I made no shew of it, having laid my
dessigne so as to make more use of skill & pollicy than of open force;
seeing therefore the haughty answer young Gwillem made me, that I
could not take his fort with 100 men, I asked of him how many men
hee had in it.

Hee said nyne.

I desired him to choose the like number of myne, I being one of the
number, telling him I would desire no more, & that in 2 dayes I
would give him a good account of his fort & of his shipp, & that I
would not have him to have the shame of being present to see what
I should doe.

Hee chose & named such of my men as hee pleas'd, & I would not
choose any others.

I sufferr'd him to come with me to the water side, & I made the
ninth man that went upon this Expedition, with an Englishman of Mr.

Bridgar's to bee a wittness of the busenesse.

Being arriv'd within half a league of the fort, I left the Englishman
with one frenchman, ordering they should not stirr without farther
order; at the same time I sent 2 of my men directly to the fort to
the Southward of the Island, & I planted myself with my other 5 men
at the North point of the same Island to observe what they did that
I sent to the fort.

They were stop't by 3 Englishmen armed, that asked if they had any
letters from their master.

My people answer'd, according to my Instructions, that hee was coming
along with mee; that being weary, wee stay'd behind; that they
came a litle before for some brandy which they offerr'd to carry.
The Englishmen would needs doe the office, & my 2 men stay'd in
the fort. Hee that was hostage had orders to seize on the Court
of Gard Dore, one of them newly come to seize the Dore of the
House, & the 3 was to goe in & out, that in case the dessigne was
discover'd hee might stopp the passage of the Dore with Blocks of
wood, to hinder it from being shutt & to give me freedom to enter
unto their assistance; but there needed not so much adoe, for I
enter'd into the fort before thos that were appointed to defend it
were aware.

The Lieutenant was startled at seeing me, & asked "wher his master
was; it was high time to appear & act."

I answered the Lieutenant "it matter'd not where his master was, but
to tell me what men hee had & to call them out;" & my men being
enter'd the fort & all together, I told thos that were present
the cause of my coming, that I intended to bee Master of the place,
& that 'twas too late to dispute. I commanded them to bring me the
Keys of the Fort & all their Arms, & to tell mee if they had any
Powder in their chests, & how much, referring myself unto what they
should say.

They made no resistance, but brought me their Arms, & as for
Powder, they said they had none.

I took possession of the Fort in the name of the King of ffrance, &
from thence was conducted by the Lieutenant to take possession
of the shipp also in the same name, which I did without any
resistance; & whilst I was doing all this, young Guillem's men
seemed to rejoyce at it rather then to bee troubled, complaining
of him for their Ill usage, & that hee had kill'd his Supercargo.

But a Scotchman, one of the crew, to shew his zeale, made his Escape
& run through the woods towards Mr.

Bridgar's House to give him notice of what pas't. I sent 2 of my
nimblest men to run after him, but they could not overtake him,
being gon 4 hours before them.

Hee arrived at Mr. Bridgar's house, who upon the relation of the Scotchman
resolved to come surprise me.

In the meane while I gave my Brother notice of all that past, & that
I feared a Scotchman might occasion me some troble that had got away
unto Mr.
Bridgar, & that I feared I might bee too deeply ingadg'd unless hee
presently gave me the assistance of 4 men, having more English
prisoners to keep than I had french men with me.

I was not deceiv'd in my conjecture. At midnight one of our Doggs alarm'd
our sentinell, who told me hee heard a noise on board the shipp.

I caus'd my People to handle their armes, & shut up the English in the
cabins under the Gard of 2 of my men. I with 4 others went out to
goe to the shipp. I found men armed on board, & required them to
lay downe their arms & to yeeld. There was 4 that submitted & some
others got away in the dark.

My men would have fired, but I hinder'd them, for which they murmur'd
against me. I led the prisoners away to the fort & examin'd
them one after another. I found they were of Mr. Bridgar's people,
& that hee was to have ben of the number, but hee stay'd half a
League behind to see the success of the businesse.

The last of the Prisoners I examin'd was the Scotch man that had
made his escape when I took the fort; & knowing hee was the only cause
that Mr.

Bridgar ingadg'd in the businesse, I would revenge me in making him
afraid.

I caus'd him to bee ty'd to a stake & told that hee should bee hang'd
next day.

I caus'd the other prisoners, his comrades, to bee very kindly
treated; & having no farther dessigne but to make the Scotch man
afraide, I made one advise him to desire the Lewtenant of the fort
to begg me to spare his life, which hee did, & easily obtain'd his
request, although hee was something startled, not knowing what I
meant to doe with him.

The 4 men I desired of my Brother-in-Law arrived during these transactions,
& by this supply finding myself strong enough to resist whatever Mr.

Bridgar could doe against me, I wrote unto him & desired to know
if hee did avow what his men had don, whom I detain'd Prisoners,
who had Broke the 2 Dores & the deck of the shipp to take away the
Powder.

Hee made me a very dubious answer, complaining against me that I had
not ben true unto him, having concealed this matter from him. Hee
writ me also that having suffitient orders for taking all vessells
that came into those parts to Trade, hee would have joyned with
me in seizing of this; but seeing the purchas was fal'n into my
hands, hee hoped hee should share with mee in it.

I sent back his 3 men with some Tobacco & other provisions, but
kept their arms, bidding them tell Mr.

Bridgar on my behalf that had I known hee would have come himself on
this Expedition, I would have taken my mesures to have receav'd
him ere he could have had the time to get back; but I heard of it
a litle too late, & that in some short time I would goe visit him
to know what hee would bee at, & that seeing hee pretended to bee
so ignorant in what quallity I liv'd in that country, I would goe
and inform him.

Before these men's departure to Mr. Bridgar's I was inform'd that
some English men had hidden Powder without the fort.

I examin'd them all. Not one would owne it; but at last I made them
confess it, & 5 or 6 pound was found that had ben hid.

Then I took care to secure the fort. I sent 4 of the English men
of the fort unto my Brother-in-Law, & I prepar'd to goe discover
what Mr.
Bridgar was doing. I came to his House & went in before hee had notice
of my coming. Hee appeared much surpris'd; but I spoke to him in such
a manner as shewed that I had no intent to hurt him, & I told him
that by his late acting hee had so disoblidged all the ffrench that
I could not well tell how to assist him.

I told him hee had much better gon a milder way to work, in the
condition hee was in, and that seeing hee was not as good as his
word to me, I knew very well how to deall with him; but I had no
intention at that time to act any thing against Mr.

Bridgar.

I only did it to frighten him, that hee should live kindly by me;
& in supplying him from time to time with what he wanted, my chief
ayme was to disable him from Trading, & to reduce him to a necessity
of going away in the Spring.

Seeing Mr. Bridgar astonish'd at my being there with 12 men, & in a
condition of ruining him if I had desire to it, I thought fit to setle
his mynd by sending away 6 of my men unto my Brother-in-Law, & kept
but 6 with me, 4 of which I sent out into the woods to kill some
provisions for Mr.
Bridgar.

About this time I receaved a letter from my Brother wherin hee blam'd
me for acting after this manner with persons that but 2 days agoe
endeavor'd to surprise me; that if I did so, hee would forsake all;
that I had better disarm them for our greater security, & that I
should not charge myself with any of them.

It was also the judgment of the other french men, who were all exasperated
against Mr. Bridgar. Not to displease my owne people, instead of 4
English men that I promis'd Mr. Bridgar to take along with me that hee
might the better preserve the rest, I took but 2, one of which I put
in the Fort at the Island, & the other I brought unto our
habitation.

I promiss'd Mr. Bridgar before I left him to supply him with
Powder & anything else that was in my power, & demanding what store
of musquets hee had remaining, hee told me hee had Ten, & of them
8 were broken.

I tooke the 8 that were spoyl'd, & left him myne that was well fixt,
promising to get his mended.

Hee also offer'd me a pocket Pistoll, saying hee knew well enough
that I intended to disarm him.

I told him it was not to disarm him, to take away his bad arms & to
give him good in stead of them. I offerr'd him my Pistolls, but hee
would not accept of them. In this state I left him, & went to our
habitation to give my Brother-in-Law an account of what I had don.

Some dayes after, I went to the Fort in the Island to see if all was
well there, & having given all necessary directions I return'd unto
our place, taking the Lieutenant of the Fort along with me, unto
whom I gave my owne chamber & all manner of libberty; taking him
to bee wiser than his captain, whom they were forc'd to confine in
my absence. Hee thanked mee for my civillityes, & desiring hee might
goe to his Captain, I consented. About this time I had advise,
by one of the men that I left to guard the fort in the Island,
that Mr.

Bridgar, contrary to his promis, went thether with 2 of his men, &
that our men having suffer'd them to enter into the fort, they
retain'd Mr.

Bridgar & sent the other 2 away, having given them some Bread &
Brandy. This man also told me that Mr.

Bridgar seemed very much trobl'd at his being stopt, & acted like a
mad man. This made me presently goe to the fort to hinder any attempts
might be made against me. Being arrived, I found Mr. Bridgar in a
sad condition, having drank to excess.
Him that comanded in the fort had much adoe to hinder him from killing
the Englishman that desired to stay with us.

Hee spoke a thousand things against me in my hearing, threatning to
kill me if I did not doe him right.
But having a long time born it, I was at length constraint to bid
him bee quiet; & desirous to know his dessignes, I asked him if any
of his People were to come, because I see smoake & fiers in crossing
the River.

Hee Said Yes, & that hee would shortly shew me what hee could
doe, looking for 14 men which hee expected, besides the 2 my people
return'd back. I told him I knew very well hee had not soe many
men, having let many of his men perish for want of meate, for whom
hee was to bee accountable; & morover I was not afraid of his
threats.

Nevertheless, no body appear'd, & next dayly I order'd matters so as
Mr. Bridgar should come along with me unto our habitation, wherunto
hee see it was in vaine to resist.

I assured him that neither I nor any of my People shold goe to his
House in his absence, & that when hee had recreated himself 10 or
15 Days with mee at our habitation, hee might return with all
freedom againe unto his House.

Mr.

Bridgar was a fortnight at our House without being overtired, &
it appeared by his looks that hee had not ben Ill treated; but I
not having leasure allways to keep him company, my affairs calling
me abroad, I left him with my Brother-in-Law whilst I went unto the
Fort in the Island to see how matters went there; & at my going
away I told Mr.

Bridgar that if hee pleas'd hee might dispose himself for his departure
home next morning, to rectify some disorders committed by his
people in his absence, to get victualls, & I told him I would meet
him by the way to goe along with him.

Having dispatcht my business at the fort of the Island, I went away
betimes to bee at Mr. Bridgar's house before him, to hinder him from
abusing his men. The badness of the weather made me goe into the House
before hee came.

As Soon as I was enter'd, the men beseech'd me to have compassion
on them.

I blam'd them for what they had don, & for the future advised them to
bee more obedient unto their master, telling them I would desire him
to pardon them, & that in the Spring I would give passage unto
those that would goe home by the way of ffrance.

Mr. Bridgar arrived soon after me. I beg'd his pardon for going
into his House before hee came, assuring him that I had still the
dessigne of serving him & assisting him, as hee should find when hee
pleas'd to make use of me, for Powder & anything else hee needed;
which also I performed when it was desir'd of me, or that I knew Mr.
Bridgar stood in need of any thing I had. I parted from Mr. Bridgar's
habitation to return unto our own.

I passed by the fort in the Island, & put another frenchman to
comand in the place of him was there before, whom I intended to
take with me to work uppon our shipps.

The Spring now drawing on, the English of the fort of the Island murmur'd
because of one of Mr. Bridgar's men that I had brought thether to
live with them. I was forst to send him back to give them content,
not daring to send him to our habitation, our french men opposing
it, wee having too many allready. Arriving at our habitation, I was
inform'd that the English captain very grossly abused one of his men
that I kept with him. Hee was his carpenter. I was an eye witness
myself of his outrageous usage of this poore man, though hee did
not see me.

I blamed the Captain for it, & sent the man to the fort of the Island,
to look after the vessell to keep her in good condition. My nephew
arrived about this time, with the french men that went with him
to invite downe the Indians, & 2 days after there came severall
that brought provisions.

They admired to see the English that wee had in our House, & they
offer'd us 200 Bevor skins to suffer them to goe kill the rest of
them; but I declar'd unto them I was far from consenting therunto, &
charged them on the contrary not to doe them any harm; & Mr.
Bridgar coming at instant with one of his men unto our habitation, I
advised him not to hazard himself any more without having some of
my men with him, & desir'd him, whilst hee was at my House, not to
speak to the Indians.

Yet hee did, & I could not forbeare telling him my mynde, which
made him goe away of a suddain.

I attended him with 7 or 8 of my men, fearing least the Indians
who went away but the Day before might doe him a mischief.

I came back next day, being inform'd that a good company of Indians,
our old Allies, were to come; & I found they were come with a dessigne
to warr against the English, by the perswasion of some Indians
that I see about 8ber last, & with whom I had renew'd an alliance.

I thanked the Indians for their good will in being ready to make warr
against our Ennemys; but I also told them that I had no intent
to doe them any harm, & that having hindred them from hurting me
I was sattisfy'd, & that therefore they would oblidge me to say nothing
of it, having promis'd me they would bee gon in the Spring, but if
they came againe I would suffer them to destroy them. The Indians
made great complaints unto me of the English in the bottom of the
Bay, which I will heere omitt, desiring to speak only of what
concerns myself; but I ought not omit this.

Amongst other things, they alleadg'd to have my consent that they
might warr against the English.

They said thus: "Thou hast made us make presents to make thine
Ennemys become ours, & ours to bee thyne.

Wee will not bee found lyers." By this may bee seen what dependance is
to bee laid on the friendship of this people when once they have
promis'd. I told them also that I lov'd them as my own Brethren
the French, & that I would deal better by them than the English
of the Bay did, & that if any of my men did them the least injury
I would kill him with my own hands; adding withall that I was very
sorry I was not better stor'd with Goods, to give them greater
tokens of my friendship; that I came this voyage unprovided, not
knowing if I should meet them, but I promis'd to come another time
better stor'd of all things they wanted, & in a condition to help
them to destroy their Ennemys & to send them away very well sattisfy'd.

The English admir'd to see with what freedom I lived with these salvages.
This pas't in the beginning of Aprill, 1683.
She was no philosopher, but she felt, without putting it into
thoughts, as if she had descended far below the surface of all
things, and found out that good and evil were the root and the life
of them, and the outside leaves and froth and flowers were fathoms
away, and no longer to be considered.

At ten o'clock she put on her bonnet and shawl, and set out for the
lawyer's office. She locked the front door, put the key under a
blind, and proceeded down the front walk into the street.

The spring was earlier here than in Green River. She started at a
dancing net-work of leaf shadows on the sidewalk. They were the first
she had seen that season. There was a dewy arch of trees overhead,
and they were quite fully leaved out. Mr. Tuxbury was in his office
when she got there. He rose promptly and greeted her, and pushed
forward the leather easy-chair with his old courtly flourish.

"I suppose that old stick of a woman will be in pretty soon," he had
remarked to his sister at breakfast-time.

"Well, you'll keep on the right side of her, if you know which side
your bread is buttered," she retorted. "You don't want her goin' to
Sam Totten's."

Totten was the other lawyer of Elliot.

"I think I am quite aware of all the exigencies of the case," Daniel
Tuxbury had replied, lapsing into stateliness, as he always did when
his sister waxed too forcible in her advice.

But when Mrs. Field entered his office, every trace of his last
night's impatience had vanished. He inquired genially if she had
passed a comfortable night, and on being assured that she had,
pressed her to drink a cup of coffee which he had requested his
sister to keep warm. This declined, with her countrified courtesy, so
shy that it seemed grim, he proceeded, with no chill upon his
graciousness, to business.

Through the next two hours Mrs. Field sat at the lawyer's desk, and
listened to a minute and wearisome description of her new
possessions. She listened with very little understanding. She did not
feel any interest in it. She never opened her mouth except now and
then for a stiff assent to a question from the lawyer.

A little after twelve o'clock he leaned back in his chair with a
conclusive sigh, and fixed his eyes reflectively upon the ceiling.
"Well, Mrs. Maxwell," said he, "I think that you understand pretty
well now the extent and the limitations of your property."

"Yes, sir," said she.

"It is all straight enough. Maxwell was a good business man; he kept
his affairs in excellent order. Yes, he was a very good business
man."

Suddenly the lawyer straightened himself, and fixed his eyes with
genial interest upon his visitor; business over, he had a mind for a
little personal interview to show his good-will. "Let me see, Mrs.
Maxwell, you had a sister, did you not?" said he.

"Yes, sir."

"Is she living?"

"No, sir."  Mrs. Field said it with a gasping readiness to speak one
truth.

"Let me see, what was her name?" asked the lawyer. "No; wait a
moment; I'll tell you. I've heard it."  He held up a hand as if
warding off an answer from her, his face became furrowed with
reflective wrinkles. "Field!" cried he, suddenly, with a jerk, and
beamed at her. "I thought I could remember it," said he. "Yes, your
sister's name was Field. When did she die, Mrs. Maxwell?"

"Two years ago."

There was a strange little smothered exclamation from some one near
the office door. Mrs. Field turned suddenly, and saw her daughter
Lois standing there.


Chapter IV


There Lois stood. Her small worn shoes hesitated on the threshold.
She was gotten up in her poor little best--her dress of cheap brown
wool stuff, with its skimpy velvet panel, her hat trimmed with a fold
of silk and a little feather. She had curled her hair over her
forehead, and tied on a bit of a lace veil. Distinct among all this
forlorn and innocent furbishing was her face, with its pitiful,
youthful prettiness, turning toward her mother and the lawyer with a
very clutch of vision.

Mrs. Field got up. "Oh, it's you, Lois," she said, calmly. "You
thought you'd come too, didn't you?"

Lois gasped out something.

Her mother turned to the lawyer. "I'll make you acquainted with Miss
Lois Field," said she. "Lois, I'll make you acquainted with Mr.
Tuxbury."

The lawyer was looking surprised, but he rose briskly to the level of
the situation, and greeted the young girl with ready grace. "Your
sister's daughter, I conclude," he said, smilingly, to Mrs. Field.

Mrs. Field set her mouth hard. She looked defiantly at him and said
not one word. She seemed to him more alive, more womanly, and worthy
of adoration because of their separation and all the obstacles that
he now knew to stand between them.

Remorse, despair, shame entered his heart simultaneously with this
new love, and he would have fallen on his knees before her.

"No, no, do not kneel," said Claire; "if you knew of what you remind
me, if you knew what a lying face, distorted with hatred, I saw
at my feet last night!"

"Ah! but I am not lying," replied Georges with a shudder. "Claire, I
implore you, in the name of our child--"
At that moment some one knocked at the door.

"Rise, I beg of you!

You see that life has claims upon us," she said in a low voice and with
a bitter smile; then she asked what was wanted.

Monsieur Risler had sent for Monsieur to come down to the office.

"Very well," she said; "say that he will come."

Georges approached the door, but she stopped him.

"No, let me go. He must not see you yet."
"But--"

"I wish you to stay here.

You have no idea of the indignation and wrath of that poor man,
whom you have deceived. If you had seen him last night, crushing
his wife's wrists!"

As she said it she looked him in the face with a curiosity most cruel
to herself; but Georges did not wince, and replied simply:
"My life belongs to him."

"It belongs to me, too; and I do not wish you to go down. There has
been scandal enough in my father's house.

Remember that the whole factory is aware of what is going on. Every
one is watching us, spying upon us.
It required all the authority of the foremen to keep the men busy
to-day, to compel them to keep their inquisitive looks on their
work."

"But I shall seem to be hiding."
"And suppose it were so! That is just like a man.

They do not recoil from the worst crimes: betraying a wife,
betraying a friend; but the thought that they may be accused of
being afraid touches them more keenly than anything.

Moreover, listen to what I say. Sidonie has gone; she has gone forever;
and if you leave this house I shall think that you have gone to
join her."

"Very well, I will stay," said Georges.

"I will do whatever you wish."

Claire descended into Planus' office.

To see Risler striding to and fro, with his hands behind his back,
as calm as usual, no one would ever have suspected all that had
taken place in his life since the night before.

As for Sigismond, he was fairly beaming, for he saw nothing in it
all beyond the fact that the notes had been paid at maturity and
that the honor of the firm was safe.

When Madame Fromont appeared, Risler smiled sadly and shook his head.

"I thought that you would prefer to come down in his place; but you
are not the one with whom I have to deal.

It is absolutely necessary that I should see Georges and talk with
him.

We have paid the notes that fell due this morning; the crisis has passed;
but we must come to an understanding about many matters."
"Risler, my friend, I beg you to wait a little longer."
"Why, Madame Chorche, there's not a minute to lose.

Oh! I suspect that you fear I may give way to an outbreak of anger.
Have no fear--let him have no fear.

You know what I told you, that the honor of the house of Fromont
is to be assured before my own.

I have endangered it by my fault. First of all, I must repair the evil
I have done or allowed to be done."

"Your conduct toward us is worthy of all admiration, my good Risler;
I know it well."
"Oh! Madame, if you could see him!

he's a saint," said poor Sigismond, who, not daring to speak to his
friend, was determined at all events to express his remorse.

"But aren't you afraid?" continued Claire. "Human endurance has its
limits.

It may be that in presence of the man who has injured you so--"
Risler took her hands, gazed into her eyes with grave admiration,
and said:
"You dear creature, who speak of nothing but the injury done to me!

Do you not know that I hate him as bitterly for his falseness to
you? But nothing of that sort has any existence for me at this moment.
You see in me simply a business man who wishes to have an understanding
with his partner for the good of the firm.

So let him come down without the slightest fear, and if you dread any
outbreak on my part, stay here with us.

I shall need only to look at my old master's daughter to be reminded
of my promise and my duty."

"I trust you, my friend," said Claire; and she went up to bring her
husband.

The first minute of the interview was terrible. Georges was deeply
moved, humiliated, pale as death. He would have preferred a hundred
times over to be looking into the barrel of that man's pistol at
twenty paces, awaiting his fire, instead of appearing before him
as an unpunished culprit and being compelled to confine his feelings
within the commonplace limits of a business conversation.

Risler pretended not to look at him, and continued to pace the floor
as he talked:

"Our house is passing through a terrible crisis.

We have averted the disaster for to-day; but this is not the last
of our obligations.

That cursed invention has kept my mind away from the business for a
long while. Luckily, I am free now, and able to attend to it. But you
must give your attention to it as well. The workmen and clerks have
followed the example of their employers to some extent. Indeed, they
have become extremely negligent and indifferent.

This morning, for the first time in a year, they began work at the
proper time.

I expect that you will make it your business to change all that. As
for me, I shall work at my drawings again. Our patterns are
old-fashioned.

We must have new ones for the new machines. I have great confidence in
our presses. The experiments have succeeded beyond my hopes. We
unquestionably have in them a means of building up our business. I
didn't tell you sooner because I wished to surprise you; but we
have no more surprises for each other, have we, Georges?"
There was such a stinging note of irony in his voice that Claire
shuddered, fearing an outbreak; but he continued, in his natural
tone.

"Yes, I think I can promise that in six months the Risler Press will
begin to show magnificent results. But those six months will be very
hard to live through.

We must limit ourselves, cut down our expenses, save in every way
that we can.

We have five draughtsmen now; hereafter we will have but two. I will
undertake to make the absence of the others of no consequence by
working at night myself. Furthermore, beginning with this month, I
abandon my interest in the firm.

I will take my salary as foreman as I took it before, and nothing
more."
Fromont attempted to speak, but a gesture from his wife restrained
him, and Risler continued:

"I am no longer your partner, Georges.

I am once more the clerk that I never should have ceased to be. From
this day our partnership articles are cancelled. I insist upon it,
you understand; I insist upon it. We will remain in that relation
to each other until the house is out of difficulty and I can-- But
what I shall do then concerns me alone.

This is what I wanted to say to you, Georges. You must give your attention
to the factory diligently; you must show yourself, make it felt that
you are master now, and I believe there will turn out to be, among
all our misfortunes, some that can be retrieved."

During the silence that followed, they heard the sound of wheels
in the garden, and two great furniture vans stopped at the door.

"I beg your pardon," said Risler, "but I must leave you a moment.

Those are the vans from the public auction rooms; they have come to
take away my furniture from upstairs."

"What! you are going to sell your furniture too?" asked Madame
Fromont.

"Certainly--to the last piece.

I am simply giving it back to the firm.
It belongs to it."

"But that is impossible," said Georges. "I can not allow that."
Risler turned upon him indignantly.

"What's that? What is it that you can't allow?"

Claire checked him with an imploring gesture.

"True--true!"

he muttered; and he hurried from the room to escape the sudden
temptation to give vent to all that was in his heart.

The second floor was deserted. The servants, who had been
paid and dismissed in the morning, had abandoned the apartments to
the disorder of the day following a ball; and they wore the aspect
peculiar to places where a drama has been enacted, and which are
left in suspense, as it were, between the events that have happened
and those that are still to happen.

The open doors, the rugs lying in heaps in the corners, the salvers
laden with glasses, the preparations for the supper, the table still
set and untouched, the dust from the dancing on all the furniture,
its odor mingled with the fumes of punch, of withered
flowers, of rice- powder--all these details attracted Risler's notice
as he entered.

In the disordered salon the piano was open, the bacchanal from
'Orphee aux Enfers' on the music-shelf, and the gaudy hangings
surrounding that scene of desolation, the chairs overturned, as if
in fear, reminded one of the saloon of a wrecked packet-boat, of
one of those ghostly nights of watching when one is suddenly informed,
in the midst of a fete at sea, that the ship has sprung a leak,
that she is taking in water in every part.

The men began to remove the furniture. Risler watched them at work with
an indifferent air, as if he were in a stranger's house. That
magnificence which had once made him so happy and proud inspired
in him now an insurmountable disgust.

But, when he entered his wife's bedroom, he was conscious of a
vague emotion.

It was a large room, hung with blue satin under white lace. A veritable
cocotte's nest. There were torn and rumpled tulle ruffles lying
about, bows, and artificial flowers. The wax candles around the
mirror had burned down to the end and cracked the candlesticks;
and the bed, with its lace flounces and valances, its great curtains
raised and drawn back, untouched in the general confusion, seemed
like the bed of a corpse, a state bed on which no one would ever
sleep again.

Risler's first feeling upon entering the room was one of mad indignation,
a longing to fall upon the things before him, to tear and rend and
shatter everything.

Nothing, you see, resembles a woman so much as her bedroom. Even when
she is absent, her image still smiles in the mirrors that have reflected
it. A little something of her, of her favorite perfume, remains in
everything she has touched. Her attitudes are reproduced in the
cushions of her couch, and one can follow her goings and comings
between the mirror and the toilette table in the pattern of the
carpet.

The one thing above all others in that room that recalled Sidonie was
an 'etagere' covered with childish toys, petty, trivial knickknacks,
microscopic fans, dolls' tea-sets, gilded shoes, little shepherds
and shepherdesses facing one another, exchanging cold, gleaming,
porcelain glances.

That 'etagere' was Sidonie's very soul, and her thoughts, always
commonplace, petty, vain, and empty, resembled those gewgaws.

Yes, in very truth, if Risler, while he held her in his grasp last
night, had in his frenzy broken that fragile little head, a whole
world of 'etagere' ornaments would have come from it in place of a
brain.

The poor man was thinking sadly of all these things amid the ringing
of hammers and the heavy footsteps of the furniture-movers, when
he heard an interloping, authoritative step behind him, and Monsieur
Chebe appeared, little Monsieur Chebe, flushed and breathless,
with flames darting from his eyes.

He assumed, as always, a very high tone with his son-in-law.

"What does this mean? What is this I hear? Ah! so you're moving, are
you?"
"I am not moving, Monsieur Chebe--I am selling out."
The little man gave a leap like a scalded fish.

"You are selling out? What are you selling, pray?"

"I am selling everything," said Risler in a hollow voice,
without even looking at him.

"Come, come, son-in-law, be reasonable. God knows I don't say that
Sidonie's conduct-- But, for my part, I know nothing about it. I
never wanted to know anything. Only I must remind you of your
dignity. People wash their dirty linen in private, deuce take it!
They don't make spectacles of themselves as you've been doing ever
since morning.

Just see everybody at the workshop windows; and on the porch,
too! Why, you're the talk of the quarter, my dear fellow."
"So much the better. The dishonor was public, the reparation must be
public, too."
This apparent coolness, this indifference to all his observations,
exasperated Monsieur Chebe. He suddenly changed his tactics, and
adopted, in addressing his son-in-law, the serious, peremptory tone
which one uses with children or lunatics.

"Well, I say that you haven't any right to take anything away from
here.
I remonstrate formally, with all my strength as a man, with all my
authority as a father.

Do you suppose I am going to let you drive my child into the street.
No, indeed! Oh! no, indeed! Enough of such nonsense as that! Nothing
more shall go out of these rooms."
And Monsieur Chebe, having closed the door, planted himself in front
of it with a heroic gesture. Deuce take it! his own interest was at
stake in the matter. The fact was that when his child was once in the
gutter he ran great risk of not having a feather bed to sleep on
himself. He was superb in that attitude of an indignant father, but
he did not keep it long. Two hands, two vises, seized his wrists,
and he found himself in the middle of the room, leaving the doorway
clear for the workmen.

"Chebe, my boy, just listen," said Risler, leaning over him. "I am at
the end of my forbearance. Since this morning I have been
making superhuman efforts to restrain myself, but it would take
very little now to make my anger burst all bonds, and woe to the
man on whom it falls!

I am quite capable of killing some one. Come! Be off at once!

--"
There was such an intonation in his son-in-law's voice, and the way
that son-in-law shook him as he spoke was so eloquent, that Monsieur
Chebe was fully convinced. He even stammered an apology.

Certainly Risler had good reason for acting as he had. All honorable
people would be on his side. And he backed toward the door as he
spoke. When he reached it, he inquired timidly if Madame Chebe's
little allowance would be continued.

"Yes," was Risler's reply, "but never go beyond it, for my position
here is not what it was.

I am no longer a partner in the house."
Monsieur Chebe stared at him in amazement, and assumed the idiotic
expression which led many people to believe that the accident that
had happened to him--exactly like that of the Duc d'Orleans, you
know--was not a fable of his own invention; but he dared not make
the slightest observation.

Surely some one had changed his son-in-law. Was this really Risler,
this tiger-cat, who bristled up at the slightest word and talked of
nothing less than killing people?

He took to his heels, recovered his self-possession at the foot of
the stairs, and walked across the courtyard with the air of a
conqueror.

When all the rooms were cleared and empty, Risler walked through them
for the last time, then took the key and went down to Planus's
office to hand it to Madame Georges.

"I want a piece of Mis' Bennett's pie," said she. "Mother, I want a
piece of Mis' Bennett's pie!"

The younger, viewing the one piece of pie remaining in the plate and
her clamorous sister, raised her own jealous little pipe. "I want a
piece of Mis' Bennett's pie," she proclaimed, pulling her mother's
sleeve. "Mother, can't I have a piece of Mis' Bennett's pie?"

Flora's face was very red, and her mouth was twitching. She hastily
pushed her own pie to the elder child, and gave the last piece on the
plate to the younger. Their grandmother frowned on them like a rock,
but they ate their pie unconcernedly.

"I think Mis' Bennett's pie is a good deal better than grandma's,"
said the younger little girl, smacking her lips contemplatively; and
Flora gave a half-chuckle, while her mother's severity of mien so
deepened that she seemed to cast an actual shadow.

"Now, Flora, I tell you what 'tis," said she, when the meal was at
last over and the guests were gone--they took their leave very soon
afterward--"if you don't punish them children, I shall."

There was a wail of terror from the little girls. "Oh, mother, you do
it, you do it!" cried they.

Flora giggled audibly.

"You'll just spoil them children," said her mother, severely; "you
ought to be ashamed of yourself, Flora."

Flora tried to draw her face into gravity. "Go right upstairs,
children," said she. "It's so funny, I can't help it," she whispered,
with another furtive giggle.

"I don't see anything very funny in children's actin' the way they
have all dinner-time."

The children thumped merrily over the stairs. It was clear that they
stood in no great fear of their mother's chastisement. They knew by
experience that her hand was very soft, and the force of its fall
tempered by mirth and tender considerateness; their grandmother's
fleshless and muscular old palm was another matter.

Soon after Flora followed them there was a series of arduous cries,
apparently maintained more from a childish sense of the fitness of
things than from any actual stress of pain. They soon ceased.

"She ain't half whipped 'em," Mrs. Lowe, who was listening
downstairs, said to herself.

The lawyer was in his office; he had intrenched himself there as soon
as possible, covering his retreat with the departure of his guests.

Mrs. Field and Lois, removed from it all the distance of tragedy from
comedy, were walking up the street to the Maxwell house. Mrs. Field
stalked ahead with her resolute stiffness; Lois followed after her,
keeping always several paces behind. No matter how often Mrs. Field,
sternly conscious of it, slackened her own pace, Lois never gained
upon her.

When they reached the gate at the entrance of the Maxwell grounds,
and Mrs. Field stopped, Lois spoke up.

"What place is this?" said she, in a defiantly timorous voice.

"The Maxwell house," replied her mother, shortly, turning up the
walk.

"Are you going in here?"

"Of course I am."

"Well, I ain't going in one step."

Mrs. Field turned and faced her. "Lois," said she, "if you want to go
away an' desert the mother that's showin' herself willin' to die for
you, you can."

Lois said not another word. She turned in at the gate, with her eyes
fixed upon her mother's face.

"I'll tell you about it when we get up to the house," said her
mother, with appealing conciliation.

Lois slunk mutely behind her again. Her eyes were full of the impulse
of flight when she watched her mother unlock the house door, but she
followed her in.

Her mother led the way into the sitting-room. "Sit down," said she.

And Lois sat down in the nearest chair. She never took her eyes off
her mother.

Mrs. Field took off her bonnet and shawl. She folded the shawl
carefully in the creases, and laid it on the table. She pulled up a
curtain. Then she turned, and confronted steadily her daughter's
eyes. The whole house to her was full of the clamor of their
questioning. "Now, Lois," said Mrs. Field, "I'm goin' to tell you
about this. I s'pose you think it's funny."

"I don't know what to think of it," said Lois, in a dry voice.

"I don't s'pose you do. Well, I'm goin' to tell you. You know, I
s'pose, that Mr. Tuxbury took me for your aunt Esther. You heard him
call me Mis' Maxwell?"

Lois nodded; her dilated eyes never wavered from her mother's face.

"I s'pose you heard what he was sayin' to me when you come in. Lois,
I didn't tell him I was your aunt Esther. The minute I come in, he
took me for her, an' Mis' Henry Maxwell come into his office, an' she
did, and so did Mr. Tuxbury's sister. I wa'n't goin' to tell them I
wa'n't her."

The impulse of flight in Lois' watchful eyes became so strong that it
seemed almost to communicate to her muscles. With her face still
turned toward her mother, she appeared to be fleeing from her.

Mrs. Field stood her ground stanchly. "No, I wa'n't," she went on.
"An' I'll tell you why. I'm goin' to have that fifteen hundred
dollars of your poor father's earnin's that I lent your uncle out of
this property, an' this is all the way to do it, an' I'm goin' to do
it."

"I thought," gasped Lois--"I thought maybe it belonged to us anyway
if Aunt Esther was dead."

"It didn't. The money was all left to old Mr. Maxwell's niece in case
Esther died first."

"Couldn't you have asked the lawyer about the fifteen hundred
dollars? Wouldn't he have given you some? O mother!"

"I was goin' to if he hadn't took me for her, but it wouldn't have
done any good. They wouldn't have been obliged to pay it, an' folks
ain't fond of payin' over money when they ain't obliged to. I'd been
a fool to have asked him after he took me for her."

"Then--you'd got this--all planned?"

Her mother took her up sharply.

"No, I hadn't got it all planned," said she. "I don't deny it come
into my head. I knew how much folks said I looked like Esther, but I
didn't go so far as to plan it; there needn't anybody say I did."

"You ain't going to take the money?"

"I'm goin' to take that fifteen hundred dollars out of it."

"Mother, you ain't going to stay here, and make folks think you're
Aunt Esther?"

"Yes, I am."

Then all Lois' horror and terror manifested themselves in one cry--"O
mother!"

Mrs. Field never flinched. "If you want to act so an' feel so about
it, you can," said she. "Your mother is some older than you, an' she
knows what is right jest about as well as you can tell her. I've
thought it all over. That fifteen hundred dollars was money your poor
father worked hard to earn. I lent it to your uncle Edward, an' he
lost it. I never see a dollar of it afterward. He never paid me a
cent of interest money. It ain't anything more'n fair that I should
be paid for it out of his father's property. If poor Esther had
lived, the money'd gone to her, an' she'd paid me fast enough. Now
the way's opened for me to get it, I ain't goin' to let it go. Talk
about it's bein' right, if it ain't right to stoop down an' pick up
anybody's just dues, I don't know what right is, for my part."

"Mother!"

"What say?"

"You ain't going to live here in this house, and not go back to Green
River?"

"I don't see any need of goin' back to Green River. This is a 'nough
sight prettier place than Green River. Now you're down here, I don't
see any sense in layin' out money to go back at all. Mandy'll send
our things down."

"You don't mean to stay right along here in this house, and not go
back to Green River at all?"

"I don't see why it ain't jest as well. You'd better take off your
things an' lay down a little while on that sofa there, an' get
rested."

Lois seldom cried, but she burst out now in a piteous wail. "O
mother," sobbed she, "what does it mean? I can't-- What does it mean?
Oh, I'm so frightened! Mother, you frighten me so! What does it
mean?"

Her mother went up to her, and stood close at her side. "Lois," said
she, with trembling solemnity, "can't you trust mother?"

"O mother, I don't know! I don't know! You frighten me dreadfully."
Lois shrank away from her mother as she wept.

Mrs. Field stood over her, but she did not offer to touch her.
Indeed, this New England mother and daughter rarely or never caressed
each other. "Lois, dear child, mother don't want you to feel so. Oh,
you dear child, you dear child, you don't know what mother's goin'
through. But it ain't anything to you. Lois, you remember that; it
ain't anything you've done. It's all my doin's. I'm jest goin' to get
that money back. An' it's right I should. Don't you worry nothin'
about it. Now take your hat off, an' let mother tuck you up on the
sofa."

Lois, sobbing still, began pulling off her hat mechanically. Her
mother got a pillow, and she lay down on the sofa, turning her face
to the wall with another outburst of tears. Her mother spread her
black shawl carefully over her.

"Now you lay here still, an' get rested," said she. "I'm goin' out in
the kitchen, an' see if I can't start up a fire an' get something for
supper."

Mrs. Field went out of the room. Soon her tall black figure sped
stealthily past the windows out of the yard. She found a grocery
store, and purchased some small necessaries. There were groceries
already in the pantry at the Maxwell house. She had spied them, but
would not touch a single article. She bought some tea, and when she
returned, replaced the drawing she had taken that morning from the
Maxwell caddy.

The old woman's will, always vigorous, never giving place to another
except through its own choice, now whipped by this great stress into
a fierce impetus, carried her daughter's, strong as it was for a
young girl, before it. Lois lay quietly on the sofa. When her mother
called her, she went out in the kitchen and ate her supper.

They retired early. Lois lay on the sofa until her mother came in and
stood over her with a lighted lamp.

"I guess you'd better get up and go to bed now, Lois," said she. "I'm
goin' myself, if it is early. I'm pretty tired."

And Lois stirred herself wearily and got up.

There were two adjoining bedrooms opening out of the sitting-room.
Mrs. Field had prepared the beds that afternoon. "I thought we'd
better sleep in here," said she, leading the way to them.

Lois had the inner room. After the lamp was blown out and everything
was dark, her mother heard a soft stir and the pat of a naked foot in
there, then she heard the door swing to with a cautious creak and the
bolt slide. She knew with a great pang, that Lois had locked her door
against her mother.


Chapter V


Elliot was only a little way from the coast, and sometimes seemed to
be pervaded by the very spirit of the sea. The air would be full of
salt vigor, the horizon sky take on the level, out-reaching blue of a
water distance, and the clouds stand one way like white sails.

The next morning Lois sat on the front door-step of the Maxwell
house, between the pillars of the porch. She bent over, leaning her
elbows on her knees, making a cup of her hands, in which she rested
her little face. She could smell the sea, and also the pines in the
yard. There were many old pine trees, and their soft musical roar
sounded high overhead. The spring air in Green River had been full of
sweet moisture and earthiness from these steaming meadow-lands.
Always in Green River, above the almond scent of the flowering trees
and the live breath of the new grass, came that earthy, moist odor,
like a reminder of the grave. Here in Elliot one smelled the spring
above the earth.

The gate clicked, and a woman came up the curving path with a kind of
clumsy dignity. She was tall and narrow-shouldered, but heavy-hipped;
her black skirt flounced as she walked. She stopped in front of Lois,
and looked at her hesitatingly. Lois arose.

"Good-mornin'," said the woman. Her voice was gentle; she cleared her
throat a little after she spoke.

"Good-morning," returned Lois, faintly.

"Is Mis' Maxwell to home?"

Lois stared at her.

"Is Mis' Maxwell to home? I heard she'd come here to live," repeated
the woman, in a deprecating way. She smoothed down the folds of her
over-skirt. Lois started; the color spread over her face and neck.
"No, she isn't at home," she said sharply.

"Do you know when she will be?"

"No, I don't."

The woman's face also was flushed. She turned about with a little
flirt, when suddenly a door slammed somewhere in the house. The woman
faced about, with a look of indignant surprise.

Lois said nothing. She opened the front door and went into the house,
straight through to the kitchen, where her mother was preparing
breakfast. "There's a woman out there," she said.

"Who is it?"

"I don't know. She wants to see--Mrs. Maxwell."

Lois looked full at her mother; her eyes were like an angel's before
evil. Mrs. Field looked back at her. Then she turned toward the door.

Lois caught hold of her mother's dress. Mrs. Field twitched it away
fiercely, and passed on into the sitting-room. The woman stood there
waiting. She had followed Lois in.

"How do you do, Mis' Maxwell?" she said.

"I'm pretty well, thank you," replied Mrs. Field, looking at her with
stiff inquiry.

The woman had a pale, pretty face, and stood with a sturdy set-back
on her heels. "I guess you don't know me, Mis' Maxwell," said she,
smiling deprecatingly.

Mrs. Field tried to smile, but her lips were too stiff. "I guess
I--don't," she faltered.

The smile faded from the woman's face. She cast an anxious glance at
her own face in the glass over the mantel-shelf; she had placed
herself so she could see it. "I ain't got quite so much color as I
used to have," she said, "but I ain't thought I'd changed much other
ways. Some days I have more color. I know I ain't this mornin'. I
ain't had very good health. Maybe that's the reason you don't know
me."

Mrs. Field muttered a feeble assent.

"I'd know you anywhere, but you didn't have any color to lose to make
a difference. You've always looked jest the way you do now since I've
known you. I lived in this house a whole year with you once. I come
here to live after Mr. Maxwell's wife died. My name is Jay."

Mrs. Field stood staring. The woman, who had been looking in the
glass while she talked, gave her front hair a little shake, and
turned toward her inquiringly.

"Won't you sit down in this rockin'-chair, Mis' Jay?" said Mrs.
Field.

"No, thank you, I guess I won't set down, I'm in a little of a hurry.
I jest wanted to see you a minute."

Mrs. Field waited.

"You know Mr. Maxwell's dyin' so sudden made a good deal of a change
for me," Mrs. Jay continued. She took out her handkerchief and wiped
her eyes softly; then she glanced in the glass. "I'd had my home here
a good many years, an' it seemed hard to lose it all in a minute so.
There he came home that Sunday noon an' eat a hearty dinner, an'
before sunset he had that shock, and never spoke afterward. I've
thought maybe there were things he would have said if he could have
spoke."

Mrs. Jay sighed heavily; her eyes reddened; she straightened her
bonnet absently; her silvered fair hair was frizzed under it.

Mrs. Field stood opposite, her eyes downcast, her face rigid.

"I wanted to speak to you, Mis' Maxwell," the other woman went on. "I
ain't obliged to go out anywheres to live; I've got property; but
it's kind of lonesome at my sister's, where I'm livin'. It's a little
out of the village, an' there ain't much passin'. I like to be where
I can see passin', an' get out to meetin' easy if it's bad weather.
I've been thinkin'--I didn't know but maybe you'd like to have me--I
heard you had some trouble with your hands, an' your niece wa'n't
well--that I might be willin' to come an' stay three or four weeks. I
shouldn't want to promise to stay very long."

"I ain't never been in the habit of keepin' help," returned Mrs.
Field. "I've always done my own work."

The other woman's face flushed deeply; she moved toward the door. "I
don't know as anything was said about keepin' help," said she. "I
ain't never considered myself help. There ain't any need of my goin'
out to live. I've got enough to live on, an' I've got good clothes.
I've got a black silk stiff enough to stand alone; cost three dollars
a yard. I paid seven dollars to have it made up, and the lace on it
cost a dollar a yard. I ain't obliged to be at anybody's beck and
call."

"I hope I ain't said anything to hurt your feelin's," said Mrs.
Field, following her into the entry. "I've always done my own work,
an'--"

"We won't speak of it again," said Mrs. Jay. "I'll bid you
good-mornin', Mis' Maxwell."  Her voice shook, she held up her black
skirt, and never looked around as she went down the steps.

Mrs. Field returned to the kitchen. Lois sat beside the window, her
head leaning against the sash, looking out. Her mother took some
biscuits out of the stove oven and set them on the table with the
coffee. "Breakfast is ready," said she.

She sat down at the table. Lois never stirred.

"You needn't worry," said Mrs. Field, in a sarcastic voice;
"everything on this table is bought with your own money. I went out
last night and got some flour. There's a whole barrelful in the
buttery, but I didn't touch it."

Lois drew her chair up to the table, and ate a biscuit and drank a
cup of coffee without saying a word. Her eyes were set straight
ahead; all her pale features seemed to point out sharply; her whole
face had the look of a wedge that could pierce fate. After breakfast
she went out of the room, and returned shortly with her hat on.

"Mother," said she.

"What is it?"

"You'd better know what I'm going to do."

"What are you goin' to do?"

"I'm goin' down to that lawyer's office, and--tell him."  Lois turned
toward the door.

"I s'pose you know all you're goin' to do," said her mother, in a
hard voice.

"I'm going to tell the truth," returned Lois, fiercely.

"You're goin' to put your mother in State's prison."

Lois stopped. "Mother, you can't make me believe that."

"It's true, whether you believe it or not. I don't know anything
about law, but I'm sure enough of that."

Lois stood looking at her mother. "Then I'll put you there," said
she, in a cruel voice. "That's where you ought to go, mother."

She went out of the room, and shut the door hard behind her; then she
kept on through the house to the front porch, and sat down. She sat
there all the morning, huddled up against a pillar. Her mother worked
about the house; Lois could hear her now and then, and every time she
shuddered. She had a feeling that the woman in the house was not her
mother. Had she been familiar with the vampire superstition, she
might have thought of that, and had a fancy that some fiend animated
the sober, rigid body of the old New England woman with evil and
abnormal life.

At noon Lois went in and ate some dinner mechanically; then she
returned. Presently, as she sat there, a bell began tolling, and a
funeral procession passed along the road below. Lois watched it
listlessly--the black-draped hearse, the slow-marching bearers, the
close-covered wagons, and the nodding horses. She could see it
plainly through the thin spring branches. It was quite a long
procession; she watched it until it passed. The cemetery was only a
little way below the house, on the same side of the street. By
twisting her head a little, she could have seen the black throng at
the gate.

After a while the hearse and the carriages went past on their
homeward road at a lively pace, the gate clicked, and Mrs. Jane
Maxwell and a young man came up the walk.

Lois stood up shrinkingly as they approached, the door behind her
opened, and she heard her mother's voice.

"Good-afternoon," said Mrs. Field, with rigid ceremony, her mouth
widened in a smile.

"Good-afternoon, Esther," returned Mrs. Maxwell. "I've been to the
funeral, an' I thought I'd jest run in a minute on my way home. I
wanted to ask you an' your niece to come over an' take tea to-morrow.
Flora, she'd come, but she didn't get out to the funeral. This is my
nephew, Francis Arms, my sister's son. I s'pose you remember him when
he was a little boy."

Mrs. Field bowed primly to the young man. The old lady was eying
Lois. "I s'pose this is your niece, Esther? I heard she'd come," she
said, with sharp graciousness.

"This is Miss Lois Field; I'll make you acquainted, Mis' Maxwell,"
replied Mrs. Field.

Mrs. Maxwell reached out her hand, and Lois took it trembling; her
little girlish figure drooped before them all.

"She don't look much like you, Esther. I s'pose she takes after her
mother," said Mrs. Maxwell.

"I think she rather favors her father's folks," said Mrs. Field.

"I heard she wa'n't very well, but seems to me she looks pretty
smart."

"She ain't been well at all," returned Mrs. Field, in a quick,
resentful manner.

"Well, I guess she'll pick up here; Elliot's a real healthy place.
She must come over and see us real often. This is my nephew, Francis
Arms, Lois. I shall have to get him to beau you around and show you
the sights."

Lois glanced timidly up at the young man, and returned his bow
slightly.

"Won't you walk in?" said Mrs. Field.

Lois went into the house with the party; the old lady still held her
hand in her black-mitted one.

"I want you and my nephew to get acquainted," she whispered; "he's a
real nice young man. I'm goin' to have you an' your aunt come over
an' take tea to-morrow."

They all seated themselves in the south front room. Lois sat beside
Mrs. Maxwell on the high black sofa; her feet swung clear from the
floor. The young man, who was opposite, beside the chimney, glanced
now and then kindly across at her.

"Francis didn't have to go to the bank this afternoon," said Mrs.
Maxwell. "I don't know as I told you, Esther, but he's cashier in the
bank; he's got a real good place. Francis ain't never had anything
but a common-school education, but he's always been real smart an'
steady. Lawyer Totten's son, that's been through college, wanted the
place, but they gave it to Francis. Mr. Perry, whose mother was
buried this afternoon, is president of the bank, an' that's why it's
shut up. Francis felt as if he'd ought to go to the funeral, an' I
told him he'd better come in here with me. I suppose you remember
Francis when he was a little boy, Esther?"

"No, I guess I don't."

"Why, I should think you'd be likely to. He lived with me when you
was here. He came right after his father died, an' that was before
you came here. He was quite a big boy. I should think you'd remember
him. You sure you don't, Esther?"

"Yes, I guess I don't."

"Seems to me it's dreadful queer; I guess your memory ain't as good
as mine. I s'pose you're beginnin' to feel kind of wonted here,
Esther? It's a pretty big house, but then it ain't as if you hadn't
been here before. I s'pose it seems kind of familiar to you, if you
ain't seen it for so long; I s'pose it all comes back to you, don't
it?"

There was a pause. "No, I'm afraid it don't," said Mrs. Field her
pale severe face fronting the other woman. Although fairly started
forth in the slough of deceit, she still held up her Puritan skirts
arduously.

"It's kind of queer it don't, ain't it?" returned Mrs. Maxwell. "The
house ain't been altered any, an' the furniture's jest the same.
Thomas, he wouldn't have a thing altered; the carpet in his bedroom
is wore threadbare, but he wouldn't get a new one nohow. Mis' Jay,
she wanted him to get a new cookin'-stove, but he wouldn't hear to
it; much as ever he'd let her have a new broom. And it wa'n't because
he was stingy; it was jest because he was kind of set, an' had got
into the way of thinkin' nothin' had ought to be changed. It wa'n't
never my way; I never believed in hangin' on to old shackly things
because you've always had 'em. There ain't no use tryin' to set down
tables an' chairs as solid as the everlastin' hills. There was Mis'
Perry, she that was buried this afternoon, Mr. Perry's mother, when
she came here to live after her husband died, she sold off every
stick of her old furniture, an' got the handsomest marble-top set
that money could buy for her room. She got some pictures in gilt
frames too, and a tapestry carpet, and vases and images for her
mantel-shelf. She said folks could talk about associations all they
wanted to, she hadn't no associations with a lot of old worm-eaten
furniture; she'd rather have some that was clean an' new. H'm,
anybody to hear folks talk sometimes would think they were
blood-relations to old secretaries and bureaus."

Mrs. Maxwell screwed her face contemptuously, as if the talking folk
were before her, and there was a pause. The young man looked across
at Lois, then turned to her mother, as if about to speak, but his
aunt interposed.

"Esther," said she, "I jest wanted to ask you if there wa'n't two of
them old swell-front bureaus in the north chamber upstairs."

"I guess there is," replied Mrs. Field. She sat leaning forward
toward her callers, with her face fairly strained into hospitable
attention.

"Well, I wanted to know. I ain't come beggin', an' I'd 'nough sight
rather have a good clean new one, but I'm kind of short of bureau
drawers, an' I'd kind of like to have it because 'twas Thomas'. I
wonder if you wouldn't jest as soon I'd have one of them bureaus?"

Mrs. Field's face gleamed suddenly. "You can have it jest as well as
not," said she.

"Well, there's another thing. I kind of hate to speak about it. Flora
said I shouldn't; but I said I would, whether or no. I know you'd
rather I would. There's a set of blue china dishes that Nancy, that's
Thomas' wife, you know, always said Flora should have when she got
done with them. Thomas, he never said anything about it after Nancy
died. I didn't know but he might make mention of it in the will. But
we all know how that was. I ain't findin' no fault, an' I ain't
begrudgin' anything."

"You can have the dishes jest as well as not," returned Mrs. Field,
eagerly.

"Well, I didn't know as you'd value them much. I s'posed you'd rather
get some new ones. You can get real handsome ones now for ten
dollars. Silsbee's got an elegant set in his window. Of course folks
that can afford them would rather have them. But I s'pose Flora would
think considerable of that old set because it belonged to her aunt
Nancy. There's one or two other things I was thinkin' of, but it
don't matter about those to-day. It's a beautiful day, ain't it?"

"What be they?" asked Mrs. Field. "If there's anything you want,
you're welcome to it."

Mrs. Maxwell glanced at her nephew. He was looking out of the window,
with his forehead knitted and his lips compressed. Lois had just
thought how cross he looked. "You ain't been out to see anything of
the town, have you, Lois?" asked Mrs. Maxwell, sweetly.

Lois started. "No, ma'am," she said, faintly.

"You ain't been into the graveyard, I s'pose?"

"No, ma'am."

"You'd ought to go in there an' see the Mason monument. Francis,
don't you want to go over there with her an' show her the Mason
monument?"

Francis rose promptly.

"I guess I'd rather not," Lois said, hurriedly.

"Oh, you run right along!" cried Mrs. Maxwell. "You'll want to see
the flowers on Mis' Perry's grave, too. I never saw such handsome
flowers as they had, an' they carried them all to the grave. Get your
hat, and run right along, it'll do you good."

"You'd better," said the young man, smiling pleasantly down at Lois.

She got up and left the room, and presently returned with her hat on.

"Don't sit down on the damp ground," Mrs. Field said as the two went
out. And her voice sounded more like herself than it had done since
she left Green River.

Lois walked gravely down the street beside Francis Arms. She had
never had any masculine attention. This was the first time she had
ever walked alone with a young man. The authors of these books
having made out a case which was adopted as the national one, it
is nowise surprising that they should hand over Drake and Attwood
to the hangman for attempting to demolish it.]

On May 5, 1686, M. Claude's account of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew
was burnt in the Old Exchange, "so mighty a power and ascendant
here had the French ambassador." (Evelyn's _Memoirs_.)
JOHN S. BURN.

* * * * *
PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

_Stereoscopic Angles._--As I presume that MR. T. L. MERRITT is, like
myself, only desirous of arriving at truth, I beg to offer the
following reply to his last communication (Vol. viii., pp. 275-6.),
in which he misinterprets some observations of mine upon the subject
in question.

With regard to the distance quoted by me of 2¼ inches, I look
upon it as the same thing as intended by MR.

MERRITT--that is, the _average_ distance between the centres of the
eyes; and it amounts simply to a difference of _opinion_ between
us; but, so far as that point is concerned, I am quite ready to
adopt 2½ inches as a standard, although I believe that the former
is nearer the truth: however, I require more than a mere _assertion_
that "the _only_ correct space for the cameras to be apart is 2½
inches, and this under every circumstance, and that _any_ departure
from this _must_ produce error."

I quote verbatim, having merely Italicised three words to point
my meaning more clearly. An object being 5 feet distant, and
another at 10 feet from the observer, a line between the eyes will
subtend a very _much larger_ angle in the former than in the
latter instance: hence the inclination of the axes of the eyes is
the chief criterion by which people with the usual complement of
those useful organs judge of proximity: but if half a dozen houses are
made to appear as if 10 or 12 feet distant (by means of the increase
of the angle between the points of formation of the pictures), while
the angle which each picture subtends is relatively small; it is
clear that both eyes will see in relief at a short distance half a
dozen houses in a space not large enough for a single brick of one
of them, and, _consequently_, _the view will appear as if taken
from a model_.

MR.

MERRITT will object that an erroneous effect is produced; if
he will refer to my statement (Vol. viii., p. 228.), he will find
that it is precisely what I admitted; and he appears to have
overlooked the _proviso_ attached to my next observation (judging
by his comment thereon), so I shall make no farther remark upon
that point, beyond inquiring why the defect he is content to put
up with is called a _trifling exaggeration_, while that which is
less offensive to me is designated as _absolute deformity_ and error?

Persons with one eye are _not good judges_ of distance, and this
may be easily tested thus:--Close one eye, and endeavour to dip a
pen in an inkstand at some little distance not previously ascertained
by experiment, with both eyes open; it will be found far less easy
than would be imagined.

One-eyed people, from habit, contrive to judge of distance mainly
by _relative position_, and by moving the head _laterally_ cause
a change therein: to them, all pictures are, to an extent,
stereoscopic.

I am really amazed that my advocacy of the radial, instead of the
parallel, position of the cameras should have been so misunderstood.

Surely, it cannot be seriously asserted that the former will
produce _two_ vanishing points, and the latter only one?

And as to the supposition connected with the boy, the ass, and the
drum, a camera that would produce the effect of showing both sides
of the ass, both legs of the boy, and both heads of the drum, _with
a movement of only 2½ inches_, whether radially or parallel, would
indeed be a curiosity.

But if the motion of the camera extended over a space sufficiently
large to exhibit the phenomena alluded to, then it would confirm
what I have before advanced, viz. present the idea of a _small
model_ of the objects, which could be so placed as to show naturally
these very effects.

That the axes of the eyes are inclined when viewing objects, is
readily proved thus:--Let a person look across the road at any
object--say a shop-window; but stand so that a _lamp-post near him_
shall intervene, and be in a _direct line_ between the observer's
nose and the object viewed.

If he be requested to observe the post instead of the distant object,
the pupils of his eyes will be seen to approach one another; and
on again looking to the distant object, will instantly recede.

The _range_ of vision is another point that appears to be misunderstood,
as we are differing about words instead of facts.

The column is an illustration that will _exactly_ suit my views; for
I call the _range_ of vision the same if taken from side to side
of the column, although it is perfectly true that the tangents to the
two eyes differ by the angle they subtend: but certainly MR.

WILKINSON'S case (Vol. viii., p. 181.) of seven houses and five
bathing-machines in one picture, and five houses and eight machines
in the other, illustrates an instance where the range of vision is
not the same; but I contend that the stereoscopic effect is then
_confined_ to five {349} houses and five machines, otherwise MR.

WILKINSON'S supposititious case (_ibid._), of all machines in one,
and all houses in the other, might be considered as stereoscopic.

In concluding this very lengthened and, I fear, tedious reply, I
beg to assert that I am most willing to recant any proposition I
may have put forth, if _proved_ to be erroneous; but I must have
proof, not mere assertion.

And farther, my willing thanks are always tendered to any one kind
enough to correct an error.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

_Mr. Pumphrey's Process for securing black Tints in Positives._--The
importance that appears to be attached by some of thy correspondents
to the stereoscopic appearance of photographs, induces me to call
the attention of those who may not have noticed it to the fact that,
as all camera pictures are monocular, they are best seen by closing
one eye, and then they truly represent nature; and the effect of
distance (which so often appears wanting in photographs) is given
with marvellous effect, so well indeed as to render the use of a
stereoscope unnecessary.

Like other photographers, I have been long seeking for a method, easy,
cheap, and certain, for obtaining the black tints that are so
highly prized by many in the French positives; and having at last
attained the object of my search, I lose no time in laying it before
my fellow-operators.

I obtain these results with a twenty-grain solution of nitrate of
silver, a fact that will, I think, commend the plan to most operators.

Thou wilt be able to judge of the result from the inclosed
specimen.[7] I use Canson's paper, either albumenized or plain (but
the former is far preferable).

If albumen is used, I dilute it with an equal measure of water, and
add half a grain of common salt (chloride of sodium) to each ounce
of the mixture.

This is applied to the paper with a soft flat brush, and all bubbles
removed, by allowing a slender stream of the mixture to flow over
its surface: it is then hung up to dry, and afterwards the albumen
is coagulated with a hot iron.

If the paper is used plain, a solution of common salt (half a grain
to one ounce of water) is placed in a shallow tray, and the paper
floated on its surface for a minute, and then hung up to dry.

Excite, in either case, with an ammonio-nitrate of silver solution
(twenty grains to one ounce of water), by floating the paper,
prepared side downwards, for one minute, and hang up to dry.

Print tolerably strongly, and the proof will be of a reddish-brown.
Fix in tolerably strong solution of hypo. sodæ (I never weigh my
hypo., so cannot give the proportion), that either has been in use
some time, or else, if new, has been nearly saturated with darkened
chloride of silver.

When fixed, remove the proofs into another vessel of the same
solution of hypo., to which has been added chloride of gold and
acetic acid.

The way I do this is to dissolve one drachm of chloride of gold in
two and a half ounces (1200 minims) of water. Of this I take twenty
minims (which will contain one grain Au Cl_3) and forty minims
of acetic acid (Beaufoy's) for every dozen proofs (of the size of 7 ×
9 in.), that I mean to operate on, and having mixed the gold and
acetic acid with the solution of hypo., place the proofs in it till
they attain the desired colour: they are then to be washed and dried
in the usual way.

Knowing that so cheap and easy a process for obtaining these tints
would have been a great boon to me a short time since, I lose no
time in communicating this to the readers of "N. & Q."

I shall feel a pleasure in explaining the plan more in detail to
any photographer who may feel disposed to drop me a line.

WILLIAM PUMPHREY.

Osbaldwick, near York.

[Footnote 7: The specimens forwarded by MR.

PUMPHREY are most satisfactory.--ED.]
* * * * *

Replies to Minor Queries.

_Baskerville the Printer_ (Vol. viii., p. 203.).--In reply to MR.
ELLIOTT'S inquiry, I beg to say that Baskerville the printer was
merely named as one who had directed his interment in unconsecrated
ground.

The exact place of his burial was not deemed a point of importance,
but it having been questioned, I am able to state that the spot was
correctly described by me.

Nichols, in his _Literary Anecdotes_ (vol. viii. p. 456.), tells
us that "Baskerville was buried in a tomb of masonry, in the shape
of a cone, _under a windmill_ in his garden; on the top of this
windmill, after it fell into disuse, he had erected an urn, and had
prepared an inscription," of which MR.

ELLIOTT has given a portion.

In his will, dated January 6, 1773, he directs his body "to be
buried in a conical building heretofore used as a _mill_, which I
have lately raised higher, and painted and prepared for it."

It seems somewhat surprising that one, who shocked even John
Wilkes as "a terrible infidel," should have printed a most beautiful
folio Bible, at an expense of 2000l., and three or more editions
of the Book of Common Prayer.

Still more, in 1762, he tells Walpole that he had a grant from the
University of Cambridge to print their 8vo. and 12mo. Common Prayer
Books, and that for this privilege he laboured under heavy liabilities
to the University.

Baskerville doubtless regarded these books with a tradesman's eye,
indifferent to the subjects of the works issued from his press,
provided they sold. It would, however, be very unjust to this
admirable printer to name him without praise for the distinguished
beauty of his typography: it was clear and elegant, and he
{350} was most curious in the choice both of his paper and ink.

J. H. M.

_Lines on Woman_ (Vol. viii., p. 204.).--The four beautiful lines
which W. V. cites are the conclusion of a poem entitled "Woman,"
written by Eton Barrett. About the close of the last century, Eton
Barrett and his younger brother Richard Barrett were at a private
school on Wandsworth Common. My brothers and I were their schoolfellows.
The Barretts were Irish boys; I think (but I speak very doubtfully)
from Cork.

Eton Barrett was a boy of more than ordinary talent. He was a genius
among the lesser lights around him.

I remember his writing a play with prologue and epilogue, which was
performed before the master and his family, &c., with so much
success, that the master prohibited any future dramatic performances,
fearing, that he might incur blame for encouraging too much taste
for the theatre.

Our master gave up his school before the year 1800. Eton Barrett, a
great many years ago, published a little volume of poems, of which
"Woman" was one.

I do not remember that I ever met him since our school-days.

I have heard that he adopted Tory politics in Ireland, and that his
brother attached himself to O'Connell, and conducted some newspaper;
but this is mere report. Allow me to take this opportunity for observing,
that many of the communications to "N. & Q.," such as those in
which matters of fact are stated, ought, it may justly be urged,
to be authenticated by the signature of the contributor.

I feel the truth of this so strongly, that, though I do not sign my
name, yet I have thought it right to make myself known to you, so
that you know the person who contributes under the signature 
F.

W. J.

_Haulf-naked_ (Vol. viii., p. 205.).--The manor house of Halnaker,
adjoining Walberton and Goodwood, is thus spoken of by Dallaway in
his _Hist. of Sussex_, "Rape of Chichester," p. 131.:--"Halnaker,
called in _Domesday_ 'Halneche,' and in writings of very ancient
date Halnac, Halnaked, and Halfnaked." Then follows a short
description of the old manor-house.

It has been lately visited by the Archæological Association, under
the direction of Lord Talbot de Malahide; and it is probable that
the industrious antiquaries of Sussex will soon give us a more
detailed account of it in their next volume of _Transactions_.

M. (2.)

_Cambridge and Ireland_ (Vol. viii., p. 270.).--The story of Irish
merchants _landing_ at Cambridge is "very like a whale," "touched
upon the deserts of Bohemia."

I think, however, that I can trace the source of this glaring and
oft-repeated error, as there really exists a documentary connexion
between Irish cloth and the town of Cambridge.

Referring to a collection of notes on the ancient commerce and
manufactures of Ireland, which I have lately made, I find--cited
as an instance of the general use of Irish cloth in England at an
early period--that Henry IV., in 1410, gave a royal grant of tolls,
for the purpose of paving the town of Cambridge; in which, among
other articles, Irish cloth is taxed at the rate of twopence per
hundred.

The grant, "De villa Cantabrigiæ paveanda," will be found in
Rymer's _Foedera_.

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

_Autobiographical Sketch_ (Vol. vii., p. 477.).--The fragments found
by CHEVERELLS are parts of _The Library of Useless Knowledge_, by
Athanasius Gasker, Esq., F.R.S., &c.: London, W. Pickering, 1837.

H. J.

_Archbishop Chichely_ (Vol. viii., p. 198).--The Statute Book of All
Souls College; Robert Hoveden's _Life of Chichely_; and the
respective Lives by Arthur Duck and O.

L. Spencer, have all been examined for the date of Henry Chichely's
birth, but without success.

The most probable conjecture is, that he was born in 1362; since in
1442 (see his "Letter to Pope Eugenius," printed in the Appendix
to Spencer's _Life_) he describes himself as having either completed
or entered upon his eightieth year.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

"_Discovery of the Inquisition_" (Vol. viii., p. 137.).

--It is a mistake to suppose that all John Day's publications are
rare.

Montanus's _Discovery and playne Declaration of sundry subtill
Practices of the Holy Inquisition of Spayne, newly translated_,
4to., 1568, is not uncommon.

Herbert and Heber possessed copies; and a copy sold at Saunders's
in 1818 for five shillings. My own copy (a remarkably fine one)
cost sixteen shillings at Evans's in 1840.

The edition of 1569, containing some additions, is of greater
rarity.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_Divining Rod_ (Vol. viii., p. 293.).

--In the first edition of his _Mathematical Recreations_, Hutton
laughed at the divining rod.

In the interval between that and the second edition, a lady made him
change his note, by using one before him at Woolwich. Hutton had the
courage to publish the account of the experiment in the second
edition (vol. iv. pp.
216-231.), after the account he had previously given.

By a letter from Hutton to Bruce, printed in the memoir of the
former which the latter wrote, it appears that the lady was Lady
Milbanke.

M.

"_Pinece with a stink_" (Vol. viii, p. 270.).

--Archbishop Bramhall's editor should have spelled the first word
_pinnace_, and then your correspondent MR. BLAKISTON could easily
have understood the {351} allusion. In speaking of the offensive
composition, well known to sailors, the word _revenge_, and not
_defend_, was used by Bramhall.

R. G.

_Longevity_ (Vol. viii., p. 113.).--I do not think any of your
correspondents has noticed the case of John Whethamstede, Abbot of
St.
Albans, who wrote a Chronicle of the period between 1441 and 1461:
"He was ordained a priest in 1382, and died in 1464, when he had been
eighty-two years in priest's orders, and was above one hundred years
old." Surely this is a case sufficiently authenticated for your more
sceptical readers.
(Henry's _History of Great Britain_, 2nd ed., Lond. 1788, vol. x. p.
132.)
TEWARS.

_Chronograms_ (Vol. viii., pp. 42. 280.).

--The following additional specimen of this once popular form of numerical
puzzle is not, I think, unworthy a corner in "N. & Q."
On the upper border of a sun-dial, affixed to the west end of
Nantwich Church, Cheshire, there appeared, previous to its removal
about 1800, the undermentioned inscription:

"Honor DoMIno pro paCe popVLo sVo parta."
Now, seeing that Nantwich was, during the civil dissensions which
culminated in the murder of Charles I., a rampant hot-bed of anarchy
and rebellion, we should hardly be prepared for such a complete
repudiation of those principles as is conveyed in the line before
us, did we not know that the same anxiety to get rid of the
"Bare-bones" incubus universally prevailed.

The numerals, it will be seen, make up the number 1661, which was the
year of the coronation of King Charles II.; and, no doubt, also the
year in which the dial in question was erected.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

_Heraldic Notes_ (Vol. viii., p. 265.).

--The bearing of the arms of Clare Hall by Dr. Blythe is not
strictly correct, because, with the exception of the three principal
Kings of Arms, the Earl Marshal, the Master of Ordnance, and a few
others especially, arms of office do not exist in England.

The general mode of bearing them is by impalement, giving the
preference (dexter) to the arms of dignity. In the example under
notice, the arms of dignity or office are borne upon a _pile_,
which has somewhat the appearance of an inverted chevron. It is not
at all a common mode of bearing additions; but I remember one case,
viz. the grant by King Henry VIII. to the Seymours, after his
marriage to Lady Jane, of the lions of England on a pile.

BROCTUNA.

Bury, Lancashire.

_Christian Names_ (Vol. vii. _passim_).--May I be permitted to correct
one or two errors in MR. BATES'S Note on this subject, Vol. vii.
p. 627.?

The person described as a "certain M. L-P. Saint-Florentin" was no
less a person than the Duke de la Vrillière, who filled several
important offices during the reign of Louis XV.

The allusion in the epigram to his "trois noms" has no reference to
his _names_, whether Christian or patronymic, in the sense in which
the question has been discussed in "N. & Q.," but to the three
_titles_ which he successively bore as a public man.

He commenced his career as M. de Phélippeaux; was afterwards created
Comte de Saint-Florentin, and sometime before his death was raised
to the dignity of Duke de la Vrillière.

Thomas he wouldn't never have a new
thing in the house; he was terrible set and notional about it and he
was terrible tight with his money. I don't care if I do say it;
everybody knows it; an' I don't see why it's any worse to say things
that's true about the dead than the livin'. With some folks it's all
'Oh, don't say nothin'; he's dead. Cover it all up; he's buried an'
bury it too, an' set all the roses an' pinks a-growin' over it.'  I
tell you sometimes nettles will sprout, an' when they do, it don't
make it any better to call 'em pinks. Thomas Maxwell was terrible
tight. I ain't forgot how he talked because we bought this parlor
furniture and put big lights in the windows, an' had that iron fence.
Then my poor husband had gone into business with your husband, an'
they seemed to be making money. Why shouldn't he have bought a few
things we'd always done without, I'd like to know? You remember what
a time the old man made when we bought these things, Esther, I
suppose?"

"I can't say as I do," returned Mrs. Field.

"Why, seems to me it's funny you don't. You sure?"

Mrs. Field nodded.

"Well, it's queer you don't. He made an awful time over it; but the
worst of it was over that image out in the yard. I b'lieve he always
thought my poor husband and yours failed up because we bought that
image. There was one thing about it, your husband wa'n't never
extravagant, though, was he? Thomas Maxwell couldn't say his son
wasted his money, whatever else he said. Your husband was always
prudent, wa'n't he, Esther?"

"Yes, I always thought Edward Maxwell was prudent," returned Mrs.
Field.

Lois, staring soberly and miserably out of the window, saw just then
a stout girlish figure, leant to one side with the weight of a
valise, pass hurriedly out of the yard. She wondered if it was Flora
Maxwell, and watched the pink flowers in her hat and the blue folds
of her dress out of sight down the street.

"I guess your husband took after his father a little; I guess he was
a little savin'," said Mrs. Maxwell. "I know Edward looked kind of
scared when he came over one night an' saw that image just after we'd
got it set up, an' he asked how much it cost. It did cost
considerable. We didn't ever tell anybody just how much; but I didn't
care; I'd always wanted one; an' I made up my mind I'd rather have
that if I had to go without some other things. An' my husband wanted
it too; he was one of the Maxwells, you know, an' I think they all
had a taste for such things if they wa'n't too tight to get 'em. As
for me, I had to do without all my young days, an' I have to now
except for the few things we got together along then when my poor
husband seemed to be prospering; but I've always been crazy over
images, an' I've always thought one in a front yard was about the
most ornamental thing anybody could have. I've told Flora a good many
times that I believed if I'd had advantages when I was young, I
should have made images. Don't you think that one's handsome,
Esther?"

"Real handsome," said Mrs. Field.

"Some folks have found fault with it because it didn't have more
clothes on, but it ain't as if it was in a cemetery. Of course it
would have to be dressed different if it was. An' it ain't anything
but marble, when you come right down to it. I think there's such a
thing as bein' too particular, for my part, don't you?"

"Yes, I do," replied Mrs. Field, looking out at the marble figure.

"Well, I do. Mis' Jay said, after my husband died, that she should
think I'd like to put up that image for a kind of monument for him. I
didn't feel as if I could put up anything more than stones; but I did
think a little of it, and I knew if I did, I should have to have some
wings made on it, and a cape or a shawl over the neck and arms; but
out here it's different. I look out at it a good many times, an' I'm
thankful it ain't got any more on, clothes do get so out of fashion.
You know how they look in photographs sometimes. I s'pose that's the
reason that the men who make these images don't put any more on.
There! I must show you my photograph album, Esther."

Mrs. Maxwell took a heavy album with gilt clasps from the
centre-table, and drew a chair close to Mrs. Field.

"Now you get a chair, an' come on the other side, Lois," said she,
"an' I can show 'em to both of you."

Lois obeyed, and Mrs. Maxwell turned over the album leaves and
explained the pictures.

"This is a lady I used to know," said she. "She lived in North
Elliot. She's dead now. That's her husband; he's married again. His
second wife's kind of silly. Ain't much like the first one. She was a
real stepper. That's Flora Lowe's baby--the first one--an' that's
Flora. I think it flatters her. That's my Flora. It ain't very good.
She looks terrible sober. There's my poor husband. I s'pose you
remember him, Esther? Of course you know how he used to look. Do you
think it's a good likeness?"

"I don't know. I guess it's pretty good, ain't it?" stammered Mrs.
Field.

"Well, some think it is, and some don't. I ain't never liked it very
well myself, but it was all I had. It was taken some years before he
died. I guess jest about the time you was down here. There! I s'pose
you know whose this is?"

It was her own photograph that Mrs. Field leant over and saw, and
Lois on the other side saw it also.

"Yes, I guess I do," she said.

"Was it a pretty good one of your sister?"

There was a strange gulping sound in Mrs. Field's throat. She did not
answer. Mrs. Maxwell thought she did not hear, and repeated her
question.

"No, I don't think 'twas, very," said Mrs. Field hoarsely.

"Well, of course I don't know. I never see her. You remember you gave
this to me when you was here. I always thought you must look alike,
judging from your pictures. I never see pictures so much alike in my
life. I don't know how many folks have thought they were taken for
the same person, an' I've always thought so too. If anything your
sister's picture looks more like you than your own does; but I've
always told which was which by that breast-pin in your sister's. Why,
you've got on that breast-pin now, ain't you, Esther?"

"Yes, I have," said Mrs. Field.

"I s'pose your sister left it to you. Well, Lois wouldn't want to
wear it as I know of. It's rather old for her. Why, Lois, what's the
matter?"

Lois had gotten up abruptly. "I guess I'll go over to the window,"
said she, in a quick trembling voice.

Mrs. Maxwell looked at her sharply. "Why, you're dreadful pale. You
ain't faint, are you?"

"No, ma'am."

Mrs. Field turned over another page of the album. Her pale face had a
hard, indifferent look. Mrs. Maxwell nudged her, and nodded toward
Lois in the window.

"She looks dreadful," she whispered.

"I don't see as she looks any worse than she's been doin' right
along," said Mrs. Field, without lowering her voice. "What baby is
this?"

"It's Mis' Robinson's; it's dead. Hadn't I better get her something
to take? I've got some currant wine. Maybe a little of that would do
her good."

"No, thank you; I don't care for any," Lois interposed quickly.

"Hadn't you better have a little? You look real pale."

"No, thank you."

"Now you needn't mind takin' it, Lois, if you do belong to any
temperance society. It wouldn't go to the head of a baby kitten."

"I'm just as much obliged, but I don't care for any," said Lois.

Mrs. Maxwell turned over a page of the album. "That's Mis' Robinson's
sister. She's dead too. She married a man over at Milton, an' didn't
live a year," she said ostentatiously. "Hadn't I better get her a
little?" she whispered.

"Mebbe it would do her good, if you've got it to spare," Mrs. Field
whispered back.

"Here's the minister's little boy that died," said Mrs. Maxwell. "He
wasn't sick but a day. He ate milk an' cherries. I wonder where Flora
is? She didn't have a thing to do but comb her hair and change her
dress. I guess I'll go call her."

Mrs. Maxwell's face was frowning with innocent purpose, but there was
a sly note in her voice. She hurried out of the room and they heard
her call, "Flora! Flora!" in the entry. Then they heard her footsteps
on the cellar stairs.

Lois turned to her mother. "Mother," said she, "I can't stand it--I
can't stand it anyway in the world."

Her mother turned over another page of the photograph album. She
looked at a faded picture of a middle-aged woman, whose severe and
melancholy face seemed to have betrayed all the sadness and toil of
her whole life to the camera. She noted deliberately the
old-fashioned sweep of the skirt quite across the little card, and
the obsolete sleeves, then she spoke as if she were talking to the
picture: "I'm a-followin' out my own law an' my own right," said she.
"I ain't ashamed of it. If you want to be you can."

"It's awful. Oh, mother, don't!"

"A good many things are awful," said her mother. "Injustice is awful;
if you want to set yourself up against your mother, you can. I've
laid out this road that's just an' right, an' I'm goin' on it; you
can do jest as you're a-mind to. If you want to tell her when she
comes back, you can. I ain't ashamed of it, for I know I'm doin' what
is just an' right."

Mrs. Field noted how the photographed woman's dress was trimmed with
fringe, after the fashion of one she had worn twenty years ago.

Lois looked across the room at her mother's pale, stern face bending
over the album. The garlands on Mrs. Maxwell's parlor carpet might
have been the flora of a whole age, she and her mother seemed so far
apart, with that recession of soul which can cover more than earthly
spaces. To the young girl with her scared, indignant eyes the older
woman seemed actually living and breathing under new conditions in
some strange element.

"Flora, Flora, where be you?" Mrs. Maxwell called out in the entry.

They heard her climbing the chamber stairs; but she soon came into
the parlor with a little glass of currant wine.

"Here, you'd better drink this right down," she said to Lois; "it
won't hurt you. I don't see where Flora is, for my part. She ain't
upstairs. Drink it right down."

Lois drank the little glass of wine without any demur. Her mother
glanced sharply at the album as she took it.

"I can't imagine where Flora is," said Mrs. Maxwell.

"I saw somebody go out of the yard a while ago," said Lois.

"You did? Was she kind of stout with light hair?"

"Yes, 'm."

"It was Flora then. I don't see where she's gone. Mebbe she went down
to the store to get some more thread for her tidy. Now I guess you'll
feel better."

"Who's this a picture of?" asked Mrs. Field.

"Hold it up. Oh, that's Mis' John Robbins! She's dead. Yes, I guess
Flora must have gone after that thread. She'll show you how to make
that tidy, Lois, if you want to learn; it's real handsome. I guess
she'll be here before long."

But when Mrs. Maxwell had shown her guests all the photographs in the
album and a book of views in Palestine, and it was nearly four
o'clock, Flora still had not come.

"Do you see anybody comin'?"  Mrs. Maxwell kept asking Lois at the
window.

Before Mrs. Maxwell spoke, a nervous vibration seemed to seize upon
her whole body. She cleared her throat sharply. It was like a
premonitory click of machinery before motion, and Lois waited, numb
with fear, for what she might say. Suppose she should suddenly
suspect, and should cry out, "Is this woman here Esther Maxwell?"

But all Mrs. Maxwell's thoughts were on her absent daughter. "I don't
see where she is," said she. "Here she's got to make cream-tarter
biscuits for tea, an' it's 'most time for the folks to come."

"I'm afraid we came too early," said Mrs. Field.

"Oh, no, you didn't," returned Mrs. Maxwell politely. "It ain't half
as pleasant goin' as late as they do here when they're asked out to
tea. You don't see anything of 'em; they begin to eat jest as soon as
they come, an' it seems as if that was all they come for. The
old-fashioned way of goin' right after dinner, an' takin' your
sewin's, a good deal better, accordin' to my way of thinkin', but
they ain't done so for years here. Elliot is a pretty fashionable
place. I s'pose it must be very different up in Green River, where
you come from?"

"Yes, I guess 'tis," said Mrs. Field.

The front gate clicked, and Mrs. Maxwell peered cautiously around a
lace curtain. Two ladies in their best black dresses came up the
walk, stepping with a pleasant ceremony.

"There's Mis' Isaac Robbins an' Ann 'Liza White," Mrs. Maxwell
whispered agitatedly. "I shall have to go right out in the kitchen
an' make them biscuits the minute they get here. I don't see what
Flora Maxwell is thinkin' of."

Mrs. Maxwell greeted her friends at the door with a dignified bustle,
showed them into her bedroom to lay aside their bonnets; then she
introduced them to Mrs. Field and Lois in the parlor.

"There!" said she; "now I've got to let you entertain each other a
few minutes. I've got something to see to. Flora she's stepped out,
an' I guess she's forgot how late 'tis."

After Mrs. Maxwell had left the room, the guests sat around with a
kind of solemn primness as if they were in meeting; they seemed
almost hostile. The elder of the new-comers took out her knitting,
and fell to work. She was a tall, pale, severely wrinkled woman, and
a ruffled trimming on her dress gave her high shoulders a curiously
girlish air. Finally the woman who had come with her asked pantingly
how Mrs. Field liked Elliot, and if she thought it changed much. The
color flashed over her little face, with its softly scalloping
profile, as she spoke. Her hair was crimped in even waves. She wore
nice white ruching in her neck and sleeves, and flat satin folds
crossed each other exactly over her flat chest. Her nervous
self-consciousness did not ruffle her fine order, and she did not
smile as she spoke.

"I like it pretty well," replied Mrs. Field. "I dunno as I can tell
whether it's changed much or not."  She knitted fast.

"The meetin'-house has been made over since you was here,"
volunteered the elder woman. She did not look up from her knitting.

Presently Lois, at the window, saw Mr. Tuxbury's sister, Mrs. Lowe,
coming, and the minister's wife, hurrying with a voluminous swing of
her skirts, in her wake. The minister's wife had been calling, but
Mrs. Lowe, who was a little deaf, had not heard her, and it was not
until she shut the iron gate almost in her face that she saw her.
Then the two came up the walk together. Lois watched them. The coming
of all these people was to her like the closing in of a crowd of
witnesses, and for her guilt instead of her mother's. The minister's
wife looked up and nodded graciously to her, setting the bunch of red
and white cherries on her bonnet trembling. Lois inclined her pale
young face soberly in response.

"That girl looks sick," said the minister's wife to Mrs. Lowe.

There was no more silence and primness after the minister's wife
entered. Her florid face beamed on them all with masterly smiles. She
put the glasses fastened to her high satin bosom with a gold chain to
her eyes, and began sewing on a white apron. "I meant to have come
before," said she, "and brought my sewing and had a real sociable
time, but one thing after another has delayed me; and I don't know
when Mr. Wheeler will get here; I left him with a caller. But we have
been delayed very pleasantly in one respect;" she looked smilingly
and significantly at Mrs. Maxwell.

All the other ladies stared. Mrs. Maxwell, standing in their midst,
with a large cambric apron over her dress, and a powder of flour on
one cheek, looked wonderingly back at the minister's wife.

"I suppose you all know what I mean?" said Mrs. Wheeler, still
smiling. "I suppose Mrs. Maxwell has not kept the glad tidings to
herself."  In spite of her smiling face, there was a slight doubt and
hesitancy in her manner.

Mrs. Maxwell's old face suddenly paled, and at the same time grew
alert. Her black eyes, on Mrs. Wheeler's face, were sharply bright.

"Mebbe I have, an' mebbe I ain't," said she, and she smiled too.

"Well," said the minister's wife, "I told Flora that her mother must
be a brave woman to invite company to tea the afternoon her daughter
was married, and I thought we all ought to appreciate it."

The other women gasped. Mrs. Maxwell's face was yellow-white in its
framework of curls; there was a curious noise in her throat, like a
premonitory click of a clock before striking.

"Well," said she, "Flora 'd had this day set for the weddin' for six
months. When her uncle died, we talked a little about puttin' of it
off, but she thought 'twas a bad sign. So it seemed best for her to
get married without any fuss at all about it. An' I thought if I had
a little company to tea, it would do as well as a weddin'."

Mrs. Maxwell's old black eyes travelled slowly and unflinchingly
around the company, resting on each in turn as if she had with each a
bout of single combat. The other women's eyes were full of scared
questionings as they met hers.

"They got off in the three-o'clock train," remarked the minister's
wife, trying to speak easily.

"That was the one they'd talked of," said Mrs. Maxwell calmly. "Now I
guess I shall have to leave you ladies to entertain each other a few
minutes."

When Mrs. Maxwell had left the room, the ladies stared at each other.

"Do you s'pose she didn't know about it?" whispered Mrs. Lowe.

"I don't know," whispered the minister's wife. "I was very much
afraid she didn't at first. I began to feel very nervous. I knew Mr.
Wheeler would have been much distressed if he had suspected anything
clandestine."

"Did she have a new dress?" asked Mrs. Robbins.

"No," replied the minister's wife; "and that was one thing that made
me suspicious. She wore her old blue one, but George Freeman wore a
nice new suit."

"I heard," said Mrs. Lowe, "that Flora had all her under-clothes made
before old Mr. Maxwell died, an' she hadn't got any of her dresses. I
had it pretty straight. She told my Flora."

"I had heard that the wedding was postponed on account of Mr.
Maxwell's death, and so I was a little surprised when Mr. Wheeler
came to me and said they were in the parlor to be married," said the
minister's wife; "but I put on my dress as quick as I could, and went
in to witness it."

"How did Flora appear?" asked Mrs. Lowe.

"Well, I thought she looked rather sober, but I don't know as she
looked any more so than girls usually do when they're married. I have
seen them come to the parsonage looking more as if they were going to
their own funerals than their weddings, they were so scared and quiet
and sober. Now Flora--"  The minister's wife stopped short, she heard
Mrs. Maxwell coming and she turned the conversation with a jolt of
conscience into another channel. "Yes, it is very dry," said she
effusively; "we need rain very much indeed."

The little woman with the crimped hair colored very painfully.

Mrs. Maxwell made frequent errands into the room, and her daughter's
wedding had to be discussed guardedly. Always after she went out, the
women looked at each other in an agony of inquiry.

"Do you s'pose she knew?" they whispered.

Mrs. Field said nothing; she sat grimly quiet, knitting. Lois looked
silently out of the window. Both of them knew that Mrs. Maxwell had
not known of her daughter's wedding. Presently a man's voice could be
heard out in the kitchen.

"It's Francis," said Mrs. Lowe. "I wonder if he knew?"

Lois started, and blushed softly, but nobody noticed her.

There was a deep silence in the parlor; the women were listening to
the hum of voices in the kitchen.

"Don't you think it's dreadful close here?" said Mrs. Lowe.

"Yes, I think it is," assented the minister's wife.

"I think it would be a good plan to open the door a little ways,"
said Mrs. Lowe, and she opened it cautiously.

Still they could distinguish nothing from the hum of voices out in
the kitchen.

Mrs. Maxwell was in reality speaking low lest they should hear,
although she was clutching her nephew's arm hard, and the veins in
her thin temples and her throat were swelling purple. When he had
entered she had sprung at him. "Did you hear about it? I want to know
if you knew about it," said she, grasping his arm with her wiry
fingers, as if she were trying to wreak her anger on him.

"Knew about what?" said Francis wonderingly. "What is the matter,
Aunt Jane?"

"Did you know Flora went to the minister's and got married this
afternoon?"

"No," said Francis slowly, "I didn't; but I knew she would, well
enough."

"Did Flora tell you?"

"No, she didn't tell me, but I knew she wouldn't do anything else."

"Knew she wouldn't do anything else? I'd like to know what you're
talkin' about, Francis Arms."

"I knew as long as she was Flora Maxwell, and her wedding was set for
to-day three months ago, it wasn't very likely that old Mr. Maxwell's
dying and not leaving her his money, and your not liking it, was
going to stop her."

"Hadn't it ought to have stopped her? Hadn't the wishes of a mother
that's slaved for her all her life, and didn't want her to get
married without a silk gown to her back to a man that ain't any
prospects of being able to buy her any, ought to have stopped her,
I'd like to know?"

"I guess Flora didn't think much about silk gowns, Aunt Jane," said
Francis, and his face reddened a little. "I guess she didn't think
much about anything but George."

"George! What's George Freeman? What's all the Freemans? I ain't
never liked them. They wa'n't never up to our folks. His mother ain't
never had a black silk dress to her name--never had a thing better
than black cashmere, an' they ain't never had a thing but oil-cloth
in their front entry, an' the Perry's ain't never noticed them
either. I ain't never wanted Flora to go into that family. I never
felt as if she was lookin' high enough, an' I knew George couldn't
get no kind of a livin' jest being clerk in Mason's store. But I felt
different about it before Thomas died, for I thought she'd have money
enough of her own, an' she was gettin' a little on in years, and
George was good-lookin' enough. After Thomas died an' left all his
money to Edward's wife, I hadn't an idea Flora would be such a fool
as to think of marryin' George Freeman. She'd been better off if
she'd never been married. I thought she'd given up all notions of
it."

"Well, don't you worry, Aunt Jane," said Francis in a hearty voice.
"Make the best of it. I guess they'll get along all right. If George
can't buy Flora a silk dress I will. I'd have bought her one anyway
if I'd known."

"You can stand up for her all you want to, Francis Arms," cried his
aunt. "It's nothin' more than I ought to expect. What do you s'pose
I'm goin' to do? Here I am with all these folks to tea an' Flora
gone. She might have waited till to-morrow. Here they are all pryin'
an' suspectin'. But they shan't know if I die for it. They shan't
know that good-for-nothin' girl went off an' got married unbeknown to
me. They've had enough to crow over because we didn't get Thomas
Maxwell's money; they shan't have this nohow. You'll have to lend me
some money, an' I'm goin' to Boston to-morrow an' I'm goin' to buy a
silk dress for Flora an' get it made, so she can go out bride when
she comes home; an' they've got to come here an' board. I might jest
as well have the board-money as them Freemans, an' folks shan't think
we ain't on good terms. Can you let me have some money to-morrow
mornin'?"

"Of course I can, Aunt Jane," said Francis soothingly. "I'll make
Flora a wedding-present of it."

Thanks to him, the factory bell, notwithstanding the quavering of its
old, cracked voice, had very soon resumed its authority; and the man
who guided the whole establishment denied himself the slightest
recreation.
Sober as an apprentice, he left three-fourths of his salary with
Planus for the Chebes' allowance, but he never asked any questions
about them.
Punctually on the last day of the month the little man appeared to
collect his little income, stiff and formal in his dealings with
Sigismond, as became an annuitant on duty.

Madame Chebe had tried to obtain an interview with her son-in-law,
whom she pitied and loved; but the mere appearance of her palm-leaf
shawl on the steps put Sidonie's husband to flight.

In truth, the courage with which he armed himself was more apparent
than real.

The memory of his wife never left him. What had become of her?

What was she doing?

He was almost angry with Planus for never mentioning her. That letter,
above all things, that letter which he had had the courage not to
open, disturbed him. He thought of it continually. Ah!
had he dared, how he would have liked to ask Sigismond for it!

One day the temptation was too strong. He was alone in the office.

The old cashier had gone out to luncheon, leaving the key in his
drawer, a most extraordinary thing.

Risler could not resist. He opened the drawer, moved the papers, and
searched for his letter. It was not there.
Sigismond must have put it away even more carefully, perhaps with
a foreboding of what actually happened.

In his heart Risler was not sorry for his disappointment; for he
well knew that, had he found the letter, it would have been the end
of the resigned and busy life which he imposed upon himself with
so much difficulty.

Through the week it was all very well. Life was endurable, absorbed
by the innumerable duties of the factory, and so fatiguing that,
when night came, Risler fell on his bed like a lifeless mass.

But Sunday was long and sad.

The silence of the deserted yards and workshops opened a far wider
field to his thoughts.

He tried to busy himself, but he missed the encouragement of the
others' work.

He alone was busy in that great, empty factory whose very breath
was arrested.

The locked doors, the closed blinds, the hoarse voice of Pere
Achille playing with his dog in the deserted courtyard, all spoke
of solitude.

And the whole neighborhood also produced the same effect. In the
streets, which seemed wider because of their emptiness, and where
the passers-by were few and silent, the bells ringing for vespers
had a melancholy sound, and sometimes an echo of the din of Paris,
rumbling wheels, a belated hand- organ, the click of a toy-peddler's
clappers, broke the silence, as if to make it even more noticeable.

Risler would try to invent new combinations of flowers and leaves, and,
while he handled his pencil, his thoughts, not finding sufficient
food there, would escape him, would fly back to his past happiness,
to his hopeless misfortunes, would suffer martyrdom, and then, on
returning, would ask the poor somnambulist, still seated at his table:
"What have you done in my absence?" Alas! he had done nothing.

Oh!

the long, heartbreaking, cruel Sundays! Consider that, mingled with
all these perplexities in his mind, was the superstitious reverence
of the common people for holy days, for the twenty-four hours of
rest, wherein one recovers strength and courage. If he had gone
out, the sight of a workingman with his wife and child would have
made him weep, but his monastic seclusion gave him other forms of
suffering, the despair of recluses, their terrible outbreaks of
rebellion when the god to whom they have consecrated themselves
does not respond to their sacrifices.

Now, Risler's god was work, and as he no longer found comfort or
serenity therein, he no longer believed in it, but cursed it.

Often in those hours of mental struggle the door of the draughting-room
would open gently and Claire Fromont would appear. The poor man's
loneliness throughout those long Sunday afternoons filled her with
compassion, and she would come with her little girl to keep him
company, knowing by experience how contagious is the sweet joyousness
of children.

The little one, who could now walk alone, would slip from her mother's
arms to run to her friend.

Risler would hear the little, hurrying steps.
He would feel the light breath behind him, and instantly he would
be conscious of a soothing, rejuvenating influence.

She would throw her plump little arms around his neck with affectionate
warmth, with her artless, causeless laugh, and a kiss from that
little mouth which never had lied.

Claire Fromont, standing in the doorway, would smile as she looked
at them.

"Risler, my friend," she would say, "you must come down into the garden
a while,--you work too hard. You will be ill."
"No, no, Madame,--on the contrary, work is what saves me. It keeps
me from thinking."
Then, after a long pause, she would continue:

"Come, my dear Risler, you must try to forget."
Risler would shake his head.

"Forget? Is that possible? There are some things beyond one's strength.

A man may forgive, but he never forgets."
The child almost always succeeded in dragging him down to the garden.

He must play ball, or in the sand, with her; but her playfellow's
awkwardness and lack of enthusiasm soon impressed the little
girl.

Then she would become very sedate, contenting herself with walking
gravely between the hedges of box, with her hand in her friend's.
After a moment Risler would entirely forget that she was there; but,
although he did not realize it, the warmth of that little hand in his
had a magnetic, softening effect upon his diseased mind.

A man may forgive, but he never forgets!

Poor Claire herself knew something about it; for she had never
forgotten, notwithstanding her great courage and the conception she
had formed of her duty. To her, as to Risler; her surroundings were a
constant reminder of her sufferings. The objects amid which
she lived pitilessly reopened the wound that was ready to close.
The staircase, the garden, the courtyard, all those dumb witnesses of
her husband's sin, assumed on certain days an implacable expression.
Even the careful precaution her husband took to spare her
painful reminders, the way in which he called attention to the fact
that he no longer went out in the evening, and took pains to tell her
where he had been during the day, served only to remind her the
more forcibly of his wrong-doing. Sometimes she longed to ask him to
forbear,--to say to him: "Do not protest too much." Faith was
shattered within her, and the horrible agony of the priest who
doubts, and seeks at the same time to remain faithful to his vows,
betrayed itself in her bitter smile, her cold, uncomplaining
gentleness.

Georges was wofully unhappy. He loved his wife now. The
nobility of her character had conquered him. There was admiration in
his love, and--why not say it?--Claire's sorrow filled the place of
the coquetry which was contrary to her nature, the lack of which
had always been a defect in her husband's eyes. He was one of that
strange type of men who love to make conquests. Sidonie, capricious
and cold as she was, responded to that whim of his heart. After parting
from her with a tender farewell, he found her indifferent and
forgetful the next day, and that continual need of wooing her back
to him took the place of genuine passion.

Serenity in love bored him as a voyage without storms wearies a
sailor.

On this occasion he had been very near shipwreck with his wife,
and the danger had not passed even yet. He knew that Claire was
alienated from him and devoted entirely to the child, the only
link between them thenceforth.

Their separation made her seem lovelier, more desirable, and he exercised
all his powers of fascination to recapture her. He knew how hard a
task it would be, and that he had no ordinary, frivolous nature to
deal with.
But he did not despair.

Sometimes a vague gleam in the depths of the mild and apparently
impassive glance with which she watched his efforts, bade him hope.

As for Sidonie, he no longer thought of her. Let no one be astonished
at that abrupt mental rupture.

Those two superficial beings had nothing to attach them securely to
each other.

Georges was incapable of receiving lasting impressions unless they
were continually renewed; Sidonie, for her part, had no power to
inspire any noble or durable sentiment.

It was one of those intrigues between a cocotte and a coxcomb,
compounded of vanity and of wounded self-love, which inspire neither
devotion nor constancy, but tragic adventures, duels, suicides which
are rarely fatal, and which end in a radical cure. Perhaps, had he
seen her again, he might have had a relapse of his disease; but the
impetus of flight had carried Sidonie away so swiftly and so far
that her return was impossible.

At all events, it was a relief for him to be able to live without
lying; and the new life he was leading, a life of hard work and
self-denial, with the goal of success in the distance, was not
distasteful to him.

Luckily; for the courage and determination of both partners were
none too much to put the house on its feet once more.

The poor house of Fromont had sprung leaks on all sides.

So Pere Planus still had wretched nights, haunted by the nightmare of
notes maturing and the ominous vision of the little blue man.

But, by strict economy, they always succeeded in paying.

Soon four Risler Presses were definitively set up and used in the work
of the factory.

People began to take a deep interest in them and in the wall-paper
trade. Lyons, Caen, Rixbeim, the great centres of the industry,
were much disturbed concerning that marvellous "rotary and
dodecagonal" machine.

One fine day the Prochassons appeared, and offered three hundred
thousand francs simply for an interest in the patent
rights.

"What shall we do?" Fromont Jeune asked Risler Aine.

The latter shrugged his shoulders indifferently.

"Decide for yourself. It doesn't concern me. I am only an employe."

The words, spoken coldly, without anger, fell heavily upon Fromont's
bewildered joy, and reminded him of the gravity of a situation which
he was always on the point of forgetting.

But when he was alone with his dear Madame "Chorche," Risler advised
her not to accept the Prochassons' offer.

"Wait,--don't be in a hurry.

Later you will have a better offer."
He spoke only of them in that affair in which his own share was so
glorious.

She felt that he was preparing to cut himself adrift from their
future.

Meanwhile orders came pouring in and accumulated on their hands. The
quality of the paper, the reduced price because of the improved
methods of manufacture, made competition impossible.

There was no doubt that a colossal fortune was in store for the
house of Fromont.

The factory had resumed its former flourishing aspect and its loud,
business-like hum.
Intensely alive were all the great buildings and the hundreds of
workmen who filled them. Pere Planus never raised his nose from his
desk; one could see him from the little garden, leaning over his
great ledgers, jotting down in magnificently molded figures the
profits of the Risler press.

Risler still worked as before, without change or rest. The return of
prosperity brought no alteration in his secluded habits, and from
the highest window on the topmost floor of the house he listened
to the ceaseless roar of his machines.

He was no less gloomy, no less silent.
One day, however, it became known at the factory that the press, a
specimen of which had been sent to the great Exposition at Manchester,
had received the gold medal, whereby its success was definitely
established.

Madame Georges called Risler into the garden at the luncheon
hour, wishing to be the first to tell him the good news.

For the moment a proud smile relaxed his prematurely old, gloomy
features.

His inventor's vanity, his pride in his renown, above all, the idea
of repairing thus magnificently the wrong done to the family by his
wife, gave him a moment of true happiness.

He pressed Claire's hands and murmured, as in the old days:

"I am very happy! I am very happy!"
But what a difference in tone! He said it without enthusiasm, hopelessly,
with the satisfaction of a task accomplished, and nothing more.

The bell rang for the workmen to return, and Risler went calmly
upstairs to resume his work as on other days.

In a moment he came down again. In spite of all, that news had
excited him more than he cared to show.

He wandered about the garden, prowled around the counting-room, smiling
sadly at Pere Planus through the window.

"What ails him?" the old cashier wondered. "What does he want of me?"

At last, when night came and it was time to close the office, Risler
summoned courage to go and speak to him.

"Planus, my old friend, I should like--"
He hesitated a moment.

"I should like you to give me the--letter, you know, the little
letter and the package."

Sigismond stared at him in amazement.

In his innocence, he had imagined that Risler never thought of
Sidonie, that he had entirely forgotten her.

"What--you want--?"
"Ah! I have well earned it; I can think of myself a little now. I have
thought enough of others."
"You are right," said Planus. "Well, this is what we'll do.

The letter and package are at my house at Montrouge. If you choose,
we will go and dine together at the Palais-Royal, as in the good old
times. I will stand treat.

We'll water your medal with a bottle of wine; something choice! Then
we'll go to the house together.

You can get your trinkets, and if it's too late for you to go home,
Mademoiselle Planus, my sister, shall make up a bed for you, and you
shall pass the night with us. We are very comfortable there--it's
in the country. To-morrow morning at seven o'clock we'll come back to
the factory by the first omnibus.

Come, old fellow, give me this pleasure. If you don't, I shall think
you still bear your old Sigismond a grudge."

Risler accepted.

He cared little about celebrating the award of his medal, but he
desired to gain a few hours before opening the little letter he had
at last earned the right to read.

He must dress. That was quite a serious matter, for he had lived
in a workman's jacket during the past six months.

And what an event in the factory!

Madame Fromont was informed at once.

"Madame, Madame!

Monsieur Risler is going out!"

Claire looked at him from her window, and that tall form, bowed by
sorrow, leaning on Sigismond's arm, aroused in her a profound,
unusual emotion which she remembered ever after.

In the street people bowed to Risler with great interest.

Even their greetings warmed his heart. He was so much in need of
kindness! But the noise of vehicles made him a little dizzy.

"My head is spinning," he said to Planus:

"Lean hard on me, old fellow-don't be afraid."
And honest Planus drew himself up, escorting his friend with the
artless, unconventional pride of a peasant of the South bearing
aloft his village saint.

At last they arrived at the Palais-Royal.

The garden was full of people. They had come to hear the music, and
were trying to find seats amid clouds of dust and the scraping of
chairs.

The two friends hurried into the restaurant to avoid all that
turmoil.

They established themselves in one of the large salons on the first
floor, whence they could see the green trees, the promenaders, and
the water spurting from the fountain between the two melancholy
flower- gardens.

To Sigismond it was the ideal of luxury, that restaurant, with gilding
everywhere, around the mirrors, in the chandelier and even on the
figured wallpaper. The white napkin, the roll, the menu of a table
d'hote dinner filled his soul with joy. "We are comfortable here,
aren't we?" he said to Risler.

And he exclaimed at each of the courses of that banquet at two francs
fifty, and insisted on filling his friend's plate.

"Eat that--it's good."
The other, notwithstanding his desire to do honor to the fete, seemed
preoccupied and gazed out-of-doors.

"Do you remember, Sigismond?" he said, after a pause.

The old cashier, engrossed in his memories of long ago, of Risler's
first employment at the factory, replied:
"I should think I do remember--listen!

The first time we dined together at the Palais-Royal was in February,
'forty-six, the year we put in the planches-plates at the factory."

Risler shook his head.

"Oh!

no--I mean three years ago. It was in that room just opposite that we
dined on that memorable evening."
And he pointed to the great windows of the salon of Cafe Vefour, gleaming
in the rays of the setting sun like the chandeliers at a wedding
feast.

"Ah! yes, true," murmured Sigismond, abashed. What an unlucky idea
of his to bring his friend to a place that recalled such painful
things!

Risler, not wishing to cast a gloom upon their banquet, abruptly raised
his glass.

"Come! here's your health, my old comrade."
He tried to change the subject. But a moment later he himself
led the conversation back to it again, and asked Sigismond, in an
undertone, as if he were ashamed:

"Have you seen her?"

"Your wife? No, never."
"She hasn't written again?"
"No--never again."
"But you must have heard of her. What has she been doing these six
months? Does she live with her parents?"

"No."
Risler turned pale.

He hoped that Sidonie would have returned to her mother, that she would
have worked, as he had worked, to forget and atone.

He had often thought that he would arrange his life according to
what he should learn of her when he should have the right to speak
of her; and in one of those far- off visions of the future, which
have the vagueness of a dream, he sometimes fancied himself living
in exile with the Chebes in an unknown land, where nothing would
remind him of his past shame.

It was not a definite plan, to be sure; but the thought lived in
the depths of his mind like a hope, caused by the need that all
human creatures feel of finding their lost happiness.

"Is she in Paris?"

he asked, after a few moments' reflection.

"No. She went away three months ago. No one knows where she has gone."

Sigismond did not add that she had gone with her Cazaboni, whose name
she now bore, that they were making the circuit of the provincial
cities together, that her mother was in despair, never saw her, and
heard of her only through Delobelle. Sigismond did not deem it his
duty to mention all that, and after his last words he held his
peace.

Risler, for his part, dared ask no further questions.

While they sat there, facing each other, both embarrassed by the long
silence, the military band began to play under the trees in
the garden.
They played one of those Italian operatic overtures which seem to
have been written expressly for public open-air resorts; the
swiftly-flowing notes, as they rise into the air, blend with the
call of the swallows and the silvery plash of the fountain.

The blaring brass brings out in bold relief the mild warmth of the
closing hours of those summer days, so long and enervating in Paris;
it seems as if one could hear nothing else. The distant rumbling of
wheels, the cries of children playing, the footsteps of the
promenaders are wafted away in those resonant, gushing, refreshing
waves of melody, as useful to the people of Paris as the daily
watering of their streets.

That ain't nothin' to worry
about. Well, now, I think it's about time for us to decide whether or
no we're goin'. I've got to go home an' git supper."

"I'll do jest as the rest say," said Mrs. Green. "I s'pose I can go.
I s'pose father'll say I'd better. An' Abby she was all for it, when
I spoke about it to her. She thinks she can have the Fay girl over to
stay with her, an' she wants me to buy her a dress in Boston, instead
of gettin' it here."

"Well," said Amanda, with a sigh--she was quite pale--"I'll think of
it."

"We've got to make up our minds," said Mrs. Babcock sharply. "There
ain't time for much thinkin'. The excursion starts a day after
to-morrow."

"I'll have my mind made up to-morrow mornin'," said Amanda. "I've got
to think of it over-night, anyhow. I can't start right up an' say
I'll go, without a minute to think about it."  Her voice trembled
nervously, but decision underlay it.

"I don't see why it ain't time enough if we decide to-morrow morning.
I'd ruther like to think of it a little while longer," said Mrs.
Green.

Mrs. Babcock got up. "Well," said she, "I'll send Adoniram round
to-morrow mornin', an' you tell him what you've decided. I guess I
shall go whether or no. I've got three men folks to leave, an' it's a
good deal more of an undertakin' for me than some, but I ain't easy
scart. I b'lieve in goin' once in a while."

"Well, I'll let you know in the mornin'. I jest want to think of it
over-night," repeated Amanda, with dignified apology.

She went to the door with her guests. Mrs. Babcock spread her green
umbrella, and descended the steps with a stiff side-wise motion.

"It is hotter than ever, I do believe," she groaned.

"Well, now, I was jest thinkin' it was a little grain cooler,"
returned Mrs. Green, following in her wake. Her back was meekly bent;
her face, shaded by a black sun-hat, was thrust forward with patient
persistency. "There, I feel a little breeze now," she added.

"I guess all the breeze there is, is in your own motion," retorted
Mrs. Babcock. Her green umbrella bobbed energetically. She fanned at
every step.

"Mebbe it's your fan," said the other woman.

Amanda went into the house and shut the door. She stood in the middle
of the parlor and looked around. There was a certain amaze in her
eyes, as if everything wore a new aspect. "They can talk all they've
a mind to," she muttered, "it's a great undertakin'. S'pose anything
happened? If anything happened to them whilst they were gone, there's
folks enough to home to see to things. S'pose anything happened to
me, there ain't anybody. If I go, I've got to leave this house jest
so. I've got to be sure the bureau drawers are all packed up, an'
things swept an' dusted, so folks won't make remarks. There's other
things, too. Everything's got to be thought of. There's the cat. I
s'pose I could get Abby Green to come over an' feed her, but I
dassen't trust her. Young girls ain't to be depended on. Ten chances
to one she'd get to carryin' on with that Fay girl an' forgit all
about that cat. She won't lap her milk out of anything but a clean
saucer, neither, and I don't believe Abby would look out for that.
She always seemed to me kind of heedless. I dunno about the whole of
it."

Amanda shook her head; her eyes were dilated; there was an anxious
and eager expression in her face. She went into the kitchen, kindled
the fire, and made herself a cup of tea, which she drank absently.
Risler assented to the suggestion; he had not tasted beer for six
months.

It was a former restaurant transformed into a concert-hall. There
were three large rooms, separated by gilded pillars, the partitions
having been removed; the decoration was in the Moorish style,
bright red, pale blue, with little crescents and turbans for
ornament.

Although it was still early, the place was full; and even before
entering one had a feeling of suffocation, simply from seeing the
crowds of people sitting around the tables, and at the farther end,
half-hidden by the rows of pillars, a group of white-robed women
on a raised platform, in the heat and glare of the gas.

Our two friends had much difficulty in finding seats, and had to be
content with a place behind a pillar whence they could see only half
of the platform, then occupied by a superb person in black coat
and yellow gloves, curled and waxed and oiled, who was singing in
a vibrating voice
Mes beaux lions aux crins dores, Du sang des troupeaux alteres,
Halte la!

--Je fais sentinello!

[My proud lions with golden manes Who thirst for the blood of my flocks,
Stand back!--I am on guard!]
The audience--small tradesmen of the quarter with their wives and
daughters-seemed highly enthusiastic: especially the women.

He represented so perfectly the ideal of the shopkeeper imagination,
that magnificent shepherd of the desert, who addressed lions with such
an air of authority and tended his flocks in full evening dress. And
so, despite their bourgeois bearing, their modest costumes and their
expressionless shop-girl smiles, all those women, made up their little
mouths to be caught by the hook of sentiment, and cast languishing
glances upon the singer.

It was truly comical to see that glance at the platform suddenly
change and become contemptuous and fierce as it fell upon the
husband, the poor husband tranquilly drinking a glass of beer
opposite his wife: "You would never be capable of doing sentry duty
in the very teeth of lions, and in a black coat too, and with yellow
gloves!"

And the husband's eye seemed to reply:

"Ah! 'dame', yes, he's quite a dashing buck, that fellow."
Being decidedly indifferent to heroism of that stamp, Risler and
Sigismond were drinking their beer without paying much attention
to the music, when, at the end of the song, amid the applause and
cries and uproar that followed it, Pere Planus uttered an
exclamation:
"Why, that is odd; one would say--but no, I'm not mistaken.

It is he, it's Delobelle!"
It was, in fact, the illustrious actor, whom he had discovered in
the front row near the platform.

His gray head was turned partly away from them.

He was leaning carelessly against a pillar, hat in hand, in his grand
make-up as leading man: dazzlingly white linen, hair curled with
the tongs, black coat with a camellia in the buttonhole, like the
ribbon of an order.

He glanced at the crowd from time to time with a patronizing air:
but his eyes were most frequently turned toward the platform, with
encouraging little gestures and smiles and pretended applause,
addressed to some one whom Pere Planus could not see from his seat.

"I hope
you ain't had no forewarnin' that you ain't goin' to live nor
anything," said she. "If you have, I should think you'd better stay
to home."

"I ain't had no more forewarnin' than anybody," said Amanda. "All is,
there ain't nobody in the other part of the house. The Simmonses all
went yesterday to make a visit at her mother's, and in case anything
should happen, I'm goin' to leave things lookin' so I'm willin'
anybody should see 'em."

"Well," said Mrs. Babcock, "I guess you couldn't leave things so
you'd be willin' anybody'd see 'em if you had three men folks afoul
of 'em for three days. I've got to be goin' if I git up for that
four-o'clock train in the mornin'. I've made fifteen pies an' five
loaves of bread, besides bakin' beans, to say nothin' of a great
panful of doughnuts an' some cake. I ain't been up garret nor down
cellar cleanin', an' if anything happens to me, I s'pose folks'll see
some dust and cobwebs, but I've done considerable. Adoniram's goin'
to take us all down in the covered wagon; he'll be round about
half-past four."

Amanda lighted Mrs. Babcock out the front door; then she returned to
her tasks. She did not go to bed that night. She had put her bedroom
in perfect order, and would not disturb it. She lay down on her hard
parlor sofa awhile, but she slept very little. At two o'clock she
kindled a fire, made some tea, and cooked an egg for her breakfast.
Then she arrayed herself in her best dress. She was all ready, her
bag and basket of luncheon packed and her bonnet on, at three
o'clock. She sat down and folded her hands to wait, but presently
started up. "I'm going to do it," said she. "I don't care, I am. I
can't feel easy unless I do."

She got some writing-paper and pen and ink from the chimney cupboard
and sat down at the table. She wrote rapidly, her lips pursed, her
head to one side. Then she folded the paper, wrote on the outside,
and arranged it conspicuously on the top of a leather-covered Bible
on the centre of the table. "There!" said she. "It ain't regular, I
s'pose, an' I ain't had any lawyer, but I guess they'd carry out my
wishes if anything happened to me. I ain't got nobody but Cousin
Rhoda Hill, an' Cousin Maria Bennet; an' Rhoda don't need a cent, an'
Maria'd ought to have it all. This house will make her real
comfortable, an' my clothes will fit her. I s'pose I'd have this
dress on, but my black alpaca's pretty good. I s'pose Mis' Babcock
would laugh, but I feel a good deal easier about goin'."

Amanda waited again; she blew out her lamp, for the early dawnlight
strengthened. She listened intently for wheels, and looked anxiously
at the clock. "It would be dreadful if we got left, after all," she
said.

Suddenly the covered wagon came in sight; the white horse trotted at
a good pace. Adoniram held the reins and his wife sat beside him.
Mrs. Green peered out from the back seat. "Mandy! Mandy!" Mrs.
Babcock called, before they reached the gate. But Amanda was already
on the front door-step, fitting the key in the lock.

"I'm all ready," she answered, "jest as soon as I can get the door
locked."

"We ain't got any too much time," cried Mrs. Babcock.

Amanda went down the path with her basket and black valise and
parasol. Adoniram got out and helped her into the wagon. She had to
climb over the front seat. As they drove off she leaned out and gazed
back at the house. Her tortoise-shell cat was coming around the
corner. There was in her gestures, in the way in which she
arranged the pillow under the patient's head and prepared a quieting
draught, a strange indifference, listlessness.

"But I have ruined you!" Georges said from time to time, as if to rouse
her from that apathy which made him uncomfortable. She replied with
a proud, disdainful gesture. Ah!

if he had done only that to her!

At last, however, his nerves became calmer, the fever subsided, and
he fell asleep.

She remained to attend to his wants.

"It is my duty," she said to herself.

Her duty.

She had reached that point with the man whom she had adored so blindly,
with the hope of a long and happy life together.

At that moment the ball in Sidonie's apartments began to become
very animated.

The ceiling trembled rhythmically, for Madame had had all the carpets
removed from her salons for the greater comfort of the dancers.

Sometimes, too, the sound of voices reached Claire's ears in waves, and
frequent tumultuous applause, from which one could divine the great
number of the guests, the crowded condition of the rooms.

Claire was lost in thought.

She did not waste time in regrets, in fruitless lamentations. She knew
that life was inflexible and that all the arguments in the world
will not arrest the cruel logic of its inevitable progress. She
did not ask herself how that man had succeeded in deceiving her so
long--how he could have sacrificed the honor and happiness of his
family for a mere caprice.

That was the fact, and all her reflections could not wipe it out,
could not repair the irreparable.
The subject that engrossed her thoughts was the future.

A new existence was unfolding before her eyes, dark, cruel, full of
privation and toil; and, strangely enough, the prospect of ruin,
instead of terrifying her, restored all her courage. The idea of
the change of abode made necessary by the economy they would be obliged
to practise, of work made compulsory for Georges and perhaps for
herself, infused an indefinable energy into the distressing calmness
of her despair. What a heavy burden of souls she would have with her
three children: her mother, her child, and her husband!

The feeling of responsibility prevented her giving way too much to her
misfortune, to the wreck of her love; and in proportion as she
forgot herself in the thought of the weak creatures she had to
protect she realized more fully the meaning of the word "sacrifice,"
so vague on careless lips, so serious when it becomes a rule of
life.

Such were the poor woman's thoughts during that sad vigil, a vigil
of arms and tears, while she was preparing her forces for the
great battle.
Such was the scene lighted by the modest little lamp which Risler had
seen from below, like a star fallen from the radiant chandeliers of
the ballroom.

Reassured by Pere Achille's reply, the honest fellow thought of going
up to his bedroom, avoiding the festivities and the guests, for whom
he cared little.

On such occasions he used a small servants' staircase communicating
with the counting-room.

So he walked through the many-windowed workshops, which the moon,
reflected by the snow, made as light as at noonday. He breathed the
atmosphere of the day of toil, a hot, stifling atmosphere, heavy with
the odor of boiled talc and varnish.

The papers spread out on the dryers formed long, rustling paths.

On all sides tools were lying about, and blouses hanging here and there
ready for the morrow. Risler never walked through the shops without
a feeling of pleasure.

Suddenly he spied a light in Planus's office, at the end of that long
line of deserted rooms. The old cashier was still at
work, at one o'clock in the morning! That was really most
extraordinary.

Risler's first impulse was to retrace his steps. In fact, since his
unaccountable falling-out with Sigismond, since the cashier had
adopted that attitude of cold silence toward him, he had avoided
meeting him.

His wounded friendship had always led him to shun an explanation;
he had a sort of pride in not asking Planus why he bore him ill-will.
But, on that evening, Risler felt so strongly the need of cordial
sympathy, of pouring out his heart to some one, and then it was such
an excellent opportunity for a tete-a-tete with his former friend,
that he did not try to avoid him but boldly entered the
counting-room.

The cashier was sitting there, motionless, among heaps of papers
and great books, which he had been turning over, some of which
had fallen to the floor. At the sound of his employer's footsteps
he did not even lift his eyes. He had recognized Risler's step. The
latter, somewhat abashed, hesitated a moment; then, impelled by one
of those secret springs which we have within us and which guide us,
despite ourselves, in the path of our destiny, he walked straight
to the cashier's grating.

"Sigismond," he said in a grave voice.

The old man raised his head and displayed a shrunken face down which
two great tears were rolling, the first perhaps that that
animate column of figures had ever shed in his life.

"You are weeping, old man? What troubles you?"
And honest Risler, deeply touched, held out his hand to his friend,
who hastily withdrew his. That movement of repulsion was so instinctive,
so brutal, that all Risler's emotion changed to indignation.

He drew himself up with stern dignity.

"I offer you my hand, Sigismond Planus!" he said.

"And I refuse to take it," said Planus, rising.

There was a terrible pause, during which they heard the muffled
music of the orchestra upstairs and the noise of the ball, the
dull, wearing noise of floors shaken by the rhythmic movement of
the dance.

"Why do you refuse to take my hand?" demanded Risler simply, while the
grating upon which he leaned trembled with a metallic quiver.

Sigismond was facing him, with both hands on his desk, as if to
emphasize and drive home what he was about to say in reply.

"Why?

Because you have ruined the house; because in a few hours a messenger
from the Bank will come and stand where you are, to collect a hundred
thousand francs; and because, thanks to you, I haven't a sou in the
cash-box--that's the reason why!"

Risler was stupefied.

"I have ruined the house--I?"

"Worse than that, Monsieur. You have allowed it to be ruined
by your wife, and you have arranged with her to benefit by our ruin
and your dishonor.

Oh! I can see your game well enough. The money your wife has
wormed out of the wretched Fromont, the house at Asnieres, the
diamonds and all the rest is invested in her name, of course, out
of reach of disaster; and of course you can retire from business
now."

"Oh--oh!"

exclaimed Risler in a faint voice, a restrained voice rather, that
was insufficient for the multitude of thoughts it strove to express;
and as he stammered helplessly he drew the grating toward him with
such force that he broke off a piece of it.

Then he staggered, fell to the floor, and lay there motionless,
speechless, retaining only, in what little life was still left in him,
the firm determination not to die until he had justified himself.
That determination must have been very powerful; for while his
temples throbbed madly, hammered by the blood that turned his face
purple, while his ears were ringing and his glazed eyes seemed
already turned toward the terrible unknown, the unhappy man
muttered to himself in a thick voice, like the voice of a shipwrecked
man speaking with his mouth full of water in a howling gale:
"I must live!
I must live!"
When he recovered consciousness, he was sitting on the cushioned bench
on which the workmen sat huddled together on pay-day, his cloak on
the floor, his cravat untied, his shirt open at the neck, cut by
Sigismond's knife.

Luckily for him, he had cut his hands when he tore the grating
apart; the blood had flowed freely, and that accident was enough
to avert an attack of apoplexy.

On opening his eyes, he saw on either side old Sigismond and Madame
Georges, whom the cashier had summoned in his distress.

As soon as Risler could speak, he said to her in a choking voice:

"Is this true, Madame Chorche--is this true that he just told me?"

She had not the courage to deceive him, so she turned her eyes away.

"So," continued the poor fellow, "so the house is ruined, and I--"
"No, Risler, my friend.

No, not you."
"My wife, was it not? Oh! it is horrible! This is how I have
paid my debt of gratitude to you. But you, Madame Chorche, you could
not have believed that I was a party to this infamy?"
"No, my friend, no; be calm.

I know that you are the most honorable man on earth."

He looked at her a moment, with trembling lips and clasped hands,
for there was something child-like in all the manifestations of
that artless nature.

"Oh! Madame Chorche, Madame Chorche," he murmured. "When I think
that I am the one who has ruined you."

In the terrible blow which overwhelmed him, and by which his heart,
overflowing with love for Sidonie, was most deeply wounded, he
refused to see anything but the financial disaster to the house of
Fromont, caused by his blind devotion to his wife.

Suddenly he stood erect.

"Come," he said, "let us not give way to emotion.

We must see about settling our accounts."

Madame Fromont was frightened.

"Risler, Risler--where are you going?"
She thought that he was going up to Georges' room.

Risler understood her and smiled in superb disdain.

"Never fear, Madame. Monsieur Georges can sleep in peace. I have
something more urgent to do than avenge my honor as a husband.
Wait for me here.

I will come back."
He darted toward the narrow staircase; and Claire, relying upon his
word, remained with Planus during one of those supreme moments of
uncertainty which seem interminable because of all the conjectures
with which they are thronged.

A few moments later the sound of hurried steps, the rustling of
silk filled the dark and narrow staircase.

Sidonie appeared first, in ball costume, gorgeously arrayed and so
pale that the jewels that glistened everywhere on her dead-white
flesh seemed more alive than she, as if they were scattered over
the cold marble of a statue.

The breathlessness due to dancing, the trembling of intense excitement
and her rapid descent, caused her to shake from head to foot, and
her floating ribbons, her ruffles, her flowers, her rich and
fashionable attire drooped tragically about her.

Risler followed her, laden with jewel-cases, caskets, and papers.
Upon reaching his apartments he had pounced upon his wife's desk,
seized everything valuable that it contained, jewels, certificates,
title-deeds of the house at Asnieres; then, standing in the doorway,
he had shouted into the ballroom:

"Madame Risler!"

She had run quickly to him, and that brief scene had in no wise
disturbed the guests, then at the height of the evening's enjoyment.
When she saw her husband standing in front of the desk, the drawers
broken open and overturned on the carpet with the multitude of
trifles they contained, she realized that something terrible was
taking place.

"Come at once," said Risler; "I know all."
She tried to assume an innocent, dignified attitude; but he seized
her by the arm with such force that Frantz's words came to her mind:
"It will kill him perhaps, but he will kill you first."

As she was afraid of death, she allowed herself to be led away without
resistance, and had not even the strength to lie.

"Where are we going?"

she asked, in a low voice.

Risler did not answer.

She had only time to throw over her shoulders, with the care for herself
that never failed her, a light tulle veil, and he dragged her,
pushed her, rather, down the stairs leading to the counting-room,
which he descended at the same time, his steps close upon hers,
fearing that his prey would escape.

"There!" he said, as he entered the room.

"We have stolen, we make restitution.

Look, Planus, you can raise money with all this stuff." And
he placed on the cashier's desk all the fashionable plunder with
which his arms were filled--feminine trinkets, trivial aids to
coquetry, stamped papers.

Then he turned to his wife:

"Take off your jewels! Come, be quick."
She complied slowly, opened reluctantly the clasps of bracelets
and buckles, and above all the superb fastening of her diamond
necklace on which the initial of her name-a gleaming S-resembled
a sleeping serpent, imprisoned in a circle of gold. Risler, thinking
that she was too slow, ruthlessly broke, the fragile fastenings.
Luxury shrieked beneath his fingers, as if it were being whipped.

"Now it is my turn," he said; "I too must give up everything. Here
is my portfolio. What else have I?

What else have I?"
He searched his pockets feverishly.

"Ah! my watch. With the chain it will bring four-thousand francs. My
rings, my wedding-ring.

Everything goes into the cash-box, everything.
We have a hundred thousand francs to pay this morning. As soon as it
is daylight we must go to work, sell out and pay our debts. I know
some one who wants the house at Asnieres. That can be settled at
once."
He alone spoke and acted.

Sigismond and Madame Georges watched him without speaking.

As for Sidonie, she seemed unconscious, lifeless.

The cold air blowing from the garden through the little door, which
was opened at the time of Risler's swoon, made her shiver, and she
mechanically drew the folds of her scarf around her shoulders, her
eyes fixed on vacancy, her thoughts wandering.

Did she not hear the violins of her ball, which reached their ears
in the intervals of silence, like bursts of savage irony, with the
heavy thud of the dancers shaking the floors?

An iron hand, falling upon her, aroused her abruptly from her torpor.

Risler had taken her by the arm, and, leading her before his partner's
wife, he said:

"Down on your knees!"

Madame Fromont drew back, remonstrating:

"No, no, Risler, not that."
"It must be," said the implacable Risler. "Restitution, reparation!

Down on your knees then, wretched woman!" And with irresistible force
he threw Sidonie at Claire's feet; then, still holding her arm;

"You will repeat after me, word for word, what I say: Madame--"
Sidonie, half dead with fear, repeated faintly: "Madame--"
"A whole lifetime of humility and submission--"
"A whole lifetime of humil-- No, I can not!"

she exclaimed, springing to her feet with the agility of a deer;
and, wresting herself from Risler's grasp, through that
open door which had tempted her from the beginning of this horrible
scene, luring her out into the darkness of the night to the liberty
obtainable by flight, she rushed from the house, braving the falling
snow and the wind that stung her bare shoulders.

"Stop her, stop her!--Risler, Planus, I implore you! In pity's name do
not let her go in this way," cried Claire.

Planus stepped toward the door.

Risler detained him.

"I forbid you to stir! I ask your pardon, Madame, but we have more
important matters than this to consider. Madame Risler concerns us
no longer. We have to save the honor of the house of Fromont, which
alone is at stake, which alone fills my thoughts at this moment."

Sigismond put out his hand.

"You are a noble man, Risler.

Forgive me for having suspected you."
Risler pretended not to hear him.

"A hundred thousand francs to pay, you say?

How much is there left in the strong-box?"

He sat bravely down behind the gratin, looking over the books of
account, the certificates of stock in the funds, opening the
jewel-cases, estimating with Planus, whose father had been a jeweller,
the value of all those diamonds, which he had once so admired on
his wife, having no suspicion of their real value.

Meanwhile Claire, trembling from head to foot, looked out through
the window at the little garden, white with snow, where Sidonie's
footsteps were already effaced by the fast-falling flakes, as if
to bear witness that that precipitate departure was without hope
of return.

Up-stairs they were still dancing. The mistress of the house was
supposed to be busy with the preparations for supper, while she was
flying, bare-headed, forcing back sobs and shrieks of rage.

Where was she going? She had started off like a mad woman, running
across the garden and the courtyard of the factory, and under the
dark arches, where the cruel, freezing wind blew in eddying circles.

Pere Achille did not recognize her; he had seen so many shadows wrapped
in white pass his lodge that night.

The young woman's first thought was to join the tenor Cazaboni,
whom at the last she had not dared to invite to her ball; but he
lived at Montmartre, and that was very far away for her to go, in
that garb; and then, would he be at home?

Her parents would take her in, doubtless; but she could already
hear Madame Chebe's lamentations and the little man's sermon under
three heads.

Thereupon she thought of Delobelle, her old Delobelle. In the downfall
of all her splendors she remembered the man who had first initiated
her into fashionable life, who had given her lessons in dancing and
deportment when she was a little girl, laughed at her pretty ways,
and taught her to look upon herself as beautiful before any one had
ever told her that she was so.

Something told her that that fallen star would take her part against
all others.

She entered one of the carriages standing at the gate and ordered
the driver to take her to the actor's lodgings on the Boulevard
Beaumarchais.

For some time past Mamma Delobelle had been making straw hats for
export- a dismal trade if ever there was one, which brought in
barely two francs fifty for twelve hours' work.

And Delobelle continued to grow fat in the same degree that his
"sainted wife" grew thin. At the very moment when some one knocked
hurriedly at his door he had just discovered a fragrant soup 'au
fromage', which had been kept hot in the ashes on the hearth.
The actor, who had been witnessing at Beaumarchais some dark-browed
melodrama drenched with gore even to the illustrated headlines of
its poster, was startled by that knock at such an advanced hour.

"Who is there?" he asked in some alarm.

"It is I, Sidonie. Open the door quickly."
She entered the room, shivering all over, and, throwing aside her
wrap, went close to the stove where the fire was almost extinct.

She began to talk at once, to pour out the wrath that had been
stifling her for an hour, and while she was describing the scene
in the factory, lowering her voice because of Madame Delobelle, who
was asleep close by, the magnificence of her costume in that poor,
bare, fifth floor, the dazzling whiteness of her disordered finery
amid the heaps of coarse hats and the wisps of straw strewn about
the room, all combined to produce the effect of a veritable drama,
of one of those terrible upheavals of life when rank, feelings,
fortunes are suddenly jumbled together.

"Oh! I never shall return home. It is all over.

Free--I am free!"

"But who could have betrayed you to your husband?" asked the actor.

"It was Frantz! I am sure it was Frantz. He wouldn't have believed it
from anybody else. Only last evening a letter came from Egypt. Oh!
how he treated me before that woman! To force me to kneel! But I'll
be revenged.

Luckily I took something to revenge myself with before I came away."

And the smile of former days played about the corners of her pale
lips.

The old strolling player listened to it all with deep interest.

Notwithstanding his compassion for that poor devil of a Risler,
and for Sidonie herself, for that matter, who seemed to him, in
theatrical parlance, "a beautiful culprit," he could not help viewing
the affair from a purely scenic standpoint, and finally cried out,
carried away by his hobby:
"What a first-class situation for a fifth act!"

She did not bear him.

Absorbed by some evil thought, which made her smile in anticipation,
she stretched out to the fire her dainty shoes, saturated with snow,
and her openwork stockings.

"Well, what do you propose to do now?" Delobelle asked after a pause.

"Stay here till daylight and get a little rest. Then I will see."
"I have no bed to offer you, my poor girl.

Mamma Delobelle has gone to bed."
"Don't you worry about me, my dear Delobelle.

I'll sleep in that armchair. I won't be in your way, I tell
you!"

The actor heaved a sigh.

"Ah! yes, that armchair. It was our poor Zizi's. She sat up many
a night in it, when work was pressing.

Ah, me! those who leave this world are much the happiest."
He had always at hand such selfish, comforting maxims. He had no
sooner uttered that one than he discovered with dismay that his soup
would soon be stone-cold. Sidonie noticed his movement.

"Why, you were just eating your supper, weren't you? Pray go
on."
"'Dame'! yes, what would you have?

It's part of the trade, of the hard existence we fellows have.

For you see, my girl, I stand firm. I haven't given up. I never will
give up."
What still remained of Desiree's soul in that wretched household in
which she had lived twenty years must have shuddered at that
terrible declaration.

He never would give up!

"No matter what people may say," continued Delobelle, "it's the noblest
profession in the world. You are free; you depend upon nobody. Devoted
to the service of glory and the public!

Ah! I know what I would do in your place. As if you were born to
live with all those bourgeois--the devil! What you need is the
artistic life, the fever of success, the unexpected, intense emotion."

As he spoke he took his seat, tucked his napkin in his neck, and
helped himself to a great plateful of soup.

"To say nothing of the fact that your triumphs as a pretty woman
would in no wise interfere with your triumph as an actress.

By the way, do you know, you must take a few lessons in elocution.

With your voice, your intelligence, your charms, you would have a
magnificent prospect."

Then he added abruptly, as if to initiate her into the joys of the
dramatic art:

"But it occurs to me that perhaps you have not supped!

Excitement makes one hungry; sit there, and take this soup. I am sure
that you haven't eaten soup 'au fromage' for a long while."

He turned the closet topsy-turvy to find her a spoon and a napkin;
and she took her seat opposite him, assisting him and laughing a
little at the difficulties attending her entertainment.

She was less pale already, and there was a pretty sparkle in her
eyes, composed of the tears of a moment before and the present
gayety.

The strolling actress!

All her happiness in life was lost forever:
honor, family, wealth.

She was driven from her house, stripped, dishonored.

She had undergone all possible humiliations and disasters.
That did not prevent her supping with a wonderful appetite and
joyously holding her own under Delobelle's jocose remarks concerning
her vocation and her future triumphs.

She felt light-hearted and happy, fairly embarked for the land of
Bohemia, her true country. What more would happen to her? Of
how many ups and downs was her new, unforeseen, and whimsical
existence to consist?

She thought about that as she fell asleep in Desiree's great easy-chair;
but she thought of her revenge, too--her cherished revenge which
she held in her hand, all ready for use, and so unerring, so fierce!

Green.

"Quiet! She acts as if she'd had thunder an' lightnin' an' hail an'
barns burnt down every day since she's been here. I never see anybody
act so queer."

"I 'most wish I'd stayed to home," said Amanda.

"Well, I wouldn't be backin' out the minute I'd got here, if I was
you," returned Mrs. Babcock sharply. "It's comin' cooler, that's one
thing, an' you won't need that white sacque. I should think you'd
feel kinder glad of it, for them shoulder seams did look pretty long
to what they wear 'em. An' I dare say folks here are pretty dressy. I
declare I shall be kinder glad when supper's ready. I feel real faint
to my stomach, as if I'd like somethin' hearty. I should have gone
into one of them places in Boston if things hadn't been so awful
dear."

But when Mrs. Field finally called them out to partake of the meal
which she had prepared, there was little to satisfy an eager
appetite. Nothing but the berries for which she had toiled so hard, a
few thin slices of bread, no butter, and no tea, so little sugar in
the bowl that the guests sprinkled it sparingly on their berries.

"I'll tell you what 'tis," Mrs. Babcock whispered when they were
upstairs in their chambers that night, "Mis' Field has grown tight
since she got all that money. Sometimes it does work that way. I
believe we should starve to death if we stayed here long. If it
wa'n't for gittin' my money's worth, I should be for goin' home
to-morrow. No butter an' no tea after we've come that long journey. I
never heard of such a thing."

"I don't care anything about the butter and the tea," rejoined
Amanda, "but I 'most feel as if I'd better go home to-morrow."

"If," said Mrs. Babcock, "you want to go home instead of gittin' the
good of that excursion ticket, that you can stay a week on, you can,
Amanda Pratt. I'm goin' to stay now, if it kills me."


Chapter IX


The three women from Green River had been six days in Elliot, they
were going to leave the next morning, and Mrs. Field's secret had not
been discovered. Nothing but her ill favor in the village had saved
her. Nobody except Mrs. Jane Maxwell had come to call. Mrs. Babcock
talked and wondered about it a great deal to Mrs. Green and Amanda.

"It's mighty queer, seems to me, that there ain't a soul but that one
old woman set foot inside this house since we've been here," said
she. "It don't look to me as if folks here thought much of Mis'
Field. I know one thing: there couldn't three strange ladies come
visitin' to Green River without I should feel as if I'd ought to go
an' call an' find out who they was, an' pay 'em a little attention,
if I thought anything at all of the folks they was visitin'. There's
considerable more dress here, but I guess, on the whole, it ain't any
better a place to live in than Green River."

The three women had not had a very lively or pleasant visit in
Elliot. Jane Field, full of grim defiance of her own guilt and misery
and of them, was not a successful entertainer of guests. She fed them
as best she could with her scanty resources, and after her house-work
was done, took her knitting-work and sat with them in her gloomy
sitting-room, while they also kept busy at the little pieces of
handiwork they had brought with them.

They talked desperately of Green River and the people there; they
told Mrs. Field of this one and that one whom she had known, and in
whom she had been interested; but she seemed to have forgotten
everybody and everything connected with her old life.

"Ida Starr is goin' to marry the minister in October," Mrs. Babcock
had said the day but one after their arrival. "You know there was
some talk about it before you went away, Mis' Field. You remember
hearin' about it, don't you?"

"I guess I don't remember it," said Mrs. Field.

"Don't remember it? Why, Mis' Field, I should think you'd remember
that! It was town's talk how she followed him up. Well, she's got
him, an' she's been teachin'--you know she had Lois's school--to get
money for her weddin' outfit. They say she's got a brown silk dress
to be married in, an' a new black silk one too. Should you think the
Starrs could afford any such outlay?"

"I dunno as I should," replied Mrs. Field.

When she went out of the room presently, Mrs. Babcock turned to the
others. "She didn't act as if she cared no more about it than nothin'
at all," she said indignantly. "She don't act to me as if she had any
more interest in Green River than Jerusalem, nor the folks that live
there. I keep thinkin' I won't tell her another thing about it. I
never see anybody so changed as she is."

"Mebbe she ain't well," said Mrs. Green. "I think she looks awfully.
She's as thin as a rail, an' she ain't a mite of color. Lois looks
better."

"Mis' Field never did have any flesh on her bones," Mrs. Babcock
rejoined; "an' as for Lois, nothin' ever did ail her but spring
weather an' fussin'. I guess Mis' Field's well enough, but havin' all
this property left her has made a different woman of her. I've seen
people's noses teeter up in the air when their purses got heavy
before now."

"It ain't that," said Amanda.

"What is it, then?" asked Mrs. Babcock sharply.

"I dunno. I know one thing: home's the best place for everybody if
they've got one."

"I don't think 'tis always. I b'lieve when you're off on an excursion
ticket in makin' the best of things, for my part. To-morrow's Sunday,
an' I expect to enjoy the meetin' an' seein' the folks. I shall be
kinder glad, for my part, not to see exactly the same old bonnets an'
made-over silks that I see every Sunday to home. I like a change
sometimes. It puts new ideas into your head, an' I feel as if I had
spunk enough to stan' it."

On Sunday Mrs. Field led her procession of guests into church; and
they, in their best black gowns and bonnets, sat listening to the
sermon, and looking about with decorous and furtive curiosity.

Mrs. Babcock had a handsome fan with spangles on it, and she fanned
herself airily, lifting her head up with the innocent importance of a
stranger.

She had quite a fine bonnet, and a new mantle with some beaded fringe
on it; when she stirred, it tinkled. She looked around and did not
see another woman with one as handsome. It was the gala moment of her
visit to Elliot. Afterward she was wont to say that when she was in
Elliot she did not go out much, nobody came to the house nor
anything, but she went to meeting and she enjoyed that.

It was the evening following that Mrs. Jane Maxwell came. Mrs. Field,
sitting with her guests, felt a strange contraction of her heart when
she heard the door open.

"Who's that comin'?" asked Mrs. Babcock.

"I guess it's old Mr. Maxwell's brother Henry's wife," replied Mrs.
Field.

She arose. Lois went quickly and softly out of the other door. She
felt sure that exposure was near, and her first impulse was to be out
of sound and hearing of it. She sat there in the dark on the front
door-step awhile, then she went into the house. Sitting there in
doubt, half hearing what might be dreadful to hear, was worse than
certainty. She had at once a benumbing terror and a fierce desire
that her mother should be betrayed, and withal a sudden impulse of
loyalty toward her, a feeling that she would stand by her when
everybody else turned against her.

She crept in and sat down. Mrs. Maxwell was talking to Mrs. Babcock
about the state of the church in Elliot. It was wonderful that this
call was made without exposure, but it was. Twice Mrs. Maxwell called
Jane Field "Esther," but nobody noticed it except Amanda, and she
said nothing. She only caught her breath each time with a little
gasp.

Mrs. Maxwell addressed herself almost wholly to Mrs. Babcock
concerning her daughter, her daughter's husband, and the people of
Elliot. Mrs. Babcock constantly bore down upon her, and swerved her
aside with her own topics. Indeed, all the conversation lay between
these two. There was a curious similarity between them. They belonged
apparently to some one subdivision of human nature, being as birds of
the same feather, and seemed to instinctively recognize this fact.

They were at once attracted, and regarded each other with a kind of
tentative cordiality, which might later become antagonism, for they
were on a level for either friendship or enmity.

Mrs. Maxwell made a long call, as she was accustomed to do. She was a
frequent visitor, generally coming in the evening, and going home
laden with spoil, creeping from cover to cover like a cat. She was
afraid to have her daughter and nephew know of all the booty she
obtained. She had many things snugly tucked away in bureau drawers
and the depths of closets which she had carried home under her shawl
by night. Jane Field was only too glad to give her all for which she
asked or hinted.

To-night, as Mrs. Maxwell took leave of the three strange women
standing in a prim row, she gave a meaning nod to Mrs. Field, who
followed her to the door.

"I was thinkin' about that old glass preserve-dish," she whispered.
"I don't s'pose it's worth much, but if you don't use it ever, I
s'pose I might as well have it. Flora has considerable company now,
an' ours ain't a very good size."

When Mrs. Maxwell had gone out of the yard with the heavy cut-glass
dish pressed firmly against her side under her black silk shawl, Jane
Field felt like one who had had a reprieve from instant execution,
although she had already suffered the slow torture. She went back to
her guests as steady-faced as ever. She was quite sure none of them
had noticed Mrs. Maxwell's calling her Esther, but her eyes were like
a wary animal's as she entered the room, although not a line in her
long pale face was unsteady.

The time went on and nobody said, "Why did she call you Esther
instead of Jane?"

They seemed as usual. Mrs. Babcock questioned her sharply about Mrs.
Maxwell--how much property she had and if her daughter had married
well. Amanda never looked in her face, and said nothing, but she was
often quiet and engrossed in a new tidy she was knitting.

"They don't suspect," Mrs. Field said to herself.

They were going home the next day but one; she went to bed nearly as
secure as she had been for the last three months. Mrs. Maxwell was to
be busy the next day--she had spoken of making pear sauce--she would
not be in again. The danger of exposure from the coming of these
three women to Elliot was probably past. But Jane Field lay awake all
night. Suddenly at dawn she formed a plan; her mind was settled.
There was seemingly no struggle. It was to her as if she turned a
corner, once turned there was no other way, and no question about it.
When it was time, she got up, dressed herself, and went about the
house, as usual. There was no difference in her look or manner, but
all the morning Lois kept glancing at her in a startled,
half-involuntary way; then she would look away again, seeing nothing
to warrant it, but ere long her eyes turned again toward her mother's
face. It was as if she had a subtle consciousness of something there
which was beyond vision, and to which her vision gave the lie. When
she looked away she saw it again, but it vanished when her eyes were
turned, like a black robe through a door.

After dinner, when the dishes were cleared away, the three visitors
sat as usual in company state with their needle-work. Amanda's bag
upstairs was all neatly packed. She would need to unpack it again
that night, but it was a comfort to her. She had scarcely spoken all
day; her thin mouth had a set look.

"Mandy's gettin' so homesick she can't speak," said Mrs. Babcock.
"She can't hardly wait till to-morrow to start, can you, Mandy?"

"No, I can't," replied Amanda.

Mrs. Field was in her bedroom changing her dress when Lois put on her
hat and went down the street with some finished work for the
dressmaker for whom she sewed.

"Where you goin', Lois?" asked Mrs. Babcock, when she came through
the room with her hat on.

"I'm going out a little ways," answered Lois evasively. She had tried
to keep the fact of her sewing for a living from the Green River
women. She knew how people in Elliot talked about it, and estranged
as she was from her mother, she wanted no more reflections cast upon
her.

But Mrs. Babcock peeped out of a window as Lois went down the path.
"She's got a bundle," she whispered. "I tell you what 'tis, I suspect
that girl is sewin' for somebody to earn money. I should think her
mother would be ashamed of herself."

Lois had a half mile to walk, and she stayed awhile at the
dressmaker's to sew. When she started homeward it was nearly three
o'clock.

It was a beautiful afternoon, the house yards were full of the late
summer flowers, the fields were white and gold with arnica and
wild-carrot instead of buttercups and daisies, the blackberries were
ripe along the road-side, and there were sturdy thickets of weeds
picked out with golden buttons of tansy over the stone walls. Lois
stepped along lightly. She did not look like the same girl of three
months ago. It was strange that in spite of all her terrible distress
of mind and hard struggles since she came to Elliot it should have
been so, but it was. Every life has its own conditions, although some
are poisons. Whether it had been as Mrs. Babcock thought, that the
girl had been afflicted with no real malady, only the languor of the
spring, intensified and fostered in some subtle fashion by her
mother's anxiety, or whether it had been the purer air of Elliot that
had brought about the change, to whatever it might have been due, she
was certainly better.

Lois had on an old pink muslin dress that she had worn many a summer,
indeed the tucks had been let down to accord with her growth, and
showed in bars of brighter pink around the skirt. But the color of
the dress became her well, her young shoulders filled out the thin
fabric with sweet curves that overcame the old fashion of its make;
her slender arms showed through the sleeves; and her small fair face
was set in a muslin frill like a pink corolla. She had to pass the
cemetery on her way home. As she came in sight of its white shafts,
and headstones gleaming out from its dark foliage, she met Francis
Arms. She started when she saw him, and said, "Good-afternoon"
nervously; then was passing on, but he stopped her.

"Where are you going?" he asked.

"I was going home."

"See here--I don't know as you want to--but--do you remember how we
went to walk in the cemetery that first day after you came?"

Lois nodded. He could see only the tip of her chin under her broad
hat.

"Suppose--if you haven't anything else to do--if you are not
busy--that we go in there now a little ways?" said Francis.

"I guess I'd better not," replied Lois, in a trembling voice.

"It's real cool in there."

"I'm afraid I'd better not."

"Well," said Francis, "of course I won't tease you if you don't want
to."

He tried to make his tone quite unconcerned and to smile. He was
passing on, but Lois spoke.

"I might go in there just a minute," she said.

Francis turned quickly, his face lighted up. They walked along
together to the cemetery gate; he opened it and they entered and
passed slowly down the drive-way.

The yard was largely overhung by evergreen trees, which held in their
boughs cool masses of blue gloom. It was cool there, as Francis had
said, although it was quite a warm day. The flowers on the sunny
graves hung low, unless they had been freshly tended, when they stood
erect in dark circles. Some of the old uncared-for graves were
covered with rank growths of grass and weeds, which seemed fairly
instinct with merry life this summer afternoon. Crickets and cicadas
thrilled through them; now and then a bird flew up. It was like a
resurrection stir.

"Let's go where we went that first day," said Francis; "it's always
pleasant there on the bank."

Lois followed him without a word. They sat down on the grass at the
edge of the terrace, and a cool breeze came in their faces from over
the great hollow of the meadows below. The grass on them had been cut
short, and now had dried and turned a rosy color in the sun. The two
kept their eyes turned away from each other, and looked down into the
meadow as into the rosy hollow of a cup; but they seemed to see each
other's faces there.

"It's cool here, isn't it?" said Francis.

"Real cool."

"It always is on the hottest day. There is always a breeze here, if
there isn't anywhere else."

Francis's words were casual, but his voice was unsteady with a tender
tone that seemed to overweight it.

Lois seemed to hear only this tone, and not the words. It was one of
the primitive tones that came before any language was made, and
related to the first necessities of man. Suddenly she had ears for
that only. She did not say anything. Her hands were folded in her lap
quietly, but her fingers tingled.

"Lois," Francis began; then he stopped.

Lois did not look up.

"See here, Lois," he went on, "I don't know as there is much use in
my saying anything. You've hardly noticed me lately. There was one
spell when I thought maybe-- But-- Well, I'm going to ask you, and
have it over with one way or the other. Lois, do you think--well, do
you feel as if you could ever--marry me some time?"

Lois dropped her head down on her hands.

"Now don't you go to feeling bad if you can't," said Francis. "It
won't be your fault. But if you'd just tell me, Lois."

Lois did not speak.

"If you'd just tell me one way or the other, Lois."

"I can't. I can't anyway!" cried Lois then, with a great sob.

"Well, if you can't, don't cry, little girl. There's nothing to cry
about. I can stand it. All the trouble is, it does seem to me that I
could take care of you better than any other fellow on earth, but
maybe that's my conceit, and you'll find somebody else that will do
better than I. Now don't cry."  Francis pulled her hat off gently,
and patted her head. His face was quite white, but he tried to smile.
"Don't cry, dear," he said again. "It was nothing you could help. I
didn't much suppose you liked me. There's nothing much in me to like.
I'm an ordinary kind of a fellow."

Francis got up and walked off a little way.

Lois sobbed harder. Finally she stole a glance at him between her
fingers. She could see his profile quite pale and stern as he stood
on the edge of the terrace. She made a little inarticulate call, and
he turned quickly.

"What is it, Lois?" he asked, coming toward her.

"I didn't say--I--didn't like you," she whispered faintly.

"Lois!"

"I didn't say so."

"Lois, do you? Answer me quick."

She hid her face again.

"Lois, you must answer me now."

"I like you well enough, but I can't marry you."

"Lois, is there any fellow in Green River that wants you? Is that the
reason?"

She shook her head. "I can't ever marry anybody," she said, and her
voice was suddenly quite firm. She wiped her eyes.

Francis sat down beside her. "O Lois, you do love me, after all?"

"I can't marry you," said she.

"Why not, dear?"

"I can't. You mustn't ask me why."

Francis looked down at her half laughing. "Some dreadful obstacle in
the way?"

She nodded solemnly.

Francis put his arm around her. "Oh, my dear," he said, "don't you
know obstacles go for nothing if you do like me, after all? Wait a
little and you'll find out. O Lois, are you sure you do like me? You
are so pretty."

"I can't," repeated Lois, trembling.

"Suppose this obstacle were removed, dear, you would then?"

"It never can be."

"But if it were, you would? Yes, of course you would. Then I shall
remove it, you depend upon it, I shall, dear. Lois, I liked you the
minute I saw you, and, it's terribly conceited, but I do believe you
liked me a little. Dear, if it ever can be, I'll take care of you all
my life."

The two sat there together, and the long summer afternoon passed
humming and singing with bees and birds, and breathing sweetly
through the pine branches. They themselves were as a fixed heart of
love in the midst of it, and all around them in their graves lay the
dead who had known and gone beyond it all, but nobody could tell if
they had forgotten.


Chapter X


When Lois left home that afternoon her mother had been in her bedroom
changing her dress. When she came out she had on her best black
dress, her black shawl and gloves, and her best bonnet. The three
women stared at her. She stood before them a second without speaking.
The strange look, for which Lois had watched her face, had appeared.

"Why, what is the matter, Mis' Field?" cried Mrs. Babcock. "Where be
you going?"

"I'm goin' out a little ways," replied Mrs. Field. Then she raised
her voice suddenly. "I've got something to say to all of you before I
go," said she. "I've been deceivin' you, and everybody here in
Elliot. When I came down here, they all took me for my sister, Esther
Maxwell, and I let them think so. They've all called me Esther
Maxwell here. That's how I got the money. Old Mr. Maxwell left it to
Flora Maxwell if my sister didn't outlive him. I shouldn't have had a
cent. I stole it. I thought my daughter would die if we didn't have
it an' get away from Green River; but that wa'n't any excuse. Edward
Maxwell had that fifteen hundred dollars of my husband's, an' I never
had a cent of it; but that wa'n't any excuse. I thought I'd jest stay
here an' carry it out till I got the money back; but that wa'n't any
excuse. I ain't spent a cent of the money; it's all put away just as
it was paid in, in a sugar-bowl in the china closet; but that ain't
any excuse. I took it on myself to do justice instead of the Lord,
an' that ain't for any human bein' to do. I ain't Esther Maxwell. I'm
brought up short. I ain't Esther Maxwell!"  Her voice rose to a stern
shriek.

The three women stared at her, then at each other. Their faces were
white. Amanda was catching her breath in faint gasps. Jane Field
rushed out of the room. The door closed heavily after her.

Three wild, pale faces huddled together in a window watched her out
of the yard. Your correspondent BALLIOLENSIS should remember that at
the time Dr. Drake published his {347} _Historia Anglo-Scotica_,
1703, there were no bounds to the angry passions and jealousies evoked
by the discussion of the projected union; consequently, what may
appear to as in the present day an insufficient reason for the treatment
the book met with in the northern metropolis, wore a very different
aspect to the Scots, who, under the popular belief that they were
to _be sold_ to their enemies, saw every movement with distrust,
and tortured everything said or written on this side the Tweed,
upon the impending question, to discover an attack upon their
national independence, their church, and their valour.

Looking at Dr.
Now and then somebody tried to delay her to question her and obtain
an explanation, but she broke away. There was about her a terrible
mental impetus which intimidated. People stood instinctively out of
her way, as before some rushing force which might overwhelm them.

Daniel Tuxbury followed her out to the street; then he fell back.
Mrs. Jane Maxwell caught hold of her dress, but she let go, and
leaned trembling over her iron gate looking after the relentless
black figure speeding to the next door.

She went on and on, all the summer afternoon, and canvassed the
little village with her remorse and confession of crime. Finally the
four words which she said at the doors seemed almost involuntary.
They became her one natural note, the expression of her whole life.
It was as if she had never said any others. At last, going along the
street, she repeated them to everybody she met. Some she had told
before, but she did not know it. She said them to a little girl in a
white frock, with her hair freshly curled, carrying a doll, and she
ran away crying with fright. She said them to three barefooted boys
loping along in the dust, with berry-pails, and they laughed and
turned around and mocked her, calling the words after her. When she
went up the path to the Maxwell house, she said them where the shadow
of a pine-tree fell darkly in front of her like the shadow of a man.
She said them when she stood before the door of the house whose
hospitality she had usurped. There was a little crowd at her heels,
but she did not notice them until she was entering the door. Then she
said the words over to them: "I ain't Esther Maxwell."

She entered the sitting-room, the people following. "I have my sister,
you have your brother. What do we lack?"
Risler smiled vaguely. He fancied himself already installed with
Frantz in a quiet little quakerish house like that.

Decidedly, that was an excellent idea of Pere Planus.

"Come to bed," he said triumphantly. "We'll go and show you your room."

Sigismond Planus's bedroom was on the ground floor, a large room
simply but neatly furnished; with muslin curtains at the windows
and the bed, and little squares of carpet on the polished floor,
in front of the chairs.

The dowager Madame Fromont herself could have found nothing to say
as to the orderly and cleanly aspect of the place.

On a shelf or two against the wall were a few books: Manual of
Fishing, The Perfect Country Housewife, Bayeme's Book-keeping.

That was the whole of the intellectual equipment of the room.

Pere Planus glanced proudly around. The glass of water was in its
place on the walnut table, the box of razors on the dressing-case.

"You see, Risler. Here is everything you need.

And if you should want anything else, the keys are in all the
drawers--you have only to turn them. Just see what a beautiful view
you get from here. It's a little dark just now, but when you wake up
in the morning you'll see; it is magnificent."
He opened the widow.

Great drops of rain were beginning to fall, and lightning flashes rending
the darkness disclosed the long, silent line of the fortifications,
with telegraph poles at intervals, or the frowning door of a casemate.
Now and then the footsteps of a patrol making the rounds, the clash
of muskets or swords, reminded them that they were within the
military zone.

That was the outlook so vaunted by Planus--a melancholy outlook if
ever there were one.

"And now good-night. Sleep well!"

But, as the old cashier was leaving the room, his friend called
him back:

"Sigismond."
"Here!" said Sigismond, and he waited.

Risler blushed slightly and moved his lips like a man who is about
to speak; then, with a mighty effort, he said:

"No, no-nothing.

Good-night, old man."
In the dining-room the brother and sister talked together a long while
in low tones.

Planus described the terrible occurrence of the evening, the meeting
with Sidonie; and you can imagine the--"Oh!Mrs. Green went across the room and put her arm around Lois, standing
by her mother. "Let's you an' me get her in her bedroom, an' have her
lay down on the bed, an' try an' quiet her," she whispered. "She's
all unstrung. Mebbe she'll be better."

Mrs. Field at once turned toward her.

"I ain't Esther Maxwell," said she.

"O Mis' Field! oh, poor woman! it ain't for us to judge you,"
returned Mrs. Green, in her tender, inexpressibly solemn voice.
"Come, Lois."

"Yes, that'll be a good plan," chimed in Mrs. Babcock. "She'd better
go in her bedroom where it's quiet, or she'll wind up with a fever.
There's too many folks here."

"I wonder if some of my currant wine wouldn't be good for her?" said
Mrs. Jane Maxwell, with an air of irrepressible virtue.

"She don't want none of your currant wine," rejoined Mrs. Babcock
fiercely. "She's suffered enough by your family."

"I guess you needn't be so mighty smart," returned Mrs. Maxwell,
jerking her arm away from Flora. "I dunno of anything she's suffered.
Finally, _to give quarter_ in the military sense is to give conditions
absolutely, as opposed to the unmitigated exercise of the victor's
power, and, as the most important of all conditions, to spare
life.

H. W.

_Sheriffs of Glamorganshire_ (Vol. iii., p. 186.).I suppose
this is my daughter's house, an' I've got a perfect right in it, but
I'm a-goin'."

Mrs. Jane Maxwell went out, her ribbons and silken draperies
fluttering as if her own indignation were a wind, but Flora stayed.

My statement {352} was founded on the authority of the Visitation-Book
of the county of Derby, A.D. 1634, in which Anthony Fitzherbert is
"Chief Justice of ----;" and, as the question of his rank as a judge
was not one at the moment of communicating my Note, I made no farther
inquiry. I find, however, upon reference to Vincent's _Collections for
Derbyshire_, that Anthony Fitzherbert is styled, in a very good
pedigree of his family, "Unus Justiciariorum de Co[=i] Banco."
The women watched with her, as ever and anon she
stirred and murmured in her sleep, "I ain't Esther Maxwell."  And she
said it when she first awoke in the morning.

"She's sayin' it now," whispered Mrs. Babcock to Mrs. Green, "and I
believe she'll say it her whole life."

And Jane Field did. The stern will of the New England woman had
warped her whole nature into one groove. Gradually she seemed more
like herself, and her mind was in other respects apparently clear,
but never did she meet a stranger unless she said for greeting, "I
ain't Esther Maxwell."

--Queen Elizabeth, in the early part of her reign, frequently kept her
court at Enfield. Her palace was the manor-house, near the church,
of which little now remains. In Lysons' time (1793) it had been in a
great measure rebuilt, and divided into tenements.THE END