Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON A HOUSEBOAT

BY

LAURA LEE HOPE

Author Of The "Bobbsey Twins," "The Outdoor Girls Of Deepdale," "The
Outdoor Girls In Florida," "The Moving Picture Girls," "The Moving
Picture Girls At Rocky Ranch," Etc.

ILLUSTRATED


BOOKS BY LAURA LEE HOPE

THE BOBBSEY TWINS SERIES
For Little Men and Women

THE BOBBSEY TWINS
THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN THE COUNTRY
THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT THE SEASHORE
THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SCHOOL
THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SNOW LODGE
THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON A HOUSEBOAT
THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT MEADOW BROOK

THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS SERIES


THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS
THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS AT OAK FARM
THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS SNOWBOUND
THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS UNDER THE PALMS
THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS AT ROCKY RANCH
THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS AT SEA

THE OUTDOOR GIRLS SERIES

THE OUTDOOR GIRLS OF DEEPDALE
THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT RAINBOW LAKE
THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A MOTOR CAR
THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A WINTER CAMP
THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN FLORIDA
THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT OCEAN VIEW


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

    I. GOOD NEWS
   II. SNAP SAVES FREDDIE
  III. DINAH'S UPSET
   IV. AT THE HOUSEBOAT
    V. THE STRANGE BOY
   VI. FREDDIE'S FIRE ENGINE
  VII. THE TWO COUSINS
 VIII. OFF IN THE "BLUEBIRD"
   IX. SNOOP AND SNAP
    X. DOWN THE CREEK
   XI. THE MEAN MAN
  XII. THE WIRE FENCE
 XIII. THE RUNAWAY BOY
  XIV. OFF AGAIN
   XV. OVERBOARD
  XVI. THE MISSING SANDWICHES
 XVII. IN THE STORM
XVIII. STRANGE NOISES
  XIX. SNAP'S QUEER ACTIONS
   XX. AT THE WATERFALL
  XXI. WHAT BERT SAW
 XXII. THE STOWAWAY


CHAPTER I

GOOD NEWS


"What are you doing, Freddie?" asked Bert Bobbsey, leaning over to oil
the front wheel of his bicycle, while he glanced at his little
brother, who was tying strings about the neck of a large, handsome
dog.

"Making a harness," answered Freddie, not taking time to look up.

"A harness?" repeated Bert, with a little laugh. "How can you make a
harness out of bits of string?"

"I'm going to have straps, too," went on Freddie, keeping busily on
with his work. "Flossie has gone in after them. It's going to be a
fine, strong harness."

"Do you mean you are going to harness up Snap?" asked Bert, and he
stood his bicycle against the side of the house, and came over to
where Freddie sat near the big dog.

"Yes. Snap is going to be my horse," explained Freddie. "I'm going to
hitch him to my express wagon, and Flossie and I are going to have a
ride."

"Ha! Ha!" laughed Bert. "You won't get much of a ride with THAT
harness," and he looked at the thin cord which the small boy was
winding about the dog's neck.

"Why not?" asked Freddie, a little hurt at Bert's laughter. Freddie,
like all small boys, did not like to be laughed at.

"Why, Snap is so strong that he'll break that string in no time," said
Bert. "Besides--"

"Flossie's gone in for our booty straps, I tell you!" said Freddie.
"Then our harness will be strong enough. I'm only using string for
part of it. I wish she'd hurry up and come out!" and Freddie glanced
toward the house. But there was no sign of his little sister Flossie.

"Maybe she can't find them," suggested Bert. "You know what you and
Flossie do with your books and straps, when you come home from school
Friday afternoons--you toss them any old place until Monday morning."

"I didn't this time!" said sturdy little Freddie, looking up quickly.
"I--I put 'em--I put 'em--oh, well, I guess Flossie can find 'em!" he
ended, for trying to remember where he had left his books was more
than he could do this bright, beautiful, Saturday morning, when there
was no school.

"I thought so!" laughed Bert, as he turned to go back to his bicycle,
for he intended to go for a ride, and had just cleaned, and was now
oiling, his wheel.

"Well, Flossie can find 'em, so she can," went on Freddie, as he held
his head on one side and looked at a knotted string around the neck of
Snap, the big dog.

"I wonder how Snap is going to like it?" asked Bert. "Did you ever
hitch him to your express wagon before, Freddie?"

* * * * * _Calidades More features and conditions of the Pampas
Indians and Aucaces_.

First, they are in stature, usually, these Indians medium bodied
robust, broad and rounded face, medium mouth, face the Roma, the
brown eyes, and bloody, narrow forehead, the hair and thick, flat
back of the head.

Her dress is made up of many cueritos of skunks, and other pieces
of leon deer, which they eat, and do one of two and a half yards
long, which they call _guavaloca_, and we _quiapí_, which range
from the neck to the ankles, fajándose by the waist with a leather
rope colt, and when it rains or is cold, the rise and fall clogged.

The Indian _quiapí_ spend, like the Indians, with the difference that
is not tied by the waist, but by the neck, which suggests some
small punches iron, bearing the heads of them as mirrors or silver
leaf can, from the waist and a short tail-cap, mid-thigh in front.

And want to spend a lot of trinkets, beads and rattles of any quality,
which make necklaces on neck, wrists and legs, both mugeres as
Indians. Their food is reduced to eating mare, horse, ostrich, deer and
the animal is, but what is most desirable that the mare, and if
they are afflicted, they eat the raw.

Mainly trying to hunt a deer for lunch, and just as boolean (as
is their way of hunting), it holds your legs and give him a blow on
the floor and giving him a punch on each rib, behead it, not allowing
him some clotting, but it is introducing all the garguero and
living environment as open between the legs, which fits the hand,
and Joanna was all guts, get the whole offal and eat it as if it
were well cooked, the sipping, rennet, like a chocolate pozillo.

Tallow, and lebrillo belly of the cow and eat it raw like this, so
that when they make invasion on our borders are not senses, because
they do not need fire to eat, are introduced with ease.

They are extremely vicious in all kinds of vice: smoking is great: the
spirit drink it like water until they are deprived enteramen: drink a
lot mate and then eat the grass and drink remember all the wrongs they
have received them and their ancestors The fights that have invaded
and they have done: everything they sing and cry, which is a confusion
hear.

After getting up tomorrow is going to the river or lake that are more
immediate, and miss another great piece of water on the head, so he
retires to sleep.

Their weapons, they use, and are cast balls, as they are very skilled,
and have their collection of hats and leather bull, that with
difficulty he enters the lance, and this has to be sword tip: use
some coat of mail, as were nine.

Among them is his way of insulting to clarify the day, keeping a
large walk in their silence, as if they are offered to stop for any
event, with a soft silvo for all, that which is not even receive
any such rumor, and parag's coming to light that will penetrate,
bite their horses, and all run, sticking big crash and algazara,
but not using any training that everyone goes by where you want.

As for the plunder, which is more that brings more and to withdraw,
carrying the prey, but kill their best friends or relatives, do
not return to defend, but every one tries to walk without waiting
for each other, leading to Indian with them to become owners of
these populations that invade and steal what they could, while they
fight. toldería Each have their prophet, who bring with them when
they go to invade somewhere, and while not near, in the evening or
at night, get to guess.

The drive mode is very close all their spears, and at the foot of
them is sitting for the owner, by the way, I guess the front,
and behind him all the Indians, and taking a guess that the hand
knife, starting at move as itchy flesh, her voice intones respond
to all, and then half an hour, more or less, the prophet begins to
sigh and complain strongly, twisting around and doing a thousand
visajes, following others that song up there a while, hitting a big
yell, all rise.

Asks the boss, (who is on the right of that I guess, with a machete in
his hand) without looking at her face, all know what he intended, he
answered that it gives you earn, and I believe so strongly that there
is no reason to be convinced, but they leave all zero since they
are persuaded that those who saw the song _gualichu_, who called
the devil, and that this is introduced into the body of the seer,
and told him , reveals everything you want to know.

After he finished giving a drink raw ostrich egg, and water, making
smoking snuff, which is the gift that will make the _gualichu_, giving
the prophet vomiting finger: and then everyone started screaming,
and throwing fire into the air, which have prevented this _gualichu_
were fired, they say leaves the body of the diviner, and retired
to their awnings.

Your doctors are like fortune tellers, as was any patient, regardless
of the evil that is, call the doctor and up to foot of the patient,
and all friends and relatives in the wheel, take care that rattles
around in your hand and start sonarlos, singing at the same time,
to which all answer, and then bit by bit starting to complain and
all twisted many visajes and began to suck the sick part that hurts
and is so much time, continuing to sing the other.

The medical and spits back to sucking, and this medicine to apply and
once we saw that one of these great medical muger left the chief
of Lincon, eyed, sucking him in both eyes, for having occurred in
a mood : this will cope very happily, with the hanging of _gualichu_.
houses or stocks are three sets of rods, horses and leather, the
sides and roofs, which they call us _suca_ and awnings.

In each family lives, and half of these awnings is its chief room,
which is not fixed, as a living parag a month, in another fifteen
or twenty days, with which it is difficult to reason with them.

No are subordinated to their political bosses, because when they
want to leave one and go to live with another, and if the boss needs
to do or undertake any business, it communicates to all and each
one gives his opinion.

Every one who has the mugeres can buy, and being bored of them pay to
the other and if they take some captives, after reaching their
awnings marry them: and if these captives, but they are Indian, are
not happy after the launch and the cast of the horse, and even if
they are half alive, leave.

The work of reducing them to take a wild mares and foals, hunt skunks,
lions, tigers and deer, whose skins do _quiapís_ Indian and
_guasipicuás_ and feathers Ostrich feather dusters do is that they
all work, since eating them, load cargo, move the arm and awnings:
and though to see the Indians, who are thrown belly, do not move
to help in anything and before it, if it is not experienced, stands
and balls that never left her waist, to give bolazos, and this is
not crying or complaint india.

_Diario V. D. Pedro Pablo Pabon, which contains an explanation of the
exact directions, distances, pastures, marshes and other peculiarities
that we found in the recognition of the countryside and mountains,
commissioned by order of the Hon.

Town of Puerto de la Santisima Trinidad de Buenos Aires, on
October 12 1772. On 18 October 1772. At four in the afternoon we
took the exit: stop at six in the Chaca D.

Piège Juan Flores, the way we did two leagues. On day 20 we reached
the town of Lujan, having walked 12 miles: we see this post, and
is in latitude 34 degrees S to 28 minutes.

Day 23.

We arrived at the Leaping Guard, having walked 26-1/2 leagues: here we
see the S of latitude 34 degrees 35 minutes. The 24th record your stream
as much as we could, and found its way to the east, with some
violence, and higher in some parag reason of unequal depth, this
being part of one and a half rods to the foot: about their water
is brackish, and other thick, cloudy and usual for cattle.

Its origin, they say, is emerging from several creeks, and their
background in more marshy, and its rocky shores quantity portion
of springs in it, with good water for the inhabitants.

When there is flooding, as we reported, the stream grows more than
four sticks, and leaves the drawers or gullies.

Day 26. At eight went Leaping, preserved by Captain D. Juan Antonio
Hernandez, who said it followed the destination Melincué.

We came to stop at the lagoon of Salted, having walked 6 miles at the
direction of O.

We recognized the water that is brackish, clear, and accidental in
its shore are springs, making it more true that a stream of men going
out with the N: is marshy and low background.

Day 27. At four o'clock we continued the march to the eleven to
observe.

Egecutó is at latitude 34 degrees S to 16 minutes. The three remain
the same until half past five that we stopped at two accidental
Lagunita: walked 14 miles in the direction of the fourth OR NOT: In
this area we saw the grass regularly.

Day 28.

At half past twelve we continue the march until six in the afternoon
we did in the high trees around creek Chañares callers. We made 20
miles by road from the direction of NO, and consists of equal number
of grass and Lagunita accidental.

This is good ground for sowing by Lomitas comprise soft. Day 29.
We arrived at the post Melincué, having walked four miles in the
direction of N.

From this point on a distance of half the league is not a big loophole
that takes the name of this place: the acknowledged turning his water
are unfit for animals because Salitroso very little substance and
swampy.

We could not observe or do not allow other steps by several squalls
of wind and water. Day 30. Raise the level of Melincué in which
the discripcion find this spot, we could not observe. Day 31. S
observed in the latitude of 33 degrees 36 minutes.

At quarter past four we began the march to the Cerrito Colorado. A few
stopped in the six girls accidental gaps, walked three miles at
the direction of S SE quarter.

The ground and grass are as before. Day 1. St November. At three o'clock
the march to continue to observe the eleven, and found the latitude
34 degrees 9 minutes.

The four continued the march to the six and three quarters, which
stopped at two Lagunita accidental: we made 12 miles progress in
the direction of SSE.

This site achieves the same advantage as those that: there is between
the hills creeks, where there are variety of gaps that form when
it rains. Day 2. Dawned with mist and rain, so it could not go: At
eleven clarified; the twelve observed at 34 degrees 15 minutes S.

The two continue the march, claimed the matches, which are dunes
and are NS.

At seven we made a high Lagunita, walked seven miles in the direction
of SSE: Lagunita as are several others, and good pasture.

Day 3.

At four o'clock we started to walk, we arrived at the seven Cerrito
Colorado, walked 8 miles on the course of SE, spent the rest of
the day to record and watch this post: are camped Sergeant Major D.

Francisco Sierra. Day 4. We Carpincho recognition, and we are all over
the valimiento Cerrito: for which reason we raise its level in
which the description of the two places by extensive: the latitude
is 34 degrees for the last 52 minutes.

At two p.m. being ready, we preserved the status of that and more in
demand Bragado Grande, cost matches the E.

At the stop next to a six Lagunita, having walked 6 miles at the
direction of SE: This is ground with the advantage that the first
day.

Day 5.

At dawn, we continue to progress once: to the two walk the same cost to
the six matches that come to Bragado Grande, where he is camped
Sergeant Major D. Pascual Martinez. Walked 10 miles in the direction
of E: are the ground as the day before.

Day 6.

We had to recognize this field and raise its level, which will find
its description: look at 35 degrees S.

Day 7. At dawn, we continue the march to the springs of Casco, and
the Mayor with us: we arrived at eight o'clock, having walked four
miles in the direction of E. We turn to another moment to recognize
that more is at N, and are not as capable as this, so they raise
their level where his explanation.

Observed in latitude 35 degrees S: walked 4 miles away as he said,
whose gap is composed of good pasture, called Cebadilla, Brad and
clover.

In this post are camped at Captain D. José Bagué He followed us. 8
Dia.

At dawn, we continue the march to the springs of Galeliar, arriving
there at eight hours in which we made the recognition of this area,
we do not seem on purpose to either FORTIFIED population: the first
for being in a low, second by lack of pasture, the third by a small
gap that is where it incorporates a bit of water from the springs.

Yet having rained for two days, found the nearly dry, then no water
for the horses. Besides fertility does not promise the earth, its color
is brown and mixed with sand, water from the springs is somewhat
thick but blue, and plenty more will be provided with the dig.

It lies at latitude 35 degrees S of 3 minutes, far above 5 miles
east of the EO.

At two and three quarters we took up the gaps for wheat: the seven
were high, having walked seven miles in the direction of the E SE
quarter.

This land consists of some Lomitas filled vizcacheras, which requires
great care for their transit, the grasses are very few and of poor
quality, since no other espartillo and some bushes of pajonal not
find water.

Day 9. At five o'clock we continue to our destination, where we
arrived at eleven o'clock, having walked for 7 miles ESE of the
course.

In this area are better pastures and fertile; Lomitas consists of
gentle, good for sowing are several accidental Lagunita; is camped
at the post commander of the expedition, and Sergeant Major D.
Manuel de Pinazo. Use the afternoon with their company, registered
in the field, gaps and Salado.

Day 10. Raise the level of what is in this area, which find their
explanation: we observe, and S is in latitude 35 degrees 12 minutes.

Day 11. We turn to recognize the site of the Laguna de los Huesos,
located 7 miles E of the fourth OR SO.

If it wants to be the most favorable position to achieve other
advantages, or average distance, was another recognition of the
Salado.

Day 12. Unable to undertake the march due to be raining all day. Day
13. At nine we continue the march in search of the Rio de las
Flores, is still at 5 degrees E, and walked 7 miles away.

We stopped at a little pond and bad water, but having made dig the
earth, hand in the three quarters, and fresh water is very special.

Day 14. At three o'clock we walked, and at eleven o'clock we arrived
at the Rio de las Flores, where he was camped Sergeant Major D.
Bernardo Lalinde: walked 10 miles in the course of the quarter E SE:
S look at latitude 35 degrees 20 minutes.

This trail consists of large plains, with some gentle hills, grass
just to the river, and not others and espartillo pajonal: many gaps
are large, but completely dry.

Day 15. This whole day was kept raining, so it could not make the
recognition of this post and its river. Day 16. Dawned clear and we
had the recognition that, to raise their level as found in rivers
and his explanation. Day 17. At seven o'clock we started the march to
go to the site of Camarones: at twelve and a half was high (having
passed the Salado to ten), walk 8 miles in the direction of ESE,
which are ground bathed in parts, in other pajonal, and what other
good pasture.

Day 18.

At six we continue the march, at ten we stopped in a small pond accident
walked 6 miles at the direction of SE, we observed at 35 degrees
38 minutes S.

At three o'clock in the afternoon we continued the march until five
o'clock, which stopped at the Arroyo del Comandante, which is small.

Walked 4 miles at the direction of E. The terrain of this day consists
of large plains, rich fertile pastures, and many accidental Lagunita.
Day 19. At six we continue the march until they arrived at a pond and
creek shrimp, having made progress in this variety of routes, and
direct is the fourth E SE, 10 miles away: which is ground up of
good pasture and field, only a few marshes, where there is piece
of firewood duraznillo, which serves to fire.

In this post are camped Sergeant Major Clement D. Lopez, and Captain
D. Juan de Mier. We did this recognition because we got very tired
day. Day 20.

This day is used in making the recognition of this area and raise their
level, where his description.

Observed in latitude 35 degrees S to 42 minutes.

Day 21. We stayed in this position. Day 22. At eight o'clock we continue
the march to demand the Sierras del Volcan. In the quarter past one
was high in a big pond, but accidental, and a little background: the
water is brackish, and we must do well for the inhabitants.

Walked 7 miles in the direction of S, this area consists of plains and
some of retacitos bathed, good pasture, cebadillares high and very
fertile, some are accidental Lagunita. In this post we saw a toldería
Indians, comprising about 30 to 40, some separated. At four in
the afternoon reached the site the chief Caullaman with 20 Indian
and Indian, so to speak.

Day 23. At seven o'clock came back the same Indians, who gave the
news that the shift commander for the volcano was impassable for a lot
of water that had bathed and: and to ensure that the commander decided
to dispatch a game and so vaqueanos to recognize the ground, placed
a lot.

S observed in the latitude of 36 degrees 2 minutes. Day 24. At three
p.m. reached the line, saying you could move. Day 25. At six we began
the march to the mountains: At half past ten was high in an
accidental Lagunita.

At half past two we continued the same until half past six, which stopped
at another lake like this. It went 9 miles at the direction of the SE
quarter S: S in a league at this position are a toldería Indians
on a hill called the _Monton of Huesos_, and at the foot of a rather
large loophole.

Wary not hurt, tried to move from place in an hour and took the awning
and into the desert, following the O. NE of us, like two and a half
miles, is another toldería girl, from which came the chief Tomas
Yaty to speak, who gave us a few of the cattle they had.

Day 26. At half past six we continue the march at half past ten we
stopped at another lake as the background.

Walked 6 miles at the direction of S: S look at latitude 36 degrees 48
minutes. We remain the same until half past six, we stopped at that
same position.

The march was 5 miles at the direction of the S: Distance three
miles is NOT a toldería the Indians, and N, as a league, another
six awnings.

Day 27. At six we started to march up to eleven. At quarter past
four did the same until half past six, we made a high in Lagunita, which
runs a small stream for E.

It is the first we find in the mountains: the motion was 8 miles by S.
In the walk of the afternoon were the Mountains of Volcan. The first
is called the _Tahona_: delay S SE quarter.

Far from 18 to 20 miles, depending on the view are ENE and OSO. Day 28.
At six we still saw the first, due to the delay. At ten we stopped
at a stream that comes from the mountains: your way to the E has
little depth and current.

Walk 8 miles, look at 37 degrees 38 minutes. The three continued the
march stopped at six in a pond accidental. We walked 6 miles, and spent
the night in a continuous downpour. Day 29. The same morning, and
staying all day and not walk. Day 30. Dawned clear, so we continue
the march. At nine we arrived at the foot of the mountains, having
gone four leagues: we observe, and S are in the latitude of 38
degrees 35 minutes; Two miles before reaching this site are good and
fertile pastures, a sign outside the bathed, as explained in the
following note: _NOTA_ .-- Part of the ground we walked from _Monton
of Huesos_ up to 6 miles before reaching the mountains, have found
some pieces of washed, but no consideration, and say the smart time
of ground water that is impassable for the short notice of the
mountains with the city.

At three p.m. recognize we went to the summit and saw the first
circunferiencia and Midway gave us a great downpour, so we pulled
it.

Day 1. st December. The occasion to advance the Commission, lay down (as
they always did), divide the two to make recognition of the Volcan
Mountains, and one of the coast, which was reduced and the Jesuits.

The former, having succeeded, they seem here to stay on purpose, to
find good pasture, hills and large good and abundant water flows. If
people want can be done anywhere, separated from the mountains,
because in the vicinity there are large and rugged hills and valleys
with no field, where the youngest of them so deep, can hide the
number of flood of people without being seen or felt half a league.

The principal saw the volcano was recorded by the summit and its
circumference: elevation is 200 yards, is quite rough for being
full of rocks, whose cause is impassable to horse, just for the
entry that shows the plane.

Its summit is good for pasture, being flat and departures: the recognition
that we, in the others taking the same name, are the inputs and outputs
with their distances in everything we have found no recorded road
or path of Indians . Day 2. At four in the afternoon reached the pilot
of the coast, and having considered the three and a ground, if we
agree to love people, be the best place where the Jesuits had the
reduction, which is the ESE the Sierra del Volcan, 7 miles away:
achieve the benefits of good field for planting, and stays with
good and abundant water.

Also a mountain of peaches, and some pieces of its surrounding mountain
of elderberries and Chisco: but that whole area is so helpless as
before.

Since this reduction to the coast, three leagues, and its shores have
seen plenty of sea lions. Day 3. At six o'clock we continued the
march of the N saws, and distance of a league, to go see him and
other circumstances.

At twelve we stopped at a little stream of water and poor, which leaves
the hills: walked 10 miles by the course of the fourth OR NOT,
whose distance is going up and down some big hills and gentle, but
his tired horse repecho .

The three gave us a great squalls of heavy water and stone as nuts,
which was dreadful and shoot the horses: the seven ceased.

Snap barked and wagged his tail, as the driver took the lines from
him, and then, when the man drove off with the horses and the load of
lumber, Mrs. Bobbsey went with the twins back into the yard.

"Well, I'm glad all the excitement is over," she said. "Where were
you, Nan? Grace Lavine called for you, but I looked out in the yard
and did not see you, so she went away again."

"Why, I went down to papa's office, Mamma, with that letter you gave
me for him."

"Yes, I know, but I supposed you had come back. What kept you so
long?"

"Well, I--er--I was talking to papa, and---"

Nan did not want to go on. for she did not want to tell that she had
been talking about the houseboat.

Mr. Bobbsey had been intending to keep that as a little secret
surprise for his wife, but now, if her mother asked about it, Nan felt
she would have to tell. She hardly knew what to say, but just then
something happened that made everything all right.

Mr. Bobbsey himself came hurrying down the street, from the direction
of his lumber office. He seemed much excited, and his hat was on
crooked, as though he had not taken time to put it on straight.

"Is everything all right?" he called to his wife. "None of the
children hurt?"

"No, none of them," she answered with a smile. Mr. Bobbsey could see
that for himself now, since Freddie and Flossie were going up the walk
together, Freddie tying one of the book straps around the dog's neck,
while Nan and Bert followed behind them, with Mrs. Bobbsey.

"Someone telephoned to me," said the lumber merchant, "that they saw
one of our teams running away down this street, and I was afraid our
children, or those of some of the neighbors, might be hurt. So I
hurried down to see. Did you notice anything of a runaway team?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "But everything is all right now. Only I
haven't yet heard what it was that kept Nan so long down at your
office," and she smiled.

Nan looked at her father, and Mr. Bobbsey looked at Nan. Then they
both smiled and laughed.

"To tell you the truth," said Mr. Bobbsey, with another smile, "Nan
discovered a secret I was not going to tell at once."

"A secret?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey in surprise.

"Yes, it's about---" began Nan.

Then she stopped.

"Go on. You might as well tell her," said Mr. Bobbsey, laughing.

"I know!" exclaimed Freddie, who was all over his fright now. "It's
about a boathouse and---"

"A houseboat!" interrupted Bert. "You've got the cart before the
horse, Freddie."

"That's it!" exclaimed Nan. "Papa has bought the Marvin's houseboat,
Mamma, and we're going to have lovely times in it this summer."

"And I'm going to run the engine," declared Bert.

"I'm going to be fireman!" cried fat Freddie. "I'm going to put on
coal and squirt water on the fires!"

"I'm going to sit on deck and play with my dolls," spoke Flossie, who
was trying to climb up on Snap's back to get a ride.

Mrs. Bobbsey looked at her husband.

"Really?" she asked. "Have you bought the boat?"

"Yes," he replied, "I have. You know we have been thinking of it for
some time. Lake Metoka would be just fine for a houseboat, and we
could go on quite a cruise with one. Mr. Marvin wanted to sell his
boat, and as he and I had some business dealings, and as he owed me
some money, I took the boat in part payment."

"And is it ours now, Papa?" asked Bert.

"Yes, the houseboat is ours. It is called the Bluebird, and that is a
good name for it, since it is painted blue--like your eyes, little fat
fairy!" he cried, catching Flossie up in his arms.

"Is it a big boat, Papa?" asked Bert. Like most boys he liked things
big and strong.

"Well, I think it will be large enough," said Mr. Bobbsey with a smile
as he set down Flossie and caught up Freddie in the same way. "Were
you frightened when you fell down and saw the lumber team coming
toward you?" he asked.

"A little," Freddie said. "But I wished my legs were long enough so I
could ride Bert's bicycle. Then I could get out of the way."

"You'd better keep away from the wheel until you are bigger," said his
father, who had been told about the accident and the excitement. "But
now I must get back to the office. I have plenty of work to do."

"Oh, but can't you stay just a little longer, to tell us more about
the boat!" pleaded Nan. "When can we have a ride in it?"

"A boat is called 'her,'" interrupted Bert,

"Well, 'her' then," said Nan. "Tell us about HER, papa. I didn't hear
much at your office."

"You heard more than I meant you to," said Mr. Bobbsey with a smile.
"Nan came in with that letter just as Mr. Marvin and I were finishing
our talk about the houseboat," he went on. "I was going to keep it
secret a little longer, but it's just as well you should know now.

"I think you will like the Bluebird. It has a little gasoline engine,
so we can travel from place to place. And there is a large living
room, a kitchen, several bed rooms and a nice open deck, where we can
sit, when it is too hot to be inside."

"Oh, that's going to be great!" cried Bert. "I want a room near the
engine."

"And can I be a fireman?" asked Freddie.

"I want to be near mamma--and you," spoke little Flossie.

"Oh, isn't it going to be lovely!" exclaimed Nan, clapping her hands.

"Scrumptious, I call it!" cried Bert, and he ran into the house,
through the hall, and into the dining-room, just as big, fat Dinah,
the cook, was entering the same room, carefully holding a big cake
which she had just covered with white frosting.

"Oh dear!" cried Bert, as he ran, full tilt, Into the big cook.

"Good land ob massy!" fairly yelled Dinah. "Wha--wha---"

But that was all she could say. She tried to save herself from
falling, but she could not. Nor could Bert. He went down, on one side
of the doorsill, and Dinah sat down, very hard, on the other, the cake
bouncing from her hands, up toward her head, and then falling into her
lap.


CHAPTER IV

AT THE HOUSEBOAT


"Did--did I hurt you, Dinah?" asked Bert, after he had gotten his
breath. "I'm--I'm sorry--but did I hurt you?"

"Hurt me? Hurt me, honey lamb? No indeedy, but I done reckon yo' has
hurt yo'se'f, honey! Look at yo' pore haid!" and she pointed her fat
finger at Bert.

"Why, what's the matter with my head?" he asked, putting up his hand.
He felt something sticky, and when he looked at his fingers, he saw
that they were covered with white stuff.

"Oh, it's the frosting off the cake!" said Nan with a laugh. "You look
something like one of the clowns in the circus, Bert, only you haven't
enough of the white stuff on."

"And look at Dinah!" laughed Freddie. "She's turning white!"

"What's dat, honey lamb? Turnin' white?" gasped the big, colored cook.
"Don't say dat!"

"It's the cake frosting on Dinah, too!" said Mrs. Bobbsey. "Oh, Bert!
why aren't you a little more careful?"

"I'm sorry, mamma," Bert said, as he watched Dinah wipe the frosting
off her face with her apron. "I didn't know she was coming through the
door then."

"And I shore didn't see yo', honey lamb," went on the cook. "Land ob
massy! Look at mah cake!" she cried, as she gazed at the mass in her
lap. "All de frostin' am done slid off it!"

"Yes, you're a regular wedding cake yourself, Dinah," said Mr.
Bobbsey, who had come in to see what all the noise meant. "Well, this
seems to be a day of excitement. I'm glad it was no worse, though.
Better go up stairs and wash, Bert."

"The cake itself isn't spoiled," said Mrs. Bobbsey, lifting it from
Dinah's lap, so the colored cook could get up. It was no easy work for
her to do this, as she was so fat. But at last, after many groanings
and gruntings, she rose to her feet, and took the cake from Mrs.
Bobbsey.

"I'll put some mo' frostin' on it right away, ma'am," she said. "An' I
hopes nobody else runs inter me," she went on with a laugh. "I shuah
did feel skeered dat Bert was hurt bad."

They could all laugh at the happening now, and after Mr. Bobbsey had
told a little more about the new houseboat, he went back to the
office.

"Come on, Flossie," suggested Freddie. "Now you've found the book
straps, we can hitch Snap to the express wagon. Where'd you find 'em?"

"The straps were on our books, under the hall rack," said Flossie.

"That's just where I left 'em!" exclaimed Freddie. "I knew I left 'em
somewhere."

"But next time you must remember," cautioned his mother. "And remember
another thing--no more bicycle rides--you stay on your velocipede."

"Yes'm," said Freddie. "Come on, Flossie. Where's Snap?"

When the little twins went to look for their big, shaggy pet, who
could do so many circus tricks, they could not find him.

"Have you seen Snap?" asked Freddie of Dinah's husband, Sam Johnson,
who was out in the barn.

"Snap?" repeated the colored man. "Why, Freddie, I done jest see Snap
paradin' down de road wif dat black dog from Mr. Brown's house."

"Then Snap's gone away again," said Flossie with a sigh. "Never mind,
Freddie. Let's play steamboat, and you can be the fireman."

"All right," he agreed, much pleased with this idea. "We'll make
believe we're in our new houseboat. Come on."

"Steamboat" was a game the smaller twins often played on the long
Saturdays, when there was no school. All they needed was an old soap
box for the boat, and some sticks for oars. Then, with some bits of
bread or cake, which Dinah gave them to eat, in case they were
"shipwrecked," they had fine times.

Meanwhile, Bert and Nan had asked permission of their mother to go
over to where some of their boy and girl friends lived, so they were
prepared to have a good time, too.

"Oh, but what fun we'll have on the houseboat, won't we, Bert?" said
Nan.

"That's what we will," he agreed with a laugh.

Monday morning came, after Sunday (as it always does if you wait long
enough) and the two sets of Bobbsey twins started for school.

"I wish we didn't have to go," said Bert, as he strapped up his books.
"I want to go down to our new houseboat."

"But you must go to school," said his mother with a smile. "There will
not be many more days now. June will soon be over, and you know school
closes a little earlier than usual this year. So run along, like good
children."

Off they hurried and soon they were mingling with their boy and girl
friends, who were also on their way to their classes.

"You can't guess what we're going to have," said Freddie to a boy
named Johnnie Wilson, who was in his room.

"Kittens?" asked Johnnie.

"No."

"Puppies?"

"No."

"I give up--what is it?"

"A houseboat," said Freddie. "It's a house on a boat, and you can live
in it on water."

"Huh!" said Johnnie. "There isn't any such thing."

"Yes, there is, too, isn't there, Flossie?" and Freddie appealed to
his small sister.

"'Course there is," she said. "Our papa bought one, and Freddie's
going to be the fireman, and I'm going to cook the meals, so there!
Haven't we got a houseboat, Nan?"

"Yes, dear," answered the older sister, who was walking with Bert. At
this, coming from Nan, Johnnie had nothing to say, except that he
murmured, as he walked away:

"Huh! A houseboat's nothing. We've got a baby at our house, and it's
got hair on its head, and two teeth!"

"A houseboat's better'n a baby," was Freddie's opinion.

"It is not!" cried Johnnie.

"It is so!" Freddie exclaimed.

"Hush!" begged Nan. "Please don't dispute. Houseboats and babies are
both nice. But now it's time to go to school."

The Bobbsey twins could hardly wait for the classes to be out that
day, for their mother had promised to call for them after lessons,
and, with their father, they were going to see the Bluebird. The
houseboat had been brought up the lake by Mr. Marvin, and tied to a
dock not far from Mr. Bobbsey's lumber office. The boat was now the
property of Mr. Bobbsey, but that gentleman had not yet fully planned
what he would do with her.

Just as the children were trooping out of the school yard, along came
Mrs. Bobbsey. Nan and Flossie saw their mother and hastened toward
her, while Freddie and Bert came along more slowly.

In a little while all five of them were at Mr. Bobbsey's lumber
office. He came out of his private room, when one of his clerks told
him Mrs. Bobbsey and the children were there.

"Ah, what can I do for you to-day?" asked Mr. Bobbsey of his wife,
just like Mr. Fitch, the grocery-store-keeper. "Would you like a
barrel of sawdust, ma'am; or a bundle of shingles to fry for the
children's suppers?" and Mr. Bobbsey pretended he was no relation to
his family.

"I think we'll have a houseboat," said his wife with a laugh. "Have
you time to take us down to it? I can't do a thing with these
children, they are so anxious to see the Bluebird." "Well, I hope
they'll like her," said Mr. Bobbsey, "and not pull any feathers out of
her tail."

"Oh, is there a real bird on the boat?" asked Flossie.

"No, papa is only joking," said Nan, with a smile.

Mr. Bobbsey put on his hat, and soon the whole Bobbsey family had
reached the place where the boat was tied. At the first sight of her,
with her pretty blue paint and white trimming, Nan cried:

"Oh, how lovely!"

"And how big it is!" exclaimed Freddie his eyes large and round with
wonder.

"Let's go aboard--where's the gang-plank?" asked Bert, trying to use
some boat language he had heard from his father's lumbermen.

The Bluebird was indeed a fine, large houseboat, roomy and
comfortable. The children went inside, and, after looking around the
main, or living room, and peering into the dining-room, Nan opened the
door of a smaller compartment. Inside she saw a cunning little bed.

"Oh, may I have this room?" she asked. "Isn't it sweet!"

"Here's another just like it," said Mrs. Bobbsey, opening the next
door.

"That will be mine," said Flossie.

"My room's going to be back here, by the engine," spoke Bert, as he
picked out his sleeping place.

"And I'll come with you," said Freddie. "I'm going to be fireman!"
Gleefully the children were running about, clapping their hands, and
finding something new and strange every minute.

"Where is your room, mamma?" asked Nan. "We ought to have let you and
papa have first choice."

"Oh, there are plenty of rooms," said Mr. Bobbsey. "Let's go up on
deck and---"

He stopped suddenly, and seemed to be listening.

"What is it?" asked his wife.

"There seems to be some one on this boat beside ourselves," answered
Mr. Bobbsey. "I'll go look."


CHAPTER V

THE STRANGE BOY


The Bobbsey twins looked at one another, and then at their mother, as
Mr. Bobbsey went out of the living room of the houseboat, toward the
stairway that led up on deck.

Bert tried to look brave, and as though he did not care. Nan moved a
little closer to her mother. As for Flossie, she, too, was a little
frightened, but Freddie did not seem at all alarmed.

"Is it somebody come to take the boat away from us?" he asked in his
high-pitched, childish voice. "If it is--don't let 'em, papa."

They all laughed at this--even Mr. Bobbsey, and he turned to look
around, half way up the stairs, saying:

"No, Freddie, I won't let them take our boat."

"Pooh! Just as if they could--it's ours!" spoke Bert.

"Who could it be on board here, mamma?" asked Nan.

"I don't know, dear, unless it was some one passing through the lumber
yard, who stopped to see what the boat looked like," answered Mrs.
Bobbsey. "Papa will soon find out."

The noise they had heard was the footsteps of some one walking about
on the deck of the houseboat.

"Perhaps it was one of the men from the office, who came to tell papa
he was wanted up there, or that some one wanted to speak to him on the
telephone," went on Mrs. Bobbsey. She saw that the children, even
Bert, were a little alarmed, for the boat was tied at a lonely place
in the lumber yard, and tramps frequently had to be driven away from
the piles of boards under which there were a number of good places to
sleep.

Mr. Bobbsey did not mean to be unkind to the poor men who had no
homes, but tramps often smoke, and are not careful about their
matches. There had been one or two fires in the lumber yard, and Mr.
Bobbsey did not want any more blazes.

Soon the footsteps of the children's father were heard on the deck
above them, and, a little later Freddie and the others could hear the
talk of two persons.

"I guess it was one of the men," said Mrs. Bobbsey.

"I'm going to see," spoke Bert, and he moved toward the stairway,
followed by Nan, Flossie and Freddie. They went up on deck and saw
their father talking to a strange boy. None of the Bobbsey children
knew him.

"Are you looking for some one?" asked Mr. Bobbsey kindly, of the
strange boy. Often, when he was in distant parts of the lumber yard,
and he was wanted at the office, or telephone, his men might ask some
boy to run and tell the owner of the yard he was needed. But Mr.
Bobbsey had never seen this lad before.

"No, sir, I--I wasn't looking for any one," said the boy, as he looked
down at his shoes, which were full of holes, and put his hands into
the pockets of his trousers, which were quite ragged. "I was just
looking at the boat. It's a fine one!"

"I'm glad you like it," said Mr. Bobbsey with a smile.

"Could you go to sea in this boat?" asked the boy, who was not very
much older than Bert.

"Go to sea? Oh, no!" answered Mr. Bobbsey. "This boat is all right on
a lake, or river, but the big waves of the ocean would be too strong
for it. We don't intend to go to sea. Why? Are you fond of sailing?"

"That's what I am!" cried the boy. "I'm going to sea in a ship some
day. I'm sick of farm-life!" and his eyes snapped.

"Are you a farmer?" asked the twins' father.

"I work for a farmer, and I don't like it--the work is too hard," the
boy said, as he hung his head.

"There is plenty of hard work in this world," went on Mr. Bobbsey. "Of
course too much hard work isn't good for any one, but we must all do
our share. Where do you work?"

"I work for Mr. Hardee, who lives just outside the town of Lemby,"
answered the boy.

"Oh, yes, I know Mr. Hardee," spoke Mr. Bobbsey. "I sold him some
lumber with which he built his house. So you work for him? But what
are you doing so far away from the farm?"

"Mr. Hardee sent me over here, to Lakeport, on an errand."

"Well, if I were you I wouldn't come so far away from where I left my
horse and wagon," cautioned Mr. Bobbsey, for the place where the boat
was tied was a long distance from the main road leading from Lakeport
to Lemby.

"I didn't come in a wagon," said the boy. "I walked."

"What! You don't mean to say you walked all the way from Lemby to
Lakeport?" exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey, who had now come up on deck.

"Yes'm, I did," answered the boy. "Mr. Hardee said he needed the
horses to work on the farm. He said I was young, and the walk would do
me good. So Mrs. Hardee, she gave me some bread and butter for my
lunch, and I walked. I'm walking back now, and I came this way by the
lake. It's a short cut.

"Then I happened to see this boat here. I like boats, so I thought it
wouldn't hurt to come on board."

"Oh, no, that's all right!" said Mr. Bobbsey quickly. "I'll be glad to
have you look around, though this is only a houseboat, and not built
for ocean travel. So you work for Mr. Hardee, eh? What's your name?"

"Will Watson," the boy said. Mrs. Bobbsey was trying to motion to her
husband to come toward her. It seemed as though she wanted to say
something to him privately.

"Will Watson, eh?" went on Mr. Bobbsey. "I don't seem to know any
family of that name around here."

"No, I don't belong around here," the boy said. "I come from out west
--or I used to live there when I was littler. I've got an uncle out
there now, if I could ever find him. He's a gold miner."

"A gold miner?" said Mr. Bobbsey, and then his wife came up to him,
and whispered in his ear. Just what she said the twins could not hear,
but, a moment later Mr. Bobbsey said:

"Bert, suppose you take Will down and show him the boat, since he is
so interested."

"Oh, I'm going to!" cried Freddie. "I want to show him where I'm going
to be a fireman."

"And I want to show him my room," said Flossie.

The strange boy looked at the little twins and smiled. He had a nice
face, and was quite clean, though his clothes were ragged and poor.

"Come along down if you like," said Bert kindly. "There's a lot to see
below the deck."

With a friendly nod of his head Will Watson followed the three
children. Nan stayed on deck with her parents.

"It's a shame to make him walk all the way from Lemby here and back,"
said Mrs. Bobbsey. "It must be all of five miles each way."

"It is," said Mr. Bobbsey. "Quite a tramp for a little fellow."

"Can't you find some way to give him a ride back?" asked his wife.
"Aren't any of your wagons going that way?"

"Perhaps," replied Mr. Bobbsey. "I'll find out, and I'll send him as
near to Mr. Hardee's place as I can."

"Poor little fellow," said Mrs. Bobbsey, and she thought how hard it
would be if her son Bert had to go to work for his living so young.

"He seems like a nice boy," spoke Mr. Bobbsey, "and from what I know
of Mr. Hardee he isn't an easy man to work for. Well, have you seen
enough of the boat, Nan? Do you think you'll like it?"

"Oh, I just love it," Nan answered. "I'm so anxious for the time to
come when we can go sailing, or whatever you do in a boat like this.
Mamma, may I bring some of my things from home to fix up my room?"

"I think so--yes. We shall have to talk about that later. I think it
is time we started home now. Dinah will not want to wait supper for
us."

"Well then, run along," said Mr. Bobbsey. "I'll get the others up
from down below."

"And you won't forget about trying to give that boy a ride home?"
asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

"No, indeed," replied her husband. "I'm going right back to the office
now, and I'll take him with me. I'll let him ride on the wagon that's
going nearest to Lemby."

Mr. Bobbsey met Bert and the strange boy coming up.

"It sure is a dandy boat!" said Will Watson with a sigh of envy. "If
ever I go away to sea, I hope I'll have as nice a room as yours," and
he looked at Bert. "I just couldn't help coming on the boat when I saw
her tied here," he went on. "I hope you didn't mind."

"Not a bit!" exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey, wishing she had some of Dinah's
cake or crullers with her to give to the boy, for the twins' mother
thought he looked hungry.

The door, leading into the cabin of the houseboat was locked, and they
all went on shore, over the gangplank, the board that extended from
the dock to the boat.

"Good-bye, Bluebird!" called Flossie, waving her fat, chubby, little
hand toward the houseboat. "We'll soon be back."

"And I'm going to bring my fire engine, when I come again," exclaimed
Freddie. "If the boat gets on fire I can put it out."

"Boats can't get on fire in the water!" declared Flossie.

"They can so--can't they, papa?" appealed the little boy.

"Well, sometimes, perhaps. But we hope ours doesn't," replied Mr.
Bobbsey with a smile. He led the way off the boat, and as Will was
about to walk on along the lake shore, on his return to Lemby, Mrs.
Bobbsey said:

"Wouldn't you like a ride back, little boy?"

"Indeed I would," he said. "My feet hurt, on account of my shoes being
so full of holes, I guess. I'm pretty tired, but I had a little rest.
I don't expect to get back much before dark."

"Well, perhaps you can ride nearly all the way," went on Mrs. Bobbsey.
"My husband has some lumber wagons going in your direction."

"Yes, come along and we'll see what we can do for you," put in the
twins' father, nodding at the strange boy.

Will went off with Mr. Bobbsey, while Nan, Bert, Flossie and Freddie
walked with their mother.

"Oh, mamma, when do you think we can go in our boat?" asked Flossie.

"Well, as soon as school closes, my dear."

"And will we sail across the ocean?" Freddie wanted to know.

"Of course not!" cried Bert. "A houseboat isn't a ship."

"That boy knew about ships," said Nan. "I like him, don't you, mamma?"

"Yes, he seemed real nice. He hasn't a very easy life, I'm afraid,
working on a farm. But we must hurry on to supper. We'll talk about
the boat after papa comes home."


CHAPTER VI

FREDDIE'S FIRE ENGINE


"Papa, when can we go sailing in the houseboat?"

"May I take my fire engine along?"

"Where did you leave that boy?"

"Did he get a ride to Lemby?"

"Thus Bert, Freddie, Flossie and Nan questioned Mr. Bobbsey when he
came home to supper after the visit to the Bluebird.

"My! My!" exclaimed the lumber merchant, as he stopped in the hall to
hang up his hat. "What a lot of talk all at once! Let me see--whose
question shall I answer first?"

"Did you manage to get that poor boy a ride?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

It was the first time she had had a chance to ask her question.

"Answer mamma first," said Bert politely. "The rest of us can wait."

Mr. Bobbsey gave his older son a pleased look, and then replied:

"Yes, I found that one of our lumber wagons was going within half a
mile of the village of Lemby, so I let the boy ride with the driver.
It will give him a good lift."

"Indeed it will," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "I felt so sorry for him. I wish
I could help him!"

"I hope the horses don't run away," spoke Freddie with such a serious
air that they all laughed.

"I guess they won't run away, little fat fireman!" said Mr. Bobbsey,
as he caught Freddie up in his arms. "They are good, steady horses,
and they had a pretty heavy load to drag. So Will won't be in any
danger. But I hope supper is ready. I'm hungry!"

"But you didn't answer my question," said Nan. "When are we going in
the houseboat, father?"

"Oh, whenever school ends and your mother is ready," was the answer.
"I should say in about two weeks."

"Good!" cried Bert. "And are we going to take Snap along?" he asked,
as he caught sight of the trick dog outside, standing on his hind
legs, while Sam Johnson held up a bone for him. Snap was "begging" for
his supper, as he often did.

"Yes, I think we can find room for Snap on board," the lumber man
said.

"What about our cat, Snoop?" asked Flossie. "I want to take Snoop
along. Wouldn't you like to go in a boat, Snoop?" and Flossie picked
the fat cat up in her arms. Snoop was quite an armful now. "Don't you
want to go, Snoop?"

"Meow!" was all Snoop said, and that might have meant anything at all.

"Supper first," suggested Mr. Bobbsey, "and after that we'll talk
about the boat."

The meal was a merry one, and there was much talk and laughter. As
Dinah brought on one good thing to eat after another, Mrs. Bobbsey
said:

"I hope every one has as nice a supper as we have."

"Were you thinking of any one in particular?" asked her husband.

"Yes, of that poor boy who came on the boat to-day," she answered. "I
wonder if he has a good supper after his long walk this morning?"

"Well, they say Mr. Hardee doesn't feed his help any too well," spoke
Mr. Bobbsey. "But now let's talk about our houseboat trip."

"Oh, what fun we'll have!" cried Freddie and Flossie, clapping their
chubby hands.

"Did you plan a trip?" Mrs. Bobbsey wanted to know.

"Well, partly, yes. I thought we could go down Lake Metoka to Lemby
Creek. We haven't been down that direction in some time."

"Lemby Creek!" exclaimed Bert. "Isn't that the name of the place where
that boy came from?" "Well, Lemby is a town on Lemby Creek," spoke his
father. "Will Watson works on Mr. Hardee's farm, and that is just
outside the village. Lemby Creek is about ten miles long, and by going
along that we can get into Lake Romano. That is a large body of water,
and there is a waterfall at the farther end."

"A waterfall!" cried Freddie. "Oh, goodie! Can we go see it, papa?"

"I guess so," said Mr. Bobbsey. "We'll make this a long trip. It will
take over a month, but of course we won't travel every day. Some days
we'll just anchor the boat in a shady place, and---"

"Fish!" interrupted Bert.

"Yes, fish, or go in swimming--anything to have a good time," Mr.
Bobbsey said.

"Oh, won't we have fun!" cried Freddie again. "We'll take Snoop and
Snap along, and they'll like it, too."

"I guess Snap will, because he's fond of the water," said Bert, with a
laugh. "But Snoop doesn't care for it."

"Snoop can sleep on deck in the sun," said Nan. "She'll like that. I
wish I could ask one of my girl friends to come along with us for the
houseboat trip. We have so many nice rooms on the Bluebird it seems a
pity not to use them."

"And I'd like one of my boy chums, too," spoke Bert. Flossie and
Freddie were busy trying to make Snoop do one of the tricks the circus
lady had taught her. But Snoop wanted to go out in the kitchen, and
have Dinah give her some supper.

"Company, eh?" exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey, slowly. "Well, I don't know. We
have plenty of room on the Bluebird. I wonder how it would do to ask
Harry and Dorothy to come with us?" he inquired of his wife.

"Oh, Cousin Harry!" cried Bert. "That would be fine!"

"And Cousin Dorothy!" added Nan. "She and I could have lovely times
together. Do ask her, mother!"

"We might ask the cousins," agreed Mrs. Bobbsey. "They haven't been to
visit us in some time, and I think both Harry and Dorothy would enjoy
the trip."

Harry and Dorothy, as I have told you, were cousins of the Bobbseys.
Harry lived at Meadow Brook, in the country, and Dorothy at Ocean
Cliff, near the sea.

"I'll write to-morrow," said Mrs. Bobbsey, "and find out if they can
go with us. Now have we anything else to settle about our trip?"

"What about something to eat?" asked Freddie, in such a funny, anxious
voice, that all the others laughed.

"My goodness, little fat fireman!" exclaimed his father. "Here you
have just finished your supper, and you are already hungry again."

"Oh, I'm not hungry now," explained Freddie, "but I will be on the
boat."

"Don't worry," said his mother. "Dinah is coming with us."

"Oh, then it will be all right," went on the little twin, with a
contented sigh. "Come on, Flossie," he called to his small sister, "I
know how we can have some fun. 'Scuse me," he murmured, as he and the
other little twin slipped from their chairs.

Mr. and Mrs. Bobbsey, with Nan and Bert, remained at the table for
some time longer, talking about the coming trip in the Bluebird. As
Mr. Bobbsey had said, it would be about two weeks, yet, before they
could start. There were two weeks more of school, but the classes
would close earlier than usual that summer, because an addition was to
be built to the school building, and the men wanted to get to work on
it, to have it finished in time for school early in September.

"So we'll get an extra week or so of vacation," explained Bert. "And
we'll spend it all on the houseboat."

"Well, perhaps not all of it," said Mr. Bobbsey. "I may not be able to
stay with you all that while. But we'll spend a month or two on the
Bluebird."

"What will we do the rest of vacation?" asked Bert.

"Oh, perhaps we'll go to the mountains, or some place like that," his
mother said with a smile. "It isn't settled yet."

"Is it a high waterfall at Lake Romano?" asked Nan. "I just love
them."

"Yes, it's a pretty high one," her father said. "I haven't been to
Lake Romano in some years, but I remember it as a very beautiful
place."

"I'm sure we shall enjoy it," Mrs. Bobbsey said.

"Is the fishing good?" Bert wanted to know.

"So I have heard. We'll take some poles and lines along, anyhow, and
try our luck," his father replied.

Mr. Bobbsey pushed back his chair from the table, and looked around
for the evening paper. Bert and Nan had some home work to do, to get
ready their lessons for the next day's school classes, and Mrs.
Bobbsey got out her sewing basket. There were always stockings to
mend, if there was nothing else of the children's that needed
attention.

The house was quiet except for the distant rattling of dishes in the
kitchen, where fat Dinah was singing away as she worked. Suddenly her
song ceased, and she was heard to exclaim:

"Now yo' want t' be careful, honey lamb! Doan't yo' go to muxin' up
Dinah's clean kitchen flo'."

"No, we won't, Dinah!" replied Freddie's voice.

"If any gets spilled, I'll wipe it up," said Flossie.

"I wonder what those children are up to now?" remarked Mrs. Bobbsey,
as she rolled up two stockings she had just darned.

"Oh, I guess they're all right," said Mr. Bobbsey easily, as he turned
over a page of the evening paper.

The next moment there came a shout from Dinah in the kitchen.

"Stop it, Freddie. Stop it, I say!" cried the fat, colored cook. "Yo'
suah am gittin' me all wet! Oh, there it goes ag'in! Stop it!"

"I--I can't!" cried Freddie. "Hold your hand over it, Flossie!"

"Oh, now it's squirting on me!" came in Flossie's tones. "Make it
stop, Freddie."

"It--it won't stop!" was the frightened answer.

"Oh! Land ob massy!" shouted Dinah. "Sam! Sam! Mr. Bobbsey, come heah
quick! It's squirtin' all ober!"

"Oh! Something has happened!" exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey, starting toward
the kitchen.

"Maybe a water pipe has burst," suggested Mr. Bobbsey, dropping his
paper and making a jump toward the kitchen. As he did so, he heard
Dinah cry again:

"Oh, yo' am all wet, honey lamb! Yo' is all soakin' wet! Oh, now it's
comin' fo' me ag'in! Oh, stop it, Freddie! Stop it!"

"I--I can't!" was all Freddie said.

The next moment Mr. Bobbsey, followed by his wife, had reached the
kitchen. There they saw a queer sight.

In the middle of the floor stood Flossie and Freddie, water dripping
from their hands and faces. Dinah, too, was wet, and she was fairly
flying around, with a plate in one hand and a dish towel in the other.

But now everything was finally arranged, the daughter had made wedding,
and he himself should be in the next few days, the champion right in
the strange city to acquire.

Then, he invited them, too, because he could not continue to make
them here.

"Once I have your answer," these were the last words of the letter,
"I am sending you a travel allowance, it is already concluded and
eingesiegelt.

The house you will easily recognize, beside the green bank, in front
of the door, there is also an Linde, as at home in front of your
parents house, a chamber, which I own for the young people prepared
masters, is quite shady. "- I had folded the letter and passed it
back.

But Lore shook his head. "Write to him, Mr. Philip!" she said, while
a tear after another dripped on her cheeks, and quietly and with
difficulty she added: "He has good intentions."

"And you do not want to come himself?" I asked.

She looked at me, with a look so full of despair, imploring that I
regretted, at this question they did.

"Lore," I said, "because nobody can help?" She lowered her head, by
linking it to the forehead of a window washer refused, the White
Rose was still fragrant on the glossy black hair. "He was, as he was
still alive, just a poor foolish man," she said, her voice broke
and almost restrained sobs, "but he was my father, and it has me
but nobody else loved it - it would be me still not infringed.

"When she had said, we both fell silent, and only I had not that I knew
took her two hands, and they let me. - Since I heard from the other
side of the house, forth from the hall, the voice of the Raugrafen
call their names.

They went together. "Lore," I said, "because you can not get rid of that
man?" Her eyes looked big and I am sad to. "Oh doch!" she said softly,
and I was when I saw a smile around her mouth, but a smile, as in veiled
malice .-- By once again and more in our close call. They hastily
dried her eyes.

"Farewell, Philipp, leb wohl!" She whispered. I felt the pressure
of the two little hands, then she continued.

As long as I still under the trees have gone up and down, I do not know.
I came back to consciousness of things around me, inside the halls as
the music suddenly stopped and I instead of the large owls cries
heard, the deeper in the forest, drove their essence. When I order on
the stone stairs to the footpath to arrive at the front of the house
passed, I saw Lore again. She stood under the hall, his arm around one
of the pillars slung, and looked through the trees down to the
lake, where just a weather note dazzling shone over the water .

On the beach I had a long sleepless on a cushion located on a Plane
sinnend how I Lore with the help of my mother another shelter would
like to open up and, perhaps the most difficult was that I could
talk about it, to accept such.

The tank held about two
gallons, so you see when it was all pumped out in the kitchen, and
spurted on those in the room, it made them pretty wet.

"It's clean water," said Nan, when every one had somewhat cooled down,
"and it's so warm to-night, I wouldn't mind being sprayed with a hose
myself."

"Still, Freddie shouldn't have done it," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "I have
told you not to play with your engine in the house, when it had water
in it, Freddie. How did you come to disobey me?" she asked, for
usually the little fellow was very good about minding.

"I--I didn't mean to, mamma," he said "First I just wanted to see if
the engine tank leaked, so I put in some water. I didn't think it
would hurt, out here on the kitchen oil cloth, and honestly I wasn't
going to squirt it."

"No, I suppose not," said Mr. Bobbsey, wiping the water from his face,
and glancing at his soaked newspaper.

"So I just filled the tank with water from the sink," explained
Freddie.

"I--I helped him," confessed Flossie, ready to take her share of the
blame.

"What happened next?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

"Why--er--I just wanted to see if the spring was all right, so I wound
that up," Freddie went on. "Then I sort of forgot about the water in
the tank, and before I knew it, why it--it went off--sudden like."

"Land ob massy! I should say it done did go off--suddint laik!"
exclaimed Dinah. "Fust I knowed I was dryin' de dishes an' den I got a
mouth full ob watah. I shuah did t'ink a watah pipe had done gone an'
busted. I shuah did!"

"It--it just kept on squirtin'!" said Freddie. "I couldn't stop it
like it always used to stop."

"No, the pump is out of order," said Mr. Bobbsey, as he looked at the
now empty fire engine. "It wouldn't stop pumping. Well, I'm glad it
wasn't a real fire, and glad that no one is hurt. Put your engine away
now, Freddie, and, after this, don't play with water in the house,
when mamma has told you not to."

"I won't," promised Freddie. "But it's a good engine, isn't it?"

"Oh, yes, it's a good engine, all right."

"And I can take it on the houseboat, can't I?"

"Yes, but you won't need to put any water in. There'll be enough in
the creek and lakes," said Mrs. Bobbsey with a smile. "Come now,
Flossie and Freddie, you are wet, so you might as well get undressed
and go to bed. It is nearly time, anyhow, and you have had quite a day
of it. Off to bed!"

Off to bed the twins went.

Dinah wiped up the kitchen, and, as she did so, she murmured over and
over again: "It shuah did go off suddint laik! It shuah did!"

Flossie and Freddie, little the worse for their wetting, went off to
school next day, with Nan and Bert. The two sets of twins talked of
many things on their way to their classes, but, most of all, they
talked of the coming trip on the houseboat, and of the accident to the
fire engine the night before.

"I do hope Cousin Dorothy can come with us," said Nan, as she left
Bert to walk along with Nellie Parks.

"And I hope Harry can go," said Bert. "Better hurry along, Freddie,"
he called to his little brother. "There goes your bell, and yours,
too, Flossie."

The two little tots turned into the gate of the school that led to the
yard where the smallest pupils formed in line.

"Well, even if Harry and Dorothy can't go, I'll take my fire engine,"
said Freddie.

"And we'll take Snoop and Snap, so we won't be lonesome," suggested
Flossie. "Oh, won't it be fun, Freddie!"

"Yes, I wish it was time to go now. I'm tired of school," said the
little fellow.

But school must go on, whether there are houseboat parties or not, so
the Bobbsey twins had to study their lessons. I think that day,
however, Bert must have been thinking of other things than his books,
for when the teacher asked him what an island was, Bert gave a queer
answer. Instead of saying it was a body of land, surrounded by water,
Bert said:

"An island is a fire engine in the kitchen."

"Why, Bert Bobbsey! What ARE you thinking of?" asked the teacher.

"Oh, I--I was thinking of something that happened at our house last
night," Bert went on, while all the children in the room laughed.

"Then you'd better tell us about it," suggested Miss Teeter, the
instructor, for she was very kind. So Bert told of Freddie's mishap,
and how it was he happened to be thinking of that instead of the right
answer to the question about the island.

"I hear you have a houseboat, Bert," said John Blake, a boy in the
same room, as the children came out of school that afternoon.

"Yes, my father bought the one Mr. Marvin owned," said Bert. "It's a
fine one, too. We're going to have a trip in her soon."

"You're a lucky boy!" exclaimed John. "Can't you take me down and show
me over the boat?"

"I'd like to," said Bert, "but father said I wasn't to go aboard, when
he was not with me."

"Pooh! He'll never know," suggested Danny Rugg, a boy with whom Bert
had had more or less trouble. "You needn't tell your father you went
to the boat. Come on, take us down and let's see it."

"No," said Bert, quietly but firmly. "Maybe my father wouldn't know I
had been on board, but I'd know it."

"Aw, you're a fraid-cat!" sneered Danny. "Come on, take us down, and
we'll have some fun."

"No," said Bert with a shake of his head. "I'm sorry. Some other time,
after I've asked my father if I may, I'll show you all over the
Bluebird."

"I want to go now," Danny said.

"Oh, there's plenty of time," spoke John, pleasantly. "I wouldn't want
Bert to do what his father told him not to, just to oblige me. I'll
see the boat some other time, Bert; that will do just as well."

"Huh! He's a fraid-cat!" muttered Danny again, as he shuffled off,
muttering to himself. Several times he had made trouble for the
Bobbsey twins, and Bert was not any too friendly with him. Danny was a
bully in the school.

Bert wished, very much indeed, that he could have taken some of his
boy friends down to the houseboat, but his father had a good reason
for not wanting any boys aboard, unless he could be with them. Workmen
were making certain changes in the craft, and doing some painting
inside and outside.

A few days after this, when the Bobbsey twins reached home from
school, Mrs. Bobbsey met them at the door, saying:

"I have good news for you, children!"

"What is it?" cried Bert.

"Don't we have to go to school any more?" Freddie.

"Are we going on the houseboat sooner than we expected?" Nan wanted to
know.

"It's about your two cousins--Harry and Dorothy," went on Mrs.
Bobbsey. "They have both accepted our invitations, and they will come
with us on the trip! Won't that be nice?"

"Lovely!" exclaimed Nan, her eyes shining with delight. "Dorothy and
I'll have such nice times together!"

"And Harry and I'll catch a lot of fish," declared Bert.

The days went on. The houseboat was nearly ready for her trip. Very
soon school would close.

"Come on, Bert, can't you show us over the boat now?" asked Danny Rugg
one afternoon, on his way home from school, with Nan's brother, and
some other boys.

"I can't to-day, but perhaps I can to-morrow," said Bert. "I'll ask my
father."

"He'll never know about it," tempted Danny again, but Bert could not
be influenced that way.

"Never mind, I'll fix you!" threatened Danny, which was what he
usually said, when he could not have his own way.

Bert thought little of the threat at the time, though later he
recalled it vividly.

It was that night, just as the smaller twins were getting ready for
bed, that the telephone in the Bobbsey house rang out a call.

"I'll answer it," said Mr. Bobbsey, as he went to the instrument.
"Hello!" he called. Then his wife and children heard him cry:

"What! Is that so! That's too bad! Yes, I'll attend to it right away.
I wonder how it happened?"

"Oh, what has happened?" cried Mrs. Bobbsey, in alarm.

"Is the lumber yard on fire again?" asked Freddie, thinking of his toy
engine.

"Not as bad as that," said Mr. Bobbsey, as he quickly put on his hat.
"But the watchman at the dock just telephoned me that our houseboat,
the Bluebird, has gotten adrift, and is floating out into the lake."


CHAPTER VIII

OFF IN THE "BLUEBIRD"


For a few seconds after Mr. Bobbsey told of the news he had heard over
the telephone, none of the twins seemed to know what to say. They just
stared at their father, and I really believe, for a moment, that
Flossie and Freddie thought he was playing a joke on them. Then Mrs.
Bobbsey seemed to understand it.

"What!" she cried. "Our houseboat adrift?"

"That's what the watchman tells me," said Mr. Bobbsey, as he started
for the front door.

"But who did it?" asked Bert, managing to get his tongue in working
order.

"Can't you get her back again?" asked Nan. "Our boat, I mean."

"Let me come with you!" pleaded Freddie.

"And I want to come, too!" added Flossie. She seldom wanted to be left
behind, when her twin brother went anywhere.

"No, no! You children must stay here," said Mr. Bobbsey. "I will hurry
down to the lake, and come right back. I'll tell you all about it,
when I return."

"But what could have happened?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey. "What would make
our boat go adrift?"

"Oh, some of the ropes might have come loose," replied her husband.
"Or the ropes might even have been cut through, rubbing against the
dock. The wind is blowing a little, and that is sending the boat out
into the lake. I'll get one of our steam tugs, and go after her. It
will not take long nor be hard work to bring her back."

A number of small steam tugs were owned by Mr. Bobbsey for use in
hauling lumber boats, and lumber rafts about Lake Metoka. Some of
these tugs were always at the dock, and one always had steam up, ready
for instant use.

"Well, I hope you get the Bluebird back all right," said Bert. "We
don't want to miss our trip, especially after we have asked Harry and
Dorothy."

"Oh, it would be too bad to disappoint them," put in Nan.

"Oh, I'll get the boat back all right," declared Mr. Bobbsey.

Flossie and Freddie breathed sighs of relief. They were not worried
now, for they knew their father would do as he said.

Fat Dinah put her head in through the door of the sitting room.

"Am anyt'ing de mattah?" she asked. "I done heah yo' all talkin' in
heah, an' I t'inks maybe dat honey lamb Freddie done got his steam
enjine squirtin' watah ag'in."

"Not this time, Dinah," said Mrs. Bobbsey, for the cook was almost
like one of the family. Then the twins' mother explained what the
trouble was.

"I 'clar t' goodness!" Dinah exclaimed. "Suffin's always happenin' in
dish yeah fambily."

It was not a very serious happening this time. Mr. Bobbsey hurried
down to his lumber yard in the darkness of the June evening.

He was gone about an hour, when the telephone rang. On account of the
little excitement Flossie and Freddie had been allowed to stay up,
although it was long past their usual bedtime.

"I'll answer it," said Mrs. Bobbsey, as the telephoned bell stopped
jingling, for Bert had started from his seat.

"Oh, it's papa," the twins' mother went on, after she had listened for
a second after saying "Hello!"

"Is the boat all right?" asked Nan, anxiously.

"Yes," answered her mother, and then she turned to listen to the rest
of Mr. Bobbsey's talk over the telephone.

"Papa went after the Bluebird, and brought her safely back," Mrs.
Bobbsey explained, when she had hung up the receiver. "He'll be here
in a few minutes to tell us all about it. He telephoned from the
lumber office after he had our boat safe."

"Oh, I'm so glad the boat's all right," said Nan.

"Pooh, I knowed it would be--when papa went after it," said Freddie,
with a sleepy yawn.

"You must say 'knew,' not 'knowed,' dear," spoke Mamma Bobbsey. "And
now I think it is time for you and Flossie to go to bed."

Neither of the smaller twins offered any objection. They were too
sleepy to want to stay up and listen to the story of the bringing back
of the Bluebird.

Nan and Bert were anxious to hear it, and Mr. Bobbsey came in soon
after Flossie and Freddie were tucked in bed. He told the story of the
drifting houseboat.

"How did it break loose?" asked Bert.

"It didn't break loose," said his father. "Some one untied the knots
in the ropes."

"Untied!" cried Mrs. Bobbsey. "How did it happen?"

"Why, some one went aboard the boat," explained Mr. Bobbsey, "and I
think it must have been some boys, for I found this cap," and he held
up a gray one.

"Why!" cried Bert when he saw it. "That's Danny Rugg's cap!"

"I thought so," went on Mr. Bobbsey. "Danny, and some of his chums,
must have gone on the boat early this evening. They played about, as
boys will, and some of them, either on purpose or accidentally, must
have loosed the knots in the ropes before coming ashore. Then the boat
just drifted away after that."

"Those boys had no right to go on our boat!" said Nan.

"No, they had not," agreed her father, "But I'm glad there was no real
damage done. The watchman saw the Bluebird soon after she had drifted
away from the dock, and he telephoned me. I went out in one of our
tugs and soon brought her back. So you think this is Danny Rugg's cap,
Bert?"

"I'm sure of it, yes, sir. Danny wanted me to take him, and some of
the other boys, on the boat, but I wouldn't."

"I'm glad you remembered what I told you," spoke Mr. Bobbsey, and Bert
blushed with pleasure.

"I'll give Danny his cap in the morning," Bert went on. "It may
surprise him to know where he lost it."

"I don't believe you can surprise that Danny Rugg very much," said
Mrs. Bobbsey.

The next morning, when Bert took Danny's cap to school with him, and
handed it to the boy who had caused so much trouble, a queer look came
over Danny's face.

"Thanks," he said. "I was wondering where I left that. I guess I must
have dropped it, when I was--playing football over in the fields."

"No, you dropped it on our houseboat, the Bluebird, just before you
and the other fellows untied the ropes that let her go adrift," said
Bert. "And you'd better keep off her after this!"

"Huh! I'm not afraid of your father!" was all Danny growled, as he
stuffed his cap in his pocket, for he had worn another to school.

When Danny's chums learned that it was known who had set the boat
adrift, they were rather frightened. When they realized the damage
they might have done, they kept away from Mr. Bobbsey's lumber yard
for a long time.

One day, about a week after this, the Bobbsey twins hurried home from
school without stopping to play with any of their friends.

"Why are you in such a hurry?" asked Grace Lavine of Nan.

"We expect our cousins to-day," Nan answered. "Then we are going to
get ready to go away in our houseboat."

Surely enough, when the twins reached home, there the cousins were to
greet them--Dorothy and Harry, one from the seashore, and the other
from the country.

"Oh, but I'm SO glad to see you!" cried Nan, as she hugged and kissed
Dorothy.

"And I'm SO glad to come," Dorothy answered with a smile. "It was
lovely of you to invite me to go on your boat."

"We'll have a lot of fun," said Bert to Harry.

"That's what we will," replied the boy from the country.

"We're both awful glad to see you!" chimed in Flossie, speaking both
for herself and for Freddie. "But we can't play with the fire engine."

"Not if we put water in," added Freddie.

"What in the world do they mean?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"Oh, I'll have to tell you," laughed Nan, as she explained about the
accident.

The cousins had much to tell the twins, and talk about, and the twins
had as much more to tell, so, for a time, there was a merry sound of
talk and laughter.

Dorothy and Harry had come by different trains, one from the seashore
and the other from the country, but they had reached the Bobbsey house
at the same time. Their schools had not yet closed, but as they were
both well advanced in their studies, their parents had allowed them to
leave their classes ahead of time, since they were both sure to
"pass."

"Just think!" cried Nan, when there was a moment of quiet. "In three
days more OUR school will close, and then we'll go on the trip."

"Won't it be lovely!" murmured Dorothy.

I leave you to imagine all that took place in those three days.
Schooldays came to an end, and the Bobbsey twins were among those at
the heads of their classes. Then came a packing-up time, and the
Bobbsey house was a scene of great excitement. Trunks and boxes were
taken aboard the Bluebird, a man was hired to run the gasoline engine.
Plenty of good things to eat were stowed away in the kitchen lockers,
as cupboards are called on a boat. At last all was ready for the
start.

Snoop and Snap, of course, were on hand, as was Dinah. Mr. Bobbsey saw
to it that his family, and the two cousins, were safely aboard, and
then he gave the order to cast off the lines. The Bluebird floated
away from the dock, and out into the lake that was almost as blue as
her name.

"All aboard!" cried Bert.

"Toot! Toot!" whistled Freddie, pretending to be an engine.

"Oh, look out! You're stepping on my doll!" screamed Flossie, who had
put her toy down on the deck a moment.

"Good-bye! Good-bye!" called Nan to Grace Lavine, and some others of
her girl friends, who had come down to the dock to see them off.
"Good-bye!"

"Good-bye!" echoed the girls, waving their hands.

"Come on!" called Bert to Harry, as he started for the lower cabin.

"What are you going to do?" asked the boy from the country.

"Let's get out our fishing poles. Maybe we can catch something for
dinner."

"That's right!" agreed Harry.

Slowly the Bluebird moved out into the lake, for the gasoline engine
was working. The houseboat trip of the Bobbsey twins had begun, and
many things were to happen before it was to end.


CHAPTER IX

SNOOP AND SNAP


Nan and Dorothy, after waving good-bye to the girl friends on the
dock, went down to the living room of the houseboat. There they found
Mrs. Bobbsey and Dinah putting away some of the things that had been
brought on board at the last moment.

"I 'clar t' goodness!" exclaimed the colored cook, "dish yeah
houseboatin' am wuss dan movin'!"

"Oh, not quite as bad as that," said Mrs. Bobbsey, with a laugh. "But
what are you going to do, Nan, dear? Do you like it, Dorothy?"

"Oh! indeed I do," answered the "seashore cousin," as Nan called her
to distinguish her from Harry, who lived in the country.

"We are just going to our rooms for a minute, mother," Nan answered.
"I want to show Dorothy my new sailor suit."

Every body on the houseboat was busy, even down to Flossie and
Freddie, and the two little twins were busy having fun.

Mrs. Bobbsey and Dinah were engaged in putting to rights the different
rooms, for there were a number on the Bluebird, which was built for a
large family. Bert and Harry were up on deck fishing, as the boat
moved slowly through the blue waters of Metoka Lake. Flossie and
Freddie, as I have said, were playing, the little girl with her doll,
and Freddie with a new toy his father had bought him.

As for Mr. Bobbsey, he was down in the engine room with "Captain
White." Mr. White was one of Mr. Bobbsey's men who had once been in
charge of a tugboat, but one day there was an accident aboard, and Mr.
White was made lame for life.

But Mr. Bobbsey liked his faithful employee, and kept him at work, and
since Mr. White could not do heavy tasks, he was allowed to do easy
ones.

Mr. White was called "Captain" by every one, though he was not really
a captain. Still, he knew a great deal about boats, the weather clouds
and storms, and all things such as sea captains are supposed to know.

When Mr. Bobbsey bought Mr. Marvin's houseboat, he at once began to
think of some one who could sail it for him, and take care of the
gasoline engine. Naturally, he thought of Captain White. So the
Bluebird was put in charge of Captain White, who, you may be sure, was
very glad to be on the water again, even if it was only in a slow-
moving houseboat, and not in a swift steam tug.

Mr. Bobbsey and Captain White were down in the motor, or engine room
together. Mr. Bobbsey was learning how to run the gasoline engine.

I have told you how the Bluebird was driven along through the water by
a small engine. It was not a steam engine, such as are found in many
boats, but a gasoline one, such as those in most automobiles.

Mr. Bobbsey did not intend to sail very fast in the houseboat. In
fact, for many days, he expected to just drift along, or push the boat
with a long pole through some shallow creek, or in parts of the lake
where it was not deep. When he wanted to move more quickly from place
to place, there was the gasoline engine all ready to use. And Captain
White knew how to use it.

Mr. Bobbsey came up out of the little motor room after a while, and
watched his wife and Dinah putting things away. The boat was moving
down the lake.

"Oh, look at your face!" suddenly cried Mrs. Bobbsey.

"What's the matter with it?" asked her husband, putting his hand up to
his nose, as almost any person will do when you speak of his face.

"It's all black!" went on Mrs. Bobbsey. "So are your hands. Oh,
Richard! What have you been doing?"

"Learning to run the gasoline engine," he said. "I want to know how it
works so that if we need to start any time when Captain White is on
shore, or asleep, I can do it."

"I hope you won't start off any time when Captain White is on shore,"
said Mrs. Bobbsey. "You don't know enough about a boat to run it
without him."

"Very well, then. I promise I'll run the gasoline engine only when
Captain White is asleep," said Mr. Bobbsey, with a laugh. "And then,
if anything happens, I'll only have to awaken him, and ask him what is
wrong."

"That's the best plan," said Mrs. Bobbsey, also laughing. "And now you
had better go wash your face. Some one might see you--looking like
that."

There was a nice little bathroom aboard the Bluebird, and Mr. Bobbsey
was soon splashing away with the water and soap. Meanwhile Mrs.
Bobbsey and Dinah finished their work, and went up on deck.

It was a very pleasant day, and with the sun shining down from a blue
sky overhead, just warm enough, and not too hot, with a gentle breeze
that hardly ruffled the surface of the lake, but which made it
delightfully cool as the boat moved slowly along. In short, it was
just perfect weather, as the Bobbsey twins started off on their
houseboat.

Nan and Dorothy, having finished looking at each other's dresses,
which always seems to delight girls, had come up on deck so that now
the whole Bobbsey family, and their country, and seashore cousin
visitors also, were there.

"Have you caught any fish yet?" asked Mr. Bobbsey, walking over to
where Bert and Harry were dangling their lines in the water.

"Not yet, but we've had two or three bites," said Bert, hopefully.

"I think you'll have better luck when we reach some quiet place, and
anchor," Mr. Bobbsey went on. "At any rate, you need not worry, if you
don't catch any fish. Dinah will be able to give us something else for
dinner, I think."

"I think so, too," said Harry with a laugh. "I can smell something
cooking now."

This was so. For, though the Bobbseys had started early that morning,
there was so much to do that it was now nearly noon. To them it seemed
only an hour or so since they had started. Dinah was a good cook. She
kept one eye on the clock and the other on the things she was cooking.
And she made up her mind that the meals would be on time, even if they
were served on a houseboat. So it was the cooking of dinner that Harry
smelled.

"Oh, Dorothy!" exclaimed Nan, after a little while, during which the
two girls looked across the lake to the distant shores they had left.
"I must show you a new trick Snap has learned."

"What! Another trick?" cried Dorothy. "My! He knows a lot of them now.
He certainly is a clever dog!"

Snap, as I have told you, used to belong to a circus before the
Bobbseys bought him, so perhaps learning tricks came easier to him
than to most dogs.

"Yes, I taught him this trick myself," went on Nan. "He will walk
around on his hind legs, and carry a doll in his front paws, just like
a nurse girl. When I dress him up in one of my old skirts and a
jacket, he is too funny for anything! I'll make him do the trick now,
only I won't dress him up, for I can't find the clothes he wears. I
don't believe we brought them. But I'll make him carry the doll for
you. Here, Snap!" called Nan.

The dog, who had been sleeping in a sunny Spot on deck, near Snoop,
the black cat, sprang up, when he heard his name called.

"Where are you going to get a doll for him to carry?" asked Dorothy.

"I'll take Flossie's. You'll let sister take your doll to make Snap do
a trick, won't you, dear?" she asked.

"Yes, Nan," answered flaxen-haired Flossie. "I just love to see Snap
do that trick! He carries the doll so cute!"

Flossie brought her doll to Nan, and Snap stood near, wagging his
tail, for he seemed to know what was coming.

"Now, Snap," said Nan, pointing her finger at the dog, "I want you to
show Dorothy how you play nurse-girl, and carry a doll."

"Bow wow!" barked Snap. That was what he always said when any one
spoke to him. I suppose HE knew what he meant, but no one else did. At
any rate, he seemed to understand what was said to him.

"Up, Snap! Up!" called Nan suddenly, and Snap rose on his hind legs,
holding his fore paws out in front of him, so Nan could place the doll
on them.

This the little girl did, putting Flossie's "sawdust baby" carefully
across Snap's paws.

"Now take the doll for a walk!" ordered Nan, and, with another bark,
off Snap started, parading across the deck.

"Oh, isn't he too cute!" cried Dorothy, laughing and clapping her
hands. "Oh, what a smart dog he is!"

"Isn't he!" agreed Nan. "Bert said I never could teach him to do a
trick, but I did."

"Indeed you did!" agreed Dorothy.

"Now come back here, Snap!" ordered Nan. But just then something
happened.

How it was no one knew exactly, but Bert suddenly caught a fish. He
was so surprised at getting a hard bite on his line, that he jerked it
up quickly. Something flashed in the sunlight, and, the next moment, a
little sunfish landed flapping on the deck, right in front of the
sleeping black cat Snoop.

"Flop!" went the fish, and Snoop awakened with a jump. Up to her feet
she leaped like a flash, and then she saw the fish. Snoop was very
fond of fish, and made a spring for the one Bert had caught. But the
fish was wet and slippery, and no sooner had Snoop pounced on it with
her claws than the fish slid across the deck of the houseboat. Snoop
slid after it, just as she often slid across the kitchen oilcloth,
when she sprang for a piece of string that Flossie or Freddie would
pull along to make the cat play.

Right across the deck, after the slippery fish slid Snoop, and, the
next instant, the poor cat had slid right off the deck, and fallen
into the lake with a splash!


CHAPTER X

DOWN THE CREEK


"There goes Snoop!"

"Oh, somebody get her!"

Nan and Dorothy both shouted at the same time. As for Bert, he was so
surprised at having caught a fish, and at seeing the cat slide off the
deck with it, that he could say nothing. It was almost the same with
Harry. He had jumped to his feet, however, and had run toward Snoop,
but too late.

Pointed, Gadshill, Peto and Bardolph, Falstaff Cameraden. Lady Percy.
Lady Mortimer, daughter of Glendower. Wirthin The Quikly. Scheriff A,
in various Serves Wirth House, carters, travelers, and other dumb
people. The scene is in England. Act. First Scene. (The Court in
London.) (King Henry, the Duke of Lancaster, the Earl of Westmorland,
and other Lords occur.)

King Henry. From Worry shaken and pale haggard sorrow, we finally
find the Augenblik where Peace of geschrekte again Athem can come
to aborted Accente of new work to talk to distant shores to our
Muth employ.

No longer will this earth the blood of their own children to drink, no
longer domestic discord devastate their fields, and If the iron of war
trample their flowering meadows. rükende battle against these orders,
which equals the meteors scenting a sky, all of einerley nature of
einerley origin, yet recently with the whole of civil war on Wuthe
met each other, are now gleichlauffenden lines, in a beautiful line
of policy, a way out, no longer be brothers against brothers, friends
against friends are, no longer the mördrische steel, übeleingescheideten
like a knife, wounding his own Lord.

No, my friends, to that sacred grave of Christ, under whose heilbringendem
Creuze we have vowed to fight, we want to war with our English army,
in order that those infidels from the holy lands to drive, what the
blessed feet are gone, the front of one hundred fourteen years for
our salvation to the bittre Creuze have been nailed.

However, this is our project already a year old, it is unnöthig you
to say that we want to go, and we are not IZO For this came together.

Let me hear from you, my beloved cousin of Westmorland, which is
our Rathscheck Assembly yesterday for undertaking this important
agreement. Westmorland.

Gracious Lord, we operate this business with great zeal, and there
were various flashovers of expenses designed: As a quite unverhofter
Courier, laden with irksome newspapers, came in between, of which
the worst was that the noble Mortimer, of the people of Hereford-Schire
agitate against Glendower led by Welschen caught, and over a thousand
of his people niedergemezelt been seyen , in whose bodies the women
Todt Welschen of such abuse, such a beastly schaamlose Verstümmlung
exercised without Erröthen can not tell.

King Henry. It seems, then, the news of this uprising have developed
our business in accordance with the promised land aborted? Westmorland.
This even more support, thats it, Gracious Lord, because there were
still more unequal and mißbeliebige newspapers from north. On the
cross-raising day geriethen this muthreiche hot track, the young
Henry Percy, and Archibald, this glorious tapfre and bulkheads, to
Holmedon into a bloody Handgemeng, so much learned from the
institutions and the fury of the attack was close, because the
person who of this newspaper took, ran in the middle of the strongest
Hize of battle like this, without waiting for the outcome.

King Henry. Here is a Werther-zealous and faithful friend, Sir
Walter Blunt, who just dismounted from his horse, to us from
Holmedon willkommne the message to that of the Earl of Douglas
beaten sey.

Ten thousand bold Scots, and three and twenty knights Sir Walter
looked at the leveling of Holmedon in their blood roll.

Mordak, Earl of Fife, the eldest son of geschlagnen Douglas and the
Earl of Athol, Murry, Angus, and Menteith has hot track get caught.

Is not that a nice booty? A noble That? Ha, cousin, is it not?
Westmorland. In That a victory, what a prince proud to have Seyn cause.
King Henry.

O why you mention the word, sad thoughts in order to excite me, and
me to the sin of envy to irritate that Milord Northumberland the
father of a son so worthy Seyn aims, one son, whose name the glory
always goes in the mouth, the same as the highest tree in a Hayn,
towers over all others, the favorite of the Glüks, and her pride;
however, that I use just the Blik, the looks on his fame, shame and
rampant Schwelgerey the forehead of my young Harry besmirch see.

O you can 'it be proved that any night fairy mincing our children in the
cradle confused, and my son, Percy, Plantagenet genennt those with
him would have - But let me, this idea is not to hang on - what do
you think cousin of this young Percy pride?

It keeps the prisoners, which he did in this battle for the back,
and let me say that I am not as Mordake, the Earl of Fife, to have.

Westmorland. The inspiration is his uncle, this is Worcester, which
all appear to be evil against you mind is the ists that him inflate
his feathers, and his young comb against your Highness emporsträuben
makes.

King Henry. I voted for him geschikte to him deßwegen to account, and
that is the reason why we are genöthigt our holy defer projects to
Jerusalem. Vetter, we want to next Wednesday for our big Rath gather
in Windsor. Benachrichtiget of which the Lords, but eilet quickly
back to us, then there must be more to be said and done, as our
reluctance to say IZT allowed.

Westmorland. I obey, area of my Lord. (They go from.) Zweyte Scene.
(A room in the Cron Prince.) (Henry, the Prince of Wales, and Sir
John Falstaff occur.) Falstaff. Hey, Hal, what time * ists on days,
boy? (ed * Harry and Hal, are abbreviated name, rather than Henry,
as in confidential treatment have been used.)

Prinz Heinrich. Your praiseworthy habit you in Sect to besauffen old,
to eat up all the buttons you must aufthun, and the whole afternoon
on benches to snore, your wikelt Wiz so much fat in Schmeer and that,
so you do lose, right to ask quite what you want to know. What the
hell, you have the time on the day to thun?

Yes, if the hours were cups full Sect, the minutes Capaunen, the tongues
of Gloken Kuppler who watches shields H ** houses, and the sun
itself is a nice man roßiges in feuerfarbem Taft, it could still
begreiffen why you after the time asked.

Falstaff. My faith, it is close to me 'to his body, Hal, for we
rest, the cutting craft bag, and Beyme silver moon and the stars around,
and not Beyme Phoebus, "he edeln the bondage so beautiful ', **
but I pray thee, my sweet Närrchen, even when you're king - thy
graces which God (Majesty wollt' I say grace because you will not
have) - (ed ** (Hey, that wall ring as fair Knight) - a line from
an old ballad.

Warburton.) Prinz Heinrich. How? No? Falstaff. No, my soul, not so much
as a Prologus for a few Eyer in butter is Nöthiger.

Prince Henry. Well, and what next? Hey there, flatly, no hassles!
Falstaff.

Sapperment now then, Närrchen when you're king, so sorge pretty sure
that we have other guys honest, their craft night driving Bey, Bey
days of the judiciary remain unscathed.

Let's look at the Diana Forster their stay, Knights of the Shadows,
darlings of the moon, and let the people say we seyen people of good
performance, since we are equal to the lake from our edeln and chaste
mistress, the moon, to be ** * Schuz and under whose leadership
we - steal.

(ed *** The jokes of Mr. John Falstaff is not always translate,
because they do too often based on puns, as here, where (government)
and (govern) in an entirely different meaning to be, which is not
quite in the German ausdrüken him, and so the answer of the prince
not quite fit.)

Prinz Heinrich. You are right, and you do not go amiss parables, and
the other of us Glük lunar knights, and grow to like the lake,
because it looks like the lake is dominated by the Moon.

For example, a bag of gold savory weggeschnappt in last Monday
night, will again lüders durchgebracht on Tuesday morning, with
cursing and (leg ab) won with and rejoice (bring in.) durchgewonnen;
IZT in such a low ebb as the foot of a ladder, and in a Augenblik
in such a high Fluth as a crossbeam of the gallows.

Falstaff. I Six, you're right, boy, and my Wirthin in the tavern is not
a very pleasant man? Prinz Heinrich. As the honey of Hybla, old
boy, and is not a buffalo dewlap of a rather pleasant Stük clothes in
the long run? Falstaff. What, what, what willt you mean to say, foolish
boy? What are your bites me Leyen and your Quidditäten to? What,
pestilence! Hab 'ich with a dewlap of buffalo thun?

Prinz Heinrich. And what serious North! Yeah, I with my Wirthin in the
inn to thun? Falstaff. Well, you do not often and a lot of reckoning
to geruffen?

Prinz Heinrich. Did I ever geruffen thee, that thou thy portion of the
colliery pay sollst? Falstaff. No, the fairness, I must let you go
again, you have paid for everything there.

Prinz Heinrich. Yes, and everywhere, so long my pititemaman ranged, and
if it was empty, so I used my credit. Falstaff. That is true, and so
needed that if it is not probably would be that probably you are
the heir - but I pray thee, Närrchen, willt you also have a gallows
in England are, if you're king?

Willt you admit that a resolute man of the rusty old bugbear grotesque,
Gesez themselves can be schicanieren? Hanging me yes no thief when
you're king, the sag 'ich dir.

Prince Henry. That I will not, you should hang it. Falstaff. I?
Incomparable! Beyme Sapperment! I want an excellent judge Seyn.

Prince Henry. You understand me not; I Meyn, thou shalt, in the person
hanging the thieves, and therefore are an excellent executioner. Falstaff.
Well, Hal, well; the wär 'a craft which is to my Humor schikte as
good as Bey aufzuwarten yard, which I can tell you.

Schlapperment! I'm so schwermüthig like a cat, or like a bear, the
man pulls the ears Bey. Prinz Heinrich.

Or like an old lion, or sounds like a lover? Falstaff. Yes, or how
the Scharrpfeiffe in a Lincolnschirer Dudelsak.

Prinz Heinrich . What do you say to a hare, or a Kothe Melancholey
Pool?

Falstaff.

You parables from bad taste, and you'll be That of allerunvergleichlichste
by an extraordinary Spizbube like young princes - But, Hall, I
pray thee, plage me no more with such eiteln things I wished to God
thou and I knew an opportunity when a good name could get Kauff,
an old Lord of the State Rath lezthin euertwegen got me on the road
to paken, Sir; but I was not sure what he said, whether he very
wisely said, and even on the road.

Prinz Heinrich. thats you want, because the wisdom makes her voice heard
on the streets, and nobody respects her.

Falstaff. O you have a damn pull-force, my soul, you could seduce
a saint. You have done me much evil, Hal, God forgive you.

Before I knew thee, Hal knew 'I had nothing, and I'm IZT, if one
wanted to tell the truth, little better than one of the worst. DISS I
must abandon life and I want to give up; Bey G ***, if I do not
Thue, so I sey a dog **!

I want no king's son in Christendom for the sake of T ** drive. Prinz
Heinrich. Where do we want to steal a bag tomorrow, John?

Falstaff. Willt Where you, boy, I'm doing with; Thue ichs not so hot
I am a dog ** and my mouth clamps gieb. Prince Henry. The Beßrung
your life goes well equip, I see only only Stoßseufzer, IZT street
robbery. Falstaff. How, Hal, that's my profession, Hal, it is one no
sin in his profession to work. Hey! Who is coming? Pointed! Now we
will hear whether Gadshill has done something ausfündig - O if
people would be saved from earning what hole in hell were hot enough
for this service!

Third Scene. (Pointed to the former), Falstaff. This is the omnipotent
Spizbube that ever an honest man stop! zugeruffen has. Prince Henry.
Good morning, Ned. pointed.

Good morning, my dear Hal. What says Monsieur conscience? What says
Sir John, and Sect Zukerhans? How did you's with each other, you
and the devil, because of your soul that you have him verwichnen Char
Freytag for a glass of Madeira wine and a cold Capaunen legs've sold?
Prinz Heinrich.

Sir John keeps his word, the devil is his Waar have you know that he
never broke no Sprüchwort has, he is the devil, what belongs to him.
pointed. So you will be damned if the devil you do your word? Prinz
Heinrich. Otherwise, he would damn, because he is the devil had
cheated. pointed.

But, my boy, my boy, tomorrow morning, at four clock, after Gadshill
there are Pilgrims on the way, with rich victims to Canterbury,
and Kauffleute with wohlgespikten bags go to London.

I have visors for you all, and you have horses for you self Gadshill
ligt this night to Rochester, I have until tomorrow night, a night
dining in East Cheap ordered.

It's one thing we can be as safe tuna, as flaccid, if you want to
go, I will get your bag with cron stuff, will you not, it stays
there, and you get the executioner.

Falstaff.

Do you hear, Yedward if I stay home and not go, I will hang you
for that ye went Seyde. pointed. Willt you, wolverine? Falstaff.
Hal, willt you one of us Seyn? Prinz Heinrich. Who, I rob?

I, a thief? No, my faith Bey! Falstaff. You have neither honor nor
courage in him, if you Thust; du willt so your good friends in the
lurch?

I am Six, you have no royal blood drops in the womb, if you were not at
ten shillings the heart have to Ruff: Stop! Prinz Heinrich. Sey So
then, once in my life I want to by a great header Seyn. Falstaff. Well,
that is brav once spoken. Prinz Heinrich.

No, go there as it wants, I will stay at home.

Falstaff. Bey G ** like I Verräther Seyn when you're king.

Prinz Heinrich. bekümmre I am nothing about it. pointed. Sir John, I
pray thee, let the prince and me alone, I want him to present such
reasons that he should certainly go.

Falstaff.

Well, may you the spirit of persuasion, and his ears to hear, so what
you're talking about might move, and hears what he believed.

Lebet well, however, ye shall me in East Cheap find. (Falstaff's
up.) Pointed. Well, my dear sweet Zuker-Prince, riding with me
tomorrow.

I have a fun in mind, I will not run kan. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto and
Gadshill to deprive these people of which we have made an attack, she
and I do not want to attend dabey Seyn if they have the prey, and
her and I do not abjagen them, so this skin-head from my shoulders.

Prinz Heinrich. But how shall we come by them, if we are riding
with them? pointed. How? We want to before or after them, and to give
them a certain Plaz determine where we want to meet, and then we can
miss when it's our favorite, and then they will Abentheuer alone
company, and once they are done, like we have them.

Prinz Heinrich. Well, but it is probably that they remind us of our
horses on our clothes, and to hundreds of others milling Saved
recognize. pointed. For this is already Rath shop.

Our horses will not see them, because we want to connect in the forest,
our visors, we want to confuse others when we are away from them,
and, Sapperment!

I have Ueberröke of the Vorrath Schetter, under which no one should
know our clothes. Prinz Heinrich. But I care, they will get too strong
Seyn. pointed. O what anbetrift, zween of them I know as a pair of
outlaw so-gebohrne memme than ever Rüken have shown, and what the third
betrift if the longer rather than resisting, so I want everything
Rifle conspirators.

The biggest fun of the thing is in the miraculosen lies, which this
nemliche Dike Spizbube prompt us when we eat at night to come together,
as he did with the fewest recorded dreyßig what blows he got what
he risks for existed, and in the way we see it all these Aufschneidereyen
be transferred, of ligt fun.

Prinz Heinrich.
"Good-bye!" called Bert and Harry as Will hurried off along the edge
of the creek. "See you to-morrow, maybe."

Will had no idea that he would see his friends then. He knew he had a
hard day's work in prospect for the next day--weeding a large patch of
onions that were so far away from the creek that he would have no
chance, even at his noon hour, of going down to the water for a cool
little swim.

Will did not know what queer things were going to happen to him very
soon, nor did any of the Bobbseys realize what a part they were to
play in the life of poor, friendless Will Watson.

"He's a nice boy, isn't he?" asked Harry of Bert, as they turned back
toward the boat, with their fish and bait.

"Yes, I like him a lot. It's too bad he has to work so hard on the
farm."

"Yes, it sure is."

Talking of the luck they expected to have the next day, fishing, the
cousins soon reached the Bluebird. There they found their father and
Captain White waiting for them.

"We've decided to move the boat farther down the creek before we tie
up for the night," said Mr. Bobbsey, "but we didn't want to go before
you boys came back."

"Are you going to start up the engine again?" asked Bert. "If you are,
I wish you'd let me try to do it."

"No, you are too small to go near gasoline motors," said his father.
"Besides, we are not going to use the engine. We'll just push the boat
along with poles from the bank. We're not going very far, but your
mother thought it would be nicer to spend the night in a more open
place."

"Yes," said Mrs. Bobbsey, "I thought perhaps some animals might jump
out of the trees on our deck."

The trees on shore were very close to the boat, some of the branches
overhanging the railing. At the mention of animals, Bert's eyes opened
wider.

"Say, if I had a gun I could shoot them, if they came aboard," he
said, his eyes glistening.

"Nonsense!" exclaimed his mother. "I'd rather have an animal on board
than let you have a gun. You might get shot."

"I--I could squirt water on 'em with my fire engine!" shouted Freddie,
who had given up trying to make Snoop do any tricks.

"Oh, we had enough of your engine, little fat fireman," said Mr.
Bobbsey with a laugh. "Now then, if you're all ready, we'll move the
boat."

It was rather hard work to start the Bluebird, but once it had begun
to move, it went more easily through the water. Captain White had one
pushing pole, Mr. Bobbsey another, and Bert and Harry used one between
them. Soon the houseboat moved out from the narrow part of the creek,
and from under the trees, to a place where wide meadows were found on
either side. A little farther, going around a bend in the stream, the
Bobbseys came in sight of a farmhouse, a barn and several other
buildings near it.

"Oh, look!" cried Nan. "Somebody lives there."

"Yes, that's Mr. Hardee's farm, I think," said Mr. Bobbsey. "We can
tie up our boat here, and then, if we want some milk or eggs, we can
easily get them."

"I needs some aigs," spoke Dinah. "Done used de lastest one in dem
muffins."

"Then we'll make the boat fast here," decided Mr. Bobbsey. "With your
corn muffins, Dinah, and the fish Will gave us, we'll have a fine
supper. As soon as the boat is fast you and Harry can clean the fish,
Bert."

Beyond the broad expanse which lay between the wide meadows, the creek
had narrowed again opposite the farmhouse and barn. In fact, it was so
narrow, that if there had been another houseboat on the stream, there
would have been trouble for the Bluebird to pass. This narrow part was
not, however, very long, and beyond it the creek broadened out again.

Mr. Bobbsey and Captain White had just finished fastening the ropes
from the boat to some stakes driven into the ground, when Mrs.
Bobbsey, who had come up from the dining-room, called out:

"Oh, look, Richard!"

"What is it?" asked her husband.

"That man! See! I'm afraid he is going to give that boy a whipping.
And see, it's Will--the boy who gave Bert the fish!"

Mr. Bobbsey looked to where his wife pointed, and saw, coming out of
the barn, a grizzled farmer, leading by the arm a boy whom Mr. Bobbsey
at once recognized as Will Watson. Keeping a tight grip on the lad's
arm with one hand, the farmer raised his other hand, in which was a
long horsewhip.

Then he cried:

"I'll teach you to waste your time goin' fishin'! I'll teach you! Th'
idea o' fishin' when I set you to hoein' corn! Wastin' my time! I'll
learn you!"

"Oh, but, Mr. Hardee!" cried poor Will. "I only fished in the noon
hour when I'm not supposed to work!"

"Not supposed to work!" cried the mean man, as he brought the whip
down on Will's shoulders. "You're supposed t' work here all th' while
I tell you--'cept when you're asleep! I'll teach you!" and again the
cruel whip swished down.

"Oh, Richard!" cried Mrs. Bobbsey faintly, as she covered her eyes
with her hands. "Can't you stop that?"


CHAPTER XII

THE WIRE FENCE


Mr. Bobbsey did not waste any time talking. With a run and a jump he
was on shore, and then he started across the meadow toward the place
where the mean farmer was whipping Will, who was crying out loud. For
the cruel whip hurt.

"Hold on a minute, Mr. Hardee!" exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey, when he was
near enough to make himself heard. Back on the deck of the houseboat
Mrs. Bobbsey, the twins, their cousins and Dinah watched and waited to
see what would happen.

"You talkin' to me?" sharply demanded the mean farmer of Mr. Bobbsey.

"Yes, Mr. Hardee. I asked you to wait a minute before you keep on
whipping that boy. I happened to hear part of what he said, and I
think he is in the right."

"In th' right? What do you mean?"

"I mean I think he tells the truth, when he says he fished only during
the noon hour. We saw him as he came along, and he gave the fish he
had caught to my boy."

"Oh, he did, hey?" exclaimed Mr. Hardee. "I was wonderin' what become
of 'em. Give 'em away, did he? Wa'al, he knowed better'n to bring 'em
here. I knowed he'd been wastin' his time. When I set a boy to hoein'
corn, an' he comes home smellin' of fish, I know what he's been doin'
jest th' same as when I see a boy's head wet on a hot day I know he's
been in swimmin'! You can't fool me. He's frittered away his time,
when he ought t' be hoein' corn, an' now I'm goin' to take it out of
him!"

Again he raised the whip, and struck the boy.

"Oh, please don't!" begged Will. "Honest I didn't fish except at noon
hour, an' I ate my lunch in one hand, and fished with the other, so I
wouldn't waste any time. I only took half an hour, instead of three-
quarters you said I could have at noon, and I went right to work
hoein' corn again."

"Humph! That's easy enough to say," spoke Mr. Hardee, "but I don't
believe you. I told you I'd whip you if you went fishin' ag'in, an'
I'm goin' to do it!"

Again the lash fell.

"Please don't!" begged Will, trying to break loose. But the angry
farmer held him in too firm a grip.

"Look here!" exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey with flashing eyes. "I believe that
boy is telling the truth!"

"Wa'al, I don't," snapped the mean farmer. "An' I'm goin' to give him
a good lesson."

"Not that way, Mr. Hardee!" cried Mr. Bobbsey, taking a step forward.

"Huh! You seem to know my name," said the farmer, stopping in his
beating of the boy, "but I don't know you."

"My name is Bobbsey," said the twins' lather, and the farmer started.
"I'm in the lumber business over at Lakeport. I guess you bought some
lumber of me, didn't you, for your house."

"Wa'al, s'posin' I did?" asked Mr. Hardee. "I paid you for it, didn't
I?"

"Yes, I think so."

"Wa'al, then that don't give you no right to interfere with me! This
is my hired boy, an' I can do as I please with him."

"Oh, no, you can't, Mr. Hardee!" said Mr. Bobbsey quickly.

"What's that? I can't? Wa'al, I'll show you! Stand back now, I'm goin'
to give him a good threshin'!"

Again he raised the whip, but it did not fall on poor, timid,
shrinking Will. For Mr. Bobbsey snatched it away from the angry
farmer's hand and flung it far to one side.

"Here! What'd you mean by that?" demanded Mr. Hardee, his face more
flushed than ever with anger.

"I mean you're not going to beat that boy!" replied the twins' father.
"He hasn't done anything to deserve it, and I'm not going to stand by
and see him abused. Is he your hired boy?"

"I took him out of the poorhouse--nobody would hire him. He's bound
out to me until he's of age, an' I can do as I please with him."

"Oh, no, you can't," said Mr. Bobbsey. "I happen to know something of
the law. You have no right to beat this boy, and if you try to do it
now, or again, and I hear of it, I'll make a complaint against you.
Don't you strike him again, especially when he hasn't done anything."

Mr. Hardee seemed so surprised that he did not know what to say. His
grip on Will's arm slipped off, and Will quickly stepped to one side.
There were tears in his eyes, and on his face.

"I believe this boy was telling the truth," said Mr. Bobbsey. "Even if
he did fish a little during the time you call yours, that would be no
excuse for using a horsewhip on him."

"I tell you he's bound out to me, and I can. do as I please with him!"
cried Mr. Hardee.

"No, you can't," said Mr. Bobbsey. "You have no right to be cruel,
even if he is a poor boy, and is bound out to you. Haven't you any
folks, Will?" he asked.

"No--no, sir," was the half-sobbed answer. "No near folks. I come from
th' poorhouse, just as he says. But I've got an uncle somewhere out
west. He's a miner. If he knew where I was, he'd look after me."

"Where is your uncle?" asked Mr. Bobbsey.

"I--I got his address, but I can't write very good, or I'd send him a
letter."

"Let me have his address," went on Mr. Bobbsey. "And I'll see what I
can do."

"Look here!" cried the farmer. "I won't have you interferin' in my
business! You ain't got a right to!"

"Every one has a right to stop a poor boy from being unjustly beaten,"
said the twins' father. "Will, you get me that address. I'll be here a
day or so, in my houseboat, and you can bring it down to me. Do you
think you can find it, and let me know where your uncle lives?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then do it."

"Now you look-a-here!" began Mr. Hardee, "I won't have you, nor
anybody else, interferin' with my hired help. I---"

"I'm not interfering except to stop you from horsewhipping a boy,"
said Mr. Bobbsey. "Any one has a right to do that."

"Humph!" was all the farmer said, as he over and picked up the
horsewhip Mr. Bobbsey had taken from him. The twins' father thought
perhaps the farmer was going to use it again, but he did not. Mr.
Hardee turned to Will and said:

"Get along up to the house, and eat your supper! There's lots o' work
to be done afore dark. An' if I catch you fishin' any more, I'll make
you---"

"But I wasn't fishin' except at the noon hour," the boy interrupted.

"That's enough of your talk!" the farmer cried as he walked toward the
barn. "Go on!"

Mr. Bobbsey went back to the houseboat.

"It's all right," he said cheerfully to his wife and children. "I made
him stop hurting Will."

"Did he--did he hit him very hard?" asked Freddie, for punishment of
that sort was totally unknown in the Bobbsey home. Of course the
children did not always do right, but they were punished by having
some pleasure taken away from them, and never whipped.

"No, Will wasn't much hurt," said Mr. Bobbsey, for he did not want his
children, or their cousins, to worry too much over what they had seen.
Yet Mr. Bobbsey could not help but think that the cruel lash must have
hurt Will more than the boy himself showed.

"He--he won't whip him any more, will he?" asked little Flossie.

"No, not any more," said Mr. Bobbsey, for he had made up his mind he
would, if necessary, take the boy away from the mean farmer before any
more whipping could be done.

"Suppah am ready!" called Dinah from the kitchen. "An' I done wants
yo' all t' come right away fo' it gits cold!"

"We're coming!" cried Mrs. Bobbsey. "And after supper we'll sit on
deck and sing songs."

She wanted to do something to take out of the minds of the children
the memory of the unpleasant scene they had just observed.

"I wish it would hurry up and come morning," said Bert.

"Why?" asked his father.

"So Harry and I can go fishing. I'm sure we'll catch some with the
grasshoppers for bait."

"Well, I hope you have good luck," laughed Mr. Bobbsey.

The supper was much enjoyed. The fish, which Will had given the
Bobbseys, made a fine meal, with the corn muffins and other things
Dinah cooked. After supper they all sat out on the deck of the
houseboat, enjoying the beautiful June evening. From the farm of Mr.
Hardee came the sounds of mooing cows, and whinnying horses, with an
occasional grunt of the pigs, or the barking of dogs.

Nothing was seen of the farmer himself, or of poor Will.

"Can you do anything for him?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey of her husband,
after the children had gone to bed that night.

"I hope so, yes. If, as he says, he has an uncle somewhere in the
West, and I can get his address, I'll write to him, and ask him to
look after Will. The boy needs a good home."

"Indeed he does. Oh, I'm so glad you didn't let him get that
whipping!"

"I'll help him all I can," promised Mr. Bobbsey.

The twins' father rather hoped that the hired boy might slip down to
the houseboat that evening, with his uncle's address, but nothing was
seen of him.

In the morning a strange thing happened.

Mr. Bobbsey and Captain White decided that it would be better to take
the boat a little farther down Lemby Creek, and tie it fast to the
bank in a more shady spot than the one opposite the farm buildings.

"It will be better fishing in the shade, too," Mr. Bobbsey said to the
boys.

So the gasoline engine was started, and the boat started off. It had
not gone very far, though, before Mr. Bobbsey, who was steering,
called to Captain White to shut off the engine.

"What's the matter?" asked Captain White. "You're going farther than
this; aren't you?"

"I wanted to, yes. But we can't go any farther."

"Why not?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey. "Nothing has happened to the boat, has
there, Richard?"

"No, not to the boat. But look there!" and Mr. Bobbsey pointed ahead.
Stretched across a narrow part of Lemby Creek was a strong wire fence,
fastened to posts driven into the bottom of the stream. The Bluebird
could go no farther on her voyage. The fence stopped her.

As Mr. Bobbsey, the twins and the cousins looked at the strong wire
fence, they saw Mr. Hardee come along the shore. He looked at the
houseboat, and shook his fist, grinning in no pleasant fashion.

"I guess you won't go no farther!" he cried. "I've put a stop to your
fancy trip all right! Huh!"


CHAPTER XIII

THE RUNAWAY BOY


"Oh, papa, can't we go on to Lake Romano?" asked Nan, as she came up
on deck with Dorothy, and saw the big wire fence stretched across the
creek to stop them.

"It doesn't look so--unless we can fly over that," and her brother
Bert pointed to the metal strands that went from post to post.

"It does seem to hinder us," said Mr. Bobbsey. He was trying to think
of what would be best to do. He looked at Mr. Hardee, who seemed to
think it all a fine joke.

"Papa, I know how we can get through," eagerly said little Freddie,
who was holding Snoop in his arms. The big black cat was almost too
much of a load for the little boy, but Freddie wanted her to do some
tricks, and he held her so she would not run away.

"I know how to get past that fence," the little twin went on.

"How?" asked his father, rather absentmindedly. "How?"

"Just cut the wires!" said Freddie, as though no one but himself had
thought of that. "If I had one of those cutter-things the telephone
man had, when he climbed the pole in front of our house, I could cut
the wires and we could go right on up the creek."

"Yes, I suppose so, my little fat fireman," said Mr. Bobbsey. "But I
don't believe the man who put that fence up there would let us cut the
wires."

"It's queer," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "That fence wasn't across the creek
before, was it?"

"I don't know," answered her husband. "It looks as though it had been
put up lately--even last night, perhaps. But I haven't been along the
creek in some time, so I can't be sure."

"It wasn't here last week, that's certain," Captain White spoke. "For
I was up here then fishing, and I didn't see it. I fancy that Mr.
Hardee knows something about it."

"I shouldn't wonder," agreed Mr. Bobbsey. "Now the question is: What
are we to do? We can't go on through the fence, and we can't very well
go around it, for the Bluebird won't float on dry ground. And I don't
want to go back. This is the only way to get to Lake Romano."

"I know what to do, papa," spoke Flossie. "We can ask that man to take
down the wires, if Freddie can't cut them with the cutter-thing."

"Yes, I suppose we could do that," Mr. Bobbsey said, slowly.

By this time Mr. Hardee had come closer to the houseboat, which had
drifted near to the shore.

"Will you take that fence down, and let us go past?" asked Mr.
Bobbsey, as politely as he could.

"No, I won't!" snapped Mr. Hardee in reply. "No!"

"But we want to go on down the creek," explained the twins' father,
"and we can't get past the fence."

"I know you can't!" said Mr. Hardee with a chuckle. "That's what I put
it up there for. I strung it last night--me and my hired men. I didn't
think you'd hear, and you didn't. Give you a sort of surprise, didn't
it?"

"It certainly did," and Mr. Bobbsey's voice was stern. "And I want to
say that you had no right to stretch that fence across the creek to
stop my boat. You had no right!"

"Oh, yes, I had!" said Mr. Hardee with a sneer.

"This is a public creek," went on Mr. Bobbsey.

"Maybe it is, in certain places," said the mean farmer, "but here the
creek runs through my land. I own on both sides of it, and I own the
creek itself. If I don't want to let anybody go through in a boat, I
don't have to."

"Oh, so you own the creek here, do you?" asked Mr. Bobbsey, rather
surprised.

"Yes, I do."

"And you aren't going to let us pass?"

"Nope! That's why I strung that fence last night. It's a good, strong
fence, and if you run into it, and try to bust it I'll have th' law on
ye!"

"Oh, you needn't worry that I'll do anything like that," spoke Mr.
Bobbsey. "But why won't you let us pass?"

"Because of what you did last night--interferin' between me and my
help. You wouldn't let me give Will Watson the threshin' he deserved,
an' I won't let you pass through my creek. I want you to back up your
boat, too, and go back where you come from. I own that part of the
creek where you are now."

"Come now, be reasonable," suggested Mr. Bobbsey. "I stopped you from
beating that boy only because you were in the wrong. If you'll just
think it over, you'll say so yourself. And, just for that, you
shouldn't stop my boat from going up the creek."

"Well, I have stopped you, and I'm going to keep on stoppin' you!"
cried Mr. Hardee, again shaking his fist. "You can't get past my
fence. It's a good strong fence."

"I--I could cut it, if I had one of those cutter-things, the telephone
man had," said Freddie, in his clear, high voice.

"Hush, Freddie dear," said his mother. "Leave it to papa."

Mr. Bobbsey was silent a moment, and then he went on:

"And so you strung that fence in the night, and won't let my houseboat
pass, just because I stopped you from beating that boy?"

"That's it," the mean farmer said. "And for more than that, too."

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Bobbsey quickly.

"I mean that you made that boy, Will Watson, run away."

"Run away!" exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey, in surprise.

"Yes, run away," repeated the farmer. "He didn't come down to
breakfast this mornin', and when I went to call him to do the chores,
he was gone. And, what's more, I think you had somethin' to do with
him runnin' away," went on the angry farmer. "You put a lot o' notions
in his head. You're to blame!"

"Now look here!" exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey. "We don't know any more about
that boy running away than you do, Mr. Hardee. If he has gone, I'm
sorry for him, for he may have a hard time. I'm not sorry I stopped
you from beating him, though. Perhaps he is around the farm
somewhere."

"No, he isn't!" insisted the farmer. "He's gone. What clothes he had
he took with him. He's run away, and it's your fault, too. I put up
that fence last night to pay you back for interferin', an' now I'm
glad I did, for you're to blame for Will runnin' off."

"I tell you that you are mistaken," went on Mr. Bobbsey. "But if you
feel that way about it, there is no use talking to you. Then you won't
take down that wire fence and let us pass?"

"No, I won't, and I order you, and your boat, out of my part of the
creek. Go back where you come from. You can't go through to Lake
Romano this way!"

Mr. Bobbsey turned and looked at the wire fence. It certainly was a
strong one, and the farmer and his hired men had worked well during
the night. It was far enough off from where the Bluebird then was so
that the pounding on the posts, to drive them into the mud of the
creek bottom, was not heard.

"Well, I guess there's nothing for us to do but to go back," said Mr.
Bobbsey. He felt very sorry, when he saw the looks of disappointment
on the faces of the twins and their cousins.

"Papa," said Freddie again, "if I had one of those wire-cutter things,
I could snip that wire like the telephone men did."

"Yes, but we haven't one, little fat fireman, and we would have no
right to use it if we had," said Mr. Bobbsey. "No, I must think of
some other way."

"It's too bad," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "I wonder what has become of that
poor runaway boy?" she asked.

"I don't know," answered Mr. Bobbsey. But, had he only known it, Will
Watson was nearer than any one suspected.


CHAPTER XIV

OFF AGAIN


"What are we going to do?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey, as she stood at the
side of her husband on the deck of the houseboat. Mr. Bobbsey was
looking at the wire fence, as though trying to find a way to get past
it--either under it, or over it, or to one side or the other of it. Of
course he did not think it wise to try little Freddie's plan of
breaking the wire with a "cutter thing" such as the telephone men
carried.

"Well," said Mr. Bobbsey, after a bit, "I guess the only thing for us
to do is to go back, until we are anchored in some part of Lemby Creek
that doesn't belong to Mr. Hardee."

"Does he really own this water?" asked Bert.

"Well, he says so, and I have no doubt but what he does," said Mr.
Bobbsey. "If he owns land on both sides of the creek, naturally he
owns the creek, too."

"And we can't go up or down it?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

"Not unless he lets us."

"What about the fishes?" asked Bert "He can't stop them from swimming
up and down."

"No, he can't do that," agreed his father, with a smile.

"Then can he stop Harry and me from catching fish?" Bert wanted next
to know.

"Not if you fish somewhere else than in his waters," spoke the twins'
father. "The best thing for us to do is to go back where we were at
first, near where the creek runs into Lake Metoka. There we can anchor
for a time."

"But how are we going to get to Lake Romano?" asked Nan. "I want to
show Dorothy the big waterfall."

"Well, perhaps we can get there a little later," her father said.
"Just now Mr. Hardee has the best of us, and we'll have to do as he
says. So, Captain White, I guess we'll have to back up the boat, as we
can't go past the fence."

"If I had one of those wire-cutter things," began Freddie, "I could
snip that wire as easy as anything." He seemed to think of nothing
else.

"Oh, you and Flossie had better go play with Snap, or Snoop,"
suggested Bert with a laugh. "Or you can come and watch Harry and me
fish. We're going to as soon as we get back aways."

"I'm going to fish, too," declared Freddie, eagerly.

The creek, near Mr. Hardee's farm, was so narrow that the houseboat
could not be turned around in it, and it had to go backward. This was
easy, since the Bluebird was something like a ferry boat, built to go
backward or forward.

The twins were a little sad as they saw their boat backing up, but it
could not be helped.

"We'll have a good time fishing, anyhow," said Harry.

"That's right," agreed Bert. "I wonder if that boy Will took his
fishing rod with him? He'd probably need it, if he has run away, and
is going out west to find his uncle."

"Why would he need a fish-rod?" asked Nan.

"To catch fish to eat," her brother said. "He'll have to have
something, and fish are the easiest to get. I almost wish I had gone
with him. It will be lots of fun."

"Oh, but it will be very hard, too," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "Think of the
lonely nights he'll have to spend, and perhaps with no place to sleep,
but on the hard ground. And when it rains---"

"I guess I'll stay home!" laughed Bert, as though he had ever had an
idea of running away from home.

Slowly the Bluebird made her way backward until she had passed some
posts near the edge of the water. These posts marked the boundary line
of Mr. Hardee's farm. He did not own beyond them, and Captain White
said the creek was public property there.

"Then we'll anchor here," decided Mr. Bobbsey, as he steered the
houseboat toward shore. "Then I think I'll take a little trip back to
Lakeport."

"And leave us alone?" cried Mrs. Bobbsey.

"Only for a short while. I want to see some friends of mine, and find
out if Mr. Hardee really has the right to fence off Lemby Creek. I
don't believe he has."

"Will you be back to-night?"

"Oh, yes. It isn't far to Lakeport. I can walk across the fields and
go by trolley."

"I do hope you can find some way of getting past the fence," said Mrs.
Bobbsey. "It would be too bad to have our trip spoiled."

As Mr. Bobbsey was getting ready to go back to town, Dinah came out of
the dining-room, looking rather puzzled.

"What is the matter?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey. "Are you worried because we
can't get those eggs from Mr. Hardee?"

"Well, yessum, dat's partly it," said the fat cook. "We's got t' hab
eggs, an' other things too."

"Bert and Harry can walk to the village," said Mr. Bobbsey. "It isn't
far from here. I'll go part way with them. So don't worry, Dinah."

"Oh, dat isn't all dat's worryin' me, Massa Bobbsey. But did yo' say
de chillums could hab dem corn muffins whut was left over?" and she
looked at Mrs. Bobbsey.

"The corn muffins that were left over?" repeated the twins' mother.
"No, I said nothing about them. And they know they should not eat
between meals without asking me. Why, are the muffins gone, Dinah?"

"Yessum; fo' ob 'em. I put 'em on a plate on de dinin' room table, but
now dey's gone."

"Maybe Snap took them," suggested Mr. Bobbsey. "Snoop wouldn't, for
she doesn't like such things. But Snap is very fond of them."

Freddie, who heard the talk, hurried over to where the dog was lying
asleep in a patch of sunlight, and opened his mouth.

"No, Snap didn't take 'em," said Freddie. "There aren't any crumbs in
his teeth."

"Well, maybe you can tell that way, but I doubt it," laughed Mr.
Bobbsey. "Perhaps you forgot where you put the muffins, Dinah, or
maybe there were none left."

"Oh, I'se shuah I done put 'em on de table," said the fat cook, "an'
I'se shuah dey was some left. I'll go look some mo', though."

As there were a few other things besides eggs that were needed for the
kitchen of the houseboat, Bert and Harry planned to take a basket, and
go to the nearest village store for them. They would walk across the
fields with Mr. Bobbsey.

"We'll fish when we come back," said Bert.

"And get enough for dinner and supper," added Harry.

"Better get enough for one meal first," suggested Nan, with a laugh.

The houseboat was now made fast to the bank of the creek some distance
away from the wire fence Mr. Hardee had stretched across the stream.
It was not to be seen, nor were the farm buildings. The last the
Bobbseys had observed of the farmer was as he stood near his wire
fence, shaking his fist at the houseboat.

Mr. Bobbsey did not just know how he was going to get past the fence
with the Bluebird, or how he could get Mr. Hardee to cut the wire. The
twins' father decided to ask the advice of some friends.

Meanwhile Bert and Harry had reached the store, and had brought the
eggs, and other groceries, back to Dinah.

"Did you find those corn muffins?" asked Bert. "Because, if you did,
Harry and I would like some. May we have one, mother?"

"If Dinah has them, yes."

"But I cain't find 'em!" complained the fat cook. "Dem muffins hab
jest done gone an' hid de'se'ves."

"Oh, I guess we ate them up without knowing it," Bert said, with a
laugh. "Never mind, Dinah, a piece of cake, or pie will do just as
well."

"Go 'long wif yo'!" cried the cook with a laugh. "I'se got suffin else
t' do 'cept make cake an' pies fo' two hungry boys. Yo' jest take a
piece ob bread an' butter 'till dinnah am ready."

"All right," agreed Bert. "It won't be long until twelve o'clock. Come
on, Harry, and we'll see what luck we have fishing."

"I'm ready," was Harry's answer.

"I'll get you the bread and butter," offered Nan, and she did, adding
some jam to the bread, which was a delightful surprise to the two
boys.

"I want to fish, too," said Freddie.

"All right, I'll fix you a line," offered Bert. "But be careful you
don't fall in. A fish might pull you overboard."

Soon the three boys were dangling their lines over the rail of the
Bluebird, while Nan helped her mother with some of the rooms, which,
even though they were on a boat, needed "putting to rights." Dinah was
busy in the kitchen.

By this time Mr. Bobbsey had reached Lakeport by the trolley. He was
going to his lumber office, thinking some of his friends, whom he
might call on the telephone could suggest a way out of the trouble.
Before he reached the lumber yard, however, he met an acquaintance on
the street, a Mr. Murphy.

"Why, hello, Mr. Bobbsey!" exclaimed Mr. Murphy. "I thought you were
off on a vacation with your family in a houseboat."

"I was," said the lumber merchant, "but I came back."

"Back so soon? Didn't you like it?"

"Oh, yes, first rate. But we can't go any farther."

"Can't go any farther? What's the matter, did your boat sink?"

"No, but we're stuck in Lemby Creek. Mr. Hardee, a farmer who owns
land on both sides of the creek, has put a wire fence across to stop
us from going on to Lake Romano."

"Is that so! Well, that's too bad. How did it happen?"

"I'll tell you," said Mr. Bobbsey.

Then he told the story of stopping the angry farmer from beating Will
Watson, and how the fence had been built in the night.

"Well, that certainly was a mean trick on the part of Mr. Hardee,"
said Mr. Murphy. "And so the boy ran away?"

"Yes, and Mr. Hardee accused me of knowing something about him, but I
don't--any more than you do."

"I suppose not. But now the question is, How are you going to get past
that wire fence?"

"I don't know. The only way I see is to get Mr. Hardee to cut it, or
take it down, and he says he won't do either."

"Humph! Let me see. There ought to be a way out of it. I believe he
has the right, as far as the law goes, to put that fence up, but no
one else would be so mean. I guess we'll just have to force him to cut
those wires, as your little boy, Freddie, suggested."

"Yes, but how can we do it?" asked Mr. Bobbsey. "Mr. Hardee is very
headstrong, and set in his ways."

"Let me see," spoke Mr. Murphy slowly, "isn't his name Jake Hardee?"

"Yes, I believe it is."

"And didn't he buy from you the lumber to build his house?"

"Yes, I sold him the lumber, but he paid me for it," said Mr. Bobbsey.
"I couldn't get any hold on him that way. He paid for the lumber in
cash."

"Yes," cried Mr. Murphy, "but he got the money from me to pay you, and
he hasn't paid ME back. He still owes ME the money, and he gave me a
mortgage on his house as security. I've got a hold on him all right.
He owes me some interest money, too."

I might say to you little children that when a man wants to build a
house and has not enough money, he goes to another man and borrows
cash, just as your mamma sometimes borrows sugar, or tea, from the
lady next door.

When the man borrows money to build his house, he gives to the man who
lends him the cash, a piece of paper, called a mortgage. That paper
says that if the man who borrowed the money does not pay it back, and
also pay interest for the use of it, the man who lent him the money
can take the house. The house is "security" for the loaned money.

It is just as if your mamma went next door to borrow a cup of sugar,
and said:

"Now, Mrs. Jones, if I don't pay you back this sugar, and a little
more than you gave me, for being so kind as to lend it to me--if I
don't pay it back in a week, why you can keep my new Sunday hat." And
your mamma might give Mrs. Jones a Sunday hat as "security" for the
cup of sugar. Of course ladies do not do those things, but that is
what a mortgage is like.

"Yes." said Mr. Murphy to Mr. Bobbsey, "Mr. Hardee borrowed from me
the money to buy from you the lumber for his house. And he hasn't paid
me back the money, nor any interest on it. Is this the train to the
beautiful castle honor = to rise, how will such a manner and to
indicate fairly?

Not follow from this conclusion of who God is not faith keeps him
verschwört And teuscht and that is certainly the world, the neighbor
and the country probably remain loyal to hard, And its familiar
Office scrupulous drive. * * * How happy you were famous but Greece!

In your greatest brilliance, I mean, because your status in Flor
and Freyheit was because you loved the work, since your youth Knights
in games practiced; Since the laurel = branches by art and hard
earned, and how you first lived, then died with honor. warest you
without money and fame and status as "The Virtue was rewarded after
vergoßnem wise Schweise each Ward after earning the honor = wreath
placed, And so by the railway itself made of happiness.

Where are the times out because the Gymnosophisten The youth
tend not to fare with green and praise, every bit as saying: Dießen
I've done today; I searched for command of the noble virtue Train
With Serious followed; Diess I've written, Worzu the wisdom I
strongly driven.

Diess, my industriousness and lively wit out looking; Diess is from my
mind and see a fruit?

Where is the Parthians Brauch ?

which mostly went there, That never a lazy man the maintenance
empfienge. How does the breeding? How to change the time?

Dümste Now the head with honesty and jewelry pleased. Vain, it is
now, that the virtuous love, forgiveness, that you are in science übet,
in vain that one day, and night sweats Bey books, free, that the
Kiel wise writings carves. makes money now virtuous, learned, clever
and wise: A rich Stutzergen old can more than old people, intellect,
erudition, wit, and considerable reason, ring, hat, even a place
in the scholarly guild, is now as good as fruit Baars order to have
money. money, not science, are now the best gifts.

Geht ins learned the house, and the Collegium, Beseht the candidates,
if such is not as dumb as the Catheder is? You will grieve, but yes,
to be a Stoicus zwey hours can ashamed.

Giebt How many are not, the clever and wise, whether you like Bey
them very little Suadam findt; Does not the theory of soft Güldner
praxi?

How can a Doctorand of wisdom can reach ground, And yet no Seyn speakers.
Moreover, what is it then, if the candidate does not already exist
well-kan, And often silent silent?

If you have yet to hear otherwise, that big speakers do not come
in speeches continued.

Demosthenes himself too frightened of the subject. One of the main bear
the crowns, the Scepter in his hand, The Majesty of the beam makes
clever speaker stupid.

Solo before appalled almost in the middle of the The new speech
Doctorand?

ha! ha! me now is that it is a low rate of Seyn opponents, he is not the
versehn. The accusation is too important, the conclusions are flush
at all, good and right; Dießen giebt now his chest the hardest
thunder string, Diessen makes that even as his heart like a wax so
soft, the tongue is staring.

The fear is always stronger, the heart is knocking so strong as in
a little dungeon A Inquisite trembles when the Opponnent to another
new record and talk Wendt; The dissertation, he can not do, he knows
drum nowhere, since it giebt gnug to laugh.

However, he gets what his chest happily; What harm, if you like with
other calves plowing.

Yes, the North also äuserste over the place, and seems as if now the
Doctorand to shame, because he does not can speak, it shall submit
to a friend Dreiner, And looks in this anxiety to be Advocat Seyn.

O thou eloquence!

What you flee from the most, And Wilster the time of the North no
Beystand afford.

Klag But what I do the gods = Both offer? Is not the foolishness and
inertia blame? Who calls you a since of late, and long talk, as
wolter you the wisdom of big belly before the burst.

Say shortly, but rather good, wise, witty, thoroughly pure, eloquent,
pleasant, so do you like Doctor Seyn. Kan is a farm servant, and shepherd
= stupid boy, with his unberedt and often rough tongue, Von Schaaf,
plow and Trift, from fields, plants, seeds, Clever Answer thun, so
much he has customers. This will be a candidate but have as much
foot as it is currently the North to honor könte good.

The bad science and not the mouth is at fault, however, Love has
also Stümper with patience.

O Canada!

Bey Schenckung not believe your honor, as if in Welsch country would
be fruitful only Doctores, you now get the same fame.

Not true?

du sagest yes, Grow Your included many stops in Padua. * * * What
a Trommeten = Thon erschallet bit of heaven!

Who does such a powerful Getöß turmoil and how the Lord Jacobs Jericho
done before? Hey look! an old woman, not a war = If such a man
Geschrey: The Heucheley calls heftig: Follow my feet up! Seyde merry
and busy in my service to go!

gives me the heart, And let your good faith by the witness Seyn
change.

Entschuldget you not only with a weak mind = strength; You learn my
art and my hands = bad and works with Müh easier.

On!

Follow my step, I'll give you strength and spirit, mind and strength.
spührt your service in my nothing dangerous, the other people Bey
otherwise accompany her tuna.

Take just the lessons to make you my mouth says: Your kids!

maybe when a gentleman of you desires, Diessen or to jens thun; to
complete the work, Diessen piece übergehn and Diess to be served.

So does a Compliment, very politely and say yes.

And then, is what else to remember because, Thus, the Achslen only, and
is looking for you not to block. To expand its your luck and get gnädge
gentlemen.

And so when you a word from the prophet threatens, Sun suppressed
the shoot, and will not roth; Großmuth wrong to take , verlachet
all shame, To Seyde her with the most splendid time in the country.
tapfrer No general who supervised in the field, Has ever such luck
with the hearts upset, as is now the Heucheley their intent has
been achieved.

The people coming Schaars = White jumped into her arms, the strong
reputation and unfamiliar city = Geschrey Where else only the rabble
and rabble Loss Bey, Solo is the Heucheley far been happy, from men
of intellect and famous is her favorite religious empire built with
all his might; Yes chiefs that you otherwise viewed before the
pillars, before the crack in order to stand, are usually bemühet
Theil, In its service to Seyn so that their fortunes blühet.

Raise your eyes, there is many a man, tongue and lips, and not I
think talking kan. the omnipotence = hand in lieu of such idols to
breeding well-deserved place on earth can.

It is hypocrisy Bey Bey the yard and largest, in order to host a
table and wiping plates to Seyn.

To make a cup of wine, a Wildpret = roast, And you politely Compliment
perform Judas that. right Freyheit and prayer, song, church, writing,
and Word, Must be non-coercive and North, only just hypocrites to
continue.

And where a fair in the nation to see it blackens villainously , and
is looking for him to suffocate. = The faith of the fathers are Bey
Verläumdung boldly, if they order by blasphemy = fox tail is bemühn.
Is there the mouth of the opponent on the chair and Catheder church,
word and doctrine, and does what any other After each faith = office
and duty to hold is guilty, So it is not so much zeal equipped, Man
is silent and not seek to determine the reasons and outlaw public
skilful opponents to overcome.

The divine law befiehlet us not only to strive against the word, the
rule of nature has also in our heart of awe shoot dug our belief
= Before teaching Sorg, Lieb, and to have courage.

A Heyd, a Saracen, a man of Judenthum Provides because, of course,
before his church fame And strives against the teaching, and we
enlighten Christians, we are dealing with the word and the whole
Accompaniments boast, Is in the cold zeal, and love running.
wiederleget Where is the opponent word exactly?

Seek Where you swear to the church to reject ?

And those who are weak because the way to vester bähnen Who fame
in front of the church and Ehr personable and challenging, Does not
that he is cheeky and lästerhaftig speaks; With gentle kindness, humble
and serene Kan in contrast to the few words summarize.

Like the Heyland speaks, the word is incredibly sweet, and, but even
with his salt gewürzet. But silence is the same as to blaspheme quiet,
Mr.

Grow The error can be seen through the eyes; siehet The rich man also
by the finger out, because hypocrites bring favors, gifts and income.
Heucheley How has the spirit so even blinded? guard to the conscience,
it is also submitted: Red I, in my duty, shall, from the honor. The
Gods mercy falls, I get the pilgrim.

Is not the Earth in size, where good Christians live? The walking
with you the happiness besserm reward? Say, just give me a call, the
man from a town For God's teaching, and has driven across Ehr. (O!
let us be God in all the care packages!)

Whether he is aware of the caution is not a reserved Zoar Who is, if
it infringes on his fame, Not darwieder sets? God will be reset. Prior
to his teaching and Ehr Muthig you do not want to fight enemies
and blasphemers Even with word and dampen zeal.

Hingerückt Where can i? All at once makes me Bey bright light of day
is a Hall of Heroes, By Heroes, the courageous, so strong they
could only, and word before God and his glory Ehr ment under.

Each hero = image is artificially abgemahlt; In mans death is still
sharp as her eye radiates; The short poem makes sense in us holy
beings to shame our time with words Güldner read.

Here is Balaam with this headline: Do not honor gift is still poisoning
my mind, I have no gift to Israel verfluchet, Where is a seer
now seek to follow me?

There's Bey Pinehas: The zeal drove me, my fact that the biggest complaint
heated and richest man in sin is not spared , and his neck broken,
and my God Ehr priest after duty smell.

Bey David Diess it reads: The zeal your house before my God, went
no more than the life. Elias leads the Scripture: I've argued before
God, And hatred, persecution, jealousy suffered For this safely.
There is Amoz Bey's son: I punished great and small, my Shepherd =
That God desires to go Office Seyn.

Jeremiah Bey heist: the king and the servants, I declare without fear
of the Supreme word and rights, And neither shied curse, persecution,
nor scorn band.

God gave me above, also the kingdom of heaven as a reward. There is
Bey Daniel: God is a God of gods, the calls I brünstig, who was
also my Savior. Not gold, nor glory took me to waste. now I probably
would have been a fool genennet Seyn. heist so John Scripture: I
read ehr assassinate me, I am prince Eh = yard would become a
hypocrite.

Bey Paulo less Diess I: I fled the Heucheley, What Felix needs to
know that I say without shyness.

I have scorn and ridicule, persecution and chase around Jesus' words
and teaching with joyousness worn. This left the hall with all the
pictures work, and had written to me this last attention: The hero
worship = Image is found in Scripture, On earth is their spirit and
image, has long since disappeared.

Quiet, silent Physici it, I think you will no longer be that only the
basilisk in desert caves wär, Man könte nowhere else very verschmizte
snakes, as only in dark woods and rocky crevices = catch.

Paradieß This has brought herfür as well as how the doves = pair
from which the presumption of innocence laughs.

And if God also expelled from such place; Thus, it is still always
in the best location remained.

Schooß The Germania, the German Heart and blood, Is now their stay, they
are safe alwo rests.

It is on the chest of human umgeschlungen That also strong poison
through their flesh and blood pressures.

My skin shivers now that I should mention it, but how is our
time by the Verläumdern full? Where is thy glory o old Germany!

hingekommen? Has the Verläumdung you shine the old dizzy? It was clever
of fame previously not to be jealous; Man honors and loved those who
excels done, And most of the Fatherland gerahten and controversy,
frost, hunger, shock, and suffered thirst and pestilence .

Zog in the triumph with a victory = journey, Sun Flower Factory Muste
Zierath Seyn its finest, with these looked the hero worship: Every
darbei could hear a cheer muntres. Who after Flor citizens struggled
and spirit, and as an Biedermann o beautiful glory!

lived, loved science, the arts after clusions, Freyer And with the
spirit of mob aufgeschwungen, the nobility was the hold, the people
loved him, saw the neighbor's house with many delights blühn.

In what happiness here and assets Comment, Does the Verläumdungs =
poison to Seeger nothing dizzy.

The old honor = dress was not stained by foam, the mouth of
Verläumdungs = stretched from his neck. The Youth Virtue = Rock,
wisdom Güldner tighteners Tainted no Kothe.

Thränen flowing from the cheeks! Weicht old virtues, and goes into
mourning = Flor, With dismal vocals this time out.

Perhaps this is our time gerühret Once that after your jewelry also
a desire spühret.

But no! it's free! The world derided you but you will have the birch
and whips you from the hallway.

Overruling! out! with you! schreyt the Verläumdung forever. With
pleasure, I always make the human heart = worse. The Greiss, the
main bedroom and with silver = color covers, from which one thinks
and believes that virtue in him is that he probity of Lies reluctance,
To everyone he was a nice example.

The raßt of envy and hatred; speyt on the neighbor's house, Thun, change,
honesty and Participated Verläumdungs = venom from: And anyway its
venom hourly erdächt it a fable.

The young man, who hardly the Yellow only from short beak Before wiped
off, the ear and Baart still treuft, From the beginning it says, because
he is running for Pallas, He would bemühn, nachzuwandeln of virtue,
the wisdom nachzugehn, in particular to act wisely; The rights
thoroughness cautiously einzusehn ; The baseness of the rabble to
verschmähn; the decency to hold Seyn; the prosperity, And that which
is praiseworthy in the heart of high respect.

This is a person who sees it not? Head and brain insane, The Thorheit
has already choked the good grain, because the Verläumdung him from
her breast getränket, And as he obeyed her, duplicated eingeschenket.

The virtues are even more spots angedicht; The diligence and will
spöttiglich verhöhnet court; Wisdom überkleidt a brush giftger
colors; the face of innocence is known by scars; frömmste God = The
man is not spared, being faithful and honest tuna is rewarded him
with poison.

Yes, the justice must be almost on the streets from the tooth to
Verläumdungs = ignominy extended leave.

Des citizen probity; the Wise Virtue = train, happiness, honor,
chastity, breathed hard, and injects it to speyt. Were Moses now on
newly risen from Sinai, And späch: You solst the friend and neighbor
does not lie; Yes, would the Heyland from his own kingdom of heaven,
And call: Where it honors me, it loves you as you, And what you do
not wolter gesaget of you have the stick in you and bury your chest.

It is silent with darzu cold lips silently, yes indeed some dächte:
I thu but what I want. Boßheit O! If not for the wrath of Almighty
entbrennen what reason bids can anyone tell that you like yourself
as your neighbor is to love.

Anyone who shows so much sense that he fully and fairly Großmuths
appears virtuous, that he is the neighbor fortunes, fame, Welfare
, wisdom, status and fortunes with friendly cheerful eyes, and
darbey ergetzt Because of his hand to caution Seeger has set?

A true and notable element in humans and citizens = = Orden enjoyed
when his friend and neighbor grew, If his research and diligence
to fame, if he loved when he is emblazoned in honor.

He praises what Lobens worth, and looks for anzureitzen At the same
noble nature of happiness and glory to Geitz. Against envy, Verläumdung,
poison stimulates the Ehrsucht to the him, as others also immortalize
kan.

It is sincerely sorry for him when weak neighbor glide; He is silent,
and seek not the bug spread. He knows that none of not all frey weakness,
and he as good as and that the sündlich sey. * * * The man the stupid
animal, Neukirch writes clever fingers.

Man, the stupid cattle? How? Will his low state? What?

Adel Wär be continued, and his humanity away?

Cleverness and reason is not its purpose to act? So it freylich Seyn
Solt; If we are to restructure the rules of reason duly nachzuleben.

O! would like to be tuna sensible, wise and pure, And made his equal
and niemahls beastly Seyn. If you always work with and That prove
it sey man a man, only the cattle to cattle hoarse.

Alone, where is the man who beautiful creatures, the omnipotence
Meisterstück, the rule of nature And after her shoots?

he forgets not his nature, but Worzu him beginning the Creator choice?
A clumsy doctor believes otherwise the eyes, if he sees the
churchyard, where he long for peace To some hingeschaft. A man erweget
else Thorheit The not so easy.

If the lion ReGet, And angry rages and roars, and when the wolf And
the outrage gedultge Schaaf zerreist snorting and timely; When the
wild bear to make ready for choking; entschlafner If a dog by a
Trit Awake, And with the anger and Grimm in his progress stöhrt,
The broad he still belongs in his sleep; Dießen everything looks
the man, and I do not want to go further, he remains as to how the
cattle are his emotion, he is ashamed unfortunately!

not that he is like the animals, And to him Rach and anger does not
deviate in the slightest.

"What is the matter, Dinah?" asked Nan.

"Mattah! What am de mattah?" Dinah repeated, "Dey's lots de mattah,
Missie Nan."

"Why, what can it be?"

"De sandwiches is gone, dat's what's de mattah!"

"The sandwiches, Dinah?"

"Yes'm, de sandwiches what I done make fo' de excursnick!"

"Oh, you mean for our picnic, Dinah?"

"Yes'm, dat's it. Excursnick I calls it. But de sandwiches I done jest
made am gone. I s'pects Massa Bert or his cousin done take 'em fo'
fun."

"Oh, no, Dinah. Bert nor Harry wouldn't do that. Are you sure you made
the sandwiches?"

"I'se jest as shuah, Missie Nan, as I am dat I'se standin' heah. I'se
jest as shuah as I is dat time when I made de corn cakes, an' somebody
tuck dem! Dat's how shuah I is! Dem sandwiches what was fo' de
excursnick am done gone completely."

"But have you looked everywhere, Dinah?" asked Nan.

"Eberywhere! Under de table an' on top ob de table. I had dem
sandwiches all made an' on a plate. I left dem in de dinin' room to go
git a basket, an' when I come back, dey was gone entirely. I want t'
see yo' ma, Missie Nan. I ain't gwing t' stay on dish yeah boat no mo,
dat's what I ain't!"

"But why not, Dinah?" asked Nan, in some alarm.

"Because dey's ghostests on dish yeah boat; dat's what dey is! An' I
ain't gwine stay on no ha'nted boat. Fust it were de corn cakes, an'
now it's de sandwiches. I'se gwine away--I ain't gwine stay heah no
mo'!"


CHAPTER XVII

IN THE STORM


Dinah was certainly very much frightened, but Nan was not. She knew
better than to believe in such things as "ghosts," and, though the
sandwiches might have disappeared, the little girl felt sure there
must be some reasonable explanation about the mystery.

"I'll call mamma, Dinah," offered Nan. "She won't want you to leave us
now, when we have just started on this trip."

"Go on, honey lamb, call yo' ma," agreed the fat cook. "But I ain't
gwine t' stay on dish yeah boat no mo'! Dat's settled. Call yo' ma,
honey lamb, an' I'll tell her about it."

Mrs. Bobbsey had heard the excited voice of Dinah and had come down to
the dining-room of the houseboat to see what it was all about.

"What is it, Dinah?" she asked.

"It's ghostests, Mrs. Bobbsey--dat's what it is," said the cook.
"Ghostests what takes de sandwiches as fast as I make 'em--dat's de
trouble. I can't stay heah no mo'!"

Mrs. Bobbsey looked to Nan for an explanation. The little girl said:

"Dinah made a plate of sandwiches for our picnic---"

"Dat's right, for de excursnick," put in Dinah.

"And she left them on the table," went on Nan. "But when she went to
get a basket to put them in, and came back---"

"Dey was clean gone!" burst out the colored cook, finishing the story
for Nan. "An' ghostests took 'em; ob dat I'se shuah. So you'd bettah
look fo' anoder cook, Mrs. Bobbsey."

"Nonsense, Dinah! We can't let you go that way. It's all foolishness
to talk about ghosts. Probably the door was left open, and Snap might
have taken the sandwiches, though I never knew him to take anything
off the table. But it must have been Snap."

"No'm, it couldn't be," said Dinah. "It wasn't Snap."

"How do you know?"

"Could Snap come through a closed do', Mrs. Bobbsey. Could Snap do
that?"

"Come through a door? No, I don't believe he could. But he might open
it. Snoop can open doors."

"Yes, maybe do's that hab a catch on, but not knob-do's, Snoop can't
open, an' Snap can't neither. Besides, de do' was shut when I left de
sandwiches on de table an' went fo' de basket."

"Oh, was it?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey, trying to think of how the pieces of
bread and meat could have been taken.

"It shuah was," went on Dinah. "Nobody took dem sandwiches, but a
ghostest, an' I can't stay in no boat what has ghostests."

"Nonsense!" laughed Mrs. Bobbsey. "I know how it was done, Dinah. I
know how the sandwiches were taken."

"How, Mrs. Bobbsey?" asked the colored cook, as she stood looking
first at the empty plate on the table, and then at Nan and lastly at
Mrs. Bobbsey.

"Why, through that window," said the twins' mother, pointing to an
open window on the side of the Bluebird. "Snap must have come in that
window, and taken the sandwiches. He was probably very hungry, poor
dog, though he knows better than to do anything like that." "No'm,
Mrs. Bobbsey," went on Dinah. "Snap couldn't hab come in fru dat
window, fo' it opens right on to de watah. He'd hab to stand in de
watah to jump in, an' he can't do that."

"No, perhaps not," admitted Mrs. Bobbsey. "Oh, I dare say you forgot
where you put the sandwiches, Dinah. Now don't worry a bit more about
them. Just make some fresh ones, and we'll go on our little picnic."

"But I'se gwine t' leab," said Dinah. "I ain't gwine stay on a boat,
where ghostests takes sandwiches as fast as I can make 'em."

"You shall come with us on the picnic," said Nan's mother. "When we
come back, there won't be any ghost. Now don't fuss. Just make some
fresh sandwiches, and we'll go. I'm sure it was Snap."

"And I'se shuah it were a ghostest," murmured Dinah, as she went out
to the kitchen.

"Mamma, who do you think it could have been?" asked Nan of her mother.

"Why, Snap, to be sure, little daughter."

"But with the door shut, and the window opening out on the water?"
went on Nan.

"Oh, dogs are very smart," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "Smarter than we think.
Now suppose you help Dinah make more sandwiches. We are late."

Nan went out to the kitchen, while Mrs. Bobbsey made her way up on
deck, where she found her husband talking to Captain White about the
motor engine of the houseboat.

"Richard, I want to speak to you," said Mrs. Bobbsey, and when she and
the twins' father were in a quiet corner of the deck, Mrs. Bobbsey
went on:

"Richard, I think there are thieves about here."

"Bless my soul!" he exclaimed. "Thieves! What do you mean?"

"Well, I mean that Dinah says a plate of sandwiches was just taken,
and you remember the time the corn muffins were missing?"

"Yes, but perhaps Dinah was mistaken both times, or Snap might have
taken a bite between meals."

"Hardly Snap this time," Mrs. Bobbsey went on, "and Dinah, though she
does forget once in a while, would not be likely to do so twice in
such a short time. No, I think some tramps along shore must have come
along quietly in a boat, reached or climbed in through the window and
taken the sandwiches."

"Well, perhaps they did," Mr. Bobbsey, said. "I'll tell Captain White,
and we'll keep a lookout. We don't want thieves coming around."

"No, indeed," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "Dinah threatens to leave, if any
more queer things happen."

"Well, we wouldn't know how to get along without Dinah," said Mr.
Bobbsey, with a smile. "I'll put some wire netting over the windows. I
was going to do it anyhow, for the mosquitoes will soon be buzzing
around. The netting will keep thieves from reaching in and taking our
nice sandwiches."

"Yes, I think the netting would be a good idea," said his wife. "But
it certainly is queer."

A little later, the Bobbsey twins--both sets of them--with their
cousins, mother, father, and Dinah went ashore for the little picnic
in the woods, taking with them the fresh sandwiches that Nan had
helped to make.

"You shan't have any of these--at least not until we want you to have
them," said Nan to Snap, the dog, who, of course, was not left behind.
Yet, the more she thought of it the more sure Nan was that Snap had
not taken the others.

"But, if he didn't, who did?" she wondered.

"Oh, isn't it just lovely in these woods!" exclaimed Dorothy, as they
walked along on the soft moss under the trees. At the seashore, where
she lived, the woods were too far away to allow her to pay many visits
to them, and she always liked to walk in the cool forests.

Harry, though he lived in the country, not far from the woods, liked
them as well as did the Bobbsey twins, and the children were soon
running about, playing games, while Snap raced about with them,
barking and wagging his tail.

Dinah sat down near the lunch basket.

"Don't you want to walk around a bit?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

"No'm," answered the fat cook. "I ain't gwine t' leab dish yeah basket
ob victuals until dey's eaten. Dey ain't no ghostests, nor no dogs,
gwine t' git nothin' when I'se heah! No'm!" and Dinah slipped her fat
arm in through the handle of the basket.

"Let's look for chestnuts!" cried Freddie. "I love chestnuts!"

"It's too early for them," said his father. "But if you find me a
willow tree, I can make you some whistles."

The children found one, near a little brook, and Mr. Bobbsey was soon
busy with his knife. The bark slipped off easily from the willow wood,
which is why it is so often used for whistles.

Soon all four children were blowing whistles of different tones, and
making so much noise that, with the barking of Snap, who seemed to
think he must bark every time a whistle was blown, Mrs. Bobbsey cried
out for quietness.

"Come on, we'll go farther off in the woods and play Indian,"
suggested Bert, and soon this game was under way.

It was lunch time almost before the children knew it, and what fun it
was to sit around the table cloth Dinah spread out on the grass, and
eat the good things from the basket. Snap was given his share, but
Snoop, the black cat, had not come along, staying on the houseboat
with Captain White.

"Isn't this fun?" cried Nan to Dorothy.

"Indeed it is! Oh, I can't tell you how glad I am that you asked me to
come on this trip!"

"Oh! Look at that big bug!" suddenly cried Freddie, and he made a jump
toward his mother, to get out of the way of a big cricket that had
hopped onto the white table cloth.

"Look out, Freddie!" called his father. "You'll upset your glass of
lemonade!"

Mr. Bobbsey spoke too late. Freddie's heel kicked over the glass, and
the lemonade spilled right into Mrs. Bobbsey's lap.

"Oh, Freddie!" cried Bert.

"Never mind--it's an old dress," laughed Mrs. Bobbsey, "and there's
more lemonade. Accidents will happen on picnics. Never mind, Freddie."

The cricket was "shooed" away by Nan, Freddie's glass was filled
again, and the picnic went on merrily. Soon it was time to go back to
the boat.

As they walked along through the woods, Mr. Bobbsey glanced up now and
then through the trees at the sky.

"Do you think it's going to rain?" his wife asked.

"Not right away, but I think we are soon going to have a storm," he
said.

"Oh, well, the houseboat doesn't leak, does it?"

"No, but I don't want to go out on Lake Romano in a storm, and I
intended this evening to go on up the creek until we reached the lake.
But I'll wait and see what the weather does."

"Well, did anything happen while we were gone?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey of
Captain White, as they got back to the houseboat.

"No, not a thing," he answered. "It was so still and quiet here, that
Snoop and I had a nice sleep," and he pointed to the black cat, who
was stretched out in his lap, as he sat on deck.

As it did not look so much like a storm now, Mr. Bobbsey decided to
move the houseboat farther up the creek, almost to where the stream
flowed from Lake Romano, so as to be ready to go out on the larger
body of water in the morning, if everything was all right.

The engine was started, and just before supper, the Bluebird came to a
stop in Lemby Creek about a mile from the big lake. She was tied to
the bank, and then supper was served.

Then followed a pleasant hour or two on deck, and when it was dark,
the children went into the cabin and played games until bedtime--Nan
and Bert, as well as the smaller twins and the cousins, were asleep
when Mrs. Bobbsey, who had sat up to write some letters, heard her
husband walking about on deck.

"What are you doing?" she called to him through a window.

"Oh, just looking at the weather," he answered. "I think we're going
to have a storm after all, and a hard one, too. I'm glad we're safely
anchored."

Sure enough. That night, about twelve o'clock, the storm came. There
was at first distant, muttering thunder, which soon became louder.
Then lightning followed, flashing in through the windows of the
houseboat, so that Mrs. Bobbsey was awakened.

"Oh, it's going to be a terrible storm," she said to her husband.

"Oh, perhaps not so very bad," he answered. "Here comes the rain!"

Then it began to pour. But the houseboat was well built, and did not
leak a bit.

Next the wind began to blow, gently at first, but finally so hard that
Mr. Bobbsey could hear the creaking of the ropes that tied the boat to
trees on shore.

"I think I'd better look and see if those ropes are well tied," he
said, getting up to dress, and putting on a raincoat.

He had hardly gotten out on deck, before the houseboat gave a sudden
lurch to one side, and then began to move quickly down stream.

"Oh, what has happened?" cried Mrs. Bobbsey.

At the same time Flossie and Freddie awakened, because of the loud
noise from the storm.

"Mamma! Mamma!" they cried.

"Richard, has anything happened?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

"Yes!" he shouted. "The strong wind has broken the ropes, and we are
adrift. But don't worry. We'll soon be all right!"

Faster and faster went the Bluebird, while all about her the rain
splashed down, the wind blew, the thunder roared, and the lightning
flashed.


CHAPTER XVIII

STRANGE NOISES


The frightened cries of Flossie and Freddie soon awakened Nan and
Bert, and it was not long before Harry and Dorothy, too, had roused
themselves.

"What's the matter?" asked Bert.

"Oh, we've gone adrift in the storm," his mother said. "But don't
worry. Papa says it will be all right."

"Come up on deck and see what's going on!" cried Bert to Harry.

He had begun to dress, and now he thrust his head out from his room.
"Hurry up, Harry," he added. "We want to see this storm."

"No, you must stay here," Mrs. Bobbsey said. "It is too bad a storm
for you children to be out in, especially this dark night. Your papa
and Captain White will do all that needs to be done."

"Mamma, it--it isn't dark when the lightning comes," said Freddie. He
did not seem to be afraid of the brilliant flashes.

"No, it's light when the flashes come," said his mother. "But I want
you all to stay here with me. It is raining very hard."

"I should say it was!" exclaimed Harry, as he heard the swish of the
drops against the windows of the houseboat.

"Is Snap all right, mamma?" asked Flossie. "And Snoop? I wouldn't want
them out in the storm."

"They're all right," Mrs. Bobbsey said.

"Oh, what's that!" suddenly cried Nan, as the houseboat gave a bump,
and leaned to one side.

"We hit something," Bert said. "Oh, I wish I could go out on the
deck!"

"No, indeed!" cried his mother. "There! They've started the engine.
Now we'll be all right."

As soon as Mr. Bobbsey had found out that the houseboat had broken
loose from the mooring ropes in the storm, he awakened Captain White,
and told him to start the motor.

This had been done, and now, instead of drifting with the current of
the creek, the boat could be more easily steered. Soon it had been run
into a sheltered place, against the bank, where, no matter how hard
the wind blew, it would be safe.

"Are we all right now?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey, as her husband came down
to the cabin.

"Yes, all right again," he said. "There really was not much danger,
once we got the motor started."

"Is it raining yet?" asked Freddie, who was sitting in his mother's
lap, wrapped in a sweater.

"Indeed it is, little fat fireman," his father answered. "You wouldn't
need your engine to put out a fire to-night."

The patter of the raindrops on the deck of the houseboat could still
be heard, and the wind still blew hard. But the thunder and lightning
were not so bad, and gradually the storm grew less.

"Well, we'd better get to bed now," said Mr. Bobbsey. "To-morrow we
shall go to the big lake."

"Did the storm take us far back down the creek?" asked Bert.

"Not more than a mile," said his father.

"And the man can't tie us in with wire again, can he?" Freddie wanted
to know. "If he does, and I had one of those cutter-things, I could
snip it."

"You won't have to, Freddie," laughed Bert.

"Speaking of that mean farmer reminds me of the poor boy who ran away
from him," said Mrs. Bobbsey to her husband, when the children had
gone to bed. "I wonder where he is to-night, in this storm?"

"I hope he has a sheltered place," spoke the father of the Bobbsey
twins.

Not very much damage had been done by the storm, though it was a very
hard one. In the morning the children could see where some big tree
branches had blown off, and there had been so much rain, that the
water of the creek was higher. But the houseboat was all right, and
after breakfast, when they went up the creek again, they stopped and
got the pieces of broken rope, where the Bluebird had been tied
before.

The houseboat then went on, and at noon, just before Dinah called them
to dinner, Nan, who was standing near her father at the steering
wheel, cried:

"Oh, what a lot of water!"

"Yes, that is Lake Romano," said Mr. Bobbsey. "We'll soon be floating
on that, and we'll spend the rest of our houseboat vacation there."

"And where shall we spend the rest of our vacation?" asked Bert, for
it had been decided that the houseboat voyage would last only until
about the middle of August.

"Oh, we haven't settled that yet," his father answered.

On and on went the Bluebird, and, in a little while, she was on the
sparkling waters of the lake.

"I don't see any waterfall," said Freddie, coming toward his father,
after having made Snap do some of his circus tricks.

"The waterfall is at the far end of the lake," said Mr. Bobbsey.

"I wonder if there are any fish in this lake?" spoke Bert.

"Let's try to catch some," suggested his cousin Harry, and soon the
two boys were busy with poles and lines.

The Bobbsey twins, and their cousin-guests, liked Lake Romano very
much indeed. It was much bigger than the lake at home, and there were
some very large boats on it.

Bert and Harry caught no fish before dinner, but in the afternoon they
had better luck, and got enough for supper. The evening meal had been
served by Dinah, Snap and Snoop had been fed, and the family and their
guests were up on deck, watching the sunset, when Dinah came waddling
up the stairs, with a queer look on her face.

"Why, Dinah! What is the matter?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey, seeing that
something was wrong. "Have you lost some more sandwiches?"

"No'm, it ain't sandwiches dish yeah time," Dinah answered. "But I
done heard a funny noise jest now down near mah kitchen."

"A funny noise?" repeated Mr. Bobbsey. "What was it like?"

"Jes like some one cryin'," Dinah answered. "I thought mebby one ob de
chilluns done got locked in de pantry, but I opened de do', an' dey
wasn't anybody dere. 'Sides, all de chilluns is up heah. But I shuah
did heah a funny noise ob somebody cryin'!"

Mrs. Bobbsey looked at her husband and said:

"You'd better go see what it is, Richard."


CHAPTER XIX

SNAP'S QUEER ACTIONS


The Bobbsey twins looked at one another. Then they glanced at their
cousins, Harry and Dorothy. Next the eyes of all the children were
turned on fat Dinah.

"Was--was it a baby crying?" Freddie wanted to know.

"Yes, honey lamb--it done did sound laik a baby--only a big baby,"
explained the colored cook.

"Maybe it was one of Flossie's dolls," the little "fat fireman" went
on.

"Flossie's dolls can't cry!" exclaimed Nan. "Not even the one that
says 'mama,' when you punch it in the back. That can't cry, because
it's broken."

"Well, Flossie says her dolls cry, sometimes," said Freddie, "and I
thought maybe It was one of them now."

"It was Snoop, our cat," said Bert, with a laugh. "That's what you
heard, Dinah, Snoop crying for something to eat. Maybe she's shut up
in a closet."

"Probably that's what it was, Dinah," said Mrs. Bobbsey.

"I'll go let her out," said Mr. Bobbsey, starting toward the lower
part of the houseboat.

"'Scuse me, Mr. Bobbsey," said Dinah firmly, "but dey ain't no use yo'
going t' let out no cat Snoop."

"Why not, Dinah?"

"Because it wasn't any cat dat I done heah. It was a human bein' dat I
heard cryin', dat's what it was, an' I know who it was, too," the
colored woman insisted.

"Who, Dinah?" asked Mrs. Bobbsey.

"It was de same ghostest dat done took mah cakes an' sandwiches, dat's
who it was. I'se mighty sorry t' leab yo', Mrs. Bobbsey, but I guess
I'll done be goin' now."

"What, Dinah!" cried her mistress. "Going? Where?"

"Offen dish yeah boat, Mrs. Bobbsey. I cain't stay heah any mo' wif a
lot of ghostests."

"Nonsense, Dinah!" exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey. "There isn't any such thing
as a ghost, and you know it! It's silly to even talk about such a
thing. Now you just come with me, and show me where you heard those
noises."

The Marquise de Wimphen and women were as stunned by the strong
transfer of a terrible pain.

At the sound of the voice of Lord Grenville d'Aiglemont woman
trembled so violently that he dared not answer because he is so
that the size of the power which he exerted on them, afraid to
reveal.

Lord Grenville itself dared not, to Julie, and so had Mrs. de Wimphen
almost solely for entertainment, which had no interest, make.

With a view fully touching gratitude thanked Julie for her help that
she provided.

In this way the two lovers offered their feelings and had to be
silenced in the prescribed limits of duty and decency of the society
hold.

Soon, however, Mr. de Wimphen reported. When she saw him enter, threw
the two girlfriends at a glance and understood without a word to speak,
the new difficulties of the situation.

It was impossible, Mr. de Wimphen the secret of this tragedy to
share, and Luise had no valid reasons to ask her husband, she even
longer stay at her friend to leave.

As Ms. de Wimphen her scarf umlegte, Julie stood up to her to assist
in, and said in a low voice: "I will have courage.

When he publicly came to me, what have I to fear? But if thou wert not
been - if I changed it alone would have seen - I would prefer
him to his feet. "" Well, Arthur, you have not obeyed me, "said
Mrs d'Aiglemont with trembling voice and took her space on a Causeuse
again.

Lord Grenville did not dare to, in addition to it.

"I did not fail to delight can hear your voice, you have to be. It was
a madness, a fever.

I am no longer master of myself. I have consulted about myself - I'm
too weak.

I must die. But die, without you have seen - without the noise of your
dress to have heard - without your tears have caught - what would
that be for a death! "He wanted to remove by Julie - but with a rapid
movement coincided him with a pistol from his pocket.

The Marquise saw this weapon, and the moment seemed to her all reflection,
all Denkkraft to be taken. Lord Grenville took the gun and seemed
very apathy about this coincidence, perhaps as an unhappy lover
calculation could be drawn out.

"Arthur?" Asked Julie. "Madam," he replied, his eyes settled hitting,
"I came in her desperation - I wanted to - "He stopped."

They wanted to kill me, "she exclaimed."

Not alone, "he replied with a gentle voice."

How? Maybe my husband? "No, no!" He cried with a choked voice. But
calm down, "he added," my plan is ominously smoky.

When I entered, I saw you, because I felt anew the courage to speak
alone to die.

"Julie stood up and threw in Arthur's arms, despite the heavy sobbing
of his lover two wild, passionate words could understand: "That
lucky to know and then die," she said.

"That is - yes!"

The whole story Julien was in this deep cry - the cry of nature and
love, the women with no religion succumb. Arthur seized her and carried
her to the roaring fervor which sparked unexpected good fortune, to
Diwan. But suddenly tore the Marquise from the arms of lovers,
he threw the rigid view of a desperate woman, took him by the hand,
took a light and pulled him into the bedroom.

Silently, she moved from the bed where slept Helene , the curtains
away, so that their children saw - she held a hand before the
candle, lest the light of the translucent, barely closed eyelids
of the little girl would do woe.

Helene was there with outstretched arms and smiled in his sleep. With
one glance showed Julie Lord Grenville her child.

This view says it all. "A man we can be unfaithful, even though he
has loved us.

A man is a strong creature and finds solace. The laws of the world can
we despise. But a child without a mother -! "All these thoughts and a
thousand were still tender in that view." We can take it with us,
"murmured the Englishman. "I'll have very sweet." "Mama," cried Helene,
awakening. This word zerfloß Julie in tears. Lord Grenville sat down,
crossed her arms and looked gloomy and silent before him. "Mama!" This
cheerful, naive reputation attracted so many edeln, irresistible
feelings that the love for a moment under the powerful voice of
motherhood was crushed.

Julie was no longer a woman, she was mother. Lord Grenville no longer
be resisted - Julien tears threw him down. At this moment we heard,
like an impetuous door was opened, and the words: 'Madam d'Aiglemont,
are you here?

«Widerhallten like a clap of thunder in the heart of the love couple.

The Marquis was returned. Marriage to Julie mind won, the General came
out of his room and approached that of his wife. These two rooms
hung together. Fortunately, Julie was Lord Grenville soon a sign, and
the Englishman jumped into a toilet whose door quickly closed the
Marquise.

"Well, my wife," said Victor, "because I am again.

The hunt will not take place.

I want to go to sleep. "" Good night, "she said to him.

"That I will also do. Let me alone - I am the undressing. "" You're
quite unzart tonight - but I obey you, Marquise.

"The General returned to his room.

Julie went with him to the connecting door to close and then hurried
away, Lord Grenville to liberate. They won all the mind again and
thought of visiting her old doctor was finally quite naturally.
You could put it in the salon have left behind, only for her daughter
to bed to bring it wanted to tell him that he should go there
silently.

But when they opened the door of the Cabinet, she screamed out loud.
The fingers were Lord Grenville in the Türspalte advised and been
crushed.

"Hey, what hast thou?" Cried her husband over. "Nothing," she replied,
"I have myself with a needle in the finger razor."

The connecting door opened suddenly again.

The Marquise believed her husband would come out of interest for them,
and cursed those concerns to the heart so it had no share.

She had little time to close the toilet, and Lord Grenville had his
hand yet can not liberate.

The General did in fact come back, but the Marquise was wrong - a
sudden Mißhelligkeit led him forth.

"Can you give me a silk scarf borrow? The stupid Charles I did not lay
a single scarf.

At the beginning of our marriage did you order my things with
care so embarrassing grieved that I was even too much. Oh, honey
moon, neither for me nor for my long scarves. Now I am completely and
utterly in this old stone valet instructed to deal with me as they
want. "" Here is a scarf.

You are not gone into the parlor? "Nay." "They would then maybe Lord
Grenville still have." "Is he in Paris?"

"Apparently." "Oh, so I go out - this good doctor -- "" But now he
must already be gone, "cried Julie. The Marquis stood at this
moment in the middle of the room his wife, and wrapped the cloth
around the head, while he looked in the mirror wohlgefällig."

I do not know where our people are, "he said. "I have rung three
times in Charles - he is not come.

You're also without your Chamber woman? Ring it after her - I now have
a blanket night in bed have more. "" Pauline is fortgegangen,
"replied the Marquise dry." At midnight? "Said the General." I have
allowed her to go to the opera. "" peculiar, "returned the man,
he is completely undressed.

"To me it was as if I walk up the stairs to see." "Then they
returned without a doubt," Julie said and did when she was weary of
this conversation now. In order that no suspicion at her husband
about that drew the Marquise then the bell, but very weak. The events
of this night are not fully known, but all were equally easy, but
just been horrible - as is the usual domestic incidents, which were
preceded.

The next day, the Marquise d'Aiglemont to go to bed for several
days. "What is unusual because only happen to you that all the world
speaks your wife?"

Asked Mr. de Ronquerolles Mr d'Aiglemont a few days after this
disaster of of night.

"Believe me, stay bachelor," answered d'Aiglemont. "Helen has caught
fire bed, my wife is about almost frightened to death that they
are now back to a year is sick, as the doctor says.

You marry a pretty woman, it will be ugly, you marry a woman in a
thriving health, it will be sickly.

You do it for passionate - but it is cold. Or maybe it is, though
outwardly cold, yet so passionate, that it kills you or makes you
disgrace. Soon, the gentle creature a scratch brush - na, and a scratch
brush is never soft. Soon the child develops, for which you are weak
and hast kept simple for you with an iron will power, a demonic spirit.
I have tired of the marriage. "" Or the woman. "" Hard to say.

Incidentally, you will come into the church to Saint Thomas Aquinas?

I want my funeral Lord Grenville Front. "" A strange pastime. But,
"went Ronquerolles continued," we know exactly how he died?

"" His valet claimed Mylord had all night outside sitting on a
window sill in order to his lover, not the honor to bring.

And this time it's been deuced cold! "" Such a sacrifice would be with
us next, our older practitioners very commendable - but Lord Grenville
was so young, and - an Englishman.

The Englishman must always have what Aparts. "" Bah!

"Returned d'Aiglemont," such heroism depends entirely on the woman from
the einflößt it to us, and my wife is the poor Arthur certainly
not dead! "2 Chapter. Unprecedented suffering. Between the river
Loing and the Seine is a vast plain, bordered by the forest of
Fontainebleau and Moret of the villages, and Nemours Montereau.

This arid country has only a few scattered on hills, here and there
are middle of the forest areas of small rectangles, with the game
on the refuge, you see everywhere else only the gray or yellowish
lines without end, the horizons of the Sologne, the Beauce and Berri
are peculiar.

In the middle of this level, between Moret and Montereau, provides
the traveler an old castle. Saint-Lange says, and his situation is a
certain grandeur, majesty, yes. Here there are magnificent elm alleys,
ditches, enclosing a long, large gardens, large mansions, whose
construction is apparent only to the advantage of the tax or the General
tenant was apart.

If the artist or a dreamer by chance in the deep paths or lowered in the
tough clay lost the access to this country more difficult, so
he asks, by what chance this poetic palace in this savanna of
cereals, in this desert of chalk , marl and sand is not being made,
where the Frohsinn dies, where infallible sadness we must attack,
where the soul of an incessant loneliness without voices, assisted
by a monotonous horizon of negative beauty is tired - where all the
trouble by providing that no Trost wants more.

A young woman who is in Paris for her beauty and her mind had
been celebrated, their assets with their fame stood in line, was the
great surprise of approximately one mile from Saint-Long village
situated towards the end of 1820, domesticated down here.

The lessees and the farmers had since time immemorial never more of a
rule seen at the palace.

The country, although of considerable fertility, was the responsibility
of a manager and was left by the old servants concerned. The
arrival of the woman Marquise staggered so the entire area of excitement.
Several people were at the end of the village court in a poor hostel
situated at the intersection of the streets of Nemours and Moret
was.

Here they saw Kalesche vorüberkommen who drove fairly slowly, as the
Marquise of Paris was to her car arrived. On the front seat, the
Women's Chamber a little girl who is more thoughtful than seemed
amused.

The mother rested in the rear of the car, like a sick, the doctors
will be sent to the countryside.

Tieftraurige The face of this young, fragile wife satisfied the village
politicians, not because they had made their arrival at Saint-Lange
the hope that it is now in the community "a life" would be.

Certainly was life and bustle of this pain visibly infected woman
quite contrary.

The wisest head of Saint-Lange said in the evening in the tavern,
in the office, where the regulars of the notables was in accordance
with the expression of grief to close the face of the woman Marquise
would unmistakably to review, you must create a ruined woman.

In the absence of Mr. Marquis, of which the newspapers had reported
that he had to the Duke of Angoulème guide to Spain, she now wanted
in any case from Saint-Lange the necessary economies out sums of
money to the stock market due to false speculation arising from
difficulties in the world.

The Marquis was one of the greatest players. Perhaps the parcel
of land sold. Then you could still "his cut" to make.

Everyone should just think on it, its thalers to count her out of the
box and bring together all the resources to be particles einzuheimsen
when Saint-Lange losgeschlagen would.

This future seemed so bright that all the dignitaries in front
flared curiosity to know whether the thing is really correct.

It means Lausanne now on, citizens of the castle to explore the
truth, but none of them was a bit more about the disaster say that
her mistress at the beginning of winter at its old castle of
Saint-Lange led wherever they possessed other lands, the because
of its graceful and beautiful gardens were famous.

The Lord Mayor came to my lady's homage darzubringen, but he was not
vorgelassen. After the mayor tried the administrator - but with the
same failure.

The woman Marquise left her room just to be preparation to leave, and
remained stable during this time in a small adjacent room, where
they dined, if their way of eating it could be mentioned, because
they just sat down at the table, looked at the dishes with reluctance
and only took just as much to himself, as needed, in order not to
die of hunger.

Then she returned immediately to the antique chair back where it into
the morning at the corner of the single window was to the room
lighting donated.

She saw her daughter only during the few moments that they will enjoy
their meals sad, and even then they seemed barely to tolerate. Had
it not outrageous pain, when a young woman, the maternal feeling might
oppress? From her people got no access to it.

Your Chamber's wife was the only person from whom it was like to operate.
They demanded complete silence throughout the palace, even had her
daughter away from her play.

It was proving so difficult for even the slightest noise to endure
that every human voice, even those of her child, she touched
uncomfortable.

The country people were concerned only with a lot of the characteristics
of the "Merciful", but as all sorts of conjectures were exhausted,
thought neither the village nor the surrounding farmers more to the
sick woman.

The Marquise, left to themselves, was now entirely their taciturnity
oneself, in the midst of silence, which to him they had created. She
had no reason to change the wallpaper with extravagant room to
leave, is her grandmother had died and where she had been to a
gentle death, to suffer, without witnesses, without interference,
without any false sympathy selfish people in the cities of the agony
of the dying has doubled.

This woman was twenty-six years old.

In this age of cost even poetic illusions filled the soul like death
if he boon as it appears.

But death is coquettishly against young people. He comes up and
goes again, shows and hides.
"And we haven't solved the mystery," said Bert in a low voice to
Harry. "But we will to-night, all right."

"We sure will," agreed the boy from the country.

The Bobbsey twins stayed up rather later that night than usual. Mr.
Bobbsey did not find a good anchorage for the boat for some time, as
he wanted to get in a safe place. It looked as though there might be a
storm before morning, and he did not want to drift away again. Then,
too, he wanted to get nearer to the waterfall, so they could reach it
early the next morning and look at it more closely.

So the motor was kept in action by Captain White until after supper,
and finally the Bluebird came to rest not far from the waterfall. Then
Bert and Nan, with Dorothy and Harry were so interested in listening
to Mr. Bobbsey tell stories about waterfalls, and what caused them,
that the older twins and their cousins did not get to bed until nearly
ten o'clock, whereas nine was the usual hour.

Of course Flossie and Freddie "turned in," as sailors say, about eight
o'clock, for their little eyes would not stay open any longer.

"We'll wake up as soon as my father and mother are asleep," said Bert
to Harry, as they went to their rooms, which were adjoining ones.
"Then we'll take turns watching that closet."

"Sure," agreed Harry. "Whoever wakes up first, will call the other."

To this Bert agreed, but the truth of it was that neither of them
awakened until morning. Whether it was that they were too tired, or
slept later than usual, they could not tell. But it was broad
daylight, when they sat up in their beds, or "bunks," as beds are
called on ships.

"I thought you were going to call me," said Bert to his cousin.

"And I thought you were going to call ME," laughed the boy from the
country.

Then they both laughed, for it was a good joke on each of them.

"Never mind," spoke Bert, as he got up and dressed. "We'll try it
again to-night."

"Try what?" asked Nan from the next room, for she could hear her
brother speak. "If you boys try to play any tricks on us girls---"

"Don't worry," broke in Harry. "The secret isn't about you."

"I think you're real mean not to tell us!" called Dorothy, from her
room. "Nan and I are going to have a marshmallow roast, when we go on
shore near the waterfall, and we won't give you boys a single one,
will we, Nan?"

"Not a one!" cried Bert's sister.

"Will you give me one--whatever it is?" asked Freddie from the room
where his mother was dressing him.

"And me, too?" added Flossie, for she always wanted to share in her
little twin brother's fun.

"Yes, you may have some, but not Bert and Harry," went on Nan, though
she knew when the time came, that she would share her treat with her
brother and cousin.

"Well, I didn't hear any noises last night," said Mr. Bobbsey to his
wife at the breakfast table.

"Nor I," said she. But when Dinah came in with a platter of ham and
eggs, there was such a funny look on the cook's face that Mrs. Bobbsey
asked:

"Aren't you well, Dinah?"

"Oh, yes'm, I'se well enough," the fat cook answered. "But dey shuah
is suffin strange gwine on abo'd dish yeah boat."

"What's the matter now?" asked Mr. Bobbsey.

"A whole loaf of bread was tooken last night," said Dinah. "It was
tooken right out ob de bread box," she went on, "and I'se shuah it
wasn't no rat, fo' he couldn't open my box."

"I don't know," said Mrs. Bobbsey. "Rats are pretty smart sometimes."

"They are smart enough to keep out of my trap," said Papa Bobbsey. "I
must set some new ones, I think."

"Well, I don't think it was any rat," said Dinah, as she went on
serving breakfast.

There was so much to do that day, and so much to see, that the Bobbsey
twins, at least, and their cousins, paid little attention to the story
of the missing loaf of bread. Bert did say to Harry:

"It's too bad we didn't watch last night. We might have caught whoever
it was that took the bread."

"Who do you think it was?" asked Harry.

"Oh, some tramps," said Bert. "It couldn't be anybody else."

They went ashore after breakfast, close to the waterfall.

"Papa, you said you would show us where we could walk under the water
without getting wet," Nan reminded him.

"Oh, yes," said Mr. Bobbsey. "I have never been to these falls, but I
have read about them." Then he showed the children a place, near the
shore of the lake, where they could slip in right behind the thin veil
of water that fell over the black rocks, high above their heads. Back
of the falling water there was a space which the waves had worn in the
stone. It was damp, but not enough to wet their feet. There they
stood, behind the sheet of water, and looked out through it to the
lake, into which it fell with a great splashing and foaming.

"Oh, isn't this wonderful!" cried Nan.

"It surely is," said Dorothy, with a sigh. "I never saw anything so
pretty."

"And what queer stones!" cried Bert, as he picked up some that had
been worn into odd shapes by the action of the water.

The Bobbseys spent some little time at the waterfall, and then, as
there was a pretty little island near it, where picnic parties often
went for the day, they went there in the Bluebird, going ashore for
their dinner.

"But I'm not going to play Robinson Crusoe again," said Freddie, as he
remembered the time he had been caught in the cave.

At the end of a pleasant day on the island, the Bobbseys again went on
board the houseboat for supper.

"We'll watch sure to-night," said Bert to Harry, as they got ready for
bed. "We won't go to sleep at all."

"All right," agreed the country cousin.

It was hard work, but they managed to stay awake. When the boat was
quiet, and every one else asleep, Harry and Bert stole softly out of
their room and went to the passageway between the dining-room and
kitchen.

"You watch from the kitchen, and I'll watch from the dining-room,"
Bert told his cousin. "Then, no matter which way that rat goes, we'll
see him."

"Do you think it was a rat?" asked Harry.

"Well, I'm not sure," his cousin answered. "But maybe we'll find out
to-night."

"We ought to have something to hit him with, if we see a rat,"
suggested Harry.

"That's right," Bert agreed. "I'll take the stove poker, and you can
have the fire shovel. Now keep very still."

The two cousins took their places, Bert in the dining-room, and Harry
in the kitchen. It was very still and quiet on the Bluebird. Up on
deck Snap, the dog, could be heard moving about now and then, for he
slept up there.

Bert, who had sat down in a dining-room chair, began to feel sleepy.
He tried to keep open his eyes, but it was hard work. Suddenly he
dozed off, and he was just on the point of falling asleep, when he
heard a noise. It was a squeaking sound, as though a door had been
opened.

"Or," thought Bert, "it might be the squeak of a mouse. I wonder if
Harry heard it?"

He wanted to call out, in a whisper, and ask his cousin in the dining-
room, just beyond the passage. Bert could not see Harry. But Bert
thought if he called, even in a whisper, he might scare the rat, or
whoever, or whatever, it was, that had caused the mystery.

So Bert kept quiet and watched. The squeaking noise of the loose
boards in the floor went on, and then Bert heard a sound, as though
soft footsteps were coming toward him. He wanted to jump up and yell,
but he kept still.

Then, suddenly, Bert saw something.

Standing in the dining-room door, looking at him, was a boy, about his
own age--a boy dressed in ragged clothes, and in bare feet, and in his
hand this boy held a piece of bread, and a slice of cake.

"You--you!" began Bert, wondering where he had seen that boy before.
And then, before Bert could say any more, the boy turned to run away,
and Bert jumped up to catch him.


CHAPTER XXII

THE STOWAWAY


"Come back here!" cried Bert, as he rushed on.

There was the sound of a fall in the passageway, and some one groaned.

"What is it?" cried Harry, running from the kitchen. "What's the
matter, Bert? Did you catch the rat?"

"No, but I caught something else," Bert answered. By this time he had
run into the passageway, and there, in front of the locker, or closet,
where the strange noises had been heard, lay the ragged boy. He had
fallen and hurt his head. The cake and bread had been knocked from his
hands. The door of the locker or closet was open.

"Why--why---" began Harry, in surprise. "It's a--a boy."

"Yes, and now I know who he is," said Bert, as the stowaway sat up,
not having been badly hurt by his fall. He had tripped in his bare
feet.

"Who--who is it?" asked Harry.

"It's that boy who gave us the fish--Will Watson, who worked for the
man that made the wire fence--Mr. Hardee."

(King Henry, Northumberland, Worcester, Hot-Track, Sir Walter Blunt,
and others may occur.) King Henry. My blood is too cold and too mild,
that is a so-Bey is not indecent behavior aufwallte; ye my weak
side found, and stand deßwegen patience with my feet, but assured
you that I want more künftighin Seyn what my dignity than what my
Gemüthsart calls to have been mild and gentle, and deßwegen has
lost the awe that only a proud soul the arrogant paid.

Worcester.

Our house, Gracious Lord verdienet truly not that the scourge of
the same size to be used, and are the same size, which our own hands
to do so handsome helped.

Northumberland. My Gracious Lord - King Heinrich.

Worcester, remove thee, I see disobedience and threats to your eyes.
O Sir, yours is mine too bold and determined, and the majesty can
not trozbietenden pride on the forehead a Unterthanen tolerate. You
have our permission to leave.

If we euern Rath Nöthiger or your services, we will let you Ruffer.
(Worcester geht ab.)

You wanted to talk so - (To Northumberland.) Northumberland. Yes, my
Gracious Lord, that the prisoners in Europe.

Complete name of majesty, and the Henry Percy to Holmedon has made,
as he says, not so bad but been denied, how to Your Majesty has
reported.

Either envy or misunderstanding is guilty of this offense, not my
son.

Hot-Track.

My Gracious Lord, I failed no prisoners, but whose erinnre I like the
action was finished, and I, quite aufgetroknet of Hize and Labor,
athemlos and exhausted to my Schwerdt rejected me, there came a
certain young man, nice, dainty aufgepuzt, fresh as a bridegroom,
and his recently abgeschohrnes chin looked like a stubble-field in
autumn.

He was like a parfumirt-Specerey Krämer, and held between his fingers
and his thumb a snuff-rifle, which he all Augenblike held before
the nose, which he always had to smile and Schwazer, and, like the
soldiers wore vorbey Todt body, he bade them ungezogne Flegel, so
naughty and unsaubre burden between the wind and his Adeliche person
to bring.

He asked me with a stream of Sunday's and women's room for a hundred
types of speech matters, and called me finally, to your Majesty my
hand from prisoners.

I, the wounds all over my hurt and sullen about that I am such a
Papagay to inopportunely übertäuben should answer him in Unmuth and the
impatience, I do not know what he should have, or he should not
have, because it made me great, something that looked like a man
before me to see that so many colors gleamed and smelled so sweet,
and shotguns and Trummeln chamber and wounds so redte Miss-moderate,
and I said, for a bruising internal sey no means infallible than
Spermacet, and it really sorry sey, sey it that this cursed saltpeter
from the bowels of the earth hervorgegraben been innocent sey, which
so many brave people wolgewachsene've killed so elendiglich: And
if only they are not worthy shotguns would not, he would himself
become a soldier Seyn - all this on its cool, I gave disconnectedly
gossip, therefore, Gracious Lord, only the top answer, as I said,
and I ask you, let not his report the validity of an indictment
against a man have of your Majesty shall result than I do.

Blunt. The circumstances taken into consideration, Gracious Lord, so
could everything Harry Percy then to such a person to such a place,
and in such a time would like to have said, cheaper Maassen for
Todt abgethan and kept, and never on his night healing again
mentioned.

Because what he said then, the entsagt he IZO yes again, as you see.

"No, I'm sure you did not," the twins' father said. "Well, I'm glad
Bert found you," he went on, as Bert and Harry told how they had kept
watch. "So it was you who took the things, and who made the noises
that frightened Dinah?"

"Yes, but I didn't mean, to scare her," Will said. "That day I got my
hand caught in the loose board, and it hurt so, and I felt so bad that
I--I cried. That was what she heard, I guess."

"You poor boy!" said Mrs. Bobbsey again.

"And--and did you see any rats in the cellar?" asked Freddie, who was
moving about in his little night dress.

"No," answered Will, "I didn't see any rats. It was bad enough in the
dark place, without any rats."

"Well, I guess your troubles are over, for a time," said Mr. Bobbsey.
"We'll fix you up a bed, and then I'll have a talk with you about this
miner uncle of yours."

Will finished his warm milk, and ate some bread and cake--the same he
had taken from Dinah's kitchen. He had gone in there and taken it, but
Harry had not heard him, for Harry had fallen asleep.

"And so it was a stowaway boy, and not rats or ghosts or anything else
that was the mystery," said Mrs. Bobbsey, when everything once more
quiet on the Bluebird.

"That's what it was," her husband said "Bert was real smart to sit up
and watch."

"And he never told us a thing about it."

"Oh, he wanted to surprise us," laughed Mr. Bobbsey.

"And didn't I see you, the time I fell overboard?" asked Flossie,
looking at Will.

"I think you did," he laughed. "I happened to put my head out of a
ventilating hole just as you looked. I pulled it in again, soon
enough, though. I hope I didn't scare you."

"Not very much," Flossie said. "I was sure I saw you, but nobody else
would believe me."

Snap soon made friends with the new boy. It was Will, hiding behind
the closet wall, that had made the dog act as though a rat were there.

I must bring my story to a close, now that the mystery is explained.
And, really, there is little else to tell. Will had, in the little
bundle of things he had brought away from Mr. Hardee's with him, the
address of a man he thought knew where the miner uncle was. Mr.
Bobbsey wrote several letters, and, in due time, word came back that
Will's uncle was well off now, and would look after him. His name was
Mr. Jackson. He had lost track of Will for some years and had just
begun a search for him, when Mr. Bobbsey's letter came. Enough money
was sent on to enable Will to make the trip out west, where he would
be well cared for. He could not thank the Bobbsey family enough for
what they had done for him.

Mr. Hardee heard where his runaway boy had been found, and tried to
get him back, but Mr. Bobbsey would not permit this. So Will's life
began to be a pleasant one. The time he had spent on the houseboat,
after coming from his hiding place, was the happiest he had ever
known.

"Well, what shall we do now?" asked Bert one day, after Will had gone.
"It seems queer not to have to be on the lookout for a mystery or
something like that."

"Doesn't it," agreed Harry.

"And so that was your secret?" asked Nan.

"Yes, that was it," her brother answered. "But I wish we had something
to do now."

"Whatever you do, you want to do in the next two weeks," said Mr.
Bobbsey, coming up on deck.

"Why?" asked Bert.

"Because our houseboat trip will come to an end then."

"Oh!" cried the Bobbsey twins in a chorus. "That's too bad!"

"But I have other pleasures for you," went on Mr. Bobbsey. "The summer
vacation is not yet over."

And those of you who wish to read of what further pleasures the
children had, may do so in the following volume, which will be called
"The Bobbsey Twins at Meadow Brook."

"Let's have one more picnic on an island!" proposed Nan, a few days
before the trip on Lake Romano was to end.

"And a marshmallow roast!" added Dorothy.

"Fine!" cried Bert. "I'll eat all the candies you toast!"

"And I'll help!" added Harry.

"You boys will have to make the fire," Nan said.

"I'll gather wood!" offered Freddie. This stream is uneven, parts
are going swimming, by others to meet the horse that is the least
water: it is all swamp, that is what is going to e included in its
banks bathed with pajonal.

At half past three continued the march, and we have a government of 25
men and one vaqueano, more move to the mountains of S and recognize
the lower entry and exit is here.

At night, after having recognized the endless entrances and exits
of these mountains, we pulled the camp due to a large squalls that
threat, draining enough, and sales.

The inputs and outputs we have seen and walked on these saws are
innumerable, all transit carriages.
"Oh, I'm going to dig gold when I grow to be a man," said Freddie.
"May I have another marshmallow, Nan?" "Yes, little fat fireman," she
laughed.

A few days later, after making a trip around the lower end of the
lake, the Bobbsey twins started for home, reaching there safely, and
having no more trouble with Mr. Hardee and his wire fence.

And so, as they are now safe at home, we shall say good-bye to the
Bobbsey twins and their friends.

THE END