 But we should recollect that, in the sight of God, a
thousand years are but as one day; while one day may be magnified
into a thousand years; and that the purposes of God are concealed
to us while sin blinds our eyes. Rahab and Magdalene were wretched
before their conversion, nor could Saul have been much less wretched,
while carrying misery into the hearts and families of God's saints.

There can be no real happiness without spiritual life--holy obedience
to the Divine will, and a scriptural hope of justification before
God and his law. These are the means he uses to make known to us his
secret purposes. No man has lived in the world, since the inspired
writers, more capable of detecting the devil's sophistry upon
this subject than John Bunyan. He had passed through a furnace of
experience while seeking justification. He well knew that, upon
keeping the moral law of God, the peace of the world and our personal
happiness depended. How is this great object to be accomplished?
If we attempt to keep it, in order to gain eternal life, we shall
fail, as all others have done. In every attempt thus to keep it,
to use Bunyan's expression 'The guilt of sin, which is by the law,
makes such a noise and horror in my conscience that I can neither
hear nor see the word of peace, unless it is spoken with a voice
from heaven!' Our polluted nature leads to sin; a mist is before
our eyes; we 'go astray speaking lies.' The strong natural bias to
break the law will prevail; we see its effects in the great bulk
of those who are taught to rely upon ceremonies and upon keeping
the law. Who are so lawless, so little advanced in civilization,
as the poor Irish, Spaniards, or Italians? while those who seek
justification as the free gift of God, influenced by gratitude and
love, are found walking in obedience to the Divine law; their only
regret is, that they cannot live more to the glory of their Saviour.
The doctrines of grace, as exhibited in this treatise, have ever
produced glory to God, on earth peace, and goodwill to men; although
that spirit which called Christ a gluttonous man and a wine-bibber,
still charges these doctrines as having a tendency to licentiousness.

Christian, be not offended with the humbling, but scriptural views,
which Bunyan entertained of every church of Christ 'An hospital of
sick, wounded, and afflicted people.' None but such as feel their
need of the Physician of souls are fit for church membership, or are
safely on the road to heaven. Leaving this solemn and interesting
subject to the prayerful attention of the reader, I shall conclude
my advertisement by quoting from a characteristic specimen of
Bunyan's style of writing, and it was doubtless his striking mode
of preaching:--'Faith doth the same against the devil that unbelief
doth to God. Doth unbelief count God a liar? Faith counts the devil
a liar. Doth unbelief hold the soul from the mercy of God? Faith
holds the soul from the malice of the devil. Doth unbelief quench
thy graces? Faith kindleth them even into a flame. Doth unbelief
fill the soul full of sorrow? Faith fills it full of the joy of
the Holy Ghost. In a word, Doth unbelief bind down thy sins upon
thee? Why, faith in Jesus Christ releaseth thee of them all.'

GEO. OFFOR.

JUSTIFICATION BY AN IMPUTED RIGHTEOUSNESS

JUSTIFICATION is to be diversly taken in the Scripture. Sometimes
it is taken for the justification of persons; sometimes for the
justification of actions; and sometimes for the justification of
the person and action too.

It is taken for the justification of persons, and that, as to
justification with God; or, as to justification with men.

As to justification with God; that is, when a man stands clear,
quit, free, or, in a saved condition before him, in the approbation
of his holy law.

As to justification with men; that is, when a man stands clear and
quit from just ground of reprehension with them.

Justification also is to be taken with reference to actions; and
that may be when they are considered, as flowing from true faith;
or, because the act done fulfils some transient law.[1]

As actions flow from faith, so they are justified, because done
before God in, and made complete through, the perfections of Jesus
Christ (1 Peter 2:5; Heb 13:15; Rev 8:1-4).

As by the doing of the act some transient law is fulfilled; as
when Jehu executed judgment upon the house of Ahab. 'Thou hast done
well,' said God to him, 'in executing that which is right in mine
eyes, and hast done to the house of Ahab according to all that was
in mine heart' (2 Kings 10:30). As to such acts, God may or may
not look at the qualification of those that do them; and it is
clear that he had not respect to any good that was in Jehu in the
justifying of this action; nor could he; for Jehu stuck close yet
to the sins of Jeroboam, but 'took no heed to walk in the law of
the Lord God of Israel' (2 Kings 10:29,31).

I might hence also show you that a man may be justified even then
when his action is condemned; also that a man may be in a state
of condemnation when his action may be justified. But with these
distinctions I will not take up time, my intention being to treat
of justification as it sets a man free or quit from sin, the curse
and condemnation of the law in the sight of God, in order to eternal
salvation.

And that I may with the more clearness handle this point before
you, I will lay down and speak to this

PROPOSITION.

THAT THERE IS NO OTHER WAY FOR SINNERS TO BE JUSTIFIED FROM THE
CURSE OF THE LAW IN THE SIGHT OF GOD, THAN BY THE IMPUTATION OF
THAT RIGHTEOUSNESS LONG AGO PERFORMED BY, AND STILL RESIDING WITH,
THE PERSON OF JESUS CHRIST.

The terms of this proposition are easy; yet if it will help, I will
speak a word or two for explication. First. By a sinner, I mean
one that has transgressed the law; 'for sin is the transgression
of the law' (1 John 3:4). Second. By the curse of the law, I mean
that sentence, judgment, or condemnation which the law pronounceth
against the transgressor (Gal 3:10). Third. By justifying righteousness,
I mean that which stands in the doing and suffering of Christ when
he was in the world (Rom 5:19). Fourth. By the residing of this
righteousness in Christ's person, I mean it still abides with him
as to the action, though the benefit is bestowed upon those that
are his. Fifth. By the imputation of it to us, I mean God's making
of it ours by an act of his grace, that we by it might be secured
from the curse of the law. Sixth. When I say there is no other
way to be justified. I cast away TO THAT END the law, and all the
works of the law as done by us.[2]

Thus I have opened the terms of the proposition.

First and Second. Now the two first--to wit, what sin and the
curse is--stand clear in all men's sight, unless they be atheists
or desperately heretical. I shall, therefore, in few words, clear
the other four.

Third. Therefore justifying righteousness is the doing and suffering
of Christ when he was in the world. This is clear, because we are
said to be 'justified by his obedience,' by his obedience to the
law (Rom 5:19). Hence he is said again to be the end of the law for
that very thing--'Christ is the end of the law for righteousness,'
&c. (Rom 10:4). The end, what is that? Why, the requirement or
demand of the law. But what are they? Why, righteousness, perfect
righteousness (Gal 3:10). Perfect righteousness, what to do? That
the soul concerned might stand spotless in the sight of God (Rev
1:5). Now this lies only in the doings and sufferings of Christ; for
'by his obedience many are made righteous'; wherefore as to this,
Christ is the end of the law, that being found in that obedience,
that becomes to us sufficient for our justification. Hence we are
said to be made righteous by his obedience; yea, and to be washed,
purged, and justified by his blood (Heb 9:14; Rom 5:18,19).

Fourth. That this righteousness still resides in and with the
person of Christ, even then when we stand just before God thereby,
is clear, for that we are said, when justified, to be justified
'in him.' 'In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified.'
And again, 'Surely, shall one say, In the Lord have I righteousness,'
&c. (Isa 45:24,25). And again, 'But of him are ye in Christ Jesus,
who of God is made unto us--righteousness' (1 Cor 1:30).

Mark, the righteousness is still 'in him,' not 'in us,' even then
when we are made partakers of the benefit of it; even as the wing
and feathers still abide in the hen when the chickens are covered,
kept, and warmed thereby.

For as my doings, though my children are fed and clothed thereby,
are still my doings, not theirs; so the righteousness wherewith
we stand just before God from the curse, still resides in Christ,
not in us. Our sins, when laid upon Christ, were yet personally ours,
not his; so his righteousness, when put upon us, is yet personally
his, not ours. What is it, then? Why, 'he was made to be sin for
us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of
God in him' (2 Cor 5:21).[3]

Fifth. It is, therefore, of a justifying virtue, only by imputation,
or as God reckoneth it to us; even as our sins made the Lord Jesus
a sinner--nay, 'sin,' by God's reckoning of them to him.

It is absolutely necessary that this be known of us; for if the
understanding be muddy as to this, it is impossible that such should
be sound in the faith; also in temptation, that man will be at a
loss that looketh for a righteousness for justification in himself,
when it is to be found nowhere but in Jesus Christ. The apostle,
who was his craftsmaster as to this, was always 'looking to Jesus,'
that he 'might be found in him,' knowing that nowhere else could
peace or safety be had (Phil 3:6-9). And, indeed, this is one of
the greatest mysteries in the world; namely, that a righteousness
that resides with a person in heaven should justify me, a sinner,
on earth!

Sixth. Therefore the law and the works thereof, as to this, must by
us be cast away; not only because they here are useless, but also
they being retained are a hindrance. That they are useless is
evident, for that salvation comes by another name (Acts 4:12). And
that they are a hindrance, it is clear; for the very adhering to
the law, though it be but a little, or in a little part, prevents
justification by the righteousness of Christ (Rom 9:31,32).

What shall I say? As to this, the moral law is rejected, the
ceremonial law is rejected, and man's righteousness is rejected,
for that they are here both weak and unprofitable (Rom 8:2,3; Gal
3:21; Heb 10:1-12). Now if all these and their works as to our
justification, are rejected, where, but in Christ, is righteousness
to be found?

Thus much, therefore, for the explication of the proposition--namely,
that there is no other way for sinners to be justified from the
curse of the law in the sight of God, than by the imputation of
that righteousness long ago performed by, and still residing with,
the person of Jesus Christ.

[Two Positions.]

Now, from this proposition I draw these two positions--FIRST.
THAT MEN ARE JUSTIFIED FROM THE CURSE OF THE LAW BEFORE GOD WHILE
SINNERS IN THEMSELVES. SECOND. THAT THIS CAN BE DONE BY NO OTHER
RIGHTEOUSNESS THAN THAT LONG AGO PERFORMED BY, AND RESIDING WITH,
THE PERSON OF JESUS CHRIST.

[FIRST POSITION]

FIRST. Let us, then, now enter into the consideration of the first
of these--namely, THAT MEN ARE JUSTIFIED FROM THE CURSE OF THE
LAW BEFORE GOD WHILE SINNERS IN THEMSELVES. This I shall manifest,
FIRST, By touching upon the mysterious acts of our redemption;
SECOND, By giving of you plain texts which discover it; and, THIRD,
By reasons drawn from the texts.

FIRST. For the first of these; to wit, the mysterious act of our
redemption: and that I shall speak to under these two heads--First,
I shall show you what that is; and, Second, How we are concerned
therein.

First. [What that is.] That which I call, and that rightly,
the mysterious act of our redemption, is Christ's sufferings as a
common,[4] though a particular person and as a sinner, though always
completely righteous.

That he suffered as a common person is true. By common, I mean a
public person, or one that presents the body of mankind in himself.
This a multitude of scriptures bear witness to, especially that fifth
chapter to the Romans, where, by the apostle, he is set before us
as the head of all the elect, even as Adam was once head of all the
world. Thus he lived, and thus he died; and this was a mysterious
act. And that he should die as a sinner, when yet himself did 'no
sin,' nor had any 'guile found in his mouth,' made this act more
mysterious (1 Pet 1:19, 2:22, 3:18). That he died as a sinner is
plain--'He hath made him to be sin. And the Lord laid upon him the
iniquity of us all' (Isa 53). That, then, as to his own person he
was completely sinless is also as truly manifest, and that by a
multitude of scriptures. Now, I say, that Christ Jesus should be
thus considered, and thus die, was the great mystery of God. Hence
Paul tells us, that when he preached 'Christ crucified,' he preached
not only the 'wisdom of God,' but the 'wisdom of God in a mystery,'
even his 'hidden wisdom,' for, indeed, this wisdom is hidden, and
kept close from the 'fowls of the air' (1 Cor 1:24, 2:7,8; Job
28:20,21).

It is also so mysterious, that it goes beyond the reach of all men,
except those to whom an understanding is given of God to apprehend
it (1 John 5:20). That one particular man should represent all
the elect in himself, and that the most righteous should die as a
sinner, yea, as a sinner by the hand of a just and holy God, is a
mystery of the greatest depth!

Second. And now I come to show you how the elect are concerned
therein; that is, in this mysterious act of this most blessed One;
and this will make this act yet more mysterious to you.

Now, then, we will speak of this first, as to how Christ prepared
himself thus mysteriously to act. He took hold of our nature. I
say, he took hold of us, by taking upon him flesh and blood. The
Son of God, therefore, took not upon him a particular person, though
he took to him a human body and soul; but that which he took was,
as I may call it, a lump of the common nature of man; and by that,
hold of the whole elect seed of Abraham; 'For verily he took not on
him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham'
(Heb 2:16) Hence he, in a mystery, became us, and was counted as
all the men that were or should be saved. And this is the reason why
we are said to do, when only Jesus Christ did do. As for instance--

1. When Jesus Christ fulfilled the righteousness of the law, it
is said it was fulfilled in us, because indeed fulfilled in our
nature: 'For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through
the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh,
and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness
of the law might be fulfilled in us,' &c. (Rom 8:3,4). But because
none should appropriate this unto themselves that have not had passed
upon them a work of conversion, therefore he adds, 'Who walk not
after the flesh, but after the Spirit' (v. 4). For there being
a union between head and members, though things may be done by
the head, and that for the members, the things are counted to the
members, as if not done only by the head. 'The righteousness of the
law is fulfilled in us'; and that truly, because fulfilled in that
common nature which the Son of God took of the Virgin. Wherefore,
in this sense we are said to do what only was done by him; even
as the client doth by his lawyer, when his lawyer personates him;
the client is said to do, when it is the lawyer only that does;
and to overcome by doing, when it is the lawyer that overcomes; the
reason is, because the lawyer does in the client's name. How much
more then may it be said we do, when only Christ does; since he
does what he does, not in our name only, but in our nature too;
'for the law of the spirit of life in Christ.' not in me, 'hath
made me free from the law of sin and death' (Rom 8:2); he doing in
his common flesh what could not be done in my particular person,
that so I might have the righteousness of the law fulfilled in me,
[that is, in] my flesh assumed by Christ; though impossible to be
done [by me], because of the weakness of my person. The reason of
all this is, because we are said to be in him in his doing, in him
by our flesh, and also by the election of God. So, then, as all
men sinned when Adam fell, so all the elect did righteousness when
Christ wrought and fulfilled the law; 'for as in Adam all die, even
so in Christ shall all be made alive' (1 Cor 15:22).

2. As we are said to do by Christ, so we are said to suffer by
him, to suffer with him. 'I am crucified with Christ,' said Paul.
And again, 'Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the
flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind; for he that hath
suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin' (1 Peter 4:1). Mark how
the apostle seems to change the person. First he says, it is Christ
that suffered; and that is true; but then he insinuates that it is
us that suffered, for the exhortation is to believers, to 'walk in
newness of life' (Rom 6:4). And the argument is, because they have
suffered in the flesh, 'For he that hath suffered in the flesh hath
ceased from sin; that he no longer should live the rest of his time
in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God' (1 Peter
4:1,2). We then suffered, when Christ suffered; we then suffered
in his flesh, and also our 'old man was crucified with him' (Rom
6:6); that is, in his crucifixion; for when he hanged on the cross,
all the elect hanged there in their common flesh which he assumed,
and because he suffered there as a public man.

3. As we are said to suffer with him, so we are said to die, to be
dead with him; with him, that is, by the dying of his body. 'Now,
if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with
him' (Rom 6:8). Wherefore he saith in other places, 'Brethren,
ye are become dead to the law by the body of Christ'; for indeed
we died then to it by him. To the law--that is, the law now has
nothing to do with us; for that it has already executed its curse
to the full upon us by its slaying of the body of Christ; for the
body of Christ was our flesh: upon it also was laid our sin. The
law, too, spent that curse that was due to us upon him, when it
condemned, killed, and cast him into the grave. Wherefore, it having
thus spent its whole curse upon him as standing in our stead, we
are exempted from its curse for ever; we are become dead to it by
that body (Rom 7:4). It has done with us as to justifying righteousness.
Nor need we fear its damning threats any more; for by the death of
this body we are freed from it, and are for ever now coupled to a
living Christ.

4. As we are said thus to be dead, so we are said also to rise
again by him--'Thy dead men,' saith he to the Father, 'shall live,
together with my dead body shall they arise' (Isa 26:19).[5] And
again, 'After two days he will revive us; in the third day--we
shall live in his sight' (Hosea 6:2).

Both these scriptures speak of the resurrection of Christ, of the
resurrection of his body on the third day; but behold, as we were
said before to suffer and be dead with him, so now we are said also
to rise and live in God's sight by the resurrection of his body.
For, as was said, the flesh was ours; he took part of our flesh
when he came into the world; and in it he suffered, died, and rose
again (Heb 2:14). We also were therefore counted by God, in that
God-man, when he did this; yea, he suffered, died, and rose as a
common head.[6]

Hence also the New Testament is full of this, saying, 'If ye be
dead with Christ' (Col 2:20). 'If ye be risen with Christ' (3:1).
And again, 'He hath quickened us together with him' (2:13). 'We are
quickened together with him.' 'Quickened,' and 'quickened together
with him.' The apostle hath words that cannot easily be shifted
or evaded. Christ then was quickened when he was raised from the
dead. Nor is it proper to say that he was ever quickened either
before or since. This text also concludes that we--to wit, the
whole body of God's elect, were also quickened then, and made to
live with him together. True, we also are quickened personally by
grace the day in the which we are born unto God by the gospel; yet
afore that, we are quickened in our Head; quickened when he was
raised from the dead, quickened together with him.

5. Nor are we thus considered--to wit, as dying and rising, and so
left; but the apostle pursues his argument, and tells us that we
also reap by him, as being considered in him, the benefit which
Christ received, both in order to his resurrection, and the blessed
effect thereof.

(1.) We received, by our thus being counted in him, that benefit
which did precede his rising from the dead; and what was that but
the forgiveness of sins? For this stands clear to reason, that if
Christ had our sins charged upon him at his death, he then must
be discharged of them in order to his resurrection. Now, though it
is not proper to say they were forgiven to him, because they were
purged from him by merit; yet they may be said to be forgiven us,
because we receive this benefit by grace. And this, I say, was done
precedent to his resurrection from the dead. 'He hath quickened
us together with him, HAVING forgiven us all trespasses.' He could
not be 'quickened' till we were 'discharged'; because it was not
for himself, but for us, that he died. Hence we are said to be at
that time, as to our own personal estate, dead in our sins, even
when we are 'quickened together with him' (Col 2:13).

Therefore both the 'quickening' and 'forgiveness' too, so far
as we are in this text concerned, is to him, as we are considered
in him, or to him, with respect to us. 'Having forgiven you ALL
trespasses.' For necessity so required; because else how was it
possible that the pains of death should be loosed in order to his
rising, so long as one sin stood still charged to him, as that for
the commission of which God had not received a plenary satisfaction?
As therefore we suffered, died, and rose again by him, so, in
order to his so rising, he, as presenting of us in his person and
suffering, received for us remission of all our trespasses. A full
discharge therefore was, in and by Christ, received of God of all
our sins afore he rose from the dead, as his resurrection truly
declared; for he 'was delivered for our offences, and was raised
again for our justification' (Rom 4:25). This therefore is one
of the privileges we receive by the rising again of our Lord, for
that we were in his flesh considered, yea, and in his death and
suffering too.

(2.) By this means also we have now escaped death. 'Knowing that
Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more
dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto,' or for, 'sin
once; but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God' (Rom 6:9,10). Now
in all this, considering what has been said before, we that are
of the elect are privileged, for that we also are raised up by the
rising of the body of Christ from the dead. And thus the apostle
bids us reckon: 'Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead
indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ' (Rom 6:11).
Hence Christ says, 'I am the resurrection and the life,' for that
all his are safe in him, suffering, dying, and rising. He is the
life, 'our life'; yea, so our life, that by him the elect do live
before God, even then when as to themselves they yet are dead in
their sins. Wherefore, hence it is that in time they partake of
quickening grace from this their Head, to the making of them also
live by faith, in order to their living hereafter with him in glory;
for if Christ lives, they cannot die that were sharers with him in
his resurrection.[7] Hence they are said to 'live,' being 'quickened
together with him.' Also, as sure as at his resurrection they lived
by him, so sure at his coming shall they be gathered to him; nay,
from that day to this, all that, as aforesaid, were in him at
his death and resurrection, are already, in the 'dispensation of
the fulness of times,' daily 'gathering to him.' For this he hath
purposed, wherefore none can disannul it--'In the dispensation of
the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in
Christ, both which are in heaven and which are in earth; even in
him' (Eph 1:10).

(3.) To secure this the more to our faith that believe, as we are
said to be 'raised up together' with him, so we are said to be 'made
to sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus' (Eph 2:6). We
died by him, we rose by him, and are together, even all the elect,
set down 'together' in 'heavenly places in Christ Jesus'; for still,
even now he is on the right hand of God, he is to be considered as
our public man, our Head, and so one in whom is concluded all the
elect of God. We then are by him already in heaven; in heaven,
I say, by him; yea, set down there in our places of glory by him.
Hence the apostle, speaking of us again, saith, That as we are
predestinate, we are called, justified, and glorified; called,
justified, glorified; all is done, already done, as thus considered
in Christ (Rom 8:30). For that in his public work there is nothing
yet to do as to this. Is not HE called? Is not HE justified? Is not
HE glorified? And are we not in him, in him, even as so considered?

Nor doth this doctrine hinder or forestal the doctrine of
regeneration or conversion; nay, it lays a foundation for it; for
by this doctrine we gather assurance that Christ will have his own;
for if already they live in their head, what is that but a pledge
that they shall live in their persons with him? and, consequently,
that to that end they shall, in the times allotted for that end,
be called to a state of faith, which God has ordained shall precede
and go before their personal enjoyment of glory. Nor doth this
hinder their partaking of the symbol of regeneration,[8] and of
their other privileges to which they are called in the day of grace;
yea, it lays a foundation for all these things; for if I am dead
with Christ, let me be like one dead with him, even to all things
to which Christ died when he hanged on the tree; and then he died
to sin, to the law, and to the rudiments of this world (Rom 6:10,
7:4; Col 2:20). And if I be risen with Christ, let me live, like
one born from the dead, in newness of life, and having my mind
and affections on the things where Christ now sitteth on the right
hand of God. And indeed he professes in vain that talketh of these
things, and careth not to have them also answered in himself. This
was the apostle's way, namely, to covet to 'know him, and the power
of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being
made conformable unto his death' (Phil 3:10). And when we are thus,
that thing is true both in him and us. Then as is the heavenly,
such are they that are heavenly; for he that saith he is in him,
and by being in him, a partaker of these privileges by him, 'ought
himself also so to walk, even as he walked' (1 Cor 15:48; 1 John
2:6).

But to pass this digression, and to come to my argument, namely,
that men are justified from the curse of the law, before God, while
sinners in themselves; this is evident by what hath already been
said; for if the justification of their persons is by, in, and
through Christ; then it is not by, in, and through their own doings.
Nor was Christ engaged in this work but of necessity, even because
else there had not been salvation for the elect. 'O my father,'
saith he, 'if it be possible, let this cup pass from me' (Matt
26:39). If what be possible? Why, that my elect may be saved, and
I not spill my blood. Wherefore he saith again, Christ ought to
suffer (Luke 24:26). 'Christ must needs have suffered,' for 'without
shedding of blood is no remission' of sin (Acts 17:3; Heb 9:22).[9]

[Proofs of the first position.]

SECOND. We will now come to the present state and condition of those
that are justified; I mean with respect to their own qualifications,
and so prove the truth of this our great position. And this I
will do, by giving of you plain texts that discover it, and that
consequently prove our point. And after that, by giving of you
reasons drawn from the texts.

First. 'Speak not thou in thine heart,' no, not in thine heart,
'after that the Lord thy God hath cast them out [thine enemies] before
thee, saying, For my righteousness--do I possess this land.--Not
for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of thine heart, dost
thou go to possess their land.--Understand, therefore, that the
Lord thy God giveth thee not this good land to possess it for thy
righteousness; for thou art a stiff-necked people' (Deut 9:4-6).

In these words, very pat for our purpose, two things are worthy
our consideration. 1. The people here spoken to were the people
of God; and so by God himself are they here twice acknowledged to
be--'The Lord thy God, the Lord thy God.' So then, the righteousness
here intended is not the righteousness that is in the world, but
that which the people of God perform. 2. The righteousness here
intended is not some, but all, and every whit of that the church
performs to God: Say not in thine heart, after the Lord hath brought
thee in, It was for my righteousness. No, all thy righteousness,
from Egypt to Canaan, will not purchase Canaan for thee.

That this is true is evident, because it is thrice rejected--Not
for thy righteousness--not for thy righteousness--not for thy
righteousness, dost thou possess the land. Now, if the righteousness
of the people of God of old could not merit for them Canaan, which
was but a type of heaven, how can the righteousness of the world
now obtain heaven itself? I say again, if godly men, as these were,
could not by their works purchase the type of heaven, then must
the ungodly be justified, if ever they be justified from the curse
and sentence of the law, while sinners in themselves. The argument
is clear; for if good men, by what they do, cannot merit the less,
bad men, by what they do, cannot merit more.

Second. 'Remember me, O my God, concerning this; and wipe not out
my good deeds that I have done' (Neh 13:14).

These words were spoken by holy Nehemiah, and that at the end of
all the good that we read he did in the world. Also, the deeds here
spoken of were deeds done for God, for his people, for his house,
and for the offices thereof. Yet godly Nehemiah durst not stand
before God in these, nor yet suffer them to stand to his judgment
by the law; but prays to God to be merciful both to him and them,
and to spare him 'according to the greatness of his mercy' (v 22).

God blots out no good but for the sake of sin;[10] and forasmuch
as this man prays God would not blot out his, it is evident that
he was conscious to himself that in his good works were sin. Now,
I say, if a good man's works are in danger of being overthrown
because there is in them a tang of sin, how can bad men think to
stand just before God in their works, which are in all parts full
of sin? Yea, if the works of a sanctified man are blameworthy, how
shall the works of a bad man set him clear in the eyes of Divine
justice?

Third. 'But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our
righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf;
and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away' (Isa 64:6).

In these words we have a relation both of persons and things. 1.
Of persons. And they are a righteous people, a righteous people
put all together--'We, we all are,' &c. 2. The condition of this
people, even of ALL of them, take them at the best, are, and that by
their own confession, 'as an unclean thing.' 3. Again; the things
here attending this people are their good things, put down under
this large character, 'Righteousnesses, ALL our righteousnesses.'

These expressions therefore comprehend all their religious duties,
both before and after faith too. But what are all these righteousnesses?
Why, they are all as 'filthy rags' when set before the justice of
the law; yea, it is also confessed, and that by these people, that
their iniquities, notwithstanding all their righteousnesses, like
the wind, if grace prevent not, would 'carry them away.' This
being so, how is it possible for one that is in his sins, to work
himself into a spotless condition by works done before faith,
by works done by natural abilities? or to perform a righteousness
which is able to look God in the face, his law in the face, and
to demand and obtain the forgiveness of sins, and the life that is
eternal? It cannot be: 'men must therefore be justified from the
curse, in the sight of God while sinners in themselves,' or not at
all.[11]

Fourth. 'There is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and
sinneth not' (Eccl 7:20; 1 Kings 8:46).

Although the words before are large, yet these seem far larger;
there is not a man, not a just man, not a just man upon the earth,
that doeth good, and sinneth not. Now, if no good man, if no good
man upon earth doth good, and sinneth not; then no good man upon
earth can set himself by his own actions justified in the sight of
God, for he has sin mixed with his good. How then shall a bad man,
any bad man, the best bad man upon earth, think to set himself by
his best things just in the sight of God? And if the tree makes
the fruit either good or evil, then a bad tree--and a bad man is
a bad tree--can bring forth no good fruit, how then shall such an
one do that that shall 'cleanse him from his sin,' and set him as
'spotless before the face of God?' (Matt 7:16).

Fifth. 'Hearken unto me, ye stout-hearted, that are far from
righteousness: I bring near my righteousness,' &c. (Isa 46:12-13).

1. This call is general, and so proves, whatever men think of themselves,
that in the judgment of God there is none at all righteous. Men,
as men, are far from being so. 2. This general offer of righteousness,
of the righteousness of God, declares that it is in vain for men to
think to be set just and righteous before God by any other means.
3. There is here also insinuated, that for him that thinks himself
the worst, God has prepared a righteousness, and therefore would not
have him despair of life that sees himself far from righteousness.
From all these scriptures, therefore, it is manifest, 'that men
must be justified from the curse of the law, in the sight of God,
while sinners in themselves.'

Sixth. 'Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and
I will give you rest' (Matt 11:28).

Here we have a labouring people, a people labouring for life; but
by all their labour, you see, they cannot ease themselves; their
burden still remains upon them; they yet are heavy laden. The load
here is, doubtless, guilt of sin, such as David had when he said
by reason thereof, he was not able to look up (Psa 38:3-5). Hence,
therefore, you have an experiment set before you of those that are
trying what they can do for life; but behold, the more they stir,
the more they sink under the weight of the burden that lies upon
them.[12] And the conclusion--to wit, Christ's call to them to come
to him for rest--declares that, in his judgment, rest was not to
be had elsewhere. And I think, one may with as much safety adhere
to Christ's judgment as to any man's alive; wherefore, 'men must
be justified from the curse, in the sight of God, while sinners in
themselves.'

Seventh. 'There is none righteous, no, not one: there is none that
understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all
gone out of the way, they are together become unprofitable; there
is none that doeth good, no, not one' (Rom 3:10-12).

These words have respect to a righteousness which is justified by
the law; and they conclude that none by his own performances is
righteous with such a righteousness; and it is concluded from five
reasons--1. Because they are not good; for a man must be good
before he doth good, and perfectly good before he doth good and
sinneth not. 2. Because they understand not. How then should they
do good? for a man must know before he does, else how should he
divert[13] himself to do? 3. Because they want a heart; they seek
not after God according to the way of his own appointment. 4. They
are all gone out of the way; how then can they walk therein? 5.
They are together become unprofitable. What worth or value then can
there be in any of their doings? These are the reasons by which
he proveth that there is 'none righteous, no, not one.' And the
reasons are weighty, for by them he proves the tree is not good;
how then can it yield good fruit?

Now, as he concludes from these five reasons that not one indeed
is righteous, so he concludes by five more that none can do good to
make him so--1. For that internally they are as an open sepulchre,
as full of dead men's bones. Their minds and consciences are defiled;
how then can sweet and good proceed from thence? (v 13). 2. Their
throat is filled with this stink; all their vocal duties therefore
smell thereof. 3. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness;
how then can there be found one word that should please God? 4.
Their tongue, which should present their praise to God, has been
used to work deceit; how then, until it is made a new one, should
it speak in righteousness? 5. The poison of asps is under their lips;
therefore whatever comes from them must be polluted (Rom 3:11-14;
Matt 23:27; Titus 1:15; Jer 44:17, 17:9). Thus, you see, he sets
forth their internal part, which being a true report, as to be sure
it is, it is impossible that any good should so much as be framed
in such an inward part, or come clean out of such a throat, by such
a tongue, through such lips as these.

And yet this is not all. He also proves, and that by five reasons
more, that it is not possible they should do good--1. 'Their feet
are swift to shed blood' (Rom 3:15). This implies an inclination,
an inward inclination to evil courses; a quickness of motion to
do evil, but a backwardness to do good. 2. 'Destruction and misery
are in their ways' (v16). Take 'ways' for their 'doings,' and in
the best of them destruction lurks, and misery yet follows them at
the heels. 3. 'The way of peace have they not known'; that is far
above out of their sight (v 17). Wherefore the labour of these
foolish ones will weary every one of them, because they know not
the way that goes to the city (Eccl 10:15). 4. 'There is no fear
of God before their eyes' (v 18). How then can they do anything
with that godly reverence of his holy Majesty that is and must be
essential to every good work? for to do things, but not in God's
fear, to what will it amount? will it avail? 5. All this while they
are under a law that calls for works that are perfectly good; that
will accept of none but what are perfectly good; and that will
certainly condemn them because they neither are nor can be perfectly
good. 'For what things soever the law saith, it saith it to them
who are under the law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all
the world may become guilty before God' (v 19).

Thus you see that Paul here proves, by fifteen reasons, that none
are, nor can be, righteous before God by works that they can do;
therefore 'men must be justified from the curse, in the sight of
God, while sinners in themselves.'

Eighth. 'But now the righteousness of God without the law is
manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets' (v 21).

This text utterly excludes the law--what law? The law of works,
the moral law, (v 27)--and makes mention of another righteousness,
even a righteousness of God; for the righteousness of the law is
the righteousness of men, men's 'own righteousness' (Phil 3:9).
Now, if the law, as to a justifying righteousness, is rejected;
then the very matter upon and by which man should work is rejected;
and if so, then he must be justified by the righteousness of
God, or not at all; for he must be justified by a righteousness
that is without the law; to wit, the righteousness of God. Now,
this righteousness of God, whatever it is, to be sure it is not a
righteousness that flows from men; for that, as I said, is rejected,
and the righteousness of God opposed unto it, being called
a righteousness that is without the law, without our personal
obedience to it. The righteousness of God, or a righteousness of
God's completing, a righteousness of God's bestowing, a righteousness
that God also gives unto, and puts upon all them that believe (Rom
3:22), a righteousness that stands in the works of Christ, and that
is imputed both by the grace and justice of God (v 24-26). Where,
now, is room for man's righteousness, either in the whole, or as
to any part thereof? I say, where, as to justification with God?

Ninth. 'What shall we then say that Abraham, our father as pertaining
to the flesh, hath found?' (Rom 4:1)

Now, the apostle is at the root of the matter; for Abraham is
counted the father of the faithful; consequently, the man whose
way of attaining justification must needs be exemplary to all the
children of Abraham. Now, the question is, how Abraham found? how
he found that which some of his children sought and missed? (Rom
9:32); that is, how he found justifying righteousness; for it was
that which Israel sought and attained not unto (11:7). 'Did he
find it,' saith Paul, 'by the flesh?' or, as he was in the flesh?
or, by acts and works of the flesh? But what are they? why, the
next verse tells you 'they are the works of the law' (Rom 4).

'If Abraham was justified by works'; that is, as pertaining to the
flesh; for the works of the law are none other but the best sort
of the works of the flesh. And so Paul calls all they that he had
before his conversion to Christ: 'If any other man,' saith he,
'thinketh he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more.'
And then he counteth up several of his privileges, to which he at
last adjoineth the righteousness of the moral law, saying, 'Touching
the righteousness which is in the law, [I was] blameless' (Phil
3:4-6). And it is proper to call the righteousness of the law the
work of the flesh, because it is the work of a man, of a man in
the flesh; for the Holy Ghost doth not attend the law, or the work
thereof, as to this, in man, as man; that has confined itself to
another ministration, whose glorious name it bears (2 Cor 3:8).
I say it is proper to call the works of the law the works of the
flesh, because they are done by that self-same nature in and out of
which comes all those things that are more grossly so called (Gal
5:19,20); to wit, from the corrupt fountain of fallen man's polluted
nature (James 3:10).

This, saith Paul, was not the righteousness by which Abraham found
justification with God--'For if Abraham was justified by works,
he hath whereof to glory; but not before God. For what saith the
Scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for
righteousness' (Rom 4:2-3). This 'believing' is also set in flat
opposition to 'works,' and to the 'law of works'; wherefore, upon
pain of great contempt to God, it must not be reckoned as a work
to justify withal, but rather as that which receiveth and applieth
that righteousness. From all this, therefore, it is manifest 'that
men must be justified from the curse of the law, in the sight of
God, while sinners in themselves.' But,

Tenth. 'Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace,
but of debt' (Rom 4:4).

These words do not only back what went before, as to the rejection
of the law for righteousness as to justification with God, but supposing
the law was of force to justify, life must not be admitted to come
that way, because of the evil consequences that will unavoidably
flow therefrom. 1. By this means, grace, and justification by grace,
would be rejected; and that would be a foul business; it would not
be reckoned of grace. 2. By this, God would become the debtor, and
so the underling; and so we in this the more honourable.

It would not be reckoned of grace, but of debt; and what would follow
from hence? Why, (1.) By this we should frustrate the design of
Heaven, which is, to justify us freely by grace, through a redemption
brought in by Christ (Rom 3:24-26; Eph 2:8-13). (2.) By this we
should make ourselves the saviours, and jostle Christ quite out of
doors (Gal 5:2-4). (3.) We should have heaven at our own dispose,
as a debt, not by promise, and so not be beholden to God for it (Gal
3:18). It must, then, be of grace, not of works, for the preventing
of these evils.

Again, it must not be of works, because if it should, then God would
be the debtor, and we the creditor. Now, much blasphemy would flow
from hence; as, (1.) God himself would not be his own to dispose
of; for the inheritance being God, as well as his kingdom (for so
it is written, 'heirs of God' (Rom 8:17)), himself, I say, must
needs be our purchase. (2.) If so, then we have right to dispose
of him, of his kingdom and glory, and all--'Be astonished, O heavens,
at this!'--for if he be ours by works, then he is ours of debt; if
he be ours of debt, then he is ours by purchase; and then, again,
if so, he is no longer his own, but ours, and at our disposal.

Therefore, for these reasons, were there sufficiency in our personal
works to justify us, it would be even inconsistent with the being
of God to suffer it. So then, 'men are justified from the curse,
in the sight of God, while sinners in themselves.'

Eleventh. 'But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that
justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness'
(Rom 4:5).

These words show how we must stand just in the sight of God from
the curse of the law, both as it respecteth justification itself,
as also the instrument or means that receiveth that righteousness
which justifieth.

1. As for that righteousness that justifieth, it is not personal
performances in us; for the person here justified stands, in that
respect, as one that worketh not, as one that is ungodly. 2. As
it respecteth the instrument that receiveth it, that faith, as in
the point of justifying righteousness, will not work, but believe,
but receive the works and righteousness of another; for works and
faith in this are set in opposition. He doth not work, he doth
believe' (Gal 3:12). He worketh not, but believeth on him who
justifieth us, ungodly. As Paul also saith in another place, The
law is not of faith (Rom 10:5,6). And again, Works saith on this
wise; faith, far different. The law saith, Do this, and live. But
the doctrine of faith saith, 'If thou shalt confess with thy mouth
the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath
raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart
man believeth unto righteousness,' &c. (Rom 10:9,10).

Object. But faith is counted for righteousness.

Answ. True, but yet consider, that by faith we do oft understand
the doctrine of remission of sins, as well as the act of believing.

But again; faith when it hath received the Lord Jesus, it hath
done that which pleaseth God; therefore, the very act of believing
is the most noble in the world; believing sets the crown upon the
head of grace; it seals to the truth of the sufficiency of the
righteousness of Christ, and giveth all the glory to God (John
3:33). And therefore it is a righteous act; but Christ himself,
he is the Righteousness that justifieth' (Rom 4:20,25). Besides,
faith is a relative, and hath its relation as such. Its relation
is the righteousness that justifieth, which is therefore called the
righteousness of faith, or that with which faith hath to do (Rom
10:6). Separate these two, and justification cannot be, because
faith now wants his righteousness. And hence it is you have so often
such sayings as these--'He that believeth in me; he that believeth
on him; believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved'
(John 6:35,40). Faith, then, as separate from Christ, doth nothing;
nothing, neither with God nor man; because it wants its relative;
but let it go to the Lord Jesus--let it behold him as dying, &c.,
and it fetches righteousness, and life, and peace out of the virtue
of his blood, &c. (Acts 10:29,31,33). Or rather, sees it there as
sufficient for me to stand just thereby in the sight of Eternal
Justice For him 'God hath set forth to be a propitiation through
faith [belief] in his blood,' with intent to justify him that
believeth in Jesus (Rom 3:25,26).

Twelfth. 'Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man
to whom God imputeth righteousness without works' (Rom 4:6).

Did our adversaries understand this one text, they would not
so boldly affirm, as they do, that the words, 'impute, imputed,
imputeth, imputing,' &c., are not used in scripture but to express
men really and personally to be that which is imputed unto them;
for men are not really and personally faith, yet faith is imputed
to men; nay, they are not really and personally sin, nor really and
personally righteousness, yet these are imputed to men: so, then,
both good things and bad may sometimes be imputed to men, yet
themselves be really and personally neither. But to come to the
point: what righteousness hath that man that hath no works? Doubtless
none of his own; yet God imputeth righteousness to him. Yea, what
works of that man doth God impute to him that he yet justifies as
ungodly?

Further, He that hath works as to justification from the curse before
God, not one of them is regarded of God; so, then, it mattereth
not whether thou hast righteousness of thine own, or none. 'Blessed
is the man to whom the Lord imputeth righteousness without works.'
Man's blessedness, then, the blessedness of justification from the
curse in the sight of God, lieth not in good works done by us,
either before or after faith received, but in a righteousness which
God imputeth without works; as we 'work not' as we 'are ungodly.'
'Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sin is
covered' (v 7). To forgive and to cover are acts of mercy, not the
cause of our merit. Besides, where sin is real, there can be no
perfect righteousness; but the way of justification must be through
perfect righteousness, therefore by another than our own, 'Blessed
is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin' (v 8). The first
cause, then, of justification before God, dependeth upon the will
of God, who will justify because he will; therefore the meritorious
cause must also be of his own providing, else his will cannot
herein be absolute; for if justification depend upon our personal
performances, then not upon the will of God. He may not have mercy
upon whom he will, but on whom man's righteousness will give him leave.
But his will, not ours, must rule here; therefore his righteousness,
and his only (Rom 9:15,18). So, then, 'men are justified from the
curse, in the sight of God, while sinners in themselves.'

Having passed over these few scriptures, I shall come to particular
instances of persons who have been justified; and shall briefly
touch their qualifications in the act of God's justifying them.
First, By the Old Testament types. Second, By the New.

[First Position illustrated by Scripture types.]

First. By the Old [Testament types]. First. 'Unto Adam also and to
his wife did the Lord God make coats of skins, and clothed them'
(Gen 3:21).

In the beginning of this chapter you find these two persons reasoning
with the serpent, the effect of which discourse was, they take of
the forbidden fruit, and so break the command of God (vv 7-15).
This done, they hide themselves, and cover their nakedness with
aprons. But God finds out their sin, from the highest branch even
to the roots thereof. What followeth? Not one precept by which
they should by works obtain the favour of God, but the promise of
a Saviour; of which promise this twenty-first verse is a mystical
interpretation: 'The Lord God made them coats of skins, and clothed
them.'

Hence observe--1. That these coats were made, not before, but after
they had made themselves aprons; a plain proof their aprons were
not sufficient to hide their shame from the sight of God. 2. These
coats were made, not of Adam's inherent righteousness, for that
was lost before by sin, but of the skins of the slain, types of the
death of Christ, and of the righteousness brought in thereby--'By
whose stripes we are healed' (Isa 53).[14] 3. This is further
manifest; for the coats, God made them; and for the persons, God
clothed them therewith; to show that as the righteousness by which
we must stand just before God from the curse is a righteousness of
Christ's performing, not of theirs; so he, not they, must put it on
them also, for of God we are in Christ, and of God his righteousness
is made ours (1 Cor 1:30).

But, I say, if you would see their antecedent qualifications, you
find them under two heads--rebellion [and] hypocrisy. Rebellion,
in breaking God's command; hypocrisy, in seeking how to hide their
faults from God. Expound this by gospel language, and then it
shows 'that men are justified from the curse, in the sight of God,
while sinners in themselves.'

Second. 'The Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering' (Gen
4:4).

By these words we find the person first accepted: 'The Lord
had respect unto Abel.' And indeed, where the person is not first
accepted, the offering will not be pleasing; the altar sanctifies
the gift, and the temple sanctifieth the gold; so the person, the
condition of the person, is that which makes the offering either
pleasing or despising (Matt 23:16-21). In the epistle to the
Hebrews it is said, 'By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent
sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was
righteous' (Heb 11:4). Righteous before he offered his gift, as
his sacrifice testified; for God accepted of it.

'By faith he offered.' Wherefore faith was precedent, or before
he offered. Now faith hath to do with God through Christ; not with
him through our works of righteousness. Besides, Abel was righteous
before he offered, before he did do good, otherwise God would not
have testified of his gift. 'By faith he obtained witness that he
was righteous,' for God approved of his gifts. Now faith, I say,
as to our standing quit before the Father, respects the promise
of forgiveness of sins through the undertaking of the Lord Jesus.
Wherefore Abel's faith as to justifying righteousness before God
looked not forward to what should be done by himself, but back to
the promise of the seed of the woman, that was to destroy the power
of hell, and 'to redeem them that were under the law' (Gen 3:15;
Gal 4:4,5). By this faith he shrouds himself under the promise of
victory, and the merits of the Lord Jesus. Now being there, God
finds him righteous; and being righteous, 'he offered to God a
more excellent sacrifice than his brother'; for Cain's person was
not first accepted through the righteousness of faith going before,
although he seemed foremost as to personal acts of righteousness
(Gen 4). Abel therefore was righteous before he did good works;
but that could not be but alone through that respect God had to him
for the sake of the Messias promised before (3:15). But the Lord's
so respecting Abel presupposeth that at that time he stood in
himself by the law a sinner, otherwise he needed not to be respected
for and upon the account of another. Yea, Abel also, forasmuch as
he acted faith before he offered sacrifice, must thereby entirely
respect the promise, which promise was not grounded upon a condition
of works to be found in Abel, but in and for the sake of the seed
of the woman, which is Christ; which promise he believed, and so
took it for granted that this Christ should break the serpent's
head--that is, destroy by himself the works of the devil; to wit,
sin, death, the curse, and hell (Gal 4:4). By this faith he stood
before God righteous, because he had put on Christ; and being thus,
he offered; by which act of faith God declared he was pleased with
him, because he accepted of his sacrifice.

Third. 'And the Lord said unto her, The elder shall serve the
younger' (Gen 25:23).

These words, after Paul's exposition, are to be understood of
justification in the sight of God, according to the purpose and
decree of electing love, which had so determined long before, that
one of these children should be received to eternal grace; but mark,
not by works of righteousness which they should do, but 'before
they had done either good or evil'; otherwise 'the purpose of God
according to election,' not of works, but of him that calleth,
'could not stand,' but fall in pieces (Rom 9:10-12). But none are
received into eternal mercy but such as are just before the Lord
by a righteousness that is complete; and Jacob having done no good,
could by no means have that of his own, and therefore it must be
by some other righteousness, 'and so himself be justified from the
curse, in the sight of God, while a sinner in himself.'

Fourth. The same may be said concerning Solomon, whom the Lord
loved with special love, as soon as born into the world; which he
also confirmed with signal characters. 'He sent,' saith the Holy
Ghost, 'by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he called his name
Jedidiah, because the Lord loved him (2 Sam 12:24,25).[15] Was
this love of God extended to him because of his personal virtues?
No, verily; for he was yet an infant.[16] He was justified then in
the sight of God from the curse by another than his own righteousness.

Fifth. 'And when I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted in thine
own blood, I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live; yea,
I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live' (Eze 16:6).

The state of this people you have in the former verses described,
both as to their rise and practice in the world (vv 1-5). 1. As
to their rise. Their original was the same with Canaan, the men of
God's curse (Gen 9:25). 'Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land
of Canaan'; the same with other carnal men (Rom 3:9). 'Thy father
was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite' (Eze 16:3). Their
condition, that is showed us by this emblem--(1.) They had not been
washed in water. (2.) They had not been swaddled. (3.) They had
not been salted. (4.) They brought filth with them into the world.
(5.) They lay stinking in their cradle. (6.) They were without
strength to help themselves. Thus they appear and come by generation.
2. Again, as to their practice--(1.) They polluted themselves in
their own blood. (2.) They so continued till God passed by--'And when
I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted in thine own blood';--'in
thy blood, in thy blood'; it is doubled. Thus we see they were
polluted born, they continued in their blood till the day that the
Lord looked upon them; polluted, I say, to the loathing of their
persons, &c. Now this was the time of love--'And when I passed by
thee, and saw thee polluted in thine own blood, I said unto thee
when thou wast in thy blood, Live; yea, I said unto thee when thou
wast in thy blood, Live' (Eze 16:6).

Quest. But how could a holy God say, 'Live,' to such a sinful
people?

Answ. Though they had nought but sin, yet he had love and righteousness.
He had love to pity them; righteousness to cover them--'Now when
I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy time was the
time of love' (Eze 16:8). What follows? (1) 'I spread my skirt
over thee'; and (2) 'Covered thy nakedness'; yea, (3) 'I sware unto
thee'; and (4) 'Entered into covenant with thee'; and (5) 'Thou
becamest mine.' My love pitied thee; my skirt covered thee. Thus
God delivered them from the curse in his sight. 'Then I washed thee
with water, after thou wast justified; yea, I thoroughly washed
away thy blood from thee, and anointed thee with oil' (v 9).

Sanctification, then, is consequential, justification goes before.
The Holy Ghost by this scripture setteth forth to the life, free
grace to the sons of men, while they themselves are sinners. I say,
while they are unwashed, unswaddled, unsalted, but bloody sinners;
for by these words, 'not washed, not salted, not swaddled,' he
setteth forth their unsanctified state; yea, they were not only
unsanctified, but also cast out, without pity, to the loathing of
their persons; yea, 'no eye pitied them, to do any of these things
for them'; no eye but his, whose glorious grace is unsearchable;
no eye but his, who could look and love; all others looked and
loathed; but blessed be God that hath passed by us in that day
that we wallowed in our own blood; and blessed be God for the skirt
of his glorious righteousness wherewith he covered us when we lay
before him naked in blood. It was when we were in our blood that
he loved us; when we were in our blood he said, Live. Therefore,
'men are justified from the curse, in the sight of God, while
sinners in themselves.'

Sixth. 'Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and stood
before the angel' (Zech 3:3).

The standing of Joshua here is as men used to stand that were
arraigned before a judge. 'Joshua stood before the angel of the
Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to resist him' (v 1).
The same posture as Judas stood in when he was to be condemned. 'Set
thou,' said David, 'a wicked man over him; and let Satan stand at
his right hand' (Psa 109:6). Thus, therefore, Joshua stood. Now
Joshua was clothed, not with righteousness, but with filthy rags!
Sin upon him, and Satan by him, and this before the angel! What
must he do now? Go away? No; there he must stand! Can he speak for
himself? Not a word; guilt had made him dumb! (Isa 53:12). Had he
no place clean? No; he was clothed with filthy garments! But his
lot was to stand before Jesus Christ, that maketh intercession
for transgressors. 'And the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord rebuke
thee, O Satan; even the Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem, rebuke
thee' (Zech 3:2). Thus Christ saveth from present condemnation
those that be still in their sin and blood.[17]

But is he now quit? No; he standeth yet in filthy garments; neither
can he, by aught that is in him, or done by him, clear himself from
him. How then? Why, the Lord clothes him with change of raiment.
The iniquities were his own, the raiment was the Lord's. 'This is
the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their righteousness
is of me, saith the Lord' (Isa 54:17). We will not here discourse
of Joshua's sin, what it was, or when committed; it is enough to
our purpose that he was clothed with filthy garments; and that the
Lord made a change with him, by causing his iniquity to pass from
him, and by clothing him with change of raiment. But what had
Joshua antecedent to this glorious and heavenly clothing? The devil
at his right hand to resist him, and himself in filthy garments.
'Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and stood before the
angel. And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him,
saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And unto him he
said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and
I will clothe thee with change of raiment' (Zech 3: 3,4).

Second. But to pass [from] the Old Testament types, and to come to
the New.

First. 'And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed
with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. Howbeit Jesus
suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home to thy friends, and
tell them how great things God hath done for thee, and hath had
compassion on thee' (Mark 5:18,19).

The present state of this man is sufficiently declared in these
particulars--1. He was possessed with a devil; with devils, with
many; with a whole legion, which some say is six thousand, or
thereabouts (Matt 8). 2. These devils had so the mastery of him
as to drive him from place to place into the wilderness among the
mountains, and so to dwell in the tombs among the dead (Luke 8). 3.
He was out of his wits; he would cut his flesh, break his chains;
nay, 'no man could tame him' (Mark 5:4-5). 4. When he saw Jesus, the
devil in him, as being lord and governor there, cried out against
the Lord Jesus (v 7). In all this, what qualification shows itself
as precedent to justification? None but such as devils work, or as
rank bedlams have. Yet this poor man was dispossessed, taken into
God's compassion, and was bid to show it to the world. 'Go home
to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done
for thee, and hath had compassion on thee' (v 19); which last words,
because they are added over and above his being dispossessed of
the devils, I understand to be the fruit of electing love. 'I will
have compassion on whom I will have compassion,' which blesseth
us with the mercy of a justifying righteousness; and all this, as
by this is manifest, without the least precedent qualification of
ours.

Second. 'And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them
both' (Luke 7:42).

The occasion of these words was, for that the Pharisee murmured
against the woman that washed Jesus' feet, because 'she was a sinner';
for so said the Pharisee, and so saith the Holy Ghost (v 37). But,
saith Christ, Simon, I will ask thee a question, 'A certain man
had two debtors: the one owed him five hundred pence, and the other
fifty. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them
both' (v 38).

Hence I gather these conclusions--1. That men that are wedded to their
own righteousness understand not the doctrine of the forgiveness of
sins. This is manifested by the poor Pharisee; he objected against
the woman because she was a sinner. 2. Let Pharisees murmur still,
yet Christ hath pity and mercy for sinners. 3. Yet Jesus doth not
usually manifest mercy until the sinner hath nothing to pay. 'And
when they had nothing to pay, he frankly,' or freely, or heartily,
'forgave them both.' If they had nothing to pay, then they were
sinners; but he forgiveth no man but with respect to a righteousness;
therefore that righteousness must be another's; for in the very
act of mercy they are found sinners. They had nothing but debt,
nothing but sin, nothing to pay [with]. Then they were 'justified
freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ
Jesus.' So, then, 'men are justified from the curse, in the sight
of God, while sinners in themselves.'

Third. 'And when he saw their faith, he said unto the man, Thy sins
are forgiven thee' (Luke 5:20).

This man had not righteousness to stand just before God withal,
for his sins as yet remained unforgiven; wherefore, seeing guilt
remained until Christ remitted him, he was discharged while ungodly.
And observe it, the faith here mentioned is not to be reckoned so
much the man's, as the faith of them that brought him; neither did
it reach to the forgiveness of sins, but to the miracle of healing;
yet this man, in this condition, had his sins forgiven him.

But again; set the case, the faith was only his, as it was not,
and that it reached to the doctrine of forgiveness, yet it did it
without respect to righteousness in himself; for guilt lay still
upon him, he had now his sins forgiven him. But this act of grace
was a surprisal; it was unlooked for. 'I am found of them that
sought me not' (Isa 65:1). They came for one thing, he gave them
another; they came for a cure upon his body, but, to their amazement,
he cured first his soul. 'Thy sins are forgiven thee.' Besides,
to have his sins forgiven betokeneth an act of grace; but grace
and works as to this are opposite (Rom 11:6). Therefore 'men are
justified from the curse, in the sight of God, while sinners in
themselves.'

Fourth. 'Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight,
and am no more worthy to be called thy son' (Luke 15:21).

What this man was is sufficiently declared in verse 13, &c. As 1.
A riotous spender of all--of time, talent, body, and soul. 2. He
added to this his rebellion, great contempt of his father's house--he
joined himself to a stranger, and became an associate with swine (vv
15,17). At last, indeed, he came to himself. But then observe--(1.) He
sought not justification by personal performances of his own; (2.)
Neither did he mitigate his wickedness; (3.) Nor excuse himself
before his father; but first resolveth to confess his sin; and
coming to his father, did confess it, and that with aggravating
circumstances. 'I have sinned against heaven; I have sinned against
thee; I am no more worthy to be called thy son' (v 18). Now what
he said was true or false. If true, then he had not righteousness.
If false, he could not stand just in the sight of his father
by virtue of his own performances. And, indeed, the sequel of the
parable clears it. His 'father said to his servant, Bring forth
the best robe,' the justifying righteousness, 'and put it on him;
and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet' (v 22). This best
robe, then, being in the father's house, was not in the prodigal's
heart; neither stayed the father for further qualifications, but
put it upon him as he was, surrounded with sin and oppressed with
guilt. Therefore 'men are justified from the curse, in the sight
of God, while sinners in themselves.'

Fifth. 'For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which
was lost' (Luke 19:10).

The occasion of these words was, for that the Pharisees murmured
because 'Jesus was gone to be guest to one that was a sinner,' yea,
a sinner of the publicans, and are most fitly applied to the case
in hand. For though Zaccheus climbed the tree, yet Jesus Christ
found him first, and called him down by his name; adding withal,
'For to-day I must abide at thy house' (v 5); which being opened
by verse 9, is as much as to say, I am come to be thy salvation.
Now this being believed by Zaccheus, 'he made haste and came down,
and received him joyfully.' And not only so, but to declare to all
the simplicity of his faith, and that he unfeignedly accepted of
this word of salvation, he said unto the Lord, and that before all
present, 'Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor;
and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation,' a
supposition intimating an affirmative, 'I restore him fourfold.'[18]
This being thus, Christ doubleth his comfort, saying to him also,
and that before the people, 'This day is salvation come to this
house.' Then, by adding the next words, he expounds the whole of
the matter, 'For I am come to seek and save that which was lost';
to seek it till I find it, to save it when I find it. He finds
them that sought him not (Rom 10:20); and saith, Zaccheus, Behold
me! to a people that asked not after him. So, then, seeing Jesus
findeth this publican first, preaching salvation to him before he
came down from the tree, it is evident he received this as he was
a sinner; from which faith flowed his following words and works as
a consequence.

Sixth. 'Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To-day shalt
thou be with me in paradise' (Luke 23:43).

This was spoken to the thief upon the cross, who had lived in
wickedness all his days; neither had he so much as truly repented--no,
not till he came to die; nay, when he first was hanged he then fell
to railing on Christ; for though Luke leaves it out, beginning but
at his conversion; yet by Matthew's relating the whole tragedy,
we find him at first as bad as the other (Matt 27:44). This man,
then, had no moral righteousness, for he had lived in the breach
of the law of God. Indeed, by faith he believed Christ to be King,
and that when dying with him. But what was this to a personal
performing the commandments? or of restoring what he had oft taken
away? Yea, he confesseth his death to be just for his sin; and so
leaning upon the mediation of Christ he goeth out of the world. Now
he that truly confesseth and acknowledgeth his sin, acknowledgeth
also the curse to be due thereto from the righteous hand of God. So
then, where the curse of God is due, that man wanteth righteousness.
Besides, he that makes to another for help, hath by that condemned
his own, had he any, of utter insufficiency. But all these did
this poor creature; wherefore he must stand 'just from the law in
the sight of God, while sinful in himself.'

Seventh. 'Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?' (Acts 9:6).

What wilt thou have me to do? Ignorance is here set forth to the
full. Paul hitherto knew not Jesus, neither what he would have him
to do; yet a mighty man for the law of works, and for zeal towards
God according to that. Thus you see that he neither knew that Christ
was Lord, nor what was his mind and will--'I did it ignorantly, in
unbelief' (1 Tim 1:13-15). I did not know him; I did not believe
he was to save us; I thought I must be saved by living righteously,
by keeping the law of God. This thought kept me ignorant of Jesus,
and of justification from the curse by him. Poor Saul! how many
fellows hast thou yet alive!--every man zealous of the law of works,
yet none of them know the law of grace; each of them seeking for
life by doing the law, when life is to be had by nought but believing
in Jesus Christ.

Eighth. 'Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved'
(Acts 16:31).

A little before, we find Paul and Silas in the stocks for preaching
of Jesus Christ; in the stocks, in the inward prison, by the hands
of a sturdy jailer; but at midnight, while Paul and his companion
sang praises to God, the foundations of the prison shook, and every
man's bands were loosed. Now the jailer being awakened by the noise
of this shaking, and supposing he had lost his prisoners, drew his
sword, with intent to kill himself; 'But Paul cried out, Do thyself
no harm; for we are all here. Then he called for a light, and sprang
in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas, and
brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?'

In all this relation here is not aught that can justify the jailer.
For, 1. His whole life was idolatry, cruelty, and enmity to God.
Yea, 2. Even now, while the earthquake shook the prison, he had
murder in his heart--yea, and in his intentions too; murder, I
say, and that of a high nature, even to have killed his own body
and soul at once.[19] Well, 3. When he began to shake under the
fears of everlasting burnings, yet then his heart was wrapped up
in ignorance as to the way of salvation by Jesus Christ: 'What must
I do to be saved?' He knew not what; no, not he. His condition,
then, was this: he neither had righteousness to save him, nor knew
he how to get it. Now, what was Paul's answer? Why, 'Believe in the
Lord Jesus Christ,' look for righteousness in Christ, 'and then
thou shalt be saved.' This, then, still holdeth true, 'men are
justified from the curse, in the sight of God, whilst sinners in
themselves.'

[Reasons for the first position drawn from the texts.]

THIRD. I should now come to the second conclusion, viz., that this
can be done by no other righteousness than that long ago performed
by, and remaining with, the person of Christ. But before I speak to
that, I will a little further press this, by urging for it several
reasons.

The First Reason.--Men must be justified from the curse while
sinners in themselves, because by nature all are under sin--'All
have sinned, and come short of the glory of God. He hath concluded
all in unbelief; he hath concluded all under sin' (Rom 3:23, 11:32;
Gal 3:22). Now having sinned, they are in body and soul defiled,
and become an unclean thing. Wherefore, whatever they touch, with
an intent to work out righteousness thereby, they defile that also
(Titus 1:15; Lev 15:11; Isa 64:6). And hence, as I have said, all
the righteousness they seek to accomplish is but as a menstruous
cloth and filthy rags; therefore they are sinners still.' Indeed,
to some men's thinking, the Pharisee is holier than the Publican;
but in God's sight, in the eyes of Divine justice, they stand alike
condemned. 'All have sinned'; there is the poison! Therefore, as
to God, without Christ, all throats are an open sepulchre (Matt
23:27; Rom 3:13).

The world in general is divided into two sorts of sinners--the
open profane, and the man that seeks life by the works of the law.
The profane is judged by all; but the other by a few. Oh! but God
judgeth him.

1. For a hypocrite; because that notwithstanding he hath sinned,
he would be thought to be good and righteous. And hence it is
that Christ calls such kind of holy ones, 'Pharisees, hypocrites!
Pharisees hypocrites!' because by their gay outside they deceived
those that beheld them. But, saith he, God sees your hearts; you
are but like painted sepulchres, within you are full of dead men's
bones (Prov 30:12; Matt 23:27-30; Luke 11:26, 16:15). Such is the
root from whence flows all their righteousness. But doth the blind
Pharisee think his state is such? No; his thoughts of himself are
far otherwise--'God, I thank thee,' saith he, 'I am not as other
men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this publican'
(Luke 18:11,12). Aye, but still God judgeth him for a hypocrite.

2. God judgeth him for one that spurneth against Christ, even by
every such work he doth. And hence it is, when Paul was converted
to Jesus Christ, that he calls the righteousness he had before,
madness, blasphemy, injury; because what he did to save himself
by works was in direct opposition to grace by Jesus Christ (Phil
3:7,8; Acts 22:3,4, 26:4; 1 Tim 1:14,15). Behold, then, the evil
that is in a man's own righteousness! (1.) It curseth and condemneth
the righteousness of Christ. (2.) It blindeth the man from seeing
his misery. (3.) It hardeneth his heart against his own salvation.

3. But again, God judgeth such, for those that condemn him of
foolishness--'The preaching of the cross,' that is, Christ crucified,
'is to them that perish foolishness' (1 Cor 1:18,23). What, saith
the merit-monger, will you look for life by the obedience of
another man? Will you trust to the blood that was shed upon the
cross, that run down to the ground, and perished in the dust? Thus
deridingly they scoff at, stumble upon, and are taken in the gin
that attends the gospel; not to salvation, but to their condemnation,
because they have condemned the Just, that they might justify their
own filthy righteousness (Isa 8:14).

But, I say, if all have sinned, if all are defiled, if the best
of a man's righteousness be but madness, blasphemy, injury; if
for their righteousness they are judged hypocrites, condemned as
opposers of the gospel, and as such have counted God foolish for
sending his Son into the world; then must the best of 'men be justified
from the curse in the sight of God while sinners in themselves';
because they still stand guilty in the sight of God, their hearts
are also still filthy infected--'Though thou wash thee with nitre,
and take thee much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before ME,
saith the Lord God' (Jer 2:22). It stands marked still before God.
So, then, what esteem soever men have of the righteousness of the
world, yet God accounts it horrible wickedness, and the greatest
enemy that Jesus hath. Wherefore, this vine is the vine of Sodom;
these clusters are the clusters of Gomorrah; these grapes are
grapes of gall; these clusters are bitter, they are the poison of
dragons, and the cruel venom of asps (Matt 3:7; 23). No marvel,
then, if John in his ministry gives the first rebuke and jostle to
such, still calling them serpents and vipers, and concluding it
is almost impossible they should escape the damnation of hell; for
of all sin, man's own righteousness, in special, bids defiance to
Jesus Christ.

The Second Reason.--A second reason why men must stand just in
the sight of God from the curse, while sinners in themselves, is,
because of the exactions of the law. For were it granted that men's
good works arose from a holy root, and were perfect in their kind,
yet the demand of the law--for that is still beyond them--would
leave them sinners before the justice of God. And hence it is that
holy men stand just in the sight of God from the curse; yet dare
not offer their gifts by the law, but through Jesus Christ; knowing
that not only their persons, but their spiritual service also,
would else be rejected of the heavenly Majesty (1 Peter 2:5; Rev
7:14-16; Heb 8:7,8).[20]

For the law is itself so perfectly holy and good as not to admit of
the least failure, either in the matter or manner of obedience--'Cursed
is every one that continueth not in all things that are written in
the book of the law to do them' (Gal 3:10). For they that shall keep
the whole law, and yet offend in one point, are guilty of all, and
convicted of the law as transgressors (James 2:9,10). 'Tribulation,'
therefore, 'and anguish, upon every soul of man that doth evil,
of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile' (Rom 2:9). And observe,
the law leaveth thee not to thy choice, when, or when not, to
begin to keep it; but requireth thy obedience so soon as concerned,
exactly, both as to the matter and manner, and that before thou
hast sinned against it; for the first sin breaks the law. Now, if
thou sinnest before thou beginnest to do, thou art found by the
law a transgressor, and so standest by that convicted of sin; so,
then, all thy after-acts of righteousness are but the righteousness
of a sinner, of one whom the law hath condemned already (John 3:18).
'The law is spiritual, but thou art carnal, sold under sin' (Rom
7:14).

Besides, the law being absolutely perfect, doth not only respect
the matter and manner as to outward acts, but also the rise and
root, the heart, from whence they flow; and an impediment there
spoils all, were the executive part never so good--'Thou shalt
love the Lord thy God with ALL thy heart, with ALL thy soul, with
ALL thy mind, and with ALL thy strength' (Mark 12:30). Mark the
repetition, with all, with all, with all, with all; with all thy
heart, with all thy soul, in all things, at all times, else thou
hadst as good do nothing. But 'every imagination of the thought of
the heart of man is only evil continually' (Gen 6:5). The margin
hath it, 'the whole imagination, the purposes, and desires'; so
that a good root is here wanting. 'The heart is deceitful above
all things, and desperately wicked: who can know it?' (Jer 17:9).
What thoughts, words, or actions can be clean, sufficiently to answer
a perfect law that flows from this original? It is impossible. 'Men
must therefore be justified from the curse, in the sight of God,
while sinners in themselves.' But further yet to open the case.
There are several things that make it impossible that a man should
stand just in the sight of God but while sinful in himself.

1. Because the law under which he at present stands, holds him
under the dominion of sin; for sin by the law hath dominion over
all that are under the law (Rom 6:14). Dominion, I say, both as
to guilt and filth. Guilt hath dominion over him, because he is
under the curse: and filth, because the law giveth him no power,
neither can he by it deliver his soul. And for this cause it is
that it is called beggarly, weak, unprofitable; imposing duty, but
giving no strength (Gal 3:2, 4:9). Expecting the duty should be
complete, yet bendeth not the heart to do the work; to do it, I say,
as is required (Rom 8:3). And hence it is again that it is called
a 'voice of words' (Heb 12:19);[21] for as words that are barely
such are void of spirit and quickening life, so are the impositions
of the law of works. Thus far, therefore, the man remains a sinner.
But,

2. The law is so far from giving life or strength to do it, that
it doth quite the contrary.[22]

(1.) It weakeneth, it discourageth, and dishearteneth the sinner,
especially when it shows itself in its glory; for then it is the
ministration of death, and killeth all the world. When Israel saw
this, they fled from the face of God; they could not endure that
which was commanded (Exo 20:18,19); yea, so terrible was the sight,
that Moses said, 'I exceedingly fear and quake' (Heb 12:20,21).
Yea, almost forty years after, Moses stood amazed to find himself
and Israel yet alive, 'Did ever people,' said he, 'hear the voice
of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as thou hast heard,
and live?' (Deut 4:32,33). Alas! he who boasteth himself in the
works of the law, he doth not hear the law; when that speaks, it
shakes Mount Sinai, and writeth death upon all faces, and makes
the church itself cry out, A mediator! else we die (Exo 20:19; Deut
5:25-27, 18:15,19).

(2.) It doth not only thus discourage, but abundantly increaseth
every sin. Sin takes the advantage of being by the law; the motions
of sin are by the law. Where no law is, there is no transgression
(Rom 4:15, 7:5). Sin takes an occasion to live by the law: 'When
the commandment came, sin revived; for without the law, sin was
dead' (Rom 7:8,9). Sin takes an occasion to multiply by the law: 'The
law entered, that the offence might abound' (Rom 5:20). 'And the
strength of sin is the law' (1 Cor 15:56). 'That sin by the commandment
might become' outrageous, 'exceeding sinful' (Rom 7:13). 'What shall
we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin,
but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said,
Thou shalt not covet. But sin, taking occasion by the commandment,
wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law,
sin was dead' (Rom 7:7,8)

These things, then, are not infused or operated by the law from its
own nature or doctrine, but are occasioned by the meeting of, and
having to do with, a thing directly opposite. 'The law is spiritual,
I am carnal'; therefore every imposition is rejected and rebelled
against. Strike a steel against a flint, and the fire flies about
you; strike the law against a carnal heart, and sin appears, sin
multiplies, sin rageth, sin is strengthened! And hence ariseth all
these doubts, murmurings, and sinful complainings that are found
in the hearts of the people of God; they have too much to do with
the law; the law of works is now in the conscience, imposing duty
upon the carnal part. This is the reason of the noise that you
hear, and of the sin that you see, and of the horror that you feel
in your own souls when tempted. But to pass this digression.

The law, then, having to do with carnal men, by this they become worse
sinners than before; for their heart now recoileth desperately,
opposeth blasphemously; it giveth way to despair; and then
to conclude there is no hope for hereafter; and so goeth on in a
sordid, ungodly course of life, till his time is come to die and be
damned, unless a miracle of grace prevent. From all this I conclude,
that 'a man cannot stand just from the curse, in the sight of God
but while sinful in himself.' But,

3. As the law giveth neither strength nor life to keep it, so it
neither giveth nor worketh repentance unto life if thou break it.
Do this and live, break it and die; this is the voice of the law.
All the repentance that such men have, it is but that of themselves,
the sorrow of the world, that endeth in death, as Cain's and Judas'
did, even such a repentance as must be repented of either here or
in hell-fire (2 Cor 7:10).

4. As it giveth none, so it accepteth none of them that are under
the law (Gal 5:4). Sin and die, is for ever its language; there is
no middle way in the law; they must bear their judgment, whosoever
they be, that stand and fall to the law. Therefore Cain was a
vagabond still, and Judas hangeth himself; their repentance could
not save them, they fell headlong under the law. The law stays no
man from the due reward of his deeds; it hath no ears to hear nor
heart to pity its penitent ones (Gen 4:9-11; Matt 27:3).

5. By the law, God will show no mercy; for, 'I will be merciful
to their unrighteousness,' is the tenor of another covenant (Heb
8:9,10,12). But by the law I regard them not, saith the Lord. For,

6. All the promises annexed to the law are, by the first sin, null
and void. Though, then, a man should live a thousand years twice
told, and all that while fulfil the law, yet having sinned first,
he is not at all the better. Our legalists, then, begin to talk too
soon of having life by the law; let them first begin without sin,
and so throughout continue to death, and then if God will save them,
not by Christ, but works, contrary to the covenant of grace, they
may hope to go to heaven.

7. But, lastly, to come close to the point. Thou hast sinned; the
law now calls for passive as well as active obedience; yea, great
contentedness in all thou sufferest for thy transgressing against
the law. So, then, wilt thou live by the law? Fulfil it, then,
perfectly till death, and afterwards go to hell and be damned, and
abide there till the law and curse for thy sin be satisfied for;
and then, but not till then, thou shalt have life by the law. Tell
me, now, you that desire to be under the law, can you fulfil all
the commands of the law, and after answer all its demands? Can you
grapple with the judgment of God? Can you wrestle with the Almighty?
Are you stronger than he that made the heavens, and that holdeth
angels in everlasting chains? 'Can thine heart endure, or can thy
hands be strong in the day that I shall deal with thee? I the Lord
have spoken it, and will do it' (Eze 22:14). O, it cannot be! 'These
must go away into everlasting punishment' (Matt 25:46). So, then,
men must stand just from the curse, in the sight of God, while
sinners in themselves, or not at all.

Objection [to the second reason]. But the apostle saith, 'That the
doers of the law shall be justified' (Rom 2). Plainly intimating
that, notwithstanding all you say, some by doing the law may stand
just before God thereby; and if so, then Christ fulfilled it for
us but as our example.

Answer. The consequences are not true; for by these words, 'The
doers of the law shall be justified,' there is no more proof of a
possibility of saving thyself by the law than there is by these:
'For by the works of the law shall no man living be justified in
his sight' (Gal 2:16). The intent, then, of the text objected, is
not to prove a possibility of man's salvation by the law, but to
insinuate rather an impossibility, by asserting what perfections
the law requireth. And were I to argue against the pretended
sufficiency of man's own righteousness, I would choose to frame
mine argument upon such a place as this--'The hearers of the law
are not just before God'; therefore the breakers of the law are not
just before God; not just, I say, by the law; but all have sinned
and broken the law; therefore none by the law are just before
God. For if all stand guilty of sin by the law, then that law that
judgeth them sinners cannot justify them before God. And what if the
apostle had said, 'Blessed are they that continue in all things,'
instead of pronouncing a curse for the contrary, the conclusion had
been the same; for where the blessing is pronounced, he is not the
better that breaks the condition; and where the curse is pronounced,
he is not the worse that keeps it. But neither doth the blessing
nor curse in the law intend a supposition that men may be just by
the law, but rather to show the perfection of the law, and that
though a blessing be annexed thereto, no man by it can obtain that
blessing; for not the hearers of the law are justified before God,
but the doers, when they do it, shall be justified. None but doers
can by it be just before God: but none do the law, no, not one,
therefore none by it can stand just before God (Rom 3:10,11).

And whereas it is said Christ kept the law as our example, that we
by keeping it might get to heaven, as he; it is false, as before
was showed--'He is the end of the law,' or, hath perfectly finished
it, 'for righteousness to every one that believeth' (Rom 10:4). But
a little to travel with this objection; no man can keep the moral
law as Christ, unless he be first without sin, as Christ; unless he
be God and man, as Christ. And again; Christ cannot be our pattern
in keeping the law for life, because of the disproportion that is
between him and us; for if we do it as he, when yet we are weaker
than he; what is this but to out-vie, outdo, and go beyond Christ?
Wherefore we, not he, have our lives exemplary: exemplary, I say,
to him; for who doth the greatest work, they that take it in hand
in full strength, as Christ; or he that takes it in hand in weakness,
as we? Doubtless the last, if he fulfils it as Christ. So, then,
by this doctrine, while we call ourselves his scholars, we make
ourselves indeed the masters. But I challenge all the angels in
heaven, let them but first sin as we have done, to fulfil the law,
as Christ, if they can!

But again; if Christ be our pattern in keeping the law for life from
the curse before God, then Christ fulfilled the law for himself;
if so, he was imperfect before he fulfilled it. And how far short
this is of blasphemy let sober Christians judge; for the righteousness
he fulfilled was to justify from sin; but if it was not to justify
us from ours, you know what remaineth (Dan 9:26; Isa 53:8-10).

But when must we conclude we have kept the law? Not when we begin,
because we have sinned first; nor when we are in the middle, for
we may afterwards miscarry. But what if a man in this his progress
hath one sinful thought? I query, is it possible to come up to the
pattern for justification with God? If yea, then Christ had such;
if no, then who can fulfil the law as he? But should I grant that
which is indeed impossible--namely, that thou art justified by the
law; what then? Art thou now in the favour of God? No, thou art
fallen by this thy perfection, from the love and mercy of God:
'Whosoever of you are justified by the law are fallen from grace'
(Gal 5:4). He speaks not this to them that are doing, but to such
as think they have done it, and shows that the blessing that these
have got thereby is to fall from the favour of God. Being fallen
from grace, Christ profits them nothing, and so they still stand
debtors to do the whole law. So, then, they must not be saved by
God's mercy, nor Christ's merits, but alone by the works of the
law! But what should such men do in that kingdom that comes by gift,
where grace and mercy reigns? Yea, what should they do among that
company that are saved alone by grace, through the redemption that
is in Jesus Christ? Let them go to that kingdom that God hath prepared
for them that are fallen from grace. 'Cast out the bond-woman and
her son; for he shall not be heir with the son of the free-woman'
and of promise (Gal 4:30).[23]

But to pass this objection. Before I come to the next reason, I
shall yet for the further clearing of this, urge these scriptures
more.

[Further scriptures to prove the second reason.]

1. The first is that in Galatians 3:10, 'As many as are of the
works of the law are under the curse.'

Behold how boldly Paul asserts it! And observe it, he saith not
here, so many as sin against the law--though that be true--but, 'As
many as are of the works of the law.' But what, then, are the works
of the law? Not whoredom, murder, theft, and the like; but works
that are holy and good, the works commanded in the ten commandments,
as to love God, abhor idols, reverence the name of God, keeping the
Sabbath, honouring thy parents, abstaining from adultery, murder,
theft, false-witness, and not to covet what is thy neighbour's--these
are the works of the law. Now he, saith Paul, that is of these is
under the curse of God. But what is it then to be of these? Why,
to be found in the practice of them, and there resting; this is the
man that is under the curse: not because the works of the law are
wicked in themselves, but because the man that is in the practice
of them comes short of answering the exactness of them, and therefore
dies for his imperfections (Rom 2:17).

2. The second scripture is that of the eleventh verse of the same
chapter, 'But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of
God, it is evident; for, The just shall live by faith.'

These words, 'the just shall live by faith,' are taken out of the
Old Testament, and are thrice used by this apostle in the New.
(1.) To show that nothing of the gospel can be apprehended but by
faith: 'For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith
to faith.' 'As it is written, The just shall live by faith' (Rom
1:17). (2.) To show that the way to have relief and succour under
temptation is then to live by faith: 'Now the just shall live by
faith' (Heb 10:38) (3.) But in this of the Galatians it is urged
to show that how holy and just soever men be in themselves, yet as
such they are dead, and condemned to death by the law before God.
But that no man is justified by the law, in the sight of God, is
evident; for, 'the just shall live by faith.'

The word 'just,' therefore, in this place in special, respecteth
a man that is just, or that so esteems himself by the law, and is
here considered in a double capacity; first, what he is before men;
secondly, what he is before God. (1.) As he stands before men, he
is just by the law; as Paul before his conversion (Phil 3:4). (2.)
As he stands in the sight of God; so, without the faith of Christ,
he cannot be just, as is evident; for 'the just shall live,' not
by his justice or righteousness by the law.

This is the true intent of this place. Because they carry with them
a supposition that the just here intended may be excluded life,
he falling within the rejection asserted within the first part of
the verse. No man is just by the law in the sight of God; for 'the
just shall live by faith': his justice cannot make him live, he
must live by the faith of Christ.[24] Again, the words are a reason
dissuasive, urged to put a stop to those that are seeking life by
the law; as if the apostle had said, Ye Galatians! what are you
doing? Would you be saved by keeping the law? Would you stand just
before God thereby? Do you not hear the prophets, how they press
faith in Jesus, and life by faith in him? Come, I will reason with
you, by way of supposition. Were it granted that you all loved
the law, yet that for life, will avail you nothing; for, 'the just
shall live by faith.'

Were it granted that you kept the law, and that no man on earth
could accuse you; were you therefore just before God? No; neither
can you live by works before him; for 'the just shall live by faith.'
Why not live before him? Because when we have done our best, and
are applauded of all the world for just, yet then God sees sin in
our hearts: 'He putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens
are not clean in his sight' (Job 15:15, 4:18). There is then a just
man that perisheth in his righteousness, if he want the faith of
Christ, for that no man is justified by the law, in the sight of
God, is evident; for, 'the just shall live by faith'; and the law
is not of faith.

3. The third Scripture is this--'We who are Jews by nature, and
not sinners of the Gentiles, knowing that a man is not justified
by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we
have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the
faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law; for by the works
of the law shall no flesh be justified' (Gal 2:15,16).

These words are the result of the experienced Christians in
the primitive times; yea, of those among them that had given up
themselves before to the law, to get life and heaven thereby; the
result, I say, of believing Jews--We who are Jews by nature. But
how are they distinguished from the Gentiles? Why, they are such
that rest in the law, and make their boast of God; that know his
will, and approve the things that are excellent; that are guides
to the blind, and a light to them that are in darkness; that are
instructors of the foolish, teachers of babes, and which have the
form of knowledge, and of the truth of the law (Rom 2:17-19). How
far these attained we find by that of the Pharisee--I pray, I fast,
I give tithes of all (Luke 18:11,12); and by the young man in the
gospel--'All these have I kept from my youth up'; and by that of
Paul--'Touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless'
(Phil 3:6). This was the Jew by nature, to do and trust in this.[25]
Now these attaining afterwards the sound knowledge of sin, the
depravedness of nature, and the exactions of the law, fled from the
command of the law to the Lord Jesus for life. 'We knowing' is--We
that are taught of God, and that have found it by sad experience,
we, even we, have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be
justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law.
Surely, if righteousness had come by the law, Paul and the Jews
had found it, they being by many privileges far better than the
sinners of the Gentiles; but these, when they received the word of
the gospel, even these now fly to Christ from the law, that they
might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of
the law.

To conclude this. If righteous men, through the knowledge of the
gospel, are made to leave the law of God, as despairing of life
thereby, surely righteousness is not to be found in the law; I mean
that which can justify thee before God from the curse who livest
and walkest in the law. I shall, therefore, end this second reason
with what I have said before--'Men must be justified from the curse
in the sight of God while sinful in themselves.'

The Third Reason.--Another reason why not one under heaven can be
justified by the law, or by his own personal performances to it,
is, because since sin was in the world, God hath rejected the law
and the works thereof for life (Rom 7:10).

It is true, before man had sinned, it was ordained to be unto life;
but since, and because of sin, the God of love gave the word of
grace. Take the law, then, as God hath established it; to wit, to
condemn all flesh (Gal 3:21); and then there is room for the promise
and the law, the one to kill, the other to heal; and so the law is
not against the promises; but make the law a justifier, and faith
is made void, and the promise is made of none effect (Rom 4:14);
and the everlasting gospel, by so doing, thou endeavourest to root
out of the world. Methinks, since it hath pleased God to reject the
law and the righteousness thereof for life, such dust and ashes as
we are should strive to consent to his holy will, especially when
in the room of this [covenant] of works there is established a better
covenant, and that upon better promises. The Lord hath rejected the
law, for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof; for, finding
fault with them of the law, 'The days come, saith the Lord, when I
will make a new covenant with the house of Israel,' &c. (Heb 8:8).
Give God leave to find fault with us, and to condemn our personal
performances to death, as to our justification before him thereby;
let him do it, I say; and the rather, because he doth by the gospel
present us with a better. And certainly, if ever he be pleased
with us, it will be when he findeth us in that righteousness that
is of his own appointing.

[Six things that incline the heart to seek to the law for life.]

To conclude. Notwithstanding all that hath or can be said, there
are six things that have great power with the heart to bend it to
seek life before God by the law; of all which I would caution that
soul to beware, that would have happiness in another world.

First. Take heed thou be not made to seek to the law for life,
because of that name and majesty of God which thou findest upon the
doctrine of the law (Exo 20:1). God indeed spake all the words of
the law, and delivered them in that dread and majesty to men that
shook the hearts of all that heard it. Now this is of great authority
with some, even to seek for life and bliss by the law. 'We know,'
said some, 'that God spake to Moses' (John 9:29). And Saul rejected
Christ even of zeal towards God (Acts 22:3). What zeal? Zeal towards
God according to the law, which afterwards he left and rejected,
because he had found out a better way. The life that he once lived,
it was by the law; but afterwards, saith he, 'The life which I now
live,' it is by faith, 'by the faith of Jesus Christ' (Gal 2:20).
So that though the law was the appointment of God, and had also
his name and majesty upon it, yet now he will not live by the law.
Indeed, God is in the law, but yet only as just and holy, not as
gracious and merciful; so he is only in Jesus Christ. 'The law,'
the word of justice, 'was given by Moses, but grace and truth came
by Jesus Christ' (John 1:17). Wherefore, whatever of God thou findest
in the law, yet seeing grace and mercy is not there, let neither
the name of God, nor that majesty that thou findest of him in the
law, prevail with thee to seek life by all the holy commandments
of the law.

Second. Take heed that the law, by taking hold on thy conscience,
doth not make thee seek life by the law (Rom 2:13-15). The heart
of man is the seat of the law. This being so, the understanding
and conscience must needs be in danger of being bound by the law.
Man is a law unto himself, and showeth that the works of the law
are written in his heart. Now, the law being thus nearly related
to man, it easily takes hold of the understanding and conscience;
by which hold, if it be not quickly broken off by the promise and
grace of the gospel, it is captivated to the works of the law;
for conscience is such a thing, that if it once be possessed with
a doctrine, yea, though but with the doctrine of an idol, it will
cleave so fast thereto that nothing but a hand from heaven can
loosen it; and if it be not loosed, no gospel can be there embraced
(1 Cor 8:7). Conscience is Little-ease, if men resist it, whether
it be rightly or wrongly informed.[26] How fast, then, will it
hold when it knows it cleaves to the law of God! Upon this account,
the condition of the unbeliever is most miserable; for not having
faith in the gospel of grace, through which is tendered the forgiveness
of sins, they, like men a-drowning, hold fast that they have found;
which being the law of God, they follow it; but because righteousness
flies from them, they at last are found only accursed and condemned
to hell by the law. Take heed, therefore, that thy conscience be
not entangled by the law (Rom 9:31,32).

Third. Take heed of fleshly wisdom. Reasoning suiteth much with
the law. 'I thought verily that I ought to do many things against
the name of Jesus,' and so to have sought for life by the law; my
reason told me so. For thus will reason say: Here is a righteous
law, the rule of life and death; besides, what can be better than
to love God, and my neighbour as myself? Again; God hath thus
commanded, and his commands are just and good; therefore, doubtless,
life must come by the law. Further, to love God and keep the law
are better than to sin and break it; and seeing men lost heaven
by sin, how should they get it again but by working righteousness?
Besides, God is righteous, and will therefore bless the righteous.
O the holiness of the law! It mightily swayeth with reason when
a man addicteth himself to religion; the light of nature teacheth
that sin is not the way to heaven; and seeing no word doth more
condemn sin than the words of the ten commandments, it must needs
be, therefore, the most perfect rule for holiness; wherefore, saith
reason, the safest way to life and glory is to keep myself close
to the law. But a little here to correct. Though the law indeed be
holy, yet the mistake as to the matter in hand is as wide as the
east from the west; for therefore the law can do thee no good,
because it is holy and just; for what can he that hath sinned
expect from a law that is holy and just? Nought but condemnation.
Let them lean to it while they will, 'there is one that accuseth
you,' saith Christ, 'even Moses, in whom you trust' (John 5:45).

Fourth. Man's ignorance of the gospel suiteth well with the
doctrine of the law; they, through their being ignorant of God's
righteousness, fall in love with that (Rom 10:1-4). Yea, they do
not only suit, but, when joined in act, the one strengtheneth the
other; that is, the law strengtheneth our blindness, and bindeth
the veil more fast about the face of our souls. The law suiteth
much our blindness of mind; for until this day remains the veil
untaken away in the reading of the Old Testament; especially in the
reading of that which was written and engraven on stones; to wit,
the ten commandments, that perfect rule for holiness; which veil
was done away in Christ (2 Cor 3:15,16). But 'even to this day, when
Moses is read, the veil is over their hearts'; they are blinded
by the duties enjoined by the law from the sight and hopes of
forgiveness of sins by grace. 'Nevertheless when IT,' the heart,
'shall turn to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away.' The law,
then, doth veil the heart from Christ, and holds the man so down to
doing and working for the kingdom of heaven, that he quite forgets
the forgiveness of sins by mercy through Christ. Now this veiling
or blinding by the law is occasioned--

1. By reason of the contrariety of doctrine that is in the law to
that which was in the gospel. The law requireth obedience to all
its demands upon pain of everlasting burnings; the gospel promiseth
forgiveness of sins to him that worketh not, but believeth. Now
the heart cannot receive both these doctrines; it must either let
go doing or believing. If it believe, it is dead to doing; if it
be set to doing for life, it is dead to believing.[27] Besides, he
that shall think both to do and believe for justification before
God from the curse, he seeks for life but as it were by the law,
he seeks for life but as it were by Christ; and he being not direct
in either, shall for certain be forsaken of either. Wherefore?
Because he seeks it not by faith, but as it were by the works of
the law' (Rom 9:32).

2. The law veils and blinds by that guilt and horror for sin that
seizeth the soul by the law; for guilt, when charged close upon
the conscience, is attended with such aggravations, and that with
such power and evidence, that the conscience cannot hear, nor see,
nor feel anything else but that. When David's guilt for murder and
blood did roar by the law in his conscience, notwithstanding he
knew much of the grace of the gospel, he could hear nothing else
but terror, the sound of blood; the murder of Uriah was the only
noise that he heard; wherefore he crieth to God that he would make
him hear the gospel. 'Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the
bones which thou hast broken may rejoice' (Psa 51:8). And as he
could not hear, so neither could he see; the law had struck him
deaf and blind. 'I am,' saith he, 'not able to look up'; not up to
Christ for mercy. As if David had said, O Lord, the guilt of sin,
which is by the law, makes such a noise and horror in my conscience,
that I can neither hear nor see the word of peace unless it is
spoken with a voice from heaven! The serpents that bit the people
in the days of old were types of guilt and sin (Num 21:6). Now,
these were fiery serpents, and such as, I think, could fly (Isa
14:29). Wherefore, in my judgment, they stung the people about
their faces, and so swelled up their eyes, which made it the more
difficult for them to look up to the brazen serpent, which was the
type of Christ (John 3:14). Just so doth sin by the law do now.
It stings the soul, the very face of the soul, which is the cause
that looking up to Jesus, or believing in him, is so difficult a
task in time of terror of conscience.[28]

3. This is not only so at present, but so long as guilt is on the
conscience, so long remains the blindness; for guilt standing before
the soul, the grace of God is intercepted, even as the sun is hid
from the sight of mine eyes by the cloud that cometh between. 'My
sin,' said David, 'is ever before me,' and so kept other things
out of his sight; sin, I say, when applied by the law (Psa 51:3).
When the law came to Paul, he remained without sight until the good
man came unto him with the word of forgiveness of sins (Acts 9).

4. Again; where the law comes with power, there it begetteth many
doubts against the grace of God; for it is only a revealer of sin,
and the ministration of death; that is, a doctrine that sheweth
sin, and condemneth for the same; hence, therefore, as was hinted
before, the law being the revealer of sin, where that is embraced,
there sin must needs be discovered and condemned, and the soul for
the sake of that. Further, it is not only a revealer of sin, but
that which makes it abound; so that the closer any man sticks to
the law for life, the faster sin doth cleave to him. 'That law,'
saith Paul, 'which was ordained to be unto life, I found to be unto
death,' for by the law I became a notorious sinner; I thought to
have obtained life by obeying the law, 'but sin taking occasion by
the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me' (Rom 7:10-14). A
strange way of deceivableness, and it is hid from the most of men;
but, as I have already told you, you see how it comes to pass.
(1.) Man by nature is carnal, and the law itself is spiritual: now
betwixt these two ariseth great difference; the law is exceeding
good, the heart exceeding bad; these two opposites, therefore, the
heart so abiding, can by no means agree. (2.) Therefore, at every
approach of the law to the heart with intent to impose duty, or to
condemn for the neglect thereof; at every such approach the heart
starteth back, especially when the law comes home indeed, and is
heard in his own language. This being thus, the conscience perceiving
this is a fault, begins to tremble at the sense of judgment; the
law still continueth to command to duty, and to condemn for the
neglect thereof. From this struggling of these two opposites ariseth,
I say, those doubts and fears that drive the heart into unbelief,
and that make it blind to the word of the gospel, that it can neither
see nor understand anything but that it is a sinner, and that the
law must be fulfilled by it, if ever it be saved.

[Fifth.] But again; another thing that hath great influence upon
the heart to make it lean to the law for life is, the false names
that Satan and his instruments have put upon it; such as these--to
call the law the gospel; conscience, the Spirit of Christ; works,
faith; and the like: with these, weak consciences have been
mightily pestered; yea, thousands deluded and destroyed. This was
the way whereby the enemy attempted to overthrow the church of
Christ of old; as, namely, those in Galatia and at Corinth, &c. (2
Cor 11:3,4,13,14). I say, by the feigned notion that the law was
the gospel, the Galatians were removed from the gospel of Christ;
and Satan, by appropriating to himself and his ministers the names
and titles of the ministers of the Lord Jesus, prevailed with many
at Corinth to forsake Paul and his doctrine. Where the Lord Jesus
hath been preached in truth, and something of his doctrine known,
it is not there so easy to turn people aside from the sound of the
promise of grace, unless it be by the noise and sound of a gospel.
Therefore, I say, the false apostles came thus among the churches:
'another gospel, another gospel'; which, in truth, saith Paul,
'is not another; but some would pervert the gospel of Christ,' and
thrust that out of doors, by gilding the law with that glorious name
(Gal 1:6-8).[29] So again, for the ministers of Satan, they must
be called the apostles of Christ, and ministers of righteousness;
which thing, I say, is of great force, especially being accompanied
with so holy and just a doctrine as the word of the law is; for
what better to the eye of reason than to love God above all, and
our neighbour as ourselves, which doctrine, being the scope of the
ten words given on Sinai, no man can contradict; for, in truth,
they are holy and good.

But here is the poison; to set this law in the room of a mediator,
as those do that seek to stand just before God thereby; and then
nothing is so dishonourable to Christ, nor of so soul-destroying a
nature as the law; for that, thus placed, hath not only power when
souls are deluded, but power to delude, by its real holiness, the
understanding, conscience, and reason of a man; and by giving the
soul a semblance of heaven, to cause it to throw away Christ, grace,
and faith. Wherefore it behoveth all men to take heed of names,
and of appearances of holiness and goodness.

[Sixth.] Lastly, Satan will yet go further; he will make use
of something that may be at a distance from a moral precept, and
therewith bring souls under the law. Thus he did with some of old;
he did not make the Galatians fall from Christ by virtue of one of
the ten words, but by something that was aloof off; by circumcision,
days, and months, that were Levitical ceremonies; for he knows it
is no matter, nor in what Testament he found it, if he can therewith
hide Christ from the soul--'Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if
ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. For I testify
again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the
whole law' (Gal 5:2,3). Why so, seeing circumcision is not one of
the ten words [commandments]? Why, because they did it in conscience
to God, to stand just before him thereby. Now here we may behold
much cunning of the devil; he begins with some at a distance from
that law which curseth, and so by little and little bringeth them
under it; even as by circumcision the Galatians were at length
brought under the law that condemneth all men to the wrath and
judgment of God. I have often wondered when I have read how God
crieth out against the Jews, for observing his own commandment
(Isa 1:11-14). But I perceive by Paul that by these things a man
may reject and condemn the Lord Jesus; which those do, that for
life set up aught, whether moral or other institution, besides the
faith of Jesus. Let men therefore warily distinguish betwixt names
and things, betwixt statute and commandment, lest they by doing the
one transgress against the other (2 Cor 1:19,20). Study, therefore,
the nature and end of the law with the nature and end of the
gospel; and if thou canst keep them distinct in thy understanding
and conscience, neither names nor things, neither statutes nor
commandments, can draw thee from the faith of the gospel. And
that thou mayest yet be helped in this matter, I shall now come to
speak to the second conclusion.

[THE SECOND POSITION.]

SECOND. THAT MEN CAN BE JUSTIFIED FROM THE CURSE BEFORE GOD, WHILE
SINNERS IN THEMSELVES, BY NO OTHER RIGHTEOUSNESS THAN THAT LONG
AGO PERFORMED BY, AND REMAINING WITH, THE PERSON OF CHRIST.

For the better prosecuting of this position I shall observe two
things--FIRST, That the righteousness by which we stand just before
God, from the curse, was performed by the person of Christ. SECOND,
That this righteousness is inherent only in him.

FIRST. As to the first of these, I shall be but brief. Now, that
the righteousness that justifieth us was performed long ago by the
person of Christ, besides what hath already been said, is further
manifest thus--

First. He is said to have purged our sins by himself--'When he had
by himself purged our sins, he sat down on the right hand of God'
(Heb 1:3). I have showed that in Christ, for the accomplishing of
righteousness, there was both doing and suffering; doing, to fulfil
all the commands of the law; suffering, to answer its penalty for
sin. This second is that which in this to the Hebrews is in special
intended by the apostle, where he saith he hath purged our sins,
that is, by his precious blood; for it is that alone can purge our
sins, either out of the sight of God or out of the sight of the
soul (Heb 9:14). Now this was done by himself, saith the apostle;
that is, in or by his personal doings and sufferings. And hence it
is that when God had rejected the offerings of the law, he said,
'Lo, I come. A body hast thou prepared me,--to do thy will, O God'
(Heb 10:5-8). Now by this will of God, saith the Scripture, we are
sanctified. By what will? Why, by the offering up of the body of
Jesus Christ; for that was God's will, that thereby we might be a
habitation for him; as he saith again--'Jesus also, that he might
sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate'
(Heb 13:12).

Second. As it is said, he hath purged our sins by himself, so it
was by himself at once--'For by one offering he hath perfected for
ever them that are sanctified' (10:14). Now by this word 'at once,'
or by 'one offering,' is cut off all those imaginary sufferings of
Christ which foolish men conceive of; as that he in all ages hath
suffered or suffereth for sin in us.[30] No; he did this work but
once. 'Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest
entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others; for
then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world:
but now once in the end of the world,' in the time of Pilate,
'hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself' (Heb
9:25,26). Mark how to the purpose the Holy Ghost expresseth it: he
hath suffered but once; and that once, now; now once; now he is God
and man in one person; now he hath taken the body that was prepared
of God; now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put
away sin by the sacrifice of himself; by the offering up of the
body of Jesus Christ once for all.

Third. It further appears, in that by his resurrection from the
dead the mercies of God are made sure to the soul, God declaring by
that, as was said before, how well pleased he is by the undertaking
of his Son for the salvation of the world: 'And as concerning that
he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption,
he said on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies of David'
(Acts 13:34). For Christ being clothed with man's flesh, and
undertaking for man's sins, did then confirm all sure to us by
his resurrection from the dead. So that by the rising of that man
again, mercy and grace are made sure to him that hath believed on
Jesus. Wherefore, from these things, together with what hath been
discovered about his addressing himself to the work, I conclude 'that
men can be justified from the curse, before God, while sinners in
themselves, by no other righteousness than that long ago performed
by the person of Christ.' Now the conclusion is true from all show
of contradiction; for the Holy Ghost saith he hath done it; hath
done it by himself, and that by the will of God, at once, even
then when he took the prepared body upon him--'By the will of God
we are sanctified, through the offering up of the body of Jesus
Christ once for all.'

[SECOND.] This being so, the second position is also manifest--namely,
that the righteousness by which we stand just from the curse, before
God, is only inherent in Jesus Christ. For if he hath undertaken to
bring in a justifying righteousness, and that by works and merits
of his own, then that righteousness must of necessity be inherent
in him alone, and ours only by imputation; and hence it is called,
in that fifth to the Romans, the gift, the 'gift of righteousness';
because neither wrought nor obtained by works of ours, but bestowed
upon us, as a garment already prepared, by the mercy of God in
Christ (Rom 5:17; Isa 61:10). There are four things that confirm
this for a truth--

First. This righteousness is said to be the righteousness of one,
not of many; I mean of one properly and personally, as his own
particular personal righteousness. The gift of grace, which is
the gift of righteousness, it is 'by one man, Jesus Christ.' 'Much
more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of
righteousness shall reign in life by ONE, Jesus Christ. Therefore
as by the offence of one, judgment came upon all to condemnation;
even so by the righteousness of ONE, the free gift came upon all
men unto justification of life. For as by one man's disobedience
many were made sinners, so by the obedience of ONE shall many
be made righteous' (Rom 5:15-19). Mark, the righteousness of one,
the obedience of one; the righteousness of one man, of one man,
Jesus.[31] Wherefore, the righteousness that justifieth a sinner,
it is personally and inherently the righteousness of that person
only who, by works and acts of obedience, did complete it, even
the obedience of one, of one man, Jesus Christ; and so ours only by
imputation. It is improper to say, Adam's eating of the forbidden
fruit was personally and inherently an act of mine. It was personally
his, and imputatively mine; personally his, because he did it;
imputatively mine, because I was then in him. Indeed, the effects
of his personal eating is found in my person; to wit, defilement
and pravity. The effects also of the imputation of Christ's personal
righteousness are truly found in those that are in him by electing
love and unfeigned faith, even holy and heavenly dispositions; but
a personal act is one thing, and the effects of that another. The
act may be done by, and be only inherent in one; the imputation of
the merit of the act, as also the effects of the same, may be in
a manner universal, extending itself unto the most, or all. This
the case of Adam and Christ doth manifest. The sin of one is imputed
to his posterity; the righteousness of the other is reckoned the
righteousness of those that are his.

Second. The righteousness by which we stand just before God from the
curse is called, 'The righteousness of the Lord--the righteousness
of God--the righteousness of Jesus Christ,' &c. (Phil 3:6-9);
and that by way of opposition to the righteousness of God's
own holy law--'That I might be found in him, not having on my own
righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the
faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.' Now,
by this opposition, as by what was said before, the truth is made
exceeding clear; for by these words, 'not having my own righteousness,'
are not only excluded what qualifications we suppose to be in us,
but the righteousness through which we stand just in the sight of
God by them is limited and confined to a person absolutely distinct.
Distinct, I say, as to his person and performances, who here is
called God and Jesus Christ; as he saith also in the prophet Isaiah,
'In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall
glory' (Isa 45:25). In the Lord, not in the law; in the Lord, not
in themselves. 'And their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord.' Of
me, not of themselves; of me, not of the law (54:17). And again;
'Surely, shall one say, in the Lord have I righteousness and strength'
(45:24). Now, as I have already said, all this is to be understood
of the righteousness that was fulfilled by acts and works of obedience,
which the person of the Son of God accomplished in the days of his
flesh in the world; by that man, I say, 'The Lord our righteousness' (Jer
23:5). Christ, indeed, is naturally and essentially righteousness;
but as he is simply such, so he justifieth no man; for then he
need not to bear our sins in his flesh, and become obedient in all
points of the law for us; but the righteousness by which we stand
just before God is righteousness consisting of works and deeds, of
the doings and sufferings, of such a person who also is essentially
righteousness. And hence, as before I have hinted, we are said to
be justified by the obedience and blood of the Lord Jesus Christ,
by the doings and sufferings of the Son of God. And hence, again,
it is that he first is called King of righteousness; that is, a
King of righteousness as God-man, which of necessity supposeth his
personal performances; and after that, 'King of peace' (Heb 7:1-3).
For what he is naturally and eternally in his Godhead, he is not
to us, but himself; but what he is actively and by works, he is not
to himself, but to us; so, then, he is neither King of righteousness
nor of peace to us, as he is only the eternal Son of the Father,
without his being considered as our priest and undertaker. He hath
'obtained,' by works of righteousness, 'eternal redemption for
us' (Heb 9:12). So then, the righteousness by which we stand just
before God is a righteousness inherent only in Christ, because a
righteousness performed by him alone.

Now, that righteousness by which we stand just before God must be
a righteousness consisting of personal performances; the reason is,
because persons had sinned; this the nature of justice requireth,
that 'since by man came death, by man' should come 'also the
resurrection from the dead' (1 Cor 15:21). The angels, therefore, for
this very reason, abide under the chains of everlasting darkness,
because he 'took not hold on them' (Heb 2:16,17); that is,
by fulfilling righteousness for them in their nature. That is a
blessed word, to you. 'To you is born this day in the city of David
a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.' To YOU, not to angels; to
you is born a Saviour (Luke 2:11).

Third. It is yet further evident that the righteousness by which we
stand just before God from the curse, is a righteousness inherent,
not in us, but Christ; because it is a righteousness besides, and
without the law itself. Now take away the law, and you take away
the rule of righteousness. Again; take away the rule, and the act
as to us must cease. 'But now the righteousness of God without the
law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets'
(Rom 3:21). So then, by such a righteousness we are justified as
is not within the power of the law to command of us.

Quest. But what law is that which hath not power to command our
obedience in the point of our justification with God?

Answ. The moral law, or that called the ten commandments. Therefore
we are neither commanded to love God, or our neighbour, as the
means or part of our justifying righteousness; nay, he that shall
attempt to do these things to be delivered from the curse thereby,
by the scripture is holden accursed of God. 'As many as are of
the works,' or duties, 'of the law, are under the curse,' &c. (Gal
3:10). Because we are justified not by that of the law, but by the
righteousness of God without the law; that is, without its commanding
of us, without our obedience to it--'Freely by his grace, through
the redemption that is in Christ Jesus; whom God hath set forth to
be a propitiation, through faith in his blood' (Rom 3:24,25). This
is the righteousness of God without the law; that is, without any
of our obedience to the law. Wherefore the righteousness by which
we stand just, in the sight of God, cannot be inherent in us, but
in Christ the King thereof.

Fourth. This is further made apparent, by the capacity that God will
consider that soul in, to whom he imputeth justifying righteousness;
and that is, 'as one that worketh not,' as one that stands ungodly
in the judgment of the law (Rom 4:4,5). But this I have handled
before, and therefore shall pass it here.

Fifth. To conclude. If any works of ours could justify us before
God, they would be works after faith received; but it is evident
that these do not; therefore the righteousness that justifies us from
the curse before God is a righteousness inherent only in Christ.

That works after faith do not justify us from the curse, in the
sight of God, is evident--

1. Because no works of the saints can be justified by the moral
law, considering it as the law of works for life (Gal 3:10). For
this must stand a truth for ever--Whatsoever justifieth us must be
justified by the moral law, for that is it that pronounceth the
curse; unless, then, that curse be taken away by the work, the
work cannot justify us before God (Rom 3:21). But the curse cannot
be taken away but by a righteousness that is first approved of by
that law that so curseth; for if that shall yet complain for want
of a full satisfaction, the penalty remaineth. This is evident to
reason, and confirmed by the authority of God's Word, as hath been
already proved; because the law, once broken, pronounceth death,
expecteth death, and executeth the same on him that will stand to
the judgment of the law; but no work of a believer is capable of
answering this demand of the law; therefore none of his works can
justify him before God; for the law, that notwithstanding, complaineth.

2. No works of faith can justify us from the curse before God,
because of the want of perfection that is in the greatest faith
in us. Now, if faith be not perfect, the work cannot be perfect;
I mean with that perfection as to please Divine justice. Consider
the person, one that hath to do with God immediately by himself.
Now, that faith is not capable of this kind of perfection, it is
evident, because when men here know most, they know but in part.
Now he that knows but in part, can do but in part; and he that doth
but in part, hath a part wanting in the judgment of the justice of
God. So then, when thou hast done all thou canst, thou hast done
but part of thy duty, and so art short of justification from the
curse by what thou hast done (1 Cor 8:2, 13:12).

3. Besides, it looks too like a monster that the works of faith
should justify us before God; because then faith is turned, as it
were, with its neck behind it.[32] Faith, in its own nature and
natural course, respecteth the mercy of God through the Mediator,
Jesus Christ; and as such, its virtue and excellency is to expect
justification by grace through him; but by this doctrine faith is
turned round about, and now makes a life out of what itself hath
done; but, methinks, faith should be as noble as its fruits, that
being the first, and they but the fruits of that.

Besides, seeing the work is only good because it floweth from
faith (for faith purifieth the heart), therefore faith is it that
justifies all its works (Acts 15:9). If, then, we be justified by
either, it is by faith, and not by his works; unless we will say
there is more virtue in the less than in the greater. Now, what
is faith but a believing, a trusting, or relying act of the soul?
What, then, must it rely upon or trust in? Not in itself; that is,
without Scripture; not in its works, they are inferior to itself;
besides, this is the way to make even the works of faith the
mediator between God and the soul, and so by them thrust Christ
out of doors; therefore it must trust in Christ; and if so, then
no man can be justified from the curse, before God, by the works
that flow from faith.

4. To put all out of doubt; the saint, when he hath done what he
can to bring forth good works by faith, yet he dares not show these
works before God but as they pass through the Mediator Christ, but
as they are washed in the blood of the Lamb. And therefore Peter
saith, those sacrifices of ours that are truly spiritual are only
then accepted of God, when offered up by Jesus Christ (1 Peter 2:5).
And therefore it is said again, that the prayers of the saints,
which are the fruits of faith, come up before the throne of God
through the angel's hand; that is, through the hand of Christ, through
his golden censer, perfumed with his incense, made acceptable by
his intercession (Rev 8:3,4). It is said in the Book of Revelation,
that it is granted to the bride, the Lamb's wife, that she should
be 'arrayed in fine linen, clean and white; which white linen is
the righteousness of saints.' This fine linen, in my judgment, is
the works of godly men, their works that sprang from faith. But
how came they clean? How came they white? Not simply because they
were the works of faith. But mark, they 'washed their robes, and
made them white in the blood of the Lamb.' And 'therefore they
stand before the throne of God' (Rev 7:14,15). Yea, therefore it
is that their good works stand there too.

I conclude, then, 'our persons are justified while we are sinners
in ourselves.' Our works, even the works of faith, are no otherwise
accepted but as they come through Jesus Christ, even through his
intercession and blood. So then, Christ doth justify both our person
and works, not by way of approbation, as we stand in ourselves or
works before God, but by presenting of us to his Father by himself,
washing what we are and have from guilt in his blood, and clothing
us with his own performances. This is the cause of our acceptance
with God, and that our works are not cast forth of his presence.

THE USE.

USE FIRST.--Is justifying righteousness to be found in the person
of Christ only? Then this should admonish us to take heed of seeking
it in ourselves; that is, of working righteousness, thereby to appease
the justice of God, lest by so doing we affront and blaspheme the
righteousness of Christ. He that shall go about to establish his
own righteousness, he, as yet, doth defiance to that which is of
God, of God's appointing, of God's providing; and that only wherewith
the justice of the law must be well pleased. Wherefore take heed,
I say, of doing such a thing, lest it provoke the eyes of the Lord's
glory--'When I shall say to the righteous, that he shall surely
live; if he trust to his own righteousness, and commit iniquity, all
his righteousnesses shall not be remembered; but for his iniquity
that he hath committed, he shall die for it' (Eze 33:13). Mark,
though he be righteous, yea, though he have a promise of life,
yet he shall die. But why? Because he sinned against the Lord by
trusting to his own righteousness, therefore he must die for it.
There are some things that will preserve a man from splitting upon
this rock. As,

First. Get good acquaintance with the covenant of grace, and of the
persons concerned in the conditions of that covenant. The conditions
of that covenant are, that a righteousness shall be brought into
the world that shall please the justice of God, and answer and so
remove the curse of the law. Now he that doth perform this condition
is Christ; therefore the covenant is not immediately with man, but
with him that will be the Mediator betwixt God and man: 'As for
thee also, by the blood of thy covenant, I have sent forth thy
prisoners,' speaking of Christ (Zech 9:11). So then, Christ, the
Man Christ, is he who was to bring in these conditions; to wit,
everlasting righteousness. And hence it is that God hath said,
Christ shall be the covenant of the people--that is, he shall be
our conditions to Godward (Dan 9:23,24). He, therefore, is all our
righteousness as to the point of our justification before God; he
is the covenant of the people, as well as the light of the Gentiles;
for as no man can see but in the light of his Spirit, so no man
can stand but in and by him; he is the covenant of the people, the
conditions and qualifications of the people (Isa 52:6). So that to
Godward Christ is all in all, and no man anything at all. He hath
made with me an everlasting covenant; with me, as I stand in my head,
Christ, who, because he hath brought in everlasting righteousness,
therefore hath removed the curse of the law; wherefore he adds, this
covenant 'is ordered in all things, and sure,' because all points
that concern me, as to redemption from the curse, are taken away
by Christ, as before is discoursed (2 Sam 23:5). Look, then, upon
Christ as the man, the mediator, undertaker, and accomplisher of
that righteousness in himself, wherein thou must stand just before
God; and that he is the covenant or conditions of the people to
Godward, always having in himself the righteousness that the law
is well pleased with, and always presenting himself before God as
our only righteousness.

Second. That this truth may be the more heartily inquired into by
thee, consider thine own perfections;[33] I say, study how polluted
thou art, even from the heart throughout. No man hath a high esteem
of the Lord Jesus that is a stranger to his own sore. Christ's
church is an hospital of sick, wounded, and afflicted people; even
as when he was in the world, the afflicted and distressed set the
highest price upon Jesus Christ. Why? They were sick, and he was
the Physician; but the whole had no need of him. And just thus
it is now: Christ is offered to the world to be the righteousness
and life of sinners, but no man will regard him save he that seeth
his own pollution; he that seeth he cannot answer the demands of
the law, he that sees himself from top to toe polluted, and that
therefore his service cannot be clean as to justify him from the
curse before God--he is the man that must needs die in despair and
be damned, or must trust in Jesus Christ for life.

Further, This rule I would have all receive that come to Jesus
Christ for life and salvation--

1. Not to stick at the acknowledgment of sin, but to make that of
it which the law makes of it: 'Acknowledge thine iniquity,' saith
the Lord (Jer 3:13). This is a hard pinch, I know what I say, for
a man to fall down under the sense of sins by acknowledging them
to be what the Lord saith they are; to acknowledge them, I say,
in their own defiling and polluting nature; to acknowledge them in
their unreasonable and aggravating circumstances; to acknowledge
them in their God-offending and soul-destroying nature, especially
when the conscience is burdened with the guilt of them. Yet
this is duty: 'If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to
forgive' (1 John 1:9). Yea, to this is annexed the promise, 'He that
confesseth and forsaketh them shall find mercy.' This made David,
as it were, lay claim to the mercy of God--'Wash me thoroughly,'
said he, 'from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin; for I
acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me.' Though,
then, thou art to blush and be ashamed when thou rememberest thy
sins and iniquities, yet do not hide them--'He that covereth his
sins shall not prosper.' Do not lessen them; do not speak of them
before God after a mincing way--'Acknowledge thine iniquities, that
thou hast transgressed against the Lord thy God, and hast scattered
thy ways to the strangers under every green tree; and ye have not
obeyed my voice, saith the Lord' (Jer 3:13).

2. If we would come to Christ aright, we must only acknowledge our
sins; we must ONLY acknowledge them, and there stop; stop, I say,
from attempting to do aught to present us good before God, but only
to receive the mercy offered. 'Only acknowledge thine iniquities.'
Men are subject to two extremes, either to confess sins notionally
and by the halves; or else, together with the confession of them,
to labour to do some holy work, thereby to ease their burdened
consciences, and beget faith in the mercy of God (Hosea 5:15).
Now both these are dangerous, and very ungodly--dangerous, because
the wound is healed falsely; and ungodly, because the command is
transgressed: 'Only acknowledge thy sin,' and there stand, as David,
'till thy guilt is taken away.' Joshua stood before the angel, from
top to toe in filthy garments, till the Lord put other clothes upon
him (Zech 3:3-5). In the matter of thy justification thou must know
nothing, see nothing, hear nothing, but thine own sins and Christ's
righteousness--'Only acknowledge thine iniquities.' Now the Saviour
and the soul comes rightly together; the Saviour to do his work,
which is to spread his skirt over the sinner; and the sinner to
receive, by believing this blessed imputed righteousness. And hence
the church, when she came to God, lieth down in her shame, and her
confusion covereth her; and so lieth till pardon comes (Jer 3:25).

USE SECOND.--I come now to the second use--Have faith in Christ.

But what are we to understand by faith?

Answ. Faith importeth as much as to say, Receive, embrace, accept
of, or trust in, the benefit offered. All which are, by holy men
of God, words used on purpose to show that the mercy of God, the
forgiveness of sins, and eternal life, are not to be had by doing,
or by the law; but by receiving, embracing, accepting, or trusting
to the mercy of God through Christ: 'We believe that through the
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they'
(Acts 15:11; John 1:12; 2 Cor 4:1, 11:4; Col 2:6; Heb 11:13; 1
Tim 1:15; Eph 1:12-13). Thus you see what the gospel is, and what
faith doth do in the salvation of the soul. Now, that faith might
be helped in this work, for great are they that oppose it, therefore
the Scriptures, the Word of truth, hath presented us with the
invitation in most plain and suitable sentences: as, 'That Christ
came into the world to save sinners--Christ died for our sins--Christ
gave himself for our sins--Christ bare our sins in his body on the
tree--and that God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you.' Further,
as the invitations are plain and easy, so the threatenings to the
opposers are sore and astonishing: 'He that believeth not shall be
damned--Because they received not the love of the truth, that they
might be saved, God gave them up to strong delusions, that they
all might be damned' (Mark 16:16; 2 Thess 2:10-12).

Object. But faith is said to be an act of obedience.

Answ. And well it may, for it is the most submitting act that a man
can do; it throweth out all our righteousness; it makes the soul
poor in itself; it liveth upon God and Christ, as the almsman doth
upon his lord; it consenteth to the gospel that it is true; it
giveth God and Christ the glory of their mercy and merit; it loveth
God for his mercy, and Jesus Christ for his service; whatever good
it doth, it still crieth, Hereby am I not justified, but he that
justifieth me is the Lord. Well, but is there in truth such a thing
as the obedience of faith? Then let Christians labour to understand
it, and distinguish it aright, and to separate it from the law
and all man's righteousness; and remember that it is a receiving of
mercy, an embracing of forgiveness, an accepting of the righteousness
of Christ, and a trusting to these for life. Remember, again,
that it putteth the soul upon coming to Christ as a sinner, and to
receive forgiveness as a sinner, as such. We now treat of justification.

But a little to insert at large a few more of the excellencies of
it, and so draw towards a conclusion. The more thou believest for
remission of sins, the more of the light of the glorious gospel of
Christ thou receivest into thy soul--'For therein is the righteousness
of God revealed from faith to faith' (Rom 1:17). That is, according
to the degree of faith. Little faith seeth but little but great
faith seeth much; and therefore he saith again, that by faith we
have 'access into the grace of God' (Rom 5:2). The reason is,

1. Because faith, having laid hold upon Christ, hath found him 'in
whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge' (Col 2:3).
In him therefore it finds and sees those heights and depths of
gospel mysteries that are nowhere else to be found; nay, let a man
be destitute of faith, and it is not possible he should once think
of some of them.

2. By this means the Holy Spirit is plentifully received (Gal 3:1-3).
Now the Spirit of God is a spirit of wisdom and revelation; but yet
so as in the knowledge of Christ; otherwise the Spirit will show
to man not any mighty thing, its great delight being to open Christ
and to reveal him unto faith (Eph 1:17). Faith indeed can see him,
for that is the eye of the soul; and the Spirit alone can reveal
him, that being the searcher of the deep things of God; by these
therefore the mysteries of heaven are revealed and received. And
hence it is that the mystery of the gospel is called the 'mystery
of faith,' or the mystery with which faith only hath to do (1 Tim
3:9).

Wouldst thou, then, know the greatest things of God? Accustom
thyself to the obedience of faith,[34] live upon thy justifying
righteousness, and never think that to live always on Christ for
justification is a low and beggarly thing, and as it were a staying
at the foundation; for let me tell you, depart from a sense of
the meritorious means of your justification with God, and you will
quickly grow light, and frothy, and vain. Besides, you will always
be subject to errors and delusions; for this is not to hold the
head from or through which nourishment is administered (Col 2:19).
Further, no man that buildeth forsakes the good foundation; that
is the ground of his encouragement to work, for upon that is laid
the stress of all; and without it nothing that is framed can be
supported, but must inevitably fall to the ground.

Again; why not live upon Christ alway? and especially as he standeth
the mediator between God, and the soul, defending thee with the
merit of his blood, and covering thee with his infinite righteousness
from the wrath of God and curse of the law. Can there be any
greater comfort ministered to thee than to know thy person stands
just before God? Just and justified from all things that would
otherwise swallow thee up? Is peace with God and assurance of
heaven of so little respect with thee that thou slightest the very
foundation thereof, even faith in the blood and righteousness of
Christ? and are notions and whimsies of such credit with thee that
thou must leave the foundation to follow them? But again; what
mystery is desirable to be known that is not to be found in Jesus
Christ, as Priest, Prophet, or King of saints? In him are hid all
the treasures of them, and he alone hath the key of David to open
them (Col 2:1,2; Rev 3:7). Paul was so taken with Jesus Christ,
and the knowledge of this, that he was crucified for us, that
he desired, nay, determined not to know any thing else among the
Corinthians, that itched after other wisdom (1 Cor 2:2).

Object. But I see not that in Christ now, that I have seen in him
in former days. Besides, I find the Spirit lead me forth to study
other things.

Answ. To the first part of this objection I would answer several
things.--The cause why thou seest not that in Christ now, which
thou hast seen in him in former days, is not in Christ, but in
thy faith; he is the same, as fresh, and as good, and as full of
blessedness, as when thou didst most rejoice in him (Heb 1:11,12).
And why not now, as well as formerly? God is never weary of being
delighted with Jesus Christ; his blood is always precious with God;
his merits being those in which justice hath everlasting rest, why
shouldst thou wander or go about to change thy way? (Prov 8:30;
Jer 2:36). Sin is the same as ever, and so is the curse of the law.
The devil is as busy as ever; and beware of the law in thy members.
Return, therefore, to thy rest, O soul! for he is thy life, and the
length of thy days. Guilt is to be taken off now, as it was years
ago; and whether thou seest it or no, thou sinnest in all thy
works. How, then, canst thou stand clear from guilt in thy soul who
neglectest to act faith in the blood of the Lamb? There thou must
wash thy robes, and there thou must make them white (Rev 7:14,15).
I conclude, then, thou art a polluted, surfeited, corrupted, hardened
creature, whosoever thou art, that thus objectest.

But I find, sayest thou, as if the Spirit led me forth to study
other matters.

Answ.--First. What other matters? What matters besides, above, or
beyond the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ, and of our acceptance
with God through him? What spirit, or doctrine, or wisdom soever it
be that centres not in, that cometh not from, and that terminates
not within, the bonds of the gospel of Jesus Christ, is not worthy
the study of the sons of God; neither is it food for the faith of
Jesus Christ, for that is the flesh of Christ, and that is eternal
life (John 6:5). Whither will you go? Beware of the spirit of
Antichrist; for 'many false spirits are gone out into the world.'
I told you before, that the Spirit of God is 'the Spirit of wisdom
and revelation in the knowledge of Christ,' and that without and
besides the Lord Jesus it discovereth nothing (Eph 1:17). It is sent
to testify of him; it is sent to bring his words to our remembrance;
it is sent to take of his things and show them unto us (John
14,15,16). Wherefore, never call that the Spirit of Jesus which
leads you away from the blood and righteousness of Christ; that is
but the spirit of delusion and of the devil, whose teachings end
in perdition and destruction. Tempt not Christ as they of old did.
But how did they tempt him? Why, in loathing the manna, which was
the type of his flesh and blood, which we are to eat of by believing.
I say, tempt him not, lest you be destroyed by the serpents, by
the gnawing guilt of sin; for, take away Christ, and sin remains,
and there is no more sacrifice for sin: if so, thou wilt be destroyed
by the destroyer (Num 21:5-7; 1 Cor 10:10). But again--

Second. Living by faith begets in the heart a son-like boldness
and confidence to God-ward in all our gospel duties, under all our
weaknesses, and under all our temptations. It is a blessed thing
to be privileged with a holy boldness and confidence God-ward, that
he is on our side, that he taketh part with us and that he will
plead our cause 'with them that rise up against us' (2 Cor 2:14,
4:17,18; Gal 2:20). But this boldness faith helpeth us to do, and
also manageth in our heart. This is that which made Paul always
triumph and rejoice in God and the Lord Jesus (Phil 3:3; Rom 5:11).
He lived the life of faith; for faith sets a man in the favour of
God by Christ, and makes a man see that what befals him in this life,
it shall, through the wisdom and mercy of God, not only prove for
his forwarding to heaven, but to augment his glory when he comes
there. This man now stands on high, he lives, he is rid of slavish
fears and carking cares, and in all his straits he hath a God to go
to! Thus David, when all things looked awry upon him, 'encouraged
himself in the Lord his God' (1 Sam 30:6). Daniel also believed in
his God, and knew that all his trouble, losses, and crosses, would
be abundantly made up in his God (Dan 6:23). And David said, 'I had
fainted unless I had believed' (Psa 27:13). Believing, therefore,
is a great preservative against all such impediments, and makes us
confident in our God, and with boldness to come into his presence,
claiming privilege in what he is and hath (Jonah 3:4,5). For
by faith, I say, he seeth his acceptance through the Beloved, and
himself interested in the mercy of God, and riches of Christ, and
glory in the world to come (Heb 10:22,23; Eph 1:4-7). This man can
look upon all the dangers in hell and earth without paleness of
countenance; he shall meditate terror with comfort, 'because he
beholds the King in his beauty' (Isa 33:17,18). Again--

Third. Living by faith makes a man exercise patience and quietness
under all his afflictions; for faith shows him that his best part
is safe, that his soul is in God's special care and protection,
purged from sin in the blood of Christ. Faith also shows him that
after a little while he shall be in the full enjoyment of that which
now he believes is coming: 'We, through the Spirit, wait for the
hope of righteousness by faith' (Gal 5:5). Wherefore, upon this
ground it is that James exhorteth the saints to whom he wrote,
to patience, because they knew the harvest would in due time come
(James 5:7-11). Faith lodgeth the soul with Christ: 'I know,' saith
Paul, 'on whom I have believed,' and to whom I have committed my
soul, 'and am persuaded,' I believe it, 'that he is able to keep
that which I have committed unto him against that day'; therefore
it were no shame to him to wear a chain for his name and sake (2
Tim 1:12). O! it is a blessed thing to see, I say, by the faith
of the Lord Jesus, that we are embarked in the same ship with him;
this will help us greatly 'both to hope and quietly wait for the
salvation of the Lord' (Psa 46:1-6; Lam 3:26). Further--

Fourth. I might add, that living by faith is the way to receive
fresh strength from heaven, thereby to manage thine every day's work
with life and vigour; yea, every look by faith upon Jesus Christ,
as thine, doth this great work. It is said, when Paul saw the
brethren that came to meet him, 'he thanked God, and took courage'
(Acts 28:15). O! how much more, then, shall the Christian be blessed
with fresh strength and courage even at the beholding of Christ;
whom 'beholding as in a glass,' we 'are changed,' even by beholding
of him by faith in the word, 'into the same image, from glory to
glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord' (2 Cor 3:18). But to be
brief.

Fifth. Make conscience of the duty of believing, and be as afraid
of falling short here as in any other command of God. 'This is his
commandment, that you believe' (1 John 3:23). Believe, therefore,
in the name of the Lord Jesus. This is the will of God, that
you believe. Believe, therefore, to the saving of the soul (John
6:46). Unbelief is a fine-spun thread, not so easily discerned as
grosser sins; and therefore that is truly 'The sin that doth so
easily beset us' (Heb 12:1). The light of nature will show those
sins that are against the law of nature; but the law of faith is
a command beyond what flesh or nature teacheth; therefore to live
by faith is so much the harder work; yet it must be done, otherwise
thine other duties profit thee nothing. For if a man give way to
unbelief, though he be most frequent in all other duties besides, so
often as he worshippeth God in these, he yet saith, God is a liar
in the other, even because he hath not believed: 'He that believeth
not God, hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record
that God gave of his Son. And this is the record, that God hath
given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son' (1 John
5:10,11). So then, when thou givest way to unbelief; when thou dost
not venture the salvation of thy soul upon the justifying life that
is in Christ--that is, in his blood, &c.,--at once, thou givest
the lie to the whole testament of God; yea, thou tramplest upon
the promise of grace, and countest this precious blood an unholy
and unworthy thing (Heb 10:29). Now how, thou doing thus, the Lord
should accept of thy other duties, of prayer, alms, thanksgiving,
self-denial, or any other, will be hard for thee to prove. In the
meantime remember, that faith pleaseth God; and that without faith
it is impossible to please him. Remember also, that for this cause
it was that the offering of Cain was not accepted: 'By faith Abel
offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain'; for by
faith Abel first justified the promise of the Messias, by whom a
conquest should be obtained over the devil, and all the combination
of hell against us: then he honoured Christ by believing that he
was able to save him; and in token that he believed these things
indeed, he presented the Lord with the firstlings of his flock, as
a remembrance before God that he believed in his Christ (Heb 11:4).
And therefore it is said, 'By faith he offered'; by which means the
offering was accepted of God; for no man's offering can be accepted
with God but his that stands righteous before him first. But unbelief
holdeth men under their guilt, because they have not believed in
Christ, and by that means put on his righteousness. Again; he that
believeth not, hath made invalid--what in him lies--the promise of
God and merits of Christ, of whom the Father hath spoken so worthily;
therefore what duties or acts of obedience soever he performeth,
God by no means can be pleased with him.

By this, therefore, you see the miserable state of the people that
have not faith--'Whatever they do, they sin'; if they break the
law, they sin; if they endeavour to keep it, they sin. They sin, I
say, upon a double account: first, because they do it but imperfectly;
and, secondly, because they yet stay upon that, resisting that which
is perfect, even that which God hath appointed. It mattereth not,
as to justification from the curse, therefore; men wanting faith,
whether they be civil or profane, they are such as stand accursed
of the law, because they have not believed, and because they have
given the lie to the truth, and to the God of truth. Let all men,
therefore, that would please God make conscience of believing;
on pain, I say, of displeasing him; on pain of being, with Cain,
rejected, and on pain of being damned in hell. 'He that believeth
not shall be damned' (Mark 16:16). Faith is the very quintessence
of all gospel obedience, it being that which must go before other
duties, and that which also must accompany whatever I do in the
worship of God, if it be accepted of him.[35] Here you may see a
reason why the force and power of hell is so bent against believing.
Satan hateth all the parts of our Christian obedience, but the best
and chiefest most. And hence the apostle saith to the Thessalonians,
that he sent to know their faith, lest by some means the tempter
have tempted them, and so his labour had been in vain (1 Thess
3:5). Indeed, where faith is wanting, or hath been destroyed, all
the labour is in vain, nothing can profit any man, neither as to
peace with God, nor the acceptance of any religious duty; and this,
I say, Satan knows, which makes him so bend his force against us.

There are three things in the act of believing which make this
grace displeasing to the wicked one--

1. Faith discovereth the truth of things to the soul; the truth of
things as they are, whether they be things that are of this world,
or of that which is to come; the things and pleasures above, and
also those beneath. Faith discovereth to the soul the blessedness,
and goodness, and durableness of the one; the vanity, foolishness,
and transitoriness of the other. Faith giveth credit to all things
that are written in the law and in the prophets (Acts 24:14),
both as to the being, nature, and attributes of God; the blessed
undertaking of the Lord Jesus Christ; the glory of heaven and torments
of hell; the sweetness of the promise and terror of the threatenings
and curses of the Word; by which means Satan is greatly frustrated in
his assaults when he tempteth either to love this world or slight
that which is to come, for he can do no great matter in these
things to any but those who want the faith. 'In vain is the snare
laid in the sight of any bird' (Prov 1:17); therefore he must
first blind, and hold blind, the minds of men, 'that the light of
the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should not
shine unto them,' else he can do no harm to the soul (2 Cor 4:4).
Now, faith is the eye of the godly man, and that sees the truth
of things, whatever Satan suggests, either about the glory of this
world, the sweetness of sin, the uncertainty of another world, or
the like (1 John 5:4,5; Heb. 11:27).

2. Faith wraps the soul up in the bundle of life with God;
it encloseth it in the righteousness of Jesus, and presents it so
perfect in that, that whatever he can do, with all his cunning,
cannot render the soul spotted or wrinkled before the justice of
the law; yea, though the man, as to his own person and acts, be
full of sin from top to toe, Jesus Christ covereth all; faith sees
it, and holds the soul in the godly sense and comfort of it. The
man, therefore, standing here, stands shrouded under that goodly
robe that makes him glisten in the eye of justice. Yea, all the
answer that Satan can get from God against such a soul is, that he
'doth not see iniquity in Jacob, nor behold perverseness in Israel';
for here 'Israel hath not been forsaken, nor Judah of his God, of
the Lord of hosts, though,' as to their own persons, 'their land
was filled with sin against the Holy One of Israel' (Num 23:21-23;
Jer 51:5; Rom 6:14; Deut 33:12). Thus, therefore, the soul believing,
is hid from all the power of the enemy, and dwells safely under
the dominion of grace.

3. Faith keeps the soul from giving credit to any of his insinuations;
for whatever Satan saith, either about the acceptance of my person
or performances, so long as I believe that both are accepted of
God for Christ's sake, he suggesteth to the wind; wherefore faith
doth the same against the devil that unbelief doth to God. Doth
unbelief count God a liar? Faith counts the devil a liar. Doth
unbelief hold the soul from the mercy of God? Faith holds the soul
from the malice of the devil. Doth unbelief quench thy graces?
Faith kindleth them even into a flame. Doth unbelief fill the soul
full of sorrow? Faith fills it full of the joy of the Holy Ghost.
In a word, doth unbelief bind down thy sins upon thee? Why, faith
in Jesus Christ releaseth thee of them all.

4. As faith keeps the soul from giving credit to the insinuations
of Satan, so, when he makes his assaults, it over-masters him,
and makes him retreat; 'Resist the devil, and he will flee from
you.--Whom resist steadfast in the faith' (James 4:7; 1 Peter
5:9). Believe, as I have already said, that God loveth you, that
the blood of Christ was shed for you, that your person is presented
complete before him, through the righteousness of Christ, and Satan
must give place; thy crediting of the gospel makes him fly before
thee; but thou must do it steadfast in the faith; every waverer
giveth him advantage. And, indeed, this is the reason that the godly
are so foiled with his assaults, they do not resist him steadfast
in the faith; they often stagger through unbelief. Now, at every
stagger he recovereth lost ground again, and giveth battle another
time. Besides, by this and the other stagger he taketh heart
to attempt by other means, and so doubleth the affliction with
manifold temptations. This is, I say, for want of being steadfast.
'Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able
to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked' (Eph 6:16). To quench
them, though they come from him as kindled with the very fire
of hell. None knows, save him that feels it, how burning hot the
fiery darts of Satan are; and how, when darted, they kindle upon
our flesh and unbelief; neither can any know the power and worth
of faith to quench them but he that hath it, and hath power to act
it.

5. Lastly, if justifying righteousness be alone to be found in the
person of Jesus Christ, then this shows us the sad condition of
two sorts of men--1. Of those that hang in doubt betwixt Christ
and the law. 2. Of those that do professedly make denial of the
sufficiency of this most blessed righteousness.

First. The first sort, though they may seek life, yet, thus continuing,
are never like to find it. Wherefore? Because they seek it not by
faith, but, as it were, by the works of the law. Indeed, they will
not be merit-mongers; they will not wholly trust to the law; they
will partly venture on Christ, and partly trust to the law. Well,
but therefore they shall be damned, because they trust to Christ
but in part, and in part, as it were, to the works of the law; for
such sinners make Christ but a Saviour in part--why, then, should
he be their Saviour in whole? No; because they halt between Christ
and the law, therefore they shall fall between Christ and the law;
yea, because they will trust to their works in part, they shall be
but almost saved by Christ. Let not that man think that he shall
obtain any thing from the Lord. What man? Why, he that doubteth or
wavereth in his mind about the truth of the mercy of God in Christ.
Therefore the exhortation is, 'But let him ask in faith.--For he
that wavereth,' or, that halteth between the law and Christ for
life, 'is like a wave of the sea, driven of the wind and tossed'
(James 1:6). In conclusion, he resteth nowhere--'a double-minded
man is unstable in all his ways' (v 8). This man, therefore, must
miscarry; he must not see the good land that flows with milk and
honey; no, let him not have a thought of life in his heart; let
not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.[36]

This was the case of many in the primitive times, for whose sake
this caution was written; for the devout and religious Jew and
proselyte, when they fell away from the word of the gospel, they
did not fall to those gross and abominable pollutions in which the
open profane, like sows and swine, do wallow, but they fell from
the grace of God to the law; or, at least, did rest betwixt them
both, doubting of the sufficiency of either; and thus, being fearful,
they distrust; wherefore, being found at length unbelieving, they
are reputed of God abominable, as murderers, whoremongers, sorcerers,
idolators, and liars, and so must have their portion in the lake,
with them, that burns with fire and brimstone (Rev 21:8). The
reason is, because where Christ is rejected sin remaineth, and so
the wrath of God for sin. Neither will he be a Saviour in part; he
must be all thy salvation, or none. 'Let not that man think that
he shall receive any thing of the Lord' (James 1:7; John 3:36).
Not any thing. There is no promise for him, no pardon for him,
no heaven for him, no salvation for him, no escaping of his fire!
What condition is this man in? Yet he is a religious man, for he
prays; he is a seeking man, a desiring man, for he prays; but he
halts between two, he leaneth to his righteousness, and committeth
iniquity. He is afraid to venture all upon the Lord Jesus Christ.
Let not that man think of receiving any thing from the Lord!

Yet the words suggest that he is apt to think he shall receive
something, because God is merciful, because his promise is great;
but this expectation is by this word cut off, and this sinner is
cast away. Let not that man think, let him forbear to think, of
having anything at the hand of God. The Israelites thought to go
up to the land the day after they had despised it. Agag thought
the bitterness of death was past even that day in which he was hewn
to pieces. Rechab and Baanah his brother thought to have received
reward of David that day they were hanged over the pool in Hebron.
Let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord'
(Num 14:40-45; 1 Sam 15:32,33; 2 Sam 4:12).

Second. As for those that do professedly make denial of the
sufficiency of this most blessed righteousness, the whole book is
conviction to them, and shall assuredly, if it comes to their hands,
rise up in judgment against them. They have rejected the wisdom
and mercy of God; they have rejected the means of their salvation;
they have trampled upon the blood of the Son of God; wherefore
judgment waiteth for them, and fiery indignation, which shall devour
the adversaries.

[A word to neglecters of Christ.]

To conclude. One word also to you that are neglecters of Jesus
Christ: 'How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation?'
Here then, we may see how we ought to judge of all such persons as
neglect the Lord Jesus, under what guise, name, or notion soever
they be. We ought, I say, to judge of such, that they are at present
in a state of condemnation; of condemnation, 'because they have
not believed in the only-begotten Son of God' (John 3:18). It is
true, there is no man more at ease in his mind, with such ease as
it is, than the man that hath not closed with the Lord Jesus, but
is shut up in unbelief. O! but that is the man that stands convict
before God, and that is bound over to the great assize; that is
the man whose sins are still his own, and upon whom the wrath of
God abideth (v 36); for the ease and peace of such, though it keep
them far from fear, is but like to that of the secure thief, that
is ignorant that the constable standeth at the door; the first sight
of an officer makes his peace to give up the ghost (1 John 5:12).
Ah, how many thousands that can now glory that they never were
troubled for sin against God; I say, how many be there that God will
trouble worse than he troubled cursed Achan, because their peace,
though false, and of the devil, was rather chosen by them than peace
by Jesus Christ, than 'peace with God by the blood of his cross'
(Col 1:20). Awake, careless sinners, awake! and arise from the
dead, and Christ shall give you light. Content not yourselves either
with sin or righteousness, if you be destitute of Jesus Christ,
but cry, cry, O cry to God for light to see your condition by;
for light in the Word of God, for therein is the righteousness
of God revealed (Eph 5:14). Cry, therefore, for light to see this
righteousness by; it is a righteousness of Christ's finishing, of
God's accepting, and that which alone can save the soul from the
stroke of eternal justice! (Rom 1:17).

There are six things that on man's part are the cause he receiveth
not the gospel of Christ, and so life by him--1. They see not their
state by nature, how polluted they are with original sin (Eph 2:2).
2. They see not the justice of God against sin; they know not him
that hath said, 'Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense'
(Heb 10:30). 3. They cannot see the beauty of Jesus Christ (2 Cor
4:4). 4. Unbelief being mighty in them, they dare not venture their
souls with Jesus Christ. They dare not trust to his righteousness,
and to that only (Rev 21:8). For, 5. Their carnal reason also sets
itself against the word of faith, and cannot stoop to the grace
of Jesus Christ (1 Cor 2:14). 6. They love to have honour one
of another, they love to be commended for their own vain-glorious
righteousness; and the fools think that because they are commended
of men, they shall be commended of God also: 'How can ye believe,
which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that
cometh from God only?' (John 5:44). This last thing--to wit, desire
of vain-glory, is the bane of thousands; it is the legalist's bane,
it is the civilian's[37] bane, it is the formalist's bane, yea,
which yet is stranger, it is the bane of the vicious and debauched
also;[38] for though there be a generation that, to one's thinking,
have not regard to righteousness, yet watch them narrowly, and
they have their times of doing something that looks like good, and
though possibly it be but seldom, yet this wretch counteth that,
for the sake of that, God accepteth him, and counteth his, glorious
righteousness. I might add a seventh cause, which is, want of
serious meditation upon eternal judgment, and what shall follow.
This consideration, did it take a deep place in the heart, would
doubtless produce these workings of spirit after Jesus Christ for
justification that now are wanting in the most of men. This made
Felix, yea, it makes the devils, tremble; and would, I say, couldst
thou deeply meditate, make thee start and turn thy wanton thoughts
into heavy sighs after God's mercy in Jesus Christ, lest thou also
come into their place of torment.

Before I conclude this use, I would lay down a few motives, if so
be thou mayest be prevailed with to look after thine own everlasting
state.

1. Consider, God hath put man above all the creatures in this
visible world, into a state of abiding for ever; they cannot be
annihilated, they shall never again be turned into nothing, but
must live with God or the devil for ever and ever. And though the
scripture saith, 'Man hath not pre-eminence over a beast in his
death,' yet the beast hath pre-eminence above many men, for he
shall not rise again to come into judgment as man must, nor receive
that dismal sentence for sin and transgression as man shall; this,
therefore, is worthy to be considered with seriousness of all
that have souls to be saved or damned--'They must one day come to
judgment,' there to stand before that Judge of all the earth whose
eyes are like a flame of fire, from the sight of which thou canst
not hide one of thy words, or thoughts, or actions, because thou
wantest the righteousness of God. The fire of his justice shall
burn up all thy rags of righteousness wherewith by the law thou
hast clothed thyself, and will leave thee nothing but a soul full
of sin to bemoan, and eternal burnings to grapple with. O the
burnings that will then beset sinners on every side, and that will
eat their flesh and torment their spirit with far more terror than
if they were stricken with scorpions! And observe it, the torment
will there be higher than other where there is the guilt of neglecting
Jesus Christ, he being indeed the Saviour, and him that was sent
on purpose to deliver men from the wrath to come.

2. Consider, once past grace, and ever past grace. When the door
is shut against thee, it will open no more, and then repentings,
desires, wishings, and wouldings, come all too late (Luke 13).
Good may be done to others, but to thee, none; and this shall be
because, even because thou hast withstood the time of thy visitation,
and not received grace when offered: 'My God will cast them away,
because they did not hearken unto him' (Luke 19:41-43; Hosea 9:17).
Cain was driven out from the presence of God, for aught I know,
some hundreds of years before his death; Ishmael was cast away after
seventeen years of age; Esau lived thirty or forty years after he
had sold his birthright. O! many, very many are in this condition!
for though God be gracious, yet he will not be slighted nor abused
always; there are plenty of sinners in the world--if one will not,
another will. Christ was soon repulsed by and sent away from the
country of the Gadarenes; but on the other side of the sea there
were many ready with joy to receive him (Luke 8:37,40). So, when
the Jews contradicted and blasphemed, 'the Gentiles gladly received
the word' (Acts 13:46-48). Look to it, sinner, here is life and
death set before thee; life, if it be not too late to receive it;
but if it be, it is not too late for death to swallow thee up.
And tell me, will it not be dreadful to be carried from under the
gospel to the damned, there to lie in endless torment, because thou
wouldst not be delivered therefrom?[39] Will it be comfort to thee
to see the Saviour turn Judge? to see him that wept and died for
the sin of the world now ease his mind on Christ-abhorring sinners
by rendering to them the just judgment of God? For all their
abominable filthiness, had they closed with Christ, they had been
shrouded from the justice of the law, and should not have come into
condemnation. 'But had been passed from death to life'; but they
would not take shelter there; they would venture to meet the justice
of God in its fury, wherefore now it shall swallow them up for ever
and ever. And let me ask further, is not he a madman who, being
loaded with combustible matter, will run headlong into the fire
upon a bravado? or that, being guilty of felony or murder, will
desperately run himself into the hand of the officer, as if the law,
the judge, the sentence, execution, were but a jest, or a thing to
be played withal? And yet thus mad are poor, wretched, miserable
sinners, who, flying from Christ as if he were a viper, they are
overcome, and cast off for ever by the just judgment of the law.
But ah! how poorly will these be able to plead the virtues of the
law to which they have cleaved, when God shall answer them, 'Whom
dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and be thou laid with the
uncircumcised' (Eze 32:19). Go down to hell, and there be laid with
those that refused the grace of God.

Sinners, take my advice, with which I shall conclude this use--Call
often to remembrance that thou hast a precious soul within thee; that
thou art in the way to thine end, at which thy precious soul will
be in special concerned, it being then time to delay no longer,
the time of reward being come. I say again, bring thy end home; put
thyself in thy thoughts into the last day thou must live in this
world, seriously arguing thus--How if this day were my last? How if
I never see the sun rise more? How if the first voice that rings
to-morrow morning in my heavy ears be, 'Arise, ye dead, and come
to judgment?' Or how, if the next sight I see with mine eyes be
the Lord in the clouds, with all his angels, raining floods of fire
and brimstone upon the world? Am I in a case to be thus near mine
end? to hear this trump of God? or to see this great appearance of
this great God, and the Lord Jesus Christ? Will my profession, or
the faith I think I have, carry me through all the trials of God's
tribunal? Cannot his eyes, which are as a flame of fire, see in my
words, thoughts, and actions enough to make me culpable of the wrath
of God? O how serious should sinners be in this work of remembering
things to come, of laying to their heart the greatness and terror
of that notable day of God Almighty, and in examining themselves,
how it is like to go with their souls when they shall stand before the
Judge indeed! To this end, God make this word effectual. Amen.[40]

FOOTNOTES:

1. These are most important distinctions, upon which depends a
right understanding of this doctrine. God sees the soul either in
Christ or in sin. He may see apparently good works arising from the
foulest motives. Uriah doubtless thought himself highly honoured
as a confidential messenger of great king David; God saw the murder
and adultery in David's heart. He was justified in the sight of
man for the very act that condemned him in the sight of God; and
for which he was sorely punished in this world, although saved by
the blood of atonement.--Ed.

2. Let not a scoffer say, 'See how Christians cast away the law of
God!' They are under the law to Christ; bound by the most sacred
obligations to obey all its requirements; not to merit pardon, but
to prove, to the comfort of their souls, that they have received
pardon, and are living under a sense of the unmerited grace of God
in Christ.--Ed.

3. This is a clear statement of a most important truth. The sins
of believers were laid upon Christ, or imputed to him, and he bore
them away, but was undefiled. His righteousness covers us, and we
are justified, but it is still HIS. Not unto us, but unto his name,
be all the glory.--Ed.

4. By 'common,' is here meant that Christ is the federal head
of all his saints; they have an equal or common right equally to
participate in his merits.--Ed.

5. How full of consolation is this voice from the tomb! Lowth's
translation is very striking--'Thy dead shall live, my deceased;
they SHALL arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust; for
thy dew is as the dew of the dawn! But the earth shall cast forth,
as an abortion, thy deceased tyrants.' Antichrist shall 'cease from
troubling,' and be only seen afar off in torments.--Ed.

6. Christ (amazing love!) 'was made a curse for us,' and thereby
redeemed us from the curse of the law. He subjected himself to the
law in active as well as passive obedience, and his obedience even
to death was for our justification.--Mason.

7. Those whom God justifies, he also glorifies; and because Christ
lives, blessed be God! we shall live also. Nevertheless, the
strongest believer has as much need to come to Christ every day
for fresh strength, as if he had never believed before; and if he
were to depend on his own faithfulness, and not on the faithfulness
of the Son of God, he would soon desert the Lord Jesus Christ.--Mason.

8. The symbol of regeneration, or water baptism. Although the
regenerate believer feels an assurance that he forms part of Christ's
mystical body, and is saved by grace, and loves God because God
first loved him, this does not prevent, but approves, his following
the example of his Redeemer, in a symbolical or water baptism. Thus
he publicly puts on Christ; he is buried with him in baptism, and
rises to newness of life. Colossians 2:12, 13.--Ed.

9. Believer, if thou art rejoicing in this great and finished
salvation, never forget that thine only evidence is--sorrow for
thy sins, which caused the shedding of this precious blood, and a
love of holiness. If sin be deplored, not only art thou redeemed
from its curse, but also delivered from its power. The grace that
justifies quickens us to good works, that we may walk therein.--Ed.

10. Because it is tainted by sin.--Ed.

11. The best righteousness that can be produced by fallen man is
impressively designated by Isaiah, 'A bed shorter than a man can
stretch himself on, and a covering narrower than he can wrap himself
in.'--Ed.

12. The way of salvation by works was blasted by the curse upon
Adam's sin, so that it cannot work life in us, or holiness, but
only death.--Ed.

13. To divert or turn aside from an intended course; not to divert
or amuse.--Ed.

14. Bunyan, in his Creation Spiritualized, or Exposition on Genesis,
has shown that the fig-leaf aprons are a type of man's attempt to
cover his sins by his own good works, which soon fade, become dung,
or are burned up. But the righteousness that God provides endureth
for ever. See vol. i., p. 440.--Ed.

15. The marginal notes to the Bible are exceedingly valuable,
especially to the unlearned. There we find that Jedidiah means
'beloved of the Lord.'--Ed.

16. The birth of a babe is a period of excitement. Parents should
hope that the new comer is a Jedidiah. On such occasions, it is a
delightful service when the father, mother, and family specially
attend public worship, to bless God for his mercies, and to beseech
grace that they may train up the child for heaven. Such is the
practice among the Baptists. But even in this, watchfulness is
requisite, lest it degenerate into mere parade.--Ed.

17. The non-imputation of sin, and the imputation of Christ's
righteousness, always go together. David knew this; while he describes
the blessedness of the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin,
he, at the same time, describes the blessedness of the man to whom
God imputeth Christ's righteousness.--Mason.

18. However excellent the conduct of Zaccheus, still he was a sinner,
and under the curse. His curiosity leads him to climb a tree to
see Jesus, and most unexpectedly salvation is brought to one who
sought it not. Christ called, and he instantly obeyed. O may our
hearts be so inclined to receive the invitations of his gospel!.--Ed.

19. We are all, by nature and practice, in a spiritual sense, robbers,
idolaters, and murderers. God make us to know and feel it! We may
adopt the language of the poet, and say--


   'Sinful soul, what hast thou done?
    Murder'd God's eternal Son!'--Mason.


20. Works justify us from such accusations of men as will deny us
to have justification by faith--not as being our righteousness, or
conditions of our having Christ's righteousness, or as qualifying
us for it.--Mason.

21. Every edition of Bunyan's works calls this a 'void of words,'
and gives a false reference to Hebrews 12:14.--Ed.

22. The law condemns all sinners, and strikes them dead as with a
thunderbolt; adjudging them to shame and misery, instead of glory
and happiness. None can fulfil its strict terms, neither Jew nor
Gentile. There is no hope, if free grace restore them not. Romans
3:20, 2:6-29; 8:7.--Mason.

23. Hagar, by which is meant the law or covenant of works. This
is said to gender unto bondage, because it makes them bondmen who
look to be saved and justified thereby. It is called the 'ministration
of death' (2 Cor 3:6). Whereas the gospel and new covenant is a
dispensation of liberty and life.--Mason.

24. We will hold and extol this faith which doubteth not of God,
nor of the Divine promises, nor of the forgiveness of sins through
Christ; that we may dwell sure and safe in this our object Christ,
and may keep still before our eyes the passion and blood of the
Mediator and all his benefits.--Luther on Galatians 3:11.

25. Multitudes of professors set up their rest in outward duties,
and repose a carnal confidence in ordinances, without endeavouring
after any lively communion with Father, Son, or Holy Spirit, in
the exercise of faith and love.--Mason.

26. Conscience, if resisted, is little case, whether rightly or
wrongly informed. By little ease, is meant a prison not large enough
either to lie down or stand upright in, with spikes in the walls;
places of torment well known in former times of persecution for
conscience sake.--Ed.

27. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. We must either, as lost sinners,
fall into the arms of Divine mercy, and receive pardon as a free
gift through the merits of the Saviour, or we must perish. It is
a solemn, searching consideration.--Ed.

28. Difficult at any time, and impossible without Divine power; but
most difficult when all the faculties of the soul become harrowed
by a 'certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation'
(Heb 10:27).--Ed.

29. If we seek salvation by works, such as sincere obedience or
Christian perfection, we thereby bring ourselves under the law, and
become debtors to fulfil all its requirements, though we intended
to engage ourselves to fulfil it only in part (Gal 5:3). Let this
be seriously considered.--Mason.

30. These 'foolish men' were a sect which sprung up in Bunyan's
time, and soon became extinct. They believed that the sufferings
of Christ, to his death on Calvary, were only typical of what he
suffers in the body of every believer. This was as contrary to the
express declaration of Holy Writ, 'He was ONCE offered' (Heb 9:28),
as is the absurd notion of the Papists in the mass, or continual
sacrifice of Christ. What impious mortal dares pretend to offer up
Christ to his Father.--Ed.

31. As the carnal Adam, having lost his original righteousness,
imparts a corrupt nature to all his descendants; so the spiritual
Adam, Christ Jesus, by his obedience unto death, conveys spiritual life
to us; believers are made 'the righteousness of God in him.'--Mason.

32. 'Neck' is from hniga, to bend or incline. In Bunyan's time,
these ancient words were well understood by the peasantry. To have
the neck turned, so as to bend the back of the head towards the
back of the body, would be as absurd as for faith to look to its
own works for justification. This would indeed be bowing backward,
instead of bending before, and looking to Jesus and his finished
work for justification.--Ed.

33. Modern editors have altered this to 'imperfections,' but Bunyan
would have us look to the most perfect of our works, and see how
polluted they are.--Ed.

34. Faith looks at things which be not, as though they were. Sense
judges from what it sees and feels, faith from what God says;
sense looks inward to self, faith looks outward to Christ and his
fullness.--Mason.

35. How strangely does the world mistake the source of good works!
The common and fatal error is, that if salvation is all of faith,
then good works will fail; whereas faith is the prolific fountain,
yea, the only source of really good works and holy obedience.--Ed.

36. How universal to fallen nature is that soul-destroying heresy--the
attempt to justify ourselves partly by our own good works, and to
make up the deficiency by the merits of the Saviour! Ye might as
well attempt to serve God and mammon, as to unite our impure works
with those of the pure and holy Jesus. We must, as perishing sinners,
fall into the arms of Divine mercy, and receive pardon as a free
gift, wholly through the merits of the Saviour, or we must for ever
perish. It is an awful consideration.--Ed.

37. 'The civilian'; one who is versed in law and government. See
Imperial Dictionary.--Ed.

38. When the pilgrims Christian and Hopeful had wandered in By-path
Meadow, one that walked before them said that the way led to the
celestial gate. 'He therefore that went before, Vain-confidence by
name, not seeing the way before him, fell into a deep pit, which
was on purpose there made by Giant Despair to catch vain-glorious
fools withal, and was dashed in pieces with his fall.' Beware, O
legalist, civilian, or formalist!--Ed.

39. How deplorably and inexcusably they will perish, who perish by
their own willful unbelief under the gospel! It will be dreadful
indeed to be driven, as it were, from the very gate of heaven to
the lowermost and hottest hell. Lord, send forth thy light, truth,
and power, that sinners may be saved and comforted by coming unto
thee for life and peace!--Mason.

40. This is a striking and soul-searching appeal. O that the Holy
Spirit may 'search me and try me, and see if there be any wicked
way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting,' before we go hence
into the eternal state!--Ed.

***

SAVED BY GRACE;

OR,

A DISCOURSE OF THE GRACE OF GOD:

SHOWING--

I. WHAT IT IS TO BE SAVED. II. WHAT IT IS TO BE SAVED BY GRACE.
III. WHO THEY AEE THAT ABE SAVED BY GRACE. IV. HOW IT APPEARS THAT
THEY ARE SAVED BY GRACE. V. WHAT SHOULD BE THE REASON THAT GOD SHOULD
CHOOSE TO SAVE SINNERS BY GRACE RATHER THAN BY ANY OTHER MEANS.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

THIS admirable Treatise upon the most important of all subjects,
that of the soul's salvation, was first published in a pocket volume,
in the year 1675. This has become very rare, but it is inserted in
every edition of the author's collected works. Our copy is reprinted
from the first edition published after the author's decease, in
a small folio volume of his works, 1691. Although it is somewhat
encumbered with subdivisions, it is plain, practical, and written
in Bunyan's strong and energetic style; calculated to excite the
deepest attention, and to fix the mind upon those solemn realities
which alone can unite earth with heaven.

Ho extensive is the meaning of that little sentance, 'Saved by
Grace!' It includes in it redemption from the curse of sin, which
oppresses the poor sinner with the fears of everlasting burnings;
while it elevates the body, soul, and spirit, to an eternal and an
exceeding weight of glory--to the possession of infinite treasures,
inconceivable, and that never fade away.

Bunyan, in opening and deeply investigating this subject, shows his
master hand in every page. It was a subject which, from his first
conviction of sin, while playing a gat at cat on a Sunday, ahd
excited his feelings to an intense degree, absorbing all the powers
of his soul. It was eminently to him the one thing needful--the
sum and substance of human habbiness. He felt that it included the
preservation and re-structure of the body--raised from filth and
vileness--from sickness, pain, and disease--from death and the
grave--to be perfected in immortality like the Saviour's glorious
body. That included in this salvation, is the death ofdeath, and the
swallowing up of the grave, to be no more seen for ever. The soul
will be perfect, and, re-united with the body, be filled 'with
bliss and glory, as much as ever it can hold;' all jars and discord
between sould and body will be finished; and the perfect man be
clothed with righteousness; in a word, be like Christ and with him.
All this is the work of grace, performed by the ever-blessed Trinity.

In displaying the feelings and experience of the inquiring, alarmed,
quickened sinner, we are instructed by a continual illustration of
the Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners. He manifests profound
knowledge of the devices of Satan--the workings of unbelief--the
difficulties thrown by the wicked one in the way of the sinner,
to prevent his approach to Christ. He fastens conviction upon
conviction--gives blow upon blow to human pride; proving that there
can be found nothing in our fallen nature to recommend the sinner
to God--all is of grace--from the foundation to the top-stone of a
sinner's salvation. And above all, he clearly shows that salvation
by grace is the most sin-killing doctrine in the world, as well as
the most consoling tidings that can be brought to a sin-sick soul.
'O, when a God of grace is upon a throne of grace, and a poor sinner
stands by and begs for grace, and that in the name of a gracious
Christ, in and by the help of the Spirit of grace, can it be otherwise
but that such a sinner must obtain mercy and grace to help in time
of need? O, then, COME BOLDLY!' p. 360.

But I must not detain the reader from entering upon this solemn
subject; only for a moment, while I quote another passage conceived
in all the ardour of Bunyan's feelings:--'O Son of God! grace was
in all thy tears--grace came out where the. whip smote thee, where
the thorns pricked thee, where the nails and spear pierced thee! O
blessed Son of God! Here is grace indeed!' Unsearchable riches of
grace! Grace to make angels wonder, grace to make sinners happy,
grace to astonish devils! And what will become of them that trample
under foot this Son of God?'

Reader, may this searching, comforting, reviving subject be blessed
to our well-grounded consolation!

GEO. OFFOR.

TO THE READER.

COURTEOUS READER,

In this little book thou art presented with a discourse of the
GRACE of God, and of salvation by that grace. In which discourse,
thou shalt find how each Person in the Godhead doth his part in
the salvation of the sinner. I. The Father putteth forth his grace,
thus. II. The Son putteth forth his grace, thus. III. And the Spirit
putteth forth his grace, thus. Which things thou shalt find here
particularly handled.

Thou shalt also find, in this small treatise, the way of God with
the sinner, as to his CONVERSATION, 1 and the way of the sinner with
God in the same; where[in] the grace of God, and the wickedness of
the sinner, do greatly show themselves.

If thou findest me short in things, impute that [to] my love to
brevity. If thou findest me besides the truth in aught, impute that
to mine infirmity. But if thou findest anything here that serveth
to thy furtherance and joy of faith, impute that to the mercy of
God bestowed on thee and me.

Thine to serve thee with that little I have,

J.B.

SAVED BY GRACE.

"BY GRACE YE ARE SAVED."--EPHESIANS 2:5.

In the first chapter, from the fourth to the twelfth verse, the
apostle is treating of the doctrine of election, both with respect
to the act itself, the end, and means conducing thereto. The act,
he tells us, was God's free choice of some (verse 4,5,11). The end
was God's glory in their salvation (verse 6,14). The means conducing
to that end was Jesus Christ himself--"In whom we have redemption
through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches
of his grace" (verse 7). This done, he treateth of the subjection
of the Ephesians to the faith, as it was held forth to them in the
Word of the truth of the gospel, as also of their being sealed by
the Holy Spirit of God unto the day of redemption (verse 12-14).
Moreover, he telleth them how he gave thanks to God for them,
making mention of them in his prayers, even that he would make them
see "what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the
glory of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding
greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the
working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ, when he
raised him from the dead," &c. (verse 15-20).

And lest the Ephesians, at the hearing of these their so many
privileges, should forget how little they deserved them, he tells
them that in time past they were dead in trespasses and sins, and
that then they walked in them "according to the course of this
world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit
that now worketh in the children of disobedience" (Eph 2:2,3).

Having thus called them back to the remembrance of themselves--to
wit, what they were in their state of unregeneracy, he proceedeth
to show them that their first quickening was by the resurrection
of Christ their Head, in whom they before were chosen, and that
by him they were already set down in heavenly places, (verse 5,6);
inserting, by the way, the true cause of all this blessedness,
with what else should be by us enjoyed in another world; and that
is, the love and grace of God: "But God, who is rich in mercy, for
his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins,
hath quickened us together with Christ [by grace ye are saved]."
These last words seen to be the apostle's conclusion rightly drawn
from the premises; as who should say, If you Ephesians were indeed
dead in trespasses and sins; if indeed you were by nature the children
of wrath, even as others, then you deserve no more than others. 2

Again, if God hath chosen you, if God hath justified and saved you
by his Christ, and left others as good as you by nature to perish
in their sins, then the true cause of this your blessed condition
is, the free grace of God. But just thus it is, therefore by grace
ye are saved; therefore all the good which you enjoy more than
others, it is of mere goodwill.

"BY GRACE YE ARE SAVED."

The method that I shall choose to discourse upon these words shall
be this--I will propound certain questions upon the words, and
direct particular answers to them; in which answers I hope I shall
answer also, somewhat at least, the expectation of the godly and
conscientious reader, and so shall draw towards a conclusion.

THE QUESTIONS ARE--

I. What is it to be saved? II. What is it to be saved by grace? III.
Who are they that are saved by grace? IV. How it appears that they
that are saved, are saved by grace? V. What might be the reasons
which prevailed with God to save us by grace, rather than by any
other means?

Now the reason why I propound these five questions upon the words,
it is, because the words themselves admit them; the first three
are grounded upon the several phrases in the text, and the two last
are to make way for demonstration of the whole.

QUEST. I.--WHAT IS IT TO BE SAVED?

This question supposeth that there is such a thing as damnation
due to man for sin; for to save supposeth the person to be saved to
be at present in a sad condition; saving, to him that is not lost,
signifies nothing, neither is it anything in itself. "To save, to
redeem, to deliver," are in the general terms equivalent, and they
do all of them suppose us to be in a state of thraldom and misery;
therefore this word "saved," in the sense that the apostle here
doth use it, is a word of great worth, forasmuch as the miseries
from which we are saved is the misery of all most dreadful.

The miseries from which they that shall be saved shall by their
salvation be delivered, are dreadful; they are no less than sin,
the curse of God, and flames of hell for ever. What more abominable
than sin? What more insupportable than the dreadful wrath of an
angry God? And what more fearful than the bottomless pit of hell?
I say, what more fearful than to be tormented there for ever with
the devil and his angels? Now, to "save," according to my text, is
to deliver the sinner from these, with all things else that attend
them. And although sinners may think that it is no hard matter to
answer this question, yet I must tell you there is no man, that can
feelingly know what it is to be saved, that knoweth not experimentally
something of the dread of these three things, as is evident, because
all others do even by their practice count it a thing of no great
concern, when yet it is of all other of the highest concern among
men; "For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose his own soul?" (Matt 16:26).

But, I say, if this word "saved" concludeth our deliverance from
sin, how can he tell what it is to be saved that hath not in his
conscience groaned under the burden of sin? yea, it is impossible
else that he should ever cry out with all his heart, "Men and
brethren, what shall we do?"--that is, do to be saved (Acts 2:37).
The man that hath no sores or aches cannot know the virtue of the
salve; I mean, not know it from his own experience, and therefore
cannot prize, nor have that esteem of it, as he that hath received
cure thereby. Clap a plaster to a well place, and that maketh not its
virtue to appear; neither can he to whose flesh it is so applied,
by that application understand its worth. Sinners, you, I mean, that
are not wounded with guilt, and oppressed with the burden of sin,
you cannot--I will say it again--you cannot know, in this senseless
condition of yours, what it is to be saved.

Again; this word "saved," as I said, concludeth deliverance from
the wrath of God. How, then, can he tell what it is to be saved
that hath not felt the burden of the wrath of God? He--he that is
astonished with, and that trembleth at, the wrath of God--he knows
best what it is to be saved (Acts 16:29).

Further, this word "saved," it concludeth deliverance from death and
hell. How, then, can he tell what it is to be saved that never was
sensible of the sorrows of the one, nor distressed with the pains
of the other? The Psalmist says, "The sorrows of death compassed
me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and
sorrow. Then called I upon the name of the Lord"--(mark, then),
"then called I upon the name of the Lord; O Lord, I beseech thee,
deliver my soul,"--then, in my distress. When he knew what it was
to be saved, then he called, because, I say, then he knew what it
was to be saved (Psa 18:4,5; 116:3,4). I say, this is the man, and
this only, that knows what it is to be saved. And this is evident,
as is manifest by the little regard that the rest have to saving,
or the little dread they have of damnation. Where is he that seeks
and groans for salvation? I say, where is he that hath taken his
flight for salvation, because of the dread of the wrath to come? "O
generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to
come?" (Matt 3:7). Alas! do not the most set light by salvation?--as
for sin, how do they love it, embrace it, please themselves with
it, hide it still within their mouth, and keep it close under their
tongue. Besides, for the wrath of God, they feel it not, they fly
not from it; and for hell, it is become a doubt to many if there
be any, and a mock to those whose doubt is resolved by atheism.

But to come to the question--What is it to be saved? To be saved
may either respect salvation in the whole of it, or salvation in
the parts of it, or both. I think this text respecteth both--to
wit, salvation completing, and salvation completed; for "to save"
is a work of many steps; or, to be as plain as possible, "to save"
is a work that hath its beginning before the world began, and shall
not be completed before it is ended.

First, then, we may be said to be saved in the purpose of God before
the world began. The apostle saith that "he saved us, and called
us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according
to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus
before the world began" (2 Tim 1:9). This is the beginning of
salvation, and according to this beginning all things concur and
fall out in conclusion--"He hath saved us according to his eternal
purpose, which he purposed in Christ Jesus." God in thus saving
may be said to save us by determining to make those means effectual
for the blessed completing of our salvation; and hence we are said
"to be chosen in Christ to salvation." And again, that he hath in
that choice given us that grace that shall complete our salvation.
Yea, the text is very full, "He hath blessed us with all spiritual
blessings in heavenly places in Christ, according as he hath chosen
us in him before the foundation of the world" (Eph 1:3,4).

Second. As we may be said to be saved in the purpose of God before
the foundation of the world, so we may be said to be saved before
we are converted, or called to Christ. And hence "saved" is put
before "called"; "he hath saved us, and called us"; he saith not,
he hath called us, and saved us; but he puts saving before calling
(2 Tim 1:9). So again, we are said to be "preserved in Christ and
called"; he saith not, called and preserved (Jude 1). And therefore
God saith again, "I will pardon them whom I reserve"--that is, as
Paul expounds it, those whom I have "elected and kept," and this part
of salvation is accomplished through the forbearance of God (Jer
50:20; Rom 11:4,5). God beareth with is own elect, for Christ's sake,
all the time of their unregeneracy, until the time comes which he
hath appointed for their conversion. The sins that we stood guilty
of before conversion, had the judgment due to them been executed
upon us, we had not now been in the world to partake of a heavenly
calling. But the judgment due to them hath been by the patience
of God prevented, and we saved all the time of our ungodly and
unconverted state, from that death, and those many hells, that for
our sins we deserved at the hands of God.

And here lies the reason that long life is granted to the elect
before conversion, and that all the sins they commit and all the
judgments they deserve, cannot drive them out of the world before
conversion. Manasseh, you know, was a great sinner, and for the
trespass which he committed he was driven from his own land, and
carried to Babylon; but kill him they could not, though his sins
had deserved death ten thousand times. But what was the reason?
Why, he was not yet called; God had chosen him in Christ, and laid
up in him a stock of grace, which must be given to Manasseh before
he dies; therefore Manasseh must be convinced, converted, and saved.
That legion of devils that was in the possessed, with all the sins
which he had committed in the time of his unregeneracy, could not
take away his life before his conversion (Mark 5). How many times
was that poor creature, as we may easily conjecture, assaulted for
his life by the devils that were in him, yet could they not kill
him, yea, though his dwelling was near the sea-side, and the devils
had power to drive him too, yet could they not drive him further
than the mountains that were by the sea-side; yea, they could help
him often to break his chains and fetters, and could also make him
as mad as a bedlam, 3 they could also prevail with him to separate
from men, and cut himself with stones, but kill him they could
not, drown him they could not; he was saved to be called; he was,
notwithstanding all this, preserved in Christ, and called. As it
is said of the young lad in the gospel, he was by the devil cast
oft into the fire, and oft into the water, to destroy him, but it
could not be; even so hath he served others, but they must be "saved
to be called" (Mark 9:22). How many deaths have some been delivered
from and saved out of before conversion! Some have fallen into
rivers, some into wells, some into the sea, some into the hands
of men; yea, they have been justly arraigned and condemned, as
the thief upon the cross, but must not die before they have been
converted. They were preserved in Christ, and called.

Called Christian, how many times have thy sins laid thee upon
a sick-bed, and, to thine and others' thinking, at the very mouth
of the grave? yet God said concerning thee, Let him live, for he
is not yet converted. Behold, therefore, that the elect are saved
before they are called. 4 "God, who is rich in mercy, for his great
love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins," hath
preserved us in Christ, and called us (Eph 2:4,5).

Now this "saving" of us arises from six causes. 1. God hath chosen
us unto salvation, and therefore will not frustrate his own purposes
(1 Thess 5:9). 2. God hath given us to Christ; and his gift, as
well as his calling, is without repentance (Rom 11:29; John 6:37).
3. Christ hath purchased us with his blood (Rom 5:8,9). 4. They
are, by God, counted in Christ before they are converted (Eph
1:3,4). 5. They are ordained before conversion to eternal life;
yea, to be called, to be justified, to be glorified, and therefore
all this must come upon them (Rom 8:29,30). 6. For all this, he
hath also appointed them their portion and measure of grace, and
that before the world began; therefore, that they may partake of all
these privileges, they are saved and called, preserved in Christ,
and called.

Third. To be saved is to be brought to, and helped to lay hold on,
Jesus Christ by faith. And this is called saving by grace through
faith. "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of
yourselves, it is the gift of God" (Eph 2:8).

1. They must be brought unto Christ, yea, drawn unto him; for "no
man," saith Christ, "can come to me, except the Father which hath
sent me draw him" (John 6:44). Men, even the elect, have too many
infirmities to come to Christ without help from heaven; inviting
will not do. "As they called them, so they went from them," therefore
he "drew them with cords" (Hosea 11:2,4).

2. As they must be brought to, so they must be helped to lay hold
on Christ by faith; for as coming to Christ, so faith, is not in our
own power; therefore we are said to be raised up with him "through
the faith of the operation of God." And again, we are said to
believe, "according to the working of his mighty power, which he
wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead" (Col 2:12; Eph
1:19,20). Now we are said to be saved by faith, because by faith
we lay hold of, venture upon, and put on Jesus Christ for life.
For life, I say, because God having made him the Saviour, hath
given him life to communicate to sinners, and the life that he
communicates to them is the merit of his flesh and blood, which
whoso eateth and drinketh by faith, hath eternal life, because that
flesh and blood hath merit in it sufficient to obtain the favour of
God. Yea, it hath done so [since] that day it was offered through
the eternal Spirit a sacrifice of a sweet-smelling savour to him;
wherefore God imputeth the righteousness of Christ to him that
believeth in him, by which righteousness he is personally justified,
and saved from that just judgment of the law that was due unto him
(John 5:26, 6:53-58; Eph 4:32; 5:2; Rom 4:23-25).

"Saved by faith." For although salvation beginneth in God's purpose,
and comes to us through Christ's righteousness, yet is not faith
exempted from having a hand in saving of us. Not that it meriteth
aught, but is given by God to those which he saveth, that thereby
they may embrace and put on that Christ by whose righteousness they
must be saved. Wherefore this faith is that which here distinguisheth
them that shall be saved from them that shall be damned. Hence it
is said, "He that believeth not, shall be damned"; and hence again
it is that the believers are called "the children, the heirs, and
the blessed with faithful Abraham;" that the promise by faith in
Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe (Gal 3:6-9,26;
Rom 4:13,14).

And here let Christians warily distinguish betwixt the meritorious
and the instrumental cause of their justification. Christ, with
what he hath done and suffered, is the meritorious cause of our
justification; therefore he is said to be made to us of God, "wisdom
and righteousness;" and we are said to be "justified by his blood,
and saved from wrath through him," for it was his life and blood
that were the price of our redemption (1 Cor 1:30; Rom 5:9,10).
"Redeemed," says Peter, "not with corruptible things, as silver
and gold," alluding to the redemption of money under the law, "but
with the precious blood of Christ." Thou art, therefore, as I have
said, to make Christ Jesus the object of thy faith for justification;
for by his righteousness thy sins must be covered from the sight
of the justice of the law. "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and
thou shalt be saved." "For he shall save his people from their
sins" (Acts 16:31; Matt 1:21).

Fourth. To be saved is to be preserved in the faith to the end.
"He that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved" (Matt
24:13). Not that perseverance is an accident in Christianity, or
a thing performed by human industry; they that are saved "are kept
by the power of God, through faith unto salvation" (1 Peter 1:3-6).

But perseverance is absolutely necessary to the complete saving
of the soul, because he that falleth short of the state that they
that are saved are possessed of, as saved, cannot arrive to that
saved state. He that goeth to sea with a purpose to arrive at
Spain, cannot arrive there if he be drowned by the way; wherefore
perseverance is absolutely necessary to the saving of the soul,
and therefore it is included in the complete saving of us--"Israel
shall be saved in the Lord with an everlasting salvation: ye shall
not be ashamed nor confounded world without end" (Isa 45:17).
Perseverance is here made absolutely necessary to the complete
saving of the soul.

But, as I said, this part of salvation dependeth not upon human
power, but upon him that hath begun a good work in us (Phil 1:6).
This part, therefore, of our salvation is great, and calleth for
no less than the power of God for our help to perform it, as will
be easily granted by all those that consider--

1. That all the power and policy, malice and rage, of the devils
and hell itself are against us. Any man that understandeth this will
conclude that to be saved is no small thing. The devil is called
a god, a prince, a lion, a roaring lion; it is said that he hath
death and the power of it, &c. But what can a poor creature, whose
habitation is in flesh, do against a god, a prince, a roaring lion,
and the power of death itself? Our perseverance, therefore, lieth
in the power of God; "the gates of hell shall not prevail against
it."

2. All the world is against him that shall be saved. But what
is one poor creature to all the world, especially if you consider
that with the world is terror, fear, power, majesty, laws, jails,
gibbets, hangings, burnings, drownings, starvings, banishments,
and a thousand kinds of deaths? (1 John 5:4,5; John 16:33).

3. Add to this, that all the corruptions that dwell in our flesh
are against us, and that not only in their nature and being, but
they lust against us, and war against us, to "bring us into captivity
to the law of sin and death" (Gal 5:17; 1 Peter 2:11; Rom 7:23).

4. All the delusions in the world are against them that shall be
saved, many of which are so cunningly woven, so plausibly handled,
so rarely5 polished with Scripture and reason, that it is ten
thousand wonders that the elect are not swallowed up with them;
and swallowed up they would be, were they not elect, and was not
God himself engaged, either by power to keep them from falling, or
by grace to pardon if they fall, and to lift them up again (Matt
24:24; Eph 4:14; Rom 3:12).

5. Every fall of the saved is against the salvation of his soul;
but a Christian once fallen riseth not but as helped by Omnipotent
power--"O Israel, thou hast fallen by thine iniquity," "but in me
is thy help," says God (Hosea 13:9; 14:1; Psa 37:23).

Christians, were you awake, here would be matter of wonder to you,
to see a man assaulted with all the power of hell, and yet to come
off a conqueror! Is it not a wonder to see a poor creature, who
in himself is weaker than the moth, to stand against and overcome
all devils, all the world, all his lusts and corruptions? (Job
4:19). Or if he fall, is it not a wonder to see him, when devils
and guilt are upon him, to rise again, stand upon his feet again,
walk with God again, and persevere after all this in the faith and
holiness of the gospel? He that knows himself, wonders; he that
knows temptation, wonders; he that knows what falls and guilt mean,
wonders; indeed, perseverance is a wonderful thing, and is managed
by the power of God; for he only "is able to keep you from falling,
and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with
exceeding joy" (Jude 24). Those of the children of Israel that went
from Egypt, and entered the land of Canaan, how came they thither?
Why, the text says, that "as an eagle spreadeth abroad her wings,
so the Lord alone did lead them." And again, "he bore them, and
carried them all the days of old" (Deu 32:11,12; Isa 63:9). David
also tells us that mercy and goodness should follow him all the
days of his life, and so he should dwell in the house of the Lord
for ever (Psa 23:6).

Fifth. To be saved calls for more than all this; he that is saved,
must, when this world can hold him no longer, have a safe-conduct
to heaven, for that is the place where they that are saved must to
the full enjoy their salvation. This heaven is called "the end of
our faith," because it is that which faith looks at; as Peter says,
"Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls."
And again, "But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition;
but of them that believe to the saving of the soul" (1 Peter 1:9;
Heb 10:39). For, as I said, heaven is the place for the saved to
enjoy their salvation in, with that perfect gladness that is not
attainable here. Here we are saved by faith and hope of glory;
but there, we that are saved shall enjoy the end of our faith and
hope, even the salvation of our souls. There is "Mount Zion, the
heavenly Jerusalem, the general assembly and church of the firstborn;"
there is the "innumerable company of angels, and the spirits of
just men made perfect;" there is "God the judge of all, and Jesus
the Mediator of the new covenant;" there shall our soul have
as much of heaven as it is capable of enjoying, and that without
intermission; wherefore, when we come there we shall be saved indeed!
But now for a poor creature to be brought hither, this is the life
of the point. But how shall I come hither? there are heights and
depths to hinder (Rom 8:38,39).

