There was a general laugh, led by Doltaire, a concerted influence on
the young gentleman. I cursed myself that I had been snared to this
trap.

"The insolent," responded Duvarney, "not the unfortunate."

"Insolence is no crime, at least," I rejoined quietly, "else this
room were a penitentiary."

There was a moment's pause, and presently, as I kept my eye on
him, he raised his handkerchief and flicked me across the face with
it, saying, "Then this will be a virtue, and you may have more such
virtues as often as you will."

In spite of will, my blood pounded in my veins, and a devilish
anger took hold of me. To be struck across the face by a beardless
Frenchman, scarce past his teens!--it shook me more than now I care
to own. I felt my cheek burn, my teeth clinched, and I know a kind
of snarl came from me; but again, all in a moment, I caught a turn
of his head, a motion of the hand, which brought back Alixe to me.
Anger died away, and I saw only a youth flushed with wine, stung by
suggestions, with that foolish pride the youngster feels--and he was
the youngest of them all--in being as good a man as the best, and
as daring as the worst. I felt how useless it would be to try the
straightening of matters there, though had we two been alone a dozen
words would have been enough. But to try was my duty, and I tried
with all my might; almost, for Alixe's sake, with all my heart.

"Do not trouble to illustrate your meaning," said I patiently.
"Your phrases are clear and to the point."

"You bolt from my words," he retorted, "like a shy mare on the
curb; you take insult like a donkey on a well-wheel. What fly will
the English fish rise to? Now it no more plays to my hook than an
August chub."

I could not help but admire his spirit and the sharpness of his
speech, though it drew me into a deeper quandary. It was clear that
he would not be tempered to friendliness; for, as is often so, when
men have said things fiercely, their eloquence feeds their passion
and convinces them of holiness in their cause. Calmly, but with a
heavy heart, I answered:

"I wish not to find offense in your words, my friend, for in some
good days gone you and I had good acquaintance, and I can not forget
that the last hours of a light imprisonment before I entered on a
dark one were spent in the home of your father--of the brave
Seigneur whose life I once saved."

I am sure I should not have mentioned this in any other
situation--it seemed as if I were throwing myself on his mercy;
but yet I felt it was the only thing to do--that I must bridge
this affair, if at cost of some reputation.

It was not to be. Here Doltaire, seeing that my words had indeed
affected my opponent, said: "A double retreat! He swore to give a
challenge to-night, and he cries off like a sheep from a porcupine;
his courage is so slack, he dares not move a step to his liberty.
It was a bet, a hazard. He was to drink glass for glass with any
and all of us, and fight sword for sword with any of us who gave
him cause. Having drunk his courage to death, he'd now browse at
the feet of those who give him chance to win his stake."

His words came slowly and bitingly, yet with an air of damnable
nonchalance. I looked round me. Every man present was full-sprung
with wine; and a distance away, a gentleman on either side of him,
stood the Intendant, smiling detestably, a keen, houndlike look
shooting out of his small round eyes.

I had had enough; I could bear no more. To be baited like a bear
by these Frenchmen--it was aloes in my teeth! I was not sorry then
that these words of Juste Duvarney's gave me no chance of escape
from fighting; though I would it had been any other man in the room
than he. It was on my tongue to say that if some gentleman would
take up his quarrel I should be glad to drive mine home, though
for reasons I cared not myself to fight Duvarney. But I did not,
for I knew that to carry that point farther might rouse a general
thought of Alixe, and I had no wish to make matters hard for her.
Everything in its own good time, and when I should be free! So,
without more ado, I said to him:

"Monsieur, the quarrel was of your choosing, not mine. There was no
need for strife between us, and you have more to lose than I: more
friends, more years of life, more hopes. I have avoided your bait,
as you call it, for your sake, not mine own. Now I take it, and you,
monsieur, show us what sort of fisherman you are."

All was arranged in a moment. As we turned to pass from the room
to the courtyard, I noted that Bigot was gone. When we came
outside, it was just one, as I could tell by a clock striking in a
chamber near. It was cold, and some of the company shivered as we
stepped upon the white, frosty stones. The late October air bit the
cheek, though now and then a warm, pungent current passed across
the courtyard--the breath from the people's burnt corn. Even yet
upon the sky was the reflection of the fire, and distant sounds of
singing, shouting, and carousal came to us from the Lower Town.

We stepped to a corner of the yard and took off our coats; swords
were handed us--both excellent, for we had had our choice of many.
It was partial moonlight, but there were flitting clouds. That we
should have light, however, pine torches had been brought, and
these were stuck in the wall. My back was to the outer wall of the
courtyard, and I saw the Intendant at a window of the palace looking
down at us. Doltaire stood a little apart from the other gentlemen
in the courtyard, yet where he could see Duvarney and myself at
advantage.

Before we engaged, I looked intently into my opponent's face, and
measured him carefully with my eye, that I might have his height
and figure explicit and exact; for I know how moonlight and fire
distort, how the eye may be deceived. I looked for every button; for
the spot in his lean, healthy body where I could disable him, spit
him, and yet not kill him--for this was the thing furthest from my
wishes, God knows. Now the deadly character of the event seemed to
impress him, for he was pale, and the liquor he had drunk had given
him dark hollows round the eyes, and a gray shining sweat was on his
cheek. But his eyes themselves were fiery and keen and there was
reckless daring in every turn of his body.

I was not long in finding his quality, for he came at me violently
from the start, and I had chance to know his strength and weakness
also. His hand was quick, his sight clear and sure, his knowledge
to a certain point most definite and practical, his mastery of the
sword delightful; but he had little imagination, he did not divine,
he was merely a brilliant performer, he did not conceive. I saw that
if I put him on the defensive I should have him at advantage, for he
had not that art of the true swordsman, the prescient quality which
foretells the opponents action and stands prepared. There I had him
at fatal advantage--could, I felt, give him last reward of insult
at my pleasure. Yet a lust of fighting got into me, and it was
difficult to hold myself in check at all, nor was it easy to meet
his breathless and adroit advances.

Then, too, remarks from the bystanders worked me up to a deep sort
of anger, and I could feel Doltaire looking at me with that still,
cold face of his, an ironical smile at his lips. Now and then, too,
a ribald jest came from some young roisterer near, and the fact
that I stood alone among sneering enemies wound me up to a point
where pride was more active than aught else. I began to press him a
little, and I pricked him once. Then a singular feeling possessed
me. I would bring this to an end when I had counted ten; I would
strike home when I said "ten."

So I began, and I was not aware then that I was counting aloud.
"One--two--three!" It was weird to the onlookers, for the yard grew
still, and you could hear nothing but maybe a shifting foot or a
hard breathing. "Four--five--six!" There was a tenseness in the air,
and Juste Duvarney, as if he felt a menace in the words, seemed to
lose all sense of wariness, and came at me lunging, lunging with
great swiftness and heat. I was incensed now, and he must take what
fortune might send; one can not guide one's sword to do the least
harm fighting as did we.

I had lost blood, and the game could go on no longer. "Eight!" I
pressed him sharply now. "Nine!" I was preparing for the trick
which would end the matter, when I slipped on the frosty stones,
now glazed with our tramping back and forth, and, trying to recover
myself, left my side open to his sword. It came home, though I
partly diverted it. I was forced to my knees, but there, mad,
unpardonable youth, he made another furious lunge at me. I threw
myself back, deftly avoided the lunge, and he came plump on my
upstretched sword, gave a long gasp, and sank down.

At that moment the doors of the courtyard opened, and men stepped
inside, one coming quickly forward before the rest. It was the
Governor, the Marquis de Vaudreuil. He spoke, but what he said I
knew not, for the stark upturned face of Juste Duvarney was there
before me, there was a great buzzing in my ears, and I fell back
into darkness.


IV

THE RAT IN THE TRAP


When I waked I was alone. At first nothing was clear to me; my brain
was dancing in my head, my sight was obscured, my body painful, my
senses were blunted. I was in darkness, yet through an open door
there showed a light, which, from the smell and flickering, I knew
to be a torch. This, creeping into my senses, helped me to remember
that the last thing I saw in the Intendant's courtyard was a burning
torch, which suddenly multiplied to dancing hundreds and then went
out. I now stretched forth a hand, and it touched a stone wall; I
moved, and felt straw under me. Then I fixed my eyes steadily on
the open door and the shaking light, and presently it all came to
me: the events of the night, and that I was now in a cell of the
citadel. Stirring, I found that the wound in my body had been bound
and cared for. A loosely tied scarf round my arm showed that some
one had lately left me, and would return to finish the bandaging. I
raised myself with difficulty, and saw a basin of water, a sponge,
bits of cloth, and a pocket-knife. Stupid and dazed though I was,
the instinct of self-preservation lived, and I picked up the knife
and hid it in my coat. I did it, I believe, mechanically, for a
hundred things were going through my mind at the time.

All at once there rushed in on me the thought of Juste Duvarney as
I saw him last--how long ago was it?--his white face turned to the
sky, his arms stretched out, his body dabbled in blood. I groaned
aloud. Fool, fool! to be trapped by these lying French! To be
tricked into playing their shameless games for them, to have a
broken body, to have killed the brother of the mistress of my heart,
and so cut myself off from her and ruined my life for nothing--for
worse than nothing! I had swaggered, boasted, had taken a challenge
for a bout and a quarrel like any hanger-on of a tavern.

Suddenly I heard footsteps and voices outside; then one voice,
louder than the other, saying, "He hasn't stirred a peg--lies like
a log!" It was Gabord.

Doltaire's voice replied, "You will not need a surgeon--no?" His
tone, as it seemed to me, was less careless than usual.

Gabord answered, "I know the trick of it all--what can a surgeon do?
This brandy will fetch him to his intellects. And by-and-bye crack'll
go his spine--aho!"

You have heard a lion growling on a bone. That is how Gabord's voice
sounded to me then--a brutal rawness; but it came to my mind also
that this was the man who had brought Voban to do me service!

"Come, come, Gabord, crack your jaws less, and see you fetch him on
his feet again," said Doltaire. "From the seats of the mighty they
have said that he must live--to die another day; and see to it, or
the mighty folk will say that you must die to live another day--in a
better world, my Gabord."

There was a moment in which the only sound was that of tearing
linen, and I could see the shadows of the two upon the stone wall of
the corridor wavering to the light of the torch; then the shadows
shifted entirely, and their footsteps came on towards my door. I
was lying on my back as when I came to, and, therefore, probably as
Gabord had left me, and I determined to appear still in a faint.
Through nearly closed eyelids however I saw Gabord enter. Doltaire
stood in the doorway watching as the soldier knelt and lifted my arm
to take off the bloody scarf. His manner was imperturbable as ever.
Even then I wondered what his thoughts were, what pungent phrase
he was suiting to the time and to me. I do not know to this day
which more interested him--that very pungency of phrase, or the
critical events which inspired his reflections. He had no sense of
responsibility; his mind loved talent, skill, and cleverness, and
though it was scathing of all usual ethics, for the crude, honest
life of the poor it had sympathy. I remember remarks of his in the
market-place a year before, as he and I watched the peasant in his
sabots and the good-wife in her homespun cloth.

"These are they," said he, "who will save the earth one day, for
they are like it, kin to it. When they are born they lie close to
it, and when they die they fall no height to reach their graves. The
rest--the world--are like ourselves in dreams: we do not walk; we
think we fly, over houses, over trees, over mountains; and then one
blessed instant the spring breaks, or the dream gets twisted, and we
go falling, falling, in a sickening fear, and, waking up, we find we
are and have been on the earth all the while, and yet can make no
claim on it, and have no kin with it, and no right to ask anything
of it--quelle vie--quelle vie!"

Sick as I was, I thought of that as he stood there, looking in at
me; and though I knew I ought to hate him, I admired him in spite
of all.

Presently he said to Gabord, "You'll come to me at noon to-morrow,
and see you bring good news. He breathes?"

Gabord put a hand on my chest and at my neck, and said at once,
"Breath for balloons--aho!"

Doltaire threw his cloak over his shoulder and walked away, his
footsteps sounding loud in the passages. Gabord began humming to
himself as he tied the bandages, and then he reached down for the
knife to cut the flying strings. I could see this out of a little
corner of my eye. When he did not find it, he settled back on his
haunches and looked at me. I could feel his lips puffing out, and
I was ready for the "Poom!" that came from him. Then I could feel
him stooping over me, and his hot strong breath in my face. Her
work as member of the Board of Education has done much for Junction
City and her interest in libraries has done equally as much for the
State of Kansas.

Of her record as an official, Margaret Hill McCarter has
written: "Her whole soul is in her work.

She is the genuine metal, shirking nothing, cheapening nothing, and
withal happy in the enjoyment of her obligation.
She stands for patriotism, progress and peace.

Something of the message of the shepherds heard out beyond Bethlehem
that Christmas morning long ago sounds in the chords she strikes."

As the wife of the late Judge James Humphrey, she proved herself the
able companion of such a worthy man.

KATE A. APLINGTON.

The Kansas State Traveling Art Gallery owes its birth and much of
its success to Kate A.

Aplington, the author of that typical western story, "Pilgrims
of the Plains."

Since Feb., 1907, the Art Gallery has been a recognized state
institution, and as its Vice-President and Superintendent and as
the writer of the art lectures that accompany the work, Mrs.

Aplington's broad-minded, artistic temperament and student's
persistency have made the gallery truly a work of art.

At present, the Aplingtons are living at Miami, Florida, but for
a quarter of a century, Council Grove, the most famous spot on the
Santa Fe Trail, was their home.

Special investigations and researches on the subject of the old
Santa Fe Trail days and lecturers on educational and literary
topics resulted from years spent in that historic place.

"Pilgrims of the Plains," which came out in Feb., 1913, is worthy
of a place in the front rank of western stories.

In July of this year, Grossett and Dunlap will bring it out in
their "Popular Edition" of novels.

Mrs. Aplington is now working on a book on "Art-Museums of America"
and judging from the comments of prominent Museum Directors,
this will be as great a success as her novel. "Florida of the
Reclamation," a character story with scenes laid in and around
Miami, Florida, is also in preparation.

EMMA UPTON VAUGHN.

The author of that versatile little book of short stories, "The Lower
Bureau Drawer" is Emma Upton Vaughn, a Kansas City, Kansas
teacher.
These heart stories, showing keen insight of human nature--especially
woman nature--deal with every day life, each one a fascinating
revelation, of character and soul.

Mrs. Vaughn was born in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Her early life was spent
in Kansas. She is a graduate of the Kansas University, and has
taught in the public schools of the state.

She wrote the "Bible and the Flag in the Public Schools" and has
contributed both prose and verse to the leading magazines and
newspapers. Feature articles and many good essays appear over
her signature.

Her "Passing From Under The Partial Eclipse" did much to give Kansas
City, Kansas her recognized place commercially on the map.
A novel, "The Cresap Pension," exposing a great pension fraud, is
ready for the press.

JESSIE WRIGHT WHITECOMB.

Jessie Wright Whitcomb, a Topeka writer of juvenile books is a lawyer
in active practice with her husband, Judge George H.

Whitcomb and a mother of a remarkable family of five boys and one
girl. The oldest son gained his A. B. in 1910 at the age of eighteen;
in 1911 was appointed Rhodes scholar for Kansas; and is now a student
at Oxford. His father and mother are in England at present visiting
him.

Mrs. Whitcomb is a contributor to the magazines and in addition, has
written "Odd Little Lass," "Freshman and Senior," "Majorbanks," "His
Best Friend," "Pen's Venture," "Queer As She Could Be," and "Curly
Head."

She is a graduate of the University of Vermont and the Boston University
Law School and was the first woman to lecture before a man's law
school.

MYRA WILLIAMS JARRELL.

Myra Williams Jarrell, the daughter of the late Archie L. Williams,
for thirty years, the attorney for the Union Pacific Railway in Kansas,
and the grand-daughter of Judge Archibald Williams, the first
United States Circuit Judge of Kansas, appointed by Lincoln, comes
of a literary family. All of the men and some of the women on the
father's side of the family and also, on the mother's to a great
extent, had literary talent.

As a child, she cherished an ambition to write and when occasionally
one of her letters to St. Nicholas saw publication, she felt she had
crossed the Alps of her desire.

Her first real story, however, was written as she rocked the
cradle of her first born.

The day, when she first saw her "stuff" in print, stands out in her
memory second only to the hallowed days of her personal history,
her wedding day and the days upon which her children were born.

Since then, Mrs.

Jarrell has contributed to almost all the high class magazines and
has furnished special feature articles to newspapers.

Some years ago, a small book, "Meg, of Valencia," was written and
now, a novel, "The Hand of The Potter" is ready for publication.

In 1894, Myra Williams and J. F. Jarrell were married. This union
was blest with four children, three sons and one daughter.

Mr. Jarrell is Publicity Agent of the Santa Fe. A number of years
ago, he bought the Holton Signal and in trying to help her husband
put some individuality into the paper, Mrs. Jarrell began a
department headed "Ramblings." Later this was syndicated and finally
issued in book form.

Last winter, a play, "The Plain Clothes Man," was produced by the
North Brothers Stock Co., at the Majestic Theatre, Topeka. This
well written play, with its novel and original characterization and
its effective comedy lines, is now in the hands of two New York
play brokers. Before many months, Mrs. Jarrell will be enjoying a
royalty.

In preparation, are two plays, as yet nameless; also, a play in
collaboration with Mr. North of the North Stock Co. With her
brother, Burus L. Williams, of Kansas City, Mo., Mrs. Jarrell has
written an opera, "The Mix Up in the Kingdom of Something-Like,"
which awaits only the lyrics Mr. Williams is writing and the
music. An opera, "The Kingdom of Never Come True," also, in
collaboration with Mr. Williams, is being set to music by Arthur
Pryor, the bandmaster.

A serial story, "John Bishop, Farmer," a collaboration with Albert
T.
Reed, the artist, is to be published soon in the Kansas Farmer.

Later, this will appear in book form. A novel, which Mrs. Jarrell
believes will be her best work, is in construction and is clamoring
to be written.

ELLEN PALMER ALLERTON.

Ellen Palmer Allerton, the sweet and gentle poetess, beloved of
Kansas, lived at Padonia, in Brown County, when she wrote her famous
poem, "Wall of Corn."

She was past her prime when she came to Kansas from the Wisconsin
home, the subject of many of her noble gems. As she grew older, she
grew stronger in poetic strength.

Three volumes of poems have been published, "Walls of Corn and Other
Poems," "Annabel and Other Poems," and "Poems of the Prairie." Her
"Walls of Corn," written in 1884, famous from the first, as used as
railroad immigration advertising, was translated in several languages
and distributed all over Europe.

This and her "Trail of Forty-nine" are her best, although the classic
beauty of "Beautiful Things" is unsurpassed by any other American
writer.

"Beautiful twilight, at set of sun, Beautiful goal, with race
well run, Beautiful rest, with work well done."
is a fitting close to the beautiful, useful life of the author.

Mrs. Allerton was born in Centerville. New York, in 1835 and began
writing verse at the age of seventeen.

Much as she has written, yet writing was only a pastime. She
never let it interfere with her housework. Thoroughly practical,
she did all her own work, just because she loved to do it.

Her flowers of which she had many, in doors and out, resulted in many
noble, inspiring lines. In 1862, she was

married to A. B. Allerton of Wisconsin, coming to Kansas in 1865.
She was best appreciated for her social qualities and her interest in
charity--that broader charity that praises the beauty and ignores
the blemishes. Her last poem, "When Days Grow Dark" is a beautiful
pen picture of her sweetness and resignation in her growing blindness
and her love and trust in him who had been her companion down the
years.

"You take the book and pour into my ear In accent sweet, the words
I cannot see; I listen charmed, forget my haunting fear, And think
with you as with your eyes I see.

In the world's thought, so your dear voice be left, I still have part,
I am not all bereft.

And if this darkness deepens, when for me The new moon bends no
more her silver rim, When stars go out, and over land and sea Black
midnight falls, where now is twilight dim, O, then may I be
patient, sweet and mild, While your hands lead me like a little
child!"

She died in 1893, at Padonia, and was buried in a bed of her favorite
white flowers, donated by loving friends. In the little graveyard
at Hamlin, one reads "Beautiful Things" on a modest stone at the
head of her little bed.

EMMA TANNER WOOD.

Mrs. Emma Tanner Wood (Caroline Cunningham), a Topeka woman, began
newspaper work in 1872. The result of those early years' work was
"Spring Showers," a volume of prose.

After thirty years of study and experience among the defectives, she
wrote "Too Fit For The Unfit," advocating surgery for the feeble-minded.
The story of Mrs. Benton, one of the characters, led Mrs.

Wood to introduce a law preventing children being sent to the poor
house. This was the first law purely in the interest of children ever
passed in Kansas. Later, a law preventing traveling hypnotists
from using school children as subjects in public exhibitions was
drawn up by Mrs. Wood and passed.

Several years ago, a book on hypnotism, far in advance of the public
thought, was written and is to be published this year.

Mrs. Wood is seventy years young and as she says: "finds age the
very sweetest part of life.

It is no small satisfaction to laugh at the follies of others and
know that you are past committing them.

It is equally delightful to be responsible only to one's self and
order one's life as one chooses.

Every day is a holy day to me now and the sweetness of common things,
grass, flowers, neighborly love, grand-children, and home comforts
fill me with satisfaction.

To think kindly of all things under the sun (but sin); to speak
kindly to all; to do little kindly acts is a greater good to the
world at large than we think while we are in the heat of battle."

CORNELIA M. STOCKTON.

A cheerful little room in the East wing of St.

Margaret's Hospital, Kansas City, Kansas; an invalid chair wheeled
up to a window over looking the street; and the eager, expectant face
and the warm hand clasp of the occupant, Mrs. Cornelia M.

Stockton, assures the visitor of a hearty welcome.

Greatly enfeebled by long illness and with impaired sight, this
bright, little woman's keen interest in current events and the
latest "best seller" puts to shame the half-hearted zeal of the
average woman.

For four years, Mrs. Stockton has lived at St. Margaret's, depending
upon the visits of friends and the memory of an eventful life to pass
the days. Prominence in club work in her earlier years has brought
reward. The History Club of Kansas City, Kansas, of which she was
once a member, each week sends a member to read to her and these
are red letter days to this brave, patient, little woman.

Mrs. Stockton began writing very young. When a little girl, back in
the village of Walden, New York, she stole up to the pulpit of the
church and wrote in her pastor's Bible:

"I have not seen the minister's eyes, And cannot describe his glance
divine, For when he prays he shuts them up And when he preaches
he shuts mine."

She was born in 1833 in Shawangunk, New York, and came to Kansas City
in 1859, living in Missouri some years but most of the time in
Kansas City, Kansas.

In 1892, she published a limited edition of poems, "The Shanar Dancing
Girl and Other Poems." dedicated to Mrs. Bertha M. Honore Palmer,
her ideal of the perfect type of gracious and lovely womanhood. "The
Shanar Dancing Girl" was first written for the Friends in Council,
a literary club of Kansas City, Mo. It has received the encomiums of
Thomas Bailey Aldrich, John J. Ingalls and others for its beauty of
expression and dramatic qualities. "Invocation," an April idyl;
"The Sea-shell;" and "Mountain Born" sing of the love of nature.
"In the Conservatory;" "My Summer Heart;" and "Tired of the Storm"
hint of sorrow and unrest and longing.

Then in 1886, "Compensation" was written. "Irma's Love For The King"
is a favorite; also, "'Sold'--A Picture," written for her
daughter, "yes, but she never came.

"The Sorrowful Stone" Mrs. Stockton considers her best.

"The story without a suspicion of rhyme, And dim with the mists of
the morning of Time, Is told of a goddess, who, wandering alone,
Did go and sit down on the Sorrowful Stone.

We find our Gethsemane somewhere, though late; The Angel of Shadows
throws open the gate.

We creep with our burden of pain, to atone, For all of life's ills,
to the Sorrowful Stone.

Above is the vault of the pitiless stars; The trees stretch their
arms all blackened with scars; The gales of lost Paradise are faintly
blown To where we sit down on the Sorrowful Stone."

"From a Poem 'Vagaries'" warns of * * * --the product of the age
and clime, We do too much! grow old before our time,
Yet--would we stray to Morning Hills again?
Unlearn sad prophecies, and dream as then!

Ah, no!

with sense of peace the shadows creep, There droppeth on tired eyes
the spell of sleep--
We left the dawn long leagues behind, and stand, Waiting and
wistful in the Evening Land!

The patient Nurse of Destiny, at best, Leads us like children to the
needed rest!

A ghostly wind puts out our little light, And we have bid the
busy world "Good Night!"

Mrs. Stockton was married twice. Her first husband was the father
of her two sons, one of whom, Dr.

Henry M. Downs, in his practice, came often to St. Margaret's.
The second marriage, as the wife of the late Judge John
S. Stockton, was a very happy one. Last year, a brother the
only surviving member of her family, died, leaving Mrs.
Stockton the last of a family of five children.

The two sons have also passed into the Great Beyond.

In her younger days, she contributed many poems and some prose to
newspapers and magazines over the name of Cora M.

Downs.

Ex-Gov. St. John appointed her one of the regents of the University
of Kansas.

Her beautiful poem: "In Memoriam" to Sarah Walter Chandler Coates was
her last.

"'We seem like children,' she was wont to say, 'Talking of what we
cannot understand,' And in the dark or daylight, all the way,
Holding so trustfully a Father's hand.

And this was her religion, not to dwell On tenets, creeds, or
doctrines, but to live On a pure faith, and striving to do well
The simple duties that each hour should give."

MARGARET HILL McCARTER.

The most successful Kansas woman writer financially and the most
prolific is Margaret Hill McCarter of Topeka.

From the advent of her little book in 1901, "A Bunch of Things, Tied
Up With Strings" to the hearty reception of her latest novel every
step of the way spells success.

Margaret Hill was born in Indiana and came to Kansas in 1888 to teach
English in the Topeka High School. Two years later, she became the
wife of Dr.

William McCarter. Of this union there are two daughters, students at
Baker University and the Topeka High School and a young son, his
mother's literary critic.

A wife and a mother first, a Kansas woman second, and an author third
is the way Mrs. McCarter rates herself. She is capable of and does
do all her housework.

Her love for literature she owes to her mother, who believed in
higher education and taught Margaret to prize the few books that
came her way.

After leaving the school room, the teacher instinct still strong within
her, she argued if she could teach out of books written by others,
why not out of books of her own?

Then followed poems, short stories, biography, textbooks, the editing
of Crane Classics, "One Hundred Kansas Women" and miscellanies.

In 1902, "Cuddy and Other Folks" was written and in 1903, "The
Cottonwood's Story."
This same year, "The Overflowing Waters," the story of the 1903
flood, and one of her best bits of heart writing paid for the school
books of almost a thousand unfortunate children. "Cuddy's Baby"
appeared in 1908, followed the next year with "In Old Quivera,"
a thread of Coronado history. "The Price of The Prairies," three
weeks after publication in the fall of 1910, became Kansas' best
seller. "The Peace of The Solomon Valley" came out in 1911 and
proved a popular gift book.

"The Wall of Men," Mrs. McCarter's 1912 offering should be one
of the required books in Kansas schools. It is authentic history
and the close of the story leaves every Kansan with a greater
respect and love for the state and the heroic pioneers who stood
as a living wall between Kansas and the slave question. 1913 gave us
the "Master's Degree," considered by many her best work. This year
we have "Winning The Wilderness."
Mrs.

McCarter founded the Club Member and organized the Sorosis, serving
as president seven years and two terms as president of the Topeka
Federation of Women's Clubs. Baker University, at Baldwin, Kansas,
gave her an honorary Master's Degree in 1909, its semi-centennial
anniversary.

BESSIE MAY BELLMAN. and JUNE BELLMAN HENTHORNE.

Bessie May Bellman and June Bellman Henthorne, her daughter, hail
from Winfield. They write both prose and verse and Mrs. Henthorne
was a reporter for years.

Mrs. Bellman, when a girl, lived five years on a cattle ranch and to
those five lonely years she credits her habit of introspection,
meditation and writing. Much of her poetry and short stories are
used in platform work.

Red Leaves.

Red leaves-- Aflame in the air, aflame in the trees.

Blue streams, smoky hills-- Gold, gold the sunlight spills-- Red
leaves!

Dead Leaves--

A swirl in the air-asleep 'neath the trees.
Gone every lark and swallow-- Haunting echoes bid me follow-- Dead
leaves!
Bessie May Bellman--
Mrs. Henthorne's "If" is published in a New York reader.
"If, in a bird-heart, beating 'neath the gray There chants a song,
no matter what the day.
If, in a bird-heart happy sunbeams shine, Why not in mine?
If, in a flower-face, beat down by rain, The hope of clear skies
be in spite of pain-- If, in a flower-face a great hope shine, Why
not in mine?" 

AMANDA T. JONES.
One of the few Kansas women to have a place in "Who's Who" was the
late Amanda T. Jones of Junction City. She was one of the most
prolific poets of Kansas.
Her "Atlantic" is a story of the rebellion; "Utah and Other Poems;"
"A Prairie Idyl;" "Flowers and a Weed;" and "Rubaiyat of Solomon
Valley" are volumes of verse. Her prose: "Children's Stories,"
"Fairy Arrows" and "The White Blackbird;" "A Psychic Autobiography,"
published in 1908; "Man and Priest," a story of psychic detection;
"Mother of Pioneers," and a novel ready for publication, "A Daughter
of Wall St."
Miss Jones originated a working women's home and patented many
inventions, mostly household necessities.

* * * * *
CHARLOTTE F. WILDER.
Charlotte Frances Wilder, Manhattan, has been writing half a century
and it has won for her a place in Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris,
"entitled to go down to posterity, her lifework preserved as
information for future generations." She has written "Land of The
Rising Sun," "Sister Ridenour's Sacrifice," "Christmas Cheer In All
Lands," "Easter Gladness," "Mission Ships," "The Child's Own Book"
and "The Wonderful Story of Jesus." Her essays, alone, would make
a volume, original and interesting. She has written for the press
since sixteen years of age and has been a Bible teacher forty
years.

ANNA L. JANUARY.
Osawatomie claims Anna L. January, the author of "Historic Souvenir
of Osawatomie, Kansas," "John Brown Battle Grounds," "Calvin
Monument," and "Lookout and Park;" also, numerous poems.
Mrs. January is a native of Wilmington, Ohio, coming to Kansas in
1898.
She taught school three years and in 1901 married D. A. January of
Osawatomie. They have one child, a son of four years. An active
worker in the Congress of Mothers and interested in temperance and
suffrage work, Mrs. January still finds time to write many short
poems.

HATTIE HORNER LOUTHAN.
Hattie Horner Louthan, a former White Water, Kansas girl, is the
author of five books and many contributions to newspapers and first
class magazines. After graduation at the Normal School, Emporia,
in 1883, Miss Horner engaged in teaching and literary work. Ten
years later, she became the wife of Overton Earl Louthan, who died
in 1906.
She is editor of the Great Southwest and a member of the staff of
the Denver Republican. Her first volume of poems came out in 1885;
the next year, "Some Reasons For Our Choice." "Not At Home," a book
of travels, was published in 1889; "Collection of Kansas Poetry,"
in 1891; and "Thoughts Adrift," in 1902. Her work is versatile; the
rhyme easy flowing and strong.
GEORGIANA FREEMAN McCOY. and MARY FREEMAN STARTZMAN.
Georgiana Freeman McCoy, Wichita, has taught music in Kansas longer
than any other teacher in the state and incidentally writes verse.
She remodeled Elizabeth Browning's "A Drama of Exile" and wrote the
musical setting for Simon Buchhalter, the Viennese pianist and
composer. A sister, Mary Freeman Startzman, while living in Fort
Scott, wrote a volume of poems, "Wild Flowers."
EVA MORLEY MURPHY.
Eva Morley Murphy of Goodland, recent candidate for Congress, is
author of two books: "The Miracle on the Smoky and Other Stories,"
and "Lois Morton's Investment."
She is a descendant of Nathaniel Perry of Revolutionary fame, and
of Rodger Williams; an active temperance worker; and one of the
women who made equal suffrage possible in Kansas.
SALLIE F. TOLER.
Mrs. Sallie F. Toler, Wichita, has written on every subject from
pigs and pole cats to patriotism. She is the author of several plays
and three vaudeville sketches. A comedy, a racing romance,
"Handicapped;" "Thekla," a play in three acts; "On Bird's Island,"
a four-act play; and "Waking Him Up," a farce, are played in stock
now.
Mrs. Toler contributes to many papers and lectures on "The Short
Story" and "The Modern Drama." 

MARGARET PERKINS.
As a 1914 Christmas offering, Margaret Perkins, a Hutchinson High
School teacher, gave us her volume of beautiful poems. "The Love
Letters of a Norman Princess" is the love story, in verse, of
Hersilie, a ward and relative of William, The Conqueror, and Eric,
a kinsman of the unfortunate King Harold.
"I thought once, in a dream, that Love came near With silken flutter
of empurpled wings That wafted faint, strange fragrance from the
things Abloom where age and season never sear.And I will
show you first a picture as it runs before me, sitting here, the
corn of my dungeon garden twining in my fingers:--

"A multiplying width of green grass spotted with white flowers, an
upland where sheep browsed on a carpet of purple and gold and green,
a tall rock on a hill where birds perched and fluttered, a blue
sky arching over all. There, sprawling in a garden, a child pulled
at long blades of grass, as he watched the birds flitting about
the rocks, and heard a low voice coming down the wind. Here in my
dungeon I can hear the voice as I have not heard it since that day
in the year 1730--that voice stilled so long ago. The air and the
words come floating down (for the words I knew years afterwards):

  'Did ye see the white cloud in the glint o' the sun?
    That's the brow and the eye o' my bairnie.
  Did ye ken the red bloom at the bend o' the crag?
    That's the rose in the cheek o' my bairnie.
  Did ye hear the gay lilt o' the lark by the burn?
    That's the voice of my bairnie, my dearie.
  Did ye smell the wild scent in the green o' the wood?
    That's the breath o' my ain, o' my bairnie.
  Sae I'll gang awa' hame, to the shine o' the fire,
    To the cot where I lie wi' my bairnie.'

"These words came crooning over the grass of that little garden at
Balmore which was by my mother's home. There I was born one day in
June, though I was reared in the busy streets of Glasgow, where my
father was a prosperous merchant and famous for his parts and
honesty.

"I see myself, a little child of no great strength, for I was,
indeed, the only one of my family who lived past infancy, and
my mother feared she should never bring me up. She, too, is in
that picture, tall, delicate, kind yet firm of face, but with a
strong brow, under which shone grave gray eyes, and a manner so
distinguished that none might dispute her kinship to the renowned
Montrose, who was lifted so high in dying, though his gallows was
but thirty feet, that all the world has seen him there. There was
one other in that picture, standing near my mother, and looking at
me, who often used to speak of our great ancestor--my grandfather,
John Mitchell, the Gentleman of Balmore, as he was called, out of
regard for his ancestry and his rare merits.

"I have him well in mind: his black silk breeches and white
stockings and gold seals, and two eyes that twinkled with great
humour when, as he stooped over me, I ran my head between his calves
and held him tight. I recall how my mother said, 'I doubt that I
shall ever bring him up,' and how he replied (the words seem to
come through great distances to me), 'He'll live to be Montrose the
second, rascal laddie! Four seasons at the breast? Tut, tut! what
o' that? 'Tis but his foolery, his scampishness! Nae, nae! his
epitaph's no for writing till you and I are tucked i' the sod,
my Jeanie. Then, like Montrose's, it will be--

  'Tull Edinburrow they led him thair,
    And on a gallows hong;
  They hong him high abone the rest,
    He was so trim a boy.'

"I can hear his laugh this minute, as he gave an accent to the words
by stirring me with his stick, and I caught the gold head of it and
carried it off, trailing it through the garden, till I heard my
mother calling, and then forced her to give me chase, as I pushed
open a little gate and posted away into that wide world of green,
coming quickly to the river, where I paused and stood at bay. I can
see my mother's anxious face now, as she caught me to her arms; and
yet I know she had a kind of pride, too, when my grandfather said,
on our return, 'The rascal's at it early. Next time he'll ford the
stream and skirl at ye, Jeanie, from yonder bank.'

"This is the first of my life that I remember. It may seem strange
to you that I thus suddenly recall not only it, but the words then
spoken too. It is strange to me, also. But here it comes to me all
on a sudden in this silence, as if another self of me were speaking
from far places. At first all is in patches and confused, and then
it folds out--if not clearly, still so I can understand--and the
words I repeat come as if filtered through many brains to mine. I
do not say that it is true--it may be dreams; and yet, as I say, it
is firmly in my mind.

"The next that I remember was climbing upon a chair to reach for my
grandfather's musket, which hung across the chimney. I got at last
upon the mantelshelf, and my hands were on the weapon, when the
door opened, and my grandfather and my father entered. I was so
busy I did not hear them till I was caught by the legs and swung
to a shoulder, where I sat kicking. 'You see his tastes, William,'
said my grandfather to my father; 'he's white o' face and slim o'
body, but he'll no carry on your hopes.' And more he said to the
point, though what it was I knew not. But I think it to have been
suggestion (I heard him say it later) that I would bring Glasgow up
to London by the sword (good doting soul!) as my father brought it
by manufactures, gaining honour thereby.

"However that may be, I would not rest till my grandfather had put
the musket into my arms. I could scarcely lift it, but from the
first it had a charm for me, and now and then, in spite of my
mother's protests, I was let to handle it, to learn its parts, to
burnish it, and by-and-bye--I could not have been more than six
years old--to rest it on a rock and fire it off. It kicked my
shoulder roughly in firing, but I know I did not wink as I pulled
the trigger. Then I got a wild hunger to fire it at all times; so
much so, indeed, that powder and shot were locked up, and the musket
was put away in my grandfather's chest. But now and again it was
taken out, and I made war upon the unresisting hillside, to the
dismay of our neighbours in Balmore. Feeding the fever in my veins,
my grandfather taught me soldiers' exercises and the handling of
arms: to my dear mother's sorrow, for she ever fancied me as leading
a merchant's quiet life like my father's, hugging the hearthstone,
and finding joy in small civic duties, while she and my dear father
sat peacefully watching me in their decline of years.

"I have told you of that river which flowed near my father's house.
At this time most of my hours were spent by it in good weather, for
at last my mother came to trust me alone there, having found her
alert fears of little use. But she would very often come with me and
watch me as I played there. I loved to fancy myself a miller, and my
little mill-wheel, made by my own hands, did duty here and there on
the stream, and many drives of logs did I, in fancy, saw into piles
of lumber, and loads of flour sent away to the City of Desire. Then,
again, I made bridges, and drove mimic armies across them; and if
they were enemies, craftily let them partly cross, to tumble them in
at the moment when part of the forces were on one side of the stream
and part on the other, and at the mercy of my men.

"My grandfather taught me how to build forts and breastworks, and
I lay in ambush for the beadle, who was my good friend, for my
grandfather, and for half a dozen other village folk, who took no
offense at my sport, but made believe to be bitterly afraid when I
surrounded them and drove them, shackled, to my fort by the river.
Little by little the fort grew, until it was a goodly pile; for
now and then a village youth helped me, or again an old man, whose
heart, maybe, rejoiced to play at being child again with me. Years
after, whenever I went back to Balmore, there stood the fort, for
no one ever meddled with it, nor tore it down.

"And I will tell you one reason why this was, and you will think it
strange that it should have played such a part in the history of
the village, as in my own life. You must know that people living in
secluded places are mostly superstitious. Well, when my fort was
built to such proportions that a small ladder must be used to fix
new mud and mortar in place upon it, something happened.

"Once a year there came to Balmore--and he had done so for a
generation--one of those beings called The Men, who are given to
prayer, fasting, and prophesying, who preach the word of warning
ever, calling even the ministers of the Lord sharply to account.
One day this Man came past my fort, folk with him, looking for
preaching or prophesy from him. Suddenly turning he came inside my
fort, and, standing upon the ladder against the wall, spoke to them
fervently. His last words became a legend in Balmore, and spread
even to Glasgow and beyond.

"'Hear me!' cried he. 'As I stand looking at ye from this wall,
calling on ye in your natural bodies to take refuge in the Fort of
God, the Angel of Death is looking ower the battlements of heaven,
choosing ye out, the sheep frae the goats; calling the one to
burning flames, and the other into peaceable habitations. I hear the
voice now,' cried he, 'and some soul among us goeth forth. Flee ye
to the Fort of Refuge.' I can see him now, his pale face shining,
his eyes burning, his beard blowing in the wind, his grizzled hair
shaking on his forehead. I had stood within the fort watching him.
At last he turned, and, seeing me intent, stooped, caught me by the
arms, and lifted me upon the wall. 'See you,' said he, 'yesterday's
babe a warrior to-day. Have done, have done, ye quarrelsome hearts.
Ye that build forts here shall lie in darksome prisons; there is no
fort but the Fort of God. The call comes frae the white ramparts.
Hush!' he added solemnly, raising a finger. 'One of us goeth hence
this day; are ye ready to walk i' the fearsome valley?'

"I have heard my mother speak these words over often, and they were,
as I said, like an old song in Balmore and Glasgow. He set me down,
and then walked away, waving the frightened people back; and there
was none of them that slept that night.

"Now comes the stranger thing. In the morning The Man was found
dead in my little fort, at the foot of the wall. Henceforth the
spot was sacred, and I am sure it stands there as when last I saw
it twelve years ago, but worn away by rains and winds.

"Again and again my mother said over to me his words, 'Ye that build
forts here shall lie in darksome prisons'; for always she had fear
of the soldier's life, and she was moved by signs and dreams.

Adams, Mound City, writes exquisite verse and in the past, had many
short stories to her credit.

Mrs. C. W. Smith, Stockton, writes both prose and verse. Cara A.
Thomas Hoover, formerly of Halstead, Harvey County, now living
in Rialto, California, writes prose and beautiful verse. Rose
Hartwick Thorpe, the author of "Curfew Shall Not Ring To-night," was
a Kansan in the early sixties. She lived at Wilmington.

Miss Margaret Stevenson, Olathe, is a writer of books for the
blind. She has some short stories, nature and text-books
published.

Lelia Hardin Bugg, Wichita, has written "The Prodigal Daughter,"
"The People of Our Parish," and "Orchids." Edna Thacher Russ, also
of Wichita, writes short stories and educational articles.

Mrs. E. Hamilton Myers, Englewood, is a dramatic writer and a
poet of rare talents. Being a musician, much of her verse is
used for songs.

Mrs. Myers contributes to the English papers. Her first story was
published by a magazine which had accepted writings of her
mother's.

Other than literature proper, we have Mrs. Lillian M. Mitchner, of
Topeka, a scientific writer; Mrs. Lumina C. R. Smythe, a writer of
verse, also of Topeka, who is co-author with her late husband in
the revised "Flora And Check List of Kansas."

Among the clever newspaper women of the state are Margie Webb Tennal,
Sabetha; Maud C. Thompson, Howard; Frances Garside, formerly of
Atchison, now with the New York Journal; Mrs. E. E. Kelley, Toronto;
Anna Carlson, Lindsborg; Mrs. Mary Riley, Kansas City; and Isabel
Worrel Ball, a Larned woman, who bears the distinction of being the
only woman given a seat in the congressional press gallery. Grace
D. Brewer, Girard, has been a newspaper woman and magazine short
story writer for ten years.
Among the early Kansas writers are Clarinda Howard Nichols, Mrs.
A. B.
Bartlett, Lucy B. Armstrong, Sarah Richart, Mrs. Porter Sherman,
and Mary Tenny Gray, all of Wyandotte and Mrs. C. H. Cushing of
Leavenworth.

Sara T. D."Then he came to me and caught me by both shoulders. 'But alack,
alack! there needs some blood and flesh here, Robert Moray,' said
he. 'You have more heart than muscle.'

"This was true. I had ever been more eager than my strength--thank
God, that day is gone!--and sometimes, after Latin and the drill of
my Lightfoots, as I called them, I could have cried for weakness
and weariness, had I been a girl and not a proud lad. And Sir John
kept his word, liking me better from that day forth, and coming
now and again to see me at the school,--though he was much abroad
in France--giving many a pound to my Lightfoots, who were no worse
soldiers for that. His eye ran us over sharply, and his head nodded,
as we marched past him; and once I heard him say, 'If they had had
but ten years each on their heads, my Prince!'

"About this time my father died--that is, when I was fourteen years
old. Sir John became one of the executors with my mother, and
at my wish, a year afterwards, I was sent to the university, where
at least fifteen of my Lightfoots went also; and there I formed a
new battalion of them, though we were watched at first, and even
held in suspicion, because of the known friendship of Sir John for
me; and he himself had twice been under arrest for his friendship
to the Stuart cause. That he helped Prince Charles was clear: his
estates were mortgaged to the hilt.

"He died suddenly on that day of January when Culloden was fought,
before he knew of the defeat of the Prince. I was with him at the
last. After some most serious business, which I shall come to
by-and-bye, 'Robert,' said he, 'I wish thou hadst been with my
Prince. When thou becomest a soldier, fight where thou hast heart to
fight; but if thou hast conscience for it, let it be with a Stuart.
I thought to leave thee a good moiety of my fortune, Robert, but
little that's free is left for giving. Yet thou hast something
from thy father, and down in Virginia, where my friend Dinwiddie is
Governor, there's a plantation for thee, and a purse of gold, which
was for me in case I should have cause to flee this troubled realm.
But I need it not; I go for refuge to my Father's house. The little
vineyard and the purse of gold are for thee, Robert. If thou
thinkest well of it, leave this sick land for that new one. Build
thyself a name in that great young country, wear thy sword honourably
and bravely, use thy gifts in council and debate--for Dinwiddie will
be thy friend--and think of me as one who would have been a father
to thee if he could. Give thy good mother my loving farewells....
Forget not to wear my sword--it has come from the first King Charles
himself, Robert.'

"After which he raised himself upon his elbow and said, 'Life--life,
is it so hard to untie the knot?' Then a twinge of agony crossed
over his face, and afterwards came a great clearing and peace, and
he was gone.

"King George's soldiers entered with a warrant for him even as he
died, and the same moment dropped their hands upon my shoulder. I
was kept in durance for many days, and was not even at the funeral
of my benefactor; but through the efforts of the provost of the
university and some good friends who could vouch for my loyal
principles, I was released. But my pride had got a setback, and
I listened with patience to my mother's prayers that I would not
join the King's men. With the anger of a youth, I now blamed his
Majesty for the acts of Sir John Godric's enemies. And though I
was a good soldier of the King at heart, I would not serve him
henceforth. We threshed matters back and forth, and presently it
was thought I should sail to Virginia to take over my estate. My
mother urged it, too, for she thought if I were weaned from my old
comrades, military fame would no longer charm. So she urged me,
and go I did, with a commission from some merchants of Glasgow, to
give my visit to the colony more weight.

"It was great pain to leave my mother, but she bore the parting
bravely, and away I set in a good ship. Arrived in Virginia, I was
treated with great courtesy in Williamsburg, and the Governor gave
me welcome to his home for the sake of his old friend; and yet a
little for my own, I think, for we were of one temper, though he
was old and I young. We were both full of impulse and proud, and
given to daring hard things, and my military spirit suited him.

"In Virginia I spent a gay and busy year, and came off very well
with the rough but gentlemanly cavaliers, who rode through the wide,
sandy streets of the capital on excellent horses, or in English
coaches, with a rusty sort of show and splendour, but always with
great gallantry. The freedom of the life charmed me, and with
rumours of war with the French there seemed enough to do, whether
with the sword or in the House of Burgesses, where Governor
Dinwiddie said his say with more force than complaisance. Kolossal!_"
said Marko, forgetting our prejudice against Bosch idiom in
his wonder at this crowning marvel.

To what lengths of veracity Arthur would have gone I never knew,
for at that moment a trampling of feet and a hoarse command outside
announced the arrival of our escort, and Marko, still in a sort
of walking swoon of amazement, went out to give them their orders.

Stefan regarded us with twinkling eyes.

"Ah, _farceur!_" he remarked, shaking his finger waggishly at
Arthur.
"I know all the time you make the joke, but poor Marko, you
'ave deceived 'im _absolument_. Railway under the ground, streets of
wood, 'e swallow it all. Oh, naughty _Baroutchik!_"
The wolves did not come near us and our escort on our way home, but
they could have had Arthur for the taking. At the moment he had nothing
left to live for.

* * * * *
"Johannesburg tramway men started a lightning strike on Thursday
owing to the suspension of a conductor."--_Daily Paper._
It seems a logical reason.

***

"Do not waste any time in entering for our 'Hidden' Geography
Competition."
_Daily Paper._
Thanks for the advice; we won't.

***
"LINACRE LECTURE.--Dr. Henry Head, F.R.L., 'Aspasia and Kindred
Disorders of the Speech.'"--_Cambridge Calendar._
Yet this is the lady who is supposed to have inspired the most
famous of PERICLES' orations.

***
"Furnished Railway Carriage in Surrey garden to Let; 3 beds; company's
water, gas-cooker, and light: 2gs. weekly."

_Daily Paper._
Miss DAISY ASHFORD seems to have foreseen this development when she
wrote of _Mr.

Salteena's_ "compartments."
* * * * *
[Illustration: THE RELUCTANT THRUSTER.

MR. ASQUITH (_performing the function of a battering-ram_). "I
CONFESS THAT AT MY TIME OF LIFE I SHOULD HAVE PREFERRED A MORE
SEDENTARY IF LESS HONORIFIC SPHERE OF USEFULNESS."]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Profiteer (after trying a variety of patterns without
success)._ "WELL, IT LOOKS PRETTY 'OPELESS WHEN THEY WON'T
'AVE A GOLD FLY. WHAT DO THEY EXPECT--DIAMONDS?"]
* * * * *
THE PERSONAL TOUCH.

(_By our tireless Political Penetrator._)
For some time past, I understand, the Government has been considering
steps to bring the personalities of Cabinet Ministers more prominently
into the public eye. "We are not sufficiently known," said Sir WILLIAM
SUTHERLAND, who has the matter in hand, "as living palpitating
figures to the man in the street.

We do not grip the nation's heart. We lack pep."
I told him that it was a pity about pep. I felt that the Government
ought to have pep. and plenty of it. If possible they ought to have
vineg. and must. too.

"You are right," he said. "Occasional paragraphs in the Press,
snapshots which take us very likely with one leg stuck out in front
as if we were doing the goose-step, rare provincial excursions
and bouquets from admiring mill-girls are all very well in their
way, but they are nothing to constant personal appearances at
stated times and in stated places before an admiring mob. The
heroes of sport are overshadowing us," he continued with a sigh,
pushing me over a box of cigars.

"What are you going to do about it?" I asked, lighting one and putting
another carefully behind my ear.

"You must remember first," he replied, "that this is quite a modern
difficulty. Statesmen of the past used to make their leisurely
progress through the town surrounded by retainers on horseback, or
in sedan-chairs, beautifully dressed and scattering largesse
as they went. THOMAS À BECKET, the great Primate and Chancellor,
used to have poor men to dine with him and crowds thronging round
to bless him.
To-day, I suppose, JOE BECKETT in his flowered dressing-gown would
be a more popular figure than Lord BIRKENHEAD and the Archbishop
of CANTERBURY, if you can imagine them rolled into one. In CHARLES
II.'

s reign, when politicians used to play _pêle-mêle_ where the
great Clubs are now, anyone could rub shoulders with my lord of
BUCKINGHAM and, if he was lucky, get a swipe across the shins with
the ducal mallet itself. That is the kind of thing we want
now.

"I had thoughts of running popular excursions down to Walton Heath,
but I am not sure that the people would care to go so far even to
see Sir ERIC GEDDES carrying the home green and Lord RIDDELL--the
Riddell of the sands, as we call him affectionately down there--getting
out of a difficult bunker. So I am trying to arrange for a few putting
greens in railed-off spaces in St.

James's Park near the pelicans, and we also propose to hold there
on fine summer days the breakfast parties for which the PRIME
MINISTER is so famous. We shall make a point of throwing not only
crumbs to the birds, but slices of bread and marmalade to the more
indigent spectators. We shall also try to get two or three open
squash racket courts in Whitehall, so that on hot summer days the
most carping critic who watches a rally between Mr.

AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN and the SECRETARY OF STATE for WAR will have to
admit that we are doing our utmost to eliminate waste-products."

"But what about the clothes and the stately progress and the largesse?"
I asked; the largesse idea had struck me with particular force.

"We are thinking of goat carriages and overalls for economy," he
said, "and the largesse cannot, I am afraid, be allowed for in the
Treasury Estimates.

But we shall certainly scatter a handful or two of O.B.E.'

s as we go."
"And how will you deal with the country and the outer suburbs?"
I asked when my admiration had partially subsided.

"Ah, there you have the Cinema," replied Sir WILLIAM enthusiastically.

"We are going to make great strides with the Cinema.

Our first film, which is now in preparation, deals with the
Leamington episode and has been very carefully staged. It has been
necessary, of course, in the interests of art to elaborate the
actual incidents to a certain extent. Coalition Liberals, for
instance, were obliged to board the train in the traditional
manner of the screen, leaping on to it whilst in motion and
climbing, some by way of the brakes and buffers, some along the
roofs of the carriages, into their reserved compartment.

Then again we could not reassemble the actual gathering of Wee Frees
to represent the enemy, but we secured the services of actors well
trained in Wild West and "crook" parts, capably led by those two
prominent comedians, _Mr.

Mutt_ and _Mr. Jeff_. The film ends, of course, with the second
meeting at the Central Hall, Westminster, when _Messrs.

Mutt_ and _Jeff_ again appear as comic and objectionable interrupters,
and are ignominiously hurled into the street.

"Very soon we hope to have all important Parliamentary debates
filmed.

It will be essential, of course, to provide some comic relief, and
we are relying confidently on certain Members to practise the wearing
of mobile moustaches and to take lessons in the stagger, the butter
slide, the business with the cane and the quick reversal of the
hat."

"In short you think politics should be more spectacular?"
"That's it," he said. "HOBBS the mammoth hitter and a little less of
the _Leviathan_."

Greatly impressed I bit off the end of his second cigar and went
back to the office to look up _Leviathan_.

V.

* * * * *

[Illustration: _Farmer._ "DEAR ME! C-CAN I DO ANYTHING?"
_Airman._ "THANKS, BUT REALLY I THINK I'VE DONE ALL THERE IS TO BE
DONE."]
* * * * *
AN OPTIMIST.

"The pastor of the ---- Congregational Church has been ordered by his
medical adviser to take a rest. The rev. gentleman is therefore
spending a fortnight's holiday in Ireland."--_Provincial Paper._

***

"During the period of waiting before the bridal party appeared, the
organist played Wagner's 'Bridal Chorus,' and 'Cradle Song'
(Guilmant)."

--_West Country Paper._
The organist seems to have been rather a forward fellow.

***
With the Polo-season imminent we feel that we must not withhold
from intending players the admirable and disinterested advice given
in an Indian Trade circular:--
"The skill of a polo player lies in his well management of horse in
the turmoil of Play. Ill-weighed Polo sticks make the situation
worse if the horse is not so kept.

We try our best to construct Polo sticks in such a way as may help
the player in the blur of game and put him in a more progressing
mood.

Make a real pleasure of your game and not labour as other sticks
than ours would tend to make it. A fond player would like to give
anything for a good stick."
* * * * *
HOME-SICKNESS; OR, THE SINN FEINER ABROAD.

(_After "The Lake Isle of Innisfree," with sincere apologies to Mr.
W.
B. YEATS._)
I will arise and go now to Galway or Tralee And burgle someone's
house there and plan a moonlight raid; Ten live rounds will I
have there to shoot at the R.I.C.
And wear a mask in the bomb-loud glade.

And I shall have great fun there, for fun comes fairly fast, Bonfires
in the purple heather and the barracks burning fine, There midnight
is a shindy and the noon is overcast And evening full of the feet
of kine.

I will arise and go now, for always in my sleep There comes the sound
of rifles and low moans on the shore; I see the sudden ambush and
hear the widows weep, And I like that kind of war.

EVOE.

* * * * *
AURAL TUITION.

The only other occupant of the carriage was a well dressed man of
middle age, clad in English clothes, but from many slight signs
palpably a foreigner of some sort.

Soon after the train started I noticed that his mouth and throat
were twitching and I surmised that he was about to speak.

But speech is no term in which to describe the queer animal, vegetable
and mineral sounds which issued from him. First his mouth opened
slightly and he seemed about to sneeze. Next I was conscious
of a scraping noise in his throat, accompanied by a slight ticking.
It appeared that he was going to have a fit and I regretted
that we were alone. The noise grew louder, took on speed and
rose in a crescendo almost to a screech.
Then a few more scrapes, as of a pencil on a slate, and I began to
detect that he was speaking. His lips did not move, so that his
voice had a curiously distant sound. Nevertheless the words were
clearly audible.

The following is what he said in a low, metallic monotone: "Good
morning, Sir. I am very pleased to meet you. Can you tell me what
o'clock it is? I am much obliged.

I wish to descend at Manchester.
At what hour do we arrive there? There are few passengers to-day.
The weather is fine. I beg your pardon if I do not make myself clear.
I do not speak English perfectly as yet. No doubt I have need of
much practice. Can I send a telegram from the next station? Is there
a good hotel at Manchester? Will you do me the favour----"
"Stop," I cried, after having several times opened my mouth to
answer one or other of his questions.

As soon as I spoke the words ended with a sudden click; the voice
descended and became a scrape; at last silence.

"My dear Sir," said I, "I shall be happy to give you any information
I can if you will ask one question at a time.

You evidently speak English very well indeed."
His face lighted with approval of the compliment and then the whole
performance began over again. Once more the wheeze, the scrape,
the screech, the tick and all the rest of it.

I became terrified at these painful impediments in his speech.

I remembered that somebody had once told me what to do on such
occasions. It was either to throw the patient upon his back and
move his arms up and down in a travesty of rowing or to slap him
violently on the back. Seeing that the stranger was several times
larger than myself I chose with diffidence the latter course.

Rising to my feet I turned him round and thumped his back vigorously.

He received the treatment with amiable smiles.

Next he produced from his pocket a booklet, which he handed to
me with a polite bow, desisting entirely from his menagerie noises.

I am of a nervous temperament and needed some minutes' rest in which
to collect myself. Then I began to examine the stranger's gift.

It was a well-printed pamphlet, obviously an advertisement:--
"HOW TO LEARN FOREIGN LANGUAGES.
_The One Truly Scientific Method._
The only way to acquire the real accent of the native is to
listen repeatedly to the language spoken by a native. With our
phonograph No.
0034 and a selection of suitable records the student may listen for
as many hours daily as he chooses to the voice of a native speaking
his own language."

Lower down I saw: "Contents of Records.

No. 1, At the Hotel; No. 2, At the Railway Station; No. 3,
In the Train." Ah! there it was--the whole monologue:--
"Good morning, Sir. I am very pleased to meet you. Can you tell
me----?"
The explanation relieved me; I turned to my fellow-traveller.

"My dear Sir," said I, "I congratulate you on being the perfect
pupil.
Your teacher, could it feel such emotions, would be proud of you.
Only to an exceptional student can it be given so faithfully to
reproduce 'His Master's Voice.'" 
* * * * * 
FIGURE-HEADS.
"You never see a decent figure-'ead, Not now," Bill said; "A fiddlin'
bit o' scrollwork at the bow, That's the most now; But Lord! I've
seen some beauties, more 'n a few, An' some rare rum uns too.
"Folks in all sorts o' queer old-fashioned rigs, Fellers in wigs,
Chaps in cocked 'ats an' 'elmets, lords an' dukes.
Folks out o' books, Niggers in turbans, mandarins an' Moors, And
'eathen gods by scores;
"An' women in all kinds o' fancy dresses-- Queens an' princesses,
Witches on broomsticks too, an' spankin' girls With streamin' curls,
An' dragons an' sea serpents--Lord knows what I've seen an' what
I've not!
"An' some's in breakers' yards now, thick with grime And weathered
white wi' time; An' some stuck up in gardens 'ere an' there With
plants for 'air; An' no one left as knows but chaps like me How
fine wi' paint an' gold they used to be In them old days at sea."
C. F. S.

* * * * * 
"BAG AND BAGGAGE."
"According to present arrangements the Turkish Peace Treaty will
be presented to the Turkish delegation on May 11 at 4 p.m. in the
Cloak Room of the French Foreign Office."--_Times._
These ceremonies are usually conducted in the Salon de l'Horloge,
but the new _venue_ was doubtless thought more appropriate for
disposing of the Turkish _impedimenta_.

* * * * *
[Illustration: MANNERS AND MODES.
THE STRIKE AGAINST THE PRICE OF CLOTHES IS SPREADING.
[_Fashion Note._--Lady Germanda Speedwell was seen walking in the
Park looking sweet in a rhubarb-leaf hat, the stalk worn at the
side. Her corsage was of clinging ivy leaves, in contrast to the
fuller effect of her banana-skin skirt. Her companion wore the usual
morning-coat and kilt of grass, but struck a new note with a pumpkin
hat.]] 
* * * * * 
THE MAKING OF A CRISIS.
[We are privileged to-day to publish an unwritten chapter from Mr.
H.
G. WELLS' _History of the World_. It is entitled "The Slime Age,"
and has a topical interest since it outlines the methods of production
of the Crisis, the only article of which the supply to-day exceeds
the demand.]
Out of all this muddle and confusion and slipshod thinking there
arose one man with a purpose, one man who fixed his eyes on a single
inevitable goal and walked straight at it, not minding what or whom
he trod upon on the way. His purpose was the mass-production of
crises, and he created crises as rabbits create their young, nine
at a time.
In those fuddled incompetent days before the Great War the crisis
was a little-known phenomenon. Here and there in the drab routine
of peaceful corpulent years there flashed in the prosperous firmament
the baleful light of a great anxiety. Agadir was one; CARSON and
his gun-runners was another. But they were few; they came like rare
comets and were forgotten.I have not spoken at all of my wounds, though they gave me many
painful hours, and I had no attendance but my own and Gabord's. The
wound in my side was long healing, for it was more easily disturbed
as I turned in my sleep, while I could ease my arm at all times,
and it came on slowly. My sufferings drew on my flesh, my blood,
and my spirits, and to this was added that disease inaction, the
corrosion of solitude, and the fever of suspense and uncertainty as
to Alixe and Juste Duvarney. Every hour, every moment that I had
ever passed in Alixe's presence, with many little incidents and
scenes in which we shared, passed before me--vivid and cherished
pictures of the mind. One of those incidents I will set down here.

A year or so before, soon after Juste Duvarney came from Montreal,
he brought in one day from hunting a young live hawk, and put it
in a cage. When I came the next morning, Alixe met me, and asked
me to see what he had brought. There, beside the kitchen door,
overhung with morning-glories and flanked by hollyhocks, was a
large green cage, and in it the gray-brown hawk. "Poor thing,
poor prisoned thing!" she said. "Look how strange and hunted it
seems! See how its feathers stir! And those flashing, watchful
eyes, they seem to read through you, and to say, 'Who are you? What
do you want with me? Your world is not my world; your air is not my
air; your homes are holes, and mine hangs high up between you and
God. Who are you? Why do you pen me? You have shut me in that I may
not travel, not even die out in the open world. All the world is
mine; yours is only a stolen field. Who are you? What do you want
with me? There is a fire within my head, it eats to my eyes, and I
burn away. What do you want with me?'"

She did not speak these words all at once as I have written them
here, but little by little, as we stood there beside the cage. Yet,
as she talked with me, her mind was on the bird, her fingers running
up and down the cage bars soothingly, her voice now and again
interjecting soft reflections and exclamations.

"Shall I set it free?" I asked her.

She turned upon me and replied, "Ah, monsieur, I hoped you
would--without my asking. You are a prisoner too," she added; "one
captive should feel for another."

"And the freeman for both," I answered meaningly, as I softly
opened the cage.

She did not drop her eyes, but raised them shining honestly and
frankly to mine, and said, "I wished you to think that."

Opening the cage door wide, I called the little captive to
freedom. But while we stood close by it would not stir, and the
look in its eyes became wilder. I moved away, and Alixe followed
me. Standing beside an old well we waited and watched. Presently
the hawk dropped from the perch, hopped to the door, then with a
wild spring was gone, up, up, up, and was away over the maple woods
beyond, lost in the sun and the good air.

I know not quite why I dwell on this scene, save that it throws
some little light upon her nature, and shows how simple and yet
deep she was in soul, and what was the fashion of our friendship.
But I can perhaps give a deeper insight of her character if I here
set down the substance of a letter written about that time, which
came into my possession long afterwards. It was her custom to
write her letters first in a book, and afterwards to copy them
for posting. This she did that they might be an impulse to her
friendships and a record of her feelings.


ALIXE DUVARNEY TO LUCIE LOTBINIERE.

QUEBEC CITY, the 10th of May, 1756.

MY DEAR LUCIE: I wish I knew how to tell you all I have been
thinking since we parted at the door of the Ursulines a year ago.
Then we were going to meet again in a few weeks, and now twelve
months have gone! How have I spent them? Not wickedly, I hope,
and yet sometimes I wonder if Mere St. George would quite approve
of me; for I have such wild spirits now and then, and I shout and
sing in the woods and along the river as if I were a mad youngster
home from school. But indeed, that is the way I feel at times,
though again I am so quiet that I am frightened of myself. I am a
hawk to-day and a mouse to-morrow, and fond of pleasure all the
time. Ah, what good days I have had with Juste! You remember him
before he went to Montreal? He is gay, full of fancies, as brave
as can be, and plays and sings well, but he is very hot-headed,
and likes to play the tyrant. We have some bad encounters now and
then. But we love each other better for it; he respects me, and
he does not become spoiled, as you will see when you come to us.

I have had no society yet. My mother thinks seventeen years too
few to warrant my going into the gay world. I wonder will my wings
be any stronger, will there be less danger of scorching them at
twenty-six? Years do not make us wise; one may be as wise at twenty
as at fifty. And they do not save us from the scorching. I know
more than they guess how cruel the world may be to the innocent as
to--the other. One can not live within sight of the Intendant's
palace and the Chateau St. Louis without learning many things; and,
for myself, though I hunger for all the joys of life, I do not
fret because my mother holds me back from the gay doings in the
town. I have my long walks, my fishing and rowing, and sometimes
hunting, with Juste and my sweet sister Georgette, my drawing,
painting, music, and needlework, and my housework.

Yet I am not entirely happy, I do not know quite why. Do you
ever feel as if there were some sorrow far back in you, which now
and then rushed in and flooded your spirits, and then drew back,
and you could not give it a name? Well, that is the way with me.
Yesterday, as I stood in the kitchen beside our old cook Jovin,
she said a kind word to me, and my eyes filled, and I ran up to
my room, and burst into tears as I lay upon my bed. I could not
help it. I thought at first it was because of the poor hawk that
Captain Moray and I set free yesterday morning; but it could not
have been that, for it was FREE when I cried, you see. You know,
of course, that he saved my father's life, some years ago? That is
one reason why he has been used so well in Quebec, for otherwise
no one would have lessened the rigours of his captivity. But there
are tales that he is too curious about our government and state,
and so he may be kept close jailed, though he only came here as a
hostage. He is much at our home, and sometimes walks with Juste
and me and Georgette, and accompanies my mother in the streets.
This is not to the liking of the Intendant, who loves not my
father because he is such a friend of our cousin the Governor.
If their lives and characters be anything to the point the
Governor must be in the right.

In truth, things are in a sad way here, for there is robbery on
every hand, and who can tell what the end may be? Perhaps that we
go to the English after all. Monsieur Doltaire--you do not know
him, I think--says, "If the English eat us, as they swear they
will, they'll die of megrims, our affairs are so indigestible." At
another time he said, "Better to be English than to be damned." And
when some one asked him what he meant, he said, "Is it not read
from the altar, 'Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man'? The
English trust nobody, and we trust the English." That was aimed at
Captain Moray, who was present, and I felt it a cruel thing for him
to say; but Captain Moray, smiling at the ladies, said, "Better
to be French and damned than not to be French at all." And this
pleased Monsieur Doltaire, who does not love him. I know not
why, but there are vague whispers that he is acting against the
Englishman for causes best known at Versailles, which have nothing
to do with our affairs here. I do believe that Monsieur Doltaire
would rather hear a clever thing than get ten thousand francs. At
such times his face lights up, he is at once on his mettle, his
eyes look almost fiendishly beautiful. He is a handsome man, but
he is wicked, and I do not think he has one little sense of morals.
I do not suppose he would stab a man in the back, or remove his
neighbour's landmark in the night, though he'd rob him of it in
open daylight, and call it "enterprise"--a usual word with him.

He is a favourite with Madame Cournal, who influences Bigot most,
and one day we may see the boon companions at each other's throats;
and if either falls, I hope it maybe Bigot, for Monsieur Doltaire
is, at least, no robber. Indeed, he is kind to the poor in a
disdainful sort of way. He gives to them and scoffs at them at the
same moment; a bad man, with just enough natural kindness to make
him dangerous. I have not seen much of the world, but some things
we know by instinct; we feel them; and I often wonder if that is
not the way we know everything in the end. Sometimes when I take my
long walks, or go and sit beside the Falls of Montmorenci, looking
out to the great city on the Heights, to dear Isle Orleans,
where we have our pretty villa (we are to go there next week for
three months--happy summer months), up at the blue sky and into
the deep woods, I have strange feelings, which afterwards become
thoughts; and sometimes they fly away like butterflies, but oftener
they stay with me, and I give them a little garden to roam in--you
can guess where. Now and then I call them out of the garden and
make them speak, and then I set down what they say in my journal;
but I think they like their garden best. You remember the song we
used to sing at school?

  "'Where do the stars grow, little Garaine?
    The garden of moons, is it far away?
  The orchard of suns, my little Garaine,
    Will you take us there some day?'

  "'If you shut your eyes,' quoth little Garaine,
    'I will show you the way to go
  To the orchard of suns, and the garden of moons,
    And the field where the stars do grow.

  "'But you must speak soft,' quoth little Garaine,
    'And still must your footsteps be,
  For a great bear prowls in the field of the stars,
    And the moons they have men to see.

  "'And the suns have the Children of Signs to guard,
    And they have no pity at all--
  You must not stumble, you must not speak,
    When you come to the orchard wall.

  "'The gates are locked,' quoth little Garaine,
    'But the way I am going to tell?
  The key of your heart it will open them all:
    And there's where the darlings dwell!'"

You may not care to read these lines again, but it helps to show
what I mean: that everything is in the heart, and that nothing
is at all if we do not feel it. Sometimes I have spoken of these
things to my mother, but she does not see as I do. I dare not tell
my father all I think, and Juste is so much a creature of moods
that I am never sure whether he will be sensible and kind, or
scoff. One can not bear to be laughed at. And as for my sister, she
never thinks; she only lives; and she looks it--looks beautiful.
But there, dear Lucie, I must not tire you with my childish
philosophy, though I feel no longer a child. You would not know
your friend. I can not tell what has come over me. Voila!

To-morrow we go to visit General Montcalm, who has just arrived
in the colony. Bigot and his gay set are not likely to be there.
My mother insists that I shall never darken the doors of the
Intendant's palace.

Do you still hold to your former purpose of keeping a daily
journal? If so, I beg you to copy into it this epistle and your
answer; and when I go up to your dear manor house at Beauce next
summer, we will read over our letters and other things set down,
and gossip of the changes come since we met last. Do sketch the
old place for me (as will I our new villa on dear Isle Orleans),
and make interest with the good cure to bring it to me with your
letter, since there are no posts, no postmen, yet between here
and Beauce. The cure most kindly bears this to you, and says he
will gladly be our messenger. Yesterday he said to me, shaking
his head in a whimsical way, "But no treason, mademoiselle, and
no heresy or schism." I am not quite sure what he meant. I dare
hardly think he had Captain Moray in his mind. I would not for
the world so lessen my good opinion of him as to think him
suspicious of me when no other dare; and so I put his words
down to chance hitting, to a humorous fancy.

Be sure, dear Lucie, I shall not love you less for giving me a
prompt answer. Tell me of what you are thinking and what doing. If
Juste can be spared from the Governor's establishment, may I bring
him with me next summer? He is a difficult, sparkling sort of
fellow, but you are so steady-tempered, so full of tact, getting
your own way so quietly and cleverly, that I am sure I should find
plenty of straw for the bricks of my house of hope, my castle in
Spain!

Do not give too much of my share of thy heart elsewhere, and
continue to think me, my dear Lucie, thy friend, loyal and
loving,

ALIXE DUVARNEY.

P.S.--Since the above was written we have visited the General.
Both Monsieur Doltaire and Captain Moray were there, but neither
took much note of me--Monsieur Doltaire not at all. Those two
either hate each other lovingly, or love hatefully, I know not
which, they are so biting, yet so friendly to each other's
cleverness, though their style of word-play is so different:
Monsieur Doltaire's like a bodkin-point, Captain Moray's like a
musket-stock a-clubbing. Be not surprised to see the British at
our gates any day. Though we shall beat them back, I shall feel no
less easy because I have a friend in the enemy's camp. You may
guess who. Do not smile. He is old enough to be my father. He said
so himself six months ago.

ALIXE.


VIII

AS VAIN AS ABSALOM


Gabord, coming in to me one day after I had lain down to sleep,
said, "See, m'sieu' the dormouse, 'tis holiday-eve; the King's
sport comes to-morrow."

I sat up in bed with a start, for I knew not but that my death
had been decided on without trial; and yet on second thought I was
sure this could not be, for every rule of military conduct was
against it.

"Whose holiday?" asked I after a moment; "and what is King's
sport?"

"You're to play bear in the streets to-morrow--which is sport for
the King," he retorted; "we lead you by a rope, and you dance
the quickstep to please our ladies all the way to the Chateau,
where they bring the bear to drum-head."

"Who sits behind the drum?" I questioned.

"The Marquis de Vaudreuil," he replied, "the Intendant, Master
Devil Doltaire, and the little men." By these last he meant
officers of the colonial soldiery.

So then, at last I was to be tried, to be dealt with definitely
on the abominable charge. I should at least again see light and
breathe fresh air, and feel about me the stir of the world. For a
long year I had heard no voice but my own and Gabord's, had had no
friends but my pale blades of corn and a timid mouse, day after day
no light at all; and now winter was at hand again, and without fire
and with poor food my body was chilled and starved. I had had no
news of the world, nor of her who was dear to me, nor of Juste
Duvarney save that he lived, nor of our cause. But succeeding the
thrill of delight I had at thought of seeing the open world again
there came a feeling of lassitude, of indifference; I shrank from
the jar of activity. But presently I got upon my feet, and with a
little air of drollery straightened out my clothes and flicked a
handkerchief across my gaiters. Then I twisted my head over my
shoulder as if I were noting the shape of my back and the set of
my clothes in a mirror, and thrust a leg out in the manner of an
exquisite. I had need to do some mocking thing at the moment, or I
should have given way to tears like a woman, so suddenly weak had
I become.

Gabord burst out laughing.

An idea came to me. "I must be fine to-morrow," said I. "I must
not shame my jailer." I rubbed my beard--I had none when I came
into this dungeon first.

"Aho!" said he, his eyes wheeling.

I knew he understood me. I did not speak, but went on running my
fingers through my beard.

"As vain as Absalom," he added. "Do you think they'll hang you
by the hair?"

"I'd have it off," said I, "to be clean for the sacrifice."

"You had Voban before," he rejoined; "we know what happened--a
dainty bit of a letter all rose-lily scented, and comfits for
the soldier. The pretty wren perches now in the Governor's
house--a-cousining, a-cousining. Think you it is that she may get
a glimpse of m'sieu' the dormouse as he comes to trial? But 'tis
no business o' mine; and if I bring my prisoner up when called
for, there's duty done!"

I saw the friendly spirit in the words.

"Voban," urged I, "Voban may come to me?"

"The Intendant said no, but the Governor yes," was the reply;
"and that M'sieu' Doltaire is not yet come back from Montreal,
so he had no voice. They look for him here to-morrow."

"Voban may come?" I asked again.

"At daybreak Voban--aho!" he continued. "There's milk and honey
to-morrow," he added, and then, without a word, he drew forth from
his coat, and hurriedly thrust into my hands, a piece of meat and a
small flask of wine, and, swinging round like a schoolboy afraid of
being caught in a misdemeanor, he passed through the door and the
bolts clanged after him. He left the torch behind him, stuck in the
cleft of the wall.

I sat down on my couch, and for a moment gazed almost vacantly
at the meat and wine in my hands. I had not touched either for a
year, and now I could see that my fingers, as they closed on the
food nervously, were thin and bloodless, and I realized that my
clothes hung loose upon my person. Here were light, meat, and wine,
and there was a piece of bread on the board covering my water-jar.
Luxury was spread before me, but although I had eaten little all
day I was not hungry. Presently, however, I took the knife which I
had hidden a year before, and cut pieces of the meat and laid them
by the bread. Then I drew the cork from the bottle of wine, and,
lifting it towards that face which was always visible to my soul,
I drank--drank--drank!

The rich liquor swam through my veins like glorious fire. It
wakened my brain and nerved my body. The old spring of life
came back. This wine had come from the hands of Alixe--from the
Governor's store, maybe; for never could Gabord have got such
stuff. I ate heartily of the rich beef and bread with a new-made
appetite, and drank the rest of the wine. When I had eaten and
drunk the last, I sat and looked at the glowing torch, and felt
a sort of comfort creep through me. Then there came a delightful
thought. Months ago I had put away one last pipeful of tobacco, to
save it till some day when I should need it most. I got it, and
no man can guess how lovingly I held it to a flying flame of the
torch, saw it light, and blew out the first whiff of smoke into the
sombre air; for November was again piercing this underground house
of mine, another winter was at hand. I sat and smoked, and--can you
not guess my thoughts? For have you all not the same hearts, being
British born and bred? When I had taken the last whiff, I wrapped
myself in my cloak and went to sleep. But twice or thrice during
the night I waked to see the torch still shining, and caught the
fragrance of consuming pine, and minded not at all the smoke the
burning made.


IX

A LITTLE CONCERNING THE CHEVALIER DE LA DARANTE


I was wakened completely by the shooting of bolts. With the opening
of the door I saw the figures of Gabord and Voban. My little friend
the mouse saw them also, and scampered from the bread it had been
eating, away among the corn, through which my footsteps had now made
two rectangular paths, not disregarded by Gabord, who solicitously
pulled Voban into the narrow track, that he should not trespass on
my harvest.

I rose, showed no particular delight at seeing Voban, but greeted
him easily--though my heart was bursting to ask him of Alixe--and
arranged my clothes. Presently Gabord said, "Stools for barber,"
and, wheeling, he left the dungeon. He was gone only an instant,
but long enough for Voban to thrust a letter into my hand, which
I ran into the lining of my waistcoat as I whispered, "Her
brother--he is well?"

"Well, and he have go to France," he answered. "She make me say,
look to the round window in the Chateau front."

We spoke in English--which, as I have said, Voban understood
imperfectly. There was nothing more said, and if Gabord, when he
returned, suspected, he showed no sign, but put down two stools,
seating himself on one, as I seated myself on the other for Voban's
handiwork. Presently a soldier appeared with a bowl of coffee.
Gabord rose, took it from him, waved him away, and handed it to me.
Never did coffee taste so sweet, and I sipped and sipped till Voban
had ended his work with me. Then I drained the last drop and stood
up. He handed me a mirror, and Gabord, fetching a fine white
handkerchief from his pocket, said, "Here's for your tears, when
they drum you to heaven, dickey-bird."

But when I saw my face in the mirror, I confess I was startled.
My hair, which had been black, was plentifully sprinkled with
white, my face was intensely pale and thin, and the eyes were sunk
in dark hollows. I should not have recognized myself. But I laughed
as I handed back the glass, and said, "All flesh is grass, but a
dungeon's no good meadow."

"'Tis for the dry chaff," Gabord answered, "not for young
grass--aho!"

He rose and made ready to leave, Voban with him. "The commissariat
camps here in an hour or so," he said, with a ripe chuckle.

It was clear the new state of affairs was more to his mind than
the long year's rigour and silence. It seemed to me strange then,
and it has seemed so ever since, that during all that time I never
was visited by Doltaire but once, and of that event I am going to
write briefly here.

It was about two months before this particular morning that he
came, greeting me courteously enough.

"Close quarters here," said he, looking round as if the place
were new to him and smiling to himself.

"Not so close as we all come to one day," said I.

"Dismal comparison!" he rejoined; "you've lost your
spirits."

"Not so," I retorted; "nothing but my liberty."

"You know the way to find it quickly," he suggested.

"The letters for La Pompadour?" I asked.

"A dead man's waste papers," responded he; "of no use to him or
you, or any one save the Grande Marquise."

"Valuable to me," said I.

"None but the Grande Marquise and the writer would give you a
penny for them!"

"Why should I not be my own merchant?"

"You can--to me. If not to me, to no one. You had your chance long
ago, and you refused it. You must admit I dealt fairly with you.
I did not move till you had set your own trap and fallen into it.
Now, if you do not give me the letters--well, you will give them to
none else in this world. It has been a fair game, and I am winning
now. I've only used means which one gentleman might use with
another. Had you been a lesser man I should have had you spitted
long ago. You understand?"

"Perfectly. But since we have played so long, do you think I'll
give you the stakes now--before the end?"

"It would be wiser," he answered thoughtfully.

"I have a nation behind me," urged I.

"It has left you in a hole here to rot."

"It will take over your citadel and dig me out some day," I
retorted hotly.

"What good that? Your life is more to you than Quebec to England."

"No, no," said I quickly; "I would give my life a hundred times
to see your flag hauled down!"

"A freakish ambition," he replied; "mere infatuation!"

"You do not understand it, Monsieur Doltaire," I remarked
ironically.

"I love not endless puzzles. There is no sport in following a maze
that leads to nowhere save the grave." He yawned. "This air is
heavy," he added; "you must find it trying."

"Never as trying as at this moment," I retorted.

"Come, am I so malarious?"

"You are a trickster," I answered coldly.

"Ah, you mean that night at Bigot's?" He smiled. "No, no, you
were to blame--so green. You might have known we were for having
you between the stones."

"But it did not come out as you wished?" hinted I.

"It served my turn," he responded; and he gave me such a smiling,
malicious look that I knew sought to convey he had his way with
Alixe; and though I felt that she was true to me, his cool
presumption so stirred me I could have struck him in the face.
I got angrily to my feet, but as I did so I shrank a little, for
at times the wound in my side, not yet entirely healed, hurt me.

"You are not well," he said, with instant show of curiosity;
"your wounds still trouble you? They should be healed. Gabord was
ordered to see you cared for."

"Gabord has done well enough," answered I. "I have had wounds
before, monsieur."

He leaned against the wall and laughed. "What braggarts you
English are!" he said. "A race of swashbucklers--even on bread and
water!"

He had me at advantage, and I knew it, for he had kept his
temper. I made an effort. "Both excellent," rejoined I, "and
English too."

He laughed again. "Come, that is better. That's in your old
vein. I love to see you so. But how knew you our baker was
English?--which he is, a prisoner like yourself."

"As easily as I could tell the water was not made by Frenchmen."

"Now I have hope of you," he broke out gaily; "you will yet
redeem your nation."

At that moment Gabord came with a message from the Governor to
Doltaire, and he prepared to go.

"You are set on sacrifice?" he asked. "Think--dangling from Cape
Diamond!"

Madame l'Ambassadrice assured me that her husband looks upon Lord
Davenant as one of the first sages of England, that is to say, of
Europe; and she says he is well acquainted with all Lord Davenant's
works--and it is my belief," concluded Lady Cecilia, "that all Sir
William Davenant's works go with her to papa's credit, for as she
spoke she gave a polite glance towards the bookcase where she saw
their gilded backs, and I found the ambassador himself, afterwards,
with 'Davenant on Trade' in his hand!

Be it so: it is not, after all, you know, robbing the dead,
only inheriting by mistake from a namesake, which with foreigners
is allowable, because impossible to avoid, from the time of
_'Monsieur Robinson parent apparemment de Monsieur Crusoe?'

_ to the present day."

By dint of keeping well asunder those who would not draw
well together, Lady Cecilia did contrive to get through the remaining
morning of this operose visit; some she sent out to drive with
gallant military outriders to see places in the neighbourhood famed
for this or that; others walked or boated, or went through the
customary course of conservatories, pheasantry, flower-garden,
pleasure-grounds, and best views of Clarendon Park--and billiards
always.

The political conferences were held in Lord Davenant's apartment:
to what these conferences tended we never knew and never shall; we
consider them as matters of history, and leave them with due
deference to the historian; we have to do only with biography.

Far be it from us to meddle with politics--we have quite enough to
do with manners and morality.

 CHAPTER XI.

The next day, as Helen was going across the hall, she saw the members
of the last political conclave coming out of Lord Davenant's room,
each looking as if the pope had not been chosen according to his
wish--dark and disappointed; even Mr.

Harley's radiant countenance was dimmed, and the dry symptomatic
cough which he gave after taking leave of Lady Davenant, convinced
Helen that all was not well within.

He departed, and there seemed to be among those who remained a
greater constraint than ever. There appeared to be in each an
awakened sense that there were points on which they could never
agree; all seemed to feel how different it would have been if Mr.
Harley had remained. True, the absence or presence of a person of
genius makes as much difference in the whole appearance of things,
as sunshine or no sunshine on the landscape.

Dinner, however, was got through, for time and the hour, two hours,
or three, will get through the roughest dinner or the smoothest.
"Never saw a difficult dinner-party better, bothered!" was Lady
Bearcroft's compliment, whispered to Cecilia as they went into the
drawing-room; and Helen, notwithstanding Lady Bearcroft's vulgarity,
could not help beginning absolutely to like her for her good
nature and amazingly prompt sympathy; but, after all, good nature
without good manners is but a blundering ally, dangerous to its
best friend.

This evening, Lady Cecilia felt that every one was uncomfortable,
and, flitting about the room, she touched here and there to see
how things were going on. They were not going on well, and she
could not make them better; even her efforts at conciliation
were ineffectual; she had stepped in between her mother, some of
the gentlemen, and the general, in an argument in which she heard
indications of strife, and she set about to explain away contradictions,
and to convince every body that they were really all of the same
opinion.

With her sweet voice and pretty persuasive look, this might
have done for the general, as a relaxing smile seemed to
promise; but it would not do at all with Lady Davenant, who, from
feelings foreign to the present matter, was irritated, and spoke,
as Helen thought, too harshly:--"Cecilia, you would act Harmony
in the comedy to perfection; but, unfortunately, I am not one of
those persons who can be persuaded that when I say one thing I mean
quite another--probably because it is not my practice so to do.

That old epigram, Sir Benjamin, do you know it," continued
she, "which begins with a bankrupt's roguish 'Whereas?'
"Whereas the religion and fate of three nations Depend on th'
importance of our conversations:
Whereas some objections are thrown in our way, And words have
been construed to mean what they say,-- Be it known from
henceforth to each friend and each brother, When'er we say one
thing we mean quite another."
Sir Benjamin gravely remarked that it was good law practice. The
courts themselves would be shut up if some such doctrine were not
understood in the practice there, _subaudito,_ if not publicly
proclaimed with an absolute "Whereas be it known from henceforth."

Whether this was dry humour of Sir Benjamin's, or plain matter
of fact and serious opinion, the gravity with which it was delivered
indicated not; but it produced the good effect of a smile, a
laugh, at him or with him. Lady Cecilia did not care which, the
laugh was good at all events; her invincible goodnature and
sweetness of temper had not been soured or conquered even by her
mother's severity; and Lady Davenant, observing this, forgave and
wished to be forgiven.

"My dearest Cecilia," said she, "clasp this bracelet for me, will
you? It would really be a national blessing, if, in the present
times, all women were as amiable as you,'Fond to spread friendships,
but to cover heat Then, turning to a French gentleman, she spoke
of the change she had observed when she was last at Paris, from
the overwhelming violence of party spirit on all sides.

"Dreadfully true," the French gentleman replied--"party spirit, taking
every Proteus form, calling itself by a hundred names and with a
thousand devices and watchwords, which would be too ridiculous,
if they were not too terrible--domestic happiness destroyed, all
society disordered, disorganised--literature not able to support
herself, scarcely appearing in company--all precluded, superseded
by the politics of the day."
Lady Davenant joined with him in his regrets, and added, that she
feared society in England would soon be brought to the same
condition.

"No," said the French gentleman, "English ladies will never be so
vehement as my countrywomen; they will never become, I hope, like
some of our lady politicians, '_qui heurlent comme des demons_.'"

Lady Cecilia said that, from what she had seen at Paris, she
was persuaded that if the ladies did bawl too loud it was
because the gentlemen did not listen to them; that above half the
party-violence which appeared in Parisian belles was merely
dramatic, to produce a sensation, and draw the gentlemen, from the
black _pelotons_ in which they gathered, back to their proper
positions round the _fauteuils_ of the fair ladies.

The foreigner, speaking to what he saw passing in Lady Davenant's
mind, went on;--"Ladies can do much, however, in this as in all
other dilemmas where their power is, and ought to be, omnipotent."

"Female _influence_ is and ought to be _potent,_" said the
general, with an emphasis on influence, contradistinguishing
it from power, and reducing the exaggeration of omnipotent by
the short process of lopping off two syllables.

"So long as ladies keep in their own proper character," said
Lady Davenant, "all is well; but, if once they cease to act
as women, that instant they lose their privilege--their charm:
they forfeit their exorcising power; they can no longer command the
demon of party nor themselves, and he transforms them directly, as
you say," said she to the French gentleman, "into actual furies."

"And, when so transformed, sometimes unconscious of their state,"
said the general, drily, his eye glancing towards the other end
of the room, and lighting upon Lady Bearcroft, who was at the
instant very red and very loud; and Lady Cecilia was standing,
as if watchful for a moment's pause, in which to interpose her
word of peace. She waited for some time in vain, for when she
hastened from the other end of the room to this--the scene of
action, things had come to such a pass between the ladies Masham
and Bearcroft, that mischief, serious mischief, must have ensued,
had not Lady Cecilia, at utmost need, summoned to her aid the happy
genius of Nonsense--the genius of Nonsense, in whose elfin power
even Love delights; on whom Reason herself condescends often to
smile, even when Logic frowns, and chops him on his block: but cut
in twain, the ethereal spirit soon unites again, and lives, and
laughs.

But mark him well--this little happy genius of Nonsense; see
that he be the true thing--the genuine spirit. You will know
him by his well-bred air and tone, which none can counterfeit; and
by his smile; for while most he makes others laugh, the arch little
rogue seldom goes beyond a smile himself! Graceful in the midst of
all his pranks, he never goes too far--though far enough he has been
known to go--he has crept into the armour of the great hero, convulsed
the senate in the wig of a chancellor, and becomingly, decorously,
put on now and then the mitre of an archbishop. "If good people,"
said Archbishop Usher, "would but make goodness agreeable, and
smile, instead of frowning in their virtue, how many they would win
to the good cause!" Lady Cecilia in this was good at need, and
at her utmost need, obedient to her call, came this happy little
genius, and brought with him song and dance, riddle and charade,
and comic prints; and on a half-opened parcel of books Cecilia
darted, and produced a Comic Annual, illustrated by him whom no
risible muscles can resist.

All smiled who understood, and mirth admitted of her crew all who
smiled, and party-spirit fled. But there were foreigners present.
Foreigners cannot well understand our local allusions; our Cruikshank
is to them unintelligible, and Hood's "Sorrows of Number One" quite
lost upon them.

Then Lady Bearcroft thought she would do as much as Lady
Cecilia, and more--that she would produce what these poor foreigners
could comprehend.

But not at her call came the genius of lively nonsense, he heard
her not.

In his stead came that counterfeit, who thinks it witty to be
rude:

"And placing raillery in railing, Will tell aloud your greatest
failing--"
that vulgar imp yclept Fun--known by his broad grin, by his loud
tone, and by his rude banter.

Head foremost forcing himself in, came he, and brought with him
a heap of coarse caricatures, and they were party caricatures.

"Capital!" Lady Bearcroft, however, pronounced them, as she spread
all upon the table for applause--but no applause ensued.

Not such, these, as real good English humour produces and enjoys,
independently of party--these were all too broad, too coarse.

Lady Davenant despised, the general detested. Helen turned away,
and Lady Cecilia threw them under the table, that they might not
be seen by the foreigners.

"For the honour of England, do not let them be spread abroad, pray,
Lady Bearcroft."

"The world is grown mighty nice!" said Lady Bearcroft; "for my
part, give me a good laugh when it is to be had."
"Perhaps we shall find one here," said Lady Cecilia, opening a portfolio
of caricatures in a different style, but they were old, and Lady
Bearcroft would have thrown them aside; but Lord Davenant observed
that, if they have lasted so long,--they must be good, because their
humour only can ensure their permanence; the personality dies with
the person: for instance, in the famous old print of the minister
rat-catcher, in the Westminster election, the likeness to each rat
of the day is lost to us, but the ridicule on placemen ratters
remains.

The whole, however, is perfectly incomprehensible to foreigners.

"Rats! rat!" repeated one of the foreigners, as he looked at and
studied the print.

It was amusing to see the gravity with which this foreign
diplomatist, quite new to England, listened to Lady Bearcroft's
explanation of what is meant in English by a _rat political_. She
was at first rather good on this topic, professing a supernatural
acuteness of the senses, arising from an unconquerable antipathy,
born with her, to the whole race of _rats_. She declared that
she could see a rat a mile off in any man--could, from the moment
a man opened his mouth in parliament, or on the hustings, prophesy
whether he would turn into a rat at last, or not. She, moreover,
understood the language of rats of every degree, and knew even
when they said "No," that they meant "Yes,"--two monosyllables, the
test of rats, which betray them all sooner or later, and transform
the biped into the quadruped, who then turns tail, and runs always
to the other side, from whatever side he may be of.

The _chargé-d'affaires_ stood in half bow, lending deferential ear
and serious attention the whole time of this lecture upon rats,
without being able from beginning to end to compass its meaning,
and at the close, with a disconsolate shrug, he exclaimed, "_Ah!
Je renonce à ça_--"
Lady Bearcroft went on--"Since I cannot make your excellency
understand by description what I mean by an English rat-political,
I must give you an example or two, dead and living--living best,
and I have more than one noted and branded rat in my eye."

But Lady Cecilia, anxious to interrupt this perilous business,
hastily rang for wine and water; and as the gentlemen went to
help themselves she gave them a general toast, as sitting down
to the piano-forte, to the tune of-- "Here's to the maiden of
blushing fifteen"--
She sang--
"Here's to rats and ratcatchers of every degree, The rat that is
trapped, and the rat that is free, The rat that is shy, sir, the
rat that is bold, sir, The rat upon sale, sir, the rat that is sold,
sir.

Let the rats rat! Success to them all, And well off to the old ones
before the house fall!"

CHAPTER XII.

Sir Benjamin and Lady Bearcroft departed at six o'clock the next
morning, and all the rest of the political and diplomatic corps
_left_ immediately after breakfast.

Lady Davenant looked relieved, the general satisfied, and Lady
Cecilia consoled herself with the hope that, if she had done
no good, she had not done any harm. This was a bad slide,
perhaps, in the magic lantern, but would leave no trace behind.

She began now to be very impatient for Beauclerc's appearance; always
sanguine, and as rapid in her conclusions as she was precipitate in
her actions, she felt no doubt, no anxiety, as to the future; for,
though she refrained from questioning Helen as to her sentiments
for Beauclerc, she was pretty well satisfied on that subject.
Helen was particularly grateful to Lady Cecilia for this forbearance,
being almost ashamed to own, even to herself, how exceedingly
happy she felt; and now that it was no longer wrong in her to love,
or dishonourable in him to wish to be loved, she was surprised to
find how completely the idea of Beauclerc was connected with and
interwoven through all her thoughts, pursuits, and sentiments.

He had certainly been constantly in her company for several months,
a whole summer, but she could scarcely believe that during
this time he could have become so necessary to her happiness.
While, with still increasing agitation, she looked forward to
his arrival, she felt as if Lady Davenant's presence was a sort
of protection, a something to rely on, in the new circumstances
in which she was to be placed. Lord Davenant had returned to
town, but Lady Davenant remained. The Russian embassy seemed
still in abeyance.

One morning as Helen was sitting in Lady Davenant's room alone with
her, she said suddenly: "At your age, Helen, I had as little taste
for what are called politics as you have, yet you see what I am
come to, and by the same road you may, you will, arrive at the same
point."

"I! oh, I hope not!" cried Helen, almost before she felt the
whole inference that might he drawn from this exclamation.

"You hope not?" repeated her ladyship calmly. "Let us consider
this matter rationally, and put our hopes, and our fears, and our
prejudices out of the question, if possible.

Let me observe to you, that the position of women in society is
somewhat different from what it was a hundred years ago, or as it
was sixty, or I will say thirty years since.

Women are now so highly cultivated, and political subjects are at
present of so much importance, of such high interest, to all human
creatures who live together in society, you can hardly expect,
Helen, that you, as a rational being, can go through the world
as it now is, without forming any opinion on points of public
importance. You cannot, I conceive, satisfy yourself with the
common namby-pamby little missy phrase, 'ladies have nothing to
do with politics.'"
Helen blushed, for she was conscious that, wrong or right,
namby-pamby, little missy, or not, she had hitherto satisfied
herself very comfortably with some such thought.

"Depend upon it, Helen," resumed Lady Davenant, "that when you
are married, your love for a man of superior abilities, and of
superior character, must elevate your mind to sympathy with
all his pursuits, with all the subjects which claim his attention."

Helen felt that she must become strongly interested in every
subject in which the man she loved was interested; but still she
observed that she had not abilities or information, like Lady
Davenant's, that could justify her in attempting to follow her
example. Besides, Helen was sure that, even if she had, it would
not suit her taste; and besides, in truth, she did not think it
well suited to a woman--she stopped when she came to that last
thought.

But what kindness and respect suppressed was clearly understood
by her penetrating friend. Fixing her eyes upon Helen, she said
with a smile, the candour and nobleness of her character rising above
all little irritation of temper.

"I agree with you, my dear Helen, in all you do _not_ say, and
were I to begin life over again, my conduct should in some respects
be different.

Of the public dangers and private personal inconveniences that
may result from women becoming politicians, or, as you better
express our meaning interfering, with public affairs, no one can
be more aware than I am.
_Interfering_, observe I say, for I would mark and keep the line
between influence and interference.

Female influence must, will, and ought to exist on political
subjects as on all others; but this influence should always be
domestic, not public--the customs of society have so ruled it.
Of the thorns in the path of ambitious men all moralists talk,
but there are little, scarcely visible, thorns of a peculiar sort
that beset the path of an ambitious woman, the venomous prickles
of the _domestic bramble_, a plant not perhaps mentioned in Withering's
Botany, or the Hortus Kewensis, but it is too well known to many,
and to me it has been sorely known."

At this instant General Clarendon came in with some letters,
which had been forwarded to him express. One, for Lady Davenant,
he had been desired to put into her hands himself: he retired, and
Lady Davenant opened the letter. By the first glance at her
countenance, Helen saw that there was something in it which had
surprised and given her great concern. Helen withdrew her eyes,
and waited till she should speak.

But Lady Davenant was quite silent, and Helen, looking at her
again, saw her put her hand to her heart, as if from some sudden
sense of violent bodily pain, and she sank on the sofa, fell back,
and became as pale as death and motionless.
Excessively frightened, Helen threw open the window, rang the bell
for Lady Davenant's own woman, and sent the page for Lady
Cecilia. In a few moments Lady Cecilia and Elliott came. Neither
was as much alarmed as Helen had expected they would be. They had
seen Lady Davenant, under similar attacks--they knew what remedies
to apply. Elliott was a remarkably composed, steady person. She
now went on doing all that was necessary without speaking a
word. The paroxysm lasted longer than usual, as Lady Cecilia observed;
and, though she continued her assurances to Helen that "It was all
nervous--only nerves," she began evidently to be herself alarmed.

At length symptoms of returning animation appeared, and then
Cecilia retired, beckoning to Helen to follow her into the next room.

I would not even yet think that they would hang me; and
if they did, what good could brooding do? When the last word of the
memoirs (I may call them so), addressed to Alixe, had been written,
I turned my thoughts to other friends.

The day preceding that fixed for my execution came, yet there
was no sign from friend or enemy without. At ten o'clock of that
day Chaplain Wainfleet was admitted to me in the presence of Gabord
and a soldier. I found great pleasure in his company, brief as his
visit was; and after I had given him messages to bear for me to old
friends, if we never met again and he were set free, he left me,
benignly commending me to Heaven. There was the question of my
other letters. I had but one desire--Voban again, unless at my
request the Seigneur Duvarney would come, and they would let him
come. If it were certain that I was to go to the scaffold, then I
should not hesitate to tell him my relations with his daughter,
that he might comfort her when, being gone from the world myself,
my love could do her no harm. I could not think that he would hold
against me the duel with his son, and I felt sure he would come to
me if he could.

But why should I not try for both Voban and the Seigneur? So I
spoke to Gabord.

"Voban! Voban!" said he. "Does dickey-bird play at peacock still?
Well, thou shalt see Voban. Thou shalt go trimmed to heaven--aho!"

Presently I asked him if he would bear a message to the Governor,
asking permission for the Seigneur Duvarney to visit me, if he were
so inclined. At his request I wrote my petition out, and he carried
it away with him, saying that I should have Voban that evening.

I waited hour after hour, but no one came. As near as I could
judge it was now evening. It seemed strange to think that, twenty
feet above me, the world was all white with snow; the sound of
sleigh-bells and church-bells, and the cries of snowshoers ringing
on the clear, sharp air. I pictured the streets of Quebec alive
with people: the young seigneur set off with furs and silken sash
and sword or pistols; the long-haired, black-eyed woodsman in his
embroidered moccasins and leggings with flying thrums; the peasant
farmer slapping his hands cheerfully in the lighted market-place;
the petty noble, with his demoiselle, hovering in the precincts of
the Chateau St. Louis and the intendance. Up there were light,
freedom, and the inspiriting frost; down here in my dungeon, the
blades of corn, which, dying, yet never died, told the story of a
choking air, wherein the body and soul of a man droop and take long
to die. This was the night before Christmas Eve, when in England
and Virginia they would be preparing for feasting and thanksgiving.

The memories of past years crowded on me. I thought of feastings
and spendthrift rejoicings in Glasgow and Virginia. All at once
the carnal man in me rose up and damned these lying foes of mine.
Resignation went whistling down the wind. Hang me! Hang me! No, by
the God that gave me breath! I sat back and laughed--laughed at
my own insipid virtue, by which, to keep faith with the fanatical
follower of Prince Charlie, I had refused my liberty; cut myself off
from the useful services of my King; wasted good years of my life,
trusting to pressure and help to come from England, which never
came; twisted the rope for my own neck to keep honour with the
dishonourable Doltaire, who himself had set the noose swinging; and,
inexpressible misery! involved in my shame and peril a young blithe
spirit, breathing a miasma upon the health of a tender life. Every
rebellious atom in my blood sprang to indignant action. I swore
that if they fetched me to the gallows to celebrate their Noel,
other lives than mine should go to keep me company on the dark trail.
To die like a rat in a trap, oiled for the burning, and lighted by
the torch of hatred! No, I would die fighting, if I must die.

I drew from its hiding-place the knife I had secreted the day I
was brought into that dungeon--a little weapon, but it would serve
for the first blow. At whom? Gabord? It all flashed through my mind
how I might do it when he came in again: bury this blade in his neck
or heart--it was long enough for the work; then, when he was dead,
change my clothes for his, take his weapons, and run my chances to
get free of the citadel. Free? Where should I go in the dead of
winter? Who would hide me, shelter me? I could not make my way to
an English settlement. Ill clad, exposed to the merciless climate,
and the end death. But that was freedom--freedom! I could feel my
body dilating with the thought, as I paced my dungeon like an
ill-tempered beast. But kill Gabord, who had put himself in danger
to serve me, who himself had kept the chains from off my ankles and
body, whose own life depended upon my security--"Come, come, Robert
Moray," said I, "what relish have you for that? That's an ill game
for a gentleman. Alixe Duvarney would rather see you dead than get
your freedom over the body of this man."

That was an hour of storm. I am glad that I conquered the baser
part of me; for, almost before I had grown calm again, the bolts of
the dungeon doors shot back, and presently Gabord stepped inside,
followed by a muffled figure.

"Voban the barber," said Gabord in a strange voice, and stepping
again outside, he closed the door, but did not shoot the bolts.

I stood as one in a dream. Voban the barber? In spite of cap and
great fur coat, I saw the outline of a figure that no barber ever
had in this world. I saw two eyes shining like lights set in a rosy
sky. A moment of doubt, of impossible speculation, of delicious
suspense, and then the coat of Voban the barber opened, dropped
away from the lithe, graceful figure of a young officer of marines,
the cap flew off, and in an instant the dear head, the blushing,
shining face of Alixe was on my breast.

In that moment, stolen from the calendar of hate, I ran into the
haven where true hearts cast anchor and bless God that they have
seen upon the heights, to guide them, the lights of home. The
moment flashed by and was gone, but the light it made went not
with it.

When I drew her blushing face up, and stood her off from me that
I might look at her again, the colour flew back and forth on her
cheek, as you may see the fire flutter in an uncut ruby when you
turn it in the sun. Modestly drawing the cloak she wore more
closely about her, she hastened to tell me how it was she came in
such a guise; but I made her pause for a moment while I gave her a
seat and sat down beside her. Then by the light of the flickering
torch and flaring candles I watched her feelings play upon her
face as the warm light of autumn shifts upon the glories of ripe
fruits. Her happiness was tempered by the sadness of our position,
and my heart smote me that I had made her suffer, had brought care
to her young life. I could see that in the year she had grown
older, yet her beauty seemed enhanced by that and by the trouble
she had endured. I shall let her tell her story here unbroken by
my questions and those interruptions which Gabord made, bidding
her to make haste. She spoke without faltering, save here and
there; but even then I could see her brave spirit quelling the riot
of her emotions, shutting down the sluice-gate of tears.

"I knew," she said, her hand clasped in mine, "that Gabord was
the only person like to be admitted to you, and so for days, living
in fear lest the worst should happen, I have prepared for this
chance. I have grown so in height that I knew an old uniform of my
brothers would fit me, and I had it ready--small sword and all,"
she added, with a sad sort of humour, touching the weapon at her
side. "You must know that we have for the winter a house here upon
the ramparts near the Chateau. It was my mother's doings, that my
sister Georgette and I might have no great journeyings in the cold
to the festivities hereabouts. So I, being a favourite with the
Governor, ran in and out of the Chateau at my will; of which my
mother was proud, and she allowed me much liberty, for to be a
favourite of the Governor is an honour. I knew how things were
going, and what the chances were of the sentence being carried out
on you. Sometimes I thought my heart would burst with the anxiety of
it all, but I would not let that show to the world. If you could but
have seen me smile at the Governor and Monsieur Doltaire--nay, do
not press my hand so, Robert; you know well you have no need to
fear monsieur--while I learned secrets of state, among them news of
you. Three nights ago Monsieur Doltaire was talking with me at a
ball--ah, those feastings while you were lying in a dungeon, and I
shutting up my love and your danger close in my heart, even from
those who loved me best! Well, suddenly he said, 'I think I will
not have our English captain shifted to a better world.'

"My heart stood still; I felt an ache across my breast so that I
could hardly breathe. 'Why will you not?' said I; 'was not the
sentence just?' He paused a minute, and then replied, 'All
sentences are just when an enemy is dangerous.' Then said I as in
surprise, 'Why, was he no spy, after all?' He sat back, and laughed
a little. 'A spy according to the letter of the law, but you have
heard of secret history--eh?' I tried to seem puzzled, for I had a
thought there was something private between you and him which has
to do with your fate. So I said, as if bewildered, 'You mean there
is evidence which was not shown at the trial?' He answered slowly,
'Evidence that would bear upon the morals, not the law of the
case.' Then said I, 'Has it to do with you, monsieur?' 'It has to
do with France,' he replied. 'And so you will not have his death?'
I asked. 'Bigot wishes it,' he replied, 'for no other reason than
that Madame Cournal has spoken nice words for the good-looking
captain, and because that unsuccessful duel gave Vaudreuil an
advantage over himself. Vaudreuil wishes it because he thinks it
will sound well in France, and also because he really believes the
man a spy. The Council do not care much; they follow the Governor
and Bigot, and both being agreed, their verdict is unanimous.'
He paused, then added, 'And the Seigneur Duvarney--and his
daughter--wish it because of a notable injury to one of their
name.' At that I cautiously replied, 'No, my father does not wish
it, for my brother gave the offense, and Captain Moray saved his
life, as you know. I do not wish it, Monsieur Doltaire, because
hanging is a shameful death, and he is a gentle man, not a ruffian.
Let him be shot like a gentleman. How will it sound at the Court of
France that, on insufficient evidence, as you admit, an English
gentleman was hanged for a spy? Would not the King say (for he is a
gentleman), Why was not this shown me before the man's death? Is it
not a matter upon which a country would feel as gentlemen feel?'

"I knew it the right thing to say at the moment, and it seemed
the only way to aid you, though I intended, if the worst came to
the worst, to go myself to the Governor at the last and plead for
your life, at least for a reprieve. But it had suddenly flashed
upon me that a reference to France was the thing, since the
Articles of War which you are accused of dishonouring were signed
by officers from France and England.

"Presently he turned to me with a look of curiosity, and another
sort of look also that made me tremble, and said, 'Now, there you
have put your finger on the point--my point, the choice weapon I
had reserved to prick the little bubble of Bigot's hate and the
Governor's conceit, if I so chose, even at the last. And here is a
girl, a young girl just freed from pinafores, who teaches them the
law of nations! If it pleased me I should not speak, for Vaudreuil's
and Bigot's affairs are none of mine; but, in truth, why should you
kill your enemy? It is the sport to keep him living; you can get no
change for your money from a dead man. He has had one cheerful year;
why not another, and another, and another? And so watch him fretting
to the slow-coming end, while now and again you give him a taste of
hope, to drop him back again into the pit which has no sides for
climbing.' He paused a minute, and then added, 'A year ago I thought
he had touched you, this Britisher, with his raw humour and manners;
but, my faith, how swiftly does a woman's fancy veer!' At that I
said calmly to him, 'You must remember that then he was not thought
so base.' 'Yes, yes,' he replied; 'and a woman loves to pity the
captive, whatever his fault, if he be presentable and of some notice
or talent. And Moray has gifts,' he went on. I appeared all at once
to be offended. 'Veering, indeed! a woman's fancy! I think you might
judge women better. You come from high places, Monsieur Doltaire,
and they say this and that of your great talents and of your power
at Versailles, but what proof have we had of it? You set a girl
down with a fine patronage, and you hint at weapons to cut off my
cousin the Governor and the Intendant from their purposes; but how
do we know you can use them, that you have power with either the
unnoticeable woman or the great men?' I knew very well it was a bold
move. He suddenly turned to me, in his cruel eyes a glittering kind
of light, and said, 'I suggest no more than I can do with those
"great men"; and as for the woman, the slave can not be patron--I am
the slave. I thought not of power before; but now that I do, I will
live up to my thinking. I seem idle, I am not; purposeless, I am
not; a gamester, I am none. I am a sportsman, and I will not leave
the field till all the hunt be over. I seem a trifler, yet I have
persistency. I am no romanticist, I have no great admiration for
myself, and yet when I set out to hunt a woman honestly, be sure
I shall never back to kennel till she is mine or I am done for
utterly. Not by worth nor by deserving, but by unending patience and
diligence--that shall be my motto. I shall devote to the chase every
art that I have learned or known by nature. So there you have me,
mademoiselle. Since you have brought me to the point, I will unfurl
my flag.... I am--your--hunter,' he went on, speaking with slow,
painful emphasis, 'and I shall make you mine. You fight against me,
but it is no use.' I got to my feet, and said with coolness, though
I was sick at heart and trembling, 'You are frank. You have made two
resolves. I shall give weight to one as you fulfill the other'; and,
smiling at him, I moved away towards my mother.

"Masterful as he is, I felt that this would touch his vanity.
There lay my great chance with him. If he had guessed the truth
of what's between us, be sure, Robert, your life were not worth
one hour beyond to-morrow's sunrise. You must know how I loathe
deceitfulness, but when one weak girl is matched against powerful
and evil men, what can she do? My conscience does not chide me, for
I know my cause is just. Robert, look me in the eyes.... There,
like that.... Now tell me. You are innocent of the dishonourable
thing, are you not? I believe with all my soul, but that I may say
from your own lips that you are no spy, tell me so."

When I had said as she had wished, assuring her she should know
all, carrying proofs away with her, and that hidden evidence of
which Doltaire had spoken, she went on:

"'You put me to the test,' said monsieur. 'Doing one, it will be
proof that I shall do the other.' He fixed his eyes upon me with
such a look that my whole nature shrank from him, as if the next
instant his hateful hands were to be placed on me. Oh, Robert, I
know how perilous was the part I played, but I dared it for your
sake. For a whole year I have dissembled to every one save to that
poor mad soul Mathilde, who reads my heart in her wild way, to
Voban, and to the rough soldier outside your dungeon. But they will
not betray me. God has given us these rough but honest friends.

"Well, monsieur left me that night, and I have not seen him since,
nor can I tell where he is, for no one knows, and I dare not ask
too much. I did believe he would achieve his boast as to saving
your life, and so, all yesterday and to-day, I have waited with most
anxious heart; but not one word! Yet there was that in all he said
which made me sure he meant to save you, and I believe he will. Yet
think: if anything happened to him! You know what wild doings go on
at Bigot's chateau out at Charlesbourg; or, again, in the storm of
yesterday he may have been lost. You see, there are the hundred
chances; so I determined not to trust wholly to him. There was
one other way--to seek the Governor myself, open my heart to him,
and beg for a reprieve. To-night at nine o'clock--it is now six,
Robert--we go to the Chateau St. Louis, my mother and my father and
I, to sup with the Governor. Oh, think what I must endure, to face
them with this awful shadow on me! If no word come of the reprieve
before that hour, I shall make my own appeal to the Governor. It may
ruin me, but it may save you; and that done, what should I care for
the rest? Your life is more to me than all the world beside." Here
she put both hands upon my shoulders and looked me in the eyes.

I did not answer yet, but took her hands in mine, and she
continued: "An hour past, I told my mother I should go to see
my dear friend Lucie Lotbiniere. Then I stole up to my room,
put on my brother's uniform, and came down to meet Voban near the
citadel, as we had arranged. I knew he was to have an order from
the Governor to visit you. He was waiting, and to my great joy he
put the order in my hands. I took his coat and wig and cap, a poor
disguise, and came straight to the citadel, handing the order to
the soldiers at the gate. They gave it back without a word, and
passed me on. I thought this strange, and looked at the paper by
the light of the torches. What was my surprise to see that Voban's
name had been left out! It but gave permission to the bearer. That
would serve with the common soldier, but I knew well it would not
with Gabord or with the commandant of the citadel. All at once I saw
the great risk I was running, the danger to us both. Still I would
not turn back. But how good fortune serves us when we least look for
it! At the commandant's very door was Gabord. I did not think to
deceive him. It was my purpose from the first to throw myself upon
his mercy. So there, that moment, I thrust the order into his hand.
He read it, looked a moment, half fiercely and half kindly, at me,
then turned and took the order to the commandant. Presently he came
out, and said to me, 'Come, m'sieu', and see you clip the gentleman
dainty fine for his sunrise travel. He'll get no care 'twixt
posting-house and end of journey, m'sieu'.' This he said before two
soldiers, speaking with harshness and a brutal humour. But inside
the citadel he changed at once, and, taking from my head this cap
and wig, he said quite gently, yet I could see he was angry, too,
'This is a mad doing, young lady.' He said no more, and led me
straight to you. If I had told him I was coming, I know he would
have stayed me. But at the dangerous moment he had not heart to
drive me back.... And that is all my story, Robert."

As I have said, this tale was broken often by little questionings
and exclamations, and was not told in one long narrative as I have
written it here. When she had done I sat silent and overcome for a
moment. There was one thing now troubling me sorely, even in the
painful joy of having her here close by me. She had risked all to
save my life--reputation, friends, even myself, the one solace in
her possible misery. Was it not my duty to agree to Doltaire's
terms, for her sake, if there was yet a chance to do so? I had made
a solemn promise to Sir John Godric that those letters, if they ever
left my hands, should go to the lady who had written them; and to
save my own life I would not have broken faith with my benefactor.
But had I the right to add to the misery of this sweet, brave
spirit? Suppose it was but for a year or two: had I the right to
give her sorrow for that time, if I could prevent it, even at the
cost of honour with the dead? Was it not my duty to act, and at
once? Time was short.

While in a swift moment I was debating, Gabord opened the door,
and said, "Come, end it, end it. Gabord has a head to save!" I
begged him for one minute more, and then giving Alixe the packet
which held my story, I told her hastily the matter between Doltaire
and myself, and said that now, rather than give her sorrow, I was
prepared to break my word with Sir John Godric. She heard me through
with flashing eyes, and I could see her bosom heave. When I had
done, she looked me straight in the eyes.

"Is all that here?" she said, holding up the packet.

"All," I answered.

"And you would not break your word to save your own life?"

I shook my head in negation.

"Now I know that you are truly honourable," she answered, "and
you shall not break your promise for me. No, no, you shall not; you
shall not stir. Tell me that you will not send word to Monsieur
Doltaire--tell me!"

When, after some struggle, I had consented, she said, "But I may
act. I am not bound to secrecy. I have given no word or bond. I
will go to the Governor with my love, and I do not fear the end.
They will put me in a convent, and I shall see you no more, but I
shall have saved you."

In vain I begged her not to do so; her purpose was strong, and I
could only get her promise that she would not act till midnight.
This was hardly achieved when Gabord entered quickly, saying,
"The Seigneur Duvarney! On with your coat, wig, and cap! Quick,
mademoiselle!"

Swiftly the disguise was put on, and I clasped her to my breast with
a joyful agony, while Gabord hastily put out the candles and torch,
and drew Alixe behind the dungeon door. Then standing himself in
the doorway, he loudly commended me to sleep sound and be ready
for travel in the morning. Taking the hint, I threw myself upon
my couch, and composed myself. An instant afterwards the Seigneur
appeared with a soldier, and Gabord met him cheerfully, looked at
the order from the Governor, and motioned the Seigneur in and the
soldier away. As Duvarney stepped inside, Gabord followed, holding
up a torch. I rose to meet my visitor, and as I took his hand I saw
Gabord catch Alixe by the sleeve and hurry her out with a whispered
word, swinging the door behind her as she passed. Then he stuck the
torch in the wall, went out, shut and bolted the dungeon door, and
left us two alone.

I was glad that Alixe's safety had been assured, and my greeting
of her father was cordial. But he was more reserved than I had
ever known him. The duel with his son, which had sent the youth to
France and left him with a wound which would trouble him for many a
day, weighed heavily against me. Again, I think that he guessed my
love for Alixe, and resented it with all his might. What Frenchman
would care to have his daughter lose her heart to one accused of a
wretched crime, condemned to death, an enemy of his country, and a
Protestant? I was sure that should he guess at the exact relations
between us, Alixe would be sent behind the tall doors of a convent,
where I should knock in vain.

"You must not think, Moray," said he, "that I have been indifferent
to your fate, but you can not guess how strong the feeling is
against you, how obdurate is the Governor, who, if he should appear
lax in dealing with you, would give a weapon into Bigot's hands
which might ruin him in France one day. I have but this moment come
from the Governor, and there seems no way to move him."

I saw that he was troubled greatly, and I felt his helplessness.
He went on: "There is but one man who could bend the Governor, but
he, alas! is no friend of yours. And what way there is to move him
I know not; he has no wish, I fancy, but that you shall go to your
fate."

"You mean Monsieur Doltaire?" said I quietly.

"Doltaire," he answered. "I have tried to find him, for he is
the secret agent of La Pompadour, and if I had one plausible reason
to weigh with him--- But I have none, unless you can give it. There
are vague hints of things between you and him, and I have come to
ask if you can put any fact, any argument, in my hands that would
aid me with him. I would go far to serve you."

"Think not, I pray you," returned I, "that there is any debt
unsatisfied between us."

He waved his hand in a melancholy way. It exhibits the characteristic
mark of a juvenile poem, the general suggestion that the author
is a thousand years old.

Browning calls it a fragment of a confession; and Mr.

Johnson Fox, an old friend of Browning's father, who reviewed
it for _Tait's Magazine_, said, with truth, that it would be
difficult to find anything more purely confessional.

It is the typical confession of a boy laying bare all the spiritual
crimes of infidelity and moral waste, in a state of genuine
ignorance of the fact that every one else has committed them.

It is wholesome and natural for youth to go about confessing that
the grass is green, and whispering to a priest hoarsely that it has
found a sun in heaven.

But the records of that particular period of development, even when
they are as ornate and beautiful as _Pauline_, are not necessarily
or invariably wholesome reading.

The chief interest of _Pauline_, with all its beauties, lies in a
certain almost humorous singularity, the fact that Browning, of all
people, should have signalised his entrance into the world of letters
with a poem which may fairly be called morbid.

But this is a morbidity so general and recurrent that it
may be called in a contradictory phrase a healthy morbidity; it is
a kind of intellectual measles. No one of any degree of maturity
in reading _Pauline_ will be quite so horrified at the sins of the
young gentleman who tells the story as he seems to be himself. It
is the utterance of that bitter and heartrending period of youth
which comes before we realise the one grand and logical basis
of all optimism--the doctrine of original sin.
The boy at this stage being an ignorant and inhuman idealist, regards
all his faults as frightful secret malformations, and it is only
later that he becomes conscious of that large and beautiful and
benignant explanation that the heart of man is deceitful above all
things and desperately wicked.

That Browning, whose judgment on his own work was one of the
best in the world, took this view of _Pauline_ in after years is
quite obvious. He displayed a very manly and unique capacity of
really laughing at his own work without being in the least ashamed
of it. "This," he said of _Pauline_, "is the only crab apple that
remains of the shapely tree of life in my fool's paradise." It
would be difficult to express the matter more perfectly. Although
_Pauline_ was published anonymously, its authorship was known to
a certain circle, and Browning began to form friendships in the
literary world.

He had already become acquainted with two of the best friends
he was ever destined to have, Alfred Domett, celebrated in "The
Guardian Angel" and "Waring," and his cousin Silverthorne, whose
death is spoken of in one of the most perfect lyrics in the English
language, Browning's "May and Death."

These were men of his own age, and his manner of speaking of them
gives us many glimpses into that splendid world of comradeship
which.

Plato and Walt Whitman knew, with its endless days and its immortal
nights. Browning had a third friend destined to play an even greater
part in his life, but who belonged to an older generation and
a statelier school of manners and scholarship.

Mr. Kenyon was a schoolfellow of Browning's father, and occupied
towards his son something of the position of an irresponsible uncle.

He was a rotund, rosy old gentleman, fond of comfort and the
courtesies of life, but fond of them more for others, though much
for himself.

Elizabeth Barrett in after years wrote of "the brightness of his
carved speech," which would appear to suggest that he practised
that urbane and precise order of wit which was even then old-fashioned.
Yet, notwithstanding many talents of this kind, he was not so much
an able man as the natural friend and equal of able men.

Browning's circle of friends, however, widened about this time
in all directions.

One friend in particular he made, the Comte de Ripert-Monclar, a
French Royalist with whom he prosecuted with renewed energy his
studies in the mediæval and Renaissance schools of philosophy.
It was the Count who suggested that Browning should write a poetical
play on the subject of Paracelsus.

After reflection, indeed, the Count retracted this advice on the
ground that the history of the great mystic gave no room for love.

Undismayed by this terrible deficiency, Browning caught up the idea
with characteristic enthusiasm, and in 1835 appeared the first of
his works which he himself regarded as representative--_Paracelsus_.

The poem shows an enormous advance in technical literary power; but
in the history of Browning's mind it is chiefly interesting as
giving an example of a peculiarity which clung to him during the
whole of his literary life, an intense love of the holes and corners
of history.

Fifty-two years afterwards he wrote _Parleyings with certain
Persons of Importance in their Day_, the last poem published
in his lifetime; and any reader of that remarkable work will
perceive that the common characteristic of all these persons is
not so much that they were of importance in their day as that they
are of no importance in ours. The same eccentric fastidiousness
worked in him as a young man when he wrote _Paracelsus_ and _Sordello_.
Nowhere in Browning's poetry can we find any very exhaustive study
of any of the great men who are the favourites of the poet and
moralist.

He has written about philosophy and ambition and music and morals,
but he has written nothing about Socrates or Cæsar or Napoleon,
or Beethoven or Mozart, or Buddha or Mahomet. When he wishes to
describe a political ambition he selects that entirely unknown
individual, King Victor of Sardinia. When he wishes to express
the most perfect soul of music, he unearths some extraordinary
persons called Abt Vogler and Master Hugues of Saxe-Gotha.

When he wishes to express the largest and sublimest scheme
of morals and religion which his imagination can conceive, he does
not put it into the mouth of any of the great spiritual leaders
of mankind, but into the mouth of an obscure Jewish Rabbi of the
name of Ben Ezra.

It is fully in accordance with this fascinating craze of his
that when he wishes to study the deification of the intellect and
the disinterested pursuit of the things of the mind, he does not
select any of the great philosophers from Plato to Darwin, whose
investigations are still of some importance in the eyes of the world.

He selects the figure of all figures most covered with modern
satire and pity, the _à priori_ scientist of the Middle Ages
and the Renaissance. His supreme type of the human intellect is
neither the academic nor the positivist, but the alchemist. It
is difficult to imagine a turn of mind constituting a more
complete challenge to the ordinary modern point of view. To
the intellect of our time the wild investigators of the school of
Paracelsus seem to be the very crown and flower of futility, they
are collectors of straws and careful misers of dust.

But for all that Browning was right. Any critic who understands the
true spirit of mediæval science can see that he was right; no critic
can see how right he was unless he understands the spirit of
mediæval science as thoroughly as he did.

In the character of Paracelsus, Browning wished to paint the
dangers and disappointments which attend the man who believes
merely in the intellect.

He wished to depict the fall of the logician; and with a perfect
and unerring instinct he selected a man who wrote and spoke in the
tradition of the Middle Ages, the most thoroughly and even painfully
logical period that the world has ever seen.

If he had chosen an ancient Greek philosopher, it would have
been open to the critic to have said that that philosopher
relied to some extent upon the most sunny and graceful social life
that ever flourished.

If he had made him a modern sociological professor, it would have
been possible to object that his energies were not wholly concerned
with truth, but partly with the solid and material satisfaction
of society.
But the man truly devoted to the things of the mind was the mediæval
magician. It is a remarkable fact that one civilisation does
not satisfy itself by calling another civilisation wicked--it
calls it uncivilised. We call the Chinese barbarians, and they call
us barbarians. The mediæval state, like China, was a foreign
civilisation, and this was its supreme characteristic, that it
cared for the things of the mind for their own sake. To complain of
the researches of its sages on the ground that they were not
materially fruitful, is to act as we should act in telling a gardener
that his roses were not as digestible as our cabbages.

It is not only true that the mediæval philosophers never discovered
the steam-engine; it is quite equally true that they never tried.
The Eden of the Middle Ages was really a garden, where each of God's
flowers--truth and beauty and reason--flourished for its own
sake, and with its own name.

The Eden of modern progress is a kitchen garden.

It would have been hard, therefore, for Browning to have chosen
a better example for his study of intellectual egotism than
Paracelsus.
Modern life accuses the mediæval tradition of crushing the intellect;
Browning, with a truer instinct, accuses that tradition of
over-glorifying it. There is, however, another and even more
important deduction to be made from the moral of _Paracelsus_. The
usual accusation against Browning is that he was consumed with logic;
that he thought all subjects to be the proper pabulum of intellectual
disquisition; that he gloried chiefly in his own power of plucking
knots to pieces and rending fallacies in two; and that to this
method he sacrificed deliberately, and with complete
self-complacency, the element of poetry and sentiment. To people
who imagine Browning to have been this frigid believer in the
intellect there is only one answer necessary or sufficient. It is
the fact that he wrote a play designed to destroy the whole of this
intellectualist fallacy at the age of twenty-three.

_Paracelsus_ was in all likelihood Browning's introduction to the
literary world. It was many years, and even many decades, before he
had anything like a public appreciation, but a very great part of
the minority of those who were destined to appreciate him came over
to his standard upon the publication of _Paracelsus_. The celebrated
John Forster had taken up _Paracelsus_ "as a thing to slate,"
and had ended its perusal with the wildest curiosity about the author
and his works.
John Stuart Mill, never backward in generosity, had already interested
himself in Browning, and was finally converted by the same poem.
Among other early admirers were Landor, Leigh Hunt, Horne,
Serjeant Talfourd, and Monckton-Milnes.

One man of even greater literary stature seems to have come
into Browning's life about this time, a man for whom he never
ceased to have the warmest affection and trust.
Browning was, indeed, one of the very few men of that period who got
on perfectly with Thomas Carlyle. It is precisely one of those
little things which speak volumes for the honesty and unfathomable
good humour of Browning, that Carlyle, who had a reckless
contempt for most other poets of his day, had something amounting
to a real attachment to him. He would run over to Paris for the
mere privilege of dining with him. Browning, on the other hand,
with characteristic impetuosity, passionately defended and justified
Carlyle in all companies. "I have just seen dear Carlyle," he
writes on one occasion; "catch me calling people dear in a hurry,
except in a letter beginning." He sided with Carlyle in the vexed
question of the Carlyle domestic relations, and his impression
of Mrs. Carlyle was that she was "a hard unlovable woman." As,
however, it is on record that he once, while excitedly explaining
some point of mystical philosophy, put down Mrs. Carlyle's hot
kettle on the hearthrug, any frigidity that he may have observed
in her manner may possibly find a natural explanation. His
partisanship in the Carlyle affair, which was characteristically
headlong and human, may not throw much light on that painful
problem itself, but it throws a great deal of light on the character
of Browning, which was pugnaciously proud of its friends, and
had what may almost be called a lust of loyalty. Browning was not
capable of that most sagacious detachment which enabled Tennyson
to say that he could not agree that the Carlyles ought never to
have married, since if they had each married elsewhere there would
have been four miserable people instead of two.

Among the motley and brilliant crowd with which Browning had now
begun to mingle, there was no figure more eccentric and spontaneous
than that of Macready the actor. This extraordinary person, a
man living from hand to mouth in all things spiritual and pecuniary,
a man feeding upon flying emotions, conceived something like an
attraction towards Browning, spoke of him as the very ideal of a
young poet, and in a moment of peculiar excitement suggested to him
the writing of a great play.

Browning was a man fundamentally indeed more steadfast and
prosaic, but on the surface fully as rapid and easily infected
as Macready. He immediately began to plan out a great historical
play, and selected for his subject "Strafford."
In Browning's treatment of the subject there is something more
than a trace of his Puritan and Liberal upbringing. It is one of
the very earliest of the really important works in English
literature which are based on the Parliamentarian reading of the
incidents of the time of Charles I. It is true that the finest
element in the play is the opposition between Strafford and Pym,
an opposition so complete, so lucid, so consistent, that it has,
so to speak, something of the friendly openness and agreement
which belongs to an alliance.

The two men love each other and fight each other, and do the two
things at the same time completely. This is a great thing of which
even to attempt the description. It is easy to have the impartiality
which can speak judicially of both parties, but it is not so easy
to have that larger and higher impartiality which can speak passionately
on behalf of both parties. Nevertheless, it may be permissible
to repeat that there is in the play a definite trace of Browning's
Puritan education and Puritan historical outlook.

For _Strafford_ is, of course, an example of that most difficult of
all literary works--a political play. The thing has been achieved
once at least admirably in Shakespeare's _Julius Cæsar_, and
something like it, though from a more one-sided and romantic
stand-point, has been done excellently in _L'Aiglon_.

But the difficulties of such a play are obvious on the face of
the matter. In a political play the principal characters are not
merely men. They are symbols, arithmetical figures representing
millions of other men outside. It is, by dint of elaborate stage
management, possible to bring a mob upon the boards, but the largest
mob ever known is nothing but a floating atom of the people; and
the people of which the politician has to think does not consist
of knots of rioters in the street, but of some million absolutely
distinct individuals, each sitting in his own breakfast room reading
his own morning paper.

To give even the faintest suggestion of the strength and size of
the people in this sense in the course of a dramatic performance
is obviously impossible.
That is why it is so easy on the stage to concentrate all the pathos
and dignity upon such persons as Charles I. and Mary Queen of Scots,
the vampires of their people, because within the minute limits of
a stage there is room for their small virtues and no room for their
enormous crimes.

  It would be impossible to find a stronger
    example than the case of _Strafford_. It
  is clear that no one could possibly tell
    the whole truth about the life
  and death of Strafford, politically
  considered, in a play. Strafford was one of
  the greatest men ever born in England, and he
    attempted to found a great English official despotism.

That is to say, he attempted to found something which is so
different from what has actually come about that we can in reality
scarcely judge of it, any more than we can judge whether it would
be better to live in another planet, or pleasanter to have been
born a dog or an elephant. It would require enormous imagination
to reconstruct the political ideals of Strafford. Now Browning,
as we all know, got over the matter in his play, by practically
denying that Strafford had any political ideals at all. That is
to say, while crediting Strafford with all his real majesty of
intellect and character, he makes the whole of his political
action dependent upon his passionate personal attachment to the
King. This is unsatisfactory; it is in reality a dodging of the
great difficulty of the political play. That difficulty, in the
case of any political problem, is, as has been said, great. It would
be very hard, for example, to construct a play about Mr. Gladstone's
Home Rule Bill. It would be almost impossible to get expressed
in a drama of some five acts and some twenty characters anything
so ancient and complicated as that Irish problem, the roots of
which lie in the darkness of the age of Strongbow, and the branches
of which spread out to the remotest commonwealths of the East and
West.

But we should scarcely be satisfied if a dramatist overcame the
difficulty by ascribing Mr.
Gladstone's action in the Home Rule question to an overwhelming
personal affection for Mr. Healy. And in thus basing Strafford's
action upon personal and private reasons, Browning certainly does
some injustice to the political greatness, of Strafford. To
attribute Mr.

Gladstone's conversion to Home Rule to an infatuation such as
that suggested above, would certainly have the air of implying
that the writer thought the Home Rule doctrine a peculiar or
untenable one.
Similarly, Browning's choice of a motive for Strafford has very much
the air of an assumption that there was nothing to be said on
public grounds for Strafford's political ideal. Now this is
certainly not the case. The Puritans in the great struggles of the
reign of Charles I.
may have possessed more valuable ideals than the Royalists, but it is
a very vulgar error to suppose that they were any more idealistic.

"What time was monsieur to be shot?" he asked of Captain Lancy.

"At seven o'clock, monsieur," was the reply.

Doltaire took out his watch. "It wants three minutes of seven,"
said he. "What the devil means this business before the stroke o'
the hour?" waving a hand towards me.

"We were waiting for the minute, monsieur," was the officer's
reply.

A cynical, cutting smile crossed Doltaire's face. "A charitable
trick, upon my soul, to fetch a gentleman from a warm dungeon and
stand him against an icy wall on a deadly morning to cool his heels
as he waits for his hour to die! You'd skin your lion and shoot him
afterwards--voila!" All this time he held the watch in his hand.

"You, Gabord," he went on, "you are a man to obey orders--eh?"

Gabord hesitated a moment as if waiting for Lancy to speak, and
then said, "I was not in command. When I was called upon I brought
him forth."

"Excuses! excuses! You sweated to be rid of your charge."

Gabord's face lowered. "M'sieu' would have been in heaven by
this if I had'nt stopped it," he broke out angrily.

Doltaire turned sharply on Lancy. "I thought as much," said he,
"and you would have let Gabord share your misdemeanor. Yet your
father was a gentleman! If you had shot monsieur before seven, you
would have taken the dungeon he left. You must learn, my young
provincial, that you are not to supersede France and the King. It
is now seven o'clock; you will march your men back into quarters."

Then turning to me, he raised his cap. "You will find your cloak
more comfortable, Captain Moray," said he, and he motioned Gabord
to hand it to me, as he came forward. "May I breakfast with you?"
he added courteously. He yawned a little. "I have not risen so
early in years, and I am chilled to the bone. Gabord insists that
it is warm in your dungeon; I have a fancy to breakfast there. It
will recall my year in the Bastile."

He smiled in a quaint, elusive sort of fashion, and as I drew
the cloak about me, I said through chattering teeth, for I had
suffered with the brutal cold, "I am glad to have the chance to
offer breakfast."

"To me or any one?" he dryly suggested. "Think! by now, had I
not come, you might have been in a warmer world than this--indeed,
much warmer," he suddenly said, as he stooped, picked up some snow
in his bare hand, and clapped it to my cheek, rubbing it with force
and swiftness. The cold had nipped it, and this was the way to
draw out the frost. His solicitude at the moment was so natural
and earnest that it was hard to think he was my enemy.

When he had rubbed awhile, he gave me his own handkerchief to
dry my face; and so perfect was his courtesy, it was impossible to
do otherwise than meet him as he meant and showed for the moment.
He had stepped between me and death, and even an enemy who does
that, no matter what the motive, deserves something at your hands.

"Gabord," he said, as we stepped inside the citadel, "we will
breakfast at eight o'clock. Meanwhile, I have some duties with our
officers here. Till we meet in your dining-hall, then, monsieur,"
he added to me, and raised his cap.

"You must put up with frugal fare," I answered, bowing.

"If you but furnish locusts," he said gaily, "I will bring the
wild honey.... What wonderful hives of bees they have at the
Seigneur Duvarney's!" he continued musingly, as if with second
thought; "a beautiful manor--a place for pretty birds and
honey-bees!"

His eyelids drooped languidly, as was their way when he had said
something a little carbolic, as this was to me, because of its
hateful suggestion. His words drew nothing from me, not even a look
of understanding, and, again bowing, we went our ways.

At the door of the dungeon Gabord held the torch up to my face. His
own had a look which came as near to being gentle as was possible
to him. Yet he was so ugly that it looked almost ludicrous in him.
He had, if we may judge from what we know of him, his own peculiar
and somewhat detestable way of refusing.

Once when his daughter had asked a perfectly simple favour in a
matter of expediency, permission, that is, to keep her favourite
brother with her during an illness, her singular parent remarked
that "she might keep him if she liked, but that he had looked for
greater self-sacrifice."

These were the weapons with which he ruled his people. For the
worst tyrant is not the man who rules by fear; the worst tyrant
is he who rules by love and plays on it as on a harp.

Barrett was one of the oppressors who have discovered the last
secret of oppression, that which is told in the fine verse of
Swinburne:--
"The racks of the earth and the rods Are weak as the foam on the
sands; The heart is the prey for the gods, Who crucify hearts, not
hands."

He, with his terrible appeal to the vibrating consciences of women,
was, with regard to one of them, very near to the end of his reign.

When Browning heard that the Italian journey was forbidden, he
proposed definitely that they should marry and go on the journey
together.

Many other persons had taken cognisance of the fact, and were
active in the matter. Kenyon, the gentlest and most universally
complimentary of mortals, had marched into the house and given Arabella
Barrett, the sister of the sick woman, his opinion of her father's
conduct with a degree of fire and frankness which must have been
perfectly amazing in a man of his almost antiquated social delicacy.
Mrs.

Jameson, an old and generous friend of the family, had immediately
stepped in and offered to take Elizabeth to Italy herself, thus
removing all questions of expense or arrangement. She would appear
to have stood to her guns in the matter with splendid persistence
and magnanimity. She called day after day seeking for a change of
mind, and delayed her own journey to the continent more than once.
At length, when it became evident that the extraction of Mr. Barrett's
consent was hopeless, she reluctantly began her own tour in Europe
alone. She went to Paris, and had not been there many days, when she
received a formal call from Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett
Browning, who had been married for some days. Her astonishment is
rather a picturesque thing to think about.

The manner in which this sensational elopement, which was, of course,
the talk of the whole literary world, had been effected, is narrated,
as every one knows, in the Browning Letters.

Browning had decided that an immediate marriage was the only
solution; and having put his hand to the plough, did not decline
even when it became obviously necessary that it should be a secret
marriage.

To a man of his somewhat stormily candid and casual disposition
this necessity of secrecy was really exasperating; but every one
with any imagination or chivalry will rejoice that he accepted the
evil conditions.

He had always had the courage to tell the truth; and now it was
demanded of him to have the greater courage to tell a lie, and he
told it with perfect cheerfulness and lucidity.

In thus disappearing surreptitiously with an invalid woman he
was doing something against which there were undoubtedly a hundred
things to be said, only it happened that the most cogent and
important thing of all was to be said for it.

It is very amusing, and very significant in the matter of Browning's
character, to read the accounts which he writes to Elizabeth Barrett
of his attitude towards the approaching _coup de théâtre_.

In one place he says, suggestively enough, that he does not in the
least trouble about the disapproval of her father; the man whom
he fears as a frustrating influence is Kenyon. Mr. Barrett could
only walk into the room and fly into a passion; and this Browning
could have received with perfect equanimity.

"But," he says, "if Kenyon knows of the matter, I shall have the
kindest and friendliest of explanations (with his arm on my shoulder)
of how I am ruining your social position, destroying your health,
etc., etc."

This touch is very suggestive of the power of the old worldling,
who could manoeuvre with young people as well as Major Pendennis.
Kenyon had indeed long been perfectly aware of the way in which
things were going; and the method he adopted in order to comment on
it is rather entertaining. In a conversation with Elizabeth
Barrett, he asked carelessly whether there was anything between her
sister and a certain Captain Cooke.

On receiving a surprised reply in the negative, he remarked
apologetically that he had been misled into the idea by the
gentleman calling so often at the house. Elizabeth Barrett knew
perfectly well what he meant; but the logical allusiveness of the
attack reminds one of a fragment of some Meredithian comedy.

The manner in which Browning bore himself in this acute and necessarily
dubious position is, perhaps, more thoroughly to his credit than
anything else in his career.

He never came out so well in all his long years of sincerity and
publicity as he does in this one act of deception. Having made up
his mind to that act, he is not ashamed to name it; neither,
on the other hand, does he rant about it, and talk about
Philistine prejudices and higher laws and brides in the sight of
God, after the manner of the cockney decadent.

He was breaking a social law, but he was not declaring a crusade
against social laws. We all feel, whatever may be our opinions on
the matter, that the great danger of this kind of social opportunism,
this pitting of a private necessity against a public custom,
is that men are somewhat too weak and self-deceptive to be trusted
with such a power of giving dispensations to themselves.

We feel that men without meaning to do so might easily begin by
breaking a social by-law and end by being thoroughly anti-social.

One of the best and most striking things to notice about Robert
Browning is the fact that he did this thing considering it as an
exception, and that he contrived to leave it really exceptional.
It did not in the least degree break the rounded clearness of his
loyalty to social custom. It did not in the least degree weaken
the sanctity of the general rule.

At a supreme crisis of his life he did an unconventional thing,
and he lived and died conventional. It would be hard to say whether
he appears the more thoroughly sane in having performed the act,
or in not having allowed it to affect him.

Elizabeth Barrett gradually gave way under the obstinate and almost
monotonous assertion of Browning that this elopement was the
only possible course of action.

Before she finally agreed, however, she did something, which in
its curious and impulsive symbolism, belongs almost to a more
primitive age.

The sullen system of medical seclusion to which she had long been
subjected has already been described. The most urgent and hygienic
changes were opposed by many on the ground that it was not safe for
her to leave her sofa and her sombre room. On the day on which it
was necessary for her finally to accept or reject Browning's
proposal, she called her sister to her, and to the amazement and
mystification of that lady asked for a carriage. In this she
drove into Regent's Park, alighted, walked on to the grass, and
stood leaning against a tree for some moments, looking round her
at the leaves and the sky. She then entered the cab again, drove home,
and agreed to the elopement. This was possibly the best poem that she
ever produced.

Browning arranged the eccentric adventure with a great deal of
prudence and knowledge of human nature.

Early one morning in September 1846 Miss Barrett walked quietly out
of her father's house, became Mrs. Robert Browning in a church in
Marylebone, and returned home again as if nothing had happened.
In this arrangement Browning showed some of that real insight
into the human spirit which ought to make a poet the most practical
of all men. The incident was, in the nature of things, almost
overpoweringly exciting to his wife, in spite of the truly miraculous
courage with which she supported it; and he desired, therefore,
to call in the aid of the mysteriously tranquillising effect of
familiar scenes and faces. One trifling incident is worth mentioning
which is almost unfathomably characteristic of Browning.

It has already been remarked in these pages that he was
pre-eminently one of those men whose expanding opinions never alter
by a hairsbreadth the actual ground-plan of their moral sense.
Browning would have felt the same things right and the same
things wrong, whatever views he had held. During the brief and most
trying period between his actual marriage and his actual elopement,
it is most significant that he would not call at the house in
Wimpole Street, because he would have been obliged to ask if
Miss Barrett was disengaged. He was acting a lie; he was deceiving
a father; he was putting a sick woman to a terrible risk; and these
things he did not disguise from himself for a moment, but he could
not bring himself to say two words to a maidservant. Here there
may be partly the feeling of the literary man for the sacredness
of the uttered word, but there is far more of a certain rooted
traditional morality which it is impossible either to describe or
to justify. Browning's respectability was an older and more
primeval thing than the oldest and most primeval passions of other
men. If we wish to understand him, we must always remember that in
dealing with any of his actions we have not to ask whether the
action contains the highest morality, but whether we should have
felt inclined to do it ourselves.

At length the equivocal and exhausting interregnum was over.
Mrs.
Browning went for the second time almost on tiptoe out of her father's
house, accompanied only by her maid and her dog, which was only
just successfully prevented from barking.

Before the end of the day in all probability Barrett had
discovered that his dying daughter had fled with Browning to
Italy.

They never saw him again, and hardly more than a faint echo came to
them of the domestic earthquake which they left behind them. They
do not appear to have had many hopes, or to have made many attempts
at a reconciliation.

Elizabeth Barrett had discovered at last that her father was
in truth not a man to be treated with; hardly, perhaps, even a man
to be blamed.

She knew to all intents and purposes that she had grown up
in the house of a madman.

CHAPTER IV
BROWNING IN ITALY

The married pair went to Pisa in 1846, and moved soon afterwards to
Florence. Of the life of the Brownings in Italy there is much
perhaps to be said in the way of description and analysis, little to
be said in the way of actual narrative. Each of them had passed through
the one incident of existence. Just as Elizabeth Barrett's life
had before her marriage been uneventfully sombre, now it was
uneventfully happy.
A succession of splendid landscapes, a succession of brilliant
friends, a succession of high and ardent intellectual interests,
they experienced; but their life was of the kind that if it were
told at all, would need to be told in a hundred volumes of gorgeous
intellectual gossip.

  How Browning and his wife rode far into the country, eating
strawberries and drinking milk out of the basins of the peasants;
how they fell in with the strangest and most picturesque figures
of Italian society; how they climbed mountains and read books and
modelled in clay and played on musical instruments; how Browning
was made a kind of arbiter between two improvising Italian bards;
how he had to escape from a festivity when the sound of Garibaldi's
hymn brought the knocking of the Austrian police; these are the
things of which his life is full, trifling and picturesque things,
a series of interludes, a beautiful and happy story, beginning and
ending nowhere.

The only incidents, perhaps, were the birth of their son and the
death of Browning's mother in 1849.

It is well known that Browning loved Italy; that it was his adopted
country; that he said in one of the finest of his lyrics that the
name of it would be found written on his heart. But the particular
character of this love of Browning for Italy needs to be understood.

There are thousands of educated Europeans who love Italy, who
live in it, who visit it annually, who come across a continent
to see it, who hunt out its darkest picture and its most mouldering
carving; but they are all united in this, that they regard Italy
as a dead place. It is a branch of their universal museum, a
department of dry bones. There are rich and cultivated persons,
particularly Americans, who seem to think that they keep Italy,
as they might keep an aviary or a hothouse, into which they might
walk whenever they wanted a whiff of beauty.

Browning did not feel at all in this manner; he was intrinsically
incapable of offering such an insult to the soul of a nation.

If he could not have loved Italy as a nation, he would not have
consented to love it as an old curiosity shop. In everything on
earth, from the Middle Ages to the amoeba, who is discussed at
such length in "Mr. Sludge the Medium," he is interested in the
life in things. He was interested in the life in Italian art and
in the life in Italian politics.

Perhaps the first and simplest example that can be given of this
matter is in Browning's interest in art. He was immeasurably fascinated
at all times by painting and sculpture, and his sojourn in Italy
gave him, of course, innumerable and perfect opportunities for
the study of painting and sculpture. But his interest in these
studies was not like that of the ordinary cultured visitor to the
Italian cities. Thousands of such visitors, for example, study
those endless lines of magnificent Pagan busts which are to be found
in nearly all the Italian galleries and museums, and admire them,
and talk about them, and note them in their catalogues, and describe
them in their diaries.

But the way in which they affected Browning is described very
suggestively in a passage in the letters of his wife. She describes
herself as longing for her husband to write poems, beseeching
him to write poems, but finding all her petitions useless because
her husband was engaged all day in modelling busts in clay and
breaking them as fast as he made them.

This is Browning's interest in art, the interest in a living
thing, the interest in a growing thing, the insatiable interest
in how things are done. Every one who knows his admirable poems
on painting--"Fra Lippo Lippi" and "Andrea del Sarto" and "Pictor
Ignotus"--will remember how fully they deal with technicalities,
how they are concerned with canvas, with oil, with a mess of
colours. Sometimes they are so technical as to be mysterious
to the casual reader. An extreme case may be found in that of a
lady I once knew who had merely read the title of "Pacchiarotto
and how he worked in distemper," and thought that Pacchiarotto
was the name of a dog, whom no attacks of canine disease could
keep from the fulfilment of his duty.
"I will not keep you from breakfast," said he. "Voban must wait,
if you will pass by untidiness."

A thought flashed through my mind. Maybe Voban had some word for
me from Alixe! So I said instantly, "I am not hungry. Perhaps you
will let me wait yonder while Voban tends you. As you said, it
should be interesting."

"You will not mind the disorder of my dressing-room? Well, then,
this way, and we can talk while Voban plays with temptation."

So saying, he courteously led the way into another chamber,
where Voban stood waiting. I spoke to him, and he bowed, but did
not speak; and then Doltaire said:

"You see, Voban, your labour on Monsieur was wasted so far as
concerns the world to come. You trimmed him for the glorious company
of the apostles, and see, he breakfasts with Monsieur Doltaire--in
the Intendance, too, my Voban, which, as you know, is wicked--a very
nest of wasps!"

I never saw more hate than shot out of Voban's eyes at that
moment; but the lids drooped over them at once, and he made ready
for his work, as Doltaire, putting aside his coat, seated himself,
laughing. There was no little daring, as there was cruelty, in thus
torturing a man whose life had been broken by Doltaire's associate.
I wondered now and then if Doltaire were not really putting acid on
the barber's bare nerves for some other purpose than mere general
cruelty. Even as he would have understood the peasant's murder of
King Louis, so he would have seen a logical end to a terrible game
in Bigot's death at the hand of Voban. Possibly he wondered that
Voban did not strike, and he himself took a delight in showing him
his own wrongs occasionally. Then, again, Doltaire might wish for
Bigot's death, to succeed him in his place! But this I put by as
improbable, for the Intendant's post was not his ambition, or,
favourite of La Pompadour as he was, he would, desiring, have
long ago achieved that end. Moreover, every evidence showed that
he would gladly return to France, for his clear brain foresaw the
final ruin of the colony and the triumph of the British. He had
once said in my hearing:

"Those swaggering Englishmen will keep coming on. They are too
stupid to turn back. The eternal sameness of it all will so
distress us we shall awake one morning, find them at our bedsides,
give a kick, and die from sheer ennui. They'll use our banners to
boil their fat puddings in, they'll roast oxen in the highways,
and after our girls have married them they'll turn them into
kitchen wenches with frowsy skirts and ankles like beeves!"

But, indeed, beneath his dangerous irony there was a strain of
impishness, and he would, if need be, laugh at his own troubles,
and torture himself as he had tortured others. This morning he
was full of a carbolic humour. As the razor came to his neck he
said:

"Voban, a barber must have patience. It is a sad thing to
mistake friend for enemy. What is a friend? Is it one who says
sweet words?"

There was a pause, in which the shaving went on, and then he
continued:

"Is it he who says, I have eaten Voban's bread, and Voban shall
therefore go to prison, or be hurried to Walhalla? Or is it he who
stays the iron hand, who puts nettles in Voban's cold, cold bed,
that he may rise early and go forth among the heroes?"

I do not think Voban understood that, through some freak of purpose,
Doltaire was telling him thus obliquely he had saved him from
Bigot's cruelty, from prison or death. Once or twice he glanced at
me, but not meaningly, for Doltaire was seated opposite a mirror,
and could see each motion made by either of us. Presently Doltaire
said to me idly:

"I dine to-day at the Seigneur Duvarney's. You will be glad to
hear that mademoiselle bids fair to rival the charming Madame
Cournal. Her followers are as many, so they say, and all in one
short year she has suddenly thrown out a thousand new faculties and
charms. Doubtless you remember she was gifted, but who would have
thought she could have blossomed so! She was all light and softness
and air; she is now all fire and skill as well. Matchless!
matchless! Every day sees her with some new capacity, some fresh
and delicate aplomb. She has set the town admiring, and jealous
mothers prophesy trist ending for her. Her swift mastery of the
social arts is weird, they say. La! la! The social arts! A good
brain, a gift of penetration, a manner--which is a grand necessity,
and it must be with birth--no heart to speak of, and the rest is
easy. No heart--there is the thing; with a good brain and senses all
warm with life--to feel, but never to have the arrow strike home.
You must never think to love and be loved, and be wise too. The
emotions blind the judgment. Be heartless, be perfect with heavenly
artifice, and, if you are a woman, have no vitriol on your
tongue--and you may rule at Versailles or Quebec. But with this
difference: in Quebec you may be virtuous; at Versailles you must
not. It is a pity that you may not meet Mademoiselle Duvarney. She
would astound you. She was a simple ballad a year ago; to-morrow she
may be an epic."

He nodded at me reflectively, and went on:

"'Mademoiselle,' said the Chevalier de la Darante to her at
dinner, some weeks ago, 'if I were young, I should adore you.'
'Monsieur,' she answered, 'you use that "if" to shirk the
responsibility.' That put him on his mettle. 'Then, by the gods,
I adore you now,' he answered. 'If I were young, I should blush
to hear you say so,' was her reply. 'I empty out my heart, and
away trips the disdainful nymph with a laugh,' he rejoined gaily,
the rusty old courtier; 'there's nothing left but to fall upon
my sword!' 'Disdainful nymphs are the better scabbards for
distinguished swords,' she said, with charming courtesy. Then,
laughing softly, 'There is an Egyptian proverb which runs thus:
"If thou, Dol, son of Hoshti, hast emptied out thy heart, and
it bring no fruit in exchange, curse not thy gods and die, but
build a pyramid in the vineyard where thy love was spent, and
write upon it, Pride hath no conqueror."' It is a mind for a
palace, is it not?"

I could see in the mirror facing him the provoking devilry of
his eyes. I knew that he was trying how much he could stir me. He
guessed my love for her, but I could see he was sure that she no
longer--if she ever had--thought of me. Besides, with a lover's
understanding, I saw also that he liked to talk of her. His eyes, in
the mirror, did not meet mine, but were fixed, as on some distant
and pleasing prospect, though there was, as always, a slight disdain
at his mouth. But the eyes were clear, resolute, and strong, never
wavering--and I never saw them waver--yet in them something distant
and inscrutable. It was a candid eye, and he was candid in his evil;
he made no pretense; and though the means to his ends were wicked,
they were never low. Presently, glancing round the room, I saw an
easel on which was a canvas. He caught my glance.

"Silly work for a soldier and a gentleman," he said, "but silliness
is a great privilege. It needs as much skill to carry folly as to be
an ambassador. Now, you are often much too serious, Captain Moray."

At that he rose, and, after putting on his coat, came over to
the easel and threw up the cloth, exposing a portrait of Alixe! It
had been painted in by a few bold strokes, full of force and life,
yet giving her face more of that look which comes to women bitterly
wise in the ways of this world than I cared to see. The treatment
was daring, and it cut me like a knife that the whole painting had
a red glow: the dress was red, the light falling on the hair was
red, the shine of the eyes was red also. It was fascinating, but
weird, and, to me, distressful. There flashed through my mind the
remembrance of Mathilde in her scarlet robe as she stood on the
Heights that momentous night of my arrest. I looked at the picture
in silence. He kept gazing at it with a curious, half-quizzical
smile, as if he were unconscious of my presence. At last he said,
with a slight knitting of his brows:

"It is strange--strange. I sketched that in two nights ago, by
the light of the fire, after I had come from the Chateau St.
Louis--from memory, as you see. It never struck me where the effect
was taken from, that singular glow over all the face and figure.
But now I see it; it returns: it is the impression of colour in the
senses, left from the night that lady-bug Mathilde flashed out on
the Heights! A fine--a fine effect! H'm! for another such one might
give another such Mathilde!"

At that moment we were both startled by a sound behind us, and,
wheeling, we saw Voban, a mad look in his face, in the act of
throwing at Doltaire a short spear which he had caught up from a
corner. The spear flew from his hand even as Doltaire sprang aside,
drawing his sword with great swiftness. I thought he must have been
killed, but the rapidity of his action saved him, for the spear
passed his shoulder so close that it tore away a shred of his coat,
and stuck in the wall behind him. In another instant Doltaire had
his sword-point at Voban's throat. The man did not cringe, did not
speak a word, but his hands clinched, and the muscles of his face
worked painfully. There was at first a fury in Doltaire's face and
a metallic hardness in his eyes, and I was sure he meant to pass
his sword through the other's body; but after standing for a moment,
death hanging on his sword-point, he quietly lowered his weapon,
and, sitting on a chair-arm, looked curiously at Voban, as one
might sit and watch a mad animal within a cage. Voban did not stir,
but stood rooted to the spot, his eyes, however, never moving
from Doltaire. It was clear that he had looked for death, and now
expected punishment and prison. Doltaire took out his handkerchief
and wiped a sweat from his cheeks. He turned to me soon, and said,
in a singularly impersonal way, as though he were speaking of some
animal:

"He had great provocation. The Duchess de Valois had a young panther
once which she had brought up from the milk. She was inquisitive,
and used to try its temper. It was good sport, but one day she
took away its food, gave it to the cat, and pointed her finger at
monsieur the panther. The Duchess de Valois never bared her breast
thereafter to an admiring world--a panther's claws leave scars." He
paused, and presently continued: "You remember it, Voban; you were
the Duke's valet then--you see I recall you! Well, the panther lost
his head, both figuratively and in fact. The panther did not mean to
kill, maybe, but to kill the lady's beauty was death to her....
Voban, yonder spear was poisoned!"

He wiped his face, and said to me, "I think you saw that at the
dangerous moment I had no fear; yet now when the game is in my own
hands, my cheek runs with cold sweat. How easy to be charged with
cowardice! Like evaporation, the hot breath of peril passing
suddenly into the cold air of safety leaves this!"--he wiped his
cheek again.

He rose, moved slowly to Voban, and, pricking him with his
sword, said, "You are a bungler, barber. Now listen. I never
wronged you; I have only been your blister. I prick your sores at
home. Tut! tut! they prick them openly in the market-place. I gave
you life a minute ago; I give you freedom now. Some day I may ask
that life for a day's use, and then, Voban, then will you give it?"

There was a moment's pause, and the barber answered, "M'sieu',
I owe you nothing. I would have killed you then; you may kill me,
if you will."

Doltaire nodded musingly. Something was passing through his
mind. I judged he was thinking that here was a man who as a servant
would be invaluable.

"Well, well, we can discuss the thing at leisure, Voban," he
said at last. "Meanwhile you may wait here till Captain Moray has
breakfasted, and then you shall be at his service; and I would
have a word with you, also."

Turning with a polite gesture to me, he led the way into the
breakfast-room, and at once, half famished, I was seated at the
table, drinking a glass of good wine, and busy with a broiled
whitefish of delicate quality. We were silent for a time, and the
bird in the alcove kept singing as though it were in Eden, while
chiming in between the rhythms there came the silvery sound of
sleigh-bells from the world without. I was in a sort of dream,
and I felt there must be a rude awakening soon. After a while,
Doltaire, who seemed thinking keenly, ordered the servant to take
in a glass of wine to Voban.

He looked up at me after a little, as if he had come back from a
long distance, and said, "It is my fate to have as foes the men I
would have as friends, and as friends the men I would have as foes.
The cause of my friends is often bad; the cause of my enemies is
sometimes good. It is droll. I love directness, yet I have ever
been the slave of complication. I delight in following my reason,
yet I have been of the motes that stumble in the sunlight. I have
enough cruelty in me, enough selfishness and will, to be a ruler,
and yet I have never held an office in my life. I love true
diplomacy, yet I have been comrade to the official liar, and am
the captain of intrigue--la! la!"

"You have never had an enthusiasm, a purpose?" said I.

He laughed, a dry, ironical laugh. "I have both an enthusiasm
and a purpose," he answered, "or you would by now be snug in bed
forever."

I knew what he meant, though he could not guess I understood.
He was referring to Alixe and the challenge she had given him.
I did not feel that I had anything to get by playing a part of
friendliness, and besides, he was a man to whom the boldest
speaking was always palatable, even when most against himself.

"I am sure neither would bear daylight," said I.

"Why, I almost blush to say that they are both honest--would at
this moment endure a moral microscope. The experience, I confess,
is new, and has the glamour of originality."

"It will not stay honest," I retorted. Browning is still writing
about himself, a subject of which he, like all good and brave men,
was profoundly ignorant.

This kind of self-analysis is always misleading. For we do not see
in ourselves those dominant traits strong enough to force themselves
out in action which our neighbours see. We see only a welter of
minute mental experiences which include all the sins that were
ever committed by Nero or Sir Willoughby Patterne.

When studying ourselves, we are looking at a fresco with a
magnifying glass. Consequently, these early impressions which
great men have given of themselves are nearly always slanders
upon themselves, for the strongest man is weak to his own conscience,
and Hamlet flourished to a certainty even inside Napoleon.

So it was with Browning, who when he was nearly eighty was destined
to write with the hilarity of a schoolboy, but who wrote in his
boyhood poems devoted to analysing the final break-up of intellect
and soul.

_Sordello_, with all its load of learning, and almost more oppressive
load of beauty, has never had any very important influence even
upon Browningites, and with the rest of the world the name has
passed into a jest. The most truly memorable thing about it was
Browning's saying in answer to all gibes and misconceptions, a
saying which expresses better than anything else what genuine
metal was in him, "I blame no one, least of all myself, who did my
best then and since."

This is indeed a model for all men of letters who do not wish
to retain only the letters and to lose the man.

When next Browning spoke, it was from a greater height and with
a new voice. His visit to Asolo, "his first love," as he said,
"among Italian cities," coincided with the stir and transformation
in his spirit and the breaking up of that splendid palace of mirrors
in which a man like Byron had lived and died.

In 1841 _Pippa Passes_ appeared, and with it the real Browning of
the modern world. He had made the discovery which Byron never
made, but which almost every young man does at last make--the
thrilling discovery that he is not Robinson Crusoe. _Pippa Passes_
is the greatest poem ever written, with the exception of one or
two by Walt Whitman, to express the sentiment of the pure love of
humanity. The phrase has unfortunately a false and pedantic sound.
The love of humanity is a thing supposed to be professed only by
vulgar and officious philanthropists, or by saints of a superhuman
detachment and universality.

As a matter of fact, love of humanity is the commonest and most
natural of the feelings of a fresh nature, and almost every one has
felt it alight capriciously upon him when looking at a crowded park
or a room full of dancers.

The love of those whom we do not know is quite as eternal a sentiment
as the love of those whom we do know.

In our friends the richness of life is proved to us by what we
have gained; in the faces in the street the richness of life
is proved to us by the hint of what we have lost. And this feeling
for strange faces and strange lives, when it is felt keenly by a
young man, almost always expresses itself in a desire after a
kind of vagabond beneficence, a desire to go through the world
scattering goodness like a capricious god. It is desired that
mankind should hunt in vain for its best friend as it would hunt for
a criminal; that he should be an anonymous Saviour, an unrecorded
Christ. Browning, like every one else, when awakened to the
beauty and variety of men, dreamed of this arrogant self-effacement.
He has written of himself that he had long thought vaguely of a
being passing through the world, obscure and unnameable, but moulding
the destinies of others to mightier and better issues.

Then his almost faultless artistic instinct came in and suggested
that this being, whom he dramatised as the work-girl, Pippa, should
be even unconscious of anything but her own happiness, and
should sway men's lives with a lonely mirth. It was a bold and moving
conception to show us these mature and tragic human groups all at
the supreme moment eavesdropping upon the solitude of a child.

And it was an even more precise instinct which made Browning
make the errant benefactor a woman. A man's good work is effected
by doing what he does, a woman's by being what she is.

There is one other point about _Pippa Passes_ which is worth a moment's
attention. The great difficulty with regard to the understanding
of Browning is the fact that, to all appearance, scarcely any one
can be induced to take him seriously as a literary artist. His
adversaries consider his literary vagaries a disqualification
for every position among poets; and his admirers regard those
vagaries with the affectionate indulgence of a circle of maiden
aunts towards a boy home for the holidays. Browning is supposed
to do as he likes with form, because he had such a profound scheme
of thought. But, as a matter of fact, though few of his followers
will take Browning's literary form seriously, he took his own
literary form very seriously.

said Gabord in a mocking voice, which made the
soldiers laugh at my expense. "And a spinet, too, for ducky dear,
Scarrat; a piece of cake and cherry wine, and a soul to go to
heaven! Tonnerre!" he added, with an oath, "these English prisoners
want the world for a sou, and they'd owe that till judgment
day."

I saw at once the meaning of his words, for he turned his back
on me and went to the window and tried the stanchions, seeming much
concerned about them, and muttering to himself. I drew out from my
pocket two gold pieces, and gave them to the soldier Scarrat; and
the other soldier coming in just then, I did the same with him; and
I could see that their respect for me mightily increased. Gabord,
still muttering, turned to us again, and began to berate the
soldiers for their laziness. As the two men turned to go, Scarrat,
evidently feeling that something was due for the gold I had given,
said to Gabord, "Shall m'sieu' have the kettle?"

Gabord took a step forward as if to strike the soldier, but stopped
short, blew out his cheeks, and laughed in a loud, mocking way.

"Ay, ay, fetch m'sieu' the kettle, and fetch him flax to spin, and
a pinch of snuff, and hot flannels for his stomach, and every night
at sundown you shall feed him with pretty biscuits soaked in milk.
Ah, go to the devil and fetch the kettle, fool!" he added roughly
again, and quickly the place was empty save for him and myself.

"Those two fellows are to sit outside your cage door, dickey-bird,
and two are to march beneath your window yonder, so you shall not
lack care if you seek to go abroad. Those are the new orders."

"And you, Gabord," said I, "are you not to be my jailer?" I said
it sorrowfully, for I had a genuine feeling for him, and I could
not keep that from my voice.

When I had spoken so feelingly, he stood for a moment, flushing
and puffing, as if confused by the compliment in the tone, and then
he answered, "I'm to keep you safe till word comes from the King
what's to be done with you."

Then he suddenly became surly again, standing with legs apart
and keys dangling; for Scarrat entered with the kettle, and put it
on the stove. "You will bring blankets for m'sieu'," he added, "and
there's an order on my table for tobacco, which you will send your
comrade for."

In a moment we were left alone.

"You'll live like a stuffed pig here," he said, "though 'twill
be cold o' nights."

After another pass or two of words he left me, and I hastened to
make a better toilet than I had done for a year. My old rusty suit
which I exchanged for the one I had worn seemed almost sumptuous,
and the woollen wear comforted my weakened body. Within an hour my
cell looked snug, and I sat cosily by the fire, feeding it lazily.

It must have been about four o'clock when there was a turning of
keys and a shooting of bolts, the door opened, and who should
step inside but Gabord, followed by Alixe! I saw Alixe's lips
frame my name thrice, though no word came forth, and my heart was
bursting to cry out and clasp her to my breast. But still with a
sweet, serious look cast on me, she put out her hand and stayed me.

Gabord, looking not at us at all, went straight to the window,
and, standing on a stool, busied himself with the stanchions and
to whistle. I took Alixe's hands and held them, and spoke her name
softly, and she smiled up at me with so perfect a grace that I
thought there never was aught like it in the world.

She was the first to break the good spell. I placed a seat for
her, and sat down by her. She held out her fingers to the fire, and
then, after a moment, she told me the story of last night's affair.
First she made me tell her briefly of the events of the morning, of
which she knew, but not fully. This done, she began. I will set
down her story as a whole, and you must understand as you read that
it was told as women tell a story, with all little graces and
diversions, and those small details with which even momentous
things are enveloped in their eyes. I loved her all the more
because of these, and I saw, as Doltaire had said, how admirably
poised was her intellect, how acute her wit, how delicate and
astute a diplomatist she was becoming; and yet, through all,
preserving a simplicity of character almost impossible of belief.
Such qualities, in her directed to good ends, in lesser women have
made them infamous. Once that day Alixe said to me, breaking off as
her story went on, "Oh, Robert, when I see what power I have to
dissimulate--for it is that, call it by what name you will--when I
see how I enjoy accomplishing against all difficulty, how I can
blind even so skilled a diplomatist as Monsieur Doltaire, I almost
tremble. I see how, if God had not given me something here"--she
placed her hand upon her heart--"that saves me, I might be like
Madame Cournal, and far worse, far worse than she. For I love
power--I do love it; I can see that!"

She did not realize that it was her strict honesty with herself
that was her true safeguard.

But here is the story she told me:

"When I left you, last night, I went at once to my home, and was
glad to get in without being seen. At nine o'clock we were to be
at the Chateau, and while my sister Georgette was helping me with
my toilette--oh, how I wished she would go and leave me quite
alone!--my head was in a whirl, and now and then I could feel
my heart draw and shake like a half-choked pump, and there was
a strange pain behind my eyes. Georgette is of such a warm
disposition, so kind always to me, whom she would yield to in
everything, so simple in her affections, that I seemed standing
there by her like an intrigante, as one who had got wisdom at the
price of a good something lost. But do not think, Robert, that for
one instant I was sorry I played a part, and have done so for a long
year and more. I would do it and more again, if it were for you.

"Georgette could not understand why it was I stopped all at once
and caught her head to my breast, as she sat by me where I stood
arranging my gown. I do not know quite why I did it, but perhaps
it was from my yearning that never should she have a lover in such
sorrow and danger as mine, and that never should she have to learn
to mask her heart as I have done. Ah, sometimes I fear, Robert,
that when all is over, and you are free, and you see what the world
and all this playing at hide-and-seek have made me, you will feel
that such as Georgette, who have never looked inside the hearts of
wicked people, and read the tales therein for knowledge to defeat
wickedness--that such as she were better fitted for your life and
love. No, no, please do not take my hand--not till you have heard
all I am going to tell."

She continued quietly; yet her eye flashed out now and then, and
now and then, also, something in her thoughts as to how she, a
weak, powerless girl, had got her ends against astute evil men,
sent a little laugh to her lips; for she had by nature as merry a
heart as serious.

"At nine o'clock we came to the Chateau St. Louis from Ste. Anne
Street, where our winter home is--yet how much do I prefer the Manor
House! There were not many guests to supper, and Monsieur Doltaire
was not among them. I affected a genial surprise, and asked the
Governor if one of the two vacant chairs at the table was for
monsieur; and looking a little as though he would reprove me--for
he does not like to think of me as interested in monsieur--he said
it was, but that monsieur was somewhere out of town, and there was
no surety that he would come. The other chair was for the Chevalier
de la Darante, one of the oldest and best of our nobility, who
pretends great roughness and barbarism, but is a kind and honourable
gentleman, though odd. He was one of your judges, Robert; and though
he condemned you, he said that you had some reason on your side. And
I will show you how he stood for you last night.

"I need not tell you how the supper passed, while I was
planning--planning to reach the Governor if monsieur did not come;
and if he did come, how to play my part so he should suspect
nothing but a vain girl's caprice, and maybe heartlessness. Moment
after moment went by, and he came not. I almost despaired. Presently
the Chevalier de la Darante entered, and he took the vacant chair
beside me. I was glad of this. I had gone in upon the arm of a
rusty gentleman of the Court, who is over here to get his health
again, and does it by gaming and drinking at the Chateau Bigot. The
Chevalier began at once to talk to me, and he spoke of you, saying
that he had heard of your duel with my brother, and that formerly
you had been much a guest at our house. I answered him with what
carefulness I could, and brought round the question of your death,
by hint and allusion getting him to speak of the mode of execution.

"Upon this point he spoke his mind strongly, saying that it was
a case where the penalty should be the musket, not the rope. It was
no subject for the supper table, and the Governor felt this, and I
feared he would show displeasure; but other gentlemen took up the
matter, and he could not easily change the talk at the moment. The
feeling was strong against you. My father stayed silent, but I could
see he watched the effect upon the Governor. I knew that he himself
had tried to get the mode of execution changed, but the Governor had
been immovable. The Chevalier spoke most strongly, for he is afraid
of no one, and he gave the other gentlemen raps upon the knuckles.

"'I swear,' he said at last, 'I am sorry now I gave in to his
death at all, for it seems to me that there is much cruelty and
hatred behind the case against him. He seemed to me a gentleman of
force and fearlessness, and what he said had weight. Why was the
gentleman not exchanged long ago? He was here three years before he
was tried on this charge. Ay, there's the point. Other prisoners
were exchanged--why not he? If the gentleman is not given a decent
death, after these years of captivity, I swear I will not leave
Kamaraska again to set foot in Quebec.'

"At that the Governor gravely said, 'These are matters for our
Council, dear Chevalier.' To this the Chevalier replied, 'I meant
no reflection on your Excellency, but you are good enough to let
the opinions of gentlemen not so wise as you weigh with you in your
efforts to be just; and I have ever held that one wise autocrat was
worth a score of juries.' There was an instant's pause, and then my
father said quietly, 'If his Excellency had always councillors and
colleagues like the Chevalier de la Darante, his path would be
easier, and Canada happier and richer.' This settled the matter,
for the Governor, looking at them both for a moment, suddenly said,
'Gentlemen, you shall have your way, and I thank you for your
confidence.--If the ladies will pardon a sort of council of state
here!' he added. The Governor called a servant, and ordered pen,
ink, and paper; and there before us all he wrote an order to Gabord,
your jailer, to be delivered before midnight.

"He had begun to read it aloud to us, when the curtains of the
entrance-door parted, and Monsieur Doltaire stepped inside. The
Governor did not hear him, and monsieur stood for a moment
listening. When the reading was finished, he gave a dry little
laugh, and came down to the Governor, apologizing for his lateness,
and bowing to the rest of us. He did not look at me at all, but
once he glanced keenly at my father, and I felt sure that he had
heard my father's words to the Governor.

"'Have the ladies been made councillors?' he asked lightly, and
took his seat, which was opposite to mine. 'Have they all conspired
to give a criminal one less episode in his life for which to
blush? ... May I not join the conspiracy?' he added, glancing round,
and lifting a glass of wine. Not even yet had he looked at me. Then
he waved his glass the circuit of the table, and said, 'I drink to
the councillors and applaud the conspirators,' and as he raised his
glass to his lips his eyes came abruptly to mine and stayed, and
he bowed profoundly and with an air of suggestion. He drank, still
looking, and then turned again to the Governor. I felt my heart
stand still. Did he suspect my love for you, Robert? Had he
discovered something? Was Gabord a traitor to us? Had I been
watched, detected? I could have shrieked at the suspense. I was
like one suddenly faced with a dreadful accusation, with which was
a great fear. But I held myself still--oh, so still, so still--and
as in a dream I heard the Governor say pleasantly, 'I would I had
such conspirators always by me. I am sure you would wish them to
take more responsibility than you will now assume in Canada.'
Doltaire bowed and smiled, and the Governor went on: 'I am sure
you will approve of Captain Moray being shot instead of hanged. But
indeed it has been my good friend the Chevalier here who has given
me the best council I have held in many a day.'

"To this Monsieur Doltaire replied: 'A council unknown to
statute, but approved of those who stand for etiquette with ones
foe's at any cost. For myself, it is so unpleasant to think of the
rope'" (here Alixe hid her face in her hands for a moment) "'that I
should eat no breakfast to-morrow, if the gentleman from Virginia
were to hang.' It was impossible to tell from his tone what was in
his mind, and I dared not think of his failure to interfere as he
had promised me. As yet he had done nothing, I could see, and in
eight or nine hours more you were to die. He did not look at me
again for some time, but talked to my mother and my father and the
Chevalier, commenting on affairs in France and the war between our
countries, but saying nothing of where he had been during the past
week. He seemed paler and thinner than when I last saw him, and I
felt that something had happened to him. You shall hear soon what
it was.

"At last he turned from the Chevalier to me, and, said, 'When
did you hear from your brother, mademoiselle?' What theory does the
poem after that, "Through the Metidja to Abd-el-Kadr," express,
except that it is also frequently exciting to ride a good horse
in Africa? Then comes "Nationality in Drinks," a mere technical
oddity without a gleam of philosophy; and after that those two
entirely exquisite "Garden Fancies," the first of which is
devoted to the abstruse thesis that a woman may be charming,
and the second to the equally abstruse thesis that a book may be a
bore. Then comes "The Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister," from which
the most ingenious "Browning student" cannot extract anything
except that people sometimes hate each other in Spain; and then "The
Laboratory," from which he could extract nothing except that people
sometimes hate each other in France. This is a perfectly honest
record of the poems as they stand. And the first eleven poems read
straight off are remarkable for these two obvious
characteristics--first, that they contain not even a suggestion
of anything that could be called philosophy; and second, that they
contain a considerable proportion of the best and most typical poems
that Browning ever wrote. It may be repeated that either he wrote
these lyrics because he had an artistic sense, or it is impossible
to hazard even the wildest guess as to why he wrote them.

It is permissible to say that the _Dramatic Lyrics_ represent the
arrival of the real Browning of literary history. It is true
that he had written already many admirable poems of a far more
ambitious plan--_Paracelsus_ with its splendid version of the faults
of the intellectual, _Pippa Passes_ with its beautiful deification
of unconscious influence.

But youth is always ambitious and universal; mature work exhibits
more of individuality, more of the special type and colour of work
which a man is destined to do. Youth is universal, but not
individual. The genius who begins life with a very genuine and
sincere doubt whether he is meant to be an exquisite and idolised
violinist, or the most powerful and eloquent Prime Minister
of modern times, does at last end by making the discovery that there
is, after all, one thing, possibly a certain style of illustrating
Nursery Rhymes, which he can really do better than any one else.
This was what happened to Browning; like every one else, he had
to discover first the universe, and then humanity, and at last
himself. With him, as with all others, the great paradox and the
great definition of life was this, that the ambition narrows as the
mind expands. In _Dramatic Lyrics_ he discovered the one thing that
he could really do better than any one else--the dramatic lyric. The
form is absolutely original: he had discovered a new field of poetry,
and in the centre of that field he had found himself.

The actual quality, the actual originality of the form is a little
difficult to describe. But its general characteristic is the
fearless and most dexterous use of grotesque things in order to
express sublime emotions.

The best and most characteristic of the poems are love-poems; they
express almost to perfection the real wonderland of youth, but
they do not express it by the ideal imagery of most poets of love.
The imagery of these poems consists, if we may take a rapid survey
of Browning's love poetry, of suburban streets, straws, garden-rakes,
medicine bottles, pianos, window-blinds, burnt cork, fashionable fur
coats. But in this new method he thoroughly expressed the true
essential, the insatiable realism of passion. If any one wished to
prove that Browning was not, as he is said to be, the poet of
thought, but pre-eminently one of the poets of passion, we could
scarcely find a better evidence of this profoundly passionate
element than Browning's astonishing realism in love poetry.

There is nothing so fiercely realistic as sentiment and emotion.
Thought and the intellect are content to accept abstractions,
summaries, and generalisations; they are content that ten acres
of ground should be called for the sake of argument X, and ten
widows' incomes called for the sake of argument Y; they are
content that a thousand awful and mysterious disappearances from
the visible universe should be summed up as the mortality of a
district, or that ten thousand intoxications of the soul should
bear the general name of the instinct of sex.

Rationalism can live upon air and signs and numbers. But
sentiment must have reality; emotion demands the real fields, the
real widows' homes, the real corpse, and the real woman. And
therefore Browning's love poetry is the finest love poetry in the
world, because it does not talk about raptures and ideals and
gates of heaven, but about window-panes and gloves and garden
walls. It does not deal much with abstractions; it is the truest
of all love poetry, because it does not speak much about love. It
awakens in every man the memories of that immortal instant when
common and dead things had a meaning beyond the power of any
dictionary to utter, and a value beyond the power of any millionaire
to compute. He expresses the celestial time when a man does not think
about heaven, but about a parasol. And therefore he is, first, the
greatest of love poets, and, secondly, the only optimistic
philosopher except Whitman.

The general accusation against Browning in connection with his use
of the grotesque comes in very definitely here; for in using these
homely and practical images, these allusions, bordering on what
many would call the commonplace, he was indeed true to the actual
and abiding spirit of love.

In that delightful poem "Youth and Art" we have the singing
girl saying to her old lover--

  "No harm! It was not my fault If you
  never turned your eye's tail up As I shook upon E _in alt_, Or ran
the chromatic scale up."

This is a great deal more like the real chaff that passes between
those whose hearts are full of new hope or of old memory than half
the great poems of the world. Browning never forgets the little
details which to a man who has ever really lived may suddenly
send an arrow through the heart. Take, for example, such a matter
as dress, as it is treated in "A Lover's Quarrel."
"See, how she looks now, dressed In a sledging cap and vest!
'Tis a huge fur cloak-- Like a reindeer's yoke Falls the lappet
along the breast:
Sleeves for her arms to rest, Or to hang, as my Love likes best."

That would almost serve as an order to a dressmaker, and is therefore
poetry, or at least excellent poetry of this order. So great a
power have these dead things of taking hold on the living spirit,
that I question whether any one could read through the catalogue of
a miscellaneous auction sale without coming upon things which, if
realised for a moment, would be near to the elemental tears. And
if any of us or all of us are truly optimists, and believe as Browning
did, that existence has a value wholly inexpressible, we are most
truly compelled to that sentiment not by any argument or triumphant
justification of the cosmos, but by a few of these momentary and
immortal sights and sounds, a gesture, an old song, a portrait, a
piano, an old door.

In 1843 appeared that marvellous drama _The Return of the Druses_,
a work which contains more of Browning's typical qualities exhibited
in an exquisite literary shape, than can easily be counted.

We have in _The Return of the Druses_ his love of the corners of
history, his interest in the religious mind of the East, with its
almost terrifying sense of being in the hand of heaven, his love
of colour and verbal luxury, of gold and green and purple, which
made some think he must be an Oriental himself.

But, above all, it presents the first rise of that great psychological
ambition which Browning was thenceforth to pursue. In _Pauline_
and the poems that follow it, Browning has only the comparatively
easy task of giving an account of himself. In _Pippa Passes_ he has
the only less easy task of giving an account of humanity. In _The
Return of the Druses_ he has for the first time the task which is
so much harder than giving an account of humanity--the task of
giving an account of a human being. Djabal, the great Oriental
impostor, who is the central character of the play, is a peculiarly
subtle character, a compound of blasphemous and lying assumptions
of Godhead with genuine and stirring patriotic and personal
feelings: he is a blend, so to speak, of a base divinity and of a
noble humanity.

He is supremely important in the history of Browning's mind, for
he is the first of that great series of the apologiæ of
apparently evil men, on which the poet was to pour out so much of
his imaginative wealth--Djabal, Fra Lippo, Bishop Blougram, Sludge,
Prince Hohenstiel-Schwangau, and the hero of _Fifine at the Fair_.

With this play, so far as any point can be fixed for the matter,
he enters for the first time on the most valuable of all his
labours--the defence of the indefensible.

It may be noticed that Browning was not in the least content
with the fact that certain human frailties had always lain more or
less under an implied indulgence; that all human sentiment had
agreed that a profligate might be generous, or that a drunkard
might be high-minded.

He was insatiable: he wished to go further and show in a character
like Djabal that an impostor might be generous and that a liar
might be high-minded.

In all his life, it must constantly be remembered, he tried
always the most difficult things. Just as he tried the queerest
metres and attempted to manage them, so he tried the queerest human
souls and attempted to stand in their place. Charity was his basic
philosophy; but it was, as it were, a fierce charity, a charity that
went man-hunting.

He was a kind of cosmic detective who walked into the foulest
of thieves' kitchens and accused men publicly of virtue. The
character of Djabal in _The Return of the Druses_ is the first of
this long series of forlorn hopes for the relief of long surrendered
castles of misconduct. As we shall see, even realising the humanity
of a noble impostor like Djabal did not content his erratic hunger
for goodness.

He went further again, and realised the humanity of a mean
impostor like Sludge.

But in all things he retained this essential characteristic, that
he was not content with seeking sinners--he sought the sinners
whom even sinners cast out.

Browning's feeling of ambition in the matter of the drama continued
to grow at this time. It must be remembered that he had every
natural tendency to be theatrical, though he lacked the essential
lucidity.

He was not, as a matter of fact, a particularly unsuccessful
dramatist; but in the world of abstract temperaments he was by
nature an unsuccessful dramatist.

He was, that is to say, a man who loved above all things plain and
sensational words, open catastrophes, a clear and ringing conclusion
to everything.

But it so happened, unfortunately, that his own words were not
plain; that his catastrophes came with a crashing and sudden
unintelligibleness which left men in doubt whether the thing were
a catastrophe or a great stroke of good luck; that his conclusion,
though it rang like a trumpet to the four corners of heaven,
was in its actual message quite inaudible. We are bound to admit,
on the authority of all his best critics and admirers, that his
plays were not failures, but we can all feel that they should have
been.

He was, as it were, by nature a neglected dramatist. He was one of
those who achieve the reputation, in the literal sense, of
eccentricity by their frantic efforts to reach the centre.

_A Blot on the 'Scutcheon_ followed _The Return of the Druses_.
In connection with the performance of this very fine play a
quarrel arose which would not be worth mentioning if it did not
happen to illustrate the curious energetic simplicity of Browning's
character. Macready, who was in desperately low financial circumstances
at this time, tried by every means conceivable to avoid playing
the part; he dodged, he shuffled, he tried every evasion that
occurred to him, but it never occurred to Browning to see what
he meant. He pushed off the part upon Phelps, and Browning
was contented; he resumed it, and Browning was only discontented
on behalf of Phelps. The two had a quarrel; they were both headstrong,
passionate men, but the quarrel dealt entirely with the unfortunate
condition of Phelps. Browning beat down his own hat over his
eyes; Macready flung Browning's manuscript with a slap upon the
floor. But all the time it never occurred to the poet that Macready's
conduct was dictated by anything so crude and simple as a desire
for money. Browning was in fact by his principles and his ideals
a man of the world, but in his life far otherwise. That worldly
ease which is to most of us a temptation was to him an ideal.
He was as it were a citizen of the New Jerusalem who desired
with perfect sanity and simplicity to be a citizen of Mayfair. There
was in him a quality which can only be most delicately
described; for it was a virtue which bears a strange resemblance
to one of the meanest of vices. Those curious people who think the
truth a thing that can be said violently and with ease, might
naturally call Browning a snob.

He was fond of society, of fashion and even of wealth: but there
is no snobbery in admiring these things or any things if we admire
them for the right reasons. He admired them as worldlings cannot
admire them:
he was, as it were, the child who comes in with the dessert. He
bore the same relation to the snob that the righteous man bears
to the Pharisee: something frightfully close and similar and yet
an everlasting opposite.

CHAPTER III
BROWNING AND HIS MARRIAGE

Robert Browning had his faults, and the general direction
of those faults has been previously suggested.

The chief of his faults, a certain uncontrollable brutality of
speech and gesture when he was strongly roused, was destined to
cling to him all through his life, and to startle with the
blaze of a volcano even the last quiet years before his death.
But any one who wishes to understand how deep was the elemental
honesty and reality of his character, how profoundly worthy he was
of any love that was bestowed upon him, need only study one most
striking and determining element in the question--Browning's simple,
heartfelt, and unlimited admiration for other people. He was one
of a generation of great men, of great men who had a certain peculiar
type, certain peculiar merits and defects. Carlyle, Tennyson, Ruskin,
Matthew Arnold, were alike in being children of a very strenuous
and conscientious age, alike in possessing its earnestness and air
of deciding great matters, alike also in showing a certain almost
noble jealousy, a certain restlessness, a certain fear of other
influences.

Browning alone had no fear; he welcomed, evidently without the
least affectation, all the influences of his day. A very interesting
letter of his remains in which he describes his pleasure in a
university dinner. "Praise," he says in effect, "was given very
deservedly to Matthew Arnold and Swinburne, and to that pride of
Oxford men, Clough." The really striking thing about these three
names is the fact that they are united in Browning's praise in
a way in which they are by no means united in each other's. Matthew
Arnold, in one of his extant letters, calls Swinburne "a young
pseudo-Shelley," who, according to Arnold, thinks he can make Greek
plays good by making them modern. Mr. Swinburne, on the other hand,
has summarised Clough in a contemptuous rhyme:--
"There was a bad poet named Clough, Whom his friends all united
to puff.

But the public, though dull, Has not quite such a skull As belongs
to believers in Clough."
The same general fact will be found through the whole of Browning's
life and critical attitude. He adored Shelley, and also Carlyle who
sneered at him. He delighted in Mill, and also in Ruskin who
rebelled against Mill. He excused Napoleon III. and Landor who
hurled interminable curses against Napoleon. He admired all the
cycle of great men who all contemned each other. To say that he
had no streak of envy in his nature would be true, but unfair; for
there is no justification for attributing any of these great men's
opinions to envy.

But Browning was really unique, in that he had a certain spontaneous
and unthinking tendency to the admiration of others. He admired
another poet as he admired a fading sunset or a chance spring leaf.
He no more thought whether he could be as good as that man in
that department than whether he could be redder than the sunset
or greener than the leaf of spring. He was naturally magnanimous
in the literal sense of that sublime word; his mind was so great that
it rejoiced in the triumphs of strangers. In this spirit Browning
had already cast his eyes round in the literary world of his
time, and had been greatly and justifiably struck with the work
of a young lady poet, Miss Barrett.

That impression was indeed amply justified. In a time when it was
thought necessary for a lady to dilute the wine of poetry to its
very weakest tint, Miss Barrett had contrived to produce poetry
which was open to literary objection as too heady and too high-coloured.

When she erred it was through an Elizabethan audacity and luxuriance,
a straining after violent metaphors.
I do not know
all, as you can guess, but they say she can do what she will at
the Chateau. It is a wonder to see her drive. A month ago, a
droll thing come to pass. She is driving on the ice with ma'm'selle
Lotbiniere and her brother Charles. M'sieu' Charles, he has
the reins. Soon, ver' quick, the horses start with all their might.
M'sieu' saw and pull, but they go the faster. Like that for a mile
or so; then ma'm'selle remember there is a great crack in the ice a
mile farther on, and beyond the ice is weak and rotten, for there
the curren' is ver' strongest. She see that M'sieu' Charles, he can
do nothing, so she reach and take the reins. The horses go on; it
make no diff'rence at first. But she begin to talk to them so sof',
and to pull ver' steady, and at last she get them shaping to the
shore. She have the reins wound on her hands, and people on the
shore, they watch. Little on little the horses pull up, and stop at
last not a hunder' feet from the great crack and the rotten ice.
Then she turn them round and drive them home.

"You should hear the people cheer as she drive up Mountain
Street. The bishop stand at the window of his palace and smile at
her as she pass, and m'sieu'"--he looked at the jailer and
paused--"m'sieu' the gentleman we do not love, he stand in the
street with his cap off for two minutes as she come, and after she
go by, and say a grand compliment to her, so that her face go pale.
He get froze ears for his pains--that was a cold day. Well, at night
there was a grand dinner at the Intendance, and afterwards a ball in
the splendid room which that man" (he meant Bigot: I shall use names
when quoting him further, that he may be better understood) "built
for the poor people of the land for to dance down their sorrows. So
you can guess I would be there--happy. Ah yes, so happy! I go and
stand in the great gallery above the hall of dance, with crowd of
people, and look down at the grand folk.

"One man come to me and say, 'Ah, Voban, is it you here? Who would
think it!'--like that. Another, he come and say, 'Voban, he can not
keep away from the Intendance. Who does he come to look for? But no,
SHE is not here--no.' And again, another, 'Why should not Voban be
here? One man has not enough bread to eat, and Bigot steals his
corn. Another hungers for a wife to sit by his fire, and Bigot takes
the maid, and Voban stuffs his mouth with humble pie like the rest.
Chut! shall not Bigot have his fill?' And yet another, and voila,
she was a woman, she say, 'Look at the Intendant down there with
madame. And M'sieu' Cournal, he also is there. What does M'sieu'
Cournal care? No, not at all. The rich man, what he care, if he has
gold? Virtue! ha, ha! what is that in your wife if you have gold for
it? Nothing. See his hand at the Intendant's arm. See how M'sieu'
Doltaire look at them, and then up here at us. What is it in his
mind, you think? Eh? You think he say to himself, A wife all to
himself is the poor man's one luxury? Eh? Ah, M'sieu' Doltaire, you
are right, you are right. You catch up my child from its basket in
the market-place one day, and you shake it ver' soft, an' you say,
"Madame, I will stake the last year of my life that I can put my
finger on the father of this child." And when I laugh in his face,
he say again, "And if he thought he wasn't its father, he would cut
out the liver of the other--eh?" And I laugh, and say, "My Jacques
would follow him to hell to do it." Then he say, Voban, he say to
me, "That is the difference between you and us. We only kill men who
meddle with our mistresses!" Ah, that M'sieu' Doltaire, he put a
louis in the hand of my babe, and he not even kiss me on the cheek.
Pshaw! Jacques would sell him fifty kisses for fifty louis. But sell
me, or a child of me? Well, Voban, you can guess! Pah, barber, if
you do not care what he did to the poor Mathilde, there are other
maids in St. Roch.'"

Voban paused a moment then added quietly, "How do you think I bear
it all? With a smile? No, I hear with my ears open and my heart
close tight. Do they think they can teach me? Do they guess I sit
down and hear all without a cry from my throat or a will in my body?
Ah, m'sieu' le Capitaine, it is you who know. You saw what I would
have go to do with M'sieu' Doltaire before the day of the Great
Birth. You saw if I am coward--if I not take the sword when it was
at my throat without a whine. No, m'sieu', I can wait. Then is a
time for everything. At first I am all in a muddle, I not how what
to do; but by-and-bye it all come to me, and you shall one day what
I wait for. Yes, you shall see. I look down on that people dancing
there, quiet and still, and I hear some laugh at me, and now and
then some one say a good word to me that make me shut my hands
tight, so the tears not come to my eyes. But I felt alone--so much
alone. The world does not want a sad man. In my shop I try to laugh
as of old, and I am not sour or heavy, but I can see men do not say
droll things to me as once back time. No, I am not as I was. What am
I to do? There is but one way. What is great to one man is not to
another. What kills the one does not kill the other. Take away from
some people one thing, and they will not care; from others that
same, and there is nothing to live for, except just to live, and
because a man does not like death."

He paused. "You are right, Voban," said I. "Go on."

He was silent again for a time, and then he moved his hand in a
helpless sort of way across his forehead. It had become deeply
lined and wrinkled all in a couple of years. His temples were
sunken, his cheeks hollow, and his face was full of those shadows
which lend a sort of tragedy to even the humblest and least
distinguished countenance. His eyes had a restlessness, anon an
intense steadiness almost uncanny, and his thin, long fingers had a
stealthiness of motion, a soft swiftness, which struck me strangly.
I never saw a man so changed. He was like a vessel wrested from its
moorings; like some craft, filled with explosives, set loose along
a shore lined with fishing-smacks, which might come foul of one,
and blow the company of men and boats into the air. As he stood
there, his face half turned to me for a moment, this came to my
mind, and I said to him, "Voban, you look like some wicked gun
which would blow us all to pieces."

He wheeled, and came to me so swiftly that I shrank back in my
chair with alarm, his action was so sudden, and, peering into my
face, he said, glancing, as I thought, anxiously at the jailer,
"Blow--blow--how blow us all to pieces, m'sieu'?" He eyed me with
suspicion, and I could see that he felt like some hurt animal among
its captors, ready to fight, yet not knowing from what point danger
would come. Something pregnant in what I said had struck home, yet
I could not guess then what it was, though afterwards it came to me
with great force and vividness.

"I meant nothing, Voban," answered I, "save that you look dangerous."

I half put out my hand to touch his arm in a friendly way, but I
saw that the jailer was watching, and I did not. Voban felt what I
was about to do, and his face instantly softened, and his blood-shot
eyes gave me a look of gratitude. Then he said:

"I will tell you what happen next I know the palace very well,
and when I see the Intendant and M'sieu' Doltaire and others leave
the ballroom I knew that they go to the chamber which they call 'la
Chambre de la Joie,' to play at cards. So I steal away out of the
crowd into a passage which, as it seem, go nowhere, and come quick,
all at once, to a bare wall. But I know the way. In one corner of
the passage I press a spring, and a little panel open. I crawl
through and close it behin'. The whole world of the fantastic,
all things top-heavy, lop-sided, and nonsensical are conceived as
the work of man, gargoyles, German jugs, Chinese pots, political
caricatures, burlesque epics, the pictures of Mr. Aubrey Beardsley
and the puns of Robert Browning. But in truth a part, and a very
large part, of the sanity and power of nature lies in the fact
that out of her comes all this instinct of caricature. Nature may
present itself to the poet too often as consisting of stars
and lilies; but these are not poets who live in the country; they
are men who go to the country for inspiration and could no more live
in the country than they could go to bed in Westminster Abbey. Men
who live in the heart of nature, farmers and peasants, know that
nature means cows and pigs, and creatures more humorous than can
be found in a whole sketch-book of Callot. And the element of the
grotesque in art, like the element of the grotesque in nature, means,
in the main, energy, the energy which takes its own forms and
goes its own way. Browning's verse, in so far as it is grotesque,
is not complex or artificial; it is natural and in the legitimate
tradition of nature.

The verse sprawls like the trees, dances like the dust; it is
ragged like the thunder-cloud, it is top-heavy like the toadstool.
Energy which disregards the standard of classical art is in nature
as it is in Browning. The same sense of the uproarious force in
things which makes Browning dwell on the oddity of a fungus or a
jellyfish makes him dwell on the oddity of a philosophical idea.
Here, for example, we have a random instance from "The Englishman
in Italy" of the way in which Browning, when he was most Browning,
regarded physical nature.

"And pitch down his basket before us, All trembling alive With
pink and grey jellies, your sea-fruit; You touch the strange
lumps, And mouths gape there, eyes open, all manner Of horns
and of humps, Which only the fisher looks grave at."
Nature might mean flowers to Wordsworth and grass to Walt
Whitman, but to Browning it really meant such things as these,
the monstrosities and living mysteries of the sea. And just as these
strange things meant to Browning energy in the physical world,
so strange thoughts and strange images meant to him energy in
the mental world. When, in one of his later poems, the professional
mystic is seeking in a supreme moment of sincerity to explain that
small things may be filled with God as well as great, he uses
the very same kind of image, the image of a shapeless sea-beast,
to embody that noble conception.

"The Name comes close behind a stomach-cyst, The simplest of
creations, just a sac That's mouth, heart, legs, and belly at once,
yet lives And feels, and could do neither, we conclude, If simplified
still further one degree."
(SLUDGE.)
These bulbous, indescribable sea-goblins are the first thing on
which the eye of the poet lights in looking on a landscape, and
the last in the significance of which he trusts in demonstrating the
mercy of the Everlasting.

There is another and but slightly different use of the grotesque,
but which is definitely valuable in Browning's poetry, and indeed
in all poetry. To present a matter in a grotesque manner does certainly
tend to touch the nerve of surprise and thus to draw attention to
the intrinsically miraculous character of the object itself. It
is difficult to give examples of the proper use of grotesqueness
without becoming too grotesque. But we should all agree that if St.
Paul's Cathedral were suddenly presented to us upside down we should,
for the moment, be more surprised at it, and look at it more than
we have done all the centuries during which it has rested on its
foundations."The General, he smile and wave his hand, as if sorry to take so
much from M'sieu' Cadet and the Intendant. M'sieu' Cadet sit dark,
and speak nothing at first, but at last he get up and turn on his
heel and walk away, leaving what he lose on the table. M'sieu' the
General bow also, and go from the room. Then M'sieu' Doltaire and
the Intendant play. One by one the other players stop, and come and
watch these. Something get into the two gentlemen, for both are
pale, and the face of the Intendant all of spots, and his little
round eyes like specks of red fire; but M'sieu' Doltaire's face,
it is still, and his brows bend over, and now and then he make a
little laughing out of his lips. All at once I hear him say, 'Double
the stakes, your Excellency!' The Intendant look up sharp and say,
'What! Two hunder' thousan' francs!'--as if M'sieu' Doltaire could
not pay such a like that. M'sieu' Doltaire smile ver' wicked, and
answer, 'Make it three hunder' thousan' francs, your Excellency.' It
is so still in the Chamber of the Joy that all you hear for a minute
was the fat Monsieur Varin breathe like a hog, and the rattle of a
spur as some one slide a foot on the floor.

"The Intendant look blank; then he nod his head for answer, and
each write on a piece of paper. As they begin, M'sieu' Doltaire
take out his watch and lay it on the table, and the Intendant
do the same, and they both look at the time. The watch of the
Intendant is all jewels. 'Will you not add the watches to the
stake?' say M'sieu' Doltaire. The Intendant look, and shrug a
shoulder, and shake his head for no, and M'sieu' Doltaire smile in
a sly way, so that the Intendant's teeth show at his lips and his
eyes almost close, he is so angry.

"Just this minute I hear a low noise behind me, and then some
one give a little cry. I turn quick and Madame Cournal. She stretch
her hand, and touch my lips, and motion me not to stir. I look down
again, and I see that M'sieu' Doltaire look up to the where I am,
for he hear that sound, I think--I not know sure. But he say once
more, 'The watch, the watch, your Excellency! I have a fancy for
yours!' I feel madame breathe hard beside me, but I not like to
look at her. I am not afraid of men, but a woman that way--ah, it
make me shiver! She will betray me, I think. All at once I feel her
hand at my belt, then at my pocket, to see if I have a weapon; for
the thought come to her that I am there to kill Bigot. But I raise
my hands and say, 'No,' ver' quiet, and she nod her head all right.

"The Intendant wave his hand at M'sieu' Doltaire to say he would
not stake the watch, for I know it is one madame give him; and then
they begin to play. No one stir. The cards go out flip, flip, on the
table, and with a little soft scrape in the hands, and I hear
Bigot's hound much a bone. All at once M'sieu' Doltaire throw down
his cards, and say, 'Mine, Bigot! Three hunder' thousan' francs,
and the time is up!' The other get from his chair, and say, 'How
would you have pay if you had lost, Doltaire?' And m'sieu' answer,
'From the coffers of the King, like you, Bigot' His tone is odd.
I feel madame's breath go hard. Bigot turn round and say to the
others, 'Will you take your way to the great hall, messieurs,
and M'sieu' Doltaire and I will follow. We have some private
conf'rence.' They all turn away, all but M'sieu' Cournal, and leave
the room, whispering. 'I will join you soon, Cournal,' say his
Excellency. M'sieu' Cournal not go, for he have been drinking, and
something stubborn got into him. But the Intendant order him rough,
and he go. I can hear madame gnash her teeth sof' beside me.

"When the door close, the Intendant turn to M'sieu' Doltaire and
say, 'What is the end for which you play?' M'sieu' Doltaire make a
light motion of his hand, and answer, 'For three hunder' thousan'
francs.' 'And to pay, m'sieu', how to pay if you have lost?'
M'sieu' Doltaire lay his hand on his sword sof'. 'From the King's
coffers, as I say; he owes me more than he has paid. But not like
you, Bigot. I have earned, this way and that, all that I might ever
get from the King's coffers--even this three hunder' thousan'
francs, ten times told. But you, Bigot--tush! why should we make
bubbles of words?' The Intendant get white in the face, but there
are spots on it like on a late apple of an old tree. 'You go too
far, Doltaire,' he say. 'You have hint before my officers and my
friends that I make free with the King's coffers.' M'sieu' answer,
'You should see no such hints, if your palms were not musty.' 'How
know you,' ask the Intendant, 'that my hands are musty from the
King's coffers?' M'sieu' arrange his laces, and say light, 'As
easy from the must as I tell how time passes in your nights by the
ticking of this trinket here.' He raise his sword and touch the
Intendant's watch on the table.

"I never hear such silence as there is for a minute, and then the
Intendant say, 'You have gone one step too far. The must on my
hands, seen through your eyes, is no matter, but when you must the
name of a lady there is but one end. You understan', m'sieu', there
is but one end.' M'sieu' laugh. 'The sword, you mean? Eh? No, no,
I will not fight with you. I am not here to rid the King of so
excellent an officer, however large fee he force for his services.'
'And I tell you,' say the Intendant, 'that I will not have you cast
a slight upon a lady.' Madame beside me start up, and whisper to
me, 'If you betray me, you shall die. If you be still, I too will
say nothing.' But then a thing happen. Another voice sound from
below, and there, coming from behind a great screen of oak wood, is
M'sieu' Cournal, his face all red with wine, his hand on his sword.
'Bah!' he say, coming forward--'bah! I will speak for madame. I
will speak. I have been silent long enough.' He come between the
two, and, raising his sword, he strike the time-piece and smash it.
'Ha! ha!' he say, wild with drink, 'I have you both here alone.' He
snap his fingers under the Intendant's nose. 'It is time I protect
my wife's name from you, and by God, I will do it!' At that M'sieu'
Doltaire laugh, and Cournal turn to him, and say, 'Batard!' The
Intendant have out his sword, and he roar in a hoarse voice, 'Dog,
you shall die!' But M'sieu' Doltaire strike up his sword, and face
the drunken man. 'No, leave that to me. The King's cause goes
shipwreck; we can't change helmsman now. Think--scandal and your
disgrace!' Then he make a pass at m'sieu' Cournal, who parry quick.
Another, and he prick his shoulder. Another, and then madame beside
me, as I spring back, throw aside the curtains, and cry out, 'No,
m'sieu'! no! For shame!'

"I kneel in a corner behind the curtains, and wait and listen.
There is not a sound for a moment; then I hear a laugh from M'sieu'
Cournal, such a laugh make me sick--loud, and full of what you call
not care and the devil. Madame speak down at them. 'Ah,' she say,
'it is so fine a sport to drag a woman's name in the mire!' Her
voice is full of spirit. and she look beautiful--beautiful. I never
guess how a woman like that look; so full of pride, and to speak
like you could think knives sing as they strike steel--sharp and
cold. 'I came to see how gentlemen look at play, and they end in
brawling over a lady!'

"M'sieu' Doltaire speak to her, and they all put up their swords,
and M'sieu' Cournal sit down at a table, and he stare and stare
up at the balcony, and make a motion now and then with his
hand. M'sieu' Doltaire say to her, 'Madame, you must excuse
our entertainment; we did not know we had an audience so
distinguished.' She reply, 'As scene-shifter and prompter, M'sieu'
Doltaire, you have a gift. Your Excellency,' she say to the
Intendant, 'I will wait for you at the top of the great staircase,
if you will be so good as to take me to the ballroom.' The
Intendant and M'sieu' Doltaire bow, and turn to the door, and
M'sieu' Cournal scowl, and make as if to follow; but madame speak
down at him, 'M'sieu'--Argand'--like that! and he turn back, and sit
down. I think she forget me, I keep so still. The others bow and
scrape, and leave the room, and the two are alone--alone, for what
am I? What if a dog hear great people speak? No, it is no matter!

"There is all still for a little while, and I watch her face as
she lean over the rail and look down at him; it is like stone, like
stone that aches, and her eyes stare and stare at him. He look up
at her and scowl; then he laugh, with a toss of the finger, and sit
down. All at once he put his hand on his sword, and gnash his teeth.

"Then she speak down to him, her voice ver' quiet. 'Argand,' she
say, 'you are more a man drunk than sober. Argand,' she go on,
'years ago, they said you were a brave man; you fight well, you
do good work for the King, your name goes with a sweet sound to
Versailles. You had only your sword and my poor fortune and me
then--that is all; but you were a man. You had ambition, so had I.
What can a woman do? You had your sword, your country, the King's
service. I had beauty; I wanted power--ah yes, power, that was the
thing! But I was young and a fool; you were older. You talked fine
things then, but you had a base heart, so much baser than mine....
I might have been a good woman. I was a fool, and weak, and vain,
but you were base--so base--coward and betrayer, you!'

"At that m'sieu' start up and snatch at his sword, and speak out
between his teeth, 'By God, I will kill you to-night!' She smile
cold and hard, and say, 'No, no, you will not; it is too late for
killing; that should have been done before. You sold your right to
kill long ago, Argand Cournal. You have been close friends with the
man who gave me power, and you gold.' Then she get fierce. 'Who
gave you gold before he gave me power, traitor?' Like that she
speak. 'Do you never think of what you have lost?' Then she break
out in a laugh. 'Pah! Listen: if there must be killing, why not be
the great Roman--drunk!'

"Then she laugh so hard a laugh, and turn away, and go quick by
me and not see me. She step into the dark, and he sit down in the
chair, and look straight in front of him. I do not stir, and after
a minute she come back sof', and peep down, her face all differen'.
'Argand! Argand!' she say ver' tender and low, 'if--if--if'--like
that. But just then he see the broken watch on the floor, and he
stoop, with a laugh, and pick up the pieces; then he get a candle
and look on the floor everywhere for the jewels, and he pick them
up, and put them away one by one in his purse like a miser. He keep
on looking, and once the fire of the candle burn his beard, and he
swear, and she stare and stare at him. He sit down at the table,
and look at the jewels and laugh to himself. Then she draw herself
up, and shake, and put her hands to her eyes, and 'C'est fini!
c'est fini!' she whisper, and that is all.

"When she is gone, after a little time he change--ah, he change
much, he go to a table and pour out a great bowl of wine, and then
another, and he drink them both, and he begin to walk up and down
the floor. In a letter to Mr. George Bainton, touching style, he
makes a remark which is an excellent criticism on his whole literary
career: "I myself found many forgotten fields which have proved the
richest of pastures." But despite his continued energy, his health
was gradually growing worse. He was a strong man in a muscular,
and ordinarily in a physical sense, but he was also in a certain
sense a nervous man, and may be said to have died of brain-excitement
prolonged through a lifetime. In these closing years he began to
feel more constantly the necessity for rest. He and his sister
went to live at a little hotel in Llangollen, and spent hours
together talking and drinking tea on the lawn. He himself writes
in one of his quaint and poetic phrases that he had come to love
these long country retreats, "another term of delightful weeks,
each tipped with a sweet starry Sunday at the little church."

For the first time, and in the last two or three years, he
was really growing old. On one point he maintained always a
tranquil and unvarying decision. The pessimistic school of poetry
was growing up all round him; the decadents, with their belief
that art was only a counting of the autumn leaves, were approaching
more and more towards their tired triumph and their tasteless
popularity. But Browning would not for one instant take the scorn
of them out of his voice. "Death, death, it is this harping on
death that I despise so much. In fiction, in poetry, French as
well as English, and I am told in American also, in art and literature,
the shadow of death, call it what you will, despair, negation,
indifference, is upon us. But what fools who talk thus! Why, _amico
mio_, you know as well as I, that death is life, just as our daily
momentarily dying body is none the less alive, and ever recruiting
new forces of existence.
Without death, which is our church-yardy crape-like word for change,
for growth, there could be no prolongation of that which we call
life.
Never say of me that I am dead."
On August 13, 1888, he set out once more for Italy, the last of his
innumerable voyages. During his last Italian period he seems to have
fallen back on very ultimate simplicities, chiefly a mere staring
at nature.

The family with whom he lived kept a fox cub, and Browning would
spend hours with it watching its grotesque ways; when it escaped,
he was characteristically enough delighted. The old man could be
seen continually in the lanes round Asolo, peering into hedges
and whistling for the lizards.

This serene and pastoral decline, surely the mildest of slopes into
death, was suddenly diversified by a flash of something lying far
below. Browning's eye fell upon a passage written by the distinguished
Edward Fitzgerald, who had been dead for many years, in which
Fitzgerald spoke in an uncomplimentary manner of Elizabeth Barrett
Browning.

Browning immediately wrote the "Lines to Edward Fitzgerald," and
set the whole literary world in an uproar.

The lines were bitter and excessive to have been written against
any man, especially bitter and excessive to have been written against
a man who was not alive to reply.

And yet, when all is said, it is impossible not to feel a certain
dark and indescribable pleasure in this last burst of the old
barbaric energy.

The mountain had been tilled and forested, and laid out in gardens
to the summit; but for one last night it had proved itself once
more a volcano, and had lit up all the plains with its forgotten
fire. And the blow, savage as it was, was dealt for that great
central sanctity--the story of a man's youth.

All that the old man would say in reply to every view of the question
was, "I felt as if she had died yesterday."

Towards December of 1889 he moved to Venice, where he fell ill.
He took very little food; it was indeed one of his peculiar small
fads that men should not take food when they are ill, a matter
in which he maintained that the animals were more sagacious. He
asserted vigorously that this somewhat singular regimen would pull
him through, talked about his plans, and appeared cheerful. Gradually,
however, the talking became more infrequent, the cheerfulness
passed into a kind of placidity; and without any particular crisis
or sign of the end, Robert Browning died on December 12, 1889. The
body was taken on board ship by the Venice Municipal Guard, and
received by the Royal Italian marines. He was buried in the Poets'
Corner of Westminster Abbey, the choir singing his wife's poem,
"He giveth His beloved sleep."

On the day that he died _Asolando_ was published.

CHAPTER VI
BROWNING AS A LITERARY ARTIST

Mr.

William Sharp, in his _Life_ of Browning, quotes the remarks of
another critic to the following effect: "The poet's processes
of thought are scientific in their precision and analysis; the
sudden conclusion that he imposes upon them is transcendental
and inept."
This is a very fair but a very curious example of the way in
which Browning is treated. For what is the state of affairs? A
man publishes a series of poems, vigorous, perplexing, and unique.
The critics read them, and they decide that he has failed as a poet,
but that he is a remarkable philosopher and logician. They then
proceed to examine his philosophy, and show with great triumph
that it is unphilosophical, and to examine his logic and show with
great triumph that it is not logical, but "transcendental and inept."

In other words, Browning is first denounced for being a logician
and not a poet, and then denounced for insisting on being a poet
when they have decided that he is to be a logician.

It is just as if a man were to say first that a garden was so
neglected that it was only fit for a boys' playground, and then
complain of the unsuitability in a boys' playground of rockeries
and flower-beds.

As we find, after this manner, that Browning does not act
satisfactorily as that which we have decided that he shall be--a
logician--it might possibly be worth while to make another attempt
to see whether he may not, after all, be more valid than we thought
as to what he himself professed to be--a poet.

And if we study this seriously and sympathetically, we shall soon
come to a conclusion.

It is a gross and complete slander upon Browning to say that
his processes of thought are scientific in their precision and
analysis.
They are nothing of the sort; if they were, Browning could not be
a good poet. The critic speaks of the conclusions of a poem as
"transcendental and inept"; but the conclusions of a poem, if
they are not transcendental, must be inept. Do the people who call
one of Browning's poems scientific in its analysis realise the
meaning of what they say? One is tempted to think that they know
a scientific analysis when they see it as little as they know a
good poem. The one supreme difference between the scientific method
and the artistic method is, roughly speaking, simply this--that
a scientific statement means the same thing wherever and whenever
it is uttered, and that an artistic statement means something entirely
different, according to the relation in which it stands to its
surroundings. The remark, let us say, that the whale is a mammal,
or the remark that sixteen ounces go to a pound, is equally true,
and means exactly the same thing, whether we state it at the beginning
of a conversation or at the end, whether we print it in a dictionary
or chalk it up on a wall.

But if we take some phrase commonly used in the art of literature--such
a sentence, for the sake of example, as "the dawn was breaking"--the
matter is quite different.

If the sentence came at the beginning of a short story, it
might be a mere descriptive prelude. If it were the last sentence
in a short story, it might be poignant with some peculiar irony
or triumph. Can any one read Browning's great monologues and not
feel that they are built up like a good short story, entirely on
this principle of the value of language arising from its arrangement.
Take such an example as "Caliban upon Setebos," a wonderful
poem designed to describe the way in which a primitive nature may
at once be afraid of its gods and yet familiar with them.
Caliban in describing his deity starts with a more or less natural
and obvious parallel between the deity and himself, carries out the
comparison with consistency and an almost revolting simplicity, and
ends in a kind of blasphemous extravaganza of anthropomorphism,
basing his conduct not merely on the greatness and wisdom, but also
on the manifest weaknesses and stupidities, of the Creator of all
things.

Then suddenly a thunderstorm breaks over Caliban's island, and the
profane speculator falls flat upon his face-- 
"Lo!

'Lieth flat and loveth Setebos!
'Maketh his teeth meet through his upper lip, Will let those quails
fly, will not eat this month One little mess of whelks, so he may
'scape!"
Surely it would be very difficult to persuade oneself that this
thunderstorm would have meant exactly the same thing if it had
occurred at the beginning of "Caliban upon Setebos."

It does not mean the same thing, but something very different; and
the deduction from this is the curious fact that Browning is an
artist, and that consequently his processes of thought are not
"scientific in their precision and analysis."

No criticism of Browning's poems can be vital, none in the face
of the poems themselves can be even intelligible, which is not based
upon the fact that he was successfully or otherwise a conscious and
deliberate artist. He may have failed as an artist, though I do
not think so; that is quite a different matter. But it is one thing
to say that a man through vanity or ignorance has built an ugly
cathedral, and quite another to say that he built it in a fit of
absence of mind, and did not know whether he was building a lighthouse
or a first-class hotel.

Browning knew perfectly well what he was doing; and if the reader
does not like his art, at least the author did.

The general sentiment expressed in the statement that he did not
care about form is simply the most ridiculous criticism that could
be conceived. It would be far nearer the truth to say that he
cared more for form than any other English poet who ever lived.
He was always weaving and modelling and inventing new forms. Among
all his two hundred to three hundred poems it would scarcely be
an exaggeration to say that there are half as many different metres
as there are different poems.

The great English poets who are supposed to have cared more for
form than Browning did, cared less at least in this sense--that
they were content to use old forms so long as they were certain
that they had new ideas. Browning, on the other hand, no sooner
had a new idea than he tried to make a new form to express it.

Wordsworth and Shelley were really original poets; their attitude
of thought and feeling marked without doubt certain great changes
in literature and philosophy.
Nevertheless, the "Ode on the Intimations of Immortality" is a perfectly
normal and traditional ode, and "Prometheus Unbound" is a
perfectly genuine and traditional Greek lyrical drama. But if we
study Browning honestly, nothing will strike us more than that he
really created a large number of quite novel and quite admirable
artistic forms. It is too often forgotten what and how excellent
these were.
_The Ring and the Book_, for example, is an illuminating departure
in literary method--the method of telling the same story several
times and trusting to the variety of human character to turn it
into several different and equally interesting stories.

_Pippa Passes_, to take another example, is a new and most fruitful
form, a series of detached dramas connected only by the presence
of one fugitive and isolated figure.

The invention of these things is not merely like the writing of a
good poem--it is something like the invention of the sonnet or the
Gothic arch. The poet who makes them does not merely create himself--he
creates other poets.

It is so in a degree long past enumeration with regard to Browning's
smaller poems.

Such a pious and horrible lyric as "The Heretic's
Tragedy," for instance, is absolutely original, with its weird and
almost blood-curdling echo verses, mocking echoes indeed--
"And dipt of his wings in Paris square, They bring him now to lie
burned alive.

_[And wanteth there grace of lute or clavicithern, ye shall say to
confirm him who singeth_-- 
We bring John now to be burned alive."

A hundred instances might, of course, be given. Milton's "Sonnet
on his Blindness," or Keats's "Ode on a Grecian Urn," are both
thoroughly original, but still we can point to other such
sonnets and other such odes.

But can any one mention any poem of exactly the same structural
and literary type as "Fears and Scruples," as "The Householder,"
as "House" or "Shop," as "Nationality in Drinks," as "Sibrandus
Schafnaburgensis," as "My Star," as "A Portrait," as any of
"Ferishtah's Fancies," as any of the "Bad Dreams."

The thing which ought to be said about Browning by those who do not
enjoy him is simply that they do not like his form; that they have
studied the form, and think it a bad form. If more people said things
of this sort, the world of criticism would gain almost unspeakably
in clarity and common honesty.

Browning put himself before the world as a good poet. Let those
who think he failed call him a bad poet, and there will be an
end of the matter. There are many styles in art which perfectly
competent æsthetic judges cannot endure. For instance, it would
be perfectly legitimate for a strict lover of Gothic to say that
one of the monstrous rococo altar-pieces in the Belgian churches
with bulbous clouds and oaken sun-rays seven feet long, was,
in his opinion, ugly. But surely it would be perfectly ridiculous
for any one to say that it had no form. A man's actual feelings
about it might be better expressed by saying that it had too much.
To say that Browning was merely a thinker because you think "Caliban
upon Setebos" ugly, is precisely as absurd as it would be to call
the author of the old Belgian altarpiece a man devoted only to the
abstractions of religion.
The truth about Browning is not that he was indifferent to technical
beauty, but that he invented a particular kind of technical beauty
to which any one else is free to be as indifferent as he chooses.

There is in this matter an extraordinary tendency to vague and
unmeaning criticism. The usual way of criticising an author,
particularly an author who has added something to the literary forms
of the world, is to complain that his work does not contain
something which is obviously the speciality of somebody else. The
correct thing to say about Maeterlinck is that some play of his in
which, let us say, a princess dies in a deserted tower by the sea,
has a certain beauty, but that we look in vain in it for that
robust geniality, that really boisterous will to live which may be
found in _Martin Chuzzlewit_.

The right thing to say about _Cyrano de Bergerac_ is that it may
have a certain kind of wit and spirit, but that it really throws
no light on the duty of middle-aged married couples in Norway.

It cannot be too much insisted upon that at least three-quarters
of the blame and criticism commonly directed against artists and
authors falls under this general objection, and is essentially
valueless.
Authors both great and small are, like everything else in
existence, upon the whole greatly under-rated. They are
blamed for not doing, not only what they have failed to do to
reach their own ideal, but what they have never tried to do to
reach every other writer's ideal. If we can show that Browning had
a definite ideal of beauty and loyally pursued it, it is
not necessary to prove that he could have written _In Memoriam_
if he had tried.

Browning has suffered far more injustice from his admirers
than from his opponents, for his admirers have for the
most part got hold of the matter, so to speak, by the wrong end.

They believe that what is ordinarily called the grotesque style of
Browning was a kind of necessity boldly adopted by a great genius
in order to express novel and profound ideas.

But this is an entire mistake. What is called ugliness was to
Browning not in the least a necessary evil, but a quite unnecessary
luxury, which he enjoyed for its own sake. For reasons that we
shall see presently in discussing the philosophical use of the
grotesque, it did so happen that Browning's grotesque style was
very suitable for the expression of his peculiar moral and
metaphysical view. But the whole mass of poems will be misunderstood
if we do not realise first of all that he had a love of the
grotesque of the nature of art for art's sake. Here, for example,
is a short distinct poem merely descriptive of one of those elfish
German jugs in which it is to be presumed Tokay had been served to
him. This is the whole poem, and a very good poem too--
"Up jumped Tokay on our table, Like a pigmy castle-warder, Dwarfish
to see, but stout and able, Arms and accoutrements all in order;
And fierce he looked North, then, wheeling South Blew with his bugle
a challenge to Drouth, Cocked his flap-hat with the tosspot-feather,
Twisted his thumb in his red moustache, Jingled his huge brass spurs
together, Tightened his waist with its Buda sash, And then, with
an impudence nought could abash, Shrugged his hump-shoulder, to
tell the beholder, For twenty such knaves he would laugh but the
bolder:
And so, with his sword-hilt gallantly jutting, And dexter-hand on
his haunch abutting, Went the little man, Sir Ausbruch, strutting!"

I suppose there are Browning students in existence who would think
that this poem contained something pregnant about the Temperance
question, or was a marvellously subtle analysis of the romantic
movement in Germany.

But surely to most of us it is sufficiently apparent that Browning
was simply fashioning a ridiculous knick-knack, exactly as if he
were actually moulding one of these preposterous German jugs.

Now before studying the real character of this Browningesque
style, there is one general truth to be recognised about
Browning's work. It is this--that it is absolutely necessary to
remember that Browning had, like every other poet, his simple and
indisputable failures, and that it is one thing to speak of the
badness of his artistic failures, and quite another thing to speak
of the badness of his artistic aim. Browning's style may be a
good style, and yet exhibit many examples of a thoroughly bad use
of it.

  On this point there is indeed a singularly
    unfair system of judgment used by the public
  towards the poets. It is very little
    realised that the vast majority of great poets
        have written an enormous amount of very bad poetry.

  The unfortunate Wordsworth is generally supposed
    to be almost alone in this; but any
  one who thinks so can scarcely have read a
    certain number of the minor poems of Byron
        and Shelley and Tennyson.

  Now it is only just to Browning that his more
    uncouth effusions should not be treated
  as masterpieces by which he must stand or fall,
    but treated simply as his failures. It
        is really true that such a line as
"Irks fear the crop-full bird, frets doubt the maw-crammed beast?"

is a very ugly and a very bad line. But it is quite equally
true that Tennyson's
"And that good man, the clergyman, has told me words of peace,"

is a very ugly and a very bad line. But people do not say that this
proves that Tennyson was a mere crabbed controversialist and
metaphysician. They say that it is a bad example of Tennyson's
form; they do not say that it is a good example of Tennyson's
indifference to form. Upon the whole, Browning exhibits far fewer
instances of this failure in his own style than any other of the
great poets, with the exception of one or two like Spenser and
Keats, who seem to have a mysterious incapacity for writing bad
poetry. But almost all original poets, particularly poets who have
invented an artistic style, are subject to one most disastrous
habit--the habit of writing imitations of themselves. Every now and
then in the works of the noblest classical poets you will come
upon passages which read like extracts from an American book of
parodies.

Swinburne, for example, when he wrote the couplet--
"From the lilies and languors of virtue To the raptures and roses of
vice,"
wrote what is nothing but a bad imitation of himself, an imitation
which seems indeed to have the wholly unjust and uncritical object
of proving that the Swinburnian melody is a mechanical scheme of
initial letters.

Or again, Mr.
was the shrill reply, and, being unbound,
the prisoner snatched something from a bench near; there was a
flash of steel, and he came huddling in a heap on the floor,
muttering a malediction on the world.

"There was some bravery in that," said Doltaire, looking at the
dead man. "If he has friends, hand over the body to them. This
matter must not be spoken of--at your peril," he added sternly.
"Give them food and brandy."

Then he accompanied me to my cell, and opened the door. I passed
in, and he was about going without a word, when on a sudden his old
nonchalance came back, and he said:

"I promised you a matter of interest. You have had it. Gather
philosophy from this: you may with impunity buy anything from a
knave and fool except his nuptial bed. He throws the money in your
face some day."

So saying he plunged in thought again, and left me.


XVI

BE SAINT OR IMP


Immediately I opened the packet. As Doltaire had said, the two books
of poems I had lent Alixe were there, and between the pages of one
lay a letter addressed to me. It was, indeed, a daring thing to make
Doltaire her messenger. But she trusted to his habits of courtesy;
he had no small meannesses--he was no spy or thief.

DEAR ROBERT (the letter ran): I know not if this will ever reach
you, for I am about to try a perilous thing, even to make Monsieur
Doltaire my letter-carrier. Bold as it is, I hope to bring it
through safely.

You must know that my mother now makes Monsieur Doltaire welcome to
our home, for his great talents and persuasion have so worked upon
her that she believes him not so black as he is painted. My father,
too, is not unmoved by his amazing address and complaisance. I do
not think he often cares to use his arts--he is too indolent; but
with my father, my mother, and my sister he has set in motion all
his resources.

Robert, all Versailles is here. This Monsieur Doltaire speaks for
it. I know not if all courts in the world are the same, but if so,
I am at heart no courtier; though I love the sparkle, the sharp
play of wit and word, the very touch-and-go of weapons. I am in
love with life, and I wish to live to be old, very old, that I will
have known it all, from helplessness to helplessness again, missing
nothing, even though much be sad to feel and bear. Robert, I should
have gone on many years, seeing little, knowing little, I think, if
it had not been for you and for your troubles, which are mine, and
for this love of ours, builded in the midst of sorrows. Georgette
is now as old as when I first came to love you, and you were thrown
into the citadel, and yet in feeling and experience, I am ten years
older than she; and necessity has made me wiser. Ah, if necessity
would but make me happy too, by giving you your liberty, that on
these many miseries endured we might set up a sure home. I wonder
if you think--if you think of that: a little home away from all
these wars, aloof from vexing things.

But there! all too plainly I am showing you my heart. Yet it is
so great a comfort to speak on paper to you, in this silence here.
Can you guess where is that HERE, Robert? It is not the Chateau
St. Louis--no. It is not the Manor. It is the chateau, dear Chateau
Alixe--my father has called it that--on the Island of Orleans.
Three days ago I was sick at heart, tired of all the junketings
and feastings, and I begged my mother to fetch me here, though it
is yet but early spring, and snow is on the ground.

First, you must know that this new chateau is built upon, and is
joined to, the ruins of an old one, owned long years ago by the
Baron of Beaugard, whose strange history you must learn some day,
out of the papers we have found here. I begged my father not to
tear the old portions of the manor down, but, using the first
foundations, put up a house half castle and half manor. Pictures
of the old manor were found, and so we have a place that is no
patchwork, but a renewal. I made my father give me the old
surviving part of the building for my own, and so it is.

It is all set on high ground abutting on the water almost at the
point where I am, and I have the river in my sight all day. Now,
think yourself in the new building. You come out of a dining-hall,
hung all about with horns and weapons and shields and such bravery,
go through a dark, narrow passage, and then down a step or two.
You open a door, bright light breaks on your eyes, then two steps
lower, and you are here with me. You might have gone outside the
dining-hall upon a stone terrace, and so have come along to the
deep window where I sit so often. You may think of me hiding in the
curtains, watching you, though you knew it not till you touched the
window and I came out quietly, startling you, so that your heart
would beat beyond counting.

As I look up towards the window, the thing first in sight is the
cage, with the little bird which came to me in the cathedral the
morning my brother got lease of life again: you DO remember--is it
not so? It never goes from my room, and though I have come here
but for a week I muffled the cage well and brought it over; and
there the bird swings and sings the long day through. I have heaped
the window-seats with soft furs, and one of these I prize most
rarely. It was a gift--and whose, think you? Even a poor soldier's.
You see I have not all friends among the great folk. I often lie
upon that soft robe of sable--ay, sable, Master Robert--and think
of him who gave it to me. Now I know you are jealous, and I can see
your eyes flash up. But you shall at once be soothed. It is no other
than Gabord's gift. He is now of the Governor's body-guard, and
I think is by no means happy, and would prefer service with the
Marquis de Montcalm, who goes not comfortably with the Intendant
and the Governor.

One day Gabord came to our house on the ramparts, and, asking
for me, blundered out, "Aho, what shall a soldier do with sables?
They are for gentles and for wrens to snuggle in. Here comes a
Russian count oversea, and goes mad in tavern. Here comes Gabord,
and saves count from ruddy crest for kissing the wrong wench. Then
count falls on Gabord's neck, and kisses both his ears, and gives
him sables, and crosses oversea again; and so good-bye to count and
his foolery. And sables shall be ma'm'selle's, if she will have
them." He might have sold the thing for many louis, and yet he
brought it to me; and he would not go till he had seen me sitting
on it, muffling my hands and face in the soft fur.

Just now, as I am writing, I glance at the table where I sit--a
small brown table of oak, carved with the name of Felise,
Baroness of Beaugard. She sat here; and some day, when you hear
her story, you will know why I begged Madame Lotbiniere to give
it to me in exchange for another, once the King's. Carved, too,
beneath her name, are the words, "Oh, tarry thou the Lord's
leisure."

And now you shall laugh with me at a droll thing Georgette has
given me to wipe my pen upon. There are three little circles of
deerskin and one of ruby velvet, stitched together in the centre.
Then, standing on the velvet is a yellow wooden chick, with little
eyes of beads, and a little wooden bill stuck in most quaintly,
and a head that twists like a weathercock. It has such a piquant
silliness of look that I laugh at it most heartily, and I have an
almost elfish fun in smearing its downy feathers. I am sure you
did not think I could be amused so easily. You shall see this silly
chick one day, humorously ugly and all daubed with ink.

There is a low couch in one corner of the room, and just above
hangs a picture of my mother. In another corner is a little shelf
of books, among them two which I have studied constantly since you
were put in prison--your great Shakespeare, and the writings of one
Mr. Addison. I had few means of studying at first, so difficult
it seemed, and all the words sounded hard; but there is your
countryman, one Lieutenant Stevens of Rogers' Rangers, a prisoner,
and he has helped me, and is ready to help you when the time comes
for stirring. I teach him French; and though I do not talk of you,
he tells me in what esteem you are held in Virginia and in England,
and is not slow to praise you on his own account, which makes me
more forgiving when he would come to sentiment!

In another corner is my spinning-wheel, and there stands a
harpsichord, just where the soft sun sends in a ribbon of light;
and I will presently play for you a pretty song. I wonder if you
can hear it? Where I shall sit at the harpsichord the belt of
sunlight will fall across my shoulder, and, looking through the
window, I shall see your prison there on the Heights; the silver
flag with its gold lilies on the Chateau St. Louis; the great
guns of the citadel; and far off at Beauport the Manor House and
garden which you and I know so well, and the Falls of Montmorenci,
falling like white flowing hair from the tall cliff.

You will care to know of how these months have been spent, and
what news of note there is of the fighting between our countries.
No matters of great consequence have come to our ears, save that
it is thought your navy may descend on Louisburg; that Ticonderoga
is also to be set upon, and Quebec to be besieged in the coming
summer. From France the news is various. Now, Frederick of Prussia
and England defeat the allies, France, Russia, and Austria; now,
they, as Monsieur Doltaire says, "send the great Prussian to
verses and the megrims." For my own part, I am ever glad to hear
that our cause is victorious, and letters that my brother writes
me rouse all my ardour for my country. Juste has grown in place
and favour, and in his latest letter he says that Monsieur
Doltaire's voice has got him much advancement. He also remarks
that Monsieur Doltaire has reputation for being one of the most
reckless, clever, and cynical men in France. Things that he has
said are quoted at ball and rout. Yet the King is angry with him,
and La Pompadour's caprice may send him again to the Bastile.
These things Juste heard from D'Argenson, Minister of War, through
his secretary, with whom he is friendly.

I will now do what I never thought to do: I will send you here
some extracts from my journal, which will disclose to you the
secrets of a girl's troubled heart. Some folk might say that I am
unmaidenly in this. But I care not, I fear not.


December 24. I was with Robert to-day. I let him see what trials I
had had with Monsieur Doltaire, and what were like to come. It hurt
me to tell him, yet it would have hurt me more to withhold them. I
am hurt whichever way it goes. Monsieur Doltaire rouses the worst
parts of me. On the one hand I detest him for his hatred of Robert
and for his evil life, yet on the other I must needs admire him for
his many graces--why are not the graces of the wicked horrible?--for
his singular abilities, and because, gamester though he may be, he
is no public robber. Then, too, the melancholy of his birth and
history claims some sympathy. Sometimes when I listen to him speak,
hear the almost piquant sadness of his words, watch the spirit of
isolation which, by design or otherwise, shows in him, for the
moment I am conscious of a pity or an interest which I flout in
wiser hours. This is his art, the potent danger of his personality.

To-night he came, and with many fine phrases wished us a happy
day to-morrow, and most deftly worked upon my mother and Georgette
by looking round and speaking with a quaint sort of raillery--half
pensive, it was--of the peace of this home-life of ours; and indeed,
he did it so inimitably that I was not sure how much was false
and how much true. I tried to avoid him to-day, but my mother as
constantly made private speech between us easy. At last he had
his way, and then I was not sorry; for Georgette was listening to
him with more colour than she is wont to wear. I would rather see
her in her grave than with her hand in his, her sweet life in his
power. She is unschooled in the ways of the world, and she never
will know it as I now do. How am I sounding all the depths! Can a
woman walk the dance with evil, and be no worse for it by-and-bye?
Yet for a cause, for a cause! What can I do? I can not say,
"Monsieur Doltaire, you must not speak with me, or talk with me;
you are a plague-spot." No, I must even follow this path, so it
but lead at last to Robert and his safety.

Monsieur, having me alone at last, said to me, "I have kept my
word as to the little boast: this Captain Moray still lives."

"You are not greater than I thought," said I.

He professed to see but one meaning in my words, and answered,
"It was then mere whim to see me do this thing, a lady's curious
mind, eh? My faith, I think your sex are the true scientists:
you try experiment for no other reason than to see effect."

"You forget my deep interest in Captain Moray," said I, with airy
boldness.

He laughed. He was disarmed. How could he think I meant it! "My
imagination halts," he rejoined. "Millennium comes when you are
interested. And yet," he continued, "it is my one ambition to
interest you, and I will do it, or I will say my prayers no more."

  "But how can that be done no more,
  Which ne'er was done before?"

I retorted, railing at him, for I feared to take him seriously.

"There you wrong me," he said. "I am devout; I am a lover of the
Scriptures--their beauty haunts me; I go to mass--its dignity
affects me; and I have prayed, as in my youth I wrote verses. It
is not a matter of morality, but of temperament. A man may be
religious and yet be evil. Satan fell, but he believed and he
admired, as the English Milton wisely shows it."

We do not want to know about a man like Browning, whether he had
a right to a shield used in the Wars of the Roses, or whether
the tenth grandfather of his Creole grandmother had been white
or black: we want to know something about his family, which is
quite a different thing. We wish to have about Browning not
so much the kind of information which would satisfy Clarencieux
King-at-Arms, but the sort of information which would satisfy us,
if we were advertising for a very confidential secretary, or a very
private tutor.

We should not be concerned as to whether the tutor were descended
from an Irish king, but we should still be really concerned about
his extraction, about what manner of people his had been for the
last two or three generations.

This is the most practical duty of biography, and this is
also the most difficult.

It is a great deal easier to hunt a family from tombstone to
tombstone back to the time of Henry II. than to catch and
realise and put upon paper that most nameless and elusive of all
things--social tone.

It will be said immediately, and must as promptly be admitted,
that we could find a biographical significance in any of these
theories if we looked for it. But it is, indeed, the sin and snare
of biographers that they tend to see significance in everything;
characteristic carelessness if their hero drops his pipe, and
characteristic carefulness if he picks it up again.

It is true, assuredly, that all the three races above named could
be connected with Browning's personality. If we believed, for
instance, that he really came of a race of mediæval barons,
we should say at once that from them he got his pre-eminent spirit
of battle: we should be right, for every line in his stubborn soul
and his erect body did really express the fighter; he was always
contending, whether it was with a German theory about the Gnostics,
or with a stranger who elbowed his wife in a crowd.

Again, if we had decided that he was a Jew, we should point out how
absorbed he was in the terrible simplicity of monotheism: we should
be right, for he was so absorbed.

Or again, in the case even of the negro fancy; it would not be
difficult for us to suggest a love of colour, a certain mental
gaudiness, a pleasure
"When reds and blues were indeed red and blue,"
as he says in _The Ring and the Book_.

We should be right; for there really was in Browning a tropical
violence of taste, an artistic scheme compounded as it were, of
orchids and cockatoos, which, amid our cold English poets, seems
scarcely European.

All this is extremely fascinating; and it may be true. But, as has
above been suggested, here comes in the great temptation of this
kind of work, the noble temptation to see too much in everything.

The biographer can easily see a personal significance in these
three hypothetical nationalities.
But is there in the world a biographer who could lay his hand
upon his heart and say that he would not have seen as much
significance in any three other nationalities? If Browning's
ancestors had been Frenchmen, should we not have said that
it was from them doubtless that he inherited that logical agility
which marks him among English poets?
If his grandfather had been a Swede, should we not have said
that the old sea-roving blood broke out in bold speculation
and insatiable travel? If his great-aunt had been a Red Indian,
should we not have said that only in the Ojibways and the
Blackfeet do we find the Browning fantasticality combined with
the Browning stoicism? This over-readiness to seize hints is an
inevitable part of that secret hero-worship which is the heart of
biography. The lover of great men sees signs of them long before
they begin to appear on the earth, and, like some old mythological
chronicler, claims as their heralds the storms and the falling
stars.

A certain indulgence must therefore be extended to the present
writer if he declines to follow that admirable veteran of
Browning study, Dr.
Furnivall, into the prodigious investigations which he has been
conducting into the condition of the Browning family since the
beginning of the world. For his last discovery, the descent of
Browning from a footman in the service of a country magnate,
there seems to be suggestive, though not decisive evidence. But
Browning's descent from barons, or Jews, or lackeys, or black men,
is not the main point touching his family. If the Brownings were
of mixed origin, they were so much the more like the great majority
of English middle-class people.

It is curious that the romance of race should be spoken of as if
it were a thing peculiarly aristocratic; that admiration for
rank, or interest in family, should mean only interest in one not
very interesting type of rank and family. The truth is that
aristocrats exhibit less of the romance of pedigree than any
other people in the world. For since it is their principle to marry
only within their own class and mode of life, there is no opportunity
in their case for any of the more interesting studies in heredity;
they exhibit almost the unbroken uniformity of the lower animals.

It is in the middle classes that we find the poetry of genealogy;
it is the suburban grocer standing at his shop door whom some wild
dash of Eastern or Celtic blood may drive suddenly to a whole
holiday or a crime. Let us admit then, that it is true that these
legends of the Browning family have every abstract possibility.
But it is a far more cogent and apposite truth that if a man had
knocked at the door of every house in the street where Browning was
born, he would have found similar legends in all of them.

There is hardly a family in Camberwell that has not a story
or two about foreign marriages a few generations back; and in
all this the Brownings are simply a typical Camberwell family.
The real truth about Browning and men like him can scarcely
be better expressed than in the words of that very wise and witty
story, Kingsley's _Water Babies_, in which the pedigree of the
Professor is treated in a manner which is an excellent example
of the wild common sense of the book. "His mother was a Dutch
woman, and therefore she was born at Curaçoa (of course, you have
read your geography and therefore know why), and his father was
a Pole, and therefore he was brought up at Petropaulowski (of
course, you have learnt your modern politics, and therefore
know why), but for all that he was as thorough an Englishman as
ever coveted his neighbour's goods."

It may be well therefore to abandon the task of obtaining a clear
account of Brownings family, and endeavour to obtain, what is much
more important, a clear account of his home.

For the great central and solid fact, which these heraldic
speculations tend inevitably to veil and confuse, is that
Browning was a thoroughly typical Englishman of the middle class.
He may have had alien blood, and that alien blood, by the paradox
we have observed, may have made him more characteristically a
native. A phase, a fancy, a metaphor may or may not have been born
of eastern or southern elements, but he was, without any question
at all, an Englishman of the middle class.
Neither all his liberality nor all his learning ever made him anything
but an Englishman of the middle class. He expanded his intellectual
tolerance until it included the anarchism of _Fifine at the Fair_
and the blasphemous theology of Caliban; but he remained himself
an Englishman of the middle class. He pictured all the passions
of the earth since the Fall, from the devouring amorousness of
_Time's Revenges_ to the despotic fantasy of _Instans Tyrannus_;
but he remained himself an Englishman of the middle class. The moment
that he came in contact with anything that was slovenly, anything
that was lawless, in actual life, something rose up in him, older
than any opinions, the blood of generations of good men. He met
George Sand and her poetical circle and hated it, with all the hatred
of an old city merchant for the irresponsible life. He met the
Spiritualists and hated them, with all the hatred of the middle
class for borderlands and equivocal positions and playing with
fire.

His intellect went upon bewildering voyages, but his soul walked in
a straight road. He piled up the fantastic towers of his
imagination until they eclipsed the planets; but the plan of the
foundation on which he built was always the plan of an honest English
house in Camberwell.

He abandoned, with a ceaseless intellectual ambition, every one
of the convictions of his class; but he carried its prejudices
into eternity.

It is then of Browning as a member of the middle class, that we can
speak with the greatest historical certainty; and it is his
immediate forebears who present the real interest to us. His
father, Robert Browning, was a man of great delicacy of taste,
and to all appearance of an almost exaggerated delicacy of
conscience.

Every glimpse we have of him suggests that earnest and almost
worried kindliness which is the mark of those to whom selfishness,
even justifiable selfishness, is really a thing difficult or
impossible. In early life Robert Browning senior was placed by
his father (who was apparently a father of a somewhat primitive,
not to say barbaric, type) in an important commercial position
in the West Indies.

He threw up the position however, because it involved him in some
recognition of slavery.
Whereupon his unique parent, in a transport of rage, not only
disinherited him and flung him out of doors, but by a superb stroke
of humour, which stands alone in the records of parental ingenuity,
sent him in a bill for the cost of his education.

About the same time that he was suffering for his moral sensibility
he was also disturbed about religious matters, and he completed his
severance from his father by joining a dissenting sect.

He was, in short, a very typical example of the serious middle-class
man of the Wilberforce period, a man to whom duty was all in all,
and who would revolutionise an empire or a continent for the
satisfaction of a single moral scruple.

Thus, while he was Puritan at the core, not the ruthless Puritan
of the seventeenth, but the humanitarian Puritan of the eighteenth
century, he had upon the surface all the tastes and graces of
a man of culture.

Numerous accomplishments of the lighter kind, such as drawing
and painting in water colours, he possessed; and his feeling for
many kinds of literature was fastidious and exact.

But the whole was absolutely redolent of the polite severity of the
eighteenth century.

He lamented his son's early admiration for Byron, and never ceased
adjuring him to model himself upon Pope.

He was, in short, one of the old-fashioned humanitarians of the
eighteenth century, a class which we may or may not have conquered
in moral theory, but which we most certainly have not conquered
in moral practice. Robert Browning senior destroyed all his fortunes
in order to protest against black slavery; white slavery may be,
as later economists tell us, a thing infinitely worse, but not
many men destroy their fortunes in order to protest against it.
The ideals of the men of that period appear to us very unattractive;
to them duty was a kind of chilly sentiment. But when we think
what they did with those cold ideals, we can scarcely feel so
superior. They uprooted the enormous Upas of slavery, the tree
that was literally as old as the race of man. They altered the
whole face of Europe with their deductive fancies.

We have ideals that are really better, ideals of passion, of
mysticism, of a sense of the youth and adventurousness of the
earth; but it will be well for us if we achieve as much by our frenzy
as they did by their delicacies. It scarcely seems as if we were
as robust in our very robustness as they were robust in their
sensibility.

Robert Browning's mother was the daughter of William Wiedermann, a
German merchant settled in Dundee, and married to a Scotch wife.
One of the poet's principal biographers has suggested that from
this union of the German and Scotch, Browning got his metaphysical
tendency; it is possible; but here again we must beware of the great
biographical danger of making mountains out of molehills.

What Browning's mother unquestionably did give to him, was in
the way of training--a very strong religious habit, and a great
belief in manners. Thomas Carlyle called her "the type of a Scottish
gentlewoman," and the phrase has a very real significance to those
who realise the peculiar condition of Scotland, one of the very few
European countries where large sections of the aristocracy are
Puritans; thus a Scottish gentlewoman combines two descriptions
of dignity at the same time. Little more is known of this
lady except the fact that after her death Browning could not
bear to look at places where she had walked.

Browning's education in the formal sense reduces itself to a
minimum.
In very early boyhood he attended a species of dame-school, which,
according to some of his biographers, he had apparently to leave
because he was too clever to be tolerable. However this may
be, he undoubtedly went afterwards to a school kept by Mr. Ready,
at which again he was marked chiefly by precocity. But the boy's
education did not in truth take place at any systematic seat
of education; it took place in his own home, where one of the
quaintest and most learned and most absurdly indulgent of
fathers poured out in an endless stream fantastic recitals from
the Greek epics and mediæval chronicles.

If we test the matter by the test of actual schools and universities,
Browning will appear to be almost the least educated man in
English literary history. But if we test it by the amount actually
learned, we shall think that he was perhaps the most educated man
that ever lived; that he was in fact, if anything, overeducated. In
a spirited poem he has himself described how, when he was a small
child, his father used to pile up chairs in the drawing-room and call
them the city of Troy.
Browning came out of the home crammed with all kinds of
knowledge--knowledge about the Greek poets, knowledge about the
Provençal Troubadours, knowledge about the Jewish Rabbis of the
Middle Ages. But along with all this knowledge he carried one
definite and important piece of ignorance, an ignorance of the
degree to which such knowledge was exceptional. He was no spoilt
and self-conscious child, taught to regard himself as clever. In the
atmosphere in which he lived learning was a pleasure, and a natural
pleasure, like sport or wine.

He had in it the pleasure of some old scholar of the Renascence,
when grammar itself was as fresh as the flowers of spring. He had
no reason to suppose that every one did not join in so admirable
a game.
His sagacious destiny, while giving him knowledge of everything
else, left him in ignorance of the ignorance of the world.

Of his boyish days scarcely any important trace remains, except
a kind of diary which contains under one date the laconic
statement, "Married two wives this morning." The insane ingenuity
of the biographer would be quite capable of seeing in this a most
suggestive foreshadowing of the sexual dualism which is so ably
defended in _Fifine at the Fair_.
A great part of his childhood was passed in the society of his only
sister Sariana; and it is a curious and touching fact that with
her also he passed his last days. From his earliest babyhood he seems
to have lived in a more or less stimulating mental atmosphere;
but as he emerged into youth he came under great poetic influences,
which made his father's classical poetic tradition look for the
time insipid.

Browning began to live in the life of his own age.

As a young man he attended classes at University College; beyond
this there is little evidence that he was much in touch with
intellectual circles outside that of his own family. But the
forces that were moving the literary world had long passed beyond
the merely literary area. About the time of Browning's boyhood a
very subtle and profound change was beginning in the intellectual
atmosphere of such homes as that of the Brownings. In studying the
careers of great men we tend constantly to forget that their youth
was generally passed and their characters practically formed
in a period long previous to their appearance in history. We think
of Milton, the Restoration Puritan, and forget that he grew up in
the living shadow of Shakespeare and the full summer of the
Elizabethan drama.

We realise Garibaldi as a sudden and almost miraculous figure rising
about fifty years ago to create the new Kingdom of Italy, and
we forget that he must have formed his first ideas of liberty
while hearing at his father's dinner-table that Napoleon was the
master of Europe.

Similarly, we think of Browning as the great Victorian poet, who
lived long enough to have opinions on Mr.

Gladstone's Home Rule Bill, and forget that as a young man he
passed a bookstall and saw a volume ticketed "Mr.

Shelley's Atheistic Poem," and had to search even in his own really
cultivated circle for some one who could tell him who Mr. Shelley
was.

Browning was, in short, born in the afterglow of the great
Revolution.

The French Revolution was at root a thoroughly optimistic thing.
It may seem strange to attribute optimism to anything so
destructive; but, in truth, this particular kind of optimism is
inevitably, and by its nature, destructive.

The great dominant idea of the whole of that period, the
period before, during, and long after the Revolution, is the idea
that man would by his nature live in an Eden of dignity, liberty
and love, and that artificial and decrepit systems are keeping him
out of that Eden. No one can do the least justice to the great
Jacobins who does not realise that to them breaking the civilisation
of ages was like breaking the cords of a treasure-chest. And just
as for more than a century great men had dreamed of this beautiful
emancipation, so the dream began in the time of Keats and Shelley
to creep down among the dullest professions and the most prosaic
classes of society.

A spirit of revolt was growing among the young of the middle classes,
which had nothing at all in common with the complete and pessimistic
revolt against all things in heaven or earth, which has been
fashionable among the young in more recent times.

The Shelleyan enthusiast was altogether on the side of existence;
he thought that every cloud and clump of grass shared his strict
republican orthodoxy.

He represented, in short, a revolt of the normal against the abnormal;
he found himself, so to speak, in the heart of a wholly topsy-turvy
and blasphemous state of things, in which God was rebelling against
Satan.

There began to arise about this time a race of young men like
Keats, members of a not highly cultivated middle class, and even
of classes lower, who felt in a hundred ways this obscure alliance
with eternal things against temporal and practical ones, and who
lived on its imaginative delight.

They were a kind of furtive universalist; they had discovered the
whole cosmos, and they kept the whole cosmos a secret.

They climbed up dark stairs to meagre garrets, and shut themselves
in with the gods. Numbers of the great men, who afterwards
illuminated the Victorian era, were at this time living in mean
streets in magnificent daydreams.

roared Gabord,
swearing roundly as I ran off with it.

With all my might I hurried, and was soon outside the town, and
coming fast to the farmhouse about two miles beyond. Nearing it, I
hid the lantern beneath my cloak and made for an outhouse. The door
was not locked, and I passed in. There was a loft nearly full of
hay, and I crawled up, and dug a hole far down against the side of
the building, and climbed in, bringing with me for drink a nest of
hen's eggs which I found in a corner. The warmth of the dry hay was
comforting, and after caring for my wounds, which I found were but
scratches, I had somewhat to eat from my knapsack, drank up two
eggs, and then coiled myself for sleep. It was my purpose, if not
discovered, to stay where I was two days, and then to make for the
point below the Falls of Montmorenci where I hoped to find a canoe
of Voban's placing.

When I waked it must have been near noon, so I lay still for a
time, listening to the cheerful noise of fowls and cattle in the
yard without, and to the clacking of a hen above me. The air smelt
very sweet. I also heard my unknowing host, at whose table I had
once sat, two years before, talking with his son, who had just
come over from Quebec, bringing news of my escape, together with a
wonderful story of the fight between Gabord and myself. It had, by
his calendar, lasted some three hours, and both of us, in the end,
fought as we lay upon the ground. "But presently along comes a
cloaked figure, with horses, and he lifts m'sieu' the Englishman
upon one, and away they ride like the devil towards St. Charles
River and Beauport. Gabord was taken to the hospital, and he swore
that Englishman would not have got away if stranger had not fetched
him a crack with a pistol-butt which sent him dumb and dizzy. And
there M'sieu' Lancy sleep snug through all until the horses ride
away!"

The farmer and his son laughed heartily, with many a "By Gar!"
their sole English oath. Then came the news that six thousand
livres were offered for me, dead or living, the drums beating
far and near to tell the people so.

The farmer gave a long whistle, and in a great bustle set to
calling all his family to arm themselves and join with him in this
treasure-hunting. I am sure at least a dozen were at the task,
searching all about; nor did they neglect the loft where I lay.
But I had dug far down, drawing the hay over me as I went, so that
they must needs have been keen to smell me out. After about three
hours' poking about over all the farm, they met again outside this
building, and I could hear their gabble plainly. The smallest among
them, the piping chore-boy, he was for spitting me without mercy;
and the milking-lass would toast me with a hay-fork, that she would,
and six thousand livres should set her up forever.

In the midst of their rattling came two soldiers, who ordered them
about, and with much blustering began searching here and there,
and chucking the maids under the chins, as I could tell by their
little bursts of laughter, and the "La M'sieu's!" which trickled
through the hay.

I am sure that one such little episode saved me. For I heard a
soldier just above me poking and tossing hay with uncomfortable
vigour. But presently the amorous hunter turned his thoughts
elsewhere, and I was left to myself, and to a late breakfast of
parched beans and bread and raw eggs, after which I lay and
thought; and the sum of the thinking was that I would stay where
I was till the first wave of the hunt had passed.

Near midnight of the second day I came out secretly from my
lurking-place, and faced straight for the St. Charles River.
Finding it at high water, I plunged in, with my knapsack and cloak
on my head, and made my way across, reaching the opposite shore
safely. After going two miles or so, I discovered friendly covert
in the woods, where, in spite of my cloak and dry cedar boughs
wrapped round, I shivered as I lay until the morning. When the sun
came up, I drew out, that it might dry me; after which I crawled
back into my nest and fell into a broken sleep. Many times during
the day I heard the horns of my hunters, and more than once voices
near me. But I had crawled into the hollow of a half-uprooted stump,
and the cedar branches, which had been cut off a day or two before,
were a screen. I could see soldiers here and there, armed and
swaggering, and faces of peasants and shopkeepers whom I knew.

A function was being made of my escape; it was a hunting-feast,
in which women were as eager as their husbands and their brothers.
There was something devilish in it, when I came to think of it: a
whole town roused and abroad to hunt down one poor fugitive, whose
only sin was, in themselves, a virtue--loyalty to his country. I
saw women armed with sickles and iron forks, and lads bearing axes
and hickory poles cut to a point like a spear, while blunderbusses
were in plenty. Now and again a weapon was fired, and, to watch
their motions and peepings, it might have been thought I was a
dragon, or that they all were hunting La Jongleuse, their fabled
witch, whose villainies, are they not told at every fireside?

Often I shivered violently, and anon I was burning hot; my
adventure had given me a chill and fever. Late in the evening of
this day, my hunters having drawn off with as little sense as they
had hunted me, I edged cautiously down past Beauport and on to
the Montmorenci Falls. I came along in safety, and reached a spot
near the point where Voban was to hide the boat. The highway ran
between. I looked out cautiously. I could hear and see nothing,
and so ran out and crossed the road, and pushed for the woods on
the banks of the river. I had scarcely got across when I heard
a shout, and looking round I saw three horsemen, who instantly
spurred towards me. I sprang through the underbrush and came
down roughly into a sort of quarry, spraining my ankle on a pile
of stones. I got up quickly; but my ankle hurt me sorely, and I
turned sick and dizzy. Limping a little way, I set my back against
a tree, and drew my hanger. As I did so, the three gentlemen
burst in upon me. They were General Montcalm, a gentleman of the
Governor's household, and Doltaire!

"It is no use, dear Captain," said Doltaire. "Yield up your weapon."

General Montcalm eyed me curiously, as the other gentleman
talked in low, excited tones; and presently he made a gesture
of courtesy, for he saw that I was hurt. Doltaire's face wore a
malicious smile; but when he noted how sick I was, he came and
offered me his arm, and was constant in courtesy till I was set
upon a horse; and with him and the General riding beside me I
came to my new imprisonment. They both forbore to torture me with
words, for I was suffering greatly; but they fetched me to the
Chateau St. Louis, followed by a crowd, who hooted at me. Doltaire
turned on them at last, and stopped them.

The Governor, whose petty vanity was roused, showed a foolish
fury at seeing me, and straightway ordered me to the citadel
again.

"It's useless kicking 'gainst the pricks," said Doltaire to me
cynically, as I passed out limping between two soldiers; but I did
not reply. In another half hour of most bitter journeying I found
myself in my dungeon. I sank upon the old couch of straw, untouched
since I had left it; and when the door shut upon me, desponding,
aching in all my body, now feverish and now shivering, my ankle in
great pain, I could bear up no longer, and I bowed my head and fell
a-weeping like a woman.


XVIII

THE STEEP PATH OF CONQUEST


Now I am come to a period on which I shall not dwell, nor repeat
a tale of suffering greater than that I had yet endured. All the
first night of this new imprisonment I tossed on my wretched bed
in pain and misery. A strange and surly soldier came and went,
bringing bread and water; but when I asked that a physician be sent
me, he replied, with a vile oath, that the devil should be my only
surgeon. Soon he came again, accompanied by another soldier, and
put irons on me. With what quietness I could I asked him by whose
orders this was done; but he vouchsafed no reply save that I was
to "go bound to fires of hell."

"There is no journeying there," I answered; "here is the place
itself."

Then a chain was roughly put round my injured ankle, and it gave me
such agony that I turned sick, but I kept back groaning, for I would
not have these varlets catch me quaking.

"I'll have you grilled for this one day," said I. "You are no men,
but butchers. Can you not see my ankle has been sorely hurt?"

"You are for killing," was the gruff reply, "and here's a taste
of it."

With that he drew the chain with a jerk round the hurt member,
so that it drove me to madness. I caught him by the throat and
hurled him back against the wall, and snatching a pistol from his
comrade's belt aimed it at his head. I was beside myself with pain,
and if he had been further violent I should have shot him. His
fellow dared not stir in his defence, for the pistol was trained
on him too surely; and so at last the wretch, promising better
treatment, crawled to his feet, and made motion for the pistol to
be given him. But I would not yield it, telling him it should be
a guarantee of truce. Presently the door closed behind them, and I
sank back upon the half-fettered chains.

I must have sat for more than an hour, when there was a noise
without, and there entered the Commandant, the Marquis de Montcalm,
and the Seigneur Duvarney. The pistol was in my hand, and I did not
put it down, but struggled to my feet, and waited for them to speak.

For a moment there was silence, and then the Commandant said,
"Your guards have brought me word, Monsieur le Capitaine, that you
are violent. You have resisted them, and have threatened them with
their own pistols."

"With one pistol, monsieur le commandant," answered I. Then, in
bitter words, I told them of my treatment by those rascals, and
I showed them how my ankle had been tortured. "I have no fear of
death," said I, "but I will not lie and let dogs bite me with
'I thank you.' Death can come but once, it is a damned brutality
to make one die a hundred and yet live--the work of Turks, not
Christians. If you want my life, why, take it and have done."

The Marquis de Montcalm whispered to the Commandant. The Seigneur
Duvarney, to whom I had not yet spoken, nor he to me, stood
leaning against the wall, gazing at me seriously and kindly.

Presently Ramesay, the Commandant, spoke, not unkindly: "It was
ordered you should wear chains, but not that you should be
maltreated. A surgeon shall be sent to you, and this chain shall
be taken from your ankle. Meanwhile, your guards shall be changed."

I held out the pistol, and he took it. "I can not hope for justice
here," said I, "but men are men, and not dogs, and I ask for human
usage till my hour comes and my country is your jailer."

The Marquis smiled, and his gay eyes sparkled. "Some find comfort
in daily bread, and some in prophecy," he rejoined. "One should
envy your spirit, Captain Moray."

"Permit me, your Excellency," replied I; "all Englishmen must envy
the spirit of the Marquis de Montcalm, though none is envious of
his cause."

He bowed gravely. "Causes are good or bad as they are ours or
our neighbours'. The lion has a good cause when it goes hunting for
its young; the deer has a good cause when it resists the lion's
leap upon its fawn."

I did not reply, for I felt a faintness coming; and at that
moment the Seigneur Duvarney came to me, and put his arm through
mine. A dizziness seized me, my head sank upon his shoulder, and
I felt myself floating away into darkness, while from a great
distance came a voice:

"It had been kinder to have ended it last year."

"He nearly killed your son, Duvarney." This was the voice of the
Marquis in a tone of surprise.

"He saved my life, Marquis," was the sorrowful reply. "I have not
paid back those forty pistoles, nor ever can, in spite of all."

"Ah, pardon me, seigneur," was the courteous rejoinder of the
General.

That was all I heard, for I had entered the land of complete
darkness. When I came to, I found that my foot had been bandaged,
there was a torch in the wall, and by my side something in a jug,
of which I drank, according to directions in a surgeon's hand on
a paper beside it.

I was easier in all my body, yet miserably sick still, and I
remained so, now shivering and now burning, a racking pain in my
chest. My couch was filled with fresh straw, but in no other wise
was my condition altered from the first time I had entered this
place. My new jailer was a man of no feeling that I could see,
yet of no violence or cruelty; one whose life was like a wheel,
doing the eternal round. He did no more nor less than his orders,
and I made no complaint nor asked any favour. No one came to me,
no message found its way.

Full three months went by in this fashion, and then, one day,
who should step into my dungeon, torch in hand, but Gabord! He
raised the light above his head, and looked down at me most
quizzically.

"Upon my soul--Gabord!" said I. "I did not kill you, then?"

"Upon your soul and upon your body, you killed not Gabord."

"And what now, quarrelsome Gabord?" I questioned cheerfully.

He shook some keys. "Back again to dickey-bird's cage. 'Look you,'
quoth Governor, 'who will guard and bait this prisoner like the man
he mauled?' 'No one,' quoth a lady who stands by Governor's chair.
And she it was who had Governor send me here--even Ma'm'selle
Duvarney. And she it was who made the Governor loose off these
chains."

He began to free me from the chains. I was in a vile condition.
The irons had made sores upon my wrists and legs, my limbs now
trembled so beneath me that I could scarcely walk, and my head was
very light and dizzy at times. Presently Gabord ordered a new bed
of straw brought in; and from that hour we returned to our old
relations, as if there had not been between us a fight to the
death. Of what was going on abroad he would not tell me, and soon
I found myself in as ill a state as before. No Voban came to me,
no Doltaire, no one at all. I sank into a deep silence, dropped
out of a busy world, a morsel of earth slowly coming to Mother
Earth again.

A strange apathy began to settle on me. All those resources of
my first year's imprisonment had gone, and I was alone: my mouse
was dead; there was no history of my life to write, no incident to
break the pitiful monotony. There seemed only one hope: that our
army under Amherst would invest Quebec and take it. I had no news
of any movement, winter again was here, and it must be five or
six months before any action could successfully be taken; for the
St. Lawrence was frozen over in winter, and if the city was to be
seized it must be from the water, with simultaneous action by land.

I knew the way, the only way, to take the city. At Sillery, west
of the town, there was a hollow in the cliffs, up which men,
secretly conveyed above the town by water, could climb. At the top
was a plateau, smooth and fine as a parade-ground, where battle
could be given, or move be made upon the city and citadel, which
lay on ground no higher. Then, with the guns playing on the town
from the fleet, and from the Levis shore with forces on the
Beauport side, attacking the lower town where was the Intendant's
palace, the great fortress might be taken, and Canada be ours.

This passage up the cliff side at Sillery I had discovered three
years before.

When winter set well in Gabord brought me a blanket, and though
last year I had not needed it, now it was most grateful. I had been
fed for months on bread and water, as in my first imprisonment, but
at last--whether by orders or not, I never knew--he brought me a
little meat every day, and some wine also. Yet I did not care for
them, and often left them untasted. A hacking cough had never left
me since my attempt at escape, and I was miserably thin, and so
weak that I could hardly drag myself about my dungeon. So, many
weeks of the winter went on, and at last I was not able to rise
from my bed of straw, and could do little more than lift a cup of
water to my lips and nibble at some bread. I felt that my hours
were numbered.

At last, one day, I heard commotion at my dungeon door; it
opened, and Gabord entered and closed it after him. He came and
stood over me, as with difficulty I lifted myself upon my elbow.

"Come, try your wings," said he.

"It is the end, Gabord?" asked I.

"Not paradise yet!" said he.

"Then I am free?" I asked.

"Free from this dungeon," he answered cheerily.

I raised myself and tried to stand upon my feet, but fell back.
He helped me to rise, and I rested an arm on his shoulder.

I tried to walk, but faintness came over me, and I sank back.
Then Gabord laid me down, went to the door, and called in two
soldiers with a mattress. I was wrapped in my cloak and blankets,
laid thereon, and so was borne forth, all covered even to my weak
eyes. I was placed in a sleigh, and as the horses sprang away,
the clear sleigh-bells rang out, and a gun from the ramparts was
fired to give the noon hour, I sank into unconsciousness.


XIX

A DANSEUSE AND THE BASTILE


Recovering, I found myself lying on a couch, in a large,
well-lighted room hung about with pictures and adorned with
trophies of the hunt. A wide window faced the foot of the bed
where I lay, and through it I could see--though the light hurt my
eyes greatly--the Levis shore, on the opposite side of the St.
Lawrence. I lay and thought, trying to discover where I was. It
came to me at last that I was in a room of the Chateau St. Louis.
Presently I heard breathing near me, and, looking over, I saw a
soldier sitting just inside the door.

Then from another corner of the room came a surgeon with some
cordial in a tumbler, and, handing it to me, he bade me drink.
He felt my pulse; then stopped and put his ear to my chest, and
listened long.

"Is there great danger?" asked I.

"The trouble would pass," said he, "if you were stronger. Your
life is worth fighting for, but it will be a struggle. That dungeon
was slow poison. You must have a barber," added he; "you are a
ghost like this."

I put my hand up, and I found my hair and beard were very long
and almost white. Held against the light, my hands seemed
transparent. "What means my coming here?" asked I.

He shook his head. "I am but a surgeon," he answered shortly,
meanwhile writing with a flourish on a piece of paper. When he had
finished, he handed the paper to the soldier, with an order. Then
he turned to go, politely bowing to me, but turned again and said,
"I would not, were I you, trouble to plan escape these months yet.
This is a comfortable prison, but it is easier coming in than going
out. Your mind and body need quiet. You have, we know, a taste for
adventure"--he smiled--"but is it wise to fight a burning powder
magazine?"

"Thank you, monsieur," said I, "I am myself laying the fuse to
that magazine. It fights for me by-and-bye."

He shrugged a shoulder. "Drink," said he, with a professional air
which almost set me laughing, "good milk and brandy, and think of
nothing but that you are a lucky man to have this sort of prison."

He bustled out in an important way, shaking his head and talking
to himself. Tapping the chest of a bulky soldier who stood outside,
he said brusquely, "Too fat, too fat; you'll come to apoplexy. Go
fight the English, lazy ruffian!"

The soldier gave a grunt, made a mocking gesture, and the door
closed on me and my attendant. This fellow would not speak at all,
and I did not urge him, but lay and watched the day decline and
night come down. I was taken to a small alcove which adjoined the
room, where I slept soundly.

Early the next morning I waked, and there was Voban sitting just
outside the alcove, looking at me. I sat up in bed and spoke to
him, and he greeted me in an absent sort of way. He was changed as
much as I; he moved as one in a dream; yet there was the ceaseless
activity of the eye, the swift, stealthy motion of the hand. 
_MISTRESS._ "OH, SHE'S A NEW GIRL. SHE ONLY CAME THIS MORNING, AND
HASN'T YET MADE UP HER MIND WHETHER SHE'LL STAY."]
* * * * *

THE LIBERAL BREACH.

(_As viewed dispassionately by a looker-on._)
WHEN dog with dog elects to fight I take no hand in such disputes,
Knowing how hard they both would bite Should I attempt to part
the brutes.

So in the case of man and wife My rooted habit it has been, When
they engage in privy strife, Never to go and barge between.

Nor do I join the fighting front When Liberal sections disagree,
One on the Coalition stunt And one on that of Freedom (Wee).

Though tempted, when I see them tear Each other's eyes, to say,
"Be good!" As an outsider I forbear, Fearing to be misunderstood.

Fain would I use my gift of tact And take a mediatorial line, But
shrewdly recognise the fact That this is no affair of mine.

Yet may I venture to deplore A great tradition cheaply prized, And
yonder, on the Elysian shore, The ghost of GLADSTONE scandalised.

But most for him I mourn in vain Whom Fate has dealt so poor a fist
(Recalling SHAKSPEARE'S gloomy Dane, That solid-fleshed
soliloquist)--
O curséd spite that he was born (ASQUITH, I mean) to close the
breach And save a party all forlorn By mere rotundity of speech.

O. S.

* * * * *

A LIAR'S MASTERPIECE.

My friend Arthur's hobby is the stupendous. He conceives himself
to be the direct successor of the mediæval travel-story
merchants.
War-tales, of course, are barred to him, for nothing is too improbable
to have happened during the War, and all the best lies were used
by professionals while Arthur was still serving.

Once, however, in his career he has realised his ambition to be
taken for a perfect liar, and that time he happened to be speaking
the simple truth.

I was his referee and he did it in this wise.

When ALLENBY was making his last great drive against the Turk,
he was no doubt happy in the knowledge that Arthur and I were pushing
East through Bulgaria to take his adversary in the rear. We pushed
with speed and address, but just when it looked as if we should
exchange the tactical for the practical we stopped and rusticated
at the hamlet of Skeetablista, on the Turco-Bulgarian frontier.

Skeetablista was under the control of Marko and Stefan and an
assorted following of Bulgar cut-throats.

Although the mutual hatchet had been interred a bare three weeks
we found ourselves among friends.

Thomas Atkins was soon talking Bulgarian with ease and fluency,
while his "so-called superiors," as the company Bolshevik put it,
celebrated the occasion by an international dinner in Marko's
quarters.

The dinner consisted chiefly of rum (provided by us) and red
pepper (provided by Marco and Stefan).

These latter were bright and eager youths from Sofia military
academy, and while the rum and red pepper passed gaily round they
talked the shop of their Bulgarian Sandhurst in a queer mixture of
English and French."Hush, till I tell you where and when I danced like that, and then,
and then--"

She settled down in a low chair. "I have at least an hour," she
continued. "The Governor is busy with my father and General
Montcalm, and they will not be free for a long time. For your
soldiers, I have been bribing them to my service these weeks past,
and they are safe enough for to-day. Now I will tell you of that
dancing.

"One night last autumn there was a grand dinner at the Intendance.
Such gentlemen as my father were not asked; only the roisterers and
hard drinkers, and gambling friends of the Intendant. You would know
the sort of upspring it would be. Well, I was sitting in my window,
looking down into the garden; for the moon was shining. Presently
I saw a man appear below, glance up towards me, and beckon. It was
Voban. I hurried down to him, and he told me that there had been a
wild carousing at the palace, and that ten gentlemen had determined,
for a wicked sport, to mask themselves, go to the citadel at
midnight, fetch you forth, and make you run the gauntlet in the yard
of the Intendance, and afterwards set you fighting for your life
with another prisoner, a common criminal. To this, Bigot, heated
with wine, made no objection. Monsieur Doltaire was not present; he
had, it was said, taken a secret journey into the English country.
The Governor was in Montreal, where he had gone to discuss matters
of war with the Council.

"There was but one thing to do--get word to General Montcalm. He
was staying at the moment with the Seigneur Pipon at his manor by
the Montmorenci Falls. He must needs be sought there: he would
never allow this shameless thing. So I bade Voban go thither at
once, getting a horse from any quarter, and to ride as if for his
life. He promised, and left me, and I returned to my room to think.
Voban had told me that his news came from Bigot's valet, who is his
close friend. This I knew, and I knew the valet too, for I had seen
something of him when my brother lay wounded at the palace. Under
the best circumstances General Montcalm could not arrive within two
hours. Meanwhile, these miserable men might go on their dreadful
expedition. Something must be done to gain time. I racked my brain
for minutes, till the blood pounded at my temples. Presently a plan
came to me.

"There is in Quebec one Madame Jamond, a great Parisian dancer,
who, for reasons which none knows save perhaps Monsieur Doltaire,
has been banished from France. Since she came to Canada, some nine
months ago, she has lived most quietly and religiously, though many
trials have been made to bring her talents into service; and the
Intendant has made many efforts have her dance in the palace for
his guests. But she would not.

"Madame Lotbiniere had come to know Jamond, and she arranged, after
much persuasion, for lessons in dancing to be given to Lucy, myself,
and Georgette. To me the dancing was a keen delight, a passion. As I
danced I saw and felt a thousand things, I can not tell you how. Now
my feet appeared light as air, like thistledown, my body to float.
I was as a lost soul flying home, flocks of birds singing me to come
with them into a pleasant land.

"Then all that changed, and I was passing through a bitter land,
with harsh shadows and tall cold mountains. From clefts and hollows
figures flew out and caught at me with filmy hands. These melancholy
things pursued me as I flew, till my wings drooped, and I felt that
I must drop into the dull marsh far beneath, round which travelled
a lonely mist.

"But this too passed, and I came through a land all fire, so that,
as I flew swiftly, my wings were scorched, and I was blinded often,
and often missed my way, and must change my course of flight. It was
all scarlet, all that land--scarlet sky and scarlet sun, and scarlet
flowers, and the rivers running red, and men and women in long red
robes, with eyes of flame, and voices that kept crying, 'The world
is mad, and all life is a fever!'"

She paused for a moment, seeming to come out of a dream, and then
she laughed a little. "Will you not go on?" I asked gently.

"Sometimes, too," she continued, "I fancied I was before a king
and his court, dancing for my life or for another's. Oh, how I
scanned the faces of my judges, as they sat there watching me; some
meanwhile throwing crumbs to fluttering birds that whirled round
me, some stroking the ears of hounds that gaped at me, while the
king's fool at first made mock at me, and the face of a man behind
the king's chair smiled like Satan--or Monsieur Doltaire! Ah,
Robert, I know you think me fanciful and foolish, as indeed I am;
but you must bear with me.

"I danced constantly, practising hour upon hour with Jamond,
who came to be my good friend; and you shall hear from me some day
her history--a sad one indeed; a woman sinned against, not sinning.
But these special lessons went on secretly, for I was sure, if
people knew how warmly I followed this recreation, they would set
it down to wilful desire to be singular--or worse. It gave me new
interest in lonely days. So the weeks went on.

"Well, that wicked night I sent Voban to General Montcalm, and,
as I said, a thought came to me: I would find Jamond, beg her to
mask herself, go to the Intendance, and dance before the gentlemen
there, keeping them amused till the General came, as I was sure he
would at my suggestion, for he is a just man and a generous. All
my people, even Georgette, were abroad at a soiree, and would not
be home till late. So I sought Mathilde, and she hurried with me,
my poor daft protector, to Jamond's, whose house is very near the
bishop's palace.

"We were at once admitted to Jamond, who was lying upon a couch.
I hurriedly told her what I wished her to do, what was at stake,
everything but that I loved you; laying my interest upon humanity
and to your having saved my father's life. She looked troubled at
once, then took my face in her hands. 'Dear child,' she said, 'I
understand. You have sorrow too young--too young.' 'But you will do
this for me?' I cried. She shook her head sadly. 'I can not. I am
lame these two days,' she answered. 'I have had a sprain.' I sank
on the floor beside her, sick and dazed. She put her hand pitifully
on my head, then lifted up my chin. Looking into her eyes, I read a
thought there, and I got to my feet with a spring. 'I myself will
go,' said I; 'I will dance there till the General comes.' She put
out her hand in protest. 'You must not,' she urged. 'Think: you may
be discovered, and then the ruin that must come!'

"'I shall put my trust in God,' said I. 'I have no fear. I will do
this thing.' She caught me to her breast. 'Then God be with you,
child,' was her answer; 'you shall do it.' In ten minutes I was
dressed in a gown of hers, which last had been worn when she danced
before King Louis. It fitted me well, and with a wig the colour of
her hair, brought quickly from her boxes, and use of paints which
actors use, I was transformed. Indeed, I could scarce recognize
myself without the mask, and with it on my mother would not have
known me. 'I will go with you,' she said to me, and she hurriedly
put on an old woman's wig and a long cloak, quickly lined her face,
and we were ready. She walked lame, and must use a stick, and we
issued forth towards the Intendance, Mathilde remaining behind.

"When we got to the palace, and were admitted, I asked for the
Intendant's valet, and we stood waiting in the cold hall until he
was brought. 'We come from Voban, the barber,' I whispered to him,
for there were servants near; and he led us at once to his private
room. He did not recognize me, but looked at us with sidelong
curiosity. 'I am,' said I, throwing back my cloak, 'a dancer, and
I have come to dance before the Intendant and his guests.' 'His
Excellency does not expect you?' be asked. 'His Excellency has
many times asked Madame Jamond to dance before him,' I replied. He
was at once all complaisance, but his face was troubled. 'You come
from Monsieur Voban?' he inquired. 'From Monsieur Voban,' answered
I. 'He has gone to General Montcalm.' His face fell, and a kind of
fear passed over it. 'There is no peril to any one save the English
gentleman,' I urged. A light dawned on him. 'You dance until the
General comes?' he asked, pleased at his own penetration. 'You will
take me at once to the dining-hall,' said I, nodding. 'They are
in the Chambre de la Joie,' he rejoined. 'Then the Chambre de la
Joie,' said I; and he led the way. When we came near the chamber,
I said to him, 'You will tell the Intendant that a lady of some
gifts in dancing would entertain his guests; but she must come
and go without exchange of individual courtesies, at her will.

"He opened the door of the chamber, and we followed him; for
there was just inside a large oak screen, and from its shadow we
could see the room and all therein. At the first glance I shrank
back, for, apart from the noise and the clattering of tongues,
such a riot of carousal I have never seen. I was shocked to note
gentlemen whom I had met in society, with the show of decorum
about them, loosed now from all restraint, and swaggering like
woodsmen at a fair. I felt a sudden fear, and drew back sick;
but that was for an instant, for even as the valet came to the
Intendant's chair a dozen or more men, who were sitting near
together in noisy yet half-secret conference, rose to their feet,
each with a mask in his hand, and started towards the door. I felt
my blood fly back and forth in my heart with great violence, and
I leaned against the oak screen for support. Then he returned to
London and took up his residence in Warwick Crescent.

Naturally enough, the thing for which he now chiefly lived
was the education of his son, and it is characteristic of Browning
that he was not only a very indulgent father, but an indulgent
father of a very conventional type: he had rather the chuckling
pride of the city gentleman than the educational gravity of the
intellectual.

Browning was now famous, _Bells and Pomegranates, Men and Women,
Christmas Eve_, and _Dramatis Personæ_ had successively glorified
his Italian period. But he was already brooding half-unconsciously
on more famous things. He has himself left on record a description
of the incident out of which grew the whole impulse and plan
of his greatest achievement. In a passage marked with all his peculiar
sense of material things, all that power of writing of stone or
metal or the fabric of drapery, so that we seem to be handling
and smelling them, he has described a stall for the selling of odds
and ends of every variety of utility and uselessness:--
"picture frames White through the worn gilt, mirror-sconces
chipped, Bronze angel-heads once knobs attached to chests, (Handled
when ancient dames chose forth brocade) Modern chalk drawings,
studies from the nude, Samples of stone, jet, breccia, porphyry
Polished and rough, sundry amazing busts In baked earth, (broken,
Providence be praised!)

A wreck of tapestry proudly-purposed web When reds and blues were
indeed red and blue, Now offer'd as a mat to save bare feet
(Since carpets constitute a cruel cost).
* * * * * Vulgarised Horace for the use of schools, 'The Life, Death,
Miracles of Saint Somebody, Saint Somebody Else, his Miracles, Death,
and Life'-- With this, one glance at the lettered back of which, And
'Stall,' cried I; a _lira_ made it mine."
This sketch embodies indeed the very poetry of _débris_, and
comes nearer than any other poem has done to expressing the pathos
and picturesqueness of a low-class pawnshop.

"This," which Browning bought for a lira out of this heap of
rubbish, was, of course, the old Latin record of the criminal case
of Guido Franceschini, tried for the murder of his wife Pompilia
in the year 1698. And this again, it is scarcely necessary to say,
was the ground-plan and motive of _The Ring and the Book_.

Browning had picked up the volume and partly planned the poem during
his wife's lifetime in Italy. But the more he studied it, the more
the dimensions of the theme appeared to widen and deepen; and he
came at last, there can be little doubt, to regard it definitely as
his _magnum opus_ to which he would devote many years to come.

Then came the great sorrow of his life, and he cast about him for
something sufficiently immense and arduous and complicated to keep
his brain going like some huge and automatic engine. "I mean to
keep writing," he said, "whether I like it or not." And thus
finally he took up the scheme of the Franceschini story, and
developed it on a scale with a degree of elaboration, repetition,
and management, and inexhaustible scholarship which was never
perhaps before given in the history of the world to an affair of
two or three characters.

Of the larger literary and spiritual significance of the work,
particularly in reference to its curious and original form of
narration, I shall speak subsequently. But there is one peculiarity
about the story which has more direct bearing on Browning's
life, and it appears singular that few, if any, of his critics
have noticed it. This peculiarity is the extraordinary resemblance
between the moral problem involved in the poem if understood in
its essence, and the moral problem which constituted the crisis and
centre of Browning's own life.

Nothing, properly speaking, ever happened to Browning after his
wife's death; and his greatest work during that time was the
telling, under alien symbols and the veil of a wholly different
story, the inner truth about his own greatest trial and hesitation.
He himself had in this sense the same difficulty as Caponsacchi,
the supreme difficulty of having to trust himself to the reality
of virtue not only without the reward, but even without the name of
virtue. He had, like Caponsacchi, preferred what was unselfish
and dubious to what was selfish and honourable. He knew better
than any man that there is little danger of men who really know
anything of that naked and homeless responsibility seeking it too
often or indulging it too much.

The conscientiousness of the law-abider is nothing in its
terrors to the conscientiousness of the conscientious law-breaker.
Browning had once, for what he seriously believed to be a greater
good, done what he himself would never have had the cant to
deny, ought to be called deceit and evasion. Such a thing ought
never to come to a man twice. If he finds that necessity twice,
he may, I think, be looked at with the beginning of a suspicion.
To Browning it came once, and he devoted his greatest poem to
a suggestion of how such a necessity may come to any man who is
worthy to live.

As has already been suggested, any apparent danger that there
may be in this excusing of an exceptional act is counteracted
by the perils of the act, since it must always be remembered that
this kind of act has the immense difference from all legal acts--that
it can only be justified by success. If Browning had taken his wife
to Paris, and she had died in an hotel there, we can only conceive
him saying, with the bitter emphasis of one of his own lines, "How
should I have borne me, please?" Before and after this event his
life was as tranquil and casual a one as it would be easy to
imagine; but there always remained upon him something which was
felt by all who knew him in after years--the spirit of a man who
had been ready when his time came, and had walked in his own devotion
and certainty in a position counted indefensible and almost along
the brink of murder.

This great moral of Browning, which may be called roughly
the doctrine of the great hour, enters, of course, into many poems
besides _The Ring and the Book_, and is indeed the mainspring
of a great part of his poetry taken as a whole. It is, of course,
the central idea of that fine poem, "The Statue and the Bust," which
has given a great deal of distress to a great many people because of
its supposed invasion of recognised morality. It deals, as every one
knows, with a Duke Ferdinand and an elopement which he planned
with the bride of one of the Riccardi. The lovers begin by deferring
their flight for various more or less comprehensible reasons of
convenience; but the habit of shrinking from the final step grows
steadily upon them, and they never take it, but die, as it were,
waiting for each other. The objection that the act thus avoided was
a criminal one is very simply and quite clearly answered by Browning
himself. His case against the dilatory couple is not in the least
affected by the viciousness of their aim. His case is that they
exhibited no virtue. Crime was frustrated in them by cowardice,
which is probably the worse immorality of the two. The same idea
again may be found in that delightful lyric "Youth and Art," where
a successful cantatrice reproaches a successful sculptor with
their failure to understand each other in their youth and
poverty.

"Each life unfulfilled, you see; It hangs still, patchy and scrappy:

We have not sighed deep, laughed free, Starved, feasted,
despaired,--been happy."
And this conception of the great hour, which breaks out everywhere
in Browning, it is almost impossible not to connect with his own
internal drama.

It is really curious that this correspondence has not been insisted
on. Probably critics have been misled by the fact that Browning
in many places appears to boast that he is purely dramatic, that
he has never put himself into his work, a thing which no poet,
good or bad, who ever lived could possibly avoid doing.

The enormous scope and seriousness of _The Ring and the Book_ occupied
Browning for some five or six years, and the great epic appeared
in the winter of 1868. Just before it was published Smith and Elder
brought out a uniform edition of all Browning's works up to that
time, and the two incidents taken together may be considered to
mark the final and somewhat belated culmination of Browning's
literary fame.

The years since his wife's death, that had been covered by the
writing of _The Ring and the Book_, had been years of an almost
feverish activity in that and many other ways. His travels had been
restless and continued, his industry immense, and for the first
time he began that mode of life which afterwards became so
characteristic of him--the life of what is called society. A man
of a shallower and more sentimental type would have professed
to find the life of dinner-tables and soirées vain and unsatisfying
to a poet, and especially to a poet in mourning. But if there is one
thing more than another which is stirring and honourable about
Browning, it is the entire absence in him of this cant of
dissatisfaction.

He had the one great requirement of a poet--he was not difficult
to please. The life of society was superficial, but it is only very
superficial people who object to the superficial. To the man who
sees the marvellousness of all things, the surface of life is fully
as strange and magical as its interior; clearness and plainness
of life is fully as mysterious as its mysteries. The young man
in evening dress, pulling on his gloves, is quite as elemental
a figure as any anchorite, quite as incomprehensible, and
indeed quite as alarming.

A great many literary persons have expressed astonishment at, or
even disapproval of, this social frivolity of Browning's. Not one
of these literary people would have been shocked if Browning's
interest in humanity had led him into a gambling hell in the Wild
West or a low tavern in Paris; but it seems to be tacitly assumed
that fashionable people are not human at all. Humanitarians of a
material and dogmatic type, the philanthropists and the professional
reformers go to look for humanity in remote places and in huge
statistics. Humanitarians of a more vivid type, the Bohemian
artists, go to look for humanity in thieves' kitchens and the
studios of the Quartier Latin. But humanitarians of the highest type,
the great poets and philosophers, do not go to look for humanity at
all. For them alone among all men the nearest drawing-room is full
of humanity, and even their own families are human. Shakespeare
ended his life by buying a house in his own native town and talking
to the townsmen. Browning was invited to a great many conversaziones
and private views, and did not pretend that they bored him. In a
letter belonging to this period of his life he describes his first
dinner at one of the Oxford colleges with an unaffected delight
and vanity, which reminds the reader of nothing so much as the
pride of the boy-captain of a public school if he were invited to
a similar function and received a few compliments. It may be indeed
that Browning had a kind of second youth in this long-delayed social
recognition, but at least he enjoyed his second youth nearly as
much as his first, and it is not every one who can do that.

Of Browning's actual personality and presence in this later middle
age of his, memories are still sufficiently clear.

He was a middle-sized, well set up, erect man, with somewhat
emphatic gestures, and, as almost all testimonies mention, a curiously
strident voice. The beard, the removal of which his wife had resented
with so quaint an indignation, had grown again, but grown quite
white, which, as she said when it occurred, was a signal mark
of the justice of the gods.
His hair was still fairly dark, and his whole appearance at this
time must have been very well represented by Mr. G.F. Watts's fine
portrait in the National Portrait Gallery. The portrait bears one
of the many testimonies which exist to Mr. Watts's grasp of the
essential of character, for it is the only one of the portraits of
Browning in which we get primarily the air of virility, even of
animal virility, tempered but not disguised, with a certain touch
of the pallor of the brain-worker. He looks here what he
was--a very healthy man, too scholarly to live a completely healthy
life.

His manner in society, as has been more than once indicated,
was that of a man anxious, if anything, to avoid the air of
intellectual eminence. Lockhart said briefly, "I like Browning; he
isn't at all like a damned literary man." He was, according to some,
upon occasion, talkative and noisy to a fault; but there are
two kinds of men who monopolise conversation. The first kind are those
who like the sound of their own voice; the second are those who do
not know what the sound of their own voice is like. Browning was
one of the latter class. His volubility in speech had the same origin
as his voluminousness and obscurity in literature--a kind of
headlong humility.

He cannot assuredly have been aware that he talked people
down or have wished to do so. For this would have been precisely a
violation of the ideal of the man of the world, the one ambition
and even weakness that he had. He wished to be a man of the
world, and he never in the full sense was one. He remained a
little too much of a boy, a little too much even of a Puritan, and
a little too much of what may be called a man of the universe, to
be a man of the world.

One of his faults probably was the thing roughly called prejudice.
On the question, for example, of table-turning and psychic phenomena
he was in a certain degree fierce and irrational. He was not
indeed, as we shall see when we come to study "Sludge the Medium,"
exactly prejudiced against spiritualism. But he was beyond all
question stubbornly prejudiced against spiritualists.

Whether the medium Home was or was not a scoundrel it is somewhat
difficult in our day to conjecture. But in so far as he claimed
supernatural powers, he may have been as honest a gentleman as
ever lived. And even if we think that the moral atmosphere of Home
is that of a man of dubious character, we can still feel that
Browning might have achieved his purpose without making it so obvious
that he thought so. Some traces again, though much fainter ones, may
be found of something like a subconscious hostility to the Roman
Church, or at least a less full comprehension of the grandeur
of the Latin religious civilisation than might have been expected
of a man of Browning's great imaginative tolerance. Æstheticism,
Bohemianism, the irresponsibilities of the artist, the untidy morals
of Grub Street and the Latin Quarter, he hated with a consuming
hatred. He was himself exact in everything, from his scholarship
to his clothes; and even when he wore the loose white garments of
the lounger in Southern Europe, they were in their own way as precise
as a dress suit.

This extra carefulness in all things he defended against
the cant of Bohemianism as the right attitude for the poet.
When some one excused coarseness or negligence on the ground of
genius, he said, "That is an error: Noblesse oblige."

, came to the question of the English prisoner. I told him
it was I that prevented the disgrace to his good government by
sending to General Montcalm to ask for your protection.

"He was deeply impressed, and he opened out his vain heart in
divers ways. But I may not tell you of these--only what concerns
yourself; the rest belongs to his honour. When he was in his most
pliable mood, I grew deeply serious, and told him there was a danger
which perhaps he did not see. Here was this English prisoner, who,
they said abroad in the town, was dying. There was no doubt that
the King would approve the sentence of death, and if it were duly
and with some display enforced, it would but add to the Governor's
reputation in France. But should the prisoner die in captivity, or
should he go an invalid to the scaffold, there would only be pity
excited in the world for him. For his own honour, it were better the
Governor should hang a robust prisoner, who in full blood should
expiate his sins upon the scaffold. The advice went down like wine;
and when he knew not what to do, I urged your being brought here,
put under guard, and fed and nourished for your end. And so it was.

"The Governor's counsellor in the matter will remain a secret,
for by now he will be sure that he himself had the sparkling
inspiration. There, dear Robert, is the present climax to many
months of suspense and persecution, the like of which I hope I may
never see again. Some time I will tell you all: those meetings with
Monsieur Doltaire, his designs and approaches, his pleadings and
veiled threats, his numberless small seductions of words, manners,
and deeds, his singular changes of mood, when I was uncertain
what would happen next; the part I had to play to know all that
was going on in the Chateau St. Louis, in the Intendance, and
with General Montcalm; the difficulties with my own people; the
despair of my poor father, who does not know that it is I who have
kept him from trouble by my influence with the Governor. For since
the Governor and the Intendant are reconciled, he takes sides with
General Montcalm, the one sound gentleman in office in this poor
country--alas!"

Soon afterwards we parted. As she passed out she told me I might
at any hour expect a visit from the Governor.


XX

UPON THE RAMPARTS


The Governor visited me. His attitude was marked by nothing so
much as a supercilious courtesy, a manner which said, You must
see I am not to be trifled with; and though I have you here in
my chateau, it is that I may make a fine scorching of you in the
end. He would make of me an example to amaze and instruct the
nations--when I was robust enough to die.

I might easily have flattered myself on being an object of
interest to the eyes of nations. I almost pitied him; for he
appeared so lost in self-admiration and the importance of his
office that he would never see disaster when it came.

"There is but one master here in Canada," he said, "and I am he.
If things go wrong it is because my orders are not obeyed. Your
people have taken Louisburg; had I been there, it should never have
been given up. Drucour was hasty--he listened to the women. I should
allow no woman to move me. I should be inflexible. They might send
two Amhersts and two Wolfes against me, I would hold my fortress."

"They will never send two, your Excellency," said I.

He did not see the irony, and he prattled on: "That Wolfe, they
tell me, is bandy-legged; is no better than a girl at sea, and
never well ashore. I am always in raw health--the strong mind in
the potent body. Had I been at Louisburg, I should have held it,
as I held Ticonderoga last July, and drove the English back with
monstrous slaughter."

Here was news. I had had no information in many months, and all
at once two great facts were brought to me.

"Your Excellency, then, was at Ticonderoga?" said I.

"I sent Montcalm to defend it," he replied pompously. "I told
him how he must act; I was explicit, and it came out as I had said:
we were victorious. Yet he would have done better had he obeyed me
in everything. If I had been at Louisburg--"

I could not at first bring myself to flatter the vice-regal peacock;
for it had been my mind to fight these Frenchmen always; to yield in
nothing; to defeat them like a soldier, not like a juggler. But I
brought myself to say half ironically, "If all great men had capable
instruments, they would seldom fail."

"You have touched the heart of the matter," he said credulously.
"It is a pity," he added, with complacent severity, "that you
have been so misguided and criminal; you have, in some things,
more sense than folly."

I bowed as to a compliment from a great man. Then, all at once,
I spoke to him with an air of apparent frankness, and said that if
I must die, I cared to do so like a gentleman, with some sort of
health, and not like an invalid. He must admit that at least I was
no coward. He might fence me about with what guards he chose, but
I prayed him to let me walk upon the ramparts, when I was strong
enough to be abroad, under all due espionage. I had already
suffered many deaths, I said, and I would go to the final one
looking like a man, and not like an outcast of humanity.

"Ah, I have heard this before," said he. "Monsieur Doltaire, who
is in prison here, and is to fare on to the Bastile, was insolent
enough to send me message yesterday that I should keep you close in
your dungeon. But I had had enough of Monsieur Doltaire; and indeed
it was through me that the Grande Marquise had him called to
durance. He was a muddler here. They must not interfere with me; I
am not to be cajoled or crossed in my plans. We shall see, we shall
see about the ramparts," he continued. "Meanwhile prepare to die."
This he said with such importance that I almost laughed in his face.
But I bowed with a sort of awed submission, and he turned and left
the room.

I grew stronger slowly day by day, but it was quite a month
before Alixe came again. Sometimes I saw her walking on the banks
of the river, and I was sure she was there that I might see her,
though she made no sign towards me, nor ever seemed to look towards
my window.

Spring was now fully come. The snow had gone from the ground,
the tender grass was springing, the air was so soft and kind. One
fine day, at the beginning of May, I heard the booming of cannons
and a great shouting, and, looking out, I could see crowds of
people upon the banks, and many boats in the river, where yet the
ice had not entirely broken up. By stretching from my window,
through the bars of which I could get my head, but not my body, I
noted a squadron sailing round the point of the Island of Orleans.
I took it to be a fleet from France bearing re-enforcements
and supplies--as indeed afterwards I found was so; but the
re-enforcements were so small and the supplies so limited that
it is said Montcalm, when he knew, cried out, "Now is all lost!
Nothing remains but to fight and die. I shall see my beloved
Candiac no more."

For the first time all the English colonies had combined against
Canada. But the objection to letters which begin "My dear Ba,"
is that they do not convey anything of the sort. As far as any
third person is concerned, Browning might as well have been
expressing the most noble and universal sentiment in the dialect
of the Cherokees.Yet at that moment I did not know these things, and the sight made
me grave, though it made me sure also that this year would find the
British battering this same Chateau.

Presently there came word from the Governor that I might walk
upon the ramparts, and I was taken forth for several hours each
day; always, however, under strict surveillance, my guards, well
armed, attending, while the ramparts were, as usual, patrolled by
soldiers. I could see that ample preparations were being made
against a siege, and every day the excitement increased. I got to
know more definitely of what was going on, when, under vigilance,
I was allowed to speak to Lieutenant Stevens, who also was
permitted some such freedom as I had enjoyed when I first came to
Quebec. He had private information that General Wolfe or General
Amherst was likely to proceed against Quebec from Louisburg, and
he was determined to join the expedition.

For months he had been maturing plans for escape. Lois Oldham
Henrici, a one-time Sabetha and Parsons woman, is the author of
"Representative Women" and many good short stories.

Laura D. Congdon, a Newton pioneer, is a verse and short story
writer.
Mary H. Finn, Sedgwick, writes beautiful verse and much prose. Jennie
C.
Graves, Pittsburg, writes poetry and moving picture plays. Mrs.
Johannas Bennett, another Pittsburg woman, has written an historical
novel, "La Belle San Antone."

Florence L. Snow, Neosho Falls, is an artistic and finished
writer of verse and prose. She is the author of "The Lamp of Gold."
Sharlot M. Hall, Lincoln, writes prose and verse. A volume of poems,
"Cactus And Pine," "History of Arizona," "A Woman of the Frontier,"
"The Price of The Star" and short stories are her important works.
Mrs. A. S. McMillan, Lyons, a poetess, song writer and licensed
preacher, writes clever verse, much of which has been set to
music.
"Land Where Dreams Come True" is her best known poem. Kittie
Skidmore Cowen, a former Columbus woman, is author of "An Unconditional
Surrender," a civil war story. "The Message of Hagar," a study of the
Mormon question will be in the press soon. Miss Mary E. Upshaw,
McPherson, wrote verse at the age of seven and published her first
story at fifteen.

She has a book in preparation which she expects to publish at an
early date. Jeanette Scott Benton, formerly of Fort Scott, writes
short stories novelettes, and stories for children. May Belleville
Brown of Salina, has a very clever pen, as has, also Mrs.Stevens a good sum of money, and
begged him to meet me every day upon the ramparts, until I also
should see my way to making a dart for freedom. I advised him in
many ways, for he was more bold than shrewd, and I made him promise
that he would not tell Clark or the others that I was to make trial
to go with them. I feared the accident of disclosure, and any new
failure on my part to get away would, I knew, mean my instant
death, consent of King or no consent.

One evening, a soldier entered my room, whom in the half-darkness
I did not recognize, till a voice said, "There's orders new! Not
dungeon now, but this room Governor bespeaks for gentlemen from
France."

"And where am I to go, Gabord?"

"Where you will have fighting," he answered.

"With whom?"

