Keith advanced steadily on Sansome, his hands clenched at his side, his
eye's fixed frowningly and contemptuously on those of the other man. The
pistol barrel was held on his breast. Sansome fully intended to shoot, but
found himself unable to pull the trigger. This is a condition every
rifleman knows well by experience; he calls it being "frozen on the bull's
eye," when, the alignment perfect, his rifle steady as a rock, he
nevertheless cannot transmit just the little nerve power necessary to crook
the forefinger. Three times Sansome sent the message to his trigger finger;
three times the impulse died before it had compassed the distance between
his brain and his hand. This was partly because his correlations had been
weakened by the drink; partly because his fuddled mind was divided between
fear, guilt, despair, and a rage at himself for having got into such a
mess; but principally because he was hypnotically dominated by the other
man's stronger personality.

So evident was this that a sudden feeling of confidence replaced in Nan the
sick terror at the sight of the weapon. She seemed to know positively that
here was no real peril. A wave of contempt for Sansome, even as a dangerous
creature, mingled with a passionate admiration for the man who thus
dominated him unarmed.

Sansome's nerve broke. He dropped his hand, looked to right and left
frantically like a rat in a corner, uttered a very ratty squeak. Suddenly
he hurled the loaded pistol blindly at Keith, and plunged bodily, with an
immense crash of breaking glass, through the closed window. Keith, with a
snarl of baffled rage, dashed forward.

The sight seemed to touch Nan's sense of humour. She laughed at the
picture, caught her breath, gasped. Keith whirled and snatched her fiercely
in his arms.

"Nan!" he cried in an agony, "are you all right? What did that beast--"

She clung to him, still choking, on the edge of hysterics. In a moment of
illumination she realized that the intangible barrier these past years had
so slowly built between them had gone crashing down before the assault of
the old love triumphant.

"I'm all right, dear," she gasped; "really all right. And I never was so
happy in my life!"

They clung together frantically, he patting her shoulder, her cheek against
his own, murmuring broken, soothing little phrases. The time and the place
did not exist for them.

A scuffle outside, which they had only vaguely sensed, and which had not at
all penetrated to their understandings, came to an end. Mrs. Sherwood
appeared in the doorway. Her dress was torn and dishevelled, a strand of
her smooth hair had fallen across her forehead, an angry red mark showed on
one cheek. But she was in high spirits. Her customary quiet poise had given
place to a vibrant, birdlike, vital, quivering eagerness. To the two in the
centre of the room, still clasped in each other's arms, came the same
thought: that never, in spite of her ruffled plumes, in spite of the cheek
already beginning to swell, had this extraordinary woman looked so
beautiful! Then Keith realized that she was panting heavily, and was
clinging to the doorway. He sprang to her assistance.

"What is it? Where is Krafft?" he asked.

She laughed a little, and permitted him to help her to an armchair into
which she sank. She waved aside Keith's attempts to find a whole glass in
the wreckage of the table.

"I'm all right," she said, "and isn't this a nice little party?"

"What has happened? Where is Krafft?" repeated Keith.

"I sent him to the stable for help. There didn't seem to be anybody about
the place."

"But what happened to you? Did that brute Sansome--"

"Sansome? was that Sansome? the one who came through the window?" She
dabbed at her cheek. "You might wet me a handkerchief or a towel or
something," she suggested. "No, he didn't stop!" she laughed again. "Are
you all right?" she asked anxiously of Nan.

"Yes. But tell us--"

"Well, children, I was waiting on the veranda, obeying orders like a good
girl, when, in the dim light I saw a man mount a stool and look into the
room. He was very much interested. I crept up quite close to him without
his knowing it. I heard him mutter to himself something about a 'weak kneed
fool.' Then he drew a revolver. He looked quite determined and heroic"--she
giggled reminiscently--"so I kicked the stool out from under him! About
that time there was a most terrific crash, and somebody came out through
the window."

"But your cheek, your hair--"

"I tried to hold him, but he was too strong for me. He hit me in the face,
wrenched himself free, and ran. That was all; except that he dropped the
pistol, and I'm going to keep it as a trophy."

Keith was looking at her, deep in thought.

"I don't understand," he said slowly. "Who could it have been?"

Mrs. Sherwood shook her head.

"Somebody about to shoot a pistol; that's all I know. I couldn't see his
face."

"Whoever it was, you saved one or both of us," said Keith, "there's no
doubt in my mind of that. Let's see the pistol."

It proved to be one of the smaller Colt's models, about 31 calibre, cap and
ball, silver plated, with polished rosewood handles, and heavily engraved
with scrollwork. Turning it over, Keith finally discovered on the bottom of
the butt frame two letters scratched rudely, apparently with the point of a
knife. He took it closer to the light.

"I have it," said he. "Here are the letters C.M."

"Charles Morrell!" cried both women in a breath.

At this moment appeared Krafft, somewhat out of wind, followed by the surly
and reluctant proprietor from whom the place took its name. Jake had been
liberally paid to keep himself and his staff out of the way. Now finding
that he was not wanted, he promptly disappeared.

"Let's get to the bottom of this thing," said Keith decisively. "If those
are really meant for Morrell's initials, what was he doing here?"

"Mrs. Morrell came out with me," put in Nan.

"Jake told me there was to be a supper party later," said Krafft.

"It's clear enough," contributed Mrs. Sherwood. "The whole thing is a plot
to murder or do worse. I've been through '50 and '51, and I know."

"I can't believe yet that Sansome--" said Keith doubtfully.

"Oh, Sansome is merely a tool, I don't doubt," replied Mrs. Sherwood.

"I can find out to-morrow from Mex Ryan who sent the note," said Krafft.

"Let's get out of this horrible place!" cried Nan with a convulsive shiver.

Again they had great difficulty in finding any one to get their rigs, but
finally repeated calls brought the hostler and Jake himself. The latter
made some growl about payment for the entertainment, but at this Keith
turned on him with such concentrated fury that he muttered something and
slouched away. It was agreed that Krafft should conduct Mrs. Sherwood. They
clambered into the two buggies and drove away.


LXXVII


The horse plodded slowly down the gravelled drive of the road house and
turned into the main highway. It was very dark on earth, and very bright in
the heavens. The afternoon fog had cleared away, dissipated in the warm air
from the sand hills, for the day had been hot. Overhead flared thousands of
stars, throwing the world small. Nan, shivering in reaction, nestled
against her husband. He drew her close. She rested her cheek against his
shoulder and sighed happily. Neither spoke.

At first Keith's whole being was filled with rage. His mind whirled with
plans for revenge. On the morrow he would hunt down Morrell and Sansome. At
the thought of what he would do to them, his teeth clamped and his muscles
stiffened. Then he became wholly preoccupied with Nan's narrow escape. His
quick mind visualized a hundred possibilities--suppose he had gone on
Durkee's expedition? Suppose Mex Ryan had not happened to remember his
name? Suppose Mrs. Sherwood and Krafft had not found him? Suppose they had
been an hour later? Suppose--He leaned over tenderly to draw the lap robe
closer about her. She had stopped shivering and was nestling contentedly
against him.

But gradually the storm in Keith's soul fell. The great and solemn night
stood over against his vision, and at last he could not but look. The
splendour of the magnificent skies, the dreamy peace of the velvet-black
earth lying supine like a weary creature at rest--these two simple
infinities of space and of promise took him to themselves. An eager glad
chorus of frogs came from some invisible pool. The slithering sound of the
sand dividing before the buggy wheels whispered. Every once in a while the
plodding horse sighed deeply.

With the warm cozy feel of the woman, his woman, in the hollow of his arm,
his spirit stilled and uplifted by the simple yet august and eternal things
before him, Keith fell into inchoate rumination. The fever of activity in
the city, the clash of men's interests, greeds, and passions, the tumult
and striving, the sweat and dust of the arena fell to nothing about his
feet. He cleared his vision of the small necessary unessentials, and stared
forth wide-eyed at the big simplicities of life--truth as one sees it,
loyalty to one's ideal, charity toward one's beaten enemy, a steadfast
front toward one's unbeaten enemy, scorn of pettiness, to be unafraid.
Unless the struggle is for and by these things, it is useless, meaningless.
And one's possessions--Keith's left arm tightened convulsively. He had come
near to losing the only possession worth while. At the pressure Nan stirred
sleepily.

"Are we there, dear?" she inquired, raising her head.

Keith had reined in the horse, and was peering into the surrounding
darkness. He laughed.

"No, we seem to be here," he replied, "And I'm blest if I know where 'here'
is! I've been day-dreaming!"

"I believe I've been asleep," confessed Nan.

They both stared about them, but could discern nothing familiar in the dim
outlines of the hills. Not a light flickered.

"Perhaps if you'd give the horse his head, he'd take us home. I've heard,
they would," suggested Nan.

"He's had his head completely for the last two hours. That theory is
exploded. We must have turned wrong after leaving Jake's Place."

"Well, we're on a road. It must go somewhere."

Keith, with some difficulty, managed to awaken the horse. It sighed and
resumed its plodding.

"I'm afraid we're lost," confessed Keith.

"I don't much care," confessed Nan.

"He seems to be a perfectly safe horse," said he.

By way of answer to this she passed her arms gently about his neck and bent
his lips to hers. The horse immediately stopped.

"Seems a fairly intelligent brute, too," observed Keith, after a few
moments.

"Did you ever see so many stars?" said she.

The buggy moved slowly, on through the night. They did not talk.
Explanations and narrative could wait until the morrow--a distant morrow
only dimly foreseen, across this vast ocean of night. All sense of tune or
direction left them; they were wandering irresponsibly, without thought of
why, as children wander and get lost. After a long time they saw a silver
gleam far ahead and below them.

"That must be the bay," said Keith. "If we turn to the right we ought to
get back to town."

"I suppose so," said Nan.

A very long time later the horse stopped short with an air of finality, and
refused absolutely to proceed. Keith descended to see what was the matter.

"The road seems to end here," he told her. "There's a steep descent just
ahead."

"What now?"

"Nothing," he replied, climbing back into the buggy.

The horse slumbered profoundly. They wrapped the lap robe around
themselves. For a tune they whispered little half-forgotten things to each
other. The pauses grew longer and longer. With an effort she roused herself
to press her lips again to his. They, too, slept. And as dawn slowly
lighted the world, they must have presented a strange and bizarre
silhouette atop the hill against the paling sky--the old sagging buggy, the
horse with head down and ears adroop, the lovers clasped in each other's
arms.

Silently all about them the new day was preparing its great spectacle. The
stars were growing dim; the masses of eastern hills were becoming visible.
A full rich life was swelling through the world, quietly, stealthily, as
though under cover of darkness multitudes were stealing to their posts.
Shortly, when the signal was given, the curtain would roll up, the fanfare
of trumpets would resound--A meadow lark chirped low out of the blackness.
And another, boldly, with full throat, uttered its liquid, joyous song.
This was apparently the signal. The east turned gray. Mt. Tamalpais caught
the first ghostly light. And ecstatically the birds and the insects and the
flying and crawling and creeping things awakened, and each in his own voice
and manner devoutly welcomed the brand-new day with its fresh, clean
chances of life and its forgetfulness of old, disagreeable things. The
meadow larks became hundreds, the song sparrows trilled, distant cocks
crowed, and a dog barked exuberantly far away.

Keith stirred and looked about him. Objects were already becoming dimly
visible. Suddenly something attracted his attention. He held his head
sideways, listening. Faintly down the little land breeze came the sound of
a bell. It was the Vigilante tocsin. Nan sat up, blinking and putting her
hair back from her eyes. She laughed a little happily.

"Why, it's the dawn!" she cried, "We've been out all night!"

"The dawn," repeated Keith, his arm about her, but his ear attuned to the
beat of the distant bell. "The gray dawn of better things."




LXXVIII


As the Keiths, on the way, drove across what is now Harbour View, they
stopped to watch a bark standing out through the Golden Gate before the
gentle morning land breeze. She made a pretty sight, for the new-risen sun
whitened her sails. Aboard her was the arch-plotter, Morrell. Had they
known of that fact, it is to be doubted whether they would have felt any
great disappointment over his escape, or any deep animosity at all. The
outcome of his efforts had been clarifying. The bark was bound for the
Sandwich Islands. Morrell's dispositions for flight at a moment's notice
had been made long since; in fact, since the first days of Vigilante
activity. He lingered in the islands for some years, at first cutting quite
a dash; then, as his money dwindled and his schemes failed, he degenerated
slowly. His latter end was probably as a small copra trader in the South
Seas; but that is unknown. Mrs. Morrell--if indeed she was the man's legal
wife at all--thus frankly abandoned, put a bold front on the whole matter.
She returned to her house. As the Keiths in no manner molested her, she
took heart. With no resources other than heavily mortgaged real property,
she found herself forced to do something for a living. In the course of
events we see Mrs. Morrell keeping a flashy boarding-house, hanging
precariously on the outer fringe of the lax society of the times, frowned
upon by the respectable, but more or less sought by the fast men and young
girls only too numerous among the idle of that day.

