But the world needs such men and after they have been dead for many
years and others have reaped the benefits of their discoveries, they
always receive a statue with a fitting inscription.

More terrifying than the highest mountain is the thin line of the
distant horizon. It seems to be the end of the world itself. Heaven have
mercy upon those who pass beyond this meeting-place of sky and water,
where all is black despair and death.

And for centuries and centuries after man had built his first clumsy
boats, he remained within the pleasant sight of one familiar shore and
kept away from the horizon.

Then came the Phoenicians who knew no such fears. They passed beyond the
sight of land. Suddenly the forbidding ocean was turned into a peaceful
highway of commerce and the dangerous menace of the horizon became
a myth.

These Phoenician navigators were Semites. Their ancestors had lived in
the desert of Arabia together with the Babylonians, the Jews and all the
others. But when the Jews occupied Palestine, the cities of the
Phoenicians were already old with the age of many centuries.

There were two Phoenician centers of trade.

One was called Tyre and the other was called Sidon. They were built upon
high cliffs and rumor had it that no enemy could take them. Far and wide
their ships sailed to gather the products of the Mediterranean for the
benefit of the people of Mesopotamia.

At first the sailors only visited the distant shores of France and Spain
to barter with the natives and hastened home with their grain and metal.
Later they had built fortified trading posts along the coasts of Spain
and Italy and Greece and the far-off Scilly Islands where the valuable
tin was found.

[Illustration: THE PHOENICIANS.]

To the uncivilized savages of Europe, such a trading post appeared as a
dream of beauty and luxury. They asked to be allowed to live close to
its walls, to see the wonderful sights when the boats of many sails
entered the harbor, carrying the much-desired merchandise of the unknown
east. Gradually they left their huts to build themselves small wooden
houses around the Phoenician fortresses. In this way many a trading post
had grown into a market place for all the people of the entire
neighborhood.

Today such big cities as Marseilles and Cadiz are proud of their
Phoenician origin, but their ancient mothers, Tyre and Sidon, have been
dead and forgotten for over two thousand years and of the Phoenicians
themselves, none have survived.

This is a sad fate but it was fully deserved.

The Phoenicians had grown rich without great effort, but they had not
known how to use their wealth wisely. They had never cared for books or
learning. They had only cared for money.

They had bought and sold slaves all over the world. They had forced the
foreign immigrants to work in their factories. They cheated their
neighbors whenever they had a chance and they had made themselves
detested by all the other people of the Mediterranean.

They were brave and energetic navigators, but they showed themselves
cowards whenever they were obliged to choose between honorable dealing
and an immediate profit, obtained through fraudulent and shrewd trading.

As long as they had been the only sailors in the world who could handle
large ships, all other nations had been in need of their services. As
soon as the others too had learned how to handle a rudder and a set of
sails, they at once got rid of the tricky Phoenician merchant.

From that moment on, Tyre and Sidon had lost their old hold upon the
commercial world of Asia. They had never encouraged art or science. They
had known how to explore the seven seas and turn their ventures into
profitable investments. No state, however, can be safely built upon
material possessions alone.

The land of Phoenicia had always been a counting-house without a soul.

It perished because it had honored a well-filled treasure chest as the
highest ideal of civic pride.


THE ALPHABET FOLLOWS THE TRADE

I have told you how the Egyptians preserved speech by means of little
figures. I have described the wedge-shaped signs which served the people
of Mesopotamia as a handy means of transacting business at home
and abroad.

But how about our own alphabet? From whence came those compact little
letters which follow us throughout our life, from the date on our birth
certificate to the last word of our funeral notice? Are they Egyptian or
Babylonian or Aramaic or are they something entirely different? They are
a little bit of everything, as I shall now tell you.

Our modern alphabet is not a very satisfactory instrument for the
purpose of reproducing our speech. Some day a genius will invent a new
system of writing which shall give each one of our sounds a little
picture of its own. But with all its many imperfections the letters of
our modern alphabet perform their daily task quite nicely and fully as
well as their very accurate and precise cousins, the numerals, who
wandered into Europe from distant India, almost ten centuries after the
first invasion of the alphabet. The earliest history of these letters,
however, is a deep mystery and it will take many years of painstaking
investigation before we can solve it.

This much we know--that our alphabet was not suddenly invented by a
bright young scribe. It developed and grew during hundreds of years out
of a number of older and more complicated systems.

In my last chapter I have told you of the language of the intelligent
Aramaean traders which spread throughout western Asia, as an
international means of communication. The language of the Phoenicians
was never very popular among their neighbors. Except for a very few
words we do not know what sort of tongue it was. Their system of
writing, however, was carried into every corner of the vast
Mediterranean and every Phoenician colony became a center for its
further distribution.

It remains to be explained why the Phoenicians, who did nothing to
further either art or science, hit upon such a compact and handy system
of writing, while other and superior nations remained faithful to the
old clumsy scribbling.

The Phoenicians, before all else, were practical business men. They did
not travel abroad to admire the scenery. They went upon their perilous
voyages to distant parts of Europe and more distant parts of Africa in
search of wealth. Time was money in Tyre and Sidon and commercial
documents written in hieroglyphics or Sumerian wasted useful hours of
busy clerks who might be employed upon more useful errands.

When our modern business world decided that the old-fashioned way of
dictating letters was too slow for the hurry of modern life, a clever
man devised a simple system of dots and dashes which could follow the
spoken word as closely as a hound follows a hare.

But no, no! I am talking seriously to the fullest!

I stood in the process of how they, the nails digging into the
tables, and with the tooth gewetztem own lip, as if 'it is strange,
wild meat, benagend, Where's oath, and they certainly keep it.

It is a kind of God's verdict, The one under my skin, the other
defends, And Dike can decide if she likes. Rhodope. gelauscht So
did you?

I do not think so. If where I am, where I was not expecting, So I make a
noise, so that's remarks do not speak And yes, I should not hear, And
thou - no, no, do not be a king! Kandaules. Certainly not - however,
you can not guess! Do you see the ring? How much do you think him?

Rodopi. I do not know by whom it comes. Kandaules. Of Gyges! Rodopi. Because
he is invaluable to you! Kandaules. He's! Ahnst But you do not know
why. Hear's and amazingly, he makes Invisible anyone who helps him.
Rhodope. Unsichtbar? Kandaules. Eben's course I've tested. Klettern Not
again, Hero! Only the birds hiding in the porch! Rodopi. Lesbia!
Kandaules. Through the door I scream out, I hold no lock nor bolt
away! Rodopi. How terrible. Kandaules. For every evil, mean du
Rhodope. But no, no! For every good much more! (To Lesbia.) Can you still
breathe calmly, you will not be Verglühn shame, now you know this?

Lord, throw him away, down in the deepest river! As more people who
force a decision on who will be born as a demigod like! Give it to me!
It says to us that things that can smash the world, here and there on
earth are hidden. They come from the time where God and man,
and still love each other pledges were exchanged.

This ring is one of them!

Who knows what to hand him a goddess put what used to seal their
covenant He had to!

Graust Do not you like her dark gift and to adapt to their vengeance on
thy head to ziehn?

Me shivers when I see him! To enter! Kandaules. To a prize! If you as a
queen When you want to appear Fixed tonight.

Rhodope. How can I!

You brought to you from far entlegner limit the silent bride, and knew
how it was.'s Also has thee once happy, before thy father, nor the only
eye on me rested, And after that you no longer sees me. Kandaules.
Forgive! I think only of the gemstone, the one does not show - Rodopi.
Attracts robbers to no! Kandaules. Enough! I'm used to this No! Blows
the fresh wind in all places, the veil away: You do to your notes.

(Musik.) The train! Since the king can not be missing. Rhodope. And the
rebel? Today's doing me hurt that I did not go with you may. Kandaules.
Hab Dank! But fear thee not. It is ensured. Rhodope. Certainly? Kandaules.
Certainly! Not because I am afraid, only because I would have to
punish them, and do not like.

Life is too short, as that man to death inside Of even earn could
Veiled So I do not like him tonight!

(Ab) Rodopi. Now her! Lesbia. I remain, Queen! Rodopi. Egg, no! You
sang the nurse's never before, that man's face the death
for you!

(Lesbia, Hero and the other from.) The dream knows no! Even the best
sacrifice is what I einz'ge joy! (Ab) Free space.

Have the people. The king on a throne. Lesbia, Hero, etc. on the
side on a balcony. The games are also terminated. General movement and
segregation in groups. Ringer, fist fighter, wagon drivers,
etc. are gradually visible, with all branches of the silver poplar
crowned.

Most important of all he had devised a system of recording sound which
gave unto his children and unto his children's children the benefit of
their ancestors' experience and allowed them to accumulate such a store
of information that they could make themselves the masters of the forces
of nature.

But together with these many virtues, ancient man had one great failing.

He was too much a slave of tradition.

He did not ask enough questions.

He reasoned "My father did such and such a thing before me and my
grandfather did it before my father and they both fared well and
therefore this thing ought to be good for me too and I must not change
it." He forgot that this patient acceptance of facts would never have
lifted us above the common herd of animals.

Once upon a time there must have been a man of genius who refused any
longer to swing from tree to tree with the help of his long, curly tail
(as all his people had done before him) and who began to walk on
his feet.

But ancient man had lost sight of this fact and continued to use the
wooden plow of his earliest ancestors and continued to believe in the
same gods that had been worshipped ten thousand years before and taught
his children to do likewise.

Instead of going forward he stood still and this was fatal.

For a new and more energetic race appeared upon the horizon and the
ancient world was doomed.

We call these new people the Indo-Europeans. They were white men like
you and me, and they spoke a language which was the common ancestor of
all our European languages with the exception of Hungarian, Finnish and
the Basque of Northern Spain.

When we first hear of them they had for many centuries made their home
along the banks of the Caspian Sea. But one day (for reasons which are
totally unknown to us) they packed their belongings on the backs of the
horses which they had trained and they gathered their cows and dogs and
goats and began to wander in search of distant happiness and food. Some
of them moved into the mountains of central Asia and for a long time
they lived amidst the peaks of the plateau of Iran, whence they are
called the Iranians or Aryans. Others slowly followed the setting sun
and took possession of the vast plains of western Europe.

They were almost as uncivilized as those prehistoric men who made their
appearance within the first pages of this book. But they were a hardy
race and good fighters and without difficulty they seem to have occupied
the hunting grounds and the pastures of the men of the stone age.

They were as yet quite ignorant but thanks to a happy Fate they were
curious. The wisdom of the ancient world, which was carried to them by
the traders of the Mediterranean, they very soon made their own.

But the age-old learning of Egypt and Babylonia and Chaldea they merely
used as a stepping-stone to something higher and better. For
"tradition," as such, meant nothing to them and they considered that the
Universe was theirs to explore and to exploit as they saw fit and that
it was their duty to submit all experience to the acid test of human
intelligence.

[Illustration: A COLONY.]

Soon therefore they passed beyond those boundaries which the ancient
world had accepted as impassable barriers--a sort of spiritual Mountains
of the Moon. Then they turned against their former masters and within a
short time a new and vigorous civilization replaced the out-worn
structure of the ancient Asiatic world.

But of these Indo-Europeans and their adventures I give you a detailed
account in "The Story of Mankind," which tells you about the Greeks and
the Romans and all the other races in the world.


A FEW DATES CONNECTED WITH THE PEOPLE OF THE ANCIENT WORLD

I can not give you any positive dates connected with Prehistoric Man.
The early Europeans who appear in the first chapters of this book began
their career about fifty thousand years ago.


THE EGYPTIANS

The earliest civilization in the Nile Valley
developed forty centuries before the birth of
Christ.

3400 B.C.    The Old Egyptian Empire is
             founded. Memphis is the capital.

2800--2700   B.C. The Pyramids are built.

2000 B.C.    The Old Empire is destroyed by
             the Arab shepherds, called the "Hyksos."

1800 B.C.    Thebes delivers Egypt from the
             Hyksos and becomes the center
             of the New Egyptian Empire.

1350 B.C.    King Rameses conquers Eastern Asia.

1300 B.C.    The Jews leave Egypt.

1000 B.C.    Egypt begins to decline.

700 B.C.     Egypt becomes an Assyrian province.

650 B.C.     Egypt regains her independence
             and a new State is founded with
             Sais in the Delta as its capital.
             Foreigners, especially Greeks,
             begin to dominate the country.

525 B.C.     Egypt becomes a Persian province.

300 B.C.     Egypt becomes an independent
             Kingdom ruled by one of Alexander
             the Great's generals, called Ptolemy.

30 B.C.      Cleopatra, the last princess of the
             Ptolemy dynasty, kills herself and
             Egypt becomes part of the Roman Empire.


THE JEWS


2000         B.C. Abraham moves away from the
             land of Ur in eastern Babylonia
             and looks for a new home in the
             western part of Asia.

1550 B.C.    The Jews occupy the land of
             Goshen in Egypt.

1300 B.C.    Moses leads the Jews out of
             Egypt and gives them the Law.

1250 B.C.    The Jews have crossed the river
             Jordan and have occupied Palestine.

1055 B.C.    Saul is King of the Jews.

1025 B.C.    David is King of a powerful Jewish state.

1000 B.C.    Solomon builds the Great Temple
             of Jerusalem.

950 B.C.     The Jewish state divided into two
             Kingdoms, that of Judah and that of Israel.

900-600 B.C. The age of the great Prophets.

722 B.C.     Here, in this sea, whose waves disrupted emporhoben him, he felt
totally secure, and powerful unverfolgbar.

Högl Adam was not an optimist. "Nothing lasts
             forever and everyone has to stretch to the ceiling," he said at
every opportunity with quiet irony, but then he acted.

Occasionally a wild session with the van Haarskerk
             millionaire and his company in a back room of the abgedämpften
paradise casinos he in cold water bucket as üher pour head, played
with the championship completely drunk, drank champagne salted
without a face warp, bore to increase the pleasure for many, many
bumps in the hingehaltenen belly dancing and finally patschig and
negroes liable as a eunuch in the shirt around that the whole company
rolled with laughter.

             Beginning of the Assyrian State,
             with Nineveh as its capital.

950-650 B.C. Assyria becomes the master of
             western Asia.

700 B.C.     Sargon, the ruler of the Assyrians,
             conquers Palestine, Egypt and Arabia.

640 B.C.     The Medes revolt against the
             Assyrian rule.

530 B.C.     The Scythians attack Assyria.
             There are revolutions all over
             the Kingdom.

608 B.C.     Nineveh is destroyed. Assyria
             disappears from the map.

608-538 B.C. The Chaldeans reestablish the
             Babylonian Kingdom.

604-561 B.C. Nebuchadnezzar destroys Jerusalem,
             takes Phoenicia and makes
             Babylon the center of civilization.

538 B.C.     Mesopotamia becomes a Persian province.

330 B.C.     Alexander the Great conquers Mesopotamia.


THE PHOENICIANS


1500-1200 B.C. The city of Sklon is the chief
               Phoenician center of trade.

1100-950 B.C.  Tyre becomes the commercial
               center of Phoenicia.

1000-600 B.C.  Development of the Phoenician
               colonial Empire.

850 B.C.       Carthage is founded.

586-573 B.C.   Siege of Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar.
               The city is captured and destroyed.

538 B.C.       Phoenicia becomes a Persian province.

60 B.C.        Phoenicia becomes part of the Roman Empire.


(It ranges Gyges's hand.)

Morgengabe see as the crown to the closed areas of your head sparkles,
but I give the dead ring in pledge.

Gyges. The bears still the king on his
finger. Rhodope. Then he has the square
that it deserves.

(You can Gyges' hands off.) resigns now,
and keep your vows, How I mine! I'm entsühnt,
because nobody looked at me more
than it ziemte, but now I distinguish
(durchsticht you are.) So you!
Cambyses, King of the Persians, takes Egypt.

520-485 B.C.   Rule of Darius, King of the
               Persians, who conquers Babylon
               and attacks Greece.

485-465 B.C.   Rule of King Xerxes, who tries to establish
               himself in eastern Europe but fails.

330 B.C.       The Greek, Alexander the Great,
               conquers all of western Asia and
               Egypt and Persia becomes a
               Greek Province.

The ancient world which was dominated by Semitic peoples lasted almost
forty centuries. In the fourth century before the birth of Christ it
died of old age.

Western Asia and Egypt had been the teachers of the Indo-Europeans who
had occupied Europe at an unknown date.

In the fourth century before Christ, the Indo-European pupils had so far
surpassed their teachers that they could begin their conquest of
the world.

The famous expedition of Alexander the Great in 330 B.C. made an end to
the civilizations of Egypt and Mesopotamia and established the supremacy
of Greek (that is European) culture.