Produced by Justin Gillbank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


The Young Pitcher

By Zane Grey

1911


CONTENTS

      I. The Varsity Captain

     II. A Great Arm

    III. Prisoner of the Sophs

     IV. The Call for Candidates

      V. The Cage

     VI. Out on the Field

    VII. Annihilation

   VIII. Examinations

     IX. President Halstead on College Spirit

      X. New Players

     XI. State University Game

    XII. Ken Clashes with Graves

   XIII. Friendship

    XIV. The Herne Game

     XV. A Matter of Principle

    XVI. The First Place Game

   XVII. Ken's Day

  XVIII. Breaking Training


I

THE VARSITY CAPTAIN


Ken Ward had not been at the big university many days before he
realized the miserable lot of a freshman.

At first he was sorely puzzled. College was so different from what
he had expected. At the high school of his home town, which, being
the capital of the State, was no village, he had been somebody. Then
his summer in Arizona, with its wild adventures, had given him a
self-appreciation which made his present situation humiliating.

There were more than four thousand students at the university. Ken
felt himself the youngest, the smallest, the one of least consequence.
He was lost in a shuffle of superior youths. In the forestry department
he was a mere boy; and he soon realized that a freshman there was the
same as anywhere. The fact that he weighed nearly one hundred and sixty
pounds, and was no stripling, despite his youth, made not one whit of
difference.

Unfortunately, his first overture of what he considered good-fellowship
had been made to an upper-classman, and had been a grievous mistake.
Ken had not yet recovered from its reception. He grew careful after
that, then shy, and finally began to struggle against disappointment
and loneliness.

Outside of his department, on the campus and everywhere he ventured,
he found things still worse. There was something wrong with him, with
his fresh complexion, with his hair, with the way he wore his tie,
with the cut of his clothes. In fact, there was nothing right about
him. He had been so beset that he could not think of anything but
himself. One day, while sauntering along a campus path, with his hands
in his pockets, he met two students coming toward him. They went to
right and left, and, jerking his hands from his pockets, roared in
each ear, "How dare you walk with your hands in your pockets!"

Another day, on the library step, he encountered a handsome bareheaded
youth with a fine, clean-cut face and keen eyes, who showed the true
stamp of the great university.

"Here," he said, sharply, "aren't you a freshman?"

"Why--yes," confessed Ken.

"I see you have your trousers turned up at the bottom."

"Yes--so I have." For the life of him Ken could not understand why
that simple fact seemed a crime, but so it was.

"Turn them down!" ordered the student.

Ken looked into the stern face and flashing eyes of his tormentor,
and then meekly did as he had been commanded.

"Boy, I've saved your life. We murder freshmen here for that,"
said the student, and then passed on up the steps.

In the beginning it was such incidents as these that had bewildered Ken.
He passed from surprise to anger, and vowed he would have something to
say to these upper-classmen. But when the opportunity came Ken always
felt so little and mean that he could not retaliate. This made him
furious. He had not been in college two weeks before he could distinguish
the sophomores from the seniors by the look on their faces. He hated the
sneering "Sophs," and felt rising in him the desire to fight. But he
both feared and admired seniors. They seemed so aloof, so far above
him. He was in awe of them, and had a hopeless longing to be like
them. And as for the freshmen, it took no second glance for Ken to
pick them out. They were of two kinds--those who banded together in
crowds and went about yelling, and running away from the Sophs, and
those who sneaked about alone with timid step and furtive glance.

Ken was one of these lonesome freshmen. He was pining for companionship,
but he was afraid to open his lips. Once he had dared to go into Carlton
Hall, the magnificent club-house which had been given to the university
by a famous graduate. Leave your books to their shelves, and your flock
to their curate, and-- you shake your head--do I displease you?"
"No, no, my kind and generous adviser--but as the twig was set, the tree
must grow. I have not been without that ambition which, however vain
and sinful, is the first passion to enter the wayward and tossing
vessel of our soul, and the last to leave its stranded and shattered
wreck; but mine found and attained its object at an age, when in others
it is, as yet, a vague and unsettled feeling; and it feeds now rather
upon the recollections of what has been, than ventures forward on a
sea of untried and strange expectation. As for my studies! how can
you, who have, and in no moderate draught, drank of the old
stream of Castaly, how can you ask me now to change them?

Are not the ancients my food, my aliment, my solace in sorrow--my
sympathizers, my very benefactors, in joy? Take them away from me,
and you take away the very winds which purify and give motion to the
obscure and silent current of my life.

Besides, my Pelham, it cannot have escaped your observation,
that there is little in my present state which promises a long
increase of days: the few that remain to me must glide away like
their predecessors; and whatever be the infirmities of my body,
and the little harassments which, I am led to suspect, do occasionally
molest the most fortunate, who link themselves unto the unstable
and fluctuating part of creation, which we term women, more especially
in an hymeneal capacity--whatever these may be, I have my refuge
and my comforter in the golden-souled and dreaming Plato, and the
sententious wisdom of the less imaginative Seneca.

Nor, when I am reminded of my approaching dissolution by the symptoms
which do mostly at the midnight hour press themselves upon me, is
there a small and inglorious pleasure in the hope that I may meet
hereafter, in those islands of the blest which they dimly dreamt of,
but which are opened unto my vision, without a cloud, or mist, or shadow
of uncertainty and doubt, with those bright spirits which we do now
converse with so imperfectly; that I may catch from the very lips
of Homer the unclouded gorgeousness of fiction, and from the accents
of Archimedes, the unadulterated calculations of truth."

Clutterbuck ceased, and the glow of his enthusiasm diffused itself
over his sunken eye and consumptive cheek. The boy, who had sat
apart, and silent, during our discourse, laid his head upon the
table, and sobbed audibly; and I rose, deeply affected, to offer to one
for whom they were, indeed, unavailing, the wishes and blessing
of an eager, but not hardened disciple of the world.

We parted: on this earth we can never meet again.
The light has wasted itself away beneath the bushel. It will be six
weeks to-morrow since the meek and noble-minded academician
breathed his last.

CHAPTER LXIV.

'Tis but a single murder.
--Lillo: Fatal Curiosity.

It was in a melancholy and thoughtful mood that I rode away from
the parsonage.

Numerous and hearty were the maledictions I bestowed upon a system
of education which, while it was so ineffective with the many, was
so pernicious to the few.

Miserable delusion (thought I), that encourages the ruin of health and
the perversion of intellect by studies that are as unprofitable to
the world as they are destructive to the possessor--that incapacitate
him for public, and unfit him for private life--and that, while they
expose him to the ridicule of strangers, render him the victim of
his wife, and the prey of his domestic.

Busied in such reflections, I rode quickly on till I found myself
once more on the heath.

I looked anxiously round for the conspicuous equipage of Lady Chester, but
in vain--the ground was thin--nearly all the higher orders had retired--the
common people, grouped together, and clamouring noisily, were withdrawing:
and the shrill voices of the itinerant hawkers of cards and bills
had at length subsided into silence.

I rode over the ground, in the hope of finding some solitary straggler
of our party.
Alas! there was not one; and, with much reluctance at, and distaste to,
my lonely retreat, I turned in a homeward direction from the course.

The evening had already set in, but there was a moon in the cold grey
sky, that I could almost have thanked in a sonnet for a light which
I felt was never more welcomely dispensed, when I thought of the
cross roads and dreary country I had to pass before I reached the
longed for haven of Chester Park.

After I had left the direct road, the wind, which had before been
piercingly keen, fell, and I perceived a dark cloud behind, which
began slowly to overtake my steps.

I care little, in general, for the discomfort of a shower; yet, as
when we are in one misfortune we always exaggerate the consequence
of a new one, I looked upon my dark pursuer with a very impatient
and petulant frown, and set my horse on a trot, much more suitable
to my inclination than his own.

Indeed, he seemed fully alive to the cornless state of the parson's
stable, and evinced his sense of the circumstance by a very languid
mode of progression, and a constant attempt, whenever his pace
abated, and I suffered the rein to slumber upon his neck, to crop
the rank grass that sprung up on either side of our road.

I had proceeded about three miles on my way, when I heard the clatter of
hoofs behind me. My even pace soon suffered me to be overtaken, and, as
the stranger checked his horse when he was nearly by my side, I
turned towards him, and beheld Sir John Tyrrell.

"Well," said he, "this is really fortunate--for I began to fear
I should have my ride, this cold evening, entirely to myself."
"I imagined that you had long reached Chester Park by this time," said
I.
"Did not you leave the course with our party?"

"No," answered Tyrrell, "I had business, at Newmarket, with a rascally
fellow of the name of Dawson. He lost to me rather a considerable
wager, and asked me to come to the town with him after the race, in
order to pay me.

As he said he lived on the direct road to Chester Park, and would
direct and even accompany me, through all the difficult part of the
ride, I the less regretted not joining Chester and his party; and
you know, Pelham, that when pleasure pulls one way, and money
another, it is all over with the first.

Well--to return to my rascal--would you believe, that when we got to
Newmarket, he left me at the inn, in order, he said, to fetch the money;
and after having kept me in a cold room, with a smoky chimney, for more
than an hour, without making his appearance, I sallied out into
the town, and found Mr.

Dawson quietly seated in a hell with that scoundrel Thornton, whom I
did not conceive, till then, he was acquainted with. It seems that he was
to win, at hazard, sufficient to pay his wager. You may fancy my anger,
and the consequent increase to it, when he rose from the table, approached
me, expressed his sorrow, d--d his ill luck, and informed me that he
could not pay me for three months.

You know that I could not ride home with such a fellow--he might have
robbed me by the way--so I returned to my inn--dined--ordered my
horse, set off--en cavalier seul--inquired my way of every passenger
I passed, and after innumerable misdirections--here I am."

"I cannot sympathise with you," said I, "since I am benefitted by your
misfortunes. But do you think it very necessary to trot so fast? I
fear my horse can scarcely keep up with yours."
Tyrrell cast an impatient glance at my panting steed.

"It is cursed unlucky you should be so badly mounted, and we shall have
a pelting shower presently."
In complaisance to Tyrrell, I endeavoured to accelerate my steed.
The roads were rough and stony, and I had scarcely got the tired
animal into a sharper trot, before--whether or no by some wrench among
the deep ruts and flinty causeway--he fell suddenly lame.

The impetuosity of Tyrrell broke out in oaths, and we both dismounted
to examine the cause of my horse's hurt, in the hope that it
might only be the intrusion of some pebble between the shoe and the
hoof.

While we were yet investigating the cause of our misfortune, two men
on horseback overtook us. Tyrrell looked up. "By Heaven," said he, in
a low tone, "it's that dog Dawson, and his worthy coadjutor, Tom
Thornton."
"What's the matter, gentlemen?" cried the bluff voice of the latter.
"Can I be of any assistance?" and without waiting our reply, he
dismounted, and came up to us. He had no sooner felt the horse's leg,
than he assured us it was a most severe strain, and that the utmost
I could effect would be to walk the brute gently home.

As Tyrrell broke out into impatient violence at this speech, the sharper
looked up at him with an expression of countenance I by no means liked;
but in a very civil, and even respectful tone, said, "If you want, Sir
John, to reach Chester Park sooner than Mr. Pelham can possibly do,
suppose you ride on with us, I will put you in the direct road before
I quit you." (Good breeding, thought I, to propose leaving me to
find my own way through this labyrinth of ruts and stones!)

However, Tyrrell, who was in a vile humour, in no very courteous
manner, refused the offer, and added that he should continue with
me as long as he could, and did not doubt that when he left me he
should be able to find his own way.
Thornton pressed the invitation still closer, and even offered, sotto
voce, to send Dawson on before, should the baronet object to his
company.

"Pray, Sir," said Tyrrell, "leave me alone, and busy yourself about
your own affairs."

After so tart a reply, Thornton thought it useless to say more; he
remounted, and with a silent and swaggering nod of familiarity,
soon rode away with his companion.

"I am sorry," said I, as we were slowly proceeding, "that you rejected
Thornton's offer."

"Why, to say truth," answered Tyrrell, "I have so very bad an
opinion of him, that I was almost afraid to trust myself in his
company on so dreary a road.

I have nearly (and he knows it), to the amount of two thousand pounds
about me; for I was very fortunate in my betting-book today."
"I know nothing about racing regulations," said I; "but I thought
one never paid sums of that amount upon the ground?"

"Ah!"

answered Tyrrell, "but I won this sum, which is L1,800., of a country
squire from Norfolk, who said he did not know when he should see
me again, and insisted on paying me on the spot: 'faith I was not
nice in the matter.

Thornton was standing by at the time, and I did not half like the
turn of his eye when he saw me put it up. Do you know, too," continued
Tyrrell, after a pause, "that I have had a d--d fellow dodging me all
day, and yesterday too; wherever I go, I am sure to see him. He
seems constantly, though distantly, to follow me; and what is worse,
he wraps himself up so well, and keeps at so cautious a distance,
that I can never catch a glimpse of his face."

I know not why, but at that moment the recollection of the muffled
figure I had seen upon the course, flashed upon me.

"Does he wear a long horseman's cloak?" said I.

"He does," answered Tyrrell, in surprise: "have you observed him?"
"I saw such a person on the race ground," replied I; "but only for an
instant!"
Farther conversation was suspended by a few heavy drops which fell
upon us; the cloud had passed over the moon, and was hastening
rapidly and loweringly over our heads.

Tyrrell was neither of an age, a frame, nor a temper, to be so
indifferent to a hearty wetting as myself.

"God!" he cried, "you must put on that beast of your's--I can't get
wet, for all the horses in the world."
I was not much pleased with the dictatorial tone of this remark.

"It is impossible," said I, "especially as the horse is not my own, and
seems considerably lamer than at first; but let me not detain you."

"Well!" cried Tyrrell, in a raised and angry voice, which pleased me
still less than his former remark; "but how am I to find my way, if
I leave you?"
"Keep straight on," said I, "for a mile farther, then a sign-post
will direct you to the left; after a short time, you will have a steep
hill to descend, at the bottom of which is a large pool, and a
singularly shaped tree; then keep straight on, till you pass a house
belonging to Mr.
Dawson--"
"Come, come, Pelham, make haste!"

exclaimed Tyrrell, impatiently, as the rain began now to descend fast
and heavy.

"When you have passed that house," I resumed coolly, rather enjoying
his petulance, "you must bear to the right for six miles, and you
will be at Chester Park in less than an hour."
Tyrrell made no reply, but put spurs to his horse. The pattering rain
and the angry heavens soon drowned the last echoes of the receding
hoofclang.

For myself, I looked in vain for a tree; not even a shrub was to be
found; the fields lay bare on either side, with no other partition but
a dead hedge, and a deep dyke. "Patientia fit melius," thought I, as
Horace said, and Vincent would say; and in order to divert my thoughts
from my situation, I turned them towards my diplomatic success with
Lord Chester.
Presently, for I think scarcely five minutes had elapsed since
Tyrrell's departure, a horseman passed me at a sharp pace; the moon
was hid by the dense cloud, and the night, though not wholly dark,
was dim and obscured, so that I could only catch the outline of
the flitting figure.

A thrill of fear crept over me, when I saw that it was enveloped in a
horseman's cloak. I soon rallied--"There are more cloaks in the world
than one," said I to myself; "besides, even if it be Tyrrell's dodger, as
he calls him, the baronet is better mounted than any highwayman since the
days of Du Val; and is, moreover, strong enough and cunning enough to take
admirable care of himself." With this reflection I dismissed the occurrence
from my thoughts, and once more returned to self- congratulations
upon my own incomparable genius. "I shall now," I thought, "have well
earned my seat in parliament; Dawton will indisputably be, if not the
prime, the principal minister in rank and influence. He cannot fail
to promote me for his own sake, as well as mine; and when I have once
fairly got my legs in St.

Stephen's, I shall soon have my hands in office: 'power,' says some one,
'is a snake that when it once finds a hole into which it can introduce
its head, soon manages to wriggle in the rest of its body.'" With such
meditations I endeavoured to beguile the time and cheat myself into
forgetfulness of the lameness of my horse, and the dripping wetness of
his rider. At last the storm began sullenly to subside: one impetuous
torrent, ten-fold more violent than those that had preceded it, was
followed by a momentary stillness, which was again broken by a short
relapse of a less formidable severity, and the moment it ceased,
the beautiful moon broke out, the cloud rolled heavily away, and
the sky shone forth, as fair and smiling as Lady--at a ball, after
she has been beating her husband at home.

But at that instant, or perhaps a second before the storm ceased,
I thought I heard the sound of a human cry.

I paused, and my heart stood still--I could have heard a gnat
hum: the sound was not repeated; my ear caught nothing but the
plashing of the rain drops from the dead hedges, and the murmur of
the swollen dykes, as the waters pent within them rolled hurriedly
on.

By and by, an owl came suddenly from behind me, and screamed as it
flapped across my path; that, too, went rapidly away: and with a
smile, at what I deemed my own fancy, I renewed my journey.

I soon came to the precipitous descent I have before mentioned; I
dismounted, for safety, from my drooping and jaded horse, and led
him down the hill.

At a distance beyond I saw something dark moving on the grass which
bordered the road; as I advanced, it started forth from the shadow,
and fled rapidly before me, in the moonshine--it was a riderless
horse.

A chilling foreboding seized me: I looked round for some weapon, such
as the hedge might afford; and finding a strong stick of tolerable
weight and thickness, I proceeded more cautiously, but more fearlessly
than before. As I wound down the hill, the moonlight fell full upon
the remarkable and lonely tree I had observed in the morning. Bare, wan,
and giant-like, as it rose amidst the surrounding waste, it borrowed
even a more startling and ghostly appearance from the cold and
lifeless moonbeams which fell around and upon it like a shroud. The
retreating animal I had driven before me, paused by this tree.

I hastened my steps, as if by an involuntary impulse, as well as the
enfeebled animal I was leading would allow me, and discovered a horseman
galloping across the waste at full speed. The ground over which he
passed was steeped in the moonshine, and I saw the long and disguising
cloak, in which he was developed, as clearly as by the light of day.

I paused: and as I was following him with my looks, my eye fell upon
some obscure object by the left side of the pool.

I threw my horse's rein over the hedge, and firmly grasping my
stick, hastened to the spot.

As I approached the object, I perceived that it was a human figure;
it was lying still and motionless; the limbs were half immersed in
the water--the face was turned upwards-- the side and throat were
wet with a deep red stain--it was of blood; the thin, dark hairs
of the head, were clotted together over a frightful and disfiguring
contusion.

I bent over the face in a shuddering and freezing silence.

It was the countenance of Sir John Tyrrell!

CHAPTER LXV.

Marry, he was dead-- And the right valiant Barlquo walked too late,
Whom, you may say, if it please you, Fleance killed, For Fleance
fled!
--Macbeth.

It is a fearful thing, even to the hardiest nerves, to find ourselves
suddenly alone with the dead. How much more so, if we have, but a
breathing interval before, moved and conversed with the warm and
living likeness of the motionless clay before us!

And this was the man from whom I had parted in coldness--almost in anger
--at a word--a breath! I took up the heavy hand--it fell from my grasp,
and as it did so, I thought a change passed over the livid countenance.
I was deceived; it was but a light cloud flitting over the moon;--it
rolled away, and the placid and guiltless light shone over that scene
of dread and blood, making more wild and chilling the eternal contrast
of earth and heaven--man and his Maker--passion and immutability--dust
and immortality.

But that was not a moment for reflection--a thousand thoughts
hurried upon me, and departed as swift and confusedly as they came.
My mind seemed a jarring and benighted chaos of the faculties which were
its elements; and I had stood several minutes over the corpse before,
by a vigorous effort, I shook off the stupor that possessed me,
and began to think of the course that it now behoved me to pursue.

The house I had noted in the morning was, I knew, within a few minutes'
walk of the spot; but it belonged to Dawson, upon whom the first weight
of my suspicions rested.

I called to mind the disreputable character of that man, and the still
more daring and hardened one of his companion Thornton. I remembered
the reluctance of the deceased to accompany them, and the well-grounded
reason he assigned; and my suspicions amounting to certainty, I
resolved rather to proceed to Chester Park, and there give the alarm,
than to run the unnecessary risk of interrupting the murderers in the
very lair of their retreat.

And yet, thought I, as I turned slowly away, how, if they were the
villains, is the appearance and flight of the disguised horseman to
be accounted for?

Then flashed upon my recollection all that Tyrrell had said of the
dogged pursuit of that mysterious person, and the circumstance of his
having passed me upon the road so immediately after Tyrrell had quitted
me.
These reflections (associated with a name I did not dare breathe even
to myself, although I could not suppress a suspicion which accounted at
once for the pursuit, and even for the deed,) made me waver in, and
almost renounce my former condemnation of Thornton and his friend:
and by the time I reached the white gate and dwarfish avenue which led
to Dawson's house, I resolved, at all events, to halt at the solitary
mansion, and mark the effect my information would cause.

A momentary fear for my own safety came across me, but was as instantly
dismissed;--for even supposing the friends were guilty, still it would
be no object to them to extend their remorseless villany to me; and
I knew that I could sufficiently command my own thoughts to prevent
any suspicion I might form, from mounting to my countenance, or
discovering itself in my manner.

There was a light in the upper story; it burned still and motionless.
How holy seemed the tranquillity of life, to the forced and fearful
silence of the death scene I had just witnessed! I rung twice at
the door--no one came to answer my summons, but the light in the
upper window moved hurriedly to and fro.

"They are coming," said I to myself. No such thing--the casement
above was opened--I looked up, and discovered, to my infinite
comfort and delight, a blunderbuss protruded eight inches out of
the window in a direct line with my head; I receded close to the
wall with no common precipitation.

"Get away, you rascal," said a gruff, but trembling voice, "or I'll
blow your brains out."

"My good Sir," I replied, still keeping my situation, "I come on urgent
business, either to Mr. Thornton or Mr. Dawson; and you had better,
therefore, if the delay is not very inconvenient, defer the honour you
offer me, till I have delivered my message."
"Master, and 'Squire Thornton are not returned from Newmarket, and we
cannot let any one in till they come home," replied the voice, in a
tone somewhat mollified by my rational remonstrance; and while I
was deliberating what rejoinder to make, a rough, red head, like
Liston's, in a farce, poked itself cautiously out under cover of
the blunderbuss, and seemed to reconnoitre my horse and myself.

Presently another head, but attired in the more civilized gear
of a cap and flowers, peeped over the first person's left shoulder;
the view appeared to reassure them.

"Sir," said the female, "my husband and Mr. Thornton are not returned;
and we have been so much alarmed of late, by an attack on the
house, that I cannot admit any one till their return."

"Madam," I replied, reverently doffing my hat, "I do not like to
alarm you by mentioning the information I should have given to Mr.

Dawson; only oblige me by telling them, on their return, to look
beside the pool on the common; they will then do as best pleases
them."

Upon this speech, which certainly was of no agreeable tendency, the
blunderbuss palpitated so violently, that I thought it highly
imprudent to tarry any longer in so immediate a vicinity; accordingly,
I made the best of my way out of the avenue, and once more resumed
my road to Chester Park.

I arrived there at length; the gentlemen were still in the dining-room.
I sent out for Lord Chester, and communicated the scene I had
witnessed, and the cause of my delay.

"What, Brown Bob lamed?" said he, "and Tyrrell--poor--poor fellow,
how shocking!

we must send instantly. Here, John! Tom! Wilson!" and his lordship
shouted and rung the bell in an indescribable agitation.

The under butler appeared, and Lord Chester began--"My head groom--Sir
John Tyrrell is murdered--violent sprain in off leg--send lights
with Mr.

Pelham--poor gentleman--an express instantly to Dr. Physicon--Mr.
Pelham will tell you all--Brown Bob--his throat cut from ear to
ear--what shall be done?"

and with this coherent and explanatory harangue, the marquis sunk
down in his chair in a sort of hysteria.

The under butler looked at him in suspicious bewilderment. "Come," said
I, "I will explain what his lordship means:" and, taking the man out
of the room, I gave him, in brief, the necessary particulars.

I ordered a fresh horse for myself, and four horsemen to accompany
me.

While these were preparing, the news was rapidly spreading, and I
was soon surrounded by the whole house.

Many of the men wished to accompany me; and Lord Chester, who had
at last recovered from his stupor, insisted upon heading the search.

We set off, to the number of fourteen, and soon arrived at Dawson's
house: the light in the upper room was still burning.

We rang, and after a brief pause, Thornton himself opened the door
to us.

He looked pale and agitated.

"How shocking!" he said directly--"we are only just returned from the
spot."

They climbed three flights of stairs, and then Arthurs
knocked at a door. Ken's heart palpitated. It was all so sudden; he did
not know what he was going to say or do. He did not care what happened
to him if Arthurs could only, somehow, put him right with the captain.

A merry voice bade them enter. The coach opened the door and led Ken
across the threshold. Ken felt the glow of a warm, bright room, colorful
with pennants and posters, and cozy in its disorder. Then he saw Dale
and, behind him, several other students. There was a moment's silence in
which Ken heard his heart beat.

Dale rose slowly from his seat, the look on his frank face changing
from welcome to intense amazement and then wild elation.

"Whoop!" he shouted. "Lock the door! Worry Arthurs, this's your best
bet ever!"

Dale dashed at the coach, hugged him frantically, then put his
head out of the door to bawl: "Sophs! Sophs! Sophs! Hurry call!
Number nine!... Oh, my!"

Then he faced about, holding the door partially open. He positively
beamed upon the coach.

"Say, Cap, what's eatin' you?" asked Arthurs. He looked dumfounded.
Ken hung to him desperately; he thought he knew what was coming. There
were hurried footsteps in the corridor and excited voices.

"Worry, it's bully of you to bring this freshman here," declared the
captain.

"Well, what of it?" demanded the coach. "I looked him up to-night.
He's got a great arm, and will be good material for the team. He told
me about the little scrap you had in the lecture-room. He lost his
temper, and no wonder. Anyway, he's sorry, Cap, and I fetched him
around to see if you couldn't make it up. How about it, Kid?"

"I'm sorry--awfully sorry, Captain Dale," blurted out Ken. "I was mad
and scared, too--then you fellows hurt me. So I hit right out.... But
I'll take my medicine."

"So--oh!" ejaculated Dale. "Well, this beats the deuce! _That's_ why
you're here?"

The door opened wide to admit half a dozen eager-faced youths.

"Fellows, here's a surprise," said Dale. "Young Ward, the freshman!
the elusive slugging freshman, fast on his feet, and, as Worry here
says, a lad with a great arm!"

"WARD!" roared the Sophs in unison.

"Hold on, fellows--wait--no rough-house yet--wait," ordered Dale.
"Ward's here of his own free will!"

Silence ensued after the captain spoke. While he turned to lock the
door the Sophs stared open-mouthed at Ken. Arthurs had a worried look,
and he kept his hand on Ken. Dale went to a table and began filling his
pipe. Then he fixed sharp, thoughtful eyes upon his visitors.

"Worry, you say you brought this freshman here to talk baseball?" he asked.

"Sure I did," blustered Arthurs. It was plain now where he got the name
that Dale called him. "What's in the wind, anyhow?"

Dale then gravely spoke to Ken. "So you came here to see me? Sorry
you slugged me once? Want to make up for it somehow, because you think
you've a chance for the team, and don't want me to be sore on you?
That it?"

"Not exactly," replied Ken. "I'd want to let you get square with me even
if you weren't the varsity captain."

"Well, you've more than squared yourself with me--by coming here. You'll
realize that presently. But don't you know what's happened, what the
freshmen have done?"

"No; I don't."

"You haven't been near the university since this afternoon when you
pulled off the potato stunt?"

"I should say I haven't."

This brought a laugh from the Sophs.

"You were pretty wise," went on Dale. "The Sophs didn't love you then.
But they're going to--understand?"

Ken shook his head, too bewildered and mystified to reply.

"Well, now, here's Giraffe Boswick. Look what you did to him!"

Ken's glance followed the wave of Dale's hand and took in the tall,
bronze-haired sophomore who had led the chase that afternoon. Boswick
wore a huge discolored bruise over his left eye. It was hideous. Ken
was further sickened to recollect that Boswick was one of the varsity
pitchers. But the fellow was smiling amiably at Ken, as amiably as
one eye would permit. The plot thickened about Ken. He felt his legs
trembling under him.

"Boswick, you forgive Ward, don't you--now?" continued Dale, with
a smile.

"With all my heart!" exclaimed the pitcher. "To see him here would make
me forgive anything."

Coach Arthurs was ill at ease. He evidently knew students, and he did
not relish the mystery, the hidden meaning.

"Say, you wise guys make me sick," he called out, gruffly. "Here's a
kid that comes right among you. He's on the level, and more'n that,
he's game! Now, Cap, I fetched him here, and I won't stand for a whole
lot. Get up on your toes! Get it over!"

"Sit down Worry, here's a cigar--light up," said Dale, soothingly.
"It's all coming right, lovely, I say. Ward was game to hunt me up,
a thousand times gamer than he knows.... See here, Ward, where are
you from?"

"I live a good long day's travel from the university," answered Ken,
evasively.

"I thought so. Did you ever hear of the bowl-fight, the great event
of the year here at Wayne University?"

"Yes, I've heard--read a little about it. But I don't know what it is."

"I'll tell you," went on Dale. "There are a number of yearly rushes and
scrapes between the freshmen and sophomores, but the bowl-fight is the
one big meeting, the time-honored event. It has been celebrated here for
many years. It takes place on a fixed date. Briefly, here's what comes
off: The freshmen have the bowl in their keeping this year because they
won it in the last fight. They are to select one of their number, always
a scrappy fellow, and one honored by the class, and they call him the
bowl-man. A week before the fight, on a certain date, the freshmen hide
this bowl-man or protect him from the sophomores until the day of the
fight, when they all march to Grant field in fighting-togs. Should the
sophomores chance to find him and hold him prisoner until after the date
of the bowl-fight they win the bowl. The same applies also in case the
bowl is in possession of the sophomores. But for ten years neither class
has captured the other's bowl-man. So they have fought it out on the
field until the bowl was won."

"Well, what has all that got to do with me?" asked Ken. He felt curiously
light-headed.

"It has a _little_ to do with you--hasn't it, fellows?" said Dale, in
slow, tantalizing voice.

Worry Arthurs lost his worried look and began to smile and rub his hands.

"Ward, look here," added Dale, now speaking sharply. "You've been picked
for the bowl-man!"

"Me--me?" stammered Ken.

"No other. The freshmen were late in choosing a man this year. To-day,
after your stunt--holding up that bunch of sophomores--they had a meeting
in Carlton Club and picked you. Most of them didn't even know your name.
I'll bet the whole freshman class is hunting for you right now."

"What for?" queried Ken, weakly.

"Why, I told you. The bowl-fight is only a week off--and here you are.
_And here you'll stay until that date's past!_"

Ken drew a quick breath. He began to comprehend. The sudden huzzahs of
Dale's companions gave him further enlightenment.

"But, Captain Dale," he said, breathlessly, "if it's so--if my class
has picked me--I can't throw them down. I don't know a soul in my
class. I haven't a friend. But I won't throw them down--not to be
forever free of dodging Sophs--not even to square myself with you."

"Ward, you're all right!" shouted Dale, his eyes shining.

In the quiet moment that followed, with all the sophomores watching him
intently, Ken Ward instinctively felt that his measure had been taken.

"I won't stay here," said Ken, and for the first time his voice rang.

"Oh yes, you will," replied Dale, laughing.

Quick as a cat Ken leaped for the door and got it unlocked and half open
before some one clutched him. Then Dale was on him close and hard. Ken
began to struggle. He was all muscle, and twice he broke from them.

"His legs! Grab his legs! He's a young bull!"

"We'll trim you now, Freshie!"

"You potato-masher!"

"Go for his wind!"

Fighting and wrestling with all his might Ken went down under a half
dozen sophomores. Then Dale was astride his chest, and others were
sitting on his hands and feet.

"Boys, don't hurt that arm!" yelled Worry Arthurs.

"Ward, will you be good now and stop scrapping or shall we tie you?"
asked Dale. "You can't get away. The thing to do is to give your word
not to try. We want to make this easy for you. Your word of honor, now?"

"Never!" cried Ken.

"I knew you wouldn't," said Dale. "We'll have to keep you under guard."

They let him get up. He was panting, and his nose was bleeding, and one
of his knuckles was skinned. That short struggle had been no joke. The
Sophs certainly meant to keep him prisoner. Still, he was made to feel
at ease. They could not do enough for him.

"It's tough luck, Ward, that you should have fallen into our hands this
way," said Dale. "But you couldn't help it. You will be kept in my rooms
until after the fifteenth. Meals will be brought you, and your books;
everything will be done for your comfort. Your whereabouts, of course,
will be a secret, and you will be closely watched. Worry, remember you
are bound to silence. And Ward, perhaps it wasn't an ill wind that blew
you here. You've had your last scrap with a Soph, that's sure. As for
what brought you here--it's more than square; and I'll say this: if you
can play ball as well as you can scrap, old Wayne has got a star."


IV

THE CALL FOR CANDIDATES


There were five rooms in Dale's suite in the dormitory, and three
other sophomores shared them with him. They confined Ken in the end
room, where he was safely locked and guarded from any possible chance
to escape.

For the first day or two it was irksome for Ken; but as he and his
captors grew better acquainted the strain eased up, and Ken began to
enjoy himself as he had not since coming to the university.

He could not have been better provided for. His books were at hand,
and even notes of the lectures he was missing were brought to him. The
college papers and magazines interested him, and finally he was much
amused by an account of his mysterious disappearance. All in a day he
found himself famous. Then Dale and his room-mates were so friendly and
jolly that if his captivity had not meant the disgrace of the freshman
class, Ken would have rejoiced in it. He began to thaw out, though he
did not lose his backwardness. The life of the great university began
to be real to him. Almost the whole sophomore class, in squads of twos
and threes and sixes, visited Dale's rooms during that week. No Soph
wanted to miss a sight of a captive bowl-man. Ken felt so callow and
fresh in their presence that he scarcely responded to their jokes.
Worry Arthur's nickname of "Kid" vied with another the coach conferred
on Ken, and that was "Peg." It was significant slang expressing the
little baseball man's baseball notion of Ken's throwing power.

The evening was the most interesting time for Ken. There was always
something lively going on. He wondered when the boys studied. When
some of the outside students dropped in there were banjo and guitar
playing, college songs, and college gossip.

"Come on, Peg, be a good fellow," they said, and laughed at his refusal
to smoke or drink beer.

"Molly!" mocked one.

"Willy-boy!" added another.

Ken was callow, young, and backward; but he had a temper, and this
kind of banter roused it easily. The red flamed into his cheeks.

"I promised my mother I wouldn't smoke or drink or gamble while I
was in college," he retorted, struggling with shame and anger.
"And I--I won't."

Dale stopped the good-natured chaff. "Fellows, stop guying Ward;
cut it out, I tell you. He's only a kid freshman, but he's liable
to hand you a punch, and if he does you'll remember it. Besides,
he's right.... Look here, Ward, you stick to that promise. It's a
good promise to stick to, and if you're going in for athletics it's
the best ever."

Worry Arthurs happened to be present on this evening, and he seconded
Dale in more forceful speech. "There's too much boozin' and smokin'
of them coffin nails goin' on in this college. It's none of my affair
except with the boys I'm coachin', and if I ketch any one breakin' my
rules after we go to the trainin'-table he'll sit on the bench. There's
Murray; why, he says there are fellows in college who could break records
if they'd train. Half of sprintin' or baseball or football is condition."

"Oh, Worry, you and Mac always make a long face over things. Wayne has
won a few championships, hasn't she?"

"The varsity ball team will be a frost this year, that's sure,"
replied Arthurs, gloomily.

"How do you make that out?" demanded Dale, plainly nettled. "You've
hinted it before to me. Why won't we be stronger than last season?
Didn't we have a crackerjack team, the fastest that ever represented
old Wayne? Didn't we smother the small college teams and beat Place
twice, shut out Herne the first game, and play for a tie the second?"

"You'll see, all right, all right," replied Arthurs, gloomier than ever;
and he took his hat and went out.

Dale slammed his cards down on the table.

"Fellows, is it any wonder we call him Worry? Already he's begun to
fuss over the team. Ever since he's been here he has driven the baseball
captains and managers crazy. It's only his way, but it's so irritating.
He's a magnificent coach, and Wayne owes her great baseball teams to him.
But he's hard on captains. I see my troubles. The idea of this year's
team being a frost--with all the old stars back in college--with only
two positions to fill! And there are half a dozen cracks in college to
fight for these two positions--fellows I played against on the summer
nines last year. Worry's idea is ridiculous."

This bit of baseball talk showed Ken the obstacles in the way of a
freshman making the varsity team. What a small chance there would be
for him! Still he got a good deal of comfort out of Arthurs' interest
in him, and felt that he would be happy to play substitute this season,
and make the varsity in his sophomore year.

The day of the bowl-fight passed, and Ken's captivity became history. The
biggest honor of the sophomore year went to Dale and his room-mates. Ken
returned to his department, where he was made much of, as he had brought
fame to a new and small branch of the great university. It was a pleasure
to walk the campus without fear of being pounced upon. Ken's dodging and
loneliness--perhaps necessary and curbing nightmares in the life of a
freshman--were things of the past. He made acquaintances, slowly lost
his backwardness, and presently found college life opening to him bright
and beautiful. Ken felt strongly about things. And as his self-enforced
exile had been lonely and bitter, so now his feeling that he was really
a part of the great university seemed almost too good to be true. He
began to get a glimmering of the meaning of his father's love for the
old college. Students and professors underwent some vague change in his
mind. He could not tell what, he did not think much about it, but there
was a warmer touch, a sense of something nearer to him.

Then suddenly a blow fell upon the whole undergraduate body. It was a
thunderbolt. It affected every student, but Ken imagined it concerned
his own college fortunes more intimately. The athletic faculty barred
every member of the varsity baseball team! The year before the faculty
had advised and requested the players not to become members of the
summer baseball nines. Their wishes had not been heeded. Captain Dale
and his fast players had been much in demand by the famous summer nines.
Some of them went to the Orange Athletic Club, others to Richfield Springs,
others to Cape May, and Dale himself had captained the Atlantic City team.

The action of the faculty was commended by the college magazine.
Even the students, though chafing under it, could not but acknowledge
its justice. The other universities had adopted such a rule, and Wayne
must fall in line. The objections to summer ball-playing were not few,
and the particular one was that it affected the amateur standing of
the college player. He became open to charges of professionalism. At
least, all his expenses were paid, and it was charged that usually he
was paid for his services.

Ken's first feeling when he learned this news was one of blank dismay.
The great varsity team wiped off the slate! How Place and Herne would
humble old Wayne this year! Then the long, hard schedule, embracing
thirty games, at least one with every good team in the East--how would
an untried green team fare against that formidable array? Then Ken
suddenly felt ashamed of a selfish glee, for he was now sure of a place
on the varsity.

For several days nothing else was talked about by the students. Whenever
Dale or his players appeared at Carlton Hall they were at once surrounded
by a sympathetic crowd. If it was a bitter blow to the undergraduates,
what was it to the members of the varsity? Their feeling showed in pale,
stern faces. It was reported about the campus that Murray and Arthurs
and Dale, with the whole team, went to the directors of the athletic
faculty and besought them to change or modify the decision. Both the
trainer and the coach, who had brought such glory to the university,
threatened to resign their places. The disgrace of a pitiably weak
team of freshmen being annihilated by minor colleges was eloquently
put before the directors. But the decision was final.

One evening early in February Worry Arthurs called upon Ken. His face
was long, and his mustache drooped.

"Kid, what do you think of 'em fat-heads on the faculty queerin' my
team?" he asked. "Best team I ever developed. Say, but the way they
could work the hit-and-run game! Any man on the team could hit to
right field when there was a runner goin' down from first."

"Maybe things will turn out all right," suggested Ken, hopefully.

Worry regarded his youthful sympathizer with scorn.

"It takes two years to teach most college kids the rudiments of baseball.
Look at this year's schedule." Worry produced a card and waved it at Ken.
"The hardest schedule Wayne ever had! And I've got to play a kid team."

Ken was afraid to utter any more of his hopes, and indeed he felt them
to be visionary.

"The call for candidates goes out to-morrow," went on the coach. "I'll
bet there'll be a mob at the cage. Every fool kid in the university will
think he's sure of a place. Now, Ward, what have you played?"

"Everywhere; but infield mostly."

"Every kid has played the whole game. What position have you played most?"

"Third base."

"Good! You've the arm for that. Well, I'm anxious to see you work,
but don't exert yourself in the cage. This is a tip. See! I'll be
busy weedin' out the bunch, and won't have time until we get out on
the field. You can run around the track every day, get your wind and
your legs right, hold in on your arm. The cage is cold. I've seen many
a good wing go to the bad there. But your chance looks good. College
baseball is different from any other kind. You might say it's played
with the heart. I've seen youngsters go in through grit and spirit,
love of playin' for their college, and beat out fellows who were their
superiors physically. Well, good-night.... Say, there's one more thing.
I forgot it. Are you up in your subjects?"

"I surely am," replied Ken. "I've had four months of nothing but study."

"The reason I ask is this: That faculty has made another rule, the
one-year residence rule, they call it. You have to pass your exams,
get your first year over, before you can represent any athletic club.
So, in case I can use you on the team, you would have to go up for your
exams two months or more ahead of time. That scare you?"

"Not a bit. I could pass mine right now," answered Ken, confidently.

"Kid, you and me are goin' to get along.... Well, good-night, and don't
forget what I said."

Ken was too full for utterance; he could scarcely mumble good-night to
the coach. He ran up-stairs three steps to the jump, and when he reached
his room he did a war dance and ended by standing on his head. When he
had gotten rid of his exuberance he sat down at once to write to his
brother Hal about it, and also his forest-ranger friend, Dick Leslie,
with whom he had spent an adventurous time the last summer.

At Carlton Hall, next day, Ken saw a crowd of students before
the bulletin-board and, edging in, he read the following notice:


                      BASEBALL!

  CALL FOR CANDIDATES FOR THE VARSITY BASEBALL TEAM

  The Athletic Directors of the University earnestly
  request every student who can play ball, or who
  thinks he can, to present himself to Coach Arthurs
  at the Cage on Feb. 3rd.

  There will be no freshman team this year, and a
  new team entirely will be chosen for the varsity.
  Every student will have a chance. Applicants are
  requested to familiarize themselves with the new
  eligibility rules.


V

THE CAGE


Ken Ward dug down into his trunk for his old baseball suit and donned
it with strange elation. It was dirty and torn, and the shoes that went
with it were worn out, but Ken was thinking of what hard ball-playing
they represented. He put his overcoat on over his sweater, took up his
glove and sallied forth.

A thin coating of ice and snow covered the streets. Winter still
whistled in the air. To Ken in his eagerness spring seemed a long
way off. On his way across the campus he saw strings of uniformed
boys making for Grant Field, and many wearing sweaters over their
every-day clothes. The cage was situated at one end of the field
apart from the other training-quarters. When Ken got there he found
a mob of players crowding to enter the door of the big barn-like
structure. Others were hurrying away. Near the door a man was taking
up tickets like a doorkeeper of a circus, and he kept shouting:
"Get your certificates from the doctor. Every player must pass a
physical examination. Get your certificates."

Ken turned somewhat in disgust at so much red tape and he jostled into
a little fellow, almost knocking him over.

"Wull! Why don't you fall all over me?" growled this amiable individual.
"For two cents I'd hand you one."

The apology on Ken's lips seemed to halt of its own accord.

"Sorry I haven't any change in these clothes," returned Ken. He saw a
wiry chap, older than he was, but much smaller, and of most aggressive
front. He had round staring eyes, a protruding jaw, and his mouth turned
down at the corners. He wore a disreputable uniform and a small green
cap over one ear.

"Aw! don't get funny!" he replied.

Ken moved away muttering to himself: "That fellow's a grouch." Much
to his amazement, when he got to the training-house, Ken found that he
could not get inside because so many players were there ahead of him.
After waiting an hour or more he decided he could not have his physical
examination at that time, and he went back to the cage. The wide door
was still blocked with players, but at the other end of the building
Ken found an entrance. He squeezed into a crowd of students and worked
forward until stopped by a railing.

Ken was all eyes and breathless with interest. The cage was a huge,
open, airy room, lighted by many windows, and, with the exception
of the platform where he stood, it was entirely enclosed by heavy
netting. The floor was of bare ground well raked and loosened to
make it soft. This immense hall was full of a motley crowd of
aspiring ball-players.

Worry Arthurs, with his head sunk in the collar of his overcoat, and
his shoulders hunched up as if he was about to spring upon something,
paced up and down the rear end of the cage. Behind him a hundred or
more players in line slowly marched toward the slab of rubber which
marked the batting position. Ken remembered that the celebrated coach
always tried out new players at the bat first. It was his belief that
batting won games.

"Bunt one and hit one!" he yelled to the batters.

From the pitcher's box a lanky individual was trying to locate the
plate. Ken did not need a second glance to see that this fellow was
no pitcher.

"Stop posin', and pitch!" yelled Arthurs.

One by one the batters faced the plate, swung valiantly or wildly at
balls and essayed bunts. Few hit the ball out and none made a creditable
bunt. After their turn at bat they were ordered to the other end of the
cage, where they fell over one another trying to stop the balls that
were hit. Every few moments the coach would yell for one of them, any
one, to take a turn at pitching. Ken noticed that Arthurs gave a sharp
glance at each new batter, and one appeared to be sufficient. More and
more ambitious players crowded into the cage, until there were so many
that batted balls rarely missed hitting some one.

Presently Ken Ward awoke from his thrilling absorption in the scene to
note another side of it. The students around him were making game of
the players.

"What a bunch!"

"Look at that fuzzy gosling with the yellow pants!"

"Keep your shanks out of the way, Freshie!"

"Couldn't hit a balloon!"

Whenever a batter hit a ball into the crowd of dodging players down
the cage these students howled with glee. Ken discovered that he was
standing near Captain Dale and other members of the barred varsity.

"Say, Dale, how do the candidates shape up?" asked a student.

"This is a disgrace to Wayne," declared Dale, bitterly. "I never saw
such a mob of spindle-legged kids in my life. Look at them! Scared to
death! That fellow never swung at a ball before--that one never heard
of a bunt--they throw like girls--Oh! this is sickening, fellows. I see
where Worry goes to his grave this year and old Wayne gets humbled by
one-horse colleges."

Ken took one surprised glance at the captain he had admired so much
and then he slipped farther over in the crowd. Perhaps Dale had spoken
truth, yet somehow it jarred upon Ken's sensitive nature. The thing
that affected Ken most was the earnestness of the uniformed boys trying
their best to do well before the great coach. Some were timid, uncertain;
others were rash and over-zealous. Many a ball cracked off a player's
knee or wrist, and more than once Ken saw a bloody finger. It was cold
in the cage. Even an ordinarily hit ball must have stung the hands,
and the way a hard grounder cracked was enough to excite sympathy among
those scornful spectators, if nothing more. But they yelled in delight
at every fumble, at everything that happened. Ken kept whispering to
himself: "I can't see the fun in it. I can't!"

Arthurs dispensed with the bunting and ordered one hit each for
the batters. "Step up and hit!" he ordered, hoarsely. "Don't be
afraid--never mind that crowd--step into the ball and swing natural....
Next! Hurry, boys!"

Suddenly a deep-chested student yelled out with a voice that drowned
every other sound.

"Hard luck, Worry! No use! You'll never find a hitter among those misfits!"

The coach actually leaped up in his anger and his face went from crimson
to white. Ken thought it was likely that he recognized the voice.

"You knocker! You knocker!" he cried. "That's a fine college spirit,
ain't it? You're a fine lot of students, I don't think. Now shut up,
every one of you, or I'll fire you out of the cage.... And right here
at the start you knockers take this from me--I'll find more than one
hitter among those kids!"

A little silence fell while the coach faced that antagonistic crowd
of spectators. Ken was amazed the second time, and now because of the
intensity of feeling that seemed to hang in the air. Ken felt a warm
rush go over him, and that moment added greatly to his already strong
liking for Worry Arthurs.

Then the coach turned to his work, the batting began again, and the
crack of the ball, the rush of feet, the sharp cries of the players
mingled once more with the laughter and caustic wit of the unsympathetic
audience.

Ken Ward went back to his room without having removed his overcoat.
He was thoughtful that night and rebellious against the attitude of
the student body. A morning paper announced the fact that over three
hundred candidates had presented themselves to Coach Arthurs. It went
on to say that the baseball material represented was not worth considering
and that old Wayne's varsity team must be ranked with those of the
fifth-rate colleges. This, following Ken's experience at the cage on
the first day, made him angry and then depressed. The glamour of the
thing seemed to fade away. Ken lost the glow, the exhilaration of his
first feelings. Everybody took a hopeless view of Wayne's baseball
prospects. Ken Ward, however, was not one to stay discouraged long,
and when he came out of his gloom it was with his fighting spirit
roused. Once and for all he made up his mind to work heart and soul
for his college, to be loyal to Arthurs, to hope and believe in the
future of the new varsity, whether or not he was lucky enough to win
a place upon it.

Next day, going early to the training-quarters, he took his place
in a squad waiting for the physical examination. It was a wearisome
experience. At length Ken's turn came with two other players, one of
whom he recognized as the sour-complexioned fellow of the day before.

"Wull, you're pretty fresh," he said to Ken as they went in. He had a
most exasperating manner.

"Say, I don't like you a whole lot," retorted Ken.

Then a colored attendant ushered them into a large room in which were
several men. The boys were stripped to the waist.

"Come here, Murray," said the doctor. "There's some use in looking
these boys over, particularly this husky youngster."

A tall man in a white sweater towered over Ken. It was the famous
trainer. He ran his hands over Ken's smooth skin and felt of the
muscles.

"Can you run?" he asked.

"Yes," replied Ken.

"Are you fast?"

"Yes."

Further inquiries brought from Ken his name, age, weight, that he had
never been ill, had never used tobacco or intoxicating drinks.

"Ward, eh? 'Peg' Ward," said Murray, smiling. "Worry Arthurs has the
call on you--else, my boy, I'd whisper football in your ear. Mebbe I
will, anyhow, if you keep up in your studies. That'll do for you."

Ken's companions also won praise from the trainer. They gave their
names as Raymond and Weir. The former weighed only one hundred and
twenty-two, but he was a knot of muscles. The other stood only five
feet, but he was very broad and heavy, his remarkably compact build
giving an impression of great strength. Both replied in the negative
to the inquiries as to use of tobacco or spirits.

"Boys, that's what we like to hear," said the doctor. "You three ought
to pull together."

Ken wondered what the doctor would have said if he had seen the way
these three boys glared at each other in the dressing-room. And he
wondered, too, what was the reason for such open hostility. The answer
came to him in the thought that perhaps they were both trying for the
position he wanted on the varsity. Most likely they had the same idea
about him. That was the secret of little Raymond's pugnacious front and
Weir's pompous air; and Ken realized that the same reason accounted for
his own attitude toward them. He wanted very much to tell Raymond that
he was a little grouch and Weir that he looked like a puffed-up toad.
All the same Ken was not blind to Weir's handsome appearance. The
sturdy youngster had an immense head, a great shock of bright brown
hair, flashing gray eyes, and a clear bronze skin.

"They'll both make the team, I'll bet," thought Ken. "They look it.
I hope I don't have to buck against them." Then as they walked toward
the cage Ken forced himself to ask genially: "Raymond, what're you
trying for? And you, Weir?"

"Wull, if it's any of your fresh business, I'm not _trying_ for any
place. I'm going to play infield. You can carry my bat," replied Raymond,
sarcastically.

"Much obliged," retorted Ken, "I'm not going to substitute. I've a
corner on that varsity infield myself."

Weir glanced at them with undisguised disdain. "You can save yourselves
useless work by not trying for my position. I intend to play infield."

"Wull, puff-up, now, puff-up!" growled Raymond.

Thus the three self-appointed stars of the varsity bandied words
among themselves as they crossed the field. At the cage door they
became separated to mingle with the pushing crowd of excited boys
in uniforms.

By dint of much squeezing and shoulder-work Ken got inside the cage.
He joined the squad in the upper end and got in line for the batting.
Worry Arthurs paced wildly to and fro yelling for the boys to hit. A
dense crowd of students thronged the platform and laughed, jeered, and
stormed at the players. The cage was in such an uproar that Arthurs
could scarcely be heard. Watching from the line Ken saw Weir come to
bat and stand aggressively and hit the ball hard. It scattered the flock
of fielders. Then Raymond came along, and, batting left-handed, did
likewise. Arthurs stepped forward and said something to both. After
Ken's turn at bat the coach said to him: "Get out of here. Go run round
the track. Do it every day. Don't come back until Monday."

As Ken hurried out he saw and felt the distinction with which he was
regarded by the many players whom he crowded among in passing. When
he reached the track he saw Weir, Raymond, and half a dozen other
fellows going round at a jog-trot. Weir was in the lead, setting the
pace. Ken fell in behind.

The track was the famous quarter-mile track upon which Murray trained
his sprinters. When Ken felt the spring of the cinder-path in his feet,
the sensation of buoyancy, the eager wildfire pride that flamed over
him, he wanted to break into headlong flight. The first turn around the
track was delight; the second pleasure in his easy stride; the third
brought a realization of distance. When Ken had trotted a mile he was
not tired, he still ran easily, but he began to appreciate that his
legs were not wings. The end of the second mile found him sweating
freely and panting.

Two miles were enough for the first day. Ken knew it and he began to
wonder why the others, especially Weir, did not know it. But Weir jogged
on, his head up, his hair flying, as if he had not yet completed his
first quarter. The other players stretched out behind him. Ken saw
Raymond's funny little green cap bobbing up and down, and it made him
angry. Why could not the grouch get a decent cap, anyway?

At the end of the third mile Ken began to labor. His feet began to
feel weighted, his legs to ache, his side to hurt. He was wringing wet;
his skin burned; his breath whistled. But he kept doggedly on. It had
become a contest now. Ken felt instinctively that every runner would
not admit he had less staying power than the others. Ken declared to
himself that he could be as bull-headed as any of them. Still to see
Weir jogging on steady and strong put a kind of despair on Ken. For
every lap of the fourth mile a runner dropped out, and at the half of
the fifth only Weir, Raymond, and Ken kept to the track.

Ken hung on gasping at every stride. He was afraid his heart would burst.
The pain in his side was as keen as a knife thrust. His feet were lead.
Every rod he felt must be his last, yet spurred on desperately, and
he managed to keep at the heels of the others. It might kill him,
but he would not stop until he dropped. Raymond was wagging along
ready to fall any moment, and Weir was trotting slowly with head down.
On the last lap of the fifth mile they all stopped as by one accord.
Raymond fell on the grass; Ken staggered to a bench, and Weir leaned
hard against the fence. They were all blowing like porpoises and
regarded each other as mortal enemies. Weir gazed grandly at the
other two; Raymond glowered savagely at him and then at Ken; and
Ken in turn gave them withering glances. Without a word the three
contestants for a place on the varsity then went their several ways.


VI

OUT ON THE FIELD


When Ken presented himself at the cage on the following Monday it was
to find that Arthurs had weeded out all but fifty of the candidates.
Every afternoon for a week the coach put these players through batting
and sliding practice, then ordered them out to run around the track.
On the next Monday only twenty-five players were left, and as the number
narrowed down the work grew more strenuous, the rivalry keener, and the
tempers of the boys more irascible.

Ken discovered it was work and not by any means pleasant work. He
fortified himself by the thought that the pleasure and glory, the
real play, was all to come as a reward. Worry Arthurs drove them
relentlessly. Nothing suited him; not a player knew how to hold a
bat, to stand at the plate, to slide right, or to block a ground ball.

"Don't hit with your left hand on top--unless you're left-handed.
Don't grip the end of the bat. There! Hold steady now, step out and
into the ball, and swing clean and level. If you're afraid of bein'
hit by the ball, get out of here!"

It was plain to Ken that not the least of Arthurs' troubles was the
incessant gibing of the students on the platform. There was always a
crowd watching the practice, noisy, scornful, abusive. They would never
recover from the shock of having that seasoned champion varsity barred
out of athletics. Every once in a while one of them would yell out:
"Wait, Worry! oh! Worry, wait till the old varsity plays your yanigans!"
And every time the coach's face would burn. But he had ceased to talk
back to the students. Besides, the athletic directors were always
present. They mingled with the candidates and talked baseball to them
and talked to Arthurs. Some of them might have played ball once, but
they did not talk like it. Their advice and interference served only
to make the coach's task harder.

Another Monday found only twenty players in the squad. That day Arthurs
tried out catchers, pitchers, and infielders. He had them all throwing,
running, fielding, working like Trojans. They would jump at his yell,
dive after the ball, fall over it, throw it anywhere but in the right
direction, run wild, and fight among themselves. The ever-flowing
ridicule from the audience was anything but a stimulus. So much of
it coming from the varsity and their adherents kept continually in the
minds of the candidates their lack of skill, their unworthiness to
represent the great university in such a popular sport as baseball. So
that even if there were latent ability in any of the candidates no one
but the coach could see it. And often he could not conceal his disgust
and hopelessness.

"Battin' practice!" he ordered, sharply. "Two hits and a bunt to-day.
Get a start on the bunt and dig for first. Hustle now!"

He placed one player to pitch to the hitters, another to catch, and as
soon as the hitters had their turn they took to fielding. Two turns for
each at bat left the coach more than dissatisfied.

"You're all afraid of the ball," he yelled. "This ain't no dodgin' game.
Duck your nut if the ball's goin' to hit you, but stop lookin' for it.
Forget it. Another turn now. I'm goin' to umpire. Let's see if you know
the difference between a ball and a strike."

He changed the catcher and, ordering Ken to the pitcher's box, he
stepped over behind him. "Peg," he said, speaking low, "you're not
tryin' for pitcher, I know, but you've got speed and control and I
want you to peg 'em a few. Mind now, easy with your arm. By that
I mean hold in, don't whip it. And you peg 'em as near where I say
as you can; see?"

As the players, one after another, faced the box, the coach kept saying
to Ken: "Drive that fellow away from the plate... give this one a low
ball... now straight over the pan. Say, Peg, you've got a nice ball
there... put a fast one under this fellow's chin."

"Another turn, now, boys!" he yelled. "I tell you--_stand up to the
plate!_" Then he whispered to Ken. "Hit every one of 'em! Peg 'em now,
any place."

"Hit them?" asked Ken, amazed.

"That's what I said."

"But--Mr. Arthurs--"

"See here, Peg. Don't talk back to me. Do as I say. We'll peg a little
nerve into this bunch. Now I'll go back of the plate and make a bluff."

Arthurs went near to the catcher's position. Then he said: "Now,
fellows, Ward's pretty wild and I've told him to speed up a few.
Stand right up and step into 'em."

The first batter was Weir. Ken swung easily and let drive. Straight as
a string the ball sped for the batter. Like a flash he dropped flat in
the dust and the ball just grazed him. It was a narrow escape. Weir
jumped up, his face flaring, his hair on end, and he gazed hard at Ken
before picking up the bat.

"Batter up!" ordered the coach. "Do you think this's a tea-party?"

Weir managed by quick contortions to get through his time at bat
without being hit. Three players following him were not so lucky.

"Didn't I say he was wild?" yelled the coach. "Batter up, now!"

The next was little Raymond. He came forward cautiously, eying Ken
with disapproval. Ken could not resist putting on a little more steam,
and the wind of the first ball whipped off Raymond's green cap. Raymond
looked scared and edged away from the plate, and as the second ball
came up he stepped wide with his left foot.

"Step into the ball," said the coach. "Don't pull away. Step in or
you'll never hit."

The third ball cracked low down on Raymond's leg.

"Oh!--Oh!--Oh!" he howled, beginning to hop and hobble about the cage.

"Next batter!" called out Arthurs.

And so it went on until the most promising player in the cage came to
bat. This was Graves, a light-haired fellow, tall, built like a wedge.
He had more confidence than any player in the squad and showed up well
in all departments of the game. Moreover, he was talky, aggressive,
and more inclined to be heard and felt. He stepped up and swung his
bat at Ken.

"You wild freshman! If you hit me!" he cried.

Ken Ward had not fallen in love with any of his rivals for places on
the team, but he especially did not like Graves. He did not stop to
consider the reason of it at the moment, still he remembered several
tricks Graves had played, and he was not altogether sorry for the
coach's order. Swinging a little harder, Ken threw straight at Graves.

"_Wham!_" The ball struck him fair on the hip. Limping away from
the plate he shook his fist at Ken.

"Batter up!" yelled Arthurs. "A little more speed now, Peg. You see it
ain't nothin' to get hit. Why, that's in the game. It don't hurt much.
I never cared when I used to get hit. Batter up!"

Ken sent up a very fast ball, on the outside of the plate. The batter
swung wide, and the ball, tipping the bat, glanced to one side and
struck Arthurs in the stomach with a deep sound.

Arthurs' round face went red; he gurgled and gasped for breath; he was
sinking to his knees when the yelling and crowing of the students on
the platform straightened him up. He walked about a few minutes, then
ordered sliding practice.

The sliding-board was brought out. It was almost four feet wide and
twenty long and covered with carpet.

"Run hard, boys, and don't let up just before you slide. Keep your
speed and dive. Now at it!"

A line of players formed down the cage. The first one dashed forward
and plunged at the board, hitting it with a bang. The carpet was
slippery and he slid off and rolled in the dust. The second player
leaped forward and, sliding too soon, barely reached the board. One
by one the others followed.

"Run fast now!" yelled the coach. "Don't flinch.... Go down hard
and slide... light on your hands... keep your heads up... slide!"

This feature of cage-work caused merriment among the onlookers. That
sliding-board was a wonderful and treacherous thing. Most players slid
off it as swift as a rocket. Arthurs kept them running so fast and so
close together that at times one would shoot off the board just as the
next would strike it. They sprawled on the ground, rolled over, and
rooted in the dust. One skinned his nose on the carpet; another slid
the length of the board on his ear. All the time they kept running and
sliding, the coach shouted to them, and the audience roared with laughter.
But it was no fun for the sliders. Raymond made a beautiful slide, and
Graves was good, but all the others were ludicrous.

It was a happy day for Ken, and for all the candidates, when the coach
ordered them out on the field. This was early in March. The sun was
bright, the frost all out of the ground, and a breath of spring was in
the air. How different it was from the cold, gloomy cage! Then the mocking
students, although more in evidence than before, were confined to the
stands and bleachers, and could not so easily be heard. But the presence
of the regular varsity team, practising at the far end of Grant Field,
had its effect on the untried players.

The coach divided his players into two nines and had them practise
batting first, then fielding, and finally started them in a game,
with each candidate playing the position he hoped to make on the
varsity.

It was a weird game. The majority of the twenty candidates displayed
little knowledge of baseball. School-boys on the commons could have
beaten them. They were hooted and hissed by the students, and before
half the innings were played the bleachers and stands were empty. That
was what old Wayne's students thought of Arthurs' candidates.

In sharp contrast to most of them, Weir, Raymond, and Graves showed
they had played the game somewhere. Weir at short-stop covered ground
well, but he could not locate first base. Raymond darted here and there
quick as a flash, and pounced upon the ball like a huge frog. Nothing
got past him, but he juggled the ball. Graves was a finished and
beautiful fielder; he was easy, sure, yet fast, and his throw from
third to first went true as a line.

Graves's fine work accounted for Ken Ward's poor showing. Both were
trying for third base, and when Ken once saw his rival play out on the
field he not only lost heart and became confused, but he instinctively
acknowledged that Graves was far his superior. After all his hopes and
the kind interest of the coach it was a most bitter blow. Ken had never
played so poor a game. The ball blurred in his tear-wet eyes and looked
double. He did not field a grounder. He muffed foul flies and missed
thrown balls. It did not occur to him that almost all of the players
around him were in the same boat. He could think of nothing but the
dashing away of his hopes. What was the use of trying? But he kept
trying, and the harder he tried the worse he played. At the bat he
struck out, fouled out, never hit the ball square at all. Graves got
two well-placed hits to right field. Then when Ken was in the field
Graves would come down the coaching line and talk to him in a voice no
one else could hear.

"You've got a swell chance to make this team, you have, _not!_ Third
base is my job, Freshie. Why, you tow-head, you couldn't play marbles.
You butter-finger, can't you stop anything? You can't even play sub on
this team. Remember, Ward, I said I'd get you for hitting me that day.
You hit me with a potato once, too. I'll chase you off this team."

For once Ken's spirit was so crushed and humbled that he could not say
a word to his rival. He even felt he deserved it all. When the practice
ended, and he was walking off the field with hanging head, trying to
bear up under the blow, he met Arthurs.

"Hello! Peg," said the coach, "I'm going your way."

Ken walked along feeling Arthurs' glance upon him, but he was ashamed
to raise his head.

"Peg, you were up in the air to-day--way off--you lost your nut."

He spoke kindly and put his hand on Ken's arm. Ken looked up to see
that the coach's face was pale and tired, with the characteristic
worried look more marked than usual.

"Yes, I was," replied Ken, impulsively. "I can play better than I did
to-day--but--Mr. Arthurs, I'm not in Graves's class as a third-baseman.
I know it."

Ken said it bravely, though there was a catch in his voice. The coach
looked closely at him.

"So you're sayin' a good word for Graves, pluggin' his game."

"I'd love to make the team, but old Wayne must have the best players
you can get."

"Peg, I said once you and me were goin' to get along. I said also that
college baseball is played with the heart. You lost your heart. So did
most of the kids. Well, it ain't no wonder. This's a tryin' time. I'm
playin' them against each other, and no fellow knows where he's at.
Now, I've seen all along that you weren't a natural infielder. I played
you at third to-day to get that idea out of your head. To-morrow I'll
try you in the outfield. You ain't no quitter, Peg."

Ken hurried to his room under the stress of a complete revulsion of
feeling. His liking for the coach began to grow into something more.
It was strange to Ken what power a few words from Arthurs had to renew
his will and hope and daring. How different Arthurs was when not on the
field. There he was stern and sharp. Ken could not study that night,
and he slept poorly. His revival of hope did not dispel his nervous
excitement.

He went out into Grant Field next day fighting himself. When in
the practice Arthurs assigned him to a right-field position, he
had scarcely taken his place when he became conscious of a queer
inclination to swallow often, of a numbing tight band round his
chest. He could not stand still; his hands trembled; there was a
mist before his eyes. His mind was fixed upon himself and upon the
other five outfielders trying to make the team. He saw the players
in the infield pace their positions restlessly, run without aim when
the ball was hit or thrown, collide with each other, let the ball go
between their hands and legs, throw wildly, and sometimes stand as if
transfixed when they ought to have been in action. But all this was
not significant to Ken. He saw everything that happened, but he thought
only that he must make a good showing; he must not miss any flies, or
let a ball go beyond him. He absolutely must do the right thing. The
air of Grant Field was charged with intensity of feeling, and Ken
thought it was all his own. His baseball fortune was at stake, and
he worked himself in such a frenzy that if a ball had been batted
in his direction he might not have seen it at all. Fortunately none
came his way.

The first time at bat he struck out ignominiously, poking weakly
at the pitcher's out-curves. The second time he popped up a little
fly. On the next trial the umpire called him out on strikes. At his
last chance Ken was desperate. He knew the coach placed batting before
any other department of the game. Almost sick with the torture of the
conflicting feelings, Ken went up to the plate and swung blindly. To
his amaze he cracked a hard fly to left-centre, far between the fielders.
Like a startled deer Ken broke into a run. He turned first base and saw
that he might stretch the hit into a three-bagger. He knew he could run,
and never had he so exerted himself. Second base sailed under him, and
he turned in line for the third. Watching Graves, he saw him run for the
base and stand ready to catch the throw-in.

Without slacking his speed in the least Ken leaped into the air headlong
for the base. He heard the crack of the ball as it hit Graves's glove.
Then with swift scrape on hands and breast he was sliding in the dust.
He stopped suddenly as if blocked by a stone wall. Something hard struck
him on the head. A blinding light within his brain seemed to explode
into glittering slivers. A piercing pain shot through him. Then from
darkness and a great distance sounded a voice:

"Ward, I said I'd get you!"


VII

ANNIHILATION


That incident put Ken out of the practice for three days. He had a
bruise over his ear as large as a small apple. Ken did not mind the
pain nor the players' remarks that he had a swelled head anyway, but
he remembered with slow-gathering wrath Graves's words: "I said I'd
get you!"

He remembered also Graves's reply to a question put by the coach.
"I was only tagging him. I didn't mean to hurt him." That rankled
inside Ken. He kept his counsel, however, even evading a sharp
query put by Arthurs, and as much as it was possible he avoided
the third-baseman.

Hard practice was the order of every day, and most of it was batting.
The coach kept at the candidates everlastingly, and always his cry was:
"Toe the plate, left foot a little forward, step into the ball and
swing!" At the bat Ken made favorable progress because the coach was
always there behind him with encouraging words; in the field, however,
he made a mess of it, and grew steadily worse.

The directors of the Athletic Association had called upon the old
varsity to go out and coach the new aspirants for college fame.
The varsity had refused. Even the players of preceding years, what
few were in or near the city, had declined to help develop Wayne's
stripling team. But some of the older graduates, among them several
of the athletic directors, appeared on the field. When Arthurs saw
them he threw up his hands in rage and despair. That afternoon Ken
had three well-meaning but old-fashioned ball-players coach him in
the outfield. He had them one at a time, which was all that saved
him from utter distraction. One told him to judge a fly by the sound
when the ball was hit. Another told him to play in close, and when the
ball was batted to turn and run with it. The third said he must play
deep and sprint in for the fly. To make amends for this, there was
also something peculiarly still and placid about the appearance of
the house, which must have suited well the tastes and habits of the
owner. A small, formal lawn was adorned with a square fish-pond, bricked
round, and covered with the green weepings of four willows, which
drooped over it, from their station, at each corner. At the opposite
side of this Pierian reservoir, was a hermitage, or arbour of
laurels, shaped in the stiff rusticity of the Dutch school, in the
prevalence of which it was probably planted; behind this arbour,
the ground, after a slight railing, terminated in an orchard.

The sound I elicited from the gate bell seemed to ring through that
retired place with singular shrillness; and I observed at the
opposite window, all that bustle of drawing curtains, peeping faces,
and hasty retreats, which denote female anxiety and perplexity,
at the unexpected approach of a stranger.

After some time the parson's single servant, a middle-aged, slovenly
man, in a loose frock, and buff kerseymere nondescripts, opened the
gate, and informed me that his master was at home.

With a few earnest admonitions to my admittor--who was, like the
domestics of many richer men, both groom and valet--respecting the
safety of my borrowed horse, I entered the house: the servant did not
think it necessary to inquire my name, but threw open the door of the
study, with the brief introduction of--"a gentleman, Sir."
Clutterbuck was standing, with his back towards me, upon a pair of
library steps, turning over some dusky volumes; and below stood a
pale, cadaverous youth, with a set and serious countenance, that
bore no small likeness to Clutterbuck himself.

"Mon Dieu," thought I, "he cannot have made such good use of his
matrimonial state as to have raised this lanky impression of himself in
the space of seven months?" The good man turned round and almost fell
off the steps with the nervous shock of beholding me so near him: he
descended with precipitation, and shook me so warmly and tightly by the
hand, that he brought tears into my eyes, as well as his own.

"Gently, my good friend," said I--"parce precor, or you will force
me to say, 'ibimus una ambo, flentes valido connexi foedere.'"

Clutterbuck's eyes watered still more, when he heard the grateful
sounds of what to him was the mother tongue. He surveyed me from head
to foot with an air of benign and fatherly complacency, and dragging forth
from its sullen rest a large arm chair, on whose cushions of rusty
horse-hair sat an eternal cloud of classic dust, too sacred to be
disturbed, he plumped me down upon it, before I was aware of the cruel
hospitality.

"Oh! my nether garments," thought I. "Quantus sudor incrit Bedoso, to
restore you to your pristine purity."
"But, whence come you?" said my host, who cherished rather a formal and
antiquated method of speech.

"From the Pythian games," said I. "The campus hight Newmarket. Do I see
right, or is not yon insignis juvenis marvellously like you?

Of a surety he rivals the Titans, if he is only a seven months' child!"
"Now, truly, my worthy friend," answered Clutterbuck, "you indulge in jesting!
The boy is my nephew, a goodly child, and a painstaking. I hope he will
thrive at our gentle mother.

He goes to Trinity next October.
Benjamin Jeremiah, my lad, this is my worthy friend and benefactor,
of whom I have often spoken; go, and order him of our best--he will
partake of our repast!"
"No, really," I began; but Clutterbuck gently placed the hand, whose strength
of affection I had already so forcibly experienced, upon my mouth.
"Pardon me, my friend," said he. "No stranger should depart till
he had broken bread with us, how much more then a friend!

Go, Benjamin Jeremiah, and tell your aunt that Mr. Pelham will dine
with us; and order, furthermore, that the barrel of oysters sent
unto us as a present, by my worthy friend Dr. Swallow'em, be dressed
in the fashion that seemeth best; they are a classic dainty, and we shall
think of our great masters the ancients whilst we devour them.
And--stop, Benjamin Jeremiah, see that we have the wine with the black
seal; and--now--go, Benjamin Jeremiah!"
"Well, my old friend," said I, when the door closed upon the sallow
and smileless nephew, "how do you love the connubiale jugum?

Do you give the same advice as Socrates? I hope, at least, it is not
from the same experience."
"Hem!" answered the grave Christopher, in a tone that struck me as
somewhat nervous and uneasy, "you are become quite a humourist since
we parted. I suppose you have been warming your wit by the lambent
fires of Horace and Aristophanes!"
"No," said I, "the living allow those whose toilsome lot it is to
mix constantly with them, but little time to study the monuments
of the dead.

But, in sober earnest, are you as happy as I wish you?"
Clutterbuck looked down for a moment, and then, turning towards the table,
laid one hand upon a MS., and pointed with the other to his books.
"With this society," said he, "how can I be otherwise?"

I gave him no reply, but put my hand upon his MS. He made a modest and coy
effort to detain it, but I knew that writers were like women, and making use
of no displeasing force, I possessed myself of the paper.

It was a treatise on the Greek participle. My heart sickened within me;
but, as I caught the eager glance of the poor author, I brightened up
my countenance into an expression of pleasure, and appeared to read and
comment upon the difficiles nugae with an interest commensurate to his own.
Meanwhile the youth returned. He had much of that delicacy of sentiment
which always accompanies mental cultivation, of whatever sort it may be.
He went, with a scarlet blush over his thin face, to his uncle, and
whispered something in his ear, which, from the angry embarrassment it
appeared to occasion, I was at no loss to divine.

"Come," said I, "we are too long acquainted for ceremony. Your placens uxor,
like all ladies in the same predicament, thinks your invitation a little
unadvised; and, in real earnest, I have so long a ride to perform,
that I would rather eat your oysters another day!"

"No, no," said Clutterbuck, with greater eagerness than his even
temperament was often hurried into betraying--"no, I will go and
reason with her myself.

'Wives, obey your husbands,' saith the preacher!" And the quondam senior
wrangler almost upset his chair in the perturbation with which he arose
from it.

I laid my hand upon him. "Let me go myself," said I, "since you will
have me dine with you. 'The sex is ever to a stranger kind,' and I
shall probably be more persuasive than you, in despite of your
legitimate authority."
So saying, I left the room, with a curiosity more painful than pleasing,
to see the collegian's wife. I arrested the man servant, and ordered him
to usher and announce me.

I was led instanter into the apartment where I had discovered all the
signs of female inquisitiveness, which I have before detailed. There
I discovered a small woman, in a robe equally slatternly and fine, with
a sharp pointed nose, small, cold, grey eyes, and a complexion high towards
the cheek bones, but waxing of a light green before it reached the wide
and querulous mouth, which, well I ween, seldom opened to smile
upon the unfortunate possessor of her charms.

She, like the Rev. Christopher, was not without her companions; a tall
meagre woman, of advanced age, and a girl, some years younger than herself,
were introduced to me as her mother and sister.

My entree occasioned no little confusion, but I knew well how to remedy
that. I held out my hand so cordially to the wife, that I enticed, though
with evident reluctance, two bony fingers into my own, which I did not
dismiss without a most mollifying and affectionate squeeze; and drawing
my chair close towards her, began conversing as familiarly as if I had
known the whole triad for years. I declared my joy at seeing my old
friend so happily settled--commented on the improvement of his
looks-- ventured a sly joke at the good effects of matrimony--praised
a cat couchant, worked in worsted by the venerable hand of the
eldest matron-- offered to procure her a real cat of the true Persian
breed, black ears four inches long, with a tail like a squirrel's;
and then slid, all at once, into the unauthorized invitation of the
good man of the house.

"Clutterbuck," said I, "has asked me very warmly to stay dinner; but,
before I accepted his offer, I insisted upon coming to see how far it was
confirmed by you. Gentlemen, you are aware, my dear Madam, know nothing
of these matters, and I never accept a married man's invitation
till it has the sanction of his lady: I have an example of that at
home.

My mother (Lady Frances) is the best-tempered woman in the world: but
my father could no more take the liberty (for I may truly call it
such) to ask even his oldest friend to dinner, without consulting
the mistress of the house, than he could think of flying. No one (says
my mother, and she says what is very true,) can tell about the
household affairs, but those who have the management of them; and
in pursuance of this aphorism, I dare not accept any invitation in
this house, except from its mistress."
"Really," said Mrs. Clutterbuck, colouring, with mingled embarrassment
and gratification, "you are very considerate and polite, Mr. Pelham:
I only wish Mr. Clutterbuck had half your attention to these things;
nobody can tell the trouble and inconvenience he puts me to. If I
had known, a little time before, that you were coming--but now I fear
we have nothing in the house; but if you can partake of our fare, such
as it is, Mr.
Pelham--"
"Your kindness enchants me," I exclaimed, "and I no longer scruple
to confess the pleasure I have in accepting my old friend's offer."

This affair being settled, I continued to converse for some minutes
with as much vivacity as I could summon to my aid, and when I
went once more to the library, it was with the comfortable impression
of having left those as friends, whom I had visited as foes.

The dinner hour was four, and till it came, Clutterbuck and I amused
ourselves "in commune wise and sage." There was something high in the
sentiments and generous in the feelings of this man, which made me the
more regret the bias of mind which rendered them so unavailing. At
college he had never (illis dissimilis in nostro tempore natis) cringed to
the possessors of clerical power. In the duties of his station, as
dean of the college, he was equally strict to the black cap and
the lordly hat.

Nay, when one of his private pupils, whose father was possessed of
more church preferment than any nobleman in the peerage, disobeyed
his repeated summons, and constantly neglected to attend his
instructions, he sent for him, resigned his tuition, and refused
any longer to accept a salary which the negligence of his pupil
would not allow him to requite.

In his clerical tenets he was high: in his judgment of others he was
mild. His knowledge of the liberty of Greece was not drawn from the
ignorant historian of her republics; [Note: It is really a disgrace
to the University, that any of its colleges should accept as a
reference, or even tolerate as an author, the presumptuous bigot
who has bequeathed to us, in his History of Greece, the masterpiece
of a declaimer without energy, and of a pedant without learning.]
nor did he find in the contemplative mildness and gentle philosophy
of the ancients, nothing but a sanction for modern bigotry and
existing abuses.

It was a remarkable trait in his conversation, that though he indulged
in many references to the old authors, and allusions to classic
customs, he never deviated into the innumerable quotations with which his
memory was stored. No words, in spite of all the quaintness and antiquity
of his dialect, purely Latin or Greek, ever escaped his lips, except in
our engagements at capping verses, or when he was allured into accepting
a challenge of learning from some of its pretenders; then, indeed, he
could pour forth such a torrent of authorities as effectually silenced his
opponent; but these contests were rarely entered into, and these triumphs
moderately indulged. Yet he loved the use of quotations in others,
and I knew the greatest pleasure I could give him was in the frequent
use of them.

Perhaps he thought it would seem like an empty parade of learning in one
who so confessedly possessed it, to deal in the strange words of another
tongue, and consequently rejected them, while, with an innocent inconsistency,
characteristic of the man, it never occurred to him that there was any
thing, either in the quaintness of his dialect or the occupations
of his leisure, which might subject him to the same imputation of
pedantry.

And yet, at times, when he warmed in his subject, there was a tone in
his language as well as sentiment, which might not be improperly
termed eloquent; and the real modesty and quiet enthusiasm of his
nature, took away from the impression he made, the feeling of
pomposity and affectation with which otherwise he might have inspired
you.

"You have a calm and quiet habitation here," said I; "the very rooks
seem to have something lulling in that venerable caw which it always
does me such good to hear."
"Yes," answered Clutterbuck, "I own that there is much that is grateful
to the temper of my mind in this retired spot. I fancy that I can the
better give myself up to the contemplation which makes, as it were,
my intellectual element and food. And yet I dare say that in this (as in
all other things) I do strongly err; for I remember that during my
only sojourn in London, I was wont to feel the sound of wheels and
of the throng of steps shake the windows of my lodging in the Strand,
as if it were but a warning to recal my mind more closely to its studies--of
a verity that noisy evidence of man's labour reminded me how little the
great interests of this rolling world were to me, and the feeling of solitude
amongst the crowds without, made me cling more fondly to the company I
found within. For it seems that the mind is ever addicted to contraries,
and that when it be transplanted into a soil where all its neighbours
do produce a certain fruit, it doth, from a strange perversity,
bring forth one of a different sort.

You would little believe, my honoured friend, that in this lonely
seclusion, I cannot at all times prohibit my thoughts from wandering
to that gay world of London, which, during my tarry therein, occupied
them in so partial a degree.

You smile, my friend, nevertheless it is true; and when you reflect that
I dwelt in the western department of the metropolis, near unto the
noble mansion of Somerset House, and consequently in the very centre
of what the idle call Fashion, you will not be so surprised at the
occasional migration of my thoughts."

Here the worthy Clutterbuck paused and sighed slightly. "Do you
farm or cultivate your garden," said I; "they are no ignoble nor
unclassical employments?"

"Unhappily," answered Clutterbuck, "I am inclined to neither; my
chest pains me with a sharp and piercing pang when I attempt to
stoop, and my respiration is short and asthmatic; and, in truth, I
seldom love to stir from my books and papers.

I go with Pliny to his garden, and with Virgil to his farm; those mental
excursions are the sole ones I indulge in; and when I think of my
appetite for application, and my love of idleness, I am tempted to
wax proud of the propensities which reverse the censure of Tacitus on
our German ancestors, and incline so fondly to quiet, while they turn
so restlessly from sloth."
Here the speaker was interrupted by a long, low, dry cough, which
penetrated me to the heart. 'Alas!' thought I, as I heard it, and looked
upon my poor friend's hectic and hollow cheek, 'it is not only his
mind that will be the victim to the fatality of his studies.'
It was some moments before I renewed the conversation, and I had scarcely
done so before I was interrupted by the entrance of Benjamin
Jeremiah, with a message from his aunt that dinner would be ready
in a few minutes.
Another long whisper to Christopher succeeded. The ci-devant fellow
of Trinity looked down at his garments with a perplexed air. I saw at
once that he had received a hint on the propriety of a change of
raiment. To give him due leisure for this, I asked the youth to shew
me a room in which I might perform the usual ablutions previous
to dinner, and followed him upstairs to a comfortless sort of
dressing-room, without a fire-place, where I found a yellow were
jug and basin, and a towel, of so coarse a huckaback, that I did
not dare adventure its rough texture next my complexion--my skin
is not made for such rude fellowship.

While I was tenderly and daintily anointing my hands with some hard
water, of no Blandusian spring, and that vile composition entitled
Windsor soap, I heard the difficult breathing of poor Clutterbuck on the
stairs, and soon after he entered the adjacent room. Two minutes more,
and his servant joined him, for I heard the rough voice of the domestic
say, "There is no more of the wine with the black seal left, Sir!"
"No more, good Dixon; you mistake grievously. I had two dozen not a week
since."
"Don't know, I'm sure, Sir!"

answered Dixon, with a careless and half impertinent accent; "but there
are great things, like alligators, in the cellar, which break all the
bottles!"
"Alligators in my cellar!" said the astonished Clutterbuck.

"Yes, Sir--at least a venomous sort of reptile like them, which the
people about here call efts!"

"What!" said Clutterbuck, innocently, and evidently not seeing the irony
of his own question; "What! have the efts broken two dozen bottles in
a week? Of an exceeding surety, it is strange that a little creature
of the lizard species should be so destructive--perchance they have an
antipathy to the vinous smell; I will confer with my learned friend,
Dr.
Dissectall, touching their strength and habits.

Bring up some of the port, then, good Dixon."
"Yes, Sir. All the corn is out; I had none for the gentleman's horse."

"Why, Dixon, my memory fails me strangely, or I paid you the sum of four
pounds odd shillings for corn on Friday last."

"Yes, Sir: but your cow and the chickens eat so much, and then blind
Dobbin has four feeds a day, and Farmer Johnson always puts his horse
in our stable, and Mrs.

Clutterbuck and the ladies fed the jackass the other day in the hired
donkeychaise; besides, the rats and mice are always at it."
"It is a marvel unto me," answered Clutterbuck, "how detrimental the
vermin race are; they seem to have noted my poor possessions as their
especial prey; remind me that I write to Dr. Dissectall to-morrow,
good Dixon."
"Yes, Sir, and now I think of it--" but here Mr.

Dixon was cut short in his items, by the entrance of a third person,
who proved to be Mrs.

Clutterbuck.

"What, not dressed yet, Mr.

Clutterbuck; what a dawdler you are!--and do look--was ever woman
so used? you have wiped your razor upon my nightcap- -you dirty,
slovenly--"

"I crave you many pardons; I own my error!" said Clutterbuck, in a
nervous tone of interruption.

"Error, indeed!" cried Mrs.

Clutterbuck, in a sharp, overstretched, querulous falsetto, suited to the
occasion: "but this is always the case- -I am sure, my poor temper
is tried to the utmost--and Lord help thee, idiot!

you have thrust those spindle legs of yours into your coat-sleeves
instead of your breeches!"
"Of a truth, good wife, your eyes are more discerning than mine; and
my legs, which are, as you say, somewhat thin, have indued
themselves in what appertaineth not unto them; but for all that,
Dorothea, I am not deserving of the epithet of idiot, with which
you have been pleased to favour me; although my humble faculties
are indeed of no eminent or surpassing order--"
"Pooh! pooh! Mr. Clutterbuck, I am sure, I don't know what else you
are, muddling your head all day with those good-for-nothing
books. And now do tell me, how you could think of asking Mr.
Pelham to dinner, when you knew we had nothing in the world but
hashed mutton and an apple pudding?

Is that the way, Sir, you disgrace your wife, after her condescension
in marrying you?"
"Really," answered the patient Clutterbuck, "I was forgetful of those
matters; but my friend cares as little as myself, about the grosser
tastes of the table; and the feast of intellectual converse is all that
he desires in his brief sojourn beneath our roof."

"Feast of fiddlesticks, Mr. Clutterbuck! did ever man talk such nonsense?"

"Besides," rejoined the master of the house, unheeding this
interruption, "we have a luxury even of the palate, than which there
are none more delicate, and unto which he, as well as myself, is,
I know, somewhat unphilosophically given; I speak of the oysters,
sent here by our good friend, Dr.

Swallow'em."

"What do you mean, Mr. Clutterbuck?

My poor mother and I had those oysters last night for our supper. I am
sure she as well as my sister are almost starved; but you are always wanting
to be pampered up above us all."
"Nay, nay," answered Clutterbuck, "you know you accuse me wrongfully,
Dorothea; but now I think of it, would it not be better to modulate
the tone of our conversation, seeing that our guest, (a circumstance
which until now quite escaped my recollection,) was shown into the
next room, for the purpose of washing his hands, the which, from
their notable cleanliness, seemed to me wholly unnecessary.

I would not have him overhear you, Dorothea, lest his kind heart should
imagine me less happy than--than it wishes me."
"Good God, Mr. Clutterbuck!" were the only words I heard farther: and
with tears in my eyes, and a suffocating feeling in my throat, for
the matrimonial situation of my unfortunate friend, I descended
into the drawing-room.

The only one yet there, was the pale nephew; he was bending painfully
over a book; I took it from him, it was "Bentley upon Phalaris." I
could scarcely refrain from throwing it into the fire-- another
victim, thought I--oh, the curse of an English education!

By and by, down came the mother and the sister, then Clutterbuck, and
lastly, bedizened out with gewgaws and trumpery--the wife. Born and
nurtured as I was in the art of the volto sciolto pensieri stretti,
I had seldom found a more arduous task of dissimulation than that
which I experienced now.

In the succeeding days Ken was very busy with attendance at college in
the mornings, baseball practice in the afternoons, and study at night.

If Worry had picked any more players for the varsity, Ken could not
tell who they were. Of course Graves would make the team, and Weir and
Raymond were pretty sure of places. There were sixteen players for the
other five positions, and picking them was only guesswork. It seemed
to Ken that some of the players showed streaks of fast playing at times,
and then as soon as they were opposed to one another in the practice
game they became erratic. His own progress was slow. One thing he could
do that brought warm praise from the coach--he could line the ball home
from deep outfield with wonderful speed and accuracy.

After the varsity had annihilated Worry's "kids," as they had come to
be known, the students showed no further interest. When they ceased
to appear on the field the new players were able to go at their practice
without being ridiculed. Already an improvement had been noticeable.
But rivalry was so keen for places, and the coach's choice so deep a
mystery, that the contestants played under too great a tension, and
school-boys could have done better.

It was on the first of April that Arthurs took Ken up into College Hall
to get permission for him to present himself to the different professors
for the early examinations. While Ken sat waiting in the office he heard
Arthurs talking to men he instantly took to be the heads of the Athletic
Association. They were in an adjoining room with the door open, and their
voices were very distinct, so that Ken could not help hearing.

"Gentlemen, I want my answer to-day," said the coach.

"Is there so great a hurry? Wait a little," was the rejoinder.

"I'm sorry, but this is April 1st, and I'll wait no longer. I'm ready
to send some of my boys up for early exams, and I want to know where
I stand."

"Arthurs, what is it exactly that you want? Things have been in an
awful mess, we know. State your case and we'll try to give you a
definite answer."

"I want full charge of the coachin'--the handlin' of the team, as I
always had before. I don't want any grad coaches. The directors seem
divided, one half want this, the other half that. They've cut out the
trainin' quarters. I've had no help from Murray; no baths or rub-downs
or trainin' for my candidates. Here's openin' day a week off and I
haven't picked my team. I want to take them to the trainin'-table and
have them under my eye all the time. If I can't have what I want I'll
resign. If I can I'll take the whole responsibility of the team on my
own shoulders."

"Very well, Arthurs, we'll let you go ahead and have full charge. There
has been talk this year of abolishing a private training-house and table
for this green varsity. But rather than have you resign we'll waive that.
You can rest assured from now on you will not be interfered with. Give
us the best team you can under the circumstances. There has been much
dissension among the directors and faculty because of our new eligibility
rules. It has stirred everybody up, and the students are sore. Then
there has been talk of not having a professional coach this year, but
we overruled that in last night's meeting. We're going to see what you
can do. I may add, Arthurs, if you shape up a varsity this year that makes
any kind of a showing against Place and Herne you will win the eternal
gratitude of the directors who have fostered this change in athletics.
Otherwise I'm afraid the balance of opinion will favor the idea of
dispensing with professional coaches in the future."

Ken saw that Arthurs was white in the face when he left the room. They
went out together, and Worry handed Ken a card that read for him to take
his examinations at once.

"Are you up on 'em?" asked the coach, anxiously.

"I--I think so," replied Ken.

"Well, Peg, good luck to you! Go at 'em like you went at Dreer's hit."

Much to his amazement it was for Ken to discover that, now the time had
come for him to face his examinations, he was not at all sanguine. He
began to worry. He forgot about the text-books he had mastered in his
room during the long winter when he feared to venture out because of
the sophomores. It was not very long till he had worked himself into a
state somewhat akin to his trepidation in the varsity ball game. Then
he decided to go up at once and have it done with. His whole freshman
year had been one long agony. What a relief to have it ended!

Ken passed four examinations in one morning, passed them swimmingly,
smilingly, splendidly, and left College Hall in an ecstasy. Things
were working out fine. But he had another examination, and it was in
a subject he had voluntarily included in his course. Whatever on earth
he had done it for he could not now tell. The old doctor who held the
chair in that department had thirty years before earned the name of Crab.
And slowly in the succeeding years he had grown crabbier, crustier, so
student rumor had it. Ken had rather liked the dry old fellow, and had
been much absorbed in his complex lectures, but he had never been near
him, and now the prospect changed color. Foolishly Ken asked a sophomore
in what light old Crab might regard a student who was ambitious to pass
his exams early. The picture painted by that sophomore would have made
a flaming-mouthed dragon appear tame. Nerving himself to the ordeal, Ken
took his card and presented himself one evening at the doctor's house.

A maid ushered him into the presence of a venerable old man who did not
look at all, even in Ken's distorted sight, like a crab or a dragon. His
ponderous brow seemed as if it had all the thought in the world behind
it. He looked over huge spectacles at Ken's card and then spoke in a dry,
quavering voice.

"Um-m. Sit down, Mr. Ward."

Ken found his breath and strangely lost his fear and trembling. The doctor
dryly asked him why he thought he knew more than the other students, who
were satisfied to wait months longer before examination. Ken hastened to
explain that it was no desire of his; that, although he had studied hard
and had not missed many lectures, he knew he was unprepared. Then he went
on to tell about the baseball situation and why he had been sent up.

"Um-m." The professor held a glass paperweight up before Ken and asked
a question about it. Next he held out a ruler and asked something about
that, and also a bottle of ink. Following this he put a few queries
about specific gravity, atomic weight, and the like. Then he sat
thrumming his desk and appeared far away in thought. After a while
he turned to Ken with a smile that made his withered, parchment-like
face vastly different.

"Where do you play?" he asked.

"S-sir?" stammered Ken.

"In baseball, I mean. What place do you play? Catch? Thrower? I don't
know the names much."

Ken replied eagerly, and then it seemed he was telling this stern old
man all about baseball. He wanted to know what fouls were, and how to
steal bases, and he was nonplussed by such terms as "hit-and-run." Ken
discoursed eloquently on his favorite sport, and it was like a kind of
dream to be there. Strange things were always happening to him.

"I've never seen a game," said the professor. "I used to play myself
long ago, when we had a yarn ball and pitched underhand. I'll have to
come out to the field some day. President Halstead, why, he likes
baseball, he's a--a--what do you call it?"

"A fan--a rooter?" replied Ken, smiling.

"Um-m. I guess that's it. Well, Mr. Ward, I'm glad to meet you. You may
go now."

Ken got up blushing like a girl. "But, Doctor, you were to--I was to be
examined."

"I've examined you," he drawled, with a dry chuckle, and he looked over
his huge spectacles at Ken. "I'll give you a passing mark. But, Mr. Ward,
you know a heap more about baseball than you know about physics."

As Ken went out he trod upon air. What a splendid old fellow! The sophomore
had lied. For that matter, when had a sophomore ever been known to tell
the truth? But, he suddenly exclaimed, he himself was no longer a freshman.
He pondered happily on the rosy lining to his old cloud of gloom. How
different things appeared after a little time. That old doctor's smile
would linger long in Ken's memory. He felt deep remorse that he had ever
misjudged him. He hurried on to Worry Arthurs' house to tell him the good
news. And as he walked his mind was full with the wonder of it all--his
lonely, wretched freshman days, now forever past; the slow change from
hatred; the dawning of some strange feeling for the college and his
teachers; and, last, the freedom, the delight, the quickening stir in
the present.


IX

PRESIDENT HALSTEAD ON COLLEGE SPIRIT


Wayne's opening game was not at all what Ken had dreamed it would be.
The opposing team from Hudson School was as ill-assorted an aggregation
as Ken had ever seen. They brought with them a small but noisy company
of cheering supporters who, to the shame of Ken and his fellows, had
the bleachers all to themselves. If any Wayne students were present
they either cheered for Hudson or remained silent.

Hudson won, 9 to 2. It was a game that made Arthurs sag a little lower
on the bench. Graves got Wayne's two tallies. Raymond at second played
about all the game from the fielding standpoint. Ken distinguished
himself by trying wildly and accomplishing nothing. When he went to
his room that night he had switched back to his former spirits, and
was disgusted with Wayne's ball team, himself most of all.

That was on a Wednesday. The next day rain prevented practice, and on
Friday the boys were out on the field again. Arthurs shifted the players
around, trying resignedly to discover certain positions that might fit
certain players. It seemed to Ken that all the candidates, except one
or two, were good at fielding and throwing, but when they came to play
a game they immediately went into a trance.

Travers College was scheduled for Saturday. They had always turned out
a good minor team, but had never been known to beat Wayne. They shut
Arthurs' team out without a run. A handful of Wayne students sat in the
bleachers mocking their own team. Arthurs used the two pitchers he had
been trying hard to develop, and when they did locate the plate they
were hit hard. Ken played or essayed to play right field for a while,
but he ran around like a chicken with its head off, as a Travers player
expressed it, and then Arthurs told him that he had better grace the
bench the rest of the game. Ashamed as Ken was to be put out, he was
yet more ashamed to feel that he was glad of it. Hardest of all to bear
was the arrogant air put on by the Travers College players. Wayne had
indeed been relegated to the fifth rank of college baseball teams.

On Monday announcements were made in all the lecture-rooms and departments
of the university, and bulletins were posted to the effect, that President
Halstead wished to address the undergraduates in the Wayne auditorium
on Tuesday at five o'clock.

Rumor flew about the campus and Carlton Club, everywhere, that the
president's subject would be "College Spirit," and it was believed he
would have something to say about the present condition of athletics.
Ken Ward hurried to the hall as soon as he got through his practice. He
found the immense auditorium packed from pit to dome, and he squeezed
into a seat on the steps.

The students, as always, were exchanging volleys of paper-balls,
matching wits, singing songs, and passing time merrily. When
President Halstead entered, with two of his associates, he was
greeted by a thunder of tongues, hands, and heels of the standing
students. He was the best-beloved member of the university faculty,
a distinguished, scholarly looking man, well-stricken in years.

He opened his address by declaring the need of college spirit in college
life. He defined it as the vital thing, the heart of a great educational
institution, and he went on to speak of its dangers, its fluctuations.
Then he made direct reference to athletics in its relation to both
college spirit and college life.

"Sport is too much with us. Of late years I have observed a great increase
in the number of athletic students, and a great decrease in scholarship.
The fame of the half-back and the short-stop and the stroke-oar has grown
out of proportion to their real worth. The freshman is dazzled by it. The
great majority of college men cannot shine in sport, which is the best
thing that could be. The student's ideal, instead of being the highest
scholarship, the best attainment for his career, is apt to be influenced
by the honors and friendships that are heaped upon the great athlete.
This is false to university life. You are here to prepare yourselves
for the battle with the world, and I want to state that that battle is
becoming more and more intellectual. The student who slights his studies
for athletic glory may find himself, when that glory is long past,
distanced in the race for success by a student who had not trained to
run the hundred in ten seconds.

"But, gentlemen, to keep well up in your studies and _then_ go in for
athletics--that is entirely another question. It is not likely that
any student who keeps to the front in any of the university courses
will have too much time for football or baseball. I am, as you all
know, heartily in favor of all branches of college sport. And that
brings me to the point I want to make to-day. Baseball is my favorite
game, and I have always been proud of Wayne's teams. The new eligibility
rules, with which you are all familiar, were brought to me, and after
thoroughly going over the situation I approved of them. Certainly it is
obvious to you all that a university ball-player making himself famous
here, and then playing during the summer months at a resort, is laying
himself open to suspicion. I have no doubt that many players are innocent
of the taint of professionalism, but unfortunately they have become
members of these summer teams after being first requested, then warned,
not to do so.

"Wayne's varsity players of last year have been barred by the directors.
They made their choice, and so should abide by it. They have had their
day, and so should welcome the opportunity of younger players. But I
am constrained to acknowledge that neither they nor the great body of
undergraduates welcomed the change. This, more than anything, proves to
me the evil of championship teams. The football men, the baseball men,
the crew men, and all the student supporters want to win _all_ the games
_all_ the time. I would like to ask you young gentlemen if you can take
a beating? If you cannot, I would like to add that you are not yet fitted
to go out into life. A good beating, occasionally, is a wholesome thing.

"Well, to come to the point now: I find, after studying the situation,
that the old varsity players and undergraduates of this university have
been lacking in--let us be generous and say, college spirit. I do not
need to go into detail; suffice it to say that I know. I will admit,
however, that I attended the game between the old varsity and the new
candidates. I sat unobserved in a corner, and a more unhappy time I
never spent in this university. I confess that my sympathies were with
the inexperienced, undeveloped boys who were trying to learn to play
ball. _Put yourselves in their places._ Say you are mostly freshmen,
and you make yourselves candidates for the team because you love the
game, and because you would love to bring honor to your college. You
go out and try. You meet, the first day, an implacable team of skilled
veterans who show their scorn of your poor ability, their hatred of
your opportunity, and ride roughshod--I should say, run with spiked
shoes--over you. You hear the roar of four thousand students applauding
these hero veterans. You hear your classmates, your fellow-students in
Wayne, howl with ridicule at your weak attempts to compete with better,
stronger players.... Gentlemen, how would you feel?

"I said before that college spirit fluctuates. If I did not know students
well I would be deeply grieved at the spirit shown that day. I know that
the tide will turn.... And, gentlemen, would not you and the old varsity
be rather in an embarrassing position if--if these raw recruits should
happen to develop into a team strong enough to cope with Place and Herne?
Stranger things have happened. I am rather strong for the new players,
not because of their playing, which is poor indeed, but for the way they
_tried_ under peculiarly adverse conditions.

"That young fellow Ward--what torture that inning of successive hard
hits to his territory! I was near him in that end of the bleachers,
and I watched him closely. Every attempt he made was a failure--that
is, failure from the point of view of properly fielding the ball. But,
gentlemen, that day was not a failure for young Ward. It was a grand
success. Some one said his playing was the poorest exhibition ever seen
on Grant Field. That may be. I want to say that to my mind it was also
the most splendid effort ever made on Grant Field. For it was made against
defeat, fear, ridicule. It was elimination of self. It was made for his
coach, his fellow-players, his college--that is to say, for the students
who shamed themselves by scorn for his trial.

"Young men of Wayne, give us a little more of such college spirit!"


X

NEW PLAYERS


When practice time rolled around for Ken next day, he went upon the
field once more with his hopes renewed and bright.

"I certainly do die hard," he laughed to himself. "But I can never go
down and out now--never!"

Something seemed to ring in Ken's ears like peals of bells. In spite of
his awkwardness Coach Arthurs had made him a varsity man; in spite of his
unpreparedness old Crab had given him a passing mark; in spite of his
unworthiness President Halstead had made him famous.

"I surely am the lucky one," said Ken, for the hundredth time. "And
now I'm going to force my luck." Ken had lately revolved in his mind
a persistent idea that he meant to propound to the coach.

Ken arrived on the field a little later than usual, to find Arthurs for
once minus his worried look. He was actually smiling, and Ken soon saw
the reason for this remarkable change was the presence of a new player
out in centre field.

"Hello, Peg! things are lookin' up," said the coach, beaming. "That's
Homans out there in centre--Roy Homans, a senior and a crackerjack
ball-player. I tried to get him to come out for the team last year, but
he wouldn't spare the time. But he's goin' to play this season--said the
president's little talk got him. He's a fast, heady, scientific player,
just the one to steady you kids."

Before Ken could reply his attention was attracted from Homans to
another new player in uniform now walking up to Arthurs. He was tall,
graceful, powerful, had red hair, keen dark eyes, a clean-cut profile
and square jaw.

"I've come out to try for the team," he said, quietly, to the coach.

"You're a little late, ain't you?" asked Worry, gruffly; but he ran
a shrewd glance over the lithe form.

"Yes."

"Must have been stirred up by that talk of President Halstead's,
wasn't you?"

"Yes." There was something quiet and easy about the stranger,
and Ken liked him at once.

"Where do you play?" went on Worry.

"Left."

"Can you hit? Talk sense now, and mebbe you'll save me work. Can you hit?"

"Yes."

"Can you throw?"

"Yes." He spoke with quiet assurance.

"Can you run?" almost shouted Worry. He was nervous and irritable
those days, and it annoyed him for unknown youths to speak calmly
of such things.

"Run? Yes, a little. I did the hundred last year in nine and four-fifths."

"What! You can't kid me! Who are you?" cried Worry, getting red in the
face. "I've seen you somewhere."

"My name's Ray."

"Say! Not _Ray_, the intercollegiate champion?"

"I'm the fellow. I talked it over with Murray. He kicked, but I didn't
mind that. I promised to try to keep in shape to win the sprints at the
intercollegiate meet."

"Say! Get out there in left field! Quick!" shouted Worry.... "Peg, hit
him some flies. Lam 'em a mile! That fellow's a sprinter, Peg. What luck
it would be if he can play ball! Hit 'em at him!"

Ken took the ball Worry tossed him, and, picking up a bat, began to
knock flies out to Ray. The first few he made easy for the outfielder,
and then he hit balls harder and off to the right or left. Without
appearing to exert himself Ray got under them. Ken watched him, and
also kept the tail of his eye on Worry. The coach appeared to be
getting excited, and he ordered Ken to hit the balls high and far
away. Ken complied, but he could not hit a ball over Ray's head. He
tried with all his strength. He had never seen a champion sprinter,
and now he marvelled at the wonderful stride.

"Oh! but his running is beautiful!" exclaimed Ken.

"That's enough! Come in here!" yelled Worry to Ray.... "Peg, he makes
Dreer look slow. I never saw as fast fieldin' as that."

When Ray came trotting in without seeming to be even warmed up, Worry
blurted out: "You ain't winded--after all that? Must be in shape?"

"I'm always in shape," replied Ray.

"Pick up a bat!" shouted Worry. "Here, Duncan, pitch this fellow a few.
Speed 'em, curve 'em, strike him out, hit him--anything!"

Ray was left-handed, and he stood up to the plate perfectly erect,
with his bat resting quietly on his shoulder. He stepped straight,
swung with an even, powerful swing, and he hit the first ball clear
over the right-field bleachers. It greatly distanced Dreer's hit.

"What a drive!" gasped Ken.

"Oh!" choked Worry. "That's enough! You needn't lose my balls. Bunt one,
now."

Ray took the same position, and as the ball came up he appeared to drop
the bat upon it and dart away at the same instant.

Worry seemed to be trying to control violent emotion. "Next batter up!"
he called, hoarsely, and sat down on the bench. He was breathing hard,
and beads of sweat stood out on his brow.

Ken went up to Worry, feeling that now was the time to acquaint the
coach with his new idea. Eager as Ken was he had to force himself to
take this step. All the hope and dread, nervousness and determination
of the weeks of practice seemed to accumulate in that moment. He
stammered and stuttered, grew speechless, and then as Worry looked
up in kind surprise, Ken suddenly grew cool and earnest.

"Mr. Arthurs, will you try me in the box?"

"What's that, Peg?" queried the coach, sharply.

"Will you give me a trial in the box? I've wanted one all along. You put
me in once when we were in the cage, but you made me hit the batters."

"Pitch? you, Peg? Why not? Why didn't I think of it? I'm sure gettin'
to be like 'em fat-head directors. You've got steam, Peg, but can you
curve a ball? Let's see your fingers."

"Yes, I can curve a ball round a corner. Please give me a trial,
Mr. Arthurs. I failed in the infield, and I'm little good in the
outfield. But I know I can pitch."

The coach gave Ken one searching glance. Then he called all the
candidates in to the plate, and ordered Dean, the stocky little
catcher, to don his breast-protector, mask, and mitt.

"Peg," said the coach, "Dean will sign you--one finger for a straight
ball, two for a curve."

When Ken walked to the box all his muscles seemed quivering and tense,
and he had a contraction in his throat. This was his opportunity. He was
not unnerved as he had been when he was trying for the other positions.
All Ken's life he had been accustomed to throwing. At his home he had
been the only boy who could throw a stone across the river; the only one
who could get a ball over the high-school tower. A favorite pastime had
always been the throwing of small apples, or walnuts, or stones, and he
had acquired an accuracy that made it futile for his boy comrades to
compete with him. Curving a ball had come natural to him, and he would
have pitched all his high-school games had it not been for the fact that
no one could catch him, and, moreover, none of the boys had found any
fun in batting against him.

When Ken faced the first batter a feeling came over him that he had
never before had on the ball field. He was hot, trembling, hurried,
but this new feeling was apart from these. His feet were on solid
ground, and his arm felt as it had always in those throwing contests
where he had so easily won. He seemed to decide from McCord's position
at the plate what to throw him.

Ken took his swing. It was slow, easy, natural. But the ball travelled
with much greater speed than the batter expected from such motion. McCord
let the first two balls go by, and Arthurs called them both strikes. Then
Ken pitched an out-curve which McCord fanned at helplessly. Arthurs sent
Trace up next. Ken saw that the coach was sending up the weaker hitters
first. Trace could not even make a foul. Raymond was third up, and Ken
had to smile at the scowling second-baseman. Remembering his weakness
for pulling away from the plate, Ken threw Raymond two fast curves on
the outside, and then a slow wide curve, far out. Raymond could not have
hit the first two with a paddle, and the third lured him irresistibly
out of position and made him look ridiculous. He slammed his bat down
and slouched to the bench. Duncan turned out to be the next easy victim.
Four batters had not so much as fouled Ken. And Ken knew he was holding
himself in--that, in fact, he had not let out half his speed. Blake, the
next player, hit up a little fly that Ken caught, and Schoonover made
the fifth man to strike out.

Then Weir stood over the plate, and he was a short, sturdy batter, hard
to pitch to. He looked as if he might be able to hit any kind of a ball.
Ken tried him first with a straight fast one over the middle of the plate.
Weir hit it hard, but it went foul. And through Ken's mind flashed the
thought that he would pitch no more speed to Weir or players who swung
as he did. Accordingly Ken tried the slow curve that had baffled Raymond.
Weir popped it up and retired in disgust.

The following batter was Graves, who strode up smiling, confident,
sarcastic, as if he knew he could do more than the others. Ken imagined
what the third-baseman would have said if the coach had not been present.
Graves always ruffled Ken the wrong way.

"I'll strike him out if I break my arm!" muttered Ken to himself. He
faced Graves deliberately and eyed his position at bat. Graves as
deliberately laughed at him.

"Pitch up, pitch up!" he called out.

"Right over the pan!" retorted Ken, as quick as an echo. He went hot as
fire all over. This fellow Graves had some strange power of infuriating
him.

Ken took a different swing, which got more of his weight in motion, and
let his arm out. Like a white bullet the ball shot plateward, rising a
little so that Graves hit vainly under it. The ball surprised Dean,
knocked his hands apart as if they had been paper, and resounded from
his breast-protector. Ken pitched the second ball in the same place with
a like result, except that Dean held on to it. Graves had lost his smile
and wore an expression of sickly surprise. The third ball travelled by
him and cracked in Dean's mitt, and Arthurs called it a strike.

"Easy there--that'll do!" yelled the coach. "Come in here, Peg. Out on
the field now, boys."

Homans stopped Ken as they were passing each other, and Ken felt himself
under the scrutiny of clear gray eyes.

"Youngster, you look good to me," said Homans.

Ken also felt himself regarded with astonishment by many of the candidates;
and Ray ran a keen, intuitive glance over him from head to foot. But it was
the coach's manner that struck Ken most forcibly. Worry was utterly unlike
himself.

"Why didn't you tell me about this before--you--you--" he yelled, red as
a beet in the face. He grasped Ken with both hands, then he let him go,
and picking up a ball and a mitt he grasped him again. Without a word he
led Ken across the field and to a secluded corner behind the bleachers.
Ken felt for all the world as if he was being led to execution.

Worry took off his coat and vest and collar. He arranged a block of wood
for a plate and stepped off so many paces and placed another piece of
wood to mark the pitcher's box. Then he donned the mitt.

"Peg, somethin's comin' off. I know it. I never make mistakes in sizin'
up pitchers. But I've had such hard luck this season that I can't believe
my own eyes. We've got to prove it. Now you go out there and pitch to me.
Just natural like at first."

Ken pitched a dozen balls or more, some in-curves, some out-curves. Then
he threw what he called his drop, which he executed by a straight overhand
swing.

"Oh--a beauty!" yelled Worry. "Where, Peg, where did you learn that?
Another, lower now."

Worry fell over trying to stop the glancing drop.

"Try straight ones now, Peg, right over the middle. See how many you
can pitch."

One after another, with free, easy motion, Ken shot balls squarely over
the plate. Worry counted them, and suddenly, after the fourteenth pitch,
he stood up and glared at Ken.

"Are you goin' to keep puttin' 'em over this pan all day that way?"

"Mr. Arthurs, I couldn't miss that plate if I pitched a week,"
replied Ken.

"Stop callin' me Mister!" yelled Worry. "Now, put 'em where I hold my
hands--inside corner... outside corner... again... inside now, low...
another... a fast one over, now... high, inside. Oh, Peg, this ain't
right. I ain't seein' straight. I think I'm dreamin'. Come on with 'em!"

Fast and true Ken sped the balls into Worry's mitt. Seldom did the
coach have to move his hands at all.

"Peg Ward, did you know that pitchin' was all control, puttin' the ball
where you wanted to?" asked Worry, stopping once more.

"No, I didn't," replied Ken.

"How did you learn to peg a ball as straight as this?"

Ken told him how he had thrown at marks all his life.

"Why didn't you tell me before?" Worry seemed not to be able to get
over Ken's backwardness. "Look at the sleepless nights and the gray
hairs you could have saved me." He stamped around as if furious, yet
underneath the surface Ken saw that the coach was trying to hide his
elation. "Here now," he shouted, suddenly, "a few more, and _peg_ 'em!
See? Cut loose and let me see what steam you've got!"

Ken whirled with all his might and delivered the ball with all his
weight in the swing. The ball seemed to diminish in size, it went so
swiftly. Near the plate it took an upward jump, and it knocked Worry's
mitt off his hand.

Worry yelled out, then he looked carefully at Ken, but he made no effort
to go after the ball or pick up the mitt.

"Did I say for you to knock my block off?... Come here, Peg. You're only
a youngster. Do you think you can keep that? Are you goin' to let me teach
you to pitch? One cannot wonder that the sick man craved water, when we read
what he had had to drink.

He had been given, a spoonful at a time, this "Comfortable Juleb for a
Feaver," made of "Barley Water & White Wine each one pint, Whey one quart,
two ounces of Conserves of Barberries, and the Juyces of two limmons and
2 Oranges."

The doctor had also taken (if he had followed his Pearl of Practice) "two
Salt white herrings & slit them down the back and bound them to the soles
of the feet" of his patient; and I doubt not he had bled the sufferer at
once, for he always bled and purged on every possible occasion.

The Water of Life was also given for fevers, a few drops at a time,
and also as a tonic in health.

"Take Balm leaves and stalks, Betony leaves and flowers, Rosemary,
red sage, Taragon, Tormentil leaves, Rossolis and Roses, Carnation,
Hyssop, Thyme, red strings that grow upon Savory, red Fennel leaves
and root, red Mints, of each a handful; bruise these hearbs and put
them in a great earthern pot, & pour on them enough White Wine as
will cover them, stop them close, and let them steep for eight or
nine days; then put to it Cinnamon, Ginger, Angelica-seeds, Cloves,
and Nuttmegs, of each an ounce, a little Saffron, Sugar one pound,
Raysins solis stoned one pound, the loyns and legs of an old Coney,
a fleshy running Capon, the red flesh of the sinews of a leg of
Mutton, four young Chickens, twelve larks, the yolks of twelve Eggs,
a loaf of White-bread cut in sops, and two or three ounces of
Mithridate or Treacle, & as much Muscadine as will cover them all.

Distil al with a moderate fire, and keep the first and second waters by
themselves; and when there comes no more by Distilling put more
Wine into the pot upon the same stuffe and distil it again, and you
shal have another good water.

This water strengtheneth the Spirit, Brain, Heart, Liver, and Stomack. Take
when need is by itself, or with Ale, Beer, or Wine mingled with Sugar."
Who could doubt that it strengthened the spirit, especially when taken
with ale or wine? Plainly here do we see the need of a doctor being a
good cook. But what pot would hold all that flesh and fowl, that blooming
flower-garden of herbs and posies, that assorted lot of fruits and
spices, to say nothing of the muscadine?

Our ancestors spared no pains in preparing these medicines. They
did not, shifting all responsibility, run to a chemist or apothecary
with a little slip of paper; with their own hands they picked, pulled,
pounded, stamped, shredded, dropped, powdered, and distilled, regardless
of expense, or trouble, or hard work. Truly they deserved to be cured.
They did not measure the drugs with precision in preparing their medicines,
as do our chemists nowadays, nor were their prescriptions written in Latin
nor with cabalistic marks--the asbestos stomachs and colossal minds of
our forefathers were much above such petty minuteness; nor did they
administer the doses with exactness. "The bigth of a walnut," "enough
to lie on a pen knifes point," "the weight of a shilling," "enough
to cover a French crown," "as bigg as a haslenut," "as great as a
charger," "the bigth of a Turkeys Egg," "a pretty draught," "a
pretty bunch of herbs," "take a little handful," "take a pretty
quantity as often as you please"--such are the lax directions that
accompany these old prescriptions.

Of course, the remedies given in this book were largely for the diseases
of the day.

Physicians and parsons, lords and ladies, combined to furnish complex
and elaborate prescriptions and perfumes to cure and avert the plague;
and the list includes one plague-cure that the Lord Mayor had from
the Queen, and I may add that it is a particularly unpleasant and
revolting one. A plague swept through New England and decimated the
Indian tribes; and though it was not at all like the great plague that
devastated London, I doubt not red man and white man took confidingly
and faithfully medicines such as are given in this little book of
mine: the king's feeble and much-vaunted dose of "White Wine, Ginger,
Treacle, and Sage;" Dr.

Atkinson's excellent perfume against the Plague, of "Angelica roots and
Wine Vinegar, that if taken fasting, your breath would kill the
Plague" (it must have been a fearful dose); "Mr.

Fenton's the Chirurgeon's Posset and his Sedour Root."
Cures for small-pox and for gout are many. Varied are the lotions for the
"pin and web in the eye;" so many are there of these that it makes me
suspect that our forefathers were sadly sore-eyed.

One very prevalent ail that our ancestors had to endure (if we can judge
from the number of prescriptions for its relief) was a "cold
stomack;" literally cold, one might think, since most of the cures
were by external application.

Lady Spencer used a plebeian "greene turfe of grasse" to warm her
stomach, with the green side, not the dirt side, placed next the
skin.

She could scarcely have worn this turf when she was up and around the
house, could she? She must have had it placed upon her while she was
in bed. Josselyn said in his "New England Rarities" that, "to wear the
skin of a Gripe dressed with the doun on" would cure pain and coldness
of the stomach. Thus did like cure like. A "Restorative Bag" of herbs
and spices heated in "boyl'd Vinegar" is asserted to be "comfortable."
"It must be as hot as can be endured, and keep yourself from studying
and musing and it will comfort you much." So it seems you ought
not to study nor to muse if your stomach be cold.

Many and manifold are the remedies to "chear the heart," to "drive
melancholy," to "cure one pensive," "for the megrums," "for a
grief;" and without doubt the lonely colonists often needed them.

We know, too, that "things ill for the heart were beans, pease,
sadness, onions, anger, evil tidings, and loss of friends,"--a very
arbitrary and unjust classification.

Melancholy was evidently regarded as a disease, and a much-to-be-lamented
one. External applications were made to "drive the worms out of
the Brain as well as Dross out of the Stomack." Here is "A pretious
water to revive the Spirits:"
"Take four gallons of strong Ale, five ounces of Aniseeds, Liquorish
scraped half a pound, Sweet Mints, Angelica, Eccony, Cowslip flowers,
Sage & Rosemary Flowers, sweet Marjoram, of each three handfuls,
Palitory of the VVal one handful.

After it is fermented two or three dayes, distil it in a Limbeck, and in
the water infuse one handful of the flowers aforesaid, Cinnamon
and Fennel-seed of each half an ounce, Juniper berries bruised one
dram, red Rosebuds, roasted Apples & dates sliced and stoned, of
each half a pound; distil it again and sweeten it with some Sugarcandy,
and take of Ambergreese, Pearl, Red Coral, Hartshorn pounded, and
leaf Gold, of each half a Dram, put them in a fine Linnen bag, and
hang them by a thread in a Glasse."

Think of taking all that trouble to make something to cheer the spirits,
when the four gallons of strong ale with spices would have fully
answered the purpose, without bothering with the herbs and fruits.

I suppose the gold and jewels were particularly cheering ingredients,
and perhaps entitled the drink to its name of precious water.

Indeed, it would be cheering to the spirits nowadays to have the
precious metals and gems that were so lavishly used in these ancient
medicines.

Full jewelled were the works of English persons of quality in the time
of the Merry Monarch and his sire.

The gold and gems were not always hung in bags in the medicines;
frequently they were powdered and dissolved, and formed a large
portion of the dose.

Like Chaucer's Doctour, they believed that "gold in phisike is a
cordial."

Dr.
Gifford's "Amber Pils for Consumption" contained a large quantity of pearls,
white amber, and coral, as did also Lady Kent's powder. Sir Edward
Spencer's eye-salve was rich in powdered pearls. The Bishop of Worcester's
"admirable curing powder" was composed largely of "ten skins of snakes
or adders or Slow worms" mixed with "Magistery of Pearls." The latter
was a common ingredient, and under the head of "Choice Secrets Made
Known" we are told how to manufacture it:

"Dissolve two or three ounces of fine seed Pearl in distill'd Vinegar, and
when it's perfectly dissolved and all taken up, pour the Vinegar
into a clean glasse Bason; then drop some few drops of oyl of Tartar
upon it, and it will call down the Pearl into the powder; then pour
the Vinegar clean off softly; then put to the Pearl clear Conduit
or Spring water; pour that off, and do so often until the taste of
the Vinegar and Tartar be clean gone; then dry the powder of Pearl
upon warm embers and keep for your use."

Gold and precious stones were specially necessary "to ease the passion
of the Heart," as indeed they are nowadays. In that century, however,
they applied the mercenary cure inwardly, and prepared it thus:

"Take Damask Roses half-blown, cut off thier whites, and stamp them
very fine, and straine out the Juyce very strong; moisten it in the
stamping with a little Damask Rose water; then put thereto fine
powder Sugar, and boyl it gently to a fine Syrup; then take the
Powders of Amber, Pearl, Rubies, of each half a dram, Ambergreese
one scruple, and mingle them with the said syrup till it be somewhat
thick, and take a little thereof on a knifes point morning and
evening."

I can now understand the reason for the unceasing, the incurable
melancholy that hung like a heavy black shadow over so many Puritan
divines in the early days of New England, as their gloomy sermons,
their sad diaries and letters, plainly show.

Those poor ministers had no chance to use these receipts and thus
get cured of "worms in the brain," with annual salaries of only
£60, which they had to take in corn, wheat, codfish, or bearskins,
in any kind of "country pay," or even in wampum, in order to get
it at all.

Rubies and pearls and gold and coral were scarce drugs in clerical
circles in Massachusetts Bay and Plymouth plantations.

Even amber and ivory were far from plentiful.

We find John Winthrop writing in 1682, "I am straitened, having no
ivory beaten, neither any pearle nor corall."

Cleopatra drinks were out of fashion in the New World.

So Mather and Hooker and Warham were condemned to die with uncheered
spirits and unjewelled stomachs.

Another ingredient, unicorns' horns, which were ground and used in
powders, must have been difficult to obtain in New England, although
I believe Governor Winthrop had one sent to him as a gift from
England; and John Endicott, writing to him in 1634, said: "I have
sent you Mrs Beggarly her Vnicorns horne & beza stone."

Both the unicorn's horn and the bezoar stone were sovereign antidotes
against poison.

At another time Winthrop had sent to him "bezoar stone, mugwort,
orgaine, and galingall root."

Ambergris was also too rare and costly for American Puritans to
use, though we find Hull writing for golden ambergroose.

Insomnia is not a bane of our modern civilization alone.

This little book shows that our ancestors craved and sought sleep
just as we do.

Here is a prescription to cure sleeplessness, which might be tried
by any wakeful soul of modern times, since it requires neither
rubies, pearls, nor gold for its manufacture:
"Bruise a handful of Anis-seeds, and steep them in Red Rose Water,
& make it up in little bags, & binde one of them to each Nostrill,
and it will cause sleep."

So aniseed bags were used in earlier days for a purpose very different
from our modern one; if your nineteenth century nose should refuse
to accustom itself to having bags hung on it, you can "Chop Chammomile
& crumbs of Brown Bread smal and boyl them with White Wine Vinegar,
stir it wel and spred it on a cloth & binde it to the soles of the
feet as hot as you can suffer it."

And if that should not make you sleepy, there are frankincense-perfumed
paper bags for your head, and some very pleasant things made of
rose-leaves for your temples, and hard-boiled eggs for the nape of
your neck--you can choose from all of these.

They had abounding faith in those days.

Several of the prescriptions in "The Queen's Closet" are to cure
people at a remote distance, by applying the nostrums to a linen
cloth previously wet with the patient's blood.

They had plasters of power to put on the back of the head to draw
the palate into place; and wonderful elixirs that would keep a dying
man alive five years; and herb-juices to make a dumb man speak.

The following suggestion shows plainly their confiding spirit:

"To Cure Deafnesse. Take the Garden Dasie roots and make juyce thereof,
and lay the worst side of the head low upon the bolster & drop
three or four drops thereof into the better Ear; this do three or
four dayes together."

"Simpatheticall" medicines had a special charm for all the Winthrops,
and that delightful but gullible old English alchemist, Sir Kenelm
Digby, kept them well posted in all the newest nonsense.

In a medical dispensatory of the times the different varieties of medicines
used in New England are enumerated. They are leaves, herbs, roots,
barks, seeds, flowers, juices, distilled waters, syrups, juleps, decoctions,
oils, electuaries, conserves, preserves, lohocks, ointments, plasters,
poultices, troches, and pills.

These words and articles are all used nowadays, except the lohock, which
was to be _licked up_, and in consistency stood in the intermediate
ground between an electuary and a syrup. These terms, of course, were
in the Galenic practice. In "The Queen's Closet" all the physic was
found afield, with the exception of the precious metals and one compound,
rubila, which was made of antimony and nitre, and which was in special
favor in the Winthrop family--as many of their letters show. They
sent it and recommended it to their friends--and better still,
they took it faithfully themselves, and with most satisfactory
results.

There was also one mineral "oyntment" made of quicksilver, verdigris,
and brimstone mixed with "barrows grease," which was good for "horse,
man, or other beast." Alum and copperas were once recommended for external
use.

The powerful "plaister of Paracelsus," also beloved of the Winthrops, was
not composed of mineral drugs, as might be supposed, but was made of
herbs, and from the ingredients named must have been particularly nasty
smelling as well as powerful.

The medicine mithridate forms a part of many of these prescriptions; it
does not seem to be regarded as an alexipharmic, but as a soporific. It
is said to have been the cure-all of King Mithridates. I will not give
an account of the process of its manufacture; it would fill about
three pages of this book, and I should think it would take about
six weeks to compound a good dose of it.

There are forty-five different articles used, each to be prepared by
slow degrees and introduced with great care; some of them (such
as the rape of storax, camel's hay, and bellies of skinks) must
have been inconvenient to procure in New England.

Mithridates would hardly recognize his own medicine in this conglomeration,
for when Pompey found his precious receipt it was simple enough:
"Pound with care two walnuts, two dried figs, twenty pounds of rice, and
a grain of salt." I think we might take this _cum grano salis_.

Queer were the names of some of the herbs; alehoof, which was
ground-ivy, or gill-go-by-ground, or haymaids, or twinhoof, or
gill-creep-by-ground, and was an herb of Venus, and thus in special use
for "passions of the heart," for "amorous cups," which few Puritans
dared to meddle with. The blessed thistle, of which one scandalized old
writer says, "I suppose the name was put upon it by them that had
little holiness themselves."

Clary, or clear-eye, or Christ's-eye, which latter name makes the same
writer indignantly say, "I could wish from my soul that blasphemy and
ignorance were ceased among physicians"--as if the poor doctors
gave these folk-names! The crab-claws so often mentioned was also an
herb, otherwise known as knight's-pond water and freshwater-soldier.
The mints to flavor were horsemint, spearmint, peppermint, catmint,
and heartmint.

The earliest New England colonists did not discover in the new country
all the herbs and simples of their native land, but the Indian
powwows knew of others that answered every purpose--very healing
herbs too, as Wood in his "New England's Prospects" unwillingly
acknowledges and thus explains: "Sometimes the devill for requitall
of their worship recovers the partie to nuzzle them up inn thier
devilish Religion."

The planters sent to England for herbs and drugs, as existing
inventories show; and they planted seeds and soon had plenty of
home herbs that grew apace in every dooryard.

The New Haven colony passed a law at an early date to force the destruction
of a "great stinking poisonous weed," which is said to have been the
_Datura stramonium_, a medicinal herb. It had been brought over by the
Jamestown colonists, and had spread miraculously, and was known as "Jimson"
or Jamestown weed.

Josselyn gives in his "New England's Rarities" an interesting list
of the herbs known and used by the colonists. Cotton Mather said the
most useful and favorite medicinal plants were alehoof, garlick,
elder, sage, rue, and saffron.

Saffron has never lost its popularity.

To this day "saffern tea" is a standing country dose in New England,
especially for the "jarnders." Elder, rue, and saffron were English herbs
that were made settlers here and carefully cultivated; so also
were sage, hyssop, tansy, wormwood, celandine, comfrey, mallows,
mayweed, yarrow, chamomile, dandelion, shepherd's-purse, bloody
dock, elecampane, motherwort, burdock, plantain, catnip, mint,
fennel, and dill--all now flaunting weeds.

Dunton wrote, with praise of a Dr.

Bullivant, in Boston, in 1686, "He does not direct his patients to the
East Indies to look for drugs when they may have far better out of their
gardens."

There is a charm in these medical rules in my old book, in spite of the
earth-worms and wood-lice and adders and vipers in which some of them
abound (to say nothing of other and more shocking ingredients). In surprising
and unpleasant compounds they do not excel the prescriptions in a serious
medical book published in Exeter, New Hampshire, as late as 1835. Nor is
Cotton Mather's favorite and much-vaunted ingredient _millepedes_, or
sowbugs, once mentioned within. All are not vile in my Queen's Closet--far
from it. Medicines composed of Canary wine or sack, with rose-water, juice
of oranges and lemons, syrup of clove-gillyflower, loaf sugar,
"Mallago raisins," nutmegs, cloves, cinnamon, mace, remind me
strongly of Josselyn's New England Nectar, and render me quite
dissatisfied with our modern innovations of quinine, antipyrine,
and phenacetin, and even make only passively welcome the innocuous
and uninteresting homo[eo]pathic pellet and drop.

Many other dispensatories, guides, collections, and records of medical
customs and concoctions, remain to us even of the earliest days. We
have the private receipt-book of John Winthrop, a gathering of choice
receipts given to him in manuscript by one Stafford, of England. These
receipts have been printed in the Collections of the Massachusetts
Historical Society for the year 1862, with delightful notes by Dr.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, and are of the same nature as those in the
Queen's Closet.

Here is one, which was venomous, yet harmless enough:
"My black powder against ye plague, small-pox, purples, all sorts
of feavers, Poyson; either by way of prevention or after Infection.

In the Moneth of March take Toades, as many as you will, alive; putt
them into an Earthen pott, so yt it be halfe full; Cover it with a
broad tyle or Iron plate, then overwhelme the pott, so yt ye bottome may
be uppermost; putt charcoals round about it and over it and in the open
ayre not in an house; sett it on fire and lett it burne out and
extinguish of itself; when it is cold take out the toades; and in an
Iron morter pound them very well; and searce them; then in a Crucible
calcine them; So againe; pound them & searce them again.

The first time they will be a brown powder, the next time blacke. Of this
you may give a dragme in a Vehiculum or drinke Inwardly in any Infection
taken: and let them sweat upon it in their bedds: but let them not
cover their heads; especially in the Small-Pox. For prevention half a
dragme will suffice."

I do not know what meteorological influence was assigned to the month
of March; perhaps it was chosen because toads would be uncommonly hard
to get in New England during that month.

All the medicines in Dr. Stafford's little collection were not, however,
so unalluring, and were, on the whole, very healing and respectable. He
prescribed nitre, antimony, rhubarb, jalap, and spermaceti, "the
sovereignest thing on earth--for an inward bruise;" and he also culled
herbs and simples in vast variety.

He gave some very good advice regarding the conduct of a physician,
the latter clause of which might well be heeded to-day.

"Nota bene. No man can with a good Conscience take a fee or Reward before
ye partie receive benefit apparent and then he is not to demand anything
but what God shall putt it into the heart of the partie to give him.
A man is not to neglect that partie to whom he had once administered
but to visit him at least once a day & to medle with no more than
he can well attend."

The account books of other old New England physicians, and other
medical books such as "A Treatise of Choice Spagyrical Preparations,"
show to us that the seventeenth and eighteenth century medicines,
though disgusting, were not deadly. We know what medicines were given the
colonists on their sea journey hither: "Oil of Cloves, Origanum, Purging
Pills, and Ressin of Jalap" for the toothache; a Diaphoretic Bolus for
an "Extream Cold;" Spirits of Castor and Oil of Amber for "Histericall
Fitts;" "Seaurell Emplaisters for a broken Shin;" and for other afflictions,
"Gascons Powder, Liquorish, Carminative Seeds, Syrup of Saffron,
Pectoral Syrups and Somniferous Boluses."

Cod livers were given then as cod-liver oil is given now, "to restore
them that have melted their Grease." A favorite prescription was
"Rulandus, his Balsam which tho' it smel not wel" was properly powerful,
and could be gotten down if carefully hidden in "poudered shuger."
Cotton Mather, who tried his skilful hand at writing upon almost every
grave and weighty subject, composed a book of medical advice called
the "Angel of Bethesda."

It was written when he was sixty years of age, but was never printed;
the manuscript is preserved in the library of the American Antiquarian
Society at Worcester. It begins characteristically with a sermon, and
is fantastically peppered with pompous scriptural and classical
quotations, as was the Mather wont. The ingredients of the prescriptions
are vile beyond belief, though, as Mather said in one of his letters,
they are "powerful and parable physicks," which are two desirable
qualities or attributes of any physic.

The book gives an interesting account of Mather's share in that great
colonial revolution in medicine--the introduction of the custom of
inoculation for the small-pox.

His friend, Dr. Zabdiel Boylston, of Boston, was the first physician
to inaugurate this great step by inoculating his own son--a child
six years old.

Deep was the horror and aversion felt by the colonial public toward both
the practice and practitioners of this daring innovation, and fiercely and
malignantly was it opposed; but its success soon conquered opposition,
and also that fell disease, which six times within a hundred years
had devastated New England, bringing death, disfigurement, and
business misfortunes to the colonists.

There's no lack of harmony, yet there's a
drag. In spite of the spirit you've shown--and I want to say it's been
great--the team doesn't work together as one man _all_ the time. I advise
you all to stick closer together. Stay away from the club, and everywhere
except lectures. We've got to be closer 'n brothers. It'll all work out
right before we go up against Herne in June. That game's comin', boys,
and by that time the old college will be crazy. It'll be _our_ turn then."

Worry's talks always sank deeply into Ken's mind and set him to thinking
and revolving over and over the gist of them so that he could remember
to his profit.

He knew that some of the boys had broken training, and he pondered if that
was what caused the drag Worry mentioned. Ken had come to feel the life
and fortunes of the varsity so keenly that he realized how the simplest
deviations from honor might affect the smooth running of the team. It must
be perfectly smooth. And to make it so every player must be of one mind.

Ken proved to himself how lack of the highest spirit on the part of one
or two of the team tended toward the lowering of the general spirit. For
he began to worry, and almost at once it influenced his playing. He found
himself growing watchful of his comrades and fearful of what they might
be doing. He caught himself being ashamed of his suspicions. He would as
lief have cut off his hand as break his promise to the coach. Perhaps,
however, he exaggerated his feeling and sense of duty. He remembered the
scene in Dale's room the night he refused to smoke and drink; how Dale
had commended his refusal. Nevertheless, he gathered from Dale's remark
to Worry that breaking training was not unusual or particularly harmful.

"With Dale's team it might not have been so bad," thought Ken. "But it's
different with us. We've got to make up in spirit what we lack in ability."

Weir and McCord occupied the room next to Ken's, and Graves and Trace,
rooming together, were also on that floor. Ken had tried with all his
might to feel friendly toward the third-baseman. He had caught Graves
carrying cake and pie to his room and smoking cigarettes with the window
open. One night Graves took cigarettes from his pocket and offered them
to Kel, Trace, and Ken, who all happened to be in Ken's room at the time.
Trace readily accepted; Kel demurred at first, but finally took one.
Graves then tossed the pack to Ken.

"No, I don't smoke. Besides, it's breaking training," said Ken.

"You make me sick, Ward," retorted Graves. "You're a wet blanket. Do you
think we're going to be as sissy as that? It's hard enough to stand the
grub we get here, without giving up a little smoke."

Ken made no reply, but he found it difficult to smother a hot riot in his
breast. When the other boys had gone to their rooms Ken took Kel to task
about his wrong-doing.

"Do you think that's the right sort of thing? What would Worry say?"

"Ken, I don't care about it, not a bit," replied Kel, flinging his
cigarette out of the window. "But Graves is always asking me to do
things--I hate to refuse. It seems so--"

"Kel, if Worry finds it out you'll lose your place on the team."

"No!" exclaimed Raymond, staring.

"Mark what I say. I wish you'd stop letting Graves coax you into things."

"Ken, he's always smuggling pie and cake and candy into his room. I've
had some of it. Trace said he'd brought in something to drink, too."

"It's a shame," cried Ken, in anger. "I never liked him and I've tried
hard to change it. Now I'm glad I couldn't."

"He doesn't have any use for you," replied Kel. "He's always running
you down to the other boys. What'd you ever do to him, Ken?"

"Oh, it was that potato stunt of mine last fall. He's a Soph, and I hit
him, I guess."

"I think it's more than that," went on Raymond. "Anyway, you look out
for him, because he's aching to spoil your face."

"He is, is he?" snapped Ken.

Ken was too angry to talk any more, and so the boys went to bed. The next
few days Ken discovered that either out of shame or growing estrangement
Raymond avoided him, and he was bitterly hurt. He had come to like the
little second-baseman, and had hoped they would be good friends. It was
easy to see that Graves became daily bolder, and more lax in training,
and his influence upon several of the boys grew stronger. And when Dean,
Schoonover, and Duncan appeared to be joining the clique, Ken decided he
would have to talk to some one, so he went up to see Ray and Homans.

The sprinter was alone, sitting by his lamp, with books and notes spread
before him.

"Hello, Peg! come in. You look a little glum. What's wrong?"

Reddy Ray seemed like an elder brother to Ken, and he found himself
blurting out his trouble. Ray looked thoughtful, and after a moment
he replied in his quiet way:

"Peg, it's new to you, but it's an old story to me. The track and crew
men seldom break training, which is more than can be said of the other
athletes. It seems to me baseball fellows are the most careless. They
really don't have to train so conscientiously. It's only a kind of form."

"But it's different this year," burst out Ken. "You know what Worry said,
and how he trusts us."

"You're right, Peg, only you mustn't take it so hard. Things will work
out all right. Homans and I were talking about that to-day. You see,
Worry wants the boys to elect a captain soon. But perhaps he has not
confided in you youngsters. He will suggest that you elect Homans or
me. Well, I won't run for the place, so it'll be Homans. He's the man
to captain us, that's certain. Graves thinks, though, that he can pull
the wires and be elected captain. He's way off. Besides, Peg, he's
making a big mistake. Worry doesn't like him, and when he finds out
about this break in training we'll have a new third-baseman. No doubt
Blake will play the bag. Graves is the only drag in Worry's baseball
machine now, and he'll not last.... So, Peg, don't think any more about
it. Mind you, the whole team circles round you. You're the pivot, and
as sure as you're born you'll be Wayne's captain next year. That's
something for you to keep in mind and work for. If Graves keeps after
you--hand him one! That's not against rules. Punch him! If Worry knew
the truth he would pat you on the back for slugging Graves. Cheer up,
Peg! Even if Graves has got all the kids on his side, which I doubt,
Homans and I are with you. And you can just bet that Worry Arthurs will
side with us.... Now run along, for I must study."

This conversation was most illuminating to Ken. He left Reddy's room
all in a quiver of warm pleasure and friendliness at the great sprinter's
quiet praise and advice. To make such a friend was worth losing a hundred
friends like Graves. He dismissed the third-baseman and his scheming from
mind, and believed Reddy as he had believed Arthurs. But Ken thought much
of what he divined was a glimmering of the inside workings of a college
baseball team. He had one wild start of rapture at the idea of becoming
captain of Wayne's varsity next year, and then he dared think no more
of that.

The day dawned for Ken to go to Washington, and he was so perturbed at
his responsibilities that he quite forgot to worry about the game Wayne
had to play in his absence. Arthurs intended to pitch Schoonover in that
game, and had no doubt as to its outcome. The coach went to the station
with Ken, once more repeated his instructions, and saw him upon the
train. Certainly there was no more important personage on board that
Washington Limited than Ken Ward. In fact, Ken was so full of importance
and responsibility that he quite divided his time between foolish pride
in his being chosen to "size up" the great college teams and fearful
conjecture as to his ability.

At any rate, the time flew by, the trip seemed short, and soon he was
on the Georgetown field. It was lucky that he arrived early and got
a seat in the middle of the grand-stand, for there was a throng in
attendance when the players came on the diamond. The noisy bleachers,
the merry laughter, the flashing colors, and especially the bright
gowns and pretty faces of the girls gave Ken pleasurable consciousness
of what it would mean to play before such a crowd. At Wayne he had
pitched to empty seats. Remembering Worry's prophecy, however, he
was content to wait.

From that moment his duty absorbed him. He found it exceedingly
fascinating to study the batters, and utterly forgot his responsibility.
Not only did he jot down on his card his idea of the weakness and
strength of the different hitters, but he compared what he would have
pitched to them with what was actually pitched. Of course, he had no
test of his comparison, but he felt intuitively that he had the better
of it. Watching so closely, Ken had forced home to him Arthurs' repeated
assertion that control of the ball made a pitcher. Both pitchers in this
game were wild. Locating the plate with them was more a matter of luck
than ability. The Herne pitcher kept wasting balls and getting himself
in the hole, and then the heavy Georgetown players would know when he
had to throw a strike, if he could, and accordingly they hit hard.
They beat Herne badly.

The next day in the game with Place it was a different story. Ken
realized he was watching a great team. They reminded him of Dale's
varsity, though they did not play that fiendish right-field-hitting
game. Ken had a numbness come over him at the idea of facing this
Place team. It soon passed, for they had their vulnerable places.
It was not so much that they hit hard on speed and curves, for they
got them where they wanted them. Keene flied out on high fast balls
over the inside corner; Starke bit on low drops; Martin was weak on
a slow ball; MacNeff, the captain, could not touch speed under his
chin, and he always struck at it. On the other hand, he killed a low
ball. Prince was the only man who, in Ken's judgment, seemed to have
no weakness. These men represented the batting strength of Place, and
Ken, though he did not in the least underestimate them, had no fear.
He would have liked to pitch against them right there.

"It's all in control of the ball," thought Ken. "Here are seventeen
bases on balls in two games--four pitchers. They're wild.... But
suppose I got wild, too?"

The idea made Ken shiver.

He travelled all night, sleeping on the train, and got home to the
training-house about nine the next morning. Worry was out, Scotty said,
and the boys had all gone over to college. Ken went up-stairs and found
Raymond in bed.

"Why, Kel, what's the matter?" asked Ken.

"I'm sick," replied Kel. He was pale and appeared to be in distress.

"Oh, I'm sorry. Can't I do something? Get you some medicine? Call Murray?"

"Ken, don't call anybody, unless you want to see me disgraced. Worry
got out this morning before he noticed my absence from breakfast. I was
scared to death."

"Scared? Disgraced?"

"Ken, I drank a little last night. It always makes me sick. You know
I've a weak stomach."

"Kel, you didn't drink, _say_ you didn't!" implored Ken, sitting
miserably down on the bed.

"Yes, I did. I believe I was half drunk. I can't stand anything.
I'm sick, sick of myself, too, this morning. And I hate Graves."

Ken jumped up with kindling eyes.

"Kel, you've gone back on me--we'd started to be such friends--I tried
to persuade you--"

"I know. I'm sorry, Ken. But I really liked you best. I was--you know
how it is, Ken. If only Worry don't find it out!"

"Tell him," said Ken, quickly.

"What?" groaned Kel, in fright.

"Tell him. Let me tell him for you."

"No--no--no. He'd fire me off the team, and I couldn't stand that."

"I'll bet Worry wouldn't do anything of the kind. Maybe he knows
more than you think."

"I'm afraid to tell him, Ken. I just can't tell him."

"But you gave your word of honor not to break training. The only
thing left is to confess."

"I won't tell, Ken. It's not so much my own place on the team--there
are the other fellows."

Ken saw that it was no use to argue with Raymond while he was so sick
and discouraged, so he wisely left off talking and did his best to make
him comfortable. Raymond dropped asleep after a little, and when he
awakened just before lunch-time he appeared better.

"I won't be able to practise to-day," he said; "but I'll go down to lunch."

As he was dressing the boys began to come in from college and ran whistling
up the stairs.

Graves bustled into the room with rather anxious haste.

"How're you feeling?" he asked.

"Pretty rocky. Graves--I told Ward about it," said Raymond.

Upon his hurried entrance Graves had not observed Ken.

"What did you want to do that for?" he demanded, arrogantly.

Raymond looked at him, but made no reply.

"Ward, I suppose you'll squeal," said Graves, sneeringly. "That'll
about be your speed."

Ken rose and, not trusting himself to speak, remained silent.

"You sissy!" cried Graves, hotly. "Will you peach on us to Arthurs?"

"No. But if you don't get out of my room I'll hand you one,"
replied Ken, his voice growing thick.

Graves's face became red as fire.

"What? Why, you white-faced, white-haired freshman! I've been aching
to punch you!"

"Well, why don't you commence?"

With the first retort Ken had felt a hot trembling go over him,
and having yielded to his anger he did not care what happened.

"Ken--Graves," pleaded Raymond, white as a sheet. "Don't--please!"
He turned from one to the other. "Don't scrap!"

"Graves, it's up to some one to call you, and I'm going to do it,"
said Ken, passionately. "You've been after me all season, but I
wouldn't care for that. It's your rotten influence on Kel and the
other boys that makes me wild. You are the drag in this baseball
team. You are a crack ball-player, but you don't know what college
spirit means. You're a mucker!"

"I'll lick you for that!" raved Graves, shaking his fists.

"You can't lick me!"

"Come outdoors. I dare you to come outdoors. I dare you!"

Ken strode out of the room and started down the hall. "Come on!"
he called, grimly, and ran down the stairs. Graves hesitated a
moment,  then followed.

Raymond suddenly called after them:

"Give it to him, Ken! Slug him! Beat him all up!"


XIII

FRIENDSHIP


A half-hour or less afterward Ken entered the training-house. It chanced
that the boys, having come in, were at the moment passing through the
hall to the dining-room, and with them was Worry Arthurs.

"Hello! you back? What's the matter with you?" demanded the coach.

Ken's lips were puffed and bleeding, and his chin was bloody. Sundry
red and dark marks disfigured his usually clear complexion. His eyes
were blazing, and his hair rumpled down over his brow.

"You've been in a scrap," declared Worry.

"I know it," said Ken. "Let me go up and wash."

Worry had planted himself at the foot of the stairway in front of Ken.
The boys stood silent and aghast. Suddenly there came thumps upon the
stairs, and Raymond appeared, jumping down three steps at a time. He
dodged under Worry's arm and plunged at Ken to hold him with both hands.

"Ken! You're all bloody!" he exclaimed, in great excitement. "He didn't
lick you? Say he didn't! He's got to fight me, too! You're all bunged up!"

"Wait till you see him!" muttered Ken.

"A-huh!" said Worry. "Been scrappin' with Graves! What for?"

"It's a personal matter," replied Ken.

"Come, no monkey-biz with me," said the coach, sharply. "Out with it!"

There was a moment's silence.

"Mr. Arthurs, it's my fault," burst out Raymond, flushed and eager.
"Ken was fighting on my account."

"It wasn't anything of the kind," retorted Ken, vehemently.

"Yes it was," cried Raymond, "and I'm going to tell why."

The hall door opened to admit Graves. He was dishevelled, dirty,
battered, and covered with blood. When he saw the group in the hall
he made as if to dodge out.

"Here, come on! Take your medicine," called Worry, tersely.

Graves shuffled in, cast down and sheepish, a very different fellow
from his usual vaunting self.

"Now, Raymond, what's this all about?" demanded Worry.

Raymond changed color, but he did not hesitate an instant.

"Ken came in this morning and found me sick in bed. I told him I had
been half drunk last night--and that Graves had gotten me to drink.
Then Graves came in. He and Ken had hard words. They went outdoors
to fight."

"Would you have told me?" roared the coach in fury. "Would you have
come to me with this if I hadn't caught Peg?"

Raymond faced him without flinching.

"At first I thought not--when Ken begged me to confess I just couldn't.
But now I know I would."

At that Worry lost his sudden heat, and then he turned to the stricken
Graves.

"Mebbe it'll surprise you, Graves, to learn that I knew a little of
what you've been doin'. I told Homans to go to you in a quiet way and
tip off your mistake. I hoped you'd see it. But you didn't. Then
you've been knockin' Ward all season, for no reason I could discover
but jealousy. Now, listen! Peg Ward has done a lot for me already this
year, and he'll do more. But even if he beats Place, it won't mean any
more to me than the beatin' he's given you. Now, you pack your things
and get out of here. There's no position for you on this varsity."

Without a word in reply and amid intense silence Graves went slowly
up-stairs. When he disappeared Worry sank into a chair, and looked as
if he was about to collapse. Little Trace walked hesitatingly forward
with the manner of one propelled against his will.

"Mr. Arthurs, I--I," he stammered--"I'm guilty, too. I broke training.
I want to--"

The coach waved him back. "I don't want to hear it, not another
word--from anybody. It's made me sick. I can't stand any more.
Only I see I've got to change my rules. There won't be any rules
any more. You can all do as you like. I'd rather have you all go
stale than practise deceit on me. I cut out the trainin' rules."

"_No!_" The team rose up as one man and flung the refusal at the coach.

"Worry, we won't stand for that," spoke up Reddy Ray. His smooth, cool
voice was like oil on troubled waters. "I think Homans and I can answer
for the kids from now on. Graves was a disorganizer--that's the least
I'll say of him. We'll elect Homans captain of the team, and then we'll
cut loose like a lot of demons. It's been a long, hard drill for you,
Worry, but we're in the stretch now and going to finish fast. We've
been a kind of misfit team all spring. You've had a blind faith that
something could be made out of us. Homans has waked up to our hidden
strength. And I go further than that. I've played ball for years. I
know the game. I held down left field for two seasons on the greatest
college team ever developed out West. That's new to you. Well, it gives
me license to talk a little. I want to tell you that I can _feel_ what's
in this team. It's like the feeling I have when I'm running against a
fast man in the sprints. From now on we'll be a family of brothers with
one idea. And that'll be to play Place off their feet."

Coach Arthurs sat up as if he had been given the elixir of life.
Likewise the members of the team appeared to be under the spell
of a powerful stimulus. The sprinter's words struck fire from
all present.

Homans' clear gray eyes were like live coals. "Boys! One rousing cheer
for Worry Arthurs and for Wayne!"

Lusty, strained throats let out the cheer with a deafening roar.

It was strange and significant at that moment to see Graves, white-faced
and sullen, come down the stairs and pass through the hall and out of the
door. It was as if discord, selfishness, and wavering passed out with him.
Arthurs and Homans and Ray could not have hoped for a more striking lesson
to the young players.

Dave, the colored waiter, appeared in the doorway of the dining-room.
"Mr. Arthurs, I done call yo' all. Lunch is sho' gittin' cold."

That afternoon Wayne played the strong Hornell University nine.

Blake, new at third base for Wayne, was a revelation. He was all legs
and arms. Weir accepted eight chances. Raymond, sick or not, was all
over the infield, knocking down grounders, backing up every play. To
McCord, balls in the air or at his feet were all the same. Trace caught
a foul fly right off the bleachers. Homans fielded with as much speed
as the old varsity's centre and with better judgment. Besides, he made
four hits and four runs. Reddy Ray drove one ball into the bleachers,
and on a line-drive to left field he circled the bases in time that
Murray said was wonderful. Dean stood up valiantly to his battering,
and for the first game had no passed balls. And Ken Ward whirled
tirelessly in the box, and one after another he shot fast balls over
the plate. He made the Hornell players hit; he had no need to extend
himself to the use of the long swing and whip of his arm that produced
the jump ball; and he shut them out without a run, and gave them only
two safe hits. All through the game Worry Arthurs sat on the bench
without giving an order or a sign. His worried look had vanished with
the crude playing of his team.

That night the Hornell captain, a veteran player of unquestionable
ability, was entertained at Carlton Club by Wayne friends, and he
expressed himself forcibly: "We came over to beat Wayne's weak team.
It'll be some time till we discover what happened. Young Ward has the
most magnificent control and speed. He's absolutely relentless. And
that frog-legged second-baseman--oh, say, can't he cover ground! Homans
is an all-round star. Then, your red-headed Ray, the sprinter--he's a
marvel. Ward, Homans, Ray--they're demons, and they're making demons
of the kids. I can't understand why Wayne students don't support their
team. It's strange."

What the Hornell captain said went from lip to lip throughout the club,
and then it spread, like a flame in wind-blown grass, from club to
dormitory, and thus over all the university.

"Boys, the college is wakin' up," said Worry, rubbing his hands.
"Yesterday's game jarred 'em. They can't believe their own ears. Why,
Hornell almost beat Dale's team last spring. Now, kids, look out. We'll
stand for no fussin' over us. We don't want any jollyin'. We've waited
long for encouragement. It didn't come, and now we'll play out the
string alone. There'll be a rush to Grant Field. It cuts no ice with
us. Let 'em come to see the boys they hissed and guyed early in the
spring. We'll show 'em a few things. We'll make 'em speechless. We'll
make 'em so ashamed they won't know what to do. We'll repay all their
slights by beatin' Place."

Worry was as excited as on the day he discovered that Ken was a pitcher.

"One more word, boys," he went on. "Keep together now. Run back here to
your rooms as quick as you get leave from college. Be civil when you are
approached by students, but don't mingle, not yet. Keep to yourselves.
Your reward is comin'. It'll be great. Only wait!"

And that was the last touch of fire which moulded Worry's players into
a family of brothers. Close and warm and fine was the culmination of
their friendship. On the field they were dominated by one impulse,
almost savage in its intensity. When they were off the field the
springs of youth burst forth to flood the hours with fun.

In the mornings when the mail-man came there was always a wild scramble
for letters. And it developed that Weir received more than his share.
He got mail every day, and his good-fortune could not escape the lynx
eyes of his comrades. Nor could the size and shape of the envelope and
the neat, small handwriting fail to be noticed. Weir always stole off
by himself to read his daily letter, trying to escape a merry chorus of
tantalizing remarks.

"Oh! Sugar!"

"Dreamy Eyes!"

"Gawge, the pink letter has come!"

Weir's reception of these sallies earned him the name of Puff.

One morning, for some unaccountable reason, Weir did not get down-stairs
when the mail arrived. Duncan got the pink letter, scrutinized the writing
closely, and put the letter in his coat. Presently Weir came bustling down.

"Who's got the mail?" he asked, quickly.

"No letters this morning," replied some one.

"Is this Sunday?" asked Weir, rather stupidly.

"Nope. I meant no letters for you."

Weir looked blank, then stunned, then crestfallen. Duncan handed out the
pink envelope. The boys roared, and Weir strode off in high dudgeon.

That day Duncan purchased a box of pink envelopes, and being expert with
a pen, he imitated the neat handwriting and addressed pink envelopes to
every boy in the training-house. Next morning no one except Weir seemed
in a hurry to answer the postman's ring. He came in with the letters and
his jaw dropping. It so happened that his letter was the very last one,
and when he got to it the truth flashed over him. Then the peculiar
appropriateness of the nickname Puff was plainly manifest. One by one
the boys slid off their chairs to the floor, and at last Weir had to
join in the laugh on him.

Each of the boys in turn became the victim of some prank. Raymond
betrayed Ken's abhorrence of any kind of perfume, and straightway
there was a stealthy colloquy. Cheap perfume of a most penetrating
and paralyzing odor was liberally purchased. In Ken's absence from
his room all the clothing that he did not have on his back was
saturated. Then the conspirators waited for him to come up the
stoop, and from their hiding-place in a window of the second floor
they dropped an extra quart upon him.

Ken vowed vengeance that would satisfy him thrice over, and he bided
his time until he learned who had perpetrated the outrage.

One day after practice his opportunity came. Raymond, Weir, and Trace,
the guilty ones, went with Ken to the training quarters to take the
steam bath that Murray insisted upon at least once every week. It so
turned out that the four were the only players there that afternoon.
While the others were undressing, Ken bribed Scotty to go out on an
errand, and he let Murray into his scheme. Now, Murray not only had
acquired a strong liking for Ken, but he was exceedingly fond of a joke.

"All I want to know," whispered Ken, "is if I might stew them too
much--really scald them, you know?"

"No danger," whispered Murray. "That'll be the fun of it. You can't
hurt them. But they'll think they're dying."

He hustled Raymond, Weir, and Trace into the tanks and fastened the lids,
and carefully tucked towels round their necks to keep in the steam.

"Lots of stew to-day," he said, turning the handles. "Hello! Where's
Scotty?... Peg, will you watch these boys a minute while I step out?"

"You bet I will," called Ken to the already disappearing Murray.

The three cooped-in boys looked askance at Ken.

"Wull, I'm not much stuck--" Raymond began glibly enough, and then,
becoming conscious that he might betray an opportunity to Ken, he
swallowed his tongue.

"What'd you say?" asked Ken, pretending curiosity. Suddenly he began
to jump up and down. "Oh, my! Hullabelee! Schoodoorady! What a chance!
You gave it away!"

"Look what he's doing!" yelled Trace.

"Hyar!" added Weir.

"Keep away from those pipes!" chimed in Raymond.

"Boys, I've been laying for you, but I never thought I'd get a chance
like this. If Murray only stays out three minutes--just three minutes!"

"Three minutes! You idiot, you won't keep us in here that long?"
asked Weir, in alarm.

"Oh no, not at all.... Puff, I think you can stand a little more steam."

Ken turned the handle on full.

"Kel, a first-rate stewing will be good for your daily grouch."

To the accompaniment of Raymond's threats he turned the second handle.

"Trace, you little poll-parrot, you will throw perfume on me? Now roast!"

The heads of the imprisoned boys began to jerk and bob around, and
their faces to take on a flush. Ken leisurely surveyed them and then
did an Indian war-dance in the middle of the room.

"Here, let me out! Ken, you know how delicate I am," implored Raymond.

"I couldn't entertain the idea for a second," replied Ken.

"I'll lick you!" yelled Raymond.

"My lad, you've got a brain-storm," returned Ken, in grieved tones.
"Not in the wildest flights of your nightmares have you ever said
anything so impossible as that."

"Ken, dear Ken, dear old Peggie," cried Trace, "you know I've got a
skinned place on my hip where I slid yesterday. Steam isn't good for
that, Worry says. He'll be sore. You must let me out."

"I intend to see, Willie, that you'll be sore too, and skinned all over,"
replied Ken.

"Open this lid! At once!" roared Weir, in sudden anger. His big
eyes rolled.

"Bah!" taunted Ken.

Then all three began to roar at Ken at once. "Brute! Devil!
Help! Help! Help! We'll fix you for this!... It's hotter!
it's fire! Aghh! Ouch! Oh! Ah-h-h!... O-o-o-o!... Murder! MURDER-R!"

At this juncture Murray ran in.

"What on earth! Peg, what did you do?"

"I only turned on the steam full tilt," replied Ken, innocently.

"Why, you shouldn't have done that," said Murray, in pained astonishment.

"Stop talking about it! Let me out!" shrieked Raymond.

Ken discreetly put on his coat and ran from the room.


XIV

THE HERNE GAME


On the morning of the first of June, the day scheduled for the opening
game with Herne, Worry Arthurs had Ken Ward closeted with Homans and
Reddy Ray. Worry was trying his best to be soberly calculating in regard
to the outcome of the game. He was always trying to impress Ken with the
uncertainty of baseball. But a much younger and less observing boy than
Ken could have seen through the coach. Worry was dead sure of the result,
certain that the day would see a great gathering of Wayne students, and
he could not hide his happiness. And the more he betrayed himself the
more he growled at Ken.

"Well, we ain't goin' to have that balloon-ascension to-day, are we?"
he demanded. "Here we've got down to the big games, and you haven't
been up in the air yet. I tell you it ain't right."

"But, Worry, I couldn't go off my head and get rattled just to please
you, could I?" implored Ken. To Ken this strain of the coach's had grown
to be as serious as it was funny.

"Aw! talk sense," said Worry. "Why, you haven't pitched to a college
crowd yet. Wait! Wait till you see that crowd over to Place next week!
Thousands of students crazier 'n Indians, and a flock of girls that'll
make you bite your tongue off. Ten thousand yellin' all at once."

"Let them yell," replied Ken; "I'm aching to pitch before a crowd.
It has been pretty lonesome at Grant Field all season."

"Let 'em yell, eh?" retorted Worry. "All right, my boy, it's comin' to
you. And if you lose your nut and get slammed all over the lot, don't
come to me for sympathy."

"I wouldn't. I can take a licking. Why, Worry, you talk as if--as if I'd
done something terrible. What's the matter with me? I've done every single
thing you wanted--just as well as I could do it. What are you afraid of?"

"You're gettin' swelled on yourself," said the coach, deliberately.

The blood rushed to Ken's face until it was scarlet. He was so astounded
and hurt that he could not speak. Worry looked at him once, then turning
hastily away, he walked to the window.

"Peg, it ain't much wonder," he went on, smoothly, "and I'm not holdin'
it against you. But I want you to forget yourself--"

"I've never had a thought of myself," retorted Ken, hotly.

"I want you to go in to-day like--like an automatic machine," went
on Worry, as if Ken had not spoken. "There'll be a crowd out, the
first of the season. Mebbe they'll throw a fit. Anyway, it's our first
big game. As far as the university goes, this is our trial. The students
are up in the air; they don't know what to think. Mebbe there won't be
a cheer at first.... But, Peg, if we beat Herne to-day they'll tear down
the bleachers."

"Well, all I've got to say is that you can order new lumber for the
bleachers--because we're going to win," replied Ken, with a smouldering
fire in his eyes.

"There you go again! If you're not stuck on yourself, it's too much
confidence. You won't be so chipper about three this afternoon, mebbe.
Listen! The Herne players got into town last night, and some of them
talked a little. It's just as well you didn't see the morning papers.
It came to me straight that Gallagher, the captain, and Stern, the
first-baseman, said you were pretty good for a kid freshman, but a
little too swelled to stand the gaff in a big game. They expect you
to explode before the third innin'. I wasn't goin' to tell you, Peg,
but you're so--"

"They said that, did they?" cried Ken. He jumped up with paling cheek
and blazing eye, and the big hand he shoved under Worry's nose trembled
like a shaking leaf. "What I won't do to them will be funny! Swelled!
Explode! Stand the gaff! Look here, Worry, maybe it's true, but I don't
believe it.... _I'll beat this Herne team!_ Do you get that?"

"Now you're talkin'," replied Worry, with an entire change of manner.
"You saw the Herne bunch play. They can field, but how about hittin'?"

"Gallagher, Stern, Hill, and Burr are the veterans of last year's varsity,"
went on Ken, rapidly, as one who knew his subject. "They can hit--if they
get what they like."

"Now you're talkin'. How about Gallagher?"

"He hits speed. He couldn't hit a slow ball with a paddle."

"Now you're talkin'. There's Stern, how'd you size him?"

"He's weak on a low curve, in or out, or a drop."

"Peg, you're talkin' some now. How about Hill?"

"Hill is a bunter. A high ball in close, speedy, would tie him in a knot."

"Come on, hurry! There's Burr."

"Burr's the best of the lot, a good waiter and hard hitter, but he
invariably hits a high curve up in the air."

"All right. So far so good. How about the rest of the team?"

"I'll hand them up a straight, easy ball and let them hit. I tell you
I've got Herne beaten, and if Gallagher or any one else begins to guy
me I'll laugh in his face."

"Oh, you will?... Say, you go down to your room now, and stay there till
time for lunch. Study or read. Don't think another minute about this game."

Ken strode soberly out of the room.

It was well for Ken that he did not see what happened immediately after
his exit. Worry and Homans fell into each other's arms.

"Say, fellows, how I hated to do it!" Worry choked with laughter and
contrition. "It was the hardest task I ever had. But, Cap, you know we
had to make Peg sore. He's too blamed good-natured. Oh, but didn't he
take fire! He'll make some of those Herne guys play low-bridge to-day.
Wouldn't it be great if he gave Gallagher the laugh?"

"Worry, don't you worry about that," said Homans. "And it would
please me, too, for Gallagher is about as wordy and pompous as any
captain I've seen."

"I think you were a little hard on Ken," put in Reddy. His quiet voice
drew Worry and Homans from their elation. "Of course, it was necessary
to rouse Ken's fighting blood, but you didn't choose the right way.
You hurt his feelings. You know, Worry, that the boy is not in the
least swelled."

"'Course I know it, Reddy. Why, Peg's too modest. But I want him to
be dead in earnest to-day. Mind you, I'm thinkin' of Place. He'll beat
Herne to a standstill. I worked on his feelin's just to get him all
stirred up. You know there's always the chance of rattles in any young
player, especially a pitcher. If he's mad he won't be so likely to get
'em. So I hurt his feelin's. I'll make it up to him, don't you fear
for that, Reddy."

"I wish you had waited till we go over to Place next week," replied Ray.
"You can't treat him that way twice. Over there's where I would look for
his weakening. But it may be he won't ever weaken. If he ever does it'll
be because of the crowd and not the players."

"I think so, too. A yellin' mob will be new to Peg. But, fellows,
I'm only askin' one game from Herne and one, or a good close game,
from Place. That'll give Wayne the best record ever made. Look at
our standin' now. Why, the newspapers are havin' a fit. Since I
picked the varsity we haven't lost a game. Think of that! Those
early games don't count. We've had an unbroken string of victories,
Peg pitchin' twelve, and Schoonover four. And if wet grounds and
other things hadn't cancelled other games we'd have won more."

"Yes, we're in the stretch now, Worry, and running strong. We'll
win three out of these four big games," rejoined Reddy.

"Oh, say, that'd be too much! I couldn't stand it! Oh, say, Cap, don't
you think Reddy, for once, is talkin' about as swift as he sprints?"

"I'm afraid to tell you, Worry," replied Homans, earnestly. "When I
look back at our work I can't realize it. But it's time to wake up.
The students over at college are waking up. They will be out to-day.
You are the one to judge whether we're a great team or not. We keep
on making runs. It's runs that count. I think, honestly, Worry, that
after to-day we'll be in the lead for championship honors. And I hold
my breath when I tell you."

It was remarkably quiet about the training-house all that morning. The
coach sent a light lunch to the boys in their rooms. They had orders to
be dressed, and to report in the reading-room at one-thirty.

Raymond came down promptly on time.

"Where's Peg?" asked Worry.

"Why, I thought he was here, ahead of me," replied Raymond,
in surprise.

A quick survey of the uniformed players proved the absence of
Ken Ward and Reddy Ray. Worry appeared startled out of speech,
and looked helplessly at Homans. Then Ray came down-stairs, bat
in one hand, shoes and glove in the other. He seated himself upon
the last step and leisurely proceeded to put on his shoes.

"Reddy, did you see Peg?" asked Worry, anxiously.

"Sure, I saw him," replied the sprinter.

"Well?" growled the coach. "Where is he? Sulkin' because I called him?"

"Not so you'd notice it," answered Reddy, in his slow, careless manner.
"I just woke him up."

"What!" yelled Arthurs.

"Peg came to my room after lunch and went to sleep. I woke him just now.
He'll be down in a minute."

Worry evidently could not reply at the moment, but he began to beam.

"What would Gallagher say to that?" asked Captain Homans, with a smile.
"Wayne's varsity pitcher asleep before a Herne game! Oh no, I guess
that's not pretty good! Worry, could you ask any more?"

"Cap, I'll never open my face to him again," blurted out the coach.

Ken appeared at the head of the stairs and had started down, when the
door-bell rang. Worry opened the door to admit Murray, the trainer;
Dale, the old varsity captain, and the magnificently built Stevens,
guard and captain of the football team.

"Hello! Worry," called out Murray, cheerily. "How're the kids? Boys,
you look good to me. Trim and fit, and all cool and quiet-like. Reddy,
be careful of your ankles and legs to-day. After the meet next week you
can cut loose and run bases like a blue streak."

Dale stepped forward, earnest and somewhat concerned, but with a winning
frankness.

"Worry, will you let Stevens and me sit on the bench with the boys to-day?"

Worry's face took on the color of a thunder-cloud. "I'm not the captain,"
he replied. "Ask Homans."

"How about it, Roy?" queried Dale.

Homans was visibly affected by surprise, pleasure, and something more.
While he hesitated, perhaps not trusting himself to reply quickly,
Stevens took a giant stride to the fore.

"Homans, we've got a hunch that Wayne's going to win," he said, in
a deep-bass voice. "A few of us have been tipped off, and we got it
straight. But the students don't know it yet. So Dale and I thought
we'd like them to see how we feel about it--before this game. You've
had a rotten deal from the students this year. But they'll more than
make it up when you beat Herne. The whole college is waiting and
restless."

Homans, recovering himself, faced the two captains courteously and
gratefully, and with a certain cool dignity.

"Thank you, fellows! It's fine of you to offer to sit with us on the
bench. I thank you on behalf of the varsity. But--not to-day. All season
we've worked and fought without support, and now we're going to beat
Herne without support. When we've done that you and Dale--all the
college--can't come too quick to suit us."

"I think I'd say the same thing, if I were in your place," said Dale.
"And I'll tell you right here that when I was captain I never plugged
any harder to win than I'll plug to-day."

Then these two famous captains of championship teams turned to Homans'
players and eyed them keenly, their faces working, hands clenched,
their powerful frames vibrating with the feeling of the moment. That
moment was silent, eloquent. It linked Homans' team to the great
athletic fame of the university. It radiated the spirit to conquer,
the glory of past victories, the strength of honorable defeats. Then
Dale and Stevens went out, leaving behind them a charged atmosphere.

"I ain't got a word to say," announced Worry to the players.

"And I've very little," added Captain Homans. "We're all on edge, and
being drawn down so fine we may be over-eager. Force that back. It
doesn't matter if we make misplays. We've made many this season, but
we've won all the same. At the bat, remember to keep a sharp eye on
the base-runner, and when he signs he is going down, bunt or hit to
advance him. That's all."

Ken Ward walked to the field between Worry Arthurs and Reddy Ray.
Worry had no word to say, but he kept a tight grip on Ken's arm.

"Peg, I've won many a sprint by not underestimating my opponent,"
said Reddy, quietly. "Now you go at Herne for all you're worth from
the start."

When they entered the field there were more spectators in the
stands than had attended all the other games together. In a far
corner the Herne players in dark-blue uniforms were practising
batting. Upon the moment the gong called them in for their turn
at field practice. The Wayne team batted and bunted a few balls,
and then Homans led them to the bench.

Upon near view the grand-stand and bleachers seemed a strange sight to
Ken Ward. He took one long look at the black-and-white mass of students
behind the back-stop, at the straggling lines leading to the gates, at
the rapidly filling rows to right and left, and then he looked no more.
Already an immense crowd was present. Still it was not a typical college
baseball audience. Ken realized that at once. It was quiet, orderly,
expectant, and watchful. Very few girls were there. The students as a
body had warmed to curiosity and interest, but not to the extent of
bringing the girls. After that one glance Ken resolutely kept his eyes
upon the ground. He was conscious of a feeling that he wanted to spring
up and leap at something. And he brought all his will to force back his
over-eagerness. He heard the crack of the ball, the shouts of the Herne
players, the hum of voices in the grand-stand, and the occasional cheers
of Herne rooters. There were no Wayne cheers.

"Warm up a little," said Worry, in his ear.

Ken peeled off his sweater and walked out with Dean. A long
murmur ran throughout the stands. Ken heard many things said
of him, curiously, wonderingly, doubtfully, and he tried not
to hear more. Then he commenced to pitch to Dean. Worry stood
near him and kept whispering to hold in his speed and just to
use his arm easily. It was difficult, for Ken felt that his arm
wanted to be cracked like a buggy-whip.

"That'll do," whispered Worry. "We're only takin' five minutes'
practice.... Say, but there's a crowd! Are you all right, Peg--cool-like
and determined?... Good! Say--but Peg, you'd better look these fellows
over."

"I remember them all," replied Ken. "That's Gallagher on the end of
the bench; Burr is third from him; Stern's fussing over the bats, and
there's Hill, the light-headed fellow, looking this way. There's--"

"That'll do," said Worry. "There goes the gong. It's all off now.
Homans has chosen to take the field. I guess mebbe you won't show
'em how to pitch a new white ball! Get at 'em now!" Then he called
Ken back as if impelled, and whispered to him in a husky voice:
"It's been tough for you and for me. Listen! Here's where it begins
to be sweet."

Ken trotted out to the box, to the encouraging voices of the infield,
and he even caught Reddy Ray's low, thrilling call from the far outfield.

"Play!" With the ringing order, which quieted the audience, the umpire
tossed a white ball to Ken.

For a single instant Ken trembled ever so slightly in all his limbs,
and the stands seemed a revolving black-and-white band. Then the emotion
was as if it had never been. He stepped upon the slab, keen-sighted,
cool, and with his pitching game outlined in his mind.

The Staff are lodged in a house considerably the worse for German
occupancy, where offices have been improvised by means of wooden
hoardings, and where, sitting in a bare passage on a frayed damask
sofa surmounted by theatrical posters and faced by a bed with a
plum-coloured counterpane, we listened for a while to the jingle
of telephones, the rat-tat of typewriters, the steady hum of
dictation and the coming and going of hurried despatch-bearers
and orderlies.
Ken gave the captain a long study and then swung slowly,
sending up a ball that floated like a feather. Gallagher missed it.
On the second pitch he swung heavily at a slow curve far off the
outside. For a third Ken tried the speedy drop, and the captain,
letting it go, was out on strikes.

The sides changed. Worry threw a sweater around Ken.

"The ice's broke, Peg, and you've got your control. That settles it."

Homans went up, to a wavering ripple of applause. He drew two balls and
then a strike from Murphy, and hit the next hard into short field. Frick
fumbled the ball, recovered it, and threw beautifully, but too late to
catch Homans. Raymond sacrificed, sending his captain to second. Murphy
could not locate the plate for Reddy Ray and let him get to first on
four balls. Weir came next. Homans signed he was going to run on the
first pitch. Weir, hitting with the runner, sent a double into right
field, and Homans and Ray scored. The bleachers cheered. Homans ran
down to third base to the coaching lines, and Ray went to first base.
Both began to coach the runner. Dean hit into short field, and was
thrown out, while Weir reached third on the play.

"Two out, now! Hit!" yelled Homans to Blake.

Blake hit safely over second, scoring Weir. Then Trace flied out to
left field.

"Three runs!" called Homans. "Boys, that's a start! Three more runs
and this game's ours! Now, Peg, now!"

Ken did not need that trenchant thrilling _now_. The look in Worry's
eyes had been enough. He threw speed to Halloway, and on the third ball
retired him, Raymond to McCord. Stern came second to bat. In Ken's mind
this player was recorded with a weakness on low curves. And Ken found
it with two balls pitched. Stern popped up to Blake. Frick, a new player
to Ken, let a strike go by, and missed a drop and a fast ball.

"They can't touch you, Ken," called Raymond, as he tossed aside his glove.

Faint cheers rose from scattered parts of the grand-stand, and here
and there shouts and yells. The audience appeared to stir, to become
animated, and the Herne players settled down to more sober action on
the field.

McCord made a bid for a hit, but failed because of fast work by Stern.
Ken went up, eager to get to first in any way. He let Murphy pitch,
and at last, after fouling several good ones, he earned his base on
balls. Once there, he gave Homans the sign that he would run on the
first pitch, and he got a fair start. He heard the crack of the ball
and saw it glinting between short and third. Running hard, he beat the
throw-in to third. With two runners on bases, Raymond hit to deep short.
Ken went out trying to reach home. Again Reddy Ray came up and got a
base on balls, filling the bases. The crowd began to show excitement,
and seemed to be stifling cheers in suspense. Weir hurried to bat, his
shock of hair waving at every step. He swung hard on the first ball,
and, missing it, whirled down, bothering the catcher. Homans raced home
on a half-passed ball. Then Weir went out on a fly to centre.

"Peg, keep at them!" called Reddy Ray. "We've got Murphy's measure."

It cost Ken an effort to deliberate in the box, to think before he
pitched. He had to fight his eagerness. But he wasted few balls, and
struck Mercer out. Van Sant hit to Weir, who threw wild to first,
allowing the runner to reach third. Murphy, batting next, hit one
which Ken put straight over the plate, and it went safe through second,
scoring Van Sant. The Herne rooters broke out in loud acclaim. Burr
came up, choking his bat up short. Again Ken gave him the high, wide
curve. He let it pass and the umpire called it a strike. Ken threw
another, a little outside this time. Evidently Burr was trying out
Ken's control.

"He can't put them over!" yelled Gallagher, from the coaching line.
"Here's where he goes up! Wait him out, Burr. Good eye, old man!
Here's where we explode the freshman!"

Ken glanced at Gallagher and laughed. Then he sped up another high
curve, which the umpire called a strike.

"That's the place, Peg! Put another there!" floated from Reddy in
the outfield.

Burr swung viciously, hitting a bounder toward second base. Raymond
darted over, went down with his bird-like quickness, came up with the
ball, and then he touched the bag and threw to first. It was a play
in which he excelled. The umpire called both runners out, retiring
the side. A short, sharp yell, like a bark, burst from the bleachers.

The Will should be attested by three witnesses.

* * * * *
{pg 195} The American Missionary.

VOL. XLII. JULY 1888. No. 7.

American Missionary Association
* * * * *
It gives us great pleasure to announce that, at a recent meeting of
our Executive Committee, Rev. Wm. M. Taylor, D.D., Pastor of the Broadway
Tabernacle, New York, was elected President of the American
Missionary Association.

The death of our late honored President, ex-Governor Washburn,
occurred so short a time before our last Annual Meeting, that no
attempt was there made to elect his successor, but the matter was
referred according to the Constitution, to the Executive Committee.

After mature deliberation and with great unanimity, Dr. Taylor was
elected. A brief extract from his letter accepting the position will
indicate his sympathy with our work, and his heartiness in co-operating
with us in this new relation.

"Your Association, alike by its history in the past and its work
in the present, has a strong hold on my heart.

It is doing a work much needed; one, too, which is intimately connected
with the welfare of the nation, as well as with the future of the races
among whom it specially labors. It has always been a joy to me to
plead for it with my people from my pulpit, and I regard your
selection of me as your President, as one of the highest honors of
my life

."
* * * * *
We are glad to be able to mention, also, the election of Mr.

Charles A. Hull as a member of our Executive Committee, in place
of the honored and respected A.S.

Barnes, deceased. Mr.

Hull was formerly a member of the committee, but was compelled to
retire on account of pressure of business.

He now returns to his place cheerfully and to our great satisfaction.

* * * * *
_Who reads Missionary Magazines?

_--We are glad to know that THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY has appreciative
readers with quick eyes.

From the last numbers we have noticed extracts and quotations in the
_New York Observer_, the _Religious Herald_, the _Advance_, the _New
York Tribune_, and the _New York Times_. We are more than willing.

{pg 196} * * * * *
THE INDIAN PROBLEM.

A good deal of ingenious ciphering has been done in endeavoring to
solve this problem, and, withal, there has been a good deal of
honest and efficient work.

The Government has largely increased its appropriations from year
to year, the Dawes Bill and other valuable legislation have been
secured, so that steps looking towards the citizenship of the Indian
have been attained.

Appropriations have been granted to aid him in farming and other industrial
pursuits, and it is not unlikely that in a short time provision will
be made for the education in the common English branches of every
Indian child.

But all this is not sufficient. The Indian may have lands and
citizenship and an English education, and yet, if he has no strong
impulse towards civilization, no motive in his heart impelling
him to be an industrious, self-supporting citizen--in short, if he
has not a new heart looking to a new life as a citizen and a man,
he will become a vagabond on the land granted him, and a skeptic
in the school in which he is taught. The next few years will
constitute a crisis in the rapidly changing condition of the Indian,
and it is precisely at this point where the vital element of the
Christian life must be infused into his character. To the Christian
public, all other questions subordinate themselves to this, and
this needs, not speculation, but hard work; legislation cannot do it,
the church must; time will not do it, Christian teaching and example
alone can.

The vernacular question, so much agitated recently, is important only
as it may hinder this practical work.

The Indian problem is not perpetual. The Indian must soon be merged into
the American, and whether this shall be for good or for ill, the church
must decide, and decide speedily. We trust, therefore, that our constituents
will aid us to extend, as rapidly as possible, that part of the work
entrusted to us.

We do not ask for expensive buildings or costly plant. We ask for the means
to push forward with the teacher and the preacher among these uncivilized
people till, when they come forth from their present anomalous condition,
they shall come forth practical Christians, as well as intelligent
and industrious citizens.

* * * * * 
AN OUTRAGE.
Prof. G.W. Lawrence, teacher of our school at Jellico, Tenn., a
gentleman of quiet and unobtrusive manners, was brutally assaulted
by a man of that place, and was shot in three places; one ball
entered the wrist and followed up the arm, coming out near the
shoulder, a second went into the back of the shoulder, and a third
is probably lodged in the lungs.Schoonover was hit hard, but fast play by Raymond and Weir kept Herne's
score down. The little second-baseman was here, there, everywhere, like
a glint of light. Herne made runs, but Wayne also kept adding runs.
Blake caught a foul fly off the bleachers; Trace made a beautiful catch;
McCord was like a tower at first base, and little Dean went through the
last stages of development that made him a star.

Once in the eighth inning Ken became aware that Worry was punching
him in the back and muttering:

"Look out, Peg! Listen! Murphy'll get one in Reddy's groove this
time.... Oh-h!"

The crack of the ball, as well as Worry's yell, told Ken what had
happened. Besides, he could see, and as the ball lined away for the
fence, and the sprinter leaped into action, Ken jumped up and screamed:

"Oh, Reddy, it's over--over! No! Run! Run! Oh-h-h!"

In the shrill, piercing strife of sound Ken's scream seemed only a
breath at his ears. He held to it, almost splitting his throat, while
the sprinter twinkled round third base and came home like a thunderbolt.

Another inning passed, a confusion of hits, throws, runs, and plays
to Ken, and then Worry was pounding him again.

"Dig for the trainin'-house!" yelled Worry, mouth on his ear.
"The students are crazy! They'll eat us alive! They're tearin'
the bleachers down! Run for it, Peg!"


XV

A MATTER OF PRINCIPLE


Ken found himself running across Grant Field, pursued by a happy,
roaring mob of students. They might have been Indians, judging from
the way Ken and his fellow-players fled before them. The trained
athletes distanced their well-meaning but violent pursuers and gained
the gate, but it was a close shave. The boys bounded up the street
into the training-house and locked the door till the puffing Arthurs
arrived. They let him in and locked the door again.

In another moment the street resounded with the rush of many feet
and the yells of frantic students. Murray, the trainer, forced a way
through the crowd and up the stoop. He closed and barred the outside
door, and then pounded upon the inside door for admittance. Worry
let him in.

"They'd make a bowl-fight or a football rush look tame," panted Murray.
"Hey! Scotty--lock up tight down in the basement. For Heaven's sake
don't let that push get in on us! Lock the windows in the front."

"Who's that poundin' on the door?" yelled Worry. He had to yell,
for the swelling racket outside made ordinary conversation impossible.

"Don't open it!" shouted Murray. "What do we care for team-captains,
college professors, athletic directors, or students? They're all out
there, and they're crazy, I tell you. I never saw the like. It'd be
more than I want to get in that jam. And it'd never do for the varsity.
Somebody would get crippled sure. I'm training this baseball team."

Murray, in his zealous care of his athletes, was somewhat overshooting
the mark, for not one of the boys had the slightest desire to be trusted
to the mob outside. In fact, Ken looked dazed, and Raymond scared to the
point of trembling; Trace was pale; and all the others, except Homans
and Reddy Ray, showed perturbation. Nor were the captain and sprinter
deaf to the purport of that hour; only in their faces shone a kindling
glow and flush.

By-and-by the boys slipped to their rooms, removed their uniforms,
dressed and crept down-stairs like burglars and went in to dinner.
Outside the uproar, instead of abating, gathered strength as time
went by. At the dinner-table the boys had to yell in each other's
ears. They had to force what they ate. No one was hungry. When Worry
rose from the table they all flocked after him.

It was growing dark outside, and a red glow, brightening upon
the windows, showed the students had lighted bonfires.

"They're goin' to make a night of it," yelled Worry.

"How'll my boys be able to sleep?" shouted Murray. Both coach
and trainer were as excited as any of the boys.

"The street's packed solid. Listen!"

The tramp, tramp, tramp of thousands of feet keeping time was like the
heavy tread of a marching multitude. Then the tramp died away in a
piercing cheer, "_Wayne!_" nine times, clear and sustained--a long,
beautiful college cheer. In the breathing spell that followed, the
steady tramp of feet went on. One by one, at intervals, the university
yells were given, the broken rattling rally, the floating melodious
crew cheer, and the hoarse, smashing boom of football. Then again
the inspiriting "_Wayne!_" nine times. After that came shrill calls
for the varsity, for Homans, Reddy Ray, Raymond, and Peggie Ward.

"Come up-stairs to the windows, boys!" shouted Worry. "We've got
to show ourselves."

Worry threw up the windows in Weir's room, and the boys gingerly poked
their heads out. A roar greeted their appearance. The heads all popped
in as if they had been struck.

"Homans, you'll have to make a speech," cried the coach.

"I will not!"

"You've got to say somethin'. We can't have this crazy gang out here
all night."

Then Worry and Murray coaxed and led Homans to the window. The captain
leaned out and said something that was unintelligible in the hubbub
without. The crowd cheered him and called for Reddy, Ward, and Raymond.
Worry grasped the second-baseman and shoved him half over the sill.
Raymond would have fallen out but for the coach's strong hold.

"Come on, Peg!" yelled Worry.

"Not on your life!" cried Ken, in affright. He ran away from the
coach, and dived under the bed. But Reddy Ray dragged him out and
to the window, and held him up in the bright bonfire glare. Then he
lifted a hand to silence the roaring crowd.

"Fellows, here he is--Worry's demon, Wayne's pitcher!" called Reddy,
in ringing, far-reaching voice. "Listen! Peggie didn't lose his nerve
when he faced Herne to-day, but he's lost it now. He's lost his voice,
too. But he says for you to go away and save your cheers for this day
two weeks, when we meet Place. Then, he says, you'll have something
to cheer for!"

The crafty sprinter knew how to appeal to the students. All of voice
and strength and enthusiasm left in them went up in a mighty bawl
that rattled the windows and shook the house. They finished with
nine "_Waynes!_" and a long, rousing "_Peggie Ward!_" and then they
went away.

"By George! look here, Peg," said Reddy, earnestly, "they gave you
Wayne's Nine! _Wayne's Nine!_ Do you hear? I never knew a freshman
varsity man to get that cheer."

"You've got to beat Place now, after tellin' 'em you'd do it,"
added Worry.

"But, Worry, I didn't say a word--it was Reddy," replied Ken,
in distress.

"Same thing," rejoined the coach. "Now, boys, let's quiet down and
talk over the game. I won't waste any time jollyin' you. I couldn't
praise you enough if I spent the rest of the season tryin' to. One
and all, by yourselves and in a bunch, you played Herne off their
feet. I'll bet MacNeff and Prince are dizzy figurin' what'll happen
Saturday week. As to the score, why, scores don't mean much to us--"

"What was the score, anyway?" asked Ken.

The boys greeted this with shouts of doubtful laughter, and Worry
glanced with disapproval at his star.

"Peg, you keep me guessin' a lot. But not to know how much we beat
Herne would be more 'n I could stand. On the level, now, don't you
know the score?"

"Fair and square, I don't, Worry. You never would let me think of
how many runs we had or needed. I can count seven--yes, and one more,
that was Reddy's home-run."

"Peg, you must have been up in the air a little; 14 to 4, that's it.
And we didn't take our bat in the last of the ninth."

Then followed Worry's critical account of the game, and a discussion
in which the boys went over certain plays. During the evening many
visitors called, but did not gain admission. The next morning, however,
Worry himself brought in the newspapers, which heretofore he had
forbidden the players to read, and he told them they were now free
to have any callers or to go where they liked. There was a merry
scramble for the papers, and presently the reading-room was as quiet
as a church.

The account that held Ken Ward in rapt perusal was the _Morning
Times-Star's_. At first the print blurred in Ken's sight. Then he
read it over again. He liked the glowing praise given the team,
and was shamefully conscious of the delight in his name in large
letters. A third time he read it, guiltily this time, for he did
not dream that his comrades were engrossed in like indulgence.


              WAYNE OUTCLASSES HERNE

        ARTHURS DEVELOPS ANOTHER GREAT TEAM.
          PEGGIE WARD AND REDDY RAY STARS.

  Wayne defeated Herne yesterday 14 to 4, and thereby
  leaped into the limelight. It was a surprise to
  every one, Herne most of all. Owing to the stringent
  eligibility rules now in force at Wayne, and the
  barring of the old varsity, nothing was expected of
  this season's team. Arthurs, the famous coach, has
  built a wonderful nine out of green material, and
  again establishes the advisability of professional
  coaches for the big universities.

  With one or two exceptions Wayne's varsity is made
  up of players developed this year. Homans, the
  captain, was well known about town as an amateur
  player of ability. But Arthurs has made him into
  a great field captain and a base-getter of remarkable
  skill. An unofficial computing gives him the batting
  average of .536. No captain or any other player of
  any big college team in the East ever approached
  such percentage as that. It is so high that it must
  be a mistake.

  Reddy Ray, the intercollegiate champion in the sprints,
  is the other seasoned player of the varsity, and it is
  safe to say that he is the star of all the college
  teams. A wonderful fielder, a sure and heavy hitter,
  and like a flash on the bases, he alone makes Homans'
  team formidable.

  Then there is Peg Ward, Worry Arthurs' demon pitcher,
  of freshman bowl-fight fame. This lad has been arriving
  since spring, and now he has arrived. He is powerful,
  and has a great arm. He seems to pitch without effort,
  has twice the speed of Dale, and is as cool in the box
  as a veteran. But it is his marvellous control of the
  ball that puts him in a class by himself. In the fourth
  inning of yesterday's game he extended himself, probably
  on orders from Coach Arthurs, and struck out Herne's
  three best hitters on eleven pitched balls. Then he
  was taken out and Schoonover put in. This white-headed
  lad is no slouch of a pitcher, by-the-way. But it must
  have been a bitter pill for Herne to swallow. The proud
  Herne varsity have been used to knocking pitchers out
  of the box, instead of seeing them removed because
  they were too good. Also, MacNeff and Prince, of Place,
  who saw the game, must have had food for reflection.
  They did not get much of a line on young Ward, and
  what they saw will not give them pleasant dreams.
  We pick Ward to beat the heavy-hitting Place team.

  Other youngsters of Arthurs' nine show up well,
  particularly Raymond and Weir, who have springs in
  their feet and arms like whips. Altogether Arthurs'
  varsity is a strangely assorted, a wonderfully chosen
  group of players. We might liken them to the mechanism
  of a fine watch, with Ward as the mainspring, and
  the others with big or little parts to perform, but
  each dependent upon the other. Wayne's greatest
  baseball team!


Ken read it all thirstily, wonderingly, and recorded it deep in the
deepest well of his memory. It seemed a hundred times as sweet for all
the misery and longing and fear and toil which it had cost to gain.

And each succeeding day grew fuller and richer with its meed of reward.
All the boys of the varsity were sought by the students, Ken most of all.
Everywhere he went he was greeted with a regard that made him still more
bashful and ashamed. If he stepped into Carlton Club, it was to be
surrounded by a frankly admiring circle of students. He could not get
a moment alone in the library. Professors had a smile for him and often
stopped to chat. The proudest moment of his college year was when
President Halstead met him in the promenade, and before hundreds of
students turned to walk a little way with him. There seemed not to be
a single student of the university or any one connected with it, who did
not recognize him. Bryan took him to watch the crew practise; Stevens
played billiards with him at the club; Dale openly sought his society.
Then the fraternities began to vie with one another for Ken. In all his
life he had not imagined a fellow could be treated so well. It was an
open secret that Ken Ward was extremely desired in the best fraternities.
He could not have counted his friends. Through it all, by thinking of
Worry and the big games coming, he managed to stay on his feet.

One morning, when he was at the height of this enjoyable popularity,
he read a baseball note that set him to thinking hard. The newspaper,
commenting on the splendid results following Wayne's new athletic
rules, interpreted one rule in a way astounding to Ken. It was
something to the effect that all players who had been _on_ a team
which paid any player or any expenses of any player were therefore
ineligible. Interpretation of the rules had never been of any serious
moment to Ken. He had never played on any but boy teams. But suddenly
he remembered that during a visit to the mountains with his mother he
had gone to a place called Eagle's Nest, a summer hotel colony. It
boasted of a good ball team and had a rival in the Glenwoods, a team
from an adjoining resort. Ken had been in the habit of chasing flies
for the players in practice. One day Eagle's Nest journeyed over to
Glenwood to play, and being short one player they took Ken to fill in.
He had scarcely started in the game when the regular player appeared,
thus relieving him. The incident had completely slipped Ken's mind
until recalled by the newspaper note.

Whereupon Ken began to ponder. He scouted the idea of that innocent
little thing endangering his eligibility at Wayne. But the rule,
thus made clear, stood out in startlingly black-and-white relief.
Eagle's Nest supported a team by subscription among the hotel guests.
Ken had ridden ten miles in a 'bus with the team, and had worn one
of the uniforms for some few minutes. Therefore, upon a technicality,
perhaps, he had been _on_ a summer nine, and had no right to play for
Wayne.

Ken went to Homans and told him the circumstance. The captain looked
exceedingly grave, then getting more particulars he relaxed.

"You're safe, Peg. You're perfectly innocent. But don't mention it to
any one else, especially Worry. He'd have a fit. What a scare you'd
throw into the varsity camp! Forget the few minutes you wore that
Eagle's Nest suit."

For the time being this reassured Ken, but after a while his anxiety
returned. Homans had said not to mention it, and that bothered Ken.
He lay awake half of one night thinking about the thing. It angered
him and pricked his conscience and roused him. He wanted to feel
absolutely sure of his position, for his own sake first of all.
So next morning he cornered Worry and blurted out the secret.

"Peg, what're you givin' me!" he ejaculated.

Ken repeated his story, somewhat more clearly and at greater length.
Worry turned as white as a ghost.

"Good gracious, Peg, you haven't told anybody?"

"No one but Homans."

Worry gave a long sigh of relief, and his face regained some of its
usual florid color.

"Well, that's all right then.... Say, didn't I tell you once that I
had a weak heart? Peg, of course you're an amateur, or there never was
one. But 'em fat-head directors! Why, I wouldn't have 'em find that
out for a million dollars. They're idiots enough to make a shinin'
example of you right before the Place games. Keep it under your
hat, see!"

This last was in the nature of a command, and Ken had always
religiously obeyed Worry. He went to his room feeling that the
matter had been decided for him. Relief, however, did not long
abide with him. He began to be torn between loyalty to Worry and
duty to himself. He felt guiltless, but he was not sure of it,
and until he was sure he could not be free in mind. Suddenly he
thought of being actually barred from the varsity, and was miserable.
That he could not bear. Strong temptation now assailed Ken and found
him weak. A hundred times he reconciled himself to Worry's command,
to Homan's point of view, yet every time something rose within him and
rebelled. But despite the rebellion Ken almost gave in. He fought off
thought of his new sweet popularity, of the glory of being Wayne's
athletic star. He fought to look the thing fairly in the face. To him
it loomed up a hundredfold larger than an incident of his baseball
career. And so he got strength to do the thing that would ease the
voice of conscience. He went straight to the coach.

"Worry, I've got to go to the directors and tell them. I--I'm sorry,
but I've got to do it."

He expected a storm of rage from Worry, but never had the coach been
so suave, so kindly, so magnetic. He called Homans and Raymond and
Weir and others who were in the house at the moment and stated Ken's
case. His speech flowed smooth and rapid. The matter under his deft
argument lost serious proportions. But it seemed to Ken that Worry
did not tell the boys the whole truth, or they would not have laughed
at the thing and made him out over-sensitive. And Ken was now growing
too discouraged and bewildered to tell them. Moreover, he was getting
stubborn. The thing was far from a joke. The cunning of the coach
proved that. Worry wound the boys round his little finger.

At this juncture Reddy Ray entered the training-house.

More than once Ken had gone to the great sprinter with confidences
and troubles, and now he began impulsively, hurriedly, incoherently,
to tell the story.

He was busily and noisily employed in discussing the game-laws.
Thank Heaven, thought I, I shall be on firm ground there. The
general interest of the subject, and the loudness with which it
was debated, soon drew all the scattered conversation into one
focus.

"What!" said Sir Lionel, in a high voice, to a modest, shrinking youth,
probably from Cambridge, who had supported the liberal side of the
question--"what! are our interests to be never consulted? Are we
to have our only amusement taken away from us?

What do you imagine brings country gentlemen to their seats? Do you not
know, Sir, the vast importance our residence at our country houses
is to the nation? Destroy the game laws, and you destroy our very
existence as a people."

'Now,' thought I, 'it is my time.' "Sir Lionel," said I, speaking
almost from one end of the table to the other, "I perfectly agree
with your sentiments; I am entirely of opinion, first, that it
is absolutely necessary for the safety of the nation that game
should be preserved; secondly, that if you take away game you take
away country gentlemen: no two propositions can be clearer than
these; but I do differ from you with respect to the intended
alterations.

Let us put wholly out of the question, the interests of the poor
people, or of society at large: those are minor matters, not worthy
of a moment's consideration; let us only see how far our interests
as sportsmen will be affected.

I think by a very few words I can clearly prove to you, that the proposed
alterations will make us much better off than we are at present."
I then entered shortly, yet fully enough, into the nature of the laws
as they now stood, and as they were intended to be changed.

I first spoke of the two great disadvantages of the present system
to country gentlemen; viz. in the number of poachers, and the expense
of preserving.

Observing that I was generally and attentively listened to, I dwelt
upon these two points with much pathetic energy; and having paused
till I had got Sir Lionel and one or two of his supporters to confess
that it would be highly desirable that these defects should, if
possible, be remedied, I proceeded to show how, and in what manner
it was possible.

I argued, that to effect this possibility, was the exact object
of the alterations suggested; I anticipated the objections; I
answered them in the form of propositions, as clearly and concisely
stated as possible; and as I spoke with great civility and conciliation,
and put aside every appearance of care for any human being in the
world who was not possessed of a qualification, I perceived at the
conclusion of my harangue, that I had made a very favourable
impression.

That evening completed my triumph: for Lady Chester and Lady Harriett
made so good a story of my adventure with the dogs, that the matter
passed off as a famous joke, and I was soon considered by the
whole knot as a devilish amusing, good-natured, sensible fellow. So
true is it that there is no situation which a little tact cannot
turn to our own account: manage yourself well, and you may manage
all the world.

As for Lord Chester, I soon won his heart by a few feats of
horsemanship, and a few extempore inventions respecting the sagacity
of dogs.

Three days after my arrival we became inseparable; and I made such
good use of my time, that in two more, he spoke to me of his
friendship for Dawton, and his wish for a dukedom.

These motives it was easy enough to unite, and at last he promised
me that his answer to my principal should be as acquiescent as I could
desire; the morning after this promise commenced the great day at
Newmarket.

Our whole party were of course bound to the race-ground, and with
great reluctance I was pressed into the service.

We were not many miles distant from the course, and Lord Chester
mounted me on one of his horses. Our shortest way lay through
rather an intricate series of cross roads: and as I was very little
interested in the conversation of my companions, I paid more attention
to the scenery we passed, than is my customary wont:
for I study nature rather in men than fields, and find no landscape
afford such variety to the eye, and such subject to the contemplation,
as the inequalities of the human heart.

But there were to be fearful circumstances hereafter to stamp
forcibly upon my remembrance some traces of the scenery which now
courted and arrested my view.

The chief characteristics of the country were broad, dreary plains,
diversified at times by dark plantations of fir and larch; the road was
rough and stony, and here and there a melancholy rivulet, swelled by
the first rains of spring, crossed our path, and lost itself in
the rank weeds of some inhospitable marsh.

About six miles from Chester Park, to the left of the road, stood an old
house with a new face; the brown, time-honoured bricks which
composed the fabric, were strongly contrasted by large Venetian
windows newly inserted in frames of the most ostentatious white.

A smart, green veranda, scarcely finished, ran along the low portico,
and formed the termination to two thin rows of meagre and dwarfish
sycamores, which did duty for an avenue, and were bounded, on the
roadside, by a spruce white gate, and a sprucer lodge, so moderate
in its dimensions, that it would scarcely have boiled a turnip: if
a rat had got into it, he might have run away with it.

The ground was dug in various places, as if for the purpose of further
improvements, and here and there a sickly little tree was carefully
hurdled round, and seemed pining its puny heart out at the
confinement.

In spite of all these well-judged and well-thriving graces of art, there
was such a comfortless and desolate appearance about the place,
that it quite froze one to look at it; to be sure, a damp marsh on
one side, and the skeleton rafters and beams of an old stable on
the other, backed by a few dull and sulky-looking fir trees, might,
in some measure, create, or at least considerably add to, the
indescribable cheerlessness of the tout ensemble.

While I was curiously surveying the various parts of this northern
"Delices," and marvelling at the choice of two crows who were
slowly walking over the unwholesome ground, instead of making all
possible use of the black wings with which Providence had gifted
them, I perceived two men on horseback wind round from the back
part of the building and proceed in a brisk trot down the avenue.

We had not advanced many paces before they overtook us; the foremost
of them turned round as he passed me, and pulling up his horse
abruptly, discovered to my dismayed view, the features of Mr.
Thornton. Nothing abashed by the slightness of my bow, or the grave
stares of my lordly companions, who never forgot the dignity of
their birth, in spite of the vulgarity of their tastes, Thornton
instantly and familiarly accosted me.

"Told you so, Mr. Pelham--silent sow, Sure I should have the
pleasure of seeing you, though you kept it so snug.

Well, will you bet now? No!--Ah, you're a sly one.

Staying here at that nice-looking house--belongs to Dawson, an old
friend of mine--shall be happy to introduce you!"
"Sir," said I, abruptly, "you are too good. Permit me to request
that you will rejoin your friend Mr.

Dawson."

"Oh," said the imperturbable Thornton, "it does not signify; he won't
be affronted at my lagging a little. However," (and here he caught my
eye, which was assuming a sternness that perhaps little pleased him,)
"however, as it gets late, and my mare is none of the best, I'll wish
you good morning." With these words Thornton put spurs to his horse
and trotted off.

"Who the devil have you got there, Pelham?" said Lord Chester.

"A person," said I, "who picked me up at Paris, and insists on the
right of treasure trove to claim me in England.

But will you let me ask, in my turn, whom that cheerful mansion we have
just left, belongs to?"
"To a Mr. Dawson, whose father was a gentleman farmer who bred horses, a
very respectable person, for I made one or two excellent bargains
with him.

The son was always on the turf, and contracted the worst of its
habits. He bears but a very indifferent character, and will probably
become a complete blackleg. He married, a short time since, a woman
of some fortune, and I suppose it is her taste which has so altered
and modernized his house.

Come, gentlemen, we are on even ground, shall we trot?"

We proceeded but a few yards before we were again stopped by a
precipitous ascent, and as Lord Chester was then earnestly engaged
in praising his horse to one of the cavalcade, I had time to remark
the spot.

At the foot of the hill we were about slowly to ascend, was a broad,
uninclosed patch of waste land; a heron, flapping its enormous wings
as it rose, directed my attention to a pool overgrown with rushes,
and half-sheltered on one side by a decayed tree, which, if one
might judge from the breadth and hollowness of its trunk, had been
a refuge to the wild bird, and a shelter to the wild cattle, at a
time when such were the only intruders upon its hospitality; and
when the country, for miles and leagues round, was honoured by as
little of man's care and cultivation as was at present the rank
waste which still nourished its gnarled and venerable roots.

There was something remarkably singular and grotesque in the shape
and sinuosity of its naked and spectral branches:
two of exceeding length stretched themselves forth, in the very semblance
of arms held out in the attitude of supplication; and the bend of the
trunk over the desolate pond, the form of the hoary and blasted
summit, and the hollow trunk, half riven asunder in the shape of
limbs, seemed to favour the gigantic deception.

You might have imagined it an antediluvian transformation, or a daughter
of the Titan race, preserving in her metamorphosis her attitude of
entreaty to the merciless Olympian.

This was the only tree visible; for a turn of the road and the
unevenness of the ground, completely veiled the house we had passed,
and the few low firs and sycamores which made its only plantations.

The sullen pool--its ghost-like guardian--the dreary heath around, the
rude features of the country beyond, and the apparent absence of all
human habitation, conspired to make a scene of the most dispiriting
and striking desolation. I know not how to account for it, but as I
gazed around in silence, the whole place appeared to grow over my
mind, as one which I had seen, though dimly and drearily, before;
and a nameless and unaccountable presentiment of fear and evil sunk
like ice into my heart.

We ascended the hill, and the rest of the road being of a kind better
adapted to expedition, we mended our pace and soon arrived at the
goal of our journey.

The race-ground had its customary compliment of knaves and fools--the dupers
and the duped. Poor Lady Chester, who had proceeded to the ground by the
high road (for the way we had chosen was inaccessible to those who
ride in chariots, and whose charioteers are set up in high places,)
was driving to and fro, the very picture of cold and discomfort;
and the few solitary carriages which honoured the course, looked
as miserable as if they were witnessing the funeral of their owner's
persons, rather than the peril of their characters and purses.

As we rode along to the betting-post, Sir John Tyrrell passed us: Lord
Chester accosted him familiarly, and the baronet joined us. He had been
an old votary of the turf in his younger days, and he still preserved
all his ancient predilection in its favour.

It seemed that Chester had not met him for many years, and after a short and
characteristic conversation of "God bless me, how long since I saw
you!--d--d good horse you're on--you look thin--admirable condition--what
have you been doing?--grand action--a'n't we behind hand?--famous fore-
hand--recollect old Queensberry?--hot in the mouth--gone to the devil--
what are the odds?" Lord Chester asked Tyrrell to go home with us. The
invitation was readily accepted.

"With impotence of will We wheel, tho' ghastly shadows interpose Round us,
and round each other."--Shelley.

Now, then, arose the noise, the clatter, the swearing, the lying,
the perjury, the cheating, the crowd, the bustle, the hurry, the
rush, the heat, the ardour, the impatience, the hope, the terror,
the rapture, the agony of the race.

Directly the first heat was over, one asked me one thing, one bellowed
another; I fled to Lord Chester, he did not heed me.
I took refuge with the marchioness; she was as sullen as an east
wind could make her. Lady Harriett would talk of nothing but the
horses: Sir Lionel would not talk at all. I was in the lowest pit of
despondency, and the devils that kept me there were as blue as Lady
Chester's nose.
Silent, sad, sorrowful, and sulky, I rode away from the crowd, and moralized
on its vicious propensities. One grows marvellously honest when the
species of cheating before us is not suited to one's self.
Fortunately, my better angel reminded me, that about the distance of
three miles from the course lived an old college friend, blessed, since
we had met, with a parsonage and a wife. I knew his tastes too well
to imagine that any allurement of an equestrian nature could have
seduced him from the ease of his library and the dignity of his books;
and hoping, therefore, that I should find him at home, I turned
my horse's head in an opposite direction, and rejoiced at the idea
of my escape, bade adieu to the course.

As I cantered across the far end of the heath, my horse started from an
object upon the ground; it was a man wrapped from head to foot in a
long horseman's cloak, and so well guarded as to the face, from the
raw inclemency of the day, that I could not catch even a glimpse
of the features, through the hat and neck-shawl which concealed them.

The head was turned, with apparent anxiety, towards the distant throng;
and imagining the man belonging to the lower orders, with whom I am always
familiar, I addressed to him, en passant, some trifling remark on the
event of the race. He made no answer. There was something about him
which induced me to look back several moments after I had left him behind.
He had not moved an atom.

There is such a certain uncomfortableness always occasioned to the mind
by stillness and mystery united, that even the disguising garb,
and motionless silence of the man, innocent as I thought they must
have been, impressed themselves disagreeably on my meditations as
I rode briskly on.

It is my maxim never to be unpleasantly employed, even in thought, if I can
help it; accordingly, I changed the course of my reflection, and
amused myself with wondering how matrimony and clerical dignity sat
on the indolent shoulders of my old acquaintance.

CHAPTER LXIII.

And as for me, tho' that I can but lite On bookes for to read I me
delight, And to hem give I faith and full credence; And in mine heart have
hem in reverence, So heartily that there is game none, That fro' my
bookes maketh me to gone.
--Chaucer.

Christopher Clutterbuck was a common individual of a common order, but
little known in this busy and toiling world.

MacNeff called low to
Salisbury: "Don't let this fellow walk! Keep them high and make him
hit!" It was evident that Place had gotten a line on one Wayne player.

Salisbury delivered the ball and Reddy whirled with his level swing.
There was a sharp crack.

Up started the crowd with sudden explosive: "Oh!"

Straight as a bee-line the ball sped to Keene in deep centre, and
Reddy was out.

Wayne players went running out and Place players came trotting in. Ken,
however, at Worry's order, walked slowly and leisurely to the pitcher's
box. He received an ovation from the audience that completely surprised
him and which stirred him to warm gratefulness. Then, receiving the ball,
he drew one quick breath, and faced the stern issue of the day.

As always, he had his pitching plan clearly defined in mind, and no
little part of it was cool deliberation, study of the batter to the
point of irritating him, and then boldness of action. He had learned
that he was not afraid to put the ball over the plate, and the knowledge
had made him bold, and boldness increased his effectiveness.

For Keene, first batter up, Ken pitched his fast ball with all his
power. Like a glancing streak it shot over. A low whistling ran through
the bleachers. For the second pitch Ken took the same long motion,
ending in the sudden swing, but this time he threw a slow, wide,
tantalizing curve that floated and waved and circled around across
the plate. It also was a strike. Keene had not offered to hit either.
In those two balls, perfectly controlled, Ken deliberately showed the
Place team the wide extremes of his pitching game.

"Keene, he don't waste any. Hit!" ordered MacNeff from the bench.
The next ball, a high curve, Keene hit on the fly to Homans.

The flaxen-haired Prince trotted up with little, short steps. Ken did
not need the wild outburst from the crowd to appreciate this sturdy
hero of many gridiron and diamond battles. He was so enormously wide,
almost as wide as he was long, that he would have been funny to Ken but
for the reputation that went with the great shoulders and stumpy legs.

"Ward, give me a good one," said Prince, in a low, pleasant voice.
He handled his heavy bat as if it had been light as a yardstick.

It was with more boldness than intention of gratifying Prince that
Ken complied, using the same kind of ball he had tried first on Keene.
Prince missed it. The next, a low curve, he cracked hard to the left
of Raymond. The second-baseman darted over, fielded the ball cleanly,
and threw Prince out.

Then the long, rangy MacNeff, home-run hitter for Place, faced Ken.
His position at bat bothered Ken, for he stood almost on the plate.
Remembering MacNeff's weakness, Ken lost no time putting a swift
in-shoot under his chin. The Place captain lunged round at it,
grunting with his swing. If he had hit the ball it would have been
with the handle of his bat. So Ken, knowing his control, and sure
that he could pitch high shoots all day over the incomer of the plate,
had no more fear of the Place slugger. And it took only three more
pitches to strike him out.

From that on the game see-sawed inning by inning, Ken outpitching
Salisbury, but neither team scored. At intervals cheers marked the
good plays of both teams, and time and again the work of the pitchers
earned applause. The crowd seemed to be holding back, and while they
waited for the unexpected the short, sharp innings slipped by.

Trace for Wayne led off in the seventh with a safe fly over short. Ken,
attempting to sacrifice, rolled a little bunt down the third-base line
and beat the throw. With no one out and the head of the batting list up,
the Wayne players awoke to possibilities. The same fiery intensity that
had characterized their play all season now manifested itself. They were
all on their feet, and Weir and McCord on the coaching lines were yelling
hoarsely at Salisbury, tearing up the grass with their spikes, dashing
to and fro, shouting advice to the runners.

"Here's where we score! Oh! you pitcher! We're due to trim you now!
Steady, boys, play it safe, play it safe!--don't let them double you!"

Up by the bench Homans was selecting a bat.

"Worry, I'd better dump one," he whispered.

"That's the trick," replied the coach. "Advance them at any cost.
There's Reddy to follow."

The reliable Salisbury rolled the ball in his hands, feinted to throw
to the bases, and showed his steadiness under fire. He put one square
over for Homans and followed it upon the run. Homans made a perfect
bunt, but instead of going along either base line, it went straight
into the pitcher's hands. Salisbury whirled and threw to Prince, who
covered the bag, and forced Trace. One out and still two runners on
bases. The crowd uttered a yell and then quickly quieted down. Raymond
bent low over the plate and watched Salisbury's slightest move. He
bunted the first ball, and it went foul over the third-base line.
He twisted the second toward first base, and it, too, rolled foul.
And still he bent low as if to bunt again. The infield slowly edged
in closer. But Raymond straightened up on Salisbury's next pitch and
lined the ball out. Prince leaped into the air and caught the ball in
his gloved hand. Homans dove back into first base; likewise Ken into
second, just making it in the nick of time, for Martin was on the run
to complete a possible double play. A shout at once hoarse and shrill
went up, and heavy clattering thunder rolled along the floor of the
bleachers. Two out and still two men on bases.

If there was a calm person on Place Field at that moment it was Reddy
Ray, but his eyes glinted like sparks as he glanced at the coach.

"Worry, I'll lace one this time," he said, and strode for the plate.

Weir and McCord were shrieking: "Oh, look who's up! Oh-h! Oh-h!
Play it safe, boys!"

"_Watch him run!_"

That came from the same deep-chested individual who had before hinted
of the sprinter's fleetness, and this time the Wayne players recognized
the voice of Murray. How hopeful and thrilling the suggestion was,
coming from him!

The Place infield trotted to deep short-field; the outfielders moved
out and swung around far to the right. Salisbury settled down in the
box and appeared to put on extra effort as he delivered the ball. It
was wide. The next also went off the outside of the plate. It looked
as if Salisbury meant to pass Reddy to first. Then those on the bench
saw a glance and a nod pass between Reddy Ray and Coach Arthurs. Again
Salisbury pitched somewhat to the outside of the plate, but this time
Reddy stepped forward and swung.

_Crack!_

Swift as an arrow and close to the ground the ball shot to left field.
Starke leaped frantically to head it off, and as it took a wicked bound
he dove forward head first, hands outstretched, and knocked it down.
But the ball rolled a few yards, and Starke had to recover from his
magnificent effort.

No one on the field saw Ward and Homans running for the plate. All eyes
were on the gray, flitting shadow of a sprinter. One voice only, and
that was Murray's, boomed out in the silence. When Reddy turned second
base Starke reached the ball and threw for third. It was a beautiful
race between ball and runner for the bag. As Reddy stretched into the
air in a long slide the ball struck and shot off the ground with a
glancing bound. They reached the base at the same time. But Griffith,
trying to block the runner, went spinning down, and the ball rolled
toward the bleachers. Reddy was up and racing plateward so quickly
that it seemed he had not been momentarily checked. The few Wayne
rooters went wild.

"Three runs!" yelled the delirious coaches. Weir was so overcome that
he did not know it was his turn at bat. When called in he hurried to
the plate and drove a line fly to centre that Keene caught only after
a hard run.

Ken Ward rose from the bench to go out on the diamond. The voices of
his comrades sounded far away, as voices in a dream.

"Three to the good now, Ward! It's yours!" said Captain Homans.

"Only nine more batters! Peg, keep your feet leaded!" called Reddy Ray.

"It's the seventh, and Place hasn't made a safe hit! Oh, Ken!"
came from Raymond.

So all the boys vented their hope and trust in their pitcher.

There was a mist before Ken's eyes that he could not rub away. The field
blurred at times. For five innings after the first he had fought some
unaccountable thing. He had kept his speed, his control, his memory of
batters, and he had pitched magnificently. But something had hovered
over him, and had grown more tangible as the game progressed. There was
a shadow always before his sight.

In the last of the seventh, with Keene at bat, Ken faced the plate with
a strange unsteadiness and a shrinking for which he hated himself. What
was wrong with him? Had he been taken suddenly ill? Anger came to his
rescue, and he flung himself into his pitching with fierce ardor. He
quivered with a savage hope when Keene swung ineffectually at the high
in-shoot. He pitched another and another, and struck out the batter.
But now it meant little to see him slam down his bat in a rage. For
Ken had a foreboding that he could not do it again. When Prince came
up Ken found he was having difficulty in keeping the ball where he
wanted it. Prince batted a hot grounder to Blake, who fumbled. MacNeff
had three balls and one strike called upon him before he hit hard over
second base. But Raymond pounced upon the ball like a tiger, dashed
over the bag and threw to first, getting both runners.

"Wull, Ken, make them hit to me," growled Raymond.

Ken sat down upon the bench far from the coach. He shunned Worry in that
moment. The warm praise of his fellow-players was meaningless to him.
Something was terribly wrong. He knew he shrank from going into the box
again, yet dared not admit it to himself. He tried to think clearly, and
found his mind in a whirl. When the Wayne batters went out in one, two,
three order, and it was time for Ken to pitch again, he felt ice form in
his veins.

"Only six more hitters!" called Reddy's warning voice. It meant cheer
and praise from Reddy, but to Ken it seemed a knell.

"Am I weakening?" muttered Ken. "Am I going up in the air? _What_ is
wrong with me?"

He was nervous now and could not stand still and he felt himself
trembling. The ball was wet from the sweat in his hands; his hair
hung damp over his brow and he continually blew it out of his eyes.
With all his spirit he crushed back the almost overwhelming desire
to hurry, hurry, hurry. Once more, in a kind of passion, he fought
off the dreaded unknown weakness.

With two balls pitched to Starke he realized that he had lost control
of his curve. He was not frightened for the loss of his curve, but he
went stiff with fear that he might lose control of his fast ball, his
best and last resort. Grimly he swung and let drive. Starke lined the
ball to left. The crowd lifted itself with a solid roar, and when Homans
caught the hit near the foul flag, subsided with a long groan. Ken set
his teeth. He knew he was not right, but did any one else know it? He
was getting magnificent support and luck was still with him.

"Over the pan, Peg! Don't waste one!" floated from Reddy, warningly.

Then Ken felt sure that Reddy had seen or divined his panic. How soon
would the Place players find it out? With his throat swelling and his
mouth dry and his whole body in a ferment Ken pitched to Martin. The
short-stop hit to Weir, who made a superb stop and throw. Two out!

From all about Ken on the diamond came the low encouraging calls of
his comrades. Horton, a burly left-hander, stepped forward, swinging
a wagon-tongue. Ken could no longer steady himself and he pitched
hurriedly. One ball, two balls, one strike, three balls--how the big
looming Horton stood waiting over the plate! Almost in despair Ken
threw again, and Horton smote the ball with a solid rap. It was a low
bounder. Raymond pitched forward full length toward first base and the
ball struck in his glove with a crack, and stuck there. Raymond got up
and tossed it to McCord. A thunder of applause greeted this star play
of the game.

The relief was so great that Ken fairly tottered as he went in to the
bench. Worry did not look at him. He scarcely heard what the boys said;
he felt them patting him on the back. Then to his amaze, and slowly
mounting certainty of disaster, the side was out, and it was again his
turn to pitch.

"Only three more, Peg! The tail end of the batting list. _Hang on!_"
said Reddy, as he trotted out.

Ken's old speed and control momentarily came back to him. Yet he felt
he pitched rather by instinct than intent. He struck Griffith out.

"Only two more, Peg!" called Reddy.

The great audience sat in depressed, straining silence. Long since the
few Wayne rooters had lost their vocal powers.

Conroy hit a high fly to McCord.

"Oh, Peg, _only one more!_" came the thrilling cry. No other Wayne
player could speak a word then.

With Salisbury up, Ken had a momentary flash of his old spirit and he
sent a straight ball over the plate, meaning it to be hit. Salisbury
did hit it, and safely, through short. The long silent, long waiting
crowd opened up with yells and stamping feet.

A horrible, cold, deadly sickness seized upon Ken as he faced the fleet,
sure-hitting Keene. He lost his speed, he lost his control. Before he
knew what had happened he had given Keene a base on balls. Two on bases
and two out!

The Place players began to leap and fling up their arms and scream. When
out of their midst Prince ran to the plate a piercing, ear-splitting
sound pealed up from the stands. As in a haze Ken saw the long lines of
white-sleeved students become violently agitated and move up and down
to strange, crashing yells.

Then Ken Ward knew. That was the famed Place cheer for victory at the
last stand. It was the trumpet-call of Ken's ordeal. His mind was as
full of flashes of thought as there were streaks and blurs before his
eyes. He understood Worry now. He knew now what was wrong with him, what
had been coming all through that terrible game. The whole line of stands
and bleachers wavered before him, and the bright colors blended in one
mottled band.

Still it was in him to fight to the last gasp. The pain in his breast,
and the nausea in his stomach, and the whirling fury in his mind did not
make him give up, though they robbed him of strength. The balls he threw
to Prince were wide of the plate and had nothing of his old speed. Prince,
also, took his base on balls.

Bases full and two out!

MacNeff, the captain, fronted the plate, and shook his big bat at Ken.
Of all the Place hitters Ken feared him the least. He had struck MacNeff
out twice, and deep down in his heart stirred a last desperate rally.
He had only to keep the ball high and in close to win this game. Oh!
for the control that had been his pride!

The field and stands seemed to swim round Ken and all he saw with his
half-blinded eyes was the white plate, the batter, and Dean and the
umpire. Then he took his swing and delivered the ball.

It went true. MacNeff missed it.

Ken pitched again. The umpire held up one finger of each hand.
One ball and one strike. Two more rapid pitches, one high and one
wide. Two strikes and two balls.

Ken felt his head bursting and there were glints of red before his eyes.
He bit his tongue to keep it from lolling out. He was almost done. That
ceaseless, infernal din had benumbed his being. With a wrenching of his
shoulder Ken flung up another ball. MacNeff leaned over it, then let it
go by.

Three and two!

It was torture for Ken. He had the game in his hands, yet could not
grasp it. He braced himself for the pitch and gave it all he had left
in him.

"_Too low!_" he moaned. MacNeff killed low balls.

The big captain leaped forward with a terrific swing and hit the ball.
It lined over short, then began to rise, shot over Homans, and soared
far beyond, to drop and roll and roll.

Through darkening sight Ken Ward saw runner after runner score, and saw
Homans pick up the ball as MacNeff crossed the plate with the winning
run. In Ken's ears seemed a sound of the end of the world.

He thought himself the centre of a flying wheel. It was the boys
crowding around him. He saw their lips move but caught no words.
Then choking and tottering, upheld by Reddy Ray's strong arm, the
young pitcher walked off the field.


XVII

KEN'S DAY


The slow return to the tavern, dressing and going to the station, the
ride home, the arrival at the training-house, the close-pressing, silent
companionship of Reddy Ray, Worry, and Raymond--these were dim details
of that day of calamity. Alas! for the instability of human enjoyment.
But now that we have no immediate hope to anticipate, let us cultivate
the pleasures of memory. What thought you of the veau a la Dauphine?"

"Pardon me if I hesitate at giving my opinion, till I have corrected
my judgment by yours."
"Why, then, I own I was somewhat displeased--disappointed as it were--
with that dish; the fact is, veal ought to be killed in its very first
infancy; they suffer it to grow to too great an age. It becomes a sort
of hobbydehoy, and possesses nothing of veal, but its insipidity, or of
beef, but its toughness."
"Yes," said I, "it is only in their veal, that the French surpass
us; their other meats want the ruby juices and elastic freshness
of ours.

Monsieur L--allowed this truth, with a candour worthy of his vast mind.

Mon Dieu! what claret!--what a body! and, let me add, what a soul,
beneath it! Who would drink wine like this? it is only made to taste.
It is like first love--too pure for the eagerness of enjoyment; the
rapture it inspires is in a touch, a kiss.

It is a pity, my lord, that we do not serve perfumes at dessert:
it is their appropriate place.

In confectionary (delicate invention of the Sylphs,) we imitate the
forms of the rose and the jessamine; why not their odours too?

What is nature without its scents?--and as long as they are absent
from our desserts, it is in vain that the Bard exclaims, that--

"'L'observateur de la belle Nature, S'extasie en voyant des fleurs
en confiture.'"

"It is an exquisite idea of yours," said Guloseton--"and the next
time you dine here, we will have perfumes.

Dinner ought to be a reunion of all the senses--

  "'Gladness to the ear, nerve, heart, and sense.'"
  
  There was a momentary pause. "My lord," said
  I, "what a lusty lusciousness in this pear!

it is like the style of the old English poets.
What think you of the seeming good understanding between Mr. Gaskell
and the Whigs?"
"I trouble myself little about it," replied Guloseton, helping
himself to some preserves--"politics disturb the digestion."

"Well," thought I, "I must ascertain some point in this man's
character easier to handle than his epicurism: all men are vain:
let us find out the peculiar vanity of mine host."

"The Tories," said I, "seem to think themselves exceedingly secure; they
attach no importance to the neutral members; it was but the other
day, Lord--told me that he did not care a straw for Mr.--,
notwithstanding he possessed four votes.

Heard you ever such arrogance?"
"No, indeed," said Golouston, with a lazy air of indifference--"are you
a favourer of the olive?"
"No," said I, "I love it not; it hath an under taste of sourness, and an
upper of oil, which do not make harmony to my palate. But, as I was
saying, the Whigs, on the contrary, pay the utmost deference to
their partizans; and a man of fortune, rank, and parliamentary
influence, might have all the power without the trouble of a leader."

"Very likely," said Guloseton, drowsily.

"I must change my battery," thought I; but while I was meditating a
new attack, the following note was brought me:--
"For God's sake, Pelham, come out to me: I am waiting in the street
to see you; come directly, or it will be too late to render me the
service I would ask of you.
"R. Glanville."

I rose instantly. "You must excuse me, Lord Guloseton, I am called
suddenly away."
"Ha! ha!" laughed the gourmand; "some tempting viand--post prandia
Callirhoe."

"My good lord," said I, not heeding his insinuation--"I leave you
with the greatest regret."

"And I part from you with the same; it is a real pleasure to see such
a person at dinner."

"Adieu!

An hour later Ken presented himself at lunch, once more his old amiable
self. The boys freely discussed baseball--in fact, for weeks they had
breathed and dreamed baseball--but Ken noted, for the first time, where
superiority was now added to the old confidence. The Wayne varsity had
found itself. It outclassed Herne; it was faster than Place; it stood
in line for championship honors.

"Peg, you needn't put on your uniform to-day," said the coach.
"You rest up. But go over to Murray and have your arm rubbed.
Is it sore or stiff?"

"Not at all. I could work again to-day," replied Ken.

That afternoon, alone in his room, he worked out his pitching plan
for Saturday's game. It did not differ materially from former plans.
But for a working basis he had self-acquired knowledge of the Place
hitters. It had been purchased at dear cost. He feared none of them
except Prince. He decided to use a high curve ball over the plate
and let Prince hit, trusting to luck and the players behind him. Ken
remembered how the Place men had rapped hard balls at Raymond. Most
of them were right-field hitters. Ken decided to ask Homans to play
Reddy Ray in right field. Also he would arrange a sign with Reddy and
Raymond and McCord so they would know when he intended to pitch speed
on the outside corner of the plate. For both his curve and fast ball
so pitched were invariably hit toward right field. When it came to
MacNeff, Ken knew from the hot rankling deep down in him that he would
foil that hitter. He intended to make the others hit, pitching them
always, to the best of his judgment and skill, those balls they were
least likely to hit safely, yet which would cut the corners of the
plate if let go. No bases on balls this game, that he vowed grimly.
And if he got in a pinch he would fall back upon his last resort, the
fast jump ball; and now that he had gone through his baptism of fire
he knew he was not likely to lose his control. So after outlining his
plan he believed beyond reasonable doubt that he could win the game.

The evening of that day he confided his plan to Reddy Ray and had the
gratification of hearing it warmly commended. While Ken was with Reddy
the coach sent word up to all rooms that the boys were to "cut" baseball
talk. They were to occupy their minds with reading, study, or games.

"It's pretty slow," said Reddy. "Peg, let's have some fun with somebody."

"I'm in. What'll we do?"

"Can't you think? You're always leaving schemes to me.
Use your brains, boy."

Ken pondered a moment and then leaped up in great glee.

"Reddy, I've got something out of sight," he cried.

"Spring it, then."

"Well, it's this: Kel Raymond is perfectly crazy about his new sweater.
He moons over it and he carries it around everywhere. Now it happens
that Kel is a deep sleeper. He's hard to wake up. I've always had to
shake him and kick him to wake him every morning. I'm sure we could get
him in that sweater without waking him. So to-morrow morning you come
down early, before seven, and help me put the sweater on Kel. We'll
have Worry and the boys posted and we'll call them in to see Kel, and
then we'll wake him and swear he slept in his sweater."

"Peg, you've a diabolical bent of mind. That'll be great. I'll be on
the job bright and early."

Ken knew he could rely on the chattering of the sparrows in the
woodbine round his window. They always woke him, and this morning
was no exception. It was after six and a soft, balmy breeze blew in.
Ken got up noiselessly and dressed. Raymond snored in blissful
ignorance of the conspiracy. Presently a gentle tapping upon the
door told Ken that Reddy was in the hall. Ken let him in and they
held a whispered consultation.

"Let's see," said Reddy, picking up the sweater. "It's going to be an
all-fired hard job. This sweater's tight. We'll wake him."

"Not on your life!" exclaimed Ken. "Not if we're quick. Now you roll
up the sweater so--and stretch it on your hands--so--and when I lift
Kel up you slip it over his head. It'll be like pie."

The operation was deftly though breathlessly performed, and all it
brought from Raymond was a sleepy: "Aw--lemme sleep," and then he
was gone again.

Ken and Reddy called all the boys, most of whom were in their pajamas,
and Worry and Scotty and Murray, and got them all up-stairs in Raymond's
room. Raymond lay in bed very innocently asleep, and no one would have
suspected that he had not slept in his sweater.

"Well, I'll be dog-goned!" ejaculated Worry, laughing till he cried.
Murray was hugely delighted. These men were as much boys as the boys
they trained.

The roar of laughter awakened Raymond, and he came out of sleep very
languid and drowsy.

"Aw, Ken, lemme sleep s'more."

He opened his eyes and, seeing the room full of boys and men, he looked
bewildered, then suspicious.

"Wull, what do all you guys want?"

"We only came in to see you asleep in your new varsity sweater,"
replied Ken, with charming candor.

At this Raymond discovered the sweater and he leaped out of bed.

"It's a lie! I never slept in it! Somebody jobbed me!
I'll lick him!... It's a lie, I say!"

He began to hop up and down in a black fury. The upper half of him
was swathed in the red sweater; beneath that flapped the end of his
short nightgown; and out of that stuck his thin legs, all knotted
and spotted with honorable bruises won in fielding hard-batted balls.
He made so ludicrous a sight that his visitors roared with laughter.
Raymond threw books, shoes, everything he could lay his hands upon,
and drove them out in confusion.

Saturday seemed a long time in arriving, but at last it came. All
morning the boys kept close under cover of the training-house. Some
one sent them a package of placards. These were round, in the shape
of baseballs. They were in the college colors, the background of which
was a bright red, and across this had been printed in white the words:
"_Peg Ward's Day!_"

"What do you think of that?" cried the boys, with glistening eyes.
But Ken was silent.

Worry came in for lunch and reported that the whole west end of the
city had been placarded.

"The students have had millions of 'em cards printed," said Worry.
"They're everywhere. Murray told me there was a hundred students
tackin' 'em up on the stands and bleachers. They've got 'em on
sticks of wood for pennants for the girls.... 'Peg Ward's Day!'
Well, I guess!"

At two-thirty o'clock the varsity ran upon the field, to the welcoming
though somewhat discordant music of the university band. What the music
lacked in harmony it made up in volume, and as noise appeared to be the
order of the day, it was most appropriate. However, a great booming
cheer from the crowded stands drowned the band.

It was a bright summer day, with the warm air swimming in the thick,
golden light of June, with white clouds sailing across the blue sky.
Grant Field resembled a beautiful crater with short, sloping sides
of white and gold and great splashes of red and dots of black all
encircling a round lake of emerald. Flashes of gray darted across
the green, and these were the Place players in practice. Everywhere
waved and twinkled and gleamed the red-and-white Wayne placards. And
the front of the stands bore wide-reaching bands of these colored cards.
The grand-stand, with its pretty girls and gowns, and waving pennants,
and dark-coated students, resembled a huge mosaic of many colors,
moving and flashing in the sunlight. One stand set apart for the Place
supporters was a solid mass of blue and gold. And opposite to it, in
vivid contrast, was a long circle of bleachers, where five thousand
red-placarded, red-ribboned Wayne students sat waiting to tear the
air into shreds with cheers. Dale and Stevens and Bryan, wearing their
varsity sweaters, strode to and fro on the cinder-path, and each carried
a megaphone. Cheers seemed to lurk in the very atmosphere. A soft, happy,
subdued roar swept around the field. Fun and good-nature and fair-play
and love of college pervaded that hum of many voices. Yet underneath it
all lay a suppressed spirit, a hidden energy, waiting for the battle.

When Wayne had finished a brief, snappy practice, Kern, a National
League umpire, called the game, with Place at bat. Ken Ward walked to
the pitcher's slab amid a prolonged outburst, and ten thousand red cards
bearing his name flashed like mirrors against the sunlight. Then the
crashing Place yell replied in defiance.

Ken surveyed his fellow-players, from whom came low, inspiriting words;
then, facing the batter, Keene, he eyed him in cool speculation, and
swung into supple action.

The game started with a rush. Keene dumped the ball down the third-base
line. Blake, anticipating the play, came rapidly in, and bending while
in motion picked up the ball and made a perfect snap-throw to McCord,
beating Keene by a foot. Prince drove a hot grass-cutter through the
infield, and the Place stand let out shrill, exultant yells. MacNeff
swung powerfully on the first ball, which streaked like a flitting wing
close under his chin. Prince, with a good lead, had darted for second.
It was wonderful how his little, short legs carried him so swiftly. And
his slide was what might have been expected of a famous football player.
He hit the ground and shot into the bag just as Raymond got Dean's
unerring throw too late. Again the Place rooters howled. MacNeff
watched his second strike go by. The third pitch, remorselessly true
to that fatal place, retired him on strikes; and a roll of thunder
pealed from under the Wayne bleachers. Starke struck at the first ball
given him. The Place waiters were not waiting on Ken to-day; evidently
the word had gone out to hit. Ken's beautiful, speedy ball, breast high,
was certainly a temptation. Starke lifted a long, lofty fly far beyond
Homans, who ran and ran, and turned to get it gracefully at his breast.

Worry Arthurs sat stern and intent upon the Wayne bench. "Get that hit
back and go them a run better!" was his sharp order.

The big, loose-jointed Salisbury, digging his foot into the dirt,
settled down and swung laboriously. Homans waited. The pitch was a
strike, and so was the next. But strikes were small matters for the
patient Homans. He drew three balls after that, and then on the next
he hit one of his short, punky safeties through the left side of the
infield. The Wayne crowd accepted it with vigor of hands and feet.
Raymond trotted up, aggressive and crafty. He intended to bunt, and
the Place infield knew it and drew in closer. Raymond fouled one, then
another, making two strikes. But he dumped the next and raced for the
base. Salisbury, big and slow as he was, got the ball and threw Raymond
out. Homans over-ran second, intending to go on, but, halted by Weir's
hoarse coaching, he ran back.

When Reddy Ray stepped out it was to meet a rousing cheer, and then the
thousands of feet went crash! crash! crash! Reddy fouled the first ball
over the grand-stand. Umpire Kern threw out a new one, gleaming white.
The next two pitches were wide; the following one Reddy met with the
short poke he used when hitting to left field. The ball went over
Martin's head, scoring Homans with the first run of the game. That
allowed the confident Wayne crowd to get up and yell long and loud.
Weir fouled out upon the first ball pitched, and Blake, following him,
forced Reddy out at second on an infield hit.

Place tied the score in the second inning on Weir's fumble of Martin's
difficult grounder, a sacrifice by Horton, and Griffith's safe fly back
of second.

With the score tied, the teams blanked inning after inning until the
fifth. Wayne found Salisbury easy to bat, but a Place player was always
in front of the hit. And Place found Peg Ward unsolvable when hits meant
runs. Ken kept up his tireless, swift cannonading over the plate, making
his opponents hit, and when they got a runner on base he extended himself
with the fast raise ball. In the first of the fifth, with two out, Prince
met one of Ken's straight ones hard and fair and drove the ball into
the bleachers for a home-run. That solid blue-and-gold square of Place
supporters suddenly became an insane tossing, screeching mêlée.

The great hit also seemed to unleash the fiery spirit which had waited
its chance. The Wayne players came in for their turn like angry bees.
Trace got a base on balls. Dean sacrificed. Ken also essayed to bunt
and fouled himself out on strikes. Come, come, Find him, and say that
Love himself has sent us To offer our poor service in his stead.

Cydilla:

Good Damon, help me find my wool; my eyes Are blind with tears; then I
will come at once!
We must be doing something, for I feel We both shall drown our hearts
with time to spare.

* * * * *

RONALD ROSS

HESPERUS

Ah whither dost thou float, sweet silent star, In yonder floods of
evening's dying light?

Before the fanning wings of rising night, Methinks thy silvery bark
is driven far To some lone isle or calmly havened shore, Where the lorn
eye of man can follow thee no more.

How many a one hath watched thee even as I, And unto thee and thy
receding ray Poured forth his thoughts with many a treasured sigh
Too sweet and strange for the remorseless day; But thou hast gone
and left unto their sight Too great a host of stars, and yet too black
a night.

E'en as I gaze upon thee, thy bright form Doth sail away among the
cloudy isles Around whose shores the sea of sunlight smiles.
On thee may break no black and boisterous storm To turn the tenour of
thy calm career.

As thou wert long ago so now thou dost appear.

Art thou a tear left by the exiled day Upon the dusky cheek of drowsy
night?
Or dost thou as a lark carol alway Full in the liquid glow of
heavenly light?

Or, bent on discord and angelic wars, As some bright spirit tread
before the trooping stars?

The disenchanted vapours hide thee fast; The watery twilight fades
and night comes on; One lingering moment more and thou art gone,
Lost in the rising sea of clouds that cast Their inundations
o'er the darkening air; And wild the night wind wails the
lightless world's despair.

* * * * *

EDMUND BEALE SARGANT

THE CUCKOO WOOD

Cuckoo, are you calling me, Or is it a voice of wizardry?

In these woodlands I am lost, From glade to glade of flowers tost.

Seven times I held my way, And seven times the voice did say, Cuckoo!
Cuckoo! No man could Issue from this underwood, Half of green and
half of brown, Unless he laid his senses down.

Only let him chance to see The snows of the anemone Heaped above
its greenery; Cuckoo!

Cuckoo! No man could Issue from the master wood.

Magic paths there are that cross; Some beset with jewelled moss And
boughs all bare; where others run, Bluebells bathe in mist and sun
Past a clearing filled with clumps Of primrose round the nutwood
stumps; All as gay as gay can be, And bordered with dog-mercury,
The wizard flower, the wizard green, Like a Persian carpet seen.

Brown, dead bracken lies between, And wrinkled leaves, whence fronds
of fern Still untwist and upward turn.
Cuckoo! Cuckoo!

No man could Issue from this wizard wood, Half of green, and half
of brown, Unless he laid his senses down.

Seven times I held my way Where new heaps of brushwood lay, All with
withies loosely bound, And never heard a human sound.

Yet men have toiled and men have rested By yon hurdles darkly-breasted,
Woven in and woven out, Piled four-square, and turned about To show
their white and sharpened stakes Like teeth of hounds or fangs of
snakes.

The men are homeward sped, for none Loves silence and a sinking sun.

Cuckoo! Cuckoo!

Woodmen know Souls are lost that hear it so, Seven times upon the
wind, To lull the watch-dogs of the mind.
A stranger wood you shall not find!
Beech and birch and oak agree Here to dwell in company.
Hazel, elder, few men could Name the kinds of underwood.
Summer and winter haunt together, And golden light with misty
weather.
'Tis summer where this beech is seen Defenceless in its virgin
green; All its leaves are smooth and thin, And the sunlight passes
in, Passes in and filters through To a green heaven below the
blue.
Low the branches fall and trace A circle round that mystic place,
Guarded on its outward side By hyacinths in all their pride; And
within dim moons appear, Wax and wane--I go not near!
Cuckoo! Cuckoo! How we fear Sights and sounds that come and go
Without a cause for men to know!
Why for a whispered doubt should I Shun that other beech-tree high,
Red and watchful, still and bare, With a thousand spears in air,
Guarding yet its treasured leaf From storm and hail and winter's
grief?No spectator of that game missed Ken's fierce impetuosity when he
faced MacNeff. He was as keen strung as a wire when he stood erect
in the box, and when he got into motion he whirled far around, swung
back bent, like a spring, and seemed to throw his whole body with the
ball. One--two--three strikes that waved up in their velocity, and
MacNeff for the third time went out.

Clatter and smash came from the bleachers, long stamping of feet,
whistle and bang, for voices had become weak.

A hit, an error, a double play, another hit, a steal, and a forced
out--these told Wayne's dogged, unsuccessful trial for the winning run.

But Worry Arthurs had curtly said to his pitcher: "Peg, cut loose!"
and man after man for Place failed to do anything with his terrific
speed. It was as if Ken had reserved himself wholly for the finish.

In the last of the eighth Dean hit one that caromed off Griffith's shin,
and by hard running the little catcher made second. Ken sent him to third
on a fielder's choice. It was then the run seemed forthcoming. Salisbury
toiled in the box to coax the wary Homans. The Wayne captain waited until
he got a ball to his liking. Martin trapped the hit and shot the ball
home to catch Dean. It was another close decision, as Dean slid with the
ball, but the umpire decided against the runner.

"Peg, lam them over now!" called Reddy Ray.

It was the first of the ninth, with the weak end of Place's hitting
strength to face Ken. Griffith, Conroy, Salisbury went down before
him as grass before a scythe. To every hitter Ken seemed to bring
more effort, more relentless purpose to baffle them, more wonderful
speed and control of his fast ball.

Through the stands and bleachers the word went freely that the game
would go to ten innings, eleven innings, twelve innings, with the
chances against the tiring Salisbury.

But on the Wayne bench there was a different order of conviction. Worry
sparkled like flint. Homans, for once not phlegmatic, faced the coaching
line at third. Raymond leaned pale and still against the bench. Ken was
radiant.

Reddy Ray bent over the row of bats and singled out his own. His strong,
freckled hands clenched the bat and whipped it through the air. His eyes
were on fire when he looked at the stricken Raymond.

"Kel, something may happen yet before I get up to the plate," he said.
"But if it doesn't--"

Then he strode out, knocked the dirt from his spikes, and stepped into
position. Something about Reddy at that moment, or something potent in
the unforeseen play to come, quieted the huge crowd.

Salisbury might have sensed it. He fussed with the ball and took a long
while to pitch. Reddy's lithe form whirled around and seemed to get into
running motion with the crack of the ball. Martin made a beautiful pick-up
of the sharply bounding ball, but he might as well have saved himself the
exertion. The championship sprinter beat the throw by yards.

Suddenly the whole Wayne contingent arose in a body, a tribute to what
they expected of Reddy, and rent Grant Field with one tremendous outburst.

As it ceased a hoarse voice of stentorian volume rose and swelled on
the air.

"_Wayne wins!_ WATCH HIM RUN!"

It came from Murray, who loved his great sprinter.

Thrice Salisbury threw to MacNeff to hold Reddy close to first base,
but he only wasted his strength. Then he turned toward the batter,
and he had scarcely twitched a muscle in the beginning of his swing,
when the keen sprinter was gone like a flash. His running gave the
impression of something demon-like forced by the wind. He had covered
the ground and was standing on the bag when Prince caught Conroy's throw.

Pandemonium broke out in the stands and bleachers, and a piercing,
continuous scream. The sprinter could not be stopped. That was plain.
He crouched low, watching Salisbury. Again and again the pitcher tried
to keep Reddy near second base, but as soon as Martin or Prince returned
the ball Reddy took his lead off the bag. He meant to run on the first
pitch; he was on his toes. And the audience went wild, and the Place
varsity showed a hurried, nervous strain. They yelled to Salisbury,
but neither he nor any one else could have heard a thunderbolt in
that moment.

Again Salisbury toed the rubber, and he hesitated, with his face turned
toward second. But he had to pitch the ball, and as his elbow trembled
the sprinter shot out of his tracks with the start that had made him
famous. His red hair streaked in the wind like a waving flame. His
beautiful stride swallowed distance. Then he sailed low and slid into
the base as the ball struck Griffith's hands.

Reddy was on third now, with no one out, with two balls upon Weir and
no strikes. Let me so renew my youth, I defend it, nail and tooth,
Rooting deep and lifting high.

For this my dead leaves hiss and sigh And glow as on the downward
road To the dog-snake's dread abode.
Noxious things of earth and air, Get you hence, for I prepare To
flaunt my beauty in the sun When all beside me are undone.
Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Pan shall see The surge of my virginity Overtop the
sobered glade.
Luminous and unafraid Near his sacred oak I'll spread Lures to tempt
him from his bed:
His couch, his lair his form shall be By none but by the fair
beech-tree.

O cunning Oak! What is your skill To hold the god against my will?
Keep your favours back like me, With disfavour he shall see Orange
hues of jealousy:
Show your leaf in early prime, It shall be dark before its time:
Me you shall not rival ever.

Silver Birch, would you endeavour, Trembling in your bridal
dress, To win at last a dog's caress?
Through your twigs so thin and dark Shows the black and ashen bark,
Like a face that underneath Tightened eyebrows looks on death.

Think not, dwarf, that Pan shall find Aught about you to his
mind.
Cuckoo! Cuckoo! All shall try To win him. But the beech and I, Man
and tree made one at last, Alone have power to hold him fast.

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Forth I creep, When the flowers fall asleep, And
upgather odours rare Floating on the misty air, All to be imprisoned
where My sap is rising till they reach The swelling twigs, and
thence shall each Separate scent be shaken free As my flowers and
leaves agree.

Rare in sooth those flowers shall be:
Cunningly will I devise Colours to delight the eyes, Slipping from
my fissured stem To get by stealth or stratagem The glory of the
morning petal.

Where the bees at noontide settle, Mine to rifle all their sweets:
Honey and bee-bread on the teats Of my blossoms shall be spread,
Till the lime-trees shake with dread Of the marvels still to come
When their bees about me hum.

Welcome, welcome, cloudless night, Is our labour ended quite?
Are the mortal and the tree Now made one in ecstasy, One in foretaste
of the dawn?
Crescent moon, sink, sink outworn!
Stars be buried, stars be born, Mount and dip to tell aright The
doings of the morrow's light!

Mists, assemble, hide me quite, Till the sun with growing strength
Grips your veils, and length by length Tears them down from head to
foot; Then to the challenge I am put!

Tell me busy, busy glade, Half in light and half in shade, Is your
world of wood-folk there?

All are come but the mole and hare; One is blind, and underground Of that
tumult hears no sound; The other Pan has crept within, To bask afield
in the hare-skin.

All are come of woodland fowl But the cuckoo and the owl; The owl's
asleep, and the cuckoo-bird Nowhere seen is eachwhere heard.
Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Those that see The leafing of this great beech-tree,
And its flowers of every kind, Woodland lovers have in mind; Those that
breathe the scented wind Or touch this bark of satin, could Never issue
from our wood.

Tell me, busy, busy glade, Are little flying things afraid?
All are come of aery folk, Gnats that hover like a smoke, Butterflies and
humble-bees, Insects winged in all degrees, Honey-toilers, pleasure-makers,
Of labours and of joys forsakers, Round these boughs to live and
die.
Only the moth and the dragon-fly Keep their haunts and come not
nigh:
The moth is moonstruck, she must creep With twitching wings, and
half-asleep, Through folds of darkness; and that other, The dragon-fly,
Narcissus' brother, Flashes all his burnished mail In a still pool
adown the dale.

Tell me, busy, busy glade, Shifting aye in light and shade, Are
the dryads peeping forth, More in wonder than in wrath, Each
beneath her own dear tree Parting her hair that she may see How
queens put on their sovereignty?
All are come of Pan's own race, Nymphs and satyrs fill the place,
Necks outstretched and ears a-twitching, That Pan may know of all
this witching.

Heedless stumble the goatfeet Till four-footed things retreat.
Cries of Ah! and Ay! and Eh!
Scare the forest birds away, And their notes that rang so clear At dawn,
you now shall rarely hear:

Only a robin here and there Pitches high his trembling voice In a
challenge to rejoice.

Cuckoo! Cuckoo!

The Wayne varsity won this game. Homans, your captain, won it,
because he directed the team and followed orders. He hit and run some,
too. Reddy Ray won this game by bein' a blue streak of chain lightnin'
on the bases. Raymond won it by makin' a hit when we all expected
him to fall dead. He won it twice, the second time with the greatest
fieldin' play ever pulled off on Grant Field. Dean won the game by
goin' up and hangin' onto Peg's jump ball. McCord won it by diggin'
low throws out of the dirt. Weir was around when it happened, wasn't
he--and Blake and Trace? Then there was Peg himself. He won the game
a _little_. Say! he had Place trimmed when he stepped on the slab in
the first innin'. So you all won the big Wayne-Place game."

Then Worry advanced impressively to the table, put his hand in his
breast pocket and brought forth a paper.

"You've won this for me, boys," he said, spreading the paper out.

"What is it?" they asked, wonderingly.

"Nothin' of much importance to you boys as compared with winnin'
the game, but some to Worry Arthurs." He paused with a little choke.
"It's a five-year contract to coach Wayne's baseball teams."

A thundering cheer attested to the importance of that document
to the boys.

"Oh, Worry, but I'm glad!" cried Ken. "Then your son Harry will be
in college next year--will be on the team?"

"Say, he'll have to go some to make next year's varsity, with only
two or three vacancies to fill. Now, fellows, I want to know things.
Sit down now and listen."

They all took seats, leaving the coach standing at the table.

"Homans, is there any hope of your comin' back to college next year?"

"None, I'm sorry to say," replied the captain. "Father intends to put
me in charge of his business."

"Reddy, how about a post-graduate course for you? You need that P.G."

"Worry, come to think of it, I really believe my college education
would not be complete without that P.G.," replied Reddy, with the
old cool speech, and a merry twinkle in his eye.

At this the boys howled like Indians, and Worry himself did a
little war-dance.

"Raymond, you'll come back?" went on the coach.

The second-baseman appeared highly insulted. "Come back? Wull, what
do you take me for? I'd like to see the guy who can beat me out of
my place next season."

This brought another hearty cheer.

Further questioning made clear that all the varsity except Homans,
Blake, and McCord would surely return to college.

"Fine! Fine! Fine!" exclaimed Worry.

Then he began to question each player as to what he intended to
do through the summer months, and asked him to promise not to play
ball on any summer nines.

"Peg, you're the one I'm scared about," said Worry, earnestly. "These
crack teams at the seashore and in the mountains will be hot after you.
They've got coin too, Peg, and they'll spend it to get you."

"All I've got to say is they'll waste their breath talking to me,"
replied Ken, with a short laugh.

"What are you goin' to do all summer?" asked Worry, curiously.
"Where will you be?"

"I expect to go to Arizona."

"Arizona? What in the deuce are you goin' way out there for?"

Ken paused, and then when about to reply Raymond burst out.

"Worry, he says it's forestry, but he only took up that fool subject
because he likes to chase around in the woods. He's nutty about trees
and bears and mustangs. He was in Arizona last summer. You ought to
hear some of the stories he's told me. Why, if they're true he's got
Frank Nelson and Jim Hawkins skinned to a frazzle."

"For instance?" asked Worry, very much surprised and interested.

"Why stories about how he was chased and captured by outlaws, and
lassoed bears, and had scraps with Mexicans, and was in wild caves
and forest fires, and lots about a Texas ranger who always carried
two big guns. I've had the nightmare ever since we've been in the
training-house. Oh, Ken can tell stories all right. He's as much
imagination as he's got speed with a ball. And say, Worry, he's got
the nerve to tell me that this summer he expects to help an old hunter
lasso mountain-lions out there in Arizona. What do you think of that?"

"It's straight goods!" protested Ken, solemnly facing the
bright-eyed boys.

"We want to go along!" yelled everybody.

"Say, Peg, I ain't stuck on that idee, not a little bit,"
replied the coach, dubiously.

"Worry has begun to worry about next season. He's afraid Peg will
get that arm chewed off," put in Reddy.

"Well, if I've got to choose between lettin' Peg chase mountain-lions
and seein' him chased by 'em fat-head directors, I'll take my chances
with the lions."

Then all in a moment Worry became serious.

"Boys, it's time to break trainin'. I ain't got much to say. You're the
best team I ever developed. Let it go at that. In a few minutes you are
free to go out to the banquets and receptions, to all that's waitin' for
you. And it will be great. To-morrow you will be sayin' good-bye to me
and to each other and scatterin' to your homes. But let's not forget
each other and how we plugged this year. Sure, it was only baseball,
but, after all, I think good, hard play, on the square and against long
odds, will do as much for you as your studies. Let the old baseball
coach assure you of that."

He paused, paced a few steps to and fro, hands behind his back,
thoughtful and somewhat sad.

It is the soul of festivity at all times, and to all ages. How many
marriages have been the consequence of meeting at dinner? How much
good fortune has been the result of a good supper?

At what moment of our existence are we happier than at table?said Worry.

Homans stepped out briskly and placed a hat, twelve folded slips of
paper, and a pencil upon the table.

"Fellows, you will follow me in our regular batting order," directed
Homans. "Each man is to write his name on one side of a slip of paper
and his choice for captain on the other side. Thus does it ever seem Good to the best to stay aside and dream In
narrow places, where the hand can feel Something beside, and know
that it is real.

His angels! silly creatures who could sing And sing again, and delicately
fling The smoky censer, bow and stand aside All mute in adoration:
thronging wide, Till nowhere could He look but soon He saw An angel bending
humbly to the law Mechanic; knowing nothing more of pain, Than
when they were forbid to sing again, Or swing anew the censer, or
bow down In humble adoration of His frown.

That is Wayne's
rule in electing captains, so the players will not know how each voted.
But this is an occasion I am happy to see when we shall all know who
voted for who. It shall be a little secret of which we will never speak."

He paused while he arranged the slips neatly together.

"There are here twelve votes. Eleven have been cast for one player--one
for another player! Will you all please step forward and look?"

In an intense stillness the varsity surrounded the table. There was
a sudden sharp gasp from one of them.

With a frank, glad smile Homans held out his hand.

"CAPTAIN WARD!"


THE END