"In the heat of the moment," confessed Mr Pilkington, "I'm afraid I
said things to Miss Mariner which I now regret."

Uncle Chris began to feel on solid ground again.

"Dear, dear!" he murmured regretfully.

"I spoke hastily."

"Always think before you speak, my boy."

"I considered that I had been cheated . . ."

"My dear boy!" Uncle Chris' blue eyes opened wide. "Please! Haven't I
said that I could explain all that? It was a pure misunderstanding . . ."

"Oh, I don't care about that part of it . . ."

"Quite right," said Uncle Chris cordially. "Let bygones be bygones.
Start with a clean slate. You have your money back, and there's no
need to say another word about it. Let us forget it," he concluded
generously. "And, if I have any influence with Jill, you may count on
me to use it to dissipate any little unfortunate rift which may have
occurred between you."

"You think there's a chance that she might overlook what I said?"

"As I say, I will use any influence I may possess to heal the breach.
I like you, my boy. And I am sure that Jill likes you. She will make
allowances for any ill-judged remarks you may have uttered in a
moment of heat."

Mr Pilkington brightened, and Mrs Peagrim, returning with a
medicine-glass, was pleased to see him looking so much better.

"You are a positive wizard, Major Selby," she said archly. "What have
you been saying to the poor boy to cheer him up so? He has a bad
headache this morning."

"Headache?" said Uncle Chris, starting like a war-horse that has
heard the bugle. "I don't know if I have ever mentioned it, but _I_
used to suffer from headaches at one time. Extraordinarily severe
headaches. I tried everything, until one day a man I knew recommended
a thing called--don't know if you have ever heard of it . . ."

Mrs Peagrim, in her role of ministering angel, was engrossed with her
errand of mercy. She was holding the medicine-glass to Mr
Pilkington's lips, and the seed fell on stony ground.

"Drink this, dear," urged Mrs Peagrim.

"Nervino," said Uncle Chris.

"There!" said Mrs Peagrim. "That will make you feel much better. How
well you always look, Major Selby!"

"And yet at one time," said Uncle Chris perseveringly, "I was a
martyr . . ."

"I can't remember if I told you last night about the party. We are
giving a little supper-dance to the company of Otie's play after the
performance this evening. Of course you will come?"

Uncle Chris philosophically accepted his failure to secure the ear of
his audience. Other opportunities would occur.

"Delighted," he said. "Delighted."

"Quite a simple, bohemian little affair," proceeded Mrs Peagrim. "I
thought it was only right to give the poor things a little treat
after they have all worked so hard."

"Certainly, certainly. A capital idea."

"We shall be quite a small party. If I once started asking anybody
outside our _real_ friends, I should have to ask everybody."

The door opened.

"Mr Rooke," announced the maid.

Freddie, like Mr Pilkington, was a prey to gloom this morning. He had
read one or two of the papers, and they had been disgustingly lavish
in their praise of The McWhustle of McWhustle. It made Freddie
despair of the New York press. In addition to this, he had been woken
up at seven o'clock, after going to sleep at three, by the ringing of
the telephone and the announcement that a gentleman wished to see
him: and he was weighed down with that heavy-eyed languor which comes
to those whose night's rest is broken.

"Why, how do you do, Mr Rooke!" said Mrs Peagrim.

"How-de-do," replied Freddie, blinking in the strong light from the
window. "Hope I'm not barging in and all that sort of thing? I came
round about this party tonight, you know."

"Oh, yes?"

"Was wondering," said Freddie, "if you would mind if I brought a
friend of mine along? Popped in on me from England this morning. At
seven o'clock," said Freddie plaintively. "Ghastly hour, what! Didn't
do a thing to the good old beauty sleep! Well, what I mean to say is,
I'd be awfully obliged if you'd let me bring him along."

"Why, of course," said Mrs Peagrim. "Any friend of yours, Mr Rooke . . ."

"Thanks awfully. Special reason why I'd like him to come, and all
that. He's a fellow named Underhill. Sir Derek Underhill. Been a pal
of mine for years and years."

Uncle Chris started.

"Underhill! Is Derek Underhill in America?"

"Landed this morning. Routed me out of bed at seven o'clock."

"Oh, do you know him, too, Major Selby?" said Mrs Peagrim. "Then I'm
sure he must be charming!"

"Charming," began Uncle Chris in measured tones, "is an adjective
which I cannot . . ."

"Well, thanks most awfully," interrupted Freddie. "It's fearfully
good of you to let me bring him along. I must be staggering off now.
Lot of things to do."

"Oh, must you go already?"

"Absolutely must. Lot of things to do."

Uncle Chris extended a hand to his hostess.

"I think I will be going along, too, Mrs Peagrim. I'll walk a few
yards with you, Freddie my boy. There are one or two things I would
like to talk over. Till tonight, Mrs Peagrim."

"Till tonight, Major Selby." She turned to Mr Pilkington as the door
closed. "What charming manners Major Selby has, So polished. A sort
of old-world courtesy. So smooth!"

"Smooth," said Mr Pilkington dourly, "is right!"


2.

Uncle Chris confronted Freddie sternly outside the front door.

"What does this mean? Good God, Freddie, have you no delicacy?"

"Eh?" said Freddie blankly.

"Why are you bringing Underhill to this party? Don't you realize that
poor Jill will be there? How do you suppose she will feel when she
sees that blackguard again? The cad who threw her over and nearly
broke her heart!"

Freddie's jaw fell. He groped for his fallen eyeglass.

"Oh, my aunt! Do you think she will be pipped?"

"A sensitive girl like Jill!"

"But, listen. Derek wants to marry her."

"What!"

"Oh, absolutely. That's why he's come over."

Uncle Chris shook his head.

"I don't understand this. I saw the letter myself which he wrote to
her, breaking off the engagement."

"Yes, but he's dashed sorry about all that now. Wishes he had never
been such a mug, and all that sort of thing. As a matter of fact,
that's why I shot over here in the first place. As an ambassador,
don't you know. I told Jill all about it directly I saw her, but she
seemed inclined to give it a miss rather, so I cabled old Derek to
pop here in person. Seemed to me, don't you know, that Jill might be
more likely to make it up and all that if she saw old Derek."

Uncle Chris nodded, his composure restored.

"Very true. Yes, certainly, my boy, you acted most sensibly. Badly as
Underhill behaved, she undoubtedly loved him. It would be the best
possible thing that could happen if they could be brought together.
It is my dearest wish to see Jill comfortably settled. I was half
hoping that she might marry young Pilkington."

"Good God! The Pilker!"

"He is quite a nice young fellow," argued Uncle Chris. "None too many
brains, perhaps, but Jill would supply that deficiency. Still, of
course, Underhill would be much better."

"She ought to marry someone," said Freddie earnestly. "I mean, all
rot a girl like Jill having to knock about and rough it like this."

"You're perfectly right."

"Of course," said Freddie thoughtfully, "the catch in the whole
dashed business is that she's such a bally independent sort of girl.
I mean to say, it's quite possible she may hand Derek the mitten, you
know."

"In that case, let us hope that she will look more favorably on young
Pilkington."

"Yes," said Freddie. "Well, yes. But--well, I wouldn't call the
Pilker a very ripe sporting proposition. About sixty to one against
is the way I should figure it, if I were making a book. In the house
they had long since begun to wonder that the new overseer did not come
home, and to fear that he might have driven off and away.
Joggeli had sat down at the window from which he could see the road,
almost looked his eyes out, and began to scold: he hadn't thought
Johannes was as bad as that, and here he was his cousin, too, and
such a trick he wouldn't play on the merest stranger; but nowadays
one couldn't place reliance upon anybody, not even one's own
children.

While he was in his best vein, Freneli came in and said, "You can look
a long time; the new man's out there spreading the manure they've
taken out; he probably thinks it's better not to let it pile up.

If nobody else will do it he probably thinks he must do it himself."

"Why doesn't he show himself when he comes home?" said Joggeli; and
"Good gracious, why doesn't he come to supper?" said the mother.
"Go and tell him to come in at once, we're keeping something warm
for him."
"Wait," said Joggeli, "I'll go out myself and see how he's doing it
and what's been done."
"But make him come," said the mother; "I think he must have got good
and hungry."
Joggeli went out and saw how Uli was carefully spreading the manure
and thoroughly treading it down; that pleased him.

He wanted to look for the milker and the carter, to show them how
Uli was doing it and to tell them to do it so in the future; he
looked into the fodder-passage and could not take his eyes from it
for a long time, as he saw the handsome, round, appetizing fodder-piles
and the clean path between them.

He looked into the stable, and as he saw the cows standing comfortably
in clean straw and no longer on old manure he too felt better, and
so he now went to Uli and told him that it had not really been the
intention that he should do all the dirty work himself; that was
other people's business.

It is true that she was a "radiant and
vivacious hostess," and it is possible, her standard not being very
high, that she had "never looked more charming." But, when, she went
on to say that all present were in agreement that they had never
spent a more delightful evening, she deceived the public. Uncle
Chris, for one; Otis Pilkington, for another, and Freddie Rooke, for
a third, were so far from spending a delightful evening that they
found it hard to mask their true emotions and keep a smiling face to
the world.

Otis Pilkington, indeed, found it impossible, and, ceasing to try,
left early. Just twenty minutes after the proceedings had begun, he
seized his coat and hat, shot out into the night, made off blindly up
Broadway, and walked twice round Central Park before his feet gave
out and he allowed himself to be taken back to his apartment in a
taxi. He tried to tell himself that this was only what he had
expected, but was able to draw no consolation from the fact. He tried
to tell himself that Jill might change her mind, but hope refused to
stir. Jill had been very kind and very sweet and very regretful, but
it was only too manifest that on the question of becoming Mrs Otis
Pilkington her mind was made up. She was willing to like him, to be a
sister to him, to watch his future progress with considerable
interest, but she would not marry him.

One feels sorry for Otis Pilkington in his hour of travail. This was
the fifth or sixth time that this sort of thing had happened to him,
and he was getting tired of it. If he could have looked into the
future--five years almost to a day from that evening--and seen
himself walking blushfully down the aisle of St. Thomas' with Roland
Trevis' sister Angela on his arm, his gloom might have been
lightened. More probably, however, it would have been increased. At
the moment, Roland Trevis' sister Angela was fifteen, frivolous, and
freckled and, except that he rather disliked her and suspected
her--correctly--of laughing at him, amounted to just _nil_ in Mr
Pilkington's life. The idea of linking his lot with hers would have
appalled him, enthusiastically though he was in favor of it five
years later.

However, Mr Pilkington was unable to look into the future, so his
reflections on this night of sorrow were not diverted from Jill. He
thought sadly of Jill till two-thirty, when he fell asleep in his
chair and dreamed of her. At seven o'clock his Japanese valet, who
had been given the night off, returned home, found him, and gave him
breakfast. After which, Mr Pilkington went to bed, played three games
of solitaire, and slept till dinner-time, when he awoke to take up
the burden of life again. He still brooded on the tragedy which had
shattered him. Indeed, it was only two weeks later, when at a dance
he was introduced to a red-haired girl from Detroit, that he really
got over it.

           *        *        *

The news was conveyed to Freddie Rooke by Uncle Chris. Uncle Chris,
with something of the emotions of a condemned man on the scaffold
waiting for a reprieve, had watched Jill and Mr Pilkington go off
together into the dim solitude at the back of the orchestra chairs,
and, after an all too brief interval, had observed the latter
whizzing back, his every little movement having a meaning of its
own--and that meaning one which convinced Uncle Chris that Freddie,
in estimating Mr Pilkington as a sixty to one chance, had not erred
in his judgment of form.

Uncle Chris found Freddie in one of the upper boxes, talking to Nelly
Bryant. Dancing was going on down on the stage, but Freddie, though
normally a young man who shook a skilful shoe, was in no mood for
dancing tonight. The return to the scenes of his former triumphs and
the meeting with the companions of happier days, severed from him by
a two-weeks' notice, had affected Freddie powerfully. Eyeing the
happy throng below, he experienced the emotions of that Peri who, in
the poem, "at the gate of Eden stood disconsolate."

Excusing himself from Nelly and following Uncle Chris into the
passage-way outside the box, he heard the other's news listlessly. It
came as no shock to Freddie. He had never thought Mr Pilkington
anything to write home about, and had never supposed that Jill would
accept him. He said as much. Sorry for the chap in a way, and all
that, but had never imagined for an instant that he would click.

"Where is Underhill?" asked Uncle Chris, agitated.

"Derek? Oh, he isn't here yet."

"But why isn't he here? I understood that you were bringing him with
you."

"That was the scheme, but it seems he had promised some people he met
on the boat to go to a theatre and have a bit of supper with them
afterwards. I only heard about it when I got back this morning."

"Good God, boy! Didn't you tell him that Jill would be here tonight?"

"Oh, rather. And he's coming on directly he can get away from these
people. Forget their name, but they're influential coves who can do
him a bit of good and all that sort of thing. The man--the head of
the gang, you know--is something connected with the Cabinet or the
Prime Minister or something. You'd know his name in a minute if I
told you--always seeing it in the papers--they have pictures of him
in _Punch_ a lot--but I'm rotten at names. Derek did tell me, but
it's slipped the old bean. Well, he had to leg it with these people,
but he's coming on later. Ought to be here any moment now."

Uncle Chris plucked at his mustache gloomily. Freddie's detachment
depressed him. He had looked for more animation and a greater sense
of the importance of the issue.

"Well, pip-pip for the present," said Freddie, moving toward the box.
"Have to be getting back. See you later."

He disappeared, and Uncle Chris turned slowly to descend the stairs.
As he reached the floor below, the door of the stage-box opened, and
Mrs Peagrim came out.

"Oh, Major Selby!" cried the radiant and vivacious hostess. "I
couldn't think where you had got to. I have been looking for you
everywhere."

Uncle Chris quivered slightly, but braced himself to do his duty.

"May I have the pleasure . . . ?" he began, then broke off as he saw
the man who had come out of the box behind his hostess. "Underhill!"
He grasped his hand and shook it warmly. "My dear fellow! I had no
notion that you had arrived!"

"Sir Derek came just a moment ago," said Mrs Peagrim.

"How are you, Major Selby?" said Derek. He was a little surprised at
the warmth of his reception. He had not anticipated this geniality.

"My dear fellow, I'm delighted to see you," cried Uncle Chris. "But,
as I was saying, Mrs Peagrim, may I have the pleasure of this dance?"

"I don't think I will dance this one," said Mrs Peagrim surprisingly.
"I'm sure you two must have ever so much to talk about. Why don't you
take Sir Derek and give him a cup of coffee?"

"Capital idea!" said Uncle Chris. "Come this way, my dear fellow. As
Mrs Peagrim says, I have ever so much to talk about. Along this
passage, my boy. Be careful. There's a step. Weil, well, well! It's
delightful to see you again!" He massaged Derek's arm affectionately.
Every time he had met Mrs Peagrim that evening he had quailed
inwardly at what lay before him, should some hitch occur to prevent
the re-union of Derek and Jill: and, now that the other was actually
here, handsomer than ever and more than ever the sort of man no girl
could resist, he declined to admit the possibility of a hitch. His
spirits soared. "You haven't seen Jill yet, of course?"

"No." Derek hesitated. "Is Jill . . . Does she . . . I mean . . ."

Uncle Chris resumed his osteopathy. He kneaded his companion's
coat-sleeve with a jovial hand.

"My dear fellow, of course! I am sure that a word or two from you
will put everything right. We all make mistakes. I have made them
myself. I am convinced that everything will be perfectly all right
. . . Ah, there she is. Jill, my dear, here is an old friend to see
you!"


2.

Since the hurried departure of Mr Pilkington, Jill had been sitting
in the auditorium, lazily listening to the music and watching the
couples dancing on the stage. She did not feel like dancing herself,
but it was pleasant to be there and too much exertion to get up and
go home. She found herself drifting into a mood of gentle
contentment, and was at a loss to account for this. She was
happy,--quietly and peacefully happy, when she was aware that she
ought to have been both agitated and apprehensive. When she had
anticipated the recent interview with Otis Pilkington, which she had
known was bound to come sooner or later, it had been shrinkingly and
with foreboding. She hated hurting people's feelings, and, though she
read Mr Pilkington's character accurately enough to know that time
would heal any anguish which she might cause him, she had had no
doubt that the temperamental surface of that long young man, when he
succeeded in getting her alone, was going to be badly bruised. And it
had fallen out just as she had expected. Mr Pilkington had said his
say and departed, a pitiful figure, a spectacle which should have
wrung her heart. It had not wrung her heart. Except for one fleeting
instant when she was actually saying the fatal words, it had not
interfered with her happiness at all; and already she was beginning
to forget that the incident had ever happened.

And, if the past should have depressed her, the future might have
been expected to depress her even more. There was nothing in it,
either immediate or distant, which could account for her feeling
gently contented. The future was a fog, into which she had to grope
her way blindly. She could not see a step ahead. And yet, as she
leaned back in her seat, her heart was dancing in time to the
dance-music of Mrs Peagrim's hired orchestra. It puzzled Jill.

And then, quite suddenly yet with no abruptness or sense of
discovery, just as if it were something which she had known all
along, the truth came upon her. It was Wally, the thought of Wally,
the knowledge that Wally existed, that made her happy. He was a
solid, comforting, reassuring fact in a world of doubts and
perplexities. She did not need to be with him to be fortified, it was
enough just to think of him. Present or absent, his personality
heartened her like fine weather or music or a sea-breeze,--or like
that friendly, soothing night-light which they used to leave in her
nursery when she was little, to scare away the goblins and see her
safely over the road that led to the gates of the city of dreams.

Suppose there were no Wally . . .

Jill gave a sudden gasp, and sat up, tingling. She felt as she had
sometimes felt as a child, when, on the edge of sleep, she had
dreamed that she was stepping of a precipice and had woken, tense and
alert, to find that there was no danger after all. But there was a
difference between that feeling and this. She had woken, but to find
that there was danger. It was as though some inner voice was calling
to her to be careful, to take thought. Suppose there were no Wally?
. . . And why should there always be Wally? He had said confidently
enough that there would never be another girl . . . But there were
thousands of other girls, millions of other girls, and could she
suppose that one of them would not have the sense to snap up a
treasure like Wally? A sense of blank desolation swept over Jill. 
Agitated betwixt hope and fear Agitation has usurped the place of reason
Alexander said, that the end of his labour was to labour All actions
equally become and equally honour a wise man All apprentices when
we come to it (death) All defence shows a face of war All I aim at
is, to pass my time at my ease All I say is by way of discourse,
and nothing by way of advice All judgments in gross are weak and
imperfect All over-nice solicitude about riches smells of avarice
All things have their seasons, even good ones All think he has yet
twenty good years to come All those who have authority to be angry
in my family Almanacs Always be parading their pedantic science
Always complaining is the way never to be lamented Always the perfect
religion Am as jealous of my repose as of my authority An advantage
in judgment we yield to none "An emperor," said he, "must die
standing" An ignorance that knowledge creates and begets Ancient
Romans kept their youth always standing at school And hate him so
as you were one day to love him And we suffer the ills of a long
peace Anger and hatred are beyond the duty of justice Any argument
if it be carried on with method Any old government better than
change and alteration Any one may deprive us of life; no one can
deprive us of death Anything appears greatest to him that never
knew a greater Anything becomes foul when commended by the multitude
Anything of value in him, let him make it appear in his conduct
Appetite comes to me in eating Appetite is more sharp than one
already half-glutted by the eyes Appetite runs after that it has
not Appetite to read more, than glutted with that we have Applaud
his judgment than commend his knowledge Apprenticeship and a
resemblance of death Apprenticeships that are to be served beforehand
Apt to promise something less than what I am able to do Archer that
shoots over, misses as much as he that falls short Armed parties
(the true school of treason, inhumanity, robbery Arrogant ignorance
Art that could come to the knowledge of but few persons "Art thou
not ashamed," said he to him, "to sing so well?"

Man seldom attains to perfect
contentment in this world, and Derek, while pleased that Jill
apparently bore him no ill-will, seemed to miss something in her
manner which he would have been glad to find there.

"Jill!" he said huskily.

It deemed to Derek only decent to speak huskily. To his orderly mind
this situation could be handled only in one way. It was a plain,
straight issue of the strong man humbling himself--not too much, of
course, but sufficiently: and it called, in his opinion, for the low
voice, the clenched hand, and the broken whisper. Speaking as he had
spoken, he had given the scene the right key from the start,--or
would have done if she had not got in ahead of him and opened it on a
note of absurd cheeriness. Derek found himself resenting her
cheeriness. Often as he had attempted during the voyage from England
to visualize to himself this first meeting, he had never pictured
Jill smiling brightly at him. It was a jolly smile, and made her look
extremely pretty, but it jarred upon him. A moment before he had been
half relieved, half disconcerted: now he was definitely disconcerted.
He searched in his mind for a criticism of her attitude, and came to
the conclusion that what was wrong with it was that it was too
friendly. Friendliness is well enough in its way, but in what should
have been a tense clashing of strong emotions it did not seem to
Derek fitting.

"Did you have a pleasant trip?" asked Jill. "Have you come over on
business?"

A feeling of bewilderment came upon Derek. It was wrong, it was all
wrong. Of course, she might be speaking like this to cloak intense
feeling, but, if so, she had certainly succeeded. From her manner, he
and she might be casual acquaintances. A pleasant trip! In another
minute she would be asking him how he had come out on the sweepstake
on the ship's run. With a sense of putting his shoulder to some heavy
weight and heaving at it, he sought to lift the conversation to a
higher plane.

"I came to find _you!_" he said; still huskily but not so huskily as
before. There are degrees of huskiness, and Derek's was sharpened a
little by a touch of irritation.

"Yes?" said Jill.

Derek was now fermenting. What she ought to have said, he did not
know, but he knew that it was not "Yes?" "Yes?" in the circumstances
was almost as bad as "Really?"

There was a pause. Jill was looking at him with a frank and
unembarrassed gaze which somehow deepened his sense of annoyance. Had
she looked at him coldly, he could have understood and even
appreciated it. He had been expecting coldness, and had braced
himself to combat it. He was still not quite sure in his mind whether
he was playing the role of a penitent or a King Cophetua, but in
either character he might have anticipated a little temporary
coldness, which it would have been his easy task to melt. But he had
never expected to be looked at as if he were a specimen in a museum,
and that was how he was feeling now. Jill was not looking at him--she
was inspecting him, examining him, and he chafed under the process.

Jill, unconscious of the discomfort she was causing, continued to
gaze. She was trying to discover in just what respect he had changed
from the god he had been. Certainly not in looks. He was as handsome
as ever,--handsomer, indeed, for the sunshine and clean breezes of
the Atlantic had given him an exceedingly becoming coat of tan. And
yet he must have changed, for now she could look upon him quite
dispassionately and criticize him without a tremor. It was like
seeing a copy of a great painting. Everything was there, except the
one thing that mattered, the magic and the glamour. It was like . . .
She suddenly remembered a scene in the dressing-room when the company
had been in Baltimore. Lois Denham, duly the recipient of the
sunburst which her friend Izzy had promised her, had unfortunately,
in a spirit of girlish curiosity, taken it to a jeweller to be
priced, and the jeweller had blasted her young life by declaring it a
paste imitation. Jill recalled how the stricken girl--previous to
calling Izzy on the long distance and telling him a number of things
which, while probably not news to him, must have been painful
hearing--had passed the vile object round the dressing-room for
inspection. The imitation was perfect. It had been impossible for the
girls to tell that the stones were not real diamonds. Yet the
jeweller, with his sixth sense, had seen through them in a trifle
under ten seconds. Jill come to the conclusion that her
newly-discovered love for Wally Mason had equipped her with a sixth
sense, and that by its aid she was really for the first time seeing
Derek as he was.

Derek had not the privilege of being able to read Jill's thoughts.
All he could see was the outer Jill, and the outer Jill, as she had
always done, was stirring his emotions. Her daintiness afflicted him.
What can they not do, what do they fear to do (for beauty) What can
they suffer who do not fear to die?
What did I say? that I have? no, Chremes, I had What he did by nature
and accident, he cannot do by design What is more accidental than
reputation?He made another attempt to
establish the scene on a loftier plane.

"What a fool I was!" he sighed. "Jill! Can you ever forgive me?"

He tried to take her hand. Jill skilfully eluded him.

"Why, of course I've forgiven you, Derek, if there was anything to
forgive."

"Anything to forgive!" Derek began to get into his stride. These were
the lines on which he had desired the interview to develop. "I was a
brute! A cad!"

"Oh, no!"

"I was. Oh, I have been through hell!"

Jill turned her head away. She did not want to hurt him, but nothing
could have kept her from smiling. She had been so sure that he would
say that sooner or later.

"Jill!" Derek had misinterpreted the cause of her movement, and had
attributed it to emotion. "Tell me that everything is as it was
before."

Jill turned.

"I'm afraid I can't say that, Derek."

"Of course not!" agreed Derek in a comfortable glow of manly remorse.
He liked himself in the character of the strong man abased. "It would
be too much, to expect, I know. But, when we are married . . ."

"Do you really want to marry me?"

"Jill!"

There was no end to his questions, until finally Johannes stopped
at an inn, drank another bottle with him, and then almost drove him
off home.

Encouraged, Uli finally set off, and now for the first time felt
his importance to the fullest extent.

"Yes," persisted Jill, "but, if she disapproved of your marrying me
before, wouldn't she disapprove a good deal more now, when I haven't
a penny in the world and am just in the chorus . . ."

A sort of strangled sound proceeded from Derek's throat.

"In the chorus!"

"Didn't you know? I thought Freddie must have told you."

"In the chorus!" Derek stammered. "I thought you were here as a guest
of Mrs Peagrim's."

"So I am,--like all the rest of the company."

"But . . . But . . ."

"You see, it would be bound to make everything a little difficult,"
said Jill. Her face was grave, but her lips were twitching. "I mean,
you are rather a prominent man, aren't you, and if you married a
chorus-girl . . ."

"Nobody would know," said Derek limply.

Jill opened her eyes.

"Nobody would _know!_" She laughed. "But, of course, you've never met
our press-agent. If you think that nobody would know that a girl in
the company had married a baronet who was a member of parliament and
expected to be in the Cabinet in a few years, you're wronging him!
The news would be on the front page of all the papers the very next
day--columns of it, with photographs. There would be articles about it
in the Sunday papers. Illustrated! And then it would be cabled to
England and would appear in the papers there . . . You see, you're a
very important person, Derek."

