In the calm seasons of life, the true use of oratory consists in the
assistance which it affords to our fellow-citizens. We then behold the
triumph of eloquence. Have we reason to be alarmed for ourselves, the
sword and breast-plate are not a better defence in the heat of battle.
It is at once a buckler to cover yourself [b] and a weapon to brandish
against your enemy. Armed with this, you may appear with courage
before the tribunals of justice, in the senate, and even in the
presence of the prince. We lately saw [c] Eprius Marcellus arraigned
before the fathers: in that moment, when the minds of the whole
assembly were inflamed against him, what had he to oppose to the
vehemence of his enemies, but that nervous eloquence which he
possessed in so eminent a degree? His body was opened and examined,
when it appeared that his death was through old age; and, although he
had been a free liver, and, as Mr. Cross facetely observes, "was
not a member of a Temperance Society," his internal organization did
not seem to have suffered in the way usually consequent upon hard
drinking.
Perhaps a few ascetic advocates of cant and care-wearing abstinence
will think that we ought to conceal this exceptionable fact, lest
Jerry's example should be more frequently followed.

I proceed to the pleasure arising from the exercise of eloquence;
a pleasure which does not consist in the mere sensation of the moment,
but is felt through life, repeated every day, and almost every hour.
For let me ask, to a man of an ingenuous and liberal mind, who knows
the relish of elegant enjoyments, what can yield such true delight, as
a concourse of the most respectable characters crowding to his levee?
How must it enhance his pleasure, when he reflects, that the visit is
not paid to him because he is rich, and wants an heir [a], or is in
possession of a public office, but purely as a compliment to superior
talents, a mark of respect to a great and accomplished orator! The
rich who have no issue, and the men in high rank and power, are his
followers. The international susceptibilities of Sheriff
DRURIOLANUS--henceforth to bear the Anglo-French title, _Monsieur le
Shérif 'Arris de Paris_, or _'Arry de Parry_,--appear to have been
considerably hurt by a statement in the _Débats_ to the effect that the
appearance in the London streets of men dressed as Gendarmes--"_en
gendarmes français_," writes MOSSOO DRURIOLANE--intended as perambulating
advertisements for the Waterloo Panorama, was due to a supreme
effort of his managerial genius. So Shérif DRURIOLANE wrote at once to
the London Correspondent of the _Figaro_, who bears the singularly
French name of JOHNSON, denying, in his very best French, that he,
M. le Shérif, had had anything to do with these walking advertisements,
or, indeed, with the Panorama Company at all, from which he had
retired a year ago. Then he adds, like the _preux chevalier_ he is
known to be, that had he still been on the direction of the aforesaid
_Compagnie_, he, at all events, would never, never have committed
the enormity of even suggesting, however vaguely, an idea so calculated
to needlessly insult "_les susceptibilités françaises_." ("_Hear!
hear!_" and "_Très bien!

_" from the left.) Then M. le Shérif DRURIOLANE, rising to the occasion,
finishes with this magnificent flourish on the French horn--"_Je
suit né en France_"--(Isn't it very much "to his credit," we ask
with W.S.G., that, "In spite of all temptations, To belong to other
nations, He remains an Englishman?" Why, certainly)--"_j'ai vécu parmi
les Français, et je suis à moitié enfant de Paris_."
Beautiful! _Magnifique!_ Our DRURIOLANUS is surpassing even the G.O.M.,
who has been born, more or less, everywhere, except in Paris.
Should the Republic be in danger, or should Monarchists or Imperialists
get a chance and want a man for the place, let them wire to
DRURIOLANUS, "_à moitié enfant de Paris_" and the "_Enfant_"--"_Enfant_
ARRIS," not "_Enfant_ GATTI"--will be ready, aye ready, to assume
the purple, and to bring all his properties with him.VII. As to myself, if I may allude to my own feelings, the day on
which I put on the manly gown [a], and even the days that followed,
when, as a new man at Rome, born in a city that did not favour my
pretensions [b], I rose in succession to the offices of quæstor,
tribune, and prætor; those days, I say, did not awaken in my breast
such exalted rapture, as when, in the course of my profession, I was
called forth, with such talents as have fallen to my share, to defend
the accused; to argue a question of law before the centumviri [c], or,
in the presence of the prince, to plead for his freedmen, and the
procurators appointed by himself. Upon those occasions I towered above
all places of profit, and all preferment; I looked down on the
dignities of tribune, prætor, and consul; I felt within myself, what
neither the favour of the great, nor the wills and codicils [d] of the
rich, can give, a vigour of mind, an inward energy, that springs from
no external cause, but is altogether your own.

Look through the circle of the fine arts, survey the whole compass of
the sciences, and tell me in what branch can the professors acquire a
name to vie with the celebrity of a great and powerful orator. His
fame does not depend on the opinion of thinking men, who attend to
business and watch the administration of affairs; he is applauded by
the youth of Rome, at least by such of them as are of a well-turned
disposition, and hope to rise by honourable means. The eminent orator
is the model which every parent recommends to his children. Even the
common people [e] stand at gaze, as he passes by; they pronounce his
name with pleasure, and point at him as the object of their
admiration. The provinces resound with his praise. The strangers, who
arrive from all parts, have heard of his genius; they wish to behold
the man, and their curiosity is never at rest, till they have seen his
person, and perused his countenance.


VIII. I have already mentioned Eprius Marcellus and Crispus Vibius
[a]. I cite living examples, in preference to the names of a former
day. Those two illustrious persons, I will be bold to say, are not
less known in the remotest parts of the empire, than they are at
Capua, or Vercellæ [b], where, we are told, they both were born. And
to what is their extensive fame to be attributed? Not surely to their
immoderate riches. Three hundred thousand sesterces cannot give the
fame of genius. Their eloquence may be said to have built up their
fortunes; and, indeed, such is the power, I might say the inspiration,
of eloquence, that in every age we have examples of men, who by their
talents raised themselves to the summit of their ambition.

But I waive all former instances. The two, whom I have mentioned, are
not recorded in history, nor are we to glean an imperfect knowledge of
them from tradition; they are every day before our eyes. They have
risen from low beginnings; but the more abject their origin, and the
more sordid the poverty, in which they set out, their success rises in
proportion, and affords a striking proof of what I have advanced;
since it is apparent, that, without birth or fortune, neither of them
recommended by his moral character, and one of them deformed in his
person, they have, notwithstanding all disadvantages, made themselves,
for a series of years, the first men in the state. They began their
career in the forum, and, as long as they chose to pursue that road of
ambition, they flourished in the highest reputation; they are now at
the head of the commonwealth, the ministers who direct and govern, and
so high in favour with the prince, that the respect, with which he
receives them, is little short of veneration.

The truth is, Vespasian [c], now in the vale of years, but always open
to the voice of truth, clearly sees that the rest of his favourites
derive all their lustre from the favours, which his munificence has
bestowed; but with Marcellus and Crispus the case is different: they
carry into the cabinet, what no prince can give, and no subject can
receive. The invitations of royalty are always undeclinable, and Jerry
obeyed accordingly. The King was much amused with his visiter, and,
says our informant, "his Majesty was delighted at seeing him eat the
state dinner, consisting of venison, &c., which had been prepared for
him."[2] Thus, Jerry was not in the parlous state described by
Touchstone: he was not damned, like the poor shepherd: _he_ had
been to court. He had also learnt good and gallant manners.
He recognised many of his frequent visiters, and if any female among
them was laid hold of, in his presence, he would bristle with rage,
strike the bars of his cage with tremendous force, and violently
gnash his teeth at the ungallant offender

.

[2] This reminds us of the attachment of the late Duke of Norfolk
to his dogs.It confers no dignity, nor does it serve any useful
purpose. It is attended with some pleasure, but it is the pleasure of
a moment, springing from vain applause, and bringing with it no solid
advantage. What I have said, and am going to add, may probably, my
good friend Maternus, be unwelcome to your ear; and yet I must take
the liberty to ask you, if Agamemnon [a] or Jason speaks in your piece
with dignity of language, what useful consequence follows from it?
What client has been defended? Who confesses an obligation? In that
whole audience, who returns to his own house with a grateful heart?
Our friend Saleius Bassus [b] is, beyond all question, a poet of
eminence, or, to use a warmer expression, he has the god within him:
but who attends his levee? who seeks his patronage, or follows in his
train? Should he himself, or his intimate friend, or his near
relation, happen to be involved in a troublesome litigation, what
course do you imagine he would take? He would, most probably, apply to
his friend, Secundus; or to you, Maternus; not because you are a poet,
nor yet to obtain a copy of verses from you; of those he has a
sufficient stock at home, elegant, it must be owned, and exquisite in
the kind. But after all his labour and waste of genius, what is his
reward?

Poor fellow! we could have sympathized with him from our very
hearts--we mean teeth. Jerry's remains have been carefully embalmed,
(we hope in his favourite spirit,) and are now at the Surrey Gardens;
where the arrival of a living congener is daily expected. Meanwhile,
will nobody write the _hic jacet_ of the deceased? or no publisher
engage for his reminiscences? Mr. Cross would probably supply
the skeleton--of the memoir--not of his poor dead Jerry. What tales
could he have told of the slave-stricken people of the Gold Coast,
what horrors of the slave-ship whence he was taken, what a fine
graphic picture of his voyage, and his travels in England, _à la Prince
Puckler Muskau_, not forgetting his visit to Windsor Castle.
The poet
has been heard with applause; he has been received with acclamations;
and he has enjoyed a short-lived transport.

Bassus, it is true, has lately received from Vespasian a present of
fifty thousand sesterces. Upon that occasion, we all admired the
generosity of the prince. To deserve so distinguished a proof of the
sovereign's esteem is, no doubt, highly honourable; but is it not
still more honourable, if your circumstances require it, to serve
yourself by your talents? to cultivate your genius, for your own
advantage? and to owe every thing to your own industry, indebted to
the bounty of no man whatever? It must not be forgotten, that the
poet, who would produce any thing truly excellent in the kind, must
bid farewell to the conversation of his friends; he must renounce, not
only the pleasures of Rome, but also the duties of social life; he
must retire from the world; as the poets say, "to groves and grottos
every muse's son." In other words, he must condemn himself to a
sequestered life in the gloom of solitude.


X. Several broods of _Emus_ have been reared by the Society at their
Farm at Kingston Hill; and some of the year's birds are usually
exhibited here. Next is the _Pelican Enclosure_, containing
a house of mimic rock-work, and a capacious tank of water, the
favourite element of the Pelican. One pair in mature plumage, and a
second pair, supposed to be the young of the same species, are
exhibited. The third Cut is the _Aviary for small and middle-sized
birds_, at the north-eastern corner of the Garden.Among
the strangers who arrive from Spain, from Asia, or from Gaul, who
enquires [b] after Saleius Bassus? Should it happen that there is one,
who thinks, of him; his curiosity is soon satisfied; he passes on,
content with a transient view, as if he had seen a picture or a
statue.

In what I have advanced, let me not be misunderstood: I do not mean to
deter such as are not blessed with the gift of oratory, from the
practice of their favourite art, if it serves to fill up their time,
and gain a degree of reputation. I am an admirer of eloquence [c]; I
hold it venerable, and even sacred, in all its shapes, and every mode
of composition. The pathetic of tragedy, of which you, Maternus, are
so great a master; the majesty of the epic, the gaiety of the lyric
muse; the wanton elegy, the keen iambic, and the pointed epigram; all
have their charms; and Eloquence, whatever may be the subject which
she chooses to adorn, is with me the sublimest faculty, the queen of
all the arts and sciences. HAROLD BROWNE, "the retiring Bishop" of
Winchester, as he is called, on account of his innate modesty, wrote
to the people of Farnham to say that, "never was there a Bishop since
the time of his earliest predecessor in the See, St.

Swithin, more literally 'at home' at Farnham Castle than himself." To
this fact Dr. H.B. is, perhaps, unaware that the Saint in question owed
his name, as when any visitor called to ask if he were at home, the
Hall-porter of the period invariably answered, "Yes, Saint's within."

To drop the allusion, I summon you from the theatre
and public recitals to the business of the forum, to the tribunals of
justice, to scenes of real contention, to a conflict worthy of your
abilities. You cannot decline the challenge, for you are left without
an excuse. You cannot say, with a number of others, that the
profession of poetry is safer than that of the public orator; since
you have ventured, in a tragedy written with spirit, to display the
ardour of a bold and towering genius.

