THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE

Bernard Shaw


ACT I

At the most wretched hour between a black night and a wintry
morning in the year 1777, Mrs. Dudgeon, of New Hampshire, is
sitting up in the kitchen and general dwelling room of her farm
house on the outskirts of the town of Websterbridge. He has to quote
such cases as he can remember, and as neither his memory nor his
legal knowledge is great, he presents them all wrongly, and
prematurely sits down. I see PROSER's wrinkled countenance
illumined with an exultant smile.
Just as I am moving out of Court (FIBBINS has to "move" _in_
Court), because I am desirous of avoiding FIBBINS's wrath,--though
I feel that this _fiasco_ is more his fault than mine,--I
hear the presiding judge (the mad one) say to the
Defendant's Counsel that he need not trouble to address them.
This conception is easily extended to others--denial, and finally
generalized as covering anything disagreeable. So Mrs. Dudgeon,
being exceedingly disagreeable, is held to be exceedingly good.
Short of flat felony, she enjoys complete license except for
amiable weaknesses of any sort, and is consequently, without
knowing it, the most licentious woman in the parish on the
strength of never having broken the seventh commandment or missed
a Sunday at the Presbyterian church.

The year 1777 is the one in which the passions roused of the
breaking off of the American colonies from England, more by their
own weight than their own will, boiled up to shooting point, the
shooting being idealized to the English mind as suppression of
rebellion and maintenance of British dominion, and to the
American as defence of liberty, resistance to tyranny, and
selfsacrifice on the altar of the Rights of Man. Into the merits
of these idealizations it is not here necessary to inquire:
suffice it to say, without prejudice, that they have convinced
both Americans and English that the most high minded course for
them to pursue is to kill as many of one another as possible, and
that military operations to that end are in full swing, morally
supported by confident requests from the clergy of both sides for
the blessing of God on their arms.

Under such circumstances many other women besides this
disagreeable Mrs. Dudgeon find themselves sitting up all night
waiting for news. Like her, too, they fall asleep towards
morning at the risk of nodding themselves into the kitchen fire.
Mrs. Dudgeon sleeps with a shawl over her head, and her feet on a
broad fender of iron laths, the step of the domestic altar of the
fireplace, with its huge hobs and boiler, and its hinged arm
above the smoky mantel-shelf for roasting. The plain kitchen
table is opposite the fire, at her elbow, with a candle on it in
a tin sconce. Her chair, like all the others in the room, is
uncushioned and unpainted; but as it has a round railed back and
a seat conventionally moulded to the sitter's curves, it is
comparatively a chair of state. The room has three doors, one on
the same side as the fireplace, near the corner, leading to the
best bedroom; one, at the opposite end of the opposite wall,
leading to the scullery and washhouse; and the house door, with
its latch, heavy lock, and clumsy wooden bar, in the front wall,
between the window in its middle and the corner next the bedroom
door. Between the door and the window a rack of pegs suggests to
the deductive observer that the men of the house are all away, as
there are no hats or coats on them. On the other side of the
window the clock hangs on a nail, with its white wooden dial,
black iron weights, and brass pendulum. Between the clock and the
corner, a big cupboard, locked, stands on a dwarf dresser full of
common crockery.

On the side opposite the fireplace, between the door and the
corner, a shamelessly ugly black horsehair sofa stands against
the wall. An inspection of its stridulous surface shows that
Mrs. Dudgeon is not alone. A girl of sixteen or seventeen has
fallen asleep on it. She is a wild, timid looking creature with
black hair and tanned skin. Her frock, a scanty garment, is rent,
weatherstained, berrystained, and by no means scrupulously clean.
It hangs on her with a freedom which, taken with her brown legs
and bare feet, suggests no great stock of underclothing.

Suddenly there comes a tapping at the door, not loud enough to
wake the sleepers. Then knocking, which disturbs Mrs. Dudgeon a
little. Finally the latch is tried, whereupon she springs up at
once.

MRS. DUDGEON (threateningly). Well, why don't you open the door?
(She sees that the girl is asleep and immediately raises a clamor
of heartfelt vexation.) Well, dear, dear me! Now this is--
(shaking her) wake up, wake up: do you hear?

THE GIRL (sitting up). What is it?

MRS. DUDGEON. Wake up; and be ashamed of yourself, you unfeeling
sinful girl, falling asleep like that, and your father hardly
cold in his grave.

THE GIRL (half asleep still). I didn't mean to. I dropped off--

MRS. DUDGEON (cutting her short). Oh yes, you've plenty of
excuses, I daresay. Dropped off! (Fiercely, as the knocking
recommences.) Why don't you get up and let your uncle in? after
me waiting up all night for him! (She pushes her rudely off the
sofa.) There: I'll open the door: much good you are to wait up.
Go and mend that fire a bit.

The girl, cowed and wretched, goes to the fire and puts a log on.
Mrs. Dudgeon unbars the door and opens it, letting into the
stuffy kitchen a little of the freshness and a great deal of the
chill of the dawn, also her second son Christy, a fattish,
stupid, fair-haired, round-faced man of about 22, muffled in a
plaid shawl and grey overcoat. He hurries, shivering, to the
fire, leaving Mrs. Dudgeon to shut the door.

CHRISTY (at the fire). F--f--f! but it is cold. (Seeing the girl,
and staring lumpishly at her.) Why, who are you?

THE GIRL (shyly). Essie.

MRS. DUDGEON. Oh you may well ask. (To Essie.) Go to your room,
child, and lie down since you haven't feeling enough to keep you
awake. Your history isn't fit for your own ears to hear.

ESSIE. I--

MRS. DUDGEON (peremptorily). Don't answer me, Miss; but show your
obedience by doing what I tell you. (Essie, almost in tears,
crosses the room to the door near the sofa.) And don't forget
your prayers. (Essie goes out.) She'd have gone to bed last night
just as if nothing had happened if I'd let her.

CHRISTY (phlegmatically). Well, she can't be expected to feel
Uncle Peter's death like one of the family.

MRS. DUDGEON. What are you talking about, child? Isn't she his
daughter--the punishment of his wickedness and shame? (She
assaults her chair by sitting down.)

CHRISTY (staring). Uncle Peter's daughter!

MRS. DUDGEON. Why else should she be here? D'ye think I've not
had enough trouble and care put upon me bringing up my own girls,
let alone you and your good-for-nothing brother, without having
your uncle's bastards--

CHRISTY (interrupting her with an apprehensive glance at the door
by which Essie went out). Sh! She may hear you.

MRS. DUDGEON (raising her voice). Let her hear me. People who
fear God don't fear to give the devil's work its right name.
(Christy, soullessly indifferent to the strife of Good and Evil,
stares at the fire, warming himself.) Well, how long are you
going to stare there like a stuck pig? What news have you for me?

CHRISTY (taking off his hat and shawl and going to the rack to
hang them up). The minister is to break the news to you. He'll be
here presently.

MRS. DUDGEON. Break what news?

CHRISTY (standing on tiptoe, from boyish habit, to hang his hat
up, though he is quite tall enough to reach the peg, and speaking
with callous placidity, considering the nature of the
announcement). Father's dead too.

MRS. DUDGEON (stupent). Your father!

CHRISTY (sulkily, coming back to the fire and warming himself
again, attending much more to the fire than to his mother). Well,
it's not my fault. When we got to Nevinstown we found him ill in
bed. He didn't know us at first. The minister sat up with him and
sent me away. He died in the night.

MRS. DUDGEON (bursting into dry angry tears). Well, I do think
this is hard on me--very hard on me. His brother, that was a
disgrace to us all his life, gets hanged on the public gallows as
a rebel; and your father, instead of staying at home where his
duty was, with his own family, goes after him and dies, leaving
everything on my shoulders. After sending this girl to me to take
care of, too! (She plucks her shawl vexedly over her ears.) It's
sinful, so it is; downright sinful.

CHRISTY (with a slow, bovine cheerfulness, after a pause). I
think it's going to be a fine morning, after all.

MRS. DUDGEON (railing at him). A fine morning! And your father
newly dead! Where's your feelings, child?

CHRISTY (obstinately). Well, I didn't mean any harm. I suppose a
man may make a remark about the weather even if his father's
dead.

MRS. DUDGEON (bitterly). A nice comfort my children are to me!
One son a fool, and the other a lost sinner that's left his home
to live with smugglers and gypsies and villains, the scum of the
earth!

Someone knocks.

CHRISTY (without moving). That's the minister.

MRS. DUDGEON (sharply). Well, aren't you going to let Mr.
Anderson in?

Christy goes sheepishly to the door. Mrs. Dudgeon buries her face
in her hands, as it is her duty as a widow to be overcome with
grief. Christy opens the door, and admits the minister,
Anthony Anderson, a shrewd, genial, ready Presbyterian divine
of about 50, with something of the authority of his profession in
his bearing. But it is an altogether secular authority, sweetened
by a conciliatory, sensible manner not at all suggestive of a
quite thoroughgoing other-worldliness. He is a strong, healthy
man, too, with a thick, sanguine neck; and his keen, cheerful
mouth cuts into somewhat fleshy corners. No doubt an excellent
parson, but still a man capable of making the most of this world,
and perhaps a little apologetically conscious of getting on
better with it than a sound Presbyterian ought.

ANDERSON (to Christy, at the door, looking at Mrs. Dudgeon whilst
he takes off his cloak). Have you told her?

CHRISTY. She made me. (He shuts the door; yawns; and loafs across
to the sofa where he sits down and presently drops off to sleep.)

Anderson looks compassionately at Mrs. Dudgeon. Then he hangs his
cloak and hat on the rack. Mrs. Dudgeon dries her eyes and looks
up at him.

ANDERSON. Sister: the Lord has laid his hand very heavily upon
you.

MRS. DUDGEON (with intensely recalcitrant resignation). It's His
will, I suppose; and I must bow to it. But I do think it hard.
What call had Timothy to go to Springtown, and remind everybody
that he belonged to a man that was being hanged?--and
(spitefully) that deserved it, if ever a man did.

ANDERSON (gently). They were brothers, Mrs. Dudgeon.

MRS. DUDGEON. Timothy never acknowledged him as his brother after
we were married: he had too much respect for me to insult me with
such a brother. Would such a selfish wretch as Peter have come
thirty miles to see Timothy hanged, do you think? Not thirty
yards, not he. However, I must bear my cross as best I may: least
said is soonest mended.

ANDERSON (very grave, coming down to the fire to stand with his
back to it). Your eldest son was present at the execution, Mrs.
Dudgeon.

MRS. DUDGEON (disagreeably surprised). Richard?

ANDERSON (nodding). Yes.

MRS. DUDGEON (vindictively). Let it be a warning to him. He may
end that way himself, the wicked, dissolute, godless--(she
suddenly stops; her voice fails; and she asks, with evident
dread) Did Timothy see him?

ANDERSON. Yes.

MRS. DUDGEON (holding her breath). Well?

ANDERSON. He only saw him in the crowd: they did not speak. (Mrs.
Dudgeon, greatly relieved, exhales the pent up breath and sits at
her ease again.) Your husband was greatly touched and impressed
by his brother's awful death. (Mrs. Dudgeon sneers. Anderson
breaks off to demand with some indignation) Well, wasn't it only
natural, Mrs. Dudgeon? He softened towards his prodigal son in
that moment. He sent for him to come to see him.

MRS. DUDGEON (her alarm renewed). Sent for Richard!

ANDERSON. Yes; but Richard would not come. He sent his father a
message; but I'm sorry to say it was a wicked message--an awful
message.

MRS. DUDGEON. What was it?

ANDERSON. That he would stand by his wicked uncle, and stand
against his good parents, in this world and the next.

MRS. DUDGEON (implacably). He will be punished for it. He will be
punished for it--in both worlds.

ANDERSON. That is not in our hands, Mrs. Dudgeon.

MRS. DUDGEON. Did I say it was, Mr. Anderson. We are told that
the wicked shall be punished. Why should we do our duty and keep
God's law if there is to be no difference made between us and
those who follow their own likings and dislikings, and make a
jest of us and of their Maker's word?

ANDERSON. Well, Richard's earthly father has been merciful and
his heavenly judge is the father of us all.

MRS. DUDGEON (forgetting herself). Richard's earthly father was a
softheaded--

ANDERSON (shocked). Oh!

MRS. DUDGEON (with a touch of shame).  Well, I am Richard's
mother. If I am against him who has any right to be for him?
(Trying to conciliate him.) Won't you sit down, Mr. Anderson? I
should have asked you before; but I'm so troubled.

ANDERSON. Thank you-- (He takes a chair from beside the
fireplace, and turns it so that he can sit comfortably at the
fire. When he is seated he adds, in the tone of a man who knows
that he is opening a difficult subject.) Has Christy told you
about the new will?

MRS. DUDGEON (all her fears returning). The new will! Did
Timothy--? (She breaks off, gasping, unable to complete the
question.)

ANDERSON. Yes. In his last hours he changed his mind.

MRS. DUDGEON (white with intense rage). And you let him rob me?

ANDERSON. I had no power to prevent him giving what was his to
his own son.

MRS. DUDGEON. He had nothing of his own. His money was the money
I brought him as my marriage portion. It was for me to deal with
my own money and my own son. He dare not have done it if I had
been with him; and well he knew it. That was why he stole away
like a thief to take advantage of the law to rob me by making a
new will behind my back. The more shame on you, Mr. Anderson,--
you, a minister of the gospel--to act as his accomplice in such a
crime.

ANDERSON (rising). I will take no offence at what you say in the
first bitterness of your grief.

MRS. DUDGEON (contemptuously). Grief!

ANDERSON. Well, of your disappointment, if you can find it in
your heart to think that the better word.

MRS. DUDGEON. My heart! My heart! And since when, pray, have you
begun to hold up our hearts as trustworthy guides for us?

ANDERSON (rather guiltily). I--er--

MRS. DUDGEON (vehemently). Don't lie, Mr. Anderson. We are told
that the heart of man is deceitful above all things, and
desperately wicked. My heart belonged, not to Timothy, but to
that poor wretched brother of his that has just ended his days
with a rope round his neck--aye, to Peter Dudgeon. You know it:
old Eli Hawkins, the man to whose pulpit you succeeded, though
you are not worthy to loose his shoe latchet, told it you when he
gave over our souls into your charge. He warned me and
strengthened me against my heart, and made me marry a Godfearing
man--as he thought. What else but that discipline has made me the
woman I am? And you, you who followed your heart in your
marriage, you talk to me of what I find in my heart. Go home to
your pretty wife, man; and leave me to my prayers. (She turns
from him and leans with her elbows on the table, brooding over
her wrongs and taking no further notice of him.)

ANDERSON (willing enough to escape). The Lord forbid that I
should come between you and the source of all comfort! (He goes
to the rack for his coat and hat.)

MRS. DUDGEON (without looking at him). The Lord will know what to
forbid and what to allow without your help.

ANDERSON. And whom to forgive, I hope--Eli Hawkins and myself, if
we have ever set up our preaching against His law. (He fastens
his cloak, and is now ready to go.) Just one word--on necessary
business, Mrs. Dudgeon. There is the reading of the will to be
gone through; and Richard has a right to be present. He is in the
town; but he has the grace to say that he does not want to force
himself in here.

MRS. DUDGEON. He shall come here. Does he expect us to leave his
father's house for his convenience? Let them all come, and come
quickly, and go quickly. They shall not make the will an excuse
to shirk half their day's work. I shall be ready, never fear.

ANDERSON (coming back a step or two). Mrs. Dudgeon: I used to
have some little influence with you. When did I lose it?

MRS. DUDGEON (still without turning to him). When you married for
love. Now you're answered.

ANDERSON. Yes: I am answered. (He goes out, musing.)

MRS. DUDGEON (to herself, thinking of her husband). Thief!
Thief!! (She shakes herself angrily out of the chair; throws
back the shawl from her head; and sets to work to prepare the
room for the reading of the will, beginning by replacing
Anderson's chair against the wall, and pushing back her own to
the window. Then she calls, in her hard, driving, wrathful way)
Christy. (No answer: he is fast asleep.) Christy. (She shakes him
roughly.) Get up out of that; and be ashamed of yourself--
sleeping, and your father dead! (She returns to the table; puts
the candle on the mantelshelf; and takes from the table drawer a
red table cloth which she spreads.)

CHRISTY (rising reluctantly). Well, do you suppose we are never
going to sleep until we are out of mourning?

MRS. DUDGEON. I want none of your sulks. Here: help me to set
this table. (They place the table in the middle of the room, with
Christy's end towards the fireplace and Mrs. Dudgeon's towards
the sofa. Christy drops the table as soon as possible, and goes
to the fire, leaving his mother to make the final adjustments of
its position.) We shall have the minister back here with the
lawyer and all the family to read the will before you have done
toasting yourself. Roberts bowed mechanically, but he looked
very weary.

The District Attorney began to read. It is a matter of doubt whether
Mr.
Roberts so much as heard him. Yet the reading went on, and when
the last word was reached, the District Attorney, after a pause
during which his eye had consulted that of the Chief Inspector,
remarked in a kindly tone and yet with an emphasis impossible
to disregard:

"I see that you have made no mention of Madame Duclos in this
relation of the cause and manner of her young daughter's death.
Is it possible that you are ignorant of the part she played
in your affairs or the reasons she had for the suicide with which
she terminated her life?"

"I know nothing of the woman but that she was the mother of the
girl who----" he hesitated, then added with a gesture of despair,
"fell under my hand."

The District Attorney said nothing in reply, he simply waited.
But no denial or further admission came.

"She was a friend of Mrs. Taylor," suggested the Chief Inspector
as the silence grew somewhat oppressive.

"An old friend; a friend of her early days; do you not remember?"

"I do not."
His tormentors went no further. Why harass him for an item of
knowledge which the morrow would certainly bring to light.
Instead, they hurried through the remaining formalities, adding
to the reading already made a capitulation of such answers as he
had given to their questions, and witnessing, while he signed both
papers.

This done, he was left for a moment in peace, while the two officials
drew aside into the embrasure of the window for a momentary
conference.

He seemed to notice the hush, for he roused from the torpor into
which he was again about to sink, and glanced cautiously about him.

The stenographer was busy with his papers, and the other two stood
with their backs to him.

If help was to come it must come now. This he realized, with
a sudden graying of his face which took from it the last vestige
of that youthfulness which had been its distinguishing feature; and
the finger which had fumbled from time to time in his vest-pocket
stole thither once more, bringing forth a little vial which in
another moment he raised to his lips.

Was there no one to see?

No one to stop him?

No, the stenographer was closing up his bag; and the two officials
deep in conversation. He could drain the last drop unseen.

But the sound of the little vial crashing upon the hearthstone
whither he had flung it broke the quiet and startled the District
Attorney forward in a doubt bordering upon terror.

"What is that?" he asked, pointing to the fragments that
had just missed the ash heap.

"It contained oblivion," was the answer given him in steady tones.
"Do you wonder that I sought it? Nothing can save me. I have
two minutes before me. I would dedicate them to _her_."
His head fell forward on his hands. The clock on the mantel
struck. Could it be that when the second hand had circled its
small disc twice--
This was the thought of the District Attorney, but not of the Chief
Inspector. He had advanced to the desk where Mr.

Roberts was still sitting, and remarked with a gravity exceeding
any he had hitherto shown:

"Mr. Roberts, I have a great disappointment for you. This little
vial of yours which held poison yesterday contained nothing but a
few drops of harmless liquid to-day.

The change was made in the night, by one suspicious of your
intention. You will have to face the full consequences of your
crime."

Carleton Roberts' arms collapsed and his face fell forward upon
them, and they heard a groan. Then in the short silence which
followed, another and a very different sound broke upon their
ears. Seven clear calls from the cuckoo-clock rang out from the
room beyond, followed by a woman's smothered cry.

It was the one ironic touch the situation had lacked.

It pierced the heart of Carleton Roberts and started him in
anguish to his feet.

"O God!" he cried, "that I should have let that thing of evil
shriek out the wicked hours from day to day, only to torment
her now with old remembrances! Why did I not crush it to
atoms long ago? Why did I leave it hanging on my wall----"
With a dash he was in the hall. In another instant he was at
the door of his bedroom, followed by the two officials crowding
closely up behind him.

Would they find her there? Yes; where else should she be,
she whom this call from the past might almost draw from the
grave! She was there, but not in the spot where they had expected
to see her, nor in that state of collapse of which her former
weakness had given promise. Apart from Mr.
Gryce, with her form drawn up to its full height she stood,
with her finger pointing not at the cuckoo-clock as would seem
most natural, but at a small newspaper print of the dead girl's
face pinned up on another wall.

"Why is that here?"

she cried in a passionate inquiry which ignored every other presence
than that of him who must heed and answer her.

"Carleton, Carleton, why have you pinned that young girl's face
up opposite your bed where you can see it on waking, where it
can look at you and you at it--Or----" here checked by a sudden
thought she broke off, and her tone changed to one of doubt,
"perhaps you did not put it there yourself?
Perhaps its presence on your wall is a trick of the police to startle
you into betrayal.

Was it? Was it?"
"No, Ermentrude." The words came slowly but firmly. "I put it there
myself. I thought it would haunt me less than if left to my
imagination."

Then in a low tone which perhaps reached no other ears than hers:
"I do not know what it does to me; or what I see in it.

Something besides youth and beauty. Something----"
"Hush!" She had him by the arm. "Forget it; these men are
listening----"

But with a convulsive movement, he broke from her hold, and in so
doing his eyes fell on a mirror confronting him from the opposite
side of the room.

Two faces were visible in it, his own and that of his young victim
pictured in the print hanging on the wall behind him. They
seemed alive.
Both of them seemed alive, and as he saw them thus in conjunction,
the sweet, pure countenance of the child he had instinctively
mourned, peering at him over his guilty shoulder--the sweat started
on his forehead and he uttered a great cry.

Then he stood still, swaying from side to side, the eyes starting
from his head in a horror transcending all that had gone
before.

"Take him away!" she cried. "Out of the room! Let him remain anywhere
but here. I pray you; I entreat."

But he was not to be moved.

"Ermentrude," he whispered; "they say her name was Duclos.

She gave her name as Willetts.

What _was_ her name? You know the truth and can tell me."

XXXIII
AGAIN THE CUCKOO-CLOCK

Then to the wonder and admiration of all, this extraordinary
woman showed her full strength and the inexhaustible power she
possessed over her own emotions.

With a smile piteous in its triumph over a suffering the depths of
which they were just beginning to sound, she held his gaze in hers
and quietly said:

"You have driven me to the wall, Carleton.

If I answer, nothing remains to us of hope or honor; nothing upon
which to stay our souls but a consciousness of truth.

Shall we let all go and meet our fate as people should who stand
on a desolate shore and see the whole world roll away from before
them?"

_"What was her name?"_

At his look, at this repetition of his question, she straightened
up, and addressed herself to Mr.

Gryce.

"You were astonished and regarded me curiously when at the sound
of that foolish little clock I entered this room. That little
clock means everything to me, gentlemen."

Here she surveyed them one after the other with her proud and candid
eye.

"It is the one witness I have--is it not, Carleton?" she asked,
turning quickly upon him. "You have not failed me in this?"
He shook his head.

"A witness to what I am still ready to ignore, if such is
your will, Carleton."
Terror! terror far beyond anything they had seen in him
yet, paled his cheek and made his face almost unrecognizable;
but he could still speak, and in the murmur he let fall
she heard no word of protest.

"May I ask one of you to take down that clock?"

In a few minutes it lay on the table to which she had pointed.
Mr. Gryce who had at that moment in his pocket a copy of the
inscription pasted on its back, expected her to turn it over
and show them the token of Mr.
Roberts' and her united initials.

But it was not this she had in mind. Though she took up the
clock, she did not turn it round, only looked at it
steadily, her trembling lips and a tear--the first they
had seen--testifying to the rush of old memories which this simple
little object brought back to her long suffering heart.

Then she laid it down again and seemed to hesitate.

"I want to get at the works inside," she appealed to them with a
helpless accent.

"Can you tear off the back? That would be the quickest way. But
no, I know a quicker," and lifting the clock again she turned it
upside down and shook it.

They heard--what did they hear? No one could say, but when she
again reversed it, there fell out upon the table and rolled to the
floor a small gold circlet.

Lifting it, Mr. Gryce held it out to her. Taking it, she carried
it over to the District Attorney and placed it in his
hand.

"Read the inscription inside."
He did so, and looking quickly up, said:

"This is a wedding ring!

Yours! You believe yourself to have been married to him."
"I _was_ married to him in Switzerland. The marriage was
legal; he knows it, he acknowledges it, or why should he keep
this ring. I have endured seeing him put another woman in my
place. I have kept silence for years; but when he asks the right
name of the child shot down in the museum, and asks it in a way
which compels answer, then I must make known my rightful claims.

For that child was not only mine, but _his_; born after he left
me, and reared without his knowledge, first in this country and
then in France."
And breaking down now utterly, she fell on her knees sobbing out
her soul at the feet of him from whose honor she had torn the
last poor, pitiful shred.

As for him, he said nothing; even his lips refused the smallest
cry.

Only his hand which had hung at his side went to his heart; and
thus he stood swaying--swaying, till he finally fell forward into
the arms she suddenly threw out to receive him.

"Carleton! Carleton!" she wailed, searching for consciousness
in his fast glazing eye.

"It was to show you your child that I made the appointment at the
museum.

Not for myself. Oh, not for myself, but for your sake,
that you might have----" 
Useless; all useless.

He was dead.

* * * * *

Would she have had it otherwise?

Would any of them? When they were quite sure of the fact, she
placed the ring in his still warm hand; then she solemnly put it
on her finger, and turning, faced them all.

"Do not blame me too much for this final blow I gave him. He
had already seen the truth in that mirror over there. His
face--look at it and then at this picture of her taken after death,
and see the resemblance!

It is showing plainer every minute.

It was the something which had worried and eluded him. Nothing
could have kept back the truth from him after that one glimpse he
caught of himself and her in the mirror. I loved him. Mine is
the grief; you will let me stay here with him to-night. To-morrow
I will answer all questions."

XXXIV
THE BUD--THEN THE DEADLY FLOWER

You who have read thus far will care little for the legalities which
followed the events just related, but you may wish to know to a
fuller extent some of the facts in Ermentrude Taylor's life which
led to this tragic end of all her hopes.

Her story is twofold, the portion connecting her with Carleton
Roberts being entirely dissociated from that which made
her the debtor of Antoinette Duclos. Let me tell the latter
first, as it preceded the other, and tell it in episodes.

* * * * *
Two girls stood at one end of a long walk of immemorial yews.
At the other could be seen the advancing figure of a man, young,
alert, English-clad but unmistakably foreign. They were school
girls and bosom friends; he their instructor in French; the
walk one attached to a well-known seminary. When they had
entered this walk, it had been empty.
Now it held for one of them--and possibly for the other, too--a
world of joy and promise;--the world of seventeen. Innocent and
unthinking, neither of them had known her own heart,
much less that of her fellow.
But when in face of that approach, eye met eye with an askance
look of eager question, revelation came, crimsoning the cheeks
of both, and marking an epoch in either life.

Noble of heart and tender each toward the other, they were yet
human. Arm fell from arm, and with an equally spontaneous movement,
they turned to search each the other's countenance, not for
betrayal,--for that had already been made--but for those physical
charms or marks of mental superiority which might attract the eye
or win the heart of a man of the ideality of this one.

Alas!

these gifts, for gifts they are, were much too unequally distributed
between these two to render the balance at all even.

Ermentrude was handsome; Antoinette was not.

Ermentrude had besides, what even without beauty would have
made her conspicuous to the eye, the figure of a goddess and the
air of a queen.
But Antoinette was small and had to feel secure and in a happy mood
to show the excellence of her mind and the airy quality of her wit.

Then, Ermentrude had money and could dress, while Antoinette,
who was dependent upon an English uncle for everything she possessed,
wore clothes so plain that but for their exquisite neatness, one
would never dream that she came from French ancestry, and that
ancestry noble.

Yes, she had that advantage; rank was hers, but not the graces
which should accompany it. More than that, she had nothing with
which to support it. Better be of the yeoman class like
Ermentrude, and smile like a duchess granting favors. Or so she
thought, poor girl, as her meek regard passed from the friend whose
attractions she had thus acknowledged to the man whose approbation
would make a goddess of her too.

He was coming--not with his usual indifferent swing, but
eagerly, joyously, as though this moment meant something to him too.

She knew it did. Small memories rushing upon her, made no doubt
of that. But why?
Because of Ermentrude or because of herself? Alas! she could recall
nothing which would answer that.

They were much together; he had scarcely ever seen them separate.
It might be either----Hardly alive from suspense, she watched
him coming--coming. In a moment he would be upon them. On which
would his eyes linger?

That would tell the tale.

In an anguish of ungovernable shyness, she slipped behind the ample
figure of her friend till only her fluttering skirt betrayed her
presence.

Perhaps she was saved something by this move; perhaps not.
She did not see the beam of joy sparkling in his eye as he greeted
Ermentrude; but she could not but mark the heaviness of his step
as he passed them by and wandered away into the shadows.

And that she understood. Ermentrude had not smiled upon him. To
him, the moment had brought pain.

It was enough. Now she knew.

But why had not Ermentrude smiled?

* * * * *
A dormitory lighted only by the moon! Two beds close together;
in one a form of noble proportions, and in the other the meagre
figure of a girl almost buried from sight among pillows and
huddled-up blankets. Both are quiet save for an occasional shudder
which shakes the bed of the latter.

Ermentrude lies like the dead, though the moonlight falls
full upon her face blanching it to the aspect of marble.

Even her lashes rest moveless on her cheek.

But she is not sleeping; she is listening--listening to the sobs,
almost inaudible, which now and then escape from the beloved one
at her side. As they grow fainter and fainter and gradually die
away altogether till stillness reigns through the whole
dormitory, she rouses and bending forward on her elbow, looks
long and lovingly at the wet brow of her sleeping mate. She
then sinks back again into rigidity, with a low moan, ending
in the whispered words:

"He does not love,--not yet. A slight thing will turn him. Did I
not see him glance back twice, and both times at her? The look
with which she greeted him was so wonderful."
* * * * *
A village street in Britanny; a parish church in the distance;
two women bidding each other farewell amid a group of wedding-guests,
gay as the heavens are blue.

"_Au revoir!_" was the whisper breathed by the bride into the ear
of the other.

"_Au revoir_, my Ermentrude. May you have a happy year in
Switzerland!"
"_Au revoir_! little Madame. _You_ will be happy I know in those
United States to which you are going."

And the tears stood in the eyes of both.

"You will write?"
"I will write."

But the bride did not seem quite satisfied.

Glancing about and finding her young husband busy with his
adieux, she drew her friend apart and softly murmured:

"There is something I must say,--something I must know, before the
sea divides us.

You remember the day we all left school and you went home and I
came to Britanny? Ermentrude, Achille tells me that on that day
he sought the whole house over for you till he came upon you in
one of the classrooms; and that you whom I had sometimes seen so
sad were very gay and told him between laughing and crying that you
were bidding a solemn farewell to all the nooks and corners of the
old seminary, because your fiancé awaited you at home, and there
would be no coming back."

"I meant my music."

"He did not know that, Ermentrude," and here she laid her hands
upon the other's shoulders, drawing back as she did so to look
earnestly up into her face.

"Was that done for me?"
They were too near for anything but the truth to pass from eye to
eye.

Ermentrude tried to laugh and utter a quick _No, no!_ but the
little bride was not deceived.

Again upon her face there appeared that wonderful look of hers,
which made her face for the moment verily beautiful, and
unclasping her hands, she threw them about the other's
neck, whispering in awed tones:

"Yet you loved him! loved him too!"
Then after a moment of silence dear to both their hearts, she drew
back to give her friend one other look, and quietly said:
"His heart is mine now, Ermentrude, wholly and truly mine.

And so you would have it be, I am sure.

Life looks fair to me and very sweet; but however fair,
however sweet, that life is yours if ever you want it and when
you want it. The time may come--one never knows--when I can pay
you back this debt. Till then, let there be perfect trust and
perfect love between us. Give me your hand upon it--not just your
lips--for I speak as men speak when they mean to keep their word."

Their eyes met, their hands clasped; then the bridegroom drew away
his bride, and Ermentrude turned with bowed head and glistening
eyes, to enter upon the new life awaiting her in ways she had yet
to tread

.

* * * * *
The second series of episodes opens with the meeting of a man
and woman on a rustic bridge spanning a Swiss chasm. They
are strangers to each other, yet both instinctively pause and a
flush of intuitive feeling dyes the cheek of each.

The eternal, ever-recurring miracle has happened.

He sees Woman for the first time, though he had thought himself
in love before and had wandered thus far in an effort to forget.

So, likewise, with her. She had had her fancies, or rather her
one fancy; but when in strolling along this road ahead of her party
she saw rising between her and the glorious landscape which had
hitherto filled her eye the fine masculine head and perfect figure
of Carleton Roberts, this fancy floated from her mind like the
veriest thistledown, leaving it free to expand in fuller hopes and
deeper joys than visit many women even when they think they love.

Alas! why in that instant of mutual revelation had not the further
grace been given them of quick catastrophe shutting the door upon
a future of which neither could then dream or sense the coming doom.

It was not to be.

He passed, she passed, and for the time the look they gave each
other was all; but the world had been glorified for them both--and
Destiny waited.

* * * * *

"Good looks? Yes; but nothing else; very ordinary connections, very.

A little money, true. Her uncle, whom by the way I judge you have
not seen, will leave her a few thousands; but meanwhile he is a
fixture--will not leave her or let her leave him, which is a
misfortune since in a social way he is simply impossible.

No sort of match for you, Roberts.

Cut and run while there is time; that's my advice to you, given
in the most friendly spirit."
"Thank you. As I have but just met Miss Taylor, don't you think
such advice is a little premature?"

"No, I don't. She is a woman who must be loved or left; that's
all.
You've heard me."

Did Carleton Roberts heed these words? No.

What man in the thrall of his first romance ever did.

"You love me, Ermentrude?"

"I love you, Carleton."
"For a day, for a month or for a year?"

he smiled.

"Forever," she answered.

"That's a long time," he murmured, with his eyes on a little clock
hanging in the shop window before which they had stopped in one
of their infrequent walks together. "A long time! That foolish
little clock will beat out the hours of its short life and go the
way of all things, before we shall hardly have entered upon the
soul's 'forever.'" 
"That clock will last our lifetime, Carleton.RICHARD (dubiously). Hm! Anything more, Mr. Hawkins?

HAWKINS (solemnly). "Finally I gave and bequeath my soul into my
Maker's hands, humbly asking forgiveness for all my sins and
mistakes, and hoping that he will so guide my son that it may not
be said that I have done wrong in trusting to him rather than to
others in the perplexity of my last hour in this strange place."

ANDERSON. Amen.

THE UNCLES AND AUNTS. Amen.

RICHARD. My mother does not say Amen.

MRS. DUDGEON (rising, unable to give up her property without a
struggle). Mr. Hawkins: is that a proper will? Remember, I have
his rightful, legal will, drawn up by yourself, leaving all to
me.

HAWKINS. This is a very wrongly and irregularly worded will, Mrs.
Dudgeon; though (turning politely to Richard) it contains in my
judgment an excellent disposal of his property.

ANDERSON (interposing before Mrs. Dudgeon can retort). That is
not what you are asked, Mr. Hawkins. Is it a legal will?

HAWKINS. The courts will sustain it against the other.

ANDERSON. But why, if the other is more lawfully worded?

HAWKING. Because, sir, the courts will sustain the claim of a
man--and that man the eldest son--against any woman, if they can.
I warned you, Mrs. Dudgeon, when you got me to draw that other
will, that it was not a wise will, and that though you might make
him sign it, he would never be easy until he revoked it. But you
wouldn't take advice; and now Mr. Richard is cock of the walk.
(He takes his hat from the floor; rises; and begins pocketing his
papers and spectacles.)

This is the signal for the breaking-up of the party. Anderson
takes his hat from the rack and joins Uncle William at the fire.
Uncle Titus fetches Judith her things from the rack. The three
on the sofa rise and chat with Hawkins. Mrs. Dudgeon, now
an intruder in her own house, stands erect, crushed by the weight
of the law on women, accepting it, as she has been trained to
accept all monstrous calamities, as proofs of the greatness of
the power that inflicts them, and of her own wormlike
insignificance. For at this time, remember, Mary Wollstonecraft
is as yet only a girl of eighteen, and her Vindication of the
Rights of Women is still fourteen years off. Mrs. Dudgeon is
rescued from her apathy by Essie, who comes back with the jug
full of water. She is taking it to Richard when Mrs. Dudgeon
stops her.

MRS. DUDGEON (threatening her). Where have you been? (Essie,
appalled, tries to answer, but cannot.) How dare you go out by
yourself after the orders I gave you?

ESSIE. He asked for a drink--(she stops, her tongue cleaving to
her palate with terror).

JUDITH (with gentler severity). Who asked for a drink? (Essie,
speechless, points to Richard.)

RICHARD. What! I!

JUDITH (shocked). Oh Essie, Essie!

RICHARD. I believe I did. (He takes a glass and holds it to Essie
to be filled. Her hand shakes.) What! afraid of me?

ESSIE (quickly). No. I-- (She pours out the water.)

RICHARD (tasting it). Ah, you've been up the street to the market
gate spring to get that. (He takes a draught.) Delicious! Thank
you. (Unfortunately, at this moment he chances to catch sight of
Judith's face, which expresses the most prudish disapproval of
his evident attraction for Essie, who is devouring him with her
grateful eyes. His mocking expression returns instantly. He puts
down the glass; deliberately winds his arm round Essie's
shoulders; and brings her into the middle of the company. Mrs.
Dudgeon being in Essie's way as they come past the table, he
says) By your leave, mother (and compels her to make way for
them). What do they call you? Bessie?

ESSIE. Essie.

RICHARD. Essie, to be sure. Are you a good girl, Essie?

ESSIE (greatly disappointed that he, of all people should begin
at her in this way) Yes. (She looks doubtfully at Judith.) I
think so. I mean I--I hope so.

RICHARD. Essie: did you ever hear of a person called the devil?

ANDERSON (revolted). Shame on you, sir, with a mere child--

RICHARD. By your leave, Minister: I do not interfere with your
sermons: do not you interrupt mine. (To Essie.) Do you know what
they call me, Essie?

ESSIE. Dick.

RICHARD (amused: patting her on the shoulder). Yes, Dick; but
something else too. They call me the Devil's Disciple.

ESSIE. Why do you let them?

RICHARD (seriously). Because it's true. I was brought up in the
other service; but I knew from the first that the Devil was my
natural master and captain and friend. I saw that he was in the
right, and that the world cringed to his conqueror only through
fear. I prayed secretly to him; and he comforted me, and saved me
from having my spirit broken in this house of children's tears. I
promised him my soul, and swore an oath that I would stand up for
him in this world and stand by him in the next. (Solemnly) That
promise and that oath made a man of me. From this day this house
is his home; and no child shall cry in it: this hearth is his
altar; and no soul shall ever cower over it in the dark evenings
and be afraid. Now (turning forcibly on the rest) which of you
good men will take this child and rescue her from the house of
the devil?

JUDITH (coming to Essie and throwing a protecting arm about her).
I will. You should be burnt alive.

ESSIE. But I don't want to. (She shrinks back, leaving Richard
and Judith face to face.)

RICHARD (to Judith). Actually doesn't want to, most virtuous
lady!

UNCLE TITUS. Have a care, Richard Dudgeon. The law--

RICHARD (turning threateningly on him). Have a care, you. In an
hour from this there will be no law here but martial law. I
passed the soldiers within six miles on my way here: before noon
Major Swindon's gallows for rebels will be up in the market
place.

ANDERSON (calmly). What have we to fear from that, sir?

RICHARD. More than you think. He hanged the wrong man at
Springtown: he thought Uncle Peter was respectable, because the
Dudgeons had a good name. But his next example will be the best
man in the town to whom he can bring home a rebellious word.
Well, we're all rebels; and you know it.

ALL THE MEN (except Anderson). No, no, no!

RICHARD. Yes, you are. You haven't damned King George up hill and
down dale as I have; but you've prayed for his defeat; and you,
Anthony Anderson, have conducted the service, and sold your
family bible to buy a pair of pistols. They mayn't hang me,
perhaps; because the moral effect of the Devil's Disciple dancing
on nothing wouldn't help them. But a Minister! (Judith, dismayed,
clings to Anderson) or a lawyer! (Hawkins smiles like a man able
to take care of himself) or an upright horsedealer! (Uncle Titus
snarls at him in rags and terror) or a reformed drunkard (Uncle
William, utterly unnerved, moans and wobbles with fear) eh? Would
that show that King George meant business--ha?

ANDERSON (perfectly self-possessed). Come, my dear: he is only
trying to frighten you. There is no danger. (He takes her out of
the house. The rest crowd to the door to follow him, except
Essie, who remains near Richard.)

RICHARD (boisterously derisive). Now then: how many of you will
stay with me; run up the American flag on the devil's house; and
make a fight for freedom? (They scramble out, Christy among them,
hustling one another in their haste.) Ha ha! Long live the devil!
(To Mrs. Dudgeon, who is following them) What mother! are you off
too?

MRS. DUDGEON (deadly pale, with her hand on her heart as if she
had received a deathblow). My curse on you! My dying curse! (She
goes out.)

RICHARD (calling after her). It will bring me luck. Ha ha ha!

ESSIE (anxiously). Mayn't I stay?

RICHARD (turning to her). What! Have they forgotten to save your
soul in their anxiety about their own bodies? Oh yes: you may
stay. (He turns excitedly away again and shakes his fist after
them. His left fist, also clenched, hangs down. Essie seizes it
and kisses it, her tears falling on it. He starts and looks at
it.) Tears! The devil's baptism! (She falls on her knees,
sobbing. He stoops goodnaturedly to raise her, saying) Oh yes,
you may cry that way, Essie, if you like.


ACT II

Minister Anderson's house is in the main street of Websterbridge,
not far from the town hall. _The Reform Question_. Thomas Clater.
A pleasanter scene than the preceding picture. A village blacksmith
is reading the newspaper, by a candle held by a boy, to a
listening neighbour. The puzzling of the reader, the vacant
stare of the candle-holder, and the intent expression of the
absorbed listener, are excellent. Perhaps the light of the
candle is objectionable.

311. _Love in the Dairy_. H.H. Hobday. A ticklish village amour:
a young fellow importuning a buxom dairy-maid, and apparently
on the verge of conquest; in the distant door-way stands a
mar-loving, wrinkled old woman, whose crabbed face ought
not to be trusted in a dairy.

466. _The Lord Chancellor_, seated in a chair, in his official
robes, by J. Lonsdale. The likeness is excellent, as are the
robes, wig, ruffles, &c.
but the great seal and mace are even dingier than the orignals.
We could have spared the books thrown on the floor, though the
paper register in one of them almost _comes out_.

We reserve a few pictures for another visit. The Portraits,
as might be expected, are numerous. The King's supporters
are two ex-sheriffs: by the way, how many good turns does
_office_ yield to art; there is nothing like a portrait to
perpetuate your brief authority. Works of imagination are scarce,
especially as empainting the ideas of poets and passion-writers
has become fashionable

.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

THE VEGETABLE WORLD.

We pencil a few passages, at random, from Part 14 of
_Knowledge for the People_--(Botany, concluded.)
_Why does snow, when in contact with leaves and stems, melt
more speedily than when lodged upon dead substances?_
Because of the internal heat of the plants, heat being a
production of the vegetable as well as animal body, though in a
much lower degree in the former than the latter. Mr. Hunter appears
to have detected this heat by a thermometer applied in frosty
weather to the internal parts of vegetables newly opened. It is
evident that a certain appropriate portion of heat is a necessary
stimulus to the constitution of every plant, without which its
living principle is destroyed.--_Smith_.

_Why is fructification so important to plants?_
Because it continues them by seeds, and, according to Sir James
Smith, "all other modes of propagation are but the extension of
an individual, and, sooner or later, terminate in its total
extinction." Dr. Drummond is of a contrary opinion, and quotes
the following fact:--"In South America there is a species of bamboo
which forms forests in the marshes of many leagues in extent, and
yet Mutis, who botanized for nearly twenty years in the parts where
it grows, was never able to detect the fructifications."

--_Humboldt_.

The produce of vegetable seeds in a hundred-fold degree is common,
and many trees and shrubs bring forth their fruit by thousands.
A single plant of the poppy will produce above 30,000 seeds;
and, of tobacco, above 40,000; and Buffon remarks, that
from the seeds of a single elm-tree, one hundred thousand young
elms may be raised from the product of one year.
Some ferns, it is said, produce their seeds by millions.

_Why should seeds be uniformly kept dry before sown?_

Because the least damp will cause an attempt at vegetation, when
the seeds necessarily die, as the process cannot, as they are
situated, go on.

_Why, in summer, is continued watering required to newly sown
seeds?_
Because, if the soil is only moistened at the time of sowing, it
induces the projection of the radicle, or first root, which,
in very parching weather, and in clayey cutting soil, withers away,
and the crop is consequently lost, for want of a continued supply
of moisture.

_Why is selection important for procuring abundance of genuine seeds?

_

Because we may then choose the most vigorous plants, which naturally
prove of greater fecundity.

Thus, in 1823, Mr. Shirreff marked one vigorous wheat plant,
near the centre of a field, which produced him 2,473 grains.
These were dibbled in the autumn of the same year, the produce sown
broadcast the second and third years, and the fourth harvest produced
forty quarters of sound grain.

A fine purple-topped Swedish turnip produced 100,296 grains, which
was seed enough for five imperial acres, and thus, in three
years, one turnip would produce seed enough for Great Britain for
a year.--_Quarterly Journal of Agriculture._
_Why are winds the great agents by which seeds are diffused?_
Because seeds are, as it were, provided with various wings for
seizing on the breeze.

The thistle and dandelion are familiar examples of this mode of
dissemination.

"How little," Sir J.E.

Smith observes, "are children aware, as they blow away the seeds
of dandelion, or stick burs in sport upon each other's clothes,
that they are fulfilling one of the great ends of nature."

Dr. Woodward calculates, that one seed of the common spear thistle
will produce "at the first crop, twenty-four thousand, and
consequently five hundred and twenty-six millions of seeds, at
the second."

Some plants discharge their seeds. Thus, a certain fungus has the
property of ejecting its seeds with great force and rapidity, and
with a loud cracking noise, and yet it is no bigger than a pin's
head!

_Why is a milky fluid found in the cocoa-nut?_
Because in this case, as well as in a few others, all the fluids
destined to nourish the embryo of the fruit does not harden, whence
a greater or less quantity of this kind of mild emulsion is contained
within the kernel.

_Why are certain eatable roots unfit for the table when the
plants have flowered?_
Because the mucus or proper juice in the tubular cells being
appropriated for perfecting the flower stem, the flower, and the
fruit, is absorbed as the fructification of the stem advances; and,
as these are perfected, the cells are emptied, and their sides
become ligneous.

_Why is the Jerusalem Artichoke so called?_
Because of its corruption from its Italian name, _Girasole
Articiocco_, sunflower artichoke, as the plant was first brought
from Peru to Italy, and thence propagated throughout Europe.

--_Smith._

* * * * *

AMERICAN MANNERS.

We suspect certain pages of Mrs. Trollope's _Domestic Manners of
the Americans_ to be highly coloured, but they are cleverly written,
and will be read with considerable interest.

_A Backwoodsman._

"We visited one farm, which interested us particularly from its
wild and lonely situation, and from the entire dependence of the
inhabitants upon their own resources.

It was a partial clearing in the very heart of the forest. The
house was built on the side of a hill, so steep that a high
ladder was necessary to enter the front door, while the back
one opened against the hill-side; at the foot of this sudden
eminence ran a clear stream, whose bed had been deepened
into a little reservoir, just opposite the house.

A noble field of Indian corn stretched away into the forest on one
side, and a few half-cleared acres, with a shed or two upon them,
occupied the other, giving accommodation to cows, horses, pigs, and
chickens innumerable.

Immediately before the house was a small potato garden, with a few
peach and apple trees. The house was built of logs, and consisted
of two rooms, besides a little shanty or lean-to, that was used
as a kitchen.

Both rooms were comfortably furnished with good beds, drawers, &c.

The farmer's wife, and a young woman who looked like her sister,
were spinning, and three little children were playing about.

The woman told me that they spun and wove all the cotton and
woollen garments of the family, and knit all the stockings; her
husband, though not a shoe-maker by trade, made all the shoes.

She manufactured all the soap and candles they used, and prepared
her sugar from the sugar-trees on their farm.

All she wanted with money, she said, was to buy coffee, tea, and
whiskey, and she could 'get enough any day by sending a batch
of butter and chicken to market.' They used no wheat, nor sold
any of their corn, which, though it appeared a very large quantity,
was not more than they required to make their bread and cakes of
various kinds, and to feed all their live stock during the winter.

She did not look in health, and said they had all had ague in
'the fall' but she seemed contented, and proud of her independence;
though it was in somewhat a mournful accent that she said, ''Tis
strange to us to see company: I expect the sun may rise and set a
hundred times before I shall see another _human_ that does not
belong to the family.'

"These people were indeed, independent--Robinson Crusoe was hardly
more so, and they eat and drink abundantly; but yet it seemed to
me that there was something awful and almost unnatural in their
loneliness.

No village bell ever summoned them to prayer, where they might
meet the friendly greeting of their fellow-men. When they die,
no spot sacred by ancient reverence will receive their bones--Religion
will not breathe her sweet and solemn farewell upon their grave;
the husband or the father will dig the pit that is to hold them,
beneath the nearest tree; he will himself deposit them within
it, and the wind that whispers through the boughs will be their
only requiem. But then they pay neither taxes nor tithes, are
never expected to pull off a hat or to make a curtsey, and will
live and die without hearing or uttering the dreadful words,
'God save the king.'"
_A Presbyterian Church in Cincinnati._
"It was in the middle of summer, but the service we were recommended
to attend did not begin till it was dark. The church was well
lighted, and crowded almost to suffocation. On entering, we
found three priests standing side by side, in a sort of
tribune, placed where the altar usually is, handsomely fitted up
with crimson curtains, and elevated about as high as our pulpits.

We took our places in a pew close to the rail which surrounded
it.

"The priest who stood in the middle was praying; the prayer was
extravagantly vehement, and offensively familiar in expression;
when this ended a hymn was sung, and then another priest took the
centre place and preached.

The sermon had considerable eloquence, but of a frightful kind.

The preacher described, with ghastly minuteness, the last feeble
fainting moments of human life, and then the gradual progress of
decay after death, which he followed through every process up to
the loathsome stage of decomposition.

Suddenly changing his tone, which had been that of sober, accurate
description, into the shrill voice of horror, he bent forward his
head, as if to gaze on some object beneath the pulpit, and made
known to us what he saw in the pit that seemed to open before him.

The device was certainly a happy one for giving effect to his
description of hell.

No image that fire, flame, brimstone, molten lead, or red-hot pincers
could supply, with flesh, nerves, and sinews quivering under
them, was omitted.

The perspiration ran in streams from the face of the preacher; his
eyes rolled, his lips were covered with foam, and every feature
had the deep expression of horror it would have borne,
had he, in truth, been gazing at the scene he described.

The acting was excellent. At length he gave a languishing
look to his supporters on each side, as if to express his feeble
state, and then sat down, and wiped the drops of agony from his
brow.

"The other two priests arose, and began to sing a hymn. It was
some seconds before the congregation could join as usual; every
upturned face looked pale and horror-struck. When the
singing ended, another took the centre place, and began in a sort
of coaxing, affectionate tone, to ask the congregation if what
their dear brother had spoken had reached their hearts?

Whether they would avoid the hell he had made them see? 'Come,
then!' he continued, stretching out his arms towards them, 'come
to us, and tell us so, and we will make you see Jesus, the dear
gentle Jesus, who shall save you from it.

But you must come to him! You must not be ashamed to come to
him! This night you shall tell him that you are not ashamed of
him; we will make way for you; we will clear the bench for anxious
sinners to sit upon.

Come, then! come to the anxious bench, and we will show you
Jesus! Come! Come! Come!'
"Again a hymn was sung, and while it continued, one of the three
was employed in clearing one or two long benches that went across
the rail, sending the people back to the lower part of the church.

The singing ceased, and again the people were invited, and exhorted
not to be ashamed of Jesus, but to put themselves upon 'the anxious
benches,' and lay their heads on his bosom.

'Once more we will sing,' he concluded, 'that we may give you
time.' And again they sung a hymn.

"And now in every part of the church a movement was
perceptible, slight at first, but by degrees becoming more decided.
Young girls arose, and sat down, and rose again; and then the
pews opened, and several came tottering out, their hands clasped,
their heads hanging on their bosoms, and every limb trembling,
and still the hymn went on; but as the poor creatures approached
the rail their sobs and groans became audible.

They seated themselves on the 'anxious benches;' the hymn ceased,
and two of the three priests walked down from the tribune, and
going, one to the right, and the other to the left, began whispering
to the poor tremblers seated there.

These whispers were inaudible to us, but the sobs and groans increased
to a frightful excess.

Young creatures, with features pale and distorted, fell on their
knees on the pavement, and soon sunk forward on their faces; the
most violent cries and shrieks followed, while from time to time a
voice was heard in convulsive accents, exclaiming, 'Oh Lord!'

'Oh Lord Jesus!' 'Help me, Jesus!' and the like. Meanwhile the
two priests continued to walk among them; they repeatedly
mounted on the benches, and trumpet-mouthed proclaimed to the
whole congregation 'the tidings of salvation;' and then
from every corner of the building arose in reply, short sharp cries
of 'Amen!'

'Glory!' 'Amen!'

while the prostrate penitents continued to receive whispered
comfortings, and from time to time a mystic caress.

More than once I saw a young neck encircled by a reverend arm.

Violent hysterics and convulsions seized many of them, and when
the tumult was at the highest, the priest who remained above,
again gave out a hymn as if to drown it. It was a frightful sight
to behold innocent young creatures, in the gay morning of existence,
thus seized upon, horror-struck, and rendered feeble and enervated
for ever.

One young girl, apparently not more than fourteen, was supported
in the arms of another, some years older; her face was pale as
death; her eyes wide open, and perfectly devoid of meaning; her
chin and bosom wet with slaver; she had every appearance of idiotism.

I saw a priest approach her, he took her delicate hand, 'Jesus
is with her! Bless the Lord!' he said, and passed on.
Did the men of America value their women as men ought to value
their wives and daughters, would such scenes be permitted among
them?

"It is hardly necessary to say that all who obeyed the call to place
themselves on the 'anxious benches' were women, and by far the
greater number very young women.

The congregration was in general, extremely well dressed,
and the smartest and most fashionable ladies of the town
were there; during the whole revival the churches and meeting-houses
were every day crowded with well-dressed people."

"It is thus the ladies of Cincinnati amuse themselves; to attend
the theatre is forbidden; to play cards is unlawful; but they work
hard in their families and must have some relaxation.

For myself, I confess that I think the coarsest comedy ever written
would be a less detestable exhibition for the eyes of youth and
innocence than such a scene

."
* * * * *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

THE COFFIN-MAKER.

The paper in the _New Monthly Magazine_, under this title,
occupies a sheet or sixteen pages, and is stated to be from
the pen of the Hon. Mrs.
Norton.

It is written in an almost breathless, and purposely hurried,
style, and the narrative of feelings and incidents flows with such
rapidity, that the reader is carried onward, _nolens volens, vi et
verbis_ through the adventures.

The writer is the son of a carpenter: his father dies; unable
to obtain any other employment, he obtains that of a coffin-maker.

His aversion to the trade, and the state of his feelings is thus
naturally described:
"The first few weeks of my employment passed pleasantly enough; my
master was satisfied with me, and on Sunday evenings I was able
occasionally to enjoy a walk.

But my spirits soon became less buoyant, and even my health began
to suffer; I entirely lost the florid look which was my poor mother's
admiration; my very step grew slower, and there were Sundays when
I declined the evening walk, which had been my only recreation,
merely because the happy laugh and continued jests of (my friend)
Henry Richards annoyed and distressed me while contrasted with my
own heaviness of heart.

Evening after evening, sometimes through a whole dismal night, I
worked at my melancholy employment; and as my master was poor, and
employed no other journey-man, I worked most commonly alone.

Frequently as the heavy hammer descended, breaking at regular
intervals the peaceful silence of night, I recalled some scene of
sorrow and agony that I had witnessed in the day; and as the echo
of some shriek or stifled moan struck in fancy on my ear, I would
pause to wipe the dew from my brow and curse the trade of a
coffin-maker.

Every day some fresh cause appeared to arise for loathing my
occupation; whilst all were alike strangers to me in the town where
my master lived, I worked cheerfully and wrote merrily home; but
now that I began to know every one, to be acquainted with the number
of members which composed different families, to hear of their
sicknesses and misfortunes; now that link after link bound me as
it were by a spell, to feel for those round me, and to belong to
them, my cheerfulness was over.

The mother turned her eyes from me with a shuddering sigh, and gazed
on the dear circle of little ones as if she sought to penetrate
futurity and guess which of the young things, now rosy in health,
was to follow her long lost and still lamented one.

The doting father pressed the arm of his pale consumptive girl
nearer to his heart, as he passed me: friends who were yet sorrowing
for their bereavement, gave up the attempt at cheerfulness, and
relapsed into melancholy silence at my approach.

If I attempted (as I often did at first) to converse gaily with
such of the townspeople as were of my master's rank in life, I was
checked by a bitter smile, or a sudden sigh, which told me that
while _I_ was giving way to levity, the thoughts of my hearers had
wandered back to the heavy hours when their houses were last darkened
by the shadow of death.

I carried about with me an unceasing curse; an imaginary barrier
separated me from my fellow men.

I felt like an executioner, from whose bloody touch men shrink, not
so much from loathing of the _man_, who is but the instrument of
death, as from horror at the image of that death itself--death,
sudden, appalling, and inevitable.

Like him, I brought the presence of death too vividly before them;
like him, I was connected with the infliction of a doom I had no
power to avert.

Men withheld from me their affection, refused me their sympathy,
as if I were not like themselves.

My very mortality seemed less obvious to their imaginations when
contrasted with the hundreds for whom my hand prepared the last
narrow dwelling-house, which was to shroud for ever their altered
faces from sorrowful eyes.

Where _I_ came, _there_ came heaviness of heart, mournfulness,
and weeping.

Laughter was hushed at my approach; conversation ceased; darkness
and silence fell around my steps--the darkness and the silence of
_death_.

Gradually I became awake to my situation.

I no longer attempted to hold free converse with my fellow men.

I suffered the gloom of their hearts to overshadow mine. My step
crept slowly and stealthily into their dwellings; my voice
lowered itself to sadness and monotony; I pressed no hand in token
of companionship; no hand pressed mine, except when wrung with
agony, some wretch, whose burden was more than he could bear
restrained me for a few moments of maddened and convulsive grief,
from putting the last finishing stroke to my work, and held me back
to gaze yet again on features which I was about to cover from his
sight.

It is well that God, in his unsearchable wisdom, hath made
death loathsome to us. It is well that an undefined and instinctive
shrinking within us, makes what we have loved for long years, in
a few hours 
"That lifeless thing, the living fear."

It is well that the soul hath scarcely quitted the body ere
the work of corruption is begun. For if, even thus, mortality
clings to the remnants of mortality, with 'love stronger than
death;' if, as I have seen it, warm and living lips are pressed to
features where the gradually sinking eye and hollow cheek speak
horribly of departed life; what would it be if the winged soul left
its tenement of clay, to be resolved only into a marble death; to
remain cold, beautiful, and imperishable; every day to greet our
eyes; every night to be watered with our tears?

The bonds which hold men together would be broken; the future would
lose its interest in our minds; we should remain sinfully mourning
the idols of departed love, whose presence forbade oblivion of their
loveliness; and a thin and scattered population would wander through
the world as through the valley of the shadow of death!

How often have I been interrupted when about to nail down a
coffin, by the agonized entreaties of some wretch to whom the
discoloured clay bore yet the trace of beauty, and the darkened lid
seemed only closed in slumber!

How often have I said, 'Surely _that_ heart will break with its woe!'

and yet, in a little while, the bowed spirit rose again, the eye
sparkled, and the lip smiled, _because the dead were covered
from their sight_; and that which is present to man's senses is
destined to affect him far more powerfully than the dreams of his
imagination or memory.

How often, too, have I seen the reverse of the picture I have
just drawn; when the pale unconscious corse has lain abandoned
in its loveliness, and grudging hands have scantily dealt out a
portion of their superfluity, to obtain the last rites for one who
so lately moved, spoke, smiled, and walked amongst them!

And I have felt, even then, that there were those to whom that
neglected being had been far more precious than heaps of gold,
and I have mourned for them who perished among strangers.

One horrible scene has chased another from my mind through a
succession of years; and some of those which, perhaps, deeply
affected me at the time, are, by the mercy of Heaven, forgotten.

But enough remains to enable me to give a faint outline of the
causes which have changed me from what I was, to the gloomy joyless
being I am at length become.

There is one scene indelibly impressed upon my memory."
A scene of domestic tragedy follows, which is wrought up with great
effect:

(She signifies
assent.) Do you understand that I am going to my death? (She
signifies that she understands.) Remember, you must find our
friend who was with us just now. Do you understand? (She
signifies yes.) See that you get him safely out of harm's way.
Don't for your life let him know of my danger; but if he finds it
out, tell him that he cannot save me: they would hang him; and
they would not spare me. And tell him that I am steadfast in my
religion as he is in his, and that he may depend on me to the
death. (He turns to go, and meets the eye of the sergeant, who
looks a little suspicious. He considers a moment, and then,
turning roguishly to Judith with something of a smile breaking
through his earnestness, says) And now, my dear, I am afraid the
sergeant will not believe that you love me like a wife unless you
give one kiss before I go.

He approaches her and holds out his arms. She quits the table and
almost falls into them.

JUDITH (the words choking her). I ought to--it's murder--

RICHARD. No: only a kiss (softly to her) for his sake.

JUDITH. I can't. You must--

RICHARD (folding her in his arms with an impulse of compassion
for her distress). My poor girl!

Judith, with a sudden effort, throws her arms round him; kisses
him; and swoons away, dropping from his arms to the ground as if
the kiss had killed her.

RICHARD (going quickly to the sergeant). Now, Sergeant: quick,
before she comes to. The handcuffs. (He puts out his hands.)

SERGEANT (pocketing them). Never mind, sir: I'll trust you.
You're a game one. You ought to a bin a soldier, sir. Between
them two, please. (The soldiers place themselves one before
Richard and one behind him. The sergeant opens the door.)

RICHARD (taking a last look round him). Goodbye, wife: goodbye,
home. Muffle the drums, and quick march!

The sergeant signs to the leading soldier to march. They file out
quickly.

*****************************************************************

When Anderson returns from Mrs. Dudgeon's he is astonished to
find the room apparently empty and almost in darkness except for
the glow from the fire; for one of the candles has burnt out, and
the other is at its last flicker.

ANDERSON. Why, what on earth--? (Calling) Judith, Judith! (He
listens: there is no answer.) Hm! (He goes to the cupboard; takes
a candle from the drawer; lights it at the flicker of the
expiring one on the table; and looks wonderingly at the untasted
meal by its light. Then he sticks it in the candlestick; takes
off his hat; and scratches his head, much puzzled. This action
causes him to look at the floor for the first time; and there he
sees Judith lying motionless with her eyes closed. He runs to her
and stoops beside her, lifting her head.) Judith.

JUDITH (waking; for her swoon has passed into the sleep of
exhaustion after suffering). Yes. Did you call? What's the
matter?

ANDERSON. I've just come in and found you lying here with the
candles burnt out and the tea poured out and cold. What has
happened?

JUDITH (still astray). I don't know. Have I been asleep? I
suppose--(she stops blankly) I don't know.

ANDERSON (groaning). Heaven forgive me, I left you alone with
that scoundrel. (Judith remembers. With an agonized cry, she
clutches his shoulders and drags herself to her feet as he rises
with her. He clasps her tenderly in his arms.) My poor pet!

JUDITH (frantically clinging to him). What shall I do? Oh my God,
what shall I do?

ANDERSON. Never mind, never mind, my dearest dear: it was my
fault. Come: you're safe now; and you're not hurt, are you? (He
takes his arms from her to see whether she can stand.) There:
that's right, that's right. If only you are not hurt, nothing
else matters.

JUDITH. No, no, no: I'm not hurt.

ANDERSON. Thank Heaven for that! Come now: (leading her to the
railed seat and making her sit down beside him) sit down and
rest: you can tell me about it to-morrow. Or, (misunderstanding
her distress) you shall not tell me at all if it worries you.
There, there! (Cheerfully.) I'll make you some fresh tea: that
will set you up again. (He goes to the table, and empties the
teapot into the slop bowl.)

JUDITH (in a strained tone). Tony.

ANDERSON. Yes, dear?

JUDITH. Do you think we are only in a dream now?

ANDERSON (glancing round at her for a moment with a pang of
anxiety, though he goes on steadily and cheerfully putting fresh
tea into the pot). Perhaps so, pet. But you may as well dream a
cup of tea when you're about it.

JUDITH. Oh, stop, stop. You don't know-- (Distracted she buries
her face in her knotted hands.)

ANDERSON (breaking down and coming to her). My dear, what is it?
I can't bear it any longer: you must tell me. It was all my
fault: I was mad to trust him.

JUDITH. No: don't say that. You mustn't say that. He--oh no, no:
I can't. Tony: don't speak to me. Take my hands--both my hands.
(He takes them, wondering.) Make me think of you, not of him.
There's danger, frightful danger; but it is your danger; and I
can't keep thinking of it: I can't, I can't: my mind goes back to
his danger. He must be saved--no: you must be saved: you, you,
you. (She springs up as if to do something or go somewhere,
exclaiming) Oh, Heaven help me!

ANDERSON (keeping his seat and holding her hands with resolute
composure). Calmly, calmly, my pet. You're quite distracted.

JUDITH. I may well be. I don't know what to do. I don't know what
to do. (Tearing her hands away.) I must save him. (Anderson rises
in alarm as she runs wildly to the door. It is opened in her face
by Essie, who hurries in, full of anxiety. The surprise is so
disagreeable to Judith that it brings her to her senses. Her tone
is sharp and angry as she demands) What do you want?

ESSIE. I was to come to you.

ANDERSON. Who told you to?

ESSIE (staring at him, as if his presence astonished her).
Are you here?

JUDITH. Of course. Don't be foolish, child.

ANDERSON. Gently, dearest: you'll frighten her. (Going between
them.) Come here, Essie. (She comes to him.) Who sent you?

ESSIE. Dick. He sent me word by a soldier. I was to come here at
once and do whatever Mrs. Anderson told me.

ANDERSON (enlightened). A soldier! Ah, I see it all now! They
have arrested Richard. (Judith makes a gesture of despair.)

ESSIE. No. I asked the soldier. Dick's safe. But the soldier said
you had been taken--

ANDERSON. I! (Bewildered, he turns to Judith for an explanation.)

JUDITH (coaxingly) All right, dear: I understand. (To Essie.)
Thank you, Essie, for coming; but I don't need you now. You may
go home.

ESSIE (suspicious) Are you sure Dick has not been touched?
Perhaps he told the soldier to say it was the minister.
(Anxiously.) Mrs. Anderson: do you think it can have been that?

ANDERSON. Tell her the truth if it is so, Judith. She will learn
it from the first neighbor she meets in the street. (Judith turns
away and covers her eyes with her hands.)

ESSIE (wailing). But what will they do to him? Oh, what will they
do to him? Will they hang him? (Judith shudders convulsively, and
throws herself into the chair in which Richard sat at the tea
table.)

ANDERSON (patting Essie's shoulder and trying to comfort her). I
hope not. I hope not. Perhaps if you're very quiet and patient,
we may be able to help him in some way.

ESSIE. Yes--help him--yes, yes, yes. I'll be good.

ANDERSON. I must go to him at once, Judith.

JUDITH (springing up). Oh no. You must go away--far away, to some
place of safety.

ANDERSON. Pooh!

JUDITH (passionately). Do you want to kill me? Do you think I can
bear to live for days and days with every knock at the door--
every footstep--giving me a spasm of terror? to lie awake for
nights and nights in an agony of dread, listening for them to
come and arrest you?

ANDERSON. Do you think it would be better to know that I had run
away from my post at the first sign of danger?

JUDITH (bitterly). Oh, you won't go. I know it. You'll stay; and
I shall go mad.

ANDERSON. My dear, your duty--

JUDITH (fiercely). What do I care about my duty?

ANDERSON (shocked). Judith!

JUDITH. I am doing my duty. I am clinging to my duty. My duty is
to get you away, to save you, to leave him to his fate. (Essie
utters a cry of distress and sinks on the chair at the fire,
sobbing silently.) My instinct is the same as hers--to save him
above all things, though it would be so much better for him to
die! so much greater! But I know you will take your own way as he
took it. I have no power. (She sits down sullenly on the railed
seat.) I'm only a woman: I can do nothing but sit here and
suffer. Only, tell him I tried to save you--that I did my best to
save you.

ANDERSON. My dear, I am afraid he will be thinking more of his
own danger than of mine.

JUDITH. Stop; or I shall hate you.

ANDERSON (remonstrating). Come, am I to leave you if you talk
like this! your senses. (He turns to Essie.) Essie.

ESSIE (eagerly rising and drying her eyes). Yes?

ANDERSON. Just wait outside a moment, like a good girl: Mrs.
Anderson is not well. (Essie looks doubtful.) Never fear: I'll
come to you presently; and I'll go to Dick.

ESSIE. You are sure you will go to him? (Whispering.) You won't
let her prevent you?

ANDERSON (smiling). No, no: it's all right. All right. (She
goes.) That's a good girl. (He closes the door, and returns to
Judith.)

JUDITH (seated--rigid). You are going to your death.

ANDERSON (quaintly). Then I shall go in my best coat, dear. (He
turns to the press, beginning to take off his coat.) Where--? (He
stares at the empty nail for a moment; then looks quickly round
to the fire; strides across to it; and lifts Richard's coat.)
Why, my dear, it seems that he has gone in my best coat.

JUDITH (still motionless). Yes.

ANDERSON. Did the soldiers make a mistake?

JUDITH. Yes: they made a mistake.

ANDERSON. He might have told them. Poor fellow, he was too upset,
I suppose.

JUDITH. Yes: he might have told them. So might I.

ANDERSON. Well, it's all very puzzling--almost funny. It's
curious how these little things strike us even in the most--
(he breaks of and begins putting on Richard's coat) I'd
better take him his own coat. I know what he'll say--(imitating
Richard's sardonic manner) "Anxious about my soul, Pastor, and
also about your best coat." Eh?

JUDITH. Yes, that is just what he will say to you. (Vacantly.) It
doesn't matter: I shall never see either of you again.

ANDERSON (rallying her). Oh pooh, pooh, pooh! (He sits down
beside her.) Is this how you keep your promise that I shan't be
ashamed of my brave wife?

JUDITH. No: this is how I break it. I cannot keep my promises to
him: why should I keep my promises to you?

ANDERSON. Don't speak so strangely, my love. It sounds insincere
to me. (She looks unutterable reproach at him.) Yes, dear,
nonsense is always insincere; and my dearest is talking nonsense.
Just nonsense. (Her face darkens into dumb obstinacy. She stares
straight before her, and does not look at him again, absorbed in
Richard's fate. He scans her face; sees that his rallying has
produced no effect; and gives it up, making no further effort to
conceal his anxiety.) I wish I knew what has frightened you so.
Was there a struggle? Did he fight?

JUDITH. No. He smiled.

ANDERSON. Did he realise his danger, do you think?

JUDITH. He realised yours.

ANDERSON. Mine!

JUDITH (monotonously). He said, "See that you get him safely out
of harm's way." I promised: I can't keep my promise. He said,
"Don't for your life let him know of my danger." I've told you of
it. He said that if you found it out, you could not save him--
that they will hang him and not spare you.

ANDERSON (rising in generous indignation). And you think that I
will let a man with that much good in him die like a dog, when a
few words might make him die like a Christian? I'm ashamed of
you, Judith.

JUDITH. He will be steadfast in his religion as you are in yours;
and you may depend on him to the death. He said so.

ANDERSON. God forgive him! What else did he say?

JUDITH. He said goodbye.

ANDERSON (fidgeting nervously to and fro in great concern). Poor
fellow, poor fellow! You said goodbye to him in all kindness and
charity, Judith, I hope.

JUDITH. I kissed him.

ANDERSON. What! Judith!

JUDITH. Are you angry?

ANDERSON. No, no. You were right: you were right. Poor fellow,
poor fellow! (Greatly distressed.) To be hanged like that at his
age! And then did they take him away?

JUDITH (wearily). Then you were here: that's the next thing I
remember. I suppose I fainted. Now bid me goodbye, Tony. Perhaps
I shall faint again. I wish I could die.

ANDERSON. No, no, my dear: you must pull yourself together and be
sensible. I am in no danger--not the least in the world.

JUDITH (solemnly). You are going to your death, Tony--your sure
death, if God will let innocent men be murdered. They will not
let you see him: they will arrest you the moment you give your
name. It was for you the soldiers came.

ANDERSON (thunderstruck). For me!!! (His fists clinch; his neck
thickens; his face reddens; the fleshy purses under his eyes
become injected with hot blood; the man of peace vanishes,
transfigured into a choleric and formidable man of war. Still,
she does not come out of her absorption to look at him: her eyes
are steadfast with a mechanical reflection of Richard's stead-
fastness.)

JUDITH. He took your place: he is dying to save you. That is why
he went in your coat. That is why I kissed him.

ANDERSON (exploding). Blood an' owns! (His voice is rough and
dominant, his gesture full of brute energy.) Here! Essie, Essie!

ESSIE (running in). Yes.

ANDERSON (impetuously). Off with you as hard as you can run, to
the inn. Tell them to saddle the fastest and strongest horse they
have (Judith rises breathless, and stares at him incredulously)--
the chestnut mare, if she's fresh--without a moment's delay. Go
into the stable yard and tell the black man there that I'll give
him a silver dollar if the horse is waiting for me when I come,
and that I am close on your heels. Away with you. (His energy
sends Essie flying from the room. He pounces on his riding boots;
rushes with them to the chair at the fire; and begins pulling
them on.)

JUDITH (unable to believe such a thing of him). You are not going
to him!

ANDERSON (busy with the boots). Going to him! What good would
that do? (Growling to himself as he gets the first boot on with a
wrench) I'll go to them, so I will. (To Judith peremptorily) Get
me the pistols: I want them. And money, money: I want money--all
the money in the house. (He stoops over the other boot,
grumbling) A great satisfaction it would be to him to have my
company on the gallows. (He pulls on the boot.)

JUDITH. You are deserting him, then?

ANDERSON. Hold your tongue, woman; and get me the pistols. (She
goes to the press and takes from it a leather belt with two
pistols, a powder horn, and a bag of bullets attached to it. She
throws it on the table. Then she unlocks a drawer in the press
and takes out a purse. Anderson grabs the belt and buckles it on,
saying) If they took him for me in my coat, perhaps they'll take
me for him in his. (Hitching the belt into its place) Do I look
like him?

JUDITH (turning with the purse in her hand). Horribly unlike him.

ANDERSON (snatching the purse from her and emptying it on the
table). Hm! We shall see.

JUDITH (sitting down helplessly). Is it of any use to pray, do
you think, Tony?

ANDERSON (counting the money). Pray! Can we pray Swindon's rope
off Richard's neck?

JUDITH. God may soften Major Swindon's heart.

ANDERSON (contemptuously--pocketing a handful of money). Let him,
then. I am not God; and I must go to work another way. (Judith
gasps at the blasphemy. He throws the purse on the table.) Keep
that. I've taken 25 dollars.

JUDITH. Have you forgotten even that you are a minister?

ANDERSON. Minister be--faugh! My hat: where's my hat? (He
snatches up hat and cloak, and puts both on in hot haste.) Now
listen, you. If you can get a word with him by pretending you're
his wife, tell him to hold his tongue until morning: that will
give me all the start I need.

JUDITH (solemnly). You may depend on him to the death.

ANDERSON. You're a fool, a fool, Judith (for a moment checking
the torrent of his haste, and speaking with something of his old
quiet and impressive conviction). You don't know the man you're
married to. (Essie returns. He swoops at her at once.) Well: is
the horse ready?

ESSIE (breathless). It will be ready when you come.

ANDERSON. Good. (He makes for the door.)

JUDITH (rising and stretching out her arms after him
involuntarily). Won't you say goodbye?

ANDERSON. And waste another half minute! Psha! (He rushes out
like an avalanche.)

ESSIE (hurrying to Judith). He has gone to save Richard, hasn't
he?

JUDITH. To save Richard! No: Richard has saved him. He has gone
to save himself. Richard must die.

Essie screams with terror and falls on her knees, hiding her
face. Judith, without heeding her, looks rigidly straight in
front of her, at the vision of Richard, dying.


ACT III

Early next morning the sergeant, at the British headquarters in
the Town Hall, unlocks the door of a little empty panelled
waiting room, and invites Judith to enter. She has had a bad
night, probably a rather delirious one; for even in the reality
of the raw morning, her fixed gaze comes back at moments when her
attention is not strongly held.

The sergeant considers that her feelings do her credit, and is
sympathetic in an encouraging military way. Being a fine figure
of a man, vain of his uniform and of his rank, he feels specially
qualified, in a respectful way, to console her.

SERGEANT. You can have a quiet word with him here, mum.

JUDITH. Shall I have long to wait?

SERGEANT. No, mum, not a minute. We kep him in the Bridewell for
the night; and he's just been brought over here for the court
martial. Don't fret, mum: he slep like a child, and has made a
rare good breakfast.

JUDITH (incredulously). He is in good spirits!

SERGEANT. Tip top, mum. The chaplain looked in to see him last
night; and he won seventeen shillings off him at spoil five. He
spent it among us like the gentleman he is. Duty's duty, mum, of
course; but you're among friends here. (The tramp of a couple of
soldiers is heard approaching.) There: I think he's coming.
(Richard comes in, without a sign of care or captivity in his
bearing. The sergeant nods to the two soldiers, and shows them
the key of the room in his hand. They withdraw.) Your good lady,
sir.

RICHARD (going to her). What! My wife. My adored one. (He takes
her hand and kisses it with a perverse, raffish  gallantry.) How
long do you allow a brokenhearted husband for leave-taking,
Sergeant?

SERGEANT. As long as we can, sir. We shall not disturb you till
the court sits.

RICHARD. But it has struck the hour.

SERGEANT. So it has, sir; but there's a delay. General Burgoyne's
just arrived--Gentlemanly Johnny we call him, sir--and he won't
have done finding fault with everything this side of half past. I
know him, sir: I served with him in Portugal. You may count on
twenty minutes, sir; and by your leave I won't waste any more of
them. (He goes out, locking the door. Richard immediately drops
his raffish manner and turns to Judith with considerate
sincerity.)

RICHARD. Mrs. Anderson: this visit is very kind of you. And how
are you after last night? I had to leave you before you
recovered; but I sent word to Essie to go and look after you. Did
she understand the message?

JUDITH (breathless and urgent). Oh, don't think of me: I haven't
come here to talk about myself. Are they going to--to--(meaning
"to hang you")?

RICHARD (whimsically). At noon, punctually. At least, that was
when they disposed of Uncle Peter. (She shudders.) Is your
husband safe? Is he on the wing?

JUDITH. He is no longer my husband.

RICHARD (opening his eyes wide). Eh!

JUDITH. I disobeyed you. I told him everything. I expected him to
come here and save you. I wanted him to come here and save you.
He ran away instead.

RICHARD. Well, that's what I meant him to do. What good would his
staying have done? They'd only have hanged us both.

JUDITH (with reproachful earnestness). Richard Dudgeon: on your
honour, what would you have done in his place?

RICHARD. Exactly what he has done, of course.

J. Allen St. John THE AGOUTI ... J. Allen St. John THE MONKEYS
THREW DOWN COCONUTS ... J. Allen St. John THE SHEEP FLOATED
FAMOUSLY ... J. Allen St.

John FALCONHURST ... J. Allen St. John CHEST OF TREASURE ... J.
Allen St. John OVERTURNING THE TURTLE ... J. Allen St. John
PENGUINS ... J. Allen St.

John CATCHING THE WILD ASS ... J. Allen St. John FLAMINGOS ... J.
Allen St.

John I ADVANCED WITH A LONG POLE ... J. Allen St. John JACK AND
THE OSTRICH ... J. Allen St. John THE WALRUS ... J. Allen St.

John LATEST NEWS BY PIGEON POST ... J. Allen St. John HIPPOPOTAMUS
... J. Allen St. John ALBATROSS ... J. Allen St.

John PEARL BAY ... J. Allen St. John WE BROUGHT UP WITHIN HAIL
... J. Allen St. John THE SLAVE OF THE LAMP ...

Arthur Henderson ALADDIN DESCENDED THE STEPS ... Arthur Henderson
"GENIE, BUILD ME A PALACE" ... Arthur Henderson "NEW LAMPS FOR
OLD" ... Arthur Henderson ALADDIN SALUTED THE PRINCESS JOYFULLY
... Arthur Henderson THE VALLEY WAS STREWED WITH DIAMONDS ...
Arthur Henderson THE ROC FLEW AWAY WITH SINBAD (Halftone) ...

Arthur Henderson BARBARA FRIETCHIE ... Iris Weddell White GRENDEL
COULD NOT BREAK THAT GRIP OF STEEL ...

Arthur Henderson BEOWULF ON HIS NOBLE STEED ...

Arthur Henderson SHE LOOKED UPON THE GOD OF LOVE ...

Iris Weddell White PSYCHE AND CHARON ... Iris Weddell White CUPID
SPIED PSYCHE SLEEPING ... Iris Weddell White PEOPLE CALL ME THE
PIED PIPER ...

Iris Weddell White GREAT RATS, SMALL RATS ... Herbert N. Rudeen A
WONDERFUL PORTAL OPENED WIDE ... Iris Weddell White THEY HAD
BECOME BETROTHED ... Donn P. Crane FRITHIOF BEHELD THE TWO WITCHES
... Donn P. Crane SIEGFRIED AND THE DRAGON ... Louis Grell A
GREAT CASTLE TOWERED ABOVE THE CLIFFS ... Louis Grell THE DEATH
OF SIEGFRIED ... Louis Grell LOCHINVAR ...

Arthur Henderson TUMBLED HIM INTO THE BROOK ...

Jessie Arms THE STRANGER OVERTHROWS ROBIN HOOD ... Jessie Arms ROBIN
HOOD AND THE WIDOW ... Jessie Arms ROBIN HOOD AND THE SHERIFF
... Jessie Arms ROBIN HOOD PLAYS HARPER ...

Jessie Arms IN THE GREENWOOD ...

Jessie Arms GANELON PICKS UP CHARLEMAGNE'S GLOVE ...

Louis Grell WHERESOEVER HE PLANTED HIS FOOT, THERE HE STAYED ...
Jan in Grell ROLAND FEEBLY WINDED HIS HORN ...

Louis Grell

[Illustration: A GREAT BIG YELLOW ONE]
JOHN'S PUMPKIN

By MRS ARCHIBALD
Last spring I found a pumpkin seed, And thought that I would go And
plant it in a secret place, That no one else would know, And watch
all summer long to see It grow, and grow, and grow, And maybe raise
a pumpkin for A Jack-a-lantern show.

I stuck a stick beside the seed, And thought that I should shout
One morning when I stooped and saw The greenest little sprout!

I used to carry water there, When no one was about, And every day
I'd count to see How many leaves were out.

Till by and by there came a flower The color of the sun, Which
withered up, and then I saw The pumpkin was begun; But oh!

I knew I'd have to wait So long to have my fun, Before that small
green ball could be A great big yellow one.

At last, one day, when it had grown To be the proper size, Said
Aunt Matilda: "John, see here, I'll give you a surprise!"

She took me to a pantry shelf, And there before my eyes, Was set
a dreadful row of half A dozen pumpkin pies.

Said Aunt Matilda; "John, I found A pumpkin, high and dry, Upon a
pile of rubbish, down Behind that worn-out sty!" O, dear,
I didn't cry, because I'm quite too big to cry, But, honestly, I
couldn't eat A mouthful of the pie.

THE MOCK TURTLE'S STORY
By LEWIS CARROLL 
NOTE.

--The Mock Turtle's Story is from Alice in Wonderland, one of
the most delightful books that ever was written for children.
It tells the story of a little girl's dream of Wonderland--a curious
country where one's size changes constantly, and where one meets
and talks with the quaintest, most interesting creatures.

Through the Looking-Glass, a companion book to Alice in
Wonderland, is almost equally charming, with its descriptions of
the land where everything happens backward.

Queen Alice, and The Walrus and the Carpenter, are from Through
the Looking-Glass.

The real name of the man who wrote these books was Charles Lutwidge
Dodgson, but every one knows him better as Lewis Carroll.

He was a staid and learned mathematician, who wrote valuable books
on most difficult mathematical subjects; for instance, he wrote a
Syllabus of Plane Algebraical Geometry, and it is not a joke, though
the name may sound like one to a person who has read Alice in
Wonderland.

Yes.

RICHARD. If I said--to please you--that I did what I did ever so
little for your sake, I lied as men always lie to women. You know
how much I have lived with worthless men--aye, and worthless
women too. Well, they could all rise to some sort of goodness and
kindness when they were in love. (The word love comes from him
with true Puritan scorn.) That has taught me to set very little
store by the goodness that only comes out red hot. What I did
last night, I did in cold blood, caring not half so much for your
husband, or (ruthlessly) for you (she droops, stricken) as I do
for myself. I had no motive and no interest: all I can tell you
is that when it came to the point whether I would take my neck
out of the noose and put another man's into it, I could not do
it. I don't know why not: I see myself as a fool for my pains;
but I could not and I cannot. I have been brought up standing by
the law of my own nature; and I may not go against it, gallows or
no gallows. (She has slowly raised her head and is now looking
full at him.) I should have done the same for any other man in
the town, or any other man's wife. (Releasing her.) Do you
understand that?

JUDITH. Yes: you mean that you do not love me.

RICHARD (revolted--with fierce contempt). Is that all it means to
you?

JUDITH. What more--what worse--can it mean to me?

(The sergeant knocks. The blow on the door jars on her heart.)
Oh, one moment more. (She throws herself on her knees.) I pray to
you--

RICHARD. Hush! (Calling) Come in. (The sergeant unlocks the door
and opens it. The guard is with him.)

SERGEANT (coming in). Time's up, sir.

RICHARD. Quite ready, Sergeant. Now, my dear. (He attempts to
raise her.)

JUDITH (clinging to him). Only one thing more--I entreat, I
implore you. Let me be present in the court. I have seen Major
Swindon: he said I should be allowed if you asked it. You will
ask it. It is my last request: I shall never ask you anything
again. (She clasps his knee.) I beg and pray it of you.

RICHARD. If I do, will you be silent?

JUDITH. Yes.

RICHARD. You will keep faith?

JUDITH. I will keep-- (She breaks down, sobbing.)

RICHARD (taking her arm to lift her). Just--her other arm,
Sergeant.

They go out, she sobbing convulsively, supported by the two men.

Meanwhile, the Council Chamber is ready for the court martial. It
is a large, lofty room, with a chair of state in the middle under
a tall canopy with a gilt crown, and maroon curtains with the
royal monogram G. R. In front of the chair is a table, also
draped in maroon, with a bell, a heavy inkstand, and writing
materials on it. Several chairs are set at the table. The door is
at the right hand of the occupant of the chair of state when it
has an occupant: at present it is empty. Major Swindon, a pale,
sandy-haired, very conscientious looking man of about 45, sits at
the end of the table with his back to the door, writing. He is
alone until the sergeant announces the General in a subdued
manner which suggests that Gentlemanly Johnny has been making his
presence felt rather heavily.

SERGEANT. The General, sir.

Swindon rises hastily. The General comes in, the sergeant goes
out. General Burgoyne is 55, and very well preserved. He is a man
of fashion, gallant enough to have made a distinguished marriage
by an elopement, witty enough to write successful comedies,
aristocratically-connected enough to have had opportunities of
high military distinction. His eyes, large, brilliant,
apprehensive, and intelligent, are his most remarkable feature:
without them his fine nose and small mouth would suggest rather
more fastidiousness and less force than go to the making of a
first rate general. Just now the eyes are angry and tragic, and
the mouth and nostrils tense.

BURGOYNE. Major Swindon, I presume.

SWINDON. Yes. General Burgoyne, if I mistake not. (They bow to
one another ceremoniously.) I am glad to have the support of your
presence this morning. It is not particularly lively business,
hanging this poor devil of a minister.

BURGOYNE (throwing himself onto Swindon's chair). No, sir, it is
not. It is making too much of the fellow to execute him: what
more could you have done if he had been a member of the Church of
England? Martyrdom, sir, is what these people like: it is the
only way in which a man can become famous without ability.
However, you have committed us to hanging him: and the sooner he
is hanged the better.

SWINDON. We have arranged it for 12 o'clock. Nothing remains to
be done except to try him.

BURGOYNE (looking at him with suppressed anger). Nothing--except
to save our own necks, perhaps. Have you heard the news from
Springtown?

SWINDON. Nothing special. The latest reports are satisfactory.

BURGOYNE (rising in amazement). Satisfactory, sir! Satisfactory!!
(He stares at him for a moment, and then adds, with grim
intensity) I am glad you take that view of them.

SWINDON (puzzled). Do I understand that in your opinion---

BURGOYNE. I do not express my opinion. I never stoop to that
habit of profane language which unfortunately coarsens our
profession. If I did, sir, perhaps I should be able to express my
opinion of the news from Springtown--the news which YOU
(severely) have apparently not heard. How soon do you get news
from your supports here?--in the course of a month eh?

SWINDON (turning sulky). I suppose the reports have been taken to
you, sir, instead of to me. Is there anything serious?

BURGOYNE (taking a report from his pocket and holding it up).
Springtown's in the hands of the rebels. (He throws the report on
the table.)

SWINDON (aghast). Since yesterday!

BURGOYNE. Since two o'clock this morning. Perhaps WE shall be in
their hands before two o'clock to-morrow morning. Have you
thought of that?

SWINDON (confidently). As to that, General, the British soldier
will give a good account of himself.

BURGOYNE (bitterly). And therefore, I suppose, sir, the British
officer need not know his business: the British soldier will get
him out of all his blunders with the bayonet. In future, sir, I
must ask you to be a little less generous with the blood of your
men, and a little more generous with your own brains.

SWINDON. I am sorry I cannot pretend to your intellectual
eminence, sir. I can only do my best, and rely on the devotion of
my countrymen.

BURGOYNE (suddenly becoming suavely sarcastic). May I ask are you
writing a melodrama, Major Swindon?

SWINDON (flushing). No, sir.

BURGOYNE. What a pity! WHAT a pity! (Dropping his sarcastic tone
and facing him suddenly and seriously) Do you at all realize,
sir, that we have nothing standing between us and destruction but
our own bluff and the sheepishness of these colonists? They are
men of the same English stock as ourselves: six to one of us
(repeating it emphatically), six to one, sir; and nearly half our
troops are Hessians, Brunswickers, German dragoons, and Indians
with scalping knives. These are the countrymen on whose devotion
you rely! Suppose the colonists find a leader! Suppose the news
from Springtown should turn out to mean that they have already
found a leader! What shall we do then? Eh?

SWINDON (sullenly). Our duty, sir, I presume.

BURGOYNE (again sarcastic--giving him up as a fool). Quite so,
quite so. Thank you, Major Swindon, thank you. Now you've settled
the question, sir--thrown a flood of light on the situation. What
a comfort to me to feel that I have at my side so devoted and
able an officer to support me in this emergency! I think, sir, it
will probably relieve both our feelings if we proceed to hang
this dissenter without further delay (he strikes the bell),
especially as I am debarred by my principles from the customary
military vent for my feelings. (The sergeant appears.) Bring your
man in.

SERGEANT. Yes, sir.

BURGOYNE. And mention to any officer you may meet that the court
cannot wait any longer for him.

SWINDON (keeping his temper with difficulty). The staff is
perfectly ready, sir. They have been waiting your convenience for
fully half an hour. PERFECTLY ready, sir.

BURGOYNE (blandly). So am I. (Several officers come in and take
their seats. One of them sits at the end of the table furthest
from the door, and acts throughout as clerk to the court,
making notes of the proceedings. The uniforms are those of
the 9th, 20th, 21st, 24th, 47th, 53rd, and 62nd British Infantry.
One officer is a Major General of the Royal Artillery. There
are also German officers of the Hessian Rifles, and of German
dragoon and Brunswicker regiments.) Oh, good morning, gentlemen.
Sorry to disturb you, I am sure. Very good of you to spare us a
few moments.

SWINDON. Will you preside, sir?

BURGOYNE (becoming additionally, polished, lofty, sarcastic
and urbane now that he is in public). No, sir: I feel my own
deficiencies too keenly to presume so far. If you will kindly
allow me, I will sit at the feet of Gamaliel. (He takes the
chair at the end of the table next the door, and motions Swindon
to the chair of state, waiting for him to be seated before
sitting himself.)

SWINDON (greatly annoyed). As you please, sir. I am only trying
to do my duty under excessively trying circumstances. (He takes
his place in the chair of state.)

Burgoyne, relaxing his studied demeanor for the moment, sits down
and begins to read the report with knitted brows and careworn
looks, reflecting on his desperate situation and Swindon's
uselessness. "None."
"If--if anyone had been seen in the gallery----"
"No one was."
"You are sure of that?"
"You heard the question asked. It brought no answer."
"But--but these galleries are visible from below. Some one may
have been looking up from the court and----"

"If there was any such person in the building, he would have been
here by this time.

People don't hold back such information."

"Then--then--" she stammered, her eyes taking on a hunted look,
"you conclude--these people conclude _what_?"

"Madam,"--the word came coldly, stinging her into drawing
herself to her full height,--"it is not for me to conclude
in a case like this. That is the business of the police."

At this word, with its suggestion of crime, her air of conscious
power vanished in sudden collapse.

Possibly she had seen the significant gesture with which the
Curator pointed out a quiver from which one of the arrows was
missing.

That this was so, was shown by her next question:
"But where is the bow?

Look about on the floor. You will find none. How can an arrow
be shot without a bow?"

"It cannot be," came from some one at her back.

"But it can be driven home like a dagger if the hand wielding it
is sufficiently powerful."

A cry left her lips; she seemed to listen as for some echo; then
in a wild abandonment which ignored person and place she flung
herself again at the dead girl's side, and before the astonished
people surrounding her could intervene, she had caught up the body
in her arms, and bending over it, whispered word after word into
the poor child's closed ear.

II
IN ROOM B

Five minutes later the Curator was at the 'phone calling up Police
Headquarters.

A death had occurred at the museum. Would they send over a capable
detective?

"What kind of death?" was the harsh reply. "We don't send
detectives in cases of heart-failure or simple accident.

Is it an accident?"
"No--no--hardly.

It looks more like an insane woman's attack upon a harmless stranger.

It's the oddest sort of an affair, and we feel very helpless.

No common officer will do. We have one of that kind in the
building.

What we want is a man of brains; he will need them."

A muffled sound at the other end--then a different voice asking
some half-dozen comprehensive questions--which, having been answered
to the best of the Curator's ability, were followed by the welcome
assurance that a man on whose experience he could rely would be at
the museum doors within five minutes.

With an air of relief Mr. Jewett stepped again into the court, and
repelling with hasty gestures the importunities of the small group
of men and women who had lacked the courage to follow the more
adventurous ones upstairs, crossed to where the door-man stood on
guard over the main entrance.

"Locked?" he asked.

"Yes, sir. Such were the orders. Didn't you give them?"
"No, but I should have done so, had I known.

No one's to go out, and no one's to come in but the detective
whom I am expecting any moment."
They had not long to wait.

Before their suspense had reached fever-point, a tap was
heard on the great door.

It was opened, and a young man stepped in.

"Coast clear?" he sang out with a humorous twist of his jaw
as he noted the Curator's evident chagrin at his meager and
unsatisfactory appearance. "Oh, I'm not your man," he added
as his eye ran over the whole place with a look which seemed
to take in every detail in an instant. "Mr. Gryce is in the
automobile. Wait till I help him up."
He was gone before the Curator could utter a word, only to
reappear in a few minutes with a man in his wake whom the former
at first blush thought to be as much past the age where experience
makes for efficiency as the other seemed to be short of it.

But this impression, if impression it were, was of short
duration.

No sooner had this physically weak but extremely wise old man
entered upon the scene than his mental power became evident to
every person there.

Timorous hearts regained their composure, and the Curator--who
in his ten years of service had never felt the burden of his
position so acutely as in the last ten minutes--showed his relief
by a volubility quite unnatural to him under ordinary conditions.

As he conducted the detectives across the court, he talked not of
the victim, as might reasonably be expected, but of the woman who
had been found leaning over her with her hand on the arrow.

"We think her some escaped lunatic," he remarked. "Only a demented
woman would act as she does. First she denied all knowledge
of the girl. Then when she was made to see that the arrow
sticking in the girl's breast had been taken from a quiver hanging
within arm's reach on the wall and used as lances are used, she
fell a-moaning and crying, and began to whisper in the poor child's
senseless ear."

"A common woman? One of a low-down type?"
"Not at all. A lady, and an impressive one, at that.

You seldom see her equal. That's what has upset us so. The crime
and the criminal do not seem to fit."

The detective blinked.

Then suddenly he seemed to grow an inch taller.

"Where is she now?" he asked.

"In Room B, away from the crowd. She is not alone. A young lady
detained with the rest of the people here is keeping her
company, to say nothing of an officer we have put on guard."

"And the victim?"
"Lies where she fell, in Section II on the upper floor.

There was no call to move her.

She was dead when we came upon the scene.

She does not look to be more than sixteen years old."
"Let's go up. But wait--can we see that section from here?"
They were standing at the foot of the great staircase connecting
the two floors. Above them, stretching away on either side, ran
the two famous, highly ornamented galleries, with their row of
long, low arches indicating the five compartments into which they
were severally divided.

Pointing to the second one on the southern side, the Curator
replied:
"That's it--the one where you see the Apache relics hanging high
on the rear wall.

We shall have to shift those to some other place just as soon as
we can recover from this horror. I don't want the finest spot in
the whole museum made a Mecca for the morbid and the curious."

The remark fell upon unheeding ears. Detective Gryce was looking,
not in the direction named, but in the one directly opposite to it.

"I see," he quietly observed, "that there is a clear view
across. Was there no one in the right-hand gallery to see what
went on in the left?"

"Not that I have heard of. It's the dullest hour of the day,
and not only this gallery but many of the rooms were entirely
empty."

"I see. And now, what about the persons who were here? How many
of them have you let go?"
"Not one; the doors have been opened twice only--once to admit the
officer you will find on guard, and the other to let in
yourself."
"Good! And how many have you here, all told?"
"I have not had time to count them, but I should say less than
thirty.

This includes myself, as well as two attendants."

With a thoughtful air Mr. Gryce turned in the direction of
the few persons he could see huddled together around one of
the central statues.

"Where are the others?" he asked.

"Upstairs--in and about the place where the poor child lies."
"They must be got out of there.

Sweetwater!"
The young man who had entered with him was at his side in an
instant.

"Clear the galleries. Then take down the name and address of
every person in the building."

"Yes, sir."
Before the last word had left his lips, the busy fellow was
halfway up the marble steps.

"Lightning," some of his pals called him, perhaps
because he was as noiseless as he was quick. Meanwhile the
senior detective had drawn the Curator to one side.

"We'll take a look at these people as they come down.

I have been said to be able to spot a witness with my eyes shut.
Let's see what I can do with my eyes open."
"Young and old, rich and poor," murmured the Curator as some
dozen persons appeared at the top of the staircase.

"Yes," sighed the detective, noting each one carefully as
he or she filed down, "we sha'n't make much out of this
experiment. Not one of them avoids our looks. Emotion enough, but
not of the right sort. Well, we'll leave them to Sweetwater.
Our business is above."

The Curator offered his arm. The old man made a move to take
it--then drew himself up with an air of quiet confidence.

"Many thanks," said he, "but I can go alone. Rheumatism is my
trouble, but these mild days loosen its grip upon my poor old
muscles." He did not say that the prospect of an interesting
inquiry had much the same effect, but the Curator suspected it,
possibly because he was feeling just a little bit spry himself.

Steeled as such experienced officers necessarily are to death
in all its phases, it was with no common emotion that the aged
detective entered the presence of the dead girl and took his
first look at this latest victim of mental or moral aberration.
So young! so innocent! so fair!

A schoolgirl, or little more, of a class certainly above the average,
whether judged from the contour of her features or the niceties of
her dress.

With no evidences of great wealth about her, there was yet something
in the cut of her garments and the careful attention to each detail
which bespoke not only natural but cultivated taste.

On her breast just above the spot where the cruel dart had entered,
a fresh and blooming nosegay still exhaled its perfume--a tragic
detail accentuating the pathos of a death so sudden that the joy
with which she had pinned on this simple adornment seemed to linger
about her yet.

The detective, with no words for this touching spectacle, stretched
out his hand and with a reverent and fatherly touch pressed down
the lids over the unseeing eyes.

This office done to the innocent dead, he asked if anything
had been found to establish the young girl's identity.

"Surely," he observed, "she was not without a purse or handbag.

All young ladies carry them."
For answer the officer on guard thrust his hand into one of his
capacious pockets, and drawing out a neat little bag of knitted
beads, passed it over to the detective with the laconic remark:
"Nothing doing."

And so it proved.

It held only a pocket handkerchief--embroidered but without a
monogram--and a memorandum-book without an entry.

"A blind alley, if ever there was one," muttered Mr. Gryce; and
ordering the policeman to replace the bag as nearly as possible
on the spot from which it had been taken, he proceeded with the
Curator to Room B.

Prepared to encounter a woman of disordered mind, the appearance
presented by Mrs. Taylor at his entrance greatly astonished Mr.
Gryce.

There was a calmness in her attitude which one would scarcely
expect to see in a woman whom mania had just driven into crime.

Surely lunacy does not show such self-restraint; nor does lunacy
awaken any such feelings of awe as followed a prolonged scrutiny
of her set but determined features.

Only grief of the most intense and sacred character could
account for the aspect she presented, and as the man to whom the
tragedies of life were of daily occurrence took in this mystery
with all its incongruities, he realized, not without a sense of
professional pleasure, no doubt, that he had before him an affair
calling for the old-time judgment which, for forty or more years,
had made his record famous in the police annals of the metropolis.

She was seated with no one near her but a young lady whom sympathetic
interest had drawn to her side. Mr.

Roberts stood in one of the windows, and not far from him a man
in the museum uniform.

At the authoritative advance of the old detective, the woman,
whose eye he had caught, attempted to struggle to her feet,
but desisted after a moment of hopeless effort, and sank back in
her chair.

There was no pretense in this. Though gifted with a strong
frame, emotion had so weakened her that she was simply unable
to stand.

Quite convinced of this, and affected in spite of himself by her
look of lofty patience, Mr.

Gryce prefaced his questions with an apology--quite an unusual
proceeding for him.

Whether or no she heard it, he could not tell; but she was quite
ready to answer when he asked her name and then her place of
residence--saying in response to the latter query:
"I live at the Calderon, a family hotel in Sixty-seventh Street.

My name"--here she paused for a second to moisten her lips--"is
Taylor--Ermentrude Taylor....

Nothing else," she speedily added in a tone which drew every eye
her way. Then more evenly: "You will find the name on the hotel's
books."

"Wife or widow?"
"Widow."

What a voice!

how it reached every heart, waking strange sympathies there! As
the word fell, not a person in the room but stirred uneasily.

Even she herself started at its sound; and moved, perhaps,
by the depth of silence which followed, she added in suppressed
tones:

"A widow within the hour.

That's why you see me still in colors, but crushed as you
behold--killed!

killed!"

That settled it.

There was no mistaking her condition after an expression of this
kind.

The Curator and Mr.

Gryce exchanged glances, and Mr.

Roberts, stepping from his corner, betrayed the effect which her
words had produced on him, by whispering in the detective's ear:
"What you need is an alienist."

Had she heard?

It would seem so from the quick way she roused and exclaimed with
indignant emphasis:

"You do not understand me!

I see that I must drink my bitter cup to the dregs.

This is what I mean: My husband was living this morning--living up
to the hour when the clock in this building struck twelve.

I knew it from the joyous hopes with which my breast was filled.
But with the stroke of noon the blow fell.

I was bending above the poor child who had fallen so suddenly at
my feet, when the vision came, and I saw him gazing at me from a
distance so remote--across a desert so immeasurable--that nothing
but death could create such a removal or make of him the ghastly
silhouette I saw.

He is dead. At that moment I felt his soul pass; and so I say
that I am a widow."

Ravings?

No, the calm certainty of her tone, the grief, touching depths so
profound it had no need of words, showed the confidence she felt
in the warning she believed herself to have received.

Though probably not a single person present put any faith in occultism
in any of its forms, there was a general movement of sympathy which
led Mr.

Gryce to pass the matter by without any attempt at controversy, and
return to the question in hand.

With a decided modification of manner, he therefore asked her to
relate how she came to be kneeling over the injured girl with her
hand upon the arrow.

"Let me have a moment in which to recover myself," she prayed,
covering her eyes with her hand.

Then, while all waited, she gave a low cry, "I suffer; I suffer!"

and leaped to her feet, only to sink back again inert and powerless.

But only for an instant: with that one burst of extreme feeling
she recovered her self-control, answering with apparent calmness
the detective's question:
"I was passing through the gallery as any other visitor might, when
a young lady rushed by me--stopped short--threw up her arms and
fell backward to the floor, pierced to the heart by an arrow.

In a moment I was on my knees at her side with hand outstretched
to withdraw this dreadful arrow. But I was afraid--I had heard
that this sometimes causes death, and while I was hesitating,
that vision came, engulfing everything. I could think of nothing
else."

She was near collapsing again; but being a woman of great nerve,
she fought her weakness and waited patiently for the next question.

It was different, without doubt, from any she had expected.

"Then you positively deny any active connection with the strange
death of this young girl?"

A pause, as if to take in what he meant.

Then slowly, impressively, came the answer:

"I do."
"Did you see the person who shot the arrow?"

"No."

"From what direction would it have had to come to strike her as it
did?"

"From the opposite balcony."

"Did you see anyone there?"
"No."

"But you heard the arrow?"

"Heard?"

"An arrow shot from a bow makes a whizzing sound as it flies.

Didn't you hear that?"
"I don't know." She looked troubled and uncertain.

"I don't remember. I was expecting no such thing--I was not
prepared. The sight of an arrow--a killing arrow--in that
innocent breast overcame me with inexpressible grief and horror.
If the vision of my husband had not followed, I might remember
more. As it is, I have told all I can.

Won't you excuse me?

I should like to go. I am not fit to remain. I want to return
home--to hear from my husband--to learn by letter or telegram
whether he is indeed dead."

Mr. Gryce had let her finish. An inquiry so unofficial might easily
await the moods of such a witness.

Not till the last word had been followed by what some there
afterward called a hungry silence, did he make use of his
prerogative to say:

"I shall be pleased to release you and will do so just as soon as
I can.

But I must put one or two more questions. Were you interested
in the Indian relics you had come among?

Did you handle any of them in passing?"
"No. I had no interest. I like glass, bronzes, china--I hate
weapons. I shall hate them eternally after this." And she began
to shudder.

The detective, with a quick bend of his head, approached her ear
with the whispered remark:
"I am told that when your attention was drawn to these weapons, you
fell on your knees and murmured something into the dead girl's ears.

How do you explain that?"
"I was giving her messages to my husband.

I felt--strange as it may seem to you--that they had fled the earth
together--and I wanted him to know that I would be constant, and
other foolish things you will not wish me to repeat here.

Is that all you wish to know?"
Mr. Gryce bowed, and cast a quizzical glance in the direction
of the Curator. Certainly for oddity this case transcended any
he had had in years.

With this woman eliminated from the situation, what explanation was
there of the curious death he was there to investigate?

As he was meditating how he could best convey to her the necessity
of detaining her further, he heard a muttered exclamation from the
young woman standing near her, and following the direction of her
pointing finger, saw that the strange silence which had fallen upon
the room had a cause.

Mrs. Taylor had fainted away in her chair.

III

"I HAVE SOMETHING TO SHOW YOU"

Mr. Gryce took advantage of the momentary disturbance to slip from
the room. He was followed by the Curator, who seemed more than
ever anxious to talk.

"You see! Mad as a March hare!"

was his hurried exclamation as the door closed behind them.

"I declare I do not know which I pity more, her victim or herself.

The one is freed from all her troubles; the other--Do you think we
ought to have a doctor to look after her?

Shall I telephone?"

"Not yet.

We have much to learn before taking any decided steps." Then as
he caught the look of amazement with which this unexpected suggestion
of difficulties was met, he paused on his way to the stair-head
to ask in a tentative way peculiarly his own: "Then you still think
the girl died from a thrust given by this woman?"

"Of course. What else is there to think?

You saw where the arrow came from. You saw that the only bow the
place contained was hanging high and unstrung upon the wall, and
you are witness to this woman's irresponsible condition of mind.

The sight of those arrows well within her reach evidently aroused
the homicidal mania often latent in one of her highly emotional
nature; and when this fresh young girl came by, the natural result
followed.

I only hope I shall not be called upon to face the poor
child's parents. What can I say to them? What can anybody say?
Yet I do not see how we can be held responsible for so unprecedented
an attack as this, do you?"

Mr. Gryce made no answer. He had turned his back toward the
stair-head and was wondering if this easy explanation of
a tragedy so peculiar as to have no prototype in all of the
hundreds of cases he had been called upon to investigate in
a long life of detective activity would satisfy all the other
persons then in the building.

It was his present business to find out--to search and probe among
the dozen or two people he saw collected below, for the witness who
had seen or had heard some slight thing as yet unrevealed which
would throw a different light upon this matter.

For his mind--or shall we say the almost unerring instinct of
this ancient delver into human hearts?

--would not accept without question this theory of sudden madness
in one of Mrs.

Taylor's appearance, strange and inexplicable as her conduct
seemed. Though it was quite among the possibilities that she had
struck the fatal blow and in the manner mentioned, it was equally
clear to his mind that she had not done it in an access of frenzy.

He knew a mad eye and he knew a despairing one.

Fantastic as her story certainly was, he found himself more
ready to believe it than to accept any explanation of this crime
which ascribed its peculiar features to the irresponsibilities of
lunacy.

However, he kept his impressions to himself and in his anxiety to
pursue his inquiries among the people below, was on the point of
descending thither, when he found his attention arrested, and that
of the Curator's as well, by the sight of a young man hastening
toward them through the northern gallery.

(The tragedy, as you will remember, had occurred in the southern
one.)

He was dressed in the uniform of the museum, and moved so quickly
and in such an evident flurry of spirits that the detective
instinctively asked:

"Who's that?

One of your own men?"

"Yes, that's Correy, our best-informed and most-trusted attendant.

Looks as if he had something to tell us. Well, Correy, what
is it?"

he queried as the man emerged upon the landing where they stood.

"Anything new? If there is, speak out plainly. Mr. Gryce is
anxious for all the evidence he can get."

With an ingenuousness rather pleasing than otherwise to the man
thus presented to his notice, the young fellow stopped short and
subjected the famous detective to a keen and close scrutiny before
venturing to give the required information.

Was it because of the importance of what he had to communicate?

It would seem so, from the suppressed excitement of his tone, as
after his brief but exceedingly satisfactory survey, he jerked
his finger over his shoulder in the direction from which he had
come, with the short remark:

"I have something to show you."

Something! Mr. Gryce had been asking for this something only a
moment before.

We can imagine, then, the celerity with which he followed this
new guide into the one spot of all others which possessed for
him the greatest interest. For if by any chance the arrow which
had done such deadly work had been sped from a bow instead of
having been used as a dart, then it was from this gallery and from
no other quarter of the building that it had been so sped.

Any proof of this could have but the one effect of exonerating
from all blame the woman who had so impressed him.

He had traversed the first section and had entered the second, when
the Curator joined him; together they passed into the third.

For those who have not visited this museum, a more detailed
description of these galleries may be welcome. Acting as a
means of communication between the row of front rooms and those
at the back, they also serve to exhibit certain choice articles
which call for little space, and are of a nature more or less
ornamental.

For this purpose they are each divided into five sections connected
by arches narrower but not less decorative than those which open
in a direct row upon the court.

Of these sections the middle one on either side is much larger
than the rest; otherwise they do not differ.

It was in the midst of this larger section that Correy now stood,
awaiting their approach.
RICHARD (with suppressed impatience, to Brudenell). Look here,
sir: this is no place for a man of your profession. Hadn't you
better go away?

SWINDON. I appeal to you, prisoner, if you have any sense of
decency left, to listen to the ministrations of the chaplain, and
pay due heed to the solemnity of the occasion.

THE CHAPLAIN (gently reproving Richard). Try to control yourself,
and submit to the divine will. (He lifts his book to proceed with
the service.)

RICHARD. Answer for your own will, sir, and those of your
accomplices here (indicating Burgoyne and Swindon): I see little
divinity about them or you. You talk to me of Christianity when
you are in the act of hanging your enemies. Was there ever such
blasphemous nonsense! (To Swindon, more rudely) You've got up the
solemnity of the occasion, as you call it, to impress the people
with your own dignity--Handel's music and a clergyman to make
murder look like piety! Do you suppose I am going to help you?
You've asked me to choose the rope because you don't know your
own trade well enough to shoot me properly. Well, hang away and
have done with it.

SWINDON (to the chaplain). Can you do nothing with him, Mr.
Brudenell?

CHAPLAIN. I will try, sir. (Beginning to read) Man that is born
of woman hath--

RICHARD (fixing his eyes on him). "Thou shalt not kill."

The book drops in Brudenell's hands.

CHAPLAIN (confessing his embarrassment). What am I to say, Mr.
Dudgeon?

RICHARD. Let me alone, man, can't you?

BURGOYNE (with extreme urbanity). I think, Mr. Brudenell, that as
the usual professional observations seem to strike Mr. Dudgeon as
incongruous under the circumstances, you had better omit them
until--er--until Mr. Dudgeon can no longer be inconvenienced by
them. (Brudenell, with a shrug, shuts his book and retires behind
the gallows.) YOU seem in a hurry, Mr. Dudgeon.

RICHARD (with the horror of death upon him). Do you think this is
a pleasant sort of thing to be kept waiting for? You've made up
your mind to commit murder: well, do it and have done with it.

BURGOYNE. Mr. Dudgeon: we are only doing this--

RICHARD. Because you're paid to do it.

SWINDON. You insolent-- (He swallows his rage.)

BURGOYNE (with much charm of manner). Ah, I am really sorry that
you should think that, Mr. Dudgeon. If you knew what my
commission cost me, and what my pay is, you would think better of
me. I should be glad to part from you on friendly terms.

RICHARD. Hark ye, General Burgoyne. If you think that I like
being hanged, you're mistaken. I don't like it; and I don't mean
to pretend that I do. And if you think I'm obliged to you for
hanging me in a gentlemanly way, you're wrong there too. I take
the whole business in devilish bad part; and the only
satisfaction I have in it is that you'll feel a good deal meaner
than I'll look when it's over. (He turns away, and is striding to
the cart when Judith advances and interposes with her arms
stretched out to him. Richard, feeling that a very little will
upset his self-possession, shrinks from her, crying) What are you
doing here? This is no place for you. (She makes a gesture as if
to touch him. He recoils impatiently.) No: go away, go away;
you'll unnerve me. Take her away, will you?

JUDITH. Won't you bid me good-bye?

RICHARD (allowing her to take his hand). Oh good-bye, good-bye.
Now go--go--quickly. (She clings to his hand--will not be put off
with so cold a last farewell--at last, as he tries to disengage
himself, throws herself on his breast in agony.)

SWINDON (angrily to the sergeant, who, alarmed at Judith's
movement, has come from the back of the square to pull her back,
and stopped irresolutely on finding that he is too late). How is
this? Why is she inside the lines?

SERGEANT (guiltily). I dunno, sir. She's that artful can't keep
her away.

BURGOYNE. You were bribed.

SERGEANT (protesting). No, Sir--

SWINDON (severely). Fall back. (He obeys.)

RICHARD (imploringly to those around him, and finally to
Burgoyne, as the least stolid of them). Take her away. Do you
think I want a woman near me now?

BURGOYNE (going to Judith and taking her hand). Here, madam: you
had better keep inside the lines; but stand here behind us; and
don't look.

Richard, with a great sobbing sigh of relief as she releases him
and turns to Burgoyne, flies for refuge to the cart and mounts
into it. The executioner takes off his coat and pinions him.

JUDITH (resisting Burgoyne quietly and drawing her hand
away). No: I must stay. I won't look. (She goes to the
right of the gallows. She tries to look at Richard, but turns
away with a frightful shudder, and falls on her knees in prayer.
Brudenell comes towards her from the back of the square.)

BURGOYNE (nodding approvingly as she kneels). Ah, quite so. Do
not disturb her, Mr. Brudenell: that will do very nicely.
(Brudenell nods also, and withdraws a little, watching her
sympathetically. Burgoyne resumes his former position, and takes
out a handsome gold chronometer.) Now then, are those
preparations made? We must not detain Mr. Dudgeon.

By this time Richard's hands are bound behind him; and the noose
is round his neck. The two soldiers take the shaft of the wagon,
ready to pull it away. The executioner, standing in the cart
behind Richard, makes a sign to the sergeant.

SERGEANT (to Burgoyne). Ready, sir.

BURGOYNE. Have you anything more to say, Mr. Dudgeon? It wants
two minutes of twelve still.

RICHARD (in the strong voice of a man who has conquered the
bitterness of death). Your watch is two minutes slow by the town
clock, which I can see from here, General. (The town clock
strikes the first stroke of twelve. Involuntarily the people
flinch at the sound, and a subdued groan breaks from them.) Amen!
my life for the world's future!

ANDERSON (shouting as he rushes into the market place). Amen; and
stop the execution. (He bursts through the line of soldiers
opposite Burgoyne, and rushes, panting, to the gallows.) I am
Anthony Anderson, the man you want.

The crowd, intensely excited, listens with all its ears. Judith,
half rising, stares at him; then lifts her hands like one whose
dearest prayer has been granted.

SWINDON. Indeed. Then you are just in time to take your place on
the gallows. Arrest him.

At a sign from the sergeant, two soldiers come forward to seize
Anderson.

ANDERSON (thrusting a paper under Swindon's nose). There's my
safe-conduct, sir.

SWINDON (taken aback). Safe-conduct! Are you--!

ANDERSON (emphatically). I am. (The two soldiers take him by the
elbows.) Tell these men to take their hands off me.

SWINDON (to the men). Let him go.

SERGEANT. Fall back.

The two men return to their places. The townsfolk raise a cheer;
and begin to exchange exultant looks, with a presentiment of
triumph as they see their Pastor speaking with their enemies in
the gate.

ANDERSON (exhaling a deep breath of relief, and dabbing his
perspiring brow with his handkerchief). Thank God, I was in time!

BURGOYNE (calm as ever, and still watch in hand). Ample time,
sir. Plenty of time. I should never dream of hanging any
gentleman by an American clock. (He puts up his watch.)

ANDERSON. Yes: we are some minutes ahead of you already, General.
Now tell them to take the rope from the neck of that American
citizen.

BURGOYNE (to the executioner in the cart--very politely). Kindly
undo Mr. Dudgeon.

The executioner takes the rope from Richard's neck, unties has
hands, and helps him on with his coat.

JUDITH (stealing timidly to Anderson). Tony.

ANDERSON (putting his arm round her shoulders and bantering her
affectionately). Well what do you think of you husband, NOW,
eh?--eh??--eh???

JUDITH. I am ashamed-- (She hides her face against his breast.)

BURGOYNE (to Swindon). You look disappointed, Major Swindon.

SWINDON. You look defeated, General Burgoyne.

BURGOYNE. I am, sir; and I am humane enough to be glad
of it. (Richard jumps down from the cart, Brudenell offering his
hand to help him, and runs to Anderson, whose left hand he shakes
heartily, the right being occupied by Judith.) By the way, Mr.
Anderson, I do not quite understand. The safe-conduct was for a
commander of the militia. I understand you are a--(he looks as
pointedly as his good manners permit at the riding boots, the
pistols, and Richard's coat, and adds) a clergyman.

ANDERSON (between Judith and Richard). Sir: it is in the hour of
trial that a man finds his true profession. This foolish young
man (placing his hand on Richard's shoulder) boasted himself the
Devil's Disciple; but when the hour of trial came to him, he
found that it was his destiny to suffer and be faithful to the
death. I thought myself a decent minister of the gospel of peace;
but when the hour of trial came to me, I found that it was my
destiny to be a man of action and that my place was amid the
thunder of the captains and the shouting. So I am starting life
at fifty as Captain Anthony Anderson of the Springtown militia;
and the Devil's Disciple here will start presently as the
Reverend Richard Dudgeon, and wag his pow in my old pulpit, and
give good advice to this silly sentimental little wife of mine
(putting his other hand on her shoulder. She steals a glance at
Richard to see how the prospect pleases him). Your mother told
me, Richard, that I should never have chosen Judith if I'd been
born for the ministry. I am afraid she was right; so, by your
leave, you may keep my coat and I'll keep yours.

RICHARD. Minister--I should say Captain. I have behaved like a
fool.

JUDITH. Like a hero.

RICHARD. Much the same thing, perhaps. (With some bitterness
towards himself) But no: if I had been any good, I should have
done for you what you did for me, instead of making a vain
sacrifice.

ANDERSON. Not vain, my boy. It takes all sorts to make a world
--saints as well as soldiers. (Turning to Burgoyne) And now,
General, time presses; and America is in a hurry. Have you
realized that though you may occupy towns and win battles, you
cannot conquer a nation?

BURGOYNE. My good sir, without a Conquest you cannot have an
aristocracy. Come and settle the matter at my quarters.

ANDERSON. At your service, sir. (To Richard) See Judith home for
me, will you, my boy? (He hands her over to him.) Now General.
(He goes busily up the market place towards the Town Hall,
Leaving Judith and Richard together. Burgoyne follows him a step
or two; then checks himself and turns to Richard.)

BURGOYNE. Oh, by the way, Mr. Dudgeon, I shall be glad to see you
at lunch at half-past one. (He pauses a moment, and adds, with
politely veiled slyness) Bring Mrs. Anderson, if she will be so
good. (To Swindon, who is fuming) Take it quietly, Major Swindon:
your friend the British soldier can stand up to anything except
the British War Office. (He follows Anderson.)

SERGEANT (to Swindon). What orders, sir?

SWINDON (savagely). Orders! What use are orders now? There's no
army. Back to quarters; and be d-- (He turns on his heel and
goes.)

SERGEANT (pugnacious and patriotic, repudiating the idea of
defeat). 'Tention. Now then: cock up your chins, and show 'em you
don't care a damn for 'em. Slope arms! Fours! Wheel! Quick march!

The drum marks time with a tremendous bang; the band strikes up
British Grenadiers; and the sergeant, Brudenell, and the English
troops march off defiantly to their quarters. The townsfolk press
in behind, and follow them up the market, jeering at them; and
the town band, a very primitive affair, brings up the rear,
playing Yankee Doodle. Essie, who comes in with them, runs to
Richard.

ESSIE. Oh, Dick!

RICHARD (good-humoredly, but wilfully). Now, now: come, come! I
don't mind being hanged; but I will not be cried over.

ESSIE. No, I promise. I'll be good. (She tries to restrain her
tears, but cannot.) I--I want to see where the soldiers are going
to. (She goes a little way up the market, pretending to look
after the crowd.)

JUDITH. Promise me you will never tell him.

RICHARD. Don't be afraid.

They shake hands on it.

ESSIE (calling to them). They're coming back. They want you.

Jubilation in the market. The townsfolk surge back again in wild
enthusiasm with their band, and hoist Richard on their shoulders,
cheering him.

CURTAIN.


NOTES TO THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE

BURGOYNE

General John Burgoyne, who is presented in this play for the
first time (as far as I am aware) on the English stage, is not a
conventional stage soldier, but as faithful a portrait as it is
in the nature of stage portraits to be. His objection to profane
swearing is not borrowed from Mr. Gilbert's H. M. S. Pinafore: it
is taken from the Code of Instructions drawn up by himself for
his officers when he introduced Light Horse into the English
army. His opinion that English soldiers should be treated as
thinking beings was no doubt as unwelcome to the military
authorities of his time, when nothing was thought of ordering a
soldier a thousand lashes, as it will be to those modern victims
of the flagellation neurosis who are so anxious to revive that
discredited sport. His military reports are very clever as
criticisms, and are humane and enlightened within certain
aristocratic limits, best illustrated perhaps by his declaration,
which now sounds so curious, that he should blush to ask for
promotion on any other ground than that of family influence. As a
parliamentary candidate, Burgoyne took our common expression
"fighting an election" so very literally that he led his
supporters to the poll at Preston in 1768 with a loaded pistol in
each hand, and won the seat, though he was fined 1,000 pounds,
and denounced by Junius, for the pistols.

It is only within quite recent years that any general recognition
has become possible for the feeling that led Burgoyne, a
professed enemy of oppression in India and elsewhere, to accept
his American command when so many other officers threw up their
commissions rather than serve in a civil war against the
Colonies. His biographer De Fonblanque, writing in 1876,
evidently regarded his position as indefensible. Nowadays, it is
sufficient to say that Burgoyne was an Imperialist. He
sympathized with the colonists; but when they proposed as a
remedy the disruption of the Empire, he regarded that as a step
backward in civilization. As he put it to the House of Commons,
"while we remember that we are contending against brothers and
fellow subjects, we must also remember that we are contending in
this crisis for the fate of the British Empire." Eighty-four
years after his defeat, his republican conquerors themselves
engaged in a civil war for the integrity of their Union. In 1886
the Whigs who represented the anti-Burgoyne tradition of American
Independence in English politics, abandoned Gladstone and made
common cause with their political opponents in defence of the
Union between England and Ireland. Only the other day England
sent 200,000 men into the field south of the equator to fight out
the question whether South Africa should develop as a Federation
of British Colonies or as an independent Afrikander United
States. In all these cases the Unionists who were detached from
their parties were called renegades, as Burgoyne was. That, of
course, is only one of the unfortunate consequences of the fact
that mankind, being for the most part incapable of politics,
accepts vituperation as an easy and congenial substitute. Whether
Burgoyne or Washington, Lincoln or Davis, Gladstone or Bright,
Mr. Chamberlain or Mr. Leonard Courtney was in the right will
never be settled, because it will never be possible to prove that
the government of the victor has been better for mankind than the
government of the vanquished would have been. It is true that the
victors have no doubt on the point; but to the dramatist, that
certainty of theirs is only part of the human comedy. The
American Unionist is often a Separatist as to Ireland; the
English Unionist often sympathizes with the Polish Home Ruler;
and both English and American Unionists are apt to be
Disruptionists as regards that Imperial Ancient of Days, the
Empire of China. Both are Unionists concerning Canada, but with a
difference as to the precise application to it of the Monroe
doctrine. As for me, the dramatist, I smile, and lead the
conversation back to Burgoyne.

Burgoyne's surrender at Saratoga made him that occasionally
necessary part of our British system, a scapegoat. The
explanation of his defeat given in the play is founded on a
passage quoted by De Fonblanque from Fitzmaurice's Life of Lord
Shelburne, as follows: "Lord George Germain, having among other
peculiarities a particular dislike to be put out of his way on
any occasion, had arranged to call at his office on his way to
the country to sign the dispatches; but as those addressed to
Howe had not been faircopied, and he was not disposed to be
balked of his projected visit to Kent, they were not signed then
and were forgotten on his return home." These were the dispatches
instructing Sir William Howe, who was in New York, to effect a
junction at Albany with Burgoyne, who had marched from Boston for
that purpose. Burgoyne got as far as Saratoga, where, failing the
expected reinforcement, he was hopelessly outnumbered, and his
officers picked off, Boer fashion, by the American
farmer-sharpshooters. His own collar was pierced by a bullet. The
publicity of his defeat, however, was more than compensated at
home by the fact that Lord George's trip to Kent had not been
interfered with, and that nobody knew about the oversight of the
dispatch. The policy of the English Government and Court for the
next two years was simply concealment of Germain's neglect.
Burgoyne's demand for an inquiry was defeated in the House of
Commons by the court party; and when he at last obtained a
committee, the king got rid of it by a prorogation. When Burgoyne
realized what had happened about the instructions to Howe (the
scene in which I have represented him as learning it before
Saratoga is not historical: the truth did not dawn on him until
many months afterwards) the king actually took advantage of his
being a prisoner of war in England on parole, and ordered him to
return to America into captivity. Burgoyne immediately resigned
all his appointments; and this practically closed his military
career, though he was afterwards made Commander of the Forces in
Ireland for the purpose of banishing him from parliament.

The episode illustrates the curious perversion of the English
sense of honor when the privileges and prestige of the
aristocracy are at stake. Mr. Frank Harris said, after the
disastrous battle of Modder River, that the English, having lost
America a century ago because they preferred George III, were
quite prepared to lose South Africa to-day because they preferred
aristocratic commanders to successful ones. Horace Walpole, when
the parliamentary recess came at a critical period of the War of
Independence, said that the Lords could not be expected to lose
their pheasant shooting for the sake of America. In the working
class, which, like all classes, has its own official aristocracy,
there is the same reluctance to discredit an institution or to
"do a man out of his job." At bottom, of course, this apparently
shameless sacrifice of great public interests to petty personal
ones, is simply the preference of the ordinary man for the things
he can feel and understand to the things that are beyond his
capacity. It is stupidity, not dishonesty.

Burgoyne fell a victim to this stupidity in two ways. Not only
was he thrown over, in spite of his high character and
distinguished services, to screen a court favorite who had
actually been cashiered for cowardice and misconduct in the field
fifteen years before; but his peculiar critical temperament and
talent, artistic, satirical, rather histrionic, and his
fastidious delicacy of sentiment, his fine spirit and humanity,
were just the qualities to make him disliked by stupid people
because of their dread of ironic criticism. Long after his death,
Thackeray, who had an intense sense of human character, but was
typically stupid in valuing and interpreting it, instinctively
sneered at him and exulted in his defeat. That sneer represents
the common English attitude towards the Burgoyne type. Every
instance in which the critical genius is defeated, and the stupid
genius (for both temperaments have their genius) "muddles through
all right," is popular in England. But Burgoyne's failure was not
the work of his own temperament, but of the stupid temperament.
What man could do under the circumstances he did, and did
handsomely and loftily. Gryce said nothing but approached
with hastening steps the door which Sweetwater had left open
behind him, and took a quick survey of the fenced-in plateau,
the bridge and the towering trees beyond, toward which she
seemed to be making.

"She cannot escape," was his ready conclusion; and he shouted to
Sweetwater to go easy.

Sweetwater, who was in the act of setting foot upon the bridge down
which she was running, slacked up at this command and presently
stopped, for she had stopped herself and was looking back from
a spot about halfway across, with the air of one willing, at
last, to hear what they had to say.

"Who are you?" she cried. "And what do you want of me?"
"Are you not Madame Duclos?"
"Yes, I am Antoinette Duclos."

"Then you must know why you are wanted by the police authorities
of New York.

Your daughter--"
Her hand went up.

"I've nothing to say--nothing. Will you take that for your
answer and let me go?"

"Alas, madam, we cannot!"

spoke up Mr. Gryce in his calm, benevolent way.
"Miss Duclos' death was of a nature demanding an inquest.
Your testimony, hard as it may be for you to give it, is necessary
for a righteous verdict.

That is all we want--" 
"It is too much!"

she cried. And with a quick glance upward she took another step
or two along the bridge till she had reached the
broken rail; and before Sweetwater in his dismay could more than
give a horrified bound in her direction, she had made the fatal
leap and was gone from their sight into the gorge below.

BOOK IV 
NEMESIS 

XXVII 
FROM LIPS LONG SILENT
"This finishes my usefulness as a detective.

I have had my fill of horrors; all, in fact, that my old age can
stand."

Thus, Mr.

Gryce, as hours afterward he and Sweetwater turned their faces
back toward New York.

"I appreciate your feelings," responded the latter, who had been
strangely silent all day, speaking only when directly addressed.

"I can assure you that in my way I'm as much cut up as you are.

I wish now that I had made an attempt from the rear to head off
this distracted woman, even if I had been obliged to scratch my
hands to pieces tearing a board from the fence."

"It would have done no good.

She was determined to die rather than give up her secret. I
remember the look with which her sister-in-law warned me that
she would never survive a capture. But I thought that mere
exaggeration."
Then after a moment of conscious silence on the part of both, the
weary old man added with bitter emphasis, "Her testimony might--I
do not say would--have cleared away our suspicions of Director
Roberts."

Sweetwater, who was acting as chauffeur, slowed down his machine
till it came to a standstill at the side of the road.

Then wheeling quietly about till he faced his surprised
companion, he remarked very gravely:

"Mr.

Gryce, I hadn't the heart to tell you this before, but the time
has come for you to know that Mr. Roberts' cause is not so
favorably affected, as you seem to think, by this suicidal death
of one who without doubt would have proved to be a leading witness
against him.

Sooner than
this army will consent to ground their arms in their
encampments, they will rush on the enemy determined to take no
quarter.


And, later on, "If General Gates does not mean to recede from the
6th article, the treaty ends at once: the army will to a man
proceed to any act of desperation sooner than submit to that
article."

Here you have the man at his Burgoynest. Need I add that he had
his own way; and that when the actual ceremony of surrender came,
he would have played poor General Gates off the stage, had not
that commander risen to the occasion by handing him back his
sword.

In connection with the reference to Indians with scalping knives,
who, with the troops hired from Germany, made up about half
Burgoyne's force, I may mention that Burgoyne offered two of them
a reward to guide a Miss McCrea, betrothed to one of the English
officers, into the English lines.

The two braves quarrelled about the reward; and the more
sensitive of them, as a protest against the unfairness of the
other, tomahawked the young lady. The usual retaliations were
proposed under the popular titles of justice and so forth; but as
the tribe of the slayer would certainly have followed suit by a
massacre of whites on the Canadian frontier, Burgoyne was
compelled to forgive the crime, to the intense disgust of
indignant Christendom.

_Cosmoramas and Dioramas._
"A still more perfect contrivance of the same kind has been exhibited
for some time in London and Paris under the title of _Cosmorama_
(from Greek words signifying _views_ of the _world_, because of the
great variety of views.)

Lady Harriet's husband achieved the remarkable feat of
killing himself, instead of his adversary, in a duel. He
overbalanced himself in the heat of his swordsmanship, and fell
with his head against a pebble. Lady Harriet then married the
warrior chaplain, who, like Anthony Anderson in the play, seems
to have mistaken his natural profession.

We must rather assume that the Libyan alphabet has been derived
from the Phoenician at a period of the latter earlier than the
time at which the records of the Phoenician language that
have reached us were written.
5. II. VII. Decline of the Roman Naval Power 
6.