[Illustration: Figure 20.--EARLY 19TH CENTURY: THE DOUBLE CALIPERS of
the woodturner permitted double readings to be taken without changing
the set of the tool. Inherent in this practical design is a gracefulness
of line seldom surpassed. (Private collection. Smithsonian photo
49793-C.)]

[Illustration: Figure 21.--1704: THE FLOOR PLANE OR LONG JOINER of
Norwegian origin exhibits the characteristic decoration of the stock and
mouth, patterns common on tools of northern European and Scandinavian
origin. (_Courtesy of the Norsk Folkemuseum, Oslo, Norway._)]

Intended to establish proportion and to insure precision, it seems a
natural consequence that dividers and calipers should in themselves
reflect the same sense of balance and grace that they were designed to
govern. Still, even the most prosaic examples of woodworking tools,
completely divorced from the quasi-mathematical devices of measure and
proportion, have this quality and can be admired solely as decorative
objects. This is most evident in the three European bench planes
illustrated in figures 21, 22, and 23: one Norwegian, dated 1704; one
Dutch (accession 319562), dated 1756; and one German, dated 1809. The
Norwegian and German examples, with their elaborately carved bodies and
heart-shaped mouths, are typical of the type that Swedish and German
colonists in America might have used in the 17th and 18th centuries.
They are important for that reason. Also, all three exhibit elaboration
found on other material survivals from these countries in their
respective periods. For example, the incised rosette of the Dutch plane
(fig. 22) is especially suggestive of the rosettes found on English and
American furniture of the 1750's and 1760's, specifically on high
chests.

The decorative motifs that characterized European tools of the 17th and
18th centuries obscured technical improvement. By contrast, in England
and America, tools gained distinction through the directness of their
design. Following English patterns, tools of American make were
straightforward. Only later, in new tool types, did they imitate the
rococo flourish of their European predecessors. In America, as in
England, the baroque for things functional seemingly had little appeal.
This is particularly true of woodworking planes on which, unlike their
continental cousins, embellishment is rarely seen. Exemplifying this
tradition are three early 19th-century American planes: a plow, for
cutting channels of various widths on board edges, marked "G. White,
Philda" (fig. 24); a rabbet, for notching the margin of boards; made
by E.W. Carpenter of Lancaster, Pennsylvania (fig. 25); and a jack or
foreplane, for rough surfacing (accession 61.547), made by A. Klock and
dated 1818 as seen in figure 26.

[Illustration: Figure 22.--1756: THE HIGHLY elaborated stock and
rosette-incised wedge of the smoothing plane recall the decoration on
furniture of the period. The plane is of Dutch origin. (Smithsonian
photo 49792-F.)]

[Illustration: Figure 23.--1809: THIS BENCH PLANE of German origin is
dated 1809. It is of a traditional form that persists to the present
day. The planes pictured in figures 21, 22, and 23 are similar to the
type brought to North America by non-English colonists. (Private
collection. Smithsonian photo 49793-F.)]

[Illustration: Figure 24.--ABOUT 1818: This plow plane, used to cut
narrow channels on the edges of boards, was made by G. White of
Philadelphia in the early 19th century. It is essentially the same tool
depicted in the catalogues of Sheffield manufactures and in the plates
from Martin and Nicholson. The pattern of the basic bench tools used in
America consistently followed British design, at least until the last
quarter of the 19th century. (Private collection. Smithsonian photo
49794-E.)]

[Illustration: Figure 25. 1830-1840: THE DESIGN OF the rabbet plane,
used to cut a groove of fixed width and depth on the edge of a board,
was not improved upon in the 19th century. The carpenter's dependence on
this tool lessened only after the perfection of multipurpose metallic
planes that could be readily converted to cut a "rabbet." (Private
collection. Smithsonian photo 494789-H).]

The question of dating arises, since only the Klock piece is firmly
fixed. How, for example, is the early 19th-century attribution arrived
at for the planes inscribed White and Carpenter? First, the nature of
the stamped name "G. White" is of proper character for the period.
Second, G. White is listed in the Philadelphia city directories as a
"plane-maker" between the years 1818 and 1820, working at the back of 5
Filbert Street and later at 34 Juliana Street. Third, internal evidence
on the plane itself gives a clue. In this case, the hardware--rivets and
furrels--is similar if not identical to that found on firearms of the
period, weapons whose dates of manufacture are known. The decorative
molding on the fence of this plane is proper for the period; this is not
a reliable guide, however, since similar moldings are retained
throughout the century. Finally, the plane is equipped with a fence
controlled by slide-arms, fixed with wedges and not by adjustable screw
arms. After 1830, tools of high quality, such as White's, invariably
have the screw arms. The rabbet plane, made by Carpenter, is traceable
via another route, the U.S. Patent Office records. Carpenter,
self-designated "toolmaker of Lancaster," submitted patents for the
improvement of wood planes between 1831 and 1849. Examples of
Carpenter's work, always stamped as shown in figure 27, survive, both
dated and undated. There are several of his planes in the collections of
the Bucks County Historical Society, and dated pieces are known in
private collections.

Inherent in the bench planes is a feeling of motion, particularly in the
plow and the rabbet where basic design alone conveys the idea that they
were meant to move over fixed surfaces. Of the three examples, only the
brass tippings and setscrew of the plow plane suggest any enrichment,
and of course these were not intended for decoration; in later years,
however, boxwood, fruitwood, and even ivory tips were added to the more
expensive factory models. Also unintentional, but pleasing, is the
distinctive throat of the rabbet plane--a design that developed to
permit easy discharge of shavings, and one that mass manufacture did
not destroy.

[Illustration: Figure 26.--1818: THE JACK PLANE, used first by the
carpenter for rapid surfacing, is distinguished primarily by the bezeled
and slightly convex edge of its cutting iron. As with the plow and the
rabbet, its shape is ubiquitous. Dated and marked A. Klock, this
American example follows precisely those detailed in Sheffield pattern
books. (Smithsonian photo 49794-C.)]

[Illustration: Figure 27.--1830-1840: DETAIL OF the rabbet plane (fig.
25) showing the characteristic stamp of E.W. Carpenter. (Smithsonian
photo 49794-D.)]

[Illustration: Figure 28.--ABOUT 1631: THE PRECEDING ILLUSTRATIONS
emphasize the divergent appearance of European and Anglo-American tools.
This, however, was not always the case. The woodworker's shop by the
Dutch engraver Jan Van Vliet suggests the similarity between English and
European tool types in the 17th century. Note in particular the planes,
axe, brace, and auger as compared to Moxon. (Library of Congress,
Division of Prints and Photographs.)]

[Illustration: Figure 29.--1690: THE CABINETMAKER'S SHOP from Elias
Pozelius, _Orbus Pictus nach Zeichnugen der Susanna Maria_ _Sandrart_,
Nürnberg, 1690. (Library of Congress.)]

[Illustration: Figure 30.--1568: THE WOODWORKER'S SHOP from Hans Sachs,
_Eygentliche Beschrerbung Aller Stande ... mit Kunstreichen Figuren_ [by
Jost Amman], Frankfurt, 1568. (Library of Congress.)]

The divergence from European to an Anglo-American hand-tool design and
the approximate date that it occurred can be suggested by a comparison
of contemporary illustrations. The change in the wooden bench plane can
be followed from the early 17th century through its standardization at
the end of the 18th century. Examine first the planes as drawn in the
1630's by the Dutchman Jan Van Vliet (fig. 28), an etcher of Rembrandt's
school at Leiden, and also the examples illustrated by Porzelius (fig.
29) and by Jost Amman (fig. 30). Compare them to Moxon's plate (fig. 31)
from the _Mechanick Exercises_ (3rd ed., 1703) and to the splendid
drawing of the bench plane from André-Jacob Roubo's _L'Art du
menuisier_, published in 1769 (fig. 32). In all of them, the rounded
handle, or tote, and the fore-horn appear, characteristics of both
European and English planes of the period before 1750. The similarity
ends with the mass production of hand tools from the shops of the
English toolmaking centers, principally Sheffield. An illustration from
a pattern and design book of the Castle Hill Works, Sheffield, dating
from the last quarter of the 18th century (fig. 33), shows the achieved,
familiar form of the bench planes, as well as other tools. The use of
this form in America is readily documented in Lewis Miller's
self-portrait while working at his trade in York, Pennsylvania, in 1810
(fig. 34) and by the shop sign carved by Isaac Fowle in 1820 for John
Bradford (fig. 35). In each example, the bench plane clearly follows the
English prototype.

[Illustration: Figure 31.--1703: DETAIL OF THE BENCH PLANES from Moxon's
_Mechanick Exercises_.]

[Illustration: Figure 32.--1769: ANDRÉ-JACOB ROUBO'S PRECISE RENDERING
of the bench plane retains the essential features shown by Moxon--the
rounded tote or handle and the curved fore-horn. (André-Jacob Roubo,
_L'Art du menuisier_, 1769.)]

[Illustration: Figure 33.--EARLY 19TH CENTURY: The bench plane
illustrated in Roubo or Moxon is seldom seen in American tool
collections. The bench planes, smoothing planes, rabbets, and plows
universally resemble those shown in this illustration from the pattern
book of the Castle Hill Works, Sheffield. (Book 87, Cutler and Company,
Castle Hill Works, Sheffield. _Courtesy of the Victoria and Albert
Museum._)]

[Illustration: Figure 34.--ABOUT 1810: LEWIS MILLER WORKING AT HIS BENCH
in York, Pa. In a predominantly Pennsylvania-German settlement, the
plane used by Miller conforms to the Sheffield type illustrated in the
catalogue of the Castle Hill Works as shown in figure 33. (York County
Historical Society, York, Pa.)]

[Illustration: Figure 35.--1820: JOHN BRADFORD'S shop sign carved by
Isaac Fowle is a unique documentary of early 19th-century tool shapes
and is in the Bostonian Society, Boston, Mass. (Index of American
Design, The National Gallery, Washington, D.C.)]

[Illustration: Figure 36.--1703: THE JOINER'S brace and bit--a detail
from Moxon, _Mechanick Exercises_ ..., London, 1703. (Library of
Congress, Smithsonian photo 56635.)]

[Illustration: Figure 37.--1769: ROUBO'S ILLUSTRATION OF THE BRACE and
bit differs from Moxon's only in the precision of the delineation.
Contrast this form with that of the standard Sheffield version in figure
38 and the metallic braces illustrated in figures 40 through 44. From
these plates can be seen the progression of the bitstock toward its
ultimate perfection in the late 19th century. (André-Jacob Roubo, _L'Art
du menuisier_, 1769.)]

[Illustration: Figure 38.--EARLY 19TH CENTURY: THE MASS-PRODUCED VERSION
of the wooden brace and bit took the form illustrated in Book 87 of
Cutler's Castle Hill Works. (_Courtesy of the Victoria and Albert
Museum._)]

[Illustration: Figure 39.--18TH CENTURY: THE TRANSITIONAL FORM of the
wooden brace and bit incorporated the overall shape of the mass-produced
version but retained the archaic method of fastening the bit to the
chuck. The tool is of Dutch origin and suggests the influence of
Sheffield design on European tools. (Smithsonian photo 49792-E.)]

[Illustration: Figure 40.--1769: ROUBO ILLUSTRATED THE METALLIC BRACE
and, in addition, suggested its use as a screwdriver. (André-Jacob
Roubo, _L'Art du menuisier_,1769.)]

[Illustration: Figure 41.--ABOUT 1775: FORD, WHITMORE AND BRUNTON made
and sold clockmaker's braces of metal with a sweep and shank that was
imitated by American patentees in the 19th century. (Catalogue of Ford,
Whitmore and Brunton, Birmingham, England. _Courtesy of the Birmingham
Reference Library._)]

[Illustration: Figure 42.--1852: NEARLY ONE HUNDRED YEARS after Roubo's
plate appeared, Jacob Switzer applied for a patent for an "Improved Self
Holding Screw Driver." The similarity of Switzer's drawing and Roubo's
plate is striking. (Original patent drawing 9,457, U.S. Patent Office,
Record Group 241, the National Archives.)]

[Illustration: Figure 43.--1866: THE SIMPLICITY AND STRENGTH of the
brace proposed by J. Parker Gordon is in sharp contrast to the heavily
splinted sides of the wooden brace commonly used in mid-19th-century
America. (Original patent drawing 52,042, U.S. Patent Office, Record
Group 241, the National Archives.)]

[Illustration: Figure 44.--1865: MILTON NOBLES' PATENT perfecting the
chuck which held the auger bit was an important step along the path
which led ultimately to the complete acceptance of the metallic brace.
Barber's ratchet brace shown in figure 66 completes the metamorphosis of
this tool form in the United States. (Original patent drawing 51,660,
U.S. Patent Office, Record Group 241, the National Archives.)]

The carpenter's brace is another instance of divergent design after a
common origin. Refer again to Van Vliet's etching of the woodworker's
shop (fig. 28), to the detail from Moxon (fig. 36), and from Roubo (fig.
37). All show the brace in a form familiar since the Middle Ages, a
shape common to both delineators and craftsmen of the Continent and the
British Isles. But, as the plane changed, so changed the brace. The
standard form of this tool as it was used and produced in the United
States in the 19th century can be seen in another plate from the
catalogue of the Castle Hill Works at Sheffield (fig. 38). This English
influence on American tool design is no surprise, since as early as 1634
William Wood in _New England's Prospect_ suggested that colonists take
to the New World "All manner of Ironwares, as all manner of nailes for
houses ... with Axes both broad and pitching ... All manners of Augers,
piercing bits, Whip-saws, Two handed saws, Froes ..., rings for Bettle
heads, and Iron-wedges."

[Illustration: Figure 45.--19TH CENTURY: THE UPHOLSTERER'S HAMMER is an
unknown; it is not dated, its maker is anonymous, as is its user. It is
of American origin, yet of a style that might have been used in England
or on the Continent. This lack of provenance need not detract from its
significance as a material survival. This hammer, the brace (fig. 46),
the bevel (fig. 47), and the compass saw (fig. 48) are sufficiently
provocative in their design to conjure some image of a technology
dependent upon the skilled hand of craftsmen working in wood and of the
relationship between the hand, the tool, and the finished product.
(Smithsonian photo 49793-A.)]

[Illustration: Figure 46.--18TH CENTURY: THE BRACE AND BIT in its
nonfactory form conforms to a general design pattern in which none of
the components are ever precisely alike. This aspect of variety of
detail--sophistication, crudeness, decorative qualities or the
like--reflects something of the individuality of the toolmaker, a
quality completely lost in the standardization of the carpenter's brace.
The Kaiser counts the head of British merchantmen sunk.

Von Tirpitz counts the cost. But note the subtlety of the personation and
environment. The Kaiser has those terrible haunted eyes that have
marked the seer's presentment of him from quite an early stage of the
war. There can be no ultimate escape from the dreadful vision that has
set the seal of despair on this fine and handsome visage. He is
shown, not as a sea monster, but as some rabid, evasive, impatient
thing, dashing from point to point--as from policy to policy--with
the angry swish that tells the unspoken anger failure everywhere
compels. For the victories do not bring surrender, nor does frightfulness
inspire terror. The merchant ships still put to sea--and the U boats pay
the penalty.

The futility of this campaign of murder is typified by making Von Tirpitz,
its inventor, an addle-headed seahorse, the nursery comedian of the
sea. Stupid and ridiculous bewilderment stares from his foolish eyes.
Another submarine has failed to find a safe victim in a trading ship,
but has been hoisted with its own sea petard. The impotence of the
thing!

This conference of the Admirals of the Atlantic, held in the sombre
depths, is a biting satire, in its mingled comedy and tragedy, on the
effort to win command of the sea from its bottom.

ARTHUR POLLEN.

[Illustration: "U'S"
HIS MAJESTY: "Well, Tripitz, you've sunk a great many?"
TIRPITZ: "Yes, sire, here is another 'U' coming down."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

MATER DOLOROSA
You thought to grasp the world; but you shall keep Its crown of
curses nailed upon your brow.
You that have fouled the purple, broke your vow, And sowed the wind
of death, the whirlwind you shall reap.

Shout to your tribal god to bless the blood Of this red vintage on the
poisoned earth; Clash cymbals to him, leap and shout in mirth; Call
on his name to stay the coming, cleansing flood.

We are no hounds of heaven, nor ravening band Of earthly wolves to
tear your kingdom down.

We stand for human reason; at our frown The coward sword shall fall from
your accursed hand.

We do not speak of vengeance; there shall run No little children's
blood beneath our heel.

No pregnant woman suffers from our steel; But Justice we shall do, as
sure as set of sun.

Or short, or long, the pathway of your feet, Stamped on the faces
of the innocent dead, Must lead where tyrant's road hath ever led.

Alone, O perjured soul, your Justice you shall meet.

No sacrifice the balance of her scale Can win; no gift of blood and
iron can weigh Against this one mad mother's agony:
In her demented cry a myriad women wail.

The equinox of outraged earth shall blaze And flash its levin on your
infamous might.
Man cries to fellow-man; light leaps to light, Till foundered, naked,
spent, you vanish from our gaze.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

[Illustration: MATER DOLOROSA]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

"GOTT STRAFE ITALIEN!"
When Italy, still straining at the leash which held her, helpless,
to the strange and unnatural Triplice, began to show signs of awakening
consciousness, Germany's efforts to lull her back to the unhappy position
of silent partner in the world-crime were characteristic of her methods.
Forthwith Italy was loaded with compliments. The country was overrun
with "diplomats," which is another name in Germany for spies.

Bribery of the most brazen sort was attempted. The newspapers
recalled in chorus that Italy was the land of art and chivalry,
of song and heroism, of fabled story and manly effort, of honour
and loyalty. Hark to the _Hamburger Fremdenblatt_ of February 21,
1915:

"The suggestion is made that Italy favours the Allies. Preposterous!
Even though the palsied hand of England--filled with robber gold--be
held out to her, Italy's vows, Italy's sense of obligation, Italy's
_word once given_, can never be broken.

Such a nation of noblemen could have no dealings with hucksters."
Germany is, indeed, a fine judge of a nation's "word once given"
and a nation's "vows," which its Chancellor unblushingly
declared to be mere scraps of paper. Now let us see what the _Hamburger
Nachrichten_ had to say about Italy immediately after her secession
from the Triple Alliance: "_Nachrichten_, June 1, 1915.

That Italy should have joined hands with the other noble gentlemen, our
enemies, is but natural. It would, of course, be absurd--where all are
brigands--were the classical name of brigandage not included in the
number.... We do not propose to soil our clean steel with the blood
of such filthy Italian scum. With our cudgels we shall smash them into
pulp."
_"Gott strafe Italien"_ indeed! Bombs on St. Mark's in Venice,
on the Square of Verona, on world treasures unreplaceable. The poisoned
breath of Germany carries its venom into the land of sunshine and song,
whose best day's work in history has been to wrest itself free from the
grip of the false friend.

RALPH D. BLUMENFELD.

[Illustration: "GOTT STRAFE ITALIEN!"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SERBIA
Serbia has suffered the fate of Belgium. Germany and Austria, with
Bulgaria's aid, have plunged another little country "in blood and
destruction." Another "bleeding piece of earth" bears witness to
the recrudescence of the ancient barbarism of the Huns. Serbia's
wounds,
"Like dumb mouths, Do ope their ruby lips,"
to beg for vengeance on "these butchers." Turkey, whom the artist
portrays as a hound lapping up the victim's blood, is fated to share
the punishment for the crime. But the prime instigator is the German
Emperor, whose Chancellor, with bitter irony, claims for his master the
title of protector of the small nationalities of Europe. Herr von
Bethmann-Hollweg can on occasion affect the mincing accents of the wolf
when that beast seeks to lull the cries of the lamb in its clutches. The
German method of waging war has rendered "dreadful objects so familiar"
that the essential brutality of the enemy's activities runs a risk of
escaping at times the strenuous denunciation which Justice demands.
But the searching pencil of Mr. Raemaekers brings home to every seeing
eye the true and unvarying character of Teutonic "frightfulness." All
instincts of humanity are cynically defied on the specious ground
of military necessity. Mr. Raemaekers is at one with Milton in
repudiating the worthless plea:

"So spake the fiend, and with necessity, The tyrant's plea, excused
his devilish deeds."

SIR SIDNEY LEE.

[Illustration: OCTOBER IN SERBIA
The Austro-German-Bulgarian attack on Serbia began in October, which
in Holland is called the "butcher's month," as the cattle are then
killed preparatory to the winter.]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
JUST A MOMENT--I'M COMING
Here is a drawing that ought to be circulated broadcast throughout
Australia and New Zealand, that ought to hold a place of honour on
the walls of their public chambers; should hang in gilded frames
in the houses of the rich; be pinned to the rough walls of frame-house
and bark humpy in every corner of "The Outback."

It should thrill the heart of every man, woman, and child Down Under
with pride and thankfulness and satisfaction, should even bring soothing
balm to the wounds of those who in the loss of their nearest and
dearest have paid the highest and the deepest price for the flaming
glory of the Anzacs in Gallipoli.

Here in the artist's pencil is a monument to those heroes greater than
pinnacles of marble, of beaten brass and carven stone; a monument that
has travelled over the world, has spoken to posterity more clearly,
more convincingly, and more rememberingly than ever written or word-of-mouth
speech could do. It is to the everlasting honour of the people of the
Anzacs that they refrained from echoing the idle tales which ran
whispering in England that the Dardanelles campaign was a cruel blunder,
that the blood of the Anzacs' bravest and best had been uselessly spilt,
that their splendid young lives had been an empty sacrifice to the
demons of Incompetence and Inefficiency.

To those in Australia who in their hearts may feel that shreds of truth
were woven in the rumours--that the Anzacs were spent on a forlorn hope,
were wasted on a task foredoomed to failure--let this simple drawing
bring the comfort of the truth.

The artist has seen deeper and further than most. The Turkish armies
held from pouring on Russia and Serbia, from thumping down the
scales of neutrality in Greece and Roumania perhaps, from massing
their troops with the Central Powers; the Kaiser chained on the
East and West for the critical months when men and munitions were
desperately lacking to the Allies, when the extra weight of the
Turks might have freed the Kaiser's power of fierce attack on East
and West this is what we already know, what the artist here tells
the wide world of the part played by the heroes of the Dardanelles.

In face of this, who dare hint they suffered and died in vain?

BOYD CABLE.

[Illustration: "JUST A MOMENT--I'M COMING."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE HOLY WAR
Surely the artist when he drew this was endowed with the wisdom of
the seer, the vision of the prophet.

For it was drawn before the days in which I write, before the Russian
giant had proved his greatness on the body of the Turk, before the
bludgeon-strokes in the Caucasus, the heart-thrust of Erzerum, the
torrent of pursuit of the broken Turks to Mush and Trebizond.

We know--and I am grateful for the chance to voice our gratitude to
him--the greatness of our Russian Ally. We remember the early days when
the Kaiser's hosts were pouring in over France, and the Russian
thrust into Galicia drew some of the overwhelming weight from the
Western Front. We realize now the nobility of self-sacrifice that flung
an army within reach of the jaws of destruction, that risked its
annihilation to draw upon itself some of the sword-strokes
that threatened to pierce to the heart of the West.

Our national and natural instinct of admiration for a hard fighter,
and still greater admiration for the apex of good sportmanship, for the
friend or foe who can "take a licking," who is a "good loser," went out
even more strongly to Russia in the dark days when, faced by an
overwhelming weight of metal, she was forced and hammered and
battered back, losing battle-line after battle-line, stronghold
after stronghold, city after city; losing everything except heart
and dogged punishment-enduring courage.

And how great the Russian truly is will surely be known presently to
the Turk and to the masquerading false "Prophet of Allah."
"No one is great save Allah," says William, and even as the Turk spoke
more truly than he knew in calling the Russian great, even as he was
bitterly to realize the greatness, so in the fullness of time must William
come to realize how great is the Allah of the Moslem, the Christian God
Whom he has blasphemed, and in Whose name he and his people have
perpetrated so many crimes and abominations.

BOYD CABLE.

[Illustration: THE HOLY WAR
THE TURK: "But he is so great."
WILLIAM: "No one is great, save Allah, and I am his prophet."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

GOTT MIT UNS
When we consider the public utterances of the German clergy, we can very
easily substitute for their symbol of Christian faith this
malignant, grotesque, and inhuman monster of Louis Raemaekers.
Indeed, our inclination is to thrust the green demon himself
into the pulpit of the Fatherland; for his wrinkled skull could
hatch and his evil mouth utter no more diabolic sentiments than those
recorded and applauded from Lutheran Leipsic, or from the University
and the chief Protestant pulpit in Berlin.

Such sermons are a part of that national _débâcle_ of reasoning faculty
which is the price intellectual Germany has paid for the surrender of her
soul to Prussia.

An example or two may be cited from the outrageous mass.

Professor Rheinhold Seeby, who teaches theology at Berlin University,
has described his nation's achievements in Belgium and Serbia as a
work of charity, since Germany punishes other States for their
good and out of love. Pastor Philippi, also of Berlin, has said that,
as God allowed His only Son to be crucified, that His scheme of
redemption might be accomplished, so Germany, God with her, must
crucify humanity in order that its ultimate salvation may be secured;
and the Teutonic nation has been chosen to perform this task, because
Germany alone is pure and, therefore, a fitting instrument for the
Divine Hand.

Satan, who has returned to earth in the shape of England, must be
utterly destroyed, while the immoral friends and allies of Satan
are called to share his fate. Thus evil will be swept off the earth and
the German Empire henceforth stand supreme protector of the
new kingdom of righteousness.

Pastor Zoebel has ordered no compromise with hell; directed his flock
to be pleased at the sufferings of the enemy; and bade them rejoice
when thousands of the non-elect are sent to the bottom of the
sea.

Yes, we will give the green devil his robe and bands until Germany
is in her strait-jacket; after which experience, her conceptions
of a Supreme Being and her own relation thereto may become
modified.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

     [Illustration: "GOTT MIT UNS"]
     -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     THE WIDOWS OF BELGIUM

This deeply pathetic picture evokes the memory of many sad and patient
faces which we have seen during the last eighteen months. It is the women,
after all--wives, mothers, sisters, and daughters--who have the heaviest
load to bear in war-time.

The courage and heroism which they have shown are an honour to human
nature.

     The world is richer for it; and the sacrifices which they have
     bravely faced and nobly borne may have a greater effect in convincing
     mankind of the wickedness and folly of aggressive militarism than
all the eloquence of peace advocates.

     We must not forget that the war has made about six German widows
     for every one in our country. With these we have no quarrel; we
     know that family affection is strong in Germany, and we are
     sorry for them. They, like our own suffering women, are the victims
     of a barbarous ideal of national glory, and a worse than barbarous
     perversion of patriotism, which in our opponents has become a kind
     of moral insanity.
     

These pictures will remain long after the war-passion has subsided. They
will do their part in preventing a recrudescence of it. Who that has
ever clamoured for war can face the unspoken reproach in these
pitiful eyes? Who can think unmoved of the happy romance of wedded
love, so early and so sadly terminated?
THE DEAN OF ST. PAUL'S.
[Illustration: THE WIDOWS OF BELGIUM]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE HARVEST IS RIPE
The artist spreads before you a view such as you would have on the
great wheat-growing plains of Hungary, or on the level plateau of
Asiatic Turkey--the vast, unending, monotonous, undivided field of
corn. In the background the view is interrupted by two villages
from which great clouds of flame and smoke are rising--they are
both on fire--and as you look closer at the harvest you see that,
instead of wheat, it consists of endless regiments of marching
soldiers.
"The harvest is plentiful, but the labourers are few": here is only
one, but he is quite sufficient--"the reaper whose name is Death,"
a skeleton over whose bones the peasant's dress--a shirt and a pair
of ragged trousers--hangs loose. The shirt-sleeves of the skeleton
are turned well up, as if for more active exertion, as he grasps
the two holds of the huge scythe with which he is sweeping down the
harvest.
This is not war of the old type, with its opportunities for chivalry,
its glories, and its pride of manly strength. The German development
of war has made it into a mere exercise in killing, a business of
slaughter. Which side can kill most, and itself outlast the other?
When one reads the calculations by which careful statisticians
demonstrate that in the first seventeen months of the war Germany
alone lost over a million of men killed in battle, one feels that
this cartoon is not exaggerated. It is the bare truth.
The ease with which the giant figure of Death mows down the harvest
of tiny men corresponds, in fact, to the million of German dead,
probably as many among the Russians, to which must be added the
losses among the Austrians, the French, the British, the Belgians,
Italians, Serbs, Turks, and Montenegrins.Worrall claimed in his
specifications of June 23, 1857:

     the improved manufacture of [the] carpenter's bench plane or
     jointer as made with its handle, its wooden stock to which said
     handle is affixed, and a separate metallic cutter holder, and
     cutter clamping devices arranged together substantially as
     specified.

Finally patentees throughout the 19th century, faced with an increasing
proliferation of tool types, frequently sought to perfect multipurpose
implements of a type best represented later by the ubiquitous Stanley
plane. The evolution of the all-purpose idea, which is incidentally not
peculiar to hand tools alone, can be seen from random statements
selected from U.S. patents for the improvement of bench planes. In 1864
Stephen Williams in the specifications of his patent 43,360 stated:

     I denominate my improvement the "universal smoothing plane,"
     because it belongs to that variety of planes in which the face is
     made changeable, so that it may be conveniently adapted to the
     planing of curved as well as straight surfaces. By the use of my
     improvement surfaces that are convex, concave, or straight may be
     easily worked, the face of the tool being readily changed from one
     form to another to suit the surface to which it is to be applied.

The announced object of Theodore Duval's improved grooving plane (pat.
97,177) was "to produce in one tool all that is required to form grooves
of several different widths." None was more appealing than Daniel D.
Whitker's saw-rabbet plane (pat. 52,478) which combined "an adjustable
saw with an adjustable fence or gage, both being attached to a stock
with handle similar to a plane, forming together a tool combining the
properties of the joiner's plow and fillister" (fig. 61). Nor was
Whitker's idea simply a drawing-board exercise. It was produced
commercially and was well advertised, as seen in the circular reproduced
in figure 62.

