I.
Light, warmth, and sprouting greenness, and o'er all
Blue, stainless, steel-bright ether, raining down
Tranquillity upon the deep-hushed town,
The freshening meadows, and the hillsides brown;
Voice of the west-wind from the hills of pine,
And the brimmed river from its distant fall,
Low hum of bees, and joyous interlude
Of bird-songs in the streamlet-skirting wood,--
Heralds and prophecies of sound and sight,
Blessed forerunners of the warmth and light,
Attendant angels to the house of prayer,
With reverent footsteps keeping pace with mine,--
Once more, through God's great love, with you I share
A morn of resurrection sweet and fair
As that which saw, of old, in Palestine,
Immortal Love uprising in fresh bloom
From the dark night and winter of the tomb!
2d, 5th mo., 1852.

II.
White with its sun-bleached dust, the pathway winds
Before me; dust is on the shrunken grass,
And on the trees beneath whose boughs I pass;
Frail screen against the Hunter of the sky,
Who, glaring on me with his lidless eye,
While mounting with his dog-star high and higher
Ambushed in light intolerable, unbinds
The burnished quiver of his shafts of fire.
Between me and the hot fields of his South
A tremulous glow, as from a furnace-mouth,
Glimmers and swims before my dazzled sight,
As if the burning arrows of his ire
Broke as they fell, and shattered into light;
Yet on my cheek I feel the western wind,
And hear it telling to the orchard trees,
And to the faint and flower-forsaken bees,
Tales of fair meadows, green with constant streams,
And mountains rising blue and cool behind,
Where in moist dells the purple orchis gleams,
And starred with white the virgin's bower is twined.
So the o'erwearied pilgrim, as he fares
Along life's summer waste, at times is fanned,
Even at noontide, by the cool, sweet airs
Of a serener and a holier land,
Fresh as the morn, and as the dewfall bland.
Breath of the blessed Heaven for which we pray,
Blow from the eternal hills! make glad our earthly way!
8th mo., 1852.


SUMMER BY THE LAKESIDE

LAKE WINNIPESAUKEE.

I. NOON.
White clouds, whose shadows haunt the deep,
Light mists, whose soft embraces keep
The sunshine on the hills asleep!

O isles of calm! O dark, still wood!
And stiller skies that overbrood
Your rest with deeper quietude!

O shapes and hues, dim beckoning, through
Yon mountain gaps, my longing view
Beyond the purple and the blue,

To stiller sea and greener land,
And softer lights and airs more bland,
And skies,--the hollow of God's hand!

Schoenbein, 'shew us how little the miasma
of the air are to be appreciated by
weight, even when they exist therein in a quantity very sensible
to the smell, and how small is the proportion of ozone necessary
to destroy the miasm produced by the putrefaction of organic
substances, and diffused through the atmosphere.'

The presence of ozone in any vessel
or in the atmosphere, may be detected
by a test-paper which has been moistened with a solution composed
of 1 part of pure iodide of potassium, 10 parts of starch, and 100
parts of water, boiled together for a few moments.

Paper so prepared turns immediately blue
when exposed to the action of
ozone, the tint being lighter or darker according to the quantity.

Schoenbein's ozonometer consists
of 750 slips of dry bibulous paper
prepared in the manner described; and with a scale of tints and
instructions, sufficient to make observations on the ozone of the
atmosphere twice a day for a year.

After exposure to the ozone,
they require to be moistened
to bring out the colour.

M. Schoenbein continues: 'We must
admit that the electric discharges which take place incessantly
in different parts of the atmosphere, and causing therein a formation
of ozone, purify the air by this means of organic, or, more generally,
oxidizable miasma; and that they have thus the important office of
maintaining it in a state of purity suitable to animal life.

By means of atmospheric electricity,
and, indirectly, nature thus attains on
a great scale the object that we sometimes seek to accomplish in
a limited space by fumigations with chlorine.

'Here, as in many other cases, we
see nature effecting two different
objects at one stroke.

For if the oxidizable miasma are destroyed
by atmospheric ozone, they, in turn, cause
the latter to disappear, and we have seen that it is itself a miasm.

This is doubtless the reason why ozone
does not accumulate in the
atmosphere in greater proportion than the oxidizable miasma,
notwithstanding the constant formation of one and the other.

'In all times, the idea has been held,
that storms purify the air, and I do
not think that this opinion is ill-founded.

We know, in fact, that storms give
rise to a more abundant production
of ozone.

It is possible, and even probable,
that sometimes, in particular
localities, there may not be a just relation between the ozone and
the oxidizable miasma in the air, and that the latter cannot be
completely destroyed.

Hence, in
accordance with the chemical nature and
physiological influence of these miasma,
they would exert a marked action on
the animal economy, and cause diseases among the greater number
of those who breathe the infected air.

But numerous experiments prove that, as a
rule, the air contains free ozone,
though in very variable proportions;
from which we may conclude that no oxidizable miasm--sulphuretted
hydrogen, for example--can exist in such an atmosphere, any more
than it could exist in air containing but a trace of chlorine.

'I do not know if it be true, as has been
advanced by Mr Hunt and other persons,
that ozone is deficient in the
atmospheric air when some wide-spread malady, such as cholera, is
raging.

In any case, it would be easy, by means
of the prepared paper, to determine the
truth or fallacy of this opinion.

'There is one fact which should particularly
engage the attention of physicians
and physiologists, which is, that,
of all seasons, the winter is distinguished by the greatest
proportion of ozone; whence it follows, that during that season the
air contains least of oxidizable miasma.

Last night, just as the tints of autumn's sky
Of sunset faded from our hills and streams,
I sat, vague listening, lapped in twilight dreams,
To the leaf's rustle, and the cricket's cry.

Then, like that basket, flush with summer fruit,
Dropped by the angels at the Prophet's foot,
Came, unannounced, a gift of clustered sweetness,
Full-orbed, and glowing with the prisoned beams
Of summery suns, and rounded to completeness
By kisses of the south-wind and the dew.
Thrilled with a glad surprise, methought I knew
The pleasure of the homeward-turning Jew,
When Eshcol's clusters on his shoulders lay,
Dropping their sweetness on his desert way.

I said, "This fruit beseems no world of sin.
Its parent vine, rooted in Paradise,
O'ercrept the wall, and never paid the price
Of the great mischief,--an ambrosial tree,
Eden's exotic, somehow smuggled in,
To keep the thorns and thistles company."
Perchance our frail, sad mother plucked in haste
A single vine-slip as she passed the gate,
Where the dread sword alternate paled and burned,
And the stern angel, pitying her fate,
Forgave the lovely trespasser, and turned
Aside his face of fire; and thus the waste
And fallen world hath yet its annual taste
Of primal good, to prove of sin the cost,
And show by one gleaned ear the mighty harvest lost.
1854.


FLOWERS IN WINTER

PAINTED UPON A PORTE LIVRE.

How strange to greet, this frosty morn,
In graceful counterfeit of flowers,
These children of the meadows, born
Of sunshine and of showers!

How well the conscious wood retains
The pictures of its flower-sown home,
The lights and shades, the purple stains,
And golden hues of bloom!

It was a happy thought to bring
To the dark season's frost and rime
This painted memory of spring,
This dream of summer-time.

Our hearts are lighter for its sake,
Our fancy's age renews its youth,
And dim-remembered fictions take
The guise of--present truth.

A wizard of the Merrimac,--
So old ancestral legends say,
Could call green leaf and blossom back
To frosted stem and spray.

The dry logs of the cottage wall,
Beneath his touch, put out their leaves
The clay-bound swallow, at his call,
Played round the icy eaves.

The settler saw his oaken flail
Take bud, and bloom before his eyes;
From frozen pools he saw the pale,
Sweet summer lilies rise.

To their old homes, by man profaned,
Came the sad dryads, exiled long,
And through their leafy tongues complained
Of household use and wrong.

The beechen platter sprouted wild,
The pipkin wore its old-time green
The cradle o'er the sleeping child
Became a leafy screen.

Haply our gentle friend hath met,
While wandering in her sylvan quest,
Haunting his native woodlands yet,
That Druid of the West;

And, while the dew on leaf and flower
Glistened in moonlight clear and still,
Learned the dusk wizard's spell of power,
And caught his trick of skill.

But welcome, be it new or old,
The gift which makes the day more bright,
And paints, upon the ground of cold
And darkness, warmth and light.

Without is neither gold nor green;
Within, for birds, the birch-logs sing;
Yet, summer-like, we sit between
The autumn and the spring.

The one, with bridal blush of rose,
And sweetest breath of woodland balm,
And one whose matron lips unclose
In smiles of saintly calm.

Fill soft and deep, O winter snow!
The sweet azalea's oaken dells,
And hide the bank where roses blow,
And swing the azure bells!

O'erlay the amber violet's leaves,
The purple aster's brookside home,
Guard all the flowers her pencil gives
A life beyond their bloom.

And she, when spring comes round again,
By greening slope and singing flood
Shall wander, seeking, not in vain,
Her darlings of the wood.
1855.


THE MAYFLOWERS

     The trailing arbutus, or mayflower, grows abundantly in the
     vicinity of Plymouth, and was the first flower that greeted the
     Pilgrims after their fearful winter. The name mayflower was
     familiar in England, as the application of it to the historic
     vessel shows, but it was applied by the English, and still is, to
     the hawthorn. Its use in New England in connection with _Epigma
     repens _dates from a very early day, some claiming that the first
     Pilgrims so used it, in affectionate memory of the vessel and its
     English flower association.

Sad Mayflower! watched by winter stars,
And nursed by winter gales,
With petals of the sleeted spars,
And leaves of frozen sails!

What had she in those dreary hours,
Within her ice-rimmed bay,
In common with the wild-wood flowers,
The first sweet smiles of May?

Yet, "God be praised!" the Pilgrim said,
Who saw the blossoms peer
Above the brown leaves, dry and dead,
"Behold our Mayflower here!"

"God wills it: here our rest shall be,
Our years of wandering o'er;
For us the Mayflower of the sea
Shall spread her sails no more."

O sacred flowers of faith and hope,
As sweetly now as then
Ye bloom on many a birchen slope,
In many a pine-dark glen.

Behind the sea-wall's rugged length,
Unchanged, your leaves unfold,
Like love behind the manly strength
Of the brave hearts of old.

So live the fathers in their sons,
Their sturdy faith be ours,
And ours the love that overruns
Its rocky strength with flowers!

The Pilgrim's wild and wintry day
Its shadow round us draws;
The Mayflower of his stormy bay,
Our Freedom's struggling cause.

But warmer suns erelong shall bring
To life the frozen sod;
And through dead leaves of hope shall spring
Afresh the flowers of God!
1856.


THE LAST WALK IN AUTUMN.

I.
O'er the bare woods, whose outstretched hands
Plead with the leaden heavens in vain,
I see, beyond the valley lands,
The sea's long level dim with rain.
Around me all things, stark and dumb,
Seem praying for the snows to come,
And, for the summer bloom and greenness gone,
With winter's sunset lights and dazzling morn atone.

II.
Along the river's summer walk,
The withered tufts of asters nod;
And trembles on its arid stalk
The boar plume of the golden-rod.
A NEW PRINCIPLE IN NATURE.

It is pretty well known that researches by Matteucci, Du Bois-Reymond,
and others, have made us acquainted with the influence of electricity
and galvanism on the muscular system of animals, and that important
physiological effects have been attributed to this influence, more
than perhaps we are warranted in assuming in the present state of
our knowledge.

That
an influence is exerted in some way,
is clear from the difference in our
feelings in dry and wet weather: it has
been supposed, however, that the
effects on the nervous system are
not produced by an accumulation
of positive or of negative electricity, but
by the combination of the two producing dynamic electricity.

While
these points are undergoing
discussion, we have an opportunity
of bringing before our readers the
results of investigations bearing
on the general question.

Most persons are aware of the fact, that
a peculiar taste follows the application of two different metals
to the tongue in a popular galvanic experiment.

This
taste is caused by the azotic acid formed
from the oxygen and azote of
the atmosphere. An electric discharge, too,
is accompanied by a smell,
which smell is due to the presence of
what is called ozone; and not long
ago M. Schoenbein, of Basel, the inventor of
guncotton, discovered ozone as a principle in the oxygen of the
atmosphere; and it is considered to be the _active_ principle of
that universal constituent.

Later
researches have brought out a
striking analogy between the
properties of ozone and chlorine, and
have led to conclusions as to the
dangerous effect which the former may
produce, in certain cases, on the organs
of respiration. Some idea of its energy may be formed
from the fact, that mice perish speedily in air which contains one
six-thousandth of ozone.

It is
always present in the atmosphere
in a greater or lesser degree, in
direct relation with the amount of
atmospheric electricity, and appears
to obey the same laws in its
variations, finding its maximum
in winter and its minimum in
summer.

Ozone, in scientific language, is
described as 'a compound of oxygen
analogous to the peroxide of
hydrogen, or, that it is oxygen
in an allotropic state--that is,
with the capability of immediate
and ready action impressed upon it.' Besides
being produced by electrical discharges in the atmosphere, it can
be obtained artificially by the passing of what is called the
electrical brush into the air from a moist wooden point, or by
electrolyzed water or phosphorus.

The
process, when the latter substance
is employed, is to put a small piece,
clean scraped, about half an inch
long, into a large bottle which
contains just so much of
water as to half cover the phosphorus,
and then closing the mouth slightly, to guard
against combustion, to leave it standing for a time in a temperature
of about 60 degrees.

Ozone soon begins to be formed,
as shewn by the rising of a light
column of smoke from the phosphorus,
which, at the same time, becomes
luminous. In five or six hours, the
quantity will be abundant, when the
bottle is to be emptied of its contents,
washed out, and closed for use and experiment.

Whichever way the ozone be produced,
it is always identical in its
properties; and these are described
as numerous and remarkable. Its
odour is peculiar, resembling that
of chlorine, and, when diluted,
cannot be distinguished from what is called
the electric smell.

When
largely diffused in atmospheric
air, it causes unpleasant sensations,
makes respiration difficult,
and, by acting powerfully on the mucous
membranes, produces catarrhal
effects; and as such air will kill
small animals, it shews that pure ozone must be
highly injurious to the animal economy.

It is
insoluble in water, is powerfully
   electromotive, and is most strikingly
energetic in numerous chemical agencies,
its action on nearly all metallic
bodies being to carry them at once to
the state of peroxide, or to
their highest point of oxidation; it changes
sulphurets into sulphates, instantaneously destroys several gaseous
compounds, and bleaches indigo, thus shewing its analogy with
chlorine.

In
proceeding to the account of his
experiments, M.
XVII.
What greetings smile, what farewells wave,
What loved ones enter and depart!
The good, the beautiful, the brave,
The Heaven-lent treasures of the heart!
How conscious seems the frozen sod
And beechen slope whereon they trod
The oak-leaves rustle, and the dry grass bends
Beneath the shadowy feet of lost or absent friends.

XVIII.
Then ask not why to these bleak hills
I cling, as clings the tufted moss,
To bear the winter's lingering chills,
The mocking spring's perpetual loss.
I dream of lands where summer smiles,
And soft winds blow from spicy isles,
But scarce would Ceylon's breath of flowers be sweet,
Could I not feel thy soil, New England, at my feet!

XIX.
At times I long for gentler skies,
And bathe in dreams of softer air,
But homesick tears would fill the eyes
That saw the Cross without the Bear.
The pine must whisper to the palm,
The north-wind break the tropic calm;
And with the dreamy languor of the Line,
The North's keen virtue blend, and strength to beauty join.

XX.
Better to stem with heart and hand
The roaring tide of life, than lie,
Unmindful, on its flowery strand,
Of God's occasions drifting by
Better with naked nerve to bear
The needles of this goading air,
Than, in the lap of sensual ease, forego
The godlike power to do, the godlike aim to know.

XXI.
Home of my heart! to me more fair
Than gay Versailles or Windsor's halls,
The painted, shingly town-house where
The freeman's vote for Freedom falls!
The simple roof where prayer is made,
Than Gothic groin and colonnade;
The living temple of the heart of man,
Than Rome's sky-mocking vault, or many-spired Milan!

XXII.
More dear thy equal village schools,
Where rich and poor the Bible read,
Than classic halls where Priestcraft rules,
And Learning wears the chains of Creed;
Thy glad Thanksgiving, gathering in
The scattered sheaves of home and kin,
Than the mad license ushering Lenten pains,
Or holidays of slaves who laugh and dance in chains.

XXIII.
And sweet homes nestle in these dales,
And perch along these wooded swells;
And, blest beyond Arcadian vales,
They hear the sound of Sabbath bells!
Here dwells no perfect man sublime,
Nor woman winged before her time,
But with the faults and follies of the race,
Old home-bred virtues hold their not unhonored place.

XXIV.
Here manhood struggles for the sake
Of mother, sister, daughter, wife,
The graces and the loves which make
The music of the march of life;
And woman, in her daily round
Of duty, walks on holy ground.
No unpaid menial tills the soil, nor here
Is the bad lesson learned at human rights to sneer.

XXV.
Then let the icy north-wind blow
The trumpets of the coming storm,
To arrowy sleet and blinding snow
Yon slanting lines of rain transform.
Young hearts shall hail the drifted cold,
As gayly as I did of old;
And I, who watch them through the frosty pane,
Unenvious, live in them my boyhood o'er again.

XXVI.
And I will trust that He who heeds
The life that hides in mead and wold,
Who hangs yon alder's crimson beads,
And stains these mosses green and gold,
Will still, as He hath done, incline
His gracious care to me and mine;
Grant what we ask aright, from wrong debar,
And, as the earth grows dark, make brighter every star!

XXVII.
I have not seen, I may not see,
My hopes for man take form in fact,
But God will give the victory
In due time; in that faith I act.
And lie who sees the future sure,
The baffling present may endure,
And bless, meanwhile, the unseen Hand that leads
The heart's desires beyond the halting step of deeds.

XXVIII.
And thou, my song, I send thee forth,
Where harsher songs of mine have flown;
Go, find a place at home and hearth
Where'er thy singer's name is known;
Revive for him the kindly thought
Of friends; and they who love him not,
Touched by some strain of thine, perchance may take
The hand he proffers all, and thank him for thy sake.
1857.


THE FIRST FLOWERS

For ages on our river borders,
These tassels in their tawny bloom,
And willowy studs of downy silver,
Have prophesied of Spring to come.

For ages have the unbound waters
Smiled on them from their pebbly hem,
And the clear carol of the robin
And song of bluebird welcomed them.

But never yet from smiling river,
Or song of early bird, have they
Been greeted with a gladder welcome
Than whispers from my heart to-day.

They break the spell of cold and darkness,
The weary watch of sleepless pain;
And from my heart, as from the river,
The ice of winter melts again.

Thanks, Mary! for this wild-wood token
Of Freya's footsteps drawing near;
Almost, as in the rune of Asgard,
The growing of the grass I hear.

It is as if the pine-trees called me
From ceiled room and silent books,
To see the dance of woodland shadows,
And hear the song of April brooks!

As in the old Teutonic ballad
Of Odenwald live bird and tree,
Together live in bloom and music,
I blend in song thy flowers and thee.

Earth's rocky tablets bear forever
The dint of rain and small bird's track
Who knows but that my idle verses
May leave some trace by Merrimac!

The bird that trod the mellow layers
Of the young earth is sought in vain;
The cloud is gone that wove the sandstone,
From God's design, with threads of rain!

So, when this fluid age we live in
Shall stiffen round my careless rhyme,
Who made the vagrant tracks may puzzle
The savants of the coming time;

And, following out their dim suggestions,
Some idly-curious hand may draw
My doubtful portraiture, as Cuvier
Drew fish and bird from fin and claw.

And maidens in the far-off twilights,
Singing my words to breeze and stream,
Shall wonder if the old-time Mary
Were real, or the rhymer's dream!
1st 3d mo., 1857.


THE OLD BURYING-GROUND.

Our vales are sweet with fern and rose,
Our hills are maple-crowned;
But not from them our fathers chose
The village burying-ground.

The dreariest spot in all the land
To Death they set apart;
With scanty grace from Nature's hand,
And none from that of Art.

A winding wall of mossy stone,
Frost-flung and broken, lines
A lonesome acre thinly grown
With grass and wandering vines.

Without the wall a birch-tree shows
Its drooped and tasselled head;
Within, a stag-horned sumach grows,
Fern-leafed, with spikes of red.

There, sheep that graze the neighboring plain
Like white ghosts come and go,
The farm-horse drags his fetlock chain,
The cow-bell tinkles slow.

It is said adversity must at some
time reach us all: it had
been late in visiting them, for they
had passed a happy youth in that quiet parsonage.

At last, sorrow came, and they
were left alone, the two
extremes of the chain which had bound the
little household together--all the intermediate links had broken;
and when, upon their father's death, they had to quit their long-loved
home, they found themselves verging upon old age, in circumstances
that natures less strictly disciplined would have felt to have been
at the least dreary.

The younger sister was slightly
deformed, and very delicate;
the elder, though still an
active woman, was quite beyond the middle of life; the income of
the two, just L.30--no great elements these of either usefulness
or happiness.

Let us see, then, what was made of them. Some
relations pressed the sisters
to share their distant home, but
they would not leave the village.

They felt as if their work lay there.
The friends they knew best
were all around them; the occupations
they had been used to still remained to them; the memory of all
they had loved there clung to them, in the old haunts so doubly
dear to the bereaved who bear affliction patiently.

So they moved only to a cottage a little
higher up the hill, yet within
view of the church, and of the
dear old house, with its garden, sheltering wood, and pleasant
rivulet; and there they lived in comfort, with enough to use and
much to spare, their cruse never failing them when wanted.

It was a real cottage, which a labourer
had left: there was no ornament
about it till they added some. Rude
and unfashioned did this low-thatched cabin pass to them; it was
their own hands, with very little help from their light purse, which
made of a mere hovel the prettiest of rural dwellings--her own
hands, indeed; for Sister Anne alone was the working-bee.

Sister Catherine helped by hints
and smiles, and by her nimble
needle; but for out-of-doors labour
she had not strength.

Sister Anne nailed up the
trellised porch, over which
gay creepers were in time to
grow.

Sister Anne laid out the beds of flowers,
protected by a low paling
from the sheep which pastured
on the downs.

She planned the tidy bit of garden
on one side, and the
little yard behind, where pig and
poultry throve; but Sister Catherine watched the bee-hives near
the hawthorn hedge, and plied her busy fingers by the hour to
decorate the inside of their pretty cottage.

They almost acted man and wife in the
division of their employments,
and with the best effect.

What does the good ship bear so well?
The cocoa-nut with its stony shell,
And the milky sap of its inner cell.

What are its jars, so smooth and fine,
But hollowed nuts, filled with oil and wine,
And the cabbage that ripens under the Line?

Who smokes his nargileh, cool and calm?
The master, whose cunning and skill could charm
Cargo and ship from the bounteous palm.

In the cabin he sits on a palm-mat soft,
From a beaker of palm his drink is quaffed,
And a palm-thatch shields from the sun aloft!

His dress is woven of palmy strands,
And he holds a palm-leaf scroll in his hands,
Traced with the Prophet's wise commands!

The turban folded about his head
Was daintily wrought of the palm-leaf braid,
And the fan that cools him of palm was made.

Of threads of palm was the carpet spun
Whereon he kneels when the day is done,
And the foreheads of Islam are bowed as one!

To him the palm is a gift divine,
Wherein all uses of man combine,--
House, and raiment, and food, and wine!

And, in the hour of his great release,
His need of the palm shall only cease
With the shroud wherein he lieth in peace.

"Allah il Allah!" Fields, meadows, a
shady lane, a brook, and the Welsh mountains
for a background, formed the picture
of beauty that attracted the stranger.

There was hardly what could be called a street.

The cottages were clustered upon the
side of the wooded bank above the stream, shrouded in gardens of
apple-trees; but there was space near the foot of the hill for a
green of rather handsome size, with a plane-tree in the middle of
it, and a few small shops along one side.

Opposite the shops was the inn,
the doctor's house, the market-house, and a public reading-room;
and a bylane led from the green up towards the church--an old,
low-walled, steep-roofed building, with a square, dumpy tower, in
which hung a peal of bells, and where was placed a large, round,
clumsy window.

We spake not, but our thought was one.

We paused, as if from that bright shore
Beckoned our dear ones gone before;

And stilled our beating hearts to hear
The voices lost to mortal ear!

Sudden our pathway turned from night;
The hills swung open to the light;

Through their green gates the sunshine showed,
A long, slant splendor downward flowed.

Down glade and glen and bank it rolled;
It bridged the shaded stream with gold;

And, borne on piers of mist, allied
The shadowy with the sunlit side!

"So," prayed we, "when our feet draw near
The river dark, with mortal fear,

"And the night cometh chill with dew,
O Father! let Thy light break through!

"So let the hills of doubt divide,
So bridge with faith the sunless tide!

"So let the eyes that fail on earth
On Thy eternal hills look forth;

"And in Thy beckoning angels know
The dear ones whom we loved below!"
1880.