There is such a polite element abroad on polling day. Men are so
respectful and hurl such affectionate terms at one another. Even the
dogs are upset, and strut about in quite a different manner than on
ordinary days, so puffed out with vanity are they, on account of their
decorations. The members' wives and their friends are all taking part
in the scene too, bringing voters along in their carriages, and
shaking hands with everybody indiscriminately. I heard an old navvy
protesting once that "Lady ---- never troubled to shake 'ands with him
any other time, but was generally that 'orty she'd step over you as
soon as look at you."

Go light the dark, cold hearth-stones,--go turn the prison lock Of the
poor hearts thou hast hunted, thou wolf amid the flock!"
Dark lowered the brows of Endicott, and with a deeper red O'er Rawson's
wine-empurpled cheek the flush of anger spread; "Good people," quoth
the white-lipped priest, "heed not her words so wild, Her Master
speaks within her,--the Devil owns his child!"

But gray heads shook, and young brows knit, the while the sheriff read
That law the wicked rulers against the poor have made, Who to their
house of Rimmon and idol priesthood bring No bended knee of worship,
nor gainful offering.

Then to the stout sea-captains the sheriff, turning, said,-- "Which of
ye, worthy seamen, will take this Quaker maid?
In the Isle of fair Barbadoes, or on Virginia's shore, You may hold
her at a higher price than Indian girl or Moor."

Grim and silent stood the captains; and when again he cried, "Speak
out, my worthy seamen!"--no voice, no sign replied; But I felt a hard
hand press my own, and kind words met my ear,-- "God bless thee,
and preserve thee, my gentle girl and dear!"
A weight seemed lifted from my heart, a pitying friend was nigh,-- I
felt it in his hard, rough hand, and saw it in his eye; And when again
the sheriff spoke, that voice, so kind to me, Growled back its
stormy answer like the roaring of the sea,--
"Pile my ship with bars of silver, pack with coins of Spanish gold,
From keel-piece up to deck-plank, the roomage of her hold, By the
living God who made me!

--I would sooner in your bay Sink ship and crew and cargo, than bear
this child away!"

"Well answered, worthy captain, shame on their cruel laws!" Ran through
the crowd in murmurs loud the people's just applause.
"Like the herdsman of Tekoa, in Israel of old, Shall we see the
poor and righteous again for silver sold?"

I looked on haughty Endicott; with weapon half- way drawn, Swept round
the throng his lion glare of bitter hate and scorn; Fiercely he drew
his bridle-rein, and turned in silence back, And sneering
priest and baffled clerk rode murmuring in his track.

Hard after them the sheriff looked, in bitterness of soul; Thrice smote
his staff upon the ground, and crushed his parchment roll.
"Good friends," he said, "since both have fled, the ruler and the priest,
Judge ye, if from their further work I be not well released."
Loud was the cheer which, full and clear, swept round the silent
bay, As, with kind words and kinder looks, he bade me go my way; For
He who turns the courses of the streamlet of the glen, And the
river of great waters, had turned the hearts of men.

Oh, at that hour the very earth seemed changed beneath my eye, A holier
wonder round me rose the blue walls of the sky, A lovelier light on
rock and hill and stream and woodland lay, And softer lapsed on
sunnier sands the waters of the bay.

Thanksgiving to the Lord of life! to Him all praises be, Who from the
hands of evil men hath set his hand- maid free; All praise to Him
before whose power the mighty are afraid, Who takes the crafty in the
snare which for the poor is laid!
No! and
never would have reached had it not been for this flourishing, this
powerful League! &c., &c., &c. His voice gradually grew louder and
louder until, with beating his hands on the table, stamping violently
over the sins of the Radicals, and perspiring vehemently in the
effort, he presented anything but a pleasing spectacle.

Of course animation like this brought down the house. The applause
nearly deafened me, and I was quite glad when he drew near the end of
his most tedious speech. He concluded by calming down very suddenly,
returned to his original tones, and thanking his audience for his
exceedingly kind reception, retired to his seat looking, as Mr.
Mantalini would say, a "dem'd damp, moist, unpleasant body."

Then up rose the ruling councillor, and called us all to pass a vote
of thanks to the "gifted orator." Someone seconded it, and the great
man came forward again to thank us for thanking him. A sort of "So
glad, I'm glad, you're glad" business, it seemed to me.

Then the ladies were thanked for being present: "Such great aids, and
such an _important_ element in the League," with a snigger, and what
he confidently hoped was a fascinating smile, but which made him
resemble a very placid cow with the corners of its mouth turned up.
Such a mouth, too! The poor man could have whispered in his own ear
had he wished. Then someone returned thanks for the ladies. The ruling
councillor was thanked, and thanked his thankers back again, and after
a few more people had exhibited their great faculty for gratitude the
meeting broke up--the only moment at which I felt inclined to applaud.

I do not wish to disparage my own "side" by the foregoing remarks, not
caring in any way to emulate Balaam. It is not only the members of the
Primrose League who are so anxious to praise each other. It is the
case at nearly every meeting you go to. It is a weakness of human
nature. We know that if we laud our friend he will sing an eulogy on
us the next minute, so it is only natural we should do it, after all.

    "The fault is not in our stars,
    But in ourselves, that we are underlings."


CHAPTER IV.

ON AFTERNOON TEA.

    "The Muses' friend, Tea, does our fancy aid,
    Repress the vapors which the head invade,
    And keeps the palace of the soul serene."


How I do love tea! I don't deny it, it is as necessary to me as
smoking is to men.

I have heard a lady accused by her doctor of being a "tea-drunkard"!
"Tea picks you up for a little time," he said, "and you feel a great
deal better after you have had a cup. But it is a stimulant, the
effect of which does not last very long, and all the while it is
ruining your nerves and constitution. I daresay it is difficult to
give up--the poor man finds the same with his spirits. You are no
better than he!"

It is rather a come down, is it not? Somehow, when you are drinking
tea, you feel so very temperate. Well, at least, the above reflection
makes you sympathize with the inebriates, if it does nothing else;
and I am afraid it does nothing else with me. In spite of the warning,
I continue to take my favorite beverage as strong and as frequently as
ever, and so I suppose must look forward to a cranky nervous old age.

It is curious to notice how men are invading our precincts now-a-days.
They used to scoff at such a meal as afternoon tea, and now most of
them take it as regularly as they stream out of the trains on Saturday
afternoons with pink papers under their arms--such elevating
literature! What a lark if the sticks come down on somebody's 'ed!
There, didyer see 'em bust?

Puts me in mind of a shower o' foiry smuts. Lor, so they do--what a fancy
you _do_ 'ave, &c., &c.

COMING HOME.

_An Old Gentleman_ (_who has come out with the object of observing
Bank Holiday manners--which he has done from a respectful distance--to
his friend, as they settle down in an empty first-class
compartment_).

There, now we shall just get comfortably off before the crush begins.
Now, to _me_, y'know, this has been a most interesting and gratifying
experience--wonderful spectacle, all that immense crowd enjoying
itself in its own way--boisterously, perhaps, but, on the whole, with
marvellous decorum! Really, very exhilarating to see--but you don't
agree with me?

_His Friend_ (_reluctantly_).

Well, I must say it struck me as rather pathetic than--
_The O.G._ (_testily_). Pathetic, Sir--nonsense! I like to see
people putting their _heart_ into it, whether it's play or work.
Give me a crowd--

[_As if in answer to this prayer, there is a sudden irruption of
typical Bank Holiday-makers into the compartment._
_Man by the Window_.

    Third-class as good as fust, these days!
    There's ole FRED! Wayo, FRED, tumble
    in, ole son--room for one more
    standin'!
    
    [_"OLE FRED" plays himself in with a triumphal blast on a tin
trumpet, after which he playfully hammers the roof with his stick,
as he leans against the door._ 
_Ole Fred_.

Where's my blanky friend? I 'it 'im one on the jaw, and I ain't
seen 'im since! (_Sings, sentimentally, at the top of a naturally
powerful voice._) "Com-rides, Com-rides! Hever since we was boys!
Sharin' each other's sorrers.

Sharin' each hother's--beer!"
[_A "paraprosdokian," which delights him to the point of repetition._

_The O.G._ Might I ask you to make a little less disturbance there
Sir? [_Whimpers from over-tired children._
_Ole Fred_ (_roaring_). "I'm jolly as a Sandboy, I'm 'appy as a
king!
No matter what I see or 'ear, I larf at heverything!It is a necessity to relieve your feelings occasionally,
and your family is a good, safe receptacle.

For those who have a taste for speaking spitefully of their neighbors,
I can suggest an amusing game which was, I believe, started in Oxford.
It is called Photograph whist, and is played by four. Two or three
dozen photographs are dealt round, and each person plays one, he who
plays the ugliest portrait taking the trick. The more hideous the
photograph, the greater its value as a trump! I have played the game
with a man who always keeps his brother to the end, and then brings
him out with enormous success, the said brother never failing to
overtrump any other card in the pack! So you see it is a most amiable
game altogether. You must only be careful not to spread your doings
abroad, or no one will present you with their portraits ever again.

There is no sin so bad as being found out. You can say anything as
long as you are not discovered to be the originator. But if your words
against a person ever happen to get round to him or her (of course
added to, and made almost unrecognizable in their progress) you make
an enemy for life. At least, this is so as a rule. Personally, I never
care what people say against me, so long as it is not true. But if
they only keep to the truth, then it is aggravating. You cannot deny
it! You cannot "tremble with indignation, and fling the words back in
their faces," as the slandered heroine always does in the modern
novel. You must simply submit to the accusation.

A man I know was saying all round the place a little while ago, that
my sisters and I "were all good looking until we opened our mouths."
Of course we heard of it, and have never forgiven him for his "damning
praise." But it is true. We always admit the fact. We know we show our
teeth too much when we laugh and talk. It was impossible to disclaim
such a statement. If he had said that we squinted, not a syllable
would have been pronounced against him. Our eyes are all exceptionally
good, and would bear any detrimental remarks. But no, he kept to the
truth, and consequently has suffered ever since, for ways of revenge
have been found which were thoroughly successful. He is the ugliest
man I ever met too, and should therefore have been the last to offend.

In spite of the tea you are invariably given on such occasions, I
think calls--formal calls--are some of the most dreadful experiences
Mrs. Grundy obliges you to undergo. I dislike them immensely, and
always get out of them if possible. I hope servants do not afterwards
record the expression of my countenance when they tell me their
mistress is "out." It is radiant with an unholy joy!

These dreadful "at home" days, too, are so provoking. If you know a
dozen people in a neighborhood, you can only call on one at a time.
They all have different days! This may seem slightly impossible; but
it is not indeed. While one lady's house is open to visitors on the
first and third Wednesdays in the month, another is on view on the
second and fourth, and so on. Not two people agree!

Small talk, I think, is never so small as on these occasions. The poor
weather is thorougly worn out, a few mutual friends are picked to
pieces, and of course there is a discussion about dress. Sometimes you
hear some sad account of the lady's second cousin's daughter, and you
have immediately to clothe your countenance in a sober garb. You must
look grieved, and all the while not caring one straw if the cousin's
daughter has fits or gets insane, or anything else she cares to do.
You have never heard of her before, and therefore have not the
slightest interest in her eccentricities. I always feel so terribly
inclined to laugh, just because I ought to be doing the other thing.

People are so fond of talking about their troubles and griefs. The
greater the sorrow, the greater the discussion. They call up tears to
their eyes, as if the subject were too sacred to approach. But such
tears are kept for the purpose. They come at their bidding, and fall
as naturally into their place as if the exhibition had been practiced
beforehand. It is a positive enjoyment to such people to detail their
grievances.

With the lower classes, this, so to speak, gloating over your losses
is even more apparent. One comparatively well-to-do woman I know,
seems to have a monopoly of funerals. NORFOLK CAPES, without making
the slightest difficulty about it. Then, turning to Boots, he says,
"7·45," whereupon Boots repeats the mystic formula. And thus 'tis
arranged.

Delightful gardens of Hotel. Stroll out on to cliff. Beautiful air, not
the least enervating. On the contrary, refreshing. Returning later on
to dress, I see the _salle à manger_ full to overflowing.
The Medicals are all feeding well and wisely, as Medicals ought to
do. A pleasant company. Only a few of the younger and idler spirits
remain when I sit down to my dinner about eight. Excellent
_cuisine_.

Couldn't be better. Salmon-trout from Christchurch, Poole pickles,
beef from Boscombe, Hampshire ham with Bournemouth beans. For wine,
Peter Pommery '80; and the whole to finish with Corfe Castle Korffee,
a Lyndhurst liqueur, and cigar in the sea-garden, or garden
o'erlooking the sea.

Lovely night.

Then, after a stroll, "to bed," as _Lady Macbeth_ observes. Sensible
person, _Lady Mac_.

On second thoughts will look at papers in smoking-room.

Am alone at first, but in a few minutes room crowded. Medical
Association has returned in force. I catch occasional bits in conversation:--

"Pity MCSIMMUM (or some name very like this) couldn't come. Great pity;
missed him immensely." (Here several stories about MCSIMMUM, all evidently
more or less good, and all interesting.

I myself begin to wish that MCSIMMUM had arrived. He would have been
an acquisition.) More medical men of various ages and with variety
of spectacles.

All enjoying themselves thoroughly,--quite medical boys out for a
holiday,--but every one of them, individually and collectively,
intensely regretting the absence of Dr.

MCSIMMUM. I hear the voice of my friend Mr. CAPES in the passage.

I will ask Mr. CAPES about this celebrated Dr. MCSIMMUM, whom evidently
I ought to know, at least by repute. Perhaps I have known him by sight
for years; perhaps he is a man with whom I often dine at the Club,
and who entertains us in the smoking-room with strange stories of
odd patients.

His name I have heard long ago. Was it MCSIMMUM? Not unlikely. Can't
remember.

Mr. CAPES is energetically explaining and protesting to everybody.
Amid the hum and buzz of voices, I catch what he is saying. It is, "My
dear Sir, Dr. MCSIMMUM _is_ here. I've seen him. He dined alone.
He said he preferred it, as he had so much to do to-morrow."

Then several exclaim, "But _where_ is he _now_?"
"I don't know," replies the Proprietor. "Most likely, being tired,
he has gone to bed. I myself showed him to his room, No. 142, on
his arrival."
Heavens! The number of my room--is 142! Not another man in
_there_!
No.... I see it all now, _I am Dr. MCSIMMUM!_ The real MCSIMMUM
hasn't arrived, and he hasn't sent a message.If you ever make a mistake, the best way is to confess it at
once, to tell the tale yourself. It sounds very different from your
lips than from those of your dearest friends. People laugh, but it is
a laugh that lacks the sting it would have if someone else told it at
your expense.

I remember making a woeful slip when I was taken over a cotton mill.
The man who was conducting us pointed to what looked like a heap of
dirty wool, and explained that it was the raw material. "And is that
just as it comes off the sheep's back?" I asked, unthinkingly. If a
thunderbolt had fallen in our midst the guide could not have been more
astonished. "Cotton, Miss!" he said, with grave surprise, "_Cotton_ is
a plant!" I inquired for no further information in that cotton mill,
but I told the story myself when I reached home, joining in the
laughter that followed as heartily as any of my audience.

Curates are more the rule than the exception at the five o'clock meal.
Somehow, you always connect the two. Afternoon tea without a curate
sounds an anomaly, a something incomplete.

I have had great experience in curates. Ours is a large parish, and
many clerical helps are needed. Large, small, nice, objectionable,
ugly, handsome--I have met specimens of each and all, and have come
to the conclusion that the last kind is the worst. How rarely do you
meet a good-looking man who thinks of anything but his appearance. 
"Waken! save me!" still as death At her side he slumbereth.

Ring and bracelet all are gone, And that ice-cold hand withdrawn;
But she hears a murmur low, Full of sweetness, full of woe, Half
a sigh and half a moan "Fear not!

give the dead her own!"
Ah!--the dead wife's voice she knows!
That cold hand whose pressure froze, Once in warmest life had borne
Gem and band her own hath worn.
"Wake thee! wake thee!" Lo, his eyes Open with a dull surprise.
The most fatal effect of this shyness, however, lies in the fact that
he dare not get up to go! He sits toying with his hat, he picks up his
umbrella three or four times, and lets it drop again; finally,
starting up with a rush in the middle of a conversation, he hurries
out, shaking hands all round with everyone but his hostess!

Would it be a very heinous breach of etiquette, if after an hour and a
half of this curate's company, one should suggest diffidently that it
was time to go?

In strong contrast, there is the bold, dashing man, who only comes
when he knows all the daughters are at home, not so much because it
gives him pleasure to see them, as because he would not deprive them
of the pleasure of talking to him. He has a faith in himself that
removes mountains; no lady's heart can beat regularly in his presence,
according to his confident opinion.

So on the whole I do not think afternoon tea is so nice abroad as it
is at home. It is not so pleasant with many as with a chosen few. I am
selfish, I am afraid, but I must confess I enjoy mine most with the
sole company of a roaring fire, a very easy chair, and a novel!


CHAPTER V.

ON DRESS.


I do not know who was the originator of the remark, but it has often
been said, and is generally admitted, that women do not dress to
please the men, but to outdo one another.

I think just the same might be said of men in their turn. It is after
all this spirit of competition which helps to make the world go round.
It is innate in man, and woman too, to always try to outrun each
other.

With clothes it is undoubtedly the case. The ancient Briton must have
vied with his neighbor in different designs with the woad plant. An
unusual curve, an uncommon pattern, caused, I daresay, as much
excitement then as the fashions of our own day.

I often wonder how they will manage some points in the histories for
the coming generation. In most of these books you see illustrations
and descriptions of the dress of the period, the costume of the reign.
How, oh historians! can you show forth those of Victorian times? Fifty
years have passed already! There were four seasons in each of those
fifty years! Two hundred illustrations must be shown in order to give
a correct idea of the dress of the time! Perhaps it might be more
satisfactory to devote a volume exclusively to the subject.

If only we did not run on so quickly! We seem to get faster every
year. In a very little time, what we wear one day will be quite out of
date the next! When we arrive at this climax, there will be a sudden
convulsion of nature, I should think, and we shall return once more to
the more simple garb of the aborigines. What an amount of trouble it
would save us! No worrying because the dressmaker has not sent our
gowns home in time! No sending them back to be altered! No
dressmaker's or tailor's bills; or at the least, very small ones; for
"woad" could not ruin us _very_ much.

So on the whole it would be well perhaps if this revolution did occur.
Some such convulsion as geologists declare has already frequently
befallen our earth; and, as they prophesy, is shortly coming again.

I do not like talking to these scientific men. They make you feel so
infinitesimally small. They go back such a long, long way. They make
out that from the Creation (which by the way they do not admit, only
considering it another great change in the world springing from
natural causes), from the Creation until now, is the space of a moment
on the great clock of time, is a mere "parenthesis in eternity."

It is not nice to feel such a nonentity. What are our lives, our
little lives in comparison? We, who each consider ourselves the one
person upon the earth, the hero or heroine in the great drama: all the
rest mere by-characters. We do not care to be considered of such
little consequence; only puppets appearing on the stage for one moment
and taken off the next. We are like the clergyman in the small island
off the North of Scotland, who prayed for the inhabitants "of Great
Cumbray and Little Cumbray and the neighboring islands of Great
Britain and Ireland!" On our small piece of land, we yet consider
ourselves the centre of the universe.

It is to be hoped if this revolution occurs, after all, that the
climate will change likewise. We should require something more besides
blue paint in most of our English winters!

Perhaps we take too much thought for what we shall put on. They say
that nothing but the prevailing and forthcoming fashions fill the
feminine mind. It is true sometimes, I daresay, and yet I always agree
with our immortal bard in thinking that "Self-love is not so vile a
thing as self-neglect."

It is decidedly better to think too much than too little. It is a duty
to your country and your nation to look your best, no matter who is
likely to see you.

Next morning up with the lark, indeed a trifle earlier, and after
examining Bournemouth and finding excellent residences up above in
beautiful air where it must always be breezy, I thank Mr.

NORFOLK CAPES, F.R.G.S. and P.R.B.H for the Hospitality shown me in
his exceptionally pleasant house, and I return by the swift 2·5
P.M.
train, which lands me at Vauxhall at 4·30 to the moment.

Of course I am now expecting my diploma as Honorary Member of the British
Medical Association.

* * * * *

ANOTHER JUBILEE.--That of the Old Stagers at Canterbury. Free List
entirely suspended at the Theatre, with the exception of just
_A Scrap Of Paper_ in the house.

* * * * *

KURDS AND AWAY!

[Illustration]
Indignant we spoke out, and any amount Of strong language we used
when we read the account, And a tear slowly rolled down our cheek when
we heard Of the youthful Miss G. and the Kidnapping Kurd.

We sat in our chairs, and, quite reckless of life, We wiped out
the insult with war to the knife; And it only redoubled our anger to
read That the girl--so they said--had abandoned her creed.

Such a thing was absurd, and, of course, wasn't true; Much perplexed,
we all wondered what we ought for to do, Though we heard with delight
they were on the girl's track, And we wept in our joy when we knew
she was back.

But the wonderful ending remains to be told, For the maiden
was fond of the warrior bold, And embracing her husband (as is usual
with brides) Mrs. AZIZ embraced his religion besides.

So our tears were all wasted, our threats all in vain, We can now
feel quite calm and collected again.

At the fate of the lady we all should rejoice, She is happy with AZIZ,
the man of her choice.

Good luck to the bridegroom! Good luck to the bride!
Good luck to the knot they have hastily tied!
With all due respect, let us venture to say That we hope from her
Kurd she will not run away!

* * * * *

ROBERT SEES THE PHOTOGRAFF TAKEN.

Well, I have seen some grandly hinteresting sites in my time, I have,
but never, no never, did I see anythink to ekal the picter as I
seed on the werry larst day of July larst week, when, by such a
series of good lucks as I ardly ever had afore, I was priveledged for
to see the Rite Honerable the Lord MARE prepare hisself, with his
two lately benighted Sheriffs, in the most scrumptious of their many
rich dresses, and with the solid gold Carsket as was guv to the
HEMPERER of GARMANY about a fortnight ago, and had most misteriously
cum back from abroad, all for to be photograffed altogether in one big
grupe, with all the Aldermen as they coud find handy in their rich
crimson silk dresses, and several werry Common Counsellers and Town
Clarks and Remembrensers, et setterer, in horder as the longing world
may see what sorts of Gents they was, and how they all looked when
in their werry best close, and with their lovely solid gold deckorations
on (as the HEMPERER and the Prince of WALES begged and prayed as they
might have one a-peace) who arranged and carried out the grandest
show of modern times, wiz, when the GERMAN HEMPEROR and his wife
cum to Guildhall. Oh, wasn't they a long wile before the Gent coud get
'em all into good places, and didn't they all look sollem, when
he said, "Quite steddy, please!"

[Illustration]
But not noboddy as reddily gives a ginny for a mere coppy of what
I saw dun, will see all I saw without paying no ginny, and that was,
to see the hole grand picter built up, as it were, beginning with
the Lord MARE in his white hermine robe of poority and his black
Cocked Hat of Power all most bewtifoolly and kindly arranged for
him by the hartistic Sheriff.
And then what a lesson on trew humility, to see the Lord MARE, in
all his glory, retire to the Committee's dressing-room, and there
strip hisself to his werry shirt-sleeves and clothe hisself in the
mere hordnary close of common humanety!
Ah! I henvys no man his persession of the bewtifool Photygraff, for
I, almost alone, can say, tho but a pore hed Waiter, I saw the grand
pictur grow like' a bewtifool dream, and then saw it fade away like
a strawbery hice on a Summer's Day!

ROBERT.

* * * * *
LA POLITESSE DE PORTSMOUTH.--The French Fleet may depend upon a
courteous welcome at Portsmouth by the Mayor, who is the "Pink" of
Politeness.

* * * * * 
[Illustration: THE HEIGHT OF IMPROPRIETY.
_Miss Grundison, Junior_. "THERE GOES LUCY HOLROYD, ALL ALONE IN A
BOAT WITH YOUNG SNIPSON AS USUAL! SO IMPRUDENT OF THEM!"
_Her Elder Sister_. "YES; HOW SHOCKING IF THEY WERE UPSET AND
DROWNED--WITHOUT A CHAPERON, YOU KNOW!"]Grundy or the County Councils; therefore "holding up" becomes a very
delicate performance.

Though we do not dress only to please the men, I always prefer their
criticisms on a costume to those of my own sex. You can never tell if
the latter speak the truth. They may be jealous, and run it down from
spite; they may want to gain something from you, and so call yours "a
perfection of a gown, and suits you admirably, my dear!" disliking it
exceedingly in their inmost hearts.

But a man never gives his approbation unless he really means what he
says, and he is not difficult to please as a rule. So long as the
costume is neat and well-fitting, he does not care about anything
else. It is the _tout ensemble_ he thinks of, not the thousand and one
details that go to make up the whole.

I wonder why so many men dislike large hats! It is a pity, for they
are so very becoming to some faces, and give a picturesque effect
altogether. Perhaps this last is a reason for their disapproval. They
never like their womankind to attract attention.

The most unpardonable sin one woman can commit against another, is to
copy her clothes and bring the style out as her own idea. It is
intensely irritating! If she admits she has copied or asks your leave
beforehand, it is a different matter. You are even gratified then,
for "imitation is the sincerest flattery." In November last year
he first entered the water, To start on this special, most arduous
swim, It was cold, with the wind in a winterly quarter, But winds,
like the waves, have small terrors for him.

You remember accounts that the papers then gave (Here's an extract)
concerning this King of the Wave.

"SOLLY (of Hatfield), and SMIFF (who hails from Greenlands), started
yesterday (November 25), for a second attempt--the first having been
a failure--to swim from Tithes Pier to Purchase Point Buoy.To heighten the
general effect, I had stuck a patch near my mouth. (Oh, the minds of
the last century! From whose fertile brain did it emanate, I wonder,
the fact that a piece of black plaster on the face, should be so
eminently becoming!) Imagine my horror when the maid, an old servant I
knew very well, took me aside and whispered confidentially, "Oh, Miss!
you've got _such_ a big smut on your chin!"

Clothes are altogether a great nuisance, I think. How tired you get of
the regular routine of the morning toilet; always the same, never any
variety. Why are we not born, like dogs, with nice cosy rugs all over
us, so that we should just have to get out of bed in the morning,
shake ourselves, and be ready at once to go down to breakfast and do
the business of the day?

"Ah well! God knows what's best for us all," as an old charwoman said
to me, years ago, when she was remarking on how I had grown. I never
saw the application of the remark, and do not think I ever shall.
Whether my growth was a subject to deplore, and she tried to comfort
me, or not, I cannot say; but she was evidently proud of the remark,
for she repeated it three times!


CHAPTER VI.

ON CHRISTMAS.


It is such a prickly time. For He who cooled the furnace, and
smoothed the stormy wave, And tamed the Chaldean lions, is mighty
still to save!
1843.

THE NEW WIFE AND THE OLD.

The following ballad is founded upon one of the marvellous legends
connected with the famous General ----, of Hampton, New Hampshire,
who was regarded by his neighbors as a Yankee Faust, in league with
the adversary.

I give the story, as I heard it when a child, from a venerable
family visitant.

DARK the halls, and cold the feast, Gone the bridemaids, gone the
priest.
All is over, all is done, Twain of yesterday are one!
Blooming girl and manhood gray, Autumn in the arms of May!

Hushed within and hushed without, Dancing feet and wrestlers'
shout; Dies the bonfire on the hill; All is dark and all is still,
Save the starlight, save the breeze Moaning through the graveyard
trees, And the great sea-waves below, Pulse of the midnight beating
slow.

From the brief dream of a bride She hath wakened, at his side.

With half-uttered shriek and start,-- Feels she not his beating
heart?
And the pressure of his arm, And his breathing near and warm?

Lightly from the bridal bed Springs that fair dishevelled head, And a
feeling, new, intense, Half of shame, half innocence, Maiden fear
and wonder speaks Through her lips and changing cheeks.
From the oaken mantel glowing, Faintest light the lamp is throwing
On the mirror's antique mould, High-backed chair, and wainscot old,
And, through faded curtains stealing, His dark sleeping face
revealing.
Listless lies the strong man there, Silver-streaked his careless
hair; Lips of love have left no trace On that hard and haughty face;
And that forehead's knitted thought Love's soft hand hath not
unwrought.
"Yet," she sighs, "he loves me well, More than these calm lips will
tell.
Stooping to my lowly state, He hath made me rich and great, And I
bless him, though he be Hard and stern to all save me!"As I said before, everybody is prickly at Christmas time, especially
one's relations. And so, to make the season as festive as possible,
we, in our sensible way, collect as many of these cheerful, sociable
beings together as we can; and, in short, make a delightful family
party. Holly? it is an insult to the tree to compare it in any way.
No, I think the whole gathering resembles a hedgehog more than
anything else. It is one _mass_ of prickles. Ah, these happy family
parties! Is there ever one member that agrees with another, I wonder?

There is the crabbed old maiden aunt, always on the defensive, never
without the idea that someone is waging war against her. Yet she has
to be treated civilly, and humored. Has she not that which some people
term "filthy lucre," but never really think so? Have these old ladies
ever had any youth? Have they ever danced and enjoyed themselves like
other people? What has made them so sour, so bitter? Is it
disappointment or regret? Poor old souls! In spite of their money,
they never seem happy. They are to be pitied, I think, though they do
try to make themselves as disagreeable as possible. They are so
independent, too, they will not be interfered with. They know
everything better than any one else. One old lady I used to know
declined altogether to have a lawyer, insisting on making her will
herself. It was found afterwards, fortunately not too late, that she
had appointed herself her own executor!

Then there is the maternal grandmother; to whom, of course, the host
is openly rude. This wears you out more than anything, for you have
always to be ready to smooth over and soften every sentence that is
said. And she never helps you at all, either. If she can possibly put
her foot in it, and unconsciously irritate her son-in-law more than
ever, she does it.

