It was an odd, slender voice that spoke, just behind Talbot
Potter, and he turned to stare at a little figure in black--she
had come so quietly out of the shadows of the scenery into Miss
Lyston's place that no one had noticed. She was indefinite of
outline still, in the sparse light of that cavernous place; and,
with a veil lifted just to the level of her brows, under a
shadowing black hat, not much was to be clearly discerned of her
except that she was small and pale and had bright eyes. But even
the two words she spoke proved the peculiar quality of her
voice: it was like the tremolo of a zither string; and at the
sound of it the actors on each side of her instinctively moved a
step back for a better view of her, while in his lurking place
old Tinker let his dry lips open a little, which was as near as
he ever came, nowadays, to a look of interest. He had noted that
this voice, sweet as rain, and vibrant, but not loud, was the
ordinary speaking voice of the understudy, and that her "I'm
here," had sounded, soft and clear, across the deep orchestra to
the last row in the house.

"Of course!" Packer cried. "There she is, Mr. Potter! There's
Miss--Miss--"

"Is her name 'Missmiss'?" the star demanded bitterly.

"No sir. I've forgotten it, just this moment, Mr. Potter, but
I've got it. I've got it right here." He began frantically to
turn out the contents of his pockets. "It's in my memorandum
book, if I could only find--"

"The devil, the devil!" shouted Potter. "A fine understudy
you've got for us! She sees me standing here like--like a
statue--delaying the whole rehearsal, while we wait for you to
find her name, and she won't open her lips!" He swept the air
with a furious gesture, and a subtle faint relief became
manifest throughout the company at this token that the newcomer
was indeed to fill Miss Lyston's place for one rehearsal at
least. "Why don't you tell us your name?" he roared.

"I understood," said the zither-sweet voice, "that I was never
to speak to you unless you directly asked me a question. My--"

"My soul! Have you got a name?"

"Wanda Malone."

Potter had never heard it until that moment, but his expression
showed that he considered it another outrage.


IV


The rehearsal proceeded, and under that cover old Tinker came
noiselessly down the aisle and resumed his seat beside Canby,
who was uttering short, broken sighs, and appeared to have been
trying with fair success to give himself a shampoo.

"It's ruined, Mr. Tinker!" he moaned, and his accompanying
gesture was misleading, seeming to indicate that he alluded to
his hair. "It's all ruined if he sticks to these horrible lines
he's put in--people told me I ought to have it in my contract
that nothing could be changed. I was trying to make the audience
see the tragedy of egoism in my play--and how people get to
hating an egoist. I made 'Roderick Hanscom' a disagreeable
character on purpose, and--oh, listen to that!"

Miss Ellsling and Talbot Potter stood alone, near the front of
the stage. "Why do you waste such goodness on me, Roderick?"
Miss Ellsling was inquiring. "It is noble and I feel that I am
unworthy of you."

"No, Mildred, believe me," Potter read from his manuscript, "I
would rather decline the nomination and abandon my career, and
go to live in some quiet spot far from all this, than that you
should know one single moment's unhappiness, for you mean far
more to me than worldly success." He kissed her hand with
reverence, and lifted his head slowly, facing the audience with
rapt gaze; his wonderful smile--that ineffable smile of
abnegation and benignity--just beginning to dawn.

Coming from behind him, and therefore unable to see his face,
Miss Wanda Malone advanced in her character of ingenue, speaking
with an effect of gayety: "Now what are you two good people
conspiring about?"

Potter stamped the floor; there was wrenched from him an
incoherent shriek containing fragments of profane words and
ending distinguishably with: "It's that Missmiss again!"

Packer impelled himself upon Miss Malone, pushing her back. "No,
no, no!" he cried. "Count ten! Count ten before you come down
with that speech. You mustn't interrupt Mr. Potter, Miss--Miss--"

"It was my cue," she said composedly, showing her little
pamphlet of typewritten manuscript. "Wasn't I meant to speak on
the cue?"

Talbot Potter recovered himself sufficiently to utter a cry of
despair: "And these are the kind of people an artist must work
with!" He lifted his arms to heaven, calling upon the high gods
for pity; then, with a sudden turn of fury, ran to the back of
the stage and came mincing forward evidently intending saturnine
mimicry, repeating the ingenue's speech in a mocking falsetto:
"Now what are you two good people conspiring about?" After that
he whirled upon her, demanding with ferocity: "You've got
something you can think with in your head, haven't you,
Missmiss? Then what do you think of that?"

Miss Malone smiled, and it was a smile that would have gone a
long way at a college dance. Here, it made the pitying company
shudder for her. "I think it's a silly, makeshift sort of a
speech," she said cheerfully, in which opinion the unhappy
playwright out in the audience hotly agreed. "It's a bit of
threadbare archness, and if I were to play Miss Lyston's part,
I'd be glad to have it changed!"

Potter looked dazed. "Is it your idea," he said in a ghostly
voice, "that I was asking for your impression of the dramatic
and literary value of that line?"

She seemed surprised. "Weren't you?"

It was too much for Potter. He had brilliant and unusual powers
of expression, but this was beyond them. He went to the chair
beside the little table, flung himself upon it, his legs
outstretched, his arms dangling inert, and stared haggardly
upward at nothing.

Packer staggered into the breach. "You interrupted the smile,
Miss--Mi--"

"Miss Malone," she prompted.

"You interrupted the smile, Miss Malone. Mr. Potter gives them
the smile there. You must count ten for it, after your cue. Ten--
slow. Count slow. Mark it on your sides, Miss--ah--Miss. 'Count
ten for smile. Write it down please, Miss--Miss--"

Potter spoke wearily. "Be kind enough to let me know, Packer,
when you and Missmiss can bring yourselves to permit this
rehearsal to continue."

"All ready, sir," said Packer briskly. "All ready now, Mr.
Potter." And upon the star's limply rising, Miss Ellsling, most
tactful of leading women, went back to his cue with a change of
emphasis in her reading that helped to restore him somewhat to
his poise. "It is noble," she repeated, "and I feel that I am
unworthy of you!"

Counting ten slowly proved to be the proper deference to the
smile, and Miss Malone was allowed to come down the stage and
complete, undisturbed, her ingenue request to know what the two
good people were conspiring about. Thereafter the rehearsal went
on in a strange, unreal peace like that of a prairie noon in the
cyclone season.

"Notice that girl?" old Tinker muttered, as Wanda Malone
finished another ingenue question with a light laugh, as
commanded by her manuscript. "She's frightened but she's
steady."

"What girl?" Canby was shampooing himself feverishly and had
little interest in girls. "I made it a disagreeable character
because--"

"I mean the one he's letting out on--Malone," said Tinker.
"Didn't you notice her voice? Her laugh reminds me of Fanny
Caton's--and Dora Preston's--"

"Who?" Canby asked vaguely.

"Oh, nobody you'd remember; some old-time actresses that had
their day--and died--long ago. This girl's voice made me think
of them."

"She may, she may," said Canby hurriedly. "Mr. Tinker, the play
is ruined. He's tangled the whole act up so that I can't tell
what it's about myself. Instead of Roderick Hanscom's being a
man that people dislike for his conceit and selfishness he's
got him absolutely turned round. I oughtn't to allow it--but
everything's so different from what I thought it would be! He
doesn't seem to know I'm here. I came prepared to read the play
to the company; I thought he'd want me to."

"Oh, no," said Tinker. "He never does that."

"Why not?"

"Wastes time, for one thing. The actors don't listen except when
their own parts are being read."

"Good gracious!"

"Their own parts are all they have to look out for," the old man
informed him dryly. "I've known actors to play a long time in
parts that didn't appear in the last act, and they never know
how the play ended."

"Good gracious!"

"Never cared, either," Tinker added.

"Good gr--"

"Sh! He's breaking out again!"

A shriek of agony came from the stage. "Pack-e-r-r-! Where did
you find this Missmiss understudy? Can't you get me people of
experience? I really cannot bear this kind of thing--I can not!"
And Potter flung himself upon the chair, leaving the slight
figure in black standing alone in the centre of the stage. He
sprang up again, however, surprisingly, upon the very instant of
despairing collapse. "What do you mean by this perpetual torture
of me?" he wailed at her. "Don't you know what you did?"

"No, Mr. Potter." She looked at him bravely, but she began to
grow red.

"You don't?" he cried incredulously. "You don't know what you
did? You moved! How are they going to get my face if you move?
Don't you know enough to hold a picture and not ruin it by
moving?"

"There was a movement written for that cue," she said, a little
tremulously. "The business in the script is, 'Showing that she
is touched by Roderick's nobleness, lifts handkerchief impulsive
gesture to eyes.'"

"Not," he shouted, "not during the SMILE!"

"Oh!" she cried remorsefully. "Have I done that again?"

"'Again!' I don't know how many times you've done it!" He flung
his arms wide, with hands outspread and fingers vibrating. "You
do it every time you get the chance! You do it perpetually! You
don't do anything else! It's all you live for!"

He hurled his manuscript violently at the table, Packer making a
wonderful pick-up catch of it just as it touched the floor.

"That's all!" And the unhappy artist sank into the chair in a
crumpled stupor.

"Ten o'clock to-morrow morning, ladies and gentlemen!" Packer
called immediately, with brisk cheerfulness. "Please notice:
to-morrow's rehearsal is in the morning. Ten o'clock to-morrow
morning!"

"Tell the understudy to wait, Packer," said the star abysmally,
and Packer addressed himself to the departing backs of the
company:

"Mr. Potter wants to speak to Miss--Miss--"

"Malone," prompted the owner of the name, without resentment.

"Wait a moment, Miss Malone," said Potter, looking up wearily.
"Is Mr. Tinker anywhere about?"

"I'm here, Mr. Potter." Tinker came forward to the orchestra
railing.

"I've been thinking about this play, Mr. Tinker," Potter said,
shaking his head despondently. "I don't know about it. I'm very,
very doubtful about it." He peered over Tinker's head, squinting
his eyes, and seemed for the first time to be aware of the
playwright's presence. "Oh, are you there, Mr. Canby? When did
you come in?"

"I've been here all the time," said the dishevelled Canby,
coming forward. "I supposed it was my business to be here, but-"

"Very glad to have you if you wish," Potter interrupted
gloomily. "Any time. Any time you like. I was just telling Mr.
Tinker that I don't know about your play. I don't know if it'll
do at all."

"If you'd play it," Canby began, "the way I wrote it--"

"In the first place," Potter said with sudden vehemence, "it
lacks Punch! Where's your Punch in this play, Mr. Canby? Where
is there any Punch whatever in the whole four acts? Surely,
after this rehearsal, you don't mean to claim that the first act
has one single ounce of Punch in it!"

"But you've twisted this act all round," the unhappy young man
protested. "The way you have it I can't tell what it's got to
it. I meant Roderick Hanscom to be a disagr--"

"Mr. Canby," said the star, rising impressively, "if we played
that act the way you wrote it, we'd last just about four minutes
of the opening night. You gave me absolutely nothing to do!
Other people talked at me and I had to stand there and be talked
at for twenty minutes straight, like a blithering ninny!"

"Well, as you have it, the other actors have to stand there like
ninnies," poor Canby retorted miserably, "while you talk at them
almost the whole time."

"My soul!" Potter struck the table with the palm of his hand.
"Do you think anybody's going to pay two dollars to watch me
listen to my company for three hours? No, my dear man, your
play's got to give me something to do! You'll have to rewrite
the second and third acts. I've done what I could for the
first, but, good God! Mr. Canby, I can't write your whole play
for you! You'll have to get some Punch into it or we'll never be
able to go on with it."

"I don't know what you mean," said the playwright helplessly. "I
never did know what people mean by Punch."

"Punch? It's what grips 'em," Potter returned with vehemence.
"Punch is what keeps 'em sitting on the edge of their seats. Big
love scenes! They've got Punch. Or a big scene with a man. Give
me a big scene with a man." He illustrated his meaning with
startling intensity, crouching and seizing an imaginary
antagonist by the throat, shaking him and snarling between his
clenched teeth, while his own throat swelled and reddened: "Now,
damn you! You dog! So on, so on, so on! Zowie!" Suddenly his
figure straightened. "Then change. See?" He became serene,
almost august. "'No! I will not soil these hands with you. So
on, so on, so on. I give you your worthless life. Go!'" He
completed his generosity by giving Canby and Tinker the smile,
after which he concluded much more cheerfully: "Something like
that, Mr. Canby, and we'll have some real Punch in your play."

"But there isn't any chance for that kind of a scene in it," the
playwright objected. "It's the study of an egoist, a disagree--"

"There!" exclaimed Potter. "That's it! Do you think people are
going to pay two dollars to see Talbot Potter behave like a cad?
They won't do it; they pay two dollars to see me as I am--not
pretending to be the kind of man your 'Roderick Hanscom' was.
No, Mr. Canby, I accepted your play because it has got quite a
fair situation in the third act, and because I thought I saw a
chance in it to keep some of the strength of 'Roderick Hanscom'
and yet make him lovable."

"But, great heavens! if you make him lovable the character's
ruined. Besides, the audience won't want to see him lose the
girl at the end and 'Donald Grey' get her!"

"No, they won't; that's it exactly," said Potter thoughtfully.
"You'll have to fix that, Mr. Canby. 'Roderick Hanscom' will
have to win her by a great sacrifice in the last act. A great,
strong, lovable man, Mr. Canby; that's the kind of character I
want to play: a big, sweet, lovable fellow, with the heart of a
child, that makes a great sacrifice for a woman. I don't want
to play 'egoists'; I don't want to play character parts. No." He
shook his head musingly, and concluded, the while a light of
ineffable sweetness shone from his remarkable eyes: "Mr. Canby,
no! My audience comes to see Talbot Potter. You go over these
other acts and write the part so that I can play myself."

The playwright gazed upon him, inarticulate, and Potter, shaking
himself slightly, like one aroused from a pleasant little
reverie, turned to the waiting figure of the girl.

"What is it, Miss Malone?" he asked mildly. "Did you want to
speak to me?"

