"Yes," she said, "that there may be rows in the house, and noise, and
jealousy,--as there have been with that wicked woman upstairs. Not if
I know it, you won't! John Eames, I wish I'd never seen you. I wish
we might have both fallen dead when we first met. I didn't think ever
to have cared for a man as I have cared for you. It's all trash and
nonsense and foolery; I know that. It's all very well for young
ladies as can sit in drawing-rooms all their lives, but when a woman
has her way to make in the world it's all foolery. And such a hard
way too to make as mine is!"

"But it won't be hard now."

"Won't it? But I think it will. I wish you would try it. Not that I'm
going to complain. I never minded work, and as for company, I can put
up with anybody. The world's not to be all dancing and fiddling for
the likes of me. I know that well enough. But--" and then she paused.

"What's the 'but' about, Amelia?"

"It's like you to ask me; isn't it?" To tell the truth he should not
have asked her. "Never mind. I'm not going to have any words with
you. If you've been a knave I've been a fool, and that's worse."

"But I don't think I have been a knave."

"I've been both," said the girl; "and both for nothing. After that
you may go. I've told you what I am, and I'll leave you to name
yourself. I didn't think it was in me to have been such a fool. It's
that that frets me. Never mind, sir; it's all over now, and I wish
you good-bye."

I do not think that there was the slightest reason why John should
have again kissed her at parting, but he did so. She bore it, not
struggling with him; but she took his caress with sullen endurance.
"It'll be the last," she said. "Good-bye, John Eames."

"Good-bye, Amelia. Try to make him a good wife and then you'll
be happy." She turned up her nose at this, assuming a look of
unutterable scorn. But she said nothing further, and then he left the
room. At the parlour door he met Mrs Roper, and had his parting words
with her.

"I am so glad you came," said she. "It was just that word you said
that made Miss Spruce stay. Her money is so ready, you know! And so
you've had it all out with her about Cradell. She'll make him a good
wife, she will indeed;--much better than you've been giving her
credit for."

"I don't doubt she'll be a very good wife."

"You see, Mr Eames, it's all over now, and we understand each other;
don't we? It made me very unhappy when she was setting her cap at
you; it did indeed. She is my own daughter, and I couldn't go against
her;--could I? But I knew it wasn't in any way suiting. Laws, I know
the difference. She's good enough for him any day of the week, Mr
Eames."

"That she is,--Saturdays or Sundays," said Johnny, not knowing
exactly what he ought to say.

"So she is; and if he does his duty by her she won't go astray in
hers by him. And as for you, Mr Eames, I am sure I've always felt it
an honour and a pleasure to have you in the house; and if ever you
could use a good word in sending to me any of your young men, I'd do
by them as a mother should; I would indeed. I know I've been to blame
about those Lupexes, but haven't I suffered for it, Mr Eames? And it
was difficult to know at first; wasn't it? And as to you and Amelia,
if you would send any of your young men to try, there couldn't be
anything more of that kind, could there? I know it hasn't all been
just as it should have been--that is as regards you; but I should
like to hear you say that you've found me honest before you went.
I have tried to be honest, I have indeed."

Eames assured her that he was convinced of her honesty, and that
he had never thought of impugning her character either in regard
to those unfortunate people, the Lupexes, or in reference to other
matters. "He did not think," he said, "that any young men would
consult him as to their lodgings; but if he could be of any service
to her, he would." Then he bade her good-bye, and having bestowed
half-a-sovereign on the faithful Jemima, he took a long farewell of
Burton Crescent. Amelia had told him not to come and see her when she
should be married, and he had resolved that he would take her at her
word. So he walked off from the Crescent, not exactly shaking the
dust from his feet, but resolving that he would know no more either
of its dust or of its dirt. Dirt enough he had encountered there
certainly, and he was now old enough to feel that the inmates of Mrs
Roper's house had not been those among whom a resting-place for his
early years should judiciously have been sought. But he had come out
of the fire comparatively unharmed, and I regret to say that he felt
but little for the terrible scorchings to which his friend had been
subjected and was about to subject himself. He was quite content to
look at the matter exactly as it was looked at by Mrs Roper. Amelia
was good enough for Joseph Cradell--any day of the week. Poor
Cradell, of whom in these pages after this notice no more will be
heard! I cannot but think that a hard measure of justice was meted
out to him, in proportion to the extent of his sins. More weak and
foolish than our friend and hero he had been, but not to my knowledge
more wicked. But it is to the vain and foolish that the punishments
fall;--and to them they fall so thickly and constantly that the
thinker is driven to think that vanity and folly are of all sins
those which may be the least forgiven. As for Cradell I may declare
that he did marry Amelia, that he did, with some pride, take the
place of master of the house at the bottom of Mrs Roper's table,
and that he did make himself responsible for all Mrs Roper's debts.
JOHN PLANTAGENET DE SMITH, who is my client. I am instructed by the
Messrs.

CAPIAS of Bedford Row, and I contend that since the Members of the
London County Council have instructed counsel to appear on their
behalf at meetings in which they themselves act judicially, the right
extends to Places of Public Worship.

_Incumbent_. Perhaps we might hear you later. If you were kind enough
to raise your objections in the Vestry, it would be--
_Counsel_ (_interrupting_). Pardon me, that would scarcely be
satisfactory. We do not wish any hole-and-corner agitation. I
am instructed by my client to say, that he courts the fullest
investigation. Now, the facts are these:--
[_Gives the facts, and ends an eloquent speech with a magnificent
peroration._ 
_Incumbent_.Mr Kissing, however, was
not offended; he knew that the private secretary of the First
Commissioner had been the guest of an earl; and what more than a nod
could be expected from him? After that John made his way into the
august presence of Sir Raffle, and found that great man putting on
his shoes in the presence of FitzHoward. FitzHoward blushed; but the
shoes had not been touched by him, as he took occasion afterwards to
inform John Eames.

Sir Raffle was all smiles and civility. "Delighted to see you back,
Eames: am, upon my word; though I and FitzHoward have got on
capitally in your absence; haven't we, FitzHoward?"

"Oh, yes," drawled FitzHoward. "I haven't minded it for a time, just
while Eames has been away."

"You're much too idle to keep at it, I know; but your bread will be
buttered for you elsewhere, so it doesn't signify. My compliments to
the duchess when you see her." Then FitzHoward went. "And how's my
dear old friend?" asked Sir Raffle, as though of all men living Lord
De Guest were the one for whom he had the strongest and the oldest
love. And yet he must have known that John Eames knew as much about
it as he did himself. But there are men who have the most lively
gratification in calling lords and marquises their friends, though
they know that nobody believes a word of what they say,--even though
they know how great is the odium they incur, and how lasting is the
ridicule which their vanity produces. It is a gentle insanity which
prevails in the outer courts of every aristocracy; and as it brings
with itself considerable annoyance and but a lukewarm pleasure, it
should not be treated with too keen a severity.

"And how's my dear old friend?" Eames assured him that his dear old
friend was all right, that Lady Julia was all right, that the dear
old place was all right. Sir Raffle now spoke as though the "dear
old place" were quite well known to him. "Was the game doing pretty
well? Was there a promise of birds?" Sir Raffle's anxiety was quite
intense, and expressed with almost familiar affection. "And,
by-the-by, Eames, where are you living at present?"

"Well, I'm not settled. I'm at the Great Western Railway Hotel at
this moment."

"Capital house, very; only it's expensive if you stay there the whole
season." Johnny had no idea of remaining there beyond one night, but
he said nothing as to this. "By-the-by, you might as well come and
dine with us to-morrow. Lady Buffle is most anxious to know you.
There'll be one or two with us. First he denied you had in him no
right.

ADRIANA.
He meant he did me none; the more my spite.

LUCIANA.
Then swore he that he was a stranger here.

ADRIANA.
And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were.

LUCIANA.
Then pleaded I for you.

ADRIANA.he said to himself, as he walked away from the office.

He had turned into the Great Western Hotel, not as yet knowing where
to look for a home; and there we will leave him, eating his solitary
mutton-chop at one of those tables which are so comfortable to the
eye, but which are so comfortless in reality. I speak not now with
reference to the excellent establishment which has been named, but to
the nature of such tables in general. A solitary mutton-chop in an
hotel coffee-room is not a banquet to be envied by any god; and if
the mutton-chop be converted into soup, fish, little dishes, big
dishes, and the rest, the matter becomes worse and not better. What
comfort are you to have, seated alone on that horsehair chair,
staring into the room and watching the waiters as they whisk about
their towels? No one but an Englishman has ever yet thought of
subjecting himself to such a position as that! But here we will leave
John Eames, and in doing so I must be allowed to declare that only
now, at this moment, has he entered on his manhood. Hitherto he
has been a hobbledehoy,--a calf, as it were, who had carried his
calfishness later into life than is common with calves; but who did
not, perhaps, on that account, give promise of making a worse ox than
the rest of them. His life hitherto, as recorded in these pages, had
afforded him no brilliant success, had hardly qualified him for the
role of hero which he has been made to play. I feel that I have
been in fault in giving such prominence to a hobbledehoy, and that
I should have told my story better had I brought Mr Crosbie more
conspicuously forward on my canvas. He at any rate has gotten to
himself a wife--as a hero always should do; whereas I must leave my
poor friend Johnny without any matrimonial prospects.

It was thus that he thought of himself as he sat moping over his
solitary table in the hotel coffee-room. He acknowledged to himself
that he had not hitherto been a man; but at the same time he made
some resolution which, I trust, may assist him in commencing his
manhood from this date.


CHAPTER LX

Conclusion


It was early in June that Lily went up to her uncle at the Great
House, pleading for Hopkins,--pleading that to Hopkins might be
restored all the privileges of head gardener at the Great House.
There was some absurdity in this, seeing that he had never really
relinquished his privileges; but the manner of the quarrel had been
in this wise.

