Produced by Al Haines


[Frontispiece: Calumet remained unshaken.]


THE BOSS OF THE LAZY Y


BY

CHARLES ALDEN SELTZER


AUTHOR OF

THE COMING OF THE LAW, THE TWO-GUN MAN, ETC.


ILLUSTRATIONS BY

J. ALLEN ST. JOHN


NEW YORK

GROSSET & DUNLAP

PUBLISHERS


Copyright

A. C. McClurg & Co.

1915


Published April, 1915


Copyrighted in Great Britain


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

     I.  The Home-Coming of Calumet Marston
    II.  Betty Meets the Heir
   III.  Calumet's Guardian
    IV.  Calumet Plays Betty's Game
     V.  The First Lesson
    VI.  "Bob"
   VII.  A Page from the Past
  VIII.  The Toltec Idol
    IX.  Responsibility
     X.  New Acquaintances
    XI.  Progress
   XII.  A Peace Offering
  XIII.  Suspicion
   XIV.  Jealousy
    XV.  A Meeting in the Red Dog
   XVI.  The Ambush
  XVII.  More Progress
 XVIII.  Another Peace Offering
   XIX.  A Tragedy in the Timber Grove
    XX.  Betty Talks Frankly
   XXI.  His Father's Friend
  XXII.  She is a nonconformist
 in a close stomacher and ruff of Geneva print, [55] and her purity
consists much in her linen.

She has heard of the rag of Rome, and thinks it a very sluttish
religion, and rails at the whore of Babylon for a very naughty woman.

She has left her virginity as a relick of popery, and marries in
her tribe without a ring.

Her devotion at the church is much in the turning up of her eye;
and turning down the leaf in her book, when she hears named chapter
and verse.

When she comes home, she commends the sermon for the Scripture, and
two hours.

She loves preaching better than praying, and of preachers, lecturers;
and thinks the week day's exercise far more edifying than the
Sunday's.

Her oftest gossipings are sabbath-day's journeys, where (though an
enemy to superstition), she will go in pilgrimage five mile to a
silenced minister, when there is a better sermon in her own parish.

She doubts of the virgin Mary's salvation, and dares not saint her,
but knows her own place in heaven as perfectly as the pew she has
a key to.

She is so taken up with faith she has no room for charity, and
understands no good works but what are wrought on the sampler.

She accounts nothing vices but superstition and an oath, and thinks
adultery a less sin than to swear _by my truly._ She rails at other
women by the names of Jezebel and Delilah; and calls her own daughters
Rebecca and Abigail, and not Ann but Hannah. She suffers them not to
learn on the virginals, [56] because of their affinity with organs,
but is reconciled to the bells for the chimes' sake, since they
were reformed to the tune of a psalm.

She overflows so with the Bible, that she spills it upon every
occasion, and will not cudgel her maids without Scripture. It is a
question whether she is more troubled with the Devil, or the Devil
with her: she is always challenging and daring him, and her weapon [57]
[is The Practice of Piety.] Nothing angers her so much as that women
cannot preach, and in this point only thinks the Brownist erroneous;
but what she cannot at the church she does at the table, where she
prattles more than any against sense and Antichrist, 'till a capon's
wing silence her.

She expounds the priests of Baal, reading ministers, and thinks the
salvation of that parish as desperate as the Turk's. She is a main
derider to her capacity of those that are not her preachers, and censures
all sermons but bad ones. If her husband be a tradesman, she helps him
to customers, howsoever to good cheer, and they are a most faithful
couple at these meetings, for they never fail.
Her conscience is like others' lust, never satisfied, and you might
better answer Scotus than her scruples. She is one that thinks she
performs all her duties to God in hearing, and shows the fruits of
it in talking. She is more fiery against the maypole than her
husband, and thinks she might do a Phineas' act to break the pate of the
fiddler. She is an everlasting argument, but I am weary of her.

A SCEPTIC IN RELIGION
Is one that hangs in the balance with all sorts of opinions, whereof
not one but stirs him and none sways him.

A man guiltier of credulity than he is taken to be; for it is out
of his belief of everything, that he fully believes nothing.

Each religion scares him from its contrary: none persuades him to itself.
He would be wholly a Christian, but that he is something of an atheist,
and wholly an atheist, but that he is partly a Christian; and a perfect
heretic, but that there are so many to distract him.

He finds reason in all opinions, truth in none: indeed the least reason
perplexes him, and the best will not satisfy him. He is at most a
confused and wild Christian, not specialized by any form, but capable
of all. He uses the land's religion, because it is next him, yet
he sees not why he may not take the other, but he chuses this, not as
better, but because there is not a pin to choose. He finds doubts and
scruples better than resolves them, and is always too hard for himself.
His learning is too much for his brain, and his judgment too little for
his learning, and his over-opinion of both, spoils all. Pity it was his
mischance of being a scholar; for it does only distract and
irregulate him, and the world by him.

He hammers much in general upon our opinion's uncertainty, and the
possibility of erring makes him not venture on what is true. He is
troubled at this naturalness of religion to countries, that protestantism
should be born so in England and popery abroad, and that fortune and
the stars should so much share in it. He likes not this connection
with the commonweal and divinity, and fears it may be an arch-practice
of state. In our differences with Rome he is strangely unfixed, and
a new man every new day, as his last discourse-book's meditations
transport him.

He could like the gray hairs of popery, did not some dotages there
stagger him: he would come to us sooner, but our new name affrights
him.

He is taken with their miracles, but doubts an imposture; he conceives
of our doctrine better, but it seems too empty and naked. He cannot
drive into his fancy the circumscription of truth to our corner, and is
as hardly persuaded to think their old legends true. He approves well
of our faith, and more of their works, and is sometimes much
affected at the zeal of Amsterdam.

His conscience interposes itself betwixt duellers, and whilst it would
part both, is by both wounded. He will sometimes propend much to
us upon the reading a good writer, and at Bellarmine [58] recalls
as far back again; and the fathers justle him from one side to another.
Now Socinus [59] and Vorstius [60] afresh torture him, and he agrees
with none worse than himself.

He puts his foot into heresies tenderly, as a cat in the water, and
pulls it out again, and still something unanswered delays him; yet he
bears away some parcel of each, and you may sooner pick all religions
out of him than one. He cannot think so many wise men should be in
error, nor so many honest men out of the way, and his wonder is double
when he sees these oppose one another. He hates authority as the
tyrant of reason, and you cannot anger him worse than with a father's
_dixit,_ and yet that many are not persuaded with reason, shall
authorise his doubt. In sum, his whole life is a question, and his
salvation a greater, which death only concludes, and then he is
resolved.

AN ATTORNEY.

His antient beginning was a blue coat, since a livery, and his
hatching under a lawyer; whence, though but pen-feathered, he hath now
nested for himself, and with his hoarded pence purchased an office. Two
desks and a quire of paper set him up, where he now sits in state for
all comers. We can call him no great author, yet he writes very much
and with the infamy of the court is maintained in his libels[61]. He has
some smatch of a scholar, and yet uses Latin very hardly; and
lest it should accuse him, cuts it off in the midst, and will not
let it speak out.

He is, contrary to great men, maintained by his followers, that
is, his poor country clients, that worship him more than their landlord,
and be they never such churls, he looks for their courtesy. He first
racks them soundly himself, and then delivers them to the lawyer for
execution.

His looks are very solicitous, importing much haste and dispatch: he
is never without his hands full of business, that is--of paper. His
skin becomes at last as dry as his parchment, and his face as intricate
as the most winding cause. He talks statutes as fiercely as if he had
mooted[62] seven years in the inns of court, when all his skill
is stuck in his girdle, or in his office-window.

Strife and wrangling have made him rich, and he is thankful to his
benefactor, and nourishes it. If he live in a country village,
he makes all his neighbours good subjects; for there shall be nothing
done but what there is law for. His business gives him not leave to
think of his conscience, and when the time, or term, of his life is
going out, for doomsday he is secure; for he hopes he has a trick to
reverse judgment.

A PARTIAL MAN
Is the opposite extreme to a defamer, for the one speaks ill
falsely, and the other well, and both slander the truth.

He is one that is still weighing men in the scale of comparisons, and
puts his affections, in the one balance, and that sways. His friend
always shall do best, and you shall rarely hear good of his enemy. He
considers first the man and then the thing, and restrains all merit to
what they deserve of him.
Commendations he esteems not the debt of worth, but the requital of
kindness; and if you ask his reason, shows his interest, and tells you
how much he is beholden to that man. He is one that ties his
judgment to the wheel of fortune, and they determine giddily both alike.
He prefers England before other countries because he was born
there, and Oxford before other universities, because he was brought up
there, and the best scholar there is one of his own college, and
the best scholar there is one of his friends.

He is a great favourer of great persons, and his argument is still
that which should be antecedent; as,--he is in high place, therefore
virtuous;--he is preferred, therefore worthy. Never ask his opinion,
for you shall hear but his faction, and he is indifferent in
nothing but conscience. Men esteem him for this a zealous affectionate,
but they mistake him many times, for he does it but to be esteemed so.
Of all men he is worst to write an history, for he will praise a Sejanus
or Tiberius, and for some petty respect of his all posterity shall be
cozened.

A TRUMPETER
Is the elephant with the great trunk, for he eats nothing but what comes
through this way. His profession is not so worthy as to occasion
insolence, and yet no man so much puffed up. His face is as brazen
as his trumpet, and (which is worse) as a fiddler's, from whom he
differeth only in this, that his impudence is dearer. The sea
of drink and much wind make a storm perpetually in his cheeks, and his
look is like his noise, blustering and tempestuous. He was whilom the
sound of war, but now of peace; yet as terrible as ever, for wheresoever
he comes they are sure to pay for it. He is the common attendant of
glittering folks, whether in the court or stage, where he is always
the prologue's prologue.[63] He is somewhat in the nature of a
hogshead, shrillest when he is empty; when his belly is full he is
quiet enough.

No man proves life more to be a blast, or himself a bubble, and
he is like a counterfeit bankrupt, thrives best when he is blown up.

A VULGAR-SPIRITED MAN
Is one of the herd of the world. One that follows merely the common
cry, and makes it louder by one. A man that loves none but who are
publickly affected, and he will not be wiser than the rest of the
town.

That never owns a friend after an ill name, or some general imputation,
though he knows it most unworthy. That opposes to reason, "thus men say;"
and "thus most do;" and "thus the world goes;" and thinks this enough
to poise the other. That worships men in place, and those only; and
thinks all a great man speaks oracles. Much taken with my lord's jest,
and repeats you it all to a syllable. One that justifies nothing out
of fashion, nor any opinion out of the applauded way. That thinks certainly
all Spaniards and Jesuits very villains, and is still cursing the
pope and Spinola.

One that thinks the gravest cassock the best scholar; and the best
clothes the finest man. That is taken only with broad and obscene wit,
and hisses any thing too deep for him. That cries, Chaucer for
his money above all our English poets, because the voice has gone so,
and he has read none. That is much ravished with such a nobleman's
courtesy, and would venture his life for him, because he put off his
hat. One that is foremost still to kiss the king's hand, and cries,
"God bless his majesty!" loudest. That rails on all men condemned and
out of favour, and the first that says "away with the traitors!"--yet
struck with much ruth at executions, and for pity to see a man die,
could kill the hangman.

That comes to London to see it, and the pretty things in it, and, the
chief cause of his journey, the bears. That measures the happiness of
the kingdom by the cheapness of corn, and conceives no harm of
state, but ill trading.

Within this compass too, come those that are too much wedged into the
world, and have no lifting thoughts above those things; that call to
thrive, to do well; and preferment only the grace of God. That aim
all studies at this mark, and show you poor scholars as an example
to take heed by. That think the prison and want a judgment for
some sin, and never like well hereafter of a jail-bird. That know
no other content but wealth, bravery, and the town-pleasures; that
think all else but idle speculation, and the philosophers madmen. In
short, men that are carried away with all outwardnesses, shows,
appearances, the stream, the people; for there is no man of worth
but has a piece of singularity, and scorns something.

A PLODDING STUDENT
Is a kind of alchymist or persecutor of nature, that would
change the dull lead of his brain into finer metal, with success many
times as unprosperous, or at least not quitting the cost, to wit, of his
own oil and candles. He has a strange forced appetite to learning, and
to achieve it brings nothing but patience and a body. His study is
not great but continual, and consists much in the sitting up till
after midnight in a rug-gown and a nightcap, to the vanquishing
perhaps of some six lines; yet what he has, he has perfect, for he
reads it so long to understand it, till he gets it without book.

He may with much industry make a breach into logic, and arrive at some
ability in an argument; but for politer studies he dare not skirmish
with them, and for poetry accounts it impregnable. His invention
is no more than the finding out of his papers, and his few gleanings
there; and his disposition of them is as just as the book-binder's,
a setting or gluing of them together.

He is a great discomforter of young students, by telling them what travel
it has cost him, and how often his brain turned at philosophy, and
makes others fear studying as a cause of duncery. He is a man much given
to apophthegms, which serve him for wit, and seldom breaks any
jest but which belonged to some Lacedemonian or Roman in Lycosthenes.
He is like a dull carrier's horse, that will go a whole week together,
but never out of a foot pace; and he that sets forth on the Saturday
shall overtake him.

PAUL'S WALK[64]
Is the land's epitome, or you may call it the lesser isle of Great
Britain. It is more than this, the whole world's map, which you may
here discern in its perfectest motion, justling and turning.
It is a heap of stones and men, with a vast confusion of languages;
and were the steeple not sanctified, nothing liker Babel.

The noise in it is like that of bees, a strange humming or buzz mixed
of walking tongues and feet: it is a kind of still roar or loud whisper.
It is the great exchange of all discourse, and no business whatsoever
but is here stirring and a-foot.
It is the synod of all pates politick, jointed and laid
together in most serious posture, and they are not half so busy at the
parliament. It is the antic of tails to tails, and backs to backs,
and for vizards you need go no farther than faces. It is the market of
young lecturers, whom you may cheapen here at all rates and sizes.

It is the general mint of all famous lies, which are here like the legends
of popery, first coined and stamped in the church. All inventions are
emptied here, and not few pockets. The best sign of a temple in it
is, that it is the thieves' sanctuary, which rob more safely in the
crowd than a wilderness, whilst every searcher is a bush to hide them.
It is the other expence of the day, after plays and tavern;
and men have still some oaths left to swear here. The visitants
are all men without exceptions, but the principal inhabitants
and possessors are stale knights and captains[65] out of service; men
of long rapiers and breeches, which after all turn merchants here and
traffic for news.

Some make it a preface to their dinner, and travel for a stomach: but
thriftier men make it their ordinary, and board here very cheap[66].

Of all such places it is least haunted with hobgoblins, for if a
ghost would walk more, he could not.

A COOK.

The kitchen is his hell, and he the devil in it, where his meat and he
fry together.

His revenues are showered down from the fat of the land, and he interlards
his own grease among, to help the drippings. Choleric he is not by
nature so much as his art, and it is a shrewd temptation that the
chopping-knife is so near.

His weapons ofter offensive are a mess of hot broth and scalding water,
and woe be to him that comes in his way. In the kitchen he will
domineer and rule the roast in spite of his master, and curses
in the very dialect of his calling. His labour is mere blustering
and fury, and his speech like that of sailors in a storm, a
thousand businesses at once; yet, in all this tumult, he does not love
combustion, but will be the first man that shall go and quench it.

He is never a good Christian till a hissing pot of ale has slacked him,
like water cast on a firebrand, and for that time he is tame and
dispossessed. His cunning is not small in architecture, for he builds
strange fabrics in paste, towers and castles, which are offered to the
assault of valiant teeth, and like Darius' palace in one banquet
demolished.

He is a pitiless murderer of innocents, and he mangles poor fowls with
unheard-of tortures; and it is thought the martyrs' persecutions were
devised from hence: sure we are, St.

Lawrence's gridiron came out of his kitchen. His best faculty is at the
dresser, where he seems to have great skill in the tactics, ranging
his dishes in order military, and placing with great discretion in the
fore-front meats more strong and hardy, and the more cold and
cowardly in the rear; as quaking tarts and quivering custards, and
such milk-sop dishes, which scape many times the fury of the
encounter.

But now the second course is gone up and he down in the cellar, where
he drinks and sleeps till four o'clock[67] in the afternoon, and
then returns again to his regiment.

A BOLD FORWARD MAN
Is a lusty fellow in a crowd, that is beholden more to his elbow than
his legs, for he does not go, but thrusts well.

He is a good shuffler in the world, wherein he is so oft putting
forth, that at length he puts on. He can do some things, but dare
do much more, and is like a desperate soldier, who will assault
any thing where he is sure not to enter.

He is not so well opinioned of himself, as industrious to make others,
and thinks no vice so prejudicial as blushing.

He is still citing for himself, that a candle should not be hid under a
bushel; and for his part he will be sure not to hide his, though
his candle be but a snuff or rush-candle.

Those few good parts he has, he is no niggard in displaying, and
is like some needy flaunting goldsmith, nothing in the inner room, but
all on the cupboard.

If he be a scholar, he has commonly stepped into the pulpit before a
degree, yet into that too before he deserved it. He never defers St.
Mary's beyond his regency, and his next sermon is at Paul's cross,[68]
[and that printed.] He loves publick things alive; and for any solemn
entertainment he will find a mouth, find a speech who will.

He is greedy of great acquaintance and many, and thinks it no small
advancement to rise to be known. [He is one that has all the great
names at court at his fingers' ends, and their lodgings; and with a
saucy, "my lord," will salute the best of them.] His talk at the table
is like Benjamin's mess, five times to his part, and no argument
shuts him out for a quarreller. Of all disgraces he endures not to
be nonplussed, and had rather fly for sanctuary to nonsense which few
descry, than to nothing, which all.

His boldness is beholden to other men's modesty, which rescues him
many times from a baffle; yet his face is good armour, and he is
dashed out of anything sooner than countenance.

Grosser conceits are puzzled in him for a rare man; and wiser men,
though they know him, [yet] take him [in] for their pleasure, or
as they would do a sculler for being next at hand.

Thus preferment at last stumbles on him, because he is still in the
way.

His companions that flouted him before, now envy him, when they see him
come ready for scarlet, whilst themselves lie musty in their old clothes
and colleges.

A BAKER.

No man verifies the proverb more, that it is an alms-deed to punish him;
for his penalty is a dole,[69] and does the beggars as much good
as their dinner.

He abhors, therefore, works of charity, and thinks his bread cast
away when it is given to the poor. He loves not justice neither, for
the weigh-scale's sake, and hates the clerk of the market as his
executioner; yet he finds mercy in his offences, and his basket only
is sent to prison.[70] Marry, a pillory is his deadly enemy, and he
never hears well after.

A PRETENDER TO LEARNING

Is one that would make all others more fools than himself, for though
he knew nothing, he would not have the world know so much. He conceits
nothing in learning but the opinion, which he seeks to purchase
without it, though he might with less labour cure his ignorance than
hide it.

He is indeed a kind of scholar-mountebank, and his art our
delusion. He is tricked out in all the accoutrements of learning,
and at the first encounter none passes better. He is oftener in his
study than at his book, and you cannot pleasure him better than to
deprehend him: yet he hears you not till the third knock, and then
comes out very angry as interrupted. You find him in his _slippers_[71]
and a pen in his ear, in which formality he was asleep. His table
is spread wide with some classick folio, which is as constant to it as
the carpet, and hath laid open in the same page this half year.

The thought brought a great peace to his soul; he even
smiled when he saw that the bunkhouse, which had sheltered the many
cowboys whom he had hated, seemed ready to topple to destruction.  The
smile grew when his gaze went to the windmill, to see its long arms
motionless in the breeze, indicating its uselessness.

When he had concluded his examination he did not ride boldly toward the
ranchhouse, but made a wide circuit through the wood, for he wanted to
come upon his father in his own way and in his own time; wanted to
surprise him.  There was no use of turning his pony into the corral,
for the animal had more life in him than the two forlorn beasts that
were already there and would not stay in the corral when a breach in
the fence offered freedom.  Therefore, when Calumet reached the edge of
the wood near the front of the house he dismounted and tied his pony to
a tree.

A moment later he stood at the front door, filled with satisfaction to
find it unbarred.  Swinging it slowly open he entered, silently closing
it behind him.  He stood, a hand on the fastenings, gazing about him.
He was in the room which his father had always used as an office.  As
he peered about in the gray dusk that had fallen, distinguishing
familiar articles of furniture--a roll-top desk, several chairs, a
sofa, some cheap prints on the wall--a nameless emotion smote him and
his face paled a little, his jaws locked, his hands clenched.  For
again the army of memories was passing in review.

For a long time he stood at the door.  Then he left it and walked to
the desk, placing a hand on its top and hesitating.  Doubtless his
father was in another part of the house, possibly eating supper.  He
decided not to bother him at this moment and seated himself in a chair
before the desk.  There was plenty of time.  His father would be as
disagreeably surprised to meet him five minutes from now as he would
were he to stalk into his presence at this moment.

Once in the chair, Calumet realized that he was tired, and he leaned
back luxuriously, stretching his legs.  The five minutes to which he
had limited himself grew to ten and he still sat motionless, looking
out of the window at the deepening dusk.  The shadows in the wood near
the house grew darker, and to Calumet's ears came the long-drawn,
plaintive whine of a coyote, the croaking of frogs from the river, the
hoot of an owl nearby.  Other noises of the night reached him, but he
did not hear them, for he had become lost in meditation.

What a home-coming!

Bitterness settled into the marrow of his bones.  Here was ruin,
desolation, darkness, for the returning prodigal.  These were the
things his father had given him.  A murderous rage seized him, a lust
to rend and destroy, and he sat erect in his chair, his muscles tensed,
his blood rioting, his brain reeling.  Had his father appeared before
him at this minute it would have gone hard with him.  He fought down an
impulse to go in search of him and presently the mood passed, his
muscles relaxed, and he stretched out again in the chair.

Producing tobacco and paper he rolled a cigarette, noting with a
satisfied smile the steadiness of his hand.  Once he had overheard a
man telling another man that Calumet Marston had no nerves.  He knew
that; had known it.  He knew also that this faculty of control made his
passions more dangerous.  But he reveled in his passions, the
possession of them filled him with an ironic satisfaction--they were
his heritage.

While he sat in the chair the blackness of the night enveloped him.  He
heard no sound from the other part of the house and he finally decided
to find and confront his father.  He stood erect, lit the cigarette and
threw the match from him, accidentally striking his hand against the
back of the chair on which he had been sitting.  Yielding to a sudden,
vicious anger, he kicked the chair out of the way, so that it slid
along the rough floor a little distance and overturned with a crash.
Calumet cursed.  He was minded to take the chair up and hurl it down
again, so vengeful was the temper he was in, but his second sober sense
urged upon him the futility of attacking inanimate things and he
contented himself with snarling at it.  He stood silent for a moment, a
hope in his heart that his father, alarmed over the sudden commotion,
would come to investigate, and a wave of sardonic satisfaction swept
over him when he finally heard a faint sound--a footstep in the
distance.

His father had heard and was coming!

Calumet stood near the center of the room, undecided whether to make
his presence known at once or to secrete himself and allow his father
to search for him.  He finally decided to stand where he was and let
his father come upon him there, and he stood erect, puffing rapidly at
the cigarette, which glowed like a firefly in the darkness.

The steps came nearer and Calumet heard a slight creak--the sound made
by the dining-room door as it swung slowly open.  A faint light filled
the opening thus made in the doorway, and Calumet knew that his father
had come without a light--that the faint glow came from a distance,
possibly from the kitchen, just beyond the dining-room.  The lighted
space in the doorway grew wider until it extended to the full width of
the doorway.  And a man stood in it, rigid, erect, motionless.

Calumet stood in silent appreciation of the oddness of the
situation--he had come like a thief in the night--until he remembered
the cigarette in his mouth; that its light was betraying his position.
He reached up, withdrew the cigarette, and held it concealed in the
palm of his hand.

But he was the fraction of a second too late.  His father had seen the
light; was aware of his presence.  Calumet saw a pistol glitter in his
hand, heard his voice, a little hoarse, possibly from fear, give the
faltering command:

"Hands up!"

Until now, Calumet had been filled with a savage enjoyment of the
possibilities.  He had counted on making his presence known at this
juncture, anticipating much pleasure in the revelation of his father's
surprise when he should discover that the intruder was his hated son.
But in his eagerness to conceal the fire from the cigarette he burned
the palm of the hand holding it.  Instantly he succumbed to a furious
rage.  With a snarl he flung himself forward, grasping the man's pistol
with his left hand and depressing the muzzle, at just the instant that
it was discharged.

Calumet felt the sting of the powder in his face, and in a fury of
resentment he brought his right hand up and clutched his father's
throat.  He had taken much pride in his ability to control his
passions, but at this moment they were unleashed.  When his father
showed resistence, Calumet swung him free of the door, dragged him to
the center of the room, where he threw him heavily to the floor,
falling on top of him and jamming a knee savagely into the pit of his
stomach.  Perhaps he had desisted then had not the man struggled and
fought back.  His resistence made Calumet more furious.  He pulled one
hand free and attempted to secure the pistol, forcing the hand holding
it viciously against the floor.  The weapon was again discharged and
Calumet became a raging demon.  Twice he lifted the man's head and
knocked it furiously against the floor, and each time he spoke, his
voice a hoarse, throaty whisper:

"So, this is the way you greet your son, you damned maverick!" he said.

So engrossed was Calumet with his work of subduing the still struggling
parent that he did not hear a slight sound behind him.  But a
flickering light came over his shoulder and shone fairly into the face
of the man beneath him, and he saw that the man was not his father but
an entire stranger!

He was not given time in which to express his surprise, for he heard a
voice behind him and turned to see a young woman standing in the
doorway, a candle in one hand, a forty-five Colt clutched in the other,
its muzzle gaping at him.  The young woman's face was white, her eyes
wide and brilliant, she swayed, but there was determination in her
manner that could not be mistaken.

"Get up, or I will shoot you like a dog!" she said, in a queer,
breathless voice.

[Illustration: "Get up, or I will shoot you like a dog!" she said.]

Releasing his grip on the man's throat, Calumet swung around sideways
and glared malevolently at the young woman.  His anger was gone; there
was no reason for it, now that he had discovered that the man was not
his father.  But the demon in him was not yet subdued, and he got to
his feet, not because the young woman had ordered him to do so, but
because he saw no reason to stay down.  A cold, mocking smile replaced
the malevolence on his face when, after reaching an erect position, he
saw that the weapon in the young woman's hand had drooped until its
muzzle was directed toward the floor at his feet.  A forty-five caliber
revolver, loaded, weighs about forty ounces, and this one looked so
unwieldy and cumbersome, so entirely harmless in the young woman's
slender hand, that her threat seemed absurd, even farcical.  An
ironical humor over the picture she made standing there moved Calumet.

"I reckon you ought to use two hands if you want to hold that gun
proper, ma'am," he said.

The muzzle of the weapon wavered uncertainly; the young woman gasped.
Apparently the lack of fear exhibited by the intruder shocked her.  But
she did not follow Calumet's suggestion, she merely stood and watched
him warily, as the man whom he had attacked struggled dizzily to his
feet, staggered weakly to a chair and half fell, half slipped into it,
swaying oddly back and forth, gasping for breath, a grotesque figure.

The demon in Calumet slumbered--this situation was to his liking.  He
stepped back a pace, and when the young woman saw that he meditated no
further mischief she lowered the pistol to her side.  Then, moving
cautiously, watching Calumet closely, she placed the candle on the
floor in front of her.  Again she stood erect, though she did not raise
the pistol.  Evidently she was regaining her composure, though Calumet
observed that her free hand came up and grasped the dress over her
bosom so tightly that the fabric was in danger of ripping.  Her face,
in the flickering light from the candle on the floor, was slightly in
in the shadow, but Calumet could see that the color was coming back to
her cheeks, and he took note of her, watching her with insolent
intentness.

Of the expression in Calumet's eyes she apparently took no notice, but
she was watching the man he had attacked, plainly concerned over his
condition.  And when at last she saw that he was suffering more from
shock than from real injury she breathed a sigh of relief.  Then she
turned to Calumet.

"What are you doing here?" she demanded.  She was breathing more
easily, but her voice still quivered, and the hand over her bosom moved
with a quick, nervous motion.

"I reckon that's my business," returned Calumet.  He had made a
mistake, certainly, he knew that.  It was apparent that his father had
left the Lazy Y.  At least, if he were anywhere about he was not able
to come to investigate the commotion caused by the arrival of his son.
Either he was sick or had disposed of the ranch, possibly, if the
latter were the case, to the girl and the man.  In the event of his
father having sold the ranch it was plain that Calumet had no business
here.  He was an intruder--more, his attack on the man must convince
both him and the girl that there had been a deeper significance to his
visit.  However, the explanation of the presence of the present
occupants of the house did not bother Calumet, and he did not intend to
set them right, for he was enjoying himself.  Strife, danger, were
here.  Moreover, he had brought them, and he was in his element.  His
blood pulsed swiftly through his veins and he felt a strange
exhilaration as he stepped slightly aside and rested a hand on the desk
top, leering at the girl.

She returned his gaze and evidently divined something of what was in
his mind, for her chin lifted a little in defiance.  The flickering
light from the candle fell on her hair, brown and wavy, and in a tumble
of graceful disorder, and threw into bold relief the firm lines of her
chin and throat.  She was not beautiful, but she certainly merited the
term "pretty," which formed on Calumet's lips as he gazed at her,
though it remained unspoken.  He gave her this tribute grudgingly,
conscious of the deep impression she was making upon him.  He had never
seen a woman like her--for the reason, perhaps, that he had studiously
avoided the good ones.  Mere facial beauty would not have made this
impression on him--it was something deeper, something more substantial
and abiding.  And, watching her, he suddenly knew what it was.  There
was in her eyes, back of the defiance that was in them now, an
expression that told of sturdy honesty and virtue.  These gave to her
features a repose and calm that could not be disturbed, an unconscious
dignity of character that excitement could not efface, and her gaze was
unwavering as her eyes met his in a sharp, brief struggle.  Brief, for
Calumet's drooped.  He felt the dominant personality of the girl and
tried to escape its effect; looked at her with a snarl, writhing under
her steady gaze, a slow red coming into his cheeks.

The silence between them lasted long.  The man on the chair, swaying
back and forth, began to recover his wits and his breath.  He struggled
to an erect position and gazed about him with blood-shot eyes, feeling
his throat where Calumet's iron fingers had gripped it.  Twice his lips
moved in an effort to speak, but no, sound came from between them.

Under the girl's uncomfortable scrutiny, Calumet's thoughts became
strangely incoherent, and he shifted uneasily, for he felt that she was
measuring him, appraising him, valuing him.  He saw slow-changing
expressions in her eyes--defiance, scorn, and, finally, amused
contempt.  With the last expression he knew she had reached a decision,
not flattering to him.  He tried to show her by looking at her that he
did not care what her opinion was, but his recreant eyes refused the
issue and he knew that he was being worsted in a spiritual battle with
the first strong feminine character he had met; that her personality
was overpowering his in the first clash.  With a last effort he forced
his eyes to steadiness and succeeded in sneering at her, though he felt
that somehow the sneer was ineffectual, puerile.  And then she smiled
at him, deliberately, with a disdain that maddened him and brought a
dark flush to his face that reached to his temples.  And then her voice
taunted him:

"What a big, brave man you are?"

Twice her gaze roved over him from head to foot before her voice came
again, and in the total stoppage of his thoughts he found it impossible
to choose a word suitable to interrupt her.

"For you _think_ you are a man, I suppose?" she added, her voice filled
with a lashing scorn.  "You wear a gun, you ride a horse, and you
_look_ like a man.  But there the likeness ends.  I suppose I ought to
kill you--a beast like you has no business living.  Fortunately, you
haven't hurt grandpa very much.  You may go now--go and tell Tom
Taggart that he will have to try again!"

The sound of her voice broke the spell which her eyes had woven about
Calumet's senses, and he stood erect, hooking his thumbs in his
cartridge belt, unaffected by her tirade, his voice insolent.

"Why, ma'am," he said, mockingly, his voice an irritating drawl, "you
cert'nly are some on the talk, for sure!  Your folks sorta handed you
the tongue for the family when you butted into this here world, didn't
they?  An' so that's your grandpa?  I come pretty near hurtin' him an'
you're some het up over it?  But I reckon that if he has to set around
an' listen to your palaver he'd be right glad to cash in.  Shucks.  I
beg your pardon, ma'am.  If it'll do you any good to know, I thought
your poor grandpap was some one else.  I was thinkin' it was a family
affair, an' that I had a right to guzzle him.  You see, I thought the
ol' maverick was my father."

The girl started, the color slowly faded from her cheeks and she drew a
long, tremulous breath.

"Then you," she said; "you are----"  She hesitated and stared at him
intensely, her free hand tightly clenched.

He bowed, derisively, discerning the sudden confusion that had
overtaken her and making the most of his opportunity to increase it.

"I'm Calumet Marston," he said, grinning.

The girl gasped.  "Oh!" she said, weakly; "Oh!"

The huge pistol slipped out of her hand and thudded dully to the floor
and she stood, holding tightly to the door jambs, her eyes fixed on
Calumet with an expression that he could not analyze.


CHAPTER III

CALUMET'S GUARDIAN

A new silence fell; a silence pregnant with a premonition of renewed
strife.  Calumet felt it and the evil in him exulted.  He left the desk
and stepped close to the girl, deftly picking up the fallen pistol and
placing it on the desk back of him, out of the girl's reach.  She
watched him, both hands pressed over her bosom, apparently still
stunned over the revelation of his identity.  There was mystery here,
Calumet felt it and was determined to uncover it.  He took up the chair
that he had previously overturned and seated himself on it, facing the
girl.

"Set down," he said, waving a hand toward another chair.  In response
to his invitation she moved toward the chair, hesitated when she
reached it, apparently having nearly recovered her composure, though
her face was pale and she watched him covertly, half fearfully.  While
she seated herself Calumet got out of his chair and took up the candle,
placing it on the desk beside the pistol.  This done, he busied himself
with the rolling of a cigarette, working deliberately, an alert eye on
the girl and her grandfather.

The latter had recovered and was sitting rigid in the chair, fear and
wonder in his eyes as he watched Calumet.  To him Calumet spoke when he
had completed the rolling of the cigarette and was holding a flaring
match to it.  He took a tigerish amusement from the old man's plight.

"I reckon I come pretty near doin' for you, eh?" he said, grinning.
"Well, there ain't no tellin' when a man will make a mistake."  His
gaze left the old man and was directed at the girl.  "I reckon we'll
clear things up a bit now, ma'am," he said.  "What are you an' your
grand-pap doin' at the Lazy Y?"

"We live here."

"Where's the old coyote which has been callin' himself my dad?"

A sudden change came over the girl; a vindictive satisfaction seemed to
radiate from her.  So it appeared to Calumet.  In the flashing look she
gave him he thought he could detect a knowledge of advantage, a
consciousness of power, over him.  Her voice emphasized this impression.

"Your father's dead," she returned, and watched him narrowly.

Calumet's eyelashes flickered once.  Shock or emotion, this was all the
evidence he gave of it.  He puffed long and deeply at his cigarette and
not for an instant did he remove his gaze from the girl's face, for he
was studying her, watching for a recurrence of the subtle gleam that he
had previously caught.  But in the look that she now gave him there was
nothing but amusement.  Apparently she was enjoying him.  Certainly she
had entirely recovered from the shock he had caused her.

"Dead, eh?" he said.  "When did he cash in?"

"A week ago today."

Calumet's eyelashes flickered again.  Here was the explanation for that
mysterious impulse which had moved him to return home.  It was just a
week ago that he had taken the notion and he had acted upon it
immediately.  He had heard of mental telepathy, and here was a working
illustration of it.  However, he gave no thought to its bearing on his
presence at the Lazy Y beyond skeptically assuring himself that it was
a mere coincidence.  In any event, what did it matter?  He was here;
that was the main thing.

His thoughts had become momentarily introspective, and when his mental
faculties returned to a realization of the present he saw that the girl
was regarding him with an intense and wondering gaze.  She had been
studying him and when she saw him looking at her she turned her head.
He experienced an unaccountable elation, though he kept his voice dryly
sarcastic.

"I reckon the ol' fool asked for me?"

"Yes."

This time Calumet could not conceal his surprise; it was revealed in
the skeptical, sneering, boring glance that he threw at the girl's
face, now inscrutable.  Her manner angered him.

"I reckon you're a liar," he said, with cold deliberation.

The girl reddened quickly; her hands clenched.  But she did not look at
him.

"Thank you," she returned, mockingly.

"What did he say?" he demanded gruffly, to conceal a slight
embarrassment over her manner of receiving the insult.

Her chin lifted disdainfully.  "You wouldn't believe a liar," she said
coldly.

Again her spirit battled his.  The dark flush spread over his face and
he found that he could not meet her eyes; again the sheer, compelling
strength of her personality routed the evilness in his heart.
Involuntarily, his lips moved.

"I reckon I didn't mean just that," he said.  And then, surprised that
such words should come from him he looked up to see the hard calm of
her face change to triumph.

The expression was swiftly transient.  It baffled him, filling him with
an impotent rage.  But he watched her narrowly as she folded her hands
in her lap and looked down at them.

"Your father expected you to come," she said quietly.  "He prayed that
you might return before he died.  It seems that he felt he had treated
you meanly and he wanted to tell you that he had repented."

A cynical wonder filled Calumet, and he laughed--a short, raucous
staccato.

"How do you know?" he questioned.

"He told me."

Calumet considered her for a moment in silence and then his attention
was directed to her grandfather, who had got to his feet and was
walking unsteadily toward the dining-room door.  He was a
well-preserved man, appearing to be about sixty.  That Calumet's attack
had been a vicious one was apparent, for as the man reached the door he
staggered and leaned weakly against the jambs.  He made a grimace at
Calumet and smiled weakly at the girl.

"I'm pretty well knocked out, Betty," he said.  "My neck hurts, sorta.
I'll send Bob in to keep you company."

The girl cast a sharp, eloquent glance at Calumet and smiled with
straight lips.

"Don't bother to send Bob," she replied; "I am not afraid."

The grandfather went out, leaving the door open.  While the girl stood
listening to his retreating steps, Calumet considered her.  She had
said that she was not afraid of him--he believed her; her actions
showed it.  He said nothing until after her grandfather had vanished
and his step was no longer heard, and then when she turned to him he
said shortly:

"So your name's Betty.  Betty what?"

"Clayton."

"An' your grandpap?"

"Malcolm Clayton."

"Who's Bob?"

"My brother."

"Any more Claytons around here?" he sneered.

"No."

"Well," he said with truculent insolence; "what in Sam Hill are you-all
doin' at the Lazy Y, anyway?"

"I am coming to that presently," she returned, unruffled.

"Goin' to work your jaw again, I reckon?" he taunted.

The hard calm came again into her face as she looked at him, though
behind it was that subtle quality that hinted of her possession of
advantage.  Her manner made plain to him that she held some mysterious
power over him, a power which she valued, even enjoyed, and he was
nettled, baffled, and afflicted with a deep rage against her because of
it.  Dealing with a man he would have known what to do, but he felt
strangely impotent in the presence of this girl, for she was not
disturbed over his insults, and her quiet, direct glances affected him
with a queer sensation of guilt, even embarrassed him.

"Well?" he prompted, after a silence.

"I am going to tell you about your father," she said.

"Make it short," he said gruffly.

"Five years ago," said the girl, ignoring the insolent suggestion; "my
father and mother died.  My father had been a big cattle owner," she
added with a flash of pride.  "He was very wealthy; he was educated,
refined--a gentleman.  We lived in Texas--lived well.  I attended a
university in the South.  In my second year there I was called home
suddenly.  My father was ill from shock and disappointment.  He had
invested heavily in some northern enterprise--it will not interest you
to know the nature of it--and had lost his entire fortune.  His ranch
property was involved and had to be sold.  There was barely enough to
satisfy the creditors.  Father died and mother soon followed him.
Grandfather, Bob, and I were left destitute.  We left the ranch and
took up a quarter section of land on the Nueces.  We became nesters and
were continually harassed by a big cattle owner nearby who wanted our
range.  We had to get out.  Grandfather thought there might be an
opportunity to take up some land in this territory.  Bob was--well, Bob
took mother's death so hard that we didn't want to stay in Texas any
longer.  The outlook wasn't bright.  Bob was too young to work--"

"Lazy, I reckon," jeered Calumet.

The girl's eyes flashed with a swift, contemptuous resentment and her
voice chilled.  "Bob's leg was hurt," she said.  She waited for an
instant, watching the sneer on Calumet's face, and then went on firmly,
as though she had decided not to let anything he said disturb her.  "So
when Grandfather proposed coming here I agreed.  We took what few
personal effects that were left us.  We traveled for two months--"

"I ain't carin' to hear your family history," interrupted Calumet.
"You started to tell me about my dad."

"We were following the river trail near here," the girl went on firmly,
scorning to pay any attention to this insult; "when we heard shooting.
I stayed with the wagon while grandfather went to investigate.  We
found two men--Tom Taggart and his son Neal--concealed in the
cottonwood, trying to shoot your father, who was in the house.  Your
father had been wounded in the shoulder and it would not have been long
before--"

"Who are the Taggarts?" questioned Calumet, his lips setting strangely.

"They own a ranch near here--the Arrow.  The motive behind their desire
to kill your father makes another story which you shall hear some time
if you have the patience," she said with jeering emphasis.

"I ain't particular."

The girl's lips straightened.  "Grandfather helped your father drive
the Taggarts away," she went on.  "Your father was living here alone
because several of his men had sought to betray him and he had
discharged them all.  Your father was wounded very badly and
grandfather and I took care of him until he recovered.  He liked us,
wanted us to stay here, and we did."

"Pretty soft for a pair of poverty-stricken adventurers," commented
Calumet.

The girl's voice was cold and distinct despite the insult.

"Your father liked me particularly well.  A year ago he drew up a will
giving me all his property and cutting you off without a cent.  He gave
me the will to keep for him."

"Fine!" was Calumet's dryly sarcastic comment.

"But I destroyed the will," went on the girl.

Calumet's expression changed to surprised wonder, then to mockery.

"You're locoed!" he declared.  "Why didn't you take the property?"

"I didn't want it; it was yours."

Calumet forgot to sneer; his wonder and astonishment over the girl's
ability to resist such a temptation were so great as to shock him to
silence.  She and her grandfather were dependants, abroad without means
of support, and yet the girl had refused a legacy which she and her
relative had undoubtedly earned.  Such sturdy honesty surprised him,
mystified him, and he was convinced that there must have been some
other motive behind her refusal to become his father's beneficiary.  He
watched her closely for a moment and then, thinking he had discovered
the motive, he said in a voice of dry mockery:

"I reckon you didn't take it because there was nothin' to take."

"Besides the land and the buildings, he left about twenty thousand
dollars in cash," she informed him quietly.

"Where is it?" demanded Calumet quickly.

Betty smiled.  "That," she said dryly, "is what I want to talk to you
about."  Again the consciousness of advantage shone in her eyes.
Calumet felt that it would be useless to question her and so he leaned
back in his chair and regarded her saturninely.

"Soon after your father became afflicted with his last sickness,"
continued Betty; "he called me to him and took me into his confidence.
He talked to me about you--about the way he had treated you.  Both he
and your mother had been, he said, victims of uncontrollable tempers,
and were beset with elemental passions which he was certain had
descended to you.  In fact, because of the hatred your mother bore
you--"  She hesitated.

"Well, that too, belongs to the story which you will hear about Taggart
when you have the patience," she continued.  "But your father repented;
he saw the injustice he had done you and wanted to repair it.  He was
certain, though, that this curse of temper was deep-seated in you and
he wanted to drive it out.  He felt that when you finally came home you
would need reforming, and he did not want you to profit by his money
until you forgave him.  He had strange notions regarding your
reformation; he declared he would not take your word for it, but would
insist on a practical demonstration.  When he had fully explained his
ideas on the subject he made me swear that I would carry them out."
She paused and looked at Calumet and he saw that the expression of
advantage that had been in her eyes all along was no longer a subtle
expression, but plain and unmistakable.

Calumet watched her intently, silently, his face a battleground for the
emotions that rioted within him.  The girl watched him with covert
vigilance and he felt that she was enjoying him.  And when finally she
saw the rage die out of his eyes, saw the color come slowly back into
his cheeks and his face become a hard, inscrutable mask, she knew that
the coming struggle between them was to be a bitter one.

"So," he said, after a while; "I don't get the coin until I become a
Sunday school scholar?"

"It is specified that you give a practical demonstration of reform in
character.  You must show that you forgive your father."

"You're goin' to be my guardian?"

"Your judge," corrected the girl.

"He's got all this in the will?"

"Yes, the last one he made."

"You don't reckon I could break that will?" he sneered.

"Try it," she mocked.  "It has been probated in Las Vegas.  The judge
happens to be a friend of your father's and, I understand, sympathized
with him."

"Clever, eh?" said Calumet, grinning crookedly.

"I am glad you think so," she taunted.


CHAPTER IV

CALUMET PLAYS BETTY'S GAME

The silence between Betty and Calumet continued so long that it grew
oppressive.  The night noises came to their ears through the closed
door; a straggling moonbeam flittered through the branches of a tree in
the wood near the ranchhouse, penetrated the window and threw a
rapier-like shaft on Calumet's sneering face.  Betty's eyes in the
flickering glare of the candle light, were steady and unwavering as she
vainly searched for any sign of emotion in the mask-like features of
the man seated before her.  She saw the mask break presently, and a
cold, mirthless smile wreathe his lips.

"You make me sick," he said slowly.  "If you'd had any sense you'd have
told the old fool to go to hell!  You're goin' to reform me?  You're
goin' to be my judge?  You--you--you!  Why you poor little sufferin'
innocent, what business have you got here at all?  What right have you
got to be settin' there tellin' me that you're goin' to be my judge;
that you're goin' to butt into my game at all?  Where's the money?" he
demanded, his voice hard and menacing.

"The money is hidden," she returned quietly.

"Where?"

"That is my business," she returned defiantly.  "Where it is hidden no
one but me knows.  And I am not going to tell until the time comes.
You are not going to scare me, either," she added confidently.  "If you
don't care to abide by your father's wishes you are at liberty to
go--anywhere you please."

"Who'd get the money then?"

"You have a year in which to show that you forgive your father.  If at
the end of that time you have not forgiven him, or if you leave the
ranch without agreeing to the provisions of the will, the entire
property comes to me."

"I reckon you'd like to have me leave?" he sneered.

"That," she returned, unruffled, "is my business.  But I don't mind
telling you that I have no interest in the matter one way or another.
You may leave if you like, but if you stay you will yield to your
father's wishes if you are to receive the money and the property."

There was finality in her voice; he felt it and his face darkened with
passion.  A sneer replaced the mirthless grin on his lips, and when he
got up and moved slowly toward Betty she sat motionless, for there was
a repressed savagery in his movements that chilled her blood.  He came
and stood in front of her, towering over her; she saw that his hands
were clenched, the fingers working.  Twice she tried to look up at him,
but each time her gaze stopped at his hands--they fascinated her.  She
tried to scream when she finally saw them come out toward her, but
succeeded in emitting only a breathless gasp, for a broad, rough palm
suddenly enclosed each of her cheeks and her head was forced slowly and
resistlessly back until she found herself looking straight up at him.

"Why, you," he said, his voice vibrating with some strange passion,
while he shook her head slowly from side to side as though he were
resisting an impulse to throttle her; "why, you--you--" he repeated,
his voice a sudden, tense whisper; "for two bits I'd--"

He hesitated, for she had recovered from her momentary physical and
mental paralysis, roused by the awful threat in his voice and manner,
and was fighting to free herself, clawing at his hands, kicking,
squirming, but ineffectively, for his hands were like bands of steel.
Finding resistance useless she sat rigid again, her eyes flashing
impotent rage and scorn.

"Coward!" she said breathlessly.

For an instant longer he held her and then laughed and dropped his
hands to his sides.

"Shucks," he said, his voice expressing disgust; "I reckon the old man
knowed what he was doin' when he appointed you my guardian!  A man
can't fight a woman--like that!"

He walked to the chair upon which he had been sitting, turned it around
so that its back was toward Betty, and straddled it, leaning his arms
on its back and resting his chin on them.

"Well," he said, with a slow grin at her; "if it will do you any good
to know, I've decided to stay here and let you practice on me.  What's
the first move?"

But his action had aroused her; she stood up and confronted him, her
face flushed with shame and indignation.

"Leave this house!" she commanded, taking a step toward him and
speaking rapidly and hoarsely, her voice quivering as though she had
been running; "leave it instantly!"  She stamped a foot to emphasize
the order.

Calumet did not move.  He watched her, a smile on his lips, his eyes
narrowed.  When she stamped her foot the smile grew to a short, amused
laugh.

"Sorta riled, eh?" he jeered.  "Well, go as far as you like--you're
sure amusin'.  But I don't reckon that I'll be leavin' here in a hurry.
Didn't the old man tell you I could stay here a year?  What's the use
of me goin' now, just when you're goin' to start to reform me?  Why,"
he finished, surveying her with interest; "I reckon the old man would
be plumb tickled to see the way you're carryin' on--obeyin' his last
wishes."  He rested his head on his arms and laughed heartily.

He heard her step across the floor, and raised his head again, to look
into the muzzle of the pistol he had laid on the desk.  It was close to
him, steady in her hands, and behind it her eyes were blazing with
wrath and determination.

"Go!" she ordered sharply; "go now--this minute, or I will shoot you!"

He laughed recklessly into the muzzle of the weapon and then without
visible excitement turned in his chair, reached out a swift hand,
grasped the weapon by the barrel and depressed the menacing muzzle so
that it pointed straight downward.  Holding it thus in spite of her
frantic efforts to wrench it free, he got to his feet and stood in
front of her.

"Why, Betty," he jeered; "you're sure some excited."  Seizing her other
hand, he turned her around so that she faced him fairly, holding her
with a grip so tight that she could not move.

"It's your game, ain't it?" he said mockingly.  "Well, I'm playin' it
with you.  Somethin' seems to tell me that we're goin' to have a daisy
time makin' a go of it."

He suddenly released her hands and stepped back, leaving her in
possession of the pistol.

"Usin' it?" he questioned, drawling, nodding toward the weapon.  Betty
looked down at it, shuddered, and then with an expression of dread and
horror reached out and laid it gingerly on the desk top.

The next instant Calumet stood alone, grinning widely at the door
through which Betty had vanished.  Listening, he heard her retreating
steps, heard a distant door slam.  He walked to the desk and looked at
the pistol, then turned and surveyed the room with a speculative eye.

"She didn't even offer me a place to sleep," he said mockingly.

He stood for an instant longer, debating the situation.  Then he
crossed the floor, closed the dining-room door, fastened it securely
and recrossing to the outside door stepped down from the porch and
sought his pony.  Ten minutes later he carried the saddle in, threw it
on the floor, folded the saddle blanket and placed it on the sofa,
closed the outside door, opened the window, snuffed out the candle,
stretched himself out on the sofa and went to sleep.


CHAPTER V

THE FIRST LESSON

Shortly after daybreak the following morning Calumet turned over on his
back, stretched lazily and opened his eyes.  When a recollection of the
events of the previous night forced themselves into his consciousness
he scowled and sat erect, listening.  From beyond the closed
dining-room door came sundry sounds which told him that the Claytons
were already astir.  He heard the rattle of dishes, and the appetizing
aroma of fried bacon filtered through the crevices in the battered door
and assailed his nostrils.

He scowled again as he rose and stood looking down at his saddle.  When
beginning his homeward journey he had supplied himself with soda
biscuit and jerked beef, but he had consumed the last of his food at
noon the day before and the scent of the frying bacon aroused him to
the realization that he was ravenously hungry.  As he meditated upon
the situation the scowl on his face changed to an appreciative grin.
Now that he had decided to stay here he did not purpose to go hungry
when there was food around.

Shouldering his saddle he left the office and proceeded to the stable,
in which he had placed his pony the night before.  He fed the animal
from a pitiful supply of grain in a bin, and after slamming the door of
the stable viciously, sneering at it as it resisted, he stalked to the
ranchhouse.

There was a tin basin on a bench just outside the kitchen door.  He
poured it half full of water from a pail that sat on the porch floor,
and washed his hands and face, noting, while engaged in his task, a
clean towel hanging from a roller on the wall of the ranchhouse.  While
drying his face he heard voices from within, subdued, anxious.
Completing his ablutions he stepped to the screen door, threw it open
and stood on the threshold.

In the center of the kitchen stood a table covered with a white cloth
on which were dishes filled with food from which arose promising odors.
Beside a window in the opposite wall of the kitchen stood Malcolm
Clayton.  He was facing Calumet, and apparently had recovered from the
encounter of the night before.  But when he looked at Calumet he
cringed as though in fear.  Betty stood beside the table, facing
Calumet also.  But there was no fear in her attitude.  She was erect,
her hands resting on her hips, and when Calumet hesitated on the
threshold she looked at him with a scornful half smile.  Yielding to
the satanic humor which had received its birth the night before when he
had made his decision to remain at the Lazy Y, he returned Betty's
smile with a derisive grin, walked to the table, pulled out a chair,
and seated himself.

It was a deliberate and premeditated infringement of the proprieties,
and Calumet anticipated a storm of protest from Betty.  But when he
looked brazenly at her he saw her regarding him with a direct,
disdainful gaze.  He understood.  She was surprised and indignant over
the action, possibly shocked over his cool assumption, but she was not
going to lose her composure.

"Well," he said, keenly enjoying the situation and determined to
torment her further, "set down.  I reckon we'll grub."

"Thank you," she mocked, with quick sarcasm; "I was wondering whether
you would ask us.  Grandpa," she added, turning to Malcolm, "won't you
join us?  Mr. Marston has been so polite and thoughtful that we
certainly ought not to refuse his invitation."

She drew out a chair for Malcolm and stood beside it while he shuffled
forward and hesitatingly slipped into it, watching Calumet furtively.
Then she moved quietly and gracefully to another chair, directly
opposite Calumet.

Her sarcasm had no perceptible effect on Calumet.  Inwardly he was
intensely satisfied.  His action in seating himself at the table
without invitation angered Betty, as he had intended it should.

"Some shocked, eh?" he said, helping himself to some bacon and fried
potatoes, and passing them to her when he had finished with them.

"Shocked?" she returned calmly, unconcernedly supplying herself with
food from the dishes she had taken from him, "Oh, my, no.  You see,
from what your father told me about you, I rather expected you to be a
brute."

"Aw, Betty," came Malcolm's voice, raised in mild remonstrance; "you
hadn't ought to--"

"If you please, grandpa," Betty interrupted him, and he subsided and
glanced anxiously at Calumet, into whose face had come a dash of dark
color.  He swallowed a mouthful of bacon before he answered Betty.

"Then you ain't disappointed," he sneered.

She rested her hands on the table beside her plate, the knife and fork
poised, and regarded him with a frank gaze.

"No, I am not disappointed.  You quite meet my expectations.  In fact,"
she went on, "I thought you would be much worse than you are.  So far,
if we except your attack on grandfather, you haven't exhibited any
vicious traits.  You are vain, though, and conceited, and like to bully
people.  But those are faults that can be corrected."

Calumet had to look twice at her before he could be certain that she
was not mocking him.

"I reckon you're goin' to correct them?" he said, then.

She took a sip of coffee and placed the cup delicately down before she
answered.

"Of course--if you are to stay here."

"How?"  His lips were in an incredulous sneer.

"By showing you that you can't be conceited around me, and that you
can't bully me.  I suppose," she went on, leaning her elbows on the
table and supporting her chin with her hands while she looked straight
at him, "that when you came in here and took a seat without being
invited, you imagined you were impressing some one with your
importance.  But you were not; you were merely acting the part of a
vulgar boor.  Or perhaps you had a vague idea that you were going to do
as you please."

He placed his knife and fork down and looked at her.  Her manner was
irritating; her quiet, direct glances disconcerted him.  He could not
fail to see that he had signally failed in his effort to disturb her.
In fact, it became very plain to him as he watched her that she was
serenely conscious of her power over him, as a teacher is conscious of
her authority over an unruly pupil, and that, like a teacher, she was
quietly determined to be the victor.

The thought angered Calumet.  There was in his mind a desire to humble
her, to crush her, to break her spirit, to drag her down to his own
level where he could fight her with his own weapons.  He wanted to
humiliate her, wanted to gloat over her, wanted above all to have her
acknowledge his superiority, his authority, over her.  Had he been able
to do this at their first meeting he would have been satisfied; if he
were able to do it now he would be pleased.

"It's none of your business what I thought," he said, leaning over the
table and leering at her.  "I'm goin' to run things to suit myself, an'
if you an' your grandpap an' your brother don't like my style you can
pull your freight, pronto.  I'm goin' to boss this ranch.  Do you get
me?"

She seemed amused.  "The Lazy Y," she said slowly, her eyes gleaming,
"has need of something besides a boss.  You have observed, I suppose,
that it is slightly run down.  Your father purposely neglected it.
Considerable money and work will be required to place it in condition
where it can be bossed at all.  I haven't any doubt," she added,
surveying him critically, "that you will be able to supply the
necessary labor.  But what about the money?  Are you well supplied with
that?"

"Meaning to hint about the money the old man left, I reckon?"

"Of course.  Understand that I have control of that, and you won't get
a cent unless in my opinion you deserve it."

He glared savagely at her.

"Of course," she went on calmly, though there was triumph in her voice,
"you can force us to leave the ranch.  But I suspect that you won't try
to do that, because if you did you would never get the money.  I should
go directly over to Las Vegas and petition to have your claim annulled.
Then at the end of the year the money would be mine."

He stiffened with impotent rage as he took up his knife and fork again
and resumed eating.  He was disagreeably conscious that she held the
advantage, for assuredly he had no intention of driving her from the
ranch or of leaving it himself until he got his hands on the money.
Besides, he thought he saw back of her unconcern over his probable
course of action a secret desire for him to leave or to drive her away,
and in the perversity of his heart he decided that both must stay.
Something might occur to reveal the whereabouts of the money, or he
could watch her, reasonably certain that one day her woman's curiosity
would lead her to its hiding place.  Plainly, in any event, he must
bide his time.  Though his decision to defer action was taken, his
resentment did not abate; he could not conquer the deep rage in his
heart against her because of her interference in his affairs, and when
he suddenly looked up to see her watching him with a calm smile he made
a grimace of hatred at her.

"I'll make you show your hand, you sufferin' fool!" he said.  "If you
was a man I'd make you tell me right now where that corn is, or I'd
guzzle you till your tongue stuck out a yard.  As it is, I reckon I've
got to wait until you get damn good an' ready; got to wait until a
measly, sneakin' woman--"

Her laugh interrupted him--low, disdainful, mocking.

"I think I know what you are going to say.  You are going to tell me
how I wormed my way into the good graces of your father and coaxed him
to make me his beneficiary.  It is your intention to be mean, to insult
me, to try to bully me."  Her eyes flashed as she leaned a little
toward him.  "Understand," she said; "your bluster won't have the
slightest effect on me.  I am not afraid of you.  So swear and curse to
your heart's content.  As for bossing the ranch," she went on, her
voice suddenly one of cold mockery, "what is there to boss?  Some
dilapidated buildings!  Of course you may boss those, because they
can't object.  But you can't boss me, nor grandfather, nor Bob--because
we won't let you!"

She walked away from the table and went to a door that led to another
room, standing in the opening and looking back at Calumet, who still
sat at the table, speechless with surprise.

"Go out and begin your bossing!" she jeered.  "Very likely the
buildings will begin to dance around at your bidding.  With your
admirable persuasive powers you ought to be able to do wonders with
them in the matter of repairs.  Try it, at least.  But if they refuse
to be repaired at your mere word, and you think something more
substantial is needed, then come to me--perhaps I may help you."

She bowed mockingly and vanished into the other room, closing the door
behind her, leaving Calumet glaring into his plate.

For a moment there was a painful silence, which Malcolm broke by
clearing his throat, his gaze on the tablecloth.

"Sometimes I think Betty's a little fresh," he said, apologetically.
"She's sorta sudden-like.  She hadn't ought to--"

He looked up to see a malevolent scowl on Calumet's face, and he ducked
by the narrowest of margins the heavy plate that flew from Calumet's
hand.  The plate struck the wall and was shattered to atoms.  Malcolm
crouched, in deadly fear of other missiles, but Calumet did not deign
to notice him further, stalking out of the room and slamming the door
behind him.


CHAPTER VI

"BOB"

Five minutes after leaving the kitchen of the ranchhouse Calumet stood
beside the rotted rails of the corral fence near the stable, frowning,
fully conscious that he had been worsted in the verbal battle just
ended.  He was filled with a disagreeable sense of impotence; he felt
small, mean, cheap, and uncomfortable, and was oppressed with
indecision.  In short, he felt that he was not the same man who had
ridden up to the Lazy Y ranchhouse at twilight the night before--in
twelve hours a change had come over him.  And Betty had wrought it.  He
knew that.

Had he only to do with Malcolm--or any man, for that matter--there
would have been no doubt of his course.  He would have hustled out
Malcolm or any other man long before this, and there would have been an
end to it.  But Betty had made it quite plain to him that she did not
purpose to leave, and, since he had had little experience with women,
he was decidedly at a loss to discover a way to deal with her.  That he
could not rout her by force was certain, for he could not lay hands on
a woman in violence, and he was by no means certain that he wanted her
to leave, because if she did it was highly probable that he would never
get his hands on the money his father had left.  Of course he could
search for the money, but there came to his mind now tales of treasure
that had never been recovered, and he was reluctant to take any
chances.  On the other hand, he was facing the maddening prospect of
living for a year under the eyes of a determined young woman who was to
be the sole judge of his conduct.  He was to become a probationer and
Betty was to watch his every move.

He wondered, making a wry face at the thought, whether she intended to
record his actions in a book, giving him marks of merit or demerit
according as the whim struck her?  In that case she had probably
already placed a black mark against him, perhaps several.

He stood long beside the fence, considering the situation.  It was odd
to the point of unreality, but, no matter how odd, it was a situation
that he must face, because he had already decided to stay and make an
attempt to get the money.  He certainly would not go away and leave it
to Betty; he would not give her that satisfaction.  Nor did he intend
to be pliable clay in her hands, to become in the end a creature of her
shaping.  He would stay, but he would be himself, and he would make the
Claytons rue the day they had interfered in his affairs.

Leaning on the top rail of the fence, his gaze roved over the sweep of
valley, dull and cheerless in the early dawn, with a misty film rising
up out of it to meet and mingle and evaporate in the far-flung colors
of the slow-rising sun.  Once his gaze concentrated on a spot in the
distance.  He detected movement, and watched, motionless, until he was
certain.  Half a mile it was to the spot--a low hill, crested with
yucca, sagebrush, and octilla--and he saw the desert weeds move,
observed a dark form slink out from them and stand for an instant on
the skyline.  Wolf or coyote, it was too far for him to be certain, but
he watched it with a sneer until it slunk down into the tangle of sage,
out of his sight.

He presently forgot the slinking figure; his thoughts returned to
Betty.  He did not like her, she irritated him.  For a woman she was
too assertive, too belligerent by half.  Though considering her now, he
was reluctantly compelled to admit that she was a forceful figure, and,
reviewing the conversation he had had with her a few minutes before,
the picture she had made standing in the doorway defying him, mocking
him, rebuking him, he could not repress a thrill of grudging admiration.

For half an hour he stood at the corral fence.  He rolled and smoked
three cigarettes, his thoughts wrapped in memories of the past and
revolving the problem of his future.  Once Betty stood in the kitchen
door for fully a minute, watching him speculatively, and twice old
Malcolm passed him on the way to do some chore, eyeing him curiously.
Calumet did not see either of them.

Nor did he observe that the slinking form which he had observed moving
among the weeds on the distant hill in the valley had approached to
within twenty yards of him, was crouching in a corner of the corral
fence, watching him with blazing, blood-shot eyes, its dull gray hair
bristling, its white fangs bared in a snarl.

It had been a long stalk, and the beast's jaws were slavering from
exertion.  It watched, crouching and panting, for a favorable moment to
make the attack which it meditated.

It had seen Calumet from the hill and had dropped down to the level,
keeping out of sight behind the sagebrush and the clumps of mesquite,
crossing the open places on its belly, stealing upon him silently and
cunningly.  So cautious had been its approach that old Malcolm had not
seen it when fifteen minutes before he had passed Calumet and had
paused for a look at him.  The beast had been in a far corner of the
fence then, and had slunk close to the ground until Malcolm had passed.
Nor had Malcolm seen it just a moment before when he had crossed the
ranchhouse yard behind Calumet to go to the bunkhouse, where he was
now.  The instant Malcolm had disappeared within the bunkhouse, the
beast had stolen to its present position.

The attack was swift and silent.  Calumet was puffing abstractedly at a
cigarette when he became aware of a rush of air as the gray shape
flashed up from the ground.  Calumet dodged involuntarily, throwing up
an arm to fend off the shape, which catapulted past him, shoulder-high.
The beast had aimed for his throat; his long fangs met the upthrust arm
and sank into it, crunching it to the bone.

The force of the attack threw Calumet against the corral fence.  The
beast struck the ground beyond him noiselessly, its legs asprawl, its
hair bristling from rage.  Ten feet beyond Calumet the force of its
attack carried it, and it whirled swiftly, to leap again.

But Calumet was not to be surprised the second time.  Standing at the
fence, his eyes ablaze with hatred and pain, he crouched.  As the beast
leaped Calumet's hand moved at his hip, his heavy six-shooter crashed
spitefully, its roar reverberating among the buildings and startling
the two gaunt horses in the corral to movement.  The gray beast
snarled, crumpled midway in its leap, and dropped at Calumet's feet.  A
dark patch on its chest just below the throat showed where the bullet
had gone.  But apparently the bullet had missed a vital spot, for the
beast struggled to its feet, dragging itself toward Calumet, its fangs
slashing impotently.

Calumet stepped back a pace, his face malignant with rage and hate, his
eyes gleaming vengefully.  He heard a scream from somewhere--a shrill
protest in a voice which he did not recognize, but he paid no attention
to it until he had deliberately emptied his six-shooter into the beast,
putting the bullets where they would do the most good.  When the weapon
was emptied and the beast lay prone in the dust at his feet, its great
jaws agape and dripping with blood-flecked foam, Calumet turned and
looked up.

He saw Malcolm Clayton come out of the bunkhouse door, and noticed
Betty running toward him from the ranchhouse.  Betty's sleeves were
rolled to the elbows, her apron fluttering the wind, and the thought
struck Calumet that she must have been washing dishes when interrupted
by the shooting.  But it was not she who had screamed--he would have
recognized her voice.  Then he saw a huddled figure leaning against the
corner of the stable nearest the ranchhouse; the figure of a boy of
twelve or thirteen.  He had a withered, mis-shapen leg--the right one;
and under his right arm, partly supporting him, was a crude crutch.
The boy was facing Calumet, and at the instant the latter saw him he
looked up, his pale, thin face drawn and set, his eyes filled with an
expression of reproach and horror.

He was not over fifteen feet distant from Calumet, and the latter
watched him with a growing curiosity until Betty ran to him and folded
him into her arms.  Then Calumet began to reload his six-shooter,
ignoring Malcolm, who had come close to him and was standing beside the
corral fence, breathing heavily and trembling from excitement.

"It's Lonesome!" gasped Malcolm, his lips quivering as he looked at the
beast; "Bob's Lonesome!"

Calumet flashed around at him, cursing savagely.

"What you gettin' at, you damned old gopher?" he sneered.

"It's Lonesome!" repeated Malcolm, his weather-lined face red with
resentment and anger.  He showed no fear of Calumet now, but came close
to him and stood rigid, his hands clenched.  "It's Lonesome!" he
repeated shrilly; "Bob's Lonesome!"  And then, seeing from the
expression of Calumet's face that he did not comprehend, he added:
"It's Bob's dog, Lonesome!  Bob loved him so, an' now you've gone an'
killed him--you--you hellhound!  You--"

His quavering voice was cut short; once more his throat felt the
terrible pressure of Calumet's iron fingers.  For an instant he was
held at arm's length, shaken savagely, and in the next he was flung
with furious force against the corral fence, from whence he staggered
and fell into a corner.

Calumet turned from him to confront Betty.  Her eyes were ablaze, and
one hand rested with unconscious affection on Bob's head as the boy
stood looking down at the body of the dog, sobbing quietly.  Betty was
trying to keep her composure, but at her first words her voice trembled.

"So you've killed Lonesome," she said.  Calumet had finished reloading
his pistol, and he folded his arms over his chest, deliberately
shielding the left, which Lonesome had bitten, thus hiding the red
patches that showed on the shirt sleeve over the wound.  He would not
give Betty the satisfaction of seeing that he had been hurt.

"Lonesome," explained Betty, frigidly, "was a dog--he was Bob's dog.
Bob loved him.  I suppose you didn't know that--you couldn't have
known.  We believed him to be part wolf.  Bob found him on the Lazette
trail, where he had evidently been left behind, probably forgotten, by
some traveler who had camped there.  Bob brought him home and raised
him.  He has never been known to exhibit any vicious traits.  You were
born in the West," she went on, "and ought to be able to tell the
difference between a dog and a wolf.  Did you take Lonesome for a wolf?"

"I reckon," sneered Calumet, determined not to be lectured by her,
"that I've got to give a reason for everything I do around here.  Even
to killin' a damn dog!"

"Then," she said with cold contempt, "you killed him in pure
wantonness?"

It was plain to Calumet that she was badly hurt over the dog's death.
Certainly, despite her cold composure, she must be filled with rage
against him for killing the animal.  He might now have exhibited his
arm, to confound her with the evidence of his innocence of wantonness,
and very probably she would have been instantly remorseful.  But he had
no such intention; he was keenly alive to his opportunity to show her
that he was answerable to no one for his conduct.  He enjoyed her
chagrin; he was moved to internal mirth over her impotent wrath; he
took a savage delight in seeing her cringe from the evidence of his
apparent brutality.  He grinned at her.

"He's dead, ain't he?" he said.  "An' I ain't makin' no excuses to you!"

She gave him a scornful glance and went over to Malcolm, who had
clambered to his feet and was crouching, his face working with passion.
At the instant Betty reached him he was clawing at his six-shooter,
trying to drag it from the holster.  But Betty's hand closed over his
and he desisted.

"Not that, grandpa," she said quietly.  "Shooting won't bring Lonesome
back.  Besides"--she turned toward Calumet and saw the cold grin on his
face as his right hand dropped to his hip in silent preparation for
Malcolm's menacing movement--"don't you see that he would shoot you as
he shot Lonesome?  He just can't help being a brute!"

She turned her back to Calumet and spoke in a low voice to her
grandfather, smoothing his hair, patting his shoulders--calming him
with all a woman's gentle artifices.  And Calumet stood watching her,
marveling at her self-control, feeling again that queer, thrilling
sensation of reluctant admiration.

He had forgotten Bob.  Betty had left the boy standing alone when she
had gone over to Malcolm, and Bob had hobbled forward when Calumet had
turned to follow the girl's movements, so that now he stood just behind
Calumet.  The latter became aware of the boy's presence when the latter
seized his left hand from behind, and he turned with a snarl, his
six-shooter half drawn, to confront the boy, whose grip on the hand had
not been loosened.  Calumet drew the hand fiercely away, overturning
Bob so that he fell sprawling into the dust at his feet.  The youngster
was up again before Betty and Malcolm could reach him, hobbling toward
Calumet, his thin face working from excitement, his big eyes alight
over the discovery he had made.

"He didn't kill Lonesome because he is mean, Betty!" he shrilled; "I
knew he didn't!  Look at his arm, Betty!  It's all bloody!  Lonesome
bit him!"

In spite of Calumet's efforts to avoid him, the boy again seized the
arm, holding it out so that Betty and Malcolm could see the patches on
the sleeve and the thin red streak that had crawled down over the back
of his hand and was dripping from the finger tips.

Malcolm halted in his advance on Calumet and stealthily sheathed his
weapon.  Betty, too, had stopped, a sudden wave of color overspreading
her face, the picture of embarrassment and astonishment.

"Why didn't you tell us?" she asked accusingly; "it would have saved--"

"Saved you from makin' a fool of yourself," interrupted Calumet.  "You
certainly did prove that I'm a mighty mean man," he added, mockingly.
"I didn't tell you because it's none of your business.  It's only a
scratch, but I ain't lettin' no damned animal chaw me up an' get away
with it."  He drew the hand away from the boy and placed it behind him
so that Betty could not look at it, which she had been doing until now,
with wide, frightened eyes.  She came forward when he placed the hand
behind him, and stood close to him, determination in her manner.

"I want to see how badly you have been bitten," she said.

"Go finish washin' your dishes," he advised, with a sneer.  "That's
where you belong.  Until you an' your bunch butted in with your palaver
I was enjoyin' myself.  You drive me plumb weary."

Betty faced him resolutely, though now there was contrition in her
manner, in her voice.  She spoke firmly.

"I am sorry for what I said to you before--about Lonesome.  I thought
you had killed him just to be mean, to hurt me.  I will try to make
amends.  If you will come into the house I will dress your arm--it must
be badly injured."

Calumet's lips curled, then straightened, and he looked down at her
with steady hostility.

"I ain't got no truck with you at all," he said.  "When I'm figgerin'
on lettin' you paw over me I'll let you know."  He turned shortly and
walked over to the door of the stable, where he fumbled at the
fastenings, presently swinging the door open and vanishing inside.
Five minutes later, when he came out with the pony saddled and bridled,
he found that Betty and Malcolm had gone.  But Bob stood over the dead
body of Lonesome, silently weeping.

For a moment, standing beside his pony, Calumet watched the boy, and as
he stood a queer pallor overspread his face and his lips tightened
oddly.  For something in the boy's appearance, in the idea of his
exhibition of grief over his dog, which Malcolm had said he loved,
smote Calumet's heart.  As he continued to watch, his set lips moved
strangely, and his eyes glittered with a light that they had not yet
known.  Twice he started toward the boy, and twice he changed his mind
and returned to his pony to continue his vigil.  The boy was unaware of
his presence.

The third time Calumet reached his side, and the big rough palm of his
right hand was laid gently on the boy's head.

"I reckon I'm sorry, you damned little cuss," he said huskily as the
youngster looked up into his face.  "If I'd have knowed that he was
your dog I'd have let him chaw my arm off before I'd have shot him."

The boy's eyes glowed with gratitude.  Then they sought the body of
Lonesome.  When he looked up again Calumet was on his pony, riding
slowly past the bunkhouse.  The boy watched him until he rode far out
into the valley.


CHAPTER VII

A PAGE FROM THE PAST

Darkness had fallen when Calumet returned to the Lazy Y.  He had passed
the day riding over the familiar ranges, returning to almost forgotten
spots, reviving the life of his youth and finding the memories irksome.
He was in no pleasant frame of mind when he rode in, and he disdained
the use of the corral or the stable, staking his horse out in the
pasture, remembering the scant supply of grain in the bin in the
stable, and telling himself that "them two skates"--referring to the
horses he had seen in the corral--"need it worse than Blackleg," his
own pony.

After staking Blackleg out, he took the saddle and bridle from the
animal and stalked toward the ranchhouse.  A light burned on the
kitchen table.  He saw it from a distance and resisted an impulse to
enter the house from the kitchen, walking, instead, around to the
front, where he found the door to the office unbarred.  He threw the
saddle into a corner, lighted the candle that still stood on the desk
where he had placed it the night before, and stood for a long time in
its glare, examining the ragged gashes on his arm.  Twice during the
day he had washed the wounds with water secured from the river, binding
the arm with a handkerchief; but he noted with a scowl that the arm was
swollen and the wound inflamed.  He finally rewound the bandage, tieing
the ends securely.  Then he stood erect beside the desk, listening and
undecided.

No sound reached his ears.  The Claytons, he assured himself, must have
retired.

He walked over to the sofa and sat upon it, frowning.  He was hungry,
having been without food since morning, and he found himself wondering
if he might not find food in the kitchen.  Obeying an impulse, he got
up from the sofa and went to the door through which Betty had entered
the night before, noting that it was still barred as he had left it
that morning.  He carefully removed the fastenings and swung the door
open, intending to go into the kitchen.  He halted on the threshold,
however, for beside a table in the dining room, in the feeble glare of
a light that stood at her elbow, sat Betty, reading a book.

She looked up as the door opened, betraying no surprise, smiling
mildly, and speaking as she might have spoken had she been addressing a
friend.

"Won't you come in?"

She placed the book down, sticking a piece of paper between the leaves
to mark her place, and stood up.

"I have been waiting for you.  I heard you come in.  I expected you for
supper, and when you didn't come I saved yours.  If you will come out
into the kitchen I will get it for you."

Calumet did not move.  Had Betty shown the slightest dismay or
perturbation at sight of him he would not have hesitated an instant in
walking past her to get the food which she had said was in the kitchen.
But her easy unconcern, her cool assumption of proprietorship, aroused
in him that obstinacy which the revelation of her power over him had
brought into being.  He did not purpose to allow her to lead him to
anything.

"I don't reckon I'll grub," he said.

"Then of course you have been to Lazette," she returned.  "You had
dinner there."

"Look here," he said truculently; "does it make any difference to you
where I've been or what I've done?"

"Perhaps it really doesn't make any difference," she answered calmly;
"but of course I am interested.  I don't want you to starve."

His face expressed disgust.  "Holy smoke!" he said; "I reckon I ain't
man enough to take care of myself!"

"I don't think that is the question.  Can't we get at it in the proper
spirit?  You belong here; you have a right to be here.  And I am here
because your father wanted me to stay.  I want you to feel that you are
at home, and I don't want to be continually quarreling with you.  Be
mean and stubborn if you want to--I suppose you can't help that.  But
so long as conditions are as they are, let us try to make the best of
them.  Even if you don't like me, even if you resent my presence here,
you can at least act more like a human being and less like a wild man.
Why," she continued, with a dry laugh, "just now you spoke of being a
man, and this morning after you killed Lonesome you acted like a big,
over-grown boy.  You had your arm hurt and refused to allow me to dress
it.  Did you think I wanted to poison you?"

"What I thought this morning is my business," returned Calumet gruffly.
Betty's voice had been quietly conversational, but it had carried a
subtle sting with its direct mockery, and Calumet felt again as he had
felt the night before, like an unruly scholar being rebuked by his
teacher.  Last night, though, the situation had been a novel one; now
the thought that she was laughing at him, taunting him, filled him with
rage.

"Mebbe you'll be interested in knowin' what I think right now," he
said.  "It's this: you've got a bad case of swelled head.  You're one
of them kind of female critters which want to run things their own way.
You're--"

Her laugh interrupted him.  "We won't argue that again, if you please.
If you remember, you had something to say on that subject last night,
and I want you to know that I haven't the slightest desire to hear your
opinion of me.  Won't you sit down?"  She invited again, motioning to a
chair beside the table, opposite hers.  "If you absolutely refuse to
eat, I presume there is no help for it, though even if you had dinner
in Lazette you must be hungry now, for a ride of twenty miles is a
strict guarantee of appetite.  Please sit down.  There is something I
want to give you, something your father left for you.  He told me to
have you read it as soon as you came."

She stood motionless until Calumet left the door and seated himself in
the chair beside the table, and then she went out of the room; he could
hear her steps on the stairs.  She returned quickly and laid a bulky
envelope on the table beside him.

"Here it is," she said.

As Calumet took up the envelope and tore it open she dropped into the
other chair, took up her book, opened it, and settled herself to read.
Calumet watched her covertly for a moment, and then gave his attention
to the contents of the envelope.

There were a number of sheets of paper on which Calumet recognized his
father's handwriting.


"MY SON:--Feeling that I am about to die, it is my desire to do what I
can toward setting things right between us.  Betty Clayton will tell
you that I have repented of my treatment of you, but she cannot tell
you how deep is the realization of the injury I have done you through
my inhuman attitude toward you.  I fear that I have ruined your
character and that it may be too late to save you from those passions
which, if not checked, will spoil your life.

"I know that children sometimes inherit the evil that has abided with
their parents, and I am certain that you have inherited mine, because
while you stayed at home I saw many evidences of it, aye, I used to
delight in its manifestation.  Toward the end of your stay at home I
grew to hate you.  But it was because of that woman.  If ever there was
an evil spirit in the guise of a human being, it was she.  She--well,
you will learn more of her later.

"I am going to try at this late day to repair the damage I did you.  I
have come to the conclusion that the surest way to do this is to force
you to give me in death that respect and veneration which you refused
me while I lived.  You see that, in spite of my boasted repentance, I
still have left a spark of satanic irony, and I do not expect you to
believe me when I tell you that I have planned this for your own good.
But it seems to me that if you can exhibit respect for the one who is
directly responsible for your cursed passions you will be able to
govern them on all occasions.  That is my conviction, and if you do not
agree with me there is no hope for you.

"Betty Clayton will tell you the conditions, and she will be your
judge.  I believe in Betty, and if you do not see that she is a
true-blue girl you are more of a fool than I think you are."


At this point Calumet glanced sidelong at Betty, but she seemed
engrossed in her book, and he resumed reading.


"That is all I have to say on that subject.  You will have to look to
Betty for additions.  By this time, if she has carried out my wishes,
she has told you what you may expect.  I have told her the story which
I am going to tell you, and I am certain that when you have finished it
you will see that I am not entirely to blame.  You will see, too, what
havoc Tom Taggart has wrought in my life; why he has tried many times
to kill me.  Calumet, beware of the Taggarts!  For the last five years
they have been a constant menace to me; I have been forced to be on my
guard against them day and night.  They have hounded me, induced my men
to betray me.  In five years I have not slept soundly because of them.
But I have foiled them.  In a few minutes she reached the village. The
sugar was soon bought and tucked away in the basket.

Ollie ran along, and was just hesitating whether she should climb
the fence and run through Squire Thompson's lot, or go around by
the road, when she saw, just before her, Lucy Coit, walking along
with her school-books in her bag.

"There is Lucy," said Ollie; "I wonder what she is doing with her bag of
books at this time of day. I will run up and ask her."
[Illustration: Lucy]
Ollie soon overtook her schoolmate, and putting her arm around her waist
they walked on together.

"I could not imagine what you were carrying your school-books for,"
said Ollie.

"You can't have been kept after school, for you always know your
lessons so well."

"No," said Lucy, "I wasn't kept after, but I stayed myself.

I couldn't get a sum in fractions right, and Miss Palmer said if I would
wait till every one had gone she would show me about it. Now I know
it, and I am going down to the beach. Don't you want to go too?"
"Oh, yes," said Ollie; "but I must take this sugar to mamma
first.
Let's climb over these bars and cut across this field. It is a great deal
shorter than by the road."
[Illustration: Geese]
There were some geese in the field, which evidently did not like to have
their privacy intruded upon, for they set up a terrible quacking as the
children passed them. Ollie and Lucy, however, quacked back again, and
the geese soon left them and continued to nibble away at the grass.

Ollie soon reached her home, and leaving her basket on the table she ran
up-stairs to find her mother, for she wanted permission to go to
the beach.

"Yes," said Mrs. Rogers, "you may go; but it looks a little showery, and
I don't want you to get wet. Watch the clouds, and if you see a storm
coming, hurry home, so as to get in before the rain."
Ollie promised to do as she was told and kissing her mother good-by
she ran down-stairs. She found Lucy standing by the fence, looking
over into Mr. Beech's yard. Mr. Beech lived next to Ollie's papa, and
he had one little girl. Every one called her "Chubby," because she
was so plump and round.

[Illustration: Chubby]
"Lucy," called Ollie, "what are you doing?"
"Come here a minute," said Lucy.

Ollie went to the fence, and there she saw Chubby holding a basket full
of delicious ripe strawberries.

"Why, Chubby," said Ollie, "what are you going to do with those lovely
berries? How good they look, don't they, Lucy?"
"Oh," said Chubby, "I must be very careful, for they do roll about so
that I can hardly carry them. You may each have one, but I cannot spare
more, because they are for my tea-party."
So Chubby passed the basket very carefully to the children, while each
one helped herself, and then she started to walk carefully over the
grass toward a seat under a big tree.

"And what is your party?" asked Lucy. "It must be a very nice one, I
think, if you have such things as those to eat."
"Oh, there it is," said Chubby; and looking in the direction of her
finger the children saw a table covered with a white cloth, and a pretty
blue tea-set upon it.

[Illustration: The tea-party]
They had evidently been very hungry when they began the feast, for
not a crumb remained upon one of the plates, and three little girls
were sitting there, waiting patiently for a fresh supply of good
things.

Ollie and Lucy watched Chubby till she set her plate of berries safely
upon the table, and then, turning around, they remembered that
they had only a short time to stay at the beach, and that consequently
they had better not lose any more time in loitering by the way.

It was only a quarter of a mile from Ollie's house to the water, and
it did not take long to get over the ground which lay between. Ollie
was never tired of the ocean, and it was a rare thing for her to let a
day pass without spending some time on the shore.

Some one was there before them, and at first the children could not
imagine whom it could be; but as they drew nearer they saw that it
was Miss Palmer, their teacher.

She had thrown off her hat, and was reading so earnestly that she neither
saw nor heard the children till they were close upon her.

Miss Palmer was very much beloved by all of her scholars, and they
thought nothing a greater treat than to sit by her side and listen
while she told them stories or talked to them.

So when our two little friends saw who it was, they ran and sat down,
one on each side of her.

[Illustration: Mrs. Palmer]
Miss Palmer looked up, and upon seeing who it was that had interrupted
her she closed her book, and said she was just wishing she had some
one to talk to.

"Do you notice how still it is?" she said, "and how close and hot the
air is? I fear we are going to have a terrible storm.

We must watch the clouds, and run a race with them. If we get home first,
all will be well, but if the clouds do, alas for our clothes!"
Just as she spoke they heard a low muttering of thunder, and then suddenly
a blast of cold wind rushed by them. The big black clouds rolled rapidly
up, and in a moment the whole scene before them was changed. The ocean
began to have a lowering, angry look, and a schooner which had been lying
lazily in the water gave a bound forward like a live creature, and
sped on its way.

Miss Palmer sprang to her feet, saying, "Now, children, the time for the
race has come. The rain is determined to get there first, but so are
we; see who will win the race."
[Illustration: Schooner]
So all three started on at a quick pace. One big drop fell on Lucy's
hand, and they hurried on. The race was barely theirs, for just as
they stepped in at the door a blinding flash of lightning came,
and a crash of thunder almost at the same instant, which made them
glad enough that they were safely housed.

Although the thunder and lightning ceased after a while, and even the
rain poured itself out, the wind continued to blow furiously. Lucy
waited till she dared wait no longer, and then said that she must go
home, for she knew her mother was already anxious about her.

"Oh, you can't go, Lucy," said Ollie; "see how that great tree bends;
why, you couldn't keep on your feet for one minute."

Just then they looked out of the window and saw Ollie's father riding
by. He had just stopped to speak to some one, and Ollie, losing no
time, opened the window and called to him.

[Illustration: Ollie's father]
"Papa, papa," she called, "do you think it is safe for Lucy to try to go
home?"
The wind was making such a terrible noise that Ollie's voice could not
be heard.

Mr. Rogers dismounted and came to the window.

He did not think it at all safe for Lucy to go home in such a gale,
and promised instead to go to Mr.

Coit's house and beg permission for Lucy to stay all night with
Ollie.

Of course both of the children were overjoyed with this arrangement, and
begun at once to amuse themselves. Ollie's papa soon came back, bringing
with him a bag for Lucy, which contained everything that she could
possibly want during the night.

The wind, instead of abating, increased in fury. It roared and screamed
about the house like an angry wild beast. It caught up the clothes
which old Milly had spread upon the grass to bleach, and whirled them
round and round in circles over the house, and carried them off no one
knew where. It seized the old bucket which hung in the well, and swung
it back and forth with such force that no one dared go near enough to
fasten it.

At eight o'clock the children went to bed, and in spite of the
wind they were soon sleeping soundly. All was still within the house,
and both Lucy and Ollie were too much used to storms on the sea-shore
to be disturbed by them.

Suddenly, however, Lucy started from her bed. What was that sound?

surely it was the slamming of the front door. While she was listening
she saw something which made her heart beat fast. It was a rocket
which shot by her window. Another and another followed. Lucy sprang
out of bed and began to dress. There was hardly a child in Spehunket
who did not know the terrible meaning of the rocket soaring into the
air in the dead of night.

[Illustration: Lucy wakes up Ollie]
Lucy hastily slipped on her clothes, and then, going back to the
bed, she took Ollie's hand and called softly, 
"Ollie, Ollie!

wake up. There is a wreck, and I think some of the people have gone down
to the beach. Don't you want to go too?"
Ollie started up, looking frightened at being so suddenly roused. "What
is it? what is it?" she asked excitedly.

"What is the matter?"
"There is a wreck, Ollie," said Lucy, "and the men at the life-saving
station are hard at work. Oh, Ollie! just think of the poor things
clinging to the ship, and expecting every moment to go down! I
must go down there and see if I can't do something to help."
By this time Ollie was wide awake, and as interested as Lucy. It did not
take her long to dress, and in a few minutes they went softly down-stairs.
Mrs.

Rogers' bed-room door was open, and upon looking in the children saw
that Ollie's papa and mamma had gone to the beach. As there was no
one of whom they could ask permission, each little girl wrapped
herself warmly in a woollen shawl, and drawing the bolt of the
kitchen door they stepped out into the night.

It was two o'clock, and during the six hours which had passed since
they went to bed the wind had abated in force somewhat.

The sky was full of black, angry-looking clouds, but the moon was
struggling to make herself seen. On the whole, it was not a dark
night, and the children found no difficulty whatever in seeing the
well-worn path which led through their field to the beach. If they
had been doubtful of the way they would have been guided by the bonfires,
and by an occasional rocket which shot up into the air; but as it was
they knew the road well, and excepting when the moon was hidden for a
moment behind a cloud, all was bright around them.

They soon reached the beach, and were there just in time to see the men
from the station bring down the life-boat. It was a hard pull through
the sand, but the feat was soon accomplished, and the boat was
left near the water's edge, to be ready in case the line from the
mortar should fail to reach the wreck.

[Illustration: The Life-boat]
The mortar was standing there, and the men were preparing to send out
the line which was to bring succor to the terrified passengers on the
wreck. At the word of command the string was pulled--"_Bang_," and off
went the line, curving through the air. Every one watched in breathless
anxiety to see if it would reach the ship.

Yes, on it went, and then dropped down upon the deck.

A shout of joy rose up from the crowd upon the beach, and it must have
been answered by those on the wreck, but every sound was lost in the
roaring of the wind and of the angry waves. In an instant a stronger
line was attached, and to that, after being drawn on board and
securely fastened to the mast, a little car was attached and was quickly
drawn on board. Into this car one human being could get at a time, and
could be drawn over the breakers safely to the shore.

The work of the night now began in earnest. Back and forth went the
car.
Sometimes it brought back a little child, sometimes a papa or mamma,
and at last the sailors one by one, and then, last of all, the
faithful captain, who would not leave his ship until he had seen all his
passengers and crew safely on the land.

When they began working the car Lucy and Ollie stood by looking on, and
longing to help those brave men. But they were only little girls, and
what could they do?

"Ollie," said Lucy, "I have an idea. Do you see that bonfire? It is
nearly out. If you will gather some sticks and build it up again,
I will run back to your house, and get some coffee and a kettle. I think
a cup of coffee would refresh these men wonderfully."
"Oh, yes, Lucy," said Ollie, "run--run quickly. Tell Milly to help
you.
I saw Sambo here a moment ago--oh, here he is. Sambo, Sambo, go back to
the house with Miss Lucy and help her bring some things which she
wants."
Lucy and Sambo were off in a hurry, and as soon as they were gone Ollie
gathered all the drift-wood she could find, and proceeded immediately
to brighten up the fire, which had nearly died away. She worked steadily
and quietly, and by the time she had a bright blaze Lucy reappeared
with a big package of coffee, a pot, and a pail of water. They
filled the pot and put it over the fire and waited for it to boil.

It seemed a long time before the steam began to rise, but gradually
it became more and more dense, until at last the cover of the pot began
to dance up and down, and the delightful bubbling sound greeted their
ears which told that the water was boiling.

The coffee was already in the coffee-pot, and in a short time the grateful
fragrance rose upon the air.

"Oh, oh," said Ollie, "we have neither milk nor sugar!"

"I never thought of that," said Lucy, in a disappointed tone, "but I know
they must have some at the lifesaving-station."
"I knows where they keeps it, miss, for I used to be on the crew
once," said Sambo; "I'll be back in a jiffy with it."
So off went Sambo. The sugar was found, but alas, there was no
milk.

"Never mind," said Ollie; "they must take it as it is. It will do them
just as much good."

[Illustration: Man in the surf]
Now all this time the brave men of the life-saving station had been
hard at work, drawing the car back and forth, and they had just brought
in the captain, who, as I said, stood faithfully by his ship until
all on board had been rescued, when some one shouted,
"A man--a man in the surf!" They rushed into the water and looked
anxiously before them. Yes, there he was, clinging to a piece of the
broken mast. His strength was almost gone, and just as a big wave was
about to break over him two strong pairs of hands seized and
dragged him almost exhausted to the shore.

"Would you like some hot coffee? Would you like some hot coffee?"
"What's that I hear about hot coffee?"

said one and another joyfully.
"Hot coffee! why, who has been good enough to think of that?"
"A cup of coffee would be a good thing," said Joe Brown; "for the
fact is, I for one am just about beat out."
Lucy and Ollie were quite delighted at the success of their undertaking,
and for the next half hour were busy enough in pouring and passing the
coffee. Not only were the men of the station thankful for a good drink,
but so were the poor tired and frightened passengers; and the children
had all they could do to fill up the cups fast enough.

They received a great many thanks and a great many praises for their
thoughtfulness, and when they were through the captain of the wrecked
steamer proposed three cheers for the kind little girls who had
done so much to refresh them.

The cheers were hearty enough, and the children were quite embarrassed
to have the attention of so many people called to them. They felt quite
repaid for all their trouble when they saw how refreshed every one
looked after taking a cup of their good hot coffee.

After a while the crowd began to move on toward the station. The
crew rolled up their ropes and proceeded to drag up the boat, which
they had not needed after all.

All were happy and thankful that no lives had been lost, but the
poor passengers were rather melancholy at the thought of probably losing
all their luggage. Every one was wet through, and it was necessary
that they should get on dry clothes as soon as possible.

All the houses in the village were opened to the sufferers, and soon
every one was made comfortable. Clothing of all sorts was lent them,
for the morrow, but in the mean time they were glad to go to bed and get
a good rest and sleep.

Ollie and Lucy went back to bed too, but no sleep came to them. They
talked until they saw the morning dawn, and soon after sunrise
they rose and dressed for breakfast.

After breakfast they went down on the beach again to look at the
wreck, and they spent a great deal of time there watching it.

A great many efforts were made to save her, but all in vain. One day,
when the wind was unusually high, a great wave struck her side, a crash
was heard, and down she went, out of sight forever, beneath the
waves.

"Now," said Lucy, "I suppose I must go home. Mamma will be impatient
to see me and to know that I am all right after the storm."
"And you want to see her too, I have no doubt," said Ollie.

"Yes, indeed I do, but I should like to come back again. It is such fun
to have a girl of my own age to talk to; but mamma has to be very busy
this week, and I must get back and help her."
So Lucy walked toward the house. She wanted to get her bag, and to
say good-by to Ollie's mamma.

The two children were talking so busily as they went along that
they did not notice a horse and wagon standing at the gate of Mr.

Rogers's house, until they were close upon it.

"Why, Ollie!" exclaimed Lucy; "there is our horse; papa must have come
for me. I wonder if we have kept him waiting!"
The children hurried in, and were soon in the sitting-room, where,
to their surprise, they found Mr. and Mrs.

Coit, talking very busily.

"Oh, mamma!" said Lucy, running forward to get a good-morning kiss, "have
you come for me? It was too bad to keep you waiting; I will be
ready in one minute."

"I have not come to take you away," said Mrs. Coit, "but to beg
Mrs.
Rogers to keep you a little longer."
"Ah, Miss Lucy," said Ollie, laughing, "you see they have found it so
pleasant to be without you that they are going to give you to us."
Lucy looked from one to another in surprise. "What do you mean, mamma?"
she asked; "am I to stay here? what for? how long?"
"I will tell you," said her mother. "Just after Mr. Rogers left our house
with your bag, last night, your father brought a letter from the
post-office from your Aunt Mary.

She is going to move out West, and wants us to go on and make her a
visit before she leaves. We are going to take Willie, for I think a
change of air would do him good, after his illness; but your aunt's
house is so small, I do not think it is best for you to go. As Mrs.
Rogers has consented to keep you, I think you had better stay here."

"Oh, good, good, good!" exclaimed Ollie, clapping her hands and jumping
around the room for joy. "Now you will have to stay, and be my sister
for a good long week."
Lucy hardly knew whether to be glad or sorry. She was delighted to stay
with her friend, but the thought of being so long away from her mamma
made her feel almost homesick.

"I will write you a letter every day," said Mrs. Coit, seeing the cloud
on her little girl's face.
But the cloud only stayed a minute. "After all," she thought, "mamma
will only be gone for a week, and I would much rather be here with
Ollie than at Aunt Mary's, where there is no one of my own age; and
a letter every day! oh, that will be _too_ delightful!"
"Well, I must go," said Mrs. Coit. "Thank you very much, Mrs. Rogers,
for taking Lucy; I hope she will be a good child, and not give you
any trouble. Good-by."
"Martha will send over your trunk this afternoon," she continued
to Lucy. "It is all packed, and William Henry Johnson said he'd
bring it over on his way to the mill this evening. Good-by, my
dear," and Lucy was seized, hugged, and kissed, and almost before
she knew what it was all about her mother had gone, and she was
left alone, watching the wagon as it rolled slowly down the road.
She was roused by hearing Ollie's voice close behind her.
"Oh, Lucy, let's go up-stairs, and get the room ready for you. I
must move the things in my closet, and make enough bare nails for
your dresses."
So the two girls went up-stairs together, and the afternoon was
passed in preparations for the coming week.
The next morning Lucy and Ollie went to school as usual, only instead
of having a long solitary walk, they each had the other's company,
which they found very pleasant. The girls at school were quite
astonished to hear that they were spending the week together.
As they were walking back from school, they saw on the beach the
signal which was always used to show that there were fish in
sight.
"Oh, let us hurry through our dinner," said Ollie, "and go down to
the beach. I love to see them draw in their big nets full of fish.
It is such fun."
Mrs. Rogers was astonished to see two wild children rush into the
house, all out of breath, exclaiming,
"Isn't dinner ready? We are in such a hurry to get down to the
beach."
"Yes, dinner is ready," said Mrs. Rogers; "you can sit down as soon
as you like."
As soon as they had eaten as much as they wanted, and had been
excused, they rushed to the beach. The men were just preparing to
launch the big boat through the surf. When the children came in
sight, the captain of the crew saw them and said,
"Hold up a minute; here are our little friends; they always enjoy
a dance on the waves; let's wait, and take them in."
So they beckoned to the children, and in a few minutes they were
seated in the boat. The word of command was given, and off they
went--now up on the top of the wave, now down, down, down.
They had an unusually good haul of fish, which the men insisted was
all owing to the presence of the two little girls. They stayed on
the beach or in the boat all the afternoon, and finally went home
to supper so hungry that Mrs. Rogers laughingly declared that she
could not possibly cook enough in one day to satisfy them.
Mrs. Coit kept her promise and wrote to Lucy every day, and between
her letters and her good times with Ollie, the days passed so quickly
that Lucy was surprised to find at last that the hour for her
departure had arrived.
"How little we thought that day when I walked home with you that I
was to be here a week!"
"I wish we were going to have it all over again," said Ollie.
"So do I," said Lucy.

THE END.

Transcriber's Note
The following typos have been corrected.
Page Typo Correction 13 shorer shorter 46 joyfully joyfully."I took Ezela up the Pecos to the Connors', where I'd left you, bought
a wagon and horses and a few things--bedding and grub and such
stuff--and lit out for New Mexico.  I figured that I had enough of the
kind of friends I'd been keeping, and I didn't want to be ridiculed for
tying up to an Indian girl--white folks don't like to see that.  I came
here and took up this land, figuring that I wouldn't be disturbed.  I'd
been here four years when Taggart came.  I'd sold some of the treasure,
but, for some reason which I've never been able to figure out, I kept
the idol.  I think I was afraid to try to sell it on account of the big
diamonds in it.

"I gave Taggart the treasure he'd left behind the night he tried to
knife me, but he wasn't satisfied; he wanted more, wanted me to sell
the Toltec image and split with him.  Of course I wouldn't do that
because of the way he'd acted, and he swore to get it some day.

"He took up some land about fifteen miles down the river, and he's
stayed there ever since.  I've been afraid to go anywhere with the idol
for fear he'd waylay me and get it.  One day while I was away somewhere
he came here and told Ezela about me having the idol.  From that time
on I led a life of hell.  Ezela turned on me.  She said I'd desecrated
the altars of her tribe, and she kept harping to me about it until I
got so I couldn't bear the sight of her.

"I discovered soon after we came here that I had been mistaken in
thinking I had loved her--what I had thought was love was merely
gratitude.  My gratitude didn't last, of course, with her hounding me
continually about the idol.  Finally I discovered that she and Taggart
were plotting against me.  Of course, Taggart was after the image
himself.  He didn't care anything about her religious scruples, but he
made her believe he sympathized with her, and made a fool of her.  I
tried to kill Taggart the day I found that out, but he got away, and
after that he never traveled alone and I didn't get another chance.  I
ordered Ezela away, but she said she wouldn't go until she got the
image.  Many times I debated the idea of putting her out of the way,
but there was always the knowledge in my mind that she had saved my
life, and I hadn't the heart to do it.

"You know how we lived.  My life was constantly in danger, and I became
hardened, suspicious, brutal.  You got the whole accumulation.  Taggart
and Ezela bribed my men to watch me.  I had to discharge them.  After
Ezela died I thought Taggart would leave me alone.  But he didn't--he
wanted the image.  One day he and his boy Neal came over and ambushed
me.  They shot me in the shoulder.  I was in the house, defending
myself as best I could, when Malcolm Clayton came.  By this time Betty
has told you the rest and you know just what you can expect from the
Taggarts.

"That is the whole history of the Toltec idol.  I am not proud of my
part in the affair, but Tom Taggart must never have the idol.  Remember
that!  I don't want him to have it!  Neither do I want you to have it,
or the money I leave, unless you can show that you forgive me.  As I
have said, I don't take your word for it--you must prove it.

"I know you are coming home, and I wish I could live to see you.  But I
know I won't.  Don't be too hard on me.  Your father,

"JAMES MARSTON."


CHAPTER IX

RESPONSIBILITY

For a long time after he had completed the reading of the letter,
Calumet was silent, staring straight ahead of him.  The information
contained in the account of his father's adventures was soothing--the
termagant who had presided over his boyhood destinies had not been his
real mother, and his father had left him a score to settle.  He already
hated the Taggarts, not particularly because they were his father's
enemies, but rather because Tom Taggart had been a traitor.  He felt a
contempt for him.  He himself was mean and vicious--he knew that.  But
he had never betrayed a friend.  It was better to have no friend than
to have one and betray him.  He looked around to see that Betty was
still apparently absorbed in her book.

"Do you know what is in this letter?" he said.

She laid the book in her lap and nodded affirmatively.

"You opened it, I suppose?" he sneered.

"No," she returned, unmoved.  "Your father read it to me."

"Kind of him, wasn't it?  What do you think of it?"

"What I think isn't important.  What do you think of it?"

"Nosey, eh?" he jeered.  "If it won't inconvenience you any, I'll keep
what I think of it to myself.  But it's plain to me now that when you
caught me tryin' to guzzle your granddad you thought I belonged to the
Taggart bunch.  You told me I'd have to try again--or somethin' like
that.  I reckon you thought I was after the idol?"

"Yes."

"Then the Taggarts have tried to get it since you've been here?"

"Many times."

"But you left the front door open the night I came," insinuated
Calumet, his eyes glowing subtly.  "That looks like you was invitin'
someone to come in an' get the idol."

"We never bother much about barring the doors.  Besides, I don't
remember to have told you that the idol is in the house," she smiled.

He looked at her with a baffled sneer.  "Foxy, ain't you?"  He folded
the letter and placed it into a pocket, she watching him silently.  Her
gaze fell on the injured arm; she saw the angry red streaks spreading
from beneath the crude bandage and she got up, laying her book down and
regarding him with determined eyes.

"Please come out into the kitchen with me," she said; "I am going to
take care of your arm."

He looked up at her with a glance of cold mockery.  "When did you get
my permission to take care of it?  It don't need any carin' for.  An'
if it did, I reckon to be able to do my own doctorin'."

She looked at him steadily and something in her gaze made him feel
uncomfortable.

"Don't be silly," she said.  She turned and went out into the kitchen.
He could hear her working over the stove.  He saw her cross the room
with a tea kettle, fill it with water from a pail, return and place the
kettle on the stove.  He was determined that he would not allow her to
dress the wound, but when ten minutes later she appeared in the kitchen
door and told him she was ready, he got up and went reluctantly out.

She washed the arm, bathing the wound with a solution of water and some
medicine which she poured from a bottle, and then bandaged it with some
white cloth.  Neither said anything until after she had delicately tied
a string around the bandage to keep it in place, and then she stepped
back and regarded her work with satisfaction.

"There," she said; "doesn't that feel better?"

"Some," he returned, grudgingly.  He stood up and watched her while she
spread a cloth partly over the table and placed some dishes and food
upon it.  He was hungry, and the sight of the food made him feel
suddenly ravenous.  He watched her covertly, noting her matter-of-fact
movements.  It was as though she had not the slightest idea that he
would refuse to eat, and he felt certain that he could not refuse.  She
was making him feel uncomfortable again; that epithet, "silly," rankled
in him and he did not want to hear her apply it to him again.  But he
would have risked it had she looked at him.  She did not look at him.
When she had finally arranged everything to suit her taste she turned
her back and walked to the door of the dining-room.

"There is your supper," she said quietly.  "I have fixed up your room
for you--the room you occupied before you left home.  I am going to
leave the light burning in the dining-room--you might want to read your
letter again.  Blow the light out when you go to bed.  Good night."

He grumbled an incoherent reply, turning his back to her.  Her calm,
unruffled acceptance of his incivility filled him with a cold
resentment.

"What did you say?" she demanded of him from the door.

He turned sullenly.  The light mockery in her voice stung him, shamed
him--her eyes, dancing with mischief, held his.

"Good night," he said shortly.

"Good night," she said again.  She laughed and vanished.

For an instant Calumet stood, scowling at the vacant doorway.  Then he
turned and went over to the table in the kitchen, looking down at the
food and the dishes.  She had compelled him to be civil.  He gripped
one end of the table cloth, and for an instant it seemed as though he
meditated dumping dishes and food upon the floor.  Then he grinned,
grimly amused, and sat in the chair before the table, taking up knife
and fork.

Early as he arose the next morning, he found that Betty had been before
him.  He saw her standing on the rear porch when he went out to care
for his horse, and she smiled and called a greeting to him, which he
answered soberly.

For some reason which he could not explain he felt a little reluctance
toward going into the kitchen for breakfast this morning.  Yet he did
go, though he waited outside until Betty came to the door and called
him.  He was pretending to be busy at his saddle, though he knew this
was a pretext to cover his submission to her.  He did not move toward
the house until she vanished within it.

He was quiet during the meal, wondering at the change that had come
over him, for he felt a strange resignation.  He told himself that it
was gratitude for her action in caring for his injured arm, and yet he
watched her narrowly for any sign that would tell him that she was
aware of his thoughts and was enjoying him.  But he was able to
determine nothing from her face, for though she smiled often there was
nothing in her face at which he could take offense.  She devoted much
of her time and attention to Bob.  And Bob talked to Calumet.  There
was something about the boy that attracted Calumet, and before the meal
ended they were conversing companionably.  But toward the conclusion of
the meal, when in answer to something Bob said to him he smiled at the
boy, he saw Betty looking at him with a glance of mingled astonishment
and pleasure, he sobered and ceased talking.  He didn't want to do
anything to please Betty.

He was saddling Blackleg after breakfast, intending to go down the
river a short distance, when he became aware that Betty was standing
near him.  Without a word she handed him a bulky envelope with his name
written on it.  He took it, tore open an end, and a piece of paper,
enclosing several bills, slipped out.  He shot a quick glance at Betty;
she was looking at him unconcernedly.  He counted the bills; there were
ten one hundred dollar gold certificates.

"What's this for?" he demanded.

"Read the letter," she directed.

He unfolded the paper.  It read:


"MY DEAR SON: The money in this envelope is to be used by you in buying
material to be used to repair the ranchhouse.  I have prepared an
itemized list of the necessary materials, which Betty will give you.
Your acceptance of the task imposed on you will indicate that you
intend to fulfill my wishes.  It will also mean that you seriously
contemplate an attempt at reform.  The fact that you receive this money
shows that you are already making progress, for you would never get it
if Betty thought you didn't deserve it, or were not worthy of a trial.
I congratulate you.

"YOUR FATHER."


"Got it all framed up on me, eh?" said Calumet.  "So you think I've
made progress, an' that I'm goin' to do what you want me to do?"

"Your progress hasn't been startling," she said dryly.  "But you _have_
progressed.  At least, you have shown some inclination to listen to
reason.  Here is the itemized list which your father speaks of."  She
passed over another paper, which Calumet scanned slowly and carefully.
His gaze became fixed on the total at the bottom of the column of
figures.

"It amounts to nine hundred and sixty dollars," he said, looking at
her, a disgusted expression on his face.  "Looks like the old fool was
mighty careless with his money.  Couldn't he have put down another item
to cover that forty dollars?"

"I believe that margin was left purposely to take care of a possible
advance in prices over those with which your father was familiar at the
time he made out the list," she answered, smiling in appreciation of
his perturbation.

"That's keepin' cases pretty close, ain't it?" he said.  "Suppose I'd
blow the whole business?"

"That would show that you could not be trusted.  Your father left
instructions which provide for that contingency."

"What are they?"

"I am not to tell."

"Clever, ain't it?" he said, looking at her with displeased, hostile
eyes.  She met his gaze with a calm half-smile which had in it that
irritating quality of advantage that he had noticed before.

"I am glad you think it clever," she returned.

"It was your idea, I reckon?"

"I believe I did suggest it to your father.  He was somewhat at a loss
to know how to deal with you.  He told me that he had some doubts about
the scheme working; he said you would take it and 'blow' it in, as you
said you might, but I disagreed with him.  I was convinced that you
would do the right thing."

"You had a lot of faith in me, didn't you?" he said, incredulously.
"You believed in a man you'd never seen."

"Your father had a picture of you," she said, looking straight at him.
"It was taken when you were fifteen, just before you left the ranch.
It showed a boy with a cynical face and brooding, challenging eyes.
But in spite of all that I thought I detected signs of promise in the
face.  I was certain that if you were managed right you could be
reformed."

"You _were_ certain," he said significantly.  "What do you think now?"

"I haven't altered my opinion."  Her gaze was steady and challenging.
"Of course," she added, blushing faintly; "I believe I was a little
surprised when you came and I saw that you had grown to be a man.  You
see, I had looked at your picture so often that I rather expected to
see a boy when you came.  I had forgotten those thirteen years.  But it
has been said that a man is merely a grown-up boy and there is much
truth in that.  Despite your gruff ways, your big voice, and your
contemptible way of treating people, you are very much a boy.  But I am
still convinced that you are all right at heart.  I think everybody is,
and the good could be brought forward if someone would take enough
interest in the subject."

"Then you take an interest in me?" said Calumet, grinning scornfully.

"Yes," she said frankly; "to the extent of wondering whether or not
time will vindicate my judgment."

"Then you think I won't blow this coin?" he said, tapping the bills.

"I think you will spend it for the articles on the list I have given
you."

He looked at her and she was certain there was indecision in the glance.

"Well," he said abruptly, turning from her; "mebbe I will an' mebbe I
won't.  But whatever I do with it will be done to suit myself.  It
won't be done to please you."

He mounted his pony and rode to the far end of the ranchhouse yard.
When he turned in the saddle it was with the conviction that Betty
would be standing there watching him.  Somehow, he wished she would.
But she was walking toward the ranchhouse, her back to him, and he made
a grimace of disappointment as he urged his pony out into the valley.


CHAPTER X

NEW ACQUAINTANCES

Calumet had been in no hurry, though maintaining its steady chop-trot
for most of the distance, Blackleg had set him down in Lazette in a
little over two hours.

Something had happened to Calumet.  He had carefully considered the
phenomenon all the way over from the Lazy Y; he considered it now as he
sat sideways in the saddle before the rough board front of the Red Dog
Saloon.  Betty had faith in him.  That was the phenomenon--the unheard
of miracle.  No one else had ever had faith in him, and so it was a new
experience and one that must be thoroughly pondered if he was to enjoy
it.  And that he was enjoying it was apparent.  Though he faced the Red
Dog Saloon he did not see it.  He kept seeing Betty as she looked after
she had given him the money.  "I know you will do the right thing," she
had said, or something very like that.  It made no difference what her
words had been.  What she meant was that she had faith in him.  And her
eyes had said that she expected him to justify that faith.

But would he?  He didn't know.  For the first time in his life he was
afflicted with indecision over the possession of money.  In the old
days--the Durango days--which now seemed to be far behind him, the
thousand dollars in his pocket would have served to finance a brief
holiday of license and drinking and reckless play with gambling
devices.  But now it was different--something within him had called--or
was calling--a halt.  He told himself that it was because he had a
curiosity to follow this strange, freakish plan of Betty's to the end.

Some other emotion was calling just as strongly for him to do with the
money as he had always done with money.  And so indecision afflicted
him.  Humor likewise.  He rarely felt in this mood.  Not for years had
he felt like laughing.  Was he the Calumet Marston who, a week before,
had set out on his homeward journey filled with bitterness--looking for
trouble?  Had he been at the Lazy Y a day or a year?  It was a day--two
days--but it seemed more like the longer time.  At least the time had
wrought a change in him.  It was ludicrous, farcical.  In spite of his
treatment of Betty she had faith in him!  Wasn't that just like a
woman?  There was nothing logical in her.  She had taken him on trust.
The whole business was in the nature of a comedy and suddenly yielding
to his feelings he straightened in the saddle and laughed uproariously.

He did not laugh long, and when he sobered down and with an effort
brought his mind back to the present, he became aware of the Red Dog,
saw a young cowpuncher seated on the board sidewalk in front of the
building, his back resting against it, laughing in sympathy with him.

Calumet was disconcerted for a moment.  His eyes narrowed truculently.
But then, as the oddness of the situation struck him he laughed again.
But this time as he laughed he took stock of the young cowpuncher, who
was again laughing with him.

The puncher was young--very young; not more than twenty-one or two.
There was a week's growth of beard on his face.  A saddle reposed by
his side.  In spite of his laughter something about him spoke
eloquently of trouble.  Calumet felt a sudden interest in him.  Any man
who could laugh when the world was not doing well with him must be made
of good stuff.  But Calumet's interest was cynical and it brought a
sneer to his lips as he ceased laughing and sat loosely in the saddle
regarding the puncher.

"I reckon you ain't got no objections to tellin' me what you're
laughin' at?" he said coldly.

"Mebbe you'd put me wise to the same thing," said the other.  "I'm
settin' here, puttin' in a heap of my time tryin' to figger out who got
the most of the six months' wages which I had with me when I struck
town yesterday--an' not makin' a hell of a lot of progress--when you
mosey up here an' begin to laugh your fool head off.  At nothin', so
far's I can see.  Well, that's what I was laughin' at.  Ketch my drift?"

"Meanin' that I'm nothin', I reckon?"

"Meanin' that you was laughin' at it," said the puncher with a
deprecatory smile.  "I ain't lookin' for trouble--I'm it!"

Calumet's eyes twinkled.  This was a very discerning young man.
"Cleaned out, I reckon," he said.  "You look old enough to _sabe_ that
playin' with a buzz saw is mild amusement compared with buckin' a
gambler's game."

"Got singed yourself, I reckon," said the puncher wearily.  "You know
the signs.  Well, you've hit it.  They'd have got my saddle, too,
only--only they didn't seem to want it.  There's still charity in the
world, after all--some guys don't want everything.  So I'm considerin'
the saddle a gift.  It's likely, though, that they thought that if they
left me the saddle I'd go right out an' rustle me another job an' earn
some more coin an' come back an' hand that over, too.  But they've got
me wrong.  Your little Dade Hallowell has swore off.  He ain't never
goin' to get the idea again that he's a simon-pure, dyed-in-the-wool
card sharp."

"Another job?  Then you're disconnected at present?"

"I'm free as the water.  Ugh!" he shivered.  "I couldn't even wash my
face in it this mornin'.  Water's a weak sister after last night."  His
expression changed.  "I reckon you're in clover, though.  Any man which
can laugh to hisself as you was laughin', certainly ain't botherin' his
head about much."

This quick turn of the conversation brought Calumet's thoughts back to
Betty.  "Looks is deceivin'," he said.  "I've got a heap of burden on
my mind.  I've got a thousand dollars which is botherin' me
considerable."

The puncher sat erect, his eyes bulging.

"You've got a thousand!" he said  "Oh, Lordy!  An' you're botherin'
about it?"

"It ain't none of your business, of course," said Calumet.  "An' I
reckon I'm tellin' you about it so's you'll feel mean about losin' your
own.  But mebbe not.  Mebbe I'm tellin' you about it because I've got
somethin' else in mind.  When I first seen you I was filled clear to
the top with doubt.  If you had my thousand what would you do with it?"

"Meanin' that if I had your thousand an' was in your place?"

"I reckon."

"That would depend," said the puncher, cautiously.  "If I'd robbed a
man, or held up a stage coach, or busted a bank, I'd be burnin' the
breeze out of the country.  But if I'd earned it honest I'd blow myself
proper, beginnin' by settin' 'em up to a fool guy which had give all
his coin to some card sharps yesterday."

"None of them things fill the bill," said Calumet.  "This thousand was
give to me by a woman.  I'm to buy things with it--horses, wagon,
lumber, hardware, an' such truck."

"Shucks," said the puncher, disappointedly.  Over his face settled a
glum expression.  "Then you ain't got no right to spend it--for
anything but what she told you about.  You'd be worse'n a thief to
squander that money."

Calumet looked keenly at him.  "I reckon you're more'n half right.
You've settled a thing in my mind.  If you're hangin' around here when
I get through buyin' them things I'll be settin' them up to you.  If
I've got anything left."  He abruptly broke off and urged his pony
about, leaving the puncher to look after him speculatively.

Two hours later he returned, driving two horses which were hitched to a
wagon of the "prairie-schooner" variety.  The wagon was loaded with
lumber and sundry kegs, boxes and packages.  Calumet's pony trailed it.

The puncher was still where Calumet had left him--apparently he had not
moved.  But when he saw Calumet halt the horses in front of him and
jump out of the wagon he got to his feet.  He met Calumet's gaze with a
sober, interested smile.

"That wagon of yours is speakin' mighty loud of work," he said.  "Back
in Texas I used to be counted uncommon clever with a saw an' hammer.
If you can rassle them two statements around to look them in the face
you can see what I'm drivin' at."

"What do you think you are worth to a man who ain't got no authority to
do any hirin'?" said Calumet.

"Ain't you the boss?" said Dade, disappointedly.

"The boss is a woman.  If you're wantin' to work you can come along.
You'll have to take your chance.  Otherwise--"

"I'll go you," said the puncher.  He threw his saddle into the wagon.
"You said somethin' about a drink," he added, "if you had anything
left.  I'm hopin'--"

Calumet hesitated.

"Just one," said Dade.  "Mebbe two.  Not more than three--or four.  If
your ranch is far--"

"Twenty miles."

"About two, then," suggested Dade.  "You wouldn't feel satisfied to
know that it was here an' you left it."

"Well, then, get a move on you," growled Calumet.  He followed Dade
into the Red Dog.

It was quiet in the barroom.  Three men sat at a table near the center
of the room, laughing and talking.  They looked up with casual interest
as Dade and Calumet entered, favored them with quick, appraising
glances, and then resumed their talk and laughter.  Behind the bar the
proprietor waited, indolently watching.

"I'll take red-eye," said Dade; "the same that made me think I was a
sure enough gambler last night.  Did you ever notice," he added,
turning to Calumet, who was filling his glass, "what a heap of
confidence whisky will give a man?  Take me, last night.  Things was
lookin' rosy.  Them gamblers looked like plumb easy pickin'.  The more
whisky I drank the easier they looked, until--"

"Have another drink," invited the proprietor, for it was at one of his
tables that Dade had played.  His smile was bland and his manner suave
and smooth.  He shoved a bottle toward Dade.  At the same time he
looked with interest upon Calumet.

"Stranger here, I reckon?" he said.  "I seen you loadin' a heap of
stuff into your wagon.  What's your ranch?"

"The Lazy Y."

The proprietor started and peered closer at Calumet.  "That's old
Marston's place, ain't it?"  To Calumet's slow nod, he continued:
"Betty Clayton's runnin' it now.  They say old Marston was the meanest
old coyote that ever--"

Calumet's gaze was level and direct, and the proprietor shrank under
its cold malignance.  Calumet leaned forward.  "You're talkin' to the
old coyote's son right now," he said.  "An' you can speak right out
loud in meetin' an' say that you was gassin' through your hat!"

The proprietor paled, then reddened.  "I'm beggin' your pardon," he
said.  "I reckon--you see--there's been talk--"

"Sure," said Calumet.  He smiled.  It was the smile of reluctant
tolerance.  "Just talk," he added.  "But it won't be healthy
talk--hereafter."

"Have another drink," invited the proprietor, and he pulled a
handkerchief from a pocket and wiped the sudden perspiration from his
forehead.  Then he retreated to the far end of the bar, from whence he
tried to appear unconcerned.

Dade finished his drink and set the glass down.  But he was visibly
excited.

"Betty Clayton," he said, looking sharply at Calumet.  "Has she got a
granddad named Malcolm Clayton, an' a brother Bob?"

"That's her."  Calumet returned Dade's sharp glance.  "What's eatin'
you?  Know her?  Know Bob?  Know Malcolm?"

"Know them!" said Dade.  "Why, man, they was neighbors of mine in
Texas!"

Calumet's eyes narrowed.  A pulse of some strong emotion was revealed
in his face, but it was instantly subdued.  "That's joyful news--for
you.  So you know her?  It's likely she'll be glad to see you."

Dade was mystified by his tone.  "I reckon I ain't gettin' this thing
just right," he said.  "You told me Betty was runnin' the ranch, an'
you tell this man that you're the son of the man that owns it.  I don't
see--"

Calumet smiled saturninely.  "Take another drink," he advised.  He
shoved the bottle toward Dade.  "This is your fourth.  Then we'll be
hittin' the breeze to the Lazy Y.  Betty'll be lonesome without me."
He laughed raucously, filled his glass and drank its contents.  Then he
turned from the bar and walked toward the door.  Half way to it, Dade
following him, he halted, for the voice of a man who sat at a table
reached him.

"Aw, Taggart," it said loudly, "you're crowdin' the ante a little,
ain't you?"  The speaker laughed.  "They tell me that Betty Clayton
ain't no man's fool.  An' here you say--"  The rest of it was drowned
in a laugh that followed, the other two men joining the speaker.

"Stuck on me, I tell you!" said another voice, and Calumet, half turned
toward the table, saw the speaker's face.  It was the face of an
egotist--the vain, sensuous visage of a man in whom the animal
instincts predominated--the face of the rider that Calumet had seen on
the hill in the valley on the day of his return--the face of the man
who had shot at him.  The man was good-looking in a coarse, vulgar way,
and dissipated, gross, self-sufficient.  Calumet's eyes narrowed with
dislike as he looked at him.  There was interest in his glance, too,
for this was his father's enemy--his enemy.  But after the first look
his face became inscrutable.  He turned to see Dade standing beside
him.  Dade was rigid, pale; his body was in a half-crouch and there was
an expression of cold malignance on his face.  Quickly Calumet placed
both hands on the young man's shoulders and shoved him back against the
bar, thrusting his own body between him and Taggart.

"Easy there," he warned in a whisper.  "He's my meat."

Dade caught the mirthless smile on his lips and looked at him
curiously, his attitude still belligerent.

"He's talkin' about Betty, the damned skunk!" he objected.  His voice
was a low, throaty whisper and it did not carry to the table where the
three men sat.

"He was sure talkin' about her," said Calumet inexpressively.  "An'
I'll admit that any man who talks that way about a woman is what you've
called him.  But it's my funeral," he added, his voice suddenly cold
and hard, "an' you ain't buttin' in, whatever happens.  Buy yourself
another drink," he suggested; "you look flustered.  I'm havin' a talk
with Taggart."

He left Dade standing at the bar looking at him wonderingly, and made
his way slowly to the table where Taggart sat.  Taggart was drinking
when Calumet reached his side, and Dade stood tense, awaiting the
expected clash.

But none came.  Calumet's grin as he nodded to Taggart was almost
friendly, and his voice was soft, even--almost gentle.

"I heard one of these man call you Taggart," he said.  "I reckon you're
from the Arrow?"

Taggart leaned back in his chair and insolently surveyed his
questioner.  What he saw in Calumet's face made his own pale a little.

"I'm Taggart," he said shortly--"Neal Taggart.  What you wantin' of me?"

Calumet smiled.  "Nothin' much," he said.  "I thought mebbe you'd like
to know me.  We're neighbors, you know.  I'm Marston--Calumet Marston,
of the Lazy Y."

The color receded entirely from Taggart's face, leaving it with a queer
pallor.  He abruptly shoved back his chair and stood, his eyes alert
and fearful as his right hand stole slowly toward the butt of the
pistol at his hip.  Calumet's right hand did not seem to move, but
before Taggart could get his weapon free of its holster he saw the
sombre muzzle of a forty-five frowning at him from Calumet's hip and he
quickly drew his own hand away--empty.

"Shucks," Calumet's voice came slowly into the silence that had
fallen--slowly and softly and with apparently genuine deprecation.  "If
I'd known that you was goin' to get that excited I'd have broke the
news different.  I don't know what you're gettin' at, trying to drag
your gun out that way.  I was hopin' we'd be friends.  We ought to, you
know, bein' neighbors."

"Friends?"  Taggart stepped back a pace and looked at Calumet
incredulously, his eyes searching for signs of insincerity.  He saw no
such signs, for if Calumet had emotion at this minute it was too deep
to be uncovered with a glance.  But he knew from Taggart's perturbation
that the latter knew him to be the man he had shot at that day in the
valley.

Obviously, he had not then had any suspicion as to his identity--his
surprise showed that he had not.  And his half-fearful, puzzled looks
at Calumet indicated to the latter that he was wondering whether
Calumet recognized him as the man who had done the shooting.

Calumet's smile was cordial, inviting, even slightly ingratiating, and
watching him closely Taggart was convinced that he was not recognized.
Also he was certain that Calumet could not have learned anything of the
trouble between their parents.  Yet Betty knew, and if Betty hadn't
told him there must be something between them--dislike or greed on
Betty's part--and a smile appeared on his face as he remembered that he
had heard his father say that Calumet had been vicious and unmanageable
in his youth.  He must be at odds with Betty.

And Betty--well, a shyster lawyer in Las Vegas had told Taggart
something about a will which old Marston had made, in which Betty had
been named as beneficiary of the property in case Calumet failed to
agree to certain specifications, and Taggart was ready to believe that
Betty would not hesitate to bring about an open clash with Calumet in
order to gain control of the ranch.  This thought filled Taggart with a
savage exultation.  He and his father had made very little progress in
their past attacks on the Lazy Y, and if it were possible to set
Calumet against Betty there might come an opportunity to drive a wedge
which would make an opening--the opening they had long sought for.  At
all events he would have considered himself a fool if he failed to take
advantage of this opportunity to ingratiate himself into the good
nature of this man.

"Well, that's right, I reckon," he said.  "There ain't no reason that I
know of why we shouldn't be friends.  I'm right glad to see you."  He
stuck out his right hand, but it appeared that Calumet did not notice
it, for he laughed as he replaced the pistol in its holster.

"Same here," he said.  "If you're passin' the Lazy Y any time, drop in
an' visit.  I'm fixin' her up a few--enough so's I can live in the old
shack."

Taggart had noted with a lowering frown Calumet's omission of the
proffered handshake, but the cordial good nature of the smile on the
latter's face was unmistakable, and he grinned in reply.

"I'll sure do that," he said.

"I'll be right glad to have you," said Calumet.  "Come tomorrow--in the
afternoon--any time."

"You reckonin' on bein' the boss now?" questioned Taggart.

Some emotion flickered Calumet's eyelashes.  "You've said somethin',"
he returned; "nobody's runnin' me."  He turned and walked to Dade, who
had been watching him with wrath and astonishment.

"Drinkin'?" suggested Taggart.  "Have a drink, old man," he said, with
celluloid good fellowship.

Calumet turned with a grin.  "Me an' my friend has got to the end of
our capacity," he said.  "He's workin' for me an I ain't settin' him a
bad example.  The next time, if you're in the humor, I'll be glad to
drink all you can buy."  He waved a hand behind him, with the other he
was pushing Dade before him toward the door.  "So-long," he said, as he
and Dade went out.

Taggart laughed as he turned to his companions, who had said nothing
during the conversation.

"Friends!" he said; "he's green an' due for a shock!"

Either Taggart or the proprietor had made a mistake in their estimate
of Calumet.  For at the instant Taggart had sneered at Calumet to his
friends, the bartender, who had come in while Taggart and Calumet had
been talking, leaned over to listen to the proprietor.

"In Taggart's place," said the proprietor, "I'd be mighty careful of
that man.  Friend, eh?  Well, mebbe.  But you noticed that he didn't
offer to shake hands with Taggart.  An' he wouldn't drink.  Reached his
capacity!  He had four in here.  Sober as a judge!  Did you notice his
eyes?  They fair made me shiver when he looked at me when I was talkin'
about his old man.  I'm goin' to be damn careful about my palaver after
this.  Friend!  Well, if I wasn't his friend I'd be damn careful not to
rile him!"

Outside Dade halted, white hot with rage.

"I reckon I ain't got no job with you, you white-livered--"

The muzzle of Calumet's forty-five, magically produced, it seemed, so
quickly did it show in his hand, was making an icy ring against Dade's
throat, and the words, the epithet for which he had hesitated, remained
unspoken.  Metallic, venomous and filled with a threat of death came
Calumet's voice.

"You sufferin' fool!" he said, the words writhing through his lips, his
eyes blazing.  "It's my game, do you hear?  An' if you gas another word
about it I'll tear you apart!"

"He was blackguardin' Betty," objected Dade, his face ashen, but his
spirit still undaunted.  "He was blackguardin' her an' you made friends
with him.  I'd have salivated him if I'd thought you wasn't goin' to.
I'm goin' back there now an'--"

Calumet stepped back a pace and cocked his six-shooter.  "I reckon I
can't make you understand that it's my game," he said coldly.  "Walk
backwards when you go in," he directed; "I don't want to plug you in
the back."

Dade started and looked intently at Calumet.  "You mean that it ain't
ended between you an' him?" he demanded.

"Some people would have tumbled to that long ago," jeered Calumet.
"But kids--kids take longer to _sabe_ a thing.  I'm glad you're over
it," he added.  He sheathed his pistol.  "I reckon we'll be goin'," he
said.  "Betty'll begin to believe I'm lost."

Dade followed him to the wagon, meekly enough now that he had received
unmistakable proof that Taggart was Calumet's "game," and shortly
afterward the wagon pulled out of Lazette and struck the trail toward
the Lazy Y.


CHAPTER XI

PROGRESS

Calumet had some thoughts on the subject but they were all inchoate and
unsatisfying.  He got only one conclusion out of them--that for some
mysterious reason he had surrendered to Betty and was going to work to
repair the ranchhouse.

On the morning following his visit to Lazette he sat on a piece of
heavy timber which he and Dade had lifted a few minutes before to some
saw-horses preparatory to framing.  Armed with a scratch awl and a
square Dade was at the other end of the timber, his hat shoved back
from his forehead while he ran his fingers through his hair as though
pondering some weighty problem.  He is his own taskmaster for
devotion; and if Christianity have any work more difficult or perilous
than other, that he enjoins himself, and resolves contentment even in
miscarriage. It is no marvel if the acquaintance of his wilder times
know him not, for he is quite another from himself; and if his mind
could have had any intermission of dwelling within his breast, it could
not have known this was the lodging. Nothing but an outside is the
same it was, and that altered more with regeneration than with age.

None but he can relish the promises of the gospel, which he finds
so sweet that he complains not, his thirst after them is unsatiable;
and now that he hath found his Saviour, he hugs Him so fast and
holds Him so dear that he feels not when his life is fetched away from
him for his martyrdom. The latter part of his life is so led as if he
desired to unlive his youth, and his last testament is full of
restitutions and legacies of piety. In sum, he hath so lived and died
as that Satan hath no such match, sin hath no such enemy, God hath no
such servant as he.

HE IS A HAPPY MAN
That hath learned to read himself more than all books, and hath so taken
out this lesson that he can never forget it; that knows the world,
and cares not for it; that, after many traverses of thoughts, is
grown to know what he may trust to, and stands now equally armed
for all events; that hath got the mastery at home, so as he can
cross his will without a mutiny, and so please it that he makes it
not a wanton; that in earthly things wishes no more than nature,
in spiritual is ever graciously ambitious; that for his condition
stands on his own feet, not needing to lean upon the great, and can
so frame his thoughts to his estate that when he hath least he
cannot want, because he is as free from desire as superfluity; that
hath seasonably broken the headstrong restiness of prosperity, and
can now manage it at pleasure; upon whom all smaller crosses light
as hailstones upon a roof; and for the greater calamities, he can
take them as tributes of life and tokens of love; and if his ship
be tossed, yet he is sure his anchor is fast.

If all the world were his, he could be no other than he is, no whit gladder
of himself, no whit higher in his carriage, because he knows
contentment lies not in the things he hath, but in the mind that
values them.

The powers of his resolution can either multiply or subtract at
pleasure. He can make his cottage a manor or a palace when he lists, and
his home-close a large dominion, his stained cloth arras, his earth
plate, and can see state in the attendance of one servant, as one
that hath learned a man's greatness or baseness is in himself; and
in this he may even contest with the proud, that he thinks his own
the best.

Or if he must be outwardly great, he can but turn the other end of
the glass, and make his stately manor a low and straight cottage,
and in all his costly furniture he can see not richness but use;
he can see dross in the best metal and earth through the best
clothes, and in all his troupe he can see himself his own servant.

He lives quietly at home out of the noise of the world, and loves
to enjoy himself always, and sometimes his friend, and hath as full
scope to his thought as to his eyes.

He walks ever even in the midway betwixt hopes and fears, resolved to
fear nothing but God, to hope for nothing but what which he must have.
He hath a wise and virtuous mind in a serviceable body, which that
better part affects as a present servant and a future companion,
so cherishing his flesh as one that would scorn to be all flesh.

He hath no enemies; not for that all love him, but because he knows
to make a gain of malice. He is not so engaged to any earthly thing
that they two cannot part on even terms; there is neither
laughter in their meeting, nor in their shaking of hands tears. He
keeps ever the best company, the God of Spirits and the spirits
of that God, whom he entertains continually in an awful familiarity,
not being hindered either with too much light or with none at all.

His conscience and his hand are friends, and (what devil soever tempt
him) will not fall out. That divine part goes ever uprightly and freely,
not stooping under the burden of a willing sin, not fettered with
the gyves of unjust scruples.

He would not, if he could, run away from himself or from God; not
caring from whom he lies hid, so he may look these two in the face.

Censures and applauses are passengers to him, not guests; his ear
is their thoroughfare, not their harbour; he hath learned to fetch
both his counsel and his sentence from his own breast.

He doth not lay weight upon his own shoulders, as one that loves to torment
himself with the honour of much employment; but as he makes work
his game, so doth he not list to make himself work. His strife is
ever to redeem and not to spend time. It is his trade to do good, and
to think of it his recreation.

He hath hands enough for himself and others, which are ever stretched
forth for beneficence, not for need.

He walks cheerfully in the way that God hath chalked, and never wishes
it more wide or more smooth.

Those very temptations whereby he is foiled strengthen him; he comes
forth crowned and triumphing out of the spiritual battles, and those
scars that he hath make him beautiful. His soul is every day dilated
to receive that God, in whom he is; and hath attained to love
himself for God, and God for His own sake.

His eyes stick so fast in heaven that no earthly object can remove
them; yea, his whole self is there before his time, and sees with
Stephen, and hears with Paul, and enjoys with Lazarus, the glory
that he shall have, and takes possession beforehand of his room
amongst the saints; and these heavenly contentments have so taken
him up that now he looks down displeasedly upon the earth as the
region of his sorrow and banishment, yet joying more in hope than
troubled with the sense of evils.

He holds it no great matter to live, and his greatest business to die;
and is so well acquainted with his last guest that he fears no unkindness
from him: neither makes he any other of dying than of walking home when
he is abroad, or of going to bed when he is weary of the day.

He is well provided for both worlds, and is sure of peace here, of
glory hereafter; and therefore hath a light heart and a cheerful
face.

All his fellow-creatures rejoice to serve him; his betters, the angels,
love to observe him; God Himself takes pleasure to converse with him,
and hath sainted him before his death, and in his death crowned
him.

THE SECOND BOOK.

CHARACTERISMS OF VICES.

THE PROEM.

I have showed you many fair virtues: I speak not for them; if their
sight cannot command affection let them lose it.

They shall please yet better after you have troubled your eyes a little
with the view of deformities; and by how much more they please, so
much more odious and like themselves shall these deformities appear.
This light contraries give to each other in the midst of their enmity,
that one makes the other seem more good or ill. Perhaps in some of
these (which thing I do at once fear and hate) my style shall seem to
some less grave, more satirical: if you find me, not without cause,
jealous, let it please you to impute it to the nature of those vices
which will not be otherwise handled. The fashions of some evils are,
besides the odiousness, ridiculous, which to repeat is to seem
bitterly merry. I abhor to make sport with wickedness, and forbid
any laughter here but of disdain.

Hypocrisy shall lead this ring worthily, I think, because both she cometh
nearest to virtue and is the worst of vices.

CHARACTER OF THE HYPOCRITE.

An hypocrite is the worst kind of player, by so much as he acts
the better part, which hath always two faces, ofttimes two hearts;
that can compose his forehead to sadness and gravity, while he bids
his heart be wanton and careless within, and in the meantime laughs
within himself to think how smoothly he hath cozened the beholder.

In whose silent face are written the characters of religion, which
his tongue and gestures pronounce but his hands recant.

That hath a clean face and garment with a foul soul, whose mouth
belies his heart, and his fingers belie his mouth.

Walking early up into the city, he turns into the great church, and
salutes one of the pillars on one knee, worshipping that God which
at home he cares not for, while his eye is fixed on some window,
on some passenger, and his heart knows not whither his lips go.

He rises, and looking about with admiration, complains on our frozen
charity, commends the ancient.

At church he will ever sit where he may be seen best, and in the
midst of the sermon pulls out his tables in haste, as if he feared
to lose that note; when he writes either his forgotten errand or
nothing.

Then he turns his Bible with a noise to seek an omitted quotation, and
folds the leaf as if he had found it, and asks aloud the name of
the preacher, and repeats it, whom he publicly salutes, thanks,
praises, invites, entertains with tedious good counsel, with good
discourse, if it had come from an honester mouth.

He can command tears when he speaks of his youth, indeed because it is
past, not because it was sinful; himself is now better, but the times
are worse.

All other sins he reckons up with detestation, while he loves and
hides his darling in his bosom.

All his speech returns to himself, and every occurrence draws in a
story to his own praise.

When he should give, he looks about him and says, "Who sees me?"

No alms, no prayers, fall from him without a witness, belike lest God
should deny that He hath received them; and when he hath done (lest the
world should not know it) his own mouth is his trumpet to proclaim it.
With the superfluity of his usury he builds an hospital, and
harbours them whom his extortion hath spoiled; so while he makes many
beggars he keeps some. He turneth all gnats into camels, and
cares not to undo the world for a circumstance.
Flesh on a Friday is more abomination to him than his neighbour's bed:

he more abhors not to uncover at the name of Jesus than to swear by
the name of God. When a rhymer reads his poem to him he begs a copy,
and persuades the press there is nothing that he dislikes in presence
that in absence he censures not. He comes to the sick-bed of his
stepmother, and weeps when he secretly fears her recovery. He greets
his friend in the street with so clear a countenance, so fast a closure,
that the other thinks he reads his heart in his face, and shakes
hands with an indefinite invitation of "When will you come?"

and when his back is turned, joys that he is so well rid of a guest;
yet if that guest visit him unfeared, he counterfeits a smiling welcome,
and excuses his cheer, when closely he frowns on his wife for too much.
He shows well, and says well, and himself is the worst thing he hath.
In brief, he is the stranger's saint, the neighbour's disease, the
blot of goodness, a rotten stick in a dark night, a poppy in a
corn-field, an ill-tempered candle with a great snuff that in going
out smells ill; and an angel abroad, a devil at home, and worse
when an angel than when a devil.

OF THE BUSYBODY.

His estate is too narrow for his mind, and therefore he is fain to
make himself room in others' affairs, yet ever in pretence of love. No
news can stir but by his door, neither can he know that which he
must not tell.

What every man ventures in Guiana voyage, and what they gained, he
knows to a hair. Whether Holland will have peace he knows, and on
what conditions, and with what success, is familiar to him ere it be
concluded. No post can pass him without a question, and rather than
he will lose the news, he rides back with him to apprise him of tidings;
and then to the next man he meets he supplies the wants of his hasty
intelligence and makes up a perfect tale, wherewith he so haunteth
the patient auditor, that after many excuses he is fain to endure
rather the censure of his manners in running away than the tediousness
of an impertinent discourse.

His speech is oft broken off with a succession of long parentheses, which
he ever vows to fill up ere the conclusion, and perhaps would effect
it if the other's ear were as umveariable as his tongue. If he see but
two men talk and read a letter in the street, he runs to them and
asks if he may not be partner of that secret relation; and if they
deny it, he offers to tell, since he may not hear, wonders, and
then falls upon the report of the Scottish mine, or of the great
fish taken up at Lynne, or of the freezing of the Thames, and after
many thanks and admissions is hardly entreated silence.

He undertakes as much as he performs little; this man will thrust himself
forward to be the guide of the way he knows not, and calls at his
neighbour's window and asks why his servants are not at work.

The market hath no commodity which he prizeth not, and which the
next table shall not hear recited.

His tongue, like the tail of Samson's foxes, carries firebrands, and is
enough to set the whole field of the world on a flame.

Himself begins table-talk of his neighbour at another's board, to whom
he bears the first news, and adjures him to conceal the reporter,
whose choleric answer he returns to his first host enlarged with a
second edition; so as it uses to be done in the sight of unwilling
mastiffs, he claps each on the side apart, and provokes them to an
eager conflict.

There can no act pass without his comment, which is ever far-fetched,
rash, suspicious, dilatory.

His ears are long and his eyes quick, but most of all to imperfections,
which as he easily sees, so he increases with intermeddling.

He harbours another man's servant, and amidst his entertainment
asks what fare is usual at home, what hours are kept, what talk
passeth their meals, what his master's disposition is, what his
government, what his guests?

and when he hath by curious inquiries extracted all the juice and
spirit of hoped intelligence, turns him off whence he came, and
works on anew. He hates constancy as an earthen dulness, unfit for men
of spirit, and loves to change his work and his place: neither yet can
he be so soon weary of any place as every place is weary of him,
for as he sets himself on work, so others pay him with hatred; and
look how many masters he hath, so many enemies: neither is it
possible that any should not hate him but who know him not.

So then he labours without thanks, talks without credit, lives without
love, dies without tears, without pity, save that some say it was
pity he died no sooner.

OF THE SUPERSTITIOUS.

Superstition is godless religion, devout impiety. The superstitious
is fond in observation, servile in fear; he worships God but as he
lists; he gives God what He asks not more than He asks, and all but what
he should give; and makes more sins than the Ten Commandments. This
man dares not stir forth till his breast be crossed and his face
sprinkled:

if but an hare cross him the way, he returns; or if his journey began
unawares on the dismal day, or if he stumble at the threshold. If
he see a snake unkilled, he fears a mischief; if the salt fall towards
him, he looks pale and red, and is not quiet till one of the waiters
have poured wine on his lap; and when he sneezeth, thinks them not his
friends that uncover not.

In the morning he listens whether the crow crieth even or odd, and
by that token presages of the weather.

If he hear but a raven croak from the next roof he makes his will, or
if a bittern fly over his head by night; but if his troubled fancy shall
second his thoughts with the dream of a fair garden, or green rushes,
or the salutation of a dead friend, he takes leave of the world and
says he cannot live. He will never set to sea but on a Sunday, neither
ever goes without an _Erra Pater_ in his pocket. Saint Paul's Day and
Saint Swithin's with the Twelve are his oracles, which he dares believe
against the almanack.
When he lies sick on his deathbed no sin troubles him so much as that
he did once eat flesh on a Friday; no repentance can expiate that, the
rest need none. There is no dream of his without an interpretation,
without a prediction; and if the event answer not his exposition,
he expounds it according to the event.

Every dark grove and pictured wall strikes him with an awful but carnal
devotion. Old wives and stars are his counsellors, his night-spell is
his guard, and charms his physicians. He wears Paracelsian characters
for the toothache, and a little hallowed wax is his antidote for all
evils. This man is strangely credulous, and calls impossible
things miraculous.

If he hear that some sacred block speaks, moves, weeps, smiles, his bare
feet carry him thither with an offering; and if a danger miss him
in the way, his saint hath the thanks.

Some ways he will not go, and some he dares not; either there are
bugs, or he feigneth them; every lantern is a ghost, and every noise
is of chains.

He knows not why, but his custom is to go a little about, and to
leave the cross still on the right hand.

One event is enough to make a rule; out of these he concludes fashions
proper to himself; and nothing can turn him out of his own course.

If he have done his task he is safe, it matters not with what
affection.

Finally, if God would let him be the carver of his own obedience,
He could not have a better subject; as he is, He cannot have a
worse.

OF THE PROFANE.

The superstitious hath too many gods; the profane man hath none at
all, unless perhaps himself be his own deity, and the world his
heaven. To matter of religion his heart is a piece of dead flesh,
without feeling of love, of fear, of care, or of pain from the
deaf strokes of a revenging conscience.

Custom of sin hath wrought this senselessness, which now hath so long
entertained that it pleads prescription and knows not to be altered.
This is no sudden evil; we are born sinful, but have made ourselves
profane; through many degrees we climb to this height of impiety.
At first he sinned and cared not, now he sinneth and knoweth not.
Appetite is his lord, and reason his servant, and religion his drudge.
Sense is the rule of his belief; and if piety may be an advantage,
he can at once counterfeit and deride it.

When aught succeedeth to him he sacrifices to his net, and thanks
either his fortune or his wit; and will rather make a false God
than acknowledge the truth; if contrary, he cried out of destiny,
and blames him to whom he will not be beholden.

His conscience would fain speak with him, but he will not hear it;
sets the day, but he disappoints it; and when it cries loud for
audience, he drowns the noise with good fellowship. He never
names God but in his oaths; never thinks of Him but in extremity; and
then he knows not how to think of Him, because he begins but then.
He quarrels for the hard conditions of his pleasure for his future
damnation, and from himself lays all the fault upon his Maker; and
from His decree fetcheth excuses of his wickedness. The inevitable
necessity of God's counsel makes him desperately careless; so with
good food he poisons himself.

Goodness is his minstrel; neither is any mirth so cordial to him, as his
sport with God's fools. Every virtue hath his slander, and his jest
to laugh it out of fashion; every vice his colour.

His usualest theme is the boast of his young sins, which he can still joy
in, though he cannot commit; and (if it may be) his speech makes
him worse than he is.

He cannot think of death with patience, without terror, which he
therefore fears worse than hell, because this he is sure of, the
other he but doubts of.

He comes to church as to the theatre, saving that not so willingly,
for company, for custom, for recreation, perhaps for sleep, or to
feed his eyes or his ears; as for his soul, he cares no more than
if he had none.

He loves none but himself, and that not enough to seek his true good;
neither cares he on whom he treads that he may rise. His life is full
of license, and his practice of outrage. He is hated of God as much
as he hateth goodness; and differs little from a devil, but that
he hath a body.

OF THE MALCONTENT.

He is neither well full nor fasting; and though he abound with
complaints, yet nothing dislikes him but the present; for what he
condemned while it was, once past he magnifies, and strives to
recall it out of the jaws of time.

What he hath he seeth not, his eyes are so taken up with what he
wants; and what he sees he cares not for, because he cares so much
for that which is not.

When his friend carves him the best morsel, he murmurs that it is
an happy feast wherein each one may cut for himself.

When a present is sent him he asks, Is this all? and, What, no better?
and so accepts it, as if he would have his friend know how much
he is bound to him for vouchsafing to receive it. It is hard to
entertain him with a proportionable gift. If nothing, he cries
out of unthankfulness; if little, that he is basely regarded; if much,
he exclaims of flattery, and expectation of a large requital.

It angered him to think that
she should presume to imagine such a thing.  And yet he had felt a
throb of emotion when she had thanked him--a reluctant, savage,
resentful satisfaction which later changed to amusement.  If she
believed he had thrashed Taggart in defense of her, let her continue to
believe that.  It made no difference one way or another.  But he would
take good care to see that she should have no occasion to thank him
again.  She did not interfere with the work, which went steadily on.
The ranchhouse began to take on a prosperous appearance.  Within a week
after the beginning of the work the sills were all in, the rotted
bottoms of the studding had been replaced, and the outside walls
patched up.  During the next week the old porches were torn down and
new ones built in their places.  At the end of the third week the roof
had been repaired, and then there were some odds and ends that had to
be looked to, so that the fourth week was nearly gone when Dade and
Calumet cleared up the débris.  It was Dade who, in spite of Calumet's
remonstrances, went inside to announce the news to Betty, and she came
out with him and looked the work over with a critical, though
approving, eye.  Calumet was watching her, and when she had concluded
her inspection she turned to him with a smile.

"Tomorrow you can go to Lazette and get some paint," she said.

"Want it done up in style, eh?"

"Of course," she returned; "why not?"

"That's it," he growled; "why not?  You don't have to do the work."

She laughed.  "I should dislike to think you are lazy."

He flushed.  "I reckon I ain't none lazy."  He could think of nothing
else to say.  Her voice had a taunt in it; her attack was direct and
merciless.  She looked at Dade, whose face was red with some emotion,
but she spoke to Calumet.

"I don't think you ought to complain about the work," she said.  "You
were to do it alone, but on my own responsibility I gave you Dade."

"Pitied me, I reckon," he sneered.

"Yes."  Her gaze was steady.  "I pity you in more ways than one."

"When did you think I needed any pity?" he demanded truculently,
angered.

"Oh," she said, in pretended surprise, "you are in one of your moods
again!  Well, I am not going to quarrel with you."  She turned abruptly
and entered the house, and Calumet fell to kicking savagely into a
hummock with the toe of his boot.  As in every clash he had had with
her yet, he emerged feeling like a reproved school boy.  What made it
worse was that he was beginning to feel that there was no justification
for his rage against her.  As in the present case, he had been the
aggressor and deserved all the scorn she had heaped upon him.  But the
rage was with him, nevertheless, perhaps the more poignant because he
felt its impotency.  He looked around at Dade.  That young man was
trying to appear unconscious of the embarrassing predicament of his
fellow workman.  He endeavored to lighten the load for him.

"She certainly does talk straight to the point," he said.  "But I
reckon she don't mean more'n half of it."

Calumet shot a malignant look at him.  "Who in hell is askin' for
_your_ opinion?" he demanded.

The paint, however, was secured, Calumet making the trip to Lazette for
it.  He returned after dark, and Bob, who was sitting in the kitchen
where Betty was washing the dishes, hobbled out to greet him.  Bob had
been outside only a few minutes when Betty heard his voice, raised
joyously.  She went to a rear window, but the darkness outside was
impenetrable and she could see nothing.  Presently, though, she heard
Bob's step on the porch, and almost instantly he appeared, holding in
his arm a three-month-old puppy of doubtful breed.  He radiated delight.

"Calumet brought it!" he said, in answer to Betty's quick
interrogation.  "He said it was to take the place of Lonesome.  I
reckon he ain't so bad, after all--is he Betty?"

Betty patted the puppy's head, leaning over so that Bob did not see the
strange light in her eyes.

"He's nice," she said.

"Who?" said Bob, quickly--"Calumet?"

Betty rose, her face flushing.  "No," she said sharply; "the puppy."

Bob looked at her twice before he said, in a slightly disappointed
voice, "Uh-huh."

When Calumet came into the kitchen half an hour later, having stabled
his horses and washed his face and hands from the basin he found on the
porch, he found his supper set out on the table; but Betty was nowhere
to be seen.

"Where's Betty?" he demanded of Bob, who was romping delightedly with
the new dog, which showed its appreciation of its new friend by yelping
joyously.

"I reckon she's gone to bed," returned the young man.

For a few minutes Calumet stood near the door, watching the dog and the
boy.  Several times he looked toward the other doors, disappointment
revealed in his eyes.  Was he to take Betty's departure before his
arrival as an indication that she had fled from him?  He had seen her
when she had pressed her face to the window some time before, and it
now appeared to him that she had deliberately left the room to avoid
meeting him.  He frowned and walked to the table, looking down at the
food.  She had thought of him, at any rate.

He sat at the table and took several bites of food before he spoke
again.

"Betty see the pup?" he asked.

"Yep."

"Like him?"

"Yep."

He hesitated, while Bob looked at him, intent for more questions.  He
had liked Calumet from the first, despite the killing of Lonesome.  He
could not forget the gruff words of consolation that had been spoken by
Calumet on that occasion--they had been sincere, at any rate--his boy's
heart knew that.  He worshiped Calumet since he had given him the dog.
And so he wanted to talk.

"She patted him on the head," he said.

"Just what did she say?" inquired Calumet.

"She said he was nice."

"Them the exact words?"

"Yep."

There was a silence again, while Calumet chewed meditatively at his
food.  Bob suspended play with the puppy to watch him.

"Well," said Calumet finally, "that shows just what a woman knows about
dogs--or anything.  He ain't none nice, not at all, takin' dogs as
dogs.  He's nothin' but a fool yellow mongrel."

Bob contemplated his benefactor, sourly at first, for already he and
the dog were friends, and thus Calumet's derogatory words were in the
nature of a base slander.  But he reasoned that all was not well
between Betty and Calumet, and therefore perhaps Calumet had not meant
them in exactly that spirit.

"Well," he said at last, "I like him a lot, anyway."

"What's that?" said Calumet, startled.  He had forgotten about the dog.
He had been wondering if Betty had gone to bed, or whether she was in
the sitting room, reading, as she was accustomed to doing.  A light
came through the sitting room door, and Calumet had been watching it,
momentarily expecting to see Betty's shadow.  "What's that?" he
repeated.  "You like him, anyway?  Why?"

"Because you gave him to me," said Bob, blushing at the admission.

Calumet looked at him, sourly at first; and then, with a crafty grin on
his face as he watched the sitting room door, he raised his voice so
that if Betty were in the sitting room she could not help hearing it.

"Well," he said, "you like him because I gave him to you, eh?  Shucks.
I reckon that ain't the reason Betty likes him."

Apparently Bob had no answer to make to this, for he kept silent.  But
Calumet saw a shadow cross the sitting room floor, and presently he
heard a light footstep on the stairs.  He smiled and went on eating.


CHAPTER XIII

SUSPICION

"If the repairs on the ranchhouse were not finished by this time you
would not be reading this," began a letter drawn from a tightly sealed
envelope Betty had given Calumet after he and Dade had completed the
painting.  Supper had been over for some time, but the dishes had not
yet been cleared away, and when Betty had handed Calumet the letter he
had shoved the tablecloth back to make room for his elbows while he
read.  Bob had gone to bed; Malcolm and Dade were somewhere outside.
Calumet had started to go with them, but had remained when Betty had
told him quietly that she wanted to talk to him on a matter of
importance.  She sat opposite him now, unconcernedly balancing a knife
on the edge of a coffee cup, while she waited for him to finish reading
the letter.

"Therefore," continued the letter, "by this time your heart must have
softened a little toward me.  I am certain of this, for I know that, in
spite of your other weaknesses, that cupidity and greed have no place
in your mental make-up.  I know, too, that you are no fool, and by this
time you must have digested my first letter, and if you have you are
not blaming me as much as you did in the beginning.

"I have talked this over with Betty, and she is of the opinion that as
you have thus far obeyed my wishes you should be permitted to have a
free hand henceforth, for she insists that perhaps by this time the
restraint she has put on you will have resulted in you hating her, and
in that case she says she will not care to remain here any longer.  But
as I have said, I do not think you are a fool, and nobody but a fool
could hate Betty.  So I have persuaded her that even if you should come
to look upon her in that light she owes it to me to stay until the
conditions are fulfilled.

"It is my own hope that by this time you have made friends with her.
Perhaps--I am not going to offer you any advice, but Betty is a jewel,
and you might do worse.  You probably will if you haven't sense enough
to take her--if you can get her.  I have given her your picture, and
she likes you in spite of the reputation I have given you.  She says
you have good eyes.  Now, if a girl once gets in that mood there's no
end of the things she won't do for a man.  And the man would be an
ingrate if he didn't try to live up to her specifications after he
found that out.  That's why I am telling you.  Faith made a certain
disciple walk on the water, and lack of it caused the same one to sink.
Do a little thinking just here.  If you do you are safe, and if you
don't you are not worth saving.

"This is all about Betty.  Whatever happens, I think she will be a
match for you.

"Betty will give you another thousand dollars.  With it you will fix up
the corrals, the bunkhouse, and the stable.

"Perhaps you will want to know why I have not so much faith in you as
Betty has.  It is because one day a man from the Durango country
stopped here for a day.  He told me he knew you--that you were
cold-blooded and a hard case.  Then I knew you hadn't improved after
leaving home.  And so you must continue to do Betty's will, and mine.
Do you doubt this is for your own good?

"YOUR FATHER."


When Calumet folded the letter and placed it in a pocket, he leaned his
arms on the table again and regarded Betty intently.

"Do you know what is in this letter?" he said, tapping the pocket into
which he had placed it.

"No."

"There is something missing from the letter, ain't there?"

"Yes," she returned; "a thousand dollars."  She passed it over to him.
As before, there were ten one-hundred-dollar bills.

His eyes flashed with mocking triumph.  "If you don't know what is in
this letter--if you didn't read it--how do you know that I am to have
this money?" he said.

She silently passed over another envelope and watched him with a smile
of quiet contempt as he removed the contents and read:


"BETTY:--Give Calumet a thousand dollars when you turn over letter
number three to him.

"JAMES MARSTON."


Calumet looked at the envelope; Betty's name was on the face of it.
The triumph in his eyes was succeeded by embarrassment.  He looked up
to see Betty's amused gaze on him.

"Well?" she questioned.

"Most women would have read it," he said.  He got up and went outside,
leaving her to look after him, not knowing whether he had meant to
compliment her or not.

He found Dade and Malcolm standing near the stable.  There was a
brilliant moon.  At Dade's invitation they all went down to the
bunkhouse.  In spite of the dilapidated appearance of its exterior, the
interior of the building was in comparatively good condition--due to
the continual tinkering of Malcolm, who liked to spend his idle hours
there--and Malcolm lighted a candle, placed it on the rough table, took
a deck of cards from the shelf, and the three played "pitch" for two
hours.  At the end of that time Malcolm said he was going to bed.  Dade
signified that he intended doing likewise.  He occupied half of
Calumet's bed.  Since the day following the clash with Dade, Calumet
had insisted on this.

"Just to show you that what you said ain't botherin' me a heap," he had
told Dade.  "You're still yearlin' and need some one to keep an eye on
you, so's some careless son of a gun won't herd-ride you."

That Dade accepted this in the spirit in which it was spoken made it
possible for them to bunk together in amity.  If Dade had "sized up"
Calumet, the latter had made no mistake in Dade.

Dade snuffed out the candle and followed Malcolm out.  The latter went
immediately to the ranchhouse, but Dade lingered until Calumet stepped
down from the door of the bunkhouse.

"Bed suits me," suggested Dade.  "Comin'?"

"I'm smokin' a cigarette first," said Calumet.  "Mebbe two," he added
as an afterthought.

He watched Malcolm go in; saw the light from the lamp on the table in
the kitchen flare its light out through the kitchen door as Dade
entered; heard the door close.  The lamp still burned after he had seen
Dade's shadow vanish, and he knew that Dade had gone upstairs.  Dade
had left the light burning for him.

Alone, Calumet rolled the cigarette he had promised himself, lit it,
and then, in the flood of moonlight, walked slowly around the
bunkhouse, estimating the material and work that would be necessary to
repair it.  Then, puffing at his cigarette, he made a round of the
corral fence.  It was a long trip, and he stopped twice to roll new
cigarettes before he circled it.  Then he examined the stable.  This
finished, he stepped over to the corral fence, leaned his arms on the
top rail, and, in the moonlight that came over his shoulder, reread his
father's letter, making out the picturesque chirography with difficulty.

As during the first days of his return, when he had watched the army of
memories pass in review, he lingered over them now, and, to his
surprise, discovered that he felt some little regret over his own
conduct in those days preceding his leave-taking.  To be sure, he had
been only a boy at that time, but he had been a man since, and the cold
light of reason should have shown him that there must have been cause
for his father's brutal treatment of him--if indeed it had been brutal.
In fact, if he had acted in his youth as he had acted since reaching
maturity, there was small reason to wonder that he had received blows.
Boys needed to be reprimanded, punished, and perhaps he had deserved
all he had received.

The tone of his father's letters was distinctly sorrowful.  Remorse,
sincere remorse, had afflicted him.  His father had been wronged,
misled, betrayed, and humiliated by the Taggarts, and as Calumet stood
beside the corral fence he found that all his rage--the bitter,
malignant hatred which had once been in his heart against his
father--had vanished, that it had been succeeded by an emotion that was
new to him--pity.  An hour, two hours, passed before he turned and
walked toward the ranchhouse.  His lips were grim and white, tell-tale
signs of a new resolve, as he stepped softly upon the rear porch,
stealthily opened the kitchen door, and let himself in.  He halted at
the table on which stood the kerosene lamp, looking at the chair in
which he had been sitting some hours before talking to Betty, blinking
at the chair in which she had sat, summoning into his mind the picture
she had made when he had voiced his suspicions about her knowledge of
the contents of the letter she had given him.  "Nobody but a fool could
hate Betty," the letter had read.  And at the instant he had read the
words he had known that he didn't hate her.  But he was a fool, just
the same; he was a fool for treating her as he did--as Dade had said.
He had known that all along; he knew that was the reason why he had
curbed his rage when it would have driven him to commit some rash
action.  He had been a fool, but had he let himself go he would have
been a bigger one.

Betty had appraised him correctly--"sized him up," in Dade's idiomatic
phraseology--and knew that his vicious impulses were surface ones that
had been acquired and not inherited, as he had thought.  And he was
strangely pleased.

He looked once around the room, noting the spotless cleanliness of it
before he blew out the light.  And then he stepped across the floor and
into the dining-room, tip-toeing toward the stairs, that he might
awaken no one.  But he halted in amazement when he reached a point near
the center of the room, for he saw, under the threshold of the door
that led from the dining-room to his father's office, a weak,
flickering beam of light.

The door was tightly closed.  He knew from the fact that no light shone
through it except from the space between the bottom of it and the
threshold that it was barred, for he had locked the door during the
time he was repairing the house, and had satisfied himself that it
could not be tightly closed unless barred.  Someone was in the room,
too.  He heard the scuffle of a foot, the sound of a chair scraping on
the floor.  He stood rigid in the darkness of the dining-room,
straining his ears to catch another sound.

For a long time he could hear only muffled undertones which, while they
told him that there were two or more persons in the room, gave him no
clue to their identity.  And then, as he moved closer to the door, he
caught a laugh, low, but clear and musical.

It was Betty's!  He had heard it often when she had been talking to
Dade; she had never laughed in that voice when talking to him!

He halted in his approach toward the door, watching the light under it,
listening intently, afflicted with indecision.  At first he felt only a
natural curiosity over the situation, but as he continued to stand
there he began to feel a growing desire to know who Betty was talking
to.  To be sure, Betty had a right to talk to whom she pleased, but
this talk behind a barred door had an appearance of secrecy.  And since
he knew of no occasion for secrecy, the thing took on an element of
mystery which irritated him.  He smiled grimly in the darkness, and
with infinite care sat down on the floor and removed his boots.  Then
he stole noiselessly over to the door and placed an ear against it.

Almost instantly he heard a man's voice.  He did not recognize it, but
the words were sufficiently clear and distinct.  There was amusement in
them.

"So you're stringin' him along all right, then?" said the voice.  "I've
got to hand it to you--you're some clever."

"I am merely following instructions."  This in Betty's voice.

The man chuckled.  "He's a hard case.  I expected he'd have you all
fired out by this time."

Betty laughed.  "He is improving right along," she said.  "He brought
Bob another dog to replace Lonesome.  I felt sorry for him that night."

"Well," said the man, "I'm glad he's learnin'.  I reckon he's some
impatient to find out where the idol is?"

"Rather," said Betty.  "And he wanted the money right away."

The man laughed.  "Well," he said, "keep stringin' him along until we
get ready to lift the idol from its hidin' place.  I've been thinkin'
that it'd be a good idea to take the durn thing over to Las Vegas an'
sell it.  The money we'd get for it would be safer in the bank than the
idol where it is.  An' we could take it out when we get ready."

"No," said Betty firmly; "we will leave the idol where it is.  No one
but me knows, and I certainly will not tell."

"You're the boss," said the man.  He laughed again, and then both
voices became inaudible to Calumet.

A cold, deadly rage seized Calumet.  Betty was deceiving him, trifling
with him.  Some plan that she had in mind with reference to him was
working smoothly and well, so successfully that her confederate--for
certainly the man in the room with her must be that--was distinctly
pleased.  Betty, to use the man's words, was "stringing" him.  In other
words, she was making a fool of him!

Those half-formed good resolutions which Calumet had made a few minutes
before entering the house had fled long ago; he snarled now as he
realized what a fool he had been for making them.  Betty had been
leading him on.  He had been under the spell of her influence; he had
been allowing her to shape his character to her will; he was, or had
been, in danger of becoming a puppet which she could control by merely
pulling some strings.  She had been working on his better nature with
selfish aims.

Who was the man?  Malcolm?  Dade?  He thought not; the voice sounded
strangely like Neal Taggart's.  This suspicion enraged him, and he
stepped back, intending to hurl himself against the door in an effort
to smash it in.  But he hesitated, leered cunningly at the door, and
then softly and swiftly made his way upstairs.

He went first to his own room, for he half suspected that it might be
Dade who was downstairs with Betty, and if it was--  Well, just now he
remembered vividly how Dade had defied him, and he made a mental vow
that if it were Dade who was with Betty the young man would leave the
Lazy Y before dawn quite suddenly.  But it was not Dade.  Dade was in
bed, snoring, stretched out comfortably.

Calumet slipped out of the room and went to Malcolm's.  Both Bob and
Malcolm were sound asleep.  He hesitated for an instant, and then made
his way slowly downstairs.  Again he listened at the door.  Betty and
the man were still talking.

Calumet found his boots.  He decided not to put them on until he got to
the kitchen door, for he was determined to go around the outside of the
house and lay in wait for Betty's confederate, and he did not want to
make any sound that would scare him off.  He was proceeding stealthily,
directing his course through the darkness by a stream of moonlight that
came in through one of the kitchen windows, and had almost reached the
kitchen door when his feet struck an obstruction--something soft and
yielding.

There was a sudden scurrying, a sharp, terrified yelp.

Calumet cursed.  It was Bob's pup.  The animal planted himself in the
stream of moonlight that came in through the window, facing Calumet and
emitting a series of short, high-pitched, resentful barks.

There was humor in this situation, but Calumet did not see it.  He
heard a cry of surprise from the direction of the dining-room, and he
turned just in time to see the office door closing on a flood of light.

With savage energy and haste, he pulled on his boots, darted out of the
house, ran across the rear porch, leaped down, and ran around the
nearest corner of the house.  As he ran he jerked his pistol from its
holster.

When he got to the front of the house he bounded to the door of the
office and threw it violently open, expecting to surprise Betty and her
confederate.  He was confronted by a dense blackness.  He dodged back,
fearing a trap, and then lighted a match and held it around the corner
of one of the door jambs.  After the match was burning well he threw it
into the room and then peered after it.  There came no reply to this
challenge, and so he strode in boldly, lighting another match.

The room was empty.

He saw how it was.  Betty and the man had heard the barking of the dog
and had suspected the presence of an eavesdropper.  The man had fled.
Probably by this time Betty was in her room.  Calumet went out upon the
porch, leaped off, and ran around the house in a direction opposite
that which had marked his course when coming toward the front, covering
the ground with long, swift strides.  He reasoned that as he had seen
no one leave the house from the other side or the front, whoever had
been with Betty had made his escape in this direction, and he drew a
breath of satisfaction when, approaching some underbrush near the
kitchen, he saw outlined in the moonlight the figure of a man on a
horse.

The latter had evidently just mounted, for at the instant Calumet saw
him he had just settled into the saddle, one foot searching for a
stirrup.  He was about seventy-five feet distant, and he turned at
about the instant that Calumet saw him.  That instant was enough for
Calumet, for as the man turned his face was bathed for a fraction of a
second in the moonlight, and Calumet recognized him.  It was Neal
Taggart.

Calumet halted.  His six-shooter roared at the exact second that the
man buried his spurs in the flanks of his horse and threw himself
forward upon its neck.

The bullet must have missed him only by a narrow margin, but it did
miss, for he made no sign of injury.  His instant action in throwing
himself forward had undoubtedly saved his life.  Calumet swung the
pistol over his head and brought it down to a quick level, whipping
another shot after the fleeing rider.  But evidently the latter had
anticipated the action, for as he rode he jumped his horse from one
side to another, and as the distance was already great, and growing
greater, he made an elusive target.

Calumet saw his failure and stood silent, watching until Taggart was
well out into the valley, riding hard, a cloud of dust enveloping him.
A yell reached Calumet from the distance--derisive, defiant, mocking.
Calumet cursed then, giving voice to his rage and disappointment.

He went glumly around to the front of the house and closed the door to
the office.  When he stepped off the porch, afterward, intending to go
around the way he had come in order to enter the house, he heard a
voice above him, and turned to see Dade, his head sticking out of an
upstairs window, his hair in disorder, his eyes bulging, a forty-five
gleaming in his hand.  Back of him, his head over Dade's shoulder,
stood Malcolm, and Bob's thin face showed between the two.

At another window, one of the front ones, was Betty.  Of the four who
were watching him, Betty seemed the least excited; it seemed to Calumet
as he looked at her that there was some amusement in her eyes.

"Lordy!" said Dade as Calumet looked up at him, "how you scairt me!
Was it you shootin'?  An' what in thunder was you shootin' _at_?"

"A snake," said Calumet in a voice loud enough for Betty to hear.

"A snake!  Holy smoke!" growled Dade in disgust.  "Wakin' people up at
this time of the night because you wanted to shoot at a measly snake.
Tomorrow we'll lay off for an hour or so an' I'll take you where you
can shoot 'em to your heart's content.  But, for the love of Pete, quit
shootin' at 'em when a guy's asleep."

Calumet looked up sardonically, not at Dade, but at Betty.  "Was you
all asleep?" he inquired in a voice of cold mockery.  Even at that
distance he saw Betty redden, and he laughed shortly.

"A foxy snake," he said; "one of them kind which goes roamin' around at
night.  Lookin' for a mate, mebbe."  He turned abruptly, with a last
sneering look at Betty, and made his way around the house.


CHAPTER XIV

JEALOUSY

Dade was asleep when Calumet got into bed, and he was still asleep when
Calumet awoke the next morning.  Calumet descended to the kitchen.  When
he opened the kitchen door Bob's dog ran between his legs and received a
kick that sent him, whining with pain and surprise, off the porch.

Dominating everything in Calumet's mind this morning was the bitter
conviction that Betty had deceived him.  There had been ground for
Taggart's talk in the Red Dog--he saw that now.  Taggart and Betty were
leagued against him.  When he had brought Taggart face to face with Betty
that morning more than a month ago the Arrow man had pretended insolence
toward Betty in order to allay any suspicion that Calumet might have
concerning the real relations between them.  It had been done cleverly,
too, so cleverly that it had convinced him.  When he remembered the cold,
disdainful treatment that Betty had accorded Taggart that afternoon, he
almost smiled--though the smile was not good to see.  He had championed
her--he knew now that it had been a serious championship--and by doing so
he had exposed himself to ridicule; to Betty's and Taggart's secret humor.

He discovered an explanation for Betty's conduct while he fed and watered
Blackleg.  It was all perfectly plain to him.  Neither Betty nor Taggart
had expected him to return to the Lazy Y.  Betty's actions on the night
of his arrival proved that.  She had exhibited emotion entirely out of
reason.  Undoubtedly she and Taggart had expected to wait the year
specified in the will, certain that he would not appear to claim the
money or the idol, or they might have planned to leave before he could
return.  But since he had surprised them by returning unexpectedly, it
followed that they must reconstruct their plans; they would have to make
it impossible for him to comply with his father's wishes.  They could
easily do that, or thought they could, by making life at the ranch
unbearable for him.  That, he was convinced, was the reason that Betty
had adopted her cold, severe, and contemptuous attitude toward him.  She
expected he would find her nagging and bossing intolerable, that he would
leave in a rage and allow her and Taggart to come into possession of the
property.  Neither she nor Taggart would dare make off with the money and
the idol as long as he was at the ranch, for they would fear his
vengeance.

He thought his manner had already forced Betty to give him his father's
letters and admit the existence of the idol--she had been afraid to lie
to him about them.  And so Betty was "stringing" him along, as Taggart
had suggested, until he completed the repairs on the buildings, until he
had the ranch in such shape that it might be worked, and then at the end
of the year Betty would tell him that his reformation had not been
accomplished, and she and Taggart would take legal possession.

But if that was their plan they were mistaken in their man.  Until he had
worked out this solution of the situation he had determined to leave.
Betty's deceit had disgusted him.  But now, though there were faults in
the structure of the solution he had worked out, he was certain that they
intended working along those lines, and he was now equally determined to
stay and see the thing out.

Of course, Taggart was trying to make a fool of Betty--that was all too
evident.  A man who has serious intentions--honorable intentions--toward
a girl does not talk about her to his friends as Taggart had talked.
Taggart did not care for her; he was merely planning to gain her
confidence that he might gain possession of the money and the idol.  The
very fact that he was meeting Betty secretly proved that she had not
given him the treasure.  Perhaps she had doubts of him and was delaying.
Yes, that was the explanation.  Well, he would see that Taggart would
never get the treasure.

He went in to breakfast and watched Betty covertly during the meal.  She
was trying to appear unconcerned, but it was plain to see that her
unconcern was too deep to be genuine, and it moved Calumet to malevolent
sarcasm.

"Nothin' is botherin' you this mornin', I reckon?" he said to her once
when he caught her looking at him.  "Clear conscience, eh?" he added as
she flushed.

"What should bother me?" she asked, looking straight at him.

"I was thinkin' that mebbe the racket I was makin' tryin' to kill that
snake might have bothered--"

To his surprise, she pressed her lips tightly together, and he could see
mirth in her eyes--mocking mirth.

"You are talking in riddles," she said quietly.

So then she was going to deny it?  Wrath rose in him.

"Riddles, eh?" he said.  "Well, riddles--"

"That reptile was sure botherin' you a heap," cut in Dade; and Calumet
shot a quick glance at him, wondering whether he, also, was a party to
the plot to "string" him.

He thought he detected gratitude in Betty's eyes as she smiled at Dade,
but he was not certain.  He said no more on the subject--then.  But
shortly after the conclusion of the meal he contrived to come upon Betty
outside the house.  She was hanging a dish towel from a line that
stretched from a corner of the porch to the stable.

Looking at her as he approached, he was conscious that there was
something more than rage in his heart against her for her duplicity;
there was a gnawing disappointment and regret.  It was as though he was
losing something he valued.  But he put this emotion away from him as he
faced her.

"You're damn slick," he said; "slicker than I thought you was.  But I
ain't lettin' you think that you're stringin' me like you thought you
was."  He put vicious and significant emphasis on the word, and when he
saw her start he knew she divined that he had overheard the conversation
between her and Taggart.

Her face flushed.  "You were listening, then," she said with cold
contempt.

"I ain't ashamed of it, either," he shot back.  "When a man's dealin'
with crooks like--"  He hesitated, and then gave a venomous accent to the
words--"like you an' Taggart, he can't be over-scrupulous.  I was sure
listenin'.  I heard Taggart ask you if you was still stringin' me.  If it
hadn't been for that new pup which I just brought Bob I'd have done what
I was goin'--"

He stopped talking and looked sharply at her, for a change had come over
her.  In her eyes was that expression of conscious advantage which he had
noticed many times before.  She seemed to be making a great effort to
suppress some emotion, and was succeeding, too, for when she spoke her
voice was low and well controlled.

"So you heard Taggart talking to me?" she mocked, mirth in her eyes.
"And you shot at him?  Is that it?  Well, what of it?  I do not have to
account to you for my actions!"

He laughed.  "Nothin' of it, I reckon.  But if you're stuck on him, why
don't you come out in the open, instead of sneakin' around?  You made it
pretty strong the day I smashed his face for talkin' about you.  I reckon
he had some grounds."

He was talking now to hurt her; there was a savage desire in his heart to
goad her to anger.

But he did not succeed.  Her face paled a little at his brutal words, at
the insult they implied, and she became a little rigid, her lips
stiffening.  But suddenly she smiled, mockingly, with irritating
unconcern.

"If I didn't know that you hate me as you do I should be inclined to
think that you are jealous.  Are you?"

He straightened in astonishment.  Her manner was not that of the woman
who is caught doing something dishonorable; it was the calm poise of
sturdy honesty at bay.  But while he was mystified, he was not convinced.
She had hit the mark, he knew, but he laughed harshly.

"Jealous!" he said; "jealous of you?  I reckon you've got a good opinion
of yourself!  You make me sick.  I just want to put you wise a few.  You
don't need to try to pull off any of that sweet innocence stuff on me any
more.  You're deep an' slick, but I've sized you up.  You made a monkey
of the old man; you made him think like you're tryin' to make me think,
that you're sacrificin' yourself.

"You soft-soaped him into smearin' a heap of mush into his letters to me.
It's likely you wrote them yourself.  An' you hoodwinked him into givin'
you the money an' the idol so's you an' Taggart could divvy up after you
put me out of the runnin'.  Goin' to reform me!  I reckon if I was an
angel I'd have to have a recommendation from the Lord before you'd agree
that I'd reformed.  You couldn't be pried loose from that coin with a
crow-bar!"

He turned from her, baffled, for it was apparent from the expression of
mirth deep in her eyes that his attack had made no impression on her.

Calumet went to the stable and threw a bridle on Blackleg.  While he was
placing the saddle on the animal he hesitated and stood regarding it with
indecision.  He had intended to refuse to accept Betty's orders in the
future; had decided that he would do no more work on the buildings.  But
he was not the Calumet of old, who did things to suit himself, in
defiance to the opinions and wishes of other people.  Betty had thrown a
spell over him; he discovered that in spite of his discovery he felt like
accommodating his movements to her desires.  It was a mystery that
maddened him; he seemed to be losing his grip on himself, and, though he
fought against it, he found that he dreaded her disapproval, her sarcasm,
and her taunts.

It seemed to him puerile, ridiculous, to think of refusing to continue
with the work he had started.  As long as he was going to stay at the
Lazy Y he might as well keep on.  Betty would surely laugh at him if he
refused to go on.  He fought it out and took a long time to it, but he
finally pulled the saddle from Blackleg and hitched the two horses to the
wagon.  When he drove out of the ranchhouse yard he saw Betty watching
him from one of the kitchen windows.  He felt like cursing her, but did
not.

"I reckon," he said as he curled the lash of the whip viciously over the
shoulders of the horses, "that she's got me locoed.  Well," he cogitated,
"any woman's liable to stampede a man, an' I ain't the first guy that's
had his doubts whether he's a coyote or a lion after he's been herd-rode
by a petticoat.  I'm waitin' her out.  But Taggart--"  The frown on his
face indicated that his intentions toward the latter were perfectly clear.


CHAPTER XV

A MEETING IN THE RED DOG

Of the good resolutions that Calumet had made since the night before,
when he had re-read his father's letter in the moonlight while standing
beside the corral fence, none had survived.  Black, vicious thoughts
filled his mind as he drove toward Lazette.  When the wagon reached the
crest of a slope about a mile out of town, Calumet halted the horses
and rolled a cigarette, a sullen look in his eyes, unrelieved by the
prospect before him.

By no stretch of the imagination could Lazette be called attractive.
It lay forlorn and dismal at the foot of the slope, its forty or more
buildings dingy, unpainted, ugly, scattered along the one street as
though waiting for the encompassing desolation to engulf them.  Two
serpentine lines of steel, glistening in the sunlight, came from some
mysterious distance across the dead level of alkali, touched the edge
of town where rose a little red wooden station and a water tank of the
same color, and then bent away toward some barren hills, where they
vanished.

Calumet proceeded down the slope, halting at the lumber yard, where he
left his wagon and orders for the material he wanted.  Across the
street from the lumber yard was a building on which was a sign: "The
Chance Saloon."  Toward this Calumet went after leaving his wagon.  He
hesitated for an instant on the sidewalk, and a voice, seeming to come
from nowhere in particular, whispered in his ear:

"Neal Taggart's layin' for you!"

When Calumet wheeled, his six-shooter was in his hand.  At his
shoulder, having evidently followed him from across the street, stood a
man.  He was lean-faced, hardy-looking, with a strong, determined jaw
and steady, alert eyes.  He was apparently about fifty years of age.
He grinned at Calumet's belligerent motion.

"Hearin' me?" he said to Calumet's cold, inquiring glance.

The latter's eyes glowed.  "Layin' for me, eh?  Thanks."  He looked
curiously at the other.  "Who are you?" he said.

"I'm Dave Toban, the sheriff."  He threw back one side of his vest and
revealed a small silver star.

"Correct," said Calumet; "how you knowin' me?"

"Knowed your dad," said the sheriff.  "You look a heap like him.
Besides," he added as his eyes twinkled, "there ain't no one else in
this section doin' any buildin' now."

"I'm sure much obliged for your interest," said Calumet.  "An' so
Taggart's lookin' for me?"

"Been in town a week," continued the sheriff.  "Been makin' his brags
what he's goin' to do to you.  Says you wheedled him into comin' over
to the Lazy Y an' then beat him up.  Got Denver Ed with him."

Calumet's eyes narrowed.  "I know him," he said.

"Gun-fighter, ain't he?" questioned the sheriff.

"Yep."  Calumet's eyelashes flickered; he smiled with straight lips.
"Drinkin'?" he invited.

"Wouldn't do," grinned the sheriff.  "Publicly, I ain't takin' no side.
Privately, I'm feelin' different.  Knowed your dad.  Taggart's bad
medicine for this section.  Different with you."

"How different?"

"Straight up.  Anybody that lives around Betty Clayton's got to be."

Calumet looked at him with a crooked smile.  "I reckon," he said, "that
you don't know any more about women than I do.  So-long," he added.  He
went into the "Chance" saloon, leaving the sheriff looking after him
with a queer smile.

Ten minutes later when Calumet came out of the saloon the sheriff was
nowhere in sight.

Calumet went over to where his wagon stood and, concealed behind it,
took a six-shooter from under his shirt at the waistband and placed it
carefully in a sling under the right side of his vest.  Then he removed
the cartridges from the weapon in the holster at his hip, smiling
mirthlessly as he replaced it in the holster and made his way up the
street.

With apparent carelessness, though keeping an alert eye about him, he
went the rounds of the saloons.  Before he had visited half of them
there was an air of suppressed excitement in the manner of Lazette's
citizens, and knowledge of his errand went before him.  In the saloons
that he entered men made way for him, looking at him with interest as
he peered with impersonal intentness at them, or, standing in doorways,
they watched him in silence as he departed, and then fell to talking in
whispers.  He knew what was happening--Lazette had heard what Taggart
had been saying about him, and was keeping aloof, giving him a clear
field.

Presently he entered the Red Dog.

There were a dozen men here, drinking, playing cards, gambling.  The
talk died away as he entered; men sat silently at the tables, seeming
to look at their cards, but in reality watching him covertly.  Other
men got up from their chairs and walked, with apparent unconcern, away
from the center of the room, so that when Calumet carelessly tossed a
coin on the bar in payment for a drink which he ordered, only three men
remained at the bar with him.

He had taken quick note of these men.  They were Neal Taggart; a tall,
lanky, unprepossessing man with a truculent eye rimmed by lashless
lids, and with a drooping mustache which almost concealed the cruel
curve of his lips, whom he knew as Denver Ed--having met him several
times in the Durango country; and a medium-sized stranger whom he knew
as Garvey.  The latter was dark-complexioned, with a hook nose and a
loose-lipped mouth.

Calumet did not appear to notice them.  He poured his glass full and
lifted it, preparatory to drinking.  Before it reached his lips he
became aware of a movement among the three men--Garvey had left them
and was standing beside him.

"Have that on me," said Garvey, silkily, to Calumet.

Calumet surveyed him with a glance of mild interest.  He set his glass
down, and the other silently motioned to the bartender for another.

"Stranger here, I reckon?" said Garvey as he poured his whiskey.
"Where's your ranch?"

"The Lazy Y," said Calumet.

The other filled his glass.  "Here's how," he said, and tilted it
toward his lips.  Calumet did likewise.  If he felt the man's hand on
the butt of the six-shooter at his hip, he gave no indication of it.
Nor did he seem to exhibit any surprise or concern when, after drinking
and setting the glass down, he looked around to see that Garvey had
drawn the weapon out and was examining it with apparently casual
interest.

This action on the part of Garvey was unethical and dangerous, and
there were men among the dozen in the room who looked sneeringly at
Calumet, or to one another whispered the significant words, "greenhorn"
and "tenderfoot."  Others, to whom the proprietor had spoken concerning
Calumet, looked at him in surprise.  Still others merely stared at
Garvey and Calumet, unable to account for the latter's mild submission
to this unallowed liberty.  The proprietor alone, remembering a certain
gleam in Calumet's eyes on a former occasion, looked at him now and saw
deep in his eyes a slumbering counterpart to it, and discreetly retired
to the far end of the bar, where there was a whiskey barrel in front of
him.

But Calumet seemed unconcerned.

"Some gun," remarked Garvey.  It was strange, though, that he was not
looking at the weapon at all, or he might have seen the empty chambers.
He was looking at Calumet, and it was apparent that his interest in the
weapon was negative.

"Yes, some," agreed Calumet.  He swung around and faced the man,
leaning his left arm carelessly on the bar.

At that instant Denver Ed sauntered over and joined them.  He looked
once at Calumet, and then his gaze went to Garvey as he spoke.

"Friend of yourn?" he questioned.  There was marked deference in the
manner of Garvey.  He politely backed away, shifting his position so
that Denver Ed faced Calumet at a distance of several feet, with no
obstruction between them.

Calumet's eyes met Denver's, and he answered the latter's question,
Garvey having apparently withdrawn from the conversation.

"Friend of _his_?" sneered Calumet, grinning shallowly.  "I reckon not;
I'm pickin' my company."

Denver Ed did not answer at once.  He moved a little toward Calumet and
shoved his right hip forward, so that the butt of his six-shooter was
invitingly near.  Then, with his hands folded peacefully over his
chest, he spoke:

"You do," he said, "you mangy ------!"

There was a stir among the onlookers as the vile epithet was applied.
Calumet's right hand went swiftly forward and his fingers closed around
the butt of the weapon at Denver Ed's hip.  The gun came out with a
jerk and lay in Calumet's hand.  Calumet began to pull the trigger.
The dull, metallic impact of the hammer against empty chambers was the
only result.

Denver Ed grinned malignantly as his right hand stole into his vest.
There was a flash of metal as he drew the concealed gun, but before its
muzzle could be trained on Calumet the latter pressed the empty weapon
in his own hand against the one that Denver Ed was attempting to draw,
blocking its egress; while in Calumet's left hand the six-shooter which
he had concealed under his own vest roared spitefully within a foot of
Denver Ed's chest.

Many in the room saw the expression of surprise in Denver Ed's eye as
he pitched forward in a heap at Calumet's feet.  There were others who
saw Garvey raise the six-shooter which he had drawn from Calumet's
holster.  All heard the hammer click impotently on the empty chambers;
saw Calumet's own weapon flash around and cover Garvey; saw the
flame-spurt and watched Garvey crumple and sink.

There was a dead silence.  Taggart had not moved.  Calumet's gaze went
from the two fallen men and rested on his father's enemy.

"Didn't work," he jeered.  "They missed connections, didn't they?
You'll get yours if you ain't out of town by sundown.  Layin' for me
for a week, eh?  You sufferin' sneak, thinkin' I was born yesterday!"
He ignored Taggart and looked coolly around at his audience, not a man
of which had moved.  He saw the sheriff standing near the door, and it
was to him that he spoke.

"Frame-up," he said in short, sharp accents.  "Back Durango way Denver
an' the little guy pulled it off regular.  Little man gets your gun.
Denver gets you riled.  Sticks his hip out so's you'll grab his gun.
You do.  Gun's empty.  But you don't know it, an' you try to perforate
Denver.  Then he pulls another gun an' salivates you.  Self-defense."
He looked around with a cold grin.  "Planted an empty on him myself,"
he said.  "The little guy fell for it.  So did Denver.  I reckon that's
all.  You wantin' me for this?" he inquired of the sheriff.  "You'll
find me at the Lazy Y.  Taggart--"  He hesitated and looked around.
Taggart was nowhere to be seen.  "Sloped," added Calumet, with a laugh.

"I don't reckon I'll want you," said Toban.  "Clear case of
self-defense.  I reckon most everybody saw the play.  Some raw."

Several men had moved; one of them was peering at the faces of Denver
and Garvey.  He now looked up at the sheriff.

"Nothing botherin' them any more," he said.

Calumet stepped over to Denver's confederate and took up the pistol
from the floor near him, replacing it in his holster.  By this time the
crowd in the saloon was standing near the two gunmen, commenting
gravely or humorously, according to its whim.

"Surprise party for him," suggested one, pointing to Denver.

"Didn't tickle him a heap, though," said another.  "Seemed plumb
shocked an' disappointed, if you noticed his face."

"Slick," said another, pointing to Calumet, who had turned his back and
was walking toward the door; "cool as ice water."

Sudden death had no terrors for these men; there was no inclination in
their minds to blame Calumet, and so they watched with admiration for
his poise as he stepped out through the door.

"Taggart'll be gettin' his," said a man.

"Not tonight," laughed another.  "I seen him hittin' the breeze out.
An' sundown's quite a considerable distance away yet, too."


CHAPTER XVI

THE AMBUSH

If Calumet had any regret over the outcome of his adventure in the Red
Dog, it was that Neal Taggart had given him no opportunity to square
the account between them.  Calumet had lingered in town until dusk, for
he had given his word and would not break it, and then, it being
certain that his enemy had decided not to accept the challenge, he
hitched his horses and just after dusk pulled out for the Lazy Y.
Something had been added to the debt of hatred which he owed the
Taggarts.

As he drove through the darkening land he yielded to a deep
satisfaction.  He had struck one blow, a sudden and decisive one, and,
though it had not landed on either of the Taggarts, it had at least
shown them what they might expect.  He intended to deliver other blows,
and he was rather glad now that he had not been so weak as to allow
Betty's dictatorial attitude to drive him from the ranch, for in that
case he would never have discovered the plot to cheat him of his
heritage--would not have been in a position to bring discomfiture and
confusion upon them all.  That was what he was determined to do.  There
was no plan in his mind; he was merely going to keep his eyes open, and
when opportunity came he was going to take advantage of it.

The darkness deepened as he drove.  When he reached the crest of the
slope from which that morning he had looked down upon Lazette, the
wagon entered a stretch of broken country through which the horses made
slow progress.  After traversing this section he encountered a flat,
dull plain of sand, hard and smooth, which the horses appreciated, for
they traveled rapidly, straining willingly in the harness.

It was about nine o'clock when the moon rose, a pale yellow disk above
the hills that rimmed the valley of the Lazy Y, and Calumet welcomed it
with a smile, lighting a cigarette and leaning back comfortably in the
seat, with the reins held between his knees.

He presently thought of his weapons, drawing them out and reloading
them.  They recalled the incident of the Red Dog, and for a long time
his thoughts dwelt on it, straight, grim lines in his face.

He wondered what Betty would say when she heard of it.  Would it affect
her future relations with Taggart?  His thoughts were still of Betty
when the wagon careened out of the level and began to crawl up a slope
that led through some hills.  The trail grew hazardous, and the horses
were forced to proceed slowly.  It was near midnight when the wagon
dipped into a little gully about a mile and a half from the ranchhouse.
Calumet halted the horses at the bottom of the gully, allowing them to
drink from the shallow stream that trickled on its way to meet the
river which passed through the wood near the ranchhouse.

After the animals had drunk their fill he urged them on again, for he
was weary of the ride and anxious to have it over with.  It was a long
pull, however, and the horses made hard work of it, so that when they
reached the crest of the rise they halted of their own accord and stood
with their legs braced, breathing heavily.

Calumet waited patiently.  He was anxious to get to the Lazy Y, but his
sympathy was with the horses.  He rolled and lighted another cigarette,
holding the match concealed in the palm of his hand so that the breeze
might not extinguish it.

Sitting thus, a premonition of danger oppressed him with such force and
suddenness that it caused him to throw himself quickly backward.  At
the exact instant that his back struck the lumber piled behind him he
heard the sharp, vicious crack of a rifle, and a bullet thudded dully
into one of the wooden stanchions of the wagon frame at the edge of the
seat.  Another report followed it quickly, and Calumet flung himself
headlong toward the rear of the wagon, where he lay for a brief
instant, alert, rigid, too full of rage for utterance.

But he was not too angry to think.  The shots, he knew, had come from
the left of the wagon.  They had been too close for comfort, and
whoever had shot at him was a good enough marksman, although, he
thought, with a bitter grin, a trifle too slow of movement to do any
damage to him.

His present position was precarious and he did not stay long in it.
Close to the side of the wagon--the side opposite that from which the
shots had come--was a shallow gully, deep enough to conceal himself in
and fringed at the rear by several big boulders.  It was an ideal
position and Calumet did not hesitate to take advantage of it.
Dropping from the rear of the wagon, he made a leap for the gully,
landing in its bottom upon all fours.  He heard a crash, and a bullet
flattened itself against one of the rocks above his head.

"He ain't so slow, after all," he admitted grudgingly, referring to the
concealed marksman.

He kneeled in the gully and looked cautiously over its edge.  The wagon
was directly in front of him; part of one of the rear wheels was in his
line of vision.  The horses were standing quietly, undisturbed by the
shots.  He resolved to keep them where they were, and, exercising the
greatest care, he found a good-sized rock and stuck it under the front
of the rear wheel nearest him, thus blocking the wagon against them
should they become restless.

The moon was at his back, and he grinned with satisfaction as he noted
that the rocks behind him threw a deep shadow into the gully.  He could
not help thinking that his enemy, whoever he was, had not made a happy
selection of a spot for an ambuscade, for the moonlight's glare
revealed every rock on the other side of the wagon, and the few trees
in the wood behind the rocks were far too slender to provide shelter
for a man of ordinary size.  Calumet chuckled grimly as, with his head
slightly above the edge of the gully and concealed behind the felloes
of the wagon wheel, he made an examination of the rocks beyond the
wagon.

There were four of the rocks which were of sufficient size to afford
concealment for a man.  They varied in size and were ranged along the
side of the trail in an irregular line.  All were about a hundred feet
distant.

The smaller one, he decided, was not to be considered, though he looked
suspiciously at it before making his decision.  Its neighbor was
larger, though he reasoned that if he were to make a selection for an
ambuscade he would not choose that one either.  The other two rocks
were almost the same size and he watched them warily.  To the right and
left of these rocks was a clear space, flat and open, with not a tree
or a bush large enough to conceal danger such as he was in search of.
The slope up which he had just driven the horses was likewise free from
obstruction, so that if his enemy was behind any of the rocks he was
doomed to stay there or offer himself as a target for Calumet's pistol.

"Wise, I reckon," he sneered.  "Figgered to plug me while the horses
was restin', knowin' I'd have to breathe them about here.  Thought one
shot would get me.  Missed his reckonin'.  Must be a mite peeved by
this time."

His gaze became intent again, but this time it was directed to some
underbrush about two hundred yards distant, back of the rocks.  With
some difficulty he could make out the shape of a horse standing well
back in the brush, and again he grinned.

"That's why he took that side," he said.  "There's no place on this
side where he could hide his horse.  It's plumb simple."

From where he kneeled began another slope that descended to the Lazy Y
valley.  It dipped gently down into the wood in front of the house,
where he had hitched his horse on the night of his home-coming, and
between the trees he could see a light flickering.  The light came from
the kitchen window of the ranch-house; Betty had left it burning for
him, expecting him to return shortly after dusk.  The house was not
more than a mile distant and he wondered at the hardihood of his enemy
in planning to ambush him so close to his home.  He reflected, though,
that it was not likely that the shots could be heard from the house,
for the spot on which the wagon stood was several hundred feet above
the level of the valley, and then there was the intervening wood, which
would dull whatever sound might float in that direction.

Who could his assailant be?  Why, it was Taggart, of course.  Taggart
had left town hours before him, he was a coward, and shooting from
ambush is a coward's game.

Calumet's blood leaped a little faster in his veins.  He would settle
for good with Neal Taggart.  But he did not move except to draw one of
his six-shooters and push its muzzle over the edge of the gully.  He
shoved his arm slowly forward so that it lay extended along the ground
the barrel of the pistol resting on the felloes of the wheel.

In this position he remained for half an hour.  No sound broke the
strained stillness of the place.  The horses had sagged forward, their
heads hanging, their legs braced.  There was no cloud in the sky and
the clear light of the moon poured down in a yellow flood.  Calumet's
task would have been easier if he could have told which of the four
rocks concealed his enemy.  As it was he was compelled to watch them
all.

But presently, at the edge of one of the two larger rocks, the one
nearest the slope, he detected movement.  A round object a foot in
diameter, came slowly into view from behind the rock, propelled by an
unseen force.  It was shoved out about three quarters of its width, so
that it overlapped the big rock beside it, leaving an aperture between
the two of perhaps three or four inches.  While Calumet watched a rifle
barrel was stuck into this aperture.  Calumet waited until the muzzle
of the rifle became steady and then he took quick aim at the spot and
pulled the trigger of his six-shooter, ducking his head below the edge
of the gully as his weapon crashed.

He heard a laugh, mocking, discordant, followed by a voice--Taggart's
voice.

"Clean miss," it said.  "You're nervous."

"Like you was in town today," jeered Calumet.

"Then you know me?" returned Taggart.  "I ain't admittin' that I was
any nervous."

"Scared of the dark, then," said Calumet.  "You left town a whole lot
punctual."

"Well," sneered Taggart; "mebbe I ain't much on the shoot.  I don't
play any man's game but my own."

"You're right," mocked Calumet; "you don't play no man's game.  A man's
game--"

He raised his head a trifle and a bullet sang past it, flattened itself
against the rock behind him, cutting short his speech and his humor at
the same instant.  The gully was fully fifty feet long and he dropped
on his hands and knees and crawled to the upper end of it, away from
the slope.  He saw one of Taggart's feet projecting from behind the
rock and he brought his six-shooter to a poise.  The foot moved and
disappeared.  Catching a glimpse of the rifle barrel coming into view
around the edge of the rock, Calumet sank back into the gully.  Fifteen
minutes later when he again cautiously raised his head above the level
there was no sign of Taggart.  He dropped down into the gully again and
scrambled to the other end of it, raising his head again.  He saw
Taggart, twenty-five feet behind the rock, backing away toward the wood
where his horse stood, crouching, watchful, endeavoring to keep the
rock between him and Calumet while he retreated.  Altogether, he was
fully a hundred and twenty-five feet away at the moment Calumet caught
sight of him, and he was looking toward the end of the gully that
Calumet had just vacated.  Calumet stood erect and snapped a shot at
him, though the distance was so great that he had little expectation of
doing any damage.

But Taggart staggered, dropped his rifle and dove headlong toward the
rock.  In an instant he had resumed his position behind it, and Calumet
could tell from the rapidity of his movements that he had not been hit.
He saw the rifle lying where it had fallen, and he was meditating a
quick rush toward the rock when he saw Taggart's hand come out and
grasp the stock of the weapon, dragging it back to him.  Calumet
whipped a bullet at the hand, but the only result was a small dust
cloud beside it.

"In a hurry, Taggart?" he jeered.  "Aw, don't be.  This is the most fun
I've had since I've been back in the valley.  An' you want to spoil it
by hittin' the breeze.  Hang around a while till I get my hand in.  I
reckon you ain't hurt?" he added, putting a little anxiety into his
voice.

"Hurt nothin'," growled Taggart.  "You hit the stock of the rifle."

"I reckon that wouldn't be accounted bad shootin' at a hundred an'
twenty-five feet," said Calumet.  "If you hadn't had the rifle in the
way you'd have got it plumb in your bread-basket.  But don't be
down-hearted; that ain't nothin' to what I can do when I get my hand
in.  I ain't had no practice."

He had an immense advantage over Taggart.  The latter was compelled to
remain concealed behind his rock, while Calumet had the freedom of the
gully.  He did not anticipate that Taggart would again attempt to
retreat in the same way, nor did he think that he would risk charging
him, for he would not be certain at what point in the gully he would be
likely to find his enemy and thus a charge would probably result
disastrously for him.

Taggart was apparently satisfied of the watchfulness of Calumet, for he
stayed discreetly behind his rock.  Twice during the next hour his
rifle cracked when he caught a glimpse of Calumet's head, and each time
he knew he had missed, for Calumet's laugh followed the reports.  He is
commonly long-winded, able to speak more with ease than any man can
endure to hear with patience. University jests are his universal
discourse, and his news the demeanour of the proctors. His phrase, the
apparel of his mind, is made of divers shreds, like a cushion, and
when it goes plainest it hath a rash outside and fustian linings.

The current of his speech is closed with an _ergo_; and, whatever be the
question, the truth is on his side.

It is a wrong to his reputation to be ignorant of anything; and yet he
knows not that he knows nothing. He gives directions for husbandry,
from Virgil's "Georgics;" for cattle, from his "Bucolics;" for
warlike stratagems, from his "Æneids" or Caesar's "Commentaries." He
orders all things and thrives in none; skilful in all trades and
thrives in none.

He is led more by his ears than his understanding, taking the sound
of words for their true sense, and does therefore confidently
believe that Erra Pater was the father of heretics, Radulphus Agricola
a substantial farmer, and will not stick to aver that Systemo's Logic
doth excel Keckerman's.

His ill-luck is not so much in being a fool, as in being put to
such pains to express it to the world, for what in others is natural,
in him (with much ado) is artificial. His poverty is his happiness,
for it makes some men believe that he is none of fortune's favourites.
That learning which he hath was in non age put in backward like a
glyster, and it's now like ware mislaid in a pedlar's pack; a has
it, but knows not where it is. In a word, his is the index of a man
and the title-page of a scholar, or a puritan in morality--much
in profession, nothing in practice.

A TINKER
Is a movable, for he hath no abiding-place; by his motion he gathers
heat, thence his choleric nature. He seems to be very devout, for his
life is a continual pilgrimage, and sometimes in humility goes
barefoot, thereon making necessity a virtue.

His house is as ancient as Tubal Cain's, and so is a renegade by antiquity:
yet he proves himself a gallant, for he carries all his wealth upon
his back; or a philosopher, for he bears all his substance about
him.

From his art was music first invented, and therefore he is always
furnished with a song, to which his hammer keeping tune, proves
that he was the first founder for the kettledrum. Note, that where the
best ale is, there stands his music most upon crochets. The companion
of his travels is some foul sun-burnt quean, that, since the
terrible statute, recanted gipseyism and is turned pedlaress. So
marches he all over England with his bag and baggage. His conversation
is unreprovable, for he is ever mending. He observes truly the
statutes, and therefore he can rather steal than beg, in which he
is unremovably constant in spite of whip or imprisonment; and so a
strong enemy to idleness, that in mending one hole he had rather make
three than want work, and when he hath done, he throws the wallet
of his faults behind him. He embraceth naturally ancient custom, conversing
in open fields and lowly cottages. If he visit cities or towns, 'tis
but to deal upon the imperfections of our weaker vessels.
His tongue is very voluble, which with canting proves him a
linguist.

He is entertained in every place, but enters no further than the
door, to avoid suspicion. Some will take him to be a coward, but
believe it, he is a lad of metal; his valour is commonly three or four
yards long, fastened to a pike in the end for flying off. He is
provident, for he will fight but with one at once, and then also he had
rather submit than be counted obstinate. To conclude, if he escape
Tyburn and Banbury, he dies a beggar.

AN APPARITOR

Is a chick of the egg abuse, hatched by the warmth of authority;
he is a bird of rapine, and begins to prey and feather together. He
croaks like a raven against the death of rich men, and so gets a
legacy unbequeathed. His happiness is in the multitude of children,
for their increase is his wealth, and to that end he himself yearly
adds one.

He is a cunning hunter, uncoupling his intelligencing hounds under
hedges, in thickets and cornfields, who follow the chase to city
suburbs, where often his game is at covert; his quiver hangs by his
side stuffed with silver arrows, which he shoots against church-gates
and private men's doors, to the hazard of their purses and credit. There
went but a pair of shears between him and the pursuivant of hell,
for they both delight in sin, grow richer by it, and are by justice
appointed to punish it; only the devil is more cunning, for he picks
a living out of others' gains.

His living lieth in his eye, which (like spirits) he sends through
chinks and keyholes to survey the places of darkness; for which purpose
he studieth the optics, but can discover no colour but black, for
the pure white of chastity dazzleth his eyes.

He is a Catholic, for he is everywhere; and with a politic, for he
transforms himself into all shapes.

He travels on foot to avoid idleness, and loves the Church entirely,
because it is the place of his edification. He accounts not all sins
mortal, for fornication with him is a venial sin, and to take
bribes a matter of charity; he is collector for burnings and losses at
sea, and in casting account readily subtracts the lesser from the
greater sum. Thus lives he in a golden age, till death by a process
summons him to appear.

AN ALMANAC-MAKER
Is the worst part of an astronomer; a certain compact of figures,
characters, and ciphers, out of which he scores the fortune of a
year, not so profitably as doubtfully.

He is tenant by custom to the planets, of whom he holds the twelve
houses by lease parol; to them he pays yearly rent, his study and
time, yet lets them out again with all his heart for 40s. per annum.

His life is merely contemplative; for his practice, 'tis worth
nothing, at least not worthy of credit, and if by chance he purchase
any, he loseth it again at the year's end, for time brings truth to
light. Ptolemy and Tycho Brahe are his patrons, whose volumes he
understands not but admires, and the rather because they are
strangers, and so easier to be credited than controlled.

His life is upright, for he is always looking upward, yet dares believe
nothing above _primum mobile_, for 'tis out of the reach of his
Jacob's staff.
His charity extends no further than to mountebanks and sow-gelders, to
whom he bequeaths the seasons of the year to kill or torture
by.

The verses of his book have a worse pace than ever had Rochester
hackney; for his prose, 'tis dappled with ink-horn terms, and may serve
for an almanac; but for his judging at the uncertainty of weather, any
old shepherd shall make a dunce of him. He would be thought the devil's
intelligencer for stolen goods, if ever he steal out of that quality.
As a fly turns to a maggot, so the corruption of the cunning man is
the generation of an empiric; his works fly forth in small volumes, yet
not all, for many ride post to chandlers and tobacco shops in folio.
To be brief, he falls three degrees short of his promises, yet is he
the key to unlock terms and law days, a dumb mercury to point out
highways, and a bailiff of all marts and fairs in England. The rest of
him you shall know next year, for what he will be then he himself
knows not.

A HYPOCRITE
Is a gilded pill, composed of two virtuous ingredients, natural
dishonesty and artificial dissimulation. Simple fruit, plant, or drug
he is none, but a deformed mixture bred betwixt evil nature and
false art by a monstrous generation, and may well be put into the
reckoning of those creatures that God never made.

In Church or commonwealth (for in both these this mongrel weed will
shoot) it is hard to say whether he be physic or a disease, for he
is both in divers respects.

As he is gilt with an outside of seeming purity, or as he offereth himself
to you to be taken down in a cup or taste of golden zeal and simplicity,
you may call him physic. Nay, and never let potion give patient
good stool if, being truly tasted and relished, he be not as
loathsome to the stomach of any honest man.

He is also physic in being as commodious for use as he is odious in
taste, if the body of the company into which he is taken can make true
use of him. For the malice of his nature makes him so informer-like-dangerous,
in taking advantage of anything done or said, yea, even to the ruin
of his makers, if he may have benefit, that such a creature in a
society makes men as careful of their speeches and actions as the
sight of a known cut-purse in a throng makes them watchful over
their purses and pockets.

He is also in this respect profitable physic, that his conversation being
once truly tasted and discovered, the hateful foulness of it will make
those that are not fully like him to purge all such diseases as
are rank in him out of their own lives, as the sight of some citizens
on horseback make a judicious man amend his own faults in horsemanship.

If one of these uses can be made of him, let him not long offend the
stomach of your company; your best way is to spue him out. That he
is a disease in the body where he liveth were as strange a thing
to doubt as whether there be knavery in horse-coursers.

For if among sheep, the rot; amongst dogs, the mange; amongst horses,
the glanders; amongst men and women, the Northern itch and the French
ache, be diseases, an hypocrite cannot but be the like in all
States and societies that breed him.

If he be a clergy hypocrite, then all manner of vice is for the most
part so proper to him as he will grudge any man the practice of
it but himself; like that grave burgess, who being desired to lend
his clothes to represent a part in a comedy, answered:
No, by his leave, he would have nobody play the fool in his clothes
but himself.

Hence are his so austere reprehensions of drinking healths, lascivious
talk, usury, and unconscionable dealing; whenas himself, hating the
profane mixture of malt and water, will, by his good will, let nothing
come within him but the purity of the grape, when he can get it of
another's cost.

But this must not be done neither without a preface of seeming
soothness, turning up the eyes, moving the head, laying hand on the
breast, and protesting that he would not do it but to strengthen
his body, being even consumed with dissembled zeal, and tedious and
thankless babbling to God and his auditors.

And for the other vices, do but venture the making yourself private
with him or trusting of him, and if you come off without a savour
of the air which his soul is infected with you have great fortune.

The fardel of all this ware that is in him you shall commonly see
carried upon the back of these two beasts that live within him,
Ignorance and Imperiousness, and they may well serve to carry other
vices, for of themselves they are insupportable. His Ignorance
acquits him of all science, human or divine, and of all language
but his mother's; holding nothing pure, holy, or sincere but
the senseless recollections of his own crazed brain, the zealous
fumes of his inflamed spirit, and the endless labours of his
eternal tongue, the motions whereof, when matter and words fail (as
they often do), must be patched up to accomplish his four hours in a
day at the least with long and fervent hums. Anything else, either
for language or matter, he cannot abide, but thus censureth: Latin, the
language of the beast; Greek, the tongue wherein the heathen poets
wrote their fictions; Hebrew, the speech of the Jews that crucified
Christ; controversies do not edify; logic and philosophy are the
subtilties of Satan to deceive the simple; human stories profane,
and not savouring of the Spirit; in a word, all decent and sensible
form of speech and persuasion (though in his own tongue) vain
ostentation.

And all this is the burden of his Ignorance, saving that sometimes
idleness will put in also to bear a part of the baggage. His other
beast, Imperiousness, is yet more proudly laden; it carrieth a burden
that no cords of authority, spiritual nor temporal, should bind if it
might have the full swing. No Pilate, no prince should command
him, nay, he will command them, and at his pleasure censure them if
they will not suffer their ears to be fettered with the long chains
of his tedious collations, their purses to be emptied with the inundations
of his unsatiable humour, and their judgments to be blinded with the
muffler of his zealous ignorance; for this doth he familiarly insult
over his maintainer that breeds him, his patron that feeds him, and
in time over all them that will suffer him to set a foot within their
doors or put a finger in their purses. All this and much more is in
him; that abhorring degrees and universities as reliques of superstition,
hath leapt from a shop-board or a cloak-bag to a desk or pulpit;
and that, like a sea-god in a pageant, hath the rotten laths of his
culpable life and palpable ignorance covered over with the painted-cloth
of a pure gown and a night-cap, and with a false trumpet of feigned
zeal draweth after him some poor nymphs and madmen that delight
more to resort to dark caves and secret places than to open and
public assemblies.

The lay-hypocrite is to the other a champion, disciple, and subject,
and will not acknowledge the tithe of the subjection to any mitre,
no, not to any sceptre, that he will do to the hook and crook of
his zeal-blind shepherd.

No Jesuits demand more blind and absolute obedience from their
vassals, no magistrates of the canting society more slavish subjection
from the members of that travelling State, than the clerk hypocrites
expect from these lay pulpits.

Nay, they must not only be obeyed, fed, and defended, but admired too;
and that their lay-followers do sincerely, as a shirtless fellow with
a cudgel under his arm doth a face-wringing ballad-singer, a
water-bearer on the floor of a playhouse, a wide-mouthed poet that
speaks nothing but blathers and bombast.

Otherwise, for life and profession, nature and art, inward and outward,
they agree in all; like canters and gypsies, they are all zeal
no knowledge, all purity no humanity, all simplicity no honesty,
and if you never trust them they will never deceive you.

A CHAMBERMAID.

She is her mistress's she secretary, and keeps the box of her teeth, her
hair, and her painting very private. Her industry is upstairs and
downstairs, like a drawer; and by her dry hand you may know she
is a sore starcher.

If she lie at her master's bed's feet, she is quit of the green
sickness for ever, for she hath terrible dreams when she's awake,
as if she were troubled with the nightmare. She hath a good liking to
dwell in the country, but she holds London the goodliest forest in
England to shelter a great belly. She reads Greene's works over and
over, but is so carried away with the "Mirror of Knighthood," she
is many times resolved to run out of her self and become a lady-errant.

The pedant of the house, though he promise her marriage, cannot grow
further inward with her; she hath paid for her credulity often, and
now grows weary. She likes the form of our marriage very well, in
that a woman is not tied to answer to any articles concerning questions
of virginity.
Her mind, her body, and clothes are parcels loosely tacked together,
and for want of good utterance she perpetually laughs out her meaning.
Her mistress and she help to make away time to the idlest purpose that
can be, either for love or money. In brief, these chambermaids are
like lotteries: you may draw twenty ere one worth anything.

A PRECISIAN.

To speak no otherwise of this varnished rottenness than in truth and
verity he is, I must define him to be a demure creature, full of oral
sanctity and mental impiety; a fair object to the eye, but stark
naught for the understanding, or else a violent thing much given to
contradiction. He will be sure to be in opposition with the Papist,
though it be sometimes accompanied with an absurdity, like the islanders
near adjoining unto China, who salute by putting off their shoes,
because the men of China do it by their hats.

If at any time he fast, it is upon Sunday, and he is sure to feast upon
Friday. He can better afford you ten lies than one oath, and dare commit
any sin gilded with a pretence of sanctity. He will not stick to commit
fornication or adultery so it be done in the fear of God and for the
propagation of the godly, and can find in his heart to lie with any
whore save the whore of Babylon. To steal he holds it lawful, so it
be from the wicked and Egyptians. He had rather see Antichrist
than a picture in the church window, and chooseth sooner to be half
hanged than see a leg at the name of Jesus or one stand at the
Creed.

He conceives his prayer in the kitchen rather than in the church, and
is of so good discourse that he dares challenge the Almighty to talk
with him extempore.

He thinks every organist is in the state of damnation, and had
rather hear one of Robert Wisdom's psalms than the best hymn a
cherubim can sing. He will not break wind without an apology or asking
forgiveness, nor kiss a gentlewoman for fear of lusting after her.

He hath nicknamed all the prophets and apostles with his sons, and
begets nothing but virtues for daughters.

Finally, he is so sure of his salvation, that he will not change places
in heaven with the Virgin Mary, without boot.

AN INNS OF COURT MAN.

He is distinguished from a scholar by a pair of silk stockings and a
beaver hat, which makes him condemn a scholar as much as a scholar
doth a schoolmaster. By that he hath heard one mooting and seen two
plays, he thinks as basely of the university as a young sophister
doth of the grammar-school.

He talks of the university with that state as if he were her
chancellor; finds fault with alterations and the fall of discipline
with an "It was not so when I was a student," although that was
within this half year.

He will talk ends of Latin, though it be false, with as great confidence
as ever Cicero could pronounce an oration, though his best authors for
it be taverns and ordinaries. He is as far behind a courtier in his
fashion as a scholar is behind him, and the best grace in his behaviour
is to forget his acquaintance.

He laughs at every man whose band fits not well, or that hath not a
fair shoe-tie, and he is ashamed to be seen in any man's company that
wears not his clothes well.

His very essence he placeth in his outside, and his chiefest prayer is,
that his revenues may hold out for taffety cloaks in the summer
and velvet in the winter.

To his acquaintance he offers two quarts of wine for one he gives.

You shall never see him melancholy but when he wants a new suit or
fears a sergeant, at which times he only betakes himself to Ploydon.

By that he hath read Littleton, he can call Solon, Lycurgus, and
Justinian fools, and dares compare his law to a lord chief-justice's.

A MERE FELLOW OF AN HOUSE.

He is one whose hopes commonly exceed his fortunes and whose mind soars
above his purse. If he hath read Tacitus Guicciardine or Gallo-Belgicus,
he condemns the late Lord-Treasurer for all the state policy he
had, and laughs to think what a fool he could make of Solomon if
he were now alive.

He never wears new clothes but against a commencement or a good time,
and is commonly a degree behind the fashion. He hath sworn to see London
once a year, though all his business be to see a play, walk a turn
in Paul's, and observe the fashion. He thinks it a discredit to be
out of debt, which he never likely clears without resignation money.
He will not leave his part he hath in the privilege over young
gentlemen in going bare to him, for the empire of Germany.

He prays as heartily for a sealing as a cormorant doth for a dear
year, yet commonly he spends that revenue before he receives it.

At meals he sits in as great state over his penny commons as ever Vitellius
did at his greatest banquet, and takes great delight in comparing
his fare to my Lord Mayor's.

If he be a leader of a faction, he thinks himself greater than ever
Caesar was or the Turk at this day is. And he had rather lose an
inheritance than an office when he stands for it.

If he be to travel, he is longer furnishing himself for a five miles'
journey than a ship is rigging for a seven years' voyage. He is never
more troubled than when he has to maintain talk with a gentlewoman,
wherein he commits more absurdities than a clown in eating of an
egg.

He thinks himself as fine when he is in a clean band and a new pair of
shoes, as any courtier doth when he is first in a new fashion.

Lastly, he is one that respects no man in the university, and is respected
by no man out of it.

A WORTHY COMMANDER IN THE WARS
Is one that accounts learning the nourishment of military virtue,
and lays that as his first foundation.

He never bloodies his sword but in heat of battle, and had rather save
one of his own soldiers than kill ten of his enemies. He accounts it
an idle, vainglorious, and suspected bounty to be full of good
words; his rewarding, therefore, of the deserver arrives so timely,
that his liberality can never be said to be gouty-handed. He holds
it next his creed that no coward can be an honest man, and dare die
in it. He doth not think, his body yields a more spreading shadow
after a victory than before; and when he looks upon his enemy's dead
body 'tis a kind of noble heaviness--no insultation. He is so honourably
merciful to women in surprisal, that only that makes him an excellent
courtier.

"Don't be priggish," she said.  "Dade and
Malcolm have nothing to do with the running of this ranch.  I want you
to go with me, because I am going to buy some cattle and I want you to
confirm the deal."

He laughed.  "Do you reckon you need to go at all?" he said.  "I figure
to know cattle some myself, an' I wouldn't let Kelton hornswoggle me."

She straightened, her chin lifting a little.  "Well," she said slowly,
"if that is the way you feel, I presume I shall have to go alone.  I
had thought, though, that the prospective owner of the Lazy Y might
have enough interest in his property to put aside his likes and
dislikes long enough to care for his own interests.  Also," she added,
"where I came from, no man would be ungentlemanly enough to refuse to
accompany a lady anywhere she might ask him to go."

The flush on his face grew.  But he refused to become disconcerted.  "I
reckon to be as much of a gentleman as any Texas guy," he said.  "But I
expect, though," he added; "to prove that to you I'll have to trail
along after you."

"Of course," she said, the corners of her mouth dimpling a little.

He went down to the corral, roped the most gentle and best appearing
one of the two horses he had bought in Lazette, caught up his own
horse, Blackleg, and brought them to the stable, where he saddled and
bridled them.  Before putting the bridle on her horse, however, he
found an opportunity to work off part of the resentment which had
accumulated in him over her reference to his conduct.

After adjusting the saddle, paying particular attention to the cinches,
he straightened and looked at her.

"Do you reckon to have a bridle that belongs to that right pretty
saddle an' suit of yourn?" he asked.

She cast a swift glance about her and blushed.  "Oh," she said; "I have
forgotten it!  It is in my room!"

"I reckon I'd get it if I was thinkin' of goin' ridin'," he said.
"Some folks seem to think that when you're ridin' a horse a bridle is
right handy."

"Well," she said, smiling at him as she went out the stable door; "it
has been a long time since I have had these things on, and perhaps I
was a little nervous."

At this reference to her past the pulse of pity which he had felt for
her before again shot over him.  He had seen a quick sadness in her
eyes, lurking behind the smile.

"I reckon you've been stayin' in the house too much," he said gruffly.

She hesitated, going out of the door, to look back at him, astonishment
and something more subtle glinting her eyes.  He saw it and frowned.

"It's twelve miles to the Diamond K," he suggested; "an' twelve back.
If you're figgerin' on ridin' that distance an' takin' time between to
look at any cattle mebbe you'd better get a move on."

She was out of the door before he had ceased speaking and in an
incredibly short time was back, a little breathless, her face flushed
as though she had been running.

He put the bridle on her horse, led it out, and condescended to hold
the stirrup for her, a service which she acknowledged with a flashing
smile that brought a reluctant grin to his face.

Then, swinging into his own saddle, he urged Blackleg after her, for
she had not waited for him, riding down past the ranchhouse and out
into the little stretch of plain that reached to the river.

They rode steadily, talking little, for Calumet deliberately kept a
considerable distance between them, thus showing her that though
courtesy had forced him to accompany her it could not demand that he
should also become a mark at which she could direct conversation.

It was noon when they came in sight of the Diamond K ranch buildings.
They were on a wide plain near the river and what grass there was was
sun-scorched and rustled dryly under the tread of their horses' hoofs.
Then Calumet added a word to the few that he had already spoken during
the ride.

"I reckon Kelton must have been loco to try to raise cattle in a
God-forsaken hole like this," he said with a sneer.

"That he was foolish enough to do so will result to our advantage," she
replied.

"Meanin' what?"

"That we will be able to buy what cattle we want more cheaply than we
would were Kelton's range what it should be," she returned, watching
his face.

He looked at her vindictively.  "You're one of them kind of humans that
like to take advantage of a man's misfortune," he said.

"That is all in the viewpoint," she defended.  "I didn't bring
misfortune to Kelton.  And I consider that in buying his cattle I am
doing him a favor.  I am not gloating over the opportunity--it is
merely business."

"Why didn't you offer Kelton the Lazy Y range?" he said with a twisting
grin.

She could not keep the triumph out of her voice.  "I did," she
answered.  "He wouldn't take it because he didn't like you--doesn't
like you.  He told me that he knew you when you were a boy and you
weren't exactly his style."

Thus eliminated as a conversationalist, and defeated in his effort to
cast discredit upon her, Calumet maintained a sneering silence.

But when they rode up to the Diamond K ranchhouse, he flung a parting
word at her.

"I reckon you can go an' talk cattle to your man, Kelton," he said.
"I'm afraid that if he goes gassin' to me I'll smash his face in."

He rode back to the horse corral, which they had passed, to look again
at a horse inside which had attracted his attention.

The animal was glossy black except for a little patch of white above
the right fore-fetlock; he was tall, rangy, clean-limbed,
high-spirited, and as Calumet sat in the saddle near the corral gate
watching him he trotted impudently up to the bars and looked him over.
Then, after a moment, satisfying his curiosity, he wheeled, slashed at
the gate with both hoofs, and with a snort, that in the horse language
might have meant contempt or derision, cavorted away.

Calumet's admiring glance followed him.  He sat in the saddle for half
an hour, eyeing the horse critically, and at the end of that time,
noting that Betty had returned to the ranchhouse with Kelton, probably
having looked at some of the stock she had come to see--Calumet had
observed on his approach that the cattle corral was well filled with
white Herefords--he wheeled Blackleg and rode over to them.

"Mr. Kelton has offered me four hundred head of cattle at a reasonable
figure," Betty told him on his approach.  "All that remains is for you
to confirm it."

"I reckon you're the boss," said Calumet.  He looked at Kelton, and
evidently his fear that he would "smash" the tatter's face had
vanished--perhaps in a desire to possess the black horse, which had
seized him.

"I reckon you ain't sellin' that black horse?" he said.

"Cheap," said Kelton quickly.

"How cheap?"

"Fifty dollars."

"I reckon he's my horse," said Calumet.  "The boss of the Lazy Y will
pay for him when she hands you the coin for your cattle."  He
scrutinized Kelton's face closely, having caught a note in his voice
which had interested him.  "Why you wantin' to get rid of the black?"
he questioned.

"He ain't been rode," said Kelton; "he won't be rode.  You can back out
of that sale now, if you like.  But I'm tellin' you the gospel truth.
There ain't no man in the Territory can ride him.  Miskell, my regular
bronc-buster, is the slickest man that ever forked a horse, an' he's
layin' down in the bunkhouse right now, nursin' a leg which that black
devil busted last week.  An' men is worth more to me than horses right
now.  I reckon," he finished, eyeing Calumet with a certain
vindictiveness, which had undoubtedly lasted over from his acquaintance
with the latter in the old days; "that you ain't a heap smart at
breakin' broncs, an' you won't want the black now."

"I'm reckonin' on ridin' him back to the Lazy Y," said Calumet.

Kelton grinned incredulously, and Betty looked swiftly at Calumet.  For
an instant she had half feared that this declaration had been made in a
spirit of bravado, and she was prepared to be disagreeably disappointed
in Calumet.  She told herself when she saw his face, however, that she
ought to have known better, for whatever his other shortcomings she had
never heard him boast.

And that he was not boasting now was plainly evident, both to her and
Kelton.  His declaration had been merely a calm announcement of a
deliberate purpose.  He was as natural now as he had been all along.
She saw Kelton's expression change--saw the incredulity go out of it,
observed his face whiten a little.

But his former vindictiveness remained.  "I reckon if you want to be a
damn fool I ain't interferin'.  But I've warned you, an' it's your
funeral."

Calumet did not reply, contenting himself with grinning.  He swung down
from Blackleg, removed the saddle and bridle from the animal, and
holding the latter by the forelock turned to Betty.

"I'd like you to ride Blackleg home.  He's your horse now.  Kelton will
lend you a halter to lead that skate you're on.  While he's gettin' the
halter I'll put your saddle on Blackleg--if you'll get off."

Betty dismounted and the change was made.  She had admired
Blackleg--she was in love with him now that he belonged to her, but she
was afflicted with a sudden speechlessness over the abruptness with
which he had made the gift.  She wanted to thank him, but she felt it
was not time.  Besides, he had not waited for her thanks.  He had
placed the halter on the horse she had ridden to the Diamond K, had
looked on saturninely while Kelton had helped her into the saddle, and
had then carried his own saddle to a point near the outside of the
corral fence, laying the bridle beside it.  Then he uncoiled the
braided hair lariat that hung at the pommel of the saddle and walked to
the corral gate.

With a little pulse of joy over her possession of the splendid animal
under her, and an impulse of curiosity, she urged him to the corral
fence and sat in the saddle, a little white of face, watching Calumet.

The black horse was alone in the corral and as Calumet entered and
closed the gate behind him, not fastening it, the black came toward him
with mincing steps, its ears laid back.

Calumet continued to approach him.  The black backed away slowly until
Calumet was within fifty feet of him--it seemed to Betty that the horse
knew from previous experience the length of a rope--and then with a
snort of defiance it wheeled and raced to the opposite end of the
corral.

"Watch the gate!" called Calumet to Kelton.

He continued to approach the black.  The beast retreated along the
fence, stepping high, watching Calumet over its shoulder.  Plainly, it
divined Calumet's intention--which was to crowd it into a corner--and
when almost there it halted suddenly, made a feint to pass to Calumet's
left, wheeled just as suddenly and plunged back to his right.

The ruse did not work.  Calumet had been holding his rope low, with
seeming carelessness, but as the black whipped past he gave the rope a
quick flirt.  Like a sudden snake it darted sinuously out, the loop
opened, rose, settled around the black's neck, tightened; the end in
Calumet's hand was flipped in a half hitch around a snubbing post
nearby, and the black tumbled headlong into the dust of the corral,
striking with a force that brought a grunt from him.

For an instant he lay still.  And in that instant Calumet was at his
side.  While advancing toward the black, he had taken off his
neckerchief, and now he deftly knotted it around the black's head,
covering its eyes.  A moment later he was leading it, unprotesting, out
of the corral gate.

He halted near the fence and looked at Betty, who was watching
critically, though with a tenseness in her attitude that brought a
fugitive smile to Calumet's lips.

"I reckon you'd better move a way an' give this here animal plenty of
room," he said.  "If he's as much horse as Kelton says he is he'll want
a heap of it."

He waited until in obedience to his suggestion Betty had withdrawn to a
safe distance toward the ranchhouse.  Then with Kelton holding the
black's head he placed the saddle on, then the bridle, working with a
sure swiftness that brought an admiring glint into Betty's eyes.  Then
he deliberately coiled his rope and fastened it to the pommel of the
saddle, taking extra care with it.  This done he turned with a cold
grin to Kelton, nodding his head shortly.

Kelton pulled the neckerchief from the black's eyes, let go of its
head, and scurried to the top of the corral fence.  Before he could
reach it Calumet had vaulted into the saddle, and before the black
could realize what had happened, his feet were in the stirrups.

For an instant the Black stood, its legs trembling, the muscles under
its glossy coat quivering, its ears laid flat, its nostrils distended,
its mouth open, its eyes wild and bloodshot.  Then, tensed for
movement, but uncertain, waiting a brief instant before yielding to the
thousand impulses that flashed over him, he felt the rowels of
Calumet's spurs as they were driven viciously into his sides.

He sprang wildly upward, screaming with the sudden pain, and came down,
his legs asprawl, surprised, enraged, outraged.  Alighting, he
instantly lunged--forward, sideways, with an eccentric movement which
he felt must dislodge the tormentor on his back.  It was futile,
attended with punishment, for again the sharp spurs sank in, were
jammed into his sides, held there--rolling, biting points of steel that
hurt him terribly.

He halted for a moment, to gather his wits and his strength, for his
former experiences with this strange type of creature who clung so
tenaciously to his back had taught him that he must use all his craft,
all his strength, to dislodge him.  To his relief, the spurs ceased to
bite.  But he was not misled.  There was that moment near the corral
fence when he had not moved, but still the spurs had sunk in anyway.
He would make certain this time that the creature with the spurs would
not have another opportunity to use them.  And, gathering himself for a
supreme effort, he lunged again, shunting himself off toward a stretch
of plain back of the ranchhouse, bounding like a ball, his back arched,
his head between his forelegs, coming down from each rise with his
hoofs bunched so that they might have all landed in a dinner plate.

It was fruitless.  Calumet remained unshaken, tenacious as ever.  The
black caught his breath again, and for the next five minutes practiced
his whole category of tricks, and in addition some that he invented in
the stress of the time.

To Betty, watching from her distance, it seemed that he must certainly
unseat Calumet.  She had watched bucking horses before, but never had
her interest in the antics of one been so intense; never had she been
so desperately eager for a rider's victory; never had she felt so
breathlessly fearful of one's defeat.  For, glancing from the corners
of her eyes at Kelton, she saw a scornful, mocking smile on his face.
He was wishing, hoping, that the black would throw Calumet.

At the risk of danger from the black's hoofs she urged Blackleg forward
to a more advantageous position.  As she brought him to a halt, she
heard Kelton beside her.

"Some sunfisher, that black," he remarked.

She turned on him fiercely.  "Keep still, can't you!" she said.

Kelton reddened; she did not see his face though, for she was watching
Calumet and the black.

The outlaw had not ceased his efforts.  On the contrary, it appeared
that he was just beginning to warm to his work.  Screaming with rage
and hate he sprang forward at a dead run, propelling himself with the
speed of a bullet for a hundred yards, only to come to a dizzying,
terrifying stop; standing on his hind legs; pawing furiously at the air
with his forehoofs; tearing impotently at the bit with his teeth,
slashing with terrific force in the fury of his endeavor.

Calumet's hat had come off during the first series of bucks.  The grin
that had been on his face when he had got into the saddle back near the
corral fence was gone, had been superseded by a grimness that Betty
could see even from the distance from which she watched.  He was a
rider though, she saw that--had seen it from the first.  She had seen
many cowboy breakers of wild horses; she knew the confident bearing of
them; the quickness with which they adjusted their muscles to the
eccentric movements of the horse under them, anticipating their every
action, so far as anyone was able to anticipate the actions of a
rage-maddened demon who has only one desire, to kill or maim its rider,
and she knew that Calumet was an expert.  He was cool, first of all, in
spite of his grimness; he kept his temper, he was absolutely without
fear; he was implacable, inexorable in his determination to conquer.
Somehow the battle between horse and man, as it raged up and down
before her, sometimes shifting to the far end of the level, sometimes
coming so near that she could see the expression of Calumet's face
plainly, seemed to be a contest between kindred spirits.  The analogy,
perhaps, might not have been perceived by anyone less intimately
acquainted with Calumet, or by anyone who understood a horse less, but
she saw it, and knowing Calumet's innate savagery, his primal
stubbornness, his passions, the naked soul of the man, she began to
feel that the black was waging a hopeless struggle.  He could never win
unless some accident happened.

And they were very near her when it seemed that an accident did happen.

The black, his tongue now hanging out, the foam that issued from his
mouth flecked with blood; his sides in a lather; his flanks moist and
torn from the cruel spur-points: seemed to be losing his cunning and to
be trusting entirely to his strength and yielding to his rage.  She
could hear his breath coming shrilly as he tore past her; the whites of
his eyes white no longer, but red with the murder lust.  It seemed to
her that he must divine that defeat was imminent, and in a transport of
despair he was determined to stake all on a last reckless move.

As he flashed past her she looked at Calumet also.  His face was pale;
there was a splotch of blood on his lips which told of an internal
hemorrhage brought on by the terrific jarring that he had received, but
in his eyes was an expression of unalterable resolve; the grim, cold,
immutable calm of purpose.  Oh, he would win, she knew.  Nothing but
death could defeat him.  That was his nature--his character.  There was
no alternative.  He saw none, would admit none.  He found time, as he
went past her, to grin at her, and the grin, though a trifle wan,
contained much of its old mockery and contempt of her judgment of him.

The black raced on for a hundred yards, and what ensued might have been
an accident, or it might have been the deliberate result of the black's
latest trick.  He came to a sudden stop, rose on his hind legs and
threw himself backward, toppling, rigid, upon his back to the ground.

As he rose for the fall Calumet slipped out of the saddle and leaped
sideways to escape being crushed.  He succeeded in this effort, but as
he leaped the spur on his right heel caught in the hollow of the
black's hip near the flank, the foot refused to come free, it caught,
jammed, and Calumet fell heavily beside the horse, luckily a little to
one side, so that the black lay prone beside him.

Betty's scream was sharp and shrill.  But no one heard it--at least
Kelton seemed not to hear, for he was watching Calumet, his eyes wide,
his face white; nor did Calumet seem to hear, for he was sitting on the
ground, trying to work his foot out of the stirrup.  Twice, as he
worked with the foot, Betty saw the black strike at him with its hoofs,
and once a hoof missed his head by the narrowest of margins.

But the foot was free at last, and Calumet rose.  He still held the
reins in his hands, and now, as he got to his feet, he jerked out the
quirt that he wore at his waist and lashed the black, vigorously,
savagely.

The beast rose, snorting with rage and pain, still unsubdued.  His hind
legs had not yet straightened when Calumet was again in the saddle.
The black screamed, with a voice almost human in its shrillness, and
leaped despairingly forward, shaking its head from side to side as
Calumet drove the spurs deep into its sides.  It ran another hundred
yards, half-heartedly, the spring gone out of its stride; then wheeled
and came back, bucking doggedly, clumsily, to a point within fifty feet
of where Betty sat on Blackleg.  Then, as it bucked again, it came down
with its forelegs unjointed, and rolled over on its side, with
Calumet's right leg beneath it.

The black was tired and lay with its neck outstretched on the ground,
breathing heavily, its sides heaving.  Calumet also, was not averse to
a rest and had straightened and lay, an arm under his head, waiting.

Betty smiled, for though he appeared to be in a position which might
result in a crushed leg or foot, she knew that he was in no danger,
because the heavy ox-bow stirrup afforded protection for his foot,
while the wide seat of the saddle kept the upper part of his leg from
injury.  She had seen the cowboys roll under their horses in this
manner many times, deliberately--it saved them the strenuous work of
alighting and remounting.  They had done it, too, for the opportunity
it afforded them to rest and to hurl impolite verbiage at their horses.

But Calumet was silent.  She rode a little closer to him, to look at
him, and when his eyes met hers; she saw that his spirit was in no way
touched; that his job of subduing the black was not yet finished and
that he purposed to finish it.

"We're goin' in a minute," he said to her, his voice a little husky.
"I'd thank you to bring my hat.  I don't reckon you'll be able to keep
up with us, but I reckon you'll excuse me for runnin' away from you."

He had scarcely finished speaking before the black struggled to rise.
Calumet helped him by keeping a loose rein and lifting his own body.
And when the black swung over and got to its feet, Calumet settled
firmly into the saddle and instantly jammed his spurs home into its
flanks.  The black reared, snorted, came down and began to run
desperately across the level, desiring nothing so much now as to do the
bidding of the will which he had discovered to be superior to his own.

Betty watched in silence as horse and rider went over the level,
traveling in a dust cloud, and when they began to fade she turned to
Kelton.  The latter was crestfallen, glum.

"Shucks," he said; "if I'd have thought he'd break the black devil he
wouldn't have got him for twice fifty dollars.  He's sure a slick,
don't-give-a-damn buster."

Betty smiled mysteriously and went to look for Calumet's hat.  Then,
riding Blackleg and leading the other horse, she went toward the Lazy Y.

It was dusk when she arrived, to be greeted by Dade and Bob.  She saw
the black horse in the corral and she knew that Calumet had won the
victory, for the black's head dropped dejectedly and she had never seen
an animal that seemed less spirited.  It did not surprise her to find
that Calumet looked tired, and when she came down stairs from changing
her dress and got supper for them all, she did not mention the incident
of the breaking of the black.  Nor would he talk, though she was
intensely curious as to the motive which had prompted him to make her a
present of Blackleg.  Was it an indication that he was feeling more
friendly to her, or had he merely grown tired of Blackleg?

The answer came to her late that night, after Calumet had retired.
Betty and Dade were in the kitchen; Malcolm and Bob were in the
sitting-room.  Betty had taken Dade into her confidence and had related
to him the happenings of the day--so far as she could without
acquainting him with the state of her feelings toward Calumet.

"So he can ride some?" commented Dade, after she had told him about the
black.  "I reckon he'd bust that horse or break his neck.  But he was
in bad shape when he rode in--almost fell out of the saddle, an'
staggered scandalous when he walked.  All in.  Didn't make a whimper,
though.  Clear grit.  He grinned at me when he turned the black into
the corral.

"'Does that cayuse look busted?' he said.

"I allowed he had that appearance, an' he laughed.

"'I've give Betty Blackleg,' he said.  'I've got tired of him.'"

Betty's disappointment showed in her eyes; she had suspected that
Calumet had had another reason.  She had hoped--

"I reckon, though, that that wasn't his real reason," continued Dade;
"he wasn't showin' all of his hand there."

"What makes you think that?" asked Betty, trying not to blush.

"Well," said Dade, "I was walkin' round the stable a while ago, just
nosin' around without any purpose, an' walkin' slow.  When I got to the
corner, not makin' any noise, I saw Calumet standin' in front of the
stable door, talkin'.  There was nobody around him--nothin' but
Blackleg, an' so I reckon he was talkin' to Blackleg.  Sure enough he
was.  He puts his head up against Blackleg's head, an' he said, soft
an' low, kinda:

"'Blackleg,' he said; 'I've give you away.  I hated like poison to do
it, but I reckon Betty'll look a heap better on you than she does on
that skate she rode today.  Damn that black devil!' he said, 'I
wouldn't have took the job of breakin' him for any other woman in the
world.'

"I come away then," concluded Dade; "for somehow I didn't want him to
know there was anybody around to hear him."

Betty got up quickly and went out on the porch.  She stood there,
looking out into the darkness for a long, long time, and presently Dade
grew tired of waiting for her and went to his room.


CHAPTER XIX

A TRAGEDY IN THE TIMBER GROVE

The black was undoubtedly broken.  His subsequent actions proved that.
He did not become docile by any means, but he was tractable, which is
to say that he did as he was bidden with a minimum of urging; he was
intelligent, divining, and learned quickly.  Also, he respected his
conqueror.  If Dade or Malcolm came near him he gave unmistakable
evidence of hostility; he even shied at sight of Betty, who was his
most sincere admirer, for had not his coming to the Lazy Y been
attended with a sentiment not the less satisfying because concealed?

But the black suffered Calumet's advances, his authority, his
autocratic commands, with a patience that indicated that his
subjugation was to be complete and lasting.

When, toward the middle of the week, Kelton's men--two bepistoled,
capable punchers--drove the cattle comprising the Lazy Y purchase into
the valley, Calumet immediately set to work to train the black to
observe the various niceties of the etiquette of cow-punching.  He soon
learned, that when the rope whistled past his ears he was to watch its
progress, and if its loop encircled a neck or a leg he was to brace
himself for the inevitable shock.  If the loop failed--which it rarely
did--he discovered that he was to note at which particular steer it had
been hurled, and was to follow that steer's progress, no matter where
it went, until the rope went true.  He discovered that it was
imperative for him to stand without moving when his master trailed the
reins over his head; he early learned that the bit was a terrible
instrument of torture, and that it were better to answer to the
pressure of Calumet's knee than to be subjected to the pain it caused
him.

He was taught these things, and many more, while the work of rebranding
the Diamond K cattle went forward.

This work was no sinecure.  Dade and Malcolm, and even Bob, assisted in
it--Malcolm and Bob attending to the heating of the branding irons
while Calumet roped the steers and dragged them to the fire where Dade
pressed the white-hot irons to their hips.  But the work was done
finally, and the cattle turned out into the valley.

On the night that saw the finish of the branding, Calumet, Dade, and
Malcolm retired early.  Betty and Bob remained in the kitchen for some
time, but finally they, too, went to bed.

At one second before midnight Calumet was sleeping soundly--as soundly
as it is possible for a man to sleep who has been working out of doors
and is physically tired.  At exactly midnight he was wide awake, lying
on his back, looking with unblinking eyes at the ceiling, all his
senses aroused and alert, his nerves and muscles at a tension.

He did not know what had awakened him, though he was convinced that it
had been something strange and unusual.  It had happened to him before;
several times when cattle had stampeded; once when a Mexican freighter
at a cow camp had rose in the night to slip his knife into a puncher
with whom he had had trouble during the day.  Incidentally, except for
Calumet, the Mexican would have made his escape.  It had happened to
him again when a band of horse thieves had attempted to run off some
stock; it had never happened unless something unusual was going on.
And so he was certain that something unusual was going on now, and he
lay still, looking around him, to make sure that what was happening was
not happening in his room.  He turned his head and looked at Dade.
That young man was breathing heavily and regularly.  He turned toward
the door of the room.  The door was closed.  A flood of moonlight
entered the window; objects in the room were clearly distinguishable,
and nothing seemed wrong here.  But something was wrong--he was certain
of that.  And so he got carefully out of bed and looked out of the
window, listening, peering intently in all directions within the limits
of his vision.  No sound greeted his ears, no moving object caught his
gaze.  But he was not satisfied.

He put on his clothes, buckled his cartridge belt around his waist,
took his six-shooter from beneath his pillow, and stuck it into the
holster, and in his stockinged feet opened the door of the room and
stepped out into the hall.  He was of the opinion that something had
gone wrong with the horses, and he intended to make the rounds of the
stable and corrals to satisfy his curiosity.  Strangely, he did not
think of the possibility of Betty meeting Taggart again, until he had
reached the bottom of the stairs.  Even then he was half-way across the
dining-room, stepping carefully and noiselessly for fear he might
awaken someone, when he glanced back with a sudden suspicion, toward
the door of the office.  As in that other time there shone a streak of
light through the crevice between the bottom of the door and the
threshold.

He stood still, his muscles contracting, his lips curling, a black,
jealous anger in his heart.  Taggart was there again.

But he would not escape this time.  He would take care to make no noise
which would scare him away.  He listened at the door, but he heard no
voices.  They were in there, though, he could distinguish slight
movements.  He left the door and stole softly up the stairs to his
room, getting his boots and carrying them in his hand.  As before, he
intended putting them on at the kitchen door.  But Bob's dog would not
betray him this time, for since the other accident he had contrived to
persuade Bob to keep the dog outside at night.  Nor would there occur
any other accident--he would take care of that.  And so it took him a
long time to descend the stairs and make his way to the kitchen door.
Once outside, he drew on his boots and stole silently and swiftly to
the front door of the house.

To his astonishment, when he arrived at the door, there was no light,
no sound to indicate that anybody was in the room.  He tried the
door--it was barred.  He stepped to the window.  If there was a light
within it would show through the cracks and holes in the shade, for the
latter was old and well worn.

But no light appeared.  If there was anyone inside they must have heard
him in spite of his carefulness, and had put out the light.  He cursed.
He could not watch both the back and the front door, but he could watch
the outside of the house, could go a little distance away from it and
thus see anybody who would leave it.

He walked away toward the timber clump, looking around him.  As his
gaze swept the wood near the river he caught a glimpse of a horse and
rider as they passed through a clearing and went slowly away from him.

They had tricked him again!  Probably by this time Betty was in her
room, laughing at him.  Taggart was laughing, too, no doubt.  The
thought maddened him.  He cursed bitterly as he ran to the stable.  He
was inside in a flash, saddling Blackleg, jamming a bit into his mouth.
He would follow Taggart to the Arrow, to hell--anywhere, but he would
catch him.  Blackleg could do it; he would make him do it, if he killed
him in the end.

In three minutes Blackleg shot out of the stable door--a flash in the
night.  The swift turn that was required of him he made on his hind
legs, and then, with a plunge and a snort of delight, he was away over
the level toward the wood.

Calumet guided Blackleg toward the spot where he had seen the rider,
certain that he could not have gone far during the interval that had
elapsed, but when he reached the spot there was no sign of a horse and
rider in any direction.

For an instant only Calumet halted Blackleg, and then he spurred him
down the river trail.  One mile, two, three, he rode at a breakneck
pace, and then suddenly he was out of the timber and facing a plain
that stretched into an interminable distance.  The trail lay straight
and clear; there was no sign of a horse and rider on it.  Taggart had
not come in this direction, though in this direction lay the Arrow.

He wheeled Blackleg and, with glowering eyes and straightened lips,
rode him back the way he had come, halting often and peering into
shadows.  By the time he arrived at the spot where he had first seen
the horse and rider he had become convinced that Taggart had secreted
himself until he had passed him and had then ridden over the back
trail, later to return to the Arrow by a circuitous route.

Calumet determined to cut across the country and intercept him, and he
drove the spurs into Blackleg and raced him through the wood.  His
trail took him into a section which led to the slope which the horses
drawing the wagon had taken on the night of the ambush.  He was tearing
through this when he broke through the edge of a clearing about a
quarter of a mile from the ranchhouse.  At about the center of the
clearing Blackleg came to a jarring, dizzying stop, rearing high on his
hind legs.  When he came down he whinnied and backed, and, peering over
his shoulder to see what had frightened him, Calumet saw the body of a
man lying at the edge of a mesquite clump.

With his six-shooter in hand, Calumet dismounted and walked to the man.
The latter was prone in the dust, on his face, and as Calumet leaned
over him the better to peer into his face--for he thought the man might
be Taggart--he heard a groan escape his lips.  Sheathing his weapon,
Calumet turned the man over on his back.  Another groan escaped him;
his eyes opened, though they closed again immediately.  It was not
Taggart.

"Got me," he said.  He groaned again.

"Who got you?" Calumet bent over to catch the reply.  None came; the
man had lost consciousness.

Calumet stood up and looked around.  He could see nothing of the rider
for whom he was searching.  He could not leave this wounded man to
pursue his search for Taggart; there might be something he could do for
the man.

But he left the man's side for an instant while he looked around him.
Some dense undergrowth rose on his right, black shadows surrounding it,
and he walked along its edge, his forty-five in hand, trying to peer
into it.  He saw nothing, heard nothing.  Then, catching another groan
from the man, he returned to him.  The man's eyes were open; they
gleamed brightly and wildly.

"Got me," he said as he saw Calumet.

"Who got you?" repeated Calumet.

"Telza."

"Telza?"  Calumet bent over him again; the name sounded foreign.  "Talk
sense," he said shortly; "who's Telza?"

"A Toltec Indian," said the man.  "He's been hangin' around here--for a
month.  Around the Arrow, too.  Mebbe two months.  Nobody knows.  He's
like a shadow.  Now you see him an' now you don't," he added with a
grim attempt at a joke.  "Taggart's had me trailin' him, lookin' for a
diagram he's got."

"Diagram of what?" demanded Calumet.  His interest was intense.  A
Toltec!  Telza was of the race from whom his father and Taggart had
stolen the idol.  He leaned closer to the man.

"Are Telza an' Taggart friends?" he asked.

"Friends!"  The man's weak laugh was full of scorn.  "Taggart's
stringin' him.  Telza's lookin' for an idol--all gold an' diamonds, an'
such.  Worth thousands.  Taggart set Telza on Betty Clayton."  The man
choked; his breath came thickly; red stained his lips.  "Hell!" he
said, "what you chinnin' me for?  Get that damned toad-sticker out of
me, can't you.  It's in my side, near the back--I can't reach it."

Calumet felt where the man indicated, and his hand struck the handle of
a knife.  It had a large, queerly-shaped handle and a long, thin blade
like a stiletto.  It had been driven into the man's left side just
under the fleshy part of the shoulder, and it was plain that its point
had found a vital spot--probably through the lung and near the heart,
for the man was limp and helpless, his breath coughed in his throat,
and it was certain that he had not many minutes to live.  Calumet
carefully withdrew the weapon, and the man settled back with a sigh of
relief.

"You're Marston, ain't you?" he said, slowly and painfully, gasping
with every breath.  "I've heard the Taggart's talk about you.  Old
Tom's developed a yellow streak in his old age an' he's leavin' all his
dirty work to Neal.  Neal's got a yellow streak, too, for that matter,
but he's young an' ain't got no sense.  I reckon I'm goin' somewhere
now, an' so I can say what I like.  Taggart ain't no friend of
mine--neither of them.  They've played me dirt--more than once.  My
name's Al Sharp.  You know that Tom Taggart was as deep in that idol
business as your dad was.  He told me.  But he's got Telza soft-soaped
into thinkin' that Betty Clayton's folks snaked it from Telza's people.
Taggart's got evidence that your dad planted the idol around here
somewheres--seems to know that your dad drawed a diagram of the place
an' left it with Betty.  He set Telza to huntin' for it.  Telza got it
tonight--it was hid somewhere.  I was with him--waitin' for him.  If he
got the diagram I was to knife him and take it away from him.  Taggart
an' his dad is somewhere around here--I was to meet them down the river
a piece.  Telza double-crossed me; tried to sneak over here an' hunt
the idol himself.  I found him--he had the diagram.  I tried to get it
from him--he stuck his toad-sticker in me, . . . the little
copper-skinned devil.  He--"  He hesitated and choked, raising himself
as though to get a long breath.  But a dark flood again stained his
lips, he strangled and stretched out limply.

Calumet turned him over on his back and covered his face with a
handkerchief.  Then he stood up, looking around at the edge of the
clearing.  Ten feet in front of him, curled around the edge of a bit of
sagebrush, was a dirty white object.  He walked over, kicked the
sagebrush violently, that a concealed rattler might not spring on him,
and took up the object.  It was a piece of paper about six inches
square, and in the dim moonlight Calumet could see that it contained
writing of some sort and a crude sketch.  He looked closer at it, saw a
spot marked "Idol is here," and then folded it quickly and placed it,
crumpled into a ball, into a pocket of his trousers.

He was now certain that Taggart had been merely deceiving Betty; there
had been no other significance to his visits.  The visits were merely
part of a plan to get possession of the idol.  While he had been
talking to Betty in the office tonight Telza had stolen the diagram.

There was more than triumph in Calumet's eyes as he turned his
pony--there was joy and savage exultation.  The idol was his; he would
get the money, too.  After that he would drive Betty and all of them--

But would he?  A curious indecision mingled with his other emotions at
this thought.  His face grew serious.  Lately he was developing a
vacillating will; whenever he meditated any action with regard to Betty
he had an inclination to defer it.  He postponed a decision now; he
would think it over again.  Before he made up his mind on that question
he wanted to enjoy her discomfiture and confusion over the loss of the
diagram.

He had lost all thought of pursuing Taggart.  Sharp had said that
Taggart was somewhere in the vicinity, but it was just possible that
Sharp had been so deeply engaged with Telza about the time Taggart had
made his escape that he had not seen him.  There was time for him to
settle with Taggart.

He took up the bridle rein, wheeled, placed one foot into the stirrup,
intending to mount, when he became aware of a shadow looming near him.
He pulled the foot out of the stirrup, dropped the reins with the same
movement, and turned in a flash.

Neal Taggart, sitting on a horse at the edge of the clearing, not over
twenty feet from him, was looking at him from behind the muzzle of a
six-shooter.  At a trifling distance from Taggart was another man, also
bestride a horse.  A rifle was at this man's shoulder; his cheek was
nuzzling its stock, and Calumet saw that the weapon was aimed at his
chest.

He rapidly noted the positions of the two, estimated the distance,
decided that the risk of resistance was too great, and slowly raised
his hands above his head.

"Surprise party, eh?" he said.  "Well," he added in a self-accusing
voice, "I reckon I was dreamin' some."

Neal Taggart dismounted, moving quickly aside so that the man with the
rifle had an unobstructed view of Calumet.  He went close to the latter.

"So it's you, eh?" he said.  "We saw you tearin' up an' down the river
trail, when we was back in the timber a piece.  Racin' your fool head
off.  Nothin' in sight.  Saw you come in here ten minutes ago.  What
you doin' here?"

"Exercisin'," said Calumet; "takin' my midnight constitutional."  He
looked at the man with the rifle.

The latter was hatless.  Long gray hair, unkempt, touched his
shoulders; a white beard, scraggly, dirty, hid all of his face except
the beak-like, awry nose.  Beady, viciously glowing eyes gleamed out of
the grotesque mask.

"Who's your friend?" questioned Calumet, with a derisive grin.  "If I
was a sheep-man now, I'd try an' find time, next shearin'--"

"My father," growled Neal.

"Excuse me," said Calumet with a short laugh, though his eyes shone
with a sudden hardness; "I thought it was a--"

"You're Calumet Marston, I reckon," interrupted the bearded man.
"You're an impertinent pup, like your father was.  Get his guns!" he
commanded gruffly.

Neal hesitated and then took a step toward Calumet.  The latter
crouched, his eyes narrowing to glittering pin points.  In his attitude
was a threat, a menace, of volcanic, destroying action.  Neal stopped a
step off, uncertain.

Calumet's lips sneered.  "Take my guns, eh?" he said.  "Reach out an'
grab them.  But say your prayers before you do--you an' that sufferin'
monolith with the underbrush scattered all over his mug.  Come an' take
them!"  He jeered as he saw Neal Taggart's face whiten.  "Hell!" he
added as he saw the elder Taggart make a negative motion toward his
son, "you ain't got no clear thoughts just at this minute, eh?"

"We ain't aimin' to force trouble," growled the older man.  "We're just
curious, that's what.  Also, there's a chance that we can settle this
thing peaceable.  We want to palaver.  If you'll give your word that
there won't be no gun-play until after the peace meetin' is over, you
can take your hands down."

"No shootin' goes right now," agreed Calumet.  "But after this peace
meetin'--"

"We ought to come to terms," said Taggart, placing his rifle in the
saddle holster as Calumet's hands came down.  "There hadn't ought to be
any bad blood between us.  Me an' your dad was a heap friendly until we
had a fallin' out over that she-devil which he lived with--Ezela."
There was an insincere grin on his face.

It was plain to Calumet that the elder Taggart had some ulterior motive
in suggesting a peace conference.  He noted that while Taggart talked
his eyes kept roving around the clearing as though in search of
something.  That something, Calumet divined, was Sharp and Telza.  He
suspected that Calumet had seen Telza and Sharp, or one of them, enter
the clearing, and had followed them.  Neal had said that they had seen
Calumet when he had been racing up and down the river trail; they had
suspected he had been after Sharp or Telza, and had followed him.  No
doubt they were afflicted with a great curiosity.  They were playing
for time in order to discover his errand.

"I reckon we'll get along without mushin'," suggested Calumet.  "What
terms are you talkin' about?"

Taggart climbed down from his pony and stood beside it.

"Half-an'-half on the idol," he said.  "That's square, ain't it?"  He
looked at Calumet with the beginning of a bland smile, which instantly
faded and turned into a grimace of fear as he found himself looking
into the gaping muzzles of Calumet's pistols, which had appeared with
magic ease and quickness.

"I'm runnin' a little surprise party of my own," declared Calumet.
"Was you thinkin' I was fool enough to go to gassin' with you, trustin'
that you wouldn't take your chance to perforate me?  You've got another
guess comin'."

The disappointed gleam in Taggart's eyes showed that such had been his
intention.  "There wasn't to be no shootin' until after we'd held our
peace meetin'," he complained.

"Correct," said Calumet.  "But the peace meetin' is now over.  Get your
sky-hooks clawin' at the clouds!" he warned coldly as Neal hesitated.
When both had raised their hands above their heads he deftly plucked
their weapons from their holsters.  Then, alert and watchful, he drew
the elder Taggart's rifle from its sling on the saddle and threw it a
dozen feet away.

"Now just step over to that bunch of mesquite," he ordered; "there's
somethin' there that I want to show you."

In obedience to his command they went forward.  Both came to a halt
when around the edge of the mesquite clump they saw the dead body of
Sharp, with the handkerchief over his face.  Neither recognized the man
until Calumet drew the handkerchief away, and then both started back.

"Know him, eh?" said Calumet, watching them narrowly.  "Well, he done
his duty--done what you wanted him to do.  But your man, Telza,
double-crossed him--knifed him."  He took up the rapier-like blade that
he had drawn from Sharp's side and held it before their eyes.  Again
they started, and Calumet laughed.

"Know the knife, too!" he jeered.  "An' after what you've done you've
got the nerve to ask me to divvy with you."

The elder Taggart was the first to recover his composure.

"Telza?" he said.  "Why, I reckon you've got me; there ain't no one of
that name--"

But Calumet was close to him, his eyes blazing.  "Shut your dirty
mouth, or I'll tear you apart!" he threatened.  "You're a liar, an' you
know it.  Sharp told me about you settin' the Toltec on Betty.  I know
the rest.  I know you tried to make a monkey out of my dad, you damned
old ossified scarecrow!  If you open your trap again, I'll just
naturally pulverize you!  I reckon that's all I've got to say to you."

He walked over to Neal, and the latter shrank from the bitter
malignance of his gaze.

"Can you tell me why I ain't lettin' daylight through you?" he said as
he shoved the muzzle of his six-shooter deep into Neal's stomach,
holding it there with savage steadiness as he leaned forward and looked
into the other's eyes.  "It's because I ain't a sneak an' a murderer.
I ain't ambushin' nobody.  I've done some killin' in my time, but I
ain't never plugged no man who didn't have the same chance I had.  I'm
givin' you a chance."

He drew out one of the weapons he had taken from the two men, holding
it by the muzzle and thrusting it under Neal's nose.  The terrible,
suppressed rage in his eyes caused a shiver to run over Neal, his face
turned a dull white, his eyes stared fearfully.  He made no move to
grasp the weapon.

"I ain't fightin'," he said with trembling lips.

Calumet reversed the gun and stepped back, laughing harshly, without
mirth.

"Of course you ain't fightin'," he said.  "That's the reason it's goin'
to be hard for me to kill you.  I'd feel like a cur if I was to
perforate you now--you or your scarecrow dad.  But I'm tellin' you
this: You've sneaked around the Lazy Y for the last time.  I'm layin'
for you after this, an' if I ketch you maverickin' around here again
I'll perforate you so plenty that it'll make you dizzy.  That's all.
Get out of here before I change my mind!"

Shrinking from his awe-inspiring wrath, they retreated from him,
watching him fearfully as they backed toward their horses.  They had
almost reached them when Calumet's voice brought them to a halt.

His lips were wreathed in a cold grin, his eyes alight with a satanic
humor.  But the rage had gone from his voice; it was mocking, derisive.

"Goin' to ride?" he said.  "Oh, don't!  Them horses look dead tired.
Leave them here; they need a rest.  Besides, a man can't do any
thinkin' to amount to anything when he's forkin' a horse, an' I reckon
you two coyotes will be doin' a heap of thinkin' on your way back to
the Arrow."

"Good Lord!" said the elder Taggart; "you don't mean that?  Why, it's
fifteen miles to the Arrow!"

"Shucks," said Calumet; "so it is!  An' it's after midnight, too.  But
you wouldn't want them poor, respectable critters to be gallivantin'
around at this time of the night, when they ought to be in bed dreamin'
of the horse-heaven which they're goin' to one of these days when the
Taggarts don't own them any more.  You can send a man over after them
when you get back, an' if they want to go home, why, I'll let them."
His voice changed again; it rang with a menacing command.

"Walkin' is good!" he said; "get goin'!  You've got three minutes to
get to that bend in the trail over by the crick.  It's about half a
mile.  I'm turnin' my back.  If I see you when I turn around I'm
workin' that rifle there."

There was a silence which might have lasted a second.  Only this small
space of time was required by the Taggarts to convince them that
Calumet was in deadly earnest.  Then, with Neal leading, they began to
run toward the bend in the trail.

Shortly Calumet turned.  The Taggarts had almost reached the bend, and
while he watched they vanished behind it.

Calumet picked up the rifle which he had taken from the elder Taggart,
mounted his horse, and drove the Taggart animals into the corral.  He
decided that he would keep them there for an hour or so, to give the
Taggarts time to get well on their way toward the Arrow.  Had he turned
them loose immediately they no doubt would have overtaken their masters
before the latter had gone very far.

Remounting, Calumet rode to the bend in the trail.  He carried
Taggart's rifle.  About a mile out on the plain that stretched away
toward the Arrow he saw the two men.  They seemed to be walking rapidly.

Calumet returned to the ranchhouse, got a pick and shovel, and went
back to the timber clump.  An hour later he was again at the corral.
He led the Taggart horses out, took them to the bend in the trail, and
turned them loose, for he anticipated that the Taggarts would make a
complaint to the sheriff about them, and if they were found in the Lazy
Y corral trouble would be sure to result.

He watched them until they were well on their way toward the Arrow, and
then he returned to the ranchhouse and went to bed.  No one had heard
him, he told himself with a grin as he stretched out on the bed beside
Dade to sleep the hour that would elapse before daylight.


He is an arrogant commender of his own things; for whatsoever he
shows you is the best in the town, though the worst in his shop.

His conscience was a thing that would have laid upon his hands, and
he was forced to put it off, and makes great use of honesty to
profess upon.

He tells you lies by rote, and not minding, as the phrase to sell in
and the language he spent most of his years to learn. He never speaks
so truly as when he says he would use you as his brother; for
he would abuse his brother, and in his shop thinks it lawful. His religion
is much in the nature of his customer's, and indeed the pander to
it: and by a mis-interpreted sense of scripture makes a gain of his
godliness.

He is your slave while you pay him ready money, but if he once befriend
you, your tyrant, and you had better deserve his hate than his trust.

A BLUNT MAN
Is one whose wit is better pointed than his behaviour, and that
coarse and unpolished, not out of ignorance so much as humour. He is
a great enemy to the fine gentleman, and these things of compliment,
and hates ceremony in conversation, as the Puritan in religion. He
distinguishes not betwixt fair and double dealing, and suspects all
smoothness for the dress of knavery. He starts at the encounter of a
salutation as an assault, and beseeches you in choler to forbear
your courtesy.

He loves not any thing in discourse that comes before the purpose, and
is always suspicious of a preface. Himself falls rudely still on his
matter without any circumstance, except he use an old proverb for an
introduction. He swears old out-of date innocent oaths, as, by the
mass!
by our lady! and such like, and though there be lords present, he
cries, my masters! He is exceedingly in love with his humour, which
makes him always profess and proclaim it, and you must take what he
says patiently, because he is a plain man. His nature is his excuse
still, and other men's tyrant; for he must speak his mind, and that
is his worst, and craves your pardon most injuriously for not pardoning
you.

His jests best become him, because they come from him rudely and unaffected;
and he has the luck commonly to have them famous. He is one that will
do more than he will speak, and yet speak more than he will hear; for
though he love to touch others, he is touchy himself, and seldom to
his own abuses replies but with his fists. He is as squeazy[74] of
his commendations, as his courtesy, and his good word is like an
eulogy in a satire.

He is generally better favoured than he favours, as being commonly well
expounded in his bitterness, and no man speaks treason more securely.
He chides great men with most boldness, and is counted for it an honest
fellow.

He is grumbling much in behalf of the commonwealth, and is in prison
oft for it with credit.

He is generally honest, but more generally thought so, and his
downrightness credits him, as a man not well bended and crookened
to the times.

In conclusion, he is not easily bad in whom this quality is nature, but
the counterfeit is most dangerous, since he is disguised in a humour
that professes not to disguise.

A HANDSOME HOSTESS
Is the fairer commendation of an inn, above the fair sign, or fair
lodgings. She is the loadstone that attracts men of iron, gallants and
roarers, where they cleave sometimes long, and are not easily got
off.

Her lips are your welcome, and your entertainment her company, which
is put into the reckoning too, and is the dearest parcel in it. No
citizen's wife is demurer than she at the first greeting, nor draws
in her mouth with a chaster simper; but you may be more familiar
without distaste, and she does not startle at anything. She is the
confusion of a pottle of sack more than would have been spent
elsewhere, and her little jugs are accepted to have her kiss excuse
them.

She may be an honest woman, but is not believed so in her parish, and
no man is a greater infidel in it than her husband.

A CRITIC

Is one that has spelled over a great many books, and his observation is
the orthography.

He is the surgeon of old authors, and heals the wounds of dust and
ignorance. He converses much in fragments and _desunt multa's_, and if
he piece it up with two lines he is more proud of that book than
the author.

He runs over all sciences to peruse their syntaxis, and thinks all
learning com-prised in writing Latin.

He tastes styles as some discreeter palates do wine; and tells you
which is genuine, which sophisticate and bastard.

His own phrase is a miscellany of old words, deceased long before
the Caesars, and entombed by Varro, and the modernest man he follows
is Plautus.

He writes _omneis_ at length, and _quidquid_, and his gerund is most
inconformable.

He is a troublesome vexer of the dead, which after so long sparing
must rise up to the judgment of his castigations. He is one that
makes all books sell dearer, whilst he swells them into folios
with his comments.

A SERGEANT, OR CATCH-POLE
Is one of God's judgments; and which our roarers do only conceive
terrible.

He is the properest shape wherein they fancy Satan; for he is at
most but an arrester, and hell a dungeon.

He is the creditors' hawk, wherewith they seize upon flying birds,
and fetch them again in his talons.

He is the period of young gentlemen, or their full stop, for when
he meets with them they can go no farther.

His ambush is a shop-stall, or close lane, and his assault is cowardly
at your back.

He respites you in no place but a tavern, where he sells his minutes
dearer than a clockmaker. The common way to run from him is through
him, which is often attempted and atchieved, [[75]_and no man is
more beaten out of charity._] He is one makes the street more dangerous
than the highways, and men go better provided in their walks than their
journey. He is the first handsel of the young rapiers of the templers;
and they are as proud of his repulse as an Hungarian of killing a Turk.
He is a moveable prison, and his hands two manacles hard to be
filed off.

He is an occasioner of disloyal thoughts in the commonwealth, for he makes
men hate the king's name worse than the devil's.

A UNIVERSITY DUN
Is a gentleman's follower cheaply purchased, for his own money has
hired him. He is an inferior creditor of some ten shillings downwards,
contracted for horse-hire, or perchance for drink, too weak to be put
in suit, and he arrests your modesty. He is now very expensive of
his time, for he will wait upon your stairs a whole afternoon, and
dance attendance with more patience than a gentleman-usher. He is a sore
beleaguerer of chambers, and assaults them sometimes with furious
knocks; yet finds strong resistance commonly, and is kept out. He is a
great complainer of scholars loitering, for he is sure never to find
them within, and yet he is the chief cause many times that makes them
study.

He grumbles at the ingratitude of men that shun him for his kindness,
but indeed it is his own fault, for he is too great an upbraider.

No man puts them more to their brain than he; and by shifting him off
they learn to shift in the world.

Some chuse their rooms on purpose to avoid his surprisals, and think
the best commodity in them his prospect.

He is like a rejected acquaintance, hunts those that care not for his
company, and he knows it well enough, and yet will not keep away.
The sole place to supple him is the buttery, where he takes grievous
use upon your name,[76] and he is one much wrought with good beer
and rhetoric.

He is a man of most unfortunate voyages, and no gallant walks the
streets to less purpose.

A STAID MAN

Is a man: one that has taken order with himself, and sets a rule to those
lawlessnesses within him: whose life is distinct and in method, and
his actions, as it were, cast up before: not loosed into the world's
vanities, but gathered up and contracted in his station: not scattered
into many pieces of business, but that one course he takes, goes
through with.

A man firm and standing in his purposes, not heaved off with each wind
and passion: that squares his expense to his coffers, and makes the
total first, and then the items.

One that thinks what he does, and does what he says, and foresees what
he may do before he purposes.

One whose "if I can" is more than another's assurance; and his
doubtful tale before some men's protestations:--that is confident of
nothing in futurity, yet his conjectures oft true prophecies:--that
makes a pause still betwixt his ear and belief, and is not too
hasty to say after others.

One whose tongue is strung up like a clock till the time, and then
strikes, and says much when he talks little:--that can see the truth
betwixt two wranglers, and sees them agree even in that they fall
out upon:--that speaks no rebellion in a bravery, or talks big from
the spirit of sack.

A man cool and temperate in his passions, not easily betrayed by his
choler:--that vies not oath with oath, nor heat with heat,
but replies calmly to an angry man, and is too hard for him too:--that
can come fairly off from captains' companies, and neither drink nor
quarrel.

One whom no ill hunting sends home discontented, and makes him swear
at his dogs and family.

One not hasty to pursue the new fashion, nor yet affectedly
true to his old round breeches; but gravely handsome, and to
his place, which suits him better than his tailor:
active in the world without disquiet, and careful without misery;
yet neither engulfed in his pleasures, nor a seeker of business,
but has his hour for both.

A man that seldom laughs violently, but his mirth is a cheerful
look: of a composed and settled countenance, not set, nor much alterable
with sadness of joy. He affects nothing so wholly, that he must be a
miserable man when he loses it; but fore-thinks what will come
hereafter, and spares fortune his thanks and curses.

One that loves his credit, not this word reputation; yet can save both
without a duel.
Whose entertainments to greater men are respectful, not complimentary;
and to his friends plain, not rude. A good husband, father, master; that
is, without doting, pampering, familiarity.

A man well poised in all humours, in whom nature shewed most geometry,
and he has not spoiled the work.

A man of more wisdom than wittiness, and brain than fancy; and abler
to any thing than to make verses.

A MODEST MAN

Is a far finer man than he knows of, one that shews better to all
men than himself, and so much the better to all men, as less to
himself;[77] for no quality sets a man off like this, and commends
him more against his will: and he can put up any injury sooner than
this (as he calls it) your irony.

You shall hear him confute his commenders, and giving reasons how
much they are mistaken, and is angry almost if they do not believe
him.

Nothing threatens him so much as great expectation, which he thinks
more prejudicial than your under-opinion, because it is easier to
make that false, than this true.

He is one that sneaks from a good action, as one that had pilfered, and
dare not justify it; and is more blushingly reprehended in this,
than others in sin: that counts all publick declarings of himself,
but so many penances before the people; and the more you applaud him
the more you abash him, and he recovers not his face a month after. One
that is easy to like any thing of another man's, and thinks all
he knows not of him better than that he knows. He excuses that to
you, which another would impute; and if you pardon him, is satisfied.
One that stands in no opinion because it is his own, but suspects it
rather, because it is his own, and is confuted and thanks you.
He sees nothing more willingly than his errors, and it is his error
sometimes to be too soon persuaded. He is content to be auditor where
he only can speak, and content to go away and think himself
instructed.

No man is so weak that he is ashamed to learn of, and is less ashamed to
confess it; and he finds many times even in the dust, what
others overlook and lose. Every man's presence is a kind of
bridle to him, to stop the roving of his tongue and passions: and
even impudent men look for this reverence from him, and distaste that
in him which they suffer in themselves, as one in whom vice is
ill-favoured and shews more scurvily than another. An unclean jest shall
shame him more than a bastard another man, and he that got it shall
censure him among the rest.

He is coward to nothing more than an ill tongue, and whosoever dare lie
on him hath power over him; and if you take him by his look, he is
guilty. The main ambition of his life is not to be discredited; and for
other things, his desires are more limited than his fortunes,
which he thinks preferment though never so mean, and that he is to do
something to deserve this.

He is too tender to venture on great places, and would not hurt a dignity
to help himself: If he do, it was the violence of his friends
constrained him, how hardly soever he obtain it he was harder persuaded
to seek it.

A MERE EMPTY WIT
Is like one that spends on the stock without any revenues coming in, and
will shortly be no wit at all; for learning is the fuel to the fire of
wit, which, if it wants this feeding, eats out itself. A good conceit
or two bates of such a man, and makes a sensible weakening in him;
and his brain recovers it not a year after. The rest of him are bubbles
and flashes, darted out on a sudden, which, if you take them while they
are warm, may be laughed at; if they are cool, are nothing.

He speaks best on the present apprehension, for meditation stupefies him,
and the more he is in travail, the less he brings forth. His things
come off then, as in a nauseateing stomach, where there is nothing to
cast up, strains and convulsions, and some astonishing bombast, which
men only, till they understand, are scared with. A verse or some such
work he may sometimes get up to, but seldom above the stature of
an epigram, and that with some relief out of Martial, which is the
ordinary companion of his pocket, and he reads him as he were inspired.
Such men are commonly the trifling things of the world, good to make
merry the company, and whom only men have to do withal when they have
nothing to do, and none are less their friends than who are most their
company. Here they vent themselves over a cup somewhat more
lastingly; all their words go for jests, and all their jests for
nothing.

They are nimble in the fancy of some ridiculous thing, and reasonable
good in the expression. Nothing stops a jest when it's coming, neither
friends, nor danger, but it must out howsoever, though their blood
come out after, and then they emphatically rail, and are emphatically
beaten, and commonly are men reasonable familiar to this.

Briefly they are such whose life is but to laugh and be laughed at;
and only wits in jest and fools in earnest.

A DRUNKARD
Is one that will be a man to-morrow morning, but is now what you
will make him, for he is in the power of the next man, and if a
friend the better.

One that hath let go himself from the hold and stay of reason, and
lies open to the mercy of all temptations.

No lust but finds him disarmed and fenceless, and with the least assault
enters. If any mischief escape him, it was not his fault, for he was
laid as fair for it as he could. Every man sees him, as Cham saw his
father the first of this sin, an uncovered man, and though his garment
be on, uncovered; the secretest parts of his soul lying in the nakedest
manner visible: all his passions come out now, all his vanities,
and those shamefuller humours which discretion clothes.

His body becomes at last like a miry way, where the spirits are beclogged
and cannot pass: all his members are out of office, and his heels do
but trip up one another. He is a blind man with eyes, and a cripple
with legs on. All the use he has of this vessel himself, is to hold
thus much; for his drinking is but a scooping in of so many quarts, which
are filled out into his body, and that filled out again into the
room, which is commonly as drunk as he.
Tobacco serves to air him after a washing, and is his only breath and
breathing while.

He is the greatest enemy to himself, and the next to his friend, and then
most in the act of his kindness, for his kindness is but trying a
mastery, who shall sink down first: and men come from him as a battle,
wounded and bound up.

Nothing takes a man off more from his credit, and business, and makes
him more recklessly careless what becomes of all. Indeed he dares not
enter on a serious thought, or if he do, it is such melancholy
that it sends him to be drunk again.

A PRISON
Is the grave of the living,[78] where they are shut up from the world
and their friends; and the worms that gnaw upon them their own
thoughts and the jailor.

A house of meagre looks and ill smells, for lice, drink, and tobacco are
the compound. Plato's court was expressed from this fancy; and
the persons are much about the same parity that is there. You may ask,
as Menippus in Lucian, which is Nireus, which Thersites, which the beggar,
which the knight;--for they are all suited in the same form of a
kind of nasty poverty. Only to be out at elbows is in fashion here,
and a great indecorum not to be thread-bare. Every man shews here like
so many wrecks upon the sea, here the ribs of a thousand pound, here
the relicks of so many manors, a doublet without buttons; and 'tis
a spectacle of more pity than executions are.

The company one with the other is but a vying of complaints, and the
causes they have to rail on fortune and fool themselves, and there
is a great deal of good fellowship in this. They are commonly, next
their creditors, most bitter against the lawyers, as men that have
had a great stroke in assisting them hither. Mirth here is stupidity
or hardheartedness, yet they feign it sometimes to slip melancholy,
and keep off themselves from themselves, and the torment of thinking
what they have been.

Men huddle up their life here as a thing of no use, and wear it out
like an old suit, the faster the better; and he that deceives the
time best, best spends it.

He stepped away from the door and went to the table, looking down at
the dishes she had set out for him, then at her, with a regretful smile
which brought a quick pang to her.

"Shucks," he said, more to himself than to her; "if this had happened
three months ago I'd have been plumb amused, an' I'd have had a heap of
fun with somebody before it could be got over with.  Somehow, it don't
seem to be so damned funny now.

"It's your fault, too," he went on, regarding her with a direct, level
gaze.  "Not that you got me into this mix-up, you understand--you're
not to blame for a thing--but it's your fault that it don't seem funny
to me.  You've made me see things different."

"I am so sorry," she said, standing pale and rigid before him.

"Sorry that I'm seein' things different?" he said.  "No?" at her quick,
reproachful negative.  "Well, then, sorry that this had to happen.
Well, I'm sorry, too.  You see," he added, the color reaching his face,
"it struck me while I was ridin' over here that I wasn't goin' to be
exactly tickled over leavin'.  It's been seemin' like home to me
for--well, for a longer time than I would have admitted three days ago,
when I had that talk with you.  Or, rather," he corrected, with a
smile, "when you had that talk with me.  There's a difference, ain't
there?  Anyways, there's a lot of things that I wouldn't have admitted
three days ago.  But I've got sense now--I've got a new viewpoint.  An'
somehow, what I'm goin' to tell you don't seem to come hard.  Because
it's the truth, I reckon.  I've knowed it right along, but kept holdin'
it back.

"Dade had me sized up right.  He said I was a false alarm; that I'd
been thinkin' of myself too much; that I'd forgot that there was other
people in the world.  He was right; I'd forgot that other people had
feelings.  But if he hadn't told me that them was your views I'd have
salivated him.  But I couldn't blame him for repeatin' things you'd
said, because about that time I'd begun to do some thinkin' myself.

"In the first place, I found that I wasn't a whole lot proud of myself
for guzzlin' your grandad, but I'd made a mistake an' I wasn't goin' to
give you a chance to crow over me.  I expect there's a lot of people do
that, but they're on the wrong trail--it don't bring no peace to a
man's mind.  Then, I thought you was like all the rest of the women I'd
known, an' when I found out that you wasn't, I thought you had the
swelled head an' I figgered to take you down a peg.  When I couldn't do
that it made me sore.  It made me feel some cheap when you showed me
you trusted me, with me treatin' you like I did; but if it's any
satisfaction to you, I'm tellin' you that all the time I was treatin'
you mean I felt like kickin' myself.

"I reckon that's all.  Don't get the idea that I'm doin' any mushin'.
It's just the plain truth, an' I've had to tell you.  That's why I came
over here--I wanted to square things with you before I leave.  I reckon
if I'd stay here you'd never know how I feel about it."

She was staring at the floor, her face crimson, an emotion of deep
gratitude and satisfaction filling her, though mingled with it was a
queer sensation of regret.  Her judgment of him had been vindicated;
she had known all along that this moment would come, but, now that it
had come, it was not as she had pictured it--there was discord where
there should be harmony; something was lacking to make the situation
perfect--he was going away.

She stood nervously tapping the floor with the toe of her shoe, hardly
hearing his last words, almost forgetting that he was in the room until
she saw his hand extended toward her.  Then she looked up at him.
There was a grave smile on his face.

"I reckon you'll shake hands with me," he said, "just to show that you
ain't holdin' much against me.  Well, that right," he said when she
hesitated; "I don't deserve it."

Her hand went out; he looked at it, with a start, and then seized it
quickly in both of his, squeezed it hard, his eyes aflame.  He dropped
it as quickly, and turned to the door, saying: "You're a brave little
girl."

She stood silent until his hands were on the fastenings of the door.

"Wait!" she said.  She attempted to smile, but some emotion stiffened
her lips, stifling it.  "You haven't had your supper," she said; "won't
you eat if I get it ready?"

"No time," he said.  "The law don't advertise its movements, as a usual
thing, an' Toban's liable to be here any minute.  An'," he added, a
glint of the old hardness in his eyes, "I ain't lettin' him take me.
It's only twenty miles to the line, an' the way I'm intendin' to travel
I'll be over it before Toban can ketch me.  I don't want him to ketch
me--he was a friend of my dad's, an' puttin' him out of business
wouldn't help me none."

"Will you be safe, then?" she asked fearfully.

"I reckon.  But I won't be stoppin' at the line.  I'm through here;
there's nothin' here to hold me.  I reckon I'll never come back this
way.  Shucks!" he added, leaving the door and coming back a little way
into the room; "I expect I'm excited.  I come near forgettin'.  It's
about the idol an' the money an' the ranch.  I don't want any of them.
They're yours.  You've earned them an' you deserve them.  Go to Las
Vegas an' petition the court to turn the property over to you; tell the
judge I flunked on the specifications."

"I don't want your property," she said in a strange voice.

"You've got to take it," he returned, with a quick look at her.
"Here"--he drew a piece of paper and a short pencil from an inside
pocket of his vest, and, walking to the table, wrote quickly, giving
her the paper.

"I herewith renounce all claim to my father's property," it read; "I
refuse the conditions of the will."

It was signed with his name.  While he stood watching her, she tore the
paper to small bits, scattering them on the floor.

"I think," she said, regarding him fixedly, "that you are not exactly
chivalrous in leaving me this way; that you are more concerned over
your own safety than over mine.  What do you suppose will happen when
the Taggarts discover that you have gone and that I am here alone?"

His eyes glinted with hatred.  "The Taggarts," he laughed.  "Did you
think I was going to let them off so easy?  I'm charged with one
murder, ain't I?  Well, after tonight there won't be any Taggarts to
bother anybody."

"You mean to--"  Her eyes widened with horror.

"I reckon," he said.  "Did you think I was runnin' away without
squarin' things with them?"  There was a threat of death in his cold
laugh.

While she stood with clenched hands, evidently moved by the threat in
his manner and words, he said "So-long," shortly, and swung the door
open.

She followed three or four steps, again calling upon him to "wait."  He
turned in the doorway and went slowly back to her.  She was nervous,
breathless, and he looked wonderingly at her.

"Wait just a minute," she said; "I have something to give you."

She darted into the sitting-room; he could hear her running up the
stairs.  She was gone a long time, so long a time that he grew
impatient and paced the floor with long, hasty strides.  He was certain
that it was fully five minutes before she reappeared, and then her
manner was more nervous than ever.

"You act," he said suspiciously, "as though you wanted to keep me here."

"No, no," she denied breathlessly, her eyes bright and her cheeks
aflame.  "How can you think that?  I have brought you some money; you
will need it."  She had a leather bag in her hands, and she seized it
by the bottom and turned out its contents--a score or more of
twenty-dollar gold pieces.

"Take them," she said as he hesitated.  And, not waiting for him to
act, she began to gather them up.  She was nervous, though, and dropped
many of them several times, so that he felt that time would have been
gained if she had not touched them.  He returned them to the bag, with
her help, and placed the bag in a pocket of his trousers.  Then once
more he said good-by to her.

This time, however, she stood between him and the door, and when he
tried to step around her she changed her position so as to be always in
front of him.

"Tell me where you are going?" she said.

"What do you want to know for?" he demanded.

"Just because," she said; "because I want to know."

His eyes lighted with a deep fire as he looked at her.  She was very
close to him; he felt her warm breath; saw her bosom heave rapidly, and
a strange intoxication seized him.

"Shall I tell you?" he said, with sudden hoarseness, as though asking
himself the question.  He grasped her by the shoulders and looked
closely at her, his eyes boring, probing, as though searching for some
evidence of duplicity in hers.  For an instant his gaze held.  Then he
laughed, softly, self-accusingly.

"I thought you was stringin' me--just for a minute," he said.  "But
you're true blue, an' I'll tell you.  I'm goin' first to the Arrow to
hand the Taggarts their pass-out checks.  Then I'm hittin' the breeze
to Durango.  If you ever want me, send for me there, an' I'll come back
to you, sheriff or no sheriff."

She put out a hand to detain him, but he seized it and pressed it to
her side, the other with it.  Then his arms went around her shoulders,
she was crushed against him, and his lips met hers.

Then she was suddenly released, and he was at the door.

"Good-by," he said as he stood in the opening, the glare of light from
the lamp showing his face, pale, the eyes illumined with a fire that
she had never seen in them; "I'm sorry it has to end this way--I was
hopin' for somethin' different.  You've made me almost a man."

Then the door closed and he was gone.  She stood by the table for a few
minutes, holding tightly to it for support, her eyes wide from
excitement.

"Oh," she said, "if I could only have kept him here a few minutes
longer!"

She walked to the door and stood in the opening, shading her eyes with
her hands.  He had not been gone long, but already he was riding the
river trail; she saw him outlined in the moonlight, leaning a little
forward in the saddle, the black running with a long, swift, sure
stride.  She watched them until a bend in the trail shut them from
view, and then with a sob she bowed her head in her arms.


CHAPTER XXII

NEAL TAGGART VISITS

When a little later Betty heard hoof-beats in the ranchhouse yard--the
sounds of a horseman making a leisurely approach--she left the door and
went out upon the porch.

She knew who the horseman was; she had seen him from the window of her
room when she had gone upstairs to get the money for Calumet.  More
than once she had seen the sheriff coming over the hill--the same hill
upon which Calumet and Neal Taggart had fought their duel--and she
recognized the familiar figure.  On his previous visits to the
ranchhouse, however, Toban had left his horse in the timber clump near
the house.  She was not surprised, though, to hear him coming into the
ranchhouse yard tonight, for his errand now was different.

Toban had evidently intended to hitch his pony to the corral fence, for
it was toward it that he was directing the animal, when he caught sight
of Betty on the porch and rode up beside her.

"What's up?" he inquired, leaning over in the saddle and peering
closely at her; "you look flustered.  Where's Marston?"

"Gone," she told him.

He straightened.  "Gone where?" he demanded.

"Away--forever," she said weakly.  "He heard you were after him
for--for killing that man Sharp--and he left."

Toban cursed.  "So he got wind of it, did he?  The Taggarts must have
gassed about it.  Marston told you, did he?  Why didn't you keep him
here?  He didn't kill Sharp!"

"I know it," she said; "he told me he didn't, and I believed him.  He
said you had a warrant for his arrest; that you were coming for him,
and I was afraid that if you met him out on the range somewhere there
would be shooting.  I knew if I could keep him here until you came you
would be able to fix it up some way--to prove his innocence.  I was so
glad, when I ran upstairs to get some money for him and looked out of
the window.  For you were coming.  But he wouldn't stay."

Toban dismounted and stood in front of her, his eyes probing into hers.
"I've got evidence that he didn't kill Sharp," he said; "I saw the
whole deal.  But I reckon," he added, a subtle gleam in his eyes, "that
it's just as well that he's gone--he was a heap of trouble while he was
here, anyway, wasn't he?"

"No," she said quickly, defiantly; "he--"  She broke off and looked at
him with wide eyes.  "Oh," she said with a quavering laugh; "you are
poking fun at me.  You liked him, too; you told me you did!"

"I reckon I like him," said Toban, his lips grimming; "I like him well
enough not to let him pull his freight on account of the Taggarts.
Why, damn it!" he added explosively; "I was his father's friend, an' I
ain't seein' him lose everything he's got here when he's innocent.
Which way did he go?"

There was a wild hope in her eyes; she was breathing fast.  "Oh," she
said; "are you going after him?  He went to the Arrow--first.  He told
me he was going to kill the Taggarts.  Then he is going to get out of
the Territory.  Oh, Toban, catch him--please!  I--"

Toban laughed.  "I ain't been blind, girl," he said; "the talks I've
had with you in old Marston's office have wised me up to how things
stand between you an' him.  I'll ketch him, don't worry about that.
That black horse of his is some horse, but he ain't got nothin' on my
old dust-thrower, an' I reckon that in fifteen miles--"

He was climbing into the saddle while talking, and at his last word he
gave the spurs to his horse, a strong, clean-limbed bay, and was away
in a cloud of dust.

Betty watched him, her hands clasped over her breast, her body rigid
and tense, her eyes straining, until she saw him vanish around the bend
in the trail; and then for a long time she stood on the porch, scanning
the distant horizon, in the hope that she might again see Toban and be
assured that nothing had happened to him.  And when at last she saw a
speck moving swiftly along a distant rise, she murmured a prayer and
went into the house.

When she closed the kitchen door and stood against it, looking around
the room, she was afflicted with a depressing sense of loss, and she
realized fully how Calumet had grown into her life, and what it would
mean to her if she lost him.  He had been mean, cruel, and vicious, but
he had awakened at last to a sense of his shortcomings; he was like a
boy who had had no training, who had grown wild and ungovernable, but
who, before it had become too late, had awakened to the futility, the
absurdity, the falseness of it all, and was determined to begin anew.
And she felt--as she had felt all along--even when she had seen him at
his worst--that she must mother him, must help him to build up a new
structure of self, must lift him, must give him what the world had so
far denied him--his chance.  And she sat at the table and leaned her
head in her arms and prayed that Toban might overtake him before he
reached the Arrow.  For she did not want him to come back to her with
the stain of their blood on his hands.

She was startled while sitting at the table, for she heard a sound from
the sitting-room, and she got up to investigate.  But it was only Bob,
who, hearing the sounds made by Toban and herself, had come to
investigate.  She urged him to return to his room and to bed, and
kissed him when he started up the stairs, so warmly that he looked at
her in surprise.

She returned to the kitchen, sitting at the table and watching the
clock.  A half hour had elapsed since Toban's departure when she heard
the faint beat of hoofs in the distance, and with wildly beating heart
got up and went out on the porch.

For a moment she could not determine the direction from which the
sounds came, but presently she saw a rider approaching from the
direction of the river, and she stepped down from the porch and
advanced to meet him.  She feared at first that it was Toban returning
alone, and she halted and stood with clenched hands, but as the rider
came closer she saw it was not Toban but an entire stranger.  She
retreated to the porch and watched his approach.

He was a cowboy and he rode up to the edge of the porch confidently,
calling to her when he came close enough to make himself heard.

"My name's Miller," he said, taking his hat off and showing her the
face of a man of thirty--"Harvey Miller.  Me an' my side-kicker was
drivin' a bunch of Three Bar beeves to Lazette an' we was fools enough
to run afoul of that quicksand at Double Fork, about five miles down
the crick.  We've bogged down about forty head an' I've come for help.
You got any men around here?"

"Oh," she said; "how careless you were!  Didn't you know the quicksand
was there?"

"I ain't been runnin' this range a whole lot," said the puncher
uneasily; "but I reckon even then I ought to be able to nose out a
quicksand.  But I didn't, an' there's forty beeves that's goin' to
cow-heaven pretty soon if somethin' ain't done.  If you've got any men
around here which could give us a lift, we'd be pleased to thank you."

"Of course," she said.  "Wait!"

She went into the house and to the stairs where she called to Dade and
Malcolm, and presently, rubbing their eyes, the two came down.  They
were eager to assist the puncher in his trouble and without delay they
caught up the two horses that Calumet had bought soon after his coming
to the ranch, saddled and bridled them and rode out of the yard.

The unfortunate puncher did not wait for them.  When they had announced
their intention of helping him, he had told them that he would ride on
ahead to help his partner, leaving them to follow as soon as they could.

"I reckon you know where it is," was his parting word to them.  "Double
Fork.  I reckon I'll know it again when I see it," he added, grimly
joking.

The tenure by which he holds his means is an estate at will, and that's
borrowing. Landlords have but four quarter-days, but he three hundred
and odd. He keeps very good company, yet is a man of no reckoning;
and when he goes not drunk to bed he is very sick next morning.She went to the chair in which she had previously been sitting, resting
her arms on the table, but she was too nervous, too excited, to sit and
she presently got up and stood, looking anxiously at the face of the
clock on a shelf in a corner.

[Illustration: The swing]
Ollie had been swinging for nearly an hour in the grove behind the old
farm-house, when she heard her mother's voice calling, "Ollie, Ollie!
where are you, child?" Ollie stopped swinging and listened. "That is
mamma," she said; "I must run quickly and see what she wants." So, jumping
down and leaving the swing to "die away" by itself, she skipped
along the path which led up to the back door.

Her mother was standing on the step, holding a basket in her hand.
When she saw Ollie she said, "Ah, here you are; I have been looking for
you all over the house."
"I have been swinging, and only just heard you calling," answered Ollie.

"Do you want me?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Rogers; "I want some more sugar. I thought we had
plenty, but these new cookies that Mrs. Coe told me about do take a
great deal more than my old ones. So, go as quickly as you can, my dear,
for I am dreadfully bothered for the want of it."
[Illustration: Willie]
"Yes," said Ollie, taking the basket; "I will not be a minute.

Couldn't Willie go with me? See, he is looking through the window. I
am sure a little walk would do him good."
"No, not yet," said Mrs.

Rogers. "The doctor says he must not leave the house before next
week.

Now run along."

Ollie threw a kiss toward the window and started down the path. She was
just going to open the gate when she heard a "rat-tat-tat" behind
her.

[Illustration: Ollie]
"Willie wants something, I am sure," she said, turning back again; "I
wonder what it is! He is pointing under that bush, but I do not see
anything. Ah, here you are, you rogue! it is you who are wanted;" and
she pulled out a great big black rabbit, Willie's especial pet. "It
is just as well that I have to go to the house again, for I forgot
my sun-umbrella, and I am sure the day is very hot."
[Illustration: The pet rabbit]
The sun-umbrella to which Ollie alluded was one of her birthday
presents, and she was always glad when the sun was hot enough to
make it useful.But we've
fooled you," he continued with a short, ugly laugh; "fooled you clean!
Mebbe you know this, an' mebbe you don't.  But I'm tellin' you.  We set
Telza, the Toltec, an' Sharp to get the diagram of the place where the
idol is.  They didn't get it because the clearin' ain't dug up any.
Telza knifed Sharp an' he's sloped, likely figgerin' that this country
ain't healthy for him any more.  You've got the diagram an' I want it.
I'm goin' to get it if I have to kill you to get it!  Understand!

"You've got no chance," he sneered, as she looked around the room
furtively, hopelessly.  "We framed up a murder charge on Calumet and
we've been in the timber since dark waitin' for the sheriff to come an'
get him.  We saw him hit the breeze toward the Arrow, an' we saw the
sheriff go after him.  Neither of them can be back here for hours yet,
an' when they do get back I'll have done what I've set out to do."

He  laughed again, harshly, triumphantly.  "Dade an' Malcolm bothered
me a bit until I thought of sendin' Harvey Miller here with that fairy
tale about the forty beeves bogged down in Double Fork, but I reckon
now--"

She gasped, comprehending the trap he had set for her, and his grip on
her hands tightened.

"Dade an' Malcolm can't get back for an hour yet," he gloated, "an' by
that time we'll be miles away."  His voice changed from mockery to
savage determination.  "I want that diagram, an' I want it right now,
or I'll tear you to pieces.  Do you understand?  I'll beat you up so's
your own mother wouldn't know you."  His grip tightened on her arms,
they were twisted until she screamed with agony.

In this extremity her thoughts went to Calumet; she remembered vividly
what he had said about the idol when she had asked him why he did not
get it and convert it into cash.  "I ain't so much stuck on monkeyin'
with them religious things," he had said.  And she was certain that if
Calumet knew of her danger he would not have had her hesitate an
instant in relinquishing the diagram to Taggart.

The idol had brought him nothing but evil, anyway, and she was certain
that Calumet would not mourn its loss, even if Taggart were to be the
gainer by it, if its possession were to entail punishment, death,
perhaps, to her.

"Wait!" she cried as Taggart gave her arms an extra vicious twitch;
"you may have it!"

He released her with a greedy, satisfied grin and stood crouching and
alert while she turned her back to him and fumbled in her bodice, where
she had kept the diagram since the discovery of its former hiding place
by Telza.

She turned presently and gave him the paper, and he seized it eagerly
and examined it, gloating over it.

"That's it," he said; "that's the clearing!"

She was holding her arms, where he had squeezed them, her face flushed
with rage at the indignity he had offered her.  She stood rigid,
defiant.

"If that is all you came for, you may go," she said; "go instantly!"

He jammed the paper into his pocket and grinned at her.

"It ain't all," he said.  "I owe you somethin' for the way you've
treated me.  I'm goin' to pay it.  You've been too much of a lady to
talk to me, but you'll live here with that--"

He reached suddenly out and seized her hands again, attempting to throw
an arm around her.  She evaded the arm and wrenched herself free,
slipping past him and darting to the other side of the table.  He stood
opposite her, his hands on the table as he leaned toward her, grinning
at her, brutally and bestially, and pausing so as to prolong his
enjoyment of her predicament.

"I'll get you, damn you!" he said; "I've got the time and you can't get
out."  He seized the kerosene lamp on the table and walking backward,
placed it on a shelf at the side of the wall near the stove.  Then with
a chuckle of satisfaction and mockery he again went to the table
seizing its edge in his hands and shoving it against her so that she
was forced to retreat from its advance.

She divined instantly that he intended to force her against one of the
walls and thus corner her, and she opposed her strength to his, pushing
with all her power against the table in an effort to retard its advance.

It was to no purpose, for he was a strong man and his passions were
aroused, and in spite of her brave struggle the table continued to move
and she to retreat before it.

"Oh!" she said, in a panic of fear and dread, her face flushed, her
eyes wide and bright, her breath coming in great panting sobs; "Oh! you
beast!  You beast!"

He did not answer.  His eyes were burning with a wanton fire, they
glowed with the fierce, fell purpose of animal desire; he breathed
shrilly, rapidly, gaspingly, though the strength that he had been
compelled to use to overmatch hers had not been great.

She did not succeed in retarding the advance of the table, but she did
succeed in directing its course a little, so that instead of backing
her against the wall, as he no doubt intended to do, she brought up
finally against the stove in the corner.

There was a fire in the stove--she had kept it going to keep Calumet's
supper warm--and when she felt her body against it she reached around
and secured a flat iron.  The handle burned her hand, but she lifted it
and hurled it with all her force at his head.  He dodged, laughing
derisively.  She seized another and threw it, and this he dodged also.
She was reaching for the teakettle when he shoved the table aside and
lunged at her, and she dropped the kettle with a scream of horror and
slipped around the stove to the wall near the sitting-room door,
reaching the latter and trying frantically to unbar it.

She heard Bob's voice on the other side of the door; he was calling,
"Betty!  Betty!" in shrill, scared accents, and when Taggart leaped at
her, seizing her by the shoulders as she worked with the fastenings of
the door, she screamed to Bob to get the rifle from Malcolm's room,
directing him to go out the front way, go around to the kitchen and
shoot Taggart through one of the windows.

How long she struggled with Taggart there by the door she did not know.
It might have been an hour or merely a minute.  But she fought him,
clawing at his face with her hands, biting him, kicking him.  And she
remembered that he was getting the better of her, that his breath was
in her face and that he was dragging her toward the lamp on the shelf,
evidently intending to extinguish it--that he had almost reached it,
was, indeed, reaching a hand out to grasp it, when there came a flash
from the window, the crash of breaking glass, and the roar of an
exploding firearm.

She also remembered thinking that Bob had taken a desperate chance in
shooting at Taggart when she was so close to him, and she had a vivid
recollection of Taggart releasing her and staggering back without
uttering a sound.  She caught a glimpse of his face as he sank to the
floor; there was a gaping hole in his forehead and his eyes were set
and staring with an expression of awful horror and astonishment.  Then
the kitchen darkened, she felt the floor rising to meet her, and she
knew no more.


CHAPTER XXIII

FOR THE ALTARS OF HIS TRIBE

The first sound that Betty heard when consciousness began to return to
her was a loud pounding at the kitchen door.

She had fallen to the floor just beneath the shelf on which the lamp
sat, and she raised herself on an elbow and looked around.  He made
similar remarks about General Lee in Cuba.

He does not seem to want our Consuls to protect our citizens in foreign
countries, and it is perhaps a good thing for the nation that he
has no longer the power to hinder them in the performance of their
duties.

Consul-General Barrett's claim proves to have been just and right,
by the action of the Siamese government.

* * * * *
Blondin, the celebrated tight-rope walker, has just died in London,
at the age of seventy-three.

The performance which made him famous was the crossing of Niagara Falls
on the tight-rope.

Blondin was a Frenchman, his father having been one of Napoleon's
soldiers.

A story is told of him that when he was five years old he saw an acrobat
performing on a tight-rope.

He was so pleased with what he saw, that when he got home he stretched a
rope between two posts, and, as soon as his mother was out of the
way, took his father's fishing-rod, and, using it as a balancing pole,
made his first appearance as a tight-rope walker.

He was trained for an acrobat and tight-rope walking, and
came to this country with a troup of pantomimists.

While here he visited Niagara Falls, and the idea at once struck
him that, if he dared to cross those terrible waters on a rope, his
fortune would be made.

He made up his mind to try it, and stayed in the village of Niagara for
weeks, until he had learned just how it would be possible for him to
perform the feat.

Then he set about getting the scheme well advertised, and securing
plenty of money for himself if he succeeded in accomplishing it.

On August 17th, 1859, he made the trip across the Falls in the presence
of 50,000 spectators.

His rope was 175 feet above the waters.

He was not satisfied with merely walking across; he crossed again
blindfolded, and then carrying a man on his back, and once again
wheeling a barrow before him.

In the summer of 1860 he crossed once more in the presence of the Prince
of Wales, and carried a man on his back, whom he set down on the
rope six times, while he rested

.

* * * * *
News has reached us that a great avalanche of snow has fallen upon
the Monastery of St. Bernard, and has destroyed the left wing of
the building, though happily without costing any lives.
[Illustration: The St. Bernard at home.]
The Great St. Bernard is a mountain pass in the Swiss Alps, and the
monastery was built in the year 963 by a nobleman named Bernard de
Menthon, for the use of pilgrims on their way to Rome.
As the years have passed away, the pilgrims have become tourists,
but still the monastery's doors have been open for all who asked
for shelter there.He yelled that he didn't
want me; that you'd sent him after me.  We met Dade an' Malcolm--we'd
passed Double Fork an' nothin' was bogged down.  So we knowed
somebody'd framed somethin' up.  I come on ahead."  He grinned.
"Toban's been braggin' some about his horse, but I reckon that don't go
any more.  That black horse can run."  He indicated Taggart.  "I reckon
he come here just to bother you," he said.

She told him about the diagram and he started, stepping quickly to
where Taggart lay, searching in his pockets until he found the paper.

Then he went to the door.  Standing in it, he looked as he had looked
that day when he had humiliated Neal Taggart in her presence.  The
gentleness which she had seen in him some hours before--and which she
had welcomed--had disappeared; his lips had become stiff and pale
again, his eyes were narrowed and brilliant with the old destroying
fire.  She grew rigid and drew a deep, quivering breath, for she saw
that the pistol was still in his hand.

"What are you going to do?" she asked.

"I reckon old Taggart will still be waitin' in the timber grove," he
said with a short, grim laugh.  "They've bothered me enough.  I'm goin'
to send him where I sent his coyote son."

At that word she was close to him, her hands on his shoulders.

"Don't!" she pleaded; "please don't!"  She shuddered and cast a quick,
shrinking glance at the man on the floor.  "There has been enough
trouble tonight," she said.  "You stay here!" she commanded, trying to
pull him away from the door, but not succeeding.

He seized her face with his hands in much the same manner in which he
had seized it in his father's office on the night of his return to the
Lazy Y--she felt the cold stock of the pistol against her cheek and
shuddered again.  A new light had leaped into his eyes--the suspicion
that she had seen there many times before.

"Are you wantin' old Taggart to get away with the idol?" he demanded.

"He can't!" she denied.  "He hasn't the diagram, has he?  You have just
put it in your pocket!"

A quick embarrassment swept over him; he dropped his hands from her
face.  "I reckon that's right," he admitted.  "But I'm goin' to' send
him over the divide, idol or no idol."

"He won't be in the timber grove," she persisted; "he must have heard
the shooting and he wouldn't stay."

"I reckon he won't be able to run away from that black horse," he
laughed.  "I'll ketch him before he gets very far."

"You shan't go!" she declared, making a gesture of impotence.  "Don't
you see?" she added.  "It isn't Taggart that I care about--it's you.  I
don't want you to be shot--killed.  I won't have it!  If Taggart hasn't
gone by this time he will be hidden somewhere over there and when he
sees you he will shoot you!"

"Well," he said, watching her face with a curious smile; "I'm takin' a
look, anyway."  In spite of her efforts to prevent him he stepped over
the threshold.  She was about to follow him when she saw him wheel
swiftly, his pistol at a poise as his gaze fell upon something outside
the ranchhouse.  And then she saw him smile.

"It's Bob," he said; "with a rifle."  And he helped the boy, white of
face and trembling, though with the light of stern resolution in his
eyes, into the kitchen.

"Bob'll watch you," he said; "so's nothin' will happen to you.
Besides--" he leaned forward in a listening attitude; "Toban an' the
boys are comin'.  I reckon what I'm goin' to do won't take me long--if
Taggart's in the timber."

He stepped down and vanished around the corner of the ranchhouse.

He had scarcely gone before there was a clatter of hoofs in the
ranchhouse yard, a horse dashed up to the edge of the porch, came to a
sliding halt and the lank figure of Toban appeared before the door in
which Betty was standing.

He looked at her, noted her white face, and peered over her shoulder at
Bob, with the rifle, at Taggart on the floor.

"Holy smoke!" he said; "what's happened?"

She told him quickly, in short, brief sentences; her eyes glowing with
fear.  He tried to squeeze past her to get into the kitchen, but she
prevented him, blocking the doorway, pushing hysterically against him
with her hands.

"Calumet has gone to the timber grove--to the clearing--to look for Tom
Taggart.  Taggart will ambush him, will kill him!  I don't want him
killed!  Go to him, Toban--get him to come back!"

"Shucks," said Toban, grinning; "I reckon you don't need to worry none.
If Taggart's over in the timber an' he sees Calumet he'll just
naturally forget he's got a gun.  But if it'll ease your mind any, I'll
go after him.  Damn his hide, anyway!" he chuckled.  "I was braggin' up
my cayuse to him, an' after we met Dade an' Malcolm he run plumb away
from me.  Ride!  Holy smoke!"

He crossed the porch, leaped into the saddle and disappeared amid a
clatter of hoofs.

Betty stood rigid in the doorway, listening--dreading to hear that
which she expected to hear--the sound of a pistol shot which would tell
her that Calumet and Taggart had met.

But no sound reached her ears from the direction of the timber grove.
She heard another sound presently--the faint beat of hoofs that grew
more distinct each second.  It was Dade and Malcolm coming, she knew,
and when they finally rode up and Dade flung himself from the saddle
and darted to her side she was paler than at any time since her first
surprise of the night.

Again she was forced to tell her story.  And after it was finished, and
she had watched Dade and Malcolm carry Neal Taggart from the room, she
went over to where Bob sat, took him by the shoulder and led him to one
of the kitchen windows, and there, holding him close to her, her face
white, she stared with dreading, anxious eyes through the glass toward
the timber clump.  She would have gone out to see for herself, but she
knew that she could do nothing.  If he did not come back she knew that
she would not want to stay at the Lazy Y any longer; she knew that
without him--

She no longer weighed him in the balances of her affection as she stood
there by the window, she did not critically array his good qualities
against the bad.  She had passed that point now.  She merely wanted
him.  That was all--she just wanted him.  And when at last she saw him
coming; heard his voice, she hugged Bob closer to her, and with her
face against his sobbed silently.


A few minutes after he left the ranchhouse Calumet was in the clearing
in the timber grove, standing over the body of a man who lay face
upward beside a freshly-dug hole at the edge of a mesquite clump.  He
was still standing there when a few minutes later Toban came clattering
up on his horse.  The sheriff dismounted and stood beside him.

Calumet gave Toban one look and then spoke shortly:

"Taggart," he said.

"Lord!" said Toban, in an awed voice; "what in blazes did you do to
him?  I didn't hear no shootin'!  Is he dead?"

The bally is an insatiable creditor, but man worse.

A SERGEANT

Was once taken, when he bare office in his parish, for an honest
man.

The spawn of a decayed shopkeeper begets this fry; out of that dunghill
is this serpent's egg hatched. It is a devil made sometime out
of one of the twelve companies, and does but study the part and rehearse
it on earth, to be perfect when he comes to act it in hell; that
is his stage.
The hangman and he are twins; only the hangman is the elder brother,
and he dying without issue, as commonly he does, for none but a
ropemaker's widow will marry him, this then inherits. His habit is a
long gown, made at first to cover his knavery, but that growing too
monstrous, he now goes in buff; his conscience and that being both cut
out of one hide, and are of one toughness. The Counter-gate is his
kennel, the whole city his Paris gardens; the misery of a poor
man, but especially a bad liver, is the offals on which he feeds.

The devil calls him his white son; he is so like him that he is the
worse for it, and he takes after his father, for the one torments
bodies as fast as the other tortures souls.

Money is the crust he leaps at; cry, "a duck! a duck!" and he plunges
not so eagerly as at this. The dog's chaps water to fetch nothing else;
he hath his name for the same quality. For sergeant is _quasi See
argent_, look you, rogue, here is money.

He goes muffled like a thief, and carries still the marks of one; for
he steals upon man cowardly, plucks him by the throat, makes him stand,
and fleeces him. In this they differ, the thief is more valiant and
more honest. His walks in term times are up Fleet Street, at the end
of the term up Holborn, and so to Tyburn; the gallows are his
purlieus, in which the hangman and he are quarter rangers--the one
turns off, and the other cuts down.

All the vacation he lies imbogued behind the lattice of some blind
drunken, bawdy ale-house, and if he spy his prey, out he leaps like
a freebooter, and rifles, or like a ban-dog worries.

No officer to the city keeps his oath so uprightly; he never is
forsworn, for he swears to be true varlet to the city, and he
continues so to his dying day.

Mace, which is so comfortable to the stomach in all kind of meats,
turns in his hand to mortal poison. This raven pecks not out men's eyes
as others do; all his spite is at their shoulders, and you were
better to have the nightmare ride you than this incubus.

When any of the furies of hell die, this Cacodeemon hath the reversion
of his place.

The city is (by the custom) to feed him with good meat, as they send
dead horses to their hounds, only to keep them both in good heart,
for not only those curs at the doghouse, but these within the walls,
are to serve in their paces in their several huntings.

He is a citizen's birdlime, and where he holds he hangs.

HIS YEOMAN

Is the hanger that a sergeant wears by his side; it is a false die of the
same ball but not the same cut, for it runs somewhat higher and does
more mischief. It is a tumbler to drive in the conies. He is yet
but a bungler, and knows not how to cut up a man without tearing, but
by a pattern. One term fleshes him, or a Fleet Street breakfast.

The devil is but his father-in-law, and yet for the love he bears
him will leave him as much as if he were his own child.

And for that cause (instead of prayers) he does every morning at
the Counter-gate ask him blessing, and thrives the better in his
actions all the day after.

"And the idol's gone," he concluded.  "Telza's got it."

"Thank God!" she exclaimed, devoutly.

"I reckon," came Toban's voice, as he stepped across the kitchen floor
toward them, "that we'd better bring this here idol business to an end.
Mebbe it's bothered you folks a heap, but it's had me sorta uneasy,
too."  He grinned at Betty.  "Mebbe you'd better show him his dad's
last letter," he suggested.  "I reckon it'll let me out of this deal.
An' I'm sure wantin' to go back home."

Betty vanished into the sitting-room in an instant, and presently
returned bearing an envelope of the shape and size which had contained
all of the elder Marston's previous communications to Calumet.  She
passed it over to the latter and she and the sheriff watched him while
he read.


"MY DEAR SON: If you receive this you will understand that by this time
Betty is satisfied that you have qualified for your heritage.  I thank
you and wish I were there to shake your hand, to look into your eyes
and tell you how glad I am for your sake.

"As soon as you have your affairs in shape I want you to marry
Betty--if she will have you.  I think she will, for she is in love with
your picture.

"By this time you will know that I didn't leave Betty alone to cope
with the Taggarts.  If Dave Toban has kept his word--and I know he
has--he has visited the Lazy Y pretty often.  I didn't want you to know
that he was back of Betty, and so I have told him to visit her
secretly.  He will give you what money is left in the bank at Las
Vegas--we thought it would be safer over there.

"I want to thank you again.  God bless you.

"Your father,

"JAMES MARSTON."


Calumet slowly folded the letter and placed it into a pocket.  He
looked at Toban, a glint of reproach in his eyes.

"So, it was you that I kept hearin' in the office--nights," he said.

"I reckon," said Toban.  He looked at Betty and grinned.

Calumet also looked at her.  His face was sober.

"I reckon I've been some fool," he said.  "But I was more than a fool
when I thought--"

"I didn't blame you much for that," smiled Betty.  "You see, both times
you heard us talking it happened that Taggart was somewhere in the
vicinity, and--"

"Well," interrupted Toban with a grin; "I reckon you two will be able
to get along without any outside interference, now."

They both watched in silence as he went to the door and stepped
outside.  He halted and looked at them, whereat they both reddened.
Then he grinned widely and was gone.

Betty stood at one side of the sitting-room door, Calumet at the other.
Both were in the kitchen.  Bob, also, was in the kitchen, though
Calumet and Betty did not see him; so it appeared to Bob.  Having some
recollection of a certain light in Betty's eyes on the night that
Calumet had brought home the puppy, Bob's wisdom impelled him to
compare it with the light that was in them now, and he suspected--he
knew--

And so, very gently, very quietly, with infinite care and patience,
lest they become aware of his presence, he edged toward the kitchen
door, his rifle in hand.  Still they did not seem to notice him, and so
he passed through the door, into the dining-room, backed to the stairs,
and so left them.

The silence between Betty and Calumet continued, and they still stood
where they had stood when Bob had stolen away, for they heard sounds
outside that warned them of the approach of Dade and Malcolm.

But it seemed they did not see Dade and Malcolm stop at one of the
kitchen windows, and certainly they did not hear the whispered
conversation that was carried on between the two.

"Shucks," said Dade; "it begins to look like Cal an' Betty's quarrel
is--"

"I reckon we won't go in," decided Malcolm; "not right now.  Mebbe in
an hour, or so.  Let's go down to the bunkhouse and play a little
pitch."

They were all alone now.  And Love had not been blind to the stealthy
activities that had been carried on around it.

Betty turned her head and looked at Calumet.  He smiled at her--it was
the smile of a man who has won a battle with something more than the
material things; it was the smile of a man who has conquered self--the
smile of the ruler who knows the weakness of the citadel he has taken
and plans its strengthening.  It was the smile of the master who
realizes the potent influence of the ally who has aided in his
exaltation and who meditates reward through the simple method of
bestowing upon the ally without reservation that citadel which she has
helped to take and which, needless to say, she prizes.  But it was
something more, too, that smile.  It was the smile of the mere Man--the
man, repentant, humble, petitioning to the woman he has selected as his
mate.

"I reckon," he said; "that they all thought we wanted to be alone."

But the ally was not prepared for this precipitate bestowal of reward,
and as she blushed and looked down at the toe of her shoe, sticking out
from beneath the hem of her skirt, she looked little like a person who
had conducted a bitter war for the master who stood near her.

"Oh," she said; "did you hear them?"

"I reckon I heard them," he said.  He went closer to her.  "They're
wise--Dade an' Malcolm.  Bob, too.  Wiser than me.  But I'm gettin'
sense, an' I'll come pretty close to bein' a man--give me time.  All I
need is a boss.  For its use see _Right Diet for Children_, by Edgar J.

Saxon, 1s. net.

(5) Almonds and walnuts.

If the nuts are found difficult to digest try them in a finely
prepared form, as in Mapleton's Almond Cream, "P.R."

Walnut Butter, or "Protoid" Almond Butter.--[EDS.]

PICKLED PEPPERCORNS.
Lady Cheylesmore was wearing a magnificent cock pheasant's plume.
The eagle eye of the customs official caught sight of it and handed
her a pair of scissors to help her detach it.He stepped
back with a amused growl and gave place to Malcolm, who also looked.

Silently they went back into the bunkhouse.

"I reckon," suggested Dade, from the darkness, "that if we're figgerin'
to go to bed we'll have to bunk right here.  There's no tellin' when
them two will get through mushin'.  An' it's been too hard a tussle for
them to have us disturbin' them now."

From the porch there came a low protest from the ally.

"Don't, Cal," she said; "don't you see that Dade and Malcolm are
watching us?"

"Jealous, I guess," he laughed.  "Well, let them watch.  I reckon, if
they're around here for any time, after this, they'll see me kissin'
you plenty more."




THE END