Produced by Jim Ludwig


UNCLE SAM'S BOYS WITH PERSHING'S TROOPS
or
Dick Prescott at Grips with the Boche


By H. Irving Hancock


CONTENTS

CHAPTERS
    I. Dick at Training Camp
   II. Greg has to be Stern
  III. Bad Blood Comes to the Surface
   IV. As it is Done in the Army
    V. The Camp Carpenter's Talk
   VI. The Enemy in Camp Berry
  VII. At Grips with German Spies
 VIII. With the Conscientious Objectors
   IX. Order for "Over There"
    X. On Board the Troopship
   XI. In the Waters of the Sea Wolves
  XII. The Best of Details!
 XIII. Off to See Fritz in His Wild State
  XIV. The Thrill of the Fire Trench
   XV. Out in No Man's Land
  XVI. The Trip Through a German Trench
 XVII. Dick Prescott's Prize Catch
XVIII. A Lot More of the Real Thing
  XIX. A "Guest" in Prison Camp
   XX. On a German Prisoner Train
  XXI. Seeking Death More Than Escape
 XXII. Can It Be the Old Chum?
XXIII. The Dash to Get Back to Pershing
 XXIV. Conclusion


CHAPTER I

DICK AT TRAINING CAMP


His jaw set firmly, his keen, fiery eyes roving over the group
before him, the gray-haired colonel of infantry closed his remarks
with these words:

"Gentlemen, the task set for the officers of the United States
Army is to produce, with the least possible delay, the finest
fighting army in the world.  Our own personal task is to make
this, the Ninety-ninth, the finest regiment of infantry in that
army.

"You have heard, at some length, what is expected of you.  Any
officer present, of any grade, who does not feel equal to the
requirements I have laid down will do well to seek a transfer
to some other regiment or branch of the service, or to send in
his resignation as a military officer."

Rising to their feet behind the long, uncovered pine board mess
tables at which they had sat listening and taking notes, the eyes
of the colonel's subordinate officers glistened with enthusiasm.
Instead of showing any trace of dissent they greeted their commanding
officer's words with a low murmur of approval that grew into a
noisy demonstration, then turned into three rousing cheers.

"And a tiger!" shouted a young lieutenant, in a bull-like voice
that was heard over the racket.

Colonel Cleaves, though he did not unbend much before the tumult,
permitted a gleam of satisfaction to show itself in his fine,
rugged features.

"Good!" he said quietly, in a firm voice.  "I feel assured that
we shall all pull together for the common weal and for the abiding
glory of American arms."

The loyalty and fidelity of West Virginia should, in Mr. Willey's
opinion, guarantee the safe manner in which the commonwealth
would handle the question. Never before in similar situations, he
argued, had slaves _in esse_ been freed; freedom extended only
to those unborn at the passage of the constitution or to those born
on or after a date therein designated.[93]
Again joining issue with Senator Willey, Mr. Lane pointed out
that the same situation arose in Kansas when in February, 1856,
the people adopted a constitution providing for the emancipation
of the slaves on the fourth of the following July.

The slaves, however, handled the situation. They told their
masters that since they should become free after the date designated,
they would not permit themselves to be taken out of the State prior
to that date.[94] Mr.

Lane did not doubt the capacity to do likewise on the part of the
slaves then being considered.

An interesting spectacle presented itself when the two Senators
from Virginia engaged in spirited debate.

Mr. Carlile desired that the State be admitted under the terms of the
constitution framed at Wheeling, the alternative being that the
people of the State should have the new terms submitted to them for
approval. He believed that Mr.

Willey's amendment was incomplete as it stood, and that an amendment
in conformity with the one presented by Mr. Wade was necessary,
providing, of course, that it was the sense of the Senate to admit
the State only upon conditions.

He took issue with Mr.
Willey's assertion that the passage of Mr. Wade's amendment would
be followed by a wholesale delivery of slaves to purchasers further
South.[95] In the meanwhile Mr.

Wade's amendment was agreed to.

Mr.

Carlile now began overtly his campaign of obstruction and opposition
to the admission of the State into the Union. He offered as
an amendment to that of his colleague to be inserted at the end of the
sixteenth line, the following words: "After the said ordinance
shall be submitted to the vote of the people in the said State
of West Virginia and be ratified by the vote of the majority of
the people thereof." The sinister motive underlying his proposal was
clearly perceived and ably met by Mr. Willey. He opposed the
measure: first, because of the unusual requirement of the majority
vote of the people, and, second, because of the new convention that
would be required to assent to the fundamental proposition, and the
consequent new election and additional costs to the people.

The constitutional convention, he argued, was still in existence,
was still a legal body, and that, therefore, there was no
sufficient reason for the reference of the matter beyond the
jurisdiction thereof.[96] 
Dissatisfied but not discouraged, Mr.

Carlile explained away the objection to the words "majority of the
people." He maintained, however, that the changes contemplated
would affect the fundamental law and that they should, therefore,
be ratified by the people subsequent to being assented to by the
Convention.

It was, he argued, a departure from and in derogation of the customs
and ideas of Virginia to change the organic law without first
submitting the proposed new law to the people. Setting forth
more clearly his position on the whole matter Carlile said:
"Supposing--as I suppose, I will see when I move this test
amendment, which I shall, to this proposition--that the Senate is
unwilling to admit us without conditions, I shall vote against any
bill, if it is pressed, exacting conditions, for the purpose of
going home to my people asking them to assemble a Convention between
this and the first Monday in December, and act upon the suggestion
which we have received here from the Senate, if they desire to do
so and come here with a constitution that will enable Congress,
without such arbitrary stretch of power to admit us at once without
delay

."[97]
It was evident that Carlile was committed to a proslavery program
and that his plan, if adopted, would result in the indefinite
postponement of the admission of the new State.

His colleague, therefore, with an apparently sincere effort to meet the
wishes of the Senate and to satisfy the objections of Mr.
Carlile, read the bill which was presented in the House by Mr.
Brown, of Virginia. At the same time he announced that that bill,
if agreeable to the Committee and to his colleagues, would be acceptable
to him as a compromise.[98] This assented to, Mr. Willey withdrew
his original amendment and offered the Brown bill as a substitute
for the whole bill, striking out all after the word "whereas" in
the preamble and substituting this measure in lieu of the Committee's
bill.[99] The bill as finally presented follows:

"Section 1.

That the State of West Virginia be and is hereby declared to
be one of the United States of America, and admitted into the Union
on an equal footing with the original States in all respects,
whatever, and until the next general census shall be entitled to
three members in the House of Representatives of the United
States:
Provided always that this act shall not take effect until after the
proclamation of the President of the United States hereinafter
provided for.

"Section 2. It being represented to Congress that since the Convention
of the 26th of November, 1861, that framed and proposed the
Constitution, for the said State of West Virginia, the people
thereof have expressed a wish to change the seventh section
of the eleventh article of the said Constitution by striking out
the same and inserting the following in its place, namely, 'The
children of slaves born within the limits of this State after the
fourth day of July, 1863, shall be free, and no slave shall be
permitted to come into the State for permanent residence therein.'

Therefore be it enacted, that whenever the people of West
Virginia shall, through their said convention, and by a vote to
be taken at an election to be held within the limits of the State
at such time as the Convention may provide, make and ratify the
change aforesaid and properly certify the same under the hand of
the President of the Convention, it shall be lawful for the President
of the United States to issue the proclamation stating the fact and
thereupon this act shall take effect and be in force from and after
sixty days from the date of said proclamation

."[100]

It will be observed that the terms of the amendment made no provision
for the subsequent freedom of those slaves _in esse_. It was the sense
of the committee of the whole, expressed in its action on Mr.
Wade's amendment, that a specified class of slaves _in esse_ should
be given their freedom upon their arrival at a designated age.

In conformity with this view, Mr. Lane, of Kansas moved to amend the
second section by inserting after the word _free_ the following:
"And that all slaves within the State who shall at the time aforesaid
be under ten years of age shall become free when they arrive at the
age of twenty-one years, and all slaves over ten years and under
twenty-one years of age, shall become free when they arrive at the
age of twenty-five years

."[101] This amendment was accepted.

After the passage of the above amendment, Mr. Carlile, persistent
in his policy of opposing admission, proposed to amend Mr.
Willey's last proposition. His amendment was to the effect that the
proposed new State be admitted without conditions.

In speaking thereupon, Mr.
Willey affirmed that this amendment conformed to his personal views,
but that as a matter of good faith and honor he was precluded from
espousing its cause.[102] The amendment was rejected.

Following the report of the bill to the Senate and the concurrence
of the latter in the compromise amendment of Mr. Willey as amended
by Mr.

Lane, Mr. Sumner advised that he had proposed to offer to the
Senate his amendment lately rejected in Committee.

Referring to this proposal, Mr. Lane asserted his assurance that the
insertion of the provision in question would cause the bill to
fail before the House of Representatives and to merit the disapproval
of the people of West Virginia.

He urged, therefore, that it would be the better policy to vote
for the bill as already amended and to endure slavery in the
State for another generation, if need be. Despite the conformity
of this view with those of a majority of his colleagues, Mr.
Sumner, though declining to offer the amendment, stated his
irrevocable opposition to the admission of another slave State,
even though the term of slavery be for but twenty-one years.

He considered it his duty, therefore, to vote against the measure
as it then stood.[103]
The engrossment of the bill for a third reading found its opponents
still unweary in their efforts to obstruct or defeat its passage.

Senator Trumbull, of Illinois, summed up his opposition to the
bill in two objections, namely: (1) since all persons over twenty-one
years of age were thereby doomed to perpetual slavery, the new State
would be in theory and in practice a slave State; and (2) he failed
to see the necessity for or wisdom in dividing any of the old States
until the situation could be seen as a whole.

He let it be known, however, that this statement should not be
construed to commit him to the position of opposing the admission
of a slave State under all circumstances whatever.

In conformity with his conviction, he moved that all consideration
of the bill be postponed until the first Monday of December next.

The Senator from Illinois was ably supported by Mr.

Carlile, who, failing in his last attempt to amend the bill to the
effect that the State should come in without conditions, affirmed
his opposition to any proceedings whereby the organic law of a
State is framed by Congress and asserted that he would support the
Trumbull motion at the risk of misconstruction.[104]
Those Senators who favored the immediate passage of the bill were
not unprepared for the most determined attacks of its opponents.

Mr.

Howard, of Michigan, requested of the Senators from Virginia, whether
the Wheeling Legislature had taken any action on the "Joint Resolution
passed by Congress suggesting that the so-called border slave States
take some action in reference to the final emancipation of their
slaves." Replying thereto, Mr. Willey asserted that the Legislature
was entirely favorable to a program involving final emancipation.

He took occasion, moreover, to add that "his colleague, Mr. Carlile,
was misrepresenting the attitude of the legislature that sent
him there in interposing the objection that was calculated to
thwart the whole movement

."[105]
Agreeing with the remarks of Mr.

Willey, Mr. Wade, while opposing the motion of Senator Trumbull,
explained that Mr.

Carlile had penned all the bills and drawn them up; that he was the
hardest worker and the most cheerful of them all, that he was the
most forceful among them in pressing his views upon the Committee.

"Whence," asked he, "came this change of heart? For indeed his
conversion was greater than that of St. Paul." "Now," said Mr.
Wade, "is the time for West Virginia to be admitted into the Union."

"Let us not postpone the action for the next session, but let us
reject the motion of the gentleman from Illinois and pass the bill

."[106]
Continuing the debate, Mr.

Ten Eyck affirmed the legality and the expediency of admitting
the new State.

His arguments were substantially as follows: (1) that the legal
question, that is, the right of the legislature to give assent
to the division of the State, was settled when the Senate accepted
as members the two men appointed by the said legislature; (2) as
a matter of policy he urged that the people of Western Virginia
should not be forced to run the risk of having the whole State,
because of the collapse of the rebellion, repeal the act of the
legislature and thereby continue a domination of tyranny over them.

The vote was taken and the motion to postpone was rejected.[107]
The final objection prior to the passage of the bill, came from Mr.

Powell, of Kentucky.

Asserting, in substance, that since ten of the forty-eight counties
to be included in West Virginia were unrepresented in the Convention
and in the Legislature, and since less than one-fourth of the people
gave their consent to the formation of a new State, he held that
there was no constitutional right to act.

He was, therefore, unalterably opposed to the admission of the
new State.
Unswerved from his position, by the assurances of Mr. Willey, that
(1) the absence of ten thousand men under arms, and (2) the foregone
conclusion that separation would be effected jointly accounted for
the small number of nearly nineteen thousand votes, Mr.

Powell called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was put and the bill to admit was passed.[108]
Even the passage of the bill did not cause Mr.

Carlile's opposition to cease.

Determined in his efforts to make a final plea for the slave-holding
interests, he introduced Senate Bill No. 531[109] supplemental to
the act for the admission of West Virginia into the Union and for
other purposes. This bill sought, of course, to make effective
his plan that the whole work of the Constitutional Convention be
reenacted.

The bill was reported with amendments and adversely from the
Judiciary Committee, whereupon Mr. Carlile sought to have it
considered in the Senate. This effort, like his previous ones,
was wholly unsuccessful.[110]

While this battle was in progress in the Senate the House also was
considering the question. The debate in the Senate on the admission
of the proposed new State of West Virginia into the Union hinged
largely upon the consideration of the question of slavery.

Was the new State to be admitted as a slave State, providing
for gradual emancipation?
Was it to be admitted on a program of immediate emancipation, or
was it to come in with no conditions relating to the disposition
of this all-absorbing matter?

These were the questions to be determined. They were not altogether
the chief considerations in the House.

On the twenty-fifth day of June, 1862, Mr. Brown, of Virginia,
by unanimous consent, introduced before the House a bill for
the "Admission of West Virginia into the Union and for other
purposes."

After the first and second readings it was referred to the
Committee on Territories.[111] On the sixteenth of July the bill
as passed by the Senate was read a first and second time. Mr.
Bingham demanded previous question on the passage of the bill; whereupon
Mr. Segar, representing a district in Eastern Virginia, objected
to a third reading and moved that the bill be laid on the table.

On a call for the vote the motion was defeated. On the motion of
Roscoe Conkling the consideration of the bill was postponed until
the second Tuesday in December, 1862.[112]
The bill came up again for consideration in the House at the time
designated, December 9, 1862.

Mr. Conway, of Kansas, obtaining the floor through the courtesy
of Mr.

Bingham, remarked that he had no objection to the erection of a
new State in Western Virginia; that he understood that the inhabitants
were thoroughly loyal; that they were opposed to slavery; and that
they would make a powerful and prosperous State.

Despite these considerations, he was not prepared to adhere to the
program of admission.

He objected, therefore, that the application had not come up in the
proper constitutional form.

The commonwealth was not organized into a territorial form of
government, and so, said he, no enabling act could be passed. The
constitutional provision that no State may be divided without the
assent of the legislature thereof was not, in his opinion, adhered
to.

He questioned the legitimacy of the so-called "Restored Government
of Virginia" after a part of the State had seceded from the Union.[113]
It was his contention that the failure of the State government
caused the sovereignty of the State to accrue to the Federal
Government.

Any application for admission into the Union, on the part of West
Virginia, should proceed on this theory.[114]

Replying to these arguments, Mr. Brown, of Virginia, claimed
constitutional regularity of procedure in forming the new State
and in seeking to have it admitted into the Union.

He referred to the case of Kentucky as a precedent, attempting
thereby to show the competency of Congress to admit a State formed
within the jurisdiction of another.

He pointed out that the Senate, the House, the Executive Department
of the United States Government and a State Court in Ohio had,
all, by their several acts and relationships with the Wheeling
Legislature recognized it to be the legal legislature of Virginia.
Discussing the original powers of the people, Mr. Brown asserted
"that the principle was laid down in the Declaration of
Independence that the legislative powers of the people cannot be
annihilated; that when the functionaries to whom they are entrusted
become incapable of exercising them, they revert to the people, who
have the right to exercise them in their primitive and original
capacity."

"When, therefore, the government of old Virginia capitulated to
the Confederacy," said he, "the loyal people of Western Virginia
acted in accordance with the directing principle of the Declaration
of Independence

.
Though Captain Cartwright's blood was boiling there was a sense
of quiet mastery in Prescott's manner and voice, combined with
a quality of leadership that restrained the angry man for the
next few seconds, during which Dick turned to a waiter to say:

"This meat is cold.  Bring some hot meat for Captain Cartwright,
and more vegetables.  Try some of this salad, Cartwright---it's
good."

Instantly the officers, looking eagerly on, turned their glances
away and began general conversation again, for they were quick
to see that Dick's usual tact was at least postponing a quarrel.

"It will be a hot afternoon for drill, won't it?" Dick asked,
in the next breath, and in a low tone.

"Maybe," grunted Cartwright.  "But perhaps I shall find still
hotter work before the drill-call sounds."

"Nonsense!" said Dick quickly.  "After the K.O.'s talk this morning,
don't start anything that will take our mind off our work."

"I've got to have a bit more than an explanation from Holmes,"
the sulky captain continued, though in a low voice.

"Cartwright," said Dick, in an authoritative undertone, "I don't
want you to start anything in that direction until you've had a
good talk with me!"

There the matter ended for the moment.  Dick joined in the general
conversation.  Presently Cartwright tried to, but the officers
to whom he addressed his remarks replied either so briefly or
so coolly that the captain realized that he was not popular at
the present time.

"Holmes will make trouble for any one who doesn't toady to him,"
thought Captain Cartwright moodily.  "I can see that I've got
to make it my business to take the conceit and arrogance out of him."

At almost the same moment, over in a company barracks, Sergeant
Mock, as he chewed his food gloomily, was reflecting:

"So Captain Holmes will call me down before a lot of officers,
will he?  He'll order me to show more 'pep,' will he, the
slave-driver?  And if I don't he'll break me, eh?"

"Breaking" a non-commissioned officer is securing his reduction
to the grade of private.

"The captain is so lazy himself that he doesn't know a good man
when he sees one," Mock told himself angrily.

Then he added, threateningly to himself:

"He'd better not try it.  If he does, he'll sure wish he hadn't.
Since this war began even the officers are only on probation, and
I've brains enough to find a way to put him in bad with the
regimental K.O."

"What's the matter, Mock, don't you like your food?" asked the
sergeant seated at his left.  "You're scowling something fierce."

"It isn't the chow," Sergeant Mock retorted gruffly.

"Must be the heat, then---or a call-down," observed his brother
sergeant.

"Never you mind!" retorted Mock.  "And I'm not talking much now;
I want to think."

"Must have been a real 'cussing-out' that you got," grinned the
other sergeant unconcernedly.

Bending over a passing soldier murmured to Mock:

"Top wants to see you in the company office when you're through
eating."

The first sergeant of a company is also known, in Army parlance,
as the "top sergeant" or the "top cutter."

Though he dawdled with his meal Mock did not eat much more.  Finally
he rose, stalking sulkily from the mess-room and across the central
corridor.  Thrusting out a hand he turned the knob of the door
of the company office and almost flung the door open, stepping
haughtily inside.

"Mock," said First Sergeant Lund, looking up, "you're too old
in the service to enter in that fashion.  You know, as well as
I do, that there is a 'knock' sign painted on the door, and that
only an officer is privileged to enter without knocking.  Suppose
the captain had been in here when you flung in in that fashion?"

"He's no better than any one else!" retorted Mock.

Facing about in his chair Sergeant Lund briefly rested one hand
on his desk, then sprang to his feet.

"Attention!" he commanded sharply.

Mock obeyed, throwing his head up, his chest out and squaring his
shoulders as he dropped his hands straight along either trousers
seam, though he sneered:

"Putting on officer's airs, are you, Lund?"

"No; I appear to be talking to a rookie (recruit) who happens
to be wearing a sergeant chevrons," retorted the top sternly.
"Sergeant Mock, in this office, or anywhere in my presence, you
will refrain from making disrespectful remarks about your officers
And I'd advise you to adopt that as your standard at all times
and in all places.  Do you get that?"

"I hear you," Mock rejoined, standing at ease again.  "You wanted
to see me?"

"Yes.  Shortly before recall sounded I looked out of the window
and noticed that you were handling the second platoon in anything
but a soldierly manner.  I was about to come out and speak to
you when I observed the captain call you to him.  He corrected
your method of handling the platoon, didn't he?"

"He thought he did," Sergeant Mock responded, his lips quivering
"But the tone he took, or rather the words he said to me, aren't
the kind that make better soldiers of non-coms."

"So?" demanded Sergeant Lund, looking sharply into his subordinate's
eyes.

"No!" Mock snapped sullenly.  "When an officer wants me to do
my best be's got to treat me like the gentleman that he's supposed
to be."

For twenty seconds Sergeant Lund continued his staring at Mock.
Then he rested a hand heavily on the other's shoulder as he said:

"Sergeant Mock, this is a man's army, training to do a nation's
share in the biggest war in history.  None but a man can do a
man's work, and nothing but an army of real men can do the nation's
work.  If you fit yourself into your place, work hard enough and
forget all about yourself except your oath to serve the Flag and
obey your officers, I believe that you can do a real man's work.
If you do anything different from that I'll knock your block off
without a second word on the subject."

A hotly angry reply leaped to Sergeant Mock's lips, but he was
wise enough to choke it back.  For Sergeant Lund, a real man,
a real soldier and a loyal American, stood before him regarding
him with a look in which there was no faltering nor any doubt as
to his intentions.

"That's all, Sergeant Mock," said the top, an instant later.
"I'm going to keep an eye on you, and I want to be able to say
a word of praise to you this evening."

"Two of a kind---the top and the company commander," Mock growled
under his breath as he went up the stairs to a squad room above.


CHAPTER II

GREG HAS TO BE STERN


A full minute before the bugler sounded the call Captain Dick
Prescott was on hand, standing in the shadow of the end of the
barracks of his company.  Among other reasons he was there to
note the alacrity with which his men came out of the building.

Before the notes of the call had died away most of the men of
his company were on hand, his lieutenants among the first.  Within
saving time all the rest had appeared, except those who had been
excused for one reason or another.

"A company fall in!" directed First Sergeant Kelly promptly.

As the men fell in in double rank there were a few cases of confusion,
for some of the men were rookies who had joined only recently.

"Sergeant Kelly, instruct the other sergeants to see to it that
each man knows his exact place in company formation," Dick ordered.

"Yes, sir," replied Kelly.

The corporals reported briskly the absentees, if any, in their
squads.  The counting of fours sounded next after inspection of
arms.

"A little more snap in answering when fours are counted," Dick
called, loudly enough for all the company to hear.  "Let every
man call his own number instantly and clearly.  For instance,
when one man has called 'two' let the man at his left call 'three'
without a second's delay.  In the way of good soldiering this
is more important than most of you new men realize.  Lieutenant
Terry!"

"Sir," the first lieutenant responded, stepping forward, saluting.

"Take the company.  Drill in dressings, facings, the manual of
arms, wheeling and marching by twos and fours."

Then, stepping to one side, Prescott let his gaze rove over the
company, from one file or rank to another.  Everything that was
done badly he noted.  Presently, when the men were standing at
ease he related his observations to Lieutenant Noll Terry, who
thereupon gave the company further instruction.

Finally, when the company started across the drill ground in column
of fours, Dick walked briskly into the barracks building, going
to the company office, whither Sergeant Kelly had preceded him.
Kelly, and a corporal and private who were there on clerical duty,
rose and stood at attention as the captain entered.

"Rest," Dick commanded briefly, whereupon the corporal and the
private returned to the desk at which they were working, while
Dick crossed to the sergeant's desk.  Seating himself there he
gave close attention to the papers that Sergeant Kelly handed
him.  Such as required signature Captain Prescott signed.  Then,
for fifteen minutes, he busied himself with requisitions for clothing
and equipment.  After that other papers required close attention.
Following that several matters of company administration had
to be taken up.  Finally, Sergeant Kelly handed Dick a list on
which names had been written.

"These seven men have applied for pass from retreat this afternoon
until reveille tomorrow morning," reported Dick's top.  "I have
approved them, subject to your action."

Reading quickly through the names, Prescott replied:

"Give six of them pass, but refuse it to Private Hartley.  This
forenoon I observed that he saluted officers very indifferently
when passing them, and once Hartley had to be spoken to by an
officer whom he did not see in time to salute him.  In whose squad
is Hartley?"

"In Corporal Aspen's, sir."

"Then direct Corporal Aspen to take Hartley aside, at any time
suited to the corporal's convenience this evening.  Have the corporal
drill Private Hartley at least twenty minutes in saluting, with,
of course, proper intervals for arm rest."

"Yes, sir.  May I offer the captain a suggestion?"

"Yes."

"Aspen will be corporal in charge of quarters to-night.  Hartley
is sometimes a very slovenly soldier," Kelly reported.  "May I
direct Corporal Aspen to keep Hartley up and give the instruction
in saluting after midnight?  Corporal Aspen could take the man
into the mess-room where none of the men would be disturbed."

"That sounds like a good idea," Dick nodded, smiling slightly.
"If he has to lose some of his sleep for instruction Hartley
may remember better.  A soldier who offers his salutes in a slovenly
fashion is always a long way from being a really good soldier.
And, Sergeant, tell all the corporals that each will be held
responsible for drill and instruction of their squads in the art
of snappy saluting."

Glancing at his wrist watch Prescott now noted that it was within
five minutes of time for the battalion practice march.  Accordingly
he stepped outside.  His lieutenants being already on the drill
ground he gave them brief directions as to the instruction to
be imparted on the hike and the deficiencies in the men's work
that were to be watched for.  While he was still speaking the
bugler sounded assembly.

Two or three minutes later the first battalion, under Major Wells,
marched off the drill ground in column of fours.

As A company moved off at the head of the battalion some of the
non-coms called quietly:

"Hip!  hip!  hip!"

At each "hip" the men stepped forward on the left foot.  A few
of the recruits still found difficulty in keeping step.

"Let that third four close up!" ordered Lieutenant Terry briskly.
"Pay more heed to keeping the interval correctly."

When the third four closed up those behind closed in accordance,
sergeants and corporals giving this matter close attention.

As it was a practice march the men continued to move in step.
Company streets were left behind and the battalion moved on across
a field, where later a trench system was to be installed, out
past where the rifle ranges were already being constructed, and
then up the gradual ascent of a low hill from which a spread-out
view of the camp was to be had.  On all the out-lying roads, at
this time, bodies of troops were to be seen marching in various
directions.  At a distance these columns of men, clad in olive
drab, made one think of brown caterpillars moving slothfully along.
That was a distance effect, however, for the marching men did
not move slowly, but kept on at the regular cadence of a hundred
and twenty steps to the minute.

In less than ten minutes after the start, with the rays of the
sun pouring down mercilessly on them, the soldiers began to perspire
freely.  Another five minutes and it was necessary to brush the
perspiration out of their eyes.

Assuredly the officers felt the heat as much.  Yet from time to
time Captain Prescott fell out from his place at the head of the
company and allowed the line to march by, observing every good,
indifferent or bad feature of their marching, and correcting what
he could by low spoken commands.  Whenever the last of the company
had passed Prescott ran along by the marching men until he had
gained the head.  If the men suffered acute discomfort in marching
Prescott experienced more suffering in running under that hot
sun.  But he was intent only on the idea of having the best company
in what he fondly hoped would turn out to be the best regiment
in the Army.

For some minutes Greg had been aware that Sergeant Mock, of his
company, was hobbling along.  Now, as he turned to glance backward,
he saw Mock step out of the ranks, go to the side of the road
and sit down.

A glance at his wrist watch, and Greg saw that the first half-hour
was nearly up.  In a minute or two more, he knew Major Bell would
give the order for a counter-march, and the first battalion would
swing and come back on its own trail.  So Captain Holmes turned
and ran back to his non-commissioned officer.

"What's the matter, Sergeant?" the young captain inquired pleasantly.

Mock made as though trying to rise from the ground to stand at
attention, but his lips twisted as though he were in pain.

"Rest," ordered Greg, "and tell me what ails you."

"My feet are killing me, sir," groaned the sergeant.

"That's odd," Captain Holmes commented.  "You were all right at
assembly---lively enough then.  Has half an hour of marching used
up a sound, healthy man?"

Instantly the sergeant's look became surly.

"All I know, sir, is that I could hardly stand on my feet.  So
I had to drop out.  If you'll permit it, sir, I shall have to
get back to camp the best way I can."

"If you're that badly off I'll have an ambulance sent for you,"
Greg went on.  "But I don't understand your feet giving out so
suddenly.  Take off one of your shoes and the sock."

"That may not show much, but I'm suffering just the same, sir,"
rejoined the non-com in a grumbling tone.

"Let me see," Greg insisted.

While the sergeant was busy removing a legging and unlacing a
shoe Captain Holmes glanced up the road to discover that the battalion
was counter-marching.

"Be quick about it, Sergeant," Greg urged.

Moving no faster than he had to, Mock took off his shoe, then slowly
turned the sock down, peeling it off.

"Is that the worst foot?" Greg demanded, in astonishment.

"I don't know, sir; they both hurt me."

"Do you want to show me the other foot, or do you wish to get
back among the file closers?"

"I---I can't walk, sir."

Down on one knee went Greg, carefully inspecting the foot and
feeling it.  The skin was clean, rosy, firm.

"Why there isn't a sign of a blister," Captain Holmes declared.
"Nor is there an abrasion of any kind, or any callous.  There
isn't even a corn.  That's as healthy a doughboy foot as I've
seen.  Dress your foot again, and put on your legging---_pronto_."

A "doughboy" is an infantry soldier.  "Pronto" is a word the Army
has borrowed from the Spanish, and means, "Be quick about it."

"I'm not fit to march, sir," cried Sergeant Mock.

"Either you'll be ready by the time B company is here, and you'll
march in, or I'll detail a man to remain here with you, and send
an ambulance for you.  If I have to send an ambulance I'll have
you examined at the hospital, and if I find you've been faking
foot trouble then you shall feel the full weight of military law.
I'll give you your own choice.  Which do you want?"

Tugging his sock on, Mock merely mumbled.

"Answer me!" Greg insisted sharply.

"I---I'll do my best to march, sir."

"Then be sure you're ready by the time B company gets here, and
be sure you march all the way in," Greg ordered sternly.  He hated
a shamming imitation of a soldier.

Major Bell and his staff came by at the head of the line, followed
by Prescott and A company.

"Don't disappoint me, Sergeant," Greg warned his man.

Though his brow was black with wrath Sergeant Mock stood up by
the time that the head of B company arrived.

"Take your place, Sergeant," Greg ordered, and waited to see his
order obeyed, next running up to his own post.

Ten minutes later, as a group of carpenters from the rifle range
paused at the roadside, Greg chanced to glance backward.  He was
just in time to see Sergeant Mock limping out of the line of
file-closers to sit down at the roadside.

His jaws set, Greg Holmes darted back.

"That's enough of this, Mock," he called.  "You can't sham in B
company.  Your feet, I suppose?"

"Yes, sir," groaned the sergeant.

"First two men of the rear four of B company fall out and come
here," Captain Holmes shouted.

Instantly the two men detached themselves from the company and
came running back.

"Fix your bayonets," Greg ordered.  "Bring Sergeant Mock in at
the rear of the battalion.  If he shirks, prod him with the points
of your bayonets.  Don't be brutal, but make the sergeant keep
up at the rear of the battalion."

"Sir-----" began Mock protestingly.

"Quite enough for you, Sergeant Mock,"  Greg rapped out.  "I'll
have your feet examined by a surgeon when you come in.  Unless
the surgeon tells me that I'm wrong you may look for something
to happen!"

As Greg turned and started to run back to the head of his company
he thought he heard a sound like a hiss.  In his opinion it came
from some one in the group of carpenters, but he did not halt
to investigate.

Though Mock limped all the way in, he came in exactly at the tail
of the battalion.  As the last company halted on the drill ground
Sergeant Lund came back for him, relieving the guards.

"Mock, until you've been examined," said the top, "you're not
to go beyond battalion bounds."

"Am I in arrest?" demanded Mock, his face set in ugly lines.

"You're confined within battalion bounds. Remember that," saying
which First Sergeant Lund turned and strode away.

Nor was Mock a happy man.  Holmes arranged that a regimental surgeon
should come over to B company barracks later and make a careful
examination of Sergeant Mock's feet.  For some reason the surgeon
did not come promptly.  The evening meal was eaten, and darkness
settled down over Camp Berry.  Mock, still limping and looking
woeful, kept out in the open air.

"Psst!" came sharply from somewhere, and Mock, turning, saw a
man in civilian garb standing in the shadow of a latrine shed.

"Come here," called the stranger.  Still surly, but urged by curiosity,
Mock obeyed the summons.

"I don't want to be seen talking with you," murmured the stranger,
in a low voice, "but I want to offer you my sympathy.  Say, but
a man gets treated roughly in the Army.  That captain of yours---"

As the stranger paused, looking keenly at Mock, the disgruntled
sergeant finished vengefully:

"The captain?  He's a dog!"

"Dog is right," agreed the stranger promptly.  "Will he do anything
more to you?"

"I expect he'll bust me," said Sergeant Mock.

To "bust" is the same as to "break." It means to reduce a non-com
to the ranks.

"Are you going to stand it?" demanded the stranger.

"Fat chance I'll have to beat the captain's game!" declared Mock
angrily.

"But are you going to pay him back?"

"How?"

"Listen.  I was in the Army once, and I don't like these officer
boys.  Maybe I've something against your captain, too.  Anyway,
keep mum and take good advice, and I'll help you to make him wish
he'd never been born."

"Not a chance!" dissented Sergeant Mock promptly.  "Captain Holmes
isn't afraid of anything, and besides he was born lucky.  Besides
that, do anything to hurt him, and you've got Captain Prescott
against you, too, and ready to rip you up the back."

"It's as easy to put 'em both in bad as it is to do it to either,"
promised the stranger.  "Now, listen.  You-----"


CHAPTER III

BAD BLOOD COMES TO THE SURFACE


Later in the evening the surgeon came around.  After examining
Sergeant Mock's feet for twenty minutes, and testing the skin as
well, he pronounced Mock a shammer.

Mock was sent to the guard-house for twenty-four hours.  The next
morning an order was published reducing the sergeant to the rank
of private.  Yet, on the whole, the ex-sergeant looked pleased in
a sullen, disagreeable sort of way.  He had listened to the stranger.

Greg, however, had other troubles on his hands.  After the noon
meal that day, as he was on his way to his quarters upstairs Captain
Cartwright passed him in the corridor.

"I hear you're turning martinet," said Cartwright, with a disagreeable
smile.

"Very likely," smiled Holmes, "but what are the specifications?"

"I heard that you had a sergeant busted for having an opinion of
his own."

"That's not so," Greg declared promptly.

"Do you mean to tell me I'm a liar?" Cartwright asked flushing.

"Did I understand you to charge me with preferring unjustifiable
charges against a sergeant in my company?"

"I said I heard you had busted a sergeant for doing his own thinking,"
the other captain insisted.

"Cartwright, it's difficult for me to guess at what you're driving,"
Holmes went on, patiently, "but I've already told you that I did
nothing of the kind that you allege."

"That's calling me a liar again!" flamed Cartwright.

"I'm sorry if it is," returned Greg coolly, and turned toward
his door.

"You cannot call me a liar!" cried Captain Cartwright, taking
a quick step forward, his fists clenched.

"Apparently I don't have to," scoffed Holmes.  "You're eager to
claim the title for yourself."

Up flew the other captain's fist.  But just then a door opened
behind him, and Dick Prescott caught the uplifted fist in tight,
vise-like hold.

"Don't do that, Cartwright," he advised.

"Let me alone," insisted the other striving though failing to
release his captured wrist.

"Don't do anything rash, Cartwright.  Listen to good sense; then
I am going to let go of your wrist.  If you were to strike Holmes
he would be practically bound to thrash you, or else to prefer
charges.  In either case the matter would get before a court-martial.
My testimony, from what I overheard, would have to sustain Holmes."

"You two would swear for each other anywhere and at all times,"
sneered Captain Cartwright.

This was hinting that Dick Prescott would be willing to perjure
himself, and Dick flushed, though with difficulty he kept his
patience.

"I'm going to let go of you now, Cartwright," Prescott continued.

As Dick let go of the captured wrist Captain Cartwright wheeled
and aimed a vicious blow at his brother officer's face.

But Prescott's arm thrust up his adversary's.

"Stop it, Cartwright!"

Apparently the other could not control his anger.  He aimed another
savage blow.  Dick parried with a thrust, but this time his other
fist landed on Cartwright's chest with force enough to send him
staggering to a fall on the floor.

At this moment a step was heard on the stairway.

"Gentlemen!  Stop this!  What does it mean?"

The voice was full of authority and outraged dignity.  Colonel
Cleaves, his eyes flashing, stood before them.

"Get up, Captain Cartwright," he commanded.  "I must have an instant
explanation of this scene.  Officers and gentlemen cannot conduct
themselves like rowdies."

Captain Cartwright forced himself to smile as he saluted; he even
tried to look forgiving.

"A little frolic, sir," he made haste to say, "that developed
into bad blood for the moment."  I do not wish to prefer any charges."

"Do you, Captain Prescott?" demanded the colonel.

"No, sir."

"You, Captain Holmes?"

"No, sir."

If any of the trio had hoped this much explanation would prove
satisfactory to the E.O. of the Ninety-ninth, that one had reckoned
without his host.

"A misunderstanding that develops to the point of a knock-down
blow is never a trifling matter," declared Colonel Cleaves.  "If
you gentlemen had assured me that it was all frolic then I would
have thought no more of it.  But I have been assured that there
was a misunderstand---a quarrel that proceeded to blows.  And
I myself saw one man down and signs of very evident anger on all
your faces.  Gentlemen, do you wish to offer me any further explanation
at this moment?"

"I have said all that I really can say, sir," protested Cartwright,
"except that I do not harbor any unkind feelings for what has
taken place."

Steps were heard on the stairs, and other officers of the Ninety-ninth
came upon the scene.

"As no charges have been preferred," said Colonel Cleaves, "I
will not order any of you relieved from duty.  I will notify all
three of you, however, at a later hour, and will then hear you
all in my office.  I trust a most satisfactory explanation all
around will be forthcoming."

Colonel Cleaves then turned to the group of officers that had
just arrived, saying:

"Lieutenant Terry, you were kind enough to offer to loan me a
book on rifle range construction.  I am aware that you have not
yet had a chance to send it over to me, but as I was passing,
I decided to drop in and ask it from you."

"In an instant, sir," replied Noll Terry.  Saluting, he darted
down the corridor, opened his door and came back with the volume.

"I am indebted to you, Mr. Terry," said Colonel Cleaves, returning
the first lieutenant's second salute and turning to go.

Until they had heard the colonel go out upon the steps below the
entire group of younger officers stood as though spell-bound.
But at last one of them broke out with:

"I hope nothing really nasty is afoot.  Three of you look as though
the moon were clouded with mischief for some one."

"You'll pardon us, won't you?" smiled Dick pleasantly, as he turned
to go back into his quarters.  "You will realize, as we do, that
the first discussion of the matter should take place before the
commanding officer."

Greg followed his chum in.

"Oh it's nothing," they heard Captain Cartwright assure the others.
"It ought to blow over, and I hope it will.  A certain officer
took what I thought too much liberty with me, and when I resented
it his friend took a hand in the matter.  I hope we can set it
all straight before Colonel Cleaves."

Behind the closed door, hearing what was said, Prescott turned
on his friend with eyebrows significantly raised.  Greg nodded.
No word was spoken.

Apparently Captain Cartwright also went to his quarters, for the
steps of many sounded outside, and then all was still.

Prescott had picked up a book and was reading.  Greg walked over
to the window and stood looking out into the sun-baked company
street.

"I must go over to company office for an hour or so," announced
Captain Dick, glancing at his wrist watch and laying down his
book at last.  "After that I'll go out and see how the platoon
commanders are getting along with their new work.  I hear that
we're to have some drafts of new men to-morrow."

"Yes," Greg nodded.  "Recruits from Chicago, and also from Boston.
Some day we may hope to have our companies filled up to full
strength."

"Small chance to get over to France until our companies are filled,"
Prescott smiled, as he stood up, looked himself over and started
for the door.

Captain Greg Holmes followed at his heels.  No word was spoken
of the recent trouble with Cartwright, not even when they crossed
the road below and started for their respective company offices.

Paper work engrossed Prescott's attention for an hour or so.
During this time he occasionally glanced up to note what was taking
place beyond the window in front of his desk.  His four second
lieutenants were in command of the platoons to-day, instead of
sergeants.  The young officers were instructing their men in the
first essentials of bayonet combat.

The last piece of paper disposed of, Prescott at last arose, stretched
slightly, then strode out of the office to the drill ground.

He was just in time to hear one of his lieutenants explaining to
a line of men:

"When pursuing a retreating enemy one of the most effective thrusts
with the bayonet can be delivered right here.  Learn to mark the
spot well."

Half-turning, the lieutenant pointed to the spot in the small
of his own back, before he went on, impressively:

"A bayonet thrust there will drive the blade through a kidney.
I will admit that that doesn't sound like sportsman-like fighting,
but unfortunately we're not to be employed against a really civilized
enemy in this war.  Page, you will stand out.  It isn't a popular
role to which I am going to assign you, but you will run slowly
past me and represent a fleeing enemy.  Dobson, you will take
a blob-stick and chase Page, running just fast enough to overtake
him in front of me.  Then you will give him the kidney thrust,
taking care to make your aim exact.  Thrust with spirit, but do
not hit hard, even with the blob-stick, for Page is not a real
German."

Though the men were perspiring uncomfortably, their officer's
pleasant conversational way and his interesting talk kept the
interest of these young soldiers.  Private Page stepped out and
took post where the lieutenant indicated, prepared to begin running
away at the word of command.  Private Dobson picked up a blob-stick,
a long, wand-like affair intended to represent a rifle and bayonet,
the bayonet's point being represented by a padded ball such as
is seen on a bass drummer's stick.

"Go ahead, Page," commanded the lieutenant.  "Kill him, Dobson!
. . . Good work!  Any enemy, struck like that in earnest, could
safely be left to himself.  Dobson, you be the fleeing enemy this
time.  Aldrich, take the blob-stick."

One after another the men of the skeletonized platoon took their
try with the blob-stick.  As is usual in the run of human affairs,
some of the men made the thrust excellently, others indifferently,
and some missed altogether.

"Rest," ordered the lieutenant, presently, and the men stood at
ease in the platoon line.

"Some of you men do not get hold of this bayonet work as well
as I could wish," Dick spoke up, all eyes turned on him.  "The
man who learns his bayonet work thoroughly has a reasonably good
chance of coming back from Europe alive.  The man who learns it
indifferently has very little chance of seeing his native land
at the close of the war.  Remember that.  Bayonet fighting is
one of the things no American soldier can afford to be dull about.
Lieutenant Morris, if you will pick up a blob-stick we can show
these men some of the value of swift work in the simpler thrusts
and parries."

Each armed with a blob-stick, captain and second lieutenant faced
each other.  Dick, scowling as though facing an enemy whom he
hated, advanced upon his subordinate, making a swift, savage lunge
aimed at the other's abdomen.  In a twinkling the thrust had been
parried by Lieutenant Morris, who, at close quarters, aimed a
vicious jab at his captain's wind-pipe.  That, too, was blocked.
Warming up, the two officers fought without victory for a full
three-quarters of a minute.  Then, at a word from Prescott, each
drew back.

"Every one of you men, by the time you reach France, should be
able to fight faster and better than that," Dick announced.

Down the line an infectious smile ran.  It seemed to these soldiers
impossible that a more skillful or a swifter bit of combat work
could be put up than they had just witnessed.

"You two men, at the right, bring your rifles here," Prescott
ordered, and the bayoneted rifles were brought and handed to the
two officers.

"Now, Lieutenant Morris, the first four series, as fast as we
can go through them," Dick commanded.

Bang!  bump!  flash!  Rifle barrels rang as they crossed; butts
bumped hard against barrel or stock, and glittering steel flashed
in the sunlight as the two infantry officers advanced and retreated
in a savage, realistic contest.  It really seemed as though Lieutenant
Morris and Captain Prescott were bent on annihilating each other.
Could this fierce, mutual onslaught be pretense---play?  Then,
as the last move of the fourth series was executed the two infantry
officers jumped back a step each and dipped the points of their
gleaming blades by way of courtesy.  The other three platoons
of the company had stopped drill to watch.  How the thrilled men
of A company wished to applaud and cheer!

"Lieutenant Morris and I are very poor hands at bayonet work,
compared with what we want you men to be when this regiment sails
for France," Prescott remarked, smilingly, as he handed back the
rifle to its owner.

From that platoon Prescott passed on to others in his company,
offering a remark here and a word of instruction there.

"You men must do everything to get your muscles up to concert
pitch," Captain Prescott announced.  "No lady-like thrusts will
ever push a bayonet into a German's face.  A ton of weight is
needed behind every bayonet thrust or jab!"

An orderly approached, saluting.

"Compliments of the commanding officer, sir, and he will see the
captain in his office at regimental headquarters, sir."

Returning the salute Dick walked off the drill ground as though
he had nothing on his mind.  Down the street he espied Greg, also
going toward headquarters, and hurried after him.  On the other
side of the street was Captain Cartwright, who soon crossed over
to join them.

In silence, the three captains made their way along the street
until they reached regimental headquarters.  It was a low one-story
pine shed, with the colonel's office at one end, the adjutant's
office next to it, and beyond that the rooms occupied by the sergeant
major and his clerical force, and, last of all, the chaplain's
office.

None of the three captains was exactly at ease as they entered the
adjutant's office and reported.

"The commanding officer will see you at once," said the adjutant.
"Pass through into his office."

Colonel Cleaves, glancing up from his desk, gravely returned the
salutes of his three captains.

"Be good enough to close the door into the adjutant's office,
Captain Holmes," directed the K.O.  "Now, gentlemen, I will hear
whatever explanation you have to offer of a very remarkable scene
that I came upon this noon."

All three waited, to see if one of the others wished to speak
first.  After waiting a moment or two Colonel Cleaves asked:

"Captain Prescott, it was you who struck the knock-down blow,
was it not?"

"Yes, sir," Dick answered promptly, "though it followed a parry,
and was more of a thrust than a blow."

"You agree to that, Captain Cartwright?" quizzed the K.O.

"Essentially so, sir."

"There had been a quarrel, had there not?"

"I made a reply to a remark by Captain Cartwright, sir," Greg
supplied, "which, he felt justified in construing as offensive,
though I did not so intend it.  I was annoyed at what I felt to
be an insinuation.  Then Captain Prescott came out of his quarters,
sir, and caught Captain Cartwright's wrist.  When Captain Prescott
released it, Captain Cartwright struck at him.  The blow was parried,
and Captain Cartwright struck once more.  That blow was also parried,
and Captain Cartwright went to the floor."

"Do you concur in that, Captain Cartwright?" asked the K.O.

"Yes, sir."

"By the way, Captain Prescott," went on Colonel Cleaves, handing
him a small piece of paper, "can you account for this?"

As Dick Prescott took the paper and glanced at it he felt himself
turning almost dizzy in bewilderment.


CHAPTER IV

AS IT IS DONE IN THE ARMY


"That is your handwriting, is it not, Captain Prescott?" demanded
the regimental commander.

"It looks just like my handwriting, sir, but I'll swear that I
never wrote it," declared astonished Dick, still staring at the
little piece of paper.

"Yet it resembles your handwriting?"

"Yes, sir.  If I didn't know positively that I didn't write any
such message then I'd be about ready to admit that it is my handwriting.
But I didn't write it, sir."

"Pass it to Captain Holmes.  I will ask him if he has seen this
note before."

"No, sir," declared Greg, very positively, though he, too, was
startled, for it was hard to persuade himself that he was not
looking down at his chum's familiar handwriting.

The note read:

_"Dear H.  Stick to what we agreed upon, and we can cook C's goose
without trouble.  And it must be obvious to every thinking mind, that a portion of
education will be absolutely necessary to prepare the slave for the
enjoyment of freedom; and such has been the happy influence of it
on the scholars in the New York African Free School, that the
Trustees in that city, state, that no scholar who has been regularly
educated in their school, has ever been convicted of crime in any
of their courts of justice.

We have no doubt that if similar means were used in other places,
the like happy result would be obtained.

And it is equally certain, that facts like these do more to obliterate
idle prejudice than all abstract reasoning on the subject.

The Convention have been highly pleased at this time by the
exhibition of some handsome specimens of the skill and talent of
some of the boys in the African school under the charge of
_Charles C. Andrews_, in New York; creditable alike to the Teacher
and the scholar. For a more particular description of these
articles, we refer to page 20 of the minutes of this Convention.

We again call your attention to the following extract from our
Address last year, particularly applicable to the present subject.

"As an incipient step to the Abolition of Slavery, we earnestly
recommend, that immediate application be made to the Legislatures
of States where Slavery exists, to prohibit the sale of slaves out
of the state.

The traffic which is thus carried on from state to state, is fruitful
of evil consequences, not only depraving the minds of those engaged
in it, but producing the most cruel separation of near connexions,
and depriving its victims of almost every incentive to conjugal
fidelity or correctness of conduct.

Perhaps next in importance in meliorating the condition of slaves,
is the adoption of regulations for their religious instruction, and
the education of their children."

"And while the members of the several Societies are laboring in the
good work of universal emancipation, the Convention would particularly
urge them to use all suitable endeavours, mildly yet earnestly, to
prevail upon slave holders to consider the injustice and impolicy
of tolerating Slavery; and prevail, if possible, upon such individuals,
to fall into some plan for its gradual and entire abolition in our
otherwise free and favoured country."

We conclude with exhorting all those who are engaged with us in
this important cause, to persevere, with the hope and confidence,
that although our progress may be apparently slow, and our prospects
sometimes appear discouraging, conformably to the dispensations of
a Gracious Providence, truth and justice must, and will ultimately
prevail.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

EDMUND HAVILAND, _Chairman_.[16]

_To the Manumission, Anti-Slavery Societies, &c, throughout the
United States._
FELLOW CITIZENS,--The American Convention for promoting the Abolition
of Slavery, &c. now sitting at Washington, in the District of
Columbia, having seriously taken into consideration the state of
slavery in the said district, and in the United States generally,
and viewed what furtherance the cause of freedom has received for
some time past, are decidedly of opinion, that increasing efforts
are at this time, emphatically called for, on the part of those who
really think that "all men are created free and equal."

Memorial after memorial has been presented to Congress, but as yet
they have produced but little visible effect.

Small progress has been made towards abolishing slavery at the seat
of our National Government.

It has been a subject of much reflection what measures would be
most likely to accomplish the grand object of our labours; and
we would suggest whether greater success would not be likely to
crown our efforts, by more widely disseminating a knowledge of the
objects and principles of the different Anti-Slavery Societies
throughout the Union.

The subject has been referred at this session of our Acting
Committee, but our funds are too limited to act as extensively
as the great importance of the object requires. It is believed
that a very large portion of the citizens of the United States are
favorable to the emancipation of the people of colour, if it could
be done upon legitimate principles, without infringing upon the
rights of individuals or endangering the safety of the community;
and if the dissemination of our principles was more generally
attended to, co-adjuting societies would doubtless increase, and
this Convention eventually become a body so numerous and respectable,
that the National Government would not withhold its attention.

The proper education of the African race should form a prominent
feature in all our efforts.

It is with much gratification we are enabled to state that the
address from New York, mentions a continued advancement in the
literary improvement of the coloured children, and that from
Philadelphia holds out the prospect of the establishment of a school
for teaching them the higher branches of an English education and
thus enabling them to act as teachers of their own isolated race.

To break up the fallow ground, to sow the seed, and rear the tender
plants of virtue in this degraded people, should be the wish of
every heart and the effort of every hand.

Let us establish schools, instruct the children, and show to the world
that the mind of the African is not a soil where genius sickens
and every virtue dies.

When we reflect that man is a being whose own interest generally forms
the alpha and omega, beginning and end of life, a centre around
which every passion and affection of his heart revolves, a boundary
beyond which he seldom ventures, we are rather encouraged at the
progress of our cause, than deterred by the magnitude of the work
to be yet accomplished.

Have not thousands been liberated, and the condition of tens of
thousands improved?

We believe there is a secret fire enkindled in the public bosom
which will never be extinguished, until liberty be given to the
captive and freedom to the oppressed.

But this glorious principle needs to be encouraged and kept
alive by the increasing efforts of its friends, to show to the
world that they themselves are not weary of well-doing.

Prejudices imbibed in youth and strengthened by age are to be broken
down, and many an objection to be overcome.

In conclusion we would remark that although much censure has
been cast upon us, we are renewedly convinced of the goodness and
the justice of our cause.

Let us exhort you to a patient continuance in your labours; and
"the bread cast upon the waters, shall be found after many days

."[17]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates
from the Abolition Societies, 1794, pp. 18-21.

[2] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates
from the Abolition Societies, 1795, pp. 26-31.

[3] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1796, pp. 23-25

.

[4] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the
Abolition Societies, 1796, p. 28.

[5] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1797, pp. 22-25

.

[6] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1798, pp. 15-20

.

[7] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates
from the Abolition Societies, 1800, pp. 20-23.

[8] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the
Abolition Societies, 1801, pp. 42-46

.

[9] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the
Abolition Societies, 1803, pp. 29-34.

[10] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1804, pp. 35-39

.

[11] Minutes of Proceedings of Tenth American Convention for
the Abolition of Slavery, 1805, pp. 26-35.

[12] Minutes of the Proceedings of the Twelfth American Convention
for promoting the Abolition of Slavery and improving the
condition of the African Race Assembled at Philadelphia, 1809, pp.
26-31

.

[13] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1812, pp. 25-28.

[14] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1827, pp. 20-22.

[15] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates
from the Abolition Societies, 1827, pp. 22-25.

[16] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1828, pp. 28-30

.

[17] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from
the Abolition Societies, 1829, pp. 19-21.

CORRESPONDENCE
245 WEST 139TH ST., NEW YORK CITY, January 11, 1920.

CARTER G.

WOODSON, Ph.D., Editor, THE JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY, Washington,
D. C.

_Dear Sir_:

In the January, 1920, number of _The Journal of Negro History_ there
is an affidavit of Kelly Miller and Whitefield McKinlay to the
effect that Mr.

Cardoza, at one time secretary of State for South Carolina, stated
to them that a number of colored men met and appointed a committee
which was sent to Washington to get the advice of Charles Sumner
and Thaddeus Stevens concerning the formation of the political
organization for the newly enfranchised Negro shortly after the
adoption of the 14th Amendment, pains being taken to keep the plans
from both the native whites and the so-called carpet-baggers from
the North, and that both Mr.

Sumner and Mr. Stevens advised the committee to tender the leadership
to native whites of the master class of conservative views, but
that the plan was frustrated because they were unable to secure the
consent of desired representatives of the former class to assume
the proffered leadership.

I accept the fact that Mr. Cardoza made the statement as sworn to
by Prof.

Miller and Mr. McKinlay, but I must state with all of the emphasis
that is possible that it is inconceivable to me how Mr.
Sumner or Mr.

Stevens could give such advice that would give the leadership of
the newly enfranchised Negroes to native whites of the master
class, however conservative.

All rebels were alike to Mr.
Sumner and Mr. Stevens. No reference to conservative men of the master
class will be found in the speeches or writings of either one.

I have read the speeches of both men on the Reconstruction measures
as published in the _Congressional Globe_ and I have failed to find
one word uttered by either one that would lead me to believe that
they would give the advice as stated in the affidavit.

Both men held radical views as to reconstruction plans for the
rebel States and were chiefly instrumental in having the Reconstruction
Acts and the 14th Amendment passed.

If it had not been for their untiring and persistent efforts, especially
of Mr. Stevens, who practically dominated the House of
Representatives from 1861 to the date of his death, I venture the
assertion that the Reconstruction Acts and the 14th Amendment as
passed could not have been passed.

It is possible that there were Negroes in South Carolina who had
never felt the lash of the master class who were willing to curry
favor with that class, regardless of the gratitude due the Northern
men, white and colored, but I do not believe that the Northern
Negroes (R.

B.

Elliott, Judge Wright, Judge Whipper, Henry W.

Purvis, S. A. Swails, Dr. B. A. Bosemon, R. H. Gleaves, B. F.
Randolph and others) would have deserted their Northern brethren,
nor do I believe that the great men of the Republican Party (Conkling,
Fessenden, Wade, Morton, Weed, Seward, Stanton, Chase, Boutwell,
Washburne, Blaine, Sherman, Schurz, Phelps, Morrill, Bingham, Henry
Wilson, Hoar and others) would have stood for the consummation of
such a plan.

I am sure, from what I knew of the Negroes of South Carolina, that
they would have rebelled against the plan.

If any committee went on to Washington it is possible that the
members suggested the plan to Mr.

Sumner and Mr.

Stevens, but for them to advise along that line, a thousand times,
no.

Everything done by Mr.

Sumner and Mr.

Stevens was done openly and above board and if they had given
the advice as stated in the affidavit they would have had the
courage of their convictions to have stated so publicly.

It was not in their nature to play the cards from under the table.

Mr. Stevens, who was the author of the Reconstruction Act and
most of the Reconstruction measures, ranking next to Alexander
Hamilton as a constructive statesman, had embodied in the Act an
oath that would have precluded men of the former master class,
radical or conservative, from having anything to do with the
Reconstruction legislation for the former rebel States.

They could not register; therefore, they could not vote nor hold
office until all of the provisions of the Reconstruction Acts,
including the ratification of the 14th Amendment, were complied
with, and their political disabilities removed.

Practically all of the "cracker" element or "poor buckra" as
designated by the Negroes could vote but the statement does not
include that element.

The Republican Party was organized in South Carolina in July,
1867, and Northern men, white and colored, took an active part in
the deliberations, R.

H. Gleaves, a Northern Negro, being the President of the convention.

The Constitutional Convention met in Charleston, January 14, 1868,
the Northern men practically dominating the proceedings, and before
adjournment a State ticket was nominated.

R. K.

Scott, a Northern white man, was nominated for Governor. There
were other white men (Northern) on the ticket. The Governor and
Lieutenant-Governor were elected for two years and the other State
officers for four years.

This would indicate that the Northern men held the situation well
in hand.

The South Carolina legislature under the Constitution of 1865, refused
to ratify the proposed 14th Amendment on December 20, 1866.
This legislature was composed of Democrats, all of the master
class, conservative and radical, and in view of this it is
incomprehensible to me how intelligent Negroes could have thought
of tendering the leadership to any men of the master class.

The conditions were such that men of the master class could not
have accepted the leadership had they so desired after repudiating
the 14th Amendment.

I have read Rhodes, Dunning, Burgess, Hart, Hollis, Pike, and
Schouler, on Reconstruction, also S. W. McCall's _Biography of
Thaddeus Stevens_, E. B.

Callender's _Thaddeus Stevens, the Commoner_, and E. L. Pierce's
_Memoirs and Letters of Charles Sumner_, and cannot find
anything that would indicate that either Mr. Sumner or Mr.
I'm a good hater, but
my mother didn't raise me to be a real crook."

"You're a quitter, I guess," jeered the other.  "Anyway, if you
claim to be a man of sand you'll have to show me."

"And I guess it's about time that you showed me something, too,"
challenged Mock, looking furtively at the stoop-shouldered man.

"I'm ready enough to show you a whole lot of things, when I find
out that you're man enough to stand up for yourself and pay back
those who treat you like dirt," retorted the other.

"There's one thing you can show me, first of all," challenged Mock.

"Yes?  What?"

"Show me why you're so anxious to have harm happen to Captain
Holmes and Captain Prescott."

"Because I like you; because I'm a friend of yours," returned
the stoop-shouldered one.

"You're a pretty new friend," Mock went on.  "I never saw you
until that day when the captain caught me shirking and told off
two men to prod me back into camp."

"That was the time for you to know me," declared the other brazenly.
"That was the time when you needed a friend to show you how to get
square like a man instead of like a coward and a quitter."

"Be careful with your names!" commanded Mock harshly.  "Say, Mr.
Man, who are you, and what are you?"

"Private Mock, I believe I can answer that question for you!" broke
in Captain Dick Prescott, stepping out from behind his leafy screen.


CHAPTER VI

THE ENEMY IN CAMP BERRY


"Captain Prescott!" uttered Mock, starting back in dismay.

"Donner und blitzen!" (thunder and lightning) ejaculated the
stoop-shouldered one.

"The fellow has just answered your question for you," Dick went
on, pointing an accusing finger at the stranger.  "You know what
language he was betrayed into using just now."

"German, sir," said Mock.

"That's right," nodded Prescott.

"Is he one of them Kaiser-hound spies, sir?" demanded Mock, stung
to wrath and throwing grammar to the winds.  "Why, I've dreamed
of catching one and tearing him to pieces.  With your permission,
sir-----!"

Not stopping to finish Mock threw himself upon the stoop-shouldered
one, But that worthy had foreseen it, and adroitly stopped the
ex-sergeant with a blow on the end of the nose that dazed him for
an instant.

"I'll take care of him, Mock!" cried Captain Dick, leaping forward.
As he did so the stranger turned and fled.  No longer stoop-shouldered,
but bearing himself like an athlete, the unknown turned and darted
away, Prescott racing after him.

"Get back!" warned the fugitive, drawing an automatic revolver and
flourishing it over his head.

Though unarmed, save for his fists, Prescott continued to pursue
with all speed.  After both of them raced Private Mock.

Dick was gaining when he stepped on a round stone, slipped and
fell.  Mock dashed after him.  The fleeing German halted long
enough to hurl the automatic pistol at Mock's face, then turned
and ran on.  Naturally the soldier dodged the missile, which struck
the ground behind him.  Thinking the weapon might be useful, Mock
halted, then ran back and secured the pistol, after which he started
to give chase.  But the fugitive had vanished in the darkness.

"Come back here and surrender, before I shoot," bluffed Mock, but
the German did not answer.

To Mock's intense astonishment Dick reached over, snatching the
pistol from his hand.

"That will be about all, Private Mock," said Prescott sternly.
"You've bluffed your part well, and helped your friend to escape,
but at all events I've got you!"

"Do you---" began the soldier, but stopped, further words failing
him.  Dick gripped the man's arm, giving a significant pressure
before he said:

"You'll come along with me, Mock, and it will be worse for you
if you try any further monkey-shines with me."

He gave another pressure on Mock's arm as he finished.  Without
a word Mock walked with him to where the horse was tied.

"Untie that bridle and buckle the ends together," Dick ordered.

This done, the captain mounted, taking the bridle in his left
hand, retaining the automatic pistol in his right.

"March ahead, Mock.  Don't try to bolt unless you want me to shoot."

In this manner they proceeded back over the road.  Mile after
mile they covered, meeting no one until they had come in sight
of the camp, nestling in the broad valley below.

At this point such an extensive view could be had that Dick felt
sure there was no eavesdropper.  So he dismounted, calling the
soldier to him and asking in a whisper:

"Mock, you were simply a poor, shirking soldier, weren't you?
You are, at heart, loyal to your country's Flag, aren't you?"

"I'd die for the Stars and Stripes, sir!" Mock declared, in a voice
choked with emotion.

"But I felt tired, the other day, and I got a notion Captain Holmes
was down on me.  So I went bad and got busted.  Then I hated Captain
Holmes, sir, and ached for a chance to get square with him.  Then
that accursed carpenter fellow hunted me out, talked with me,
and made me think he was my friend.  If I had known he was a
Kaiser-hound I'd have split his head open at the first crack out
of the box."

"I didn't doubt you as a loyal man, Mock," Dick continued, in
a whisper.  "I spoke to you the way I did back on the road because
I was sure the fellow was near and listening.  I didn't care much
about catching him to-night because I hope to catch him later on,
and get him even more red-handed.  Mock, you're loyal, and I'm
going to put your loyalty, if you consent, to a hard, bitter test."

Dick went on in an even lower tone, Mock listening in growing
astonishment, without replying a word, though he nodded
understandingly.

"So, now," Prescott wound up, "I'm going to continue into camp with
you still a prisoner and be mighty hard on you.  However, I won't
hold the pistol on you any longer."

Into camp Dick marched the soldier, then over toward the buildings
of the Ninety-ninth, and thence along to the bull-pen.

"Sergeant of the guard!" Prescott called briskly, and that
non-commissioned officer appeared.

"Take charge of Private Mock as a prisoner, charged with being
absent from camp without leave or pass," Dick ordered.  "I will
report my action to Captain Holmes, who will dispose of his case."

From there Dick led the horse back to B company barracks, turned
the animal over to an orderly and went into the company office,
where, as he had expected, he found Greg immersed in a grind of
paper work.  For a few minutes Dick talked earnestly with his chum
in low tones, Captain Holmes frequently nodding.

"And now, I think I had better go down to the adjutant's office,
to see if he's still at his desk," Dick finished, "and, if so, make
my report."

"You'll stagger him," Greg predicted.

One of Greg's orderlies had already ridden the major's horse to
the stable, so Prescott walked briskly along the street until
he came to regimental headquarters.  As he entered the adjutant's
office he found Colonel Cleaves seated on the corner of his
subordinate's desk, in low-toned conversation with his subordinate.

"Am I intruding, sir?" Dick inquired, saluting the colonel.

"No," said Colonel Cleaves.  "In fact, Captain, you may as well
know the subject-matter of our conversation.  Captain Prescott,
this camp would appear to be infested with German spies!  This
evening sixteen men in F company were taken ill after supper.
They are now in hospital and some of them are expected to die.
The surgeons have examined some of the food left over from that
supper and report finding ground glass in some pieces of the apple
pie served as dessert.  Later the captain of our machine-gun company,
which has only one machine gun so far, had the piece taken into
the company mess-room to demonstrate the mechanism to his lieutenants
so that they might instruct the men.  He found the mechanism of
the piece so badly jammed that the machine gun refused to work.
I have inspected that piece, and in my opinion the gun is ruined.
As if that were not enough sixteen rifles belonging to G company
have been found with their bolts broken off.  It is very plain
that German spies and sympathizers are at work in Camp Berry,
and the scoundrels must be found, Captain."

Colonel Cleaves spoke under the stress of great excitement, his
eyes flashing, the corners of his mouth twitching.

Dick went to the door, then to the doors opening into the rooms
on either side.  Then he came back, saying in a low voice:

"Colonel, I met one of the German spies tonight.  Perhaps the
ring-leader.  If I see him again I shall recognize him and arrest
him instantly.  Do you see what this is, sir?"

Dick held up the weapon that the carpenter had hurled at Private
Mock.

"It is a 45-caliber, United States Government automatic pistol,"
said Colonel Cleaves.

"Exactly, sir; and the spy I have mentioned had it in his possession.
How he obtained it, I do not yet know, but I hope to find out.  And
now, sir, I will tell you what happened and what action I took."

Thereupon Captain Dick Prescott narrated the amazing adventure
of the evening, winding up with:

"So, sir, I have placed Private Mock in arrest at the guard-house,
and through his detention there I hope to gain the clues that shall
lead us to the ferreting out and arrest of the whole crew of German
spies at Camp Berry!"


CHAPTER VII

AT GRIPS WITH GERMAN SPIES


New barracks buildings continued to spring up at Camp Berry.  Drafts
of men for a National Army division began to arrive, besides
a brigade of infantry, a regiment of field artillery and a
machine-gun battalion of regulars.

Brigadier-General Bates arrived to take command of the regulars,
while Major-general Timmins assumed command of the National Army
division and became commanding general of the camp as well.

New batches of recruits, constantly arriving for the regulars,
soon gave the Ninety-ninth an average of a hundred and eighty
men to the company, or forty-five men to each platoon.  Drill
went on as nearly incessantly during daylight as the men could
endure.

"In my opinion it won't be very long before the Ninety-ninth goes
over and reports to General Pershing," Dick told his chum.  "At
the rate our ranks are being filled up we'll soon have a full-strength
regiment."

"But most of our men are still recruits," Holmes objected.  The
regiment really isn't anywhere near fit for foreign service."

"It won't be so many weeks before we're ordered abroad," Dick
insisted.  "Wait and see whether I'm right."

Wonderful indeed was the speed with which buildings were erected.
The record time for constructing a two-story building with an
office, supply room, mess-room and sleeping quarters for two hundred
and fifty men was ninety minutes!

Fast, too, was the work done by the Regular Army regiments, which
had this advantage over the National Army regiments, that most of
their officers were trained regulars and a large proportion of them
West Point graduates.

Of the sixteen men made ill by eating powdered glass not one died,
for the glass had been ground too fine to do the utmost mischief.
However, the camp was alarmed, and all food was kept under close
guard and was regularly examined with care before being served.

Soldiers bearing German names were in some instances suspected,
and unjustly.  Officers tried to undo this harm by talking among
the men.  Yet all wondered what would be the next outbreak of
spy work in camp.

Private Mock, sentenced to two weeks' arrest for being off the
reservation without leave, served his sentence moodily, usually
refusing to talk with his fellow-prisoners.

One Private Wilhelm was also serving a term in arrest at the bull-pen.
His name was held against him Wilhelm as a brand-new man in the
regiment, and one of the few with whom Mock would talk.

One morning the latter was overheard to say:

"I'm sick of this war already.  I hope the Germans win.  If I'm
sent over to France I'll watch my chance to desert and get over
to the Germans."

"Oh, ye will, will ye?" demanded Private Riley, another prisoner
in the bull-pen.  "Ye dir-rty blackguard!"

Buff!  The Irish soldier's fist caught Mock squarely on the jaw,
sending him squarely to earth, though not knocking him out.  After
a moment Mock was on his feet again, quivering with rage.  He
flew at Riley, who was a smaller man, hammering him hard.  Other
soldier-prisoners interfered on behalf of Riley, whereupon Private
Wilhelm, a heavily built fellow, rushed to Mock's aid.

"A German and a German sympathizer!"

With that yell a dozen or so of time prisoners set upon the pair.
Some lively and perhaps nearly deadly punishment would have been
handed out, had not several men of the guard rushed in, thrusting
with their rifle butts and breaking up the unequal fight.

But Mock was reported for his utterance, and Wilhelm for his
sympathies.  Both were brought up before Captain Greg Holmes, and
Dick was sent for to join in questioning the men, which was done
behind closed doors.  At the end of the hearing Mock and Wilhelm
were returned to the guard-house looking much crestfallen.

"Did you hear what they said to me?" Mock was overheard to demand
of Wilhelm.  "Said they'd have me tried for saying I'd desert,
and that I'd be likely to get several years in prison for talking
too much.  Oh, I'm sure sick of being in this man's army!"

"Sure!" nodded Wilhelm, understandingly.  "It's tough!"

"It'll be tougher, I warrant ye, if we hear ye two blackguards
using any more of your line of talk around here," Riley broke
in.  "The guar-rd won't be forever stopping our pounding ye!"

After that Mock and Wilhelm were left severely alone by their
fellow-prisoners in the bull-pen.  Most of these men were serving
merely sentences of a day to a week for minor infractions of
discipline.

The next morning Private Riley managed to get word to Greg that
Private Brown, of the guard, had been talking with Mock at the
barbed wire of the pen enclosure.

"Private Brown is supposed to be an all right soldier, but he'll
bear watching," was Dick's comment when he heard the report.

That afternoon it was reported that both Mock and Wilhelm had
been talking with Private Brown at the barbed wire fence.  Dick
smiled grimly when he heard it.

The next morning orders were read releasing Mock, Wilhelm, Riley
and some of the other soldier prisoners ahead of time that they
might not be deprived of too much instruction.  The released ones
were cautioned to be extremely careful, in the future, not to
fall under the disciplinary ban.

"Sure, I can understand some of us getting out, but not Mock,"
declared Riley to a bunkie (chum).  "Him an' his talk about deserting
to the enemy!"

In the meantime Dick had given an accurate description of the
carpenter who had tried to enlist Mock in some dangerous scheme
of revenge.  The fellow had disappeared from among the gang of
carpenters, and that was all that was known.  Secret Service men
had been put on the trail, but had failed to find the fellow.

"Now, maybe a soldier sometimes says more than he means," broke
in Sergeant Kelly, who had come up behind the pair on the nearly
deserted drill ground.  "Soldiers are like other people in that
respect."

"But not Mock," Riley objected.  "He's a bad egg."

"I don't say he isn't," Kelly rejoined.  "What I'm advising you
is not to conclude that a man is worthless just because he talks.
For that matter, Riley, I believe that the men we have most to
fear are spies who manage to get in the Army, talk straight and
do their work well, and all the time they're plotting all kinds
of mischief.  Like the fellow or the chaps who put that powdered
glass in the chow of F company not long ago."

"Here's hoping I live to see Mock hanged!" grumbled Private Riley,
as Sergeant Kelly moved away.

Kelly, who had served as sergeant with Dick in other regiments,
had followed him into the Ninety-ninth.  Prescott rejoiced that
he had this excellent fellow with him, as capable first sergeants
are always looked upon in the light of prizes.

Yet, in a---to him---new man Greg Holmes had an almost equally
good top in Lund, a Swede who had put in ten years in the Army.

When Greg dropped into the company office that forenoon, Lund
handed him a list of men who had put in application for pass that
afternoon.  It was to be a visitors' afternoon, and there would
be no drills.

"Nineteen, and all good conduct men, Sergeant Lund," commented
Greg, glancing over the list and reaching for a pencil with which
to O.K. the list.

"And two more put in application, but I didn't put their names
down, sir," Lund explained, as he stood at the side of the young
captain at the desk.

"Who were they?"

"Mock and Wilhelm."

"Have they behaved themselves since they got out of arrest?"

"Oh, yes, sir."

"Then we'll let them off this afternoon," proposed Holmes amiably,
as he wrote time two names down on the list.  "Perhaps they'll turn
out better for a bit of considerate treatment."

Though Lund frowned as he received the list back in his own hand
he made no comment.

Immediately after the noon meal Mock and Wilhelm exhibited their
passes to the guard and walked briskly out of camp.

"Look at that now---the pair of traitors!" muttered Private Riley,
as he spat vengefully on the ground.  "Me, I knew better than
to ask for it, and me so lately out of the pen.  But those bir-rds
with dir-rty feathers get their chance to go off the reservation
and plot more mischief."

Had Private Riley been able to follow the pair unseen he would
have been even angrier.  Mock and Wilhelm, stepping briskly along
the road over which Dick had ridden that eventful evening, kept
on for some three miles, then turned abruptly off into the forest.

For another half mile they kept on, going further and further from
the road.

"Here's the spot," said Mock, after some hunting under the trees.
"It must be the place, for it has the nail driven into the tree
trunk."

"Sure, it's the place all right," Wilhelm agreed.

Mock emitted a shrill whistle that would not, however, carry very
far.  Instantly there came an answering whistle.

"And here we are!" spoke up the stoop-shouldered stranger, coming
out of a.  jungle of bushes.  "I'm glad to see that you're on
time.  And to-day I hope you've more sand than you had that night."

"Forget it," said Mock shortly.

"You're ready now?"

"To do anything," Mock agreed.

"Sure!  He's all right!" Private Wilhelm nodded.  "I've attended
to that."

"Come here, Carl!" called the stoop-shouldered one, in a low voice.

From another clump of bushes came another man, bearded and
bespectacled.  If there's anything in a face, Carl was unmistakably
German.

"Carl will tell you what to do," said time stoop-shouldered one.

"You men are in two different companies?" asked the man behind
spectacles.

"I'm in B company," nodded Mock.  "Wilhelm is in E company."

"Then you can take care of two companies of men," Carl went on.
"Do to-morrow morning what I'm going to tell you.  See these?"

The bespectacled one held up two vials that he had taken from
a pocket.

"Each one of you takes one of these," he went on.  "Hide them
to-night where you please.  In the morning, when the men in your
barracks hang their bedding out of the windows and go down to
breakfast, stay behind.  Uncork a vial, each of you, and sprinkle
the liquid in here on the bedding of at least half a dozen soldiers.
You understand?  Then slip down to your breakfasts."

"What's in these vials?" asked Mock, taking the one offered him
and curiously inspecting the liquid in it.

"Germs!" said the bespectacled one.  "Measles.  Do as I tell you,
and in a few days measles will begin to run through the two companies
like wildfire.  In a few days more it ought to be well through
the regiment.  Tomorrow night slip out of camp and come here.
Under those bushes over there you'll find civilian clothing.
Understand?  Yes?  In the pockets of each suit you'll find the
money to pay for your work.  Take off your uniforms and put on
the other clothes.  Then go where you please, but be sure to keep
out of time Army after this, for American soldiers are going to
die fast!  The money you'll find will take care of you.  Yes?"

"Yes!" nodded Mock.  "Sure!"

Then, suddenly, Mock turned and whistled.

"You two men will throw up your hands!" came in the sharp tones
of Captain Dick Prescott, as he, Sergeant Kelly and four privates
stepped into view.

"You sneak!" yelled the stoop-shouldered one, making a rush at
Mock and trying to seize the vial.  But Mock dodged.  In the same
instant the bespectacled German tried to snatch the other vial
away from Wilhelm, but that soldier, too, dodged and saved the
vial.

"On the ground is a good place for you!" growled Sergeant Kelly,
knocking the stoop-shouldered stranger flat.  Then, before the
fellow could rise Kelly had snapped handcuffs his wrists.

Two of the soldiers seized the bespectacled German just as he
started to run.  He, too, felt the clasp of steel around his wrists.
."[1] And Thoreau declared: "Some 1800 years ago Christ was
crucified; this morning, perchance, Captain Brown was hung.

These are the two ends of a chain that is not without its links."[2]

John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry made a profound impression
in Canada.

Although the Chatham convention had been secret there were some
Canadians who knew that Brown was meditating a bold stroke and
could see at once the connection between Chatham and Harper's Ferry.

The raid was reported in detail in the Canadian press and widely
commented upon editorially. In a leading article extending over
more than one column of its issue of November 4, 1859, _The Globe_,
of Toronto, points out that the execution of Brown will but serve
to make him remembered as "a brave man who perilled property, family,
life itself, for an alien race."

His death, continued the editor, would make the raid valueless as
political capital for the South, which might expect other Browns
to arise. References in this article to the Chatham convention
indicate that George Brown, editor of _The Globe_, knew what had
been going on in Canada in May, 1858.

Three weeks later, _The Globe_, with fine discernment, declared
that if the tension between north and south continued, civil war
would be inevitable and "no force that the south can raise can hold
the slaves if the north wills that they be free

."[3] On the day of Brown's execution _The Globe_ said: "His death
will aid in awakening the north to that earnest spirit which can
alone bring the south to understand its true position," and added
that it was a "rare sight to witness the ascent of this fine spirit
out of the money-hunting, cotton-worshipping American world

."[4] Once again, with insight into American affairs it predicted
that "if a Republican president is elected next year, nothing
short of a dissolution of the union will satisfy them" (the
cotton States).

The special interest taken by _The Globe_ in American affairs and
its sane comment on the developments in the slavery struggle
were due to George Brown's understanding of the situation, resulting
from his residence for a time under the stars and stripes before
coming to Canada. The feeling of the public in Toronto over the
execution of John Brown was shown by the large memorial service
held in St.
Lawrence Hall on Dec. 11, 1859, at which the chief speaker was Rev.

Thomas M. Kinnaird, who had himself attended the Chatham convention.[5]
In his address Mr. Kinnaird referred to a talk he had had with
Brown, in which the latter said that he intended to do something
definite for the liberation of the slaves or perish in the attempt.

The collection that was taken up at this meeting was forwarded
to Mrs. Brown. At Montreal a great mass meeting was held in St.
Bonaventure Hall, attended by over one thousand people, at which
resolutions of sympathy were passed. Among those on the platform
at this meeting were L. H.

Holton, afterwards a member of the Brown-Dorion and Macdonald-Dorion
administrations, and John Dougall, founder of _The Montreal
Witness_. At Chatham and other places in the western part of the
province similar meetings were held.

The slave-holding States were by no means blind to the amount of
support and encouragement that was coming from Canada for the
abolitionists.[6] They were quite aware that Canada itself had an
active abolitionist group.

They probably had heard of the Chatham convention; they knew of
it, at least, as soon as the raid was over.
In his message to the legislature of Virginia immediately after
the Harper's Ferry incident Governor Wise made direct reference
to the anti-slavery activity in Canada. "This was no result of
ordinary crimes," he declared. "... It was an extraordinary and
actual invasion, by a sectional organization, specially upon
slaveholders and upon their property in negro slaves.... A
provisional government was attempted in a British province, by our
own countrymen, united to us in the faith of confederacy, combined
with Canadians, to invade the slave-holding states ... for the
purpose of stirring up universal insurrection of slaves throughout
the whole south

."[7]
Speaking further of what he conceived to be the spirit of the North
he said: "It has organized in Canada and traversed and corresponded
thence to New Orleans and from Boston to Iowa.

It has established spies everywhere, and has secret agents in the
heart of every slave state, and has secret associations and
'underground railroads' in every free state."[8]
Speaking on December 22, 1859, to a gathering of medical students
who had left Philadelphia, Governor Wise is quoted as saying: "With
God's help we will drive all the disunionists together back into
Canada.

Let the compact of fanaticism and intolerance be confined to British
soil

."[9] _The New York Herald_ quoted Governor Wise as calling upon
the President to notify the British Government that Canada should
no longer be allowed, by affording an asylum to fugitive slaves,
to foster disunion and dissension in the United States.

Wise even seems to have had the idea that the President might be bullied
into provoking trouble with Great Britain over this question.
"The war shall be carried into Canada," he said in one of his
outbursts.[10]
Sympathy for the South was shown in the comment of a part of the
Tory press in Canada, _The Leader_ declaring that Brown's attack
on Harper's Ferry was an "insane raid" and predicting that the South
would sacrifice the union before submitting to such spoliation.[11]
The viewpoint of _The Leader_ and its readers may be further
illustrated by its declaration that the election campaign of 1860
was dominated by a "small section of ultra-abolitionists who make
anti-slavery the beginning, middle and end of their creed."

As for Lincoln he was characterized as "a mediocre man and a
fourth-rate lawyer,"[12] but then some of the prominent American
newspapers made quite as mistaken an estimate of Lincoln at that
time.

The collapse of John Brown's great adventure at Harper's Ferry
furnished complete proof to the South of Canada's relation to that
event.

The seizure of his papers and all that they told, the evidence at
the trial at Charlestown and the evidence secured by the Senatorial
Committee which investigated the affair, all confirmed the suspicion
that in the British provinces to the north there was extensive
plotting against the slavery system.

The Senatorial Committee declared in its findings that the
proceedings at Chatham had had as their object "to subvert the
government of one or more of the States, and, of course, to that
extent the government of the United States

."[13] Questions were asked of the witnesses before the investigating
committee which showed that in the minds of the members of that
committee there was a distinctly Canadian end to the Harper's Ferry
tragedy.[14] Their suspicions may have been further confirmed by
the fact that Brown's New England confederates, Sanborn, Stearns
and Howe, all fled to Canada immediately after the raid.

In the actual events at Harper's Ferry the assistance given by
Canada was small.

Of the men who marched out with Brown on that fateful October night
only one could in any way be described as a Canadian.

This was Osborn Perry Anderson, a Negro born free in Pennsylvania.

He was working as a printer in Chatham at the time of the convention
and threw in his lot with Brown.

He was one of those who escaped at Harper's Ferry. He later wrote
an account of the affair, served during the latter part of the
Civil War in the northern army and died at Washington in 1871.

He is described by Hinton as "well educated, a man of natural dignity,
modest, simple in character and manners

."[15]
There naturally arises the question, why was the aid given John
Brown by the Canadian Negroes so meagre?

That Brown had counted on considerable help in his enterprise from
the men who joined with him in drafting the "provisional constitution"
is certain.

John Edwin Cook, one of Brown's close associates, declared in his
confession made after Harper's Ferry, that "men and money had both
been promised from Chatham and other parts of Canada

.

"[16] Yet, apart from Anderson, a Negro, only one other Canadian of
either color seems to have had any share in the raid. Dr.

Alexander Milton Ross went to Richmond, Virginia, before the blow
was struck, as he had promised Brown he would do, and was there
when word came of its unhappy ending.

Brown evidently counted on Ross being able to keep him in touch
with developments at the capital of Virginia.

Chatham had been chosen as the place of meeting with special
reference to the effect it might have on the large Negro
population resident in the immediate vicinity. There were more
Negroes within fifty miles of Chatham than in any other section
of Canadian territory and among them were men of intelligence,
education and daring, some of them experienced in slave raiding.

Brown was justified in expecting help from them.

There is also evidence that among the Negroes themselves there
existed a secret organization, known under various names, having
as its object to assist fugitives and resist their masters.

Help from this organization was also expected.[17] Hinton says that
Brown "never expected any more aid from them than that which would
give a good impetus

."[18] John Brown himself is quoted by Realf, one of his associates,
as saying that he expected aid from the Negroes generally, both
in Canada and the United States,[19] but it must be remembered
that his plans called for quality rather than quantity of assistance.

A few daring men, planted in the mountains of Virginia, would have
accomplished his initial purpose better than a thousand.

The real reason why the Canadian Negroes failed to respond in the
summer of 1860 when Brown's men were gathering near the boundary
line of slavery seems to be that too great a delay followed after
the Chatham convention.

The convention was held on May 8 and 10, 1858; but Brown did not
attack Harper's Ferry until the night of October 16, 1859, nearly
a year and a half later. The zeal for action that manifested
itself in May, 1858, had cooled off by October, 1859, the magnetic
influence of Brown himself had been withdrawn, and the Negroes had
entered into new engagements.

Frank B.

Sanborn says he understood from Brown that he hoped to strike about
the middle of May of 1858, that is about a week after the convention
or as soon as his forces could gather at the required point.[20]
The delay was caused by the partial exposure of Brown's plans to
Senator Henry Wilson by Hugh Forbes, who had been close to Brown.

Panic seized Brown's chief white supporters in New England, the men
who financed his various operations, and they decided that the plans
must be changed.

Brown was much discouraged by their decision, but being dependent
upon them for support in his work he submitted and went west to
Kansas.

Among his exploits there was the running off of more than a dozen
slaves whom he landed safely at Windsor, Canada.

There was some effort made in the early summer of 1859 to enlist the
support of the Canadian Negroes,[21] the mission being in charge
of John Brown, Jr., who was assisted by Rev. J. W.

Loguen, a well-known Negro preacher and anti-slavery worker. Together
they visited Hamilton, St.

Catharines, Chatham, London, Buxton and Windsor, helping also to
organize branches of the League of Liberty among the Negroes.

The letters of John Brown, Jr., show that there was little
enthusiasm for the cause, which, indeed, could only have been
presented in an indefinite way.

There was more interest at Chatham than elsewhere, as might be
expected, but even there it was not sufficiently substantial to
bring the men that were needed.

Against this rather dismal picture should be placed some evidence that
there were a few Canadians on the way South when the end
came.[22]
FRED LANDON.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Longfellow, _Life of Longfellow_, vol. II, p. 347.

[2] Thoreau, _A Plea for Capt. John Brown, read at Concord,
October 30, 1859_.

[3] _Toronto Weekly Globe_, Nov. 25, 1859.

[4] _Ibid._, Dec. 9, 1859, and Dec. 16, 1859.

[5] _Toronto Weekly Globe_, Dec. 12, 1859.

[6] "There is no country in the world so much hated by slaveholders
as Canada," Ward, _Autobiography of a Fugitive Negro_, London,
1855, p.
158.

[7] _Journal of the Senate of Virginia_, 1859, see pp. 9-25.

[8] _The Toronto Weekly Globe_ of Dec. 6, 1859, reported Governor
Wise as saying: "One most irritating feature of this predatory war
is that it has its seat in the British provinces which furnish
asylum for our fugitives and send them and their hired outlaws upon
us from depots and rendezvous in the bordering states."
[9] _Toronto Weekly Globe_, Dec. 28, 1859.

[10] _Toronto Weekly Globe_, Dec. 28, 1859.

[11] _Ibid._, Dec. 23, 1859.

[12] _Ibid._, July 20, 1860.

[13] _Harper's Ferry Invasion, Report of Senatorial Committee_,
pp. 2 and 7.

[14] _Harper's Ferry Invasion, Report of Senatorial Committee_, p. 99

.

[15] Hinton, _John Brown and His Men_, pp. 504-507.

[16] _Ibid._, appendix, p. 704.

See also report of Senatorial Committee, p. 97

.

[17] Hinton, _John Brown and His Men_, pp. 171-172.

[18] _Ibid._, p. 175.

[19] _Report of Senatorial Committee_, p. 97

.

[20] Sanborn, _Life and Letters of John Brown_, pp. 457-8.

[21] Sanborn, _Life and Letters of John Brown_, pp. 536-538,
547.

[22] Hinton, _John Brown and His Men_, pp. 261-263.

THE NEGRO AND THE SPANISH PIONEER IN THE NEW WORLD

Negro slaves probably made their first appearance in the New
World in 1502.

Those who came in the beginning were Christians and personal servants
of masters who had acquired them in Spain, but soon afterwards,
thanks to the influence of the religious order of _Predicatores_
and of the more famous Las Casas, they began to be introduced
directly from Africa, in order that the sufferings of the Indians
who were dying out under the Spanish system of forced labor might
be alleviated.[1] By the close of the second decade of the sixteenth
century no inconsiderable number had been brought over, and a perusal
of the early accounts of the exploits of the _Conquistadores_ will
reveal the fact that the Negro participated in the exploration and
occupation of nearly every important region from New Mexico to Chile.

As personal attendants of the Spanish Pioneers, as burden-bearers
and drudges connected with exploration and the founding of colonies,
they played an indispensable though inconspicuous rôle in one of
the greatest achievements which history records.

Such accounts of their service as have been preserved are, for the
most part, accidental: only when he performed an act of unusual
heroism or connected himself with a strange or humorous occurrence
was the Negro's name placed alongside of that of his Spanish master
where it is destined to remain for all time.

When Balboa set out from Darién on the tour of exploration which
resulted in the discovery of the South Sea, at least one Negro,
Nufio de Olano, was numbered in his party.

Three years later, when the timbers for the four boats with which
he intended to explore the Pacific had been prepared, thirty Negroes
were among those who carried them piece by piece over mountain and
jungle from Acla to San Miguel.

Moreover, when Balboa's successor constructed the first highway
from ocean to ocean he made use of Negro labor along with that of
the Indian.[2]
Hernán Cortés carried with him from Cuba not only Indian servants
but Negro slaves who helped to drag along the artillery which he
used to strike mortal terror into the Indians of Mexico.

There has been preserved a list of those who set out on this
famous expedition, and among the names are those of two Negroes,
one of whom Saco claims to have been the first to sow and reap small
grain in Mexico.

Moreover, two Negroes were among the company sent out by Velásquez
in 1520 to punish Cortés for his insubordination.

One of these has the unenviable distinction of having introduced
smallpox among the Mexican Indians.
The other, who seems to have observed the fight between the men
of the agent of Velásquez (Narváez) from the safe and comfortable
distance of a neighboring tree, has, because of some witty and
flattering remarks which he made to Cortés, received the honor of
a paragraph in the _Decades_ of Herrera.[3]
It is not definitely known whether Pedro de Alvarado, one of the
bravest and most gallant lieutenants of Cortés, carried Negroes
with him into Guatemala in 1523, but it is certain that eleven years
later, when his ambition and love of gain led him to fit out that
ill-fated expedition to Quito, he saw fit to include in the company
two hundred black slaves, most of whom perished while making their
way through the blinding snows of the Andes.[4]
It is certain, moreover, that several Negroes were along with the
_Conquistadores_ of Perú and Chile.

The contract of Francisco Pizarro permitted him to introduce fifty
Negroes into Perú free of duty; and even before this, Negroes had
accompanied those who had spied out the land.

In 1525, when Diego de Almagro effected a landing near the port of
Quemado, on the west coast of South America, and attempted to
penetrate the adjacent country, he encountered rather severe
opposition from the Indians of the section.

During the resulting skirmish one of his eyes was crushed by a
dart and he was saved from captivity and death only by the valiant
succor of his Negro slave.

A year later, the debarkation of a Spaniard and his slave at Tumbez
resulted in an amusing occurrence which once more gave the Negro
a few brief sentences in the _Decades_.

Astonished at the color of his face, the natives of the region
had him wash time after time in order to see if the black would
disappear; and the Negro, true to his good nature and love of a
joke, complied willingly while he grinned so as to display his
pearly white teeth.[5]
Several Negroes assisted the Yanaconas Indians in carrying the
baggage of Diego de Almagro and Rodrigo Orgoñez during their perilous
journey along the frozen Andes from Cuzco to Chile; and many of
them perished on the way.[6] Moreover, upon at least one occasion
the forces of the great conqueror of Chile, Pedro Valdivia himself,
would probably have been destroyed, had it not been for the cool-headed
alertness of Captain Gonzalo de los Rios and a Negro who managed
to procure the saddle-horses of the Spaniards as soon as they saw
a band of Indians dart from their hiding places.[7]
Numerous African slaves were along with the Spanish pioneers in
Venezuela.

Ortal, Sedeño, and Heredia each had permission to introduce one
hundred Negroes to build fortresses and search for mines; and in
1537, when the licentiate Vadillo came to Cartagena to hold the
residencia of Heredia, he brought down a large number who later
accompanied him on the luckless excursions which he undertook
apparently in the hope of finding the mines of Perú.[8]
But of all the members of the colored race who accompanied the
Spaniards upon their explorations in the New World, it may be doubted
whether any played so conspicuous a part as did Estevánico, or
Estévan, an Arabian black from Azamor, in Morocco, and the slave
of Andrés Dorantes de Carrança.

He was a member and one of the survivors of the ill-fated expedition
of Pánfilo de Narváez which went to pieces somewhere on the southern
coast of the United States, (1528).

For six years he was a captive and slave among the Indians of
Texas where, in company with others of the expedition who had
escaped with their lives, he effected miraculous cures.

He was one of the three companions of Cabeza de Vaca on his historic
journey across the continent from the Gulf of Mexico to Culiacán.
From Culiacán he accompanied De Vaca and his companions to Mexico
City, where he was honored by being made the slave of the viceroy,
Antonio de Mendoza.

Surely these were rare and noteworthy experiences for a member
of the black race, but still greater things awaited Estévan.

He was destined ere he met his tragic fate to accompany the
expedition which resulted in the discovery of New Mexico and Arizona.

I don't know what I'd do without you."

"Thank you, sir!"

Kelly had sprung to his feet.  He now stood at salute as Prescott
left the office.

The train due at 4.10 arrived after 8.30 that evening.  Twelve
new men, assigned to A company, were marched to barracks after
ten.  No man in the detachment had eaten since early morning.  The
mess sergeant had coffee and sandwiches ready.

It was midnight when Kelly, with the aid of other non-coms, had
the measurements of the new men on paper and his clothing requisition
ready.  Dick Prescott was on hand to sign as company commander.

At six in the morning first call to reveille sounded from the bugles.

Like the other companies in the regiment A company tumbled out
of its cots.  Men dressed, seized soap, towels, brushes and combs,
and hurried to the wash-room at the rear of barracks.  Then back
again, the final touches being administered.  Outside a bugle
blew, calling the men to first formation.  Then mess-call caused
two hundred and fifty hungry soldiers to file into the mess-room,
kits in hand, and line up at the further end for food and hot drink.

At 7.46 Dick Prescott stepped briskly into the company office.

"Sergeant Kelly, have each man carry out his mattress to the incinerator
and empty out the straw.  Detail men to burn the straw.  Have
the cots piled at the end of each squad room.  At 8.25 turn the
company out with barracks bags and dismiss after the bags have
been placed.  At 8.40 turn out the company in full marching order,
with arms and pack, for inspection.  As soon as practicable thereafter
the men will be turned out again for issue of razors."

"Yes, sir," Kelly replied with a quiver.  "Of course you know what
it means, Sergeant?"

"The regiment is moving, sir."

"Moving by rail to the point of embarkation, Sergeant.  We're---at
last we're going over!"

There must have been an eavesdropper outside the office door,
for instantly, so it seemed, the news flashed through the building.

"Orders have come!"

"We're going over!"

"_Now_!"

"Stop that cheering, men!" boomed Dick Prescott's voice, as he
stepped into the corridor.  "This is Georgia, and you'll wake
all the sleeping babies in North Carolina."


CHAPTER X

ON BOARD THE TROOPSHIP


North to an embarkation camp, not to a pier.  There passed several
days of restlessness and unreality of life.

Final issues of all lacking equipment were made at last.  Then,
one evening, after dark, the Ninety-ninth once more fell in and
marched away, the bandsmen, carrying their silent instruments,
marching in headquarters company.

No send-off, no cheering, not even the playing of "The Girl I
Left Behind Me."

No relatives or friends to say good-bye!  Nothing but secrecy,
expectancy, an indescribable eagerness clothed in stealth.

"How do you feel, Sergeant?" Captain Prescott asked, as he and
his top stood at the head of A company awaiting the final order
that was to set the nearly four thousand officers and men of the
Ninety-ninth in motion on the road.

"Like a burglar, sneaking out of a house he didn't realize he
was in, sir," Kelly answered.

First Lieutenant Noll Terry shivered; it was impatient
uncertainty---nothing else.

Then the order came.  The dense column reached the railway, where
the sections of the troop train waited. By platoons the men marched
into dimly lighted cars.  When all were aboard the lights were
turned off, leaving Uncle Sam's men in complete darkness, save
where a pipe or cigarette glowed.

Despite the eagerness the newness and uncertainty of it all, many
of the soldiers dozed unconscious of the talk and laughter of others.
Singing was forbidden and non-coms had orders to be alert to stop
any unnecessarily loud noises.

Forth into the night fared the sections of the train.  How long
it was on the rail none of the men had any clear idea.  It was
still dark, however, when a stop was made and the order ran
monotonously along:

"All out!"

Again dim lights were turned on, that men might find all their
belongings.  Adjusting their packs the platoons of the Ninety-ninth
found their way to the ground below.

For once there was no attempt at good military formation.  At
route step and in irregular columns, the regiment moved forward
by platoons.  Unknown officers stood along the way to direct,
for the regiment's platoon leaders had no knowledge of the way.

Thus a mile or more was covered by a regiment that looked disorganized
and spectral in the darkness.  Then the aspect changed somewhat.
Whiffs of salt air prepared the soldiers.  Army trucks were moving
on parallel roads or trails.  Ahead of them appeared high fences
of barbed wire.  It looked as though the travelers had come upon
a huge bull-pen.  There were gates, guarded by military sentries
not of the Ninety-ninth.

Through these gates and past the barbed wire filed the marching men.

Further ahead loomed the sheds of a great pier.

With the help of officers who knew the ground the Ninety-ninth found
room to fall in for roll call.

"All present or accounted for!"

Then battalion by battalion, a company at a time, the regiment
passed on through the dimly lighted pier sheds.  On the further
side towered the bulwarks of a great ship, with gangways reaching
down to the pier.

In some mysterious way order reigned and speed was observed.
Line after line of uniformed men passed up the gangways and vanished.
Lights were on the ship, yet dim enough to be in keeping with the
night's mystery.

Last of all the almost muffled noises of gangways being drawn
down on to the piers.  Hawsers were cast off.  Stealthy tugs hauled
the ocean monster out into the stream.

"Off at last!" was felt more than spoken.  Then the tugs let go
and the ship, outwardly darkened save for the few necessary running
lights, moved slowly down stream.

Some venturesome soldiers found their way up on deck.

Above them, on a still higher deck, the shadowy forms of officers
were discernible.

The strangeness of the dark sea lay over all.  It seemed uncanny,
this dark departure from one's native land---the land for which
these men were going to fight, to bleed and die!

Yet there was no sense of fear.  It was the strangeness that gripped
all minds.

Up forward on the spar deck a few enlisted men opened their mouths
to sing.  The chorus grew in volume and the words rolled up:

_"And I don't know where I'm going, but I'm on my way!"_

_"For I belong to the Regulars.  I'm proud to say."_

_"And I'll do my dooty-ooty, Night or day."_

_"I don't know where I'm going, But I'm on my way!"_  Breaking
through the words the ship's deep-throated whistle boomed its
own notes.


CHAPTER XI

IN THE WATERS OF THE SEA WOLVES


Some days later the same ship steamed steadily through the waters
on the further side of the Atlantic.

Nor was the Ninety-ninth alone.  Seven other transports were keeping
her company, together with a busy, bustling escort of British and
American destroyers.

For these American adventurers of to-day were nearing the coast
of Ireland.

Whether these transports were to unload their cargoes of human
beings and munitions at any port in Great Britain or Ireland few
on the transports knew, nor did those few tell others.

Ever since the first morning out there had been daily drills,
on every transport, in abandoning ship.  A few night drills, too,
had been held.  Not an officer or man was there but knew his station
and his lifeboat in case of disastrous meeting with a submarine.

These had not been the only drills, however.  From morning to
night platoons had been drawn up on the decks and military drills
had been all but incessant while daylight lasted.  Especially
had the newest recruits been drilled.  By this time the latest
of them to join the regiment had gained considerable of the appearance
of the soldier.

Dick and Greg, sharing the same cabin, had been much together,
for on shipboard they had found much leisure.  It had been the
lieutenants who had drilled the platoons.  Captains were but little
occupied on shipboard.

On the morning that it became known that the fleet had entered
the Danger Zone, Dick and Greg stood on deck to the port of the
pilot house.  Leaning over the rail they idly scanned the surface
of the sea to northward.

"Almost in France, my boy!" Prescott cried eagerly.  "Or England!"

"Near enough, yet we may never see either country," returned Captain
Holmes, suppressing a yawn, for the sea air, even after a night's
rest, made him drowsy.

"Croaker!" laughed Dick.

"I'm not," Greg denied, "and I don't want to croak, either, but
who can tell?  We are now in the waters where the sea wolves have
been busy enough in finding prey."

"So far they haven't proved that they could do much to troopships,"
Dick declared warmly.

"There always has to be a first time," Holmes retorted.

"All right, then," smiled Prescott.  "We're going to be torpedoed.
Now, I hope that satisfies you."

"You know it doesn't," Holmes rejoined.  "This sea air makes me
so sleepy, all the time, that I don't feel as though I could stand
any real excitement."

"Being torpedoed would be something to look back upon in later
years," Dick observed thoughtfully.

"Yes, if we had any later years on earth in which to look back,"
Captain Holmes responded.

"Who's this strange-looking creature coming?" Dick suddenly demanded,
as he stared aft.

"Captain Craig, the adjutant, of course," Greg answered.  "He has
his life belt on, and he's stopping to talk to others."

"After he speaks they hurry away," Dick went on.  "I understand.
All hands are ordered to put on life belts."

And that, indeed, proved to be the message that Captain Craig
brought forward with him.  Dick and Greg did not have far to go
to reach their cabin.  In five minutes they reappeared on deck
in the bulky contrivances intended to buoy them up in the water
should they have the bad fortune to find themselves tossing on
the waves.

"This makes the danger seem real," Prescott observed.

"Too blamed real!" grumbled Greg.  "We're ordered not to take
these belts off, either, until the order is passed, and are told
that the order won't be passed to-day, either.  Imagine our trying
to get close to the dining table to eat in comfort!"

"It may be in the plans that we're not to eat to-day," Captain
Dick laughed.

Ahead, on either flank and at the rear, the torpedo-boat destroyers
were scouting vigilantly, with gunners standing by ready to fire
promptly at any periscope or conning tower of an enemy craft that
might be sighted.

"I don't suppose there'll be any band concert this afternoon,"
said Greg Holmes suddenly and ruefully.  "And we have a mighty
good band, too.  And probably no band concert to-morrow forenoon,
either."

"We may not be at sea to-morrow forenoon," Dick suggested.

"Have you been able to figure out at all where we are?" Captain
Holmes asked.

"I haven't.  I don't know either our course or the speed at which
we are traveling.  All I am sure of is that we are still out of
sight of land.  I was told that we are nearing the coast of Ireland,
but Ireland is a town of some size, so the information isn't very
explicit."

"Say," ejaculated Greg, suddenly looking over at the water, "we
have begun to hit up a faster speed.  So have the other transports.
And look at the destroyers off yonder.  They are moving faster,
too.  I wonder if any submarine signs have been seen."

There could be no doubt that the fleet was moving faster.

"I take it," Prescott guessed, "that we've reached the part of
the ocean, where greater speed is considered much more healthful."

"The leading transport is signaling, and so are the destroyers
in the lead," Greg announced, peering ahead.

In their path, and coming nearer four columns of dense smoke could
be observed ascending as though coming up out of the water.

"More destroyers, or some cruisers, coming out to meet us," Dick
conjectured.  "As yet they're too far away to be seen from this
deck.  Yes, I must be right.  Look at the watch officers on the
bridge.  They are using their marine glasses and looking forward."

"More craft coming to help us?" Greg called up, after having walked
nearly under the bridge end on the port side.

"Yes, sir," replied one of the watch officers.  "Four American
destroyers coming up to strengthen the escort."

Then he named the oncoming craft, whereat Dick Prescott started
with pleasure.

"The first two are the craft commanded by Darry and Danny Grin,"
Dick murmured to his chum.

"That's right," Greg nodded.  "I wonder if they know we're here."

"Probably not.  And they wouldn't recognize us, even if they saw
us at a distance.  The uniform tends to make all men look alike
at a very little distance.  It will seem tough, though, to be
so near Darry and Danny Grin and not have even a wave of the hand
from them."

"What part of the ocean are we in?" Greg called up to the obliging
bridge officer.

"On the surface, sir," came the dry reply.  "On the surface---just
where, in latitude and longitude?" Holmes insisted.

But the ship's officer smiled and shook his head.

"I'm not permitted to tell that, sir.  Wish I could."

Going at the speed now employed the transport fleet and the oncoming
destroyers were not long in getting to close quarters.

Dick named the two destroyers commanded by Lieutenant-Commander
Dave Darrin and Lieutenant-Commander Dan Dalzell and asked the
bridge officer if he could point them out.  That the man above
was able and very glad to do.

"We'll keep our eyes open in the hope of being close enough to
signal Darry and Danny Grin," Captain Holmes suggested.

"We-----" Dick began, but he stopped right there, for of a sudden
three of the destroyers let go with their three-inch guns with
a great deal of energy.

Two periscopes had been sighted off to northward.  After a few
rounds had been served from the destroyers' guns the firing ceased,
for half a dozen of the escort craft had gone racing northward
and there was danger of hitting them.

Not that any periscopes were now visible, however, for these had
been instantly withdrawn under the surface.  The destroyers, however,
went alertly in search of their enemy prey, even to dropping a
few depth bombs on the chance of destroying the enemy sub-sea craft.

"A good warning, at least," commented Captain Prescott.  "We don't
feel quite as foolish, now, in our life belts."

Everlastingly and splendidly alert the naval craft had chased
off the sea wolves ere the latter had had time to bare their teeth!

Still more the speed was increased.  An hour passed in which there
was no alarm.  Then the enlisted men, forward, filed below decks
to have their early noon meal.  The first lieutenants of each
company went below, too, to inspect the food served to their men.

Half an hour later the Ninety-ninth's officers descended to their
own mess in the cabin dining-room.

"This trip through the danger zone isn't as exciting as I had
supposed and expected it would be," announced Major Wells.

"Yet, sir, one attempt was made against us this forenoon," said
Dick.

"True, but the destroyers showed how promptly the attackers could
be driven off," the major argued.

"Yet suppose the destroyers had been half a minute longer in sighting
the tell-tale periscopes?" Prescott suggested.

"But they weren't tardy, and it wouldn't be like the Navy to be
slow," rejoined Major Wells.  "I still contend that there is nothing
very exciting in passing through the danger zone on a troopship."

"And I hope, sir," Greg put in, "that nothing will happen to change
your mind about the danger.  For my part, I have been eating in
momentary expectation of feeling a big smash against the side
of the ship."

"What is happening now?" demanded Lieutenant Noll Terry, half-rising
from his chair.

All could feel that the big ship had suddenly changed her course
to a violent oblique movement to starboard.  Yet, as no alarm had
been sounded no officer cared to rise and hurry to deck.  It might
make him look timid or nervous.

"There we go again, in the opposite direction.  We're zig-zagging.
What do you make of that, Captain?" Lieutenant Terry asked.

"The enemy craft must be around and sending torpedoes our way,"
Dick guessed, dropping a lump of sugar in his coffee and stirring
it slowly.

"In a merry throng like this the suspicion that you're being dogged
by a hostile submarine doesn't strike one as very terrifying,
does it?" Greg inquired as he took a piece of cake from the plate
held out to him.

At this moment the adjutant, Captain Craig, who had been eating
with Colonel Cleaves in the latter's quarters above, entered the
dining-room briskly, stepping to a nearby table and rapping for
attention.

"Gentlemen," he announced, "the sea appears to be infested, at
this point, with unseen enemy craft.  Ours, among other transports,
has narrowly dodged two torpedoes.  It is quite within the limits
of possibility that we may be struck at any moment.  The commanding
officer therefore requests me to ask that company officers,
especially second lieutenants, finish their meal as quickly as
possible and station themselves near their men.  This is not to be
done hurriedly, or with any sign of excitement, but merely in order
that, if we should be struck, discipline may be preserved
effectively."

There was no excitement.  Second lieutenants finished the morsels
on which they were engaged, some of them washing down the food
with a final gulp of coffee.  Then, without undue haste, they left
the dining-room by twos or threes.

Adjutant Craig watched them with nods of satisfaction.

"That was the right way for them to leave," he told Dick.  "We
do not want to throw any extra excitement in among the enlisted
men, but we want them to feel that their officers are standing
by, and that, at need, there will be disciplined rescue work."

Soon after the last of the platoon leaders had vanished the captains
and first lieutenants made their way to the decks above.

Contrary to German reports that American soldiers are kept mostly
between decks while transports are in the danger zone, the decks
fore and aft were crowded with men of the Ninety-ninth.  Those
who stood nearest to the rails felt that they had the best vantage
points from which to see what was going on.  It was with eager
interest, not fear, that the soldiers took in all that was visible
of the fleet's progress and the work of the destroyers to protect
the troopships from disaster.

From northward and slightly ahead of the course of the troopship
of the Ninety-ninth a swift destroyer could be seen darting
over the waves.  As she came closer it seemed to the Army beholders
that she traveled with the speed of an express train.

"Worth watching, and every officer and man visible on her looks
and acts like a piece of the machinery," commented Major Wells,
passing Prescott an extended field glass.  "Want to take a look
at her?"

"Why, I'd know that tall officer on her bridge anywhere in the
world if I had as good a view of him as I have now," uttered Dick
delightedly.

"Old Darry?" inquired Greg Holmes.

"No one else.  Take a look at him.  Next to the last officer on the
port side of the bridge."

The instant that the glass gave him a sight of the familiar face
Captain Holmes uttered a whoop.

"Darry himself, and sure enough!" Greg exclaimed.  "Wonder what
he's heading in so close for?"

"He knows what he's doing," Prescott returned.  "Don't worry about
that."

"I don't," Greg retorted cheerfully.  With a rounding sweep the
destroyer commanded by Dave Darrin turned out of the way of the
troopship, then came up close, on the same course, scooting by.

"Good old Darry!" Prescott yelled through a megaphone that Greg
thrust into his unoccupied hand.

For a wonder Dave heard, just as the destroyer darted in at her
closest point to the transport.

For just an instant Darrin turned to wave his hand.  Then, between
both hands, placed over his mouth, he shouted:

"Hullo, Dick!  'Lo, Greg!"

Dave waved his hand, then turned to give an order to his watch
officer.  A brief greeting, but it meant a world to the three chums
who had had a part in it.

"Now, if Danny Grin's craft would only come in that close!" sighed
Greg happily.

But it didn't.  This section was defeated but relative to it Mr.
Stevens in a speech said:

"The 3rd section may encounter more difference here.

Among the people I believe it will be the most popular of all the
provisions; it prohibits rebels from voting for members of Congress
and electors of President until 1870.

My only objection to it is that it is too lenient.

I would be glad to see it extended to 1878, and to include all State
and municipal as well as national elections."

There are two things about the advice that seem incongruous.

First that intelligent Negroes would think that any men of the
master class would join hands with them, some of whom had
probably been their slaves, to govern the State. In the second
place it is hard to believe that Sumner and Stevens, men of brilliant
legal minds, would give advice that could not be carried out, even
if practicable.

No man of the master class in South Carolina, however conservative,
would stand for being called a scalawag.

There were practically no Union men in South Carolina. There were a
few men who opposed secession at the time but when the ordinance
of secession was passed a man who did not go with the State was
considered a traitor.

South Carolina was not considered a safe place for a white man who
was opposed to secession after the ordinance was passed. This
probably accounts for the statement in the last part of the
affidavit relative to the frustration of the plans.

I regard the statement in reference to Messrs. Sumner and Stevens
as a reflection on the memory of two of the greatest friends
of the Negro.

History, unless it is based on facts, incontrovertible facts, is
worthless.

If there are any readers of _The Journal of Negro History_ who can
produce "irrefragable evidence" relative to this matter I would
be glad if they would do so. Truth is supreme and everlasting.

Prof. R. T. Greener, now of Chicago, Harvard's first Negro graduate,
and the first and only Negro who occupied a chair in one of the
old Southern universities, delivered on Public Day, June 29, 1874,
in the historic South Carolina University, a most eloquent and
scholarly address on "Charles Sumner, the Idealist, Statesman and
Scholar."

It made such an impression on the members of the faculty that they
requested Prof.

Greener to allow them to have it published and distributed. Professor
Greener was the only Negro on the faculty.

He occupied the chair of Mental and Moral Philosophy.

Professor Greener was closer to Mr.
Bang!  The port gun had been turned loose again.  Up on the saloon
deck the officers at the port rail were waving their campaign
hats as though what they saw filled them with liveliest interest.

"I'd like to be up there!" murmured Greg in his chum's ear.

"And I'm glad I'm down here," Prescott retorted.  "It shows our
men that captains of the regiment are shut out from the view as
much as they are.  I'd like to see what is going on, but so would
I like to have all these men who cannot be near the rails see what
is happening."

Bang! went the starboard bow gun of the transport, her nose pointing
straight ahead.

"Only one thing is plain to me," Holmes declared.  "We're in the
midst of a pack of the sea wolves, and they're doing their best
to hit us with torpedoes!"


CHAPTER XII

THE BEST OF DETAILS


Boom!  It was a dull sound, off to port.  Then even the men who
stood in the middle of the spar deck were able to see the top
of a broad column of water that rose out of the ocean.

Major Wells so far forgot himself as to give vent to a yell of joy,
then suddenly clapped a restraining hand over his own mouth.

"Sorry you men couldn't have seen that," the major called, leaning
over the rail above and addressing the men on the spar deck.
"A destroyer let go a depth charge, which exploded under water
and threw up a geyser that would make hot water feel tired."

"Look at that now, Major," urged Captain Cartwright, pulling at
his superior's sleeve.  Major Wells walked to the side rail, looked
out over the water, and had all he could do to keep back another
yell of glee.

"There's something out there that's worth seeing, men, and it's
visible," the major called down.  "A great blot of oil on the
water, and it's spreading.  That shows that a submarine was knocked
to flinders by that depth charge!"

In spite of orders a low, surging cheer started.

"Shade off on that noise, men!" Dick ordered briskly, holding up
his hand and moving again through the crowd.  "Remember that we
cannot have any racket except what the guns make."

A few more guns were fired, and the racket died down.

"The show's over!" shouted Major Wells.  "Evidently we got out
of that meeting with less damage than the enemy sustained.  We
lost no craft, while Fritz has one pirate boat less.  Our destroyers
of the escort are now moving along straight courses once more."

On the saloon deck many of the officers turned and stepped inside.
That set the fashion, for hundreds of enlisted men left their
own decks and went below, either to sleep, read or write letters.

Then, a minute later, Major Wells once more appeared at the rail
forward, calling down:

"For the benefit of those who like exact statistics I will say
that the commanding officer has just received a signaled message
to the effect that the navies of two countries got an enemy submarine
apiece.  You may omit the cheers!"

Those who remained on deck saw, a couple of hours later, several
specks off on the water which, they were told, were British and
American patrol boats out to give aid to victims of submarine
sinkings.

Then night came on, dark, hazy, a bit chilling, so that officers
and men alike were glad enough to seek their berths and get in
under olive drab blankets.

"The haze and mist will hinder submarines anyway, so the weather
is in our favor," was the word passed around.

Save for the guard, and those on other active duty, the passengers
on the troopship slept soundly.  They might be sunk in the night,
but American fighting men do not always dwell on danger.

When first call sounded in the morning the men rubbed their eyes,
then realized that the ship was proceeding at very slow speed.

"Get up, you lubbers!" called a man going down to one of the berth
decks.  "Do you realize that the ship is at the entrance of a
French harbor?"

France?

Then a cheer went up that no officer could have stopped until
it had spent its first force.

At last!  France!  "Over there!"

Never had men dressed faster.  How the soldiers piled up the
companionways!  Yet a few bethought themselves to kick their
now discarded life belts with a show of resentment and contempt.

However, the first glimpses had from the decks were bound to be
disappointing.  It was just after daylight.  The mist of the night
had thickened instead of vanishing.  Here and there patchy bits
of land could be seen through the haze, but for the most part
France was invisible behind a curtain of early winter fog.

One at a time, under the guidance of local pilots, transports
moved slowly into the harbor, moved slowly some more, then docked.

Here at last, made fast to a French pier constructed by American
engineer troops!  But where were the cheering crowds of French?
Absent, for two reasons.  The French had already seen many regiments
of American troops arrive in former months, and the novelty of
such a sight had worn off.  Besides, most of the French who lived
in this same port were now just about quitting their own beds.

"Who'll be first ashore from this regiment?" demanded a laughing
soldier as he witnessed the work of bringing the first gangway
aboard from the pier.

"The guard!" tersely replied Captain Cartwright, as he appeared
with a sergeant and a detachment from the guard.  As soon as the
gangway had been made fast sentries were thrown out, two of them
being stationed at the foot of the gangway itself.

Then came a call the soldier never ignores.  The buglers sounded
the first mess-call of the day.

After the meal came inspection, after which, a company at a time,
the men were sent over the side to the pier.  A short distance
up a street the men were halted, forming in two ranks at the side
of the street.  The reasons for all that followed were not clear
to the newer men in the ranks.

While the men had been eating between decks the officers of the
regiment had gone to their last ship's meal in the dining saloon.
Before the meal was half over the adjutant had entered to call
out:

"At the conclusion of the meal Major Wells, Captains Prescott
and Holmes and First Lieutenant Terry will report at my office
for instructions from the colonel."

"That's more interesting than clear," declared Greg, as soon as
he had swallowed the food in his mouth.  "I wonder why we four
are wanted?  What have we been doing and why are we the goats?"

"Probably," smiled Dick, "it is something to do with either praise
or promotion---the two things that come most regularly to a soldier,
you know."

Captain Holmes's curiosity reached such a high point that he would
have bolted his food in order to get more quickly to the adjutant's
office, but he noted that the battalion commander was not hurrying
at all.

"Confound Wells!" the irrepressible Greg whispered to his chum.
"I believe he knows what it's all about, and he knows that we
cannot report before he's ready to do the same, so he's tormenting
us by taking twice his usual amount of time to finish breakfast!"

"Keep cool," Dick returned dryly.

At last Major Wells finished his meal.  He waited until he saw that
the other three officers concerned with him in the orders had
done the same.  Then he inquired:

"Are you ready, gentlemen?"

Rising, Major Wells led the way above.  When they entered the
adjutant's office they found Colonel Cleaves standing there, chatting
with a French major and two captains.  Colonel Cleaves introduced
his own officers, then added:

"Gentlemen, it is intended that as many as possible of the officers
of this regiment shall go to the fighting front and spend some time
there studying the actual war conditions.  You four have been chosen
for the first detail.  Captain Ribaut is going to take you there.
He will act as your guide and your mentor for the length of your
visit to the front trenches."

Even the steady, unexcitable Major Wells showed his delight very
plainly.  To a soldier this was unexpected good luck, to start
immediately, with the surety of finding himself speedily in the
thick of things in the greatest war in the world's history!

"I have informed Captain Ribaut," Colonel Cleaves continued, "that
you will be ready to leave the ship in an hour."


CHAPTER XIII

OFF TO SEE FRITZ IN HIS WILD STATE


By the time that Dick and his brother officers left the ship in
the wake of Captain Ribaut, the infantrymen massed along the nearby
street had been gladdened by the sight of a few score of French
women and children who came to the water front to look on.

Half of the regiment was now ashore and the rest were going over
the side slowly.

At the head of the pier Captain Cartwright saluted Major Wells
and Captain Ribaut, and found chance to say to Prescott in a low
tone:

"You're always one of the lucky ones!  How do you manage it?"

"I don't know that there is any system possible in inviting luck,"
Dick smiled.

"You're going right up to the actual front.  You'll see Fritz in
his wild state.  I envy you!"

"Your turn will come, Cartwright."

"It can't come too soon then.  For to-day, and the next few days,
I can't see anything ahead of me but drudgery."

Ever since that quarrel at Camp Berry, Cartwright had kept mostly
away from Prescott and Holmes.  Dick, who knew the captain for
an indolent chap, didn't know whether, in other respects, he liked
him.  To most of the officers of the Ninety-ninth Cartwright appeared
to be more unfortunate than worthless.

"Gentlemen," said Captain Ribaut, when they had passed the head of
the pier, "I think that I can obtain a car if you wish it.  What
is your pleasure?"

"Thank you, but we've been on shipboard for so many days that
we'll enjoy the chance to stretch our legs," replied Major Wells.
"A walk of a few miles would do us a lot of good this morning."

"It is not that far," replied the French captain, who spoke excellent
English.  "The distance is, I should say, about two kilometers."

As that meant a little more than a mile the party walked off briskly.

"Why, this doesn't look really like a French town," declared Major
Wells.

"You Americans have been coming here for so many months that you
have made the city American," explained Captain Ribaut.  "See,
even the shops display signs in English, and very few in French.
It is on American money that these shops thrive.  Here comes
one of our own poilus, a sight you will not see many times in this
American town on French soil."

Poilus is a French word meaning "shaggy," and is commonly applied
to the French enlisted man.  As this French soldier drew close
he brought up his hand in smart salute to his own officer and
the Americans.  Greg turned to look back, but the French soldier
was no longer looking their way.

Up the street, away from where the Ninety-ninth American sentries
were posted, soldiers of the American military police patrolled.

"You see how American this city has become," said Captain Ribaut.
"Here French law runs only for citizens of France.  Your American
military authorities look after your own men."

French shopkeepers, speaking a quaint, broken English, came to
their shop doors to greet the Americans, even to urge the newcomers
to enter and buy, but Captain Ribaut waved all such aside with a
simple gesture.

Further on they passed through a public square.  By this time
many French people were about, but Dick noted that they betrayed
no curiosity over the appearance of newly arrived American officers.
The sight had become an old story to these people who, however,
bowed courteously as they passed.

Down other streets Ribaut led the way, and so they arrived at last
at a railway station.

"We are about in time," remarked the Frenchman, after glancing
at his wrist watch.  "We shall get our seats in the train, and
then we shall not wait long."

Past French guards and saluting railway employees the little party
went.  As the train was already made up the Frenchman led them to
a first-class coach, a train guard throwing open the door.  They
entered and seated themselves.

"You will see that none others are shown into this compartment,"
said Captain Ribaut to the guard in French.  The door was closed.

"After we leave the station there will be something to see," explained
their guide.  "Yet France is not very attractive in such weather.
Up at the front, though, there is nothing at all of France left.
There is nothing but bare ground, full of shell-holes.  The whole
face of nature has been denuded and blackened by the atrocious enemy."

When the train had been under way a couple of minutes Captain
Ribaut leaned forward.

"Look over there," he said, "and you will see where your regiment
will he housed for the next two or three days.  After that the
regiment will entrain and will go to one of the regular training
camps, where you will find it on your return from the front."

His American hearers looked out on a large village of unpainted pine
barracks buildings.

"That is a rest camp for troops when first they come from the
transport," explained Captain Ribaut.  "Even the barracks are
American, built in sections in your country, then shipped over
here and set up.  The village you are passing will shelter two
regiments of American infantry."

Before long the Americans found themselves much more interested
in the French officer's conversation than in the glimpses of his
country that were obtainable.  Captain Ribaut had served from
the beginning of the war and was familiar with every trick of
fighting practiced at the front.  He had a wealth of information
to give them---so much, in fact, that before long Dick Prescott
began to jot down information in a notebook.

Toward the end of the forenoon a soldier came aboard at one station
with an outfit of dishes on two long trays.  He was followed by
two others bearing food and coffee.  These were set out and the
soldiers departed, the travelers falling to with a relish.  At
a station beyond, the dishes were removed by other soldiers.
Then the train rolled slowly on its way.

"There is much in our travel facilities that I shall have to beg
you to excuse," said Captain Ribaut rather wistfully.  "France
is not what it was, not even in the matter of its railways."

"France is not what she was," retorted Major Wells quickly, "because,
glorious as she, was, she has gone up infinitely higher in the
human scale.  Could any other country in the world have stood
the ravages of war so long and still live and contain so brave
and resolute a people?  Never mind your railways, Captain.  It
is the people, not the railways, who make a country.  Your French
people compel our constant and most willing admiration."

At another railway station, as the train halted, and the guard
opened the door briefly, a low, sullen rumbling could be heard.

"Do you have thunderstorms at this time of the year, Captain?"
asked Lieutenant Terry.

"Ah, but yes," replied the Frenchman.  "It is a German thunderstorm
that you hear in the distance---artillery."

"I feel like a fool!" exclaimed Noll Terry flushing.  "Of course
I should have recognized the sound of distant cannon-fire."

"Don't feel badly about it, Mr. Terry," said Major Wells.  "In
all your career in the American Army you have never heard as much
cannon-fire as you can hear in a single hour on the battle-front
in France."

At the next station the rumbling was much louder.  French soldiers
were becoming more numerous.  At times an entire French regiment
could be seen marching along a road.

"At the next station," announced Captain Ribaut, "we shall find
ourselves at the end of our rail journey.  We are nearing the
front.  If you are interested, gentlemen, there goes one of our
French airplane squadrons on its way to the front."

Instantly all four Americans were craning their necks at the windows.
High in the air, the French aircraft in flight looked as graceful
as swallows on the wing.

"They are battleplanes," explained Captain Ribaut further.  "Some
of the Hun flyers are almost sure of a tumble this afternoon."

When the American party alighted at the last station on the line,
and looked back, they beheld long trains of freight cars coming
slowly along.  The train from which they had descended was hauled
out and quickly shunted out of the way on a siding.  The freight
trains pulled in, going to various sidings before huge warehouses
in which the food and fighting supplies were stored until wanted
closer to the front.  It was a scene of deafening noise and what
looked like indescribable confusion.  Yet everything moved according
to a plan.

"Let us come where we can hear our own voices!" shouted Captain
Ribaut in the major's ear, and led the way.  Behind the station
they found a limousine car awaiting them.  As there were seats
for five inside, the travelers soon found themselves vastly more
comfortable than they had been on the train.

"We will drive slowly," said Captain Ribaut, after he had given
his orders to a soldier chauffeur, "for one does not usually go
into the trenches until after dark.  There will be plenty to see
on the way, and enough to talk about."

At one point Captain Ribaut directed the soldier-driver to turn
the machine into a field.  Here the Americans alighted to see
seemingly endless streams of French "camions" go by.  These are
heavy motor trucks that carry supplies to the front.

"And here come some vehicles from the front that tell their own
story," spoke Captain Ribaut rather sadly.

In another moment the first of a string of at least half a hundred
small cars went by at rapid speed toward the rear.  Each car bore
the device of the Red Cross.

"There has been disagreeable work, and our wounded are going back,"
explained Captain Ribaut.  "But my friends," he cried suddenly,
"I congratulate you on what you are privileged to see.  These
are not our French ambulances, but some of your own cars, given
to France, and young men from America are driving them."

That these were American ambulance sections in French service
there could be no doubt, for as the drivers caught sight of the
American uniforms they offered informal salutes in high glee.
It was reserved for one gleeful young American, however, to call
out, as his ambulance whizzed by:

"Hullo, buddies!  Welcome to our city!"

"If that young man were in the American Army I would feel obliged
to try to have him stopped," said Major Wells good-humoredly.
"That was not the real American form of salutation to officers,
but I know the youngster felt genuinely glad to see us so close
to the front."

"They are a happy lot, perhaps sometimes a trifle too merry,"
said Captain Ribaut half-apologetically.  "But they are splendid,
these young Americans of yours who drive ambulances for us.  They
never know the meaning of fear, and after a great battle they
are devotion itself to duty.  They will drive as long as they
can sit and hold the wheel.  There would have been many more aching
hearts in France to-day had it not been for the fine young Americans
who came over here with American cars to help us look after our
wounded!"

Presently the party entered the car again.  Every mile that they
covered took them closer to the Inferno of shell-fire.  More ambulance
cars whizzed by.

Then the visitors' car drew up before an unpretentious looking house
just off the main road.

"If you will come inside," invited Captain Ribaut, "I know that
our general of division will be delighted to meet you."


CHAPTER XIV

THE THRILL OF THE FIRE TRENCH


Passing the two sentries at the front door the officers found
themselves in a small ante-room.

Excusing himself, Captain Ribaut left the Americans briefly, but
was speedily back.

"General Bazain is most eager to meet you, and has the leisure
at this moment," the Frenchman announced.

He led his guests through the adjoining room, where half a dozen
younger French officers rose hastily, standing at salute.  Then
on into a third room, just over the sill of which Captain Ribaut
halted, bringing his heels quickly together as he called out:

"General Bazain, I have the honor to present to you four American
officers, Major-----"

And so on, through the list of names.  The French divisional commander
bowed courteously four separate times, taking each American officer
by the hand with both his own, and finding something wholly courteous
to say.  He spoke in French, a tongue that only Major Wells and
Captain Prescott understood well.

"My division is greatly honored, _Messieurs les Officers_," General
Bazain continued when he had seen to the seating of his callers
and had resumed his own chair behind a desk on which were spread
many maps and documents.

"You have been having a smart fight this afternoon, sir?" inquired
Major Wells.

"Ah, yes, for some reason, the Huns have been trying to break
through my division this afternoon, but they have not yet succeeded,
nor will they," General Bazain added, his eyes flashing grimly.

He was a little man, short and thin, his hair well sprinkled with
gray.  He looked like one whom more than three years of war had
borne down with cares, yet his eyes were bright and his shoulders
squared splendidly whenever he stood.

"Here is a map of the divisional front, gentlemen, if you care
to draw your chairs closer and look it over," proposed the general.
"This shows not only our lines, but as much as we know of the
enemy lines facing us.  And I believe," he added, with another
flash of pride, "that we know all there is to know of their lines
for a kilometer back, except whatever may have been added since
dark yesterday.  We-----"

He was interrupted by an explosion that shook the house.  It sounded
over their heads on the floor above.

"We have excellent air service at this point," General Bazain
went on, his attention not wavering from the map.  "And at this
point, as you will see, we have five lines of trenches, one behind
another, instead of three.  It would take the Hun an uncommonly
long time to drive my brave fellows back out of our five lines
of trenches."

There followed a rapid description of the work of the division
on that sector during the last four months.  The two present first
lines of trench had been taken from the Germans.  Plans were now
under way to stage a series of assaults which, it was hoped, would
drive the Huns out of their three present first lines of trench
and add them to the French system.

An officer wearing the emblem of the French medical service opened
the door and glanced in.

"My general, you were not hurt by that bomb?" he cried anxiously.

"I had forgotten it," replied the French divisional commander.
"What was it?"

"A Hun airman dropped a bomb on the roof.  It blew a hole in the
roof and worked some damage in your bedroom overhead."

"It does not matter," said General Bazain simply.

Bang! bang! smashed overhead.

"It must be the same rascal, returning in his flight!" cried the
medical officer, darting out into the yard to look up at the sky.
A moment later anti-aircraft guns began to bark.  Two minutes
after the medical officer again looked into the room.

"We are fortunate to-day, my general!" cried the doctor.  "That
scoundrel will not bother you again.  One of our shots wrecked
his plane and brought the Hun down---dead."

Evidently, however, that airman of the enemy had given the location
and range of division headquarters, for now a shell from a German
battery struck and exploded in the yard outside, killing a sentry
and wounding two orderlies.  A second and a third shell followed.
A fourth shell tore away the corner of the house without injuring
any one.

"Your orders, my general, in case our observers can locate the
Hun battery?" asked a staff officer, coming in from the next room
and resting a hand on a telephone instrument.

"If the enemy battery can be located," replied General Bazain,
"let it be destroyed."

Rapidly the staff officer sent his message to the artillery post
of command.

"But surely you will go to a shelter?" asked the staff officer,
laying down the instrument when he had finished.

"It will be inconvenient," sighed the division commander.  "The
light here is much better."

Yet General Bazain permitted himself to be persuaded to remove
from this now highly dangerous spot.  As he and his staff, accompanied
by the visitors, stepped outside another shell exploded close at
hand, fortunately without doing harm.

Descending to the cellar of a wrecked house near by, in the wake
of their hosts, the Americans found the entrance to steps, cut
in the earth, leading to a secure shelter on a level much below
that of the cellar.  Here were two rooms underground, both equipped
with desks, lights, chairs, telephones and all that was needed
for communicating with the ranking officers of the division at
their posts in the trenches.

"It is stupid to have to work under candlelight in the daytime,"
sighed the division commander.  It will contribute to kindle a
spirit of emulation in their brethren.

In some places there are persons of colour whose pecuniary
circumstances would allow them to give something towards the support
of schools, for their own class, and we think it proper and just,
that their aid should be solicited.

Several societies have informed us that benefit has arisen from
their meetings with the coloured people.

We therefore, recommend that each society select a committee, of
suitable members, whose duty it shall be to assemble the free
persons of colour, as often as they shall judge it useful, and
communicate to them such advice and instruction, as they shall think
necessary; and that the committee report, in writing, the result
of their opinions respecting the conference, to the next succeeding
meeting of their society.

The Convention of last year, recommended to each society, the
appointment of a committee for the purpose of publishing extracts,
and essays, shewing the impolicy, and injustice of slavery; but
we observe, with regret, this subject has not received that serious
and diligent attention to which it was entitled.

No abolition society can be ignorant that there are yet many
thousands of persons, within the United States, who are opposed,
on what they esteem grounds of justice and policy, to African
liberty.

Many remain under the erroneous notion, that the blacks are a class
of beings not merely inferior to, but absolutely a species
different from the whites, and that they are intended, by nature,
only for the degradations and sufferings of slavery.

There was a time when the people of all our states, and members of
every religious sect, were overshadowed by the darkness of this
error, and, in consequence of their erroneous opinions, practised
legal violations of the rights of humanity.

The pen, and the tongue of reason and truth have convinced thousands
of the falsity of those opinions, and such instruments should not
be permitted to rest in idleness, until truth and humanity obtain a
complete and universal triumph.

We lament the continued necessity, of inviting your attention to
the clandestine commerce, which, in defiance of our state and
national laws, is still carried on to the coast of Africa.

Information has been received that artful men, with the secrecy
of midnight robbers, have contrived means of loading their vessels
for Africa, and obtaining cargoes of slaves, and vending them in
the West Indies, without subjecting themselves to such detection
as would lead to legal punishment.

Let us keep a watchful eye on all persons of this class, and endeavour
to deter them from the perpetration of such cruel offences, by the
only argument of which they are susceptible, the fear of the just
punishment of the laws of their country.

This address will be accompanied by a number of copies of our
advice to the free people of colour. We leave it to your
discretion, to distribute them, together with such parts of our
former advices, as you shall judge expedient.

Finally, brethren, we beseech you by the rights of humanity ...
by the pleadings of mercy ... by the great and interesting cause
which we have espoused, that you suffer nothing to discourage you
in your useful labours, ... but that you persevere in your good
works of justice and benevolence, with a temperate and firm spirit
until your task, by the aid of Providence, shall be accomplished.[11]
To
WE the American Convention of Delegates for promoting the Abolition
of Slavery, feeling the importance of the business which you have
committed to our deliberation, deem it our duty to address you, and
to communicate some of the subjects which have claimed our particular
attention.

We learn that in some parts of the United States, there are yet men
so lost to all honourable feelings, so deeply depraved as to violate
those laws of their country which were intended to protect the
rights of free persons of colour. Those who have any knowledge of
the heart of man, his selfish attachments, and the firm grasp
with which he seizes and holds all that he calls his own, cannot
be surprized at the reluctance which individuals evince, in resigning
their claims to those people of colour who are legally their slaves:
but at this period when the rights of man are so well understood,
in a country where the highest degree of civil liberty is enjoyed
by the white citizens, it appears astonishing that the kidnapper
should be permitted to carry on his depredations; that his audacious
encroachments on the rights and happiness of the suffering people
of colour should, for a moment, be tolerated.

We hope our feelings on this subject, will not be considered as the
offspring of misguided zeal.

Every one in whose heart the pulse of benevolence beats, whose
sentiments are not degraded beneath the dignity of man _must
feel_ on this occasion; he must be sensible of the deep crime which
the kidnapper commits against the laws of his country, and the
violent nature of his trespass on the dearest rights of humanity.

The man of colour whom our country has declared _free_; around whose
liberty the law has thrown its protecting arms, in defiance of the
voice of that country and that law, is torn from his family by the
midnight robber, and transported to the mournful regions of perpetual
slavery, while his wife and his little ones are left to struggle
alone, in poverty, for the bread of mere existence.

This is a melancholy but a faithful picture of the miseries
occasioned by the detestable kidnapper.

Let us exert our best faculties for the purpose of eradicating
such evils. Those societies who form the line of demarcation between
the states in which slavery has been partially or totally abolished,
and those in which it is unconditionally maintained, are
particularly and earnestly requested to use all their vigilance
for the detection of kidnappers and the suppression of those crimes.

We do not mean to say that any deficiency, in proper zeal, has been
manifested by those societies, we rather wish to speak the language
of encouragement.

We observe with satisfaction the continued care, of several
societies, in the great task of education.

We hope there is not a single member of any one of our societies
who does not perceive the importance of it. To make men happy
in themselves and useful to society it is not necessary that they
be taught the abstruse sciences, but it is indispensibly requisite
that they be qualified to form a correct estimate of those powers,
and to exercise those faculties which the Great Creator of man has
been pleased to intrust to their care.

The Abolition Societies may be regarded as the paternal protectors
and friends of the people of colour.

They have undertaken that task, and it is their duty to persevere
in their labours, to hold out to the end in their good work.

Although liberty be a blessing, when we obtain the freedom of the
slave our work is not completed. It then becomes our peculiar
charge to endeavour to teach the enfranchised man how to value,
and how to employ the privileges which have fallen to his lot.

This noble task is rapidly progressing in some societies, and we
seriously and affectionately invite others to imitate their benevolent
efforts.

Lancaster's plan of instruction seems admirably adapted for the
communication of the rudiments of literature, we hope there are,
in all our societies, some individuals whose condition of life will
allow them leisure, and whose virtue will animate them to persevering
efforts in the blessed task of instructing the forlorn, and in some
places, we may say almost friendless people of colour.

Let them be taught to read and they will be introduced to a
knowledge of the scriptures, those sacred repositories of moral
and divine truth; let them be taught the elementary branches of
arithmetic which will prepare them for the common concerns of life.

We rejoice with you that our national Government has had the wisdom
and humanity, to embrace the first constitutional opportunity
afforded, to pass a law which entirely prohibits our citizens from
foreign traffic in human flesh.

We hope our hearts are not without sentiments of sincere gratitude
to the great disposer of events for that signal blessing.

But we have to sympathize with nearly a million of human beings
who are subject to the bonds of slavery within the United States,
we have yet to mourn over this dishonour of our country. The
progress of truth, or correct opinion of right has accomplished
great ends, but much remains to be done.

Domestic slavery is a national crime; a crime which is calculated to
excite in the man of upright sentiments, serious and awful
apprehensions of the final consequences of its continuance. It
is our duty to employ the pen and the press for the dissemination
of such arguments as shall convince our countrymen of the injustice
and impolicy of such slavery. The man whose mind is clouded by
prejudice, while his heart is hardened by selfish considerations,
must have truth frequently repeated, and presented under various
aspects, before his errors can be corrected, his prejudices
subdued, and the noble feelings of philanthropy excited in his breast.
This is a constant, an arduous, but not a hopeless duty.

We therefore recommend the frequent publication of extracts from
celebrated works, or original essays, tending to establish the
justice and policy of gradual and general emancipation.

One society has informed us that a committee of its members held
a satisfactory conference with the blacks and other people of
colour. We think such conferences, under the direction of discreet
men, may have a beneficial influence on the minds of the blacks,
we again recommend the subject to your attention.

In such meetings the advice of former Conventions may be renewed,
and, we think, the necessity of legal marriages, honesty in their
dealings, and the importance of religious instruction should
be impressively urged upon them.

We learn that Thomas Clarkson's history of the abolition of the
slave trade, which has been reprinted in Philadelphia, is now
published for the emolument of its author.

When we consider the value of this work to the cause of emancipation,
the indefatigable zeal of that powerful and benevolent advocate for
the rights of the Africans, and his great expense in the performance
of his labours, we think ourselves bound in duty, to contribute our
aid for the general circulation of his interesting history.

We therefore earnestly recommend that work to your patronage, and
we hope you will cheerfully employ such means, as you may think
effectual for promoting its sale.[12]
_To Society for promoting abolition._
IN discharging the customary duty of addressing you, we have great
satisfaction in stating, that the business of the Convention has
been conducted, throughout, with the utmost cordiality.

We cannot, however, forbear the expression of our sincere regret,
that so few societies have been represented in this Convention.
When we contemplate the interesting magnitude of the cause in which
we have unitedly and voluntarily embarked--when we consider the
solid and obvious advantages, which have hitherto been derived, to
the friends of humanity, from a free and personal interchange of
opinion and from unison of action, we confidently trust that trifling
impediments will not be suffered to interpose in the fulfilment of
our duty.

We therefore, in that freedom which becomes the advocates of truth
and justice, do most earnestly and affectionately recommend a more
zealous attention to this important point, in order that the
succeeding Convention may be more fully attended. Much has
been accomplished, but, when we remember that it has been
officially announced by the late census that nearly twelve hundred
thousand of our fellow beings remain in a state of abject bondage
in our deluded country, it surely will not, cannot be denied, that
much, very much, remains yet to be done.

You have put your hands to the plough--look not back till ye
shall have accomplished the end. You have commenced the wrestling,
cease not your hold till ye shall have obtained the prize.

While against the oppressor, we plead the cause of the oppressed--While
we invite the unhappy slave to a patient and Christian submission
to his condition--and urge on his legalized master a humane exercise
of his power--While we feel ourselves bound, by all honourable and
lawful means, to protect those whom the laws have enfranchised,
from being again dragged into slavery--let us not forget how much
depends on the careful instruction of all who are free.

Without this our labour will be but very partially accomplished.
This great object, so important to ourselves, as members of those
who are the subjects of our care; and the Convention have learned,
with heart-felt satisfaction, that it is proposed, by the people
of colour in New York, to raise a fund among themselves, for the
instruction of their orphan children.

This circumstance, while it proves an honourable testimony to the
persevering zeal of the New-York Manumission Society, reflects
great credit on the blacks themselves; and we hope the example will
not be without beneficial effects elsewhere.

Could such of these people as have it in their power, be persuaded
to apply a part of their surplus earnings to the establishment of
similar funds, instead, as is unhappily the case in too many
instances, of spending their money in courses which prove injurious
to their health and morals, not only their race, but the community
at large, would from such meritorious efforts speedily reap the
most unequivocal advantages.

It appears that, in defiance of the laws already provided to interdict
the inhuman practice, and notwithstanding the enormity of the offence
in itself, men are yet found, so lost to justice and the tender
feeling of humanity, as to be guilty of carrying free blacks from
some of the states, and selling them as slaves in others.

We, therefore, recommend renewed vigilance to detect and prosecute
these hardened transgressors--and that, whenever the laws are found
to be defective, or insufficient to the correction of the evil,
application be made, to the constituted authorities, for such
amendments, and alterations as may be necessary and effectual; that
our country may be purged of this most grievous iniquity.

The Pennsylvania Society accompanied their address to the
Convention with some very interesting documents, which were
transmitted to them by the African Institution in London, part of
which it is proposed to publish in the form of an appendix to our
printed minutes, in order that the information which it contains
may be more generally diffused.

The Convention have not, at this time, deemed it necessary or
expedient, to take any further order on this subject.

Were the laws of the general government, in relation to the
slave trade, duly and faithfully executed, it is believed they
would put an end to this inhuman traffic, which, to the disgrace
of some of our citizens, it is but too evident they have been
carrying on under the protection and cover of foreign flags.

We invite you to a careful perusal of these documents.
They contain the evidence of a mass of iniquity, the development
of which cannot but excite the indignation of every feeling mind.

You will perceive, by the minutes of our proceedings, that the friends
of humanity have gained an accession to their cause in the
establishment of an Abolition Society in Kentucky.

We trust their labours will be blessed with success, and that
this dawn of light will burst into a more perfect day on our
brethren of the southern states, casting its cheering and
benign influence alike on all; that the ensanguined lash of the
task master, and the cries of the slave, may no longer appal the
ear and sicken the heart, in this boasted land of mercy and equal
rights.[13]
The Committee appointed to draft an address to the several Abolition,
Manumission, &c.

Societies in the United States--reported an essay, which was read,
considered by paragraphs, and adopted, as follows:--

_To the various Societies instituted to promote the Abolition of
Slavery in the United States, or to protect the rights and
improve the condition of the People of Color._
The American Convention of delegates from Societies, associated
in various parts of our country, to promote the abolition of slavery
and improve the condition of the African race, convened in
Philadelphia, having harmoniously transacted its important
concerns, address you at this time with increased interest for
the success of the cause they have espoused; firmly relying on
the Divine Being for a blessing on their feeble efforts to promote
the cause of justice and mercy.

The communications forwarded to the Convention at this time, fully
evince that the cause of emancipation continues to advance, and
that even in the strongholds of slavery the friends of the oppressed
slave are fast increasing in numbers.

Our fellow citizens of the south and west are becoming more and
more awakened to a sense of the evil, injustice, and impolicy
of slavery; and we firmly trust that those who have engaged
in the benevolent work of "restoring liberty to the captive, and
to let the oppressed go free," will not look back with discouragement
at the long period this cruelty has prevailed, but continue to press
forward with increased energy to the goal they have set before them,
the complete and final abolition of slavery within the United States.

To promote this desirable object we know of no measures more
efficient than the formation of anti-slavery associations,
particularly in situations where the evils of slavery prevail; for
experience has fully proved that a combination of effort has often
effected that which individual exertion has attempted in vain.

The dissemination of useful works and tracts on the subject of
slavery, cannot but have a powerful effect in enlightening the
public mind on this awfully interesting subject. The Convention
would particularly recommend the following works to your special
attention--viz: Clarkson's Abolition of the Slave Trade,
abridged by Evan Lewis; Clarkson's Thoughts on Slavery; Laws
of the State of Pennsylvania, passed 1780; Tract on Slavery,
published by the Tract Association of Friends in Philadelphia;
Hodgson's Letter to J. B.

Say, on the comparative productiveness of Free and Slave Labor; and
a work now preparing for publication in this city, entitled, A Sketch
of the Laws in relation to Slavery in the United States, by
George M. Stroud.

They also recommend that each Anti-Slavery Society subscribe,
and promote subscriptions among their members and others, for the
Genius of Universal Emancipation, edited by Benjamin Lundy, of
Baltimore; and to the African Observer, a periodical work published
in Philadelphia, by Enoch Lewis; and the Freedom's Journal, a weekly
paper published at New York, by John B.

Russwurm, a person of color. All these works we believe are well
conducted, and will be powerful aids to the cause of liberty
and justice.

As an incipient step to the abolition of slavery, we earnestly
recommend that immediate application be made to the Legislature
of states where slavery exists, to prohibit the sale of slaves out
of the state.

The traffic which is thus carried on from state to state, is
fruitful of evil consequences, not only depraving the minds of
those engaged in it, but producing the most cruel separations
of near connexions, and depriving its victims of almost every
incentive to conjugal fidelity or correctness of conduct.

Perhaps next in importance in meliorating the condition of the
slaves, is the adoption of regulations for their religious
instruction, and the education of their children.

The condition of the free people of color in the United States has
claimed our attention, and we earnestly recommend to the several
societies, not only to use their endeavors to protect them in
their just rights, but to use every means in their power to
elevate them in the scale of society, by affording them and
their children the means of literary instruction. And as the
first day of the week is too frequently spent by them in dissipation,
we would suggest the formation of associations wherever practicable,
for the establishment of first day or Sunday schools for their
benefit, as well as schools on the other days of the week.

The degraded condition of this class of men ought to call forth
our regret and sympathy; being precluded from pursuing the lucrative
employments of life, it is much to be desired that more of them
than have heretofore been permitted may be instructed in handicraft
trades, and employed in manufactures.

You will observe, by our minutes, that the Convention has again
addressed Congress, on the important subject of the abolition of
slavery in the District of Columbia, and the restriction of the
further introduction of slaves into the Territory of Florida; and
we hope our application will be supported by addresses from other
bodies of our constituents.

The Convention believes that if the advocates of freedom persevere
in endeavoring to enlighten the public mind on this all important
subject, that the time is not far distant when a triumph will be
obtained over the strong prejudice and delusion which has so long
continued, and the cause of justice and humanity will finally
prevail.

The Convention fervently desires that all who have put their hands
to this great work may really deserve the epithet of "Saints,"
which in irony has been reproachfully cast upon them; and by
their energy, prudence, and moderation, convince their opponents
they have been mistaken in their characters and conduct.

And we confidently hope that the blessing of that Almighty Being, who
equally regards the bond and the free, will crown your righteous
labor with success.[14]
_To the various Anti-Slavery Societies in the United States._
The American Convention, for promoting the abolition of slavery,
and improving the condition of the African race, feeling desirous
to encourage every measure that may have a tendency to aid this
deeply injured people, and to relieve our country from the many
evils inseparably connected with the system of individual oppression,
take the liberty to address you upon the present occasion.

And in the performance of this task, we are particularly
solicitous to draw your attention to the subject of the abolition
of slavery in the District of Columbia--a subject which we view
as highly important, especially at the present moment, and deserving
your most serious consideration.

Carrying a bomb in his right hand, a pistol in his left the young
French officer led the way.  Just behind him was one of his own
infantrymen, Prescott coming third and carrying his automatic
pistol ready for instant use.

Counting the number of trench sections and traverses through which
they passed Dick estimated that they moved east fully two hundred
yards.  In all that distance they did not encounter a German soldier.

"The Huns who sent up the flares," De Verne paused to whisper
to Dick, "must have been the last of the enemy in these trenches.
It made them appear to be on guard, and vigilantly so, and right
after sending up the flares they withdrew to lines at the rear.
It is, I suspect, an old trick of theirs when they wish to leave
the front to rest or feed.  I shall so report it."

At last the lieutenant halted his men.  He had penetrated as far
as he deemed necessary.

"We will go back and pick up the sergeant," he said.  "But first
I shall send a man down one of the communication trenches to learn
if the enemy are numerous in the second-line trenches."

"How long will that take?" Dick whispered.

"At least ten minutes."

"Then may I try to penetrate a little further east along this line?"

"Why not?"

"I will try to be back soon," Dick promised.  Even in the darkness
these Allied officers exchanged salutes smartly.  Then, gripping
his automatic tightly, and realizing that he was now "on his
own," as the British Tommies put it, he disappeared into the nearest
traverse.

Prescott did not hurry.  He had nothing to expect from his own little
prowl, and his purpose in going alone had been to develop his
knowledge of this new kind of soldier's work.

Sixty or seventy yards Dick had progressed when, in a traverse,
he thought he heard low voices ahead.

"The enemy, if any one!" he thought, with a start, halting quickly.
Straining his ears, he listened.  Undoubtedly there were voices
somewhere ahead, though he could distinguish no word that was
spoken.

"As I haven't seen an enemy yet, I'm going to do so if I can," the
young captain instantly resolved.

Stepping to the end of the traverse, he peered around the jog.
That next length of trench appeared to be deserted, yet certainly
the voices sounded nearer.

"I've got to have that look!" Dick told himself, exulting in the
chance.

Softly he strode forward, then halted all in a flash.  And no
wonder!  For he found himself standing close to the entrance to
a frontline dug-out that sloped down into the earth.  And the
voices came from this dug-out.

Inside, as Dick peered down, he made out two figures.  Yet he
pinched himself with his unoccupied hand, so certain did it seem
that he must be dreaming.

Of the pair below, while the older man wore the uniform of a German
colonel of infantry, the younger man wore the garb of a French
sub-lieutenant of the same arm.  What could this infernal mystery
mean?


CHAPTER XVII

DICK PRESCOTT'S PRIZE CATCH


It was the older man, he of the German uniform who now spoke.

"So Berger was really caught in the act of signaling us?"

"Yes, excellenz (Your excellency)," replied the younger man.

"And he is to be shot for treason?"

"It is so, Excellenz!"

The language used by both was German, but Dick followed every
word easily.

"Too bad!  And our commander will regret the loss of Berger much,"
sighed the German colonel, "for Berger has served us long and
usefully.  Strange that he should be caught, when he has so long
and safely used that electric light pencil of his.  I suppose
Berger grew careless."

"It was an American officer who caught him at it and denounced
him," said the younger man.

"Ah, well!  At least we have you still in that regiment, and you
are more cautious.  You will not be caught."

"Not alive, at any rate, Excellenz," the younger man assured the
enemy colonel.

"Wrong, there!" spoke a low, firm voice.

Both men started violently, with good excuse, for before them
stood Captain Dick Prescott, a cocked automatic pistol held out
to cover both.

"You will both put your hands up!" Dick ordered them sharply,
in German.  "You will be shot at the first sign of resistance,
or even reluctance.  This trench is no longer German!"

Dully both men raised their hands.  Quietly as Prescott spoke
there was that in his tone, as in his eye, which assured them
that their lives would not outlast their obedience.

"You will pass up before me," Dick continued, "and neither will
attempt any treachery.  I assure you, gentlemen, that I shall
be glad of the slightest excuse for killing you!"

It was the German colonel who came first, for he was the nearer
one.  There was no visible sign of his being armed, but the younger
man in the sky-blue uniform carried an automatic in a holster
at his belt.  Dick deftly took the pistol from the holster and
was now doubly armed.

"Not the lightest outcry, nor the least attempt at treachery!"
Dick warned them sternly.  "Face west!  March!"

Though both prisoners obeyed promptly Captain Prescott was not
simple enough to imagine that they had no plan or hope of rescue
or escape.  In making this double arrest Dick had realized fully
that he was probably throwing his life away, yet he had deemed
possible success worth all the risk.

After going thirty or forty yards the older prisoner halted squarely.

"Proceed!" Dick ordered in a stern whisper, aiming one of the
pistols at the defiant one's breast.

"I do not care about being killed needlessly; neither do you,"
said the colonel.  "I can save my life, and give you some chance
for yours by informing you that, at the moment you appeared in
the dug-out, I pressed one foot against a signal apparatus that
calls our men back to these trenches.  Just now I heard them entering
a trench section ahead.  Others have entered behind us.  Your
chance, your only one, will be to climb over this parapet and
do your best to reach the French lines.  If you decide to do that,
I give you my word that I will not allow our men to fire upon
you as you withdraw."

"A German's word!" mocked Dick.  "Who would accept that?"

"It is your last chance for life."

"And you are throwing away your last chance, both of you!" Dick
uttered in a low voice.  "Each of you is within a second of death.
March!"

With an exclamation that sounded like an oath the German colonel
obeyed, followed by the younger man and Prescott.  Neither of
the prisoners had dared risk lowering his hands.

"You are foolish---life-tired!" warned the colonel, in a hoarse
whisper.

"If you speak again I'll kill you instantly," Prescott snapped
back.

After that the prisoners proceeded in moody silence, until, at
last, they rounded out a traverse and ran into several soldiers.
But these soldiers wore the French uniform.  In a word, they
were Lieutenant De Verne's party.

"Prisoners!" cried De Verne, in a hoarse whisper.  "Captain Prescott,
you are indeed wonderful!  But no, you bring only one prisoner,
this German, for the other is Lieutenant Noyez.  Noyez, my dear
fellow, how do you happen to have your hands up?"

"Because of the idiocy of this American," hissed Noyez.

"Lieutenant De Verne, from the conversation that I overheard I
learned that Noyez is a spy, and that he was reporting to his
chief, this enemy colonel," Dick stated.  "Now that I have brought
them to you, both are naturally in your hands."

"It is a stupid lie that you, De Verne, must set straight," Noyez
insisted angrily.

"Since Captain Prescott has made the charge, it must stand, of
course, until you have been taken before competent authority,"
De Verne said coldly.  "Pirot!  Grugny!  I turn Lieutenant Noyez
over into your charge.  You will give him no chance to get out
of your hands.  And now, we must find our way home."

Two men were sent up over the parapet, then the prisoners were
ordered up and held there at the muzzles of rifles.  The rest
of the patrol followed.

"We will make fast time back," ordered Lieutenant De Verne, "as
we know there are no enemy hereabouts in the first-line trenches."

Crossing rapidly, though softly, the patrol was challenged by
a sentry in the French trench.  De Verne went forward to answer
and to establish the identity of his patrol.  Then they were allowed
to pass in by the wire defenses, and next descended to the trench.
Officers and men hurriedly cleansed the black from their hands
and faces.

"We will now march to Captain Cartier," said De Verne, "and he
shall give us our further orders."

"You are looking for your friends, Captain?" spoke up a French
soldier in the trench, in his own tongue.  "Captain Ribaut has
taken them west along the line."

"Thank you.  If they return, you will tell them where I have gone."

By this time the German colonel was cursing volubly.  He felt
that he could talk, at last, without danger of being killed for
his audacity.  Noyez, pallid as in death, was silent, his eyes
cast down.

Back to the third line of trenches De Verne led the party, then
down into the dug-out of his company commander, Captain Cartier.

"A German colonel and Lieutenant Noyez, prisoners!" announced
the patrol leader.

"The German colonel I can understand truly," replied the French
captain.  "But why Lieutenant Noyez?"

"Captain Prescott, of the American Army, arrested both and made
the charges against Noyez," De Verne responded.  "You will hear
him now?"

As it was their first meeting Captain Cartier shook hands with
Dick, who then told what he had overheard.

"Noyez, a German spy!" exclaimed Captain Cartier.  "Truly, it
seems incredible."

"It is worse!  It is an infamous charge!" cried Noyez passionately.

"Yet our American comrade must be truthful, a man of honor," said
Captain Cartier, in a bewildered tone.

"May I suggest, sir," Dick interposed, "that it will be easy to
decide.  If Lieutenant Noyez was in the German trenches by orders
of his superiors, or with their knowledge, then that would establish
a first point in his favor.  But if he was there without either
orders or permission, then plainly he must have gone there on
treasonable business."

"That is absolutely fair!" declared Captain Cartier.  "I will
send at once for Noyez's captain, and we shall hear what he says."

In dejected silence Noyez awaited the arrival of Captain Gaulte,
who promptly declared that he had no knowledge of any authority
for his lieutenant to visit the enemy's lines.  Gaulte had, in
fact, supposed that Noyez was back of the lines on over-night
leave, for which he had applied.

"The business looks bad!" cried Captain Cartier, with troubled
face.

"Quite!" agreed Captain Gaulte more calmly.

"I must telephone for instructions," Cartier continued.  "It may
require a long wait.  Gentlemen, you will find seats."

First Cartier called up his regimental commander and reported
the matter.

"It will be passed on to division headquarters," reported Captain
Cartier, turning from the telephone instrument.

By and by the telephone bell tinkled softly.  Orders came over
the wire that the arresting party should take the prisoners to
division headquarters.

"These are your instructions, then, Lieutenant De Verne.  Of course
it is expected that Captain Prescott will accompany you as complaining
witness."

In the darkness of the night it was a toilsome march back through
the communication trenches.  This time, when they were left behind,
there was no limousine to pick up the members of the party.

"It is a relief to be at last where we can talk," said De Verne,
in English.

"You may speak for yourself," retorted the German colonel gruffly,
betraying the fact that he understood the language.

Halted four times by sentries, the party at last reached division
headquarters.  Outside a young staff officer awaited them.

"General Bazain has risen and dressed," stated the staff officer.
"He had undertaken to snatch two hours' sleep, but this cannot
be his night to sleep.  The general awaits you, and you are to
enter.  Through to his office."

As they entered the division commander's office they found that
fine old man pacing his room in evident agitation.

"And you, too, Noyez?" he called, in a tone of astounded reproach.
"It was bad enough that we should find Berger a spy!  But to find
one of our trusted officers---it is too much!"

"I am neither spy nor traitor, my general!" declared Noyez furiously,
"and my record should remove the least suspicion from my name."

"But you were in the enemy's trenches this night, without knowledge
or leave of your superiors, Lieutenant.  Have you a plausible
way to account for it?"

"All in good time, my general, when my head has had time to clear,"
promised the young sub-lieutenant.

"It is but fair that we give you time," assented General Bazain.
"It can give France no joy to find one of her officers a traitor."

It was now the German's turn to be questioned.  He gave his name
as Pernim.  As he was an ordinary prisoner of war he was led from
the room to be turned over to the military prison authorities.

"And it was you, my dear Captain Prescott, who captured one spy
who has since admitted his guilt.  And now you bring in another
whom you accuse."

"Berger has confessed, sir," Dick asked, "may I inquire if he
implicated Lieutenant Noyez?"

"He did not."

"Yet, sir, from what I heard, Berger and Noyez worked together.
If Berger be informed that Noyez has been captured is it not
likely that Berger will then tell of this accused man's work?"

"Excellent suggestion!  We shall soon know!" exclaimed General
Bazain, touching a bell.


CHAPTER XVIII

A LOT MORE OF THE REAL THING


Through the orderly who answered, three staff officers were summoned.
To these the general gave his orders in undertones in a corner
of the room.  As the three hastened out not one of them sent as
much as a glance in the direction of the unhappy Noyez.

Seating himself in his chair General Bazain, after courteously
excusing himself, closed his eyes as though to sleep.  The arresting
party and Noyez withdrew to the adjoining room.

More than an hour passed ere the three staff officers returned
and hastened into the division commander's office.  Fifteen minutes
after that Dick and his friends, with the prisoner, were again
summoned.

"It has been simpler than we thought," General Bazain announced
wearily.  "Berger, when questioned and informed of Noyez's arrest,
confessed that Noyez was the superior spy under whom he worked."

"It is a lie, my general!" exclaimed Noyez, in a choking voice,
as he strode forward, only to be seized and thrust back.

"It is the truth!" retorted General Bazain, rising and glaring
at the accused man.  "Berger not only confessed, but he told where,
in your dug-out, Noyez, could be found the secret compartment
in which you hid the book containing the key to the code you sometimes
employed in sending written reports to the enemy.  And here is
the code book!"

General Bazain tossed the accusing little notebook on the desk.

At sight of that Noyez fell back three steps, then sank cowering
into a chair, covering his eyes with his hands.

"You comprehend that further lying will avail you nothing!" the
division commander went on sternly.  "Lieutenant De Verne!"

"Here, sir!"

"Noyez, stand up.  Lieutenant De Verne, I instruct you to remove
from the uniform of Noyez the insignia of his rank and every emblem
that stands for France!  That done, you will next cut the buttons
from Noyez's tunic!"

Standing so weakly that it looked as if he must fall, Noyez submitted
to the indignity, silent save for the sobs that choked his voice.

"Call in the guard, and have the wretch removed from my sight!"
General Bazain ordered.  "Yet, Noyez, I will say that it seems
to me incredible that any Frenchman could have been so ignoble
as you have proved yourself to he."

"A Frenchman?" repeated Noyez disdainfully.  "No Frenchman am
I.  Already I am condemned, so I no longer need even pretend that
I am French.  No!  Though I was born in Alsace, my father's name
was Bamberger.  Twenty years ago he moved to Paris, to serve the
German Kaiser.  He fooled even your boasted police into believing
him French, and his name Noyez.  My father is dead, so I may tell
the truth, that he served the Kaiser like a loyal subject.  And
he made a spy of me.  I was called to the French colors, and I
went, under a French name, but a loyal German at heart!  I became
a French sub-lieutenant, but I was still a German, and the Kaiser's
officers paid me, knew where to find me and how to use me.  I
must die, but there are yet other agents of the Kaiser distributed
through your Army.  The Fatherland shall still be served from
the French trenches.  You will kill me?  Bah!  My work has already
killed at least a regiment of Frenchmen.  And since Berger has
weakened and betrayed me, I will tell you that he, too, is and
always has been a German subject.  Remember, there are many more
of us wearing the hated uniform of France."

"Noyez!  Bamberger!" retorted General Bazain, "I can almost find
it in my heart to feel grateful to you, for you have told me that
you are not French.  Since you are a German I can understand anything.
I thank you for assuring me that you are not French."

With a gesture General Bazain ordered the prisoner's removal. Then,
his eyes moist, the division commander turned to beckon Dick to him.

"Captain, I have to thank you for finding and helping to remove
two dangerous enemies from my command.  You will find me
grateful---always!"

Once more outside Lieutenant De Verne turned to Dick to ask:

"You intend returning to the trenches?"

"By all means, for I feel as though the night had but begun,"
Dick cried.  "It has gone well so far, and I am ready for whatever
the remaining hours can give me."

"I had hoped that, at the most, you would ask me to find you a
bunk in a dug-out where you might sleep," confessed De Verne.
"When you have been longer in the trenches, Captain, you will
be glad to sleep whenever the chance comes your way."

"But that will not be until I have learned more of the ways of
your trench life than I know yet," Dick rejoined.  "At present
I would rather sleep during the daylight, for it appears to be
at night that the real things happen."

De Verne accompanied him back to the fire trench, where Dick was
glad to find Captain Ribaut with the other three American officers,
that party having returned from a trip down the line.

De Verne soon after took his leave, hastening rearward to begin
his rest.

Bang! sounded a field-piece back of the German line.

Between the French first-line and second-line trenches the shell
exploded.  On the heels of the explosion came a furious burst
of discharging artillery.

"This must be what you have been expecting, Major," shouted Ribaut
over the racket.  "A barrage!"

Down the line ran the noise of bombardment, the thing becoming
more furious every instant.  Then some shells landed in first-line
trenches nearby.

"Take shelter!" shouted Captain Ribaut.  "Now!  At once!"

French soldiers were scurrying to dug-out shelters.  Ribaut led
the officer party to a dugout reached by eight descending steps
cut in the earth.  The apartment in which they found themselves
led out some fifteen feet under the barbed wire defenses.

"How long is this likely to last?" demanded Major Wells, eyeing
the Frenchman keenly by the light of the one slim candle that
burned in the dug-out.

"Perhaps fifteen minutes; maybe until after daylight," Ribaut
replied, with a shrug.

"What is the object?"

"Who can say?  But a barrage fire is being laid down between our
first and second lines.  That means that no reinforcements can
reach us from the support trenches.  And our own trench is being
shelled furiously, to drive all into shelters.  My friends, it
is likely that the Germans, enraged by the capture of Colonel
Pernim, who must be missed by now, are paying us back with a raid."

"More of your strenuous doings then, Dick," laughed Greg.

"At least a raid will be highly interesting," Dick retorted.  "So
far we haven't been in one, and we're here for experience, you know."

"And you really hope that this turns out to be a German raid?"
asked Captain Ribaut.

"Yes; don't you, Captain?" challenged Major Wells.

"An, but we French have seen so many of these raids, and they
are dull, ugly affairs, sometimes with much killing.  After you
have seen many you will not hunger for more."

It was not long before conversation was drowned out wholly by
the racket of exploding shells in and around the fire trenches.
Occasionally one of these drove a jet of sand down the stairs
of the dug-out, but this room was too far underground for the
dug-out roof to be driven in on them.

Half an hour later the shell-fire against the front-line trenches
abated, though the barrage fire still continued to fall between
the first and second lines.

Greg whistled softly, unable to hear a note that he emitted.
Noll Terry occasionally fingered one of the two gas-masks with
which he had been provided before entering the trenches.  Major
Wells's attitude suggested that he had his ears set to note every
difference in sound that came from outside.

A French soldier shouted down the steps in his own tongue:

"Stand by!  The Huns are coming!"

At a single bound Captain Ribaut gained the steps and darted up,
followed promptly by the American officers.

In the section in which they found themselves four French soldiers,
rifles resting over the parapet, stood awaiting the onslaught.

Two more men, equipped with hand bombs, stood awaiting the moment
to begin casting.

All the while the curtain of shell-fire, the barrage laid down
by the Germans between them and the second-line trenches, continued
to fall.  It effectually prevented French reinforcements from
coming up to the first line.

His automatic pistol ready, Dick Prescott found elbow-room on
the fire step.  Cautiously he looked over the parapet.

For a moment he could see nothing, save that German shell-fire
had blown the barbed wire defenses to pieces, clearing the way
for the German invaders to reach them.

In the near distance Dick made out the shadowy figures of the
men in the first wave of the German assault.

Rifle-fire began to roll out from the French soldiers.  From somewhere
at the rear, perhaps from emplacements in or near the French support
trenches, the steady drumming of machine-gun fire began.  The
air was filled with death.

JAMES F. RHODES.

_A Copy of a Letter from Samuel W.

McCall_
24 MT. VERNON ST., September 13, 1920.

MR. HENRY A. WALLACE, 245 West 139th St., New York, N. Y.

_Dear Sir_:

In reply to your favor of the 3rd inst., with enclosed copy of
the affidavit concerning the position of Thaddeus Stevens and
Charles Sumner upon the proposed policy of organization for the
negroes, I would say that I do not remember ever having come across
anything of the kind in my researches concerning Mr.

Stevens, nor have I ever heard of it about Mr. Sumner.

Very truly yours, Signed.

SAML. W. MCCALL.

_A Copy of a Letter from Hon. H. C. Lodge._
NAHANT, MASS., September 8, 1920.

_My dear Sir_:

I have received your letter of the 6th. I have never heard
before of the point which you raise in regard to Mr. Sumner
and really know nothing about it. As I am separated from my
library, which is in Washington, I am sorry that I can give you
no information about it, but if you would examine the Life of Charles
Sumner by Edward L.

Pierce, which is very elaborate and thorough, you would find
something about it there, if anywhere.

Very truly yours, Signed. H. C. LODGE.

HENRY A.

WALLACE, ESQ., 245 West 139th St., New York, N. Y.

As the native white men of the master class were ineligible to hold
office until the new Constitution and the 14th Amendment were
ratified and their political disabilities were removed, even had
they acted in an advisory capacity to the newly enfranchised Negroes,
the Northern men being eliminated, only Negroes and white men of
the "cracker" element could have held office and have been elected
delegates to the Constitutional Convention.

There were some native white men of the "cracker" element in the
Constitutional Convention and also in the first legislature
elected.

Very respectfully, HENRY A. WALLACE.

245 WEST 139TH ST., NEW YORK CITY, January 16, 1921.

CARTER G. WOODSON, Ph.D., Editor, THE JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY, 1216
You St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

_Dear Sir:_

In connection with my letter to you of the 11th instant, pertaining
to the affidavit of Messrs.

Miller and McKinlay relative to the statement made by Mr. Francis
Cardoza to them concerning Mr.

Sumner and Mr. Stevens, as published in _The Journal of Negro
History_ for January, 1920, I respectfully invite your attention
to a copy of a letter from Dr. J. W.

Burgess, formerly of Columbia University.

You will find him listed in "Who's Who in America."

Dr. Burgess is the author of two books covering the Civil War and
the Reconstruction period, _The Civil War and the Constitution_
and _Reconstruction and the Constitution_, and evidently made a
thorough research in collecting the data for publication.

I regard this as a very important matter and the truth or falsity
of the statement should be established. It is only by publicity that
the facts can be established.

The names of Stevens and Sumner should be imperishable to the
Negro race and any reflection on their attitude during the
Reconstruction period should not go unchallenged.

A copy of letter from John W. Burgess follows:

BROOKLINE, MASS., January 14, 1921.

MR. HENRY A. WALLACE:

Your favor of January 12, forwarded to me here, interests me
highly, and I thank you most sincerely for it.

I am obliged to reply, however, that the affidavit of Messrs
Miller and McKinlay astonished me very much.

I cannot remember to have ever read anything of the kind anywhere
and like you, I am very skeptical about it.

I was in the world and a student at Amherst College in the year
1867, and was even then collecting the material for my history.

I am pretty sure that I should have known of anything of this kind
had it existed.

I am going to try to run this assertion down, as I am here among the
acquaintances and relatives of Sumner.

Very sincerely yours, Signed. JOHN W. BURGESS.

I have written to Dr.

Burgess to inform me as to the result of his investigation and will
let you know what he reports.

Yours very truly, HENRY A. WALLACE.

BOOK REVIEWS

_Rachel._ By ANGELINA W. GRIMKÉ. Boston, Mass., The Cornhill Company,
1920. Pp. 96. Price, $1.25.

Miss Grimké's drama of Rachel is a beautiful and poetic creation.
She has produced this effect by a literary instinct which is fine
and mainly cultivated.

Its native vigor carries the reader past an occasional crudity,
which it would seem to be hypocritical to notice.
The sweep of passion in the drama is elemental. She has connected
the story of a girl-woman with the most woeful of earthly tragedies,
namely the crime of a great nation against one of its component
parts.

The feelings expressed in the drama, though elemental, are uttered
in the terms of modernity. The structure of the drama is modern,
and yet there is something in the figure and movement of Rachel
herself which reminds the present writer of Antigone.

We do not see Antigone before the hour when she has chosen to
meet the doom that man's law has decreed should she perform the
task that human love and religious faith have enjoined upon her.

Antigone goes to the death of her body declaring that in the
Infinite there is a longer time for love than there is on earth.

But we do see Rachel before the ultimate choice has come to her. She
is a gay and happy girl.

The drama proceeds to the hour when she too must choose between
the issues of earthly love and those which reach into eternity.
She learns from her mother, Mrs. Loving, that ten years before,
they all lived in the South and her father and her half brother
were lynched.

Briefly summarized, this is Mrs. Loving's story.
As a young widow with a boy seven years old, she had married an
educated man of color. She was a person of color herself. Mr.
Loving owned and edited a paper in which he wrote on behalf of the
people of color.

A Negro innocent of all crime was murdered by a mob in that
region. Mr. Loving denounced the murder and the murderers in
his paper.

He received an anonymous letter apparently written by an educated
person, threatening him with death, if he did not retract what he
had said.

In the next issue of his paper he published an equally stern
arraignment of the lynchers and their crime.

That night a dozen masked men broke into his house.

Mr.

Loving had a revolver. He defended his life and his home. Mrs.
Loving tried to close her eyes.

She could not. She saw all that happened in her bedroom. Four
of the masked assailants fell.

"They did not move any more ... after a little while." Then she saw
her husband dragged out of the room.

Her older boy, George, tried to help his stepfather.

He was dragged out also.

She went to the bedside of her two younger children.

They were asleep. Rachel was smiling.

The mother knelt down and covered her ears. When at last she let
herself listen, she heard only the tapping of the branch of a pine
tree against the side of the house.

She did not know at first that it was _the tree_.

She fled with her two little children to the North.

Those children had never before this day of revelation known how
their father had died.

The shadow of white cruelty to the body and souls of black folks
had darkened somewhat over their lives in the North, but still they
had been frolicsome and loving young creatures.

Now they begin to realize the full significance of "race prejudice."

Rachel speaks to her mother: "Then, everywhere, everywhere throughout
the South, there are hundreds of dark mothers who live in fear,
terrible, suffocating fear, ... whose joy in their babies ... is
three parts pain....

The South is full of ... thousands of little boys who one day may
be, and some of whom will be lynched." "And the babies, the dear,
little, helpless babies ... have _that_ sooner or later to look to.

They will laugh and play and sing and grow up, and perhaps be
ambitious,--just for that."

"Yes, Rachel," answers her mother.

The girl is one of those rare, feminine creatures whose soul and body
are framed for maternity.

In one swift rush of realization and of premonition, she comprehends
all that the doom upon her race must eventually mean to her; she
utters the cry of Africa's heart in America.

"It would be more merciful to strangle the little things at birth....

This white Christian nation has set its curse upon the most
beautiful, ... the most holy thing on earth ... motherhood."

Let us consider the historic background forth from which Miss
Grimké
has drawn her story. How do its incidents compare with known facts?
In 1844, Massachusetts sent Judge Hoar to South Carolina to look
after the interests of Massachusetts citizens of color there.

The mob spirit showed itself so violently that this father of the
future Senator was obliged to leave the South.

More careful investigation into hidden causes for lynching would
doubtless disclose more cases when educated men have been threatened
or actually murdered.

The rope with which to hang Wendell Phillips was actually carried
into the hall where he was to speak. And the concerted plan
had been to hang him on Boston Common.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has
investigated and published statistics showing that from 1889 to
1918 in the United States, 702 whites and 2522 blacks have been
lynched, and that 11 of these victims were white women and 50 were
women and girls of color. 6 whites and 142 Negroes were lynched for
"no crime."

A few instances may well be cited. After some race riots in
1894 in which crimes had been committed on both sides, MacBride,
"a respectable Negro of Portal, Georgia, was beaten, kicked, and
shot to death for trying to defend from a whipping at the hands of
a crowd of white men, his wife who was confined with a baby three
days old."

No offence on the part of the wife or the three days old baby is
recorded, but the one of that helpless couple who could speak
may have made about the riots remarks which disturbed the delicate
sensibilities of these southerners who are so discriminating
in their "chivalrous treatment" of women.

In 1895 a Negro in Texas was killed by a mob because he was
accused of riding over a little white girl and seriously injuring
her.

"Later developments proved that the mob murdered the wrong negro."
In 1899 in Louisiana "an attempt had been made to assault a white
woman." Afterwards one Michael Curry saw a large Negro wandering
in a field.

For no reason whatever he decided that that man had been the assailant.
Some white would-be murderers were quickly got together and shot
the black man to death.

Then it was discovered that he was an escaped lunatic, whose
recent history did not square with the theory that he was the
assailant.

In Georgia there was in 1911 a Negro woman described as "a good
reliable servant" in her normal condition, but who was subject to
attacks of violent mania.

She killed a white woman in such an attack, as many years ago
poor English Mary Lamb killed her own mother.

The world knows with what chivalry her brother Charles shielded her
through life. This Negro native of Georgia had once been
adjudged to be a fit subject for an insane asylum; but the State
institution was crowded and she was not then or now taken into it.

Georgia took care of her in an easier way. Its lynchers put her
into an automobile and placed a rope around her neck, fastened it
to a tree, and started the car from under her, and left her to die.

No arrests followed. But why mention that fact in this case?
There are very few instances of mob murder when white murderers
have ever been arrested.

In Oklahoma in 1914, two white men assaulted a seventeen-year-old
girl of color.

Her screams brought her brother to the rescue. There was a fight.

He killed one of the men.

The next day a mob came to the house in search of the brother.

They could not find him so they killed the girl. In 1915 a
sheriff in Georgia was murdered, and straightway five Negroes were
killed.

About a year later it was learned that all five were innocent.
Sometimes "race prejudice" is given as the reason why certain Negroes
were lynched. That probably means that in no such instance had
the lynched Negro committed any offence, or at most none deserving
the death penalty by any legal process.

The next historical question, which Miss Grimké's drama raises,
was pertinently put to the present writer: "Was an educated,
high-toned man like Loving ever lynched?"

The answer as to probabilities is easily made. The American
impulse towards mob-murder has always been strong whenever and
wherever the rise of the Negro, either free or enslaved, has been
considered vitally obnoxious to the community.

In the slavery days, Northern mobs prepared often to kill William
Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and other Abolitionists, but
they were foiled every time except when, in 1836, the Rev.

Elijah P. Lovejoy, a white Northerner, was killed in Alton,
Illinois, for denouncing, in his own paper, the burning to death
of a Negro in Missouri.

It was supposed, however, that the men who shot Lovejoy were
Missourians and not Illinoisans.

The southern temper as to the educated Negroes was certainly voiced
to a large extent, when in the eighties, the librarian of a large
library in a southern town made answer to a question asked by a
northern visitor: "Oh, no, the colored people don't come here to
take out books.

We don't believe in social equality, you know."

And the Negro teacher in that town answered thus another Northerner's
question: "Why don't you go there and ask for a book?"

"I shouldn't like to do that, if I am going on living here."

In 1898 there were some terrible race riots in North Carolina.
Two well educated Negroes owned and edited a small paper.

Like the black Loving in Miss Grimké's drama, like the white
historical Lovejoy, sixty-two years before, they printed
editorials on the side of the Negroes. They were threatened. They
fled and escaped pursuit.

It is safe to assume that, had they been caught, they would have
been lynched.

About a year ago, John R.

Shillady, a white man, was engaged on a peaceful mission in Texas
on behalf of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People, whose agent he was. Prominent white citizens assaulted and
beat him severely.

It has always been the same story; white or black, educated or
ignorant, in every part of this country the defenders of the Negroes
have been liable to the decree or the abuse of the mob.

Still fresh is the memory of that shameful day when a white mob
fired the Omaha jail where a Negro, still unconvicted of crime,
was confined.

He helped several of the other prisoners to get in line to leave
the prison in safety, and then went down the steps himself to the
mob which grabbed him and killed him.

Meanwhile the ruffians had seized the Mayor of the town as he was
on his way to try to enforce law and order.

They hanged him, but somebody cut the rope before he was quite dead.

There was strong evidence to show that the murdered Negro was
innocent.

We come next to the question: What sort of men are they who make
up these murderous mobs?

Wendell Phillips once said, as to the North, that he had faced many
mobs between the seaboard and the Mississippi, and that he never
saw one that did not show that it was inspired if not actually led
by "respectability and what called itself education."

It is harder to know exactly what is the personnel of southern lynching
parties. But a close study of known facts shows that "respectability
and what calls itself education" has countenanced, approved,
and participated in a large proportion of these orgies of horror. And
the southern approval has developed in the South a most abhorrent
type of white woman who holds up her babies to see a black man cut
and burned to death.

Miss Grimké's historical accuracy is unimpeachable when she allows
"church members" to lynch Loving and his stepson.

George W.

Cable said to the present writer in the winter of 1888-89, "You
are right, the southerners do not want the Negroes to be educated."

Miss Grimké, inferentially, dates her lynching somewhere in the
decade of the nineties.

The mass of black, brown, and olive-tinted ignorance at that time in
the South, was appalling. It is appalling now--largely through
the governing white man's fault.

But still there were in the South at that time and before then many
colored people who had obtained the rudiments of education and some
who might be truthfully called well educated.

Some of these became known to the whole country; but there might
easily have been obscure ones like Loving scattered in many
communities.

Now ordinary critics are sure to cry out against my analysis
of the historical situation and remind me of Booker Washington.

They will say, "He was not lynched. He was accepted. Any Negro
like him is safe, if he behaves himself."

I answer that I have no fancy for mob murder or torture of any human
being, ignorant or wise, good or bad.

There are, moreover, other answers to the riddle of that great
constructive educator's career. One is creditable to the white
southerners.

They are not all eager for Negro blood. There is yet another
solution.
Booker Washington surrendered many of the Negro's rights to southern
prejudices.

The South liked that surrender. Northern philanthropists occasionally
liked it well enough to give money for purposes which would tend
to make the Negro useful in the ways the whites wanted him to be,
and yet to insure him a little intellectual comfort in his life.

To return to the direct consideration of Miss Grimké's Rachel; we
see the girl, from the hour that she learns what things are done,
and may be done, in the South to the dusky sons and daughters of
America, she lives under a cloud--a sense of doom.

Yet the cloud breaks now and then. She loves so much, and especially
she loves so many little children, that she cannot fail to be happy
sometimes.

She also comes to love a man, and all the possibilities of marriage
and motherhood open radiantly before her. But the shadow falls
denser than ever upon her.

She sees, even in the North, the grown men of her race, no
matter how well educated, seldom able to get work befitting their
ability.
All this sort of thing would not happen in every northern town but
every careful observer knows that such things do happen in many
northern villages and cities.

Dick muttered
disgustedly to a French officer near him.

"Most of them will be, before this long war is over," nodded the
Frenchman, "but a soldier's death is too fine for such beasts."

Finally a German officer arrived.  Under his crisp orders the
now long column of prisoners moved out into the road, forming
compactly and guarded by at least forty infantrymen.  The order
to march was given.  With only two halts the prisoners were marched
some eight miles, arriving late in the afternoon at a railway
yard.

Here the column was halted again for an hour, while the German
officer was absent, presumably, in search of his orders.  When
the march was taken up again its course led across a network of
tracks to a long train.

"Why, these are cattle cars," uttered Prescott, disgustedly, when
the column had been halted along the length of the foremost part
of the train.  "And, judging by the odor, these cars haven't been
cleaned."

"They won't be until we are through riding in them," returned
the French officer at his side.  "This is what comes to soldiers
who surrender to the German dogs!"

Only one car was given over to the officer-prisoners, who were
forced to climb into the unsavory car through a side door.  No
seats had been provided, but there was not more than room to stand
up in the stuffy car.  Fortunately the spaces between the timbers
of the car sides gave abundant ventilation.

Into cars to the rear the enlisted prisoners were packed.  To
stomachs that had been empty of food all day the odors were
especially distressing.

As the officer in charge of the prisoners came to the side door
of the first car Dick made bold to prefer a request.

"We have had no water all day.  May we have a bucket of it in
here before the train starts?"

"There will not be time," replied the German officer coldly, and
moved away.  Yet two hours passed, and the train did not start.

Suddenly German guns behind the front, along a stretch of miles,
opened a heavy bombardment.  Dick and his French friends gazed
out at a sky made violently lurid by the reflection of the flashes
of these great pieces.  Then the French guns answered furiously,
nor did all the French shells fall upon the German trenches or
batteries.  The French knew the location of this railway yard.
Within twenty minutes five hundred large caliber shells had fallen
in or near this yard.  Freight and passenger coaches were struck
and splintered.

Into the forward cattle car bounded the corporal who had tormented
them that day.  Behind him, in the doorway, appeared the German
officer.

"Count the prisoners," ordered the latter, "and make sure that
all are there.  We are going to pull out of here before those
crazy French yonder destroy all our rolling stock."

Fifteen minutes later, though the French shell-fire had ceased
coming this way, the train crawled out of the yard.  It ran along
slowly, though sometime in the night it increased its speed.

Dick Prescott will never forget the misery of that night.  When
the train was under way the cold was intense in these half-open
cattle cars.  No appeal for water to drink was heeded.

Despite their discomforts, most of the prisoners managed to sleep
some, though standing up.

In the middle of the night Prescott awoke, stiff, nauseated, hungry
and parched with tormenting thirst.  Though he did not know it
at that moment, the train had halted because of a breakdown in a
train ahead.

Along the track came that tormenting corporal.  While a soldier
held up a dim lantern the corporal unlocked the padlock, sliding
the side door back.

At that moment an order was bawled lustily in German.

"Will you be good enough to repeat, Herr Lieutenant?" called the
corporal, glancing backward down the length of train.

Heavy footsteps were heard approaching.  Corporal and private
turned to take a few steps back to meet their officer.  Dick,
standing in the open doorway, saw that a fog had settled down
over the night.

Acting on a sudden impulse, without an instant's hesitation, he
leaped down, striking softly on the balls of his feet.  Without
even turning sideways to see if German eyes had observed him,
Prescott stole across another track, and down to the foot of an
embankment.

"They'll shoot me for this!" he muttered.  "Let them!  Death is
better than being a German prisoner!"


CHAPTER XXI

SEEKING DEATH MORE THAN ESCAPE


In another instant the French officer who had been standing next
to Dick attempted the same trick.  He had just gained the ground
when the German lieutenant, turning his gaze from the corporal's
face, and glancing ahead, broke off in the middle of his instructions
to cry out:

"There's a prisoner escaping!  Halt him or shoot him!"

Realizing that he was hopelessly caught, and trusting to better
luck next time, the Frenchman held up his hands.

"Get back into the car," ordered the German lieutenant.  "Corporal,
take the lantern and see that all the prisoners are in there."

As the corporal obeyed, the lieutenant looked in and nodded.

"There was no time for any to escape," he remarked.  "We nipped
the first one.  You are scoundrels when you try to disgrace me
by escaping.  Just for the attempt of this comrade of yours, gentlemen,
you shall have no breakfast in the morning."

The door was moved quickly into place, the padlock snapped, and
then the guard turned to other matters.

Not a French officer in that car but would sooner have died than
betray the fact that Dick had slipped out of sight.  Though they
themselves were still in the car, they prayed that he might find
either safety from the Germans, or that better thing than captivity,
death.

As for Captain Prescott, he had slipped into a field beyond.
When he halted to peer about he was perhaps sixty feet from the
train.  Moving cautiously he made the distance another hundred
feet.  Yet he did not dare to go far at present, nor rapidly.

"I'm out of the car, if nothing more," Dick reflected, inhaling
a deep breath of the foggy air.  "I shall always feel grateful
to that German engineer.  His blowing off steam made noise enough
so that my jump and my footsteps weren't heard."

One of Dick's feet, moving exploringly, touched a stone.  Bending
over and groping, he found three fair-sized stones.

"Good enough!" he thought, picking them up.  "Sooner or later,
to-night, wandering around in an American uniform, I'm going to
be heard and halted.  I'll throw these stones at the sentry who
tries to halt me, and then he'll fire.  After he shoots there'll
be no German prison ahead for me!"

This wasn't exactly a thought in the cheerful class, yet Prescott
smiled.  More contented with his prospects he moved softly away.

For the first hundred feet from the embankment his shoes touched
grass.  Then he came to the edge of a ploughed field.  Here he
felt that he must proceed with even greater caution, for now most
of the train noises had ceased and he feared to slip or stumble,
and thus make a noise that might be carried on the still night
air to the ears of the train guard.

However, he soon struck a smooth path leading through the ploughed
ground, and now moved along a little faster.

"This is just where caution ought to pay big dividends," he told
himself.  "A path is usually made to lead to where human beings
live and congregate.  I'll stop every few feet and listen."

The first sound that came to his ears from out of the veiled distance
ahead made the young American officer almost laugh aloud.  It was
the crowing of a rooster.

"If you know how hungry I am, my bird, I doubt if you'd make any
noise to draw me your way."

However, the crowing had given him a valuable clew, for he reasoned
that the barnyard home of Mr. Rooster must be near the general
buildings of a farm.  These buildings he decided to avoid.  So,
when he came to a fork in the path he chose the direction that
led him further from what he believed to be the location of the
farm buildings.

By this time he was moving more rapidly, though striving to make
no noise in moving.  Suddenly he came to a road and stopped, gasping.

"I don't want anything as public as this," Dick told himself.
"Troops use roads.  However, as I've reached the road, and want
to get as far from the train as possible, I believe I'll take
a look from the other side of the road.  There may be a field
there better suited to my needs."

Directly opposite, at the other edge of the road, two tree trunks
reared themselves close together, looking tall and gaunt against
the white of the fog.  After listening a moment Dick started to
cross the road to them.

Just as he reached the trunks he saw something move around the
further one, and drew back quickly.  It was well that he did so,
for the moving thing was a man armed with an axe which he had
swung high and now tried to bring down relentlessly on Prescott's
head.

But Dick's arms shot up, his hands catching the haft and wrenching
the ugly weapon away from its wielder.

"No, you don't!" Dick muttered in English, taking another step
backward from the wild-looking old peasant who had attempted to
brain him.

"But a thousand pardons, monsieur!" cried the old man hoarsely
in French, and now shaking from head to foot.  "I did not see
well in the fog, and I mistook you for a German.  You are a British
soldier!"

"An American soldier," Dick replied in the same tongue.

"Then, had I killed you, grief would have killed me, too, as it
has already sent my wits scattering.  For I am a Frenchman and
hate only Germans."

"Is this a safe place to stand and discuss the Germans?" asked
Dick mildly, in a voice barely above a whisper.  "This road-----"

"No, no!  It is not safe here," protested the peasant.  "Soldiers
and wagons move over this road.  That was why I was here.  I hoped
to find some German soldier alone, to leap on him and kill him---and
I thought you a German until after I had swung at you.  Heaven
is good, and I have not to reproach myself for having struck at
the American uniform.  But you are in danger here.  You are-----"

"An escaped prisoner," Dick supplied in a whisper.  "I have just
escaped from the Germans."

"If you are quick then, they shall not find you," promised the
old man, seizing Dick by the arm.  "Come!  I can guide you even
through this fog."

There was something so sincere about the old peasant, despite
his wildness, that Prescott went with him without objection.
Both moving softly, they stepped into another field, the guide
going forward as one who knew every inch of the way.

Presently buildings appeared faintly in the fog.

"Wait here," whispered the peasant, and was gone.  He soon came
back.

"There are no German soldiers about the place," the old man informed
Dick.  "I will take you into the house---hide you.  You shall
have food and drink!"

Food and something to drink!  To Dick Prescott, at that moment,
this sounded like a promise of bliss.

To a rear door the old man led the American, and inside, closing
and bolting the door after him.  Here the man struck a light,
and a candle shed its rays over a well-kept kitchen.

As Dick laid the axe down in a corner he heard a sobbing sound
from a room nearby.

"It is the dear old wife," said the peasant, in an awed tone.
"To-day the German monsters took our son and our daughter, and
marched them off with other young people from the village.  They
have been taken to Germany to toil as slaves of the wild beasts.
Do you wonder, monsieur, that the good wife sobs and that I haunted
the road hoping to find a German soldier alone and to slay him?
But I must hide you, for Germans might come here at any moment."

Throwing open a door the old man revealed a flight of stairs.
He led the way to a room above.  Here a door cunningly concealed
behind a dresser was opened after the guide had moved the dresser.
At a sign Dick entered the other room, only to find himself confronted
by another man, whose face, revealed by the candle light, caused
Captain Dick Prescott to recoil as though from a ghost.


CHAPTER XXII

CAN IT BE THE OLD CHUM?


"You know each other?" cried the old peasant, as he observed the
amazement of two young men.  "You are enemies?"

As he saw the pair fairly hug each other he added hastily:

"But no!  You are friends!"

Then he added, as if he were saying something new:

"Friends, quite certainly."

"You, Dick Prescott!" gasped the other young man.

"Tom Reade!" uttered the young captain delightedly.

The old peasant held the candle higher that he might see better
what was taking place.  In that light Dick made another discovery.

"Tom, you're in uniform!  Aviation service, at that!"

"What else did you expect?" Tom demanded.  "Especially after I
wrote and told you all about it."

"When?"

"Last July."

"Where did you send the letter?"

"To you at Camp Baker."

"It was in July that we left Camp Baker for Camp Berry.  Your
letter must have gone astray.  I heard from the old home town
of Gridley that you and Hazelton had gone across---something to
do with welfare work.  I couldn't make it out," Dick hurried on,"
neither did I know where to address you."

"That's just it, though!" exclaimed Tom Reade, with a happy laugh.
"Welfare work explains it to a dot.  We're working for the welfare
of the world by helping to kill as many Huns as possible!"

"But how came you to be here?"

"I might ask as much of you, Dick, as you and I appear to be in
exactly the same boat."

It looked rather ungrateful toward the old peasant who had brought
these old, old friends together, but for a few moments both forgot
him.  When they remembered him they found that the old man had
gone, closing the door.

Then Dick told what had befallen him, after which Reade explained
that, three nights before, on a night flight over the German lines,
his plane had been damaged by a fragment of shell from an anti-aircraft
gun.  Reade had been obliged to descend some forty miles behind
the German front lines.  Fortunately he had come down in a field
near the house in which he now hid.  He had cautiously come to
this house, and as cautiously aroused the inmates, reasoning that
they must be French and should befriend him.  This the peasants
had cheerfully done.

"I've been hiding here since, and my machine was found, but I
wasn't," Tom wound up.

"You see, this room has no windows, and I keep very quiet, and
so, perhaps, I could remain here safely a month.  But I won't.
I have plans for escape back to the French lines."

At this moment the door opened again.  The old peasant came in
with a tray on which was a dish of smoking meat, dark bread and
potatoes and a pot of coffee.

"Now, since you are old friends I shall leave you," said the old
man smiling, as he patted both young Americans on the shoulder.
"But Monsieur Reade knows how to call me if I am wanted.  Good
rest and stout hearts, young gentlemen!"

"We'll feast a bit!" cried Prescott eagerly.

"You will," Tom corrected.  "I've had my evening meal and am not
hungry.  Eat before the candle burns out, and while you do so
I will fix the ventilator for the night.  When you have eaten
we can turn in on the bed, for we can talk there as well as when
sitting in the dark." Dick fell to ravenously on the food and
coffee, while Tom attended to ventilation by removing a loose
brick from a chimney, half of which was in this blind attic.

"We must pay this peasant well," Dick proposed, when he had nearly
finished the meal, "for I'll wager he is not rich."

"I can pay him all right," declared Reade, striking a hand against
his waist-line.  "In my money belt I have a stock of American
gold.  Gold is a money that is very popular in Europe in these
days of hardship."

Later the chums disrobed and turned in.  There was abundance of
covering to the bed.

"Now," proposed Tom Reade, talking in whispers, "for my plan of
escape.  It's dangerous, and it sounds impossible, fantastic.
But now that you're here, Dick Prescott, I feel equal to putting
anything through!  So here's for the plan!"

It was dangerous enough, certainly, as Tom Reade outlined it.
It didn't even strike Captain Prescott as being possible of performance,
but he didn't say so.  It was the only plan of escape that presented
itself, and Tom had evidently put in all his hopes on that idea.

From the plan the chums fell to talking of other days.  In the
end, however, their whispers became more indistinct, then died
out.  Both were asleep.

Dick, as he slumbered and tossed, still felt the motion of that
hideous prison train, but at last fell into deep slumber.

When he finally awoke he beheld Tom Reade, fully dressed in his
uniform, seated at some distance under a little opening in the
roof, reading a book.

"Awake, eh?" asked Tom, when he heard his chum stir.  After glancing
at his wrist watch, he added:

"You've slept nine hours and a half, and I guess you needed it.
There is water for washing, and I'll consult our host about breakfast.
What do you think of this way of letting in daylight?  Toward
night I shove this black cover over the hole in the roof, so that
candle light may not show through the roof and give us away to
the Germans."

Stepping to the chimney, from which the "ventilator" brick was
still absent, Reade put his hand inside, finding a cord and giving
it a gentle tug.

By the time that Prescott was partly dressed the door opened and
the old peasant looked in.

"We are wondering what you can give us for breakfast?" Tom said
in French.  "Are eggs to be had to-day?  Omelettes?"

"Yes, I can get eggs," nodded the old man.

"As you've not seen the color of my money yet," Tom continued,
"please take this on account."

At first the old peasant hung back from accepting the proffered
gold coin, though at last he took it, remarking:

"I will admit that I am poor, and yet it seems a crime to accept
money from an American."

Half an hour later their host returned, bringing two hot omelettes,
dark bread, potatoes and the inevitable pot of coffee.

"It is with difficulty that we keep food hidden," he murmured,
in a low voice.  "A dozen times the Huns have appeared and have
taken from us all the food they could find.  But we still have
flour, potatoes and coffee hidden where they cannot find them.
We shall hope to continue to exist until you Americans have helped
drive the Hun from our land."

From the nearby road came the sound of moving trucks.  The old
man paused and shook his fist in the direction of the sound.
After he had served the breakfast he climbed upon a stool, putting
his eyes to the hole in the sloping roof and peering toward the
road.

"Ah, the vermin!" he hissed.  "A regiment of their accursed infantry
marching toward the front.  Oh, that your men and ours might kill
them all this day!"

"Give us time, and we'll do it," Tom promised unconcernedly.

After breakfast the two chums talked almost without stopping until
it was time for luncheon.  In the afternoon Tom stretched, then
walked toward the bed, declaring:

"When one has no chance to exercise I believe sleep to be the
next best thing, even extra sleep.  I believe that I can sleep
until supper time.  And after that---perhaps it will be tonight,
Dick, that we make our fantastic effort to place ourselves on
the other side of the German battle front!"

"The sooner the better," cried Dick, "only provided that speed
does not waste our chance to escape."

"If we must go down in defeat," yawned Reade, "I believe we may
at least look for the satisfaction of carrying a few Huns with
us.  I believe I have forgotten to mention the fact that I have
my automatic pistol with me.  It's hidden, but I could show it
to you."

"I'm glad you have it," murmured Dick, as he closed his eyes.
"I never before felt the desire to slay human beings, but since
I've struck the French front I've had a constant desire to kill
Huns!"

"To-night, then," said Reade drowsily, "we may find the chance
both to kill Huns and get back to the French lines."


CHAPTER XXIII

THE DASH TO GET BACK TO PERSHING


"After dark, by a whole hour!" whispered Reade, after waking,
striking a match and looking at his wrist watch.  "Hustle, Dick!"

Tom's next act was to light a candle.  "Want supper?" he asked.

"I could eat it," Prescott replied.  "But what's the use?"

"What do you mean?"

"Why waste time with eating when there's the slimmest chance to
get away?" Dick continued.

"It may be hours before we can really put our plan into execution."

"Our plan?" repeated Dick.  "What on earth did I have to do with
making the plan?  But, if you feel that we're not wasting time
over a supper I'll admit that I am ready to eat."

So Reade summoned their host, as before.

"Is the night good and foggy?" Tom asked, when the aged peasant
appeared.

"There is not a trace of fog, monsieur," was the reply.  "Still,
the sky is cloudy, and the night is dark."

"That's only second-best weather," grumbled Reade.  "However,
I'm impatient to have a try to-night.  I think we will try for
it.  Can you help us?"

"Undoubtedly I can find out how clear the coast is," replied the
old man.  "I would be glad to do far more than that for you."

"If you can supply us with supper," Tom proposed, "and then find
out the news, it will be a great service."

Later, while the chums ate, the old peasant went abroad.  Tom
and Dick were waiting impatiently until he returned.

"All is as well as it will be any night," the Frenchman reported,
and added details.

"We'll try it, then," Reade decided, after glancing at Prescott,
who nodded.

"And may you succeed!" cried the old peasant fervently.  "And
may you both come safely through the war, and have the good fortune
to slay Huns and Huns and Huns!"

"Promise me, my good old friend, to use your axe only for chopping
wood," Dick urged,

"And I will promise to think of you whenever I have the chance
to destroy a Hun."

"It is a bargain, then!" cried their host.

"It will be kept, on my side," Dick rejoined gravely.

"And on mine, too," agreed the old man.

It was quiet abroad when the three stealthily left the house.
The Americans had wished to leave a word of cheer with the peasant's
wife, but she had fallen asleep and they would not disturb her.

Through a wood and across fields their guide led the young Americans
until they neared the spot they sought.

"From here on one will have to be cautious," suggested the Frenchman.
"You are about to cross a road, and then, on the other side,
one comes to the aviation station."

"Then here is where you should leave us," Dick remarked considerately.
"Very likely we shall fail and be sent on to a prison camp, this
time in irons.  Perhaps we shall be shot.  But we do not care
to let an old man, and a Frenchman follow us to a death that he
should not invite."

"I would go with you until I see you safely in sight of the station,"
objected the Frenchman.

"It seems unnecessary, and contemptible in us to risk your life
along with our own.  Do you understand the lay of the land, Tom?
Can you find our objective without risking the life of our good
old friend here?"

"I am sure that I can," Reade nodded.  "Like yourself, Dick, I
feel that he should not come further with us.  And see here, monsieur.
You have not asked our names, neither have we known yours.  Some
day, when all around here is French territory again, and the beastly
German has gone forever, we shall want to look you up, or write
you.  I am Lieutenant Tom Reade, of the American aviation service,
and my friend is Captain Richard Prescott, of the American Infantry."

"And I am Francois Prim.  My neighbors call me Papa Prim."

"Show us the way we are to go, Monsieur Prim," Dick urged.

"It is simple," replied Papa Prim.  "You see, without fail, the
little building to which I am pointing, over by the roadside?"

"Yes."

"That was our school-house.  Now it is an office for the Prussians.
They have a battalion or more of infantry camped in the field
across from the building.  They are a guard to keep us afraid.
Sometimes one will see three or four regiments camped further
along on that field, either regiments going to the front or coming
back for rest.  Now, from that building you turn and go in that
direction"---Papa Prim made a motion with his crooked
forefinger---"and so you come to four sheds that are easily missed
in the night, for they are camouflaged so as not to attract the eye
of French flyers in the day time.  From here it will be the first
shed that you come to that is more likely to be open at night.
In each shed are two airplanes.  They are kept here for the purpose
of sending up at night when French planes pass over to bomb railways
or perhaps to bomb German towns.  When our own French airmen come
then these airplanes shoot up into the sky and give battle.  But
the Huns have lost twelve planes here in half that number of months,"
Papa Prim added proudly, "and only lately have enough new ones
arrived from Germany to make up the eight required for this station."

"Where do the airmen sleep?" Dick interjected.

"In the camp with the troops; in the hangars there are no sleeping
places."

"And the hangars are at some distance from the troop camp?" Tom
asked.

"The troop camp begins over that way," Papa Prim continued, pointing,
"for, as you will understand, there must be ground on which the
airplanes may run before they rise.  So there is some distance.
I came near forgetting to tell you that, behind the hangars, are
four tents in which the hangar guard sleeps."

"And how many sentries at a time walk post around the hangars?"
Dick inquired.

"I do not know," confessed Papa Prim, "but I do not believe there
are more than three or four sentries on duty at a time.  Of course,
there are other sentries on post at the camp."

"And airships leaving fly directly over the camp?" Tom wanted
to know.

"You have said truly," replied Papa Prim.  "And are there anti-aircraft
guns in the camp?" Tom asked.

"In the troop camp, so I have heard, but I have not seen them,"
answered Papa Prim.

Removing his steel helmet and taking it in his left hand, Dick
bent over, seizing Papa Prim's hand.

"Good-bye for a little while, monsieur," he said earnestly.  "We
go away with hearts full of gratitude to your own fine, loyal
heart.  Sumner. The vote was taken and the amendment was rejected.[90]
Mr. Willey then offered the amendment already herein noted. He
was followed by Mr. Wade, who, expecting the State to be
admitted, if at all, under the amendment of Mr.

Willey, moved to amend the amendment by inserting at the proper
place the words: "And that all slaves within the State who shall
at the aforesaid time be under twenty-one years, shall be free when
they arrive at the age of twenty-one years

."[91] Despite the anti-slavery principle here involved, Mr. Wade was
convinced that some provision was necessary to facilitate the
running of the bill in the Senate and in the House.

He thought, too, that the harshness and abruptness of the bill
would be thereby smoothed down, softened and rendered
harmonious.[92]
It was no easy task, however, that the Senator from Ohio had essayed
to accomplish.

His proposal brought from Mr. Willey the personal conviction of
the man. Mr. Willey preferred that the State be admitted under
the constitution precisely as submitted by the people. That not
being possible, he wished that his amendment (which was not to his
personal tastes) be carried. He deplored the situation that would
follow should the amendment of Mr. Wade be passed. He pointed
out: (1) that the majority of slaves were in counties contiguous
to what would be the borders of the old State of Virginia; (2) that
many of them ranged in age from one to twenty-one years; (3) that
when they should arrive at a convenient age for sale, they would
be silently transferred across the border into Kentucky or Virginia
or the further South, if needs be, and there sold into the cotton
fields of the South or the tobacco plantations of the East, where
slavery was admittedly at its worst; (4) that many of the slaves
were females, the offspring of whom would be free, were the mothers
allowed to remain in the State, but upon the passage of the amendment
even those would be doomed to the perpetual slavery of the far South.

A little further on they espied a German sentry, pacing post.
Waiting until the fellow had gone to the furthest limit of his
post, the chums, flat on their stomachs, crawled forward until,
on looking backward, they judged it safe to rise and move on crouchingly.
Then they came in sight of the aviation station.

"Better crawl all the way now," Dick whispered.  "We have reached
the point where any attempt at speed will be sure to place a few
bullets in our bodies."

Tom nodded, without speaking.  It was trampled, withered grass
through which they now crawled.  It offered fair concealment, but
there was danger of making a noise that might betray them to a
keen-eared sentry.

At last, near the first hangar, they reached a spot where two
trees stood close together.  Crawling to this shelter, they still
remained lying down, though the tree trunks gave them greater
safety against being seen.

In front of the hangars paced a sentry; at the rear another soldier
walked post.  At some distance from this latter sentry stood four
tents, in which, Papa Prim had declared, slept the reliefs of
the guard.

"I see how we could get the sentry at the rear," Dick whispered,
after a few minutes' silent survey.  "But it's at the front that
we want to get in, and I don't see any way of creeping up on the
front sentry without the rear sentry seeing us and firing.  That
would give the alarm."

"Then we've got to 'get' the rear sentry first?" Tom asked, his
lips at his chum's ear.

"That's it."

J. Allen St. John OVERTURNING THE TURTLE ... J. Allen St.

John PENGUINS ... J. Allen St. John CATCHING THE WILD ASS ... J.
Allen St.

John FLAMINGOS ... J. Allen St.

John I ADVANCED WITH A LONG POLE ... J. Allen St.

John JACK AND THE OSTRICH ... J. Allen St. John THE WALRUS ...
J. Allen St. John LATEST NEWS BY PIGEON POST ... J. Allen St.

John HIPPOPOTAMUS ... J. Allen St. John ALBATROSS ... J. Allen St.

John PEARL BAY ... J. Allen St. John WE BROUGHT UP WITHIN HAIL ...
J. Allen St. John THE SLAVE OF THE LAMP ...

Arthur Henderson ALADDIN DESCENDED THE STEPS ... Arthur Henderson
"GENIE, BUILD ME A PALACE" ... Arthur Henderson "NEW LAMPS FOR
OLD" ... Arthur Henderson ALADDIN SALUTED THE PRINCESS JOYFULLY
... Arthur Henderson THE VALLEY WAS STREWED WITH DIAMONDS ...
Arthur Henderson THE ROC FLEW AWAY WITH SINBAD (Halftone) ...

Arthur Henderson BARBARA FRIETCHIE ... Iris Weddell White GRENDEL
COULD NOT BREAK THAT GRIP OF STEEL ...

Arthur Henderson BEOWULF ON HIS NOBLE STEED ... Arthur Henderson
SHE LOOKED UPON THE GOD OF LOVE ... Iris Weddell White PSYCHE AND
CHARON ...

Iris Weddell White CUPID SPIED PSYCHE SLEEPING ...

Iris Weddell White PEOPLE CALL ME THE PIED PIPER ... Iris Weddell
White GREAT RATS, SMALL RATS ... Herbert N. Rudeen A WONDERFUL
PORTAL OPENED WIDE ... Iris Weddell White THEY HAD BECOME BETROTHED
... Donn P. Crane FRITHIOF BEHELD THE TWO WITCHES ... Donn P.
Crane SIEGFRIED AND THE DRAGON ...

Louis Grell A GREAT CASTLE TOWERED ABOVE THE CLIFFS ... Louis Grell
THE DEATH OF SIEGFRIED ... Louis Grell LOCHINVAR ... Arthur Henderson
TUMBLED HIM INTO THE BROOK ... Jessie Arms THE STRANGER OVERTHROWS
ROBIN HOOD ...

Jessie Arms ROBIN HOOD AND THE WIDOW ... Jessie Arms ROBIN HOOD
AND THE SHERIFF ...

Jessie Arms ROBIN HOOD PLAYS HARPER ... Jessie Arms IN THE GREENWOOD
... Jessie Arms GANELON PICKS UP CHARLEMAGNE'S GLOVE ... Louis
Grell WHERESOEVER HE PLANTED HIS FOOT, THERE HE STAYED ...

Jan in Grell ROLAND FEEBLY WINDED HIS HORN ... Louis Grell

[Illustration: A GREAT BIG YELLOW ONE]
JOHN'S PUMPKIN 
By MRS ARCHIBALD
Last spring I found a pumpkin seed, And thought that I would go And
plant it in a secret place, That no one else would know, And watch
all summer long to see It grow, and grow, and grow, And maybe raise
a pumpkin for A Jack-a-lantern show.

I stuck a stick beside the seed, And thought that I should shout
One morning when I stooped and saw The greenest little sprout!
I used to carry water there, When no one was about, And every day
I'd count to see How many leaves were out.

Till by and by there came a flower The color of the sun, Which
withered up, and then I saw The pumpkin was begun; But oh!

I knew I'd have to wait So long to have my fun, Before that small
green ball could be A great big yellow one.

At last, one day, when it had grown To be the proper size, Said
Aunt Matilda: "John, see here, I'll give you a surprise!" She
took me to a pantry shelf, And there before my eyes, Was set a
dreadful row of half A dozen pumpkin pies.

Said Aunt Matilda; "John, I found A pumpkin, high and dry, Upon a
pile of rubbish, down Behind that worn-out sty!" O, dear, I didn't
cry, because I'm quite too big to cry, But, honestly, I couldn't
eat A mouthful of the pie.

"This nearer one looks like the newer, better one," Reade declared.
"I'll look over the machinery to make sure that the engine is
all right and that I understand the engine and the controls.
Her machine-gun is ready for business and we may need it."

Dick stood patiently by, wondering how soon the guard was due
to be relieved.  If that happened soon, and the knocked-out sentries
were discovered, the chance for escape looked like three less
than nothing!

"All right," whispered Tom at last.  "I can handle her, and there
is water enough in the radiator and the gas tanks are filled.
Now, then, we must open the doors as noiselessly as possible."

Dick taking the left-hand one, Tom the right, they rolled the
doors back.  These moved almost noiselessly.

"Here's the way you turn the engine on," Tom whispered, holding
the torch and getting Dick up into the cockpit of the craft.
"Turn it on as soon as I say, but not a second before."

Placing himself in front of the propeller Tom gave it a few brisk
turns.

"Now!" cried Tom, leaping back.  The ignition caught at once.
Tom clambered over into the cockpit, Prescott now being in the
observer's seat forward.

With the wheel in his hands and his feet resting against the controls
Tom Reade suddenly dropped all apprehension.  He was as much at
home now as Prescott was with an automatic pistol in his hand.

Waiting only until the engine had gained its speed without missing,
Tom cried:

"Ready, pal!"

Out through the open doorway Reade sent the airplane "taxying"
or running along the ground.

Across the field toward them came racing a German aviator with
a startled look on his face.  He had to jump out of the way as
the "taxying" airplane bore down on him.  But he reached for his
automatic and brought it forth.

"Stop!" he roared.  "Turn out the guard!"  Bang!  bang!

Two bullets whizzed by Tom's head.  Prescott fired three shots
instantly, one of them taking effect, for the German officer went
to earth and lay there, his pistol now silent.

From behind the hangar several members of the guard came rushing
from their tents.  By the time they were in front of the hangar
they could shoot only by guess, and might hit their own comrades
in the troop camp.  So they fired into the air, wildly, rapidly.

So much shooting was bound to rouse the troop camp, and did.
The sentries came out on the jump.  While some fired star shells
that lighted the sky, others took quick aim with their rifles.

Aiming at the figures on the ground as best he could, just as
Reade left the ground for the air, Prescott fired, loaded and
fired, jamming in a fresh magazine whenever the automatic became
emptied.

Twenty feet up in the air, fifty, a hundred!  Tom Reade rose as
fast as he could make the machine move.  More star shells, and
now the anti-aircraft guns came into action.

At three hundred feet above the ground shells exploded about the
fugitives.  One lucky shot of the enemy would be enough to bring
them to earth.

The pistol was now too hot to use further.  Dick sat back, closing
his eyes, while Reade drove at all the speed he could compel,
ever rising higher.  Both Americans knew that other anti-aircraft
guns further south would be turned upon them.

Finally Tom, after a glance at the barograph, roared at Prescott:

"Five thousand feet up on a dark night, and we're going to fifteen
thousand feet.  All we now have to fear will be other German aircraft,
but there'll be fleets of them sent out to look for us!" Prescott
nodded, though he could not hear in the roar of the motors and
the rush of the air past him.

A mile below them the blackness of the night was punctured by
a lively little volcano of red and yellow jets.  A dozen anti-aircraft
guns opened fire on the fugitive airplane, whose course must have
been telephoned along the line.  Some of the shells burst so close
that fragments of metal whizzed about the ears of both Americans;
some of the shells went far wide of the mark, but at least two
of the gunners followed the moving craft for the distance of a
mile with an accuracy that caused the two fugitives in the sky
the liveliest uneasiness.  The gunners were aiming by the sound
of the engines.

"Give us fifteen minutes more at this speed,"

Tom roared, "and we'll be back over our own French lines!"

They were soon going at terrific speed, fifteen thousand feet up
in the air, when a terrifying peril beset them.

Rudeen IT WAS A GOLDEN CROWN ... After Sir John Tenniel ALICE
CONSIDERED ...

After Sir John Tenniel TWO QUEENS ASLEEP AT ONCE ...

After Sir John Tenniel THIS WAY, THAT WAY, SO WE MAKE A SHOE ...

Herbert N. Rudeen THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER ... After Sir John
Tenniel THE LITTLE OYSTERS WAITED ... After Sir John Tenniel I
DEEPLY SYMPATHIZE ...

After Sir John Tenniel THE DEATH OF GELERT ... Herbert N. Rudeen
ROBINSON CHUSOE FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SAND ...

G.H. Mitchell FRIDAY ... G.H.
But another plane had attempted to go under them with a view to
shooting up.  It came too near, in the maneuver shot too badly,
and Dick let loose with the machine gun again.  Down came the
enemy plane while Reade took a wide swerve to the right.

So swift and daring had been Reade's tactics that he was through
and past the opposing fleet ere the German aviators realized their
failure.  Now the survivors wheeled and gave chase, though they
soon abandoned it, for the plane that Reade drove was a new one
and faster than any of his pursuers.  For a minute or so more
the two Americans survived by sheer good luck.  Then they were
out of enemy range.

Higher Tom mounted in the air.  He hoped that many of them would
make progress to the extent of possessing property valued at $250,
which amount would enable citizens of color[17] to vote in the State
of New York.

Hoping to put an end to economic poverty among these Negroes, Gerrit
Smith devised a scheme for the distribution of 3,000 parcels of
land of 40 or 60 acres each among the unfortunate blacks then
handicapped in this untoward situation in New York City.

From a list of names furnished him by Rev.

Charles B. Ray, Rev. Theodore F. Wright and Dr.
J.

McCune Smith, three prominent Negroes in New York City, Gerrit
Smith apportioned this land among the Negro colonists in the
counties of Franklin, Essex, Hamilton, Fulton, Oneida, Delaware,
Madison, and Ulster.

"German artillery," Dick told himself.

Another minute, and he beheld flashes turned against the Germans.

"Between the two lines of artillery are the fire trenches of the
opposing armies," Prescott realized with a thrill.

Next he found himself, at lower altitude, going squarely over a
line of French batteries.

"Now comes the really ticklish work of the night!" Reade shouted
back.  "When we try for a landing we'll endeavor to make our own
crowd understand that, though this is a German machine, it comes
on no hostile errand.  If we can't make the Frenchmen understand
that, then they'll blow us back into the sky as soon as we range
low enough!"

Guided by that instinct which is the aviator's best compass at
night, Reade steered toward the landing field.

Bang! came the report of a gun below, and a shell exploded dangerously
close to the aircraft.  Tom switched on an electric light signal
beneath the craft to show that a friendly craft sought safe landing.
At the same time Dick leaned as far over as he could and waved
an arm slowly.  Then just ahead a flare began on the ground, next
burned up brightly---a can of gasoline lighted and allowed to burn
to indicate the neighborhood in which to come down.

Going past and turning, Reade volplaned gracefully earthward,
landing just beyond the blazing gasoline.

Instantly they were surrounded by two-score French aviators and
mechanicians.

"It is all right!" the cry went up.  "They are Americans, though
the machine is German."

M. le Commandant Perrault, chief of squadron, stepped rapidly
forward, receiving the salute of the two American officers and
asking questions at volley-fire speed.  His face betrayed amazement,
but when the brief narrative had been finished he grasped the hands
of each.

"It was splendidly done," he declared.

"And now, sir, on behalf of my friend, may I ask how far we are
from the front line?" Tom inquired.  "Captain Prescott wishes
to return to the trenches immediately."

"It is ten kilometers," replied the commandant.  "Yet speed shall
not be impossible.  Within five minutes I will have here a car
that will take Captain Prescott to the communication trenches,
and in that car will be a trench guide."

"And I'm going, too, Dick," Tom added, squeezing his chum's arm.
"We have a lot to talk over yet."

As the German airplane had been turned over to Commandant Perrault,
Reade had no further concern with that.  He bounded into the motor
car when it arrived.  Later the trench guide conducted them into
the front trenches, even to the section from which Prescott had
been taken.  Edwards asserted that the two questions presented had to
do with (1) the constitutional power of Congress to admit the State
and (2) the question of expediency.

Blair, while urging the admission of the new State, took occasion
to inform Mr.
Crittenden, of Kentucky, that the people of the proposed new State
of West Virginia had bound themselves to pay a just proportion of
the public debt owed by the State of Virginia, prior to the passage
of the Ordinance of Secession.

Thaddeus Stevens held that the act of the legislature of Virginia
assenting to the division of the State was invalid as such, but
that West Virginia might be admitted under the absolute power that
the laws of war give to Congress under such circumstances.

"The Union," he said, "can never be restored under the Constitution
as it was," and with his consent, it could never be restored with
slavery to be protected by it.

He was in favor of admitting West Virginia because he "found in
her constitution a provision which would make her a free
state."[117]

Perhaps no man in the House opposed more vigorously the admission
of the State under the bill being considered than did Mr.

Segar.
According to his point of view, the people of the proposed new State
had made a pro-slavery constitution; they had retained their
former slave status, merely prohibiting the coming in for permanent
residence of additional slaves and free Negroes. The bill presented
here, he argued, requires them to strike out the provision that
they have seen fit to make with reference to slavery; Congress has
made for them a constitution of fast emancipation, one of virtual
anti-slavery variety.

"This," said he, "is nothing less than a flagrant departure from
the doctrine that the States may of right manage their domestic
affairs and fashion their institutions as they wil

l
Captain Greg Holmes coming upon this scene, stood back as long
as etiquette in the presence of a general demanded, then rushed
forward to give joyous greeting to both chums.

Dick and his friends were destined to go even further in the
realization of their fondest hopes.  Up to this moment the United
States was only in the infancy of her part in the great war.
Greater days were coming, and did come, and what happened then will
be found truthfully set forth in the next volume in this series,
which will be published under the title:

"_Uncle Sam's Boys Smash The Germans; Or, Helping the Allies Wind
Up the Great World War_."

THE END