Faxon's first impulse was to look away, to look anywhere else, to resort
again to the champagne glass the watchful butler had already brimmed;
but some fatal attraction, at war in him with an overwhelming physical
resistance, held his eyes upon the spot they feared.

The figure was still standing, more distinctly, and therefore more
resemblingly, at Mr. Lavington's back; and while the latter continued
to gaze affectionately at his nephew, his counterpart, as before, fixed
young Rainer with eyes of deadly menace.

Faxon, with what felt like an actual wrench of the muscles, dragged his
own eyes from the sight to scan the other countenances about the table;
but not one revealed the least consciousness of what he saw, and a sense
of mortal isolation sank upon him.

"I am, Mr. Elderkin," he said, blushing until I thought his white hair
would turn crimson.

We stared at each other in silence for ten seconds, each wishing himself
or his interlocutor at the antipodes.

"I congratulate you on your gift," I remarked, as soon as I could speak.

"I will see you again soon, and have a talk on the subject. We have
discussed similar matters before. Good day, Doctor."
"Good day, Mr. Elderkin," he replied, drawing himself up with a poor
pretence at self-respect.

He was greatly changed. Heterodoxy had not been so fattening to him
as Orthodoxy. When I knew him, six years before, as pastor of a
flourishing church, Doctor of Divinity, and staunch Calvinist, he had
a plump and rosy face, a portly form, and vigorous carriage.

He was a great favorite with the ladies, as clergymen are apt to be, and
consequently never lacked for delicate and appetizing sustenance. He was
esteemed, self-respectful, and happy; and all these things tend to
good health and good looks.

I propose to make myself famous as the Gibbon of the decline and fall
of this reverend gentleman, once so honorably established on the
everlasting hills of Orthodoxy, and now so overthrown and trampled
under foot by the Alaric of Spiritualism.

I do not expect, indeed, that anybody will take warning by my friend's
sad history; nor do I insist that people in general would find it
advantageous to learn much wisdom from the experience of others;
for it is very clear, that, if we attempted only what our neighbors
or our fathers had succeeded in doing, we should kill all chance
of variety or improvement.

It would be a stupidly wise world; there would be no sins, and, very
possibly, no virtues; instead of "Everything happens," it would be
"Nothing happens."Mr. Lavington's
glance was politely bent on him, but with a loosening of the strain
about his heart he saw that the figure behind the chair still kept its
gaze on Rainer.

"Do you think you've seen my double, Mr. Faxon?"

Would the other face turn if he said yes? Faxon felt a dryness in his
throat. "No," he answered.

"Ah? It's possible I've a dozen. I believe I'm extremely usual-looking,"
Mr. Lavington went on conversationally; and still the other face watched
Rainer.

"It was... a mistake... a confusion of memory...." Faxon heard himself
stammer. Mr. Lavington pushed back his chair, and as he did so Mr.
Grisben suddenly leaned forward.

"Lavington! What have, we been thinking of? We haven't drunk Frank's
health!"

Mr. Lavington reseated himself. "My dear boy!... Peters, another
bottle...." He turned to his nephew. "After such a sin of omission I
don't presume to propose the toast myself... but Frank knows.... Go
ahead, Grisben!"

The boy shone on his uncle. "No, no, Uncle Jack! Mr. Grisben won't mind.
Nobody but _you_--today!"

The butler was replenishing the glasses. He filled Mr. Lavington's last,
and Mr. Lavington put out his small hand to raise it.... As he did so,
Faxon looked away.

"Well, then--All the good I've wished you in all the past years.... I
put it into the prayer that the coming ones may be healthy and happy and
many... and _many_, dear boy!"

Faxon saw the hands about him reach out for their glasses.
Automatically, he reached for his. Love had conquered,--Love, that in the
conquest felt itself disgraced.
He had sold the divine, he had received the human: it was the old
pottage speculation over again.

This privilege of liberty from his dungeon had looked so fair!--but now
it seemed so worthless! This prospect of life so priceless in contemplation
of its loss,--oh, the beggar who crept past him was an enviable man,
compared with young Victor Le Roy, the heir of love and riches, the
heir of liberty and life!

Yes,--he went home with Mazurier. Where else should he go?
Congratulations attended him. He was compelled to receive them with a
countenance not too sombre, and a grace not all thankless, or--or--they
would say it was of cowardice he had saved his precious body from the
sentence of the judges, and given his precious LIFE up to the sentence
of the JUDGE.

Yes,--Martial took him home. There they might talk at leisure of those
things,--and ask a blessing on the testimony of Jesus, made and
kept by them!

Victor Le Roy was too proud to complain now.

He assented to all the preacher's sophistry. He allowed himself to be
cheered. But this was no such evening as had been spent in the room of
the wool-comber, when Leclerc's voice, strong, even through his
weakness, called on God, and blessed and praised Him, and the
spirit conquered the flesh gloriously,--the old mother of Leclerc
sharing his joy, as she had also shared his anguish.

Here was no Jacqueline to say to Victor, "Thou hast done well! 'Glory be
to Jesus Christ, and His witnesses!'"

Mazurier thanked God for the deliverance of His servant! He dedicated
himself and Victor anew to the service of Truth, which they had
shrunk from defending!

And his eloquence and fervor seemed to stamp the words with sincerity.
He seemed not in the least to suspect or fear himself.

With Victor Le Roy such self-deception, such sophistry, was simply
impossible.

* * * * *
Not of purpose did he meet Jacqueline that night. She had heard that
Le Roy was at liberty, and alone now she applied at the door of Martial
Mazurier for admittance, but in vain. The master had signified that his
evening was not to be interrupted. Therefore she returned, from
waiting near his door, to the street where she and Elsie lived.What business was it of _his_, in God's name? Any one of the
others, thus enlightened, might have exposed the horror and defeated
it; but _he_, the one weaponless and defenceless spectator, the one whom
none of the others would believe or understand if he attempted to reveal
what he knew--_he_ alone had been singled out as the victim of this
dreadful initiation!

Suddenly he sat up, listening: he had heard a step on the stairs. Some
one, no doubt, was coming to see how he was--to urge him, if he felt
better, to go down and join the smokers. Cautiously he opened his
door; yes, it was young Rainer's step. Faxon looked down the passage,
remembered the other stairway and darted to it. All he wanted was to get
out of the house. Not another instant would he breathe its abominable
air! What business was it of _his_, in God's name?

He reached the opposite end of the lower gallery, and beyond it saw
the hall by which he had entered. It was empty, and on a long table he
recognized his coat and cap. He got into his coat, unbolted the door,
and plunged into the purifying night.

The darkness was deep, and the cold so intense that for an instant
it stopped his breathing. Then he perceived that only a thin snow was
falling, and resolutely he set his face for flight. The trees along the
avenue marked his way as he hastened with long strides over the beaten
snow. Gradually, while he walked, the tumult in his brain subsided. The
impulse to fly still drove him forward, but he began feel that he was
flying from a terror of his own creating, and that the most urgent
reason for escape was the need of hiding his state, of shunning other
eyes till he should regain his balance.

He had spent the long hours in the train in fruitless broodings on a
discouraging situation, and he remembered how his bitterness had turned
to exasperation when he found that the Weymore sleigh was not awaiting
him. It was absurd, of course; but, though he had joked with Rainer over
Mrs. Culme's forgetfulness, to confess it had cost a pang. That was what
his rootless life had brought him to: for lack of a personal stake in
things his sensibility was at the mercy of such trifles.... Yes; that,
and the cold and fatigue, the absence of hope and the haunting sense of
starved aptitudes, all these had brought him to the perilous verge over
which, once or twice before, his terrified brain had hung.

Why else, in the name of any imaginable logic, human or devilish,
should he, a stranger, be singled out for this experience? What could
it mean to him, how was he related to it, what bearing had it on his
case?... Unless, indeed, it was just because he was a stranger--a
stranger everywhere--because he had no personal life, no warm screen of
private egotisms to shield him from exposure, that he had developed this
abnormal sensitiveness to the vicissitudes of others. The thought pulled
him up with a shudder. No! Such a fate was too abominable; all that
was strong and sound in him rejected it. A thousand times better regard
himself as ill, disorganized, deluded, than as the predestined victim of
such warnings!

He reached the gates and paused before the darkened lodge. The wind had
risen and was sweeping the snow into his race. The cold had him in its
grasp again, and he stood uncertain. Should he put his sanity to the
test and go back? He turned and looked down the dark drive to the house.
A single ray shone through the trees, evoking a picture of the lights,
the flowers, the faces grouped about that fatal room. He turned and
plunged out into the road....

He remembered that, about a mile from Overdale, the coachman had pointed
out the road to Northridge; and he began to walk in that direction.
Once in the road he had the gale in his face, and the wet snow on his
moustache and eye-lashes instantly hardened to ice. The same ice seemed
to be driving a million blades into his throat and lungs, but he pushed
on, the vision of the warm room pursuing him.

The snow in the road was deep and uneven. He stumbled across ruts and
sank into drifts, and the wind drove against him like a granite cliff.
Now and then he stopped, gasping, as if an invisible hand had tightened
an iron band about his body; then he started again, stiffening himself
against the stealthy penetration of the cold. The snow continued to
descend out of a pall of inscrutable darkness, and once or twice he
paused, fearing he had missed the road to Northridge; but, seeing no
sign of a turn, he ploughed on.

Wonder softened into pity; unbelief was goaded by his stripes to cruelty;
faith became transfigured, while he, followed by the hooting crowd,
endured the penalty of faith. Some men looked on with awe that would
become adoring; some with surprise that would take refuge in study
and conviction. There were tears as well as exultation, solemn joy as
well as execration, in his train. The mother of Leclerc followed him
with her undaunted testimony, "Blessed be Jesus Christ and His Witnesses!"

By day, in the field, Jacqueline Gabrie thought over the reports she
heard through the harvesters, of the city's feeling, of its purpose,
of its judgment; by night she prayed and hoped, with the mother of
Leclerc; and wondrous was the growth her faith had in those days.

On the evening of the third day, Jacqueline and Elsie walked into
Meaux together.

This was not invariably their habit.

Elsie had avoided too frequent conversation with her friend of late.
She knew their paths were separate, and was never so persuaded of the
fact as this night, when, of her own will, she sought to walk with
Jacqueline.

The sad face of her friend troubled her; it moved her conscience
that she did not deeply share in her anxiety.

When they came from Domrémy, she had relied on Jacqueline: there
was safety in her counsel,--there was wisdom in it:
but now, either?

"It made me scream outright, when I saw the play," said she; "but
it is worse to see your face nowadays,--it is more terrible,
Jacqueline."

Jacqueline made no reply to this,--and Elsie regarded the silence as
sufficient provocation.

"You seem to think I have no feeling," said she. "I am as sorry
about the poor fellows as you can be.

But I cannot look as if I thought the day of judgment close at hand,
when I don't, Jacqueline."

"Very well, Elsie. I am not complaining of your looks."

"But you are,--or you might as well."

"Let not that trouble you, Elsie. Your face is smooth, at least; and
your voice does not sound like the voice of one who is in grief.
Rejoice,--for, as you say, you have a right to yourself, with which I am
not to interfere.

We are old friends,--we came away from Lorraine together. Do not forget
that. I never will forget it."

"But you are done with me.

You say nothing to me. I might as well be dead, for all you care."
"Let us not talk of such things in this manner," said Jacqueline,
mildly.

But the dignity of her rebuke was felt, for Elsie said,--
"But I seem to have lost you,--and now we are alone together, I may
say it.

Yes, I have lost you, Jacqueline!"

"This is not the first time we have been alone together in these
dreadful three days."
"But now I cannot help speaking."
"You could help it before. Why, Elsie? You had not made up your mind.

But now you have, or you would not speak, and insist on speaking.

What have you to say, then?"
"Jacqueline!

Are you Jacqueline?"

"Am I not?"

"You seem not to be."
"How is it, Elsie?"
"You are silent and stern, and I think you are very unhappy, Jacqueline."

"I do not know,--not unhappy, I think. Perhaps I am silent,--I have
been so busy. But for all it is so dreadful--no! not unhappy, Elsie."
"Thinking of Leclerc all the while?"

"Of him? Oh, no! I have not been thinking of him,--not constantly. Jesus
Christ will take care of him. His mother is quiet, thinking that. I,
at least, can be as strong as she.

I'm not thinking of the shame and cruelty,--but of what that can be worth
which is so much to him, that he counts this punishment, as they call
it, as nothing, as hardly pain, certainly not disgrace. The Truth,
Elsie!

--if I have not as much to say, it is because I have been trying
to find the Truth."

"But if you have found it, then I hope I never shall,--if it is the
Truth that makes you so gloomy.

I thought it was this business in Meaux."

"Gloomy? when it may be I have found, or _shall_ find"--
Here Jacqueline hesitated,--looked at Elsie.

Grave enough was that look to expel every frivolous feeling from
the heart of Elsie,--at least, so long as she remained under its
influence.

It was something to trust another as Jacqueline intended now to trust her
friend. It was a touching sight to see her seeking her old confidence,
and appearing to rely on it, while she knew how frail the reed was. But
this girl, frivolous as was her spirit, this girl had come with
her from the distant native village; their childhood's recollections
were the same.

And Jacqueline determined now to trust her. For in times of blasting heat
the shadow even of the gourd is not to be despised.

"No!"

"I can, perfectly--"

"You sha'n't go to the house, I say!" Faxon redoubled his blows, and
at length steps sounded on the stairs. Rainer was leaning against the
lintel, and as the door opened the light from the hall flashed on his
pale face and fixed eyes. Faxon caught him by the arm and drew him in.

"It _was_ cold out there." he sighed; and then, abruptly, as if
invisible shears at a single stroke had cut every muscle in his body, he
swerved, drooped on Faxon's arm, and seemed to sink into nothing at his
feet.

The lodge-keeper and Faxon bent over him, and somehow, between them,
lifted him into the kitchen and laid him on a sofa by the stove.

The lodge-keeper, stammering: "I'll ring up the house," dashed out of
the room. But Faxon heard the words without heeding them: omens mattered
nothing now, beside this woe fulfilled. He knelt down to undo the fur
collar about Rainer's throat, and as he did so he felt a warm moisture
on his hands. He held them up, and they were red....


V

The palms threaded their endless line along the yellow river. The little
steamer lay at the wharf, and George Faxon, sitting in the verandah of
the wooden hotel, idly watched the coolies carrying the freight across
the gang-plank.

He had been looking at such scenes for two months. Nearly five had
elapsed since he had descended from the train at Northridge and strained
his eyes for the sleigh that was to take him to Weymore: Weymore, which
he was never to behold!... Part of the interval--the first part--was
still a great grey blur. Even now he could not be quite sure how he
had got back to Boston, reached the house of a cousin, and been thence
transferred to a quiet room looking out on snow under bare trees. He
looked out a long time at the same scene, and finally one day a man
he had known at Harvard came to see him and invited him to go out on a
business trip to the Malay Peninsula.

"You've had a bad shake-up, and it'll do you no end of good to get away
from things."

When the doctor came the next day it turned out that he knew of the plan
and approved it. "You ought to be quiet for a year. Just loaf and look
at the landscape," he advised.

Paxon felt the first faint stirrings of curiosity.

"What's been the matter with me, anyway?"

"Well, over-work, I suppose. You must have been bottling up for a bad
breakdown before you started for New Hampshire last December. And the
shock of that poor boy's death did the rest."

Ah, yes--Rainer had died. He remembered....

He started for the East, and gradually, by imperceptible degrees, life
crept back into his weary bones and leaden brain. His friend was patient
and considerate, and they travelled slowly and talked little. At first
Faxon had felt a great shrinking from whatever touched on familiar
things. He acknowledged freely, with a fatal candor, that, until he
came to consider these things in their true light, when shut away from
all outward influences, until compelled to quiet meditation beyond the
reach and influence of mere enthusiasm, he had believed with Leclerc,
even as Victor was believing now. He could have gone on, who might
tell to what fanatical length? had it not been for that fortunate
arrest which made a sane man of him!

Leclerc was not quite in the wrong,--not absolutely,--but neither was he,
as Mazurier had once believed, gloriously in the right. It was
clearly apparent to him, that Victor Le Roy, having now also like
opportunity for calm reflection, would come to like conclusions.
With such confident prophecy, Mazurier left the young man.There he found a game of dominoes, a mutilated picture-puzzle, some
copies of _Zion's Herald_ and a pile of New York and London newspapers.

He began to glance through the papers, and was disappointed to find that
they were less recent than he had hoped. Evidently the last numbers had
been carried off by luckier travellers. He continued to turn them over,
picking out the American ones first. These, as it happened, were the
oldest: they dated back to December and January. To Faxon, however, they
had all the flavour of novelty, since they covered the precise period
during which he had virtually ceased to exist. "Come on, Elsie!"
exclaimed Jacqueline, as though she almost hoped this of her dear
companion.

"But where?" asked Elsie, not so tenderly.

"Where God leads. I cannot tell."
"I do not understand."
"You would not think the Truth worth buying at the price of your life?"

"My life?"

"Or such a price as he pays who--has been branded to-day?"
"It was not the truth to your mother,--or to mine. It was not the truth
to any one we ever knew, till we came here to Meaux."
"It is true to my heart, Elsie. It is true to my conscience. I know
that I can live for it. And it may be"--
"Hush!--do not!

Oh, I wish that I could get you back to Domrémy! What is going to come
of this? Jacqueline, let us go home. Come, let us start to-night. We
shall have the moon all night to walk by. There is nothing in Meaux for
us. Oh, if we had never come away! It would have been better for you to
work there for--what you wanted,--for what you came here to do."
"No, let God's Truth triumph! What am I? Less than that rush! But if
His breath is upon me, I will be moved by it,--I am not a stone."

Then they walked on in silence. Elsie had used her utmost of
persuasion, but Jacqueline not her utmost of resistance. Her companion
knew this, felt her weakness in such a contest, and was silent.
On to town they went together. They walked together through the
streets, passing constantly knots of people who stood about the
corners and among the shops, discussing what had taken place that
day.Ten millions... ten millions of his own. But if John Lavington was
ruined?... Pazon stood up with a cry. That was it, then--that was what
the warning meant! And if he had not fled from it, dashed wildly away
from it into the night, he might have broken the spell of iniquity, the
powers of darkness might not have prevailed! He caught up the pile of
newspapers and began to glance through each in turn for the head-line:
"Wills Admitted to Probate." In the last of all he found the paragraph
he sought, and it stared up at him as if with Rainer's dying eyes.

That--_that_ was what he had done! The powers of pity had singled him
out to warn and save, and he had closed his ears to their call, and
washed his hands of it, and fled. Washed his hands of it! That was
the word. It caught him back to the dreadful moment in the lodge when,
raising himself up from Rainer's side, he had looked at his hands and
seen that they were red....