"The first and the most essential condition of true happiness," writes
Professor Carl Hilty, the eminent Swiss jurist, "is a firm faith in the
moral order of the world. What is the happy life? It is a life of
conscious harmony with this Divine order of the world, a sense, that is
to say, of God's companionship. And wherein is the profoundest
unhappiness? It is in the sense of remoteness from God, issuing into
incurable restlessness of heart, and finally into incapacity to make
one's life fruitful or effective."

What shall we say, then, of the proposal to adapt Christianity to the
needs of the world to-day by eliminating or ignoring its characteristic
doctrines? You might as well propose to fit a ship for service by taking
out its compass and its charts and cutting off its rudder. Make
Christianity silent in regard to these great questions of spiritual
existence, and you destroy its power to satisfy the heart.

What would the life of Christ mean if these deep truths on which He
rested and from which He drew His strength, were uncertain or illusory?
It would be the most pathetic, mournful, heartbreaking of all phantoms.

What consoling, cheering power would be left in the words of Jesus if
His doctrine were blotted out and His precept left to stand alone? Try
the experiment, if it may be done without irreverence: read His familiar
discourses in the shadow of agnosticism.

'Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is a hopeless poverty.
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they know not whether they shall see
God. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, for ye
have no promise of a heavenly reward.

.

[10] A retired scholar of the Jin Dynasty.

[11] A place in present-day Henan Province.

This translation is based on the SiKuQuanShu text with editorial emendations
and punctuation by the translators. It was done by Rick Davis (Japan)
with help from David Steelman (Taiwan).

The original

有漢無論魏晉。
此人一一為具言所聞皆歎惋。餘人各復延至其家皆出酒
食。停數日辭去。此中人語云不足為外人道也。既出得
其船便扶向路處處誌之。及郡下詣太守說如此。太守即
遣人隨其往。尋向所誌遂迷不復得路。南陽劉子驥高尚
士也。聞之欣然規往未果尋病終。後遂無問津者。My sheep hear
my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, but I can not give unto
them eternal life, for they shall perish and death shall pluck them out
of my hand. Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe not in God, ye
need not believe in me. Keep my commandments, and I will not pray for
you, and ye shall abide without a Comforter. In the world ye shall have
tribulation, but be of good cheer, for ye know not whether there is a
world to come. I came forth from darkness into the world, and again I
leave the world and return to darkness. Peace I leave with you. If ye
loved me ye would rejoice because I said, I go into darkness, and where
I am there shall ye be also.'

Is it conceivable that any suffering, sorrowing human soul should be
comforted and strengthened by such a message as this? Could it possibly
be called a gospel, glad tidings of great joy to all people?

And yet what has been omitted here from the words of Christ? Nothing but
what men call doctrines: the personality of God, the divinity of Christ,
the Atonement, the presence and power of the Holy Spirit, the
sovereignty of the Heavenly Father, the truth of the divine revelation,
the reality of the heavenly world, the assurance of immortal life. But
it is just from these doctrines that the teaching of Jesus draws its
peculiar power to comfort and inspire. They are the rays of light which
disperse the gloom of uncertainty. They are the tones of celestial music
which fill the heart of man with good cheer.

