The symptoms of disease in this patient did not alter much, except in
degree, from the middle of April to the 10th of May. He became weaker,
had more straitness and pain about the heart on moving, an increase of
swelling in the legs and abdomen, return of the cough, and a pain from
the left shoulder to the middle of the arm. After his relapse in
April, he had been directed to employ blisters, the submuriate of
quicksilver, and the tincture of the digitalis purpurea. The dose of
the tincture he gradually increased, till he took two hundred drops,
two or three times in a day. Notwithstanding a profuse flow of urine,
the legs became so hard and painful, that I made punctures to
discharge the water from them. He would have had the water in the
abdomen drawn off, but believing it would not afford him great relief,
I dissuaded him from it. On the 10th of May, after having passed an
unusually comfortable night, he rose and left his chamber for five or
six hours, then retiring to it again, said he would be tapped that
day, and, after lying down, was quitted by his attendant, who went in
an hour after and found him dead. This was rather unexpected, for he
had the appearance of sufficient vigour to struggle with disease three
or four weeks longer.

A number of medical gentlemen being assembled, as has been usual on
these occasions, we first remarked, that the face was swollen, and
extraordinarily livid; for, although a considerable degree of
lividity, and sometimes of redness, after death, is peculiar to these
cases, we had seen none which resembled this. Hard and prominent
purple spots were observed upon the shoulders, side, and back. The
surface of the body was moderately covered with fat; the legs and
abdomen were much swollen with water, the arms more slightly. The
integuments of the thorax being cut through, the cellular membrane
discharged a serous fluid from every part; these being turned aside,
to lay bare the cartilages of the ribs, we found them completely
ossified; and having divided them, with a saw, the cavity of the
thorax was opened. The cellular membrane, inside the thorax, about the
mediastinum, had not so bloody an appearance as we witnessed in the
preceding cases, nor were the lungs, either externally or internally,
so dark coloured as usual, though they were much darker, firmer, and
more filled with blood, than is common in subjects of other diseases.
The lungs of the left side adhered closely to the pleura costalis, and
those of the right were tied by loose and membranous adhesions; beside
which there was no appearance of disease about them. The cavity of the
pleura did not contain any water; that of the pericardium held about
six ounces.

The anterior surface of the heart exhibited a considerable whiteness
of its coat over the coronary arteries. This appearance differed from
that of other cases, in being contained in the substance of the
membrane, instead of lying on its surface; and, either from this
circumstance, or from the length of time since it had existed, its
aspect was so peculiar that it might be supposed to be the first stage
of an ossification. A deposition of lymph on the heart has been
observed in every one of these cases of organic disease, and it has
existed principally over the branches of the coronary arteries, or
else near the apex of the heart, which is to be attributed to the
irritation of the membrane by the combined impulse of the heart and
coronary arteries, and to the stroke of the apex upon the ribs. This
is an appearance that, as it belongs to this complaint, might be
useful in a case otherwise dubious, if any such should occur, to aid
in deciding whether the action of the heart had been inordinate.

The heart was enlarged to double its usual size, as we judged with
confidence, for pains had been taken to examine hearts in a healthy
state, for the purpose of forming a comparison. Its firmness was not
proportioned to its bulk, but it was considerably flaccid. Near the
apex, over the left ventricle, was a soft spot, similar to that found
in the preceding case. The venæ cavæ were then divided, and a torrent
of black blood issued from each of the orifices, in spite of our
efforts to restrain it. All the cavities of the heart were filled, as
we afterwards saw, with similar blood; in which circumstance this
resembles the other cases; though in this case the blood was entirely
fluid, and thinner than in cases of different disease: whereas, in
every other instance, was partly or wholly coagulated. This therefore
must be considered as another appearance peculiar to this complaint,
because it is well known, that blood is not usually found in the left
cavities of the hearts of those who die of other disorders. The cause
of it is doubtless an obstruction, which opposes the free discharge of
blood from the heart, whether that obstruction be in the aortal
valves, in the aorta itself, or in the disproportion between the
heart, or more precisely the left ventricle, and the parts it supplies
with blood.

Why was the blood entirely fluid in this case? If we compare the
appearance of the cellular membrane, and of the lungs, in both of
which there was a deficiency of blood, with the aspect of the face,
where there was an accumulation of blood, and consider at the same
time the mode of termination of this case, we shall find reason to
believe, that death was produced by a violent pressure of the brain
from a congestion of blood in its vessels, in consequence of the
obstruction to the return of that fluid to the heart. An additional
proof of this opinion is derived from the great quantity of blood,
which poured from the vena cava superior, during the whole time of the
examination, and afterward; so that it was found impossible to
preserve the subject from the blood flowing between the ligatures,
notwithstanding the thorax was entirely emptied, before it was closed.
In cases of sudden death from apoplexy, related by Morgagni, the blood
was frequently fluid, and this may be supposed to be the cause of that
appearance in the present case. The extraordinary thinness or watery
state of the blood is a distinct circumstance, which will be presently
noticed.

An examination of the brain, to ascertain the truth of the supposition
above mentioned, was relinquished with regret, but this was
impracticable; for the want of time on these occasions frequently
obliged us to content ourselves with investigating the state of the
most important parts. This must serve as our apology for not oftener
relating the appearance of all the principal organs; yet it should be
observed, that such methods have been employed to ascertain with
accuracy the most interesting morbid phoenomena, as would satisfy the
most scrupulous anatomist.

The tricuspid valves and the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery
had lost their healthy transparency, but were not otherwise diseased.
In all the above cases these valves had been found without important
derangement of their structure; a circumstance not less remarkable,
than difficult to be satisfactorily explained. The basis of the mitral
valves was marked by a bony projection, which nearly surrounded the
orifice of the ventricle; the valves themselves were thickened, and
one of them was smaller than the other. The semilunar valves of the
aorta were lessened in size, and somewhat thickened. One of them was
ossified sufficiently to annihilate its valvular function; the others
were slightly. The aorta under the valves was semicartilaginous,
ossified in one small spot, roughened by fleshlike prominences in
others, entirely deprived of the smoothness of its internal coat, and
in size proportioned to the heart.

The parietes of the heart were thicker than those of a healthy heart,
but thin when compared with its whole volume; whence it follows, that
the cavities were enlarged. That of the left ventricle was
disproportionately larger than the others, but no difference of size
could be ascertained between the auricles. When a cavity of the heart
is situated in the course of the circulation immediately behind a
contracted orifice, it seems probable that the contraction may have an
important influence in originating the enlargement or aneurism of that
cavity; but, where there is no contraction of an orifice, what is the
obstruction which impedes the free discharge of blood from the heart,
and causes the first yielding of its parietes? Perhaps a violent
simultaneous action of many muscles, from great exertion, may, during
the systole of the heart, impede the passage of the blood through the
arteries, drive it back upon the valves of the aorta, and resist the
heart at the moment of its contraction. If the parietes of the heart
yield, in one part, it is easy to conceive a consequent distension of
the remainder to any degree; for, during the systole of the heart, the
columnæ approximate, till their sides are in contact, to protect the
parietes of the heart; but, if these be distended, the columnæ can no
longer come in contact with each other, and the blood passing between
them will be propelled against the parieties, and increase their
distention. The left ventricle being thus dilated, the mitral valves
will not be able to completely cover its orifice, and part of the
blood will escape from the ventricle, when it contracts, into the
auricle when dilated with the blood from the lungs; and this undue
quantity of blood will gradually enlarge the auricle. A resistance
will arise, from the same cause, to the passage of the blood from the
lungs, thence to that from the right ventricle and auricle, and thus
these cavities may become enlarged in their turns. When an
ossification of the aorta, or of its valves, exists, there will be a
resistance to the passage of the blood from the left ventricle, either
by a loss of dilatability in the artery, or a contraction of the
orifice by the ossified parts. In either case, the blood will reflow
upon the heart, and dilate the left ventricle, as in _case the first_,
and others; and, if the mitral valves be thickened and rigid, the left
auricle will be more dilated than in a case of simple aneurism of the
left ventricle, as appeared also in the _first case_.

The coronary arteries, at their origin from the aorta, and a
considerable distance beyond, were ossified. How far does the
existence of this ossification in this and other cases related by
different authors, without symptoms of angina pectoris, disprove the
opinion that it is the cause of that disease?

The abdomen being opened, the organs generally appeared sound, except
the liver, which had its tunic inflamed, its substance indurated and
filled with blood. The vestiges of inflammation in the coat of the
liver were traced in every instance already related, while at the same
time the liver, in all, appeared shrunken. The diminution of size in
the liver, after death, cannot at present be well explained; for it is
very certain that such a diminution is not an attendant of this
disorder, during most of its stages, but that on the contrary a state
exists precisely opposed to it. The indications of distention of the
liver, clearly perceived in some cases, have been pain, tenderness,
and sense of distention, in the right hypochondrium, and, what is less
equivocal than these, very considerable swelling and prominence of the
liver. The inflammation of its tunic is an effect of this distention
and of the consequent pressure against the adjacent parts.

The cause of this phoenomenon can easily be explained. If an
obstruction exist in either side of the heart, or in the lungs, the
blood to be poured into the right auricle, from the vena cava
inferior, must be obstructed, its flow into that vessel from the liver
will be equally checked, the thin coats of the hepatic veins and of
the branches of the vena porta will yield and distend the soft
substance of the liver. Hence are caused the discharges of blood from
the hæmorrhoidal veins, which form one of the characteristic symptoms
of the disease; for as these vessels empty their blood into the
meseraic veins, which open into the vena porta, if the meseraic veins
be obstructed, the hæmorrhoidals must consequently be also affected,
and they easily burst open from too great distention. The hæmoptoe,
which also is so frequent, is as easily explained on the same
principle.

The cause of the serous collections is not so readily discovered. In
this case, as in most of the others, we found a considerable quantity
of water in the abdominal cavity. Dropsy is commonly considered as a
disease of debility, but in these cases it often appeared, while the
strength was unimpaired, and the heart acted with very extraordinary
force. If the blood was driven with rapidity through the arteries,
while an obstruction existed at the termination of the venous system
in the heart, the consequences must have been accumulation in the
venous system, difficult transmission of the blood from the extreme
arteries to the veins, overcharge of the arterial capillary system,
consequent excitement of the exhalant system to carry off the serous
part of the blood, for which it is adapted, and thence a serous
discharge into the cavities, and also on the surface of the body; for
great disposition to sweating is a common symptom. In addition to
these, there is another cause of the universality of these effusions.
The blood, in all the cases which I have examined, is both before and
after death, more thin and watery than healthy blood. How this
happens, our knowledge of the theory of sanguification does not enable
us to determine. Perhaps, as the imperfect respiration must cause a
deficiency of air, and consequently of oxygen, in the lungs; and as
the absorption of oxygen is a cause of solidity in many bodies, this
tenuity of the blood may proceed from a deficient absorption of
oxygen. However this may be, it is certain that the blood is very much
attenuated, though with considerable variations in degree, as it is
sometimes found thin on opening a vein, and at a subsequent period is
thicker; varying perhaps according to the continuance of ease or
difficulty in respiration. It is certain, that this attenuation of the
blood must tend to an increase of the serous exhalations.

That these secondary dropsies are not the effect of debility appears
pretty evident from considering, that they often exist while the
strength of the patient is yet undiminished, while all the other
secretions, except that of the urine, are carried on with vigour, and
while the appetite and digestive functions are not only unimpaired,
but improved.

The examinations of the _ninth_ and _tenth cases_ are particularly
valuable, because they confirm what had been observed in other
subjects; they exhibit two well marked instances of aneurism of the
heart, and present us a view of organic disease unattended by dropsy
of the pleura. This must be sufficient to remove the suspicion, that
the symptoms we have attributed to the former disease might arise from
the existence of the latter. No one probably will be willing to impute
a chronic disease, terminated by a sudden death, to five or six ounces
of water in the pericardium; for such a quantity, though it might
produce inconvenience, could not prove fatal, unless it were suddenly
effused; and, if this were true, it of course could not have been the
cause of the long train of symptoms observed in _case tenth_.

Dr. William Hamilton, the author of a valuable treatise on the
digitalis purpurea, thinks the hydrothorax a more frequent disease
than has commonly been imagined, because he conceives that it has
often been mistaken for organic disease of the heart. He names, with
some precision, many symptoms of the latter complaint; but how remote
he is from an accurate knowledge of it may be discovered by his
opinion, that, in diseases of the heart, "the patient can lie down
with ease, and seldom experiences much difficulty of breathing." The
limits of this paper do not admit a discussion of this and other
points, respecting which he seems to be mistaken. We must therefore
submit them to be decided by the evidence adduced in Dr. Hamilton's
"observations," and by that which may be drawn from these cases, and
future investigations of the subject. It will perhaps hereafter appear
surprising, that derangements in the structure of so important an
organ as the heart should have been lightly estimated by very
respectable authors.

       *       *       *       *       *

While concluding these observations, a case of this disease presented
itself, which comprehends so many of the symptoms, that I cannot
neglect an opportunity of recording it, especially as it exhibits the
complaint in an earlier stage than the others, with appearances
equally unequivocal. I may here be allowed to remark, that no cases
have been introduced which occurred before my attention was directed
to a close observation of this disorder, and that there are many
others, under the care of practitioners of eminence belonging to this
society, with symptoms perfectly well marked, which it has not been
thought necessary to adduce. In proof of this, reference may be had to
Dr. Warren, sen. who has a number of cases, and also to Dr. Dexter,
Dr. Jackson, and Dr. J. C. Howard.

A lady from the country, of a robust habit, whose age is about
thirty-four years, complains of uneasiness in the right side below the
edge of the ribs, sometimes attended with swelling, external soreness,
and a throbbing pain, which often reaches to the shoulder, and
produces a numbness of the right arm. She is rather uncertain at what
time her complaints commenced. About two years since she lost her
husband, and was left with but small means to support a number of
children. She became in consequence, much dejected. While nursing a
child, about a year since, she first was sensible of palpitations of
the heart, which, in about three months, were followed by dyspnoea
very much augmented by ascending an eminence; and profuse discharges
of blood from the mouth, first raised, she believes, by vomiting, and
afterwards by coughing. Evacuations of blood from the hæmorrhoidal
vessels appeared about the same time, and occasionally since, till
within six weeks, during which time there have been no sanguineous
discharges, and this suppression has aggravated her other complaints.

The pulsation of the heart is felt most distinctly quite on the left
side of the thorax, where there is a painful spot; it is perceptible
also in the epigastric region. It is irregular and variable, at one
moment hard, strong, distinct, and vibrating; at another, feeble and
confused. There is also sometimes perceived a pulsation above the left
clavicle, within the insertion of the mastoid muscle, commonly
attended with a visible fulness of the superior part of the breast.
The thorax feels, to the patient, as if it were girt across, and there
is a distinct pain in the heart. Both these sensations are aggravated
by a very hard, frequent, and dry cough, which however begins to be
less violent from the use of the scilla maritima. The countenance is
animated, and rather flushed, but not so much overcharged with blood
as happens in many instances; perhaps it little exceeds a blush, so
moderate that it might be considered as an indication of perfect
health; yet the head is greatly disturbed with dizziness, and
frequent and intense pain, and is seen to be shaken by the
palpitations.

The functions of the abdominal viscera are not much deranged. The
appetite varies, though it is commonly good; the intestinal
evacuations, and the menstrual discharges, are regular; the urine is
turbid, and so small in quantity as sometimes to produce strangury.
The abdomen and inferior extremities are swelled, and the distention
produces an uneasiness in the former, and pain and a livid colour
about the gastroenemii muscles in the latter. The pulse is hard,
without strength or fulness, slightly intermittent, variable, and
irregular; yet it has not so much irregularity as in most of the cases
recorded above.

This patient is uneasy in bed, though she raises her head almost
upright; her sleep is disturbed by unpleasant dreams, and by
startings, sometimes quite to an upright posture, without any cause
discoverable to herself. She can incline a little to the left side,
but never to the right, because it brings on a singular oppression,
and a sense of weight drawing on the left side. When most distressed
by dyspnoea she bends her head and trunk forward, and remains thus
seated a considerable portion of the night, often sighing quickly and
convulsively. She is subject to profuse sweatings, and very liable to
take cold, and is then more uneasy.

This lady is still corpulent. She has taken much medicine, under the
direction of eminent physicians, sometimes with temporary relief, but
most commonly without any. The exercise of walking slowly, in
pleasant weather, although it increases the palpitations at the
moment, is followed with relief from the distressing feelings, which
are increased when she sits still for a long time. She has no
suspicion of her hopeless situation, and confidently expects relief
from medicine, yet labours under a melancholy which is unnatural to
her.


                         CASE OF HYDROTHORAX.

     The following case of hydrothorax will shew, that water may
     exist in the chest without the symptoms, which we have
     attributed to organic diseases of the heart.

Mrs. T----, aged 56 years, of an excessively corpulent habit, had been
affected for a great number of years with a scirrhus of the right
breast. Finding her health decline, she at last disclosed it, and in
coincidence with the opinion of Dr. WARREN, sen. I amputated it on the
30th of May, of the present year. We however informed her friends,
that the probability of eradicating the disease was extremely small.
The skin was in many places hardened and drawn in, and in others
discoloured, and ulcerated at the nipple, so that it was found
necessary to remove, not only what covered the breast, but some
portion of that which surrounded it. A long chain of diseased glands,
extending quite to the axillary vessels, was also extirpated. She bore
the operation well, lost no great quantity of blood, and recovered her
appetite and strength surprisingly in a few days, while the wound
healed rapidly. At the end of twenty days a difficulty of breathing
commenced, and soon became so oppressive, that she could no longer lie
in bed; partly, no doubt, on account of her extraordinary obesity. The
pulse was small, quick, and commonly feeble, but sometimes a little
hard, when any degree of fever was present. The countenance became
pale, the lips of a leaden hue, the eyes dim. We were surprised at the
change, and conjectured that the cancerous action had suddenly
extended to the lungs. Yet she had not the slightest cough; and it was
remarked by Dr. WARREN, sen. that he had never observed that diseased
action to increase, while the wound remained open. At last the lower
extremities swelled, which might be attributed to the upright posture,
and the pressure on the absorbent vessels in that posture. The
appetite failed; she complained of a constant sense of depression at
the stomach, and, without any remission of the difficulty of
breathing, died on the 1st of July.

On the next morning the body was examined. The pleura in both cavities
of the thorax was studded with small, white, and apparently
homogeneous tubercles; the lungs contained a great number of similar
bodies. The right cavity of the pleura was entirely filled with water,
of which we removed at least three quarts. The heart was of the usual
size, very flaccid and tender; but not otherwise disordered. The liver
was enlarged, of its usual colour, much hardened, and had on its
surface, and in its substance, many tubercles like those in the
thorax. It had also a great number of encysted cavities, each about
the size of a hazle nut, which contained a thin yellow fluid. The gall
bladder was wanting, and in its place there was a small, but very
remarkable depression, without a vestige of any former gall bladder,
for the coat of the liver was as smooth and perfect there as in any
other part[15]. The pancreas was in a scirrhous state. The abdomen did
not contain any water.

    [Footnote 15: See Soemmerring de corporis humani fabrica,
    vol. 6, pag. 188 and Baillie's morbid anatomy, pag. 248.]

It seems, then, that water may exist in the cavity of the thorax,
without any remarkable symptoms, except dyspnoea and difficulty in
assuming the horizontal posture. But in organic diseases of the heart,
there is a long train of frightful symptoms, distinguishable by the
most superficial observers. We infer that these disorders have been
unnecessarily confounded.