At this juncture in the agricultural agitation political affairs in
parliament assumed peculiar and various complications. On the 20th of
February Mr. Locke King, the member for East Surrey, asked for leave to
bring in a bill to make the franchise in counties, in England and Wales,
the same as in boroughs--the occupation of a tenement of the value of
£10 a year. Lord John Russell refused the assent of his government,
pledging himself to bring in a bill to improve the representation, a
promise which through many succeeding years his lordship was in no hurry
to fulfil. The motion of Mr. King was carried against the government by
a majority in the proportion of nearly two to one. It was generally
felt that this vote virtually sealed the fate of the government. The
agricultural party were therefore emboldened to renew their previous
tactics on the discussion of the budget, and to press for the especial
exemption of their class from a large proportion of the general
taxation. The budget had been previously introduced (on the 17th), in a
committee of ways and means. The income had exceeded the expenditure by
more than two and a half millions sterling. This fact left an opening
for the reduction of taxation, which the agriculturists had already
claimed in their own peculiar interest. They were prepared upon the 21st
of February, upon the order for going into committee on ways and means,
to make propositions, which, if carried, would appropriate to themselves
the two millions and a half of surplus as effectually as if the money
were taken and divided among them. Lord John Russell requested the
postponement of the order of the day to the 24th, intimating that he
was moved to desire this postponement for especial reasons. It was
well known that his lordship felt himself incapable of carrying on the
government against the attacks of the Protectionists, on one hand, and
the parliamentary reformers on the other. On the 24th Lord John informed
the house of this fact, and declared that he spoke "as the organ of a
government which no longer existed." Lord Stanley had been invited by
her majesty to form a government, but did not succeed, and she again
called upon Lord John to construct a new cabinet. His lordship informed
the house that he had undertaken the task, and requested an adjournment.
On the 28th the house resumed its sitting. It then appeared that Lord
Aberdeen had been summoned by her majesty to form a ministry, but his
lordship, Sir James Graham, and the Peel party generally, refused to
co-operate with Lord John in the ecclesiastical titles bill, the Peelite
section of both houses, especially its leader, Lord Aberdeen, being
committed to the new ecclesiastical party called Puseyites, who
sympathised with the efforts of the Roman Catholics to restore the
grandeur of their hierarchy. Lord Aberdeen dared not face the popular
feeling on that question. Finally, the Duke of Wellington's advice
having been sought by his royal mistress, he advised her, as the
best solution of the difficulty, to confide to Lord John Russell the
reconstruction of his ministry. The protectionist party determined to
oppose the government on every measure which afforded a chance, by small
defeat, of weakening its influence over the house and the country.
When the ecclesiastical titles bill again came before the house, Sir F.
Thesiger moved three amendments, the object of which was to make it more
effective. This the party of Sir Frederic knew well neither Lord John,
his ministry, nor the Whigs generally, really desired. By this means the
true whig view of the question was forced out. Lord John resisted the
amendments. The house was indignant. His lordship confided in the votes
of the Roman Catholic members, but they, anxious to humiliate him,
walked out of the house in a body. The amendments were carried amidst
the derisive cheers of the Protectionists. Large majorities in every
case defeated the half measures of Lord John. So little did he appear
to comprehend the spirit of the house and the country, that instead of
bowing to their decision, or resigning his office, he attempted on
the third reading of the bill to reverse the votes carried by such
overwhelming majorities: he failed still more signally than before.
He stood in a false position to the house, the country, and the Roman
Catholic party. He had brought in, with vast pretensions to a zealous
Protestantism on his lips, a measure which was never intended by him, or
his party, to answer the purpose proclaimed. His opponents took it
out of his hands with skill and moderation, and made it much more
practicable for its ostensible purpose, although still short of a
sound and efficient bill to restrain the hierarchy of Rome from the
assumptions it desired.

The Protectionists found another occasion to damage the government
during the discussion of the budget. It was not satisfaction within my
breast that I wanted, but within my stomach and on my palate. Benevolence
will not supplement alimentiveness in the small boy. If I gathered
any reward at all, it was in the hard wisdom of my resolve not
to be caught in any such nonsense again.

I had not, as had a little monster of misplaced piety whose case is
recorded in the good children's books, "at the early age of six made
up my mind on all the great questions of the day." Yet I think I can
remember yelling out "Hurra for Jackson!" because it was a good
easy shout, although my father was a strong, steady Whig. There is
practical democracy in that. First choice of shouts is much toward winning
the battle.His amendment was energetically opposed
by the government, and by the free-trade leaders, especially Mr. Cobden
and Mr. Sidney Herbert. The Protectionists rallied round Mr. Hume, and
the little circle of radical members who, like Mr. Hume, were suspected
of being heterodox to the free-trade doctrines. The temporary coalition
was led by Mr. Disraeli, always in the van when a political or
parliamentary trick was the hope of his party. The government was
defeated, and acquiesced in the motion. This success greatly encouraged
the Protectionists, who made a direct assault upon the government, on
the 8th of May, when Mr. Cayley proposed the abolition of the malt tax,
but was beaten by a large majority.

On the 17th of June Mr. Bass moved that half the malt tax should be
repealed in October, 1852. On a division the motion was rejected.
Various other attempts were made on isolated subjects to support the
landlord interest by the remission of taxes bearing on it. Lord Naas
repeatedly defeated the government on the mode of assessing the spirit
duties, but ultimately the ministry got rid of the resolutions of his
lordship. In June Mr. Disraeli moved a series of resolutions on the
position and prospects of the country and the policy of the government,
in which he was supported by the entire strength of the tory party. The
object of the resolutions was to oppose the application of the surplus
revenue to the reduction of taxes, such as the window, coffee, and
timber duties, until the result of a select committee on the income tax,
proposed by Mr. Hume, should be known. The object of the resolutions was
to preserve the surplus revenue for the reduction of taxes borne by a
single class, that of the landlords, and for their exclusive benefit.
It was the question of the right of peculiar advantage by the landed
interest brought out in another form. Mr. Disraeli appeared to great
disadvantage as a financier, political economist, and even as a party
leader. His speech was factious in spirit, resting upon no sound
principles of policy or economy, and altogether unworthy of the
leader of a great party, and of one who aspired to a reputation for
statesmanship. The chancellor of the exchequer made an unusually happy
speech in reply. It was not usual for that honourable member to indulge
in the witty and satirical vein which so cleverly and appropriately
pervaded that particular oration. The disingenuousness and factiousness
of Disraeli roused the spirit of Sir Charles, and inspired him with a
sarcasm unlike his own serious and even dull tone of address. He
accused Mr. Disraeli with delivering a two hours' speech on fiscal
and economical subjects, from which a single proposition could not be
extracted, and concluding by trite reflections upon the necessity of
maintaining public credit, couched in highflown language about the
empire of the Cæsars, with its triple crown, the mines of Golconda,
pillared palanquins, and other things having as little to do with the
question. These poetic fancies were very pleasing, but the house would
have better liked to hear arguments in support of a motion against
repealing taxes. The following passage from the speech of the chancellor
of the exchequer excited much mirth among the members, at the expense
of the protectionist leader:--"Mr. Disraeli would not jeopardize public
credit (by repealing taxes); but only six days after Mr. Hume's motion
(for continuing the income tax only one year) was carried, Mr. Cayley
moved the house to remit £5,000,000 by the repeal of the malt tax. If it
be wrong to jeopardize public credit, surely it was as much endangered
on the 8th of May (when Mr. Cayley proposed the remission of the malt
tax), as it was on the 30th of June (when the ministers proposed to
repeal duties which affected the whole community), yet on the division
list in favour of Mr. Cayley's motion I find the name of Benjamin
Disraeli! Can it be that there are two Benjamins in the field? One
Benjamin voting for the reduction of five millions of taxes, and another
Benjamin who is afraid to meddle with a surplus of £1,600,000."

The effect of this cutting and just satire upon the dishonest pretences
of Mr. Disraeli in refusing the repeal of taxes to the amount of
the surplus revenue, on the ground of maintaining public credit, was
exceedingly striking. The house was at first convulsed with laughter,
after which serious murmurs rolled along the benches to the right of
the speaker's chair, and the Conservatives, in sullen and moody silence,
showed their consciousness of the moral effect of this _exposé_,
especially as the resolutions were lost by a very large majority.
The speech of Sir Charles Wood was much quoted out of doors, and Mr.
Disraeli became, for a considerable time, most unpopular throughout the
country. It was much mooted among the opposition whether he should not
be deposed from a leadership which his eloquence did not always serve,
and which his reckless inconsistency so often damaged.

The Protectionists were unable to make any impression upon the house or
the country favourable to a reversal of free trade, or the removal from
the landed gentry of the taxes which they professed bore most heavily
upon them.

In connection with the protectionist agitation, the navigation laws,
and their repeal, held an angry prominence. The shipowners agitated
the peculiar burdens on shipping almost as loudly as the landlords
complained of the peculiar burdens on land. The cause of the shipowners
was espoused by the landlords, and among them the Earl of Derby was
the most prominent. The act of 1849, for the removal of maritime
restrictions, was discussed in both houses, and the shipowners and
landed interests demanded that the legislature should retrace its steps
on that subject. The house, however, maintained the policy of 1849.


GENERAL PARLIAMENTARY HISTORY OF 1851.

In the foregoing notices of proceedings in parliament, reference was
made to them in connection with the great subjects which agitated the
country at large. Those notices necessarily abridge the relation of this
section of the chapter.

Although the session was not fruitful in legislation, a considerable
range of important subjects was embraced by the discussions which took
place. The ministry was desirous to improve the laws, and carry some
useful measures. Private members in vain sought opportunity to direct
the attention of parliament to practical and useful legislation: the
great agitations of the day, and mere party disputes, consumed the time
of the house. The Protectionists caught at so many opportunities
for prolonged debates, for the purposes of gaining some pecuniary
advantage, and of worrying the ministry, that the public business was
greatly impeded. The Peelites, especially in the commons, were hostile
to the ecclesiastical titles bill. That small section of the house which
prided itself in following the policy of Sir Robert Peel in everything,
belonged, in almost every individual case, to the Puseyite party in
the established church, and viewed with apparently bitter animosity
the attempt of Lord John Russell to curb the pretensions of the Romish
hierarchy. Mr. Gladstone and Sir James Graham, always hostile to the
religious liberties of Protestant dissenters, led the opposition to the
government measure. It was obvious enough that the house and the country
were resolved upon the passing of the bill, but the Peelite and Puseyite
orators resisted it at every stage, with a zeal and activity which
surpassed that of the Roman Catholic members. In vain the government
pressed upon the house the urgency of the public business, and the
number of the measures which ought to occupy attention: Puseyites and
Protectionists maintained debates on every possible occasion, rendering
legislative measures on a great variety of subjects impracticable.

The ministerial crisis has been already referred to, and its
termination, by the announcement (on the 3rd of March) that the
government had resumed office.

The defeat of the government on the motion of Mr. Locke King, for leave
to bring in a bill to assimilate the elective franchise in boroughs and
counties upon a tenpound value occupation has incidentally been noticed
in connection with the ministerial crisis. Mr. Locke King brought in his
bill, and moved the second reading on the 2nd of April. The debate
which ensued was remarkable from the circumstance that Lord John Eussell
pledged himself to bring in, at the beginning of the next session,
a bill to extend the franchise. This pledge, up to the close of the
session of 1859, more than eight years, has never been redeemed.
The excuse urged has been always the same--the pressure of public
business--an excuse, the sincerity of which cannot be accepted by the
most credulous friends of his lordship's party. Mr. Disraeli declared
that he desired to see the "great settlement of 1831" improved, in the
sense of confirming "the proper territorial influence and power,"
which he assured the house was essential to the liberties of the English
nation. Mr. Disraeli desired an improvement of the Reform Bill which
would consolidate the power of a class: Lord John promised a reform
which would increase the power of the people. Persuaded by his
lordship's specious promises, those of Mr. Fox Maule, and other members
of the government, the Liberals supported the government, and Mr. Locke
King's bill was lost by a vast majority. The speech of Mr. Bright much
conduced to this result, as he showed that the ten-pound occupants, in
counties, would be under the control of the landed interest, which Mr.
Bright denounced as opposed to the material interests and civil and
religious liberties of the people.

