Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


THE GORILLA HUNTERS, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.


CHAPTER ONE.

IN WHICH THE HUNTERS ARE INTRODUCED.

It was five o'clock in the afternoon.  There can be no doubt whatever as
to that.  Old Agnes may say what she pleases--she has a habit of doing
so--but I know for certain (because I looked at my watch not ten minutes
before it happened) that it was exactly five o'clock in the afternoon
when I received a most singular and every way remarkable visit--a visit
which has left an indelible impression on my memory, as well it might;
for, independent of its singularity and unexpectedness, one of its
results was the series of strange adventures which are faithfully
detailed in this volume.

PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

December 27, 1890.

[Illustration: 'DRESSED-CRAB']
* * * * *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The origin of the phrase, _Le Coup de Jarnac_, is interesting, and the
story is well told by Mr.

_MAC_DOWALL in Mac_millan's Magazine_.

Good, this, for "The Two Macs."

[Illustration]

In _The Argosy_, edited by Mr.

CHARLES WOOD, there are two good most seasonable Ghost Stories, by CHARLES
W. WOOD, the "Rev.

F.O.W." The first is not new, as there is a similar legend attached to
several old Manor Houses, one of a Sussex Family House, the Baron had
first-hand, from a witness on the premises.

It lacked corroboration at the time, and is likely to do so.

The Letters passing between a fine young English Cantab, "all of
the modern style," and his family at home, are uncommonly amusing.

_Harry Fludyer at Cambridge_ is the title of the book, published
by CHATTO AND WINDUS. Well, to quote the ancient witticism in vogue
_tempore EDOUARDI RECTI et DON PAOLO BEDFORDI_ (the great Adelphoi,
or rather the great "Fill-Adelphians," as they were once called),
"Things is werry much as they used to was" at Cambridge, and
University life of to-day differs very little from that of yesterday,
or the day before, or the day before that.

"_Hæc olim meminisse juvabit_," when, half a century hence, the
rollicking author of these letters--which, by the way, first appeared
in _The Granta_--is telling his _Minimus_ what "a dog," he, the
writer, was, and what "a day he used to have," in the merry time
that's past and gone.

"His health and book!" quoth the Baron.

A more muddle-headed story than _The Missing Member_ I have not read for
some considerable time.

The Baron sends HACHETTE & CIE.'

S "_Mon Premier Alphabet_," and the moral tale of "_Mlle. Marie Sans-souci_,"
up to the nursery where they will be much appreciated by the little
Barons.

"LETT's get a Diary," quoth a Barren Jester, not _the_ Baron DE
B.W., who, had it not been Christmas time, would have expelled the
witty youth.

"No joke, if you please," quoth he, "about LETTS's Diaries. We may
advertise these useful and hardy annuals in canine Latin and say,
'_Libera nos_!'

i.e., Letts out!"

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.

_P.S._ I have it on the best authority that Mrs. SUTHERLAND EDWARDS,
Author of _The Secret of the Princess; a Tale of Country, Camp,
Court, Convict, and Cloister Life in Russia_, is about to produce
a highly sensational work, entitled _The Bargain of the Barmaid; a
Story of Claret, Cheese, Coffee, Cognac, and Cigar Life in London_"My birthday _was_ yesterday, and my age _is_ twenty-two.  You appear to
know more of my private history than I have the pleasure of knowing of
yours.  Pray, sir, may I--but, bless me! are you unwell?"

I asked this in some alarm, because the little man was rolling about in
his seat, holding his sides, and growing very red in the face.

"Oh no! not at all; perfectly well--never was better in my life," he
said, becoming all at once preternaturally grave.  "You were once in the
Pacific--lived on a coral island--"

"I did."

"Oh, don't trouble yourself to answer.  Just shut up for a minute or
two.  You were rather a soft green youth then, and you don't seem to be
much harder or less verdant now."

"Sir!"  I exclaimed, getting angry.

"Just so," continued he, "and you knew a young rascal there--"

"I know a rascal _here_," I exclaimed, starting up, "whom I'll kick--"

"What!" cried the little stranger, also starting up and capsizing the
chair; "Ralph Rover, has time and sunburning and war so changed my
visage that you cannot recognise Peterkin?"

I almost gasped for breath.

"Peterkin--Peterkin Gay!"  I exclaimed.

I am not prone to indulge in effeminate demonstration, but I am not
ashamed to confess that when I gazed on the weather-beaten though ruddy
countenance of my old companion, and observed the eager glance of his
bright blue eyes, I was quite overcome, and rushed violently into his
arms.  I may also add that until that day I had had no idea of
Peterkin's physical strength; for during the next five minutes he
twisted me about and spun me round and round my own room until my brain
began to reel, and I was fain to cry him mercy.

"So, you're all right--the same jolly, young old wiseacre in whiskers
and long coat," cried Peterkin.  "Come now, Ralph, sit down if you can.
I mean to stay with you all evening, and all night, and all to-morrow,
and all next day, so we'll have lots of time to fight our battles o'er
again.  Meanwhile compose yourself, and I'll tell you what I've come
about.  Of course, my first and chief reason was to see your face, old
boy; but I have another reason too--a very peculiar reason.  I've a
proposal to make and a plan to unfold, both of 'em stunners; they'll
shut you up and screw you down, and altogether flabbergast you when you
hear 'em, so sit down and keep quiet--do."

I sat down accordingly, and tried to compose myself; but, to say truth,
I was so much overjoyed and excited by the sight of my old friend and
companion that I had some difficulty at first in fixing my attention on
what he said, the more especially that he spoke with extreme volubility,
and interrupted his discourse very frequently, in order to ask questions
or to explain.

"Now, old fellow," he began, "here goes, and mind you don't interrupt
me.  Well, I mean to go, and I mean you to go with me, to--but, I
forgot, perhaps you won't be able to go.  What are you?"

"What am I?"

"Ay, your profession, your calling; lawyer, M.D., scrivener--which?"

"I am a naturalist."

"A what?"

"A naturalist."

"Ralph," said Peterkin slowly, "have you been long troubled with that
complaint?"

"Yes," I replied, laughing; "I have suffered from it from my earliest
infancy, more or less."

"I thought so," rejoined my companion, shaking his head gravely.  "I
fancied that I observed the development of that disease when we lived
together on the coral island.  It don't bring you in many thousands a
year, does it?"

"No," said I, "it does not.  I am only an amateur, having a sufficiency
of this world's goods to live on without working for my bread.  But
although my dear father at his death left me a small fortune, which
yields me three hundred a year, I do not feel entitled to lead the life
of an idler in this busy world, where so many are obliged to toil night
and day for the bare necessaries of life.  I have therefore taken to my
favourite studies as a sort of business, and flatter myself that I have
made one or two not unimportant discoveries, and added a few mites to
the sum of human knowledge.  A good deal of my time is spent in
scientific roving expeditions throughout the country, and in
contributing papers to several magazines."

While I was thus speaking I observed that Peterkin's face was undergoing
the most remarkable series of changes of expression, which, as I
concluded, merged into a smile of beaming delight, as he said,--"Ralph,
you're a trump!"

"Possibly," said I, "you are right; but, setting that question aside for
the present, let me remind you that you have not yet told me where you
mean to go to."

"I mean," said Peterkin slowly, placing both hands on his knees and
looking me steadily in the face--"I mean to go a-hunting in--but I
forgot.  You don't know that I'm a hunter, a somewhat famous hunter?"

"Of course I don't.  You are so full of your plans and proposals that
you have not yet told me where you have been or what doing these six
years.  And you ye never written to me once all that time, shabby
fellow.  I thought you were dead."

"Did you go into mourning for me, Ralph?"

"No, of course not."

"A pretty fellow you are to find fault.  Meanwhile, on the right of the
hall near the judges' platform, a group of women were watching attentively
a child about eight years old, who had taken it into his head to climb
up to a cornice by the aid of his sister Martine, whom we have seen the
subject of jest with the young soldier, Grand-Ferre. The child, having
nothing to look at after the court had left the hall, had
climbed to a small window which admitted a faint light, and which he
imagined to contain a swallow's nest or some other treasure for a boy;
but after he was well established on the cornice, his hands grasping
the bars of an old shrine of Jerome, he wished himself anywhere
else, and cried out:
"Oh, sister, sister, lend me your hand to get down!"

"What do you see there?" asked Martine.

"Oh, I dare not tell; but I want to get down," and he began to cry.

"Stay there, my child; stay there!" said all the women. "Don't be afraid;
tell us all that you see."
"Well, then, they've put the Cure between two great boards that squeeze
his legs, and there are cords round the boards."
"Ah! that is the rack," said one of the townsmen.

"Look again, my little friend, what do you see now?"
The child, more confident, looked again through the window, and then,
withdrawing his head, said:

"I can not see the Cure now, because all the judges stand round him, and
are looking at him, and their great robes prevent me from seeing.

There are also some Capuchins, stooping down to whisper to him."
Curiosity attracted more people to the boy's perch; every one was silent,
waiting anxiously to catch his words, as if their lives depended
on them.

"I see," he went on, "the executioner driving four little pieces of wood
between the cords, after the Capuchins have blessed the hammer and
nails.

Ah, heavens! Sister, how enraged they seem with him, because he will
not speak. Mother! mother! give me your hand, I want to come down!"
Instead of his mother, the child, upon turning round, saw only men's
faces, looking up at him with a mournful eagerness, and signing him
to go on. He dared not descend, and looked again through the window,
trembling.

"Oh! I see Father Lactantius and Father Barre themselves forcing in more
pieces of wood, which squeeze his legs. Oh, how pale he is! he seems
praying. There, his head falls back, as if he were dying! Oh, take me
away!"
And he fell into the arms of the young Advocate, of M. du Lude, and
of Cinq-Mars, who had come to support him.

"Deus stetit in synagoga deorum: in medio autem Deus dijudicat--" chanted
strong, nasal voices, issuing from the small window, which continued
in full chorus one of the psalms, interrupted by blows of the
hammer--an infernal deed beating time to celestial songs.

One might have supposed himself near a smithy, except that the blows
were dull, and manifested to the ear that the anvil was a man's
body.

"Silence!" said Fournier, "He speaks. The chanting and the blows stop."

A weak voice within said, with difficulty, "Oh, my fathers, mitigate
the rigor of your torments, for you will reduce my soul to despair,
and I might seek to destroy myself!"
At this the fury of the people burst forth like an explosion, echoing
along the vaulted roofs; the men sprang fiercely upon the platform,
thrust aside the surprised and hesitating archers; the unarmed crowd
drove them back, pressed them, almost suffocated them against the
walls, and held them fast, then dashed against the doors which led
to the torture chamber, and, making them shake beneath their blows,
threatened to drive them in; imprecations resounded from a thousand
menacing voices and terrified the judges within.

"They are gone; they have taken him away!" cried a man who had climbed
to the little window.

The multitude at once stopped short, and changing the direction of
their steps, fled from this detestable place and spread rapidly
through the streets, where an extraordinary confusion prevailed.

Night had come on during the long sitting, and the rain was pouring in
torrents. The darkness was terrifying. The cries of women slipping
on the pavement or driven back by the horses of the guards; the shouts
of the furious men; the ceaseless tolling of the bells which had been
keeping time with the strokes of the question;
[Torture ('Question') was regulated in scrupulous detail by Holy
Mother The Church: The ordinary question was regulated for minor
infractions and used for interrogating women and children.

For more serious crimes the suspect (and sometimes the witnesses)
were put to the extraordinary question by the officiating priests.

D.W.]
the roll of distant thunder--all combined to increase the disorder. If the
ear was astonished, the eyes were no less so. A few dismal torches
lighted up the corners of the streets; their flickering gleams showed
soldiers, armed and mounted, dashing along, regardless of the crowd,
to assemble in the Place de St.
So you see it's all cut and dry.  Give me a
sheet of paper and I'll write at once.  Ah! here's a bit; now a pen.
Bless me, Ralph, haven't you got a quill?  Who ever heard of a
philosophical naturalist writing with steel.  Now, then, here
goes:--`B'luv'd Jack,'--will that do to begin with, eh?  I'm afraid it's
too affectionate; he'll think it's from a lady friend.  But it can't be
altered,--`Here I am, and here's Ralph--Ralph Rover!!!!!! think of
that,' (I say, Ralph, I've put six marks of admiration there); `I've
found him out.  Do come to see us.  Excruciatingly important business.
Ever thine--Peterkin Gay.'  Will that bring him, d'ye think?"

"I think it will," said I, laughing.

"Then off with it, Ralph," cried my volatile friend, jumping up and
looking hastily round for the bell-rope.  Not being able to find it, my
bell-pull being an unobtrusive knob and not a rope, he rushed to the
door, unlocked it, darted out, and uttered a tremendous roar, which was
followed by a clatter and a scream from old Agnes, whom he had upset and
tumbled over.

It was curious to note the sudden change that took place in Peterkin's
face, voice, and manner, as he lifted the poor old woman, who was very
thin and light, in his arms, and carrying her into the room, placed her
in my easy-chair.  Real anxiety was depicted in his countenance, and he
set her down with a degree of care and tenderness that quite amazed me.
I was myself very much alarmed at first.

"My poor dear old _woman_," said Peterkin, supporting my landlady's
head; "my stupid haste I fear you are hurt."

"Hech! it's nae hurt--it's deed I am, fair deed; killed be a
whaumlskamerin' young blagyird.  Oh, ma puir heed!"

The manner and tone in which this was said convinced me that old Agnes
was more frightened than injured.  In a few minutes the soothing tones
and kind manner of my friend had such an effect upon her that she
declared she was better, and believed after all that she was only a "wee
bit frichtened."  Nay, so completely was she conciliated, that she
insisted on conveying the note to the post-office, despite Peterkin's
assurance that he would not hear of it.  Finally she hobbled out of the
room with the letter in her hand.

It is interesting to note how that, in most of the affairs of humanity,
things turn out very different, often totally different, from what we
had expected or imagined.  During the remainder of that evening Peterkin
and I talked frequently and much of our old friend Jack Martin.  We
recalled his manly yet youthful countenance, his bold, lion-like
courage, his broad shoulders and winning gentle smile, and although we
knew that six years must have made an immense difference in his personal
appearance--for he was not much more than eighteen when we last parted--
we could not think of him except as a hearty, strapping sailor-boy.  We
planned, too, how we would meet him at the coach; how we would stand
aside in the crowd until he began to look about for us in surprise, and
then one of us would step forward and ask if he wished to be directed to
any particular part of the town, and so lead him on and talk to him as a
stranger for some time before revealing who we were.  And much more to
the same effect.  But when next day came our plans and our conceptions
were utterly upset.

A little before two we sauntered down to the coach-office, and waited
impatiently for nearly twenty minutes.  Of course the coach was late; it
always is on such occasions.

"Suppose he does not come," said I.

"What a fellow you are," cried Peterkin, "to make uncomfortable
suppositions!  Let us rather suppose that he does come."

"Oh, then, it would be all right; but if he does not come, what then?"

"Why, then, it would be all wrong, and we should have to return home and
eat our dinner in the sulks, that's all."

As my companion spoke we observed the coach come sweeping round the turn
of the road about half a mile distant.  In a few seconds it dashed into
the town at full gallop, and finally drew up abruptly opposite the door
of the inn, where were assembled the usual group of hostlers and waiters
and people who expected friends by the coach.

"He's not there," whispered Peterkin, in deep disappointment--"at least
he's not on the outside, and Jack would never travel inside of a coach
even in bad weather, much less in fine.  That's not him on the back-seat
beside the fat old woman with the blue bundle, surely!  It's very like
him, but too young, much too young.  There's a great giant of a man on
the box-seat with a beard like a grenadier's shako, and a stout old
gentleman behind him with gold spectacles.  That's all, except two boys
farther aft, and three ladies in the cabin.  Oh, _what_ a bore!"

Although deeply disappointed at the non-arrival of Jack, I could with
difficulty refrain from smiling at the rueful and woe-begone countenance
of my poor companion.  It was evident that he could not bear
disappointment with equanimity, and I was on the point of offering some
consolatory remarks, when my attention was attracted by the little old
woman with the blue bundle, who went up to the gigantic man with the
black beard, and in the gentlest possible tone of voice asked if he
could direct her to the white house.

"No, madam," replied the big man hastily; "I'm a stranger here."

The little old woman was startled by his abrupt answer.  "Deary me, sir,
no offence, I hope."

She then turned to Peterkin and put the same question, possibly under a
vague sort of impression that if a gigantic frame betokened a gruff
nature, diminutive stature must necessarily imply extreme amiability.
If so, she must have been much surprised as well as disappointed, for
Peterkin, rendered irascible by disappointment, turned short round and
said sharply, "Why, madam, how can _I_ tell you where the white house
is, unless you say which white house you want?  Half the houses of the
town are white--at least they're _dirty_ white," he added bitterly, as
he turned away.

"I think I can direct you, ma'am," said I, stepping quickly up with a
bland smile, in order to counteract, if possible, my companion's
rudeness.

"Thank you, sir, kindly," said the little old woman; "I'm glad to find
_some_ little civility in the town."

"Come with me, ma'am; I am going past the white house, and will show you
the way."

"And pray, sir," said the big stranger, stepping up to me as I was about
to move away, "can you recommend me to a good hotel?"

I replied that I could; that there was one in the immediate vicinity of
the white house, and that if he would accompany me I would show him the
way.  All this I did purposely in a very affable and obliging tone and
manner; for I hold that example is infinitely better than precept, and
always endeavour, if possible, to overcome evil with good.  I offered my
arm to the old woman, who thanked me and took it.

"What!" whispered Peterkin, "you don't mean me to take this great ugly
gorilla in tow?"

"Of course," replied I, laughing, as I led the way.

Immediately I entered into conversation with my companion, and I heard
"the gorilla" attempt to do so with Peterkin; but from the few sharp
cross replies that reached my ear, I became aware that he was
unsuccessful.  In the course of a few minutes, however, he appeared to
have overcome his companion's ill-humour, for I overheard their voices
growing louder and more animated as they walked behind me.

Suddenly I heard a shout, and turning hastily round, observed Peterkin
struggling in the arms of the gorilla!  Amazed beyond measure at the
sight, and firmly persuaded that a cowardly assault had been made upon
my friend, I seized the old woman's umbrella, as the only available
weapon, and flew to the rescue.

"Jack, my boy! can it be possible?" gasped Peterkin.

"I believe it is," replied Jack, laughing.--"Ralph, my dear old fellow,
how are you?"

I stood petrified.  I believed that I was in a dream.

I know not what occurred during the next five minutes.  All I could
remember with anything like distinctness was a succession of violent
screams from the little old woman, who fled shouting thieves and murder
at the full pitch of her voice.  We never saw that old woman again, but
I made a point of returning her umbrella to the "white house."

Gradually we became collected and sane.

"Why, Jack, how did you find us out?" cried Peterkin, as we all hurried
on to my lodgings, totally forgetful of the little old woman, whom, as I
have said, we never saw again, but who, I sincerely trust, arrived at
the white house in safety.

"Find you out!  I knew you the moment I set eyes on you.  Ralph puzzled
me for a second, he has grown so much stouter; but I should know your
nose, Peterkin, at a mile off."

"Well, Jack, I did not know you," retorted Peterkin, "but I'm safe never
again to forget you.  Such a great hairy Cossack as you have become!
Why, what do you mean by it?"

"I couldn't help it, please," pleaded Jack; "I grew in spite of myself;
but I think I've stopped now."

"It's time," remarked Peterkin.

Jack had indeed grown to a size that men seldom attain to without losing
in grace infinitely more than they gain in bulk, but he had retained all
the elegance of form and sturdy vigour of action that had characterised
him as a boy.  He was fully six feet two inches in his stockings, but so
perfect were his proportions that his great height did not become
apparent until you came close up to him.  Full half of his handsome
manly face was hid by a bushy black beard and moustache, and his curly
hair had been allowed to grow luxuriantly, so that his whole aspect was
more like to the descriptions we have of one of the old Scandinavian
Vikings than a gentleman of the present time.  In whatever company he
chanced to be he towered high above every one else, and I am satisfied
that, had he walked down Whitechapel, the Horse Guards would have
appeared small beside him, for he possessed not only great length of
limb but immense breadth of chest and shoulders.

During our walk to my lodgings Peterkin hurriedly stated his "plan and
proposal," which caused Jack to laugh very much at first, but in a few
minutes he became grave, and said slowly, "That will just suit--it will
do exactly."

"What will do exactly?  Do be more explicit, man," said Peterkin, with
some impatience.

"I'll go with you, my boy."

"Will you?" cried Peterkin, seizing his hand and shaking it violently;
"I knew you would.  I said it; didn't I, Ralph?  And now we shall be
sure of a gorilla, if there's one in Africa, for I'll use you as a
stalking-horse."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Jack.

"Yes; I'll put a bear-skin or some sort of fur on your shoulders, and
tie a lady's boa to you for a tail, and send you into the woods.  The
gorillas will be sure to mistake you for a relative until you get quite
close; then you'll take one pace to the left with the left foot (as the
volunteers say), I'll take one to the front with the right--at fifty
yards, ready--present--bang, and down goes the huge puggy with a bullet
right between its two eyes!  There.  And Ralph's agreed to go too."

"O Peterkin, I've done nothing of the sort.  You _proposed_ it."

"Well, and isn't that the same thing?  I wonder, Ralph that you can give
way to such mean-spirited prevarication.  What?  `It's not
prevarication!'  Don't say that now; you know it is.  Ah! you may laugh,
my boy, but you have promised to go with me and Jack to Africa, and go
you shall."

And so, reader, it was ultimately settled, and in the course of two
weeks more we three were on our way to the land of the slave, the black
savage, and the gorilla.


CHAPTER TWO.

LIFE IN THE WILD WOODS.

One night, about five or six weeks after our resolution to go to Africa
on a hunting expedition was formed, I put to myself the question, "Can
it be possible that we are actually here, in the midst of it?"

"Certainly, my boy, in the very thick of it," answered Peterkin, in a
tone of voice which made Jack laugh, while I started and exclaimed--

"Why, Peterkin, how did you come to guess my thoughts?"

"Because, Ralph, you have got into a habit of thinking aloud, which may
do very well as long as you have no secrets to keep but it may prove
inconvenient some day, so I warn you in time."

Not feeling disposed at that time to enter into a bantering conversation
with my volatile companion, I made no reply, but abandoned myself again
to the pleasing fancies and feelings which were called up by the
singular scene in the midst of which I found myself.

It seemed as if it were but yesterday when we drove about the crowded
streets of London making the necessary purchases for our intended
journey, and now, as I gazed around, every object that met my eye seemed
strange, and wild, and foreign, and romantic.  We three were reclining
round an enormous wood fire in the midst of a great forest, the trees
and plants of which were quite new to me, and totally unlike those of my
native land.  Rich luxuriance of vegetation was the feature that filled
my mind most.  Tall palms surrounded us, throwing their broad leaves
overhead and partially concealing the starlit sky.  Thick tough limbs of
creeping plants and wild vines twisted and twined round everything and
over everything, giving to the woods an appearance of tangled
impenetrability; but the beautiful leaves of some, and the delicate
tendrils of others, half concealed the sturdy limbs of the trees, and
threw over the whole a certain air of wild grace, as might a
semi-transparent and beautiful robe if thrown around the form of a
savage.

The effect of a strong fire in the woods at night is to give to
surrounding space an appearance of ebony blackness, against which dark
ground the gnarled stems and branches and pendent foliage appear as if
traced out in light and lovely colours, which are suffused with a rich
warm tone from the blaze.

We were now in the wilds of Africa, although, as I have said, I found it
difficult to believe the fact.  Jack and I wore loose brown shooting
coats and pantaloons; but we had made up our minds to give up waistcoats
and neckcloths, so that our scarlet flannel shirts with turned-down
collars gave to us quite a picturesque and brigand-like appearance as we
encircled the blaze--Peterkin smoking vigorously, for he had acquired
that bad and very absurd habit at sea.  Jack smoked too, but he was not
so inveterate as Peterkin.

Jack was essentially moderate in his nature.  He did nothing violently
or in a hurry; but this does not imply that he was slow or lazy.  He was
leisurely in disposition, and circumstances seldom required him to be
otherwise.  When Peterkin or I had to lift heavy weights, we were
obliged to exert our utmost strength and agitate our whole frames; but
Jack was so powerful that a comparatively slight effort was all that he
was usually obliged to make.  Again, when we two were in a hurry we
walked quickly, but Jack's long limbs enabled him to keep up with us
without effort.  Nevertheless there were times when he was called upon
to act quickly and with energy.  On those occasions he was as active as
Peterkin himself, but his movements were tremendous.  It was, I may
almost say, awful to behold Jack when acting under powerful excitement.
He was indeed a splendid fellow, and not by any means deserving of the
name of gorilla, which Peterkin had bestowed on him.

But to continue my description of our costume.  We all wore homespun
grey trousers of strong material.  Peterkin and Jack wore leggings in
addition, so that they seemed to have on what are now termed
knickerbockers.  Peterkin, however, had no coat.  He preferred a stout
grey flannel shirt hanging down to his knees and belted round his waist
in the form of a tunic.  Our tastes in headdress were varied.  Jack wore
a pork-pie cap; Peterkin and I had wide-awakes.  My facetious little
companion said that I had selected this species of hat because I was
always more than half asleep!  Being peculiar in everything, Peterkin
wore his wide-awake in an unusual manner--namely, turned up at the back,
down at the front, and curled very much up at the sides.

We were so filled with admiration of Jack's magnificent beard and
moustache, that Peterkin and I had resolved to cultivate ours while in
Africa; but I must say that, as I looked at Peterkin's face, the
additional hair was not at that time an improvement, and I believe that
much more could not have been said for myself.  The effect on my little
comrade was to cause the lower part of his otherwise good-looking face
to appear extremely dirty.

"I wonder," said Peterkin, after a long silence, "if we shall reach the
niggers' village in time for the hunt to-morrow.  I fear that we have
spent too much time in this wild-goose chase."

"Wild-goose chase, Peterkin!"  I exclaimed.  "Do you call hunting the
gorilla by such a term?"

"_Hunting_ the gorilla? no, certainly; but _looking_ for the gorilla in
a part of the woods where no such beast was ever heard of since Adam was
a schoolboy--"

"Nay, Peterkin," interrupted Jack; "we are getting very near to the
gorilla country, and you must make allowance for the enthusiasm of a
naturalist."

"Ah! we shall see where the naturalist's enthusiasm will fly to when we
actually do come face to face with the big puggy."

"Well," said I, apologetically, "I won't press you to go hunting again;
I'll be content to follow."

"Press me, my dear Ralph!" exclaimed Peterkin hastily, fearing that he
had hurt my feelings; "why, man, I do but jest with you--you are so
horridly literal.  I'm overjoyed to be pressed to go on the maddest
wild-goose chase that ever was invented.  My greatest delight would be
to go gorilla-hunting down Fleet Street, if you were so disposed.--But
to be serious, Jack, do you think we shall be in time for the
elephant-hunt to-morrow?"

"Ay, in capital time, if you don't knock up."

"What!  _I_ knock up!  I've a good mind to knock you down for suggesting
such an egregious impossibility."

"That's an impossibility anyhow, Peterkin, because I'm down already,"
said Jack, yawning lazily and stretching out his limbs in a more
comfortable and _degage_ manner.

Peterkin seemed to ponder as he smoked his pipe for some time in
silence.

"Ralph," said he, looking up suddenly, "I don't feel a bit sleepy, and
yet I'm tired enough."

"You are smoking too much, perhaps," I suggested.

"It's not that," cried Jack; "he has eaten too much supper."

"Base insinuation!" retorted Peterkin.

"Then it must be the monkey.  That's it.  Roast monkey does not agree
with you."

"Do you know, I shouldn't wonder if you were right; and it's a pity,
too, for we shall have to live a good deal on such fare, I believe.
However, I suppose we shall get used to it.--But I say, boys, isn't it
jolly to be out here living like savages?  I declare it seems to me like
a dream or a romance.--Just look, Ralph, at the strange wild creepers
that are festooned overhead, and the great tropical leaves behind us,
and the clear sky above, with the moon--ah! the moon; yes, that's one
comfort--the moon is unchanged.  The same moon that smiles down upon us
through a tangled mesh-work of palm-leaves and wild vines and monkeys'
tails, is peeping down the chimney-pots of London and Edinburgh and
Dublin!"

"Why, Peterkin, you must have studied hard in early life to be so good a
geographer."

"Rather," observed Peterkin.

"Yes; and look at the strange character of the tree-stems," said I,
unwilling to allow the subject to drop.  "See those huge palmettoes
like--like--"

"Overgrown cabbages," suggested Peterkin; and he continued, "Observe the
quaint originality of form in the body and limbs of that bloated old
spider that is crawling up your leg, Ralph!"

I started involuntarily, for there is no creature of which I have a
greater abhorrence than a spider.

"Where is it? oh!  I see," and the next moment I secured my prize and
placed it with loathing, but interest, in my entomological box.

At that moment a hideous roar rang through the woods, seemingly close
behind us.  We all started to our feet, and seizing our rifles, which
lay beside us ready loaded, cocked them and drew close together round
the fire.

"This won't do, lads," said Jack, after a few minutes' breathless
suspense, during which the only sound we could hear was the beating of
our own hearts; "we have allowed the fire to get too low, and we've
forgotten to adopt our friend the trader's advice, and make two fires."

So saying, Jack laid down his rifle, and kicking the logs with his heavy
boot, sent up such a cloud of bright sparks as must certainly have
scared the wild animal, whatever it was, away; for we heard no more of
it that night.

"You're right, Jack," remarked Peterkin; "so let us get up a blaze as
fast as we can, and I'll take the first watch, not being sleepy.  Come
along."

In a few minutes we cut down with our axes a sufficient quantity of dry
wood to keep two large fires going all night; we then kindled our second
fire at a few yards distant from the first, and made our camp between
them.  This precaution we took in order to scare away the wild animals
whose cries we heard occasionally during the night.  Peterkin, having
proposed to take the first watch--for we had to watch by turns all the
night through--lighted his pipe and sat down before the cheerful fire
with his back against the stem of a palm-tree, and his rifle lying close
to his hand, to be ready in case of a surprise.  There were many natives
wandering about in that neighbourhood, some of whom might be ignorant of
our having arrived at their village on a peaceful errand.  If these
should have chanced to come upon us suddenly, there was no saying what
they might do in their surprise and alarm, so it behoved us to be on our
guard.

Jack and I unrolled the light blankets that we carried strapped to our
shoulders through the day, and laying ourselves down side by side with
our feet to the fire and our heads pillowed on a soft pile of
sweet-scented grass, we addressed ourselves to sleep.  But sleep did not
come so soon as we expected.  I have often noted with some surprise and
much interest the curious phases of the phenomenon of sleep.  When I
have gone to bed excessively fatigued and expecting to fall asleep
almost at once, I have been surprised and annoyed to find that the
longer I wooed the drowsy god the longer he refused to come to me; and
at last, when I have given up the attempt in despair, he has suddenly
laid his gentle hand upon my eyes and carried me into the land of Nod.
Again, when I have been exceedingly anxious to keep awake, I have been
attacked by sleep with such irresistible energy that I have been utterly
unable to keep my eyelids open or my head erect, and have sat with my
eyes blinking like those of an owl in the sunshine, and my head nodding
like that of a Chinese mandarin.

On this our first night in the African bush, at least our first night on
a hunting expedition--we had been many nights in the woods on our
journey to that spot--on this night, I say, Jack and I could by no means
get to sleep for a very long time after we lay down, but continued to
gaze up through the leafy screen overhead at the stars, which seemed to
wink at us, I almost fancied, jocosely.  We did not speak to each other,
but purposely kept silence.  After a time, however, Jack groaned, and
said softly--

"Ralph, are you asleep?"

"No," said I, yawning.

"I'm quite sure that Peterkin is," added Jack, raising his head and
looking across the fire at the half-recumbent form of our companion.

"Is he?" said Peterkin in a low tone.  "Just about as sound as a
weasel!"

"Jack," said I.

"Well?"

"I can't sleep a wink.  Ye-a-ow! isn't it odd?"

"No more can I.  Do you know, Ralph, I've been counting the red berries
in that tree above me for half an hour, in the hope that the monotony of
the thing would send me off; but I was interrupted by a small monkey who
has been sitting up among the branches and making faces at me for full
twenty minutes.  There it is yet, I believe.  Do you see it?"

"No; where?"

"Almost above your head."

I gazed upward intently for a few minutes, until I thought I saw the
monkey, but it was very indistinct.  Gradually, however, it became more
defined; then to my surprise it turned out to be the head of an
elephant!  I was not only amazed but startled at this.

"Get your rifle, Jack!" said I, in a low whisper.

Jack made some sort of reply, but his voice sounded hollow and
indistinct.  Then I looked up again, and saw that it was the head of a
hippopotamus, not that of an elephant, which was looking down at me.
Curiously enough, I felt little or no surprise at this, and when in the
course of a few minutes I observed a pair of horns growing out of the
creature's eyes and a bushy tail standing erect on the apex of its head,
I ceased to be astonished at the sight altogether, and regarded it as
quite natural and commonplace.  The object afterwards assumed the
appearance of a lion with a crocodile's bail, and a serpent with a
monkey's head, and lastly of a gorilla, without producing in me any
other feeling than that of profound indifference.  Gradually the whole
scene vanished, and I became totally oblivious.

This state of happy unconsciousness had scarcely lasted--it seemed to
me--two minutes, when I was awakened by Peterkin laying his hand on my
shoulder and saying--

"Now then, Ralph, it's time to rouse up."

"O Peterkin," said I, in a tone of remonstrance, "how could you be so
unkind as to waken me when I had just got to sleep?  Shabby fellow!"

"Just got to sleep, say you?  You've been snoring like an apoplectic
alderman for exactly two hours."

"You don't say so!"  I exclaimed, getting into a sitting posture.

"Indeed you have.  I'm sorry to rouse you, but time's up, and I'm
sleepy; so rub your eyes, man, and try to look a little less like an
astonished owl if you can.  I have just replenished both the fires, so
you can lean your back against that palm-tree and take it easy for
three-quarters of an hour or so.  After that you'll have to heap on more
wood."

I looked at Jack, who was now lying quite unconscious, breathing with
the slow, deep regularity of profound slumber, and with his mouth wide
open.

"What a chance for some waggish baboon to drop a nut or a berry in!"
said Peterkin, winking at me with one eye as he lay down in the spot
from which I had just risen.

He was very sleepy, poor fellow, and could hardly smile at his own
absurd fancy.  He was asleep almost instantly.  In fact, I do not
believe that he again opened the eye with which he had winked at me, but
that he merely shut the other and began to slumber forthwith.

I now began to feel quite interested in my responsible position as
guardian of the camp.  I examined my rifle to see that it was in order
and capped; then leaning against the palm-tree, which was, as it were,
my sentry-box, I stood erect and rubbed my hands and took off my cap, so
that the pleasant night air might play about my temples, and more
effectually banish drowsiness.

In order to accomplish this more thoroughly I walked round both fires
and readjusted the logs, sending up showers of sparks as I did so.  Then
I went to the edge of the circle of light, in the centre of which our
camp lay, and peered into the gloom of the dark forest.

There was something inexpressibly delightful yet solemn in my feelings
as I gazed into that profound obscurity where the great tree-stems and
the wild gigantic foliage nearest to me appeared ghost-like and
indistinct, and the deep solitudes of which were peopled, not only with
the strange fantastic forms of my excited fancy, but, as I knew full
well, with real wild creatures, both huge and small, such as my
imagination at that time had not fully conceived.  I felt awed, almost
oppressed, with the deep silence around, and, I must confess, looked
somewhat nervously over my shoulder as I returned to the fire and sat
down to keep watch at my post.


CHAPTER THREE.

WHEREIN I MOUNT GUARD, AND HOW I DID IT, ETCETERA.

Now it so happened that the battle which I had to fight with myself
after taking my post was precisely the converse of that which I fought
during the earlier part of that night.  Then, it was a battle with
wakefulness; now, it was a struggle with sleep; and of the two fights
the latter was the more severe by far.

I began by laying down my rifle close by my side, leaning back in a
sitting posture against the palm-tree, and resigning myself to the
contemplation of the fire, which burned merrily before me, while I
pondered with myself how I should best employ my thoughts during the
three long hours of my watch.  But I had not dwelt on that subject more
than three minutes, when I was rudely startled by my own head falling
suddenly and heavily forward on my chest.  I immediately roused myself.
"Ah!  Ralph, Ralph," said I to myself in a whisper, "this won't do, lad.
To sleep at your post! shame on you!  Had you been a sentinel in time
of war that nod would have cost you your life, supposing you to have
been caught in the act."

Soliloquising thus, I arose and shook myself.  Then I slapped my chest
several times and pulled my nose and sat down again.  Only a few minutes
elapsed before the same thing occurred to me again, so I leaped up, and
mended the fires, and walked to and fro, until I felt thoroughly awake,
but in order to make sure that it should not occur again, I walked to
the edge of the circle of light and gazed for some time into the dark
forest, as I had done before.  While standing thus I felt my knees give
way, as if they had been suddenly paralysed, and I awoke just in time to
prevent myself falling to the ground.  I must confess I was much amazed
at this, for although I had often read of soldiers falling asleep
standing at their posts, I had never believed the thing possible.

I now became rather anxious, "for," thought I, "if I go to sleep and the
fires die down, who knows but wild beasts may come upon us and kill us
before we can seize our arms."  For a moment or two I meditated awaking
Jack and begging him to keep me company, but when I reflected that his
watch was to come immediately after mine, I had not the heart to do it.
"No!" said I (and I said it aloud for the purpose of preventing
drowsiness)--"no; I will fight this battle alone!  I will repeat some
stanzas from my favourite authors.  Yes, I will try to remember a
portion of `A Midsummer-Night's Dream.'  It will be somewhat appropriate
to my present circumstances."

Big with this resolve, I sat down with my face to the fire and my back
to the palm-tree, and--fell sound asleep instantly!

How long I lay in this condition I know not, but I was suddenly awakened
by a yell so appalling that my heart leaped as if into my throat, and my
nerves thrilled with horror.  For one instant I was paralysed; then my
blood seemed to rebound on its course.  I sprang up and attempted to
seize my rifle.

The reader may judge of my state of mind when I observed that it was
gone!  I leaped towards the fire, and grasping a lighted brand, turned
round and glared into the woods in the direction whence the yell came.

It was grey dawn, and I could see things pretty distinctly; but the only
living object that met my gaze was Peterkin, who stood with my rifle in
his hand laughing heartily!

I immediately turned to look at Jack, who was sitting up in the spot
where he had passed the night, with a sleepy smile on his countenance.

"Why, what's the meaning of this?"  I inquired.

"The meaning of it?" cried Peterkin, as he advanced and restored the
rifle to its place.  "A pretty fellow you are to mount guard! we might
have been all murdered in our sleep by niggers or eaten alive by
gorillas, for all that you would have done to save us."

"But, Peterkin," said I gravely, "you ought not to have startled me so;
you gave me a terrible fright.  People have been driven mad before now,
I assure you, by practical jokes."

"My dear fellow," cried Peterkin, with much earnestness, "I know that as
well as you.  But, in the first place, you were guilty of so heinous a
crime that I determined to punish you, and at the same time to do it in
a way that would impress it forcibly on your memory; and in the second
place, I would not have done it at all had I not known that your nerves
are as strong as those of a dray-horse.  You ought to be taking shame to
yourself on account of your fault rather than objecting to your
punishment."

"Peterkin is right, my boy," said Jack, laughing, "though I must say he
had need be sure of the nerves of any one to whom he intends to
administer such a ferocious yell as that.  Anyhow, I have no reason to
complain; for you have given me a good long sleep, although I can't say
exactly that you have taken my watch.  It will be broad daylight in half
an hour, so we must be stirring, comrades."

On considering the subject I admitted the force of these remarks, and
felt somewhat crestfallen.  No doubt, my companions had treated the
thing jocularly, and, to say truth, there was much that was comical in
the whole affair; but the more I thought of it, the more I came to
perceive how terrible might have been the consequences of my
unfaithfulness as a sentinel.  I laid the lesson to heart, and I can
truly say that from that day to this I have never again been guilty of
the crime of sleeping at my post.

We now busied ourselves in collecting together the dying embers of our
fire and in preparing breakfast, which consisted of tea, hard biscuit,
and cold monkey.  None of us liked the monkey; not that its flesh was
bad--quite the contrary--but it looked so like a small roasted baby that
we could not relish it at all.  However, it was all we had; for we had
set off on this hunting excursion intending to live by our rifles, but
had been unfortunate, having seen nothing except a monkey or two.

The kettle was soon boiled, and we sat down to our meagre fare with
hearty appetites.  While we are thus engaged, I shall turn aside for a
little and tell the reader, in one or two brief sentences, how we got to
this place.

We shipped in a merchant ship at Liverpool, and sailed for the west
coast of Africa.  Arrived there we found a party, under the command of a
Portuguese trader, about to set off to the interior.  He could speak a
little English; so we arranged to go with him as far as he intended to
proceed, learn as much of the native language as possible while in his
company, and then obtain a native guide to conduct us to the country in
which the gorillas are found.  To this native guide, we arranged, should
be explained by the trader our object in visiting the country, so that
he might tell the tribes whom we intended to visit.  This, we found, was
an absolutely needful precaution, on the following ground.

The natives of Africa have a singular and very bad style of carrying on
trade with the white men who visit their shores.  The traffic consists
chiefly of ivory, barwood (a wood much used in dyeing), and indiarubber.
The natives of the far interior are not allowed to convey these
commodities directly to the coast, but by the law of the land (which
means the law of the strongest, for they are absolute savages) are
obliged to deliver their goods to the care of the tribe next to them;
these pass them on to the next tribe; and so on they go from tribe to
tribe till they reach the coast, where they are sold by the tribe there.
The price obtained, which usually consists of guns, powder and shot,
looking-glasses, cloth, and sundry other articles and trinkets useful to
men in a savage state, is returned to the owners in the far interior
through the same channel; but as each tribe deducts a percentage for its
trouble, the price dwindles down as it goes, until a mere trifle,
sometimes nothing at all, remains to be handed over to the unfortunate
people of the tribe who originally sent off the goods for sale.  Of
course, such a system almost paralyses trade.  But the intermediate
tribes between the coast and the interior being the gainers by this
system, are exceedingly jealous of anything like an attempt to carry on
direct trade.  They are ready to go to war with the tribes of the
interior, should they attempt it, and they throw all the opposition they
can in the way of the few white men who ever penetrate the interior for
such a purpose.

It will thus be seen that our travels would be hindered very much, if
not stopped altogether, and ourselves be regarded with jealousy, or
perhaps murdered, if our motives in going inland were not fully and
satisfactorily explained to the different tribes as we passed through
their lands.  And we therefore proposed to overcome the difficulty by
taking a native guide with us from the tribe with which we should chance
to be residing when obliged to separate from the Portuguese trader.

We had now reached this point.  The day before that on which we encamped
in the woods, as above related, we arrived at a native village, and had
been received kindly by the king.  Almost immediately after our arrival
we heard so many stories about gorillas that I felt persuaded we should
fall in with one if we went a-hunting, and being exceedingly anxious to
add one to my collection of animals--for I had a small museum at home--I
prevailed on Jack and Peterkin to go one day's journey into the bush to
look for them.  They laughed very much at me indeed, and said that we
were still very far away from the gorilla country; but I had read in
some work on Africa a remark to the effect that there is no cordillera,
or mountain range, extending across the whole continent to limit the
_habitat_ of certain classes of animals, and I thought that if any
animal in Africa would not consent to remain in one region when it
wished to go to another, that animal must be the ferocious gorilla.  The
trader also laughed at me, and said that he had never seen any himself
in that region, and that we would have to cross the desert before seeing
them.  Still, I felt a disposition to try; besides, I felt certain that
we should at least fall in with some sort of animals or plants or
minerals that would be worth collecting; so it was agreed that we should
go out for a single day, and be back in time for a great elephant-hunt
which was about to take place.

But to return from this digression.  Having finished breakfast, we made
three bundles or packages of our blankets, provisions, and camp
equipage; strapped them on our backs; and then, shouldering our rifles,
set out on our return to the negro village.

Of course we gave Jack the largest and heaviest bundle to carry.
Peterkin's and mine were about equal, for although I was taller than
Peterkin, I was not by any means so powerful or active.  I often
wondered at the great strength that lay in the little frame of my
friend.  To look at him, no one would believe that he was such a tough,
wiry, hardy little fellow.  He was the same hearty, jovial creature that
I had lived with so pleasantly when he and Jack and I were cast away on
the coral island.  With the exception of a small scrap of whisker on
each cheek, a scar over the right eye, and a certain air of manliness,
there was little change in my old comrade.

"Ralph," said Jack, as we strode along through the forest, "do you
remember how we three used to wander about together in the woods of our
coral island?"

"Remember!"  I cried with enthusiasm, for at that moment the thought
occurred to my own mind; "how can I ever forget it, Jack?  It seems to
me just like yesterday.  I can hardly believe that six long years have
passed since we drank that delicious natural lemonade out of the green
cocoa-nuts, and wandered on the coral beach, and visited Penguin Island,
and dived into the cave to escape the pirates.  The whole scene rises up
before me so vividly that I could fancy we were still there.  Ah! these
were happy times."

"So they were," cried Peterkin; "but don't you go and become
sentimentally sad, Ralph, when you talk of those happy days.  If we were
happy there, are we not happy _here_?--There's no change in us--except,
indeed, that Jack has become a gorilla."

"Ay, and you a monkey," retorted Jack.

"True; and Ralph a naturalist, which is the strangest beast of all,"
added Peterkin.--"Can you tell me, Ralph, by the way, what tree that
is?"

"I'm sure I cannot tell.  Never saw or heard of one like it before," I
replied, looking at the tree referred to with some interest.  [Illustration:
AN ATHENIAN INSCRIPTION A decree of the Assembly, dating from about
450 B.C.]
THE TEN GENERALS
The Assembly was assisted in the conduct of public business by many
officers and magistrates, among whom the Ten Generals held the
leading place.

It was their duty to guide the deliberations of the Assembly and to execute
the orders of that body.

THE JURY COURTS
There was also a system of popular jury courts composed of citizens
selected by lot from the candidates who presented themselves.
The number of jurors varied; as many as a thousand might serve at
an important trial.

A court was both judge and jury, it decided by majority vote; and
from its decision lay no appeal. Before these courts public officers
accused of wrong-doing were tried; disputes between different
cities of the empire and other important cases were settled; and
all ordinary legal business affecting the Athenians themselves was
transacted.

Thus, even in matters of law, the Athenian government was completely
democratic.

STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS OF THE ATHENIAN DEMOCRACY
Democracy then, reached its height in ancient Athens.

The people ruled, and they ruled directly.

Every citizen had some active part in politics.
Such a system worked well in the management of a small city-state like
Athens.

But if the Athenians could govern themselves, they proved unable
to govern an empire with justice and wisdom.

There was no such thing as representation in their constitution. The subject
cities had no one to speak for them in the Assembly or before the
jury courts.

We shall notice the same absence of a representative system in
republican Rome. [12] 
SYSTEM OF STATE PAY
A large number of Athenians were relieved from the necessity of
working for themselves through the system of state pay introduced
by Pericles.

Jurors, soldiers, and sailors received money for their services.

Later, in the fourth century, citizens accepted fees for attending
the Assembly.

These payments, though small, enabled poor citizens to devote much time
to public duties.

INDUSTRIAL ATHENS
Athens contained many skilled workmen whose daily tasks gave them
scant opportunity to engage in the exciting game of politics.

The average rate of wages was very low.

In spite of cheap food and modest requirements for clothing and shelter,
it must have been difficult for the laborer to keep body and soul
together. Outside of Athens, in the country districts of Attica, lived
the peasants whose little farms produced the olives, grapes, and figs
for which Attica was celebrated.

SLAVERY
There were many thousands of slaves in Athens and Attica at this
period.

Their number was so great and their labor so cheap that we may think of
them as taking the place of modern machines. It was the slaves who did
most of the work on the large estates owned by wealthy men, who toiled
in the mines and quarries, and who served as oarsmen on the ships. The
system of slavery enabled many an Athenian to live a life of
leisure, but it lowered the dignity of labor and tended to prevent
the rise of the poorer citizens to positions of responsibility.

In Greece, as in the Orient, [13] slavery cast its blight over free
industry.

COMMERCIAL ATHENS
The Athenian city was now the chief center of Greek commerce. [14]
"The fruits of the whole earth," said Pericles, "flow in upon us;
so that we enjoy the goods of other Commercial countries as freely
as of our own." [15] Exports of Athens wine and olive oil, pottery,
metal wares, and objects of art were sent out from Piraeus [16] to
every region of the Mediterranean.

The imports from the Black Sea region, Thrace, and the Aegean
included such commodities as salt, dried fish, wool, timber, hides,
and, above all, great quantities of wheat.

Very much as modern England, Athens was able to feed all her people
only by bringing in food from abroad.

To make sure that in time of war there should be no interruption of
food supplies, the Athenians built the celebrated Long Walls, between
the city and its port of Piraeus. (See the map below) Henceforth they
felt secure from attack, as long as their navy ruled the Aegean.

[Illustration: Map, THE VICINITY OF ATHENS]
ARTISTIC AND INTELLECTUAL ATHENS
In the days of her prosperity Athens began to make herself not only a
strong, but also a beautiful, city. The temples and other structures
which were raised on the Acropolis during the Age of Pericles still
excite, even in their ruins, the envy and wonder of mankind. [17] Athens
at this time was also the center of Greek intellectual life. In no
other period of similar length have so many admirable books been produced.
No other epoch has given birth to so many men of varied and
delightful genius.

The greatest poets, historians, and philosophers of Greece were
Athenians, either by birth or training. As Pericles himself said in
a noble speech, Athens was "the school of Hellas." [18]

36. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR, 431-404 B.C.

INEVITABLENESS OF THE WAR
The brilliant Age of Pericles had not come to an end before the two
chief powers in the Hellenic world became involved in a deadly war.
It would seem that Athens and Sparta, the one supreme upon the sea, the
other at the head of the Peloponnesus, might have avoided a struggle
which was sure to be long and costly. But Greek cities were always
ready to fight one another. When Athens and Sparta found themselves
rivals for the leadership of Greece, it was easy for the smouldering fires
of distrust and jealousy to flame forth into open conflict. "And at
that time," says Thucydides, the Athenian historian who described the
struggle, "the youth of Sparta and the youth of Athens were numerous;
they had never seen war, and were therefore very willing to take up arms."
[19]
[Illustration: Map, GREECE at Opening of the PELOPONNESIAN WAR 431
B.C.]
[Illustration: THE "MOURNING ATHENA" (Acropolis Museum, Athens) A tablet
of Pentelic marble. Athena, leaning on her spear, is gazing with
downcast head at a grave monument.]
ORIGIN OF THE WAR
The conflict was brought on by Corinth, one of the leading members
of the Peloponnesian League and, next to Athens, the most important
commercial power in Greece.

She had already seen her once-profitable trade in the Aegean monopolized
by Athens. That energetic city was now reaching out for Corinthian commerce
in Italian and Sicilian waters. When the Athenians went so far as to
interfere in a quarrel between Corinth and her colony of Corcyra, even
allying themselves with the latter city, the Corinthians felt justly
resentful and appealed to Sparta for aid. The Spartans listened to
their appeal and, with the apparent approval of the Delphic oracle
which assured them "that they would conquer if they fought with all
their might," [20] declared war.

RESOURCES OF THE CONTESTANTS
The two antagonists were fairly matched. The one was strong where the
other was weak.

Sparta, mainly a continental power, commanded all the Peloponnesian
states except Argos and Achaea, besides some of the smaller states
of central Greece. Athens, mainly a maritime power, ruled all the subject
cities of the Aegean. The Spartans possessed the most formidable army
then in the world, but lacked money and ships. The Athenians had a
magnificent navy, an overflowing treasury, and a city impregnable to
direct attack. It seemed, in fact, as if neither side could seriously
injure the other.

FIRST STAGE OF THE WAR, 431-421 B.C.

The war began in 431 B.C. Its first stage was indecisive. The Athenians
avoided a conflict in the open field with the stronger Peloponnesian
army, which ravaged Attica. They were crippled almost at the outset of
the struggle by a terrible plague among the refugees from Attica, crowded
behind the Long Walls. The pestilence slew at least one-fourth of
the inhabitants of Athens, including Pericles himself. After ten years
of fighting both sides grew weary of the war and made a treaty of peace
to last for fifty years.

THE SICILIAN EXPEDITION, 4l5-4l3 B.C.

Not long after the conclusion of peace the Athenians were persuaded by
a brilliant and ambitious politician, named Alcibiades, to undertake
an expedition against Syracuse in Sicily. This city was a colony of
Corinth, and hence was a natural ally of the Peloponnesian states. The
Athenians, by conquering it, expected to establish their power in Sicily.
But the siege of Syracuse ended in a complete failure. The Athenians
failed to capture the city, and in a great naval battle they lost
their fleet. Then they tried to retreat by land, but soon had to
surrender. Many of the prisoners were sold as slaves; many were thrown
by their inhuman captors into the stone quarries near Syracuse, where
they perished from exposure and starvation.

The Athenians, says Thucydides, "were absolutely annihilated--both army
and fleet--and of the many thousands who went away only a handful ever
saw their homes again." [21]
[Illustration: A SILVER COIN OF SYRACUSE The profile of the nymph Arethusa
has been styled the most exquisite Greek head known to us.]
LAST STAGE OF THE WAR 413-404 B.C.

Athens never recovered from this terrible blow. The Spartans quickly
renewed the contest, now with the highest hopes of success. The Athenians
had to guard their city against the invader night and day; their slaves
deserted to the enemy; and they themselves could do no farming except
under the walls of the city. For supplies they had to depend entirely
on their ships. For nearly ten years, however, the Athenians kept up
the struggle.

At length the Spartans captured an Athenian fleet near Aegospotami on
the Hellespont. Soon afterwards they blockaded Piraeus and their
army encamped before the walls of Athens. Bitter famine compelled the
Athenians to sue for peace. The Spartans imposed harsh terms. The
Athenians were obliged to destroy their Long Walls and the fortifications
of Piraeus, to surrender all but twelve of their warships, and to
acknowledge the supremacy of Sparta.

37.

THE SPARTAN AND THEBAN SUPREMACIES, 404-362 B.C.

SPARTAN DESPOTISM
Sparta was now the undisputed leader of Continental Greece and of the
Aegean. As the representative of the liberty-loving Greeks she had
humbled the pride and power of "tyrant" Athens. A great opportunity lay
before her to reorganize the Hellenic world and to end the struggles
for supremacy between rival cities. But Sparta entered upon no such
glorious career.

She had always stood as the champion of aristocracy against democracy, and
now in her hour of triumph she began to overturn every democratic government
that still existed in Greece. The Greek cities soon found they had
exchanged the mild sway of Athens for the brutal despotism of
Sparta.

THE FREEING OF THEBES 379 B.C.

But Spartan despotism provoked resistance.

It was the Boeotian city of Thebes which raised the standard of revolt.
Some of the liberty-loving Thebans, headed by Pelopidas, a patriotic
noble, formed a conspiracy to drive the Spartans out of the city.

Disguised as huntsmen, Pelopidas and his followers entered Thebes
at nightfall, killed the tyrants whom Sparta had set over the people,
and forced the Spartan garrison to surrender.

BATTLE OF LEUCTRA, 371 B.C.

The Thebans had now recovered their independence. Eight years later they
totally defeated a superior Peloponnesian force at the battle of
Leuctra and brought the supremacy of Sparta to an end.

This engagement from a military standpoint is one of the most interesting
in ancient history.

Epaminondas, the skilful Theban commander, massed his best troops in a
solid column, fifty men deep, and hurled it with terrific force
against the Spartan ranks.

The enemy, drawn up twelve men deep in the customary formation,
could not withstand the impact of the Theban column; their lines
gave way, and the fight was soon won.

The battle destroyed once for all the legend of Spartan
invincibility.

PELOPIDAS AND EPAMINONDAS
The sudden rise of Thebes to the position of the first city in
Greece was the work of two men whose names are always linked together
in the annals of the time.

In Pelopidas and Epaminondas, bosom friends and colleagues, Thebes found
the heroes of her struggle for independence. Pelopidas was a fiery
warrior whose bravery and daring won the hearts of his soldiers.
Epaminondas was both an able general and an eminent statesman. No other
Greek, save perhaps Pericles, can be compared with him. Even Pericles
worked for Athens alone and showed no regard for the rest of Greece.
Epaminondas had nobler ideals and sought the general good of the
Hellenic race.

He fought less to destroy Sparta than to curb that city's power of doing
harm. He aimed not so much to make Thebes mistress of an empire as
to give her a proper place among Greek cities. The Thebans, indeed,
sometimes complained that Epaminondas loved Hellas more than his native
city.

BATTLE OF MANTINEA, 362 B.C.

By crippling Sparta, Epaminondas raised Thebes to a position of
supremacy.

Had he been spared for a longer service, Epaminondas might have
realized his dream of bringing unity and order into the troubled
politics of his time.

But circumstances were too strong for him. The Greek states, which had
accepted the leadership of Athens and Sparta, were unwilling to
admit the claims of Thebes to a position of equal power and importance.

The period of Theban rule was filled, therefore, with perpetual
conflict. Nine years after Leuctra Epaminondas himself fell in battle
at Mantinea in the Peloponnesus, and with his death ended the brief
glory of Thebes.

38. DECLINE OF THE CITY-STATE
WEAKNESS OF CITY-STATES
The battle of Mantinea proved that no single city--Athens, Sparta,
or Thebes--was strong enough to rule Greece.

By the middle of the fourth century B.C. it had become evident that
a great Hellenic power could the not be created out of the little,
independent city-states of Greece.

A RECORD OF ALMOST CEASELESS CONFLICT

The history of Continental Hellas for more than a century after the close
of the Persian War had been a record of almost ceaseless conflict. We
have seen how Greece came to be split up into two great alliances, the
one a naval league ruled by Athens, the other a confederacy of
Peloponnesian cities under the leadership of Sparta. How the Delian
League became the Athenian Empire; how Sparta began a long war with
Athens to secure the independence of the subject states and ended
it by reducing them to her own supremacy; how the rough-handed
sway of Sparta led to the revolt of her allies and dependencies and
the sudden rise of Thebes to supremacy; how Thebes herself established
an empire on the ruins of Spartan rule-- this is a story of fruitless
and exhausting struggles which sounded the knell of Greek liberty
and the end of the city-state.

THE FUTURE
Far away in the north, remote from the noisy conflicts of Greek political
life, a new power was slowly rising to imperial greatness--no
insignificant city-state, but an extensive territorial state like
those of modern times. Three years after the battle of Mantinea Philip
II ascended the throne of Macedonia. He established Hellenic unity
by bringing the Hellenic people within a widespread empire. Alexander
the Great, the son of this king, carried Macedonian dominion
and Greek culture to the ends of the known world. To this new period
of ancient history we now turn.

STUDIES
1. On an outline map indicate the principal places mentioned in this
chapter.

2. On an outline map indicate the Athenian allies and dependencies and
those of Sparta at the opening of the Peloponnesian War.

3. What do you understand by a "decisive" battle? Why has Marathon been
considered such a battle?

4. Why did Xerxes take the longer route through Thrace, instead of the
shorter route followed by Datis and Artaphernes?

5. What was the importance of the Phoenician fleet in the Persian
invasions?

6. What reasons can be given for the Greek victory in the struggle
against Persia?

7. Distinguish between a confederacy and an empire.

8. Compare the relations of the Delian subject cities to Athens with those
of British colonies, such as Canada and Australia, to England.

9. What do you understand by representative government?

10. If the Athenian Empire could have rested on a representative
basis, why would it have been more likely to endure?

11. How far can the phrase "government of the people, by the people, for
the people" be applied to the Athenian democracy?

12. Did the popular assembly of Athens have any resemblance to a New
England town meeting?

13. Compare the Athenian jury system with that of England and the United
States.

14. The Athenian democracy of the time of Pericles has been described as
a _pure_ democracy and not, like the American, as a _representative_
democracy. In what lies the difference?

15.

Can you suggest any objections to the system of state pay introduced by
Pericles? To what extent do we employ the same system under our
government?

16.

What conditions of the time help to explain the contempt of the
Greeks for money-making?

17. Trace on the map, page 107, the Long Walls of Athens.

18.

Why has the Peloponnesian War been called an "irrepressible conflict"?

Why has it been called the "suicide of Greece"?

19. What states of the Greek mainland were neutral in the Peloponnesian
War (map facing page 108)?

20.

Contrast the resources of the contending parties. Where was each side
weak and where strong?

21.

Why was the tyranny of Sparta more oppressive than that of Athens?

22. What were the reasons for the failure of the Athenian, Spartan, and
Theban attempts at empire?

FOOTNOTES

[1] Webster, _Readings in Ancient History_, chapter vii, "Xerxes and the
Persian Invasion of Greece"; chapter viii, "Episodes from the
Peloponnesian War"; chapter ix, "Alcibiades the Athenian"; chapter
x, "The Expedition of the Ten Thousand"; chapter xi, "The Trial and Death
of Socrates."

[2] See the map facing page 38.

[3] See page 87.

[4] See the illustration, page 99.

[5] Thucydides, i, 18.

[6] See page 272.

[7] Herodotus, vii, 228.

[8] See the map on page 107.

[9] See page 96.

[10] See page 83.

[11] See the map facing page 108.

[12] See page 155.

[13] See page 44.

[14] The commercial importance of Athens is indicated by the general
adoption of her monetary standard by the other Greek states. (For
illustrations of Greek coins see the plate facing page 134.)
[15] Thucydides, ii, 38.

[16] See the map, page 107.

[17] For a description of ancient Athens, see pages 288-292.

[18] Thucydides, ii, 41.

[19] Thucydides, ii, 8.

[20] Thucydides, i, 118.

[21] Thucydides, vii, 87.

CHAPTER VI
MINGLING OF EAST AND WEST AFTER 359 B.C. [1]

39. PHILIP AND THE RISE OF MACEDONIA
MACEDONIA AND THE MACEDONIANS
The land of Macedonia, lying to the north of Greece, for a long time
had been an inconspicuous part of the ancient world. Its people, though
only partially civilized, were Greeks in blood and language. No doubt
they formed an offshoot of those northern invaders who had entered the
Balkan peninsula before the dawn of history. The Macedonian kings, from
the era of the Persian wars, seized every opportunity of spreading
Greek culture throughout their realm. By the middle of the fourth
century B.C., when Philip II ascended the throne, the Macedonians were
ready to take a leading place in the Greek world.

[Illustration: PHILIP II From a gold medallion struck by Alexander]

PHILIP'S AIMS
Philip of Macedonia, one of the most remarkable men of antiquity,
was endowed with a vigorous body, a keen mind, and a resolute will.

He was no stranger to Greece and its ways. Part of his boyhood had
been passed as a hostage at Thebes in the days of Theban glory.
His residence there gave him an insight into Greek politics and taught
him the art of war as it had been perfected by Epaminondas. In the
distracted condition of Greece, worn out by the rivalries of
contending cities, Philip saw the opportunity of his own country.
He aimed to secure for Macedonia the position of supremacy which
neither Athens, Sparta, nor Thebes had been able to maintain.
THE MACEDONIAN ARMY
Philip's most important achievement was the creation of the Macedonian
army, which he led to the conquest of Greece and which his son was
to lead to the conquest of the World. Taking a hint from the tactics
of Epaminondas, Philip trained his infantry to fight by columns,
but with sufficient intervals between the files to permit quick and
easy movements.
Each man bore an enormous lance, eighteen feet in length. When this
heavy phalanx was set in array, the weapons carried by the soldiers
in the first five ranks presented a bristling thicket of lance-points,
which no onset, however determined, could penetrate. The business
of the phalanx was to keep the front of the foe engaged, while
horsemen rode into the enemy's flanks. This reliance on masses of
cavalry to win a victory was something new in warfare. Another novel
feature consisted in the use of engines called catapults, able to
throw darts and huge stones three hundred yards, and of battering
rams with force enough to hurl down the walls of cities.
All these different arms working together made a war machine of
tremendous power--the most formidable in the ancient world until
the days of the Roman legion.

CONQUESTS OF PHILIP
Philip commanded a fine army; he ruled with absolute sway a territory
larger than any other Hellenic state; and he himself possessed a
genius for both war and diplomacy, With such advantages the Macedonian
king entered on the subjugation of disunited Greece. His first great
success was won in western Thrace. Here he founded the city of
Philippi [2] and seized some rich gold mines, the income from which
enabled him to keep his soldiers always under arms, to fit out a
fleet, and, by means of liberal bribes, to hire a crowd of agents
in nearly every Greek city. Philip next made Macedonia a maritime
state by subduing the Greek cities on the peninsula of Chalcidice.
[3] He also appeared in Thessaly, occupied its principal fortresses,
and brought the frontier of Macedonia as far south as the pass of
Thermopylae.
40. DEMOSTHENES AND THE END OF GREEK FREEDOM
DEMOSTHENES, 384-322 B.C.
Philip for many years had been steadily extending his sway over
Greece. In the face of his encroachments would Athens, Sparta, and
Thebes, so long the leading cities, submit tamely to this Macedonian
conqueror? There was one man, at least, who realized the menace to
Greek freedom from Philip's onward march. In Demosthenes Greece
found a champion of her threatened liberties.
[Illustration: DEMOSTHENES (Vatican Museum, Rome) A marble statue,
probably a copy of the bronze original by the sculptor Polyeuctus.
The work, when found, was considerably mutilated and has been
restored in numerous parts. Both forearms and the hands holding the
scroll are modern additions. It seems likely that the original
Athenian statue showed Demosthenes with tightly clasped hands,
which, with his furrowed visage and contracted brows, were expressive
of the orator's earnestness and concentration of thought.]
DEMOSTHENES AS AN ORATOR AND A PATRIOT
Demosthenes was the last, as well as the most famous, of the great
Athenian orators. When he first began to speak, the citizens laughed
at his long, involved sentences, over-rapid delivery, and awkward
bearing.
Friends encouraged him to persist, assuring him that, if the manner
of his speeches was bad, their matter was worthy of Pericles.
Numerous stories are told of the efforts made by Demosthenes to
overcome his natural defects. He practiced gesturing before a mirror
and, to correct a stammering pronunciation, recited verses with
pebbles in his mouth. He would go down to the seashore during storms
and strive to make his voice heard above the roar of wind and waves,
in order the better to face the boisterous Assembly. Before long
he came to be regarded as the prince of speakers even in the city
of orators. Demosthenes was a man cast in the old heroic mold. His
patriotic imagination had been fired by the great deeds once
accomplished by free Greeks. Athens he loved with passionate devotion.
Let her remember her ancient glories, he urged, and, by withstanding
Philip, become the leader of Hellas in a second war for liberty.
LAST STRUGGLE OF THE GREEKS
The stirring appeals of the great orator at first had little effect.
There were many friends of Philip in the Greek states, even in
Athens itself.The
matador stands before the infuriated bull, and awaits its charge with
unflinching firmness, not because he has more courage than his comrades
in the ring who run away, but because long training has enabled him to
make almost certain of killing the bull.  He knows what he has done
before, he feels that he can do it again, therefore he stands like a
hero.  Were a doubt of his capacity to cross his mind for an instant,
his cheek would blanch, his hand would tremble, and, ten to one, he
would turn and flee like the rest.

Let muffs, therefore, learn to swim, to leap, and to run.  Let them
wrestle with boys bigger than themselves, regardless of being thrown.
Let them practise "jinking" with their companions, so that if even they
be chased by a mad bull, they will, if unable to get out of his way by
running, escape perhaps by jinking.  Let them learn to leap off
considerable heights into deep water, so that, if ever called on to leap
off the end of a pier or the side of a ship to save a fellow-creature,
they may do so with confidence and promptitude.  Let them even put on
"the gloves," and become regardless of a swelled nose, in order that
they may be able to defend themselves or others from sudden assault.  So
doing they will become sensible fellows, whose character I have thus to
some extent described.  Of course, I speak of sensible fellows only with
reference to this one subject of training the nerves and muscles.  Let
it never be forgotten that there are men who, although sensible in this
respect, are uncommonly senseless in regard to other things of far
higher moment.

As to boasters, I will dismiss them with a few words.  They are too
easily known to merit particular description.  They are usually loud and
bold in the drawing-room, but rather mild in the field.  They are
desperately egotistical, fond of exaggeration, and prone to depreciate
the deeds of their comrades.  They make bad soldiers and sailors, and
are usually held in contempt by others, whatever they may think of
themselves.  I may wind up this digression--into which I have been
tempted by an earnest desire to warn my fellow-men against the errors of
nervous and muscular education, which, in my case, led to the weak
conduct of which I had been guilty that day--I may wind up this
digression, I say, by remarking that the boys who are most loved in this
world are those who are lambs, _almost_ muffs, in the drawing-room, but
lions in the field.

How long I should have gone on pondering this subject I know not, but
Peterkin somewhat rudely interrupted me by uttering a wild scream, and
beginning to caper as if he were a madman.  said Dolores. 'I thought
perhaps if you talked to him about the examination and the confirmation
too--'
'But, Dolly, you are not going to a heathen country. Your confirmation
will be as much attended to in New Zealand as here.'
'Oh, but I should be confirmed with Mysie, and Aunt Lily would read with
me, and help me!'
'Yes, I see.'

'Do please tell him. Aunt Jane. He heeds what you say more than any
one.

Do tell him that the only hope of my being good is if I stay with
Aunt Lily just these few years!'

'Ah, Dolly, that is what you really mean and care about--not the
Cambridge business.'
'Of course it is. Please tell him, Aunt Jane--somehow I can't--that
I was bad and foolish when I wrote all the letters he had; but now I
know better, and--and--I don't want to vex him, but I shall be ever
so much better a daughter to him if he will leave me with Aunt Lily, to
learn some of her goodness'--and there were tears in her eyes, for
these months had softened her greatly.

'My poor Dolly!' said Aunt Jane, much more tenderly than she generally
spoke. 'I am very sorry for you. I do think Aunt Lily has been the
making of you, and that it is very hard that you should have to
be uprooted from her, just as you had learnt to value her, I will
tell your father so; but honestly, I do not think it is likely to
make him change his mind.'

Miss Mohun sought her brother out the next day, and told him that they
had all been waiting in patience when thinking that his daughter's
residence at Silverton was an unsuccessful experiment. The explosion she
had predicted had come, and Dolores had been a different creature ever
since, owing to Lady Merrifield's management of her in the crisis; and
she added that the girl was most unwilling to leave her aunt, and
that she herself thought it would be much better to leave her for
a few years to the advantages of her present training, where her
affections had been gained.

Mr. Mohun could not see it in the same light. The intimacy with
Constance Hacket was in his eyes a folly, consequent on his sister's
passion for Sunday schools and charities; and Jane, being infected
with the like ardour, he disregarded her explanations.

The underhand correspondence could not have been carried on without
great blindness and carelessness, or, at least, injudiciousness, on Lady
Merrifield's part, and there was no denying that she had trusted to a
sense of honour that was nonexistent.

Nor did he appreciate Jane's argument that the conquest of the heart
and will had thus been far more thoroughly gained than it would have
been by constant thwarting and watching. It was hard to forgive such an
exposure as had taken place, or to believe that it had not
been brought about by unjustifiable errors, more especially as Lady
Merrifield was the first to accuse herself of them.
"We thought you were lost," said the trader, "and I began to blame
myself for letting you away into the woods, where so many dangers may be
encountered, without a guide.  But what have you got there? meat of some
kind?  Your guns seem to have done service on this your first
expedition."

"Ay, that they have," answered Jack.  "We've killed a buffalo bull, and
if you send your black fellows back on our track for some hours they'll
come to the carcass, of which we could not, of course, bring very much
away on our shoulders, which are not accustomed yet to heavy loads."

"Besides," added Peterkin, "we were anxious to get back in time for your
elephant-hunt, else we should have brought more meat with us.  But Jack
has not mentioned what I consider our chief prize, the honour of
shooting which belongs to my friend Ralph Rover.--Come, Ralph, unfasten
your pack and let them see it."

Although unwilling to put off more time, I threw down my pack, and
untying it, displayed my leopard skin.  The shout of delight and
surprise which the sight of it drew from the negroes was so enthusiastic
that I at once perceived I was considered to have secured a great prize.

"Why, Mr Rover, you're in luck," said the trader, examining the skin;
"it's not every day that one falls in with such a fine leopard as that.
And you have already made a reputation as a daring hunter, for the
niggers consider it a bold and dangerous thing to attack these critters;
they're so uncommon fierce."

"Indeed I do not by any means deserve such a reputation," said I,
refastening my pack, "for the shot was entirely accidental; so I pray
you, good sir, to let the negroes know that, as I have no desire to go
under a false flag, as my friend Peterkin would say--"

"Go under a false flag!" exclaimed Peterkin, in contempt.  "Sail under
false colours, man!  That's what you should have said.  Whatever you do,
Ralph, never misquote a man.  Go under a false flag! ha, ha!  Why, you
might just as well have said, `progress beneath assumed bunting.'"

"Well, accidental or otherwise," said the trader, "you've got credit for
the deed, and your fame will be spread among the tribe whether you will
or not; for these fellows are such incorrigible liars themselves that
they will never believe you if you tell them the shot was accidental.
They will only give you credit for some strange though unknown motive in
telling such a falsehood."

While the trader was speaking I observed that the negroes were talking
with the eager looks and gesticulations that are peculiar to the
Africans when excited, and presently two or three of them came forward
and asked several questions, while their eyes sparkled eagerly and their
black faces shone with animation as they pointed into the woods in the
direction whence we had come.

"They want to know where you have left the carcass of the leopard, and
if you have taken away the brains," said the trader, turning to me.  "I
daresay you know--if not you'll soon come to find out--that all the
nigger tribes in Africa are sunk in gross and cruel superstitions.  They
have more fetishes, and greegrees, and amulets, and wooden gods, and
charms, than they know what to do with, and have surrounded themselves
with spiritual mysteries that neither themselves nor anybody else can
understand.  Among other things, they attach a very high value to the
brains of the leopard, because they imagine that he who possesses them
will be rendered extraordinarily bold and successful in hunting.  These
fellows are in hopes that, being ignorant of the value of leopard
brains, you have left them in the carcass, and are burning with anxiety
to be off after them."

"Poor creatures!" said I, "they are heartily welcome to the brains; and
the carcass lies not more than four hours' march from this spot, I
should think,--Is it not so, Jack?"

My friend nodded assent, and the trader, turning to the expectant crowd
of natives, gave them the information they desired.  No sooner had he
finished than with loud cries they turned and darted away, tossing their
arms wildly in the air, and looking more like to a band of scared
monkeys than to human beings.

"They're queer fellows," remarked Peterkin.

"So they are," replied the trader, "and they're kindly fellows too--
jovial and good-humoured, except when under the influence of their
abominable superstitions.  Then they become incarnate fiends, and commit
deeds of cruelty that make one's blood run cold to think of."

I felt much saddened by these remarks, and asked the trader if the
missionaries accomplished any good among them.

"Oh yes," he replied, "they do much good, such of them at least as
really are missionaries; for it does not follow that every one who wears
a black coat and white neck-cloth, and goes abroad, is a missionary.
But what can a few men scattered along the coast here and there, however
earnest they be, do among the thousands upon thousands of savages that
wander about in the interior of Africa?  No good will ever be done in
this land, to any great extent, until traders and missionaries go hand
in hand into the interior, and the system of trade is entirely
remodelled."

"From what you remark," said I, feeling much interested, "I should
suppose that you have given this subject a good deal of attention."

"I have.  But there are people in this world who, supposing that because
I am a trader I am therefore prone to exalt trade to an equality with
religion, do not give me credit for disinterestedness when I speak.
Perhaps you are one of these."

"Not I, in truth," said I, earnestly.  "My chief desire in conversing
with mankind is to acquire knowledge; I therefore listen with attention
and respect to the opinions of others, instead of endeavouring to assert
my own.  In the present instance, being ignorant, I have no opinions to
assert."

"I wish there were more people in your country," replied the trader,
"who felt as you do.  I would tell them that, although a trader, I
regard the salvation of men's souls as the most important work in this
world.  I would argue that until you get men to listen, you cannot
preach the gospel to them; that the present system of trade in Africa is
in itself antagonistic to religion, being based upon dishonesty, and
that, therefore, the natives will not listen to missionaries--of course,
in some cases they will; for I believe that the gospel, when truly
preached, is never preached in vain--but they will throw every possible
impediment in their way.  I would tell them that in order to make the
path of the missionary practicable, the system of trade must be
inverted, the trader and the missionary must go hand in hand, and
commerce and religion--although incomparably different in their nature
and ends--must act the part of brother and sister if anything _great_ is
to be done for the poor natives of Africa."

Conversing thus we beguiled the time pleasantly while we proceeded
rapidly on our way, for the day was drawing to a close, and we were
still at a considerable distance from the native village.


CHAPTER FIVE.

PREPARATIONS FOR A GRAND HUNT.

All was bustle, noise, and activity in the village, or, more correctly
speaking, in the native town of his Majesty King Jambai, early in the
morning after our arrival.  A great elephant-hunt had been resolved on.
The hunters were brushing up their spears and old guns--all of which
latter were flint-locks that had been procured from traders, and were
not worth more than a few shillings.  The women were busy preparing
breakfast, and the children were playing around their huts.

These huts were of the simplest construction--made of bamboo, roofed
with large palm-leaves, and open in front.  The wants of savages are
generally few; their household furniture is very plain, and there is
little of it.  A large hut near to that of his sable majesty had been
set apart for the trader and his party during our residence at the town.
In this we had spent the night as pleasantly as we could, but the
mosquitoes kept up an unceasing warfare upon us, so that daylight was
welcomed gladly when it came.

On going to the hut of King Jambai, who had invited us to breakfast with
him, we found the Princess Oninga alone, seated in the king's armchair
and smoking her pipe with uncommon gusto.  She had spent the early part
of the morning in preparing breakfast for her father and ourselves, and
was now resting from her labours.

"You are early astir, Princess Oninga," said the trader as we entered
and took our seats round the fire, for at that hour the air felt chilly.

The princess took her pipe from her lips and admitted that she was,
blowing a long thin cloud of smoke into the air with a sigh of
satisfaction.

"We are ready for breakfast," added the trader.  "Is the king at home?"

"He is in the woods, but will be back quickly."  With this remark the
princess rose, and knocking the ashes out of her pipe, left the tent.

"Upon my word, she's a cool beauty," said Peterkin.

"I should rather say a black one," remarked Jack.

"Perhaps an odd one would be the most appropriate term," said I.  "Did
you ever see such a headdress?"

The manner in which the Princess Oninga had seen fit to dress her head
was indeed peculiar, I may say ludicrous.  Her woolly hair had been
arranged in the form of a cocked hat, with a horn projecting in front,
and at a short distance off it might easily have been mistaken for the
headpiece of a general officer minus the feathers.  There was little in
the way of artificial ornament about it, but the princess wore a number
of heavy brass rings on her arms and ankles.  Those on the latter
reached half-way up to her knees, and they were so heavy that her walk
was little better than a clumsy waddle.  Before we could pass further
comment on her appearance, King Jambai entered, and saluted us by taking
us each separately and rubbing noses with us.  This done, he ordered in
breakfast, which consisted of roast and boiled plantains, ground nuts,
roast fowl, and roast pig; so we fell to at once, and being exceedingly
hungry after our long walk of the day before, made a hearty meal.

"Now, sir," said Jack, when our repast was about concluded, "as you are
going to leave us soon, you had better arrange with the king about
getting us an interpreter and supplying us with a few men to carry our
goods.  I think you said there was once a man in the tribe who spoke a
little English.  Have you found out whether he is alive?"

"Yes; I have heard that he is alive and well, and is expected in every
day from a hunting expedition.  He is a splendid hunter and a capital
fellow.  His name is Makarooroo, and if you get him you will be
fortunate."

"Then ask his black majesty," said Peterkin, "as quick as you please,
for, to say truth, I'm rather anxious on this point.  I feel that we
should never get on without a good interpreter."

To our satisfaction we found that the king was quite willing to do all
that we wished and a great deal more.  In fact, we soon perceived that
he felt highly honoured by our visit, and had boasted not a little of
"_his white men_" to the chiefs of neighbouring tribes, some of whom had
come a considerable distance to see us.

"You have made quite a conquest, gentlemen, of worthy Jambai," said the
trader, after translating the king's favourable reply.  "The fact is he
is pleased with the liberality you have shown towards him in the way of
gifts, and is proud of the confidence you have placed in him.  Had you
been bent on a trading expedition, he would have opposed your further
progress; but knowing that you are simply hunters, he is anxious to
assist you by all the means at his command.  He is surprised, indeed, at
your taking so much trouble and coming so far merely to kill wild
animals, for he cannot understand the idea of sporting.  He himself
hunts for the sake of procuring meat."

"Can he not understand," said Peterkin, "that _we_ hunt for fun?"

"No, he don't quite see through that.  He said to me a few minutes ago,
`Have these men no meat at home, that they come all this long way to get
it?'  I told him that you had plenty, and then endeavoured to explain
your idea of hunting `for fun.'  But he shook his head, and I think he
does not believe you."

At this point in our conversation the king rose and gave the signal to
set out on the hunting expedition.  Instantly the whole population of
the town turned out and rushed to the banks of the river, near which it
stood, where canoes were prepared for us.  Suddenly there arose a great
shout, and the name "Makarooroo, Makarooroo," passed from mouth to
mouth.  Presently a fine, tall, deep-chested and broad-shouldered negro
stepped up to the king and laid a leopard skin at his feet, while the
people shouted and danced with delight at the success of their
companion; for, as I have already stated, it is deemed a bold feat to
attack and slay a leopard single-handed.

While the commotion caused by this event was going on, I said to the
trader--

"How comes it that Makarooroo can speak English?"

"He spent a couple of years on the coast, in the service of a
missionary, and during that time attended the missionary school, where
he picked up a smattering of English and a trifle of geography and
arithmetic; but although a stout, sturdy hunter, and an intelligent man,
he was a lazy student, and gave the good missionary much trouble to
hammer the little he knows into his thick skull.  At last he grew tired
of it, and returned to his tribe; but he brought his Bible with him, and
I am told is very diligent in the study of it.  His education has gained
for him a great reputation as a fetishman, or doctor of mysteries, among
his people.  I used often to see him at school hammering away at m-a,
ma-b-a, ba, and so on, amid a group of children.  He used to sit beside
the king--"

"The king!" said I, in surprise.

"Ay; the king of that district became a Christian, and he and the queen,
with one or two others of the royal household, used to attend school
with the children every day, and their diligence in studying the A B C
was beyond all praise.  But they were terribly stupid.  The children
beat them easily, showing how true is the saying that `youth is the time
to learn.'  The king was always booby, and Makarooroo was always beside
him."

As the trader spoke, Makarooroo came forward and shook hands with him in
the English fashion.  He was then introduced to us, and expressed his
willingness to become our interpreter in somewhat curious but quite
comprehensible English.  As I looked at his intelligent, good-natured
countenance, I could not help thinking that the trader had underrated
his intellectual powers.

"He's a funny dog that Makarooroo," said Peterkin, as our interpreter
hastened away to fetch his rusty old gun and spears; for he meant to
join our hunting expedition, although he had only that moment arrived
from a long and fatiguing chase.

"Do you think so?" said Jack.

"I don't agree with you," said I; "to me he seems rather of a grave and
quiet disposition."

"O Ralph, what a bat you are!  He was grave enough just now, truly; but
did you not observe the twinkle in his eye when he spoke to us in
English?  Depend on it he's a funny dog."

"There must be freemasonry, then, among funny dogs," I retorted, "for
Jack and I don't perceive it."

"Is this our canoe?" inquired Jack of the trader.

"It is."

"Then let's jump in."

In a few seconds the river was crowded with a fleet of small canoes, and
we all paddled quickly up the stream, which was sluggish at that part.
We did not intend to proceed more than a few miles by water, as the
place where game was expected was at some distance from the river.  I
felt some regret at this, for the trip up the river was to me most
enchanting.

Every yard we advanced new beauties of scenery were revealed to view.
The richness of the tropical vegetation seemed in this place to
culminate, it was so rank and gorgeous.  The day was fine, too, and all
the strange-looking creatures--ugly and beautiful, large and small--
peculiar to those regions, seemed to have resolved on a general peace in
order to bask in the sunshine and enjoy the glorious weather.  Man alone
was bent on war, and our track, alas! was marked with blood wherever we
passed along.  I pondered much on this subject, and wondered at the
bloodthirsty spirit which seems to be natural to man in all conditions
and climes.  Then I thought of the difficulty these poor Africans have
at times in procuring food, the frequency with which they are reduced
almost to a state of starvation, and I ceased to wonder that they shot
and speared everything that came in their way.

We proceeded up the left bank of the river, keeping close in to the
shore in order to obtain the protection of the overhanging boughs and
foliage; for the sun soon began to grow hot, and in the middle of the
day became so intense that I sometimes feared that I or my companions
would receive a sunstroke.  I confess that the subject of health often
caused me much anxiety; for although I knew that we were all old
experienced travellers--though young in years--and had become in a great
degree inured to hardships, I feared that the deadly climate of Central
Africa might prove too much for our European constitutions.  By the free
use of quinine, however, and careful attention to the roles of health as
far as circumstances would permit, we were fortunate enough to keep in
excellent health and spirits during the whole course of our sojourn
there; for which, when I thought of the hundreds of Europeans who had
perished on that deadly coast without even venturing into the interior,
I felt very thankful.  One of our chief delights, to which I in a great
degree attribute our uninterrupted health, was bathing daily in the
streams and ponds with which we fell in, or on which we paddled during
our travels.  On these occasions we were fain, however, to be exceeding
careful in the selection of our bathing-pool, as crocodiles and
alligators, and I know not what other hideous animals, were constantly
on the lookout for prey, and I make no doubt would have been very ready
to try the flavour of a morsel of English food had we given them the
chance.

On these occasions, when we had made sure of our pool, we were wont to
paddle about in the cool refreshing stream, and recall to mind the
splendid dips we had had together six years before in the clear waters
of the coral island.  Since that time Peterkin had learned to swim well,
which was not only a source of much satisfaction and gratification to
himself now, but, he told me, had been the means of preserving not only
his own life on more than one occasion, but the life of a little child
which he had the good fortune to rescue from drowning when cruising off
the island of Madagascar.

Peterkin used to speak very strongly when talking on this subject, and I
observed, from the unusual seriousness of his manner, that he felt
deeply too.

"Ralph," he said to me one day, "half the world is mad--I am not sure
that I might not say three-quarters of the world is mad--and I'm quite
certain that all the _ladies_ in the world are mad with the exception of
the brown ladies of the South Seas, and a few rare specimens elsewhere;
they're all mad together in reference to the matter of swimming.  Now
that I have learned it nothing is so easy, and any one who is not as
blind as a rheumatic owl must see that nothing is more important; for
every one almost is subject to being pitched now and then into deep
water, and if he can't swim it's all up with him.  Why, every time an
angler goes out to _fish_ he runs the chance of slipping and being swept
into a deep hole, where, if he cannot swim, he is certain to be drowned.
And yet five strokes would save his life.  _Good_ swimming is by no
means what is wanted; swimming of any kind, however poor, is all that is
desiderated.  Every time a lady goes to have a row on a lake she is
liable to be upset by the clumsiness of those who accompany her, and
although it may be close to shore, if she cannot swim, down she goes to
the bottom.  And _floating_ won't do.  Some ladies delude themselves
with the idea that floating is of great value.  In nine cases out of ten
it is of no value at all; for unless water be perfectly smooth and
still, a person cannot float so as to keep the waves from washing over
the face, in which case choking is the certain result.  There is no
excuse for not learning to swim.  But there is good reason for
believing that the actual distance is nearly 92,000,000 miles.

[23] It may be matched by other coincidences as remarkable and as little
the result of the operation of any natural law. For instance, the
following strange relation, introducing the dimensions of the sun
himself, nowhere, so far as I have yet seen, introduced among pyramid
relations, even by pyramidalists: 'If the plane of the ecliptic were
a true surface, and the sun were to commence rolling along that surface
towards the part of the earth's orbit where she is at her mean
distance, while the earth commenced rolling upon the sun (round one
of his great circles), each globe turning round in the same
time,--then, by the time the earth had rolled its way once round
the sun, the sun would have almost exactly reached the earth's orbit.

This is only another way of saying that the sun's diameter exceeds
the earth's in almost exactly the same degree that the sun's distance
exceeds the sun's diameter

.'

[24] It has been remarked that, though Hipparchus had the enormous advantage
of being able to compare his own observations with those recorded by the
Chaldæans, he estimated the length of the year less correctly than
the Chaldæans.

It has been thought by some that the Chaldæans were acquainted with
the true system of the universe, but I do not know that there are
sufficient grounds for this supposition.
Diodorus Siculus and Apollonius Myndius mention, however, that they
were able to predict the return of comets, and this implies that
their observations had been continued for many centuries with great
care and exactness

.

[25] The language of the modern Zadkiels and Raphaëls, though meaningless
and absurd in itself, yet, as assuredly derived from the astrology
of the oldest times, may here be quoted.

(It certainly was not invented to give support to the theory I am
at present advocating.)

Thus runs the jargon of the tribe: 'In order to illustrate plainly
to the reader what astrologers mean by the "houses of heaven," it
is proper for him to bear in mind the four cardinal points.

The eastern, facing the rising sun, has at its centre the first grand angle
or first house, termed the Horoscope or ascendant. The northern, opposite
the region where the sun is at midnight, or the _cusp_ of the lower
heaven or nadir, is the Imum Coeli, and has at its centre the fourth
house. The western, facing the setting sun, has at its centre the
third grand angle or seventh house or descendant. And lastly, the southern,
facing the noonday sun, has at its centre the astrologer's tenth
house, or Mid-heaven, the most powerful angle or house of
honour.' 'And although,' proceeds the modern astrologer, 'we cannot
in the ethereal blue discern these lines or terminating divisions,
both reason and experience assure us that they certainly exist; therefore
the astrologer has certain grounds for the choice of his four angular
houses' (out of twelve in all) 'which, resembling the palpable demonstration
they afford, are in the astral science esteemed the most powerful
of the whole. '--Raphaël's _Manual of Astrology_.

[26] Arabian writers give the following account of Egyptian progress in
astrology and the mystical arts: Nacrawasch, the progenitor of Misraim,
was the first Egyptian prince, and the first of the magicians who
excelled in astrology and enchantment.

Retiring into Egypt with his family of eighty persons, he built Essous,
the most ancient city of Egypt, and commenced the first dynasty of
Misraimitish princes, who excelled as cabalists, diviners, and in the
mystic arts generally. The most celebrated of the race were Naerasch,
who first represented by images the twelve signs of the zodiac;
Gharnak, who openly described the arts before kept secret; Hersall,
who first worshipped idols; Sehlouk, who worshipped the sun; Saurid
(King Saurid of Ibn Abd Alkohm's account), who erected the first
pyramids and invented the magic mirror; and Pharaoh, the last king
of the dynasty, whose name was afterwards taken as a kingly title,
as Cæsar later became a general imperial title

.

[27] It is noteworthy how Swedenborg here anticipates a saying of Laplace,
the greatest mathematician the world has known, save Newton alone. Newton's
remark that he seemed but as a child who had gathered a few shells
on the shores of ocean, is well known. Laplace's words, '_Ce que nous
connaissons est peu de chose; ce que nous ignorons est immense_,'
were not, as is commonly stated, his last.

De Morgan gives the following account of Laplace's last moments, on
the authority of Laplace's friend and pupil, the well-known mathematician
Poisson: 'After the publication (in 1825) of the fifth volume of the
Mécanique Céleste, Laplace became gradually weaker, and with it
musing and abstracted.

He thought much on the great problems of existence, and often
muttered to himself, "_Qu'est-ce que c'est que tout cela!

_" After many alternations he appeared at last so permanently prostrated
that his family applied to his favourite pupil, M.

Poisson, to try to get a word from him. Poisson paid a visit, and after a
few words of salutation, said, "J'ai une bonne nouvelle à vous annoncer:
on a reçu au Bureau des Longitudes une lettre d'Allemagne annonçant
que M. Bessel a vérifié par l'observation vos découvertes théoriques
sur les satellites de Jupiter." Laplace opened his eyes and answered
with deep gravity. "_L'homme ne poursuit que des chimères._" He never
spoke again. His death took place March 5, 1827.'
[28] The reason assigned by Swedenborg is fanciful enough. 'In the
spiritual sense,' he says, 'a horse signifies the intellectual principle
formed from scientifics, and as they are afraid of cultivating the
intellectual faculties by worldly sciences, from this comes an influx
of fear.

They care nothing for scientifics which are of human erudition

.'
[29] Similar reasoning applies to the moons of Jupiter, and it so
chances that the result in their case comes out exactly the same
as in the case of Saturn; all the Jovian moons, if full together,
would reflect only the sixteenth part of the light which we receive
from the full moon.

It is strange that scientific men of considerable mathematical power
have used the argument from design apparently supplied by the satellites,
without being at the pains to test its validity by the simple
mathematical calculations necessary to determine the quantity of light
which these bodies can reflect to the planets round which they
travel.

Brewster and Whewell, though they took opposite sides in the controversy
about other inhabited worlds, agreed in this.
Brewster, of course, holding the theory that all the planets are
inhabited, very naturally accepted the argument from design in this case.
Whewell, in opposing that theory, did not dwell at all upon the
subjects of the satellites. But in his 'Bridgewater Treatise on Astronomy
and General Physics,' he says, 'Taking only the ascertained cases
of Venus, the Earth, Jupiter, and Saturn, we conceive that a person of
common understanding will be strongly impressed with the persuasion that
the satellites are placed in the system with a view to compensate
for the diminished light of the sun at greater distances.
Mars is an exception; some persons might conjecture from this case
that the arrangement itself, like other useful arrangements, has been
brought about by some wider law which we have not yet detected.

But whether or not we entertain such a guess (it can be nothing more),
we see in other parts of creation so many examples of apparent exceptions
to rules, which are afterwards found to be capable of explanation,
or to be provided for by particular contrivances, that no one
familiar with such contemplations will, by one anomaly, be driven
from the persuasion that the end which the arrangements of the
satellites seem suited to answer is really one of the ends of their
creation

.'

[30] The reader who cares enough about such subjects to take the
necessary trouble, can easily make a little model of Saturn and
his ring system, which will very prettily illustrate the effect of
the rings both in reflecting light to the planet's darkened hemisphere
and in cutting off light from the planet's illuminated hemisphere. Take
a ball, say an ordinary hand-ball, and pierce it through the centre
with a fine knitting-needle.

Cut out a flat ring of card, proportioned to the ball as the ring system
of Saturn to his ball. (If the ball is two inches in diameter, strike
out on a sheet of cardboard two concentric circles, one of them with
a radius of a little more than an inch and a half, the other with a
radius of about two inches and three-eights, and cut out the ring between
these two circles.)

Thrust the knitting-needle through this ring in such a way that the ball
shall lie in the middle of the ring, as the globe of Saturn hangs
(without knitting-needle connections) in the middle of his ring
system.

Thrust another knitting-needle centrally through the ball square to the
plane of the ring, and use this second needle, which we may call
the polar one, as a handle.

Now take the ball and ring into sunlight, or the light of a lamp or candle,
holding them so that the shadow of the ring is as thin as possible. This
represents the position of the shadow at the time of Saturnian spring
or autumn.

Cause the shadow slowly to shift until it surrounds the part of the
ball through which the polar needle passes on one side.

This will represent the position of the shadow at the time of midwinter
for the hemisphere corresponding to that side of the ball. Notice that
while the shadow is traversing this half of the ball, the side of the
ring which lies towards that half is in shadow, so that a fly or other
small insect on that half of the ball would see the darkened side of
the ring. A Saturnian correspondingly placed would get no reflected
sunlight from the ring system.

Move the ball and ring so that the shadow slowly returns to its first
position. You will then have illustrated the changes taking place during
one half of a Saturnian year. Continue the motion so that the shadow
passes to the other half of the ball, and finally surrounds the other
point through which the polar needle passes.
The polar point which the shadow before surrounded will now be seen
to be in the light, and this half of the ball will illustrate the
hemisphere of Saturn where it is midsummer. It will also be seen
that the side of the ring towards this half of the ball is now in the
light, so that a small insect on this half of the ball would see the
bright side of the ring.

A Saturnian correspondingly placed would get reflected sunlight from the
ring system _both by day and by night_. Moving the ball and ring so
that the shadow returns to its first position, an entire Saturnian year
will have been illustrated. These changes can be still better shown with
a Saturnian orrery (see plate viii. of my Saturn), which can be very
easily constructed.

[31] Not 'of course' because Tycho used it, for, like other able students
of science, he made mistakes from time to time. Thus he argued that the
earth cannot rotate on her axis, because if she did bodies raised
above her surface would be left behind--an argument which even the
mechanical knowledge of his own time should have sufficed to
invalidate, though it is still used from time to time by paradoxers
of our own day

.

[32] Chinese chronicles contain other references to new stars. The annals
of Ma-touan-lin, which contain the official records of remarkable
appearances in the heavens, include some phenomena which manifestly
belong to this class.

Thus they record that in the year 173 a star appeared between the stars
which mark the hind feet of the Centaur.

This star remained visible from December in that year until July in the
next (about the same time as Tycho Brahe's and Kepler's new stars,
presently to be described).

Another star, assigned by these annals to the year 1011, seems to be the
same as a star referred to by Hepidannus as appearing A.D. 1012. It was
of extraordinary brilliancy, and remained visible in the southern part
of the heavens during three months.

The annals of Ma-touan-lin assign to it a position low down in
Sagittarius.

[33] Still a circumstance must be mentioned which tends to show that
the star may have been visible a few hours earlier than Dr. Schmidt
supposed. Mr. M. Walter, surgeon of the 4th regiment, then stationed in
North India, wrote (oddly enough, on May 12, 1867, the first
anniversary of Mr. Birmingham's discovery) as follows to Mr. Stone:--'I
am certain that this same conflagration was distinctly perceptible here
at least six hours earlier. My knowledge of the fact came about in this
wise. The night of the 12th of May last year was exceedingly sultry,
and about eight o'clock on that evening I got up from the tea-table
and rushed into my garden to seek a cooler atmosphere. As my door opens
towards the east, the first object that met my view was the
Northern Crown. My attention was at once arrested by the sight of a
strange star outside the crown' (that is, outside the circlet of
stars forming the diadem, not outside the constellation itself). The
new star 'was then certainly quite as bright--I rather thought more
so--as its neighbour Alphecca,' the chief gem of the crown. 'I was
so much struck with its appearance, that I exclaimed to those indoors,
"Why, here is a new comet!'"

He made a diagram of the constellation, showing the place of the new
star correctly. Unfortunately, Mr. Walter does not state why he is
so confident, a year after the event, that it was on the 12th of
May, and not on the 13th, that he noticed the new star.

If he fixed the date only by the star's appearance as a second-magnitude
star, his letter proves nothing; for we know that on the 13th it
was still shining as brightly as Alphecca, though on the 14th it was
perceptibly fainter.

[34] The velocity of three or four miles per second inferred by the
elder Struve must now be regarded (as I long since pointed out would
prove to be the case) as very far short of the real velocity of our
system's motion through stellar space.

[35] M. Cornu's observations are full of interest, and he deserves
considerable credit for his energy in availing himself of the few
favourable opportunities he had for making them. But he goes beyond his
province in adding to his account of them some remarks, intended
apparently as a reflection on Mr. Huggins's speculations respecting
the star in the Northern Crown. '_I_,' says M. Cornu, 'will not
try to form any hypothesis about the cause of the outburst. To do so
would be unscientific, and such speculations, though interesting,
cumber science wofully.'

This is sheer nonsense, and comes very ill from an observer whose successes
in science have been due entirely to the employment of methods of observation
which would have had no existence had others been as unready to think out
the meaning of observed facts as he appears to be himself.

[36] The same peculiarity has been noticed since the discovery of the
dark ring, the space within that ring being observed by Coolidge
and G.

Bond at Harvard in 1856 to be apparently darker than the surrounding
sky.

[37] I cannot understand why Mr. Webb, in his interesting little work,
_Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes_, says that the satellite
theory of the rings certainly seems insufficient to account for the
phenomena of the dark ring. It seems, on the contrary, manifest that the
dark ring can scarcely be explained in any other way. The observations
recently made are altogether inexplicable on any other theory.

[38] A gentleman, whose acquaintance I made in returning from America
last spring, assured me that he had found demonstrative evidence
showing that a total eclipse of the moon then occurred; for he could
prove that Abraham's vision occurred at the time of full moon, so
that it could not otherwise have been dark when the sun went down
(v. 17).

But the horror of great darkness occurred when the sun was going down, and
total eclipses of the moon do not behave that way--at least, in our
time.

[39] It is not easy to understand what else it could have been. The
notion that a conjunction of three planets, which took place shortly
before the time of Christ's birth, gave rise to the tradition of
the star in the east, though propounded by a former president of the
Astronomical Society, could hardly be entertained by an astronomer,
unless he entirely rejected Matthew's account, which the author
of this theory, being a clergyman, can scarcely have done

.

[40] As, for instance, when he makes Homer say of the moon that
Around her throne the vivid planets roll, And stars unnumbered gild
the glowing pole.

It is difficult, indeed, to understand how so thorough an astronomer
as the late Admiral Smyth could have called the passage in which these
lines occur one of the finest bursts of poetry in our language, except
on the principle cleverly cited by Waller when Charles II. upbraided him
for the warmth of his panegyric on Cromwell, that 'poets succeed better
with fiction than with truth.' Macaulay, though not an astronomer,
speaks more justly of the passage in saying that this single passage
contains more inaccuracies than can be found in all Wordsworth's
'Excursion.'
[41] It may be necessary to throw in here a few words of explanation, lest
the non-astronomical reader should run away with the idea that the so-called
exact science is a very inexact science indeed, so far as comets
are concerned.

The comet of 1680 was one of those which travel on a very eccentric
orbit. Coming, indeed, from out depths many times more remote than
the path even of the remotest planet, Neptune, this comet approached
nearer to the sun than any which astronomers have ever seen, except
only the comet of 1843. When at its nearest its nucleus was only a
sixth part of the sun's diameter from his surface. Thus the part of the
comet's orbit along which astronomers traced its motion was only a
small part at one end of an enormously long oval, and very slight
errors of observation were sufficient to produce very large errors
in the determination of the nature of the comet's orbit.

Encke admitted that the period might, so far as the comparatively imperfect
observations made in 1680 were concerned, be any whatever, from
805 years to many millions of years, or even to infinity--that is,
the comet might have a path not re-entering into itself, but carrying
the comet for ever away from the sun after its one visit to our system

.

[42] For a portion of the passages which I have quoted in this essay I
am indebted to Guillemin's 'Treatise on Comets,' a useful contribution
to the literature of the subject, though somewhat inadequate so far as
exposition is concerned

.

[43] Something very similar happened only a few years ago, so that we
cannot afford to laugh too freely at the terrors of France in 1773.

It was reported during the winter of 1871-1872, that Plantamour, the Swiss
astronomer, had predicted the earth's destruction by a comet on August
12, 1872. Yet there was no other foundation for this rumour than the
fact that Plantamour, in a lecture upon comets and meteors, had
stated that the meteors seen on August 10, 11, and 12 are bodies
following in the track of a comet whose orbit passes very near to
the earth's.

It was very certainly known to astronomers that there could be no present
danger of a collision with this comet, for the comet has a period of
at least 150 years, and had last passed close to the earth's orbit (not
to the earth herself, be it understood) in 1862. But it was useless to
point this out. Many people insisted on believing that on August 12,
1872, the earth would come into collision, possibly disastrous,
with a mighty comet, which Plantamour was said to have detected and to
have shown by a profound calculation to be rushing directly upon our
unfortunate earth.

[44] A rather amusing mistake was made by the stenographers of a
New York paper in reporting the above sentence, which I happened
to quote in a lecture upon Comets and Meteors.

Instead of Paradise they wrote Paris.
Those acquainted with Pitman's system of short-hand, the one most
commonly employed by reporters, will easily understand how the
mistake was made, the marks made to represent the consonants p, r,
d, and s differing little from those made to represent the consonants
p, r, and s (the 'd' or 't' sound is represented, or may be
represented, by simply shortening the length of the sign for the
preceding consonant).

The mistake led naturally to my remarking in my next lecture that
I had not before known how thoroughly synonymous the words are in
America, though I had heard it said that 'Good Americans, when
they die, go to Paris

.'
[45] On the occasion of my first visit to America, in 1873, I for
the first time succeeded in obtaining a copy of this curious pamphlet.

It had been mentioned to me (by Emerson, I think) as an amusing piece
of trickery played off by a scientific man on his brethren; and Dr.
Wendell Holmes, who was present, remarked that he had a copy in his
possession.

This he was good enough to lend me. Soon after, a valued friend in New
York presented me with a copy.

[46] This Locke must not be confounded with Richard Lock, the
circle-squarer and general paradoxist, who flourished a century
earlier

.

[47] The nurses' tale is, that the man was sent to the moon by Moses for
gathering sticks on the Sabbath, and they refer to the cheerful story
in Numbers xv. 32-36.

According to German nurses the day was not the Sabbath, but Sunday. Their
tale runs as follows: 'Ages ago there went one Sunday an old man
into the woods to hew sticks.

He cut a faggot and slung it on a stout staff, cast it over his shoulder,
and began to trudge home with his burthen. On his way he met a handsome
man in Sunday suit, walking towards the church. The man stopped, and asked
the faggot-bearer; "Do you know that this is Sunday on earth, when all
must rest from their labours?" "Sunday on earth or Monday in heaven,
it's all one to me?" laughed the wood-cutter. "Then bear your bundle
for ever!" answered the stranger. "And as you value not Sunday on earth,
yours shall be a perpetual Moon-day in heaven; you shall stand for
eternity in the moon, a warning to all Sabbath-breakers."

Thereupon the stranger vanished; and the man was caught up with his
staff and faggot into the moon, where he stands yet.' According to some
narrators the stranger was Christ; but whether from German laxity in
such matters or for some other reason, no text is quoted in evidence,
as by the more orthodox British nurses.

Luke vi. 1-5 might serve.

[48] Milton's opinion may be quoted against me here; and as received
ideas respecting angels, good and bad, the fall of man, and many other
such matters, are due quite as much to Milton as to any other authority,
his opinion must not be lightly disregarded. But though, when Milton's
Satan 'meets a vast vacuity' where his wings are of no further service
to him,
'All unawares Flutt'ring his pennons vain, plumb down he drops Ten
thousand fathoms deep, and to this hour Down had been falling, had
not by ill chance The strong rebuff of some tumultuous cloud,
Instinct with fire and nitre, hurried him As many miles aloft,'

yet this was written nearly a quarter of a century before Newton
had established the law of gravity.

Moreover, there is no evidence to show in what direction Satan fell; 'above
is below and below above,' says Richter, 'to one stripped of gravitating
body;' and whether Satan was under the influence of gravity or not, he
would be practically exempt from its action when in the midst of that
'dark, illimitable ocean' of space,
'Without bound, Without dimensions, where length, breadth, and height, And
time and place are lost.'

His lighting 'on Niphates' top,' and overleaping the gate of Paradise,
may be used as arguments either way. On the whole, I must (according
to my present lights) claim for Satan a freedom from all scientific
restraints. This freedom is exemplified by his showing all the kingdoms
of the world from an exceeding high mountain, thus affording the
first practical demonstration of the flat-earth theory, the maintenance
of which led to poor Mr.

Hampden's incarceration.

[49] The _Sun_ itself claimed to have established the veracity of the
account in a manner strongly recalling a well-known argument used by
orthodox believers in the Bible account of the cosmogony. Either, say
these, Moses discovered how the world was made, or the facts were
revealed to him by some one who had made the discovery: but Moses could
not have made the discovery, knowing nothing of the higher departments
of science; therefore, the account came from the only Being who could
rationally be supposed to know anything about the beginning of the world.

Then he started up suddenly into a
sitting posture and looked slowly from one to another of the recumbent
forms around him.  Satisfied, apparently, that they were asleep, he gave
vent to a long yawn which terminated in a gasp, and then he looked up
contemplatively at the sky, which was at that hour beginning to warm
with the red rays of the rising sun.  While thus engaged, he caressed
with his right hand the very small scrap of whisker that grew on his
right cheek.  At first it seemed as if this were an unconscious action,
but he suddenly appeared to become absorbed in it, and stared straight
before him as one does when only half awake, mumbling the while in an
undertone.  I could not make out distinctly what he said, but I think I
caught the words, "Yes, a little--a _very_ little thicker--six new
hairs, I think--umph! slow, very slow."  Here he looked at Jack's bushy
beard and sighed.

Suddenly he thrust both hands deep into his breeches pockets and stared
at the black embers of the extinct fire; then as suddenly he pulled out
his hands, and placing the forefinger of his right hand on the end of
the thumb of his left, said slowly--

"Let me see--I'll recall it."

He spoke with intense gravity.  Most persons do when talking to
themselves.

"Yes, I remember now.  There were two elephants and four--or three, was
it?--no, it must have been four lions.  The biggest elephant had on a
false front of fair curls and a marriage-ring on its tail.  Stay; was it
not the other one had that?  No, it was the biggest.  I remember now,
for it was just above the marriage-ring I grasped it when I pulled its
tail out.  I didn't pull it off, for it wouldn't come off; it came out
like a telescope or a long piece of indiarubber.  Ha! and I remember
thinking how painful it must be.  That was odd, now, to think of that.
The other elephant had on crinoline.  That was odder still; for of all
animals in the world it least required it.  Well, let me see.  What did
I do?  Oh yes, I shot them both.  Of course, that was natural; but it
wasn't quite so natural that the big one should vomit up a live lion,
which attacked me with incredible fury.  But I killed it cleverly.  Yes,
it _was_ a clever thing, undoubtedly, to split a lion in two, from the
tip of its nose to the extremity of its tail, with one stroke of a
penknife--"

At this climax I could contain myself no longer, and burst into a loud
laugh as I perceived that Peterkin had spent the night, as I myself had
done, in hunting--though, I confess, there was a considerable difference
in the nature of our achievements, and in the manner of their
accomplishment.

"Why, what are you laughing at?" said Jack, sitting up and gazing at me
with a stupid stare.

"At Peterkin's dreams," said I.

"Ah!" said Jack, with a smiling yawn, "that's it, is it?  Been hunting
elephants and lions, eh?"

"Why, how did you guess that?"  I asked, in surprise; "were you not
asleep just now?"

"Of course I was, and dreaming too, like yourself, I make no doubt.  I
had just bagged my fifteenth elephant and my tenth lion when your laugh
awoke me.  And the best of it is that I was carrying the whole bagful on
my back at once, and did not feel much oppressed by the weight."

"That beats my dream hollow," observed Peterkin; "so its my opinion we'd
better have breakfast.--Makarooroo, hy! d'ye hear? rouse up, you junk of
ebony."

"Yis, massa, comin'," said our guide, rising slowly from his lair on the
opposite side of our fireplace.

"D'you hear?"

"Yis, massa."

"You're a nigger!"

"Dat am a fact."

"Well, being a nigger you're a brick, so look sharp with that splendid
breakfast you promised us last night.  I'll wager a million pounds that
you had forgotten all about it."

"No, massa, me no forgit.  Me up in centre ob de night and put 'im in de
hole.  Wat you call 'im--oben?"

"Ay, oven, that's it."

"Yis.  Well, me git 'im d'rec'ly."

"And, I say, hold on," added Peterkin.  "Don't you suppose I'm going to
stand on ceremony with you.  Your name's too long by half.  Too many
rooroos about it, so I'm going to call you Mak in future, d'ye
understand?"

The negro nodded and grinned from ear to ear as he left us.  Presently
he returned with a huge round, or lump of meat, at which we looked
inquisitively.  The odour from it was delightful, and the tender, juicy
appearance of the meat when Makarooroo, who carved it for us, cut the
first slice, was quite appetising to behold.

"What is it?" inquired Peterkin.

"Elephant's foot," replied the guide.

"Gammon," remarked Peterkin.

"It's true, massa.  Don't you see him's toe?"

"So it is," said Jack.

"And it's first-rate," cried I, tasting a morsel.

With that we fell to and made a hearty meal, after which we, along with
the king and all his people, retraced our steps to the river and
returned to the native town, where we spent another day in making
preparations to continue our journey towards the land of the gorilla.

During the hunt which I have just described I was very much amused as
well as amazed at the reckless manner in which the negroes loaded their
rusty old trade-guns.  They put in a whole handful of powder each time,
and above that as much shot and bits of old iron of all kinds as they
dared; some I saw charged thus to within a few inches of the muzzle, and
the owners seemed actually afraid to put them to their shoulders, as
well they might be, for the recoil was tremendous, and had the powder
been good their guns must have been blown to pieces and themselves
killed.

On our return to the village we found the people on the eve of one of
those terrible outbursts of superstitious passion which rarely if ever
pass away without some wretched human creature perishing under the hands
of murderers.

"There is something wrong with the fetishman, I think," remarked Jack,
as we disembarked at the landing.  "He seems excited.  Do you know what
it can be at, Makarooroo?"

"Jack," interposed Peterkin, "I have changed his name to Mak, so you and
Ralph will please to remember that.--Mak, my boy, what's wrong with your
doctor?"

The negro looked very grave and shook his head as he replied, "Don'
know, massa.  Him's be goin' to rizz de peepil wid him norrible doin's.
Dere will be death in the camp mos' bery quick--p'raps dis night."

"That is terrible," said I.  "Are you sure of what you say?"

"Sartin sure," replied the negro, with another shake of the head.

"Then, Mak," said Jack, "it behoves us to look to ourselves.  You look
like an honest fellow, and I believe we may trust you.  We cannot expect
you to help us to fight against your own kith and kin, but I do expect
that you will assist us to escape if any foul play is intended.
Whatever betides, it is as well that you should know that white men are
not easily conquered.  Our guns are good--they never miss fire.  We will
sell our lives dearly, you may depend on it."

"Ay," added Peterkin, "it is well that you should know that; moreover,
it is well that the rascally niggers of your tribe should know it too;
so you can take occasion to give them a hint that we shall keep
ourselves prepared for them, with my compliments."

"De mans ob my peepil," replied the negro, with some dignity of manner,
"be not wuss dan oder mans.  But dem is bad enuff.  But you no hab need
for be fraid.  Dey no touch de white mans.  Dem bery much glad you com'
here.  If any bodies be killed it be black mans or 'oomans."

We felt somewhat relieved on hearing this, for, to say truth, we knew
well enough that three men, no matter how well-armed or resolute they
might be, could not hope to defend themselves against a whole tribe of
savages in their own country.  Nevertheless we resolved to keep a sharp
lookout, and be prepared for the worst.  Meanwhile we did all in our
power to expedite our departure.

That evening the trader started on his return journey to the coast,
leaving us in charge of King Jambai, who promised earnestly to take good
care of us.  We immediately put his willingness to fulfil his promise to
the test by begging him to furnish us with men to carry our goods into
the interior.  He tried very hard to induce us to change our minds and
remain hunting with his tribe, telling us that the gorilla country was
far far away from his lands; that we should never reach it alive, or
that if we did we should certainly be killed by the natives, who,
besides being cruel and warlike, were cannibals; and that if we did meet
in with gorillas we should all be certainly slain, for no one could
combat successfully with that ferocious giant of the monkey tribe.

To this we replied that we were quite aware of the dangers we should
have to encounter in our travels, but added that we had come there for
the very purpose of encountering such dangers, and especially to pay a
visit to the giant monkeys in their native land, so that it was in vain
his attempting to dissuade us, as we were resolved to go.

Seeing that we were immovable, the king eventually gave in, and ordered
some of his best men to hold themselves in readiness to start with us on
the following morning.  We then proceeded to his majesty's house, where
we had supper, and afterwards retired to our own hut to rest.

But we were destined to have little or no rest that night.  The doctor
or fetishman of the tribe had stirred up the passions of the people in a
manner that was quite incomprehensible to us.  King Jambai, it seems,
had been for some weeks suffering from illness--possibly from
indigestion, for he was fond of gorging himself--and the medicine-man
had stated that his majesty was bewitched by some of the members of his
own tribe, and that unless these sorcerers were slain there was no
possibility of his getting well.

We never could ascertain why the fetishman should fix upon certain
persons to be slain, unless it was that he had a personal enmity against
them; but this seemed unlikely, for two of the persons selected were old
female slaves, who could never, of course, have injured the doctor in
any way.  But the doings of Africans, especially in regard to religious
superstitions, I afterwards found were so mysterious that no one could
or would explain the meaning of them to us.  And I am inclined to
believe that in reference to the meaning of many things they were
themselves utterly ignorant.

Towards midnight the people had wrought themselves up to a frenzied
condition, and made so much noise that we could not sleep.  In the midst
of the uproar Makarooroo, who we observed had been very restless all the
evening, rushed into our hut, exclaiming, "Massa! massa! come, save my
Okandaga! come quick!"

The poor fellow was trembling with anxiety, and was actually pale in the
face; for a distinctly discernible pallor overspreads the countenance of
the negro when under the influence of excessive terror.

Okandaga we had previously heard of and seen.  She was, according to
African notions, an exceedingly pretty young girl, with whom our worthy
guide had fallen desperately in love.  Makarooroo's education had done
much for him, and especially in regard to females.  Having observed the
kind, respectful consideration with which the missionaries treated their
wives, and the happiness that seemed to be the result of that course of
conduct, he resolved in his own mind to try the experiment with one of
the girls of his own tribe, and soon after rejoining it paid his
attentions to Okandaga, who seemed to him the most modest and lovable
girl in the village.

Poor Okandaga was first amazed and then terrified at the strangely
gentle conduct of her lover, and thought that he meant to bewitch her;
for having never before been accustomed to other than harsh and
contemptuous treatment from men, she could not believe that Makarooroo
meant her any good.  Gradually, however, she began to like this
respectful wooer, and finally she agreed to elope with him to the
sea-coast and live near the missionaries.  It was necessary, however, to
arrange their plans with great caution.  There was no difficulty in
their getting married.  A handsome present to the girl's father was all
that was necessary to effect that end, and a good hunter like Makarooroo
knew he could speedily obtain possession of his bride, but to get her
removed from her tribe and carried to the coast was quite a different
affair.  While the perplexed negro was pondering this subject and
racking his brains to discover a way of getting over the difficulty, our
arrival at the village occurred.  At once he jumped to the conclusion
that somehow or other he should accomplish his object through our
assistance; and holding this in view, he the more willingly agreed to
accompany us to the gorilla country, intending first to make our
acquaintance, and afterwards to turn us to account in furthering his
plans.  All this we learned long afterwards.  At the period of which I
am now writing, we were profoundly ignorant of everything save the fact
that Okandaga was his affianced bride, and that the poor fellow was now
almost beside himself with horror because the fetishman had condemned
her, among others, to drink the poisoned cup.

This drinking of the poisoned cup is an ordeal through which the unhappy
victims to whom suspicion has been attached are compelled to pass.  Each
one drinks the poison, and several executioners stand by, with heavy
knives, to watch the result.  If the poison acts so as to cause the
supposed criminal to fall down, he is hacked in pieces instantly; but
if, through unusual strength or peculiarity of constitution, he is
enabled to resist the effects of the poison, his life is spared, and he
is declared innocent.

Jack and Peterkin and I seized our weapons, and hurrying out, followed
our guide to the spot where this terrible tragedy was enacting.

"Don't fear, Mak," said Peterkin, as we ran along; "we'll save her
somehow.  I'm certain of that."

The negro made no reply, but I observed a more hopeful expression on his
countenance after the remark.  He evidently had immense faith in
Peterkin; which I must say was more than I had, for when I considered
our small numbers, my hope of influencing savages was very slight.

The scene that met our eyes was indescribably horrible.  In the centre
of a dense circle of negroes, who had wrought themselves up to a pitch
of ferocity that caused them to look more like wild beasts than men,
stood the king, and beside him the doctor or fetishman.  This latter was
ornamented with a towering headdress of feathers.  His face was painted
white, which had the effect of imparting to him an infinitely more
hideous and ghastly aspect than is produced in the white man when he is
painted black.  A stripe of red passed round his head, and another down
his forehead and nose.  His naked body was decked with sundry fantastic
ornaments, and altogether he looked more like a fiend than I had
believed it possible for man to appear.

The ground all round him was saturated with blood and strewn with arms,
fingers, cleft skulls, and masses of flesh that had been hewn from the
victims who had already fallen, one of whom, we afterwards learned, had
belonged to the royal family.  Two still remained--a young female and an
old man.  The emaciated frame and white woolly head of the latter showed
that in the course of nature his earthly career must soon terminate.  It
is probable that the poor old man had become a burden to his relations,
and the doctor took this opportunity of ridding the tribe of him.  The
girl was Okandaga, who stood weeping and trembling as she gazed upon the
butchery that had already taken place.

The old man had swallowed the poison shortly before we arrived, and he
was now struggling to maintain an erect position.  But he failed, his
quivering limbs sank beneath him, and before we could interfere the
bloody executioners had cut off his head, and then, in a transport of
passion, they literally hacked his body to pieces.

We rushed hastily forward to the king, and Jack, in an earnest voice,
implored him to spare the last victim.

"Surely," said he, "enough have been sacrificed already.--Tell him,
Makarooroo, that I will quit his village and never see him more if he
does not spare the life of that young girl."

The king appeared much perplexed by this unlooked-for interference on
our part.

"I cannot check the spirits of my people now," he replied.  "They are
roused.  The girl has bewitched me and many others.  She must die.  It
is our custom.  Let not my white men be offended.  Let them go to their
hut and sleep."

"We cannot sleep while injustice is done in the village," answered Jack,
in a lofty tone.  "Let not King Jambai do that which will make his
visitors ashamed of him.  Let the girl live till to-morrow at midnight.
Let the case be investigated, and if she be proved guilty then let her
die."

The king commenced a long reply in the same dignified manner and tone
which Jack had assumed.  While he was thus engaged Peterkin touched our
guide on the shoulder and whispered--

"I say, Mak, tell the doctor to back up Jack's request, and I'll give
him a gun."

The negro slipped at once to the side of the doctor, who had begun to
frown fiercely on Jack, and whispered a few words in his ear.  Instantly
his face assumed a calmer aspect, and presently he stepped up to the
king, and a whispering conversation ensued, in which the doctor,
carefully refraining from making any mention of the gun, commended the
wise advice of the white man, and suggested that the proposal should be
agreed to, adding, however, that he knew for certain that the girl was a
witch, but that the investigation would do good in the way of proving
that he, the doctor, was correct, and thus the girl should perish on the
following night, and the white men would be satisfied.

Having announced this to the multitude, the king ordered Okandaga to be
conducted back to her prison and carefully guarded; and we returned to
our hut--not, however, to sleep, but to consult as to what was to be
done next.

"I knew that you wanted a respite for her," said Peterkin, as we sat
round our fire, "that you might have time to consider how to act, and I
backed up your request accordingly, as you know.  But now, I confess,
I'm very much at a loss what to suggest.  It seems to me we have only
purchased a brief delay."

"True," answered Jack.  "The delay is not so brief, however, but that we
may plan some method of getting the poor girl out of this scrape.--What
say you, Mak?"

"If _you_ no can tink 'pon someting, I gib up all hope," replied our
guide sorrowfully.

"Come, Mak, cheer up," cried Peterkin.  "If the worst comes to the
worst, you can, at any rate, fight for your bride."

"Fight!" exclaimed the negro, displaying his white teeth like a mastiff,
rolling his eyes and clinching his fists convulsively.  Then in a calmer
tone he continued, "Ay, me can fight.  Me could kill all de guards an'
take Okandaga by de hand, an' run troo de bushes for eber.  But guards
no die widout hollerin' an' yellerin' like de gorilla; an' nigger mans
can run fasterer dan womans.  No, no, dat am dumpossobable."

"Nothing's `dumpossobable' to brave hearts and stout arms," replied
Jack.  "There are only four guards put over her, I believe.  Well, there
are just four of us--not that we require to be equal, by any means.
Peterkin and I could settle them easily; but we require to be equal in
numbers, in order to do it quietly.  I have a plan in my head, but
there's one hitch in it that I cannot unravel."

"And what may that be?"  If asked.

"Why, I don't see how, after getting clear off with Okandaga, we are to
avoid being pursued on suspicion and captured."

"Dere is one cave," remarked the guide, "not far off to here.  P'raps we
be safe if we git into 'im.  But I 'fraid it not do, cause him be
peepiled by fiends an' dead man's spirits."

"That's a grave objection," said Peterkin, laughing.

"Yes, an' de tribe neber go near dere; dey is most drefful terrorfied to
be cotched dere."

"Then, that will just do," cried Jack, with animation.  "The very thing.
And now I'll tell you what my plan is.  To-morrow morning early we will
tell the king that we wish to be off at once--that we have put off too
much time already, and wish to make no further delay.  Then we'll pack
up and start.  At night we will encamp in a quiet, out-of-the-way part
of the woods, and slip back to the village in the dark a short time
before midnight.  The whole village will at that time be assembled,
probably, at the spot where the execution is to take place; so we can
rush in, overpower the guard, free Okandaga, and make our escape to the
cave, where they will never think of looking for us."

Peterkin shook his head.  "There are two difficulties in your plan,
Jack.  First, what if the natives are _not_ assembled on the place of
execution, and we find it impossible to make our entrance into or exit
from the village quietly?"

"I propose," replied Jack, "that we shall undress ourselves, rub
ourselves entirely over with charcoal and grease, so that they shall not
recognise us, and dash in and carry the girl off by a _coup de main_.
In which case it will, of course, be neck or nothing, and a tremendous
race to the cave, where, if they follow us, we will keep them at bay
with our rifles."

"Umph! dashing, no doubt, but risky," said Peterkin--"extremely risky.
Yet it's worth trying.  Well, my second difficulty is--what if they
don't stick to their promise after we quit, and kill the poor thing
before midnight?"

"We must take our chance of that.  But I shall put the king on his
honour before leaving, and say that I will make particular inquiry into
the way in which the trial has been conducted on my return."

"Put the king on his honour!" observed Peterkin.  "I'm afraid that
you'll put his majesty on an extremely unstable foundation.  However, I
see nothing better that can be done."

"Have you any more difficulties?"

"Yes," said I.  "There is one other.  What do you propose to do with the
men who are to be supplied us by the king during these extremely
delicate and difficult manoeuvres?"

The countenances of my comrades fell at this question.

"I never thought of them," said Jack.

"Nor I," said Peterkin.

Makarooroo groaned.

"Well," said I, "if you will allow me to suggest, I would recommend that
we should, towards the close of the day, send them on ahead of us, and
bid them encamp at a certain place, saying that we shall spend the night
in hunting, and return to them in the morning."

"The very thing," said Jack.  "Now, comrades, to rest.  I will occupy
myself until I fall asleep in maturing my plans and thinking out the
details.  Do you the same, and if anything should occur to you let us
consult over it in the morning."

We were all glad to agree to this, being wearied more perhaps by
excitement than want of rest; so bidding each other good-night, we lay
down side by side to meditate, and for my part to dream of the difficult
and dangerous work that awaited us on the morrow.


CHAPTER SEVEN.

WE CIRCUMVENT THE NATIVES.

We arose on the following morning with the dawn of day, and began to
make preparation for our departure.

To our satisfaction we found the king quite willing that we should go;
so embarking our goods in one of the native canoes, we ordered our
negroes to embark, and commenced our journey amid the firing of guns and
the good wishes of the natives.  I must confess that I felt some
probings of conscience at the thought of the double part we were
compelled to play; but the recollection of the horrid fate that awaited
the poor negro girl put to flight such feelings, and induced a longing
for the time of action to arrive.

I have more than once referred to our goods.  Perhaps it may be as well
to explain that, when we first landed on the African coast, we made
inquiries of those who were best acquainted with the nature and
requirements of the country we were about to explore, as to what goods
we ought to purchase of the traders, in order to be in a position to pay
our way as we went along; for we could not, of course, expect the
savages to feed us and lodge us and help us on our way for nothing.
After mature consideration, we provided ourselves with a supply of such
things as were most necessary and suitable--such as tobacco, powder, and
shot, and ball, a few trade-guns, several pieces of brightly-coloured
cloth, packages of beads (some white enamelled, others of coloured
glass), coffee and tea, knives, scissors, rings, and a variety of other
knick-knacks.  These, with a little brandy to be used medicinally, our
blankets and camp cooking utensils, formed a heavy load for ten men;
but, of course, as we advanced, the load was lightened by the
consumption of our provisions and the giving away of goods.  The
additions which I made, however, in the shape of stuffed specimens,
began in the course of time to more than counterbalance this advantage.

He even allowed that Dolores was improved, and owed much to her kindness;
and when the first sting of the exposure was over, he could see that
the treatment had been far from injudicious as regarded the girl's
own character.

He was even glad that warm love and friendship had grown up towards her
aunt and cousins; but all this left his purpose unchanged; although,
after the first, nothing was said about it, Dolores tried to forget
it, and hoped that the sight of her going on well and peaceably would
convince him of the inexpediency of disturbing her.

She could not even mention it to Mysie, lest the dread should become
a reality by being uttered.

So no more passed on the subject till it became necessary to take her
outfit in hand, and he also wished to take her to Beechcroft, that the
old family home which he regarded with fresh tenderness might be
impressed on her memory.

Then, though she never durst directly oppose the fate which he destined
for her, she surprised him by a violent burst of tears and sobbing, and
an entreaty that he would not take her away from Aunt Lily and
Mysie a moment sooner than could be helped.

She clung to everything, even to the guinea-pigs, and she was the first
in the Easter holidays to beg for the 'Thorn Fortress.' Indeed, Mysie
was a little shocked at her grief, as disloyal and unfilial. 'One ought
not to mind going anywhere with one's father,' she said; 'we all thought
it a great honour for Phyllis and Alethea.'
'They are grown up!' said Dolores, 'and Aunt Lily does get into
one so!
Oh, don't say there's Aunt Phyllis.

I hate the very name of her.'
'She must be nice,' said Mysie, 'Whenever the 'grown-ups' are pleased
with me they say I am getting like her, as if it was the best thing
one could be.'

'But I don't want Mysie old and grown up, I want my Mysie now, as
you are!

--And you'll forget and leave off writing, like Maude Sefton.'
'Never!' cried Mysie. 'Eight across the world you will always be
my own twin cousin.'

The wishes of the girl were so far fulfilled that Lady Merrifield took her
to London to provide her outfit, and Mysie accompanied them. A room
and its dressing-room received the three at old Mrs.

Merrifield's, and the two cousins thought their close quarters ineffably
precious.

Mysie was introduced to Maude Sefton, who seemed entirely unconscious
of her treachery to friendship. 'One had so little time, and couldn't
always be writing,' she said, when Dolores reproached her; 'exercises
were enough to tire out one's hand!'

They also drank tea with Lady Phyllis Devereux and her governess. Fly
could not pour forth questions and reminiscences fast enough about
all the beloved animals at Silverton, not forgetting the little
G.F.S.
nursemaid, for whom she had actually made an apron in her
plain-work lessons. Moreover, she deemed Dolores's fate most enviable,
to be going off with her father to strange countries, away from lessons,
and masters, and towns. It would be almost as good as Leila on the
island.

As to the Beechcroft visit, Mr. and Mrs. Mohun collected all the brothers
and sisters in England there for a week, and still Mysie and Dolores
were allowed to be together, squeezed into a corner of Lady Merrifield's
room. It was high summer, bright and glowing, and so dry, and even
the invalidish sisters, Lady Henry Gray and Miss Adeline Mohun could
not object to the sitting out on the lawn, among the dragon- flies,
as in days of yore.The noise caused by the scuffle seemed to arouse the fury of all the
evil spirits of the place, for a perfect hurricane of whirring sounds
raged around us for a few seconds.

"It's only bats," cried Jack.--"Look alive, Peterkin; another light."

In a few seconds the torches were rekindled, and we advanced into the
cavern; and Mak, after recovering from his fright and learning the cause
thereof, became much bolder.  The cave was about a hundred yards deep by
about fifty wide; but we could not ascertain its height, for the light
of our torches failed to penetrate the deep gloom overhead.  It was
divided into two natural chambers, the outer being large, the inner
small--a mere recess, in fact.  In this latter we planted our torches,
and proceeded with our hasty preparations.  Peterkin was ready first.
MULGRAVE & Co. of 170, Walbrook, City, E.C.'s best style, that a refined
taste inspired by a wholesome economy had been exercised in the
furnishing of the apartment, and she turned to the old Duke with a
grateful nod of recognition."Now then, Jack," said Peterkin, "as you're not quite ready and I am, I
shall employ myself in preparing a little plan of my own which I intend
to put in force if the savages dare to venture into the cavern after
us."

"Very good; but see that you finish it in less than five minutes, for
I'll be ready in that time."

Peterkin immediately poured out a large quantity of powder on a flat
rock, and mingling with it a little water from a pool near by, converted
it into a semi-moist ball.  This he divided into three parts, and
forming each part into the shape of a tall cone, laid the whole
carefully aside.

"There!" said he, "lie you there until you are wanted."

At this moment, while Jack and I were bending down fastening the latchet
of our shoes, our ears were saluted with one of the most appalling yells
I ever listened to.  Makarooroo fell flat to the earth in his fright,
and my own heart chilled with horror, while Jack sprang up and
instinctively grasped the handle of his hunting-knife.

"Very good," said Peterkin, as he stood laughing at us quietly, and we
immediately perceived that it was he who uttered the cry.

"Why, what mean you?" said Jack, almost angrily.  "Surely this is no
time for foolish jesting."

"I am anything but jesting, Jack.  I'm only rehearsing another part of
my plan."

"But you ought to give us warning when you are about to do such
startling things," said I remonstratively.

"Nay, that would not have done at all, because then I should not have
known what effect my cry is likely to produce on unexpectant ears."

"Well, now, are you all ready?" inquired Jack.  "Then let us go."

Issuing forth armed only with our double-barrelled guns and heavy
hunting-knives, we hastened towards the native village.  When within a
hundred yards of the edge of the wood that skirted it we stopped to pull
off our shoes, for it was necessary that we should have nothing about
our persons to tell who we were should any one chance to see us as we
ran.  We also left our rifles beside the shoes at a spot where we could
find them in an instant in passing, and then slowly approached the
outskirts of the village.

Presently we heard the hum of distant voices shouting, and the fear that
the scene of bloodshed had already begun induced us to quicken our pace
to a smart run.  I never saw a man so deeply affected as was our poor
guide, and when I looked at him I felt extremely anxious lest his state
of mind should unfit him for acting with needful caution.

We gained the first cottages--they were empty.  The village having been
recently built, no stockade had yet been thrown round it, so our
progress was unimpeded.

"We must be very cautious now," observed Jack in a whisper.--"Restrain
yourself, Makarooroo; Okandaga's life depends on our coolness."

On reaching the back of the next hut, which was also empty.  Jack
motioned to us to halt, and coming close to us looked earnestly in each
of our faces without saying a word.  I supposed that, like a wise
general, he was reviewing his troops--seeing whether the men he was
about to lead into battle were fit for their work.

"Now," said he rapidly, "it's evident from the shouting that's going on
that they won't waste much time with their palaver.  The hut in which
she is confined is not fifty yards off; I took care to ascertain its
position before leaving this morning.  What we have to do is simple.
Spring on the guards and knock them down with our fists or the hilts of
our hunting-knives, or with bits of stick, as suits us best.  But
_mind_"--here he looked pointedly at our guide--"no shedding of blood if
it can be avoided.  These men are not our enemies.  Follow me in single
file; when I halt, come up into line; let each single out the man
nearest to him, and when I hold up my hand spring like wild-cats.  If
there happen to be five or six guards instead of four, leave the
additional ones to me."  We merely nodded assent, and in another minute
were close upon the prison.  Peterkin, Mak, and I had provided us with
short heavy bludgeons on our way.  These we held in our right hands; our
left hands we kept free either to grasp our opponents with, or to draw
our knives if necessary.  Jack carried his long knife--it might almost
have been termed a short sword--in his left hand, and from the manner in
which he clinched his right I saw that he meant to make use of it as his
principal weapon.

On gaining the back of the house we heard voices within, but could see
nothing, so we moved softly round to the front, keeping, however, well
behind the screen of bushes.  Here Jack halted, and we ranged up
alongside of him and peeped through the bushes.  The hut was quite open
in front and the interior was brightly lighted by a strong fire, round
which the four guards--stout fellows all of them--were seated with their
spears beside them on the ground.  They were conversing in an excited
tone, and taking no notice of Okandaga, who sat behind them, partially
in the shade, with her face buried in her hands.  She was not tied in
any way, as the guards knew well enough that she could not hope to
escape them by mere running way.

One rapid glance showed us all this, and enabled us to select our men.
Then Jack gave the signal, and without an instant's hesitation we darted
upon them.  I know not in what manner my comrades acted their part.
From the moment I set eyes on the negro nearest to me, my blood began to
boil.  Somehow or other I saw Jack give the signal without taking my
eyes off my intended victim, then I sprang forward, and he had barely
time to look up in alarm when I struck him with all my force on the
right temple.  He fell without a groan.  I looked round instantly, and
there lay the other three, with my companions standing over them.  Our
plan had been so well concerted and so promptly executed that the four
men fell almost at the same instant, and without a cry.

Poor Okandaga leaped up and uttered a faint scream of alarm, but
Makarooroo's voice instantly reassured her, and with an exclamation of
joy she sprang into his arms.  There was no time for delay.  While the
scene I have described was being enacted the shouts in the centre of the
village had been increasing, and we guessed that in a few minutes more
the bloodthirsty executioners would come for their helpless victim.  We
therefore left the hut at once, and ran as fast as we could towards the
place where our guns and shoes had been left.  Our guide seized Okandaga
by the wrist and dragged her along; but indeed she was so nimble that at
first she required no assistance.  In a short time, however, we were
obliged to slacken our pace in order to enable her to keep up.  We
reached the guns in safety; but while we were in the act of lifting them
a burst of wild cries, that grew louder and fiercer as they approached,
told that the natives were rushing tumultuously towards the prison.

"Now, lads," said Jack, "we must put on full speed.--Mak, take her right
hand.--Here, Okandaga, your left."

At that instant there was a shout in the village, so loud that we knew
the escape was discovered.  An indescribable hubbub ensued, but we soon
lost it in the crackling of the underwood as we burst through it in our
headlong flight towards the cave.  The poor girl, feeling that her life
depended on it, exerted herself to the utmost, and with the aid of Jack
and her lover kept well up.

"She'll never hold out to the end," said Peterkin, glancing over his
shoulder as he ran.

The cries of the savages filled the woods in all directions, showing
that they had instantly scattered themselves in the pursuit, in order to
increase their chances of intercepting us.  We had already traversed the
greater part of the wood that lay between the village and the haunted
cavern, when two negroes, who must have taken a shorter route, descried
us.  They instantly uttered a yell of triumph and followed us at full
speed, while from the cries closing in upon us we could tell that the
others had heard and understood the shout.  Just then Okandaga's
strength began to fail, and her extreme terror, as the pursuers gained
on us, tended still further to increase her weakness.  This was all the
more unfortunate that we were now almost within a couple of hundred
yards of the mouth of the cave.

Makarooroo spoke encouragingly to her, but she was unable to reply, and
it became evident that she was about to sink down altogether.  Jack
glanced over his shoulder.  The two negroes were within fifty yards of
us, but no others were in sight.

"Hold my gun," said Jack to me sharply.

I seized it.  He instantly stooped down, grasped Okandaga round the
waist, and without stopping, swung her, with an exertion of strength
that seemed to me incredible, into his arms.  We gained the mouth of the
cavern; Jack dropped Okandaga, who immediately ran in, while the rest of
us stopped abruptly and faced about.

"Back, all of you," cried Jack, "else they will be afraid to come on."

The words had scarcely passed his lips when the two negroes came up, but
halted a few yards from the mouth of the cave on seeing such a giant
form guarding the entrance.

To let those men escape and reveal the place of our concealment was not
to be thought of.  Jack darted out upon them.  They separated from each
other as they turned to fly.  I was peeping out of the cave, and saw
that Jack could not secure them both; I therefore darted out, and
quickly overtaking one, seized him by the hair of the head and dragged
him into the cave with the aid of Peterkin.  Jack lifted the other
savage completely from the ground, and carried him in struggling in his
gripe like a child in its nurse's arms.

This last episode was enacted so quickly that the two negroes were
carried into the cavern and gagged before the other pursuers came up.
At the cave's mouth the whole of the men of the village shortly
assembled with the king at their head.  Thus far the excitement of the
chase had led them; but now that the first burst of their rage was over,
and they found themselves on the threshold of that haunted cavern, the
fear of which had been an element in their training from infancy, they
felt, no doubt, overawed by superstitious dread, and hesitated to enter,
although most of them must have been convinced that the fugitives were
there.  Their fears increased as their anger abated, and they crowded
round King Jambai, who seemed loath to take upon himself the honour of
leader.

"They must have sought shelter here," said the king, pointing to the
cavern and looking round with an assumption of boldness which he was
evidently far from feeling.  "Who among my warriors will follow me?"

"Perhaps the evil spirits have carried them away," suggested one of the
sable crew.

"That is the word of a coward," cried the king, who, although somewhat
timorous about spirits, was in reality a bold, brave man, and felt
nettled that any of his warriors should show the white feather.  "If
evil spirits are there, our fetishman will drive them away.  Let the
doctor stand forth."

At that moment the doctor, worthy knave, must have wished in his inmost
soul that he had remained quietly at home and left to warriors the task
of capturing the fugitives, but there was no resisting the mandate of
the king; besides, his honour and credit as a fetishman was at stake;
moreover, no doubt he felt somewhat emboldened by the presence of such a
large number of men--there were certainly several hundreds on the
ground--so, all things considered, he thought it best to accept the post
of leader with a good grace.  Stepping quickly forward, he cried, "Let
torches be brought, and I will lead the way."

A murmur of approbation ran through the crowd of blacks, who, like a
flock of sheep, felt bold enough to follow a leader blindly.

While the consultation was going on outside, we were making hasty
preparation for defending ourselves to the last extremity.  Peterkin, in
particular, was extremely active, and, to say truth, his actions
surprised us not a little.  I once or twice fancied that excitement had
turned his brain.  He first dressed up his head in a species of wild
turban made of dried grass and tall sedgy leaves; then he put several
patches of red and white earth on his black face, as well as on his body
in various places, and fastened a number of loose pieces of rag, torn
from a handkerchief, and bits of tattered leaves to his arms and legs in
such a manner as to give him an extremely wild and dishevelled
appearance.  I must say that when his hasty toilet was completed he
seemed to me the most horrible-looking demon I had ever conceived of.
He next poured out nearly a whole flask of gunpowder on a ledge of rock,
the edge of which was visible from the entrance to the cave, while the
rock itself concealed him from view.  Last of all, he took up the three
cones of moistened gunpowder which the reader will remember he had made
before we left the cave to attack the village.  One of these he placed
among the grass and branches on his head, the other two he held in his
hands.

"Now, boys," he said, when all was ready, "all I have to ask of you is
that you will stand by with matches, and when I give the word light the
points of those three cones of gunpowder simultaneously and instantly,
and leave me to finish the remainder of my part.  Of course you will be
prepared to back me up with your rifles if need be, but keep well out of
sight at first."

We now saw the drift of our eccentric friend's intention, but for my
part I felt little confidence in his success.  The plan seemed
altogether too wild and absurd.  But our danger was imminent.  No way of
escape seemed possible, and it is wonderful how readily men will grasp
at anything in the shape of a ruse or stratagem, no matter how silly or
wild, that affords the most distant chance of escape from danger.  Jack,
too, I could see from the look of his face, put little faith in the
plan; and I observed an expression on the countenance of our negro guide
which seemed to indicate that his respect for Peterkin's wisdom was on
the wane.

We had not to wait long.  The doctor, with several torch-bearers,
suddenly darted in with a shout, followed closely by the warriors, who
yelled furiously, in order, no doubt, to keep up their courage.

Alarmed by such an unusual hubbub in their usually quiet domain, the
bats came swooping from their holes in the walls by hundreds, and the
torches were extinguished almost instantly.  The savages who were near
the entrance drew back in haste; those who had entered stood rooted to
the spot in terror.

"Now!" whispered Peterkin eagerly.

We struck our lights at once and applied them to the points of the
gunpowder cones, which instantly began to spout forth a shower of sparks
with great violence.  Peterkin darted out from behind the rock with a
yell so appalling that we ourselves were startled by it, having
forgotten that it formed an element in his plan.  Suppose, for example,
the comet, which might arrive from any part of the heavens, came
from out that part of the star-depths which is occupied by the constellation
Taurus--then, if the arrival were so timed that the comet, which
might reach the sun at any time, fell upon him in May or June, we should
know nothing of that comet's approach: for it would approach in that
part of the heavens which was occupied by the sun, and his splendour
would hide as with a veil the destroying enemy.

On the other hand, if the comet, arriving from the same region of the
heavens, so approached as to fall upon the sun in November or December,
we should see it for several weeks. For it would then approach from the
part of the heavens high above the southern horizon at midnight.
Astronomers would be able in a few days after it was discovered to
determine its path and predict its downfall upon the sun, precisely as
Newton calculated the path of _his_ comet and predicted its near approach
to the sun. It would be known for weeks then that the event which
Newton contemplated as likely to cause a tremendous outburst of solar
heat, competent to destroy all life upon the surface of our earth, was
about to take place; and, doubtless, the minds of many students of science
would be exercised during that interval in determining whether
Newton was right or wrong. For my own part, I have very little doubt
that, though the change in the sun's condition in consequence of
the direct downfall upon his surface of a very large comet would
be but temporary, and in that sense slight--for what are a few weeks
in the history of an orb which has already existed during thousands
of millions of years?

--yet the effect upon the inhabitants of the earth would be by no
means slight. I do not think, however, that any students of science
would remain, after the catastrophe, to estimate or to record its
effects.

Fortunately, all that we have learned hitherto from the stars favours
the belief that, while a catastrophe of this sort may be possible,
it is exceedingly unlikely.

We may estimate the probabilities precisely in the same way that an insurance
company estimates the chance of a railway accident.

Such a company considers the number of accidents which occur
among a given number of railway journeys, and from the smallness of the
number of accidents compared with the largeness of the number of
journeys estimates the safety of railway travelling. Our sun is one among
many millions of suns, any one of which (though all but a few thousands
are actually invisible) would become visible to the naked eye, if
exposed to the same conditions as have affected the suns in flames
described in the preceding pages.

Seeing, then, that during the last two thousand years or thereabouts,
only a few instances of the kind, certainly not so many as twenty,
have been recorded, while there is reason to believe that some of
these relate to the same star which has blazed out more than once,
we may fairly consider the chance exceedingly small that during the
next two thousand, or even the next twenty thousand years, our sun
will be exposed to a catastrophe of the kind.

We might arrive at this conclusion independently of any considerations
tending to show that our sun belongs to a safe class of
system-rulers, and that all, or nearly all, the great solar catastrophes
have occurred among suns of a particular class. There are, however,
several considerations of the kind which are worth noting.

In the first place, we may dismiss as altogether unlikely the visit of a
comet from the star-depths to our sun, on a course carrying the comet
directly upon the sun's surface.

But if, among the comets travelling in regular attendance upon the sun,
there be one whose orbit intersects the sun's globe, then that comet must
several times ere this have struck the sun, raising him temporarily to
a destructive degree of heat. Now, such a comet must have a period of
enormous length, for the races of animals now existing upon the earth
must all have been formed since that comet's last visit--on the assumption,
be it remembered, that the fall of a large comet upon the sun, or rather
the direct passage of the sun through the meteoric nucleus of a
large comet, would excite the sun to destructive heat.

If all living creatures on the earth are to be destroyed when some comet
belonging to the solar system makes its next return to the sun, that
same comet at its last visit must have raised the sun to an equal,
or even greater intensity of heat, so that either no such races
as at present exist had then come into being, or, if any such existed,
they must at that time have been utterly destroyed. We may fairly believe
that all comets of the destructive sort have been eliminated. Judging
from the evidence we have on the subject, the process of the formation
of the solar system was one which involved the utilisation of cometic and
meteoric matter; and it fortunately so chanced that the comets likely
otherwise to have been most mischievous--those, namely, which crossed the
track of planets, and still more those whose paths intersected the
globe of the sun--were precisely those which would be earliest and
most thoroughly used up in this way.

Secondly, it is noteworthy that all the stars which have blazed out
suddenly, except one, have appeared in a particular region of the
heavens--the zone of the Milky Way (all, too, on one half of that
zone).

The single exception is the star in the Northern Crown, and that star
appeared in a region which I have found to be connected with the Milky
Way by a well-marked stream of stars, not a stream of a few stars scattered
here and there, but a stream where thousands of stars are closely
aggregated together, though not quite so closely as to form a visible
extension of the Milky Way.

In my map of 324,000 stars this stream can be quite clearly recognised;
but, indeed, the brighter stars scattered along it form a stream
recognisable with the naked eye, and have long since been regarded by
astronomers as such, forming the stars of the Serpent and the Crown,
or a serpentine streak followed by a loop of stars shaped like a coronet.
Now the Milky Way, and the outlying streams of stars connected with it,
seem to form a region of the stellar universe where fashioning processes
are still at work. As Sir W.
Herschel long since pointed out, we can recognise in various parts of
the heavens various stages of development, and chief among the regions
where as yet Nature's work seems incomplete, is the Galactic zone--especially
that half of it where the Milky Way consists of irregular streams and
clouds of stellar light. As there is no reason for believing that our
sun belongs to this part of the galaxy, but on the contrary good
ground for considering that he belongs to the class of insulated
stars, few of which have shown signs of irregular variation, while
none have ever blazed suddenly out with many hundred times their
former lustre, we may fairly infer a very high degree of probability
in favour of the belief that, for many ages still to come, the sun
will continue steadily to discharge his duties as fire, light, and
life of the solar system.

VII.

_THE RINGS OF SATURN._

The rings of Saturn, always among the most interesting objects of
astronomical research, have recently been subjected to close scrutiny
under high telescopic powers by Mr. Trouvelot, of the Harvard Observatory,
Cambridge, U.S. The results which he has obtained afford very
significant evidence respecting these strange appendages, and even throw
some degree of light on the subject of cosmical evolution.

The present time, when Saturn is the ruling planet of the night, seems
favourable for giving a brief account of recent speculations respecting
the Saturnian ring-system, especially as the observations of Mr.
Trouvelot appear to remove all doubt as to the true nature of the rings,
if indeed any doubt could reasonably be entertained after the
investigations made by European and American astronomers when the
dark inner ring had but recently been recognised.

It may be well to give a brief account of the progress of observation
from the time when the rings were first discovered.

In passing, I may remark that the failure of Galileo to ascertain
the real shape of these appendages has always seemed to me to afford
striking evidence of the importance of careful reasoning upon all
observations whose actual significance is not at once apparent.

If Galileo had been thus careful to analyse his observations of
Saturn, he could not have failed to ascertain their real meaning. He had
seen the planet apparently attended by two large satellites, one
on either side, 'as though supporting the aged Saturn upon his slow
course around the sun.' Night after night he had seen these attendants,
always similarly placed, one on either side of the planet, and at equal
distances from it.

Then in 1612 he had again examined the planet, and lo, the attendants had
vanished, 'as though Saturn had been at his old tricks, and had
devoured his children.' But after a while the attendant orbs had
reappeared in their former positions, had seemed slowly to grow
larger, until at length they had presented the appearance of two
pairs of mighty arms encompassing the planet.

If Galileo had reasoned upon these changes of appearance, he could not
have failed, as it seems to me, to interpret their true meaning.

The three forms under which the rings had been seen by him sufficed to
indicate the true shape of the appendage. Because Saturn was seen with
two attendants of apparently equal size and always equi-distant from
him, it was certain that there must be some appendage surrounding
him, and extending to that distance from his globe.

Because this appendage disappeared, it was certain that it must be
thin and flat. Because it appeared at another time with a dark space
between the arms and the planet, it was certain that the appendage
is separated by a wide gap from the body of the planet.

So that Galileo might have concluded--not doubtfully, but with assured
confidence--that the appendage is a thin flat ring nowhere attached
to the planet, or, as Huyghens said some forty years later, Saturn
'_annulo cingitur tenui, plano, nusquam cohærente_.' Whether such reasoning
would have been accepted by the contemporaries of Galileo may be doubtful.
The generality of men are not content with reasoning which is logically
sound, but require evidence which they can easily understand. Very likely
Huyghens' proof from direct observation, though in reality not a whit
more complete and far rougher, would have been regarded as the
first true proof of the existence of Saturn's ring, just as Sir W.
Herschel's observation of one star actually moving round another
was regarded as the first true proof of the physical association
of certain stars, a fact which Michell had proved as completely and
far more neatly half a century earlier, by a method, however, which
was 'caviare to the general.'

However, as matters chanced, the scientific world was not
called upon to decide between the merits of a discovery made by direct
observation and one effected by means of abstract reasoning.

It was not until Saturn had been examined with much higher telescopic
power than Galileo could employ, that the appendage which had so
perplexed the Florentine astronomer was seen to be a thin flat ring,
nowhere touching the planet, and considerably inclined to the plane
in which Saturn travels.

We cannot wonder that the discovery was regarded as a most interesting
one.

Astronomers had heretofore had to deal with solid masses, either
known to be spheroidal, like the earth, the sun, the moon, Jupiter,
and Venus, or presumed to be so, like the stars.

The comets might be judged to be vaporous masses of various
forms; but even these were supposed to surround or to attend upon
globe-shaped nuclear masses. Here, however, in the case of Saturn's ring,
was a quoit-shaped body travelling around the sun in continual attendance
upon Saturn, whose motions, no matter how they varied in velocity or
direction, were so closely followed by this strange attendant that the
planet remained always centrally poised within the span of its
ring-girdle. To appreciate the interest with which this strange phenomenon
was regarded, we must remember that as yet the law of gravity had not
been recognised. Huyghens discovered the ring (or rather perceived its
nature) in 1659, but it was not till 1666 that Newton first entertained
the idea that the moon is retained in its orbit about the earth by the
attractive energy which causes unsupported bodies to fall earthwards; and
he was unable to demonstrate the law of gravity before 1684.
Now, in a general sense, we can readily understand in these days
how a ring around a planet continues to travel along with the planet
despite all changes of velocity or direction of motion.

For the law of gravity teaches that the same causes which tend to change
the direction and velocity of the planet's motion tend in precisely the
same degree to change the direction and velocity of the ring's motion.
But when Huyghens made his discovery it must have appeared a most mysterious
circumstance that a ring and planet should be thus constantly
associated--that during thousands of years no collision should
have occurred whereby the relatively delicate structure of the ring
had been destroyed.

Only six years later a discovery was made by two English observers, William
and Thomas Ball, which enhanced the mystery. Observing the northern face
of the ring, which was at that time turned earthwards, they perceived
a black stripe of considerable breadth dividing the ring into two
concentric portions.

The discovery did not attract so much attention as it deserved,
insomuch that when Cassini, ten years later, announced the discovery
of a corresponding dark division on the southern surface, none
recalled the observation made by the brothers Ball.

Cassini expressed the opinion that the ring is really divided into two,
not merely marked by a dark stripe on its southern face. This conclusion
would, of course, have been an assured one, had the previous observation
of a dark division on the northern face been remembered.

With the knowledge which we now possess, indeed, the darkness of the seeming
stripe would be sufficient evidence that there must be a real
division there between the rings; for we know that no mere darkness
of the ring's substance could account for the apparent darkness of
the stripe.

It has been well remarked by Professor Tyndall, that if the moon's
whole surface could be covered with black velvet, she would yet
appear white when seen on the dark background of the sky.

And it may be doubted whether a circular strip of black velvet 2000
miles wide, placed where we see the dark division between the
rings, would appear nearly as dark as that division.

Since we could only admit the possibility of some substance resembling
our darker rocks occupying this position (for we know of nothing
to justify the supposition that a substance as dark as lampblack
or black velvet could be there), we are manifestly precluded from
supposing that the dark space is other than a division between two
distinct rings.

Yet Sir W. Herschel, in examining the rings of Saturn with his powerful
telescopes, for a long time favoured the theory that there is no real
division. He called it the 'broad black mark,' and argued that it can
neither indicate the existence of a zone of hills upon the ring, nor
of a vast cavernous groove, for in either case it would present changes
of appearance (according to the ring's changes of position) such as he
was unable to detect.

It was not until the year 1790, eleven years after his observations
had commenced, that, perceiving a corresponding broad black mark
upon the ring's southern face, Herschel expressed a 'suspicion'
that the ring is divided into two concentric portions by a circular
gap nearly 2000 miles in width.

"Tell Mbango," said he to our guide, "that though we be small in numbers
we are very powerful; that we can do deeds" (here he became awfully
solemn and mysterious) "such as no black man ever conceived of; and that
if a hair of the head of Okandaga is hurt, we will on our return--"

Instead of completing the sentence, Peterkin started up, threw himself
into violent contortions, rolled his eyes in a fearful manner, and, in
short, gave the chief and his people to understand that something quite
indescribable and unutterably terrible would be the result of their
playing us false.

"Send for Njamie," said Mbango to one of his retainers.

Njamie, who was the chief's principal wife, soon appeared.  She led a
sturdy little boy by the hand.  He was her only son, and a very fine
little fellow, despite the blackness of his skin and his almost total
want of clothing.

To this woman Mbango gave Okandaga in charge, directing her in our
presence how to care for her, and assuring her of the most terrible
punishment should anything befall the woman committed to her care.

Njamie was a mild, agreeable woman.  She had more modesty of demeanour
and humility of aspect than the most of the women of her tribe whom we
happened to see, so that we felt disposed to believe that Okandaga was
placed in as safe keeping as it was possible for us to provide for her
in our circumstances.  Even Makarooroo appeared to be quite at ease in
his mind; and it was evidently with a relieved breast and a light heart
that he bade adieu to his bride, and started along with us on the
following day on our journey into the deeper recesses of the wilderness.

Before entering upon these transactions with the people of this village,
we took care to keep our crew in total ignorance of what passed by
sending them on in advance with the canoe under Jack's care, a few hours
before we brought Okandaga into the village, or even made mention of her
existence; and we secured their ready obedience to our orders, and total
indifference as to our motives in these incomprehensible actions, by
giving them each a few inches of tobacco--a gift which rendered them
supremely happy.

One day, about a week after the events above narrated, we met with an
adventure which well-nigh cost Jack his life, but which ultimately
resulted in an important change in our manner of travelling.  We were
traversing an extremely beautiful country with the goods on our
shoulders, having, in consequence of the increasing turbulence of the
river as well as its change of direction, been compelled to abandon our
canoe, and cut across the country in as straight a line as its nature
would permit.  But this was not easy, for the grass, which was bright
green, was so long as to reach sometimes higher than our shoulders.

In this species of country Jack's towering height really became of great
use, enabling him frequently to walk along with his head above the
surrounding herbage, while we were compelled to grope along, ignorant of
all that was around us save the tall grass at our sides.  Occasionally,
however, we came upon more open ground, where the grass was short, and
then we enjoyed the lovely scenery to the full.  We met with a great
variety of new plants and trees in this region.  Many of the latter were
festooned with wild vines and other climbing plants.  Among others, I
saw several specimens of that curious and interesting tree the banyan,
with its drop-shoots in every state of growth--some beginning to point
towards the earth, in which they were ultimately destined to take root;
some more than half-way down; while others were already fixed, forming
stout pillars to their parent branches--thus, as it were, on reaching
maturity, rendering that support which it is the glory as well as the
privilege of youth to accord to age.  Besides these, there were wild
dates and palmyra trees, and many others too numerous to mention, but
the peculiar characteristics of which I carefully jotted down in my
note-book.  Many small water-courses were crossed, in some of which Mak
pointed out a number of holes, which he said were made by elephants
wading in them.  He also told us that several mud-pools, which seemed to
have been recently and violently stirred up, were caused by the
wallowing of the rhinoceros; so we kept at all times a sharp lookout for
a shot.

Lions were also numerous in this neighbourhood, and we constantly heard
them roaring at night, but seldom saw them during our march.

Well, as I have already remarked, one day we were travelling somewhat
slowly through the long grass of this country, when, feeling oppressed
by the heat, as well as somewhat fatigued with my load, I called to
Jack, who was in advance, to stop for a few minutes to rest.

"Most willingly," he replied, throwing down his load, and wiping away
the perspiration which stood in large drops on his brow.  "I was on the
point of calling a halt when you spoke.--How do you get on down there,
Peterkin?"

Our friend, who had seated himself on the bale he had been carrying, and
seemed to be excessively hot, looked up with a comical expression of
countenance, and replied--

"Pretty well, thank'ee.  How do _you_ get on _up there_?"

"Oh, capitally.  There's such a nice cool breeze blowing, I'm quite
sorry that I cannot send a little of it down."

"Don't distress yourself, my dear fellow; I'll come up to snuff it."

So saying, Peterkin sprang nimbly upon Jack's shoulders, and began to
gaze round him.

"I say, Peterkin," said Jack, "why are you a very clever fellow just
now?"

"Don't know," replied Peterkin.  "I give it up at once.  Always do.
Never could guess a riddle in all my life."

"Because," said Jack, "you're `_up to snuff_.'"

"Oh, oh! that certainly deserves a _pinch_; so there's for you."

Jack uttered a roar, and tossed Peterkin off his shoulders, on receiving
the punishment.

"Shabby fellow!" cried Peterkin, rubbing his head.  "But, I say, do let
me up again.  I thought, just as you dropped me, that I saw a place
where the grass is short.  Ay, there it is, fifty yards or so ahead of
us, with a palmyra tree on it.  Come, let us go rest there, for I
confess that I feel somewhat smothered in this long grass."

We took up our packs immediately, and carried them to the spot
indicated, which we found almost free from long grass.  Here we lay down
to enjoy the delightful shade of the tree, and the magnificent view of
the country around us.  Our negroes also seemed to enjoy the shade, but
they were evidently not nearly so much oppressed with the heat as we
were, which was very natural.  They seemed to have no perception of the
beautiful in nature, however, although they appreciated fully the
agreeable influences by which they were surrounded.

While I lay at the foot of that tree, pondering this subject, I observed
a very strange-looking insect engaged in a very curious kind of
occupation.  Peterkin's eye caught sight of it at the same instant with
mine.

"Hollo!  Jack, look here!" he cried in a whisper.  "I declare, here's a
beast been and shoved its head into a hole, and converted its tail into
a trap!"

We all three lay down as quietly as possible, and I could not but smile
when I thought of the literal correctness of my friend's quaint
description of what we saw.

The insect was a species of ant-eater.  It was about an inch and a
quarter long, as thick as a crow-quill, and covered with black hair.  It
put its head into a little hole in the ground, and quivered its tail
rapidly.  The ants, which seemed to be filled with curiosity at this
peculiar sight, went near to see what the strange thing could be; and no
sooner did one come within the range of the forceps on the insect's
tail, than it was snapped up.

"Now, that is the most original trapper I ever did see or hear of,"
remarked Peterkin, with a broad grin.  "I've seen many things in my
travels, but I never expected to meet with a beast that could catch
others by merely wagging its tail."

"You forget the hunters of North America," said Jack, "who entice little
antelopes towards them by merely wagging a bit of rag on the end of a
ramrod."

"I forget nothing of the sort," retorted Peterkin.  "Wagging a ramrod is
not wagging a tail.  Besides, I spoke of beasts doing it; men are not
beasts."

"Then I hold you self-convicted, my boy," exclaimed Jack; "for you have
often called _me_ a beast."

"By no means, Jack.  I am not self-convicted, but quite correct, as I
can prove to the satisfaction of any one who isn't a philosopher.  You
never can prove anything to a philosopher."

"Prove it, then."

"I will.  Isn't a monkey a beast?"

"Certainly."

"Isn't a gorilla a monkey?"

"No doubt it is."

"And aren't _you_ a gorilla?"

"I say, lads, it's time to be going," cried Jack, with a laugh, as he
rose and resumed his load.

At that moment Mak uttered an exclamation, and pointed towards a
particular spot in the plain before us, where, close by a clump of
trees, we saw the graceful head and neck and part of the shoulders of a
giraffe.  We were naturally much excited at the sight, this being the
first we had fallen in with.

"You'd better go after it," said Jack to Peterkin, "and take Mak with
you."

"I'd rather you'd go yourself," replied Peterkin; "for, to say truth,
I'm pretty well knocked up to-day.  I don't know how it is--one day one
feels made of iron, as if nothing could tire one; and the next, one
feels quite weak and spiritless."

"Well, I'll go; but I shall not take any one with me.--Take observation
of the sun, Mak, and keep a straight course as you are now going until
night.  D'ye see yonder ridge?"

"Yes, massa."

"Then hold on direct for that, and encamp there.  I'll not be long
behind you, and hope to bring you a giraffe steak for supper."

We endeavoured to dissuade Jack from going out alone, but he said truly
that his load distributed among us all was quite sufficient, without
adding to it by taking away another member of the party.  Thus we
parted; but I felt a strange feeling of depression, a kind of foreboding
of evil, which I could not shake off, despite my utmost efforts.
Peterkin, too, was unusually silent, and I could not avoid seeing that
he felt more anxiety on account of Jack's rashness than he was willing
to allow.  "Thank you," returned her God-daughter; "I am perfectly well
satisfied to be left with my books.

As a matter of fact, dances bore me."
And she carelessly glanced at some mathematical works that she had
used when cramming for the Senior Wranglership.

"Nonsense, my dear," responded the well-intentioned Fairy, "Get me a
pumpkin, some mice--"
"Quite out of date," interrupted CINDERELLA.

"I presume you intend to turn the pumpkin into a great coach, and so forth.
Eh?"
"Well," admitted the Fairy, taken aback, "ye-es."
"Quite so. Believe me, the idea is distinctly old-fashioned. Pray
understand, I don't say you can't do it. Nowadays, with EDISON and KOCH,
it would be dangerous to suggest that anything was impossible.
No, I merely object to travel in a conveyance that will naturally be
redolent of the odours of the kitchen garden, and to be driven by a
coachman derived from a rodent."

"But this objection is contrary to precedent," urged the Fairy. "You
ought to express unbounded delight, and then depart in your carriage
with the greatest _éclat_ possible."

"You are most kind, but, if I am to do anything of _that_ sort, I would
prefer leaving the matter in the hands of Mr.

Sheriff AUGUSTUS HARRIS who thoroughly understands the entire business."

"It seems to me," said the Fairy, "you are very ungrateful. But surely
you want a magnificent costume?"
"Thanks, no; I get everything from Paris."
"And you think of the feelings of your _modiste_, and ignore those of
your poor old (but well-preserved) Godmother!" And the Fairy was nearly
moved to tears.

"Oh, I did not mean to pain you!" exclaimed CINDERELLA. "Stay, my dear
Lady, do you believe in hypnotism? No?

Well, I do, and exercise it.
Pardon me!"
And as she made a few passes, the Fairy sank into a mesmeric
trance.
Then, CINDERELLA desired that her Godmother should imagine that she
had been the heroine of a Fairy Story.
"Dear me," cried the now-satisfied dame, as she regained consciousness;
"and so you went to the ball, lost your slipper, and married the
Prince?"
"That was the impression I wished to convey to you. And now, my
dear, good Lady, I am afraid I must ask you to leave me."
And as the Fairy disappeared, CINDERELLA resumed her self-imposed
tasks of making an omelette and squaring the circle.
* * * * *
RE-"MARKS."--New Legal Measure, "One Gill more than equal to Several
Legal Pints." [Formula, 1 Gill = 1 + _x_ pints.I proved this to
my own satisfaction by taking accurate observation.  On first observing
the tremendous speed at which he was going, I seized my note-book, and
pulling out my watch, endeavoured to count the number of steps he took
in a minute.  This, however, I found was totally impossible; for his
legs, big though they were, went so fast that I could no more count them
than I could count the spokes of a carriage-wheel.  I observed, however,
that there were two bushes on the plain in the direction of his flight,
which he would soon have to pass.  I therefore laid down my note-book
and rifle, and stood with my watch in hand, ready to note the precise
instants at which he should pass the first and second.  By afterwards
counting the number of footsteps on the ground between the bushes, and
comparing the result with the time occupied in passing between the two,
I thus proposed to myself to ascertain his rate of speed.

Scarcely had I conceived this idea when the bird passed the first bush,
and I glanced at my watch; then he passed the second, and I glanced
again.  Thus I noted that he took exactly ten seconds to pass from one
bush to the other.  While I was in the act of jotting this down I heard
the report of Peterkin's rifle, and looking up hastily, saw the
tail-feathers of the ostrich knocked into the air, but the bird itself
passed on uninjured.  I was deeply mortified at this failure, and all
the more so that, from past experience, I had been led to believe that
my friend _never_ missed his mark.  Hurrying up, I exclaimed--

"Why, my dear fellow, what _can_ have come over you?"

Poor Peterkin seemed really quite distressed; he looked quite humbled at
first.

"Ah!" said he, "it's all very well for you to say, `What has come over
you?' but you ought to make allowance for a man who has carried a heavy
load all the forenoon.  Besides, he was almost beyond range.  Moreover,
although I have hunted a good deal, I really have not been in the habit
of firing at animal locomotives under full steam.  Did you ever see such
a slapping pace and such an outrageous pair of legs, Ralph?"

"Never," said I.  "But come with me to yonder bushes.  I'm going to make
a calculation."

"What's a calcoolashun?" inquired our guide, who came up at that moment,
panting violently.

"It's a summation, case of counting up one, two, three, etcetera--and
may be multiplying, subtracting, and dividing into the bargain."

"Ho! dat's what me been do at de missionary school."

"Exactly; but what sort of calculation Ralph means to undertake at
present I know not.  Perhaps he's going to try to find out whether, if
we were to run at the rate of six miles an hour till doomsday, in the
wrong direction, there would be any chance of our ever sticking that
ostrich's tail again on his big body.  But come along; we shall see."

On reaching the spot I could scarcely believe my eyes.  Each step this
bird had taken measured fourteen feet in length!  I always carried a
rolled-up yard-measure about with me, which I applied to the steps, so
that I could make no mistake.  There were exactly thirty of those
gigantic paces between the two bushes.  This multiplied by six gave 180
steps, or 2,520 feet in one minute, which resulted in 151,200 feet, or
50,400 yards, or very nearly thirty miles in the hour.

"No wonder I only knocked his tail off," said Peterkin.

"On the contrary," said I, "the wonder is that under the circumstances
you hit the bird at all."

On further examination of the place where we had seen the ostrich before
it was alarmed, we ascertained that his ordinary walking pace varied
from twenty to twenty-six inches in length.

After this unsuccessful hunt we returned to our comrades, and proceeded
to the rendezvous where we expected to find Jack; but as he was not
there, we concluded that he must have wandered farther than he intended,
so, throwing down our packs, we set about preparing the camp and a good
supper against his return.  Gradually the sun began to sink low on the
horizon; then he dipped below it, and the short twilight of those
latitudes was rapidly merging into night; but Jack did not return, and
the uneasiness which we had all along felt in regard to him increased so
much that we could not refrain from showing it.

"I'll tell you what it is, Ralph," cried Peterkin, starting up suddenly:
"I'm not going to sit here wasting the time when Jack may be in some
desperate fix.  I'll go and hunt for him."

"Me tink you right," said our guide; "dere is ebery sort ob ting here--
beasties and mans.  P'raps Massa Jack am be kill."

I could not help shuddering at the bare idea of such a thing, so I at
once seconded my companion's proposal, and resolved to accompany him.

"Take your double-barrel, Ralph, and I'll lend our spare big gun to
Mak."

"But how are we to proceed? which way are we to go?  I have not the most
distant idea as to what direction we ought to go in our search."

"Leave that to Mak.  He knows the ways o' the country best, and the
probable route that Jack has taken.  Are you ready?"

"Yes.  Shall we take some brandy?"

"Ay; well thought of.  He'll perhaps be the better of something of that
sort if anything has befallen him.  Now, then, let's go."

Leaving our men in charge of the camp, with strict injunctions to keep
good watch and not allow the fires to go down, lest they should be
attacked by lions, we three set forth on our nocturnal search.  From
time to time we stood still and shouted in a manner that would let our
lost friend know that we were in search of him, should he be within
earshot, but no answering cry came back to us; and we were beginning to
despair, when we came upon the footprints of a man in the soft soil of a
swampy spot we had to cross.  It was a clear moonlight night, so that we
could distinguish them perfectly.

"Ho!" exclaimed our guide, as he stooped to examine the marks.

"Well, Mak, what do you make of it?" inquired Peterkin anxiously.

Mak made no reply for a few seconds; then he rose, and said earnestly,
"Dat am Massa Jack's foot."

I confess that I was somewhat surprised at the air of confidence with
which our guide made this statement; for after a most careful
examination of the prints, which were exceedingly indistinct, I could
discern nothing to indicate that they had been made by Jack.

"Are you sure, Mak?" asked Peterkin.

"Sartin sure, massa."

"Then push on as fast as you can."

Presently we came to a spot where the ground was harder and the prints
more distinct.

"Ha! you're wrong, Mak," cried Peterkin, in a voice of disappointment,
as he stooped to examine the footsteps again.  "Here we have the print
of a naked foot; Jack wore shoes.  And, what's this? blood!"

"Yis, massa, me know dat Massa Jack hab shoes.  But dat be him's foot
for all dat, and him's hurt somehow for certain."

The reader may imagine our state of mind on making this discovery.
Without uttering another word, we quickened our pace into a smart run,
keeping closely in the track of Jack's steps.  Soon we observed that
these deviated from side to side in an extraordinary manner, as if the
person who made them had been unable to walk straight.  In a few minutes
more we came on the footprints of a rhinoceros--a sight which still
further increased our alarm.  On coming out from among a clump of low
bushes that skirted the edge of a small plain, we observed a dark object
lying on the ground about fifty yards distant from us.  I almost sank
down with an undefinable feeling of dread on beholding this.

We held our rifles in readiness as we approached it at a quick pace, for
we knew not whether it was not a wild animal which might spring upon us
the moment we came close enough.  But a few seconds dispelled our dread
of such an attack and confirmed our worst fears, for there, in a pool of
blood, lay Jack's manly form.  The face was upturned, and the moon,
which shone full upon it, showed that it was pale as death and covered
with blood.  His clothes were rent and dishevelled and covered with
dust, as if he had struggled hard with some powerful foe, and all round
the spot were footprints of a rhinoceros, revealing too clearly the
character of the terrible monster with which our friend had engaged in
unequal conflict.

But while this was the general belief, there was already a school of
philosophy where another doctrine had been taught.

Pythagoras had adopted the belief of Apollonius Pergæus that the
sun is the centre of the planetary paths, the earth one among the
planets--a belief inseparable from the doctrine of the plurality
of worlds.

Much argument has been advanced to show that this belief never was adopted
before the time of Copernicus, and unquestionably it must be admitted
that the theory was not presented in the clear and simple form to
which we have become accustomed. But it is not necessary to weigh the
conflicting arguments for and against the opinion that Pythagoras and
others regarded the earth as not the fixed centre of the universe.
The certain fact that the doctrine of the plurality of worlds was
entertained (I do not say adopted) by them, proves sufficiently that they
cannot have believed the earth to be fixed and central. The idea
of other worlds like our earth is manifestly inconsistent with the belief
that the earth is the central body around which the whole universe
revolves.

That this is so is well illustrated by the fate of the unfortunate
Giordano Bruno.

He was one of the first disciples of Copernicus, and, having
accepted the doctrine that the earth travels round the sun as one among
his family of planets, was led very naturally to the belief that
the other planets are inhabited.

He went farther, and maintained that as the earth is not the only
inhabited world in the solar system, so the sun is not the only
centre of a system of inhabited worlds, but each star a sun like
him, about which many planets revolve.

This was one of the many heresies for which Bruno was burned at the
stake. It is easy, also, to recognise in the doctrine of many worlds
as the natural sequel of the Copernican theory, rather than in the
features of this theory itself, the cause of the hostility with
which theologians regarded it, until, finding it proved, they
discovered that it is directly taught in the books which they
interpret for us so variously.

The Copernican theory was not rejected--nay, it was even countenanced--until
this particular consequence of the theory was recognised. But within a
few years from the persecution of Bruno, Galileo was imprisoned,
and the last years of his life made miserable, because it had become
clear that in setting the earth adrift from its position as centre
of the universe, he and his brother Copernicans were sanctioning
the belief in other worlds than ours.

Again and again, in the attacks made by clericals and theologians upon
the Copernican theory, this lamentable consequence was insisted
upon.

Unconscious that they were advancing the most damaging argument which
could be conceived for the cause they had at heart, they maintained,
honestly but unfortunately, that with the new theory came the
manifest inference that our earth is not the only and by no means
the most important world in the universe--a doctrine manifestly
inconsistent (so they said) with the teachings of the Scriptures.

It was naturally only by a slow progression that men were able to
advance into the domain spread before them by the Copernican theory,
and to recognise the real minuteness of the earth both in space and
time.

They more quickly recognised the earth's insignificance in space,
because the new theory absolutely forced this fact upon them. If the
earth, whose globe they knew to be minute compared with her distance
from the sun, is really circling around the sun in a mighty orbit
many millions of miles in diameter, it follows of necessity that
the fixed stars must lie so far away that even the span of the
earth's orbit is reduced to nothing by comparison with the vast
depths beyond which lie even the nearest of those suns.

This was Tycho Brahe's famous and perfectly sound argument against the
Copernican theory. 'The stars remain fixed in apparent position all the
time, yet the Copernicans tell us that the earth from which we
view the stars is circling once a year in an orbit many millions
of miles in diameter; how is it that from so widely ranging a point
of view we do not see widely different celestial scenery?

Who can believe that the stars are so remote that by comparison the
span of the earth's path is a mere point?' Tycho's argument was of course
valid.[31] Of two things one. Either the earth does not travel round
the sun, or the stars are much farther away than men had conceived
possible in Tycho's time. His mistake lay in rejecting the correct
conclusion because simply it made the visible universe seem many millions
of times vaster than he had supposed. Yet the universe, even as thus
enlarged, was but a point to the universe visible in our day, which
in turn will dwindle to a point compared with the universe as men will
see it a few centuries hence; while that or the utmost range of space
over which men can ever extend their survey is doubtless as nothing
to the real universe of occupied space.

Such has been the progression of our ideas as to the position of the earth
in space.

Forced by the discoveries of Copernicus to regard our earth as a
mere point compared with the distances of the nearest fixed stars,
men gradually learned to recognise those distances which at first
had seemed infinite as in their turn evanescent even by comparison
with that mere point of space over which man is able by instrumental
means to extend his survey.

Though there has been a similar progression in men's ideas as to
the earth's position in time, that progression has not been carried
to a corresponding extent.

Men have not been so bold in widening their conceptions of time as in
widening their conceptions of space. It is here and thus that, in my
judgment, the subject of life in other worlds has been hitherto
incorrectly dealt with. Men have given up as utterly idle the idea that
the existence of worlds is to be limited to the special domain of space
to which our earth belongs; but they are content to retain the
conception that the domain of time to which our earth's history
belongs, 'this bank and shoal of time' on which the life of the earth
is cast, is the period to which the existence of other worlds than
ours should be referred.

This, which is to be noticed in nearly all our ordinary treatises
on astronomy, appears as a characteristic peculiarity of works
advocating the theory of the plurality of worlds.

Brewster and Dick and Chalmers, all in fact who have taken that
doctrine under their special protection, reason respecting other worlds
as though, if they failed to prove that other orbs are inhabited _now_,
or are at least _now_ supporting life in some way or other, they
failed of their purpose altogether.

The idea does not seem to have occurred to them that there is room and
verge enough in eternity of time not only for activity but for rest.
They must have all the orbs of space busy at once in the one work which
they seem able to conceive as the possible purpose of those bodies--the
support of life. The argument from analogy, which they had found
effective in establishing the general theory of the plurality of worlds,
is forgotten when its application to details would suggest that not _all_
orbs are _at all times_ either the abode of life or in some way
subserving the purposes of life.

We find, in all the forms of life with which we are acquainted, three
characteristic periods--first the time of preparation for the purposes
of life; next, the time of fitness for those purposes; and
thirdly, the time of decadence tending gradually to death. We see among
all objects which exist in numbers, examples of all these stages
existing at the same time.

In every race of living creatures there are the young as yet unfit for
work, the workers, and those past work; in every forest there
are saplings, seed-bearing trees, and trees long past the seed-bearing
period.

We know that planets, or rather, speaking more generally, the orbs which
people space, pass through various stages of development, during some
only of which they can reasonably be regarded as the abode of life or
supporting life; yet the eager champion of the theory of many worlds will
have them all in these life-bearing or life-supporting stages, none
in any of the stages of preparation, none in any of the stages of decrepitude
or death.

This has probably had its origin in no small degree from the disfavour
with which in former years the theory of the growth and development
of planets and systems of planets was regarded.

Until the evidence became too strong to be resisted, the doctrine that
our earth was once a baby world, with many millions of years to pass
through before it could be the abode of life, was one which only the
professed atheist (so said too many divines) could for a moment entertain;
while the doctrine that not the earth alone, but the whole of the
solar system, had developed from a condition utterly unlike that
through which it is now passing, could have had its origin only in
the suggestions of the Evil One.

Both doctrines were pronounced to be so manifestly opposed to the teachings
of Moses, and not only so, but so manifestly inconsistent with the
belief in a Supreme Being, that--that further argument was
unnecessary, and denunciation only was required.

So confident were divines on these points, that it would not have been
very wonderful if some few students of science had mistaken assertion for
proof, and so concluded that the doctrines towards which science was
unmistakably leading them really were inconsistent with what they had
been taught to regard as the Word of God. Whether multiplied experiences
taught men of science to wait before thus deciding, or however
matters fell out, it certainly befell before very long that the
terrible doctrine of cosmical development was supported by such
powerful evidence, astronomical and terrestrial, as to appear wholly
irresistible.

Then, not only was the doctrine accepted by divines, but shown to
be manifestly implied in the sacred narrative of the formation of
the earth and heavens, sun, and moon, and stars; while upon those
unfortunate students of science who had not changed front in good
time, and were found still arguing on the mistaken assumption that
the development of our system was not accordant with that ancient
narrative, freshly forged bolts were flung from the Olympus of
orthodoxy.

So far as the other argument--from the inconsistency of the development
theory with belief in a Supreme Being--was concerned, the student
of science was independent of the interpretations which divines
claim the sole right of assigning to the ancient books.

Science has done so much more than divinity (which in fact has done
nothing) to widen our conceptions of space and time, that she may
justly claim full right to deal with any difficulties arising from
such enlargement of our ideas.

With the theological difficulty science would not care to deal at all,
were she not urged to do so by the denunciations of divines; and when,
so urged, she touches that difficulty, she is quickly told that the
difficulty is insuperable, and not long after that it has no existence,
and (on both accounts) that it should have been left alone.

But with the difficulty arising from the widening of our ideas
respecting space and time, science may claim good, almost sole,
right to deal.

The path to a solution of the problem is not difficult to find. At a first
view, it does seem to those whose vision had been limited to a
contracted field, that the wide domain of time and space in which
processes of development are found to take place is the universe
itself, that to deny the formation of our earth by a special creative
act is to deny the existence of a Creator, that to regard the
beginning of our earth as a process of development is to assert
that development has been in operation from the beginning of all
things.

But when we recognise clearly that vastness and minuteness, prolonged
and brief duration, are merely relative, we perceive that in considering
our earth's history we have to deal only with small parts of space
and brief periods of time, by comparison with all space and all time.

Our earth is very large compared with a tree or an animal, but very
small compared with the solar system, a mere point compared with
the system of stars to which the sun belongs, and absolutely as
nothing compared with the universe of space; and in like manner,
while the periods of her growth and development occupy periods very
long-lasting compared with those required for the growth and
development of a tree or an animal, they are doubtless but brief
compared with the eras of the development of our solar system, a
mere instant compared with the eras of the development of star-systems,
and absolutely evanescent compared with eternity.

We have no more reason for rejecting the belief in a Creator because
our earth or the solar system is found to have developed to its present
condition from an embryonic primordial state, than we have had ever
since men first found that animals and trees are developed from the germ.
The region of development is larger, the period of development lasts
longer, but neither the one nor the other is infinite; and being finite,
both one and the other are simply nothing by comparison with infinity.
It is a startling thought, doubtless, that periods of time compared
with which the life of a man, the existence of a nation, nay, the
duration of the human race itself, sink into insignificance, should
themselves in turn be dwarfed into nothingness by comparison with periods
of a still higher order.

But the thought is not more startling than that other thought which
we have been compelled to admit--the thought that the earth on which
we live, and the solar system to which it belongs, though each so
vast that all known material objects are as nothing by comparison,
are in turn as nothing compared with the depths of space separating
us from even the nearest among the fixed stars.

One thought, as I have said, we have been compelled to admit, the
other has not as yet been absolutely forced upon us.

Though men have long since given up the idea that the earth and heavens
have endured but a few thousand years, it is still possible to
believe that the birth of our solar system, whether by creative act
or by the beginning of processes of development, belongs to the
beginning of all time.

But this view cannot be regarded as even probable.

Although it has never been proved that any definite relation must
subsist between time (occupied by events) and space (occupied by
matter), the mind naturally accepts the belief that such a relation
exists. As we find the universe enlarging under the survey of science,
our conceptions of the duration of the universe enlarge also. When
the earth was supposed to be the most important object in creation,
men might reasonably assign to time itself (regarded as the interval
between the beginning of the earth and the consummation of all
things when the earth should perish) a moderate duration; but it
is equally reasonable that, as the insignificance of the earth's domain
in space is recognised, men should recognise also the presumable
insignificance of the earth's existence in time.

In this respect, although we have nothing like the direct evidence afforded
by the measurement of space, we yet have evidence which can scarcely
be called in question. We find in the structure of our earth the signs
of its former condition. We see clearly that it was once intensely hot!
and we know from experimental researches on the cooling of various
earths that many millions of years must have been required by the
earth in cooling down from its former igneous condition.

We may doubt whether Bischoff's researches can be relied upon in details,
and so be unwilling to assign with him a period of 350 millions of
years to a single stage of the process of cooling. But that the entire
process lasted tens of millions and probably hundreds of millions
of years cannot be doubted.

Recognising such enormous periods as these in the development of one of
the smallest fruits of the great solar tree of life, we cannot but admit
at least the reasonableness of believing that the larger fruits
(Jupiter, for instance, with 340 times as much matter, and Saturn
with 100 times) must require periods still vaster, probably many
times larger.

Indeed, science shows not only that this view is reasonable, but
that no other view is possible.

For the mighty root of the tree of life, the great orb of the sun,
containing 340 _thousand_ times as much matter as the earth, yet
mightier periods would be needed.
The growth and development of these, the parts of the great system, must
of necessity require much shorter time-intervals than the growth and
development of the system regarded as a whole.

The enormous period when the germs only of the sun and planets existed
as yet, when the chaotic substance of the system had not yet
blossomed into worlds, the mighty period which is to follow the
death of the last surviving member of the system, when the whole
scheme will remain as the dead trunk of a tree remains after the
last leaf has fallen, after the last movement of sap within the
trunk--these periods must be infinite compared with those which
measure the duration of even the mightiest separate members of the
system.

But all this has been left unnoticed by those who have argued in support
of the Brewsterian doctrine of a plurality of worlds. They argue as if
it had never been shown that every member of the solar system, as of
all other such systems in space, has to pass through an enormously
long period of preparation before becoming fit to be the abode of life,
and that after being fit for life (for a period very long to our
conceptions, but by comparison with the other exceedingly short)
it must for countless ages remain as an extinct world.

I afterwards paid
several visits to this tree, and found, by placing a vessel beneath
them, that these insects distilled during a single night as much as
three or four pints of water!

Turning from this interesting discovery, we were about to continue our
walk, when we observed a buffalo bull feeding in the open plain, not
more than five or six hundred yards off from us.

"Ha!  Ralph, my boy," cried Peterkin enthusiastically, "here is metal
more attractive!  Follow me; we must make a detour in order to get to
leeward of him."

We set off at a brisk pace, and I freely confess that, although the
contemplation of the curious processes of the water-distilling insect
afforded me deeper and more lasting enjoyment, the gush of excitement
and eagerness that instantly followed the discovery of the wild buffalo
bull enabled me thoroughly to understand the feeling that leads men--
especially the less contemplative among them--infinitely to prefer the
pleasures of the chase to the calmer joys attendant upon the study of
natural history.

At a later period that evening I had a discussion with my companions on
that subject, when I stood up for the pursuit of scientific knowledge as
being truly elevating and noble, while the pursuit of game was, to say
the least of it, a species of pleasure more suited to the tastes and
condition of the savage than of the civilised man.

To this Peterkin replied--having made a preliminary statement to the
effect that I was a humbug--that a man's pluck was brought out and his
nerves improved by the noble art of hunting, which was beautifully
scientific in its details, and which had the effect of causing a man to
act like a man and look like a man--not like a woman or a nincompoop, as
was too often the case with scientific men.

Hereupon Jack announced it as his opinion that we were both wrong and
both right; which elicited a cry of "Bravo!" from Peterkin.  "For," said
Jack, "what would the naturalist do without the hunter?  His museums
would be almost empty and his knowledge would be extremely limited.  On
the other hand, if there were no naturalists, the hunter--instead of
being the hero who dares every imaginable species of danger, in order to
procure specimens and furnish information that will add to the sum of
human knowledge--would degenerate into the mere butcher, who supplies
himself and his men with meat; or into the semi-murderer, who delights
in shedding the blood of inferior animals.  The fact is, that the
naturalist and the hunter are indispensably necessary to each
other--`both are best,' to use an old expression; and when both are
combined in one, as in the case of the great American ornithologist
Audubon, that is best of all."

"Betterer than both," suggested Peterkin.

But to return from this digression.

In less than quarter of an hour we gained a position well to leeward of
the buffalo, which grazed quietly near the edge of the bushes, little
dreaming of the enemies who were so cautiously approaching to work its
destruction.

"Keep well in rear of me, Ralph," said Peterkin, as we halted behind a
bush to examine our rifles.  "I'll creep as near to him as I can, and if
by any chance I should not kill him at the first shot, do you run up and
hand me your gun."

Without waiting for a reply, my companion threw himself on his breast,
and began to creep over the plain like a snake in the grass.  He did
this so well and so patiently that he reached to within forty yards of
the bull without being discovered.  Then he ceased to advance, and I saw
his head and shoulders slowly emerge from among the grass, and presently
his rifle appeared, and was slowly levelled.  It was one of our
large-bore single-barrelled rifles.

He lay in this position for at least two minutes, which seemed to me a
quarter of an hour, so eager was I to see the creature fall.  Suddenly I
heard a sharp snap or crack.  The bull heard it too, for it raised its
huge head with a start.  The cap of Peterkin's rifle had snapped, and I
saw by his motions that he was endeavouring, with as little motion as
possible, to replace it with another.  But the bull caught sight of him,
and uttering a terrific roar charged in an instant.

It is all very well for those who dwell at home in security to think
they know what the charge of an infuriated buffalo bull is.  Did they
see it in reality, as I saw it at that time, tearing madly over the
grass, foaming at the mouth, flashing at the eyes, tossing its tail, and
bellowing hideously, they would have a very different idea from what
they now have of the trials to which hunters' nerves are frequently
exposed.

Peterkin had not time to cap.  He leaped up, turned round, and ran for
the woods at the top of his speed; but the bull was upon him in an
instant.  Almost before I had time to realise what was occurring, I
beheld my companion tossed high into the air.  He turned a distinct
somersault, and fell with a fearful crash into the centre of a small
bush.  I cannot recall my thoughts on witnessing this.  I remember only
experiencing a sharp pang of horror and feeling that Peterkin must
certainly have been killed.  But whatever my thoughts were they must
have been rapid, for the time allowed me was short, as the bull turned
sharp round after tossing Peterkin and rushed again towards the bush,
evidently with the intention of completing the work of destruction.

Once again I experienced that strange and sudden change of feeling to
which I have before referred.  I felt a bounding sensation in my breast
which tingled to my finger-ends.  At the same time my head became clear
and cool.  I felt that Providence had placed the life of my friend in my
hands.  Darting forward in advance of the bush, I awaited the charge of
the infuriated animal.  On it came.  I knew that I was not a
sufficiently good shot to make sure of hitting it in the brain.  I
therefore allowed it to come within a yard of me, and then sprang
lightly to one side.  As it flew past, I never thought of taking aim or
putting the piece to my shoulder, but I thrust the muzzle against its
side and pulled both triggers at once.

From that moment consciousness forsook me, and I knew not what had
occurred for some minutes after.  The first object that met my confused
vision when I again opened my eyes was Peterkin, who was seated close
beside me on the body of the dead buffalo, examining some bloody
scratches on the calf of his left leg.  He had evidently been attempting
to restore me to consciousness, for I observed that a wet handkerchief
lay on my forehead.  He muttered to himself as he examined his wounds--

"This comes of not looking to one's caps.  Humph!  I do believe that
every bone in my body is--ah! here's another cut, two inches at least,
and into the bone of course, to judge from the flow of blood.  I wonder
how much blood I can afford to lose without being floored altogether.
Such a country!  I wonder how high I went.  I felt as if I'd got above
the moon.  Hollo, Ralph! better?"

I sat up as he said this, and looked at him earnestly.

"My dear Peterkin, then you're not killed after all."

"Not quite, but pretty near.  If it had not been for that friendly bush
I should have fared worse.  It broke my fall completely, and I really
believe that my worst hurts are a few scratches.  But how are _you_,
Ralph?  Yours was a much more severe case than mine.  You should hold
your gun tighter, man, when you fire without putting it to your
shoulder."

"How? why? what do you mean?"

"Simply this, that in consequence of your reckless manner of holding
your rifle, it came back with such a slap on your chest that it floored
you."

"This, then, accounts for the pain I feel in it.  But come," said I,
rising and shaking my limbs to make sure that no bones were broken; "we
have reason to be very thankful we have escaped so easily.  I made sure
that you were killed when I saw you flying through the air."

"I always had a species of cat-luck about me," replied Peterkin, with a
smile.  "But now let us cut off a bit o' this fellow to take back with
us for Jack's supper."

With some difficulty we succeeded in cutting out the buffalo's tongue by
the root, and carried it back to the village, where, after displaying it
as an evidence of our prowess, we had it cooked for supper.

The slight hurts that we had received at the time of this adventure were
speedily cured, and about two weeks after that we were all well enough
to resume our journey.


CHAPTER TEN.

WATER APPRECIATED--DESTRUCTIVE FILES, ETCETERA.

Our first start from the village where we had been entertained so
hospitably and so long was productive of much amusement to ourselves and
to the natives.

We had determined to accept of three oxen from the chief, and to ride
these when we felt fatigued; but we thought it best to let our native
porters carry our baggage on their shoulders, as they had hitherto done.

When the animals were led up to our hut, we could not refrain from
laughing.  They were three sturdy-looking dark-skinned oxen, with
wicked-looking black eyes and very long horns.

"Now, Jack, do you get up first," said Peterkin, "and show us what we
are to expect."

"Nay, lad; I am still entitled to be considered an invalid: so you must
get up first, and not only so, but you must try them all, in order that
I may be enabled to select the quietest."

"Upon my word, you are becoming despotic in your sickness, and you
forget that it is but a short time since I came down from a journey to
the sky, and that my poor bones are still tender.  But here goes.  I was
born to be victimised, so I submit to the decrees of Fate."

Peterkin went up to one of the oxen and attempted to mount it; but the
animal made a demonstration of an intention to gore him, and obstinately
objected to this.

"Hold him tight, Mak," he cried, after several futile attempts to mount.
"I was always good at leap-frog when a schoolboy; see if I don't bring
my powers into play now."

So saying, he went behind the ox, took a short race and sprang with the
agility of a monkey over its tail on to its back!  The ox began to kick
and sidle and plunge heavily on receiving this unexpected load; but its
rider held on well, until it took it into its head to dart under a
neighbouring tree, the lower branches of which swept him off and caused
him to fall with a heavy plump to the ground.

"I told you so," he cried, rising with a rueful face, and rubbing
himself as he limped forward.  However, his pain was more than half
affected, for the next minute he was on the back of another ox.  This
one also proved restive, but not so much so as the first.  The third was
a very quiet animal, so Jack appropriated it as his charger.

Having bade adieu to the chief and rubbed noses with him and with
several of our friends in the village, we all three got upon our novel
steeds and set forth.  But we had not got away from the village more
than a mile when the two restive oxen began to display a firm
determination to get rid of their intolerable burden.  Mine commenced to
back and sidle, and Peterkin's made occasional darts forward, and then
stopping suddenly, refused to budge a step.  We lost all patience at
last, and belaboured them soundly with twigs, the effect of which was to
make them advance rather slowly, and evidently under protest.

"Look out for branches," cried Peterkin as we came up to a narrow belt
of wood.

I had scarcely time to raise my head when I was swept off my seat and
hurled to the ground by a large branch.  Peterkin's attention was drawn
to me, and his ox, as if aware of the fact, seized the opportunity to
swerve violently to one side, thereby throwing its rider off.  Both
animals gave a bellow, as of triumph, erected their tails, and ran away.
They were soon recaptured, however, by our negroes; and mounting once
more, we belaboured them well and continued our journey.  In course of
time they became more reconciled to their duties; but I cannot say that
I ever came to enjoy such riding, and all of us ultimately agreed that
it was a most undesirable thing to journey on ox-back.

Thus we commenced our journey over this desert or plain of Africa, and
at the end of many weeks found ourselves approaching that part of the
country near the equator in which the gorilla is said to dwell.  On the
way we had many adventures, some of an amusing, some of a dangerous
character, and I made many additions to my collection of animals,
besides making a number of valuable and interesting notes in my journal;
but all this I am constrained to pass over, in order to introduce my
reader to those regions in which some of our most wonderful adventures
occurred.

One or two things, however, I must not omit to mention.

In passing over the desert we suffered much from want of water.
Frequently the poor oxen had to travel two or three days without tasting
a drop, and their distress was so great that we more than once thought
of turning them adrift at the first good watering-place we should come
to, and proceed, as formerly, on foot; for we had all recovered our
wonted vigour, and were quite capable of standing the fatigues of the
journey as well as our men.  But several times we had found the country
destitute of game, and were reduced to the point of starvation; so we
continued to keep the oxen, lest we should require them for food.

On one occasion we were wending our way slowly along the bed of what in
the rainy season would become a large river, but which was now so
thoroughly dry that we could not find even a small pool in which the
oxen might slake their thirst.  They had been several days absolutely
without a drop of water, while we were reduced to a mouthful or two per
man in the day.  As we could not exist much longer without the
life-giving fluid, Jack dismounted, and placing the load of one of the
men on the ox's back, sent him off in advance to look for water.  We had
that morning seen the footprints of several animals which are so fond of
water that they are never found at any great distance from some spot
where it may be found.  We therefore felt certain of falling in with it
ere long.

About two hours afterwards our negro returned, saying that he had
discovered a pool of rain-water, and showing the marks of mud on his
knees in confirmation of the truth of what he said.

"Ask him if there's much of it, Mak," said Jack, as we crowded eagerly
round the man.

"Hims say there be great plenty ob it--'nuff to tumble in."

Gladdened by this news we hastened forward.  The oxen seemed to have
scented the water from afar, for they gradually became more animated,
and quickened their pace of their own accord, until they at last broke
into a run.  Peterkin and I soon outstripped our party, and quite
enjoyed the gallop.

"There it is," cried my comrade joyfully, pointing to a gleaming pond in
a hollow of the plain not two hundred yards off.

"Hurrah!"  I shouted, unable to repress my delight at the sight.

The oxen rushed madly forward, and we found that they were away with us.
No pulling at our rope-bridles had any effect on them.  My companion,
foreseeing what would happen, leaped nimbly off just as he reached the
margin of the pond.  I being unable to collect my thoughts for the
emergency, held on.  My steed rushed into the water up to the neck, and
stumbling as he did so, threw me into the middle of the pond, out of
which I scrambled amidst the laughter of the whole party, who came up
almost as soon as the oxen, so eager were they to drink.

After appeasing our own thirst we stood looking at the oxen, and it
really did our hearts good to see the poor thirsty creatures enjoy
themselves so thoroughly.  They stood sucking in the water as if they
meant to drink up the whole pond, half shutting their eyes, which became
mild and amiable in appearance under the influence of extreme
satisfaction.  Their sides, which had been for the last two days in a
state of collapse, began to swell, and at last were distended to such an
extent that they seemed as if ready to burst.  In point of fact the
creatures were actually as full as they could hold; and when at length
they dragged themselves slowly, almost unwillingly, out of the pool, any
sudden jerk or motion caused some of the water to run out of their
mouths!

Some time after that we were compelled to part with our poor steeds, in
consequence of their being bitten by an insect which caused their death.

This destructive fly, which is called tsetse, is a perfect scourge in
some parts of Africa.  Its bite is fatal to the horse, ox, and dog, yet,
strange to say, it is not so to man or to wild animals.  It is not much
larger than the common house-fly, and sucks the blood in the same manner
as the mosquito, by means of a proboscis with which it punctures the
skin.  When man is bitten by it, no more serious evil than slight
itching of the part follows.  When the ox is bitten no serious effect
follows at first, but a few days afterwards a running takes place at the
eyes and nose, swellings appear under the jaw and on other parts of the
body, emaciation quickly follows, even although the animal may continue
to graze, and after a long illness, sometimes of many weeks, it dies in
a state of extreme exhaustion.

The tsetse inhabits certain localities in great numbers, while other
places in the immediate neighbourhood are entirely free.  Those natives,
therefore, who have herds of cattle avoid the dangerous regions most
carefully; yet, despite their utmost care, they sometimes come
unexpectedly on the _habitat_ of this poisonous fly, and lose the
greater part of their cattle.

When our poor oxen were bitten and the fatal symptoms began to appear,
we knew that their fate was sealed; so we conducted them into a pleasant
valley on which we chanced to alight, where there was plenty of grass
and water, and there we left them to die.

Another incident occurred to us in this part of our journey which is
worthy of record.

One day Peterkin and I had started before our party with our rifles, and
had gone a considerable distance in advance of them, when we
unexpectedly came upon a band of natives who were travelling in an
opposite direction.  Before coming up with their main body, we met with
one of their warriors, who came upon us suddenly in the midst of a
wooded spot, and stood rooted to the earth with fear and amazement; at
which, indeed, we were not much surprised, for as he had probably never
seen white faces before, he must have naturally taken us for ghosts or
phantoms of some sort.

He was armed with shield and spear, but his frame was paralysed with
terror.  He seemed to have no power to use his weapons.  At first we
also stood in silent wonder, and returned his stare with interest; but
after a few seconds the comicality of the man's appearance tickled
Peterkin so much that he burst into a fit of laughter, which had the
effect of increasing the terror of the black warrior to such a degree
that his teeth began to chatter in his head.  He actually grew livid in
the face.  I never beheld a more ghastly countenance.

"I say, Ralph," observed my companion, after recovering his composure,
"we must try to show this fellow that we don't mean him any harm, else
he'll die of sheer fright."

Before I could reply, or any steps could be taken towards this end, his
party came up, and we suddenly found ourselves face to face with at
least a hundred men, all of whom were armed with spears or bows and
arrows.  Behind them came a large troop of women and children.  They
were all nearly naked, and I observed that they were blacker in the skin
than most of the negroes we had yet met with.

"Here's a pretty mess," said Peterkin, looking at me.

"What is to be done?" said I.

"If we were to fire at them, I'd lay a bet they'd run away like the
wind," replied my comrade; "but I can't bear to think of shedding human
blood if it can possibly be avoided."

While we spoke, the negroes, who stood about fifty yards distant from
us, were consulting with each other in eager voices, but never for a
moment taking their eyes off us.

"What say you to fire over their heads?"  I suggested.

"Ready, present, then," cried Peterkin, with a recklessness of manner
that surprised me.

We threw forward our rifles, and discharged them simultaneously.

The effect was tremendous.  The whole band--men, women, and children--
uttered an overwhelming shriek, and turning round, fled in mad confusion
from the spot.  Some of the warriors turned, however, ere they had gone
far, and sent a shower of spears at us, one of which went close past my
cheek.

"We have acted rashly, I fear," said I, as we each sought shelter behind
a tree.

No doubt the savages construed this act of ours into an admission that
we did not consider ourselves invulnerable, and plucked up courage
accordingly, for they began again to advance towards us, though with
hesitation.  I now saw that we should be compelled to fight for our
lives, and deeply regretted my folly in advising Peterkin to fire over
their heads; but happily, before blood was drawn on either side,
Makarooroo and Jack came running towards us.  The former shouted an
explanation of who and what we were to our late enemies, and in less
than ten minutes we were mingling together in the most amicable manner.

We found that these poor creatures were starving, having failed to
procure any provisions for some time past, and they were then on their
way to another region in search of game.  We gave them as much of our
provisions as we could spare, besides a little tobacco, which afforded
them inexpressible delight.  Then rubbing noses with the chief, we
parted and went on our respective ways.


CHAPTER ELEVEN.

HOW WE MET WITH OUR FIRST GORILLA, AND HOW WE SERVED HIM.

"It never rains but it pours," is a true proverb.  I have often noticed,
in the course of my observations on sublunary affairs, that events
seldom come singly.  I have often gone out fishing for trout in the
rivers of my native land, day after day, and caught nothing, while at
other times I have, day after day, returned home with my basket full.

As it was in England, so I found it in Africa.  For many days after our
arrival in the gorilla country, we wandered about without seeing a
single creature of any kind.  Lions, we ascertained, were never found in
those regions, and we were told that this was in consequence of their
having been beaten off the field by gorillas.  But at last, after we had
all, severally and collectively, given way to despair, we came upon the
tracks of a gorilla, and from that hour we were kept constantly on the
_qui vive_, and in the course of the few weeks we spent in that part of
the country, we "bagged," as Peterkin expressed it, "no end of
gorillas"--great and small, young and old.

I will never forget the powerful sensations of excitement and anxiety
that filled our breasts when we came on the first gorilla footprint.  We
felt as no doubt Robinson Crusoe did when he discovered the footprint of
a savage in the sand.  Here at last was the indubitable evidence of the
existence and presence of the terrible animal we had come so far to see.
Here was the footstep of that creature about which we had heard so many
wonderful stories, whose existence the civilised world had, up to within
a very short time back, doubted exceedingly, and in regard to which,
even now, we knew comparatively very little.

The astronomer has then only to examine day after day a region of small
extent on either side of the sun, for ten or twelve days in succession
(an hour's observation each day would suffice), to be sure of seeing
Vulcan. Yet many astronomers have made such search many times
over, without seeing any trace of the planet.

During total solar eclipses, again, the planet has been repeatedly
looked for unsuccessfully--though it should at such a time be a very
conspicuous object, when favourably placed, and could scarcely
fail of being very distinctly seen wherever placed.

The fourth argument of Lescarbault's is not so effective, and in
fact he gets beyond his depth in dealing with it.

But it is to be noticed that a considerable portion of the discrepancy
between Mercury's observed and calculated motions has long since
been accounted for by the changed estimate of the earth's mass as
compared with the sun's, resulting from the new determination of
the sun's distance.

However, the arguments depending on this consideration would not be suited
to these pages.

There was one feature in Liais's paper which was a little unfortunate.

He questioned Lescarbault's honesty. He said 'Lescarbault contradicts
himself in having first asserted that he saw the planet enter upon
the sun's disc, and having afterwards admitted to Leverrier that
it had been on the disc some seconds before he saw it, and that he
had merely inferred the time of its entry from the rate of its
motion afterwards.

If this one assertion be fabricated, the whole may be so.' 'He considers
these arguments to be strengthened,' says the 'North British
Review,' 'by the assertion which, as we have seen, perplexed Leverrier
himself, that if M.

Lescarbault had actually seen a planet on the sun, he could not
have kept it secret for nine months.'

This charge of dishonesty, unfortunate in itself, had the unfortunate
effect of preventing Lescarbault or the Abbé Moigno from replying.

The latter simply remarked that the accusation was of such a nature
as to dispense him from any obligation to refute it.

This was an error of judgment, I cannot but think, if an effective
reply was really available.

The Remarks with which the North British Reviewer closes his account may
be repeated now, so far as they relate to the force of the negative
evidence, with tenfold effect.

'Since the first notice of the discovery in the beginning of January 1860
the sun has been anxiously observed by astronomers; and the limited
area around him in which the planet _must be_, if he is not upon
the sun, has doubtless been explored with equal care by telescopes
of high power, and processes by which the sun's direct light has
been excluded from the tube of the telescope as well as the eye of
the observer, and yet no planet has been found.

This fact would entitle us to conclude that no such planet exists if its
existence had been merely conjectured, or if it had been deduced from
any of the laws of planetary distance, or even if Leverrier or
Adams had announced it as the probable result of planetary
perturbations.

There were few animals
to be seen here.  Even birds were scarce, and a few chattering monkeys
were almost the only creatures that broke the monotonous silence and
solitude around us.

"What a dismal place!" said Peterkin, in a low tone.  "I feel as if we
had got to the fag-end of the world, as if we were about plunging into
ancient chaos."

"It is, indeed," I replied, "a most dreary region.  I think that the
gorillas will not be disturbed by many hunters with white faces."

"There's no saying," interposed Jack.  "I should not wonder, now, if
you, Ralph, were to go home and write a book detailing our adventures in
these parts, that at least half the sportsmen of England would be in
Africa next year, and the race of gorillas would probably become
extinct."

"If the sportsmen don't come out until I write a book about them, I fear
the gorillas will remain undisturbed for all time to come."

At that time, reader, I was not aware of the extreme difficulty that
travellers experience in resisting the urgent entreaties of admiring and
too partial friends!

Presently we came to a part of the forest where the underwood became so
dense that we could scarcely make our way through it at all, and here we
began for the first time to have some clearer conception of the immense
power of the creature we were in pursuit of; for in order to clear its
way it had torn down great branches of the trees, and in one or two
places had seized young trees as thick as a man's arm, and snapped them
in two as one would snap a walking-cane.

Following the track with the utmost care for several miles, we at length
came to a place where several huge rocks lay among the trees.  Here,
while we were walking along in silence, Makarooroo made a peculiar noise
with his tongue, which we knew meant that he had discovered something
worthy of special attention, so we came to an abrupt pause and looked at
him.

"What is it, Mak?" inquired Jack.

The guide put his finger on his mouth to impose silence, and stood in a
listening attitude with his eyes cast upon the ground, his nostrils
distended, and every muscle of his dusky frame rigid, as if he were a
statue of black marble.  We also listened attentively, and presently
heard a sound as of the breaking of twigs and branches.

"Dat am be gorilla," said the guide, in a low whisper.

We exchanged looks of eager satisfaction.

"How shall we proceed, Mak?" inquired Jack.

"We mus' go bery slow, dis way," said the guide, imitating the process
of walking with extreme caution.  "No break leetle stick.  If you break
leetle stick hims go right away."

Promising Mak that we would attend to his injunctions most carefully, we
desired him to lead the way, and in a few minutes after came so near to
where the sound of breaking sticks was going on that we all halted,
fearing that we should scare the animal away before we could get a sight
of it amongst the dense underwood.

"What can he be doing?" said I to the guide, as we stood looking at each
other for a few seconds uncertain how to act.

"Him's breakin' down branches for git at him's feed, s'pose."

Between the planet's equator and the inner edge of the innermost bright
ring there intervenes a space of about 20,000 miles.

Roughly speaking, it may be said that the attraction of the planet
on the substance of the ring's inner edge is less than gravity at
Saturn's equator (or, which is almost exactly the same thing, is
less than terrestrial gravity) in about the proportion of 9 to 20;
or, still more roughly, the inner edge of Saturn's inner bright
ring is drawn inwards by about half the force of gravity at the
earth's surface.

The outer edge is drawn towards Saturn by a force less than terrestrial
gravity in the proportion of about 3 to 16--say roughly that the
force thus exerted by Saturn on the matter of the outer edge of the
ring-system is equivalent to about one-fifth of the force of gravity
at the earth's surface.

It is clear, first, that if the ring-system did not rotate, the forces
thus acting on the material of the rings would immediately break
them into fragments, and, dragging these down to the planet's
equator, would leave them scattered in heaps upon that portion of
Saturn's surface.

The ring would in fact be in that case like a mighty arch, each portion
of which would be drawn towards Saturn's centre by its own weight.

This weight would be enormous if Bessel's estimate of the mass of
the ring-system is correct.

He made the mass of the ring rather greater than the mass of the
earth--an estimate which I believe to be greatly in excess of the
truth.

Probably the rings do not amount in mass to more than a fourth part of
the earth's mass. But even that is enormous, and subjected as is the
material of the rings to forces varying from one-half to a fifth of
terrestrial gravity, the strains and pressures upon the various
parts of the system would exceed thousands of times those which even
the strongest material built up into their shape could resist. The
system would no more be able to resist such strains and pressures than
an arch of iron spanning the Atlantic would be able to sustain its own
weight against the earth's attraction.

It would be necessary then that the ring-system should rotate around the
planet. But it is clear that the proper rate of rotation for the outer
portion would be very different from the rate suited for the
inner portion. In order that the inner portion should travel around Saturn
entirely relieved of its weight, it should complete a revolution in about
seven hours twenty-three minutes. The outer portion, however, should
revolve in about thirteen hours fifty-eight minutes, or nearly
fourteen hours.

Thus the inner part should rotate in little more than half the time
required by the outer part. The result would necessarily be that
the ring-system would be affected by tremendous strains, which it
would be quite unable to resist.

The existence of the great division would manifestly go far to diminish
the strains. It is easily shown that the rate of turning where the
division is, would be once in about eleven hours and twenty-five minutes,
not differing greatly from the mean between the rotation-periods
for the outside and for the inside edges of the system.

Even then, however, the strains would be hundreds of times greater than
the material of the ring could resist.

A mass comparable in weight to our earth, compelled to rotate in (say)
nine hours when it ought to rotate in eleven or in seven, would be
subjected to strains exceeding many times the resistances which the
cohesive power of its substance could afford. That would be the condition
of the inner ring.
And in like manner the outer ring, if it rotated in about twelve
hours and three-quarters, would have its outer portions rotating
too fast and its inner portions too slowly, because their proper
periods would be fourteen hours and eleven hours and a half
respectively.

Nothing but the division of the ring into a number of narrow hoops could
possibly save it from destruction through the internal strains and
pressures to which its material would be subjected.

Even this complicated arrangement, however, would not save the ring-system.
If we suppose a fine hoop to turn around a central attracting body as
the rings of Saturn rotate around the planet, it may be shown that
unless the hoop is so weighted that its centre of gravity is far
from the planet, there will be no stability in the resulting motions;
the hoop will before long be made to rotate eccentrically, and
eventually be brought into destructive collision with the central
planet.

It was here that Laplace left the problem. Nothing could have been more
unsatisfactory than his result, though it was accepted for nearly half
a century unquestioned. He had shown that a weighted fine hoop may
possibly turn around a central attracting mass without destructive
changes of position, but he had not proved more than the bare possibility
of this, while nothing in the appearance of Saturn's rings suggests
that any such arrangement exists.

Again, manifestly a multitude of narrow hoops, so combined as to
form a broad flat system of rings, would be constantly in collision
_inter se_.

Besides, each one of them would be subjected to destructive strains.
For though a fine uniform hoop set rotating at a proper rate around
an attracting mass at its centre would be freed from all strains, the
case is very different with a hoop so weighted as to have its centre
of gravity greatly displaced.
Laplace had saved the theoretical stability of the motions of a fine
ring at the expense of the ring's power of resisting the strains to which
it would be exposed.

It seems incredible that such a result (expressed, too, very doubtingly
by the distinguished mathematician who had obtained it) should have
been accepted so long almost without question. There is nothing in
nature in the remotest degree resembling the arrangement imagined
by Laplace, which indeed appears on _à priori_ grounds impossible.
It was not claimed for it that it removed the original difficulties
of the problem; and it introduced others fully as serious.

So strong, however, is authority in the scientific world that none
ventured to express any doubts except Sir W.

Herschel, who simply denied that the two rings were divided into many,
as Laplace's theory required. As time went on and the signs of many
divisions were at times recognised, it was supposed that Laplace's
reasoning had been justified; and despite the utter impossibility of the
arrangement he had suggested, that arrangement was ordinarily described
as probably existing.

At length, however, a discovery was made which caused the whole question
to be reopened.

On November 10, 1850, W.

Bond, observing the planet with the telescope of the Harvard Observatory,
perceived within the inner bright ring a feeble illumination which he
was at a loss to understand. On the next night the faint light was better
seen. On the 15th, Tuttle, who was observing with Bond, suggested
the idea that the light within the inner bright ring was due to a
dusky ring inside the system of bright rings.

On November 25, Mr.

Dawes in England perceived this dusky ring, and announced the discovery
before the news had reached England that Bond had already seen the dark
ring.

The credit of the discovery is usually shared between Bond and Dawes,
though the usual rule in such matters would assign the discovery
to Bond alone.

It was found that the dark ring had already been seen at Rome so
far back as 1828, and again by Galle at Berlin in May 1838.

The Roman observations were not satisfactory.

Those by Galle, however, were sufficient to have established the fact
of the ring's existence; indeed, in 1839 Galle measured the dark
ring.

But very little attention was attracted to this interesting discovery,
insomuch that when Bond and Dawes announced their observation of
the dark ring in 1850, the news was received by astronomers with
all the interest attaching to the detection of before unnoted
phenomena.

It may be well to notice under what conditions the dark ring was detected
in 1850.

In September 1848 the ring had been turned edgewise towards the
sun, and as rather more than seven years are occupied in the apparent
gradual opening out of the ring from that edge view to its most open
appearance (when the outline of the ring-system is an eclipse whose lesser
axis is nearly equal to half the greater), it will be seen that in November
1850 the rings were but slightly opened.

Thus the recognition of the dark ring within the bright system was made
under unfavourable conditions. For four preceding years--that is, from
the year 1846--the rings had been as little or less opened; and
again for several years preceding 1846, though the rings had been more
open, the planet had been unfavourably placed for observation in
northern latitudes, crossing the meridian at low altitudes.

Still, in 1838 and 1839, when the rings were most open, although the
planet was never seen under favourable conditions, the opening of the
rings, then nearly at its greatest, made the recognition of the dark
ring possible; and we have seen that Galle then made the discovery.
When Bond rediscovered the dark ring, everything promised that before
long the appendage would be visible with telescopes far inferior in power
to the great Harvard refractor.

Year after year the planet was becoming more favourably placed for
observation, while all the time the rings were opening out.

Accordingly it need not surprise us to learn that in 1853 the dark
ring was seen with a telescope less than three inches and a half
in aperture.

Even so early as 1851, Mr. Hartnup, observing the planet with a telescope
eight inches and a half in aperture, found that 'the dark ring could
not be overlooked for an instant.'
But while this increase in the distinctness of the dark ring was to
be expected, from the mere fact that the ring was discovered under
relatively unfavourable conditions, yet the fact that Saturn was thus
found to have an appendage of a remarkable character, perfectly obvious
even with moderate telescopic power, was manifestly most surprising.

The planet had been studied for nearly two centuries with telescopes
exceeding in power those with which the dark ring was now perceived.

Some among these telescopes were not only of great power, but employed by
observers of the utmost skill. The elder Herschel had for a quarter of a
century studied Saturn with his great reflectors eighteen inches
in aperture, and had at times turned on the planet his monstrous
(though not mighty) four-feet mirror.

Schröter had examined the dark space within the inner bright ring for
the special purpose of determining whether the ring-system is really
disconnected from the globe. He had used a mirror nineteen inches in
aperture, and he had observed that the dark space seen on either
side of Saturn inside the ring-system not only appeared dark, but
actually darker than the surrounding sky.

This was presumably (though not quite certainly) an effect of contrast
only, the dark space being bounded all round by bright surfaces. If real,
the phenomenon signified that whereas the space outside the ring,
where the satellites of the planet travel, was occupied by some
sort of cosmical dust, the space within the ring-system was, as it
were, swept and garnished, as though all the scattered matter which
might otherwise have occupied that region had been either attracted
to the body of the planet or to the rings.[36] But manifestly the
observation was entirely inconsistent with the supposition that
there existed in Schröter's time a dark or dusky ring within the
bright system.

Again, the elder Struve made the most careful measurement of the
whole of the ring-system in 1826, when the system was as well placed
for observation as in 1856 (or, in other words, as well placed as
it can possibly be); but though he used a telescope nine inches and
a half in aperture, and though his attention was specially attracted
to the inner edge of the inner bright ring (_which seemed to him
indistinct_), he did not detect the dark ring.

Yet we have seen that in 1851, under much less favourable conditions,
a less practised observer, using a telescope of less aperture, found that
the dark ring could not be overlooked for an instant. It is manifest
that all these considerations point to the conclusion that the dark
ring is a new formation, or, at the least, that it has changed
notably in condition during the present century.

I have hitherto only considered the appearance of the dusky ring
as seen on either side of the planet's globe within the bright rings.

The most remarkable feature of the appendage remains still to be
mentioned--the fact, namely, that the bright body of the planet can
be seen through this dusky ring. Where the dark ring crosses the
planet, it appears as a rather dark belt, which might readily be mistaken
for a belt upon the planet's surface; for the outline of the planet
can be seen through the ring as through a film of smoke or a crape
veil.

Now it is worthy of notice that whereas the dark ring was not
detected outside the planet's body until 1838, nor generally
recognised by astronomers until 1850, the dark belt across the
planet, really caused by the dusky ring, was observed more than a
century earlier.

In 1715 the younger Cassini saw it, and perceived that it was not
curved enough for a belt really belonging to the planet.

Hadley again observed that the belt attended the ring as this opened out
and closed, or, in other words, that the dark belt belonged to the
ring, not to the body of the planet. And in many pictures of Saturn's
system a dark band is shown along the inner edge of the inner bright
ring where it crosses the body of the planet. It seems to me that we
have here a most important piece of evidence respecting the rings. It
is clear that the inner part of the inner bright ring has for more than
a century and a half (how much more we do not know) been partially
transparent, and it is probable that within its inner edge there has
been all the time a ring of matter; but this ring has only within the
last half-century gathered consistency enough to be discernible. It is
manifest that the existence of the dark belt shown in the older pictures
would have led directly to the detection of the dark ring, had not
this appendage been exceedingly faint. Thus, while the observation of
the dark belt across the planet's face proves the dusky ring to
have existed in some form long before it was perceived, the same
fact only helps to render us certain that the dark ring has changed
notably in condition during the present century.

The discovery of this singular appendage, an object unique in the
solar system, naturally attracted fresh attention to the question
of the stability of the rings.

The idea was thrown out by the elder Bond that the new ring may be
fluid, or even that the whole ring-system may be fluid, and the
dark ring simply thinner than the rest.

It was thought possible that the ring-system is of the nature of a
vast ocean, whose waves are steadily advancing upon the planet's
globe.

The mathematical investigation of the subject was also resumed by Professor
Benjamin Pierce, of Harvard, and it was satisfactorily demonstrated that
the stability of a system of actual rings of solid matter required
so nice an adjustment of so many narrow rings as to render the
system far more complex than even Laplace had supposed.

'A stable formation can,' he said, 'be nothing other than a very great
number of separate narrow rigid rings, each revolving with its
proper relative velocity.' As was well remarked by the late Professor
Nichol, 'If this arrangement or anything like it were real, how many new
conditions of instability do we introduce. Observation tells us that
the division between such rings must be extremely narrow, so that the
slightest disturbance by external or internal causes would cause
one ring to impinge upon another; and we should thus have the seed
of perpetual catastrophes.'

Nor would such a constitution protect the system against dissolution.
'There is no escape from the difficulties, therefore, but through the
final rejection of the idea that Saturn's rings are rigid or in
any sense a solid formation.'

The idea that the ring-system may be fluid came naturally next under
mathematical scrutiny.

Strangely enough, the physical objections to the theory of fluidity
appear to have been entirely overlooked.

Before we could accept such a theory, we must admit the existence of
elements differing entirely from those with which we are familiar.

No fluid known to us could retain the form of the rings of Saturn under
the conditions to which they are exposed.

But the mathematical examination of the subject disposed so thoroughly
of the theory that the rings can consist of continuous fluid masses, that
we need not now discuss the physical objections to the theory.

There remains only the theory that the Saturnian ring-system consists
of discrete masses analogous to the streams of meteors known to
exist in great numbers within the solar system.

The masses may be solid or fluid, may be strewn in relatively vacant
space, or may be surrounded by vaporous envelopes; but that they are
discrete, each free to travel on its own course, seemed as
completely demonstrated by Pierce's calculations as anything not actually
admitting of direct observation could possibly be. The matter was placed
beyond dispute by the independent analysis to which Clerk Maxwell
subjected the mathematical problem. It had been selected in 1855
as the subject for the Adams Prize Essay at Cambridge, and Clerk Maxwell's
essay, which obtained the prize, showed conclusively that only a system
of many small bodies, each free to travel upon its course under the
varying attractions to which it was subjected by Saturn itself, and by
the Saturnian satellites, could possibly continue to girdle a planet
as the rings of Saturn girdle him.

It is clear that all the peculiarities hitherto observed in the Saturnian
ring-system are explicable so soon as we regard that system as made up
of multitudes of small bodies. Varieties of brightness simply indicate
various degrees of condensation of these small satellites.

Thus the outer ring had long been observed to be less bright than the
inner.
Of course it did not seem impossible that the outer ring might be
made of different materials; yet there was something bizarre in the
supposition that two rings forming the same system were thus different
in substance. It would not have been at all noteworthy if different
parts of the same ring differed in luminosity--in fact, it was much
more remarkable that each zone of the system seemed uniformly bright
all round. But that one zone should be of one tint, another of an
entirely different tint, was a strange circumstance so long as the
only available interpretation seemed to be that one zone was made
(throughout) of one substance, the other of another. If this was strange
when the difference between the inner and outer bright rings was alone
considered, how much stranger did it seem when the multitudinous
divisions in the rings were taken into account! Why should the ring-system,
30,000 miles in width, be thus divided into zones of different
material?

An arrangement so artificial is quite unlike all that is elsewhere seen
among the subjects of the astronomer's researches. But when the rings
are regarded as made up of multitudes of small bodies, we can quite
readily understand how the nearly circular movements of all of
these, at different rates, should result in the formation of rings
of aggregation and rings of segregation, appearing at the earth's
distance as bright rings and faint rings.

The dark ring clearly corresponds in appearance with a ring of
thinly scattered satellites.

Indeed, it seems impossible otherwise to account for the appearance
of a dusky belt across the globe of the planet where the dark ring
crosses the disc.

If the material of the dark ring were some partly transparent solid or
fluid substance, the light of the planet received through the dark
ring added to the light reflected by the dark ring itself, would
be so nearly equivalent to the light received from the rest of the
planet's disc, that either no dark belt would be seen, or the
darkening would be barely discernible.

In some positions a bright belt would be seen, not a dark one. But a
ring of scattered satellites would cast as its shadow a multitude
of black spots, which would give to the belt in shadow a dark grey
aspect.

A considerable proportion of these spots would be hidden by the
satellites forming the dark ring, and in every case where a spot
was wholly or partially hidden by a satellite, the effect (at our
distant station where the separate satellites of the dark ring are
not discernible) would simply be to reduce _pro tanto_ the darkness
of the grey belt of shadow.

But certainly more than half the shadows of the satellites would remain
in sight; for the darkness of the ring at the time of its discovery
showed that the satellites were very sparsely strewn. And these shadows
would be sufficient to give to the belt a dusky hue, such as it
presented when first discovered.[37]
The observations which have recently been made by Mr. Trouvelot indicate
changes in the ring-system, and especially in the dark ring, which
place every other theory save that to which we have thus been led
entirely out of the question. It should be noted that Mr. Trouvelot
has employed telescopes of unquestionable excellence and varying in
aperture from six inches to twenty-six inches, the latter aperture
being that of the great telescope of the Washington Observatory
(the largest refractor in the world).

"`Now, Thompson,' he began, `you have been a long time over that lesson;
let us see how much of it you have learned.  What is etymology?'

"`Etymology,' answered Doddle, `is--is--an irregular pronoun.'

"`Boy!' cried the master sternly.

"`Please, sir,' pleaded Doddle, with deprecatory air, `I--I suppose I
was thinkin' o' one o' the _other_ mologies, not the etty one.'

"`Ha!' ejaculated the master; `well, tell me, how many parts of speech
are there?'

"`Nineteen,' answered the boy, quite confidently.

"`Oh!' exclaimed the master, with a good deal of sarcasm in his tone;
`pray, name them.'

"In a very sing-song voice, and with an air of anxious simplicity,
Doddle began, `Article, noun, adjective, pronoun, verb, adverb,
preposition, conjunction, interjection, outerjection, beginning with
_ies_ in the plural--as, baby, babies; lady, ladies; hady, hadies.
Please, sir, isn't that last one a _bad_ word?'

"`The boy is a lunatic!' muttered the master.

"The boys in the class were far past laughing now; we were absolutely
stunned.  The master seemed perplexed, for Doddle was gazing at him with
a look of mild self-satisfaction.

"`I say, Peterkin,' whispered the boy next to me, `as sure as you're
alive that boy's shamming stupid.'

"Presently the master, who had been turning over the leaves of the
grammar in a way that showed he was not conscious of what he was about,
looked up, and said abruptly, `What is a proper noun?'

"`A well-behaved one,' replied Doddle.

"At this the whole school tittered violently.

"`Silence, boys,' cried the master, in a tone that produced the desired
effect so thoroughly that you might have heard a pin drop.  Then laying
his hand on Doddle's shoulder, he looked him full in the face, and said
solemnly, `Thompson, _I have found you out_.  Go, sir, to your seat, and
remain behind when the other boys go to the playground.'

"We observed that Doddle grew very red in the face as he came back to
his seat, and during the rest of the hour he never once looked up.

"During the whole of the play-hour the master and he remained shut up
together in the schoolroom.  We never discovered what took place there
between them, for neither threats nor coaxing could induce Doddle
afterwards to speak on the subject; but from that day forward he was a
changed boy.  He not only learned his lessons, but he learned them well,
and in the course of time became one of the best scholars in the school;
so that although he never would admit it, we all came to the conclusion
he had been shamming stupid--attempting to deceive the master into the
belief that he was incurable, and thus manage to get rid of lessons and
school altogether."

"A most remarkable boy," observed Jack when Peterkin concluded.
"Certainly he beat the monkeys hollow."

"I wonder," said I, "what the master said or did to him that wrought
such a mighty change."

"Don't know," replied Peterkin; "I suppose he told him that now he had
found him out, he would flay him alive if he didn't give in, or
something of that sort."

We had now entered the dark forest that edged the plain over which we
had been walking, and further conversation on this subject was stopped,
and the subject itself banished utterly from our minds by the loud,
startling cry of a gorilla at no great distance from us.

"Hist! that's him," whispered Peterkin.

Instantly throwing our rifles into a position of readiness we pushed
rapidly through the underwood in the direction whence the cry had come.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

WE GET INTO "THE THICK OF IT"--GREAT SUCCESS.

In a few minutes we came upon a female gorilla, which, all unconscious
of our approach, was sitting at the foot of a vine, eating the leaves.
There were four young ones beside her, engaged in the same occupation.
In order to approach within shot of these, we had to creep on all fours
through the brushwood with the greatest caution; for gorillas are
sharp-sighted, and they have a remarkably acute sense of hearing, so
that sometimes the breaking of a dry twig under one's foot is sufficient
to alarm them.

We did not venture to speak even in whispers as we advanced; but by a
sign Jack told Peterkin to take the lead.  Jack himself followed.
Makarooroo went next, and I brought up the rear.

In all our hunting expeditions we usually maintained this arrangement,
where it was necessary.  Peterkin was assigned the post of honour,
because he was the best shot; Jack, being next best, came second; and I
came last, not because our guide was a better shot than I, but because
he was apt to get excited and to act rashly, so that he required looking
after.  I was at all times ready to lay hold of him by the hair of his
woolly head, which, as he was nearly naked, was the only part of him
that one could grasp with any degree of firmness.

After creeping in this manner for some distance, we got within range.
Peterkin and Jack took aim and fired together.  The old gorilla and one
of the young ones fell instantly, and from their not struggling it was
evident that they were shot quite dead.  The guide and I fired
immediately after, but only the one that I fired at fell.  The other two
ran off as fast as they could.  Sometimes they ran on all fours; and I
observed that while running in this fashion the hind legs passed between
the arms, or, as it were, overstepped them.  Occasionally, however, they
rose and ran on their hind legs, in a stooping position.

When they did this I was particularly struck with their grotesque yet
strong resemblance to man, and I do not think that I could at that time
have prevailed upon myself to fire at them.  I should have felt like a
murderer.  In truth, my thoughts and sensations just then were anything
but agreeable.  Nevertheless I was so excited by the chase that I am
quite certain no one, to look at me, could have guessed what was passing
in my mind.

We ran as rapidly as was possible in such a tangled forest, but we had
no chance with the young gorillas.  Peterkin at last ran himself out of
breath.  Stopping suddenly, he said, pantingly--

"It's--o'--no use whatever.  Ho! dear me, my bellows are about
exploded."

"We've no chance in a race with these hairy men," responded Jack, as he
wiped the perspiration from his forehead.--"Why did you miss, Mak?"

"'Cause me no could hit, s'pose, massa."

"Very justly and modestly said," remarked Peterkin, with an approving
nod.  "'Tis a pity that men are not more generally animated with your
spirit, Mak.  Most people, when they do wrong or make a mistake, are too
apt to try to excuse themselves."

"Yes," I added, with a laugh; "particularly when they blow the tails out
of ostriches."

Peterkin shook his head, and said solemnly, "Ralph, my boy, don't take
to joking.  It don't agree with your constitution.  You'll get ill if
you do; and we can't afford to have you laid up on our hands in these
out-o'-the-way regions."

"Come, now, let us back to the gorillas and secure them, lest their
comrades carry them away," said Jack, turning to retrace our steps.

I was anxious to shoot as many gorillas as possible, in order that I
might study the peculiarities of, and differences existing between, the
different species--if there should be such--and between various
individuals of the same species in all stages of development.  I had
made an elaborate examination of our first gorilla, and had taken
copious notes in regard to it.  Being desirous of doing the same as far
as possible with the female and the two young ones we had just killed, I
hastened back with my companions, and we fastened them securely among
the branches of a conspicuous tree, intending to send out some of our
men for them on our return to camp.

After this we resumed our search for more, but wandered about for
several hours without meeting with any, although we observed
recently-made footprints in abundance.  We went as nearly as possible in
a direction parallel to our camp, so that although we walked far we did
not increase our distance from it to any great extent.

Presently Makarooroo made a peculiar "cluck" with his tongue, and we all
came to an abrupt stand.

"What is't, Mak?"

The negro did not speak, but pointed eagerly in front of him, while the
whites of his eyes seemed to sparkle with animation, and raised his gun
to shoot.

We came up at the moment, and through an opening in the bushes saw what
he was about to fire at.  It was a female gorilla, with a baby gorilla
in her arms.  Fierce and hairy though she was, there was a certain air
of tenderness about this mother, as she stroked and pawed her little
one, that went straight to my heart, and caused me almost involuntarily
to raise my arm and strike up the muzzle of Makarooroo's gun, at the
moment he pulled the trigger.  The consequence of this act was that the
ball passed close over their heads.  The report of the piece was
instantly followed by a roar of consternation, mingled with rage, from
the mother, and a shriek of terror from the baby, which again was
immediately followed by a burst of laughter from us, as we beheld the
little baby clasp its arms tightly round its mother, while she scampered
wildly away from us.

Mak looked at me in amazement.

"What for you be do dat, massa?"

"To prevent you from committing murder, you rascal," said I, laughing.
"Have you no feelings of natural pity or tenderness, that you could
coolly aim at such a loving pair as that?"

The guide seemed a little put out by this remark, and went on reloading
his gun without making reply.  He had received enough of moral education
at the mission stations to appreciate to some extent the feelings by
which I was actuated; yet he had been so long accustomed and so early
inured to harsh, unfeeling deeds, that the only idea that probably
occurred to him on seeing this mother and her baby was, how near he
could get to them in order to make sure of his aim.

"Ah!  Ralph," said Jack, as we resumed our march, "you're too
tender-hearted, my boy, for a hunter in Africa.  There you've lost a
chance of getting a gorilla baby, which you have been desiring so much
the last few days, and which you might have stuck in a bottle of
spirits, and sent home to be held up to universal admiration in
Piccadilly, who knows."

"Ay, who knows?" echoed Peterkin.  "I think it more probable, however,
that it would be held up to universal ridicule.  Besides, you forget
that we have no spirits to preserve it in, except our own, which I admit
are pretty high--a good deal overproof, considering the circumstances in
which we are placed, and the unheard-of trials we have to endure.  I'm
sure I don't know what ever induced me to come, as a Scotch cousin of
mine once said, `so far frae my ain fireside' to endure trials.  I do
believe I've had more trials since I came to this outrageous land than
all the criminals of the last century in England put together have had."

"Peterkin," said I seriously, "trials are a decided benefit and blessing
to mankind--"

"Oh, of course," interrupted Peterkin; "but then, as you have often
retorted upon me that I am of the monkey kind, I think that I could get
on pretty well without them."

"My opinion is that they are good both for man and monkey," said Jack.
"Just consider, now: it must have been a terrible trial for yon
gorilla-mamma to hear a bullet pass within an inch of her head, and have
her sweet little darling frightened almost out of its wits.  Well, but
just think of the state of satisfaction and rejoicing that she must be
in now at having escaped.  Had it not been for that trial she would now
have been in her ordinary humdrum condition.  I quite agree with Ralph
that trials are really a blessing to us."

"I declare it is quite refreshing to hear that you `agree' with anybody,
Jack," rejoined Peterkin, in a tone of sarcasm.--"Perhaps Mr Rover will
kindly enlarge on this most interesting subject, and give us the benefit
of his wisdom.--And, Mak, you lump of ebony, do you keep a sharp lookout
for gorillas in the meantime."

The guide, whose appreciation of fun was very considerable, said, "Yis,
massa," grinned from ear to ear, in doing which he displayed a double
row of tremendous white teeth, and pretended to be gazing earnestly
among the bushes on either side in search of game, as he followed us.
The moment we began to talk, however, I observed that he came close up
behind, and listened with all his ears.  If eager expansion indicates
anything, I may add that he listened with all his eyes too!

"I shall have much pleasure in obliging you, Peterkin," said I, with a
smile.  "And in the first place--"

"O Ralph, I entreat you," interrupted Peterkin, "do not begin with a
`_first place_.'  When men begin a discourse with that, however many
intermediate places they may have to roam about in and enlarge on, they
never have a place of any kind to terminate in, but go skimming along
with a couple of dozen `lastlies,' like a stone thrown over the surface
of a pond, which, after the first two or three big and promising bounds,
spends itself in an endless succession of twittering ripples, and
finally sinks, somehow or nohow, into oblivion."

"Ahem!  Shakespeare?" said Jack.

"Not at all," retorted Peterkin.  "If anybody gave utterance to the
sentiment before, it was Shelley, and he must have been on the sea-shore
at the time with a crotchet, if not a crab, inside of him.--But pray go
on, Ralph."

"Well, then, in the _first place_," I repeated with emphasis, whereat
Peterkin sighed, "trials, when endured in a proper spirit, improve our
moral nature and strengthen our hearts; the result of which is, that we
are incited to more vigorous mental, and, by consequence, physical
exertion, so that our nervous system is strengthened and our muscular
powers are increased."

"Very well put, indeed," cried Peterkin.  "Now, Ralph, try to forget
your `secondly,' omit your `thirdly,' throw your `fourthly' to the
winds, and let your `first place' be your `last place,' and I'll give
you credit for being a wise and effective speaker."

I gave in to my volatile friend at that time, as I saw that he would not
allow me to go on, and, to say truth, I thought that I had exhausted my
subject.  But, after all, Peterkin did not require to be incited either
to good thoughts or good actions.  With all his exuberant fun and
jocularity, he was at bottom one of the most earnest and attached
friends I ever possessed.  I have lived to know that his superficial
lightness of character overlaid as deeply earnest and sympathetic a
spirit as ever existed.

While we were thus conversing and wandering through the forest, we again
came upon the fresh tracks of a gorilla, and from their great size we
conjectured them to be those of a solitary male.  It is a remarkable
fact that among several of the lower animals we find specimens of that
unnatural class of creatures which among men are termed old bachelors!
Among the gorillas these _solitaires_ are usually very large, remarkably
fierce, uncommonly ugly, desperately vindictive, and peculiarly
courageous; so much so that the natives hold them in special dread.  It
is of these wild men of the woods that their most remarkable and
incredible stories are related.

"I don't think it's a gorilla at all," said Jack, stooping down to
examine the footprints, which in that place were not very distinct; "I
think an elephant or a rhinoceros must have passed this way."

"No, massa, them's not deep 'nuff for dat.  Hims be a gorilla--a bery
big one, too."

"Don't let us talk then, lest we should scare it," whispered Peterkin.
"Lead the way, Mak; and mind, when we come close enough, move your great
carcass out of the way and let me to the front."

"No, no, lad," said Jack.  "Fair play.  It's my turn now."

"So be it, my boy.  But get on."

The tracks led us a considerable distance deeper into the wood, where
the trees became so thick that only a species of twilight penetrated
through them.  To add to our discomfort, the light, we knew, would soon
fail us altogether, as evening was drawing on apace, so we quickened our
pace to a smart run.

We had not proceeded far when we were brought to a sudden standstill by
one of those awfully loud and savage roars which we at once recognised
as being that of a gorilla.  It sounded like what we might term barking
thunder, and from its intensity we were assured that our conjectures as
to the creature being a solitary male gorilla were correct.

"Dat him, massas!" cried our guide quickly, at the same time cocking
both barrels of his rifle.  "Look hout! we no hab go after him no more.
Him's come to fight us.  Most always doos dot--de big ole gorilla."

We saw from the deeply earnest expression of the negro's countenance
that he felt himself now to be in a very serious position, which would
demand all his nerve and coolness.

Again the roar was repeated with terrible loudness and ferocity, and we
heard something like the beating of a huge bass drum, mingled with the
cracking of branches, as though some heavy creature were forcing its way
through the underwood towards us.

We were all much impressed with this beating sound, and, as is often the
case when men are startled by sounds which they cannot account for, we
were more filled with the dread of this incomprehensible sound than of
the gorilla which we knew was approaching us.  We might, indeed, have
asked an explanation from Makarooroo, but we were all too much excited
and anxious just then to speak.

We drew together in a group.

Jack, who stood a little in front of us, having claimed the first shot,
was whispering something about its being a pity there was so little
light, when his voice was drowned by a repetition of the roar, so
appalling that we each started, feeling as though it had been uttered
close to our ears.  Next instant the bushes in front of us were torn
aside, and the most horrible monster I ever saw, or hope to set eyes on,
stood before us.

He was evidently one of the largest-sized gorillas.  In the gloom of the
forest he appeared to us to be above six feet high.  His jet-black
visage was working with an expression of rage that was fearfully
satanic.  His eyes glared horribly.  The tuft of hair on the top of his
head rose and fell with the working of his low wrinkled forehead in a
manner that peculiarly enhanced the ferocity of his expression.  His
great hairy body seemed much too large for his misshapen legs, and his
enormous arms much too long for the body.  It was with the fists at the
ends of those muscular arms that he beat upon his bulky chest, and
produced the unaccountable sounds above referred to.  As he stood there
uttering roar upon roar--apparently with the view of screwing up his
courage to attack us--displaying his great canine teeth, and advancing
slowly, step by step, I felt a mingling of powerful emotions such as I
had never felt before in all my life, and such as cannot by any
possibility be adequately described.

I felt quite self-possessed, however, and stood beside my comrades with
my rifle ready and my finger on the trigger.

"Now!" whispered Peterkin.  But Jack did not move.

"Now!" said he again, more anxiously, as the immense brute advanced,
beating its chest and roaring, to within eight yards of us.  Still Jack
did not move, and I observed that it was as much as Peterkin could do to
restrain himself.

As it took the next step, and appeared about to spring, Jack pulled the
trigger.  The cap alone exploded!  Like a flash of light the other
trigger was pulled; it also failed! some moisture must have got into the
nipples in loading.  Almost as quick as thought Jack hurled his piece at
the brute with a force that seemed to me irresistible.  The butt struck
it full in the chest, but the rifle was instantly caught in its iron
gripe.  At that moment Peterkin fired, and the gorilla dropped like a
stone, uttering a heavy groan as it fell prone with its face to the
earth--not, however, before it had broken Jack's rifle across, and
twisted the barrel as if it had been merely a piece of wire!

"That was a narrow escape, Jack," said I seriously, after we had
recovered from the state of agitation into which this scene had thrown
us.

"Indeed it was; and thanks to Peterkin's ever-ready rifle that it was an
escape at all.  What a monstrous brute!"

"Much bigger than the first one," said Peterkin.--"Where is your
measure, Ralph?  Out with it."

I pulled out my measure, and applying it to the prostrate carcass, found
that the gorilla we had now shot was five feet eight inches in height,
and proportionately large round the chest.  It seemed to be a mass of
sinews and hard muscles, and as I gazed at its massive limbs I could
well imagine that it had strength sufficient to perform many, at least,
if not all of the wonderful feats ascribed to it by the natives.

Shortly after the death of the gorilla, night settled down upon the
scene, so we hurried back towards our camp, where we arrived much
exhausted, yet greatly elated, by our successful day's sport.

I spent a great part of that night making entries in my note-book, by
the light of our camp-fires, while my companions slept.  And, truly, I
enjoyed such quiet hours after days of so great mental and physical
excitement.  I observed, also, that the negroes enjoyed those seasons
exceedingly.  They sat round the blaze, talking and laughing, and
recounting, I have no doubt, their feats of daring by flood and field;
then, when they began to grow sleepy, they sat there swaying to and fro,
making an occasional remark, until they became too sleepy even for that,
when they began to nod and wink and start, and almost fell into the
fire, so unwilling did they seem to tear themselves away from it, even
for the distance of the few feet they required to draw back in order to
enable them to lie down.  At last nature could hold out no longer, and
one by one they dropped back in their places.

I, too, began to nod at last, and to make entries in my note-book which
were too disjointed at last to be comprehensible; so I finally resigned
myself to repose, and to dream, as a matter of course.


CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

OUR PLANS ARE SUDDENLY ALTERED--WICKED DESIGNS DISCOVERED.

For several weeks after this we wandered about in the woods searching
for gorillas.  We were very successful, and shot so many that I had the
satisfaction of making elaborate notes of specimens of nearly all ages
and kinds.

But an event was looming in the future which we little thought of, and
which ultimately compelled us to abandon the gorilla country and retrace
our steps towards the southern part of the continent.

One day we set out, as was our wont, to hunt for gorillas, accompanied
only by our faithful follower Makarooroo.  It chanced to be a lovely
day, and the country through which we were passing was exceedingly
beautiful, so that we found more pleasure at that time in conversing
together on the beauties of nature and on the wonderful works of
nature's God than in contemplating our chances of falling in with game.

"It's a splendid country," said Jack, as we walked along under the shade
of some magnificent ebony trees.  "I wish that it were inhabited by a
Christian people.  Perhaps this may be the case one of these days, but I
don't think we shall live to see it."

"There's no saying, Jack," observed Peterkin.  "Does not the Bible speak
of a `nation being born in a day?'  Of course that must be figurative
language; nevertheless it must mean something, and I incline to think
that it means that there shall be a time when men shall flock rapidly,
and in unusually great numbers, to the Saviour."

"It may be so," observed I, "but I have made up my mind on this point,
that Christian people are not sufficiently awake to the terrible
condition of the natives of countries such as this, or to the fact that
they have much in their power to do for the amelioration of both their
temporal and spiritual welfare.  I, for one, will, if spared to return
home, contribute more largely than I have been wont to do to the cause
of missions."

"Talking of that," said Peterkin, "do you think it right to support the
missions of other churches besides your own?"

"Do I think it right?"  I exclaimed in surprise.  "Of course I do.  I
think it one of the greatest evils that can befall a Christian, that he
should become so narrow-minded as to give only to his own church, and
think _only_ of his own church's missions.  Why, surely a soul saved, if
a matter of rejoicing in heaven, ought to be a matter of joy on earth,
without reference to the particular church which was the instrument used
by the Holy Spirit for that end.  I feel very strongly that all
Christians who love our Saviour with deep sincerity must of necessity
have a warm feeling towards His people in _all_ churches.  At any rate
we ought to cultivate such a feeling."

"Who can these be?" cried Jack, stopping and pointing to some figures
that appeared to be approaching us in the distance.

"They are negroes, at any rate," said I; "for they seem to be black, and
are evidently naked."

"Warriors, too, if I mistake not.  They have not yet observed us.  Shall
we hide and let them pass?"

Jack hesitated a moment, then leaping behind a bush, cried--

"Ay, 'tis well to be cautious when nothing is to be gained by daring.
These fellows outnumber us, and war-parties are not to be trusted--at
least not if these of Africa resemble those of North America."

"Hollo! there's a white man with them," cried Peterkin, as he peeped
over the bushes behind which we were hid.

"You don't say so, eh?  So there is.  Come; we have nothing to fear from
the party of a traveller.--What, Mak, you shake your head!  What mean
you?"

Makarooroo increased the shaking of his head, and said, "Me no know
_dat_, massa.  P'raps hab more to fear dan you tink."

"Oh, stuff! come along.  Why, Mak, it seems as if gorilla-hunting had
failed to improve your courage."

As Jack said this he stepped out from among the bushes and advanced to
meet the strangers.  Of course we all followed, and although we carried
our rifles in a careless manner, as if we expected no evil, yet we held
ourselves in readiness to take instant action if necessary.

The moment the negroes perceived us, they set up a great shout and
brandished their spears and guns, but the voice of their leader was
instantly heard commanding them to halt.  They obeyed at once, and the
European stranger advanced alone to meet us.  As he drew near we
observed that he was a splendid-looking man, nearly as large as Jack
himself, with a handsome figure and a free, off-hand gait.  But on
coming closer we saw that his countenance, though handsome, wore a
forbidding, stern expression.

"Dat am a slabe-dealer," whispered our guide, as the stranger came up
and saluted us in French.

Jack replied in the same language; but on learning that we were
Englishmen, he began to talk in our own tongue, although he evidently
understood very little of it.

"Do you travel alone with the natives?" inquired Jack, after a few
preliminary remarks.

"Yaas, sair, I doos," replied the stranger, who was a Portuguese trader,
according to his own account.

"You seem to carry little or no merchandise with you," said Jack,
glancing towards the party of natives, who stood at some distance
looking at us and conversing together eagerly.

"I has none wis me, true, bot I has moche not ver' far off.  I bees go
just now to seek for ivory, and ebony, and sl-a---w'at you call him?
barwood."

The man corrected himself quickly, but the slip confirmed Makarooroo's
remark and our own suspicions that he was a slave-dealer.

"De day is far gone," he continued, putting as amiable a smile on his
countenance as possible; "perhaps you vill stop and we have dine
togedder."

Although we did not much like the appearance of our new friend or his
party, we felt that it would be uncourteous in so wild a country, where
we had so few chances of meeting with white faces, to refuse, so we
agreed.  A camp-fire was speedily kindled, and the two parties mingled
together, and sat down amicably to discuss roast monkey and venison
steaks together.

During the course of the meal the Portuguese trader became so
communicative and agreeable that we all began to think we had judged him
harshly.  We observed, too, that Makarooroo and the negroes had
fraternised heartily, and our guide was singing and laughing, and making
himself agreeable at a very uncommon rate, so much so as to call forth
our surprise.

"Mak seems to be mad to-day," observed Peterkin, as one of our guide's
jovial laughs rang through the wood and was echoed by his new
acquaintances.

"Bees him not always so?" inquired the Portuguese.

"He's always hearty enough," replied Jack, "but I must confess I never
saw him in such high spirits as he seems to be in just now.  It must be
the effect of meeting with new faces, I suppose."

"Ah! s'pose so," remarked the trader.

I was struck with the manner in which this was said.  There was a tone
of affected indifference, such as one assumes when making a passing
remark, but at the same time a dark frown rested for one moment on his
brow, and he cast a piercing vindictive glance at our guide.  Next
moment he was smiling blandly and making some humorous remark to
Peterkin.

I looked at my companions, but they had evidently not observed this
little piece of by-play.  It seemed to me so unaccountable, considering
that the two men had never met before, that I resolved to watch them.  I
soon observed that Makarooroo's mirth was forced, that he was in fact
acting a part, and I noticed once or twice that he also cast an
occasional stealthy and piercing glance at the Portuguese.  It
afterwards turned out that both men had been acting the same part, and
that each had suspected what the other was doing.

When our meal was concluded we prepared to resume our separate routes.

"I goes to de west," observed the Portuguese, in a casual way, as he
buckled on the belt that supported his hunting-knife.

"Indeed!  I had understood you to say that you were going south."

"No; you not have onderstand me.  I goes to de west, ver' long way."

"Then, sir, I wish you a safe and pleasant journey," said Jack, lifting
his cap.

"De same to you, sairs, an' goot plenty of gorillas to you.  Farder nord
dey be more plenty.  Adieu!"

We took off our caps to each other, and saying farewell, we turned away,
and soon lost sight of the party.

"Ho! de yaller-faced villain," exclaimed Makarooroo between his clinched
teeth, after we were out of earshot.

"Why, what's wrong, Mak?" inquired Peterkin, in great surprise.

"Ho! noting porteekler," replied the guide, with an air and tone of
sarcasm that quite amused us.  "Hims not go sout', ho no! hims go west,
ho yis!  Hims advise us to go nort', ho dear! dat bery clibber, bery
mush clibber; but we is clibberer, we is, ho! ho! ho!"

Our worthy guide looked so terribly fierce as he uttered this fiendish
laugh, that we all came to a stand and gazed at him in surprise; we
fancied that something must have deranged his mind.

"Mak," said Peterkin, "you are mad.  What mean you by such grimaces?"

Pursing his lips tightly, and looking at each of us for a few moments in
silence, he finally crossed his arms on his chest, and turning eagerly
to Jack, said with extreme volubility--

"Dat rascal! dat tief!  Him's no trader, him's slabe-dealer; hims no go
west, hims go south; an' w'at for hims go?  W'at for hims carry guns so
many, eh?  Hims go" (here the guide dropped his voice into a whisper of
intense bitterness)--"hims go for attack village an' take all peepils
away for be slabes.  No pay for 'em--tief!--take dem by force."

"Why, how did you come to know all this," said Jack, "or rather to
suspect it? for you cannot be sure that you are right."

"W'at, no can be sure me right? ho, yis, me sartin sure.  Me bery
clibber.  Stop, now.  Did him--dat tief!--speak bery mush?"

"Certainly he did, a good deal."

"Yis, ho!  An' did him make _you_ speak bery mush?"

"I rather think he did," replied Peterkin, laughing at our guide's
eagerness.

"Yis, ho! hims did.  An' did him ax you plenty question, all 'bout where
you go, an' where you come from, an' _de way back_ to village where we
be come from?  An' did hims say, when him find you was come from _sout_,
dat hims was go _west_, though before dat hims hab say dat hims be go
_sout_, eh?"

"Certainly," said Jack, with a thoughtful look, "he did say all that,
and a great deal more to that effect."

"Yis, ho! hims did.  Me know bery well.  Me see him.  An' me also dood
to de niggers what hims do to you.  Me talk an' laugh an' sing, _den me
ax dem questions_.  But dey bery wise; dey no speak mush, but dey manage
to speak 'nuff for me.  Yis, me bam--bam--eh?"

"Boozle," suggested Peterkin.

"Vis, bamboozle dem altogidder, ho! ho!"

After a little further explanation we found that this Portuguese trader
was a man-stealer, on his way to one of the smaller villages, with the
intention of attacking it.  Makarooroo ascertained that they meant to
proceed direct to that of King Jambai, first, however, getting one of
the neighbouring tribes to pick a quarrel with that monarch and go to
war with him; and we now recollected, with deep regret, that in our
ignorance of what the Portuguese was, we had given him a great deal of
information regarding the village of our late hospitable entertainer
which might prove very useful to him, and very hurtful to poor King
Jambai, in the event of such a raid being carried out.

He laughed at them for thinking colonists troubled their heads
about natives.

'I know Phyllis does. One of Harry May's brothers went out as a
missionary.'

'Disenchanted and came home again when his wife came into a fortune.'

'Not a bit of it,' said Aunt Jane. 'I know him and all about him. He
stayed till his health broke, and now he is one of the most useful
men in the country. He is coming to speak for the S.P.G. at
Rockquay, Lily; and you must come and meet him and his charming wife.
They will tell you a very different story about Harry's doings.'
'Well,' allowed Mr. Mohun, 'there are apparitions of brown niggers
done up as smart as twopence prancing about the house. Perfectly
uninteresting, you know, the savage sophisticated out of his
picturesqueness.

I made a point of asking no questions, not knowing what I might be
let in for.'

'Then you heard nothing of Mr.

Ward, the Melanesian missionary, whom Phyllis keeps a room for when
he comes to New Zealand to recruit.'

'The man who was convicted of murder on circumstantial evidence! Oh yes.
I heard of him. I believe the labour-traffic agents heartily wish him
at Portland still, he makes the natives so much too sharp.'
'Aye,' said the colonel, 'as long as Britons aren't slaves they
have no objection to anything but the name for other people.'

'Wait till you get out there, Regie, and see what they all say about
those lazy fellows--except, of course, ladies and parsons, and a few
whom they've bitten, like May.'

'The few are on the Christian side, of course,' said Lady Merrifield,
with irony in her tone.

Indeed, she was not at all sure that half this colonial prejudice was
not assumed in order to tease her, just as in former times her brother
would make game of her enthusiasms about school children; for he was
altogether returned to his old self, his sister Jane, who had seen
the most of him, testifying that the original Maurice had revived,
as never in the course of his married life.

"So let's put it in practice at
once."

"Ay, this very night," said Jack, as we hurried back to the spot where
our goods had been left.

As we went along in silence I noticed that Peterkin sighed once or twice
very heavily, and I asked him if he was quite well.

"Well?  Ay, well enough in body, Ralph, but ill at ease in mind.  How
can it be otherwise when we are thus suddenly and unexpectedly about to
take leave of our dear friends the gorillas?  I declare my heart is fit
to break."

"I sympathise with you, Peterkin," said I, "for I have not yet made
nearly as many notes in regard to these monster-monkeys as I could have
wished.  However, I am thankful for what I have got, and perhaps we may
come back here again one of these days."

"What bloodthirsty fellows!" cried Jack, laughing.  "If you talk so, I
fear that Mak and I shall have to cut your acquaintance; for, you see,
he and I have got a _little_ feeling left."

"Well, it's natural, I fancy," observed Peterkin, "that gorillas should
feel for their kindred.  However, I console myself with the thought that
the country farther south is much better filled with other game,
although the great puggy is not there.  And then we shall come among
lions again, which we can never find, I believe, in the gorilla country.
I wonder if the gorilla has really driven them out of this part of
Africa."

"Some think it probable," observed I, "but we cannot make sure of that
point."

"Well, we can at all events make sure of this point," cried Peterkin, as
we came in sight of our encampment, "that lions are thick enough in the
country whither we are bound; so let's have a good supper, and hurrah
for the south!  It's a bright prospect before us.  A fair lady to be
saved; possibly a fight with the niggers, and lion, elephant,
rhinoceros, alligator, hippopotamus, and buffalo shooting by way of
relaxation in the intervals of the war!"


CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING--WE FLY, AND I MAKE A NARROW ESCAPE FROM AN
APPALLING FATE.

During many days after the incidents narrated in the last chapter did
Jack, and Peterkin, and Makarooroo, and I, push across the continent
through bush and brake, over hill and dale, morass and plain, at our
utmost possible speed.  We did not, during the whole course of our
journey, overtake the Portuguese slave-dealer; but we thought little of
that, for it was not very probable that we should hit upon exactly the
same route, and we entertained sanguine hopes that the energy and speed
with which we kept steadily and undeviatingly on our way would enable us
to reach the village of Mbango before the slave-dealer and his party.

When I look back upon that time now, and reflect calmly on the dangers
we encountered and the hardships we endured, I confess that I am filled
with amazement.  I might easily fill several volumes such as this with
anecdotes of our encounters with wild animals, and other adventures; but
however interesting these might be in themselves, I must not forget that
some of the main incidents of our sojourn in Africa have yet to be
related, and that there is a limit to the patience of even youthful
readers.

Our power of enduring fatigue and sustained active exertion, with
comparatively short intervals of nightly repose, was much greater than I
could have believed to be possible.  I have no doubt that anxiety to
save Okandaga from the terrible fate that hung over her enabled us to
bear up under fatigues which would at other times have overcome us.  I
know not well how it was that I kept up with my strong and agile
comrades.  Oftentimes I felt ready to drop down as I walked, yet somehow
I never thought of falling behind, but went doggedly on, and at nights
found myself little worse in condition than they.  Peterkin, although
small, was tough and springy, and his spirits seemed rather to rise than
otherwise as his strength abated.  As for Jack, I never saw any one like
him.  He seemed like a lion roaming in his strength over his native
deserts.  So hardened had we all become during the course of our travels
that we found ourselves not only equal to Makarooroo in pedestrian
powers, but superior; for when occasion required we could almost knock
him up, but I am free to admit that we never succeeded in doing this
thoroughly.  In short, we were all as nearly as possible equal to each
other, with the exception of Jack, who seemed in every way invulnerable.

During this long and hurried but intensely interesting and delightful
journey we came upon, at different times, almost every species of
animal, plant, and tree peculiar to the African continent.  Oftentimes
we passed by droves and herds of elephants, deer, buffalo, giraffes,
antelopes, and zebras; we saw rhinoceroses, alligators, leopards, lions,
apes of several kinds, and smaller monkeys innumerable.  We also saw
great numbers of birds--some curious on account of their habits and
form, others beautiful and bright as the rainbow.

Yet although, as I have said, this journey was very delightful, our
feelings were at different times exceedingly varied, and not
unfrequently pained; for while we saw around us much that was beautiful,
innocent, and lovely, we also witnessed the conflicts of many wild
creatures, and sometimes came across evidences of the savage and cruel
dispositions of the human beings by whom the country was peopled.  We
always, however, carefully avoided native villages, being anxious not to
be interrupted on our forced march.  Neither did we turn aside to hunt,
although we were much tempted so to do, but contented ourselves with
killing such animals as we required for our daily subsistence; and of
these we shot as many as we required without having to turn aside from
our straight course.

Thus we went on day after day, and slept under the shade of the trees or
under the wide canopy of heaven night after night, until we arrived one
day at a beautiful valley, bordered by a plain, and traversed by a
river, where Peterkin met with a sad accident, and our onward progress
was for a short period arrested.

It happened thus:--The region through which we chanced to be passing was
peopled by so many natives that we had the utmost difficulty in avoiding
them, and more than once were compelled to halt during the daytime in
some sequestered dell, and resume our journey during the night.

One day--it was, if I remember rightly, about two o'clock in the
afternoon--we came suddenly in sight of a native village on the banks of
the river whose course we were at that time following, and made a wide
detour in order to avoid it.  We had passed it several miles, and were
gradually bending into our course again, when we came unexpectedly upon
a band of natives who had been out hunting and were returning to their
village with the spoils of the chase on their shoulders.  Both parties
at once came to an abrupt halt, and we stood for several minutes looking
at each other--the natives in speechless amazement, while we conversed
in whispers, uncertain what to do.

We knew that if we made friendly advances we should no doubt be
welcomed, but then we should certainly be compelled to go back with them
to their village and spend at least a day or two with them, as we could
not hope to give them a satisfactory reason for our going on at once.
We also knew that to go on in spite of them would produce a quarrel,
and, of course, a fight, which, as it would certainly result in
bloodshed, was by all means to be avoided for we could not bear to think
that a mere caprice of ours in visiting Africa should be the means of
causing the death of a single human being, if we could prevent it.

"What _is_ to be done?" said Peterkin, looking at Jack in despair.

"I don't know," replied Jack.  "It's very awkward.  It will never do to
go all the way back to the village with these stupid fellows, and we
cannot tell them our real reason for going on; for, in the first place,
they would perhaps not believe us, or, in the second place, they might
offer to join us."

"Fight," said Makarooroo in a low tone, grinding his teeth together and
clutching his rifle.

I felt deep sympathy with the poor fellow, for I knew well that in
disposition he was naturally the reverse of quarrelsome, and that his
present state of mind was the consequence of anxiety for the deliverance
of his faithful bride.

"No, no," replied Jack quickly; "we shall not fight."

"Suppose we bolt!" whispered Peterkin, brightening up as the idea
occurred to him--"regularly run away!"

We seized at the idea instantly.  We were all of us hard of muscle and
strong of wind now, and we knew that we could outstrip the savages.

"We'll do it!" said Jack hastily.  "Let us scatter, too, so as to
perplex them at the outset."

"Capital!  Then here goes.  I'm off," cried Peterkin.

"Stay!" said Jack.

"Why?" demanded Peterkin.

"Because we must appoint a place of rendezvous if we would hope to meet
again."

"True; I forgot that."

"D'you all see yonder blue mountain-peak?"

"Let us meet there.  If we miss each other at the base, let us proceed
to the summit and wait.  Away!"

As Jack uttered the last word we all turned right about and fled like
the wind.  The savages instantly set up a hideous yell, and darted after
us; but we made for the thick woods, and scattering in all directions,
as had been previously arranged, speedily threw them off the scent, and
finally made our escape.

For the first time since landing on the continent of Africa, I now found
myself totally alone in the wild forest.  After separating from my
companions, I ran at my utmost speed in the direction of a dense jungle,
where I purposed taking shelter until the natives should pass by, and
then come out and pursue my way leisurely.  But I was prevented from
adopting this course in consequence of two very fleet negroes
discovering my intention, and, by taking a short cut, frustrating it.  I
was compelled, therefore, to keep in the more open part of the forest,
and trust simply to speed and endurance for escape.

I should think that I ran nearly two miles at full speed, and kept well
ahead of my pursuers.  Indeed, I had distanced them considerably; but
feeling that I could not hold out long at such a killing pace, I pulled
up a little, and allowed them to gain on me slightly.  I was just about
to resume my full speed, and, if possible, throw them at once far
behind, when my foot was caught by a thorny shrub, and I fell headlong
to the ground.  I was completely stunned for a moment or two, and lay
quite motionless.  But my consciousness suddenly returned, accompanied
by a feeling of imminent danger, which caused me to spring up and renew
my headlong career.  Glancing over my shoulder, I saw that the two
natives had gained so much on me that had I lain a few seconds longer I
must inevitably have been captured.

I exerted myself now beyond my powers.  My head, too, from the shock I
had received, became confused, and I scarce knew whither I was going.
The news he brought was that a sun like our own was in conflagration;
and on a closer study of his message something was learned as to the
nature of the conflagration, and a few facts tending to throw
light on the question (somewhat interesting to ourselves) whether our
own sun is likely to undergo a similar mishap at any time.
What would happen if he did, we know already. The sun which has
just met with this disaster--that is, which so suffered a few
generations ago--blazed out for a time with several hundred times
its former lustre.

If our sun were to increase as greatly in light and heat, the creatures
on the side of our earth turned towards him at the time would be
destroyed in an instant. Those on the dark or night hemisphere would not
have to wait for their turn till the earth, by rotating, carried them
into view of the destroying sun. In much briefer space the effect of his
new fires would be felt all over the earth's surface. The heavens
would be dissolved and the elements would melt with fervent heat. In
fact no description of such a catastrophe, as affecting the night
half of the earth, could possibly be more effective and poetical
than St. Peter's account of the day of the Lord, coming 'as a thief
in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a
great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth
also and the works that are therein being burned up;' though I
imagine the apostle would have been scarce prepared to admit that
the earth was in danger from a solar conflagration.

Indeed, according to another account, the sun was to be turned into
darkness and the moon into blood, before that great and notable day of
the Lord came--a description corresponding well with solar and lunar
eclipses, the most noteworthy 'signs in the heavens,' but agreeing
very ill with the outburst of a great solar conflagration.

Before proceeding to inquire into the singular and significant circumstances
of the recent outburst, it may be found interesting to examine
briefly the records which astronomy has preserved of similar catastrophes
in former years. These may be compared to the records of accidents
on the various railway lines in a country or continent. Those other
suns which we can stars are engines working the mighty mechanism of
planetary systems, as our sun maintains the energies of our own system;
and it is a matter of some interest to us to inquire in how many
cases, among the many suns within the range of vision, destructive
explosions occur.

We may take the opportunity, later, to inquire into the number of
cases in which the machinery of solar systems appears to have broken
down.

The first case of a solar conflagration on record is that of the new
star observed by Hipparchus some 2000 years ago. In his time,
and indeed until quite recently, an object of this kind was called
a new star, or a temporary star. But we now know that when a star
makes its appearance where none had before been visible, what has really
happened has been that a star too remote to be seen has become visible
through some rapid increase of splendour.

When the new splendour dies out again, it is not that a star has
ceased to exist; but simply that a faint star which had increased greatly
in lustre has resumed its original condition.
Hipparchus's star must have been a remarkable object, for it was visible
in full daylight, whence we may infer that it was many times brighter
than the blazing Dog-star. It is interesting in the history of science,
as having led Hipparchus to draw up a catalogue of stars, the first
on record. Some moderns, being sceptical, rejected this story as a fiction;
but Biot examining Chinese Chronicles[32] relating to the times of
Hipparchus, finds that in 134 B.C. (about nine years before the date of
Hipparchus's catalogue) a new star was recorded as having appeared
in the constellation Scorpio.

The next new star (that is, stellar conflagration) on record is
still more interesting, as there appears some reason for believing
that before long we may see another outburst of the same star. In the
years 945, 1264, and 1572, brilliant stars appeared in the region of
the heavens between Cepheus and Cassiopeia. Sir J.

Herschel remarks, that, 'from the imperfect account we have of the
places of the two earlier, as compared with that of the last, which was
well determined, as well as from the tolerably near coincidence of
the intervals of their appearance, we may suspect them, with Goodricke,
to be one and the same star, with a period of 312 or perhaps of 156
years.'

The latter period may very reasonably be rejected, as one can perceive
no reason why the intermediate returns of the star to visibility should
have been overlooked, the star having appeared in a region which never
sets. It is to be noted that, the period from 945 to 1264 being 319 years,
and that from 1264 to 1572 only 308 years, the period of this
star (if Goodricke is correct in supposing the three outbursts to
have occurred in the same star) would seem to be diminishing.

At any time, then, this star might now blaze out in the region between
Cassiopeia and Cepheus, for more than 304 years have already passed
since its last outburst.

As the appearance of a new star led Hipparchus to undertake the formation
of his famous catalogue, so did the appearance of the star in Cassiopeia,
in 1572, lead the Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe to construct a new
and enlarged catalogue.

(This, be it remembered, was before the invention of the telescope.)

Returning one evening (November 11, 1572, old style) from his laboratory
to his dwelling-house, he found, says Sir J. Herschel, 'a group of
country people gazing at a star, which he was sure did not exist an
hour before. This was the star in question.'
The description of the star and its various changes is more interesting
at the present time, when the true nature of these phenomena is
understood, than it was even in the time when the star was blazing
in the firmament.

It will be gathered from that description and from what I shall have to
say farther on about the results of recent observations on less
splendid new stars, that, if this star should reappear in the next
few years, our observers will probably be able to obtain very
important information from it.

The message from it will be much fuller and more distinct than any we
have yet received from such stars, though we have learned quite enough
to remain in no sort of doubt as to their general nature.

The star remained visible, we learn, about sixteen months, during which
time it kept its place in the heavens without the least variation. 'It
had all the radiance of the fixed stars, and twinkled like them; and
was in all respects like Sirius, except that it surpassed Sirius
in brightness and magnitude.'

It appeared larger than Jupiter, which was at that time at his
brightest, and was scarcely inferior to Venus.

_It did not acquire this lustre gradually_, but shone forth at once
of its full size and brightness, 'as if,' said the chroniclers of
the time, 'it had been of instantaneous creation.'

For three weeks it shone with full splendour, during which time it
could be seen at noonday 'by those who had good eyes, and knew
where to look for it.'

But before it had been seen a month, it became visibly smaller, and from
the middle of December 1572 till March 1574, when it entirely disappeared,
it continually diminished in magnitude. 'As it decreased in size, it
varied in colour:
at first its light was white and extremely bright; it then became
yellowish; afterwards of a ruddy colour like Mars; and finished
with a pale livid white resembling the colour of Saturn.'

All the details of this account should be very carefully noted.

It will presently be seen that they are highly characteristic.

Those who care to look occasionally at the heavens to know whether this
star has returned to view may be interested to learn whereabouts
it should be looked for.

The place may be described as close to the back of the star-gemmed chair
in which Cassiopeia is supposed to sit--a little to the left of the
seat of the chair, supposing the chair to be looked at in its normal
position. But as Cassiopeia's chair is always inverted when the constellation
is most conveniently placed for observation, and indeed as nine-tenths
of those who know the constellation suppose the chair's legs to be
the back, and _vice versâ_, it may be useful to mention that the
star was placed somewhat thus with respect to the straggling W
formed by the five chief stars of Cassiopeia.

There is a star not very far from the place here indicated, but rather
nearer to the middle angle of the W. This, however, is not a bright star;
and cannot possibly be mistaken for the expected visitant.

(The place of Tycho's star is indicated in my School Star-Atlas and
also in my larger Library Atlas.

The same remark applies to both the new stars in the Serpent-Bearer,
presently to be described.)
[Illustration]

In August 1596 the astronomer Fabricius observed a new star in the neck
of the Whale, which also after a time disappeared. It was not noticed
again till the year 1637, when an observer rejoicing in the name of
Phocyllides Holwarda observed it, and, keeping a watch, after it had
vanished, upon the place where it had appeared, saw it again come
into view nine months after its disappearance.

Since then it has been known as a variable star with a period of
about 331 days 8 hours. When brightest this star is of the second
magnitude.

It indicates a somewhat singular remissness on the part of the
astronomers of former days, that a star shining so conspicuously
for a fortnight, once in each period of 331-1/3 days, should for
so many years have remained undetected.

It may, perhaps, be thought that, noting this, I should withdraw the
objection raised above against Sir J. Herschel's idea that the star in
Cassiopeia may return to view once in 156 years, instead of once
in 312 years.

But there is a great difference between a star which at its brightest
shines only as a second-magnitude star, so that it has twenty or thirty
companions of equal or greater lustre above the horizon along with
it, and a star which surpasses three-fold the splendid Sirius. We have
seen that even in Tycho Brahe's day, when probably the stars were not
nearly so well known by the community at large, the new star in Cassiopeia
had not shone an hour before the country people were gazing at it with
wonder. Besides, Cassiopeia and the Whale are constellations
very different in position. The familiar stars of Cassiopeia are visible
on every clear night, for they never set.

The stars of the Whale, at least of the part to which the wonderful
variable star belongs, are below the horizon during rather more
than half the twenty-four hours; and a new star there would only
be noticed, probably (unless of exceeding splendour), if it chanced
to appear during that part of the year when the Whale is high above
the horizon between eventide and midnight, or in the autumn and
early winter.

It is a noteworthy circumstance about the variable star in the Whale,
deservedly called Mira, or The Wonderful, that it does not always
return to the same degree of brightness. Sometimes it has been a very
bright second-magnitude star when at its brightest, at others it
has barely exceeded the third magnitude.

Hevelius relates that during the four years between October 1672 and
December 1676, Mira did not show herself at all! As this star fades
out, it changes in colour from white to red.

Towards the end of September 1604, a new star made its appearance in the
constellation Ophiuchus, or the Serpent-Bearer. Its place was near the
heel of the right foot of 'Ophiuchus huge.' Kepler tells us that it had
no hair or tail, and was certainly not a comet.

Moreover, like the other fixed stars, it kept its place unchanged,
showing unmistakably that it belonged to the star-depths, not to
nearer regions. 'It was exactly like one of the stars, except that in
the vividness of its lustre, and the quickness of its sparkling, it
exceeded anything that he had ever seen before. It was every moment
changing into some of the colours of the rainbow, as yellow, orange,
purple, and red; though it was generally white when it was at some distance
from the vapours of the horizon.' In fact, these changes of colour must
not be regarded as indicating aught but the star's superior brightness.
Every very bright star, when close to the horizon, shows these colours,
and so much the more distinctly as the star is the brighter. Sirius,
which surpasses the brightest stars of the northern hemisphere full four
times in lustre, shows these changes of colour so conspicuously that they
were regarded as specially characteristic of this star, insomuch that
Homer speaks of Sirius (not by name, but as the 'star of autumn')
shining most beautifully 'when laved of ocean's wave'--that is,
when close to the horizon.

And our own poet, Tennyson, following the older poet, sings how
the fiery Sirius alters hue, And bickers into red and emerald.

The new star was brighter than Sirius, and was about five degrees lower
down, when at its highest above the horizon, than Sirius when _he_
culminates. Five degrees being equal to nearly ten times the apparent
diameter of the moon, it will be seen how much more favourable the
conditions were in the case of Kepler's star for those coloured
scintillations which characterised that orb.

Sirius never rises very high above the horizon.

In fact, at his highest (near midnight in winter, and, of course,
near midday in summer) he is about as high above the horizon as the
sun at midday in the first week in February.

Kepler's star's greatest height above the horizon was little more than
three-fourths of this, or equal to about the sun's elevation at midday
on January 13 or 14 in any year.

Like Tycho Brahe's star, Kepler's was brighter even than Jupiter, and
only fell short of Venus in splendour. It preserved its lustre for
about three weeks, after which time it gradually grew fainter and
fainter until some time between October 1605 and February 1606, when
it disappeared. The exact day is unknown, as during that interval the
constellation of the Serpent-Bearer is above the horizon in the day-time
only. But in February 1606, when it again became possible to look for
the new star in the night-time, it had vanished. It probably continued
to glow with sufficient lustre to have remained visible, but for
the veil of light under which the sun concealed it, for about
sixteen months altogether.

In fact, it seems very closely to have resembled Tycho's star, not only
in appearance and in the degree of its greatest brightness, but in the
duration of its visibility.

In the year 1670 a new star appeared in the constellation Cygnus,
attaining the third magnitude. It remained visible, but not with this
lustre, for nearly two years.

After it had faded almost out of view, it flickered up again for
awhile, but soon after it died out, so as to be entirely invisible.
Whether a powerful telescope would still have shown it is uncertain, but
it seems extremely probable. It may be, indeed, that this new star
in the Swan is the same which has made its appearance within the last
few weeks; but on this point the evidence is uncertain.

On April 20, 1848, Mr. Hind (Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, and
discoverer of ten new members of the solar system) noticed a new star
of the fifth magnitude in the Serpent-Bearer, but in quite another part
of that large constellation than had been occupied by Kepler's star.
A few weeks later, it rose to the fourth magnitude. But afterwards
its light diminished until it became invisible to ordinary eyesight.
It did not vanish utterly, however. It is still visible with telescopic
power, shining as a star of the eleventh magnitude, that is five magnitudes
below the faintest star discernible with the unaided eye.

This is the first new star which has been kept in view since its apparent
creation. But we are now approaching the time when it was found that as
so-called new stars continue in existence long after they have disappeared
from view, so also they are not in reality new, but were in existence
long before they became visible to the naked eye.

On May 12, 1866, shortly before midnight, Mr. Birmingham, of Tuam,
noticed a star of the second magnitude in the Northern Crown, where
hitherto no star visible to the naked eye had been known. Dr. Schmidt,
of Athens, who had been observing that region of the heavens the
same night, was certain that up to 11 P.M., Athens local time, there
was no star above the fourth magnitude in the place occupied by the
new star.

So that, if this negative evidence can be implicitly relied on,
the new star must have sprung at least from the fourth, and probably
from a much lower magnitude, to the second, in less than three
hours--eleven o'clock at Athens corresponding to about nine o'clock by
Irish railway time. A Mr. Barker, of London, Canada, put forward a claim
to having seen the new star as early as May 4--a claim not in the
least worth investigating, so far as the credit of first seeing the
new star is concerned, but exceedingly important in its bearing on the
nature of the outburst affecting the star in Corona. It is unpleasant
to have to throw discredit on any definite assertion of facts;
unfortunately, however, Mr.

Barker, when his claim was challenged, laid before Mr. Stone, of the
Greenwich Observatory, such very definite records of observations made
on May 4, 8, 9, and 10, that we have no choice but either to admit these
observations, or to infer that he experienced the delusive effects of a
very singular trick of memory. He mentions in his letter to Mr. Stone
that he had sent full particulars of his observations on those
early dates to Professor Watson, of Ann Arbor University, on May
17; but (again unfortunately) instead of leaving that letter to
tell its own story in Professor Watson's hands, he asked Professor
Watson to return it to him: so that when Mr.

Stone very naturally asked Professor Watson to furnish a copy of
this important letter, Professor Watson had to reply, 'About a month
ago, Mr.

Barker applied to me for this letter, and I returned it to him, as
requested, without preserving a copy.

I can, however,' he proceeded, 'state positively that he did not mention
any actual observation earlier than May 14.

He said he thought he had noticed a strange star in the Crown about two
weeks before the date of his first observation--May 14--but not particularly,
and that he did not recognise it until the 14th. He did not give any date,
and did not even seem positive as to identity....

When I returned the letter of May 17, I made an endorsement across the
first page, in regard to its genuineness, and attached my signature.

I regret that I did not preserve a copy of the letter in question;
but if the original is produced, it will appear that my recollection
of its contents is correct.'

I think no one can blame Mr. Stone, if, on the receipt of this letter,
he stated that he had not the 'slightest hesitation' in regarding
Mr.

Barker's earlier observations as 'not entitled to the slightest
credit.'[33]
It may be fairly taken for granted that the new star leapt very
quickly, if not quite suddenly, to its full splendour. Birmingham, as
we have seen, was the first to notice it, on May 12.

On the evening of May 13, Schmidt of Athens discovered it independently,
and a few hours later it was noticed by a French engineer named Courbebaisse.
Afterwards, Baxendell of Manchester, and others independently saw the
star.

Schmidt, examining Argelander's charts of 324,000 stars (charts
which I have had the pleasure of mapping in a single sheet), found
that the star was not a new one, but had been set down by Argelander
as between the ninth and tenth magnitudes.

Referring to Argelander's list, we find that the star had been twice
observed--viz., on May 18, 1855, and on March 31, 1856.

Birmingham wrote at once to Mr. Huggins, who, in conjunction with
the late Dr.

Miller, had been for some time engaged in observing stars and other
celestial objects with the spectroscope. These two observers at once
directed their telescope armed with spectroscopic adjuncts--the
telespectroscope is the pleasing name of the compound instrument--to
the new-comer.

The result was rather startling. It may be well, however, before describing
it, to indicate in a few words the meaning of various kinds of spectroscopic
evidence.

The light of the sun, sifted out by the spectroscope, shows all the
colours but not all the tints of the rainbow.

It is spread out into a large rainbow-tinted streak, but at various places
(a few thousand) along the streak there are missing tints; so that in
fact the streak is crossed by a multitude of dark lines. We know
that these lines are due to the absorptive action of vapours existing in
the atmosphere of the sun, and from the position of the lines we can
tell what the vapours are. Thus, hydrogen by its absorptive
action produces four of the bright lines. The vapour of iron is there,
the vapour of sodium, magnesium, and so on. Again, we know that these
same vapours, which, by their absorptive action, cut off rays of
certain tints, emit light of just those tints.

In fact, if the glowing mass of the sun could be suddenly extinguished,
leaving his atmosphere in its present intensely heated condition, the
light of the faint sun which would thus be left us would give (under
spectroscopic scrutiny) those very rays which now seem wanting.
I need hardly add that our
amazement was excessive.  Even Peterkin himself could scarcely believe
his eyes.  Had his rifle been sighted for such a distance, the shot,
although a splendid one, would not have amazed us so much, because we
knew that our friend's aim was deadly; but as he had to elevate the
muzzle above the object fired at and guess the amount of elevation, the
shot was indeed wonderful.  It was a long time before our guide could
move, but when he did recover himself he danced and shouted like a
madman with delight, and then, setting off with a bound, sped across the
plain like a deer.

"Come along," cried Jack with a laugh--"let's follow; for Mak looked so
rabid when he went off that I believe he'll eat the beast raw before we
can claim our share, if we don't look sharp."

We all of us set off at a smart trot, and soon came to the spot where
our prize lay.  It was a splendid creature, and in prime condition.
After examining it carefully, and descanting on the beauty of its
striped skin, I sat down beside it and pulled out my note-book, while my
comrades entered the forest to search for a suitable place on which to
encamp, and to kindle a fire.  A spot was quickly found, and I had
scarcely finished making notes when they returned to carry the zebra
into the encampment.  We accomplished this with some difficulty, and
laid it beside the fire.  Then cutting four large steaks from its flanks
we proceeded to sup, after which we made our arrangements for spending
the night there.  We little knew the startling surprise that was in
store for us that night.

As the forest in that place happened to be swarming with wild animals of
every kind, we deemed it prudent to set a watch as well as to keep up a
blazing fire.  Jack and I and the negro kept watch by turns; Peterkin,
being still sufficiently an invalid to claim exemption from laborious
duties, was permitted to rest undisturbed.

About midnight I aroused Jack, and having made him sit up, in order to
show that he was thoroughly awake, I lay down and went to sleep.

How long I slept I cannot tell, but I was suddenly awakened by one of
the most tremendous roars I ever heard.  It was so chose to me that, in
the confusion of my sleepy brain, it seemed to be far more terrible than
that even of the gorilla.  I was mistaken in this, however, and no doubt
my semi-somnolent condition tended to increase its awfulness.

Springing into a sitting posture, and by an involuntary impulse reaching
out my hand for my gun which lay close to me, I beheld a sight that was
calculated to appal the stoutest heart.  A lion of the largest size was
in the very act of springing over the bushes and alighting on the zebra,
which, as I have said, lay on the other side of the fire and not four
yards off from us.  As the light glared in the brute's eyes, and, as it
were, sparkled in gleams on its shaggy mane, which streamed out under
the force of its majestic bound, it seemed to my bewildered gaze as
though the animal were in the air almost above my head, and that he must
inevitably alight upon myself.  This, at least, is the impression left
upon my mind now that I look back upon that terrific scene.  But there
was no time for thought.  The roar was uttered, the bound was made, and
the lion alighted on the carcass of the zebra almost in one and the same
moment.  I freely confess that my heart quailed within me.  Yet that did
not prevent my snatching up my gun; but before I had time to cock it the
crashing report of Jack's elephant rifle almost split the drum of my
ear, and I beheld the lion drop as if it had been a stone.

It lay without motion, completely dead, and we found, on examination,
that the ball had smashed in the centre of its forehead and completely
penetrated its brain.

Some time elapsed before we could find words to express our feelings.
Our guide, who had so completely enveloped his head and shoulders in
grass when he lay down to sleep that he was the last to spring up,
looked at the huge carcass of the lion with an expression of utter
bewilderment.

"What a magnificent fellow!  And what a splendid shot!" exclaimed
Peterkin at last.  "Why, Jack, I don't believe there's a finer lion in
Africa.  It's lucky, though, that you were on the _qui vive_."

"Yes," said I; "had it not been for you we might have been all killed by
this time."

"No fear o' dat," chimed in our guide, as he sat down on the lion's
shoulder, and began to stroke its mane; "hims was want him's supper off
de zebra, ho! ho!  Hims got him's supper off a bullet!"

"'Tis well that he has," observed Jack, as he reloaded his rifle.  "To
say truth, comrades, I scarcely deserve credit for being guardian of the
camp, for I'm ashamed to say that I was sound asleep at the moment the
lion roared.  How I ever managed to take so quick and so good an aim is
more than I can tell.  Luckily my rifle was handy, and I had fallen
asleep in a sitting posture.  Had it been otherwise, I could scarcely
have been in time to prevent the brute springing on us, had he felt so
disposed."

Here was now another subject for my note-book, so I sat down, and began
a minute inspection of the noble-looking animal, while my comrades,
heaping fresh logs on the fire, sat down in front of it, and for upwards
of an hour, "fought their battles o'er again."

It was a matter of deep regret to us all that we could not afford to
carry away with us the skin of this lion as a memorial; but
circumstanced as we then were, that was out of the question, so we
contented ourselves with extracting his largest teeth and all his claws,
which we still preserve in our museum as trophies of the adventure.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

WE VISIT A NATURAL MENAGERIE, SEE WONDERFUL SIGHTS, AND MEET WITH
STRANGE ADVENTURES.

We observed, on this journey, that the elephants which we met with in
our farthest north point were considerably smaller than those farther to
the south, yet though smaller animals, their tusks were much larger then
those of the south.  The weight of those tusks varied from twenty to
fifty pounds, and I saw one that was actually upwards of one hundred
pounds in weight--equal, in fact, to the weight of a big boy or a little
man.  Such tusks, however, were rare.

At nights, when we encamped near to a river or pool of water, we saw
immense numbers of elephants come down to drink and enjoy themselves.
They seemed, in fact, to be intoxicated with delight, if not with water;
for they screamed with joy, and filling their trunks with water, spurted
it over themselves and each other in copious showers.  Of course, we
never disturbed them on such occasions, for we came to the conclusion
that it would be the height of barbarity and selfishness to spoil the
pleasure of so many creatures merely for the sake of a shot.

Frequently we were wont to go after our supper to one of those ponds,
when we chanced to be in the immediate neighbourhood of one, and lying
concealed among the bushes, watch by the light of the moon the strange
habits and proceedings of the wild creatures that came there to drink.
The hours thus passed were to me the most interesting by far that I
spent in Africa.  There was something so romantic in the kind of
scenery, in the dim mysterious light, and in the grand troops of wild
creatures that came there in all the pith and fire of untamed freedom to
drink.  It was like visiting a natural menagerie on the most magnificent
scale; for in places where water is scarce any pool that may exist is
the scene of constant and ever-changing visits during the entire night.

In fact, I used to find it almost impossible to tear myself away,
although I knew that repose was absolutely needful, in order to enable
me to continue the journey on the succeeding day, and I am quite certain
that had not Peterkin and Jack often dragged me off in a jocular way by
main force, I should have remained there all night, and have fallen
asleep probably in my ambush.

One night of this kind that we passed I shall never forget.  It was
altogether a remarkable and tremendously exciting night; and as it is a
good type of the style of night entertainment to be found in that wild
country, I shall describe it.

It happened on a Saturday night.  We were then travelling through a
rather dry district, and had gone a whole day without tasting water.  As
evening approached we came, to our satisfaction, to a large pond of
pretty good water, into which we ran knee-deep, and filling our caps
with water, drank long and repeated draughts.  Then we went into a piece
of jungle about a quarter of a mile distant, and made our encampment,
intending to rest there during the whole of the Sabbath.

I may mention here that it was our usual custom to rest on the Sabbath
days.  This we did because we thought it right, and we came ere long to
know that it was absolutely needful; for on this journey southward we
all agreed that as life and death might depend on the speed with which
we travelled, we were quite justified in continuing our journey on the
Sabbath.  But we found ourselves at the end of the second week so
terribly knocked up that we agreed to devote the whole of the next
Sabbath to repose.  This we did accordingly, and found the utmost
benefit from it; and we could not avoid remarking, in reference to this
on the care and tenderness of our heavenly Father, who has so arranged
that obedience to His command should not only bring a peculiar blessing
to our souls, but, so to speak, a natural and inevitable advantage to
our bodies.  These reflections seemed to me to throw some light on the
passage, "The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath."
But as this is not the place for theological disquisition, I shall not
refer further to that subject.

Not having, then, to travel on the following day, we made up our minds
to spend an hour or two in a place of concealment near the margin of
this pond; and I secretly resolved that I would spend the _whole_ night
there with my note-book (for the moon, we knew, would be bright), and
make a soft pillow of leaves on which I might drop and go to sleep when
my eyes refused any longer to keep open.

The moon had just begun to rise when we finished our suppers and
prepared to go to our post of observation.  We took our rifles with us
of course, for although we did not intend to shoot, having more than
sufficient food already in camp, we could not tell but that at any
moment those weapons might be required for the defence of our lives.
Makarooroo had been too long accustomed to see wild animals to
understand the pleasure we enjoyed in merely staring at them, so he was
left in charge of our camp.

"Now, then," said Peterkin, as we left the encampment, "hurrah, for the
menagerie!"

"You may well call it that," said Jack, "for there's no lack of
variety."

"Are we to shoot?" inquired Peterkin.

"Better not, I think.  We don't require meat, and there is no use in
murdering the poor things.  What a splendid scene!"

We halted to enjoy the view for a few seconds.  The forest out of which
we had emerged bordered an extensive plain, which was dotted here and
there with scattered groups of trees, which gave to the country an
exceedingly rich aspect.  In the midst of these the pond lay glittering
in the soft moonlight like a sheet of silver.  It was surrounded on
three sides by low bushes and a few trees.  On the side next to us it
was open and fully exposed to view.  The moonlight was sufficiently
bright to render every object distinctly visible, yet not so bright as
to destroy the pleasant feeling of mysterious solemnity that pervaded
the whole scene.  It was wonderfully beautiful.  I felt almost as if I
had reached a new world.

Continuing our walk we quickly gained the bushes that fringed the margin
of the pool, which was nowhere more than thirty yards broad, and on our
arrival heard the hoofs of several animals that we had scared away
clattering on the ground as they retreated.

"There they go already," cried Jack; "now let us look for a hillock of
some kind on which to take up our position."

"We shall not have to look far," said I, "for here seems a suitable spot
ready at our hand."

"Your eyes are sharp to-night, Ralph," observed Peterkin; "the place is
splendid, so let's to work."

Laying down our rifles, we drew our hunting-knives, and began to cut
down some of the underwood on the top of a small hillock that rose a
little above the surrounding bushes, and commanded a clear view of the
entire circumference of the pond.  We selected this spot for the double
reason that it was a good point of observation and a safe retreat, as
animals coming to the pond to drink, from whatever quarter they might
arrive, would never think of ascending a hillock covered with bushes, if
they could pass round it.

Having cleared a space sufficiently large to hold us--leaving, however,
a thin screen of shrubs in front through which we intended to peep--we
strewed the ground with leaves, and lay down to watch with our loaded
rifles close beside us.  We felt certain of seeing a good many animals,
for even during the process of preparing our unlace of retreat several
arrived, and were scared away by the noise we made.

Presently we heard footsteps approaching.

"There's something," whispered Peterkin.

"Ay," returned Jack.  "What I like about this sort o' thing is your
uncertainty as to what may turn up.  It's like deep-sea fishing.  Hist!
look out."

The steps were rapid.  Sometimes they clattered over what appeared to be
pebbly ground, then they became muffled as the animal crossed a grassy
spot; at last it trotted out of the shade of the bushes directly
opposite to us into the moonlight, and showed itself to be a beautiful
little antelope of the long-horned kind, with a little fawn by its side.
The two looked timidly round for a few seconds, and snuffed the air as
if they feared concealed enemies, and then, trotting into the water,
slaked their thirst together.  I felt as great pleasure in seeing them
take a long, satisfactory draught as if I had been swallowing it myself,
and hoped they would continue there for some time; but they had barely
finished when the rapid gallop of several animals was heard, and scared
them away instantly.

The newcomers were evidently heavy brutes, for their tread was loud and
quite distinct, as compared with the steps of the antelopes.  A few
seconds sufficed to disclose them to our expectant eyes.  A large herd
of giraffes trotted to the water's edge and began to drink.  It was a
splendid sight to behold these graceful creatures stooping to drink, and
then raising their heads haughtily to a towering height as they looked
about from side to side.  In the course of a couple of hours we saw
elands, springboks, gnus, leopards, and an immense variety of wild
creatures, some of which fawned on and played with each other, while
others fought and bellowed until the woods resounded with the din.

While we were silently enjoying the sight, and I attempting to make a
few entries in my note-book, our attention was attracted to a cracking
of the branches close to the right side of our hillock.

"Look out!" whispered Jack; but the warning was scarcely needed, for we
instinctively seized our rifles.  A moment after our hearts leaped
violently as we heard a crashing step that betokened the approach of
some huge creature.

"Are we safe here?"  I whispered to Jack.

"Safe enough if we keep still.  But we shall have to cut and run if an
elephant chances to get sight of us."

I confess that at that moment I felt uneasy.  The hillock on the summit
of which we lay was only a place of comparative safety, because no
animal was likely to ascend an elevated spot without an object in view,
and as the purpose of all the nocturnal visitors to that pond was the
procuring of water, we did not think it probable that any of them would
approach unpleasantly near to our citadel; but if any wild beast should
take a fancy to do so, there was nothing to prevent him, and the slight
screen of bushes by which we were surrounded would certainly have been
no obstacle in the way.

A hunter in the African wilds, however, has not much time to think.
Danger is usually upon him in a moment.  We had barely time to full-cock
our rifles when the bushes near us were trodden down, and a huge black
rhinoceros sauntered slowly up to us.  So near was he that we could have
sprung out from our hiding-place and have caught hold of him, had we
chosen to do so.

This enormous unwieldy monster seemed to me so large that he resembled
an elephant on short legs, and in the dim, mysterious moonlight I could
almost fancy him to be one of those dreadful monsters of the
antediluvian world of which we read so much in these days of geological
research.  I held my breath and glanced at my comrades.  They lay
perfectly motionless, with their eyes fixed on the animal, which
hesitated on approaching our hillock.  My blood almost stagnated in my
veins.  I thought that he must have observed us or smelt us, and was
about to charge.  He was only undecided as to which side of the hillock
he should pass by on his way to the pond.  Turning to the left, he went
down to the water with a heavy, rolling gait, crushing the shrubs under
his ponderous feet in a way that filled me with an exalted idea of his
tremendous power.

I breathed freely again, and felt as if a mighty load had been lifted
off me.  From the suppressed sighs vented by my comrades, I judge that
they also had experienced somewhat similar relief.  We had not, however,
had time to utter a whisper before our ears were assailed by the most
tremendous noise that we had yet heard.  It came from the opposite side
of the pool, as if a great torrent were rushing towards us.  Presently a
black billow seemed to burst out of the jungle and roll down the sloping
bank of the pond.

"Elephants!" exclaimed Jack.

"Impossible," said I; "they must be buffaloes."

At that instant they emerged into the full blaze of the moon, and showed
themselves to be a herd of full-grown elephants, with a number of
calves.  There could not have been fewer than one hundred on the margin
of the pond; but from the closeness of their ranks and their incessant
movements I found it impossible to count their numbers accurately.  This
magnificent army began to drink and throw water about, waving their
trunks and trumpeting shrilly at the same time with the utmost delight.
The young ones especially seemed enjoy themselves immensely, and I
observed that their mothers were very attentive to them, caressing them
with their trunks and otherwise showing great fondness for their
offspring.

"I say," whispered Peterkin, "what a regiment of cavalry these fellows
would make, mounted by gorillas armed with scythe-blades for swords and
Highland claymores for dirks!"

"Ay, and cannon-revolvers in their pockets!" added Jack.  "But, look--
that hideous old rhinoceros.  He has been standing there for the last
two minutes like a rock, staring intently across the water at the
elephants."

"Hush!" said I.  "Whisper softly.  He may hear us."

"There goes something else on our side," whispered Peterkin, pointing to
the right of our hillock.  "Don't you see it?  There, against the--I do
believe it's another giraffe!"

"So it is!  Keep still.  His ears are sharp," muttered Jack, examining
the lock of his rifle.

"Come, come!" said I; "no shooting, Jack.  You know we came to see, not
to shoot."

"Very true; but it's not every day one gets such a close shot at a
giraffe.  I _must_ procure a specimen for you, Ralph."

Jack smiled as he said this, and raised his rifle.  Peterkin at the same
moment quietly raised his, saying, "If that's your game, my boy, then
here goes at the rhinoceros.  Don't hurry your aim; we've lots of time."

As I waited for the reports with breathless attention, I was much struck
at that moment by the singularity of the circumstances in which we were
placed.  On our left stood the rhinoceros, not fifteen yards off; on our
right the giraffe raised his long neck above the bushes, about twenty
yards distant, apparently uncertain whether it was safe to advance to
the water; while in front lay the lake, reflecting the soft, clear
moonlight, and beyond that the phalanx of elephants, enjoying themselves
vastly.  I had but two moments to take it all in at a glance, for Jack
said "Now!" in a low tone, and instantly the loud report of the two
rifles thundered out upon the night air.

Words cannot convey, and the reader certainly cannot conceive, any idea
of the trumpeting, roaring, crashing, shrieking, and general hubbub that
succeeded to the noise of our firearms.  It seemed as if the wild beasts
of twenty menageries had simultaneously commenced to smash the woodwork
of their cages, and to dash out upon each other in mingled fury and
terror; for not only was the crashing of boughs and bushes and smaller
trees quite terrific, but the thunderous tread of the large animals was
absolutely awful.

We were thoroughly scared, for, in addition to all this, from the midst
of the horrid turmoil there came forth a royal roar close behind us that
told of a lion having been secretly engaged in watching our proceedings;
and we shuddered to think that, but for our firing, he might have sprung
upon us as we lay there, little dreaming of his presence.

Since our last adventure with the king of beasts, Makarooroo had
entertained us with many anecdotes of the daring of lions, especially of
those monsters that are termed man-eaters; so that when we heard the
roar above referred to, we all three sprang to our feet and faced about
with the utmost alacrity.  So intent were we on looking out for this
dreadful foe--for we had made up our minds that it must be a man-eating
lion--that we were utterly indifferent to the other animals.  But they
were not indifferent to us; for the wounded rhinoceros, catching sight
of us as we stood with our backs towards him, charged at once up the
hillock.

To utter three simultaneous yet fearfully distinct yells of terror,
spring over the low parapet of bushes, and fly like the wind in three
different directions, was the work of a moment.  In dashing madly down
the slope my foot caught in a creeping shrub, and I fell heavily to the
earth.

The fall probably saved my life, for before I could rise the rhinoceros
sprang completely over me in its headlong charge.  So narrow was my
escape that the edge of one of its ponderous feet alighted on the first
joint of the little finger of my left hand, and crushed it severely.
Indeed, had the ground not been very soft, it must infallibly have
bruised it off altogether.  The moment it had passed I jumped up, and
turning round, ran in the opposite direction.  I had scarcely gone ten
paces when a furious growl behind me, and the grappling sound as of two
animals in deadly conflict, followed by a fierce howl, led me to
conclude that the lion and the rhinoceros had unexpectedly met each
other, and that in their brief conflict the former had come off second
best.

But I gave little heed to that.  My principal thought at that moment was
my personal safety; so I ran on as fast as I could in the direction of
our encampment, for which point, I had no doubt, my companions would
also make.

I had not run far when the growl of a lion, apparently in front, caused
me to stop abruptly.  Uncertain of the exact position of the brute, I
turned off to one side, and retreated cautiously and with as little
noise as possible, yet with a feeling of anxiety lest he should spring
upon me unawares.  But my next step showed me that the lion was
otherwise engaged.  Pushing aside a few leaves that obstructed my
vision, I suddenly beheld a lion in the midst of an open space, crouched
as if for a spring.  Instinctively I threw forward the muzzle of my
rifle; but a single glance showed me that his tail, not his head, was
towards me.  On looking beyond, I observed the head and shoulders of
Jack, who, like the lion, was also in a crouching position, staring
fixedly in the face of his foe.  They were both perfectly motionless,
and there could not have been more than fifteen or twenty yards between
them.

The true position of affairs at once flashed across me.  Jack in his
flight had unwittingly run almost into the jaws of the lion; and I now
felt convinced that this must be a second lion, for it could not have
been the one that was disturbed by the rhinoceros, as I had been running
directly away from the spot where these two brutes had met.  Jack had
crouched at once.  We had often talked, over our camp-fire, of such an
event as unexpectedly meeting a lion face to face; and Peterkin, who
knew a good deal about such matters, had said that in such a case a
man's only chance was to crouch and stare the lion out of countenance.
We laughed at this; but he assured us positively that he had himself
seen it done to tigers in India, and added that if a man turned and ran
his destruction would be certain.  To fire straight in the face of a
lion in such a position would be excessively dangerous; for while the
bullet _might_ kill, it was more than probable it would glance off the
bone of the forehead, which would be presented at an angle to the
hunter.  The best thing to do, he said, was to stare steadily at the
creature until it began to wince, which, if not a wounded beast, it
would certainly do; and then, when it turned slowly round, to slink
away, take aim at its heart, and fire instantly.

The moon was shining full in Jack's face, which wore an expression of
intense ferocity I had never before witnessed, and had not believed it
possible that such a look could have been called up by him.  The lower
part of his face, being shrouded in his black beard, was undiscernible;
but his cheeks and forehead were like cold marble.  His dark brows were
compressed so tightly that they seemed knotted, and beneath them his
eyes glittered with an intensity that seemed to me supernatural.  Not a
muscle moved; his gaze was fixed; and it was not difficult to fancy that
he was actually, instead of apparently, petrified.

I could not, of course, observe the visage of the lion, and, to say
truth, I had no curiosity on that point; for just then it occurred to me
that I was directly in the line of fire, and that if my friend missed
the lion there was every probability of his killing me.  I was now in an
agony of uncertainty.  I knew not what to do.  If I were to endeavour to
get out of the way, I might perhaps cause Jack to glance aside, and so
induce the lion to spring.  If, on the other hand, I should remain where
I was, I might be shot.  In this dilemma it occurred to me that, as Jack
was a good shot and the lion was very close, it was extremely unlikely
that I should be hit; so I resolved to bide my chance, and offering up a
silent prayer, awaited the issue.

It was not long of coming.  The fixed gaze of a bold human eye cowed at
last even the king of the woods.  The lion slowly and almost
imperceptibly rose, and sidled gently round, with the intention,
doubtless, of bounding into the jungle.  I saw that if it did so it
would pass very close to me so I cocked both barrels and held my piece
in readiness.

The click of my locks attracted the lion's attention; its head turned
slightly round.  At that instant Jack's rifle sprang to his shoulder,
and the loud crack of its report was mingled with and drowned by the
roar of the lion, as he sprang with a terrible bound, not past me, but
straight towards me.  I had no time to aim, but throwing the gun quickly
to my shoulder, drew both triggers at once.

I had forgotten, in my perturbation, that I carried Peterkin's heavy
elephant rifle, charged with an immense quantity of powder and a couple
of six-ounce balls.  My shoulder was almost dislocated by the recoil,
and I was fairly knocked head over heels.  A confused sound of yells and
roars filled my ear for a moment.  I struggled to collect my faculties.

"Hollo!  Jack!--Ralph! where are you?" shouted a voice that I well knew
to be that of Peterkin.  "Hurrah I'm coming.  Don't give in!  I've
killed him!  The rhinoceros is dead as a door-nail!  Where have you--"

I heard no more, having swooned away.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

STRANGE AND TERRIBLE DISCOVERIES--JACK IS MADE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF AN
ARMY.

When my consciousness returned, I found myself lying on my back beside
our camp-fire, with my head resting on Peterkin's knee; and the first
sound I heard was his pleasant voice, as he said--

"All right, Jack; he's coming round.  I'm quite certain that no serious
damage is done.  I know well what sort o' rap he must have got.  It'll
bother him a little at first, but it won't last long."

Comforted not a little by this assurance, I opened my eyes and looked
up.

"What has happened?"  I inquired faintly.

"Ah! that's right, Ralph.  I'm glad to hear your voice again.  D'you
know, I thought at first it was all over with you?"

"Over with him!" echoed Peterkin; "it's only begun with him.  Ralph's
days of valorous deeds are but commencing.--Here, my boy; put this flask
to your mouth.  It's lucky I fetched it with us.  Here, drink."

"No, not until you tell me what has occurred," said I, for I still felt
confused in my brain.

"Then I _won't_ tell you a word until you drink," repeated my friend, as
he looked anxiously in my face and held the flask to my lips.

I sipped a mouthful, and felt much revived.

"Now," continued Peterkin, "I'll tell you what has happened.  We've
floored a rhinoceros and a giraffe and a lion, which, to my thinking, is
a pretty fair bag to make after dusk of a Saturday night!  And my big
rifle has floored _you_, which is the least satisfactory part of the
night's entertainment, but which wouldn't have occurred had you
remembered my instructions, which you never do."

"Oh, I recollect now," said I, as the spirits revived me.  "I'm all
right.--But, Jack, I trust that you have not received damage?"

"Not a scratch, I'm thankful to say; though I must confess I was near
catching an ugly wound."

"How so?"  I inquired quickly, observing a peculiar smile on Jack's face
as he spoke.

"Oh, make your mind easy," put in Peterkin; "it was just a small bit of
an escape he made.  When you let drive at the lion so effectively, one
of the balls went in at his mouth and smashed its way out at the back of
his skull.  The other ball shaved his cheek, and lodged in a tree not
two inches from Jack's nose."

"You don't mean it!" cried I, starting up, regardless of the pain
occasioned to my injured shoulder by the movement, and gazing intently
in Jack's face.

"Come, come," said he, smiling; "you must not be so reckless, Ralph.
Lie down again, sir."

"Peterkin, you should not talk lightly of so narrow an escape," said I
reproachfully.  "The fact that such a terrible catastrophe has nearly
occurred ought to solemnise one."

"Granted, my dear boy; but the fact that such a catastrophe did _not_
occur, ought, I hold, to make us jolly.  There's no managing a fellow
like you, Ralph.  I knew that if I told you of this gravely, you would
get into such a state of consternational self-reproachativeness, so to
speak, that you would infallibly make yourself worse.  And now that I
tell it to you `lightly,' as you call it, you take to blowing me up."

I smiled as my friend said this, and held out my hand, which he grasped
and squeezed.  Feeling at the moment overcome with drowsiness, I
unconsciously retained it in my grasp, and thus fell sound asleep.

Three days after this misadventure I was nearly as well as ever, and we
were once more journeying by forced marches towards the south.  Two days
more, we calculated, would bring us to Mbango's village.  As the end of
our journey approached, we grew more desperately anxious to push
forward, lest we should be too late to give them timely warning of the
slave-dealer's approach.  We also became more taciturn, and I could see
plainly that the irrepressible forebodings that filled my own heart,
were shared by my companions.  Poor Makarooroo never spoke, save in
reply to questions addressed pointedly to himself; and seeing the state
of his mind, we forbore to trouble him with conversation.

Yet, even while in this anxious state, I could not avoid noticing the
singular variety and beauty of both the animal and the vegetable kingdom
in the regions through which we passed.

In one part of our journey we had to cross a portion of what is called
desert country, but which, notwithstanding its name, was covered with
grass, and in many places with bushes, and even trees.  Its vegetation,
however, as compared with other parts of the country, was light; and it
was almost entirely destitute of water, there being no rivers or
springs; only a few pools of rain-water were to be found in the hard
beds of ancient river-courses.  This desert land was inhabited by
numbers of bushmen and other natives, as well as by large quantities of
game of various kinds.  But what struck me as being most singular was
the great variety of tuberous roots with which the region was supplied,
and which were evidently designed by our beneficent Creator to make up
to the inhabitants in a great degree for the want of a full supply of
water.

I also observed, with much interest, a species of plant which, like man,
is capable of being, as it were, acclimatised.  It is not by nature a
tuber-bearing plant; yet here it had become so, in order to be able to
retain a sufficiency of moisture during the dry season.  Makarooroo also
dug up for us several tuber-roots, which were the size of a large
turnip, and filled with a most delicious juice, which, as we were much
oppressed with thirst at the time, appeared to us like nectar.  Besides
these, we also procured water-melons in abundance at certain spots,
which were a great treat, not only to us, but also to elephants,
rhinoceroses, antelopes, and many other animals, whose footprints we
found in great numbers, and whose depredations among the water-melons
were very evident.

During the whole of this journey we made a point, as I have already
remarked, of avoiding man; not that we were indifferent to him, but
anxious not to be detained at that particular time.  We were very
fortunate in this matter, for we succeeded in eluding the observation of
the natives of many villages that we passed, in escaping others by
flight, and in conciliating those who caught us by making them liberal
gifts of beads.

One day we came to a halt under the most magnificent tree I ever saw.
It was a mowano tree, whose trunk consisted of six stems united in one.
The circumference a yard or so from the ground was eighty-four feet--
upwards of nine yards in diameter.

"What a tree for a nobleman's park!" said Jack, as we gazed at it, lost
in admiration.

"Ay; and behold a gentleman worthy to take up his residence under it,"
said Peterkin, pointing as he spoke to a living creature that sat among
the grass near its roots.

"What can it be?"  I exclaimed.

"The original father of all frogs!" replied Peterkin, as he darted
forward and killed the thing with a stick.

"I believe it _is_ a frog," said Jack.

We all burst into a fit of laughter, for undoubtedly it _was_ a frog,
but certainly the largest by far that any of us had ever seen.  It was
quite as large as a chicken!

"What a shame to have killed it!" said I.  "Why did you do it?"

"Shame!  It was no shame.  In the first place, I killed it because I
wish you to make scientific inspection of it; and in the second place, I
wanted to eat it.  Why should not we as well as Frenchmen eat frogs?  By
the way, that reminds me that we might introduce this giant species into
France, and thereby make our fortunes."

"You greedy fellow," cried Jack, who was busying himself in lighting the
fire, "your fortune is made already.  A person, for example, accustomed to the mist and haze of our British
air, is told by the sense of sight, when he is travelling where a
clearer atmosphere prevails, that a mountain forty miles from him
is a hill a few miles away.

On the other hand, an Italian travelling through the Highlands is impressed
with the belief that all the features of the scenery are much larger
(because he supposes them much more remote) than they really are.

A hundred such instances of deception might easily be cited. The conditions
under which the aeronaut observes the earth are certainly less
familiar than those under which the Briton views the Alps and
Apennines, or the Italian views Ben Lomond or Ben Lawers.

It would be rash, therefore, even if no other evidence were available, to
reject the faith that the earth is a globe because, as seen from
a balloon, it looks like a basin.

Indeed, to be strictly logical, the followers of Parallax ought on
this account to adopt the faith that the earth is not flat, but
basin-shaped, which hitherto they have not been ready to do.

We have seen that Parallax describes a certain experiment on the Bedford
Level, which, if made as he states, would have shown certainly
that something was wrong in the accepted system--for a six-mile
straight-edge along water would be as severe a blow to the belief
in a round earth, as a straight line on the sea-surface from
Queenstown to New York.

Another curious experiment adorns his little book, which, if it
could be repeated successfully before a dozen trustworthy witnesses,
would rather astonish men of science.

Having, he says, by certain reasoning--altogether erroneous, but that is
a detail--convinced himself that, on the accepted theory, a bullet fired
vertically upwards ought to fall far to the west of the place
whence it was fired, he carefully fixed an air-gun in a vertical
position, and fired forty bullets vertically upwards.

All these fell close to the gun--which is not surprising, though it must
have made such an experiment rather dangerous; but two fell back
into the barrel itself--which certainly was very surprising indeed.
One might fairly challenge the most experienced gunner in the world to
achieve one such vertical shot in a thousand trials; two in forty bordered
on the miraculous.

The earth-flatteners I have been speaking of claim, as one of their
objects, the defence of Scripture.

But some of the earth-flatteners of the last generation (or a little
farther back) took quite another view of the matter. For instance, Sir
Richard Phillips, a more vehement earth-flattener than Parallax, was
so little interested in defending the Scriptures, that in 1793 he was
sentenced to a year's imprisonment for selling a book regarded as
atheistic.

In 1836 he attempted the conversion of Professor De Morgan, opening the
correspondence with the remark that he had 'an inveterate abhorrence
of all the pretended wisdom of philosophy derived from the monks and
doctors of the Middle Ages, and not less those of higher name who
merely sought to make the monkish philosophy more plausible, or so
to disguise it as to mystify the mob of small thinkers.'

He seems himself to have succeeded in mystifying many of those whom he
intended to convert.

Admiral Smyth gives the following account of an interview he had with
Phillips: 'This pseudo-mathematical knight once called upon me at Bedford,
without any previous acquaintance, to discuss "those errors of Newton,
which he almost blushed to name," and which were inserted in the
"Principia" to "puzzle the vulgar." He sneered with sovereign
contempt at the "Trinity of Gravitating Force, Projectile Force,
and Void Space," and proved that all change of place is accounted
for by motion.'

[Startling hypothesis!] 'He then exemplified the conditions by placing
some pieces of paper on a table, and slapping his hand down close
to them, thus making them fly off, which he termed applying the
momentum.

All motion, he said, is in the direction of the forces; and atoms seek
the centre by "terrestrial centripetation"--a property which causes
universal pressure; but in what these attributes of pushing and
pulling differ from gravitation and attraction was not expounded. Many
of his "truths" were as mystified as the conundrums of Rabelais;
so nothing was made of the motion.'

A favourite subject of paradoxical ideas has been the moon's motion of
rotation. Strangely enough, De Morgan, who knew more about past paradoxists
than any man of his time, seems not to have heard of the dispute between
Keill and Bentley over this matter in 1690. He says, 'there was a
dispute on the subject, in 1748, between James Ferguson and an
anonymous opponent; and I think there have been others;' but the older
and more interesting dispute he does not mention. Bentley, who was
no mathematician, pointed out in a lecture certain reasons for believing
that the moon does not turn on her axis, or has no axis on which she
turns.

Keill, then only nineteen years old, pointed out that the arguments
used by Bentley proved that the moon does rotate instead of showing that
she does not. (Twenty years later Keill was appointed Savilian
Professor of Astronomy at Oxford. He was the first holder of that
office to teach the Newtonian astronomy.)
In recent times, as most of my readers know, the paradox that the
moon does not rotate has been revived more than once.

In 1855 it was sustained by Mr. Jellinger Symons, one of whose
staunchest supporters, Mr. H. Perigal, had commenced the attack a few
years earlier. Of course, the gist of the argument against the moon's
rotation lies in the fact that the moon always keeps the same face
turned towards the earth, or very nearly so.

If she did so exactly, and if her distance from the earth were constantly
the same, then her motion would be exactly the same as though she
were rigidly connected with the earth, and turned round an axis at the
earth. The case may be thus illustrated: Through the middle of a large
orange thrust one short rod vertically, and another long rod
horizontally; thrust the further end of the latter through a small
apple, and now turn the whole affair round the short vertical rod
as an axis.

Then the apple will move with respect to the orange as the moon would move
with respect to the earth on the suppositions just made.

No one in this case would say that the apple was turning round on its
axis, since its motion would be one of rotation round the upright
axis through the orange. Therefore, say the opponents of the moon's
rotation, no one should say that the moon turns round on her axis.

Of course, the answer would be obvious even if the moon's motions
were as supposed.

The moon is not connected with the earth as the apple is with the
orange in the illustrative case. If the apple, without rigid
connection with the orange, were carried round the orange so as
to move precisely as if it were so connected, it would unquestionably
have to rotate on its axis, as any one will find who may try the
experiment.

Thus for the straight rod thrust through the apple substitute a
straight horizontal bar carrying a small basin of water in which the
apple floats. Sway the bar steadily and slowly round, and it will be
found (if a mark is placed on the apple) that the apple no longer keeps
the same face towards the centre of motion; but that, to cause it
to do so, a slow motion of rotation must be communicated to the
apple in the same direction and at the same rate (neglecting the
effects of the friction of the water against the sides of the basin)
as the bar is rotating.

In my 'Treatise on the Moon' I have described and pictured a simple
apparatus by which this experiment may easily be made.

But, of course, such experiments are not essential to the argument by which
the paradox is overthrown. This argument simply is, that the moon as she
travels on her orbit round the sun--the real centre of her
motion--turns every part of her equator in succession towards him
once in a lunar month.

At the time of new moon the sun illuminates the face of the moon
turned from us; at the time of full moon he illuminates the face
which has been gradually brought round to him as the moon has passed
through her first two quarters.

As she passes onwards to new moon again, the face we see is gradually
turned from him until he shines full upon the other face.

And so on during successive lunations.
This could not happen unless the moon rotated.

Again, if we lived on the moon we should find the heaven of the fixed
stars turning round from east to west once in rather more than twenty-seven
days; and unless we supposed, as we should probably do for a long time,
that our small world was the centre of the universe, and that the stars
turned round it, we should be compelled to admit that it was turning on
its own axis from west to east once in the time just named. There
would be no escape. The mere fact that all the time the stars thus seemed
to be turning round the moon, the earth would not so seem to move,
but would lie always in the same direction, would in no sort help
to remove the difficulty.

Lunarian paradoxists would probably argue that she was in some way rigidly
connected with the moon; but even they would never think of arguing
that their world did not turn on its axis, _unless_ they maintained
that it was the centre of the universe. This, I think, they would
very probably do; but as yet terrestrial paradoxists have not, I believe,
maintained this hypothesis. I once asked Mr. Perigal whether that was
the true theory of the universe--the moon central, the earth, sun, and
heavens carried round her. He admitted that his objections to accepted
views were by no means limited to the moon's rotation; and, if I remember
rightly, he said that the idea I had thrown out in jest was nearer
the truth than I thought, or used words to that effect.

But as yet the theory has not been definitely enunciated that the moon
is the boss of the universe.

Comets, as already mentioned, have been the subjects of paradoxes
innumerable; but as yet comets have been so little understood, even
by astronomers, that paradoxes respecting them cannot be so readily
dealt with as those relating to well-established facts.

Among thoroughly paradoxical ideas respecting comets, however, may be
mentioned one whose author is a mathematician of well-deserved
repute--Professor Tait's 'Sea-Bird Theory' of Comets' Tails.

According to this theory, the rapid formation of long tails and the
rapid changes of their position may be explained on the same principle
that we explain the rapid change of appearance of a flight of sea-birds,
when, from having been in a position where the eye looks athwart it,
the flight assumes a position where the eye looks at it edgewise.

In the former position it is scarcely visible (when at a
distance), in the latter it is seen as a well-defined streak; and as a
very slight change of position of each bird may often suffice to
render an extensive flight thus visible throughout its entire length,
which but a few moments before had been invisible, so the entire length
of a comet's tail may be brought into view, and apparently be formed in
a few hours, through some comparatively slight displacement of the
individual meteorites composing it.

This paradox--for paradox it unquestionably is--affords a curious
illustration of the influence which mathematical power has on the minds
of men. Every one knows that Professor Tait has potential mathematical
energy competent to dispose, in a very short time, of all the difficulties
involved in his theory; therefore few seem to inquire whether this
potential energy has ever been called into action. It is singular, too,
that other mathematicians of great eminence have been content to
take the theory on trust.

Thus Sir W. Thomson, at the meeting of the British Association at
Edinburgh, described the theory as disposing easily of the difficulties
presented by Newton's comet in 1680. Glashier, in his translation of
Guillemin's 'Les Comètes,' speaks of the theory as one not improbably
correct, though only to be established by rigid investigation of
the mathematical problems involved.

In reality, not five minutes' inquiry is needed to show any one acquainted
with the history of long-tailed comets that Tait's theory is
quite untenable. Take Newton's comet. It had a tail ninety millions
of miles long, extending directly from the sun as the comet
approached him, and seen, four days later, extending to the same
distance, and still directly from the sun, as the comet receded
from him in an entirely different direction.

According to Tait's sea-bird theory, the earth was at both these epochs
in the plane of a sheet of meteorites forming the tail; but on each
occasion the sun also was in the same plane, for the edge of the sheet
of meteorites was seen to be directly in a line with the sun. The
comet's head, of course, was in the same plane; but three points, not
in a straight line, determine a plane. Hence we have, as the definite
result of the sea-bird theory, that the layer or stratum of
meteorites, forming the tail of Newton's comet, lay in the same
plane which contained the sun, the earth, and the comet.

But the comet crossed the ecliptic (the plane in which the earth
travels round the sun) between the epochs named, crossing it at a
great angle.

When crossing it, then, the great layer of meteorites was in the
plane of the ecliptic; before crossing it the layer was greatly
inclined to that plane one way, and after crossing it the layer was
greatly inclined to that plane another way.

So that we have in no way escaped the difficulty which the sea-bird
theory was intended to remove.

If it was a startling and, indeed, incredible thing that the particles
along a comet's tail should have got round in four days from the first
to the second position of the tail considered above, it is as startling
and incredible that a mighty layer of meteorites should have shifted
bodily in the way required by the sea-bird theory.

Nay, there is an element in our result which is still more startling than
any of the difficulties yet mentioned; and that is, the singular care
which the great layer of meteorites would seem to have shown to
keep its plane always passing through the earth, with which it was
in no way connected.

Why should this preference have been shown by the meteor flock for our
earth above all the other members of the solar system?--seeing that the
sea-bird theory _requires_ that this comet, and not Newton's
comet alone but all others having tails, should not only be thus complaisant
with respect to our little earth, but should behave in a totally
different way with respect to every other member of the sun's
family.

We can understand that, while several have been found who have applauded
the sea-bird paradox for what it _might_ do in explaining comets' tails,
its advocates have as yet not done much to reconcile it with cometic
observation.

The latest astronomical paradox published is perhaps still more startling.
It relates to the planet Venus, and is intended to explain the
appearance presented by this planet when crossing the sun's face, or,
technically, when in transit. At this time she is surrounded by a ring
of light, which appears somewhat brighter than the disc of the sun itself.
Before fully entering on the sun's face, also, the part of Venus's
globe as yet outside the sun's disc is seen to be girt round by a
ring of exceedingly bright light--so bright, indeed, that it has
left its record in photographs where the exposure was only for the
small fraction of a second allowable in the case of so intensely
brilliant a body as the sun.

Astronomers have not found it difficult to explain either peculiarity.
It has been proved clearly in other ways that Venus has an atmosphere
like our own, but probably denser. As the sun is raised into view above
the horizon (after he has really passed below the horizon plane) by
the bending power of our air upon his rays, so the bending power
of Venus's air brings the sun into our view round the dark body of
the planet.

But the new paradox advances a much bolder theory.
Instead of an atmosphere such as ours, Venus has a glass envelope;
and instead of a surface of earth and water, in some cases covered with
clouds, Venus has a surface shining with metallic lustre.[53]
The author of this theory, Mr. Jos. Brett, startled astronomers by
announcing, a few years ago, that with an ordinary telescope he
could see the light of the sun's corona without the aid of an
eclipse, though astronomers had observed that the delicate light
of the corona fades out of view with the first returning rays of
the sun after total eclipse.

The latest paradoxist, misled by the incorrect term 'centrifugal force,'
proposes to 'modify, if not banish,' the old-fashioned astronomy. What
is called centrifugal force is in truth only inertia. In the familiar
instance of a body whirled round by a string, the breaking of the
string no more implies that an active force has pulled away the
body, than the breaking of a rope by which a weight is pulled
implies that the weight has exerted an active resistance.

Of course, here again the text-books are chiefly in fault.

Such are a few among the paradoxes of various orders by which astronomers,
like the students of other sciences, have been from time to time amused.
It is not altogether, as it may seem at first sight, 'a sin against
the twenty-four hours' to consider such matters; for much may be
learned not only from the study of the right road in science, but
from observing where and how men may go astray.

I know, indeed, few more useful exercises for the learner than to examine
a few paradoxes, when leisure serves, and to consider how, if left to his
own guidance, he would confute them.

XI.

_ON SOME ASTRONOMICAL MYTHS._
The expression 'astronomical myth' has recently been used, on the
title-page of a translation from the French, as synonymous with
false systems of astronomy.

It is not, however, in that sense that I here use it. The history of
astronomy presents the records of some rather perplexing observations,
not confirmed by later researches, but yet not easily to be explained
away or accounted for.

Such observations Humboldt described as belonging to the myths of an
uncritical period; and it is in that sense that I employ the term
'astronomical myth' in this essay.

I propose briefly to describe and comment on some of the more interesting
of these observations, which, in whatever sense they are to be interpreted,
will be found to afford a useful lesson.

It is hardly necessary, perhaps, to point out that the cases which I include
here I regard as really cases in which astronomers have been deceived
by illusory observations.

Other students of astronomy may differ from me as respects some of
these instances.

I do not wish to dogmatise, but simply to describe the facts as I see
them, and the impressions which I draw from them.

Those who view the facts differently will not, I think, have to
complain that I have incorrectly described them.

At the outset, let me point out that some observations which were
for a long time regarded as mythical have proved to be exact.

For instance, when as yet very few telescopes existed, and those very
feeble, Galileo's discovery of moons travelling round Jupiter was rejected
as an illusion for which Satan received the chief share of credit.

There is an amusing and yet in one aspect almost pathetic reference to
this in his account of his earlier observations of Saturn. He had seen
the planet apparently attended on either side by two smaller planets,
as if helping old Saturn along.

But on December 4, 1612,[54] turning his telescope on the planet,
he found to his infinite amazement not a trace of the companion
planets could be seen; there in the field of view of his telescope
was the golden-tinted disc of the planet as smoothly rounded as the
disc of Mars or Jupiter.

'What,' he wrote, 'is to be said concerning so strange a metamorphosis?

Are the two lesser stars consumed after the manner of the solar
spots? Have they vanished or suddenly fled? Has Saturn, perhaps, devoured
his children?

Or were the appearances, indeed, illusion or fraud with which the glasses
have so long deceived me as well as many others to whom I have shown
them? Now, perhaps, is the time come to revive the well-nigh withered
hopes of those who, guided by more profound contemplations, have discovered
the fallacy of the new observations, and demonstrated the utter
impossibility of the existence of those things which the telescope appears
to show.

I do not know what to say in a case so surprising, so unlooked for, and
so novel. The shortness of the time, the unexpected nature of the event,
the weakness of my understanding, and the fear of being mistaken,
have greatly confounded me.' We now know that these observations,
as well as those made soon after by Hevelius, though wrongly interpreted,
were correct enough.

Nay, we know that if either Galileo or Hevelius had been at the pains to
reason out the meaning of the alternate visibility and disappearance
of objects looking like attendant planets, they must have anticipated
the discovery made in 1656 by Huyghens, that Saturn's globe is girdled
about by a thin flat ring so vast that, if a score of globes like our
earth were set side by side, the range of that row of worlds would be
less than the span of the Saturnian ring system.

There is a reference in Galileo's letter to the solar spots; 'Are the two
lesser stars,' he says, 'consumed after the manner of the solar spots?'
When he thus wrote the spots were among the myths or fables of astronomy,
and an explanation was offered, by those who did not reject them
utterly, which has taken its place among forsaken doctrines, those
broken toys of astronomers. It is said that when Scheiner, himself a
Jesuit, communicated to the Provincial of the Jesuits his discovery
of the spots on the sun, the latter, a staunch Aristotelian, cautioned
him not to see these things.

"Hims say, too," continued Makarooroo, after interpreting the above
information, "that there be one poor woman in awfable sorrow, screechin'
and hollerowin' like one lion."

"Eh?" exclaimed Peterkin.  "Describe her to us."

The scout did so as well as he could.

"As sure as we live," cried Peterkin, "it is our friend Njamie, and the
child must be her boy!  Come, show us the little fellow."

We all ran out and followed the scout to his hut, where we found his
wives--for he had three of them--nursing the child as tenderly as if it
had been their own.  It was very much wasted, evidently through want of
food and over-fatigue; but we instantly recognised the once sturdy
little son of Njamie in the faded little being before us.  He, too,
recognised us, for his bright spectral eyes opened wide when he saw us.

"I knew it," said I.

"I told you so," cried Peterkin.--"Now, Mak, pump him, and let's hear
what he knows."

The poor child was far too much exhausted to undergo the pumping process
referred to.  He could merely answer that Njamie and Okandaga and Mbango
were prisoners in the camp, and then turned languidly away, as if he
desired rest.

"Poor boy!" said Peterkin tenderly, as he laid his hand gently on the
child's woolly pate.--"Tell them, Mak, to look well after him here, and
they shall be paid handsomely for--nay" (here he interrupted himself),
"don't say that.  'Tis a bad thing to offer to pay for that which people
are willing to do for love."

"Right, lad," said Jack: "we can easily make these poor folk happy by
giving them something afterwards, without saying that it is bestowed
because of their kindness to the boy.  The proper reward of diligent
successful labour is a prize, but the best reward of love and kindness
is a warm, hearty recognition of their existence.--Just tell them, Mak,
that we are glad to see them so good and attentive to the little chap.--
And now, my generals, if it is consistent with your other engagements, I
would be glad to have a little private consultation with you."

"Ready and willing, my lord," said Peterkin, as we followed Jack towards
the king's palace.  "But," he added seriously, "I don't like to be a
general of _division_ at all."

"Why not, Peterkin?"

"Why, you see, when I was at school I found division so uncommonly
difficult, and suffered so much, mentally and physically, in the
learning of it, that I have a species of morbid antipathy to the very
name.  I even intend to refuse a seat in parliament, when offered to me,
because of the divisions that are constantly going on there.  If you
could only make me a general of subtraction now, or--"

"That," interrupted Jack, "were easily done, by deducting you from the
force altogether, and commanding you to remain at home."

"In which case," rejoined Peterkin, "I should have to become general of
addition, by revolunteering my services, in order to prevent the whole
expedition from resolving itself into General Muddle, whose name and
services are well-known in all branches of military and civil service."

"So that," added Jack, "it all comes to this, that you and Ralph and I
must carry on the war by rule of three, each taking his just and
appropriate proportion of the work to be done.  Now, to change the
subject, there's the sun getting up, and so is the king, if I may judge
from the stir in his majesty's household."

Having begged the king to assemble his warriors together, Jack now
proceeded to divide them into four companies, or bands, over which he
appointed respective leaders.  All the men who possessed guns were
assembled together in one band, numbering about one hundred and fifty
men.  These Jack subdivided into two companies, one including a hundred,
the other fifty men.  The remainder, constituting the main army, were
armed with bows and arrows, spears and knives.  Of these a large force
was told off to remain behind and guard the village.

This home-guard was placed under command of the king in person.  The
hundred musketeers were placed under Peterkin's command.  The other
fifty were given to me, along with a hundred spear and bow men.  Jack
himself took command of the main body of spearmen.  As Peterkin had to
act a special and independent part, besides commanding his hundred
musketeers, Makarooroo was made over to him, to act as lieutenant.

All these arrangements and appointments were made in a cool, quiet, and
arbitrary manner by Jack, to whom the natives, including the king,
looked up with a species of awe amounting almost to veneration.

"Now," said our commander-in-chief to Lieutenant Mak, "tell the niggers
I am going to make them a speech," (this was received with a grunt of
satisfaction), "and that if they wish to have the smallest chance of
overcoming their enemies, they had better give their closest attention
to what I have to say."

Another grunt of acquiescence followed this announcement.

"Say that I am going to speak to them of things so mysterious that they
shall not by any conceivable or possible effort understand them."

This being quite in accordance with the superstitions and tastes of the
negroes, was received with eager acclamations of delight.

"Tell them," continued Jack, in a deep, solemn tone, and frowning
darkly, "that we shall gain the victory _only_ through _obedience_.
Each man must keep his ears open and his eye on his leader, and must
obey orders _at once_.  If the order `Halt' should be given, and any man
should have his mouth open at the time, he must _keep_ his mouth open,
and shut it _after_ he has halted."

Here Jack took occasion to revert to the three orders, "Forward,"
"Halt," and "Fire," and repeated the lesson several times, until his men
were quite perfect.  Then he put the various bodies under their
respective commanders, and telling the musketeers to make believe to
fire (but making sure that they should not really do it, by taking their
guns from them), he made each of us give the various words separately,
so that our men should become familiar with our voices.

This done, he called the generals of divisions to him, and said--

"Now, gentlemen, I am going to review my troops, and to give them their
final lesson in military tactics, with the double view of seeing that
they know what they have got to do, and of impressing them with a due
sense of the great advantage of even a slight knowledge of drill."

He then directed us to take command of our several companies (Makarooroo
being placed on this occasion over the king's band), and pointed out the
separate directions in which we were ultimately to post our troops, so
as to advance upon the spot on which the king stood when the signal
should be given.  We had already taught the men the necessity of
attacking in a compact single line, and of forming up into this position
from what is termed Indian file, with which latter they were already
acquainted.  Of course we could not hope to teach them the principles of
wheeling in the short time at our command.  To overcome this difficulty,
we told each band to follow its leader, who should walk in front; to
advance when he advanced, to retire when he retired, and to turn this
way or that way, according to his movements.

At a signal we gave the word "Forward!" and the whole band defiled into
the woods before the king, and disappeared like a vision, to the
unutterable amazement of his majesty, who stood perfectly motionless,
with eyes and mouth open to their fullest extent.

Having marched together for some distance, each leader detached his men
and led them, as it were, to opposite directions of the compass, three
of the bands making a considerable detour, in order to get the spot
where the king stood in the centre of us.  Then we halted and awaited
the next signal.  In about ten minutes it was given--a loud whistle--and
we gave the word "Forward" again.  I say "we," because the result proved
that we had done so.  Being out of sight of the other bands, of course I
could not see how they acted.

On I rushed over brake and bush and morass, my men following me in a
very good line, considering the nature of the ground.  I had divided
them into four lines, with an interval of about six yards between each.
And it was really wonderful how well they kept in that position.  The
other companies had been ordered to act in the same way.

On bursting out of the woods I saw that we had outstripped the other
companies, so I held my men in check by running somewhat slower; and
they had been so deeply impressed with the fatal consequences of not
doing exactly as I did, that they stared at me with all their eyes, to
the no small risk of their lives; for one or two dashed against trees,
and others tumbled head over heels into holes, in their anxiety to keep
their eyes upon me.

In a few seconds I observed Peterkin spring out of the woods, followed
by his men, so I went on again at full speed.  As we entered the
village, our ranks were sadly broken and confused by the huts; but on
gaining the open space where Jack stood, I was pleased to observe that
the negroes tried, of their own accord, to regain their original
formation, and succeeded so well that we came on in four tolerably
straight and compact lines.  Each commander having been forewarned to
hold his men in check, or to push forward, so as to arrive at the
central point at the same moment, Jack, Peterkin, Makarooroo, and I ran
in upon the king together, and unitedly gave the word "Halt!" whereupon
we found ourselves in the centre of a solid square.

So deeply had the men been impressed with the necessity of obedience
that they had scarcely observed each other's approach.  They now stood
rooted to the ground in every possible attitude of suddenly-arrested
motion, and all with their eyes and mouths wide open.  In another moment
the result of their combined movement became evident to them, and they
uttered a yell of delighted surprise.

"Very good, very good indeed," said Jack; "and that concluding yell was
very effective--quite magnificent.--But you see," he added, turning to
me, "although such a yell is sufficiently appalling to us, it will no
doubt be a mere trifle to men who are used to it.  What say you to
teaching them a British cheer?"

"Absurd," said I; "they will never learn to give it properly."

"I don't know that," rejoined Jack, in a doubtful manner.

"Try," said Peterkin.

"So I will.--Mak, tell them now that I'm going to continue the speech
which this little review interrupted."

"They's all ready for more, massa."

This was patent to the meanest capacity; for the negroes stood gazing at
their commander-in-chief with eyes and mouths and ears open, and
nostrils expanded, as if anxious to gulp in and swallow down his words
through every organ.

"There is a cry," said Jack, "which the white man gives when he enters
into battle--a terrible cry, which is quite different from that of the
black man, and which is so awful that it strikes terror into the heart
of the white man's enemies, and has even been known to make a whole army
fly almost without a shot being fired.  We shall let you hear it."

Thereupon Jack and I and Peterkin gave utterance to a cheer of the most
vociferous description, which evidently filled the minds of the natives
with admiration.

"Now," resumed Jack, "I wish my black warriors to try that cheer--"

Some of the black warriors, supposing that the expression of this wish
was a direct invitation to them to begin, gave utterance to a terrific
howl.

"Stay! stop!" cried Jack, holding up his hand.

Every mouth was closed instantly.

"You must cheer by command.  I will say `Hip, hip, hip!' three times; as
soon as I say the third `hip,' out with the cry.  Now then.  Hip, hip--"

"'Popotamus," whispered Peterkin.

"Hip, hurrah!" shouted Jack.

"Hurl! ho! sh! kee! how!" yelled the savages, each man giving his own
idea of our terror-inspiring British cheer.

"That will do," said Jack quietly; "it is quite evident that the war-cry
of the white man is not suited to the throat of the black.  You will
utter your usual shout, my friends, when the signal is given; but
_remember_, not before that.

"And now I come to the greatest mystery of all."  (Every ear was eagerly
attentive.) "The shot and bits of metal and little stones with which
King Jambai's warriors are accustomed to kill will not do on this great
and peculiar occasion.  They will not answer the purpose--my purpose;
therefore I have provided a kind of bullet which every one must use
instead of his usual shot.  No warriors ever used such bullets in the
fight before.  They are very precious, because I have only enough of
them to give one to each man.  But that will do.  If the enemy does not
fly at the first discharge, then you may load with your own shot."

So saying, Jack, with the utmost gravity, took from the pouch that hung
at his side a handful of little balls of paper about the size of a
musket bullet, which he began to distribute among the savages.  We had
observed Jack making several hundreds of these, the night previous to
this memorable day, out of one or two newspapers we had carried along
with us for wadding; but he would not at that time tell us what he was
going to do with them.  The negroes received this novel species of
ammunition with deep interest and surprise.  Never having seen printed
paper before, or, in all probability, paper of any kind, they were much
taken up with the mysterious characters imprinted thereon, and no doubt
regarded these as the cause of the supernatural power which the bullets
were supposed to possess.

"Remember," said Jack, "when these are discharged at the enemy, I do not
say that they will kill, but I do say that they will cause the enemy to
fly.  Only, be assured that everything depends on your _obedience_.  And
if one single stone, or nail, or hard substance is put in along with
these bullets, the chief part of my plans will be frustrated."

It was quite evident, from the expression of their sable countenances,
that the idea of the bullets not killing was anything but agreeable.
They were too deeply impressed, however, with Jack's power, and too far
committed in the enterprise, and generally too much overwhelmed with
mingled surprise and perplexity, to offer any objection.

"Now," said Jack in conclusion, "you may go and eat well.  To-night,
when it grows dark, hold yourselves in readiness to go forth in _dead
silence_.  Mind that: not a sound to be uttered until the signal, `Hip,
hip, hip!' is given."

"And," added Peterkin, in an undertone to Makarooroo, "tell them that
King Jambai expects that every man will do his duty."

This remark was received with a shout and a frightful display of white
teeth, accompanied by a tremendous flourish of guns, bows, and spears.

There was something quite awful, not to say picturesque, in this
displaying of teeth, which took place many times during the course of
the above proceedings.  You looked upon a sea of black ebony balls, each
having two white dots with black centres near the top of it.  Suddenly
the ebony balls were gashed across, and a sort of storm, as it were, of
deep red mingled with pure white swept over the dark cloud of heads
before you, and vanished as quickly as it had appeared, only to
reappear, however, at the next stroke of humour, or at some "touch of
that nature" which is said on very high authority, to "make the whole
world kin."

The proceedings eventually closed with a brief speech from the king, who
referred to Peterkin's remark about each man doing his duty, and said
that, "if each man did _not_ do his duty--" Here his majesty paused for
a minute, and wrought his countenance into horrible contortions,
indicative of the most excruciating agony, and wound up with an emphatic
repetition of that dire threat about the unnatural treatment of eyes,
heart, liver, and carcass, which had on the previous evening sounded so
awful in our ears, and had been treated with such profound indifference
by those whom it was specially designed to affect.

"I didn't know, Jack," observed Peterkin gravely, as we returned to our
hut, "that you were such an out-and-out humbug."

"You are severe, Peterkin.  I scarcely deserve to be called a humbug for
acting to the best of my judgment in peculiar circumstances."

"Peculiar circumstances!" responded Peterkin.  "Truly they have received
peculiar treatment!"

"That is as it should be," rejoined Jack; "at any rate, be they peculiar
or be they otherwise, our plans are settled and our mode of action
fixed, so we must e'en abide the issue."


CHAPTER TWENTY.

A WARLIKE EXPEDITION AND A VICTORY.

It was excessively dark that night when we set forth on our expedition.

The scout from whom we had already ascertained so much about the
intended movements of the enemy also told us that they meant to set out
at a little before midnight and march on the village by a certain route.
Indeed, it was very unlikely that they would approach by any other, as
the jungle elsewhere was so thick as to render marching, especially at
night, very difficult.

Jack therefore resolved to place the greater proportion of his troops in
ambush at the mouth of a small gully or dell a few miles from the
enemy's camp, where they were almost certain to pass.  But with a degree
of caution that I thought highly creditable in so young and
inexperienced a general, he sent out a considerable number of the most
trustworthy men in advance, with instructions to proceed with the
stealth of leopards, and to bring back instant information of any change
of route on the part of the foe.

The troops placed in ambush at the dell above referred to were
Peterkin's hundred musketeers, supported by Jack's spear and bow men.  I
was ordered to advance by a circuitous route on the camp itself with my
fifty musketeers, followed by my small company of spearmen.  My
instructions were, to conceal my men as near to the camp as possible,
and there await the first discharge of firearms from the dell, when I
was to rise, advance upon the camp, utter a terrific shout when within
fifty yards, rush forward to within twenty-five yards, halt, pour in one
withering volley of blank cartridge, and charge without giving my men
time to load.

Of course I could not speak to my men; but this was a matter of little
consequence, as they were now well acquainted with our three words of
command, "Forward," "Halt," and "Fire," and fully understood that they
must under all circumstances follow their leader.  I knew well enough
that there must be no little danger in this arrangement, because the
leader would necessarily be always in front of the muzzles of the loaded
guns.  But there was no help for it, so I resolved to act upon my usual
principle--namely, that when a thing is inevitable, the best thing to do
is to treat it as being unavoidable.

Having conducted my men stealthily and successfully to the vicinity of
the enemy's camp, though with some difficulty, owing to the almost
impenetrable nature of the jungle through which we had to pass in making
the detour necessary to avoid falling in with the attacking force, we
proceeded to advance to within as short a distance of it as possible
without running the risk of being discovered.  This was not difficult,
for the men left to guard the camp, supposing, no doubt, that their
presence in that part of the country was not suspected, had taken no
precautions in the way of placing sentries; so we quickly arrived at the
foot of a small mound about sixty yards or so from the encampment.  At
the foot of this mound I caused my men to lie down, giving them to
understand, by signs, that they were on no account to move until I
should return.  Then I crept alone to the brow of the mound, and
obtained a clear view of the camp.

The men who should have guarded it were, I found, busily employed in
cooking their supper.  There were, perhaps, upwards of a hundred of
them.  To my great satisfaction, I observed the captives sitting near to
the fire; and although at so considerable a distance from them, I felt
certain that I recognised the figures of Mbango and Okandaga.  Hastening
back to my men, I endeavoured to give them as much information as
possible by means of signs, and then lay down beside them to await the
signal from Jack's party.

Although the attack of both our parties was to be simultaneous, the
first shot was to be fired by our troops in the dell.  I will therefore
describe their part of the engagement first.  Jack described it to me
minutely after all was over.

On reaching the dell Jack disposed his forces so as to command the only
approach to it.  The hundred musketeers he placed in a double row
directly across the deepest and darkest part.  The spearmen he divided
into two bodies, which he posted on the flanks of the musketeers among
the bushes.  He then showed the rear rank of the latter how to point
their pieces over the shoulders of the men in the front rank at a given
signal, but carefully reiterated the order not to touch a trigger until
the word "Fire" should be given.

"Now, Peterkin," said Jack, when these dispositions had been made, "it
is time for you to get ready.  Makarooroo and I can manage these
fellows, so you have my permission to go and play your own independent
part.  Only let me warn you to remember your last exploit in this way,
and see that you don't do yourself a damage."

"Thanks, noble general, for the permission," answered Peterkin, "of
which I shall avail myself.  In reference to your advice, I may remark
that it is exceedingly valuable--so much so, indeed, that I would advise
you not to part with it until asked for."

"I suspected this; but, i' faith, it is not wise to say what one
thinks."

"We shall see what we shall see," and so on--the unmeaning chatter of
the crowd, which merely serves to show that it is at the command
of the first who chooses to sway it. Stronger words were heard from the
group in black.

"What! shall we let them do as they please, in this manner? What! dare
to burn our letter to the King!"
"If the King knew it!"
"The barbarian impostors! how skilfully is their plot contrived! What!
shall murder be committed under our very eyes?

Shall we be afraid of these archers?"
"No, no, no!" rang out in trumpet-like tones.

Attention was turned toward the young advocate, who, standing on a
branch, began tearing to pieces a roll of paper; then he cried:

"Yes, I tear and scatter to the winds the defence I had prepared
for the accused. They have suppressed discussion; I am not allowed
to speak for him. I can only speak to you, people; I rejoice that I can
do so. You heard these infamous judges. Which of them can hear the truth?
Which of them is worthy to listen to an honest man? Which of them
will dare to meet his gaze? But what do I say? They all know the truth.
They carry it in their guilty breasts; it stings their hearts like a
serpent. They tremble in their lair, where doubtless they are devouring
their victim; they tremble because they have heard the cries of three
deluded women.
What was I about to do? I was about to speak in behalf of Urbain Grandier!
But what eloquence could equal that of those unfortunates?

What words could better have shown you his innocence? Heaven has taken up
arms for him in bringing them to repentance and to devotion; Heaven
will finish its work--"
"Vade retro, Satanas," was heard through a high window in the
hall.

Fournier stopped for a moment, then said:

"You hear these voices parodying the divine language? If I mistake not,
these instruments of an infernal power are, by this song, preparing
some new spell."
"But," cried those who surrounded him, "what shall we do? What have they
done with him?"

"Remain here; be immovable, be silent," replied the young advocate.
"The inertia of a people is all-powerful; that is its true wisdom, that
its strength. Observe them closely, and in silence; and you will
make them tremble."

"They surely will not dare to appear here again," said the Comte
du Lude.

"I should like to look once more at the tall scoundrel in red,"
said Grand-Ferre, who had lost nothing of what had occurred.
"And that good gentleman, the Cure," murmured old Father Guillaume
Leroux, looking at all his indignant parishioners, who were talking
together in a low tone, measuring and counting the archers, ridiculing
their dress, and beginning to point them out to the observation of
the other spectators.
Cinq-Mars, still leaning against the pillar behind which he had
first placed himself, still wrapped in his black cloak, eagerly
watched all that passed, lost not a word of what was said, and
filled his heart with hate and bitterness. Violent desires for
slaughter and revenge, a vague desire to strike, took possession
of him, despite himself; this is the first impression which evil
produces on the soul of a young man.I have already explained that Jack had drawn his musketeers across the
dell, and placed the spearmen in the jungle on both flanks.  They were
arranged in such a way as to form three sides of a square, into which
the unsuspecting enemy now marched.  Jack allowed them to approach to
within thirty paces of his musketeers, and then gave, in a loud, deep,
sonorous tone, the word--"Hip! hip! hip!"

The compound cheer and yell that instantly followed the last hip was so
tremendous, coming, as it did, from all sides except the rear, that the
enemy were absolutely paralysed.  They stood rooted to the earth, as
motionless as if they had been transformed into stone.

Jack raised his hand, in which he held a bunch of white grass that could
be distinctly seen in the dark.

Every muzzle was pointed on the instant, but not a sound was heard save
the click of a hundred locks.

The sound was familiar to the enemy, although never before heard at one
moment in such numbers.  They started; but before a step could be taken,
the word "Fire" was given.

Instantly a sheet of flame swept across the entire dell, and the united
crash of a hundred guns seemed to rend the very earth.  The surrounding
cliffs reverberated and multiplied the horrid din, while, led by Jack,
cheer followed cheer, or rather howls and yells filled the air, and kept
awake the echoes of the place.

The enemy turned and fled, and the shrieks to which they gave utterance
as they ran betokened the extremity of their terror.  It wanted but one
touch to complete their consternation, and that touch was given when
Peterkin, lighting his powder-cones, showed himself on the mound,
dancing in a blaze of fire, and shrieking furiously as the horrified
tide of men swept by.

In the midst of his wild orgies, Peterkin acted an impromptu and
unintentional part by tripping over the brow of the hill, and rolling
down the steep declivity like a fire-wheel into the very midst of the
flying crew.  Jumping hastily up, he charged through the ranks of the
foe, flung the two hissing cones high into the air, and darting into the
jungle, hid himself effectually from view.

Meanwhile Jack still held the bunch of white straw aloft.  Every eye was
fixed on it, but not a man moved, because it remained stationary.  This
absence of pursuit in the midst of such appalling sights and sounds
must, undoubtedly, have added to the mystery and therefore to the
terrors of the scene.

Suddenly the white bunch was seen to dart forward.  Jack, who now
considered the enemy almost beyond the chance of being overtaken, gave
the word, "Forward!" in the voice of a Stentor, following it up with
"Hip, hip, hurrah!" and the whole host, musketeers and spearmen in a
mingled mass, rushed yelling out upon the plain, and gave chase to the
foe.

"Not so badly done," said Jack, with a quiet laugh, as he laid his hand
on Peterkin's shoulder.

"Why, Jack, how did you find me out?"

"Easily enough, when it is considered that I saw you go in.  The flame
of your wild-fire indicated your movements pretty plainly to me,
although terror and amazement no doubt blinded the eyes of every one
else.  Even Mak's teeth began to chatter when he saw you perform that
singular descent of the hill, and no wonder.  I hope no bones have been
broken?"

"No; all right as far as that goes," replied Peterkin within a laugh;
"but I've lost a good deal of skin.  However, it'll grow again.  I'm
glad it's no worse.  But I say, Jack, do you think our fellows won't
overtake these rascals?"

"No fear of that.  I took care to give them a good start, and if there
be any truth in the generally received idea that terror lends wings, I'm
pretty sure that each man in the enemy's ranks must have obtained the
loan of several pairs to-night.  But have you heard the sound of Ralph's
guns?"

"No; the din here was enough to drown anything so distant."

"Well, we must away to him as fast as we can.  I expect that poor Mak is
off before us."

"But you'll wait until I put on my clothes?" said Peterkin, hasting back
towards the place where he had undressed.

"Certainly, lad; only look alive."

Soon afterwards they left the place together.

While this was going on at the dell, I, on hearing the first shot, gave
the word "Forward!" in a low tone.  My men instantly rose and followed
me, and I could not, even at that anxious moment, help admiring the
serpent-like facility with which they glided from bush to bush, without
the slightest noise.  We descended a hill, crossed a small brook, and
approached to within thirty yards of the camp without being discovered.

Suddenly I leaped on the top of a hillock, and shouted at the utmost
pitch of my voice the single word "Halt!"

On hearing it all the men in the camp sprang to their arms, and stood
gazing round them with looks of consternation.

My next word was, "Fire!"

A firm, tremendous crash burst from among the bushes, and my single
person, enveloped in smoke and flame, was, I believe, the only object
visible to those in the camp.

"Hip, hip, hip, hurrah! forward!"  I shouted; and with a ferocious yell
we poured like a whirlwind upon the foe.

The same result that had occurred at the dell took place here.  The
enemy never awaited our charge.  They fled instantly, and so great was
their terror that they actually threw down their arms, in order to
facilitate their flight.

On gaining the camp, however, I found, to my sorrow, that we had done
the thing only too vigorously; for we had not only put the enemy to
flight, but we had also frightened away those whom we had come to
deliver!

At this point in the engagement I came to learn how incompetent I was to
command men in cases of emergency, for here my presence of mind utterly
forsook me.  In my anxiety to capture Mbango and his friends I ordered
an immediate pursuit.  Then it occurred to me that, in the event of my
men being successful in overtaking the fugitives, they would instantly
murder them all, so I tried to call them back; but, alas! they did not
understand my words, and they were by this time so excited as to be
beyond all restraint.  In a few minutes I found myself left alone in the
enemy's camp, and heard the shouts of pursued and pursuers growing
gradually fainter and more distant, as they scattered themselves through
the jungle.

Seating myself by the fire in a state of mind bordering on despair, I
buried my face in my hands, and endeavoured to collect myself, and
consider what, under the circumstances, should be now done.


CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

ARRANGEMENTS FOR PURSUING THE ENEMY, AND SUDDEN CHANGE OF PLANS.

"You seem to be taking it easy, old boy," said a voice close to my
elbow.

I started, and looked up hastily.

"Ah!  Peterkin.  You there?"

"Ay; and may I not reply, with some surprise, _you here_?"

"Truly you may,--but what could I do?  The men ran away from me, whether
I would or no; and you are aware I could not make myself understood, not
being able to--But where is Jack?"

I asked this abruptly, because it occurred to me at that moment that he
and Peterkin should have been together.

"Where is Jack?" echoed Peterkin; "I may ask that of you, for I am
ignorant on the point.  He and I got separated in endeavouring to escape
from the scrimmage caused by your valiant attack.  You seem to have
scattered the whole force to the winds.  Oh, here he is, and Mak along
with him."

Jack and our guide came running into the camp at that moment.

"Well, Ralph, what of Okandaga?"

"Ah! what of her indeed?" said Peterkin.  "I forgot her.  You don't moan
to say she was not in the camp?"

"Indeed she was," said I, "and so were Mbango, and his wife Njamie, and
one or two others whom I did not know; but my men went at them with such
ferocity that they fled along with our enemies."

"Fled!" cried Jack.

"Ay; and I fear much that it will fare ill with them if they are
overtaken, for the men were wild with excitement and passion."

"Come, this must be looked to," cried Jack, seizing his rifle and
tightening his belt; "we must follow, for if they escape our hands they
will certainly be retaken by their former captors."

We followed our comrade, without further remark, in the direction of the
fugitives; but although we ran fast and long, we failed to come up with
them.  For two hours did we dash through bush and brake, jungle and
morass, led by Makarooroo, and lighted by the pale beams of the moon.
Then we came to a halt, and sat down to consult.

"Dem be gone," said our wretched guide, whose cup of happiness was thus
dashed from his hand just as he was about to raise it to his lips.

"Now, don't look so dismal, Mak," cried Peterkin, slapping the man on
the shoulder.  "You may depend upon it, we will hunt her up somehow or
other.  Only let us keep stout hearts, and we can do anything."

"Very easily said, Master Peterkin," observed Jack; "but what course do
you propose we should follow just now?"

"Collect our scattered men; go back to the village; have a palaver with
King Jambai and his chiefs; get up a pursuit, and run the foxes to
earth."

"And suppose," said Jack, "that you don't know in which direction they
have fled, how can we pursue them?"

"It is very easy to suppose all manner of difficulties," retorted
Peterkin.  "If you have a better plan, out with it."

"I have no better plan, but I have a slight addition to make to yours,
which is, that when we collect a few of our men, I shall send them out
to every point of the compass, to make tracks like the spokes of a
wheel, of which the village shall be the centre; and by that means we
shall be pretty certain to get information ere long as to the
whereabouts of our fugitives.  So now let us be up and doing; time is
precious to-night."

In accordance with this plan, we rapidly retraced our steps to the dell,
which had been appointed as our place of rendezvous.  Here we found the
greater part of our men assembled; and so well-timed had Jack's
movements been, that not one of them all had been able to overtake or
slay a single enemy.  Thus, by able generalship, had Jack gained a
complete and bloodless victory.

Having detached and sent off our scouts--who, besides being picked men,
travelled without any other encumbrance than their arms--we resumed our
journey homeward, and reached the village not long after sunrise, to the
immense surprise of Jambai, who could scarcely believe that we had
routed the enemy so completely, and whose scepticism was further
increased by the total, and to him unaccountable, absence of prisoners,
or of any other trophies of our success in the fight.  But Jack made a
public speech, of such an elaborate, deeply mysterious, and totally
incomprehensible character, that even Makarooroo, who translated,
listened and spoke with the deepest reverence and wonder; and when he
had concluded, there was evidently a firm impression on the minds of the
natives that this victory was--by some means or in some way or other
quite inexplicable but highly satisfactory--the greatest they had ever
achieved.

The king at once agreed to Jack's proposal that a grand pursuit should
take place, to commence the instant news should be brought in by the
scouts.  But the news, when it did come, had the effect of totally
altering our plans.

The first scout who returned told us that he had fallen in with a large
body of the enemy encamped on the margin of a small pond.  Creeping like
a snake through the grass, he succeeded in getting near enough to
overhear the conversation, from which he gathered two important pieces
of information--namely, that they meant to return to their own lands in
a north-easterly direction, and that their prisoners had escaped by
means of a canoe which they found on the banks of the river that flowed
past King Jambai's village.

The first piece of information decided the king to assemble his
followers, and go off in pursuit of them at once; the second piece of
news determined us to obtain a canoe and follow Mbango and his
companions to the sea-coast, whither, from all that we heard, we
concluded they must certainly have gone.  As this, however, was a
journey of many weeks, we had to take the matter into serious
consideration.

"It is quite evident," said Jack, as we sat over our supper on the night
after receiving the above news--"it is quite evident that they mean to
go to the coast, for Mbango had often expressed to Mak a wish to go
there; and the mere fact of their having been seen to escape and take
down stream, is in itself pretty strong evidence that they did not mean
to return to their now desolated village, seeing that the country behind
them is swarming with enemies; and of course they cannot know that we
have conquered the main body of these rascals.  I therefore propose that
we should procure a canoe and follow them: first, because we must at all
hazards get hold of poor Okandaga, and relieve the anxiety of our
faithful guide Makarooroo; and second, because it is just as well to go
in that direction as in any other, in order to meet with wild animals,
and see the wonders of this land."

"But what if King Jambai takes it into his black woolly head to decline
to let us go?" said Peterkin.

"In that case we must take French leave of him."

"In which case," said I, in some alarm, "all my specimens of natural
history will be lost."

Jack received this remark with a shake of his head and a look of great
perplexity; and Peterkin said, "Ah, Ralph, I fear there's no help for
it.  You must make up your mind to say good-bye to your mummies--big
puggies and all."

"But you do not know," said I energetically, "that Jambai will detain us
against our will."

"Certainly not," replied Jack; "and for your sake I hope that he will
not.  At any rate I will go to see him about this point after supper.
It's of no use presenting a petition either to king, lord, or common
while his stomach is empty.  But there is another thing that perplexes
me: that poor sick child, Njamie's son, must not be left behind.  The
poor distracted mother has no doubt given him up for lost.  It will be
like getting him back from the grave."

"True," said I; "we must take him with us.  Yet I fear he is too ill to
travel, and we cannot await his recovery."

"He is not so ill as he seemed," observed Peterkin.  "I went to see him
only half an hour ago, and the little chap was quite hearty, and glad to
see me.  The fact is, he has been ill-used and ill-fed.  The rest and
good treatment he has received have, even in the short time he has been
here, quite revived him."

"Good," said Jack; "then he shall go with us.  I'll engage to take him
on my back when he knocks up on the march--for we have a march before
us, as I shall presently explain--and when we get into a canoe he will
be able to rest."

"But what march do you refer to?"  I asked.

"Simply this.  Mak, with whom I have had a good deal of conversation on
the subject, tells me that the river makes a considerable bend below
this village, and that by taking a short cut of a day's journey or so
over land we can save time, and will reach a small hamlet where canoes
are to be had.  The way, to be sure, is through rather a wild country;
but that to us is an advantage, as we shall be the more likely to meet
with game.  I find, also, that the king has determined to follow the
same route with his warriors in pursuit of the enemy, so that thus far
we may travel together.  At the hamlet we will diverge to the
north-east, while we, if all goes well, embarking in our canoe, will
proceed toward the west coast, where, if we do not overtake them on the
way, we shall be certain to find them on our arrival.  Okandaga has
often longed to go to the mission station there, and as she knows it is
in vain to urge Mbango to return to his destroyed village, she will
doubtless advise him to go to the coast."

"What you say seems highly probable," said I; "and I think the best
thing you can do is to go to the king at once and talk him over."

"Trust Jack for that," added Peterkin, who was at that moment deeply
engaged with what he called the drumstick of a roast monkey.  "Jack
would talk over any creature with life, so persuasive is his eloquence.
I say, Ralph," he added, holding the half-picked drumstick at arm's
length, and regarding it with a critical gaze, "I wonder, now, how the
drumstick of an ostrich would taste.  Good, I have no doubt, though
rather large for one man's dinner."

"It would be almost equal to gorilla ham, I should fancy," said Jack, as
he left the hut on his errand to the king.

"O you cannibal, to think of such a thing!" cried Peterkin, throwing the
bone of his drumstick after our retreating comrade.--"But 'tis always
thus," he added, with a sigh: "man preys upon man, monkey upon monkey.
Yet I had hoped better things of Jack.  I had believed him to be at
least a refined species of gorilla.  I say, Ralph, what makes you look
so lugubrious?"

"The difficulties, I suppose, that beset our path," said I sadly; for,
to say truth, I did not feel in a jesting humour just then.  I was
forced, however, in spite of myself, to laugh at the expression of
mingled disgust and surprise that overspread the mobile countenance of
my friend on hearing my reply.

"`The difficulties,'" echoed he, "`that beset our path!'  Really, Ralph,
life will become insupportable to me if you and Jack go on in this
fashion.  A man of nerve and sanguine temperament might stand it, but to
one like me, of a naturally timid and leaning nature, with the addition
of low spirits, it is really crushing--quite crushing."

I laughed, and replied that he must just submit to be crushed, as it was
impossible for Jack and me to change our dispositions to suit his
convenience; whereupon he sighed, lighted his pipe, and began to smoke
vehemently.

In the course of little more than an hour Jack returned, accompanied by
Makarooroo, and from the satisfied expression of their faces I judged
that they had been successful.

"Ah!  I see; it's all right," said Peterkin, raising himself on one
elbow as they entered the hut and seated themselves beside the fire.
"Old Jambai has been `talked over.'"

"Right; but he needed a deal of talk--he was horribly obstinate," said
Jack.

"Ho, yis; ho! ho! horribubly obsterlate," added Makarooroo in
corroboration, rubbing his hands and holding his nose slyly over the
bowl of Peterkin's pipe, in order to enjoy, as it were, a second-hand
whiff.

"Here, there's a bit for yourself, old boy.  Sit down and enjoy yourself
while Jack tells us all about his interview with royalty," said
Peterkin, handing a lump of tobacco to our guide, whose eyes glistened
and white teeth gleamed as he received the much-prized gift.

Jack now explained to us that he had found the king in a happy state of
satiety, smoking in his very curious and uneasy-looking easy-chair; that
he had at first begged and entreated him (Jack) to stay and take command
of his warriors, and had followed up his entreaties with a hint that it
was just possible he might adopt stronger measures if entreaty failed.

To this Jack replied in a long speech, in which he pointed out the
impossibility of our complying with the king's request under present
circumstances, and the absolute necessity of our returning at some
period or other to our native land to tell our people of the wonders we
had seen in the great country of King Jambai.  Observing that his
arguments did not make much impression on the king, he brought up his
reserve force to the attack, and offered all the remainder of our goods
as a free gift to his majesty, stipulating only that he (the king)
should, in consideration thereof, carefully send our boxes of specimens
down to the coast, where the messengers, on arriving, should be
handsomely paid if everything should arrive safely and in good order.

These liberal offers had a visible influence on the sable monarch, whose
pipe indicated the state of his mind pretty clearly--thin wreaths of
smoke issuing therefrom when he did not sympathise with Jack's
reasoning, and thick voluminous clouds revolving about his woolly head,
and involving him, as it were, in a veil of gauze, when he became
pleasantly impressed.  When Jack made mention of the valuable gifts
above referred to, his head and shoulders were indistinctly visible amid
the white cloudlets; and when he further offered to supply him with a
few hundreds of the magical paper balls that had so effectually defeated
his enemies the day before, the upper part of his person was obliterated
altogether in smoke.

This last offer of Jack's we deemed a great stroke of politic wisdom,
for thereby he secured that the pending war should be marked by the
shedding of less blood than is normal in such cases.  He endeavoured
further to secure this end by assuring the king that the balls would be
useless for the purpose for which they were made if any other substance
should be put into the gun along with them, and that they would only
accomplish the great end of putting the enemy to flight if fired at them
in one tremendous volley at a time when the foe had no idea of the
presence of an enemy.

All things being thus amicably arranged, we retired to rest, and slept
soundly until daybreak, when we were awakened by the busy sounds of
preparation in the village for the intended pursuit.

We, too, made active arrangements for a start, and soon after were
trooping over the plains and through the jungle in the rear of King
Jambai's army, laden with such things as we required for our journey to
the coast, and Jack, besides his proportion of our food, bedding,
cooking utensils, etcetera, carrying Njamie's little sick boy on his
broad shoulders.


CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

WE MEET WITH A LUDICROUSLY AWFUL ADVENTURE.

The day following that on which we set out from King Jambai's village,
as narrated in the last chapter, Jack, Peterkin, Makarooroo, Njamie's
little boy, and I embarked in a small canoe, and bidding adieu to our
hospitable friends, set out on our return journey to the coast.

We determined to proceed thither by another branch of the river which
would take us through a totally new, and in some respects different,
country from that in which we had already travelled, and which, in the
course of a few weeks, would carry us again into the neighbourhood of
the gorilla country.

One beautiful afternoon, about a week after parting from our friends, we
met with an adventure in which the serious and the comic were strangely
mingled.  Feeling somewhat fatigued after a long spell at our paddles,
and being anxious to procure a monkey or a deer, as we had run short of
food, we put ashore, and made our encampment on the banks of the river.
This done, we each sallied out in different directions, leaving
Makarooroo in charge of the camp.

For some time I wandered about the woods in quest of game, but although
I fired at many animals that were good for food, I missed them all, and
was unwillingly compelled to return empty-handed.  On my way back, and
while yet several miles distant from the camp, I met Jack, who had
several fat birds of the grouse species hanging at his girdle.

"I am glad to see that you have been more successful than I, Jack," said
I, as we met.

"Yet I have not much to boast of," he replied.  "It is to be hoped that
Peterkin has had better luck.  Have you seen him?"

"No; I have not even heard him fire a shot."

"Well, let us go on.  Doubtless he will make his appearance in good
time.  What say you to following the course of this brook?  I have no
doubt it will guide us to the vicinity of our camp, and the ground
immediately to the left of it seems pretty clear of jungle."

"Agreed," said I; and for the next ten minutes or so we walked beside
each other in silence.  Suddenly our footsteps were arrested by a low
peculiar noise.

"Hark! is that a human voice?" whispered Jack, as he cocked his rifle.

"It sounds like it," said I.

At the same moment we heard some branches in an opposite direction
crack, as if they had been broken by a heavy tread.  Immediately after,
the first sound became louder and more distinct.  Jack looked at me in
surprise, and gradually a peculiar smile overspread his face.

"It's Peterkin," said I, in a low whisper.

My companion nodded, and half-cocking our pieces, we advanced with slow
and cautious steps towards the spot whence the sound had come.  The
gurgling noise of the brook prevented us from hearing as well as usual,
so it was not until we were close upon the bushes that fringed the banks
of the streamlet that we clearly discerned the tones of Peterkin's voice
in conversation with some one, who, however, seemed to make no reply to
his remarks.  At first I thought he must be talking to himself, but in
this I was mistaken.

"Let's listen for a minute or two," whispered my companion, with a broad
grin.

I nodded assent, and advancing cautiously, we peeped over the bushes.
The sight that met our eyes was so irresistibly comic that we could
scarcely restrain our laughter.

On a soft grassy spot, close to the warbling stream, lay our friend
Peterkin, on his breast, resting on his elbows, and the forefinger of
his right hand raised.  Before him, not more than six inches from his
nose, sat the most gigantic frog I ever beheld, looking inordinately fat
and intensely stupid.  My memory instantly flew back to the scene on the
coral island where Jack and I had caught our friend holding a quiet
conversation with the old cat, and I laughed internally as I thought on
the proverb, "The boy is the father of the man."

"Frog," said Peterkin, in a low, earnest voice, at the same time shaking
his finger slowly and fixing his eyes on the plethoric creature before
him--"frog, you may believe it or not as you please, but I do solemnly
assure you that I never did behold such a great, big, fat monster as you
are in all--my--life!  What do you mean by it?"

As the frog made no reply to this question, but merely kept up an
incessant puffing motion in its throat, Peterkin continued--

"Now, frog, answer me this one question--and mind that you don't tell
lies--you may not be aware of it, but you can't plead ignorance, for I
now tell you that it is exceedingly wicked to tell lies, whether you be
a frog or only a boy.  Now, tell me, did you ever read `Aesop's
Fables?'"

The frog continued to puff, but otherwise took no notice of its
questioner.  I could not help fancying that it was beginning to look
sulky at being thus catechised.

"What, you won't speak!  Well, I'll answer for you: you have _not_ read
`Aesop's Fables;' if you had you would not go on blowing yourself up in
that way.  I'm only a little man, it's true--more's the pity--but if you
imagine that by blowing and puffing like that you can ever come to blow
up as big as me, you'll find yourself mistaken.  You can't do it, so you
needn't try.  You'll only give yourself rheumatism.  Now, _will_ you
stop?  If you won't stop you'll burst--there."

Peterkin paused here, and for some time continued to gaze intently in
the face of his new friend.  Presently he began again--

"Frog, what are you thinking of?  Do you ever think?  I don't believe
you do.  Tightened up as you seem to be with wind or fat or conceit, if
you were to attempt to think the effort would crack your skin, so you'd
better not try.  But, after all, you've some good points about you.  If
he could have adventured as far forth into time as he did into space,
and could have attended in the spirit the lectures of one John Tyndall,
a spirit of our earth, he would have had this matter rightly
explained to him. In reality the sun's heat is as effective directly
at the summit of the highest mountain as at the sea-level. A thermometer
exposed to the sun in the former position indicates indeed a slightly
higher temperature than one similarly exposed to the sun (when at
the same altitude) at the sea-level.

But the air does not get warmed to the same degree, simply because, owing
to its rarity and relative dryness, it fails to retain any portion of
the heat which passes through it.

It is interesting to notice how Swedenborg's scientific conceptions of
the result of the (relatively) airless condition of our moon
suggested peculiar fancies respecting the lunar inhabitants.

Interesting, I mean, psychologically: for it is curious to see
scientific and fanciful conceptions thus unconsciously intermingled. Of
the conscious intermingling of such conceptions instances are common
enough. The effects of the moon's airless condition have been often
made the subject of fanciful speculations. The reader will remember how
Scheherazade, in 'The Poet at the Breakfast Table,' runs on about the
moon. 'Her delight was unbounded, and her curiosity insatiable. If
there were any living creatures there, what odd things they must be. They
couldn't have any lungs nor any hearts. What a pity! Did they ever die?
How could they expire if they didn't breathe? Burn up? No air to burn in.
Tumble into some of those horrid pits, perhaps, and break all to bits.
She wondered how the young people there liked it, or whether
there were any young people there. Perhaps nobody was young and nobody
was old, but they were like mummies all of them--what an idea!--two
mummies making love to each other!

So she went on in a rattling, giddy kind of way, for she was excited by
the strange scene in which she found herself, and quite astonished the
young astronomer with her vivacity.'

But Swedenborg's firm belief that the fancies engendered in his mind
were scientific realities is very different from the conscious play
of fancy in the passage just quoted. It must be remembered that Swedenborg
regarded his visions with as much confidence as though they were
revelations made by means of scientific instruments; nay, with even more
confidence, for he knew that scientific observations may be misunderstood,
whereas he was fully persuaded that his visions were miraculously provided
for his enlightenment, and that therefore he would not be allowed to
misunderstand aught that was thus revealed to him.

'It is well known to spirits and angels,' he says, 'that there are
inhabitants in the moon, and in the moons or satellites which revolve
about Jupiter and Saturn. Even those who have not seen and conversed
with spirits who are from them entertain no doubt of their being
inhabited, for they, too, are earths, and where there is an earth
there is man; man being the end for which every earth exists, and
without an end nothing was made by the Great Creator.

Every one who thinks from reason in any degree enlightened, must see
that the human race is the final cause of creation.'
The moon being inhabited then by human beings, but being very insufficiently
supplied with air, it necessarily follows that these human beings
must be provided in some way with the means of existing in that rare
and tenuous atmosphere. Tremendous powers of inspiration and expiration
would be required to make that air support the life of the human body.
Although Swedenborg could have had no knowledge of the exact way in which
breathing supports life (for Priestley was his junior by nearly half
a century), yet he must clearly have perceived that the quantity of air
inspired has much to do with the vitalising power of the indraught. No
ordinary human lungs could draw in an adequate supply of air from such
an atmosphere as the moon's; but by some great increase of breathing
power it might be possible to live there: at least, in Swedenborg's
time there was no reason for supposing otherwise.

Reason, then, having convinced him that the lunar inhabitants must possess
extraordinary breathing apparatus, and presumably most powerful voices,
imagination presented them to him accordingly. 'Some spirits appeared
overhead,' he says, 'and thence were heard voices like thunder;
for their voices sounded precisely like thunder from the clouds
after lightning.

I supposed it was a great multitude of spirits who had the art of
giving voices with such a sound. The more simple spirits who were with
me derided them, which greatly surprised me. But the cause of their
derision was soon discovered, which was, that the spirits who thundered
were not many, but few, and were as little as children, and that
on former occasions they (the thunderers) had terrified them by
such sounds, and yet were unable to do them the least harm.

That I might know their character, some of them descended from on high,
where they thundered; and, what surprised me, one carried another
on his back, and the two thus approached me. Their faces appeared not
unhandsome, but longer than those of other spirits. In stature they were
like children of seven years old, but the frame was more robust, so that
they were like men.

It was told me by the angels that they were from the moon. He who was
carried by the other came to me, applying himself to my left side
under the elbow, and thence spoke. He said, that when they utter their
voices they thunder in this way,'--and it seems likely enough that
if there are any living speaking beings in the moon, their voice,
could they visit the earth, would be found to differ very markedly
from the ordinary human voice.

'In the spiritual world their thunderous voices have their use.

For by their thundering the spirits from the moon terrify spirits
who are inclined to injure them, so that the lunar spirits go in
safety where they will.

To convince me the sound they make was of this kind, he (the spirit
who was carried by the other) retired, but not out of sight, and
thundered in like manner. They showed, moreover, that the voice
was thundered by being uttered from the abdomen like an eructation.

It was perceived that this arose from the circumstance that the inhabitants
of the moon do not, like the inhabitants of other earths, speak
from the lungs, but from the abdomen, and thus from air collected
there, the reason of which is that the atmosphere with which the
moon is surrounded is not like that of other earths.'

In his intercourse with spirits from Jupiter, Swedenborg heard of animals
larger than those that live on the earth. It has been a favourite idea
of many believers in other worlds than ours, that though in each world
the same races of animals exist, they would be differently proportioned;
and there has been much speculation as to the probable size of men
and other animals in worlds much larger or much smaller than the
earth. When as yet ideas about other worlds were crude, the idea prevailed
that giants exist in the larger orbs, and pygmies in the smaller.
Whether this idea had its origin in conceptions as to the eternal fitness
of things or not, does not clearly appear. It seems certainly at first
view natural enough to suppose that the larger beings would want more
room and so inhabit the larger dwelling-places. It was a pleasing
thought that, if we could visit Jupiter or Saturn, we should find the
human inhabitants there
In bigness to surpass earth's giant sons;

but that if we could visit our moon or Mercury, or whatever smaller worlds
there are, we should find men

Now less than smallest dwarfs, in narrow room Throng numberless,
like that pygmæan race Beyond the Indian mount; or fairy elves,
Whose midnight revels, by a forest side Or fountain, some belated
peasant sees, Or dreams he sees.

Later the theory was started that the size of beings in various worlds
depends on the amount of light received from the central sun. Thus Wolfius
asserted that the inhabitants of Jupiter are nearly fourteen feet
high, which he proved by comparing the quantity of sunlight which
reaches the Jovians with that which we Terrenes receive.

Recently, however, it has been noted that the larger the planet, the
smaller in all probability must be the inhabitants, if any. For if there
are two planets of the same density but unequal size, gravity must be
greater at the surface of the larger planet, and where gravity
is great large animals are cumbered by their weight.

It is easy to see this by comparing the muscular strength of two men
similarly proportioned, but unequal in height. Suppose one man five
feet in height, the other six; then the cross section of any given muscle
will be less for the former than for the latter in the proportion
of twenty-five (five times five) to thirty-six (six times six).

Roughly, the muscular strength of the bigger man will be half as
great again as that of the smaller.

But the weights of the men will be proportioned as 125 (five times five
times five) to 216 (six times six times six), so that the weight of
the bigger man exceeds that of the smaller nearly as seven exceeds
four, or by three-fourths.

The taller man exceeds the smaller, then, much more in weight than he
does in strength; he is accordingly less active in proportion to
his size.

Within certain limits, of course, size increases a man's effective as well
as his real strength. For instance, our tall man in the preceding
illustration cannot lift his own weight as readily as the small
man can lift his; but he can lift a weight of three hundred pounds
as easily as the small man can lift a weight of two hundred pounds.

  When we get beyond certain limits of height,
  however, we get absolute weakness as the result of the increase
of weight.

Swift's Brobdingnags, for instance, would have been unable to stand
upright; for they were six times as tall as men, and therefore
each Brobdingnag would have weighed 216 times as much as a man,
but would have possessed only thirty-six times the muscular power.

Their weight would have been greater, then, in a sixfold greater degree
than their strength, and, so far as their mere weight was concerned, their
condition would have resembled that of an ordinary man under a
load five times exceeding his own weight.

As no man could walk or stand upright under such a load, so the Brobdingnags
would have been powerless to move, despite, or rather because of, their
enormous stature. Applying the general considerations here enunciated
to the question of the probable size of creatures like ourselves
in other planets, we see that men in Jupiter should be much smaller,
men in Mercury much larger, than men on the earth.

So also with other animals.

But Swedenborg's spirit visitors from these planets taught
differently.

'The horses of our earth,' he says, 'when seen by the spirits of Jupiter,
appeared to me smaller than usual, though rather robust; which arose
from the idea those spirits had respecting them. They informed me that
among them there are animals similar, though much larger; but that they
are wild, and in the woods, and that when they come in sight they
cause terror though they are harmless; they added that their terror of
them is natural or innate.'[28] On the other hand the inhabitants of
Mercury, who might be thirteen feet high yet as active as our men,
appeared slenderer than Terrene men.

'I was desirous to know,' says Swedenborg, 'what kind of face and
person the people in Mercury have, compared with those of the people
on our earth. There therefore stood before me a female exactly
resembling the women on that earth. Her face was beautiful, but it was
smaller than that of a woman of our earth; she was more slender, but of
equal height; she wore a linen head-dress, not artfully yet
gracefully disposed.

A man also was presented.

He, too, was more slender than the men of our earth; he wore a
garment of deep blue, closely fitted to his body without folds or
flowing skirts.

Such, I learn, were the personal form and costume of the humans of that
earth.
Afterwards there was shown me a species of the oxen and cows, which did
not indeed differ much from those on our earth, except that they were
smaller, and made some approach to the stag and hind species.' We
have seen, too, that the lunar spirits were no larger than children seven
years old.

One passage of Swedenborg's description of Jupiter is curious. 'Although
on that earth,' he says, 'spirits speak with men' (_i.e._ with Jovian
men) 'man in his turn does not speak with spirits, except to say, when
instructed, _that he will do so no more_,'--which we should regard as
a bull if it were not news from the Jovian spirit world. 'Nor is man
allowed to tell anyone that a spirit has spoken to him; if he does so,
he is punished.

Those spirits of Jupiter when they were with me, at first supposed they
were with a man of their own earth; but when in my turn I spoke with
them, and thought of publishing what passed between us and so relating
it to others, then, because they were not allowed to chastise me, they
discovered they were with a stranger.'

It has been a favourite idea with those who delight in the argument
from design, that the moons of the remoter planets have been provided
for the express purpose of making up for the small amount of sunlight
which reaches those planets.

Jupiter receives only about one twenty-seventh part of the light which
we receive from the sun; but then, has he not four moons to make
his nights glorious?

Saturn is yet farther away from the sun, and receives only the ninetieth
part of the light we get from the sun; but then he has eight moons
and his rings, and the nocturnal glory of his skies must go far to
compensate the Saturnians for the small quantity of sunlight they
receive.

The Saturnian spirits who visited Swedenborg were manifestly indoctrinated
with these ideas. For they informed him that the nocturnal light of
Saturn is so great that some Saturnians worship it, calling it the Lord.
These wicked spirits are separated from the rest, and are not tolerated
by them.

'The nocturnal light,' say the spirits, 'comes from the immense
ring which at a distance encircles that earth, and from the moons
which are called the satellites of Saturn.'

And again, being questioned further 'concerning the great ring which
appears from our earth to rise above the horizon of that planet,
and to vary its situations, they said that it does not appear to
them as a ring, but only as a snow-white substance in heaven in
various directions.'

Unfortunately for our faith in the veracity of these spirits, it
is certain that the moons of Saturn cannot give nearly so much light
as ours, while the rings are much more effective as darkeners than
as illuminators.

One can readily calculate the apparent size of each of the moons as
seen from Saturn, and thence show that the eight discs of the moons
together are larger than our moon's disc in about the proportion of
forty-five to eight. So that if they were all shining as brightly as
our full moon and all full at the same time, their combined light
would exceed hers in that degree. But they are not illuminated as
our moon is.

They are illuminated by the same remote sun which illuminates Saturn,
while our moon is illuminated by a sun giving her as much light
as we ourselves receive.

Our moon then is illuminated ninety times more brightly than the
moons of Saturn, and as her disc is less than all theirs together,
not as one to ninety, but as sixteen to ninety, it follows that all
the Saturnian moons, if full at the same time, would reflect to
Saturn one-sixteenth part of the light which we receive from the
full moon.[29] As regards the rings of Saturn, nothing can be more
certain than that they tend much more to deprive Saturn of light
then to make up by reflection for the small amount of light which
Saturn receives directly from the sun.

The part of the ring which lies between the planet and the sun casts a
black shadow upon Saturn, this shadow sometimes covering an extent of
surface many times exceeding the entire surface of our earth.
I have often wondered, in reference to this, that many men seem to take
pride in bold independence, when it is an obvious fact that _every_ man
is dependent on his fellow, and that this mutual dependence is one of
the chief sources of human happiness.

The black snake which I had killed turned out to be one of a very
venomous kind, whose bite is said to be fatal, so that we had good cause
to be thankful, and to congratulate ourselves on our escape.

In this region of Africa we were particularly fortunate in what we saw
and encountered, as the narrative of our experiences on the day
following the above incidents will show.

We had scarcely advanced a few miles on our journey on the morning of
that day, when we came upon a part of the country where the natives had
constructed a curious sort of trap for catching wild animals; and it
happened that a large band of natives were on the point of setting out
for a grand hunt at that time.

We were greeted with immense delight on our arrival, for those natives,
we soon discovered, had already heard of our exploits in the lands of
the gorilla, and regarded us as the greatest hunters that had ever been
born.  After a short conversation with the chief, through the medium of
Makarooroo, we arranged to rest there a day, and accompany them on their
hunting expedition; and the better to secure their good will, we
presented some of the head men with a few of the beads which we still
possessed.  Then hauling our canoe out of the water, we prepared
ourselves for the chase.

After a long and tedious march through somewhat dense jungle, we came
upon the ground, which was partly open, partly clothed with trees and
shrubs.  Here the natives, who numbered several hundreds, spread
themselves out in a long semicircular line, in order to drive the game
into the trap.

II.

_THE RELIGION OF THE GREAT PYRAMID._
During the last few years a new sect has appeared which, though as
yet small in numbers, is full of zeal and fervour.

The faith professed by this sect may be called the religion of the Great
Pyramid, the chief article of their creed being the doctrine that that
remarkable edifice was built for the purpose of revealing--in the
fulness of time, now nearly accomplished--certain noteworthy truths
to the human race.

The founder of the pyramid religion is described by one of the present
leaders of the sect as 'the late worthy John Taylor, of Gower
Street, London;' but hitherto the chief prophets of the new faith
have been in this country Professor Smyth, Astronomer Royal for
Scotland, and in France the Abbé Moigno.

I propose to examine here some of the facts most confidently urged
by pyramidalists in support of their views.

But it will be well first to indicate briefly the doctrines of the
new faith.

They may be thus presented:
The great pyramid was erected, it would seem, under the instructions
of a certain Semitic king, probably no other than Melchizedek.

By supernatural means, the architects were instructed to place the pyramid
in latitude 30° north; to select for its figure that of a square pyramid,
carefully oriented; to employ for their unit of length the sacred
cubit corresponding to the 20,000,000th part of the earth's polar
axis; and to make the side of the square base equal to just so many
of these sacred cubits as there are days and parts of a day in a
year.

They were further, by supernatural help, enabled to square the
circle, and symbolised their victory over this problem by making
the pyramid's height bear to the perimeter of the base the ratio
which the radius of a circle bears to the circumference.

Moreover, the great precessional period, in which the earth's axis
gyrates like that of some mighty top around the perpendicular to
the ecliptic, was communicated to the builders with a degree of
accuracy far exceeding that of the best modern determinations, and
they were instructed to symbolise that relation in the dimensions
of the pyramid's base.

The circle, of
course, narrowed as they advanced, shouting wildly, in order to drive
the game into the enclosure.

That the country was teeming with game soon became apparent, for ever
and anon as we advanced a herd of gnus or buffaloes or hartbeests would
dart affrighted from their cover, and sweep over the open ground into
another place of shelter, out of which they were again driven as the
line advanced.  In the course of half an hour we drove out hartbeests,
zebras, gnus, buffaloes, giraffes, rhinoceroses, and many other kinds of
smaller game, either singly or in herds.

"Now, lads," said Jack, approaching Peterkin and me as we walked
together, "it is quite evident that if we wish to see this sport in
perfection we must get outside the hedge, and run along towards the pit;
for there, in the natural course of things, we may expect the grand
climax.  What say you?  Shall we go?"

"Agreed," said I.

"Ditto," cried Peterkin.

So without more words we turned aside, followed by Makarooroo, leaped
the hedge, and running down along it soon reached the edge of the pit.

Here we found a number of the natives assembled with spears, looking
eagerly through the interstices of the hedges in expectation of the
advancing herds.  We took up our stand on a convenient spot, and
prepared to wait patiently.  But our patience was not severely tried.
We had not been more than five minutes stationed when the noise of the
closing line was heard, and a herd of buffaloes dashed wildly out from a
small piece of jungle in which they had sought shelter, and galloped
over the plain towards us.  Now that was precisely the appearance presented
by the stars forming the constellation at the time I have indicated,
some 2170 years B.C. Setting the altar upright above the southern
horizon (that is, inverting the absurd picture at present given of it)
we see it just where it should be placed to receive the Centaur's offering.
A most remarkable portion of the Milky Way is then seen to be
directly above the altar in such a way as to form a very good imitation
of smoke ascending from it. This part of the Milky Way is described by
Sir J.
Herschel, who studied it carefully during his stay at the Cape of
Good Hope, as forming a complicated system of interlaced streaks
and masses which covers the tail of Scorpio (extending from the
altar which lies immediately south of the Scorpion's Tail).

The Milky Way divides, in fact, just above the altar as the constellation
was seen 4000 years ago above the southern horizon, one branch being
that just described, the other (like another stream of smoke) 'passing,'
says Herschel, 'over the stars Iota of the Altar, Theta and Iota
of the Scorpion, etc., to Gamma of the Archer, where it suddenly
collects into a vivid oval mass, so very rich in stars that a very
moderate calculation makes their number exceed 100,000.'

Nothing could accord better with the descriptions of Aratus
and Manilius.

But there is another constellation which shows in a more marked way
than either the Centaur or the Altar that the date when the
constellations were invented must have been near that which I have
named.

Both Ara and Centaurus look now in suitable latitudes (about twenty
degrees north) as they looked in higher latitudes (about forty degrees
north) 4000 years ago. For, the reeling motion of our earth has changed
the place of the celestial pole in such a way as only to depress these
constellations southwards without much changing their _position_; they
are nearly upright when due south now as they were 4000 years ago,
only lower down.

But the great ship Argo has suffered a much more serious displacement.

One cannot now see this ship _like_ a ship at any time or from any
place on the earth's surface.

And now the head of the bellowing mass came to the edge of the pit.
Those in front seemed to suspect danger, for they halted suddenly; but
the rush of those behind forced them on.  In another moment the thin
covering gave way, and a literal cataract of huge living creatures went
surging down into the abyss.

The scene that followed was terrible to witness; and I could not regard
it with other than feelings of intense horror, despite my knowledge of
the fact that a large tribe of natives depended on the game then slain
for their necessary food.  The maddened animals attempted to leap out of
the pit, but the overlapping edges already referred to effectually
prevented this until the falling torrent filled it up; then some of them
succeeded in leaping out from off the backs of their smothered comrades.
These, however, were quickly met and speared by the natives, while ever
and anon the great mass was upheaved by the frantic struggles of some
gigantic creature that was being smothered at the bottom.

While this scene of wholesale destruction was going on, Makarooroo came
up to me and begged me, with mysterious looks, to follow him out of the
crowd.

I obeyed, and when we had got away from the immediate neighbourhood of
the turmoil, I said,--"Well, Mak, what's wrong?"

"De chief, massa, hims tell me few moments ago dat canoe wid Mbango and
oomans hab pass dis way to-morrow."

"To-morrow!"  I exclaimed.

"No, me forgit; hab pass yistumday."

"Indeed!"

"Yis, an' de chief hims say hims want us to stop wid him and go hunt for
week or two.  P'raps he no let us go 'way."

"That's just possible, Mak.  Have you told Jack?"

"No, massa."

"Then go bring him and Peterkin hither at once."

In a few minutes my companions were with me, and we held a brief earnest
consultation as to what we should do.

"I think we should tell the chief we are anxious to be off at once, and
leave him on good terms," said I.

Peterkin objected to this.  "No," said he; "we cannot easily explain why
we are anxious to be off so hastily.  I counsel flight.  They won't find
out that we are gone until it is too late to follow."

Jack agreed with this view, so of course I gave in, though I could not
in my heart approve of such a method of sneaking away.  But our guide
seemed also to be exceedingly anxious to be off, so we decided; and
slipping quietly away under the shelter of the hedge, while the natives
were still busy with their bloody work, we soon gained the forest.  Here
we had no difficulty in retracing our steps to the village, where,
having picked up our little companion, Njamie's son, who had been left
to play with the little boys of the place, we embarked, swept down the
stream, and were soon far beyond the chance of pursuit.


CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

A LONG CHASE, AND A HAPPY TERMINATION THEREOF.

Knowing that unless we advanced with more than ordinary speed we could
not hope to overtake our friends for several days--a stern chase being
proverbially a long one--we travelled a great part of the night as well
as all day; and on our third day after quitting the scene of the curious
hunt described in the last chapter, we descried the fugitives descending
the river about a quarter of a mile ahead of us.

Unhappily we made a stupid mistake at this time.  Instead of waiting
until we were near enough to be recognised, we shouted to our friends
the moment we saw their canoe.  I cannot say that we knew them to be our
friends, but we had every reason to suppose so.  The result of our shout
was that they supposed us to be enemies, and paddled away as if for
their lives.  It was in vain that we tried to show by signs that we were
not enemies.

"Yell!" cried Peterkin, turning to Makarooroo, who sat close behind him.

Our guide opened his huge mouth, and gave utterance to a yell that might
well have struck terror into the heart of Mars himself.

"Stop! stay!" cried Peterkin hastily.  "I didn't mean a war-yell; I
meant a yell of--of _peace_."

"Me no hab a yell ob peace," said Makarooroo, with a look of perplexity.

"I should not suppose you had," observed Jack, with a quiet laugh, as he
dipped his paddle more energetically than ever into the stream.--"The
fact is, Peterkin, that we shall have to go in for a long chase.  There
is no doubt about it.  I see that there are at least four men in their
canoe, and if one of them is Mbango, as we have reason to believe, a
stout and expert arm guides them.  But ho! give way! `never venture,
never win.'"

With that we all plied our paddles with our utmost might.  The chase
soon became very exciting.  Ere long it became evident that the crews of
the two canoes were pretty equally matched, for we did not, apparently,
diminish the distance between us by a single inch during the next
half-hour.

"What if it turns out not to be Mbango and his party after all?"
suggested Peterkin, who wielded his light paddle with admirable effect.

Jack, who sat in the bow, replied that in that case we should have to
make the best apology and explanation we could to the niggers, and
console ourselves with the consciousness of having done our best.

For some time the rapid dip of our paddles and the rush of our canoe
through the water were the only sounds that were heard.  Then Peterkin
spoke again.  He could never keep silence for any great length of time.

"I say, Jack, we'll never do it.  If we had only another man, or even a
boy."  (Peterkin glanced at Njamie's little son, who lay sound asleep at
the bottom of the boat.) "No, he won't do; we might as well ask a
mosquito to help us."

"I say, lads, isn't one of the crew of that canoe a woman?" said Jack,
looking over his shoulder, but not ceasing for an instant to ply his
paddle.

"Can't tell," answered Peterkin.--"What say you, Mak?"

"Ye-is, massa," replied the guide, with some hesitation.  "Me tink dat
am be one ooman's arm what wag de paddil.  Oh! yis, me sartin sure now,
dat am a ooman."

"That being the case," observed Jack, in a tone of satisfaction, "the
chase won't last much longer, for a woman's muscles can't hold out long
at such a pace.  Ho! give way once more."

In less than five minutes the truth of Jack's remark became apparent,
for we began rapidly to overhaul the fugitives.  This result acted with
a double effect: while it inspirited us to additional exertion, it
depressed those whom we were pursuing, and so rendered them less capable
than before of contending with us.  There was evidently a good deal of
excitement and gesticulation among them.  Suddenly the man in the stern
laid down his paddle, and stooping down seized a gun, with which,
turning round, he took deliberate aim at us.

"That's rather awkward," observed Jack, in a cool, quiet way, as if the
awkwardness of the case had no reference whatever to him personally.

We did not, however, check our advance.  The man fired, and the ball
came skipping over the water and passed us at a distance of about two
yards.

"Hum!  I expected as much," observed Jack.  "When a bad shot points a
bad gun at you, your best plan is to stand still and take your chance.
In such a case the chance is not a bad one.  Hollo! the rascal seems
about to try it again.  I say, boys, we must stop this."

We had now gained so much on the fugitives that we had reason to hope
that we might by signs enable them to understand that we were not
enemies.  We had to make the attempt rather abruptly, for as Jack
uttered his last remark, the man in the stern of the canoe we were
chasing, having reloaded his gun, turned round to aim at us again.  At
the same time the rest of the crew suddenly ceased to paddle, in order
to enable their comrade to take a steady aim.  It was evident that they
rested all their hopes upon that shot disabling one of our number, and
so enabling them to escape.  Seeing this, Makarooroo in desperation
seized his rifle and levelled it.

"No, no," said Peterkin, hastily holding up his hand.  "Give me your
rifle, Mak; and yours, Ralph.  Now then, stop paddling for a moment;
I'll try an experiment."

So saying, he sprang to his feet, and grasping a rifle in each hand,
held them high above his head, intending thus to show that we were
well-armed, but that we did not intend to use our weapons.

The device was happily successful: the man in the other canoe lowered
the gun with which he was in the act of taking aim at us.

"Now, boys, paddle slowly towards the bank," cried Peterkin, laying down
the rifles quickly and standing erect again with his empty hands
extended in the air, to confirm the fugitives in regard to our good
intentions.  They understood the sign, and also turned toward the bank,
where in a few minutes both parties landed, at the distance of about two
hundred yards from each other.

"Mak, you had better advance alone," said Jack.  "If it is Mbango and
his friends, they will know you at once.  Don't carry your rifle; you
won't need it."

"Nay, Jack," I interposed; "you do not act with your usual caution.
Should it chance not to be Mbango, it were well that Mak should have his
rifle and a companion to support him."

"O most sapient Ralph," said Peterkin, "don't you know that Jack and I
have nothing to do but sit down on this bank, each with a double-barrel
in his hand, and if anything like foul play should be attempted, four of
the enemy should infallibly bite the dust at the same time?  But you'd
better go with Mak, since you're so careful of him.  We will engage to
defend you both.--Hollo, Puggy! take the line of our canoe here and
fasten it to yonder bush."

The latter part of this remark was addressed to Njamie's little boy,
whose name we had never learned, and who had been called Puggy by
Peterkin--not, let me remark, in anything approaching to a contemptuous
spirit.  He evidently meant it as a title of endearment.  We had tacitly
accepted it, and so had the lad, who for some time past had answered to
the name of Puggy, in utter ignorance, of course, as to its
signification.

Mak and I now advanced unarmed towards the negroes, and in a few seconds
we mutually recognised each other.  I was overjoyed to observe the
well-known face of Okandaga, who no sooner recognised her lover than she
uttered a joyful shout and ran towards him.  I at the same time advanced
to Mbango, and grasping his hand shook it warmly; but that good-hearted
chief was not satisfied with such a tame expression of good will.
It is clear that had not Weber's spot been fortunately seen at Madrid
and photographed at Greenwich, his observation would have been added to
the list of recorded apparitions of Vulcan in transit, for it fitted in
perfectly with the theory of Vulcan's real existence. I think, indeed,
for my own part, that the good fortune was Weber's. Had it so chanced
that thick weather in Madrid and at Greenwich had destroyed the evidence
actually obtained to show that what Weber described he really saw,
although it was not what he thought, some of the more suspicious would
have questioned whether, in the euphonious language of the North
British Reviewer, 'the round spot on the sun' was not due 'to one
of those illusions of the eye or of the brain which have sometimes
disturbed the tranquillity of science.'

Of course no one acquainted with M. Weber's antecedents would
imagine for a moment that he had invented the observation, even
though the objective reality of his spot had not been established. But
if a person who is entirely unknown, states that he has seen Vulcan,
there is antecedently some degree of probability in favour of the
belief that the observation is as much a myth as the planet itself.
Some observations of Vulcan have certainly been invented. I have
received several letters purporting to describe observations of
bodies in transit over the sun's face, either the rate of transit,
the size of the body, or the path along which it was said to move,
being utterly inconsistent with the theory that it was an intra-mercurial
planet, while yet (herein is the suspicious circumstance of such
narratives) the epoch of transit accorded in the most remarkable
manner with the period assigned to Vulcan.

A paradoxist in America (of Louisville, Kentucky) who had invented a
theory of the weather, in which the planets, by their influence on
the sun, were supposed to produce all weather-changes, the nearer
planets being the most effective, found his theory wanted Vulcan
very much.

Accordingly, he saw Vulcan crossing the sun's face in September,
which, being half a year from March, is a month wherein, according to
Lescarbault's observation, Vulcan may be seen in transit, and by a
strange coincidence the interval between our paradoxist's observation
and Lescarbault's exactly contained a certain number of times the
period calculated by Leverrier for Vulcan.

This was a noble achievement on the part of our paradoxist. At one
stroke it established his theory of the weather, and promised to ensure
him text-book immortality as one of the observers of Vulcan. But,
unfortunately, a student of science residing in St. Louis, after leaving
the Louisville paradoxist full time to parade his discovery,
heartlessly pointed out that an exact number of revolutions of
Vulcan after Lescarbault's March observation, must of necessity
have brought the planet on that side of the sun on which the earth
lies in March, so that to see Vulcan so placed on the sun's face
in September was to see Vulcan through the sun, a very remarkable
achievement indeed.

The paradoxist was abashed, the reader perhaps imagines. Not in the least.
The planet's period must have been wrongly calculated by Leverrier--that
was all: the real period was less than half as long as Leverrier
had supposed; and instead of having gone a certain number of times
round since Lescarbault had seen it, Vulcan had gone twice as many
times round and half once round again.

The circumstance that if Vulcan's period had been thus short, the time of
crossing the sun's face would have been much less than, according to
Lescarbault's account, it actually was, had not occurred to the Louisville
weather-prophet.[56]
Leverrier's faith in Vulcan, however, has remained unshaken. He has
used all the observations of spots which, like Weber's, have been
seen only for a short time.

At least he has used all which have not, like Weber's, been proved to be
only transient sun-spots. Selecting those which fit in well with
Lescarbault's observation, he has pointed out how remarkable it is that
they show this accord. The possibility that some of them might be
explicable as Weber's proved to be, and that some even may have been
explicable as completely, but less satisfactorily, in another way, seems
to have been thought scarcely worth considering.

Using the imperfect materials available, but with exquisite skill--as a
Phidias might model an exquisite figure of materials that would presently
crumble into dust--Leverrier came to the conclusion that Vulcan would
cross the sun's disc on or about March 22, 1876. 'He, therefore,' said
Sir G. Airy, addressing the Astronomical Society, 'circulated a
despatch among his friends, asking them carefully to observe the
sun on March 22.'

Sir G.

Airy, humouring his honoured friend, sent telegrams to India,
Australia, and New Zealand, requesting that observations might be
made every two hours or oftener.

"Could we not manage a compromise?" said I.

"What be a cumprumoise?" asked Makarooroo, who had been glancing
anxiously from one to the other as we conversed.

Peterkin laid hold of his chin, pursed up his mouth, and looked at me
with a gleeful leer.

"There's a chance for you, Ralph," said he; "why don't you explain?"

"Because it's not easy to explain," said I, considering the best way in
which to convey the meaning of such a word.No fracture whatever appeared
in the mass first presented; but in a few seconds a shelving pile
appeared, of five or six columns' width, which showed their figure
to be hexagonal, and their articulations similar to those of the
basaltic formation at Staffa.

This precipitous cliff was profusely covered with a dark red flower,
precisely similar, says Dr.
Grant, to the Papaver Rhoeus, or Rose Poppy, of our sublunary
cornfields; and this was the first organic production of nature in
a foreign world ever revealed to the eyes of men.'

It would be wearisome to go through the whole series of observations thus
fabled, and only a few of the more striking features need be
indicated.

The discoveries are carefully graduated in interest.

Thus we have seen how, after recognising basaltic formations, the
observers discovered flowers: they next see a lunar forest, whose
'trees were of one unvaried kind, and unlike any on earth except
the largest kind of yews in the English churchyards.'

(There is an American ring in this sentence, by the way, as there
is in one, a few lines farther on, where the narrator having stated
that by mistake the observers had the Sea of Clouds instead of a
more easterly spot in the field of view, proceeds to say: 'However,
the moon was a free country, and we not as yet attached to any
particular province.')

Next a lunar ocean is described, 'the water nearly as blue as that
of the deep sea, and breaking in large white billows upon the strand,
while the action of very high tides was quite manifest upon the
face of the cliffs for more than a hundred miles.'

After a description of several valleys, hills, mountains and forests, we
come to the discovery of animal life.

An oval valley surrounded by hills, red as the purest vermilion, is
selected as the scene. 'Small collections of trees, of every imaginable
kind, were scattered about the whole of this luxuriant area; and here
our magnifiers blessed our panting hopes with specimens of conscious
existence. In the shade of the woods we beheld brown quadrupeds having
all the external characteristics of the bison, but more diminutive than
any species of the bos genus in our natural history.' Then herds of agile
creatures like antelopes are described, 'abounding on the acclivitous
glades of the woods.'

You
want to go _there_" (pointing to the coast with his left hand), "and we
want to go there" (pointing to the interior with his right hand).  "Now
if we both agree to go there," (pointing straight before him with his
nose), "_that_ will be a cumprumoise.  D'ye understand?"

"Ho yis, massa, me compiperhend now."

"Exactly so," said I; "that's just it.  There is a branch of this river
that takes a great bend away to the north before it turns towards the
sea, is there not?  I think I have heard yourself say so before now."

"Yis, massa, hall right."

"Well, let us go by that branch.  We shall be a good deal longer on the
route, but we shall be always nearing the end of our journey, and at the
same time shall pass through a good deal of new country, in which we may
hope to see much game."

"Good," said Jack; "you have wisdom with you for once, Ralph--it seems
feasible.--What say you, Mak?  I think it a capital plan."

"Yis, massa, it am a copitle plan, sure 'nuff."

The plan being thus arranged and agreed to, we set about the execution
of it at once, and ere long our two canoes were floating side by side
down the smooth current of the river.

The route which we had chosen led us, as I had before suspected, into
the neighbourhood of the gorilla country, and I was much gratified to
learn from Mbango, who had travelled over an immense portion of
south-western Africa, that it was not improbable we should meet with
several of those monstrous apes before finally turning off towards the
coast.  I say that I was much gratified to learn this; but I little
imagined that I was at that time hastening towards a conflict that
well-nigh proved fatal to me, and the bare remembrance of which still
makes me shudder.

It occurred several weeks after the events just related.  We had gone
ashore for the purpose of hunting, our supply of provisions chancing at
that time to be rather low.  Feeling a desire to wander through the
woods in solitude for a short time, I separated from my companions.  I
soon came to regret this deeply, for about an hour afterwards I came
upon the tracks of a gorilla.  Being armed only with my small-bore
double rifle, and not being by any means confident of my shooting
powers, I hesitated some time before making up my mind to follow the
tracks.

At first I thought of retracing my steps and acquainting my comrades
with the discovery I had made; but the little probability there was of
my finding them within several hours deterred me.  Besides, I felt
ashamed to confess that I had been afraid to prosecute the chase alone;
so, after pondering the matter a little, I decided on advancing.

Before doing so, however, I carefully examined the caps of my rifle and
loosened my long hunting-knife in its sheath.  Then I cautiously
followed up the track, making as little noise as possible, for I was
well aware of the watchfulness of the animal I was pursuing.

The footprints at first were not very distinct, but ere long I came on a
muddy place where they were deeply imprinted, and my anxiety was
somewhat increased by observing that they were uncommonly large--the
largest I had ever seen--and that, therefore, they had undoubtedly been
made by one of those solitary and gigantic males, which are always found
to be the most savage.

I had scarcely made this discovery when I came unexpectedly on the
gorilla itself.  It was seated at the foot of a tree about fifty yards
from the spot where I stood, the space between us being comparatively
clear of underwood.  In an instant he observed me, and rose, at the same
time giving utterance to one of those diabolical roars which I have
before referred to as being so terrible.

I halted, and felt an irresistible inclination to fire at once; but
remembering the oft-repeated warnings of my companions, I restrained
myself.  At that moment I almost wished, I freely confess, that the
gorilla would run away.  But the monster had no such intention.  Again
uttering his horrible roar, he began slowly to advance, at the same time
beating his drum-like chest with his doubled fist.

I now felt that my hour of trial had come.  I must face the gorilla
boldly, and act with perfect coolness.  The alternative was death.  As
the hideous creature came on, I observed that he was considerably larger
than the biggest we had yet seen; but, strange to say, this fact made no
deeper impression upon me.  I suppose that my whole mental and nervous
being was wound up to the utmost possible state of tension.  I _felt_
that I was steady and able to brave the onset.  But I was not aware of
the severity of the test to which I was destined to be subjected.
Instead of coming quickly on and deciding my fate at once, the savage
animal advanced slowly, sometimes a step or two at a time, and then
pausing for a moment ere it again advanced.  Sometimes it even sat down
on its haunches for a second or two, as if the weight of its overgrown
body were too much for its hind legs; but it did not cease all that time
to beat its chest, and roar, and twist its features into the most
indescribable contortions.  Pierre; tiles were sometimes thrown at
them on their way, but, missing the distant culprit, fell upon some
unoffending neighbor.

The confusion was bewildering, and became still more so, when, hurrying
through all the streets toward the Place de St.
Pierre, the people found it barricaded on all sides, and filled with
mounted guards and archers. Carts, fastened to the posts at each corner,
closed each entrance, and sentinels, armed with arquebuses, were stationed
close to the carts. In the centre of the Place rose a pile composed of
enormous beams placed crosswise upon one another, so as to form a perfect
square; these were covered with a whiter and lighter wood; an enormous
stake arose from the centre of the scaffold. A man clothed in red and
holding a lowered torch stood near this sort of mast, which was visible
from a long distance. A huge chafing-dish, covered on account of the
rain, was at his feet.

At this spectacle, terror inspired everywhere a profound silence; for
an instant nothing was heard but the sound of the rain, which fell in
floods, and of the thunder, which came nearer and nearer.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, accompanied by MM. du Lude and Fournier and all the
more important personages of the town, had sought refuge from the storm
under the peristyle of the church of Ste.-Croix, raised upon twenty stone
steps. The pile was in front, and from this height they could see the
whole of the square. The centre was entirely clear, large streams of
water alone traversed it; but all the windows of the houses were
gradually lighted up, and showed the heads of the men and women who
thronged them.I had not observed this pit,
owing to the screen of bushes that surrounded it, but I have now no
doubt that it was the means of saving my life.

My recollections of what followed this terrible adventure are
exceedingly confused.  I remember that I wandered about in a state of
dreamy uncertainty, endeavouring to retrace my steps to our encampment.
I have a faint recollection of meeting, to my surprise, with Jack and
Peterkin, and of their tender expressions of sympathy; and I have a very
vivid remembrance of the agony I endured when Jack set my broken
shoulder-blade and bandaged my right arm tightly to my side.  After
that, all was a confused dream, in which all the adventures I had ever
had with wild beasts were enacted over again, and many others besides
that had never taken place at all.

Later, sadness takes the place of fury, then indifference and scorn, later
still, a calculating admiration for great villains who have been
successful; but this is only when, of the two elements which
constitute man, earth triumphs over spirit.
And now, reader, the record of our adventures is complete.  During the
few weeks that I spent with the kind missionary of the Cross, I gained
strength rapidly, and amused myself penning the first chapters of this
book.  Makarooroo and Okandaga were married, and soon became useful
members of the Christian community on that part of the African coast.
That lady, after returning from her expedition to bring her sister
Adeline to Silverton, was surprised by a timid knock at the door,
and Dolores's entrance.

'Oh, if you please, Aunt Jane, may I come in? I do so want to speak
to you alone.All our packages and
boxes of specimens arrived safely at the coast; and when unpacked for
examination, and displayed in the large schoolroom of the station, the
gorillas, and other rare and wonderful animals, besides curious plants,
altogether formed a magnificent collection, the like of which has not
yet been seen in Great Britain, and probably never will be.

This quadrator has since published a little slip and entered it at
Stationers' Hall. He says he has done it by actual measurement; and I
hear from a private source that he uses a disc of twelve inches diameter
which he rolls upon a straight rail.'"Farewell," said I, as we leaned over the vessel's side and gazed sadly
at the receding shore--"farewell to you, kind missionaries and faithful
negro friends."

"Ay," added Peterkin, with a deep sigh, "and fare-you-well, ye monstrous
apes; gorillas, fare-you-well!"

THE END.