"Well, child, as I was sayin', it was the fine, bright mornin' that we
left Ireland, but the good weather held for only a few days after. Then,
there blew up such a storm as I never see before an' hope never to see
again. It was fearful, fearful. I couldn't describe it to you if I
tried. We just lay in our berths, every one of us, our backs agin the
wall, our knees braced agin the board in front, an' we holdin' on for
dear life expectin' every moment to be dashed out on to the floor an'
have all our bones broken. We was too frightened to say a word, but we
prayed, oh, my! how we did pray, every mother's son of us. For nigh onto
three days that poor boat struggled on bravely agin the ragin' storm,
but the ship wasn't built that could live in that sea, an' the end was
bound to come sooner or later. Come, it did, at last. An officer stood
on the stairs orderin' us all up onto the deck; the ship had sprung a
leak, the water was pourin' in faster than they could pump it out, an'
we must take to the boats at once.

"I never can remember rightly what happened then. It seems now such a
confusin' jumble of men, women and childer, all screamin' an' rushin'
for the stairs, and all the time the wind was a howlin' an' the vessel
was groanin' an' pitchin' so you had to cling to whatever was nearest to
keep on your feet at all. I don't know how we got there, but the next
thing I remember was standin' on the deck an' hangin' on to something
to keep from bein' washed overboard by the great waves that broke over
the ship an' flooded her from stem to stern. Mona stood near me with the
baby on her arm an' holdin' tight to the hand of little Gerald who hid
his face in her skirt an' sobbed in terror. Michael was beside her, one
arm holdin' her close while with the other he hung onto the railin' just
as I was doin'. Pretty soon, the boats was lowered an' everyone made a
rush for 'em. There was a shout of:

"'Stand back, there, stand back! Women an' children first; only the
women an' children.'

"The ship's officers an' sailors beat back the men an' commenced puttin'
the women into the boats as fast as they could. One of 'em caught Mona
by the arm an' tried to hurry her away. She struggled with him an'
begged to be left with Michael. The sailor swore at her an' then I heard
Michael's voice, calm an' steady, above the din of the storm:

"'Go at once, asthore,' say he; 'for the sake of the childer, go at
once. Sure, dearie,' says he, 'we're in the Lord's hands anyway! can't
ye trust Him on the water just the same as on the land?'

"The sailor lifted Mona an' the baby in his arm (it's the wee bit of a
thing she was always) an' passed her on to another to be lowered into
the boat. Michael caught up little Gerald an' cried out to me: 'Take the
boy with you, Nancy; take him quick, girl.' But before I could lay my
hand on the child I was seized and put into the boat beside Mona. The
poor girl screamed and held out her arms for the little lad, but the
boat was shoved off an' the last thing I can remember, as a mountain of
water rolled up between us an' the ship, was seein' Michael still
clingin' to the rail an' holdin' little Gerald on his arm. Then Mona
fainted agin my shoulder and I had my hands full tendin' her an' the
baby.

"It was nearly dusk when we took to the boat, an' pretty soon it was so
dark you could scarce see your hand before you. I'll never forget the
horrors of that night, indeed then I won't, tossin' on top of waves as
big as mountains an' the next minute goin' down, down, down, till I
thought sure we'd strike bottom before ever we come up again. But even
the longest night must wear away, an' when day broke we seen a big
vessel comin' towards us an' in the course of an hour or so we was all
transferred to her decks. She cruised around for a time, hopin' to pick
up some of the other boats, but couldn't find none of 'em. There was no
tellin' how far away from the wreck an' the boats we'd drifted in the
night. The vessel that picked us up was bound for America an' so we
continued our voyage to this country.

"I've often heard people complain of the coldness an' hardness of the
world; by 'the world,' always meanin' the folks that live in it, I
suppose. To my way of thinkin' there's a deal more kindness in the world
than there is selfishness an' badness, an' the people on that steamer
proved me right in one case anyway. They made up a purse among 'em an'
give a share to each of us that had been picked out of the sea, as you
might say. So, when we landed, we each had a little money to start in
with. I soon found work in a mill, an' my poor Mona managed to keep
herself an' the baby by doin' fine sewin'. For a long time we kep' house
together, me an' Mona, then I married an' moved away to another town. It
stands amid a multitude of trim gardens and stone-built terraces,
divided one from another: these to our eyes are not so attractive as
that broad expanse of lawn by which our country houses are generally
surrounded; but the gardens of Greshamsbury have been celebrated for
two centuries, and any Gresham who would have altered them would have
been considered to have destroyed one of the well-known landmarks
of the family.

Greshamsbury Park--properly so called--spread far away on the other side
of the village. Opposite to the two great gates leading up to the mansion
were two smaller gates, the one opening on to the stables, kennels,
and farm-yard, and the other to the deer park. This latter was the
principal entrance to the demesne, and a grand and picturesque entrance
it was. The avenue of limes which on one side stretched up to the house,
was on the other extended for a quarter of a mile, and then appeared
to be terminated only by an abrupt rise in the ground. At the entrance
there were four savages and four clubs, two to each portal, and what
with the massive iron gates, surmounted by a stone wall, on which stood
the family arms supported by two other club-bearers, the stone-built
lodges, the Doric, ivy-covered columns which surrounded the circle, the
four grim savages, and the extent of the space itself through which
the high road ran, and which just abutted on the village, the spot
was sufficiently significant of old family greatness.

Those who examined it more closely might see that under the arms was
a scroll bearing the Gresham motto, and that the words were repeated
in smaller letters under each of the savages. "Gardez Gresham," had
been chosen in the days of motto-choosing probably by some herald-at-arms
as an appropriate legend for signifying the peculiar attributes of the
family. Now, however, unfortunately, men were not of one mind as to the
exact idea signified. Some declared, with much heraldic warmth, that it
was an address to the savages, calling on them to take care of their
patron; while others, with whom I myself am inclined to agree, averred
with equal certainty that it was an advice to the people at large,
especially to those inclined to rebel against the aristocracy of
the county, that they should "beware the Gresham."

The latter signification would betoken strength--so said the
holders of this doctrine; the former weakness. Now the Greshams were ever
a strong people, and never addicted to a false humility.

We will not pretend to decide the question. Alas! either construction was
now equally unsuited to the family fortunes. Such changes had taken place
in England since the Greshams had founded themselves that no savage could
any longer in any way protect them; they must protect themselves like
common folk, or live unprotected. Nor now was it necessary that any
neighbour should shake in his shoes when the Gresham frowned. It would
have been to be wished that the present Gresham himself could have
been as indifferent to the frowns of some of his neighbours.

To my mind, Mona was one of them heroes; so
sweet an' patient, pretty well on in years herself, an' all crippled
with the rheumatism, but goin' out day after day to sell her apples; a
slavin' an' a killin' herself for a woman a little older an' a little
sicker than she was. An' all this because the old woman had been kind to
her in her hour of greatest need.

"Well, after findin' her again, I seen Mona every day; she used to come
here in the evenin' an' we'd sit an' talk of them that was gone. She was
with me when my Danny died, an' she thanked God with me for havin'
brought him back to me in the end. Then, one night, Mona didn't come,
but they brought me a message sayin' she was in the hospital, dyin' from
an accident, an' wanted to see me right away. I didn't let the grass
grow under my feet you may be sure, an' before long I stood beside the
bed where she was lyin', her poor, pale face all drawn with sufferin'.
I've called her a hero for the life she'd led, an' her end was sure
enough a hero's end. That afternoon a child had started to run across
the street at the corner where Mona's apple-stand was. He didn't see the
horse an' team that come tearin' up the street, an' the driver was too
busy lashin' the horse to see the child. In spite of her rheumatism,
Mona dashed in front of the team, and with a quick shove, sent the child
flyin' out of harm's away. He rolled over an' over on the street, but
beyond a scratch or two wasn't hurt. But Mona fell an' the team passed
over her ankles crushin' both of 'em badly. Her age an' the shock,
together with her injury, made 'em sure she couldn't live long. The
chaplain had been sent for, they told me, an' would come at any moment
now.

"She was sleepin' when I reached her, so I sat down beside the bed an'
waited. The priest come an' stood lookin' down at her, an' the kindness
an' pity on his face was wonderful to see. He looked at me an' I fair
jumped out of my chair with the shock his eyes sent through me.

"'Glory be to God!' I says, blessin' myself, for I was all a tremble
with the fright of it. 'Sure it's Michael Conners himself come back from
the dead.'

"That very minute Mona's eyes opened slowly an' fixed themselves on the
priest's face. A smile that brought the tears to my eyes, it was that
beautiful, crossed her face an' she held out her thin, white hand to
him, whisperin', 'Michael.' Then she closed her eyes again an' was off
unconscious once more.

"The priest looked first at her, then at me, an' his face was all
puzzled an' amazed like.

"'How do you know that my name is Michael Conners?' says he.

"'How do you know it yourself, Father?' says I, for I had my suspicions
by that time.

"'Because of this,' says he, showin' me a strangely carved little black
wooden crucifix attached to his beads. 'This was on my neck when I was
saved from the wreck in which my father an' mother perished.'

"'Well,' says I, 'you're wrong. 'Tain't Michael, but Gerald, is your
name, an' praise be the Lord but this'll be the happy day for my poor
Mona when she finds out the truth. That crucifix with the name of
Michael Conners on it was given to your father on his marriage day by
the priest that married him. Lady Arabella still kept up, as far as
she was able, her close connexion with Courcy Castle. She was there as
much as possible, to which Mr Gresham never objected; and she took her
daughters there whenever she could, though, as regarded the two
elder girls, she was interfered with by Mr Gresham, and not
unfrequently by the girls themselves.

Lady Arabella had a pride in her son, though he was by no means her
favourite child. He was, however, the heir of Greshamsbury, of which
fact she was disposed to make the most, and he was also a fine gainly
open-hearted young man, who could not but be dear to any mother. Lady
Arabella did love him dearly, though she felt a sort of disappointment
in regard to him, seeing that he was not so much like a de Courcy as
he should have been. She did love him dearly; and, therefore, when he
came of age she got her sister-in-law and all the Ladies Amelia,
Rosina etc., to come to Greshamsbury; and she also, with some difficulty,
persuaded the Honourable Georges and the Honourable Johns to be equally
condescending. Lord de Courcy himself was in attendance at the Court--or
said that he was--and Lord Porlock, the eldest son, simply told his
aunt when he was invited that he never bored himself with those sort
of things.

Then there were the Bakers, and the Batesons, and the Jacksons, who all
lived near and returned home at night; there was the Reverend Caleb
Oriel, the High-Church rector, with his beautiful sister, Patience
Oriel; there was Mr Yates Umbleby, the attorney and agent; and there
was Dr Thorne, and the doctor's modest, quiet-looking little niece,
Miss Mary.It's the happy woman my Mona was in them last few days upon earth, an'
it's the happy woman she is this day, all her troubles over, all her
sufferin's gone, an' she in Paradise for ever an' ever."

During Nancy's recital, the shadows of twilight had gathered and
deepened, and now her little kitchen was wrapped in darkness. Still, she
sat for several moments buried in thought which I cared not to
interrupt. Then, with a sigh, she rose to light the lamp and I noticed
that tears filled her eyes though the brave lips were smiling.

"Yes, yes," she repeated. "God's ways are wonderful, they are that. Even
if we don't understand things in this world, we're sure to in the next,
for the Lord knows His own business best every time."


PATSY.


Patsy was wide awake in a second. What was it those men were talking
about; what was it they were planning to do? That name, and "the brown
house on the hill"! By a strong effort, he kept his eyes closed and
breathed regularly and deeply as though still sleeping. He must not let
them suspect that he was listening, but he must catch every word they
said, every word. How he hated them, this band of rascals that had
gotten his David into their clutches and were slowly but surely making
him as bad as they! His David bad? No, no! David was kind and good and
gentle to him always. David was not bad, he would not listen to their
dreadful scheme. He would refuse to help them; surely he would. His
David a thief? It was impossible. But that dreadful plan they were
discussing! "The brown house on the hill"; "to-morrow night"; and David
was promising to go with them.

Patsy shivered beneath the bedclothes and bitter tears gathered in his
eyes and trickled down the pale, sunken cheeks. The men were leaving and
David was renewing his promise to accompany the expedition to the brown
house on the hill to-morrow night. In fact, he was to act as guide to
the man appointed to commit the deed, for who, so well as David, could
show them the way to the library in which was the safe that they were
going to rob?

They had gone now and Patsy felt that David was standing beside the bed
and looking down at him. He opened his eyes and two more tears escaped,
which he hastily brushed away. Immediately David was on his knees, the
little cripple's hand clasped tenderly in his.

"What's the trouble, kid?" he questioned anxiously. "Is it the pain
that's bad to-night?"

"'Tain't the pain, Davy, 'tain't the pain at all," sobbed the child.

"What is it then, youngster? Come now, tell your own Davy what's
troubling you, there's a good boy."

"David, how long is it since mother was taken away from us? It seems so
long. I was thinkin' of mother, Davy, and wishing she was here with us
this night."

"You poor kid, poor little crippled kid," muttered David, patting the
small, thin hand. "It's natural, I suppose, for you to pine for your
mother, but ain't Davy been almost like a mother to you, Patsy? He's
tried hard, that he has, to be father and mother and big brother all in
one." And the man smiled somewhat wistfully.

"You've been all that and more too, Davy. 'Twasn't on my account I was
wishin' for mother, 'twas on yours. If she was here, she'd know how to
keep you from going with them men to-morrow night. She'd know how to
keep you to home, and I don't know what to say or to do to stop you from
going."

David's face darkened slightly and there was a note of sternness in his
voice as he said:

"So you was listening, was you, and heard what we was talkin' about?"

"I didn't listen a purpose, David; at least, not at first. I happened to
wake and heard 'em speak of the brown house on the hill. Then I wanted
to hear everything and I listened a purpose after that. Oh, Davy!
Davy!" the child cried imploringly, sitting up in the bed and clasping
his hands in petition; "don't do it, Davy; don't be a thief to please
those wicked men; don't go robbing the brown house on the hill."

A fearful fit of coughing racked the little form and David held him
gently in his arms until the paroxysm had passed. Then, laying the boy
back upon the pillows, he said quietly:

"You mustn't get excited, Patsy, it's bad for you. We'll not talk no
more to-night. In the morning I'll tell you the story of the house on
the hill and you'll see I'm not tacklin' this job to please anyone but
myself. Go to sleep now, kid, for I'll not say another word to-night,
not another word."

When David spoke in that tone of voice Patsy knew there was nothing for
him to do but to obey. Turning his face to the wall, he closed his eyes,
but sleep did not visit him that night. He lay listening for the stroke
of the town clock as it sounded, one after another, the slowly dragging
hours; he lay listening to David's regular breathing and wondered how a
man could sleep so calmly with such a deed in prospect; he lay anxiously
turning over in his mind various schemes by which he could frustrate
the plan in case he failed in persuading David to abandon it altogether.
Several times fits of coughing shook him nearly to pieces, and at those
times the pain in his poor little chest was well-nigh unbearable. He
smothered the cough as well as he could beneath the bedclothes for fear
of disturbing David. As for the pain--well, pain and Patsy had been
companions so long now that he had grown quite accustomed to it.

The next day was cold and dismal, with a leaden sky threatening snow,
and a bitter wind blowing that searched the very marrow of one's bones.
The few neighbors who chanced to glance out of their windows at an early
hour in the afternoon were surprised to see Patsy making his way along
the street, slowly and painfully, with the aid of his crutches. They had
never known him to be abroad on a day like this; indeed, it was many a
day since he had attempted going upon the street at all. Poor little
Patsy, his crutches were once a familiar sight going up and down the
pavements on pleasant days in the summer time, but they had thought
never to see him leave his room again. Did David know? Some one should
stop the child; he was too weak to wander out alone like that. But
then, it was no affair of theirs; David could probably be trusted to
look after the boy.

As no one was willing to make it his business to interfere, Patsy went
on his way unmolested. A strange look of determination battled with the
pain on the sickly, childish face as he made his way bravely against the
biting wind that sought to drive him back. He had learned the mystery of
the house on the hill; he knew now why David hated so bitterly that
house and all connected with it; he knew why David was willing and eager
to help the men in the plan they were to carry out that night. David had
told him all about it, and for the first time in his life he had felt
afraid of this dearly loved brother of his. It had been a revelation to
Pasty. Surely, this bitter, unforgiving, revengeful man could not be the
same who had been father, mother and big brother to the little cripple
for whom he had cared so tenderly since their mother had been taken from
them.

It had sounded like a fairy tale to Patsy; he could scarcely believe his
own ears. Just to think of it; that brown house on the hill had once
been their mother's home, and the man who lived there, the man whom
David hated with undying hatred, was their mother's brother and their
uncle. On the day she married, she had left her home forever, her
brother vowing that never as long as he lived would he set eyes upon her
face again; to him she would be as though dead. Once, when father lay
dying (Patsy could not remember it, but David had told him of it),
mother had written to their uncle imploring a little help in their
misery. It was not for herself she had asked but for the dying husband
and sickly baby. Her letter had been returned to her with these harsh
words written on the back: "Some mistake here. No woman has the right to
call me brother. My only sister died years ago." In all these houses
gin, moreover, was sold at a penny the quartern. Housed thus, in conditions
destructive of "all Morality, Decency and Modesty," with the street for
bed if they fall sick ("and it is almost a Miracle that Stench,
Vermin, and Want should ever suffer them to be well"), oppressed
with poverty, and sunk in every species of debauchery, "the Wonder
in Fact is," cries Fielding, "... that we have not a thousand more
Robbers than we have; indeed that all these wretches are not thieves
must give us either a very high Idea of their Honesty or a very
mean one of their Capacity and Courage."

And, leaving for a moment legislative reform, Fielding delivers a vigorous
attack on the national sluggishness of public spirit which helped to
render robbery a fairly safe profession.
With such sluggishness his ardent nature had very little sympathy.
"With regard to Private Persons," he protests, "there is no Country I
believe in the World where that vulgar Maxim so generally prevails
that what is the Business of every Man is the business of no Man;
and for this plain Reason, that there is no Country in which less
Honour is gained by serving the Public. He therefore who commits
no crime against the Public, is very well satisfied with his own Virtue;
far from thinking himself obliged to undergo any Labour, expend any
Money, or encounter any Danger on such Account." And in no part of the
_Enquiry_ does the writer more truly show his wisdom than in the
pages on 'false Compassion' that plausible weakness which refuses
to prosecute the oppressors of the helpless and innocent, and which
at that time, in the person of his Majesty, King George II. was,
it appears, very active in pardoning offenders when convicted.

Fielding's arguments are incontestable; but his apologue may have found
even more favour in the age of wit. He hopes such good nature may not
carry those in power so far, "as it once did a Clergyman in _Scotland_
who in the fervour of his Benevolence prayed to God that He would be
graciously pleased to pardon the poor Devil."

To the devil, whether in man or in society, Fielding was ever a 'spirited
enemy'; and his first biographer tells us that "to the unworthy he was
rather harsh." But the last page of this little book breathes that spirit
of tenderness for hard pressed humanity which in Fielding was so
characteristically mingled with a wholesome severity. If the legislature
would take proper care to raise the condition of the poor, then he
declares the root of the evil would be struck: "nor in plain Truth will
the utmost severity to Offenders be justifiable unless we take every
possible Method of preventing the offence ... the Subject as well as
the child should be left without Excuse before he is punished: for in
that Case alone the Rod becomes the Hand either of the Parent or the
Magistrate." And his last word is one of compassion for the "many
Cart-loads of our Fellow-creatures [who] once in six weeks are carried
to Slaughter"; of whom much the greater part might, with 'proper care
and Regulations' have been made "not only happy in themselves but very
useful Members of the Society which they now so greatly dishonour in
the Sight of all Christendom."

Henry Fielding is himself his own best illustration when he declares
that the "good Poet and the good Politician do not differ so much as
some who know nothing of either art affirm; nor would _Homer_ or _Milton_
have made the worst Legislators of their Times."
To the reader of to-day the _Enquiry_ betrays no party flavour, but
its sedate pages clearly stirred up the hot feeling of the times. Early
in February the Advertiser announced "_This Day is published A Letter
to Henry Fielding Esqre. occasioned by his Enquiry into the causes of
the late increase of Robbers &c_." And about the end of the month there
appeared _Considerations_, in two numbers of the _True Briton_, "on Justice
Fielding's 'Enquiry,' shewing his Mistakes about the Constitution and
our Laws and that what he seems to propose is dangerous to our
Properties, Liberties and Constitution."

On March 7 was announced _Observations on Mr Fielding's Enquiry_, by
one B. Sedgley.
He put more coals upon the fire, which was burning
low, and made the tea for David's supper. He set out the loaf of bread,
the cold meat, the cheese, upon the table, then resumed his chair and
his eager listening for footsteps that were so long in coming. It seemed
to Patsy he had waited for hours and hours, and suddenly his heart
stopped beating and his eyes distended in terror as a thought occurred
to him. Suppose David did not come at all! What, what would happen then?
But there, that was David's step and all would be well now. The child
looked up eagerly as his brother entered the room, then, nearly cried
aloud in his bitter disappointment. David was not alone. One of the gang
was with him, and this was a contingency for which Patsy had made no
allowance. What was he to do now? How could he tell his brother, how
warn him, in the presence of that dreadful man?

For the first time in his life David was so preoccupied that he paid no
heed to the little cripple who had now withdrawn to the darkest corner
of the room and crouched there in abject terror. The two men made a
hasty meal and then sat by the table talking in tones so low that Patsy
heard scarcely a word of what was said. Anyway, he cared nothing for
their plans now; he had spoiled everything for them. Cartoon celebrating
the success of "Pasquin" _From a contemporary cartoon showing
Fielding, supported by Shakespeare, receiving an ample reward, while
to Harlequin and his other opponents is accorded a halter_.

The Little Theatre in the Haymarket _From an engraving by Dale, showing
the demolition of the Little Theatre in 1821_.

The Green Room, Drury Lane _From the painting by Hogarth, in the possession
of Sir Edward Tennant_.

The Temple--1738 _From an engraving of a drawing by J. Nicholas_.But he said very quietly, his eyes fixed steadily on his
brother's face:

"You mustn't go out to-night, David."

The men gasped and looked at one another in amazement.

"You mustn't go out to-night, David," the child repeated. "You mustn't
none of you go to the house on the hill to-night."

"We mustn't go out, mustn't we," exclaimed one of the men roughly.
"Who's to stop us going, I'd like to know? Stand aside, kid, before harm
comes to you."

"Who's to stop you? I am. I have stopped you."

A laugh of derision greeted this statement.

"Yes," Patsy repeated; "I've stopped you. I peached on you; I warned 'em
you was comin'."

David's face was terrible to see.

"What's that you're saying, Patsy? You what?"

"I warned 'em this afternoon. I went to the house on the hill and told
'em you was comin'. You mustn't go, David, you mustn't go. The police'll
be there waitin' for you, 'cos I told 'em you was comin'. Pleasant, indeed,
to all except the Lady Arabella; and rational, perhaps, to all
except the squire himself.

All this time he was already considerably encumbered. He had spent much
more than he should have done, and so indeed had his wife, in those
two splendid years in which they had figured as great among the
great ones of the earth.

Fourteen thousand a year ought to have been enough to allow a member of
Parliament with a young wife and two or three children to live in London
and keep up their country family mansion; but then the de Courcys were
very great people, and Lady Arabella chose to live as she had been
accustomed to do, and as her sister-in-law the countess lived: now
Lord de Courcy had much more than fourteen thousand a year.

I had to do it, Davy, I had to tell;
there wasn't no other way to keep you from being a thief. I'm sorry to
leave you alone, Davy, but I guess mother wants me in Heaven. You know
the doctor said I'd be going soon anyway. Mother said she'd be waitin'
for you and me and I guess she wants me now. I'm sorry to leave you, but
I'm afeared I must go. It'll be lonesome for you when I'm gone. You'll
have no one to light the lamp and make the tea for you in the evenings.
You'll come home here at night and it'll be all dark and lonely with no
Patsy to meet you. But remember, David, I'll be lookin' at you from
Heaven. Mother and I'll be waitin' for you there and I'm thinkin' even
Heaven won't be just right till you've come to us. Promise me you'll
come to us some day; promise you'll never go with them wicked men no
more. Let 'em alone or they'll make you as bad as they be, and then you
won't never see mother and me. Promise you'll let 'em alone, Davy;
promise you'll be good and come to us in Heaven some day."

"I promise, kid, I promise," whispered David brokenly. "With God's help
I'll turn over a new leaf and I'll come to you some day."

A smile brightened the pale, pinched face, a smile of absolute content
and trustful affection.

"God bless you, my Davy, God bless you," murmured the faint voice
haltingly. "Good-by--until we meet--in Heaven."


THREE EVENINGS IN A LIFE.

I.


One by one the city clocks chimed the hour of midnight. One by one Jane
counted the strokes and sighed despairingly as she glanced at the window
in which the light still burned so brightly. The air was bitter cold, a
fine snow was falling, and she had been trudging up and down, up and
down, for ages it seemed to her. Richard was growing so heavy and her
arms ached so she could scarcely hold him. Still, there was nothing for
it but to tramp up and down, up and down the narrow street, the baby in
her arms, until mother should give the welcome signal. When that lamp in
the window opposite was put out and the house in darkness, she would
know that it was safe for her to creep up the stairs and into the bed in
the kitchen which she shared with the baby brother now sleeping in her
arms.

Becoming his own master at sixteen he soon left school, for, he tells
his listeners, "being a forward Youth, I was extremely impatient to
be in the World: For which I thought my Parts, Knowledge, and Manhood
thoroughly qualified me. And to this early Introduction into Life,
without a Guide, I impute all my future Misfortunes; for besides the
obvious Mischiefs which attend this, there is one which hath not been
so generally observed. The first Impression which Mankind receives of
you, will be very difficult to eradicate. How unhappy, therefore, must
it be to fix your Character in Life, before you can possibly know its
Value, or weigh the Consequences of those Actions which are to establish
your future Reputation?"They knew not at what moment he might
return, possibly in even an uglier mood than usual. Mother was never
afraid for herself. She could usually manage him, although there had
been times when bad cuts and bruises bore testimony to the treatment to
which she had been subjected. For Jane and little Richard, their only
chance lay in keeping out of the way, so Jane would tramp the street,
Richard in her arms, despite aches and pains and weariness.

The child on the doorstep anxiously watched the window across the way.
Would the light never go out? Father must be unusually bad to-night, and
she was so tired. The day had been a hard one at the factory and every
bone in her body ached. Well, there was one comfort; to-morrow would be
Sunday and she could stay at home all day. To-morrow? To-day, rather,
for midnight had already passed. She would have one long day to rest and
help mother. She felt now as if she could sleep the whole day through.
She would like to sleep for a week at least, and even then she would not
be rested quite enough. There were moments of unusual fatigue and
depression in which she could almost wish that she might fall asleep and
sleep forever as the other little ones had done. Three of them there
were, delicate, sickly little creatures, who had struggled for a time
against the ills of human existence and then given up the unequal
conflict. At times, she could almost find it in her heart to envy them
were it not for mother and Richard, especially Richard.

There, at last! Things be altered at Greemsbury"--such was the rural
pronunciation--"altered sadly, neebor Oaklerath.

Well, well; I'll soon be gone, I will, and so it an't no use talking;
but arter paying one pound fifteen for them acres for more nor fifty
year, I didn't think I'd ever be axed for forty shilling."

Such was the style of conversation which went on at the various tables.
It had certainly been of a very different tone when the squire was
born, when he came of age, and when, just two years subsequently,
his son had been born. On each of these events similar rural fêtes had
been given, and the squire himself had on these occasions been frequent
among his guests. On the first, he had been carried round by his father,
a whole train of ladies and nurses following.

But no look of recognition comes to the sightless
eyes and no word escapes the lips save that never ceasing cry of
"Richard, Richard, Richard." A white-capped nurse flits softly about,
but Jane pays no heed to her. The doctor enters and hold whispered
consultation with the nurse. Jane does not even glance at him. She is
tired of hearing him say the same old thing time after time: "While
there is life, there is hope." She knows there is no hope, though
everything possible has been done to save the precious life now ebbing
so swiftly. We may perhaps best describe it by saying that the village
of Greshamsbury consisted of one long, straggling street, a mile in
length, which in the centre turned sharp round, so that one half of
the street lay directly at right angles to the other.It cannot bring back the
days that are gone, the happy days before Richard went away. And they
were happy, then, so happy.

