"Not exactly that either, John--just the other side of the equation.
You have reaped what you sowed, and I am sorry for what you sowed. It
affords those who are in it an interesting spectacle, and I am beginning
to think that Chevalier was madder than the rest in that he voluntarily
left his seat."
Nanteuil took a pen from the desk, and held it out, dipped in ink,
to the doctor.

He began to write:

"Having been called on several occasions to attend----"
He interrupted himself to ask Chevalier's Christian name.

"Aimé," replied Nanteuil.
"Aimé Chevalier, I have noticed in his system certain disorders of
sensibility, vision and motor control, ordinary indications of----"
He went to fetch a book from a shelf of his library.
"It's a thousand chances that I shall find something to confirm my
diagnosis in the lectures of Professor Ball on mental diseases."But instead of a customer,
Mr. J. K. Mercheson, J. K. Mercheson representing Barber, Hancock, and
Kohn,--yes, the whip trust; that's what they call it, but it is
really an industrial organization of the trade,--Mr. J. K. Mercheson
of New York came in. No, McHurdie did not need anything at present,
and he backed into the shop. He had all of the goods in that line that
he could carry just now; and he sidled toward his seat. The members of
the parliament effaced themselves, as loafers do in every busy place
when business comes up; the colonel got behind his paper, Barclay hid
back of the stove, Dolan examined a bit of harness, and the general
busied himself picking up the litter on the floor, and folding the
papers with the pictures of Barclay inside so that he would not be
annoyed by them. But Mr. Mercheson knew how to get orders; he knew
that the thing to do is to stay with the trade.

So he leaned against the work bench and began:--

"This is a great town, Mr. McHurdie; we're always hearing from
Sycamore Ridge. When I'm in the East they say, 'What kind of a town is
that Sycamore Ridge where Watts McHurdie and your noted reformer,
Robert Hendricks, who was offered a place in the cabinet, and this man
John Barclay live?'"

Mr. Mercheson paused for effect. Mr. McHurdie smiled and went on with
his work.

"Say," said Mr. Mercheson, "your man Barclay is in all the papers this
morning. I was in the smoker of the sleeper last evening coming out of
Chicago, and we got to talking about him--and Lord, how the fellows
did roast him."

"They did?" asked Barclay, from his chair behind the stove.

"Sure," replied Mr. Mercheson; "roasted him good and brown. There
wasn't a man in the smoker but me to stand up for him."

"So you stood up for the old scoundrel, did you?" asked Barclay.

"Sure," answered the travelling man. "Anything to get up an argument,
you know," he went on, beginning to see which way sentiment lay in the
shop. "I've been around town this morning, and I find the people here
don't approve of him for a minute, any more than they did on the
train."

"What do they say?" asked Barclay, braiding a four-strand whip, and
finding that his cunning of nearly fifty years had not left his
fingers.

And she went on to tell him a story of the theatre:

"I really don't think I shall remain at the Odéon much longer."

"Why?"
"You'll see. Pradel said to me to-day, before rehearsal 'My dear
little Nanteuil, there has never been anything between us.
It is ridiculous.' He was extremely decorous, but he gave me
to understand that we were in a false position with regard to one
another, which could not go on indefinitely. You must know that
Pradel has established a rule.

Formerly he used to pick and choose among his _pensionnaires_. He
had favourites, and that caused an outcry.

Nowadays, for the better administration of the theatre, he takes them
all, even those he has no liking for, even those who are distasteful
to him.

There are no more favourites.
Everything goes splendidly. Ah, he's a director all through, is
Pradel!"
As Robert, in the bed, listened in silence, she went up to him and
shook him:

"Then it's all the same to you if I carry on with Pradel?"
"No, my dear, it would not be all the same to me.

But nothing I might say would prevent it."
Bending over him, she caressed him ardently, pretending to threaten
and to punish him; and she cried:
"Then you don't really love me, that you are not jealous. I insist
that you shall be jealous."
Then, suddenly, she moved away from him, and hitching over her left
shoulder her chemise, which had slipped down under her right breast,
she loitered in front of the dressing-table and inquired
uneasily:
"Robert, you have not brought anything here from the other room?""John," said the colonel, when Barclay had spoken, "John, don't mind
it. Look at me, John--look at me! They had to put me in jail, you
know; but every one seems to have forgotten it but me--and I am a dog
that I don't."

John Barclay looked at the old, broken man, discarded from the
playing-cards of life, with the hurt, surprised look always in his
eyes, and it was with an effort that the suave Mr. Barclay kept the
choke in his throat out of his voice as he replied:--

"Yes, Colonel, yes, I know I have no right to kick against the
pricks."

Watts was saying: "Yes, he's in there now--with the boys; you better
go in and cheer him up."

And then at the upper right-hand entrance entered Gabriel Carnine,
president of the State Bank, unctuous as a bishop. He ignored the
others, and walking to Barclay, put out his hand. "Well, well, John,
glad to see you; just came up from the mill--I was looking for you.
Couldn't find Neal, either. Where is he?"

The general answered curtly, "Neal is in Chicago, working on the
_Record-Herald_."

"Oh," returned Carnine, and did not pursue the subject further. "Well,
gentlemen," he said, "fine winter weather we're having."

"Is that so?" chipped in Dolan. "Mr. Barclay was finding it a little
mite warm."

Carnine ignored Dolan, and Barclay grinned. "Well, John," Carnine
hesitated, "I was just down to see you--on a little matter of
business."

"Delighted, sir, delighted," exclaimed Dolan, as he rose to go; "we
were going, anyway--weren't we, General?" The veterans rose, and
Colonel Culpepper said as he went, "I told Molly to call for me here
about noon with the buggy--if she comes, tell her to wait."

All of life may not be put on the stage, and this scene has to be cut;
for it was at the end of half an hour's aimless, footless, foolish
talk that Gabriel Carnine came to the business in hand. Round and
round the bush he beat the devil, before he hit him a whack. Then he
said, as if it had just occurred to him, "We were wondering--some of
the directors--this morning, if under the circumstances--oh, say
just for the coming six months or such a matter--it might not be wise
to reorganize our board; freshen it up, don't you know; kind of get
some new names on it, and drop the old ones--not permanently, but
just to give the other stockholders a show on the board."

"So you want me to get off, do you?" blurted Barclay. "You're afraid
of my name--now?"

The screams of Mr. Carnine, the protesting screams of that oleaginous
gentleman, if they could have been vocalized in keeping with their
muffled, low-voiced, whispering earnestness, would have been loud
enough to be heard a mile away, but Barclay talked out:--

"All right, take my name off; and out comes my account. I don't care."

And thereupon the agony of Mr. Carnine was unutterable. If he had been
a natural man, he would have howled in pain; as it was, he merely
purred. But Barclay's skin was thin that day, sensitive to every
touch, and he felt the rough hand of Carnine and winced. He let the
old man whine and pur and stroke his beard awhile, and then Barclay
said wearily, "All right, just as you please, Gabe--I'll not move my
account. It's nothing to me."

In another minute the feline foot of Mr. Carnine was pattering gently
toward the front door. Barclay sat looking at the stove, and Watts
went on working. Barclay sighed deeply once or twice, but McHurdie
paid no heed to him. Finally Barclay rose and went over to the bench.

"Watts," cried Barclay, "what do you think about it--you, your own
self, what do you think way down in your heart?"

Watts sewed a stitch or two without speaking, and then put down his
thread and put up his glasses and said, "That's fairly spoken, John
Barclay, and will have a fair answer."

The old man paused; Barclay cried impatiently, "Oh, well, Watts, don't
be afraid--nothing can hurt me much now!"

"I was just a-thinking, lad," said Watts, gently, "just a-thinking."

"What?" cried Barclay.

"Just a-thinking," returned the old man, as he put his hand on the
younger man's shoulder, "what a fine poet you spoiled in your life,
just to get the chance to go to jail. But the Lord knows His business,
I suppose!" he added with a twinkle in his eye, "and if He thinks a
poet more or less in jail would help more than one out--it is all for
the best, John, all for the best. But, my boy," he cried earnestly,
"if you'll be going to jail, don't whine, lad. Go to jail like a
gentleman, John Barclay, go to jail like a gentleman, and serve your
Lord there like a man."

"Damn cheerful you are, Watts," returned Barclay. "What a lot of Job's
comforters you fellows have been this morning." He went on half
bitterly and half jokingly: "Beginning with the general, continuing
with your travelling salesman friend, and following up with Gabe, who
wants me to get off the board of directors of his bank for the moral
effect of it, and coming on down to you who bid me Godspeed to
jail--I have had a--a--a rather gorgeous morning."

The door-bell tinkled, and a woman's voice called, "Father, father!"

They listened actively, with their ears, lips, eyes, arms, and legs.
Each listened in his own manner, with nobility, simplicity, grief
or rebelliousness, according to the parts which the actor was
accustomed to play.

No, the director of the theatre would not suffer the valiant actor,
who, in the course of his only too brief career, had shown more
than promise, to depart without a word of farewell.

"Chevalier, impetuous, uneven, restless, imparted to his creations an
individual character, a distinctive physiognomy. We saw him a very few
days ago--a few hours ago, I might say--bring an episodical
character into powerful relief. The author of the play was struck by
the performance. Chevalier was on the verge of success. The sacred
flame was his. There are those who have asked, what was the cause
of so cruel an end? Let us not seek for that cause. Chevalier died
of his art; he died of dramatic fever. He died consumed by the flame
which is slowly consuming all of us. Alas, the stage, of which the
public sees only the smiles, and the tears, as sweet as the smiles,
is a jealous master which demands of its servants an absolute
devotion and the most painful sacrifices, and, at times, claims its
victims. In the name of all your comrades, farewell, Chevalier,
farewell!"
The handkerchiefs were at work, wiping away the mourners' tears.
The actors were weeping with all sincerity; they were weeping for
themselves.

After they had slipped away, Dr. Trublet, left alone in the cemetery
with Constantin Marc, took in the multitude of graves with a
glance.

"Do you remember," he said, "one of Auguste Comte's reflections:
'Humanity is composed of the dead and the living. The dead are by far
the more numerous.' Assuredly, the dead are by far the more
numerous. By the multitudinous numbers and the magnitude of their work,
they are more powerful. It's they who rule; we obey them. Our masters
lie beneath these stones. Here is the lawgiver who made the law to
which I submit to-day; the architect who built my house, the poet who
created the illusions which still disturb us; the orator who swayed
us before our birth.

Here are all the artisans of our knowledge, true or false, of our
wisdom and of our follies.

There they lie, the inexorable leaders, whom we dare not disobey.
In them dwells strength, continuity, and duration.

What does a generation of living folk amount to, in comparison with the
numberless generations of the dead? What is our will of a
day before the will of a thousand centuries? Can we rebel against them?
Why, we have not even time to disobey them!"

"At last you are coming to the point, Dr. Socrates!" said Constantin
Marc.

"You renounce progress, the new justice, the peace of the world, freedom
of thought; you submit to tradition.

You consent to the ancient error, the good old-fashioned ignorance, the
venerable iniquity of our forbears. You withdraw into the French
tradition, you submit to ancient custom, to the authority of our
ancestors."
"Whence do you obtain custom and tradition?" asked Trablet. "Whence
do you receive authority?

There are irreconcilable traditions, diverse customs; and opposed
authorities. The dead do not impose any one will upon us. They subject
us to contradictory wills. The opinions of the past which weigh
upon us are uncertain and confused. In crushing us they destroy one
another. All these dead have lived, like ourselves, in the midst of
disorder and contradiction. Each in his time, in his own fashion, in
hatred or in love, has dreamed the dream of life. Let us in our
turn dream this dream with kindness and joy, if it be possible, and let
us go to lunch. I am taking you to a little tavern in the Rue
Vavin, kept by Clémence, who cooks only one dish, but a marvellous
one at that, the Castelnaudary _cassoulet_, not to be confused with
the _cassoulet_ prepared in the Carcassonne fashion, which is merely
a leg of mutton with haricot beans. The _cassoulet_ of Castelnaudary
comprises pickled goose legs, haricot beans that have been previously
bleached, bacon, and a small sausage.His mind went back wearily
to the old days, fifty years before, when as a toddling child in
dresses he used to play on that very scrap-heap outside the back door,
picking up bits of leather, and in his boyhood days, playing pranks
upon the little harness maker, and braiding his whips for the town
herd. Then he remembered the verses Watts had written about Bob
Hendricks and him in that very room, and the music he and Watts had
played together there. The old song Watts had made in his presence in
the hospital at St. Louis came back to his mind. Did it come because
outside the band had halted and was playing that old song to serenade
Watts McHurdie? I left there the year the Prussians and other foreigners
came. There were thousands of them. Can't understand where they
all came from. Maybe you've heard of the war of the Prussians,
young man?"

He remained silent for a long spell and then resumed:

"So you are out on a spree, my lad. You don't feel like going back
to the works yet?"
"I am an actor," replied Chevalier.
The old man who did not understand, inquired:
"Where is it, your works?"
Chevalier was anxious to rouse the old man's admiration.The great Mr. Barclay, alone, sitting in the dingy little
harness shop, can hear the band strike up the old familiar tune again,
and hear the crowd cheer and roar its applause at the little harness
maker, who stands shamefaced and abashed, coatless and aproned, before
the crowd. And he is only a poet--hardly a poet, would be a better
way to say it; an exceedingly bad poet who makes bad rhymes, and
thinks trite thoughts, and says silly and often rather stupid things,
but who once had his say, and for that one hour of glorious liberty of
the soul has moved millions of hearts to love him. "Spades, clubs,
trump, two points to me."
"There we shall spend the winter, and next spring we shall penetrate
into India, crossing Persia, and the British power will be a thing
of the past." 
"Thirty-six in diamonds." 
"And I the four aces."He says in his heart of pride, beneath his stiff
neck, that it is all right; that Watts,--poor little church-mouse of
a Watts, whom he could buy five times over with the money that has
dropped into the Barclay till since he entered the shop--that Watts
should have his due; but only--only--only--that is it--only, but
only--!


"How do you expect me to know that?"

"There's a chair put there."
"'Lest the pond murmur: "Who is this stranger?"'"
"Mademoiselle Nanteuil, it's your cue----Where has Nanteuil
got to?
Nanteuil!"
Nanteuil came forward muffled up in her furs, her little bag and
her part in her hand, white as a sheet, her eyes sunken, her legs
nerveless.
When fully awake she had seen the dead man enter her bedroom.
She inquired:

"Where do I make my entrance from?"
"From the right." 
"All right."We have left it all behind, with the
ragged programmes in the seats. So if the honourable court, in the
person of the more or less honourable Elijah Westlake Bemis, after the
fashion of federal judges desiring to do a questionable thing, calls
in a judge from a neighbouring court--what do we care? How-d'ye-do,
doctor! Félicie, you know I am not one to pay compliments. Nevertheless,
I saw you the day before yesterday, and I assure you that in the
second of _La Mère confidente_ you put in some excellent touches,
which are far from easy to bring off."
Nanteuil, with smiling eyes, waited--as is always the case when one
has received a compliment--for another.

Madame Doulce, thus invited by Nanteuil's silence, murmured some
additional words of praise:
"...excellent touches, genuinely individual business!"For the
fidgety little man is free now--entirely free save for fifty-four
years of selfish life upon his shoulders.

In the trial of nearly every cause it becomes necessary at some point
in the proceedings to halt the narrative and introduce certain
exhibits, records, and documents, upon which foregone evidence has
been based, and to which coming testimony may properly be attached.
That point has been reached in the case now before the reader. And as
"Exhibit A" let us submit a letter written by John Barclay, January
seventh, nineteen hundred and four, to Jane, his wife, at Naples.

    "As I cabled you this afternoon, the case resulted exactly as I said
    it would the day after the indictment. "What, you have not read _Les
    Soirées de Neuilly_, by Monsieur de Fongeray? You have missed something.
    It is a curious book, which can still be met with sometimes on the
    quays. It is adorned by a lithograph of Henry Monnier's, which is,
    I don't know why, a caricature of Stendhal. Fongeray is the pseudonym
    of two Liberals of the Restoration, Dittmer and Cavé. The work
    consists of comedies and dramas which cannot be acted;
    but which contain some most interesting scenes representing manners
    and customs. You will read in it how, in the reign of Charles
    X, a vicar of one of the Paris churches, the Abbé Mouchaud, would
    refuse burial to a pious lady, and would, at all costs, grant it
to an atheist.
Madame d'Hautefeuille was religious, but she held some national
property.I feel that he has
    been so valuable to us that we should settle a sum on him that will
    make him a rich man as men go in the Ridge. Heaven knows that is
    little enough, considering all that he has done. He may have his
    faults, Jane, but he has been loyal to me.

    "I hope, my dear, that Jeanette has ceased to worry about the other
    matter; he is not worth her tears. Don't come home for a month or
    two yet. The same conditions prevail that I spoke of in my first
    cable the day of the indictment. The press and the public are
    perfectly crazy. America is one great howling mob, and it would make
    you and Jennie unhappy. As for me, I don't mind it. You know me."

And that the reader may know how truthful John Barclay is, let us
append herewith a letter written by Mrs. Mary Barclay, of Sycamore
Ridge, to her granddaughter at Naples, January 15, 1904. She writes
among other things:--

    "Well, dear, it is a week now since your father's case was settled,
    and he was at home for the first time last night. I expected that
    his victory--such as it was--would cheer him up, but some way he
    seems worse in the dumps than he was before. He does not sleep well,
    and is getting too nervous for a man of his age. I have the
    impression that he is forever battling with something. Of course the
    public temper is bitter, dearie. You are a woman now, and should not
    be shielded and pampered with lies, so I am going to tell you the
    truth. The indignation of the people of this nation at your father,
    as he represents present business methods, is past belief. And
    frankly, dearie, I can't blame them. Your father and my son is a
    brave, sweet, loving man; none could be finer in this world, Jennie.
    But the head of the National Provisions Company is another person,
    dear; and of him I do not approve, as you know so well. I am sending
    you Neal Ward's statement which was published by the government the
    day after the case was dismissed. I have not sent it to you before,
    because I wanted to ask your father if it was true. Jennie, he
    admits that Neal told the truth, and nothing but the truth--and did
    not make it as bad as it was. "And exquisitely polite. He made a
    delicate allusion to the indiscretions of the newspapers----"
    At this moment Monsieur Marchegeay, the stage manager, burst into
    the room. His green eyes were glittering, and his red moustache
    was dancing like a flame. The words rolled off his tongue:
    
    "They are at it again!

Lydie, the little super, is screaming like a stoat on the stairs.
She says Delage tried to violate her. It's at least the tenth time
in a month that she has come out with that story.

    This is an infernal nuisance!"

    "Such conduct cannot be tolerated in a house like this," said
    Pradel.
    "You'll have to fine Delage. Pray continue, Madame Doulce."
    "Monsieur l'Abbé Mirabelle explained to me in the clearest manner
    that suicide is an act of despair."
    But Constantin Marc was inquiring of Pradel with interest, whether
    Lydie, the little super, was pretty.
    
    "You have seen her in _La Nuit du 23 octobre_; she plays the woman of
    the people who, in the Plaine de Grenelle, is buying wafers of
    Madame Ravaud."
    "A very pretty girl, to my thinking," said Constantin Marc.
    

"Undoubtedly," responded Pradel. "But she would be still prettier if her
ankles weren't like stakes."
And Constantin Marc musingly replied.

"And Delage has outraged her. That fellow possesses the sense of
love.
Love is a simple and primitive act. It's a struggle, it's
hatred.
Violence is necessary to it. Love by mutual consent is merely a
tedious obligation." 
And he cried, greatly excited.
"Delage is prodigious!"
"Don't get yourself into a fix," said Pradel.
"This same little Lydie entices my actors into her dressing-room,
and then all of a sudden she screams out that she is being outraged
in order to get hush-money out of them. It's her lover who has
taught her the trick, and takes the coin. You were saying, Madame
Doulce----"
"After a long and interesting conversation," resumed Madame Doulce,
"Monsieur l'Abbé Mirabelle suggested a favourable solution.The second clipping, found in the personal column of the _Banner_ of
the date referred to, February 12, 1904, follows:--

