We want a steady, unswerving force that will pull our clock hands with
an exact motion day and night, year in and year out.  We hang up a
string, and ask gravitation to take hold and pull.  We put on some lead
or brass for a handle, to take hold of.  It takes hold and pulls,
unweariedly, unvaryingly, and ceaselessly.

It turns single water-wheels with a power of more than twelve hundred
horses.

It holds down houses, so that they are not blown away.  It was made to
serve man, and it works without a grumble.

Thus the higher force in nature always prevails over the lower, and the
greater amount over the less amount of the same force.  What is the
highest force?


THE FAIRY PULLS GREAT LOADS

Far back in the hills west of Mauch Chunk, Pa., lie great beds of coal.
They were made under the sea long ages ago, raised up, roofed over by
the Allegheny Mountains, and kept waiting as great reservoirs of power
for the use of man.

But how can these mountains be gotten to the distant cities by the sea?
Faith in what power can say to these mountains, "Be thou removed far
hence, and cast into the sea?"  It is easy.

Along the winding sides of the mountains have been laid two rails like
steel ribbons for a dozen miles, from the coal beds to water and
railroad transportation.  Put a half dozen loaded cars on the track,
and with one man at the brake, lest gravitation should prove too
willing a helper, away they go, through the springtime freshness or the
autumn glory, spinning and singing down to the point of universal
distribution.

[Illustration: Incline at Mauch Chunk.]

On one occasion the brake for some reason would not work.  The cars
just flew like an arrow.  The man's hair stood up from fright and the
wind.  Coming to a curve the cars kept straight on, ran down a bank,
dashed right into the end of a house and spilled their whole load in
the cellar.  Probably no man ever laid in a winter's supply of coal so
quickly or so undesirably.

But how do we get the cars back?  It is pleasant sliding down hill on a
rail, but who pulls the sled back?  Gravitation.  It is just as willing
to work both ways as one way.

Think of a great letter X a dozen miles long.

Lay it down on the side against three or four rough hills.  Bend the X
till it will fit the curves and precipices of these hills.  That is the
double track.  Now when loaded cars have come down one bar of the X by
gravity, draw them up by a sharp incline to the upper end of the other
bar, and away they go by gravity to the other end.  Draw them up one
more incline, and they are ready to take a new load and buzz down to
the bottom again.

I have been riding round the glorious mountain sides in a horseless,
steamless, electricityless carriage, and been delighted to find
hundreds of tons of coal shooting over my head at the crossings of the
X, and both cars were drawn in opposite directions by the same force of
gravity in the heart of the earth.

If you do not take off your hat and cheer for the superb force of
gravitation, the wind is very apt to take it off for you.


THE FAIRY DRAWS GREATER LOADS

Pittsburg has 5,000,000 tons of coal every year that it wishes to send
South, much of it as far as New Orleans--2,050 miles.  What force is
sufficient for moving such great mountains so far?  Any boy may find it.

Tie a stone to the end of a string, whirl it around the finger and feel
it pull.  How much is the pull?  That depends on the weight of the
stone, the length of the string, and the swiftness of the whirl.  In
the case of David's sling it pulled away hard enough to crash into the
head of Goliath.  Suppose the stone to be as big as the earth (8,000
miles in diameter), the length of the string to be its distance from
the sun (92,500,000 miles), and the swiftness of flight the speed of
the earth in its orbit (1,000 miles a minute).  The pull represents the
power of gravitation that holds the earth to the sun.

If we use steel wires instead of gravitation for this purpose, each
strong enough to support half a score of people (1,500 pounds), how
many would it take?  We would need to distribute them over the whole
earth: from pole to pole, from side to side, over all the land and sea.
Then they would need to be so near together that a mouse could not run
around among them.

Here is a measureless power.  Can it be gotten to take Pittsburgh coal
to New Orleans?  Certainly; it was made to serve man.  So the coal is
put on great flatboats, 36 x 176 feet, a thousand tons to a boat, and
gravitation takes the mighty burden down the long toboggan slide of the
Ohio and Mississippi Rivers to the journey's end.  How easy!

[Illustration: The Head of the Toboggan Slide.]

One load sent down was 43,000 tons.  The flatboats were lashed together
as one solid boat covering six and one half acres, more space than a
whole block of houses in a city, with one little steamboat to steer.
There is always plenty of power; just belt on for anything you want
done.  This is only one thing that gravitation does for man on these
rivers.  And there are many rivers.  They serve the savage on his log
and the scientist in his palace steamer with equal readiness.


THE FAIRY WORKS A PUMP HANDLE

The Slave of the Ring could take Aladdin into a cave of wealth, and by
speaking the words, "Open Sesame," Ali Baba was admitted into the cave
that held the treasures of the forty thieves.  But that is very little.
I have just come from a cave in Virginia City, Nev., from which men
took $120,000,000.

In following the veins of silver the miners went down 3,500 feet--more
than three fifths of a mile.  There it was fearfully hot, but the main
trouble was water.  They had dug a deep, deep well.  How could they get
the water out?  Pumps were of no use.  A column of water one foot
square of that height weighs 218,242 pounds.  Who could work the other
end of the pump handle?

They thought of evaporating the water and sending it up as steam.  But
it was found that it would take an incredible amount of coal.  They
thought of separating it into oxygen and hydrogen, and then its own
lightness would carry it up very quickly.  But they had no power that
would resolve even quarts into their ultimate elements, where tons
would be required.

So they asked gravitation to help them.  It readily offered to do so.
It could not let go its hold of the water in the mine, nor anywhere
else, for fear everything would go to pieces, but it offered to
overcome force with greater force.  So it sent the men twenty miles
away in the mountains to dig a ditch all the way to the mine, and then
gravitation brought water to a reservoir four hundred feet above the
mouth of the mine.  Now a column of this water one foot square can be
taken from this higher reservoir down to the bottom of the mine and
weigh 25,000 pounds more than a like column that comes from the bottom
to the top.  This extra 25,000 pounds is an extra force available to
lift itself and the other water out of the deep well, and they turn the
greater force into a pump and work it in the cylinder as if it were
steam.  It lifts not only the water that works the pump, but the other
water also out of the mine by gravitation.  So man gets the water out
by pouring more water in.


THE HELP OF INERTIA

Since the time of David many boys have swung pebbles by a string, or
sling, and felt the pull of what we call a centrifugal (center-fleeing)
force.  David utilized it to one good purpose.  Goliath was greatly
surprised; such a thing never entered his head before.  Whether a stone
or an idea enters one's head depends on the kind of head he has.

We utilize this force in many ways now.  Some boys swing a pail of milk
over their heads, and if swung fast enough the centrifugal force
overcomes the force of gravitation, and the milk does not fall.  That
is not utilizing the force.  It often terrorizes the careful mother,
anxious for the safety of the milk.

But in the arts of practical life we do utilize this force, which is
only inertia.

Once it took a long time for molasses to drain out of a hogshead of
damp sugar.  Now it is put into a great tub, with holes in the side,
which is made to revolve rapidly, and the molasses flies out.  In the
best laundries clothes are not wrung out, to the great damage of tender
fabrics, but are put into such a tub and whirled nearly dry.  So fifty
yards of woolen cloth just out of the dye vat--who could wring it?  It
is coiled in a tub called a wizard, and whirled.

Muddy water is put through a process called clarification.  It is the
same, except that there are no holes in the vessel.  The heavier
particles of dirt, that would settle in time, take the outside, leaving
perfectly clean water in the middle.  A perpendicular perforated pipe,
with a faucet below, drains off all the clear water and leaves all the
mud.  Milk is brought in from the milking and put into a separator;
whirl it, and the heavier milk takes the outside of the whirling mass,
and the lighter cream can be drawn off from the middle.  It is far more
perfectly separated than by any skimming.

A rotary snowplow slices off two feet of a ten-foot drift at each
revolution, and by centrifugal force flings it out of the cutting with
a speed that a hundred navvies or dagos cannot equal.


ONE PLANT HELP

A thousand acres of land on Cape Cod were once blown away.  This wind
excavation was ten feet deep.  It was not an extraordinary wind, but
extraordinary land.  It was made of rock ground up into fine sand by
the waves on the shore.

In all the deserts of the world the wind blows the itinerant sand on
its far journeys.  If the wind is moderate it heaps the sand up into
little hills, some of them six hundred feet high, around any
obstruction, and then blows the sand up the slanting face of the hill
and over the top, where it falls out of the wind on the leeward side.
In this way the hill is always traveling.  In North Carolina hills
start inland, and travel right on, burying a house or farm if it be in
the way, but resurrecting it again on the other side as the hill goes
on.  Anyone may see these hills at the south end of Lake Michigan, as
he approaches Chicago, west of San Francisco, all along up the Columbia
River--the sand having come on the wings of the wind from the coast.

But to see the whole visible world on a march one needs to go to a
really large desert.  The Pyramids and the Sphinx have been partly
buried, and parts of the valley of the Nile threatened, by hordes of
sand hills marching in from the desert; cities have been buried and
harbors filled up.  Many of the harbors of the ancient civilizations
are mere miasmatic marshes now.  This is partly in consequence of the
silt brought in by the rivers; but where the rivers do not flow in it
is because the sand blows in along the shore.  Harbors are especially
endangered when their protection from the waves consists of a bank of
sand, as on Cape Cod and the Sandy Hook below the Narrows of the harbor
of New York.

How can man combat part of the continent on the move, driven by the
ceaseless powers of the air?  By a humble plant or two.  The movement
of the sand hills that threaten to destroy the marvelous beauty of the
grounds of the Hotel del Monte at Monterey is stopped by planting dwarf
pines.  The sand dunes that prevent much of Holland from being
reconquered by the sea are protected with great care by willows, etc.,
and the coast sands of parts of eastern France have been sown with sea
pine and broom.

The tract of a thousand acres on Cape Cod had been protected by humble
beach grass.  Some careless herder let the cows eat it in places, and
away went part of a township.  It is now a punishable crime on Cape Cod
to destroy beach grass.


GAS HELP

This refers to more than stump speech-making.  The old Romans drove
through solid rock numerous tunnels similar to the one for draining
Lago de Celano, fifty miles east of Rome.  This one was three and a
half miles long, through solid rock, and every chip cost a blow of a
human arm to dislodge it.  Of course the process was very slow.

We do works vastly greater.  We drive tunnels three times as long for
double-track railways through rock that is held down by an Alp.  We use
common air to drill the holes and a thin gas to break the rock.  The
Mont Cenis tunnel required the removal of 900,000 cubic yards of rock.
Near Dover, England, 1,000,000,000 tons of cliff were torn down and
scattered over fifteen acres in an instant.  How was it done?  By gas.

There are a dozen kinds of solids which can be handled--some of them
frozen, thawed, soaked in water, with impunity--but let a spark of fire
touch them and they break into vast volumes of uncontrollable gas that
will rend the heart out of a mountain in order to expand.

Gunpowder was first used in 1350; so the old Romans knew nothing of its
power.  They flung javelins a few rods by the strength of the arm; we
throw great iron shells, starting with an initial velocity of fifteen
hundred feet a second and going ten miles.  The air pressure against
the front of a fifteen-inch shell going at that speed is 2,865 pounds.
That ton and a half of resistance of gas in front must be much more
than overcome by gas behind.

But the least use of explosives is in war; not over ten per cent is so
used.  The Mont Cenis tunnel took enough for 200,000,000 musket
cartridges.  As much as 2,000 kegs have been fired at once in
California to loosen up gravel for mining, and 23 tons were exploded at
once under Hell Gate, at New York.

How strong is this gas?  As strong as you please.  Steam is sometimes
worked at a pressure of 400 pounds to the inch, but not usually over
100 pounds.  It would be no use to turn steam into a hole drilled in
rock.  The ordinary pressure of exploded gas is 80,000 pounds to the
square inch.  It can be made many times more forceful.  It works as
well in water, under the sea, or makes earthquakes in oil wells 2,000
feet deep, as under mountains.

The wildest imagination of Scheherezade never dreamed in _Arabian
Nights_ of genii that had a tithe of the power of these real forces.
Her genii shut up in bottles had to wait centuries for some fisherman
to let them out.


NATURAL AFFECTION OF METALS

"Sacra fames auri."  The hunger for gold, which in men is called
accursed, in metals is justly called sacred.

In all the water of the sea there is gold--about 400 tons in a cubic
mile--in very much of the soil, some in all Philadelphia clay, in the
Pactolian sands of every river where Midas has bathed, and in many
rocks of the earth.  But it is so fine and so mixed with other
substances that in many cases it cannot be seen.  Look at the ore from
a mine that is giving its owners millions of dollars.  Not a speck of
gold can be seen.  How can it be secured?  Set a trap for it.  Put down
something that has an affinity--voracious appetite, unslakable thirst,
metallic affection--for gold, and they will come together.

We have heard of potable gold--"_potabile aurum_."  There are metals to
which all gold is drinkable.  Mercury is one of them.  Cut transverse
channels, or nail little cleats across a wooden chute for carrying
water.  Put mercury in the grooves or before the cleats, and shovel
auriferous gravel and sand into the rushing water.  The mercury will
bibulously drink into itself all the fine invisible gold, while the
unaffectionate sand goes on, bereaved of its wealth.

Put gold-bearing quartz under an upright log shod with iron.  Lift and
drop the log a few hundred times on the rock, until it is crushed so
fine that it flows over the edge of the trough with constantly going
water, and an amalgam of mercury spread over the inclined way down
which the endusted water flows will drink up all the gold by force of
natural affection therefor.

Neither can the gold be seen in the mercury.  But it is there.  Squeeze
the mercury through chamois skin.  An amalgam, mostly gold, refuses to
go through.  Or apply heat.  The mercury flies away as vapor and the
gold remains.

If thou seekest for wisdom as for silver, and searchest for her as for
hid treasure, thou shalt find.


NATURAL AFFECTION BETWEEN METAL AND LIQUID

A little boy had a silver mug that he prized very highly, as it was the
gift of his grandfather.  The boy was not born with a silver spoon in
his mouth, but, what was much better, he had a mug often filled with
what he needed.

One day he dipped it into a glass jar of what seemed to him water, and
letting go of it saw it go to the bottom.  He went to find his father
to fish it out for him.  When he came back his heavy solid mug looked
as if it were made of the skeleton leaves of the forest when the green
chlorophyll has decayed away in the winter and left only the gauzy
veins and veinlets through which the leaves were made.  Soon even this
fretwork was gone, and there was no sign of it to be seen.  The liquid
had eaten or drank the solid metal up, particle by particle.  The
liquid was nitric acid.

The poor little boy had often seen salt, and especially sugar, absorbed
in water, but never his  precious solid silver mug, and the bright
tears rolled down his cheeks freely.

But his father thought of two things: First, that the blue tint told
him that the jeweler had sold for silver to the grandfather a mug that
was part copper; and secondly, that he would put some common salt into
the nitric acid--which it liked so much better than silver that it
dropped the silver, just as a boy might drop bread when he sought to
fill his hands with cake.

So the father recovered the invisible silver and made it into a
precious mug again.


NATURAL AFFECTION OP METAL AND GAS

A man was waked up one night in a strange house by a noise he could not
understand.  He wanted a light, and wanted it very much, but he had no
matches that would take fire by the heat of friction.  He knew of many
other ways of starting a fire.  If water gets to the cargo of lime in a
vessel it sets the ship on fire.  It is of no use to try to put it out
by water, for it only makes more heat.  He knew that dried alum and
sugar suitably mixed would burst into flame if exposed to the air; that
nitric acid and oil of turpentine would take fire if mixed; that flint
struck by steel would start fire enough to explode a powder magazine;
and that Elijah called down from heaven a kind of fire that burned
twelve "barrels" of water as easily as ordinary water puts out ordinary
fire.  But he had none of these ways of lighting his candle at
hand--not even the last.

So he took a bit of potassium metal, bright as silver, out of a bottle
of naphtha, put it in the candle wick, touched it with a bit of
dripping ice, and so lighted his candle.

The potassium was so avaricious of oxygen that it decomposed the water
to get it.  Indeed, it was a case of mutual affection.  The oxygen
preferred the company of potassium to that of the hydrogen in the
water, and went to it even at the risk of being burned.

I was so interested in seeing a bit of silver-like metal and water take
fire as they touched that I forgot all about the occasion of the noise.


HINT HELP

Benjamin C. B. Tilghman, of Philadelphia, once went into the lighthouse
at Cape May, and, observing that the window glass was translucent
rather than transparent, asked the keeper why he put ground glass in
the windows.  "We do not," said the keeper.  "We put in the clear
glass, and the wind blows the sand against it and roughens the outer
surface like ground glass."  The answer was to him like the falling
apple to Newton.  He put on his thinking cap and went out.  It was
better than the cap of Fortunatus to him.  He thought, "If nature does
this, why cannot I make a fiercer blast, let sand trickle into it, and
so hurl a million little hammers at the glass, and grind it more
swiftly than we do on stones with a stream of wet sand added?"

He tried jets of steam and of air with sand, and found that he could
roughen a pane of glass almost instantly.  By coating a part of the
glass with hot beeswax, applied with a brush, through a stencil, or
covering it with paper cut into any desired figures, he could engrave
the most delicate and intricate patterns as readily as if plain.  Glass
is often made all white, except a very thin coating of brilliant
colored glass on one side.  This he could cut through, leaving letters
of brilliant color and the general surface white, or _vice versa_.

Seal cutting is a very delicate and difficult art, old as the Pharaohs.
Protect the surface that is to be left, and the sand blast will cut out
the required design neatly and swiftly.

There is no known substance, not even corundum, hard enough to resist
the swift impact of myriads of little stones.

It will cut more granite into shape in an hour than a man can in a day.

Surely no one will be sorry to learn that General Tilghman sold part of
his patents, taken out in October, 1870, for $400,000, and receives the
untold benefits of the rest to this day.  So much for thinking.

Nature gives thousands of hints.  Some can take them; some can only
take the other thing.  The hints are greatly preferred by nature and
man.


CREATIONS NOW IN PROGRESS

The forces of creation are yet in full play.  Who can direct them?
Rewards greater than Tilghman's await the thinker.  We are permitted
not only to think God's thoughts after him, but to do his works.
"Greater works than these that I do shall he do who believeth on me,"
says the Greatest Worker.  Great profit incites to do the work noted
below.

Carbon as charcoal is worth about six cents a bushel; as plumbago, for
lead pencils or for the bicycle chain, it is worth more; as diamond it
has been sold for $500,000 for less than an ounce, and that was
regarded as less than half its value.  Such a stone is so valuable that
$15,000 has been spent in grinding and polishing its surface.  The
glazier pays $5.00 for a bit of carbon so small that it would take
about ten thousand of them to make an ounce.

Why is there such a difference in value?  Simply arrangement and
compactness.  Can we so enormously enhance the value of a bushel of
charcoal by arrangement and compression?  Not very satisfactorily as
yet.  We can apply almost limitless pressure, but that does not make
diamonds.  Every particle must go to its place by some law and force we
have not yet attained the mastery of.

We do not know and control the law and force in nature that would
enable us to say to a few million bricks, stones, bits of glass, etc.,
"Fly up through earth, water, and air, and combine into a perfect
palace, with walls, buttresses, towers, and windows all in exact
architectural harmony."  But there is such a law and force for
crystals, if not for palaces.  There is wisdom to originate and power
to manage such a force.  It does not take masses of rock and stick them
together, nor even particles from a fluid, but atoms from a gas.  Atoms
as fine as those of air must be taken and put in their place, one by
one, under enormous pressure, to have the resulting crystal as compact
as a diamond.

The force of crystallization is used by us in many inferior ways, as in
making crystals of rock candy, sulphur, salt, etc., but for the making
of diamonds it is too much for us, except in a small way.

While we cannot yet use the force that builds large white diamonds we
can use the diamonds themselves.  Set a number of them around a section
of an iron tube, place it against a rock, at the surface or deep down
in a mine, cause it to revolve rapidly by machinery, and it will bore
into the rock, leaving a core.  Force in water, to remove the dust and
chips, and the diamond teeth will eat their way hundreds of feet in any
direction; and by examining the extracted core miners can tell what
sort of ore there is hundreds of feet in advance.  Hence, they go only
where they know that value lies.


SOME CURIOUS BEHAVIORS OF ATOMS

Ultimate atoms of matter are asserted to be impenetrable.  That is, if
a mass of them really touched each other, that mass would not be
condensible by any force.  But atoms of matter do not touch.  It is
thinkable, but not demonstrable, that condensation might go on till
there were no discernible substance left, only force.

Matter exists in three states: solid, liquid, and gas.  It is thought
that all matter may be passed through the three stages--iron being
capable of being volatilized, and gases condensed to liquids and
solids--the chief difference of these states being greater or less
distance between the constituent atoms and molecules.  In gas the
particles are distant from each other, like gnats flying in the air; in
liquids, distant as men passing in a busy street; in solids, as men in
a congregation, so sparse that each can easily move about.  The
congregation can easily disperse to the rarity of those walking in the
street, and the men in the street condense to the density of the
congregation.  So, matter can change in going from solids to liquids
and gases, or _vice versa_.  The behavior of atoms in the process is
surpassingly interesting.

Gold changes its density, and therefore its thickness, between the two
dies of the mint that make it money.  How do the particles behave as
they snuggle up closer to each other?

Take a piece of iron wire and bend it.  The atoms on the inner side
become nearer together, those on the outside farther apart.  Twist it.
The outer particles revolve on each other; those of the middle do not
move.  They assume and maintain their new relations.

Hang a weight on a wire.  It does not stretch like a rubber thread, but
it stretches.  Eight wires were tested as to their tensile strength.
They gave an average of forty-five pounds, and an elongation averaging
nineteen per cent of the total length.  Then a wire of the same kind
was given time to adjust itself to its new and trying circumstances.
Forty pounds were hung on one day, three pounds more the next day, and
so on, increasing the weights by diminishing quantities, till in sixty
days it carried fifty-seven pounds.  So it seems that exercise
strengthened the wire nearly twenty-seven per cent.

While those atoms are hustling about, lengthening the wire and getting
a better grip on one another, they grow warm with the exercise.  Hold a
thick rubber band against your lip--suddenly stretch it.  The lip
easily perceives the greater heat.  After a few moments let it
contract.  The greater coldness is equally perceptible.

A wire suspending thirty-nine pounds being twisted ninety-five full
turns lengthened itself one sixteen-hundredth of its length.  Being
further twisted by twenty-five turns it shortened itself one fourth of
its previous elongation.  During the twisting some sections took far
more torsion than others.  A steel wire supporting thirty-nine pounds
was twisted one hundred and twenty times and then allowed to untwist at
will.  It let out only thirty-eight turns and retained eighty-two in
the new permanent relation of particles.  A wire has been known to
accommodate itself to nearly fourteen hundred twists, and still the
atoms did not let go of each other.  They slid about on each other as
freely as the atoms of water, but they still held on.  It is easier to
conceive of these atoms sliding about, making the wire thinner and
longer, when we consider that it is the opinion of our best physicists
that molecules made of atoms are never still.  Masses of matter may be
still, but not the constituent elements.  They are always in intensest
activity, like a mass of bees--those inside coming out, outside ones
going in--but the mass remains the same.

The atoms of water behave extraordinarily.  I know of a boiler and
pipes for heating a house.  When the fire was applied and the
temperature was changed from that of the street to two hundred degrees,
it was easy to see that there was a whole barrel more of it than when
it was let into the boiler.  It had been swollen by the heat, but it
was nothing but water.

Mobile, flexible, and yielding as water seems to be, it has an
obstinacy quite remarkable.  It was for a long time supposed to be
absolutely incompressible.  It is nearly so.  A pressure that would
reduce air to one hundredth of its bulk would not discernibly affect
water.  Put a ton weight on a cubic inch of water; it does not flinch
nor perceptibly shrink, yet the atoms of water do not fill the space
they occupy.  They object to being crowded.  They make no objection to
having other matter come in and possess the space unoccupied by them.

Air so much enjoys its free, agile state, leaping over hills and
plains, kissing a thousand flowers, that it greatly objects to being
condensed to a liquid.  First we must take away all the heat.  Two
hundred and ten degrees of heat changes water to steam filling 1,728
times as much space.  No amount of pressure will condense steam to
water unless the heat is removed.  So take heat away from air till it
is more than two hundred degrees below zero, and then a pressure of
about two hundred atmospheres (14.7 pounds each) changes common air to
fluid.  It fights desperately against condensation, growing hot with
the effort, and it maintains its resilience for years at any point of
pressure short of the final surrender that gives up to become liquid.

Perhaps sometime we shall have the pure air of the mountains or the sea
condensed to fluid and sold by the quart to the dwellers in the city,
to be expanded into air once more.

The marvel is not greater that gas is able to sustain itself under the
awful pressure with its particles in extreme dispersion, than that what
we call solids should have their molecules in a mazy dance and yet keep
their strength.

Since this world, in power, fineness, finish, beauty, and adaptations,
not only surpasses our accomplishment, but also is past our finding out
to its perfection, it must have been made by One stronger, finer, and
wiser than we are.


MOBILITY OF SEEMING SOLIDS

When a human breath, or the white jet of a steam whistle, or the black
cough of a locomotive smokestack is projected into the air it is easy
to see that the air is mobile.  Its particles easily roll over one
another in voluminously infolding wreaths.  The same is seen in water.
The crest of a wave falls over a portion of air, imprisoning it for a
moment, and the mingled air and water of different densities prevent
the light of the sun or sky from going straight down into the black
depths and being lost, but by being reflected and turned back it shows
like beautiful white lace, constantly created and dissolved with a
thousandfold more beauty than any that ever came from human hands.  All
the three shifting elements of the swift creations are mobile.  This
seems to be the case because these elements are not solid.  The
particles have plenty of room to play about each other, to execute mazy
dances and minuets with vastly more space than substance.

