This morning, before I left Park-place, I had the relief and joy
of receiving your letter of October 24, from Lyons.  It would
have been still more welcome, if dated from Turin; but, as you
have met with no impediments so far, I trust you got out of
France as well as through it.  I do hope, too, that Miss Agnes is
better, as you say; but when one is very anxious about a person,
credulity does not take long strides in proportion.  I am not
surprised at your finding voiturins, or any body, or any thing,
dearer: where all credit and all control are swept away, every
man will be a tyrant in proportion to his necessities and his
strength.  Societies were invented to temperate force: but it
seems force was liberty, and much good may it do the French with
being delivered from every thing but violence!--which I believe
they will soon taste pro and con.! You may make me smile by
desiring me to continue my affection.  Have I so much time left
for inconstancy? For threescore years and ten I have not been
very fickle in my friendship: in all these years I never found
such a pair as you and your sister.  Should I meet with a
superior pair,-but they must not be deficient in any one of the
qualities which I find in you two,-why, Perhaps, I may change;
but, with that double mortgage on my affections, I do not think
you are in much danger of losing them.  You shall have timely
notice if a second couple drops out of the clouds and falls in my
way.

(708) The far-famed "Reflections on the Revolution in France;" of
which about thirty thousand copies were sold in a comparatively
short space of time.-E.

(709) A French translation, by M. Dupont, shortly after made its
appearance, and spread the reputation of the work over all
Europe.  The Emperor of Germany, Catherine of Russia, and the
French Princes transmitted to Mr. Burke their warm approbation of
it, and the unfortunate Stanislaus of Poland sent him his
likeness on a gold medal.-E.

(710) The Landgrave of Furstemberg had been sent from the Emperor
Leopold to notify his being elected King of the Romans, and his
subsequent coronation as Emperor of Germany.-E.


Letter 359 To Miss Berry.
November 11, 1790. (page 460)

I had a letter from Mrs. Damer at Falmouth.  She suffered much by
cold and fatigue, and probably sailed on Saturday evening last,
and may be at Lisbon by this time, as you, I trust, are in Italy.
Mr. Burke's pamphlet has quite turned Dr. Price's head.  He got
upon a table at their club, toasted to our Parliament becoming a
National Assembly, and to admitting no more peers of their
assembly, having lost the only one they had.  They themselves are
very like the French `Etats: two more members got on the table
(their pulpit), and broke it down: so be it!

The Marquisate(711) is just where it was--to be and not to be.
The Duchess of Argyll is said to be worse.  Della Crusca(712) has
published a poem, called "The Laurel of Liberty," which, like the
Enrag`es, has confounded and overturned all ideas.  There are
gossamery tears and silky oceans--the first time, to be sure,
that any body ever cried cobwebs, or that the sea was made of
paduasoy.(713)  There is, besides, a violent tirade against a
considerable personage, who, it is supposed, the author was
jealous of, as too much favoured a few years ago by a certain
Countess.  You may guess why I am not more explicit: for the same
reason I beg YOU not to mention it at all; it would be
exceedingly improper.  As the Parliament will meet in a
fortnight, and the town be plumper, my letters may grow more
amusing; though, unless the weather grows worse, I shall not
contribute my leanness to its embonpoint.  Adieu!

(711) Meaning the reported marriage of Miss Gunning to the
Marquis of Blandford.-B.

(712) Robert Merry, Esq. who, at this time, wrote in the
newspapers under this signature, and thereby became the object of
the caustic satire of the author of the Baviad and Maviad--

"Lo, Della Crusca in his closet pent,
He toils to give the crude conception vent
Abortive thoughts, that right and wrong confound,
Truth sacrific'd to letters, sense to sound;
False glare, incongruous images combine,
And noise and nonsense chatter through the line."-E.

(713) Besides the above, Mr. Gifford instances, from the same
poem, "moody monarchs, radiant rivers, cooling cataracts, lazy
Loires, gay Garonnes, glossy glass, mingling murder, dauntless
day, lettered lightnings, delicious dilatings, sinking sorrows,
real reasoning, meliorating mercies, dewy vapours damp that sweep
the silent swamps, etc. etc."-E.


Letter 360 To The Miss Berrys.
Strawberry Hill, Thursday, Nov. 18, 1790. (page 461)

On Tuesday morning, after my letter was gone to the post, I
received yours of the 2d (as I have all the rest) from Turin, and
it gave me very little of the joy I had so much meditated to
receive from a letter thence.  And why did not it?-because I had
got one on Saturday, which anticipated and augmented all the
satisfaction I had allotted for Turin.  You will find my
Tuesday's letter, if ever you receive it, intoxicated with
Chamberry; for which, and all your kind punctuality, I give you a
million of thanks.  But how cruel to find that you found none of
my letters at Turin! There ought to have been two at least, of
October the 16th and 19th.  I have since directed one thither of
the 25th; but alas! from ignorance, there was par Paris on none
of them; and the Lord knows at how many little German courts they
may have been baiting! I shall put par Paris on this; but beg you
will tell me, as soon as you can, which route is the shortest and
the safest; that is, by which you are most likely to receive
them.  You do me justice in concluding there has been no
negligence of mine in the case; indeed, I have been ashamed of
the multiplicity of my letters, when I had scarce any thing to
tell you but
my own anxiety to hear of your being quietly settled at Florence,
out of the reach of all commotions.  And how could I but dread
your being molested by some accident, in the present state of
France! and how could your healths mend in bad inns, and till you
can repose somewhere?  Repose you will have at Florence, but I
shall fear the winter for you there: I suffered more by cold
there, than by any place in my life; and never came home at night
without a pain in my breast, which I never felt elsewhere, yet
then I was very young and in perfect health.  If either of you
suffer there in any shape, I hope you will retire to Pisa.

My inquietude, that presented so many alarms to me before you set
out, has, I find, and am grieved for it, not been quite in the
Wrong.  Some inconveniences I am persuaded you have sunk: yet the
difficulty of landing at Dieppe, and the ransack of your poor
harmless trunks at Bourgoin, and the wretched lodgings with which
you were forced to take up at Turin, count deeply with me: and I
had much rather have lost all credit as a prophet, since I could
not prevent your journey.  May it answer for your healths! I
doubt it will not in any other respect, as you have already found
by the voiturins.  In point of pleasure, is it possible to divest
myself so radically of all self-love as to wish you may find
Italy as agreeable as you di formerly?  In all other lights, I do
most fervently hope there will he no drawbacks on your plan.
Should you be disappointed in any way, you know what a warm heart
is open to receive you back; and so will your own Cliveden(714)
be too.

I am glad you met the Bishop of Arras,(715) and am much pleased
that he remembers me.  I saw him very frequently at my dear old
friend's,.(716) and liked him the best of all Frenchmen I ever
knew.  He is extremely sensible, easy, lively, and void of
prejudices.  Should he fall in your way again, I beg you will
tell him how sincere a regard I have for him.  He lived in the
strictest union with his brother, the Archbishop of Tours, whom I
was much less acquainted with, nor know if he be living.

I have heard nothing since my Tuesday's letter.  As I still hope
its predecessors will reach you, I will not repeat the trifling
scraps of news I have sent you in them.  In fact, this is only a
trial whether par Paris is a better passport than a direction
without it; but I am grievously sorry to find difficulty of
correspondence superadded to the vexation of losing you.  Writing
to you was grown my chief occupation.  I wish.  Europe and its
broils were in the East Indies, if they embarrass us quiet folks,
who have nothing to do with their squabbles.  The Duchess of
Gloucester, who called on me yesterday, charged me to give her
compliments to you both.  Miss Foldson(717) has not yet sent me
your pictures: I was in town on Monday, and sent to reproach her
with having twice broken her promise; her mother told my servant
that Miss was at Windsor, drawing the Queen and Princesses.  That
is not the work of a Moment.  I am glad all the Princes are not
on the spot.

I think of continuing here till the weather grows very bad; which
it has not been at all yet, though not equal to what I am
rejoiced you have found.  I have no Somerset or Audley-street to
receive me: Mrs. Damer is gone too.  The Conways remain at
Park-place till after Christmas; It is entirely out of fashion
for women to grow old and stay at home in an evening.  They
invite you, indeed, now and then, but do not expect to see you
till near midnight; which is rather too late to begin the day,
unless one was born but twenty years ago.  I do not condemn any
fashions, which the young ought to set, for the old certainly
ought not; but an oak that has been going on in its old way for
an hundred years, cannot shoot into a May-pole in three years,
because it is the mode to plant Lombardy poplars.

What I should have suffered, if your letters, like mine, had
wandered through Germany!  But in old age, everything in the woman's
role, the passions have been stamped on her face, she is loving,
wife, mother, and the most vehement expressions of joy and
pain have their disfigured features, and a thousand furrows dug,
which all have a language talk. Then a woman's head, either in his
lofty Schreckhaftigkeit, beautiful in its melancholy or großartig
in his sleep. If it is allowed, this strange parable weiterzuspinnen,
so one could say the parched lake could then detect traces
of all the streams that had formed him. A woman's head belongs
to neither the Company, in its flippancy zurückschreckt
before the image of the devastating effect that the beloved
and ordinary notions of elegance and joy of life there have
been, he still belongs to the artists, everyday life, which is
nothing to discover - it belongs to the true poets, because
they alone appreciate and recognize the beauty, regardless of
the prejudice comes from and whatever the two alone do much its
reputation of beauty and artistic owes.

Although Madame d'Aiglemont wore a modern hat, but was easy to
see that their once black hair resulting from intense excitement
had become white. But the way it scheitelte, betrayed their good
taste, indicated habits of the graceful lady and make effective
the framed welke, gefurchte forehead, which are still traces of
its former splendor in it. The cut face, the regularity of the
trains were still today a However, only weak expression of great
beauty, to which they once had can be proud of, but even better
because you knew how deep and awful pain had been, as they face
this, these temples, the cheeks hollow, and the eyes had robbed her
eyelashes, the eye make it graceful.

This woman was all silence, their gear and their movements were
serious, taken slowness that always evokes awe.

Your modesty, shyness has become almost seemed the result of habit,
the few years since she had before her daughter into the background.

I wish too to know, though I cannot yet, whether
you would have me direct Par Paris, or as I did before.  In this
state of uncertainty I did not prepare this to depart this
morning; nor, though the Parliament met yesterday, have I a
syllable of news for you, as there will be no debate till all the
members have been sworn, which takes two or three days.
Moreover, I am still here: the weather, though very rainy, is
quite warm; and I have much more agreeable society at Richmond,
with small companies and better hours, than in town, and shall
have till after Christmas, unless great cold drives me thither.
Lady Di, Selwyn, the Penns, the Onslows, Douglases, Mackinsys,
Keenes, Lady Mount-Edgcumbe, all stay, and Some of them meet
every evening.  The Boufflers too are constantly invited, and the
Comtesse Emilie sometimes carries her harp, on which they say she
plays better than Orpheus; but as I never heard him on earth, nor
chez Proserpine, I do not pretend to decide.  Lord
Fitzwilliam(718) has been here too; but was in the utmost danger
of being lost on Saturday night, in a violent storm between
Calais and Dover, as the captain confessed to him when they were
landed.  Do you think I did not ache at the recollection of a
certain Tuesday when you were sailing to Dieppe?

(718) Richard, seventh and last Viscount Fitzwilliam, the
munificent benefactor to the University of Cambridge.  He died in
1816.-E.


Letter 362 To Miss Agnes Berry.
Strawberry Hill, Sunday, Nov. 29, 1790. (page 464)

Though I write to both at once, and reckon your letters to come
equally from both, yet I delight in seeing your hand with a pen
as well as with a pencil, and you express yourself as well with
the one as with the other.  Your part in that which I have been
so happy as to receive this moment, has singularly obliged me, by
your having saved me the terror of knowing you had a torrent to
cross after heavy rain.  No cat is so afraid of water for
herself, as I am grown to be for you.  That panic, which will
last for many months, adds to my fervent desire of your returning
early in the autumn, that you may have neither fresh water nor
the "silky" ocean to cross in winter.  Precious as our insular
situation is, I am ready to wish with the Frenchman, that you
could somehow or other get to it by land,-- Oui, c'est une isle
toujours, je le sais bien; mais, par exemple, en allant
d'alentour, n'y auroit-il pas moyen d'y arriver par terre?"

Correggio never pleased me in proportion to his fame; his grace
touches upon grimace; the mouth of the beautiful Angel at Parma
curls up almost into a half-moon.  Still I prefer Corregio to the
lourd want of grace in Guereino, who is to me a German edition of
Guido.  I am sorry the bookseller would not let you have an
Otranto.  Edwards told me, above two months ago, that he every
day expected the whole impression; and he has never mentioned it
waiting for my corrections.  I will make Kirgate write to him,
for I have told you that I am still here.  We have had much rain,
but no flood; and yesterday and to-day have exhibited Florentine
skies.

>From town I know nothing; but that on Friday, after the King's
speech, Earl Stanhope made a most frantic speech on the National
Assembly and against Calonne's book, which he wanted to have
taken up for high treason.(719)  He was every minute interrupted
by loud bursts of laughter; which was all the answer he received
or deserved.  His suffragan Price has published a short, sneaking
equivocal answer to Burke, in which he pretends his triumph over
the King of France alluded to July, not to October, though his
sermon was preached in November.  Gredat--but not Judaeus Apella,
as Mr. Burke so wittily says of the assignats.(720)  Mr.
Grenville, the secretary of state, is made a peer, they say to
assist the Chancellor in the House of Lords: yet the papers
pretend the Chancellor is out of humour, and will resign the
first may be true, the latter probably not.(721)

Richmond, my metropolis, flourishes exceedingly.  The Duke of
Clarence arrived at his palace there last night, between eleven
and twelve, as I came from Lady Douglas.  His eldest brother and
Mrs. Fitzherbert dine there to-day with the Duke Of Queensbury,
as his grace, who called here this morning, told me, on the very
spot where lived Charles the First, and where are the portraits
of his principal courtiers from Cornbury.  Queensbury has taken
to that palace at last, and has frequently company and music
there in an evening.  I intend to go.

I suppose none of my Florentine acquaintance are still upon
earth.  The handsomest woman there, of my days, was a Madame
Grifoni, my fair Geraldine: she would now be a Methusalemess, and
much more like a frightful picture I have of her by a one-eyed
German painter.  I lived then with Sir Horace Mann, in Casa
Mannetti in Via de' Santi Apostoli, by the Ponte di Trinit`a.
He remained for a moment are, considered his daughter, adding:
"But, my poor Julie, you're still too young, too weak, too
delicate to Kümmernisse and laborious marriage to endure.
D'Aiglemont is a Muttersöhnchen and petted his parents also, as
you of your mother and me. How would it even possible that the
two irreconcilable Despite heads, if you think times are
different, you could understand?
.

(719) in the report of Lord Stanbope's speech, as it is given in
the Parliamentary History, there is no expression of a wish that
M. Calonne should be ,taken up for high treason." What the noble
Earl said was, that the assertion that a civil war would meet
with the support of all the crowned heads in Europe was a
scandalous libel on the King of England, and might endanger the
lives of many natives of Scotland and Ireland then residing in
France.-E.

(720) "The Assembly made in their speeches a sort of swaggering
declaration, something, I rather think, above legislative
competence; that is, that there is no difference in value between
metallic money and their assignats.  This was a good, stout proof
article of faith, pronounced under an anathema, by the venerable
fathers of this philosophic synod.  Gredat who will certainly not

Judaeus Apella."-E.

(721) In Mr. Wilberforce's Diary for this year there appears the
following entry:-"Nov- 22.  Dined with Mr. Pitt.  He told me of
Grenville's peerage and the true reasons--distrust of Lord
Thurlow.  Saw Thurlow's answer to the news.  Gave Pitt a serious
word or two." See Life, vol. i. p. 284.-E.


Letter 363 To The Miss Berrys.
Strawberry Hill, Dec. 20, 1790; very late at night. (page 465)

