"Your discretion has found that out, has it?"

"They say so.  But you will come; won't you, Bessy?  As for waiting,
it's all nonsense.  Of course you can walk on.  But we'll be at the
stile by five.  I've got my watch, you know."  And then Bessy
promised him.  What would she not have done for him that was in her
power to do?

"Go!  Of course I'll go," said Miss Holmes.  "I'm up to anything.
I'd have gone with them this morning, and have taken a gun if they'd
asked me.  But, by-the-bye, I'd better not."

"Why not?" said Patty, who was hardly yet without fear lest
something should mar the expedition.

"What will three gentlemen do with four ladies?"

She was startled by hearing her father say,-- 
"It's very good.

Read on, Betty, my lass."
"Oh, fayther, I didn't think you could hear me!

What shall I read?"
"Read about some poor sinner like me, that got his sins pardoned by
Jesus Christ."
"I can't justly say where it is, fayther; but I know there's one
place where it tells of a sinful man as had his sins pardoned by
Jesus Christ, even when he hung upon the cross.

I know well it was when the Lord were a-dying. Ah, here it is;" and
she read,--

"`And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying,
If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. But the other answering,
rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in
the same condemnation?

And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds:
but this man hath done nothing amiss.

And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy
kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To-day
shalt thou be with me in paradise.'"
"Do you think, Betty," asked Johnson very earnestly, "I should go
to be with Jesus, if I were to die now?

Oh, if this pain's so bad, what must hell-fire be?"

"Fayther," replied his daughter quietly, "the Lord's spared you for
summat.

I prayed him to spare you, and he'll not cast you off now as he's
heard my prayer.

If you take him at his word, he'll not tell you as you're
mistaken--he'll not say he hasn't pardon in his heart for you."
"I believe it, I will believe it," said the poor man, the tears running
down his cheeks.

"And, Bella, unless
you wish to drive me away, pray do not speak of him and me together
as you did just now."

"Are you so bad as that,--that the slightest commonplace joke upsets
you?  Would not his services be due to you as a matter of course?
If you are so sore about it, you will betray your own secret."

"I have no secret,--none at least from you, or from mamma; and,
indeed, none from him.  We were both very foolish, thinking that we
knew each other and our own hearts, when we knew neither."

"I hate to hear people talk of knowing their hearts.  My idea is,
that if you like a young man, and he asks you to marry him, you
ought to have him.  That is, if there is enough to live on.  I don't
know what more is wanted.  But girls are getting to talk and think
as though they were to send their hearts through some fiery furnace
of trial before they may give them up to a husband's keeping.  I am
not at all sure that the French fashion is not the best, and that
these things shouldn't be managed by the fathers and mothers, or
perhaps by the family lawyers.  Girls who are so intent upon knowing
their own hearts generally end by knowing nobody's heart but their
own; and then they die old maids."

"Better that than give themselves to the keeping of those they don't
know and cannot esteem."

"That's a matter of taste.  I mean to take the first that comes, so
long as he looks like a gentleman, and has not less than eight
hundred a year.  Now Godfrey does look like a gentleman, and has
double that.  If I had such a chance I shouldn't think twice about
it."

"But I have no such chance."

"That's the way the wind blows; is it?"

"No, no.  Oh, Bella, pray, pray leave me alone.  Pray do not
interfere.  There is no wind blowing in any way.  All that I want is
your silence and your sympathy."

"Very well.  I will be silent and sympathetic as the grave.  Only
don't imagine that I am cold as the grave also.  I don't exactly
appreciate your ideas; but if I can do no good, I will at any rate
endeavour to do no harm."

After lunch, at about three, they started on their walk, and managed
to ferry themselves over the river.  "Oh, do let me, Bessy," said
Kate Coverdale.  "I understand all about it.  Look here, Miss
Holmes.  You pull the chain through your hands--"

"And inevitably tear your gloves to pieces," said Miss Holmes.  Kate
certainly had done so, and did not seem to be particularly well
pleased with the accident.  "There's a nasty nail in the chain," she
said.  "I wonder those stupid boys did not tell us."

Of course they reached the trysting-place much too soon, and were
very tired of walking up and down to keep their feet warm, before
the sportsmen came up.  But this was their own fault, seeing that
they had reached the stile half an hour before the time fixed.

"I never will go anywhere to meet gentlemen again," said Miss
Holmes.  "It is most preposterous that ladies should be left in the
snow for an hour.  Well, young men, what sport have you had?"

"I shot the big black cock," said Harry.

"Did you indeed?" said Kate Coverdale.

"And here are the feathers out of his tail for you.  He dropped them
in the water, and I had to go in after them up to my middle.  But I
told you that I would, so I was determined to get them."

"Oh, you silly, silly boy," said Kate.  "But I'll keep them for
ever.  I will indeed."  This was said a little apart, for Harry had
managed to draw the young lady aside before he presented the
feathers.

"I am sure he will," she answered; "but you must lie still, fayther,
or maybe you'll do yourself harm. The doctor'll be here just now."

It was a night of darkness and terror, yet even on that sad
night there was glorious light which man's eye could not see,
for there was joy in the presence of the angels of God over at least
one penitent sinner in Langhurst. But how full of gloom to most!
Many had been cut off in the midst of their sins, and those who
mourned their loss sorrowed as those who have no hope.Miss Holmes, therefore, and her brother,
and Bessy Garrow, were left together in the path, and discussed the
performances of the day in a manner that elicited no very ecstatic
interest.  So they walked for a mile, and by degrees the
conversation between them dwindled down almost to nothing.

"There is nothing I dislike so much as coming out with people
younger than myself," said Miss Holmes.  "One always feels so old
and dull.  Listen to those children there; they make me feel as
though I were an old maiden aunt, brought out with them to do
propriety."

"Patty won't at all approve if she hears you call her a child."

"Nor shall I approve, if she treats me like an old woman," and then
she stepped on and joined the children.  "I wouldn't spoil even
their sport if I could help it," she said to herself.  "But with
them I shall only be a temporary nuisance; if I remain behind I
shall become a permanent evil."  And thus Bessy and her old lover
were left by themselves.

"I hope you will get on well with Bella," said Godfrey, when they
had remained silent for a minute or two.

"Oh, yes.  She is so good-natured and light-spirited that everybody
must like her.  She has been used to so much amusement and active
life, that I know she must find it very dull here."

"She is never dull anywhere,--even at Liverpool, which, for a young
lady, I sometimes think the dullest place on earth.  I know it is
for a man."

"A man who has work to do can never be dull; can he?"

"Indeed he can; as dull as death.  I am so often enough.  I have
never been very bright there, Bessy, since you left us."

There was nothing in his calling her Bessy, for it had become a
habit with him since they were children; and they had formerly
agreed that everything between them should be as it had been before
that foolish whisper of love had been spoken and received.  Indeed,
provision had been made by them specially on this point, so that
there need be no awkwardness in this mode of addressing each other.
Such provision had seemed to be very prudent, but it hardly had the
desired effect on the present occasion.

"I hardly know what you mean by brightness," she said, after a
pause.  "Perhaps it is not intended that people's lives should be
what you call bright."

"Life ought to be as bright as we can make it."

"It all depends on the meaning of the word.  I suppose we are not
very bright here at Thwaite Hall, but yet we think ourselves very
happy."

"I am sure you are," said Godfrey.  "I very often think of you
here."

"We always think of places where we have been when we were young,"
said Bessy; and then again they walked on for some way in silence,
and Bessy began to increase her pace with the view of catching the
children.  The present walk to her was anything but bright, and she
bethought herself with dismay that there were still two miles before
she reached the Ferry.

"Bessy," Godfrey said at last.  And then he stopped as though he
were doubtful how to proceed.  She, however, did not say a word, but
walked on quickly, as though her only hope was in catching the party
before her.  But they also were walking quickly, for Bella was
determined that she would not be caught.

"Bessy, I must speak to you once of what passed between us at
Liverpool."

"Must you?" said she.

"Unless you positively forbid it."

"Stop, Godfrey," she said.  And they did stop in the path, for now
she no longer thought of putting an end to her embarrassment by
overtaking her companions.  "If any such words are necessary for
your comfort, it would hardly become me to forbid them.  Were I to
speak so harshly you would accuse me afterwards in your own heart.
It must be for you to judge whether it is well to reopen a wound
that is nearly healed."

"But with me it is not nearly healed.  The wound is open always."

"There are some hurts," she said, "which do not admit of an absolute
and perfect cure, unless after long years."  As she said so, she
could not but think how much better was his chance of such perfect
cure than her own.  With her,--so she said to herself,--such curing
was all but impossible; whereas with him, it was as impossible that
the injury should last.

"Bessy," he said, and he again stopped her on the narrow path,
standing immediately before her on the way, "you remember all the
circumstances that made us part?"

"Yes; I think I remember them."

"And you still think that we were right to part?"

She paused for a moment before she answered him; but it was only for
a moment, and then she spoke quite firmly.  "Yes, Godfrey, I do; I
have thought about it much since then.  I have thought, I fear, to
no good purpose about aught else.  But I have never thought that we
had been unwise in that."

"And yet I think you loved me."

"I am bound to confess I did so, as otherwise I must confess myself
a liar.  I told you at the time that I loved you, and I told you so
truly.  But it is better, ten times better, that those who love
should part, even though they still should love, than that two
should be joined together who are incapable of making each other
happy.  Remember what you told me."

The fairy vanished, but the boy observed where the brindled ox lay
down; but then he did not reflect upon the need of marking the
place, but ran home, in his impatience to communicate the delightful
information he had received, and on his return found that the
brindled ox had risen and left the place; and as he could not
determine the spot, the gold still awaits the search of some more
reflective and painstaking person.

Of course, one and another of the narrator's auditors thought himself
such a person, and hied him away to the conical hill that rises
so conspicuously at the entrance to the estuary of the Forth.

What success attended them there we have not the means of knowing,
but we have seen it stated in a local newspaper, that a specimen
of the shining substance found in that place had been sent to the
editor, and he pronounces it more like gold than the crystals brought
him from the Lomond Hills.

But 'like,' says the proverb, 'is an ill mark;' and we hope the
gold-diggers of Fife will consider themselves as having been already
sufficiently deceived by appearances.

The mania lasted fully three weeks, not that any one person was under
its influence all that time--for, singularly enough, the man who had
been once there rarely if ever returned--but, like an epidemic,
it spread wide, and only ceased by a change in the intellectual
atmosphere.

There could not be less than 300 persons upon an average each day
upon the hill, either searching for the supposed treasure, or waiting
to ascertain the result from those that did.

This would make an aggregate of 6300 in the whole time; but let us
keep much within the mark, and take the number convened during
that period at 5000.

Many of these were men earning 15s. a week; but let us put them all
down at 1s. 6d per day each, and allow 1s. for the expense incurred
in their going to and from the place.

This will make half-a-crown lost and expended by every one of them.
This calculation makes L.30 a day, and L.630 for the whole period.
Now, we are fully persuaded, that though all the pyrites carried
off had been gold in the proportion in which it seemed in the
substance, it would not have realised this sum, which is about the
price of 200 ounces of gold; so that, in the aggregate, the diggers
would have been losers, though some of them individually might have
been gainers.

Had he lost all his
money before he came back to her, she would have taken him at once;
or had he been deprived of an eye, or become crippled in his legs,
she would have done so.  But, circumstanced as he was, she had no
motive to tenderness.  There was an organic defect in her character,
which no doubt was plainly marked by its own bump in her cranium,--
the bump of philomartyrdom, it might properly be called.  She had
shipwrecked her own happiness in rejecting Godfrey Holmes; but it
seemed to her to be the proper thing that a well-behaved young lady
should shipwreck her own happiness.  For the last month or two she
had been tossed about by the waters and was nearly drowned.  Now
there was beautiful land again close to her, and a strong pleasant
hand stretched out to save her.  But though she had suffered
terribly among the waves, she still thought it wrong to be saved.
It would be so pleasant to take that hand, so sweet, so joyous, that
it surely must be wrong.  That was her doctrine; and Godfrey Holmes,
though he hardly analysed the matter, partly understood that it was
so.  And yet, if once she were landed on that green island, she
would be so happy.  She spoke with scorn of a woman clinging to a
tree like ivy; and yet, were she once married, no woman would cling
to her husband with sweeter feminine tenacity than Bessy Garrow.  He
spoke no further word to her as he walked home, but in handing her
down to the ferry-boat he pressed her hand.  For a second it seemed
as though she had returned this pressure.  If so, the action was
involuntary, and her hand instantly resumed its stiffness to his
touch.

It was late that night when Major Garrow went to his bedroom, but
his wife was still up, waiting for him.  "Well," said she, "what has
he said to you?  He has been with you above an hour."

"Such stories are not very quickly told; and in this case it was
necessary to understand him very accurately.  At length I think I do
understand him."

It is not necessary to repeat at length all that was said on that
night between Major and Mrs. Garrow, as to the offer which had now
for a third time been made to their daughter.  On that evening,
after the ladies had gone, and when the two boys had taken
themselves off, Godfrey Holmes told his tale to his host, and had
honestly explained to him what he believed to be the state of his
daughter's feelings.  "Now you know all," said he.  "I do believe
that she loves me, and if she does, perhaps she may still listen to
you."  Major Garrow did not feel sure that he "knew it all."  But
when he had fully discussed the matter that night with his wife,
then he thought that perhaps he had arrived at that knowledge.

On the following morning Bessy learned from the maid, at an early
hour, that Godfrey Holmes had left Thwaite Hall and gone back to
Liverpool.  To the girl she said nothing on the subject, but she
felt obliged to say a word or two to Bella.  "It is his coming that
I regret," she said;--"that he should have had the trouble and
annoyance for nothing.  I acknowledge that it was my fault, and I am
very sorry."

"It cannot be helped," said Miss Holmes, somewhat gravely.  "As to
his misfortunes, I presume that his journeys between here and
Liverpool are not the worst of them."

After breakfast on that day Bessy was summoned into her father's
book-room, and found him there, and her mother also.  "Bessy," said
he, "sit down, my dear.  You know why Godfrey has left us this
morning?"

Bessy walked round the room, so that in sitting she might be close
to her mother and take her mother's hand in her own.  "I suppose I
do, papa," she said.

"He was with me late last night, Bessy; and when he told me what had
passed between you I agreed with him that he had better go."

"It was better that he should go, papa."

"But he has left a message for you."

"A message, papa?"

"Yes, Bessy.  And your mother agrees with me that it had better be
given to you.  Not one of these experimenters, whether more or less
skilled, thought of subjecting it to the simple and certain
test of cutting it with a knife, of which the substance in question
is not susceptible, whereas gold cuts like tough cheese.

Enough, however, had been done to confirm suspicions which had been
floating in the minds of many of the diggers, that this rapid
wealth-finding was a delusion and a lie.

All doubts upon the subject were finally set at rest by the
professors of mineralogy in the colleges, and the practical
chemists in Edinburgh and Glasgow, informing certain inquirers as
to the real nature of this deceptive substance.

It is of two kinds: the one with a gray, the other with a brown
base--the latter much more common than the former; the one shining
with a whitish, the other, with a yellowish lustre.

The one is _galena_, a sulphuret of lead; the other, _pyrites_, a
sulphuret of iron.

These pyrites are very extensively diffused, and are said to be worth
about L.2 a ton.

Pity it is that even this trifle should be lost to the poor
quarryman, who has only to lay them aside when wheeling away his
rubbish till they accumulate to such a quantity as to be worth a
purchaser's notice, but who does not know where to find a customer.

The Lomonds were now again left to their solitude and silence, a
few stray persons visiting them only from curiosity, to see the
place and its productions which had caused such excitement.

But the mania did not abate all at once.

When once a girl has
confessed to a man that she loves him, the confession and the love
together put upon her the burden of a duty towards him, which she
cannot with impunity throw aside."  Then he kissed her, and bidding
her give him a reply on the morning of the new year, left her with
her mother.

She had four days for consideration, and they went past her by no
means easily.  Could she have been alone with her mother, the
struggle would not have been so painful; but there was the necessity
that she should talk to Isabella Holmes, and the necessity also that
she should not neglect the Coverdales.  Nothing could have been
kinder than Bella.  She did not speak on the subject till the
morning of the last day, and then only in a very few words.
"Bessy," she said, "as you are great, be merciful."

"But I am not great, and it would not be mercy."

"As to that," said Bella, "he has surely a right to his own
opinion."

On that evening she was sitting alone in her room when her mother
came to her, and her eyes were red with weeping.  Pen and paper were
before her, as though she were resolved to write, but hitherto no
word had been written.

"Well, Bessy," said her mother, sitting down close beside her; "is
the deed done?"

"What deed, mamma?  Who says that I am to do it?"

"The deed is not the writing, but the resolution to write.  Five
words will be sufficient,--if only those five words may be written."

"It is for one's whole life, mamma.  Parties had been on the hill
soon after the previous midnight awaiting the dawn, resolved to
be the first at the diggings that morning, and 'have their fortunes
made before others arrived.'

But the lark had not got many yards high in his heavenward ascent, and
only struck the first note of his morning-carol, when the mountain
concaves sent back echoes of music from a whole band of men, marching
at the head of a still greater number, who might have been taken
for a regiment of sappers and miners.

They have come from a distance; and, like the others who have
preceded them, can have known little or nothing of 'balmy sleep,
kind nature's sweet restorer,' unless they have taken it at church
the preceding day, or in their beds, when they should have been there.

Then she went and hid herself
from all eyes till the noon had passed.  "Dear Godfrey," the letter
ran, "Papa says that you will return on Wednesday if I write to ask
you.  Do come back to us,--if you wish it.  Yours always, Bessy."

"It is as good as though she had filled the sheet," said the Major.
But in sending it to Godfrey Holmes, he did not omit a few
accompanying remarks of his own.

An answer came from Godfrey by return of post; and on the afternoon
of the sixth of January, Frank Garrow drove over to the station at
Penrith to meet him.  On their way back to Thwaite Hall there grew
up a very close confidence between the two future brothers-in-law,
and Frank explained with great perspicuity a little plan which he
had arranged himself.  "As soon as it is dark, so that she won't see
it, Harry will hang it up in the dining-room," he said, "and mind
you go in there before you go anywhere else."

"I am very glad you have come back, Godfrey," said the Major,
meeting him in the hall.

"God bless you, dear Godfrey," said Mrs. Garrow, "you will find
Bessy in the dining-room," she whispered; but in so whispering she
was quite unconscious of the mistletoe bough.

And so also was Bessy, nor do I think that she was much more
conscious when that introduction was over.  Godfrey had made all
manner of promises to Frank, but when the moment arrived, he had
found the moment too important for any special reference to the
little bough above his head.  Not so, however, Patty Coverdale.
The East London was not behindhand with the trumpet; and its
"skilful" directors, by paying dividends in rapid succession out of
capital, raised their L.100 shares to the enormous premium of L.130
before they had well got their machinery into play.Nevertheless her sister Kate was bold enough to solve the
mystery before the evening was over.