It may perhaps be wearisome to the reader to return to the tangled and
depressing situation in Espanola, but it cannot be half so wearisome as
it was for Columbus, whom we left enveloped in that dark cloud of error
and surrender in which he sacrificed his dignity and good faith to the
impudent demands of a mutinous servant.  To his other troubles in San
Domingo the presence of this Roldan was now added; and the reinstated
Alcalde was not long in making use of the victory he had gained.  He bore
himself with intolerable arrogance and insolence, discharging one of
Columbus's personal bodyguard on the ground that no one should hold any
office on the island except with his consent.  He demanded grants of land
for himself and his followers, which Columbus held himself obliged to
concede; and the Admiral, further to pacify him, invented a very
disastrous system of repartimientos, under which certain chiefs were
relieved from paying tribute on condition of furnishing feudal service to
the settlers--a system which rapidly developed into the most cruel and
oppressive kind of slavery.  The Admiral at this time also, in despair of
keeping things quiet by his old methods of peace and conciliation,
created a kind of police force which roamed about the island, exacting
tribute and meting out summary punishment to all defaulters.  Among other
concessions weakly made to Roldan at this time was the gift of the Crown
estate of Esperanza, situated in the Vega Real, whither he betook himself
and embarked on what was nothing more nor less than a despotic reign,
entirely ignoring the regulations and prerogatives of the Admiral, and
taking prisoners and administering punishment just as he pleased.  The
Admiral was helpless, and thought of going back to Spain, but the
condition of the island was such that he did not dare to leave it.
Instead, he wrote a long letter to the Sovereigns, full of complaints
against other people and justifications of himself, in the course of
which he set forth those quibbling excuses for his capitulation to Roldan
which we have already heard.  And there was a pathetic request at the end
of the letter that his son Diego might be sent out to him.  As I have
said, Columbus was by this time a prematurely old man, and feeling the
clouds gathering about him, and the loneliness and friendlessness of his
position at Espanola, he instinctively looked to the next generation for
help, and to the presence of his own son for sympathy and comfort.


It was at this moment (September 5, 1499) that a diversion arose in the
rumour that four caravels had been seen off the western end of Espanola
and duly reported to the Admiral; and this announcement was soon followed
by the news that they were commanded by Ojeda, who was collecting
dye-wood in the island forests.  Columbus, although he had so far as we
know had no previous difficulties with Ojeda, had little cause now to
credit any adventurer with kindness towards himself; and Ojeda's secrecy
in not reporting himself at San Domingo, and, in fact, his presence on
the island at all without the knowledge of the Admiral, were sufficient
evidence that he was there to serve his own ends.  Some gleam of
Christopher's old cleverness in handling men was--now shown by his
instructing Roldan to sally forth and bring Ojeda to order.  It was a
case of setting a thief to catch a thief and, as it turned out, was not
a bad stroke.  Roldan, nothing loth, sailed round to that part of the
coast where Ojeda's ships were anchored, and asked to see his licence;
which was duly shown to him and rather took the wind out of his sails.
He heard a little gossip from Ojeda, moreover, which had its own
significance for him.  The Queen was ill; Columbus was in disgrace;
there was talk of superseding him.  Ojeda promised to sail round to San
Domingo and report himself; but instead, he sailed to the east along the
coast of Xaragua, where he got into communication with some discontented
Spanish settlers and concocted a scheme for leading them to San Domingo
to demand redress for their imagined grievances.  Roldan, however, who
had come to look for Ojeda, discovered him at this point; and there
ensued some very pretty play between the two rascals, chiefly in
trickery and treachery, such as capturing each other's boats and
emissaries, laying traps for one another, and taking prisoner one
another's crews.  The end of it was that Ojeda left the island without
having reported himself to Columbus, but not before he had completed his
business--which was that of provisioning his ships and collecting
dye-wood and slaves.

And so exit Ojeda from the Columbian drama.  Of his own drama only one
more act remained to be played; which, for the sake of our past interest
in him, we will mention here.  "NO, NO, IT'S TOO EARLY." "THE SAME AGAIN,
THEN?" "WELL, PERHAPS A SOFT ONE THIS TIME."
"SAME AGAIN, PLEASE--ONLY SOFT."
"BYE-BYE! SEE YOU AGAIN SOON."]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Magistrate._ "BUT, MR. GOLDSTEIN, WHY DO YOU HAVE YOUR HOUSE
AND YOUR BUSINESS IN YOUR WIFE'S NAME?"
_Mr. Goldstein._ "WELL, YOU SEE, I'M NOT A BEESNESS MAN."]
* * * * *
THE SAYINGS OF BARBARA.

The man who sets out to expose popular fallacies or to confound
time-honoured legends is bound to make enemies.

The latest legend I have been privileged to explore is not the product
of superstition and slow time, but a deliberately manufactured growth of
comparatively recent origin. It is concerned with Barbara, not the
impersonal lady who figures in the old logic-book doggerel, but an
extremely live and highly illogical person to whom for half a decade
I have had the honour to be father. It is also concerned with Barbara's
Aunt Julia and, in a lesser degree, with Barbara's mother.

From the time (just over three years ago) when Barbara first attempted
articulate speech I have been bombarded with reports of the wonderful
things my daughter has said. In the earlier years these diverting stories,
for which Julia was nearly always cited as authority, reached me through
the medium of the Field Post-Office, and, being still fairly new to
fatherhood, I used proudly to retail them in Mess, until an addition
was made to the rule relating to offences punishable by a round of
drinks.

On my brief visits home I would wait expectantly for the brilliant
flashes of humour or of uncanny intelligence to issue from Barbara's
lips, and her failure during these periods to sustain her reputation I
was content to explain on the assumption that I came within the category
of casual visitors. But I have now lived in my own home for over a year,
and Barbara and I have become very well acquainted. She talks to me without
restraint, and at times most engagingly, but seldom, if ever, does
she give utterance in my hearing to a _jeu d'esprit_ that I feel
called upon to repeat to others. Nevertheless until a few days ago
I was still constantly being informed--chiefly by Barbara's aunt
and less frequently by her mother--of the "killing" things that
child had been saying.Other people also, it appears, have been in a similar state, but
Higuamota is not very accessible; a fact which of course adds to the
interest of the chase, and turns dissolute Fernando's idle preference
into something like a passion.  Roldan, who has also had an eye upon her,
and apparently no more than an eye, discovers that Fernando, in order to
gratify his passion, is proposing to go the absurd length of marrying the
young woman, and has sent for a priest for that purpose.  Roldan,
instigated thereto by primitive forces, thinks it would be impolitic for
a Spanish grandee to marry with a heathen; very well, then, Fernando will
have her baptized--nothing simpler when water and a priest are handy.
Roldan, seeing that the young man is serious, becomes peremptory, and
orders him to leave Xaragua.  Fernando ostentatiously departs, but is
discovered a little later actually living in the house of Anacaona, who
apparently is sympathetic to Love's young dream.  Once more ordered away,
this time with anger and threats, Guevara changes his tune and implores
Roldan to let him stay, promising that he will give up the marriage
project and also, no doubt, the no-marriage project.  But Guevara has
sympathisers.  The mutineers have not forgiven Roldan for deserting them
and becoming a lawful instead of an unlawful ruler.  They are all on the
side of Guevara, who accordingly moves to the next stage of island
procedure, and sets on foot some kind of plot to kill Roldan and the
Admiral.  Fortunately where there is treachery it generally works both
ways; this plot came to the ears of the authorities; the conspirators
were arrested and sent to San Domingo.

This action came near to bringing the whole island about Columbus's ears.
Adrian de Moxeca was furious at what he conceived to be the treachery of
Roldan, for Roldan was in such a pass that the barest act of duty was
necessarily one of treachery to his friends.  Moxeca took the place of
chief rebel that Roldan had vacated; rallied the mutineers round him, and
was on the point of starting for Concepcion, one of the chain of forts
across the island where Columbus was at present staying, when the Admiral
discovered his plan.  All that was strongest and bravest in him rose up
at this menace.  His weakness and cowardice were forgotten; and with the
spirit of an old sea-lion he sallied forth against the mutineers.  He had
only a dozen men on whom he could rely, but he armed them well and
marched secretly and swiftly under cloud of night to the place where
Moxeca and his followers were encamped in fond security, and there
suddenly fell upon them, capturing Moxeca and the chief ringleaders.  The
rest scattered in terror and escaped.  Moxeca was hurried off to the
battlements of San Domingo and there, in the very midst of a longdrawn
trembling confession to the priest in attendance, was swung off the
ramparts and hanged.  The others, although also condemned to death, were
kept in irons in the fortress, while Christopher and Bartholomew, roused
at last to vigorous action, scoured the island hunting down the
remainder, killing some who resisted, hanging others on the spot, and
imprisoning the remainder at San Domingo.

After these prompt measures peace reigned for a time in the island, and
Columbus was perhaps surprised to see what wholesome effects could be
produced by a little exemplary severity.  The natives, who under the
weakness of his former rule had been discontented and troublesome, now
settled down submissively to their yoke; the Spaniards began to work in
earnest on their farms; and there descended upon island affairs a brief
St. Martin's Summer of peace before the final winter of blight and death
set in.  The Admiral, however, was obviously in precarious health; his
ophthalmia became worse, and the stability of his mind suffered.  He had
dreams and visions of divine help and comfort, much needed by him, poor
soul, in all his tribulations and adversities.  Even yet the cup was not
full.


We must now turn back to Spain and try to form some idea of the way in
which the doings of Columbus were being regarded there if we are to
understand the extraordinary calamity that was soon to befall him.  It
must be remembered first of all that his enterprise had never really been
popular from the first.  It was carried out entirely by the energy and
confidence of Queen Isabella, who almost alone of those in power believed
in it as a thing which was certain to bring ultimate glory, as well as
riches and dominion, to Spain and the Catholic faith.  As we have seen,
there had been a brief ebullition of popular favour when Columbus
returned from his first voyage, but it was a popularity excited solely by
the promises of great wealth that Columbus was continually holding forth.
When those promises were not immediately fulfilled popular favour
subsided; and when the adventurers who had gone out to the new islands on
the strength of those promises had returned with shattered health and
empty pockets there was less chance than ever of the matter being
regarded in its proper light by the people of Spain.  Columbus had either
found a gold mine or he had found nothing--that was the way in which the
matter was popularly regarded.  Those who really understood the
significance of his discoveries and appreciated their scientific
importance did not merely stay at home in Spain and raise a clamour; they
went out in the Admiral's footsteps and continued the work that he had
begun.  Even King Ferdinand, for all his cleverness, had never understood
the real lines on which the colony should have been developed.  His eyes
were fixed upon Europe; he saw in the discoveries of Columbus a means
rather than an end; and looked to them simply as a source of revenue with
the help of which he could carry on his ambitious schemes.  And when, as
other captains made voyages confirming and extending the work of
Columbus, he did begin to understand the significance of what had been
done, he realised too late that the Admiral had been given powers far in
excess of what was prudent or sensible.

During all the time that Columbus and his brothers were struggling with
the impossible situation at Espanola there was but one influence at work
in Spain, and that was entirely destructive to the Admiral.  Every
caravel that came from the New World brought two things.  It brought a
crowd of discontented colonists, many of whom had grave reasons for their
discontent; and it brought letters from the Admiral in which more and
more promises were held out, but in which also querulous complaints
against this and that person, and against the Spanish settlers generally,
were set forth at wearisome length.  It is not remarkable that the people
of Spain, even those who were well disposed towards Columbus, began to
wonder if these two things were not cause and effect.  The settlers may
have been a poor lot, but they were the material with which Columbus had
to deal; he had powers enough, Heaven knew, powers of life and death; and
the problem began to resolve itself in the minds of those at the head of
affairs in Spain in the following terms.  Given an island, rich and
luxuriant beyond the dreams of man; given a native population easily
subdued; given settlers of one kind or another; and given a Viceroy with
unlimited powers--could he or could he not govern the island?  It was a
by no means unfair way of putting the case, and there is little justice
in the wild abuse that has been hurled at Ferdinand and Isabella on this
ground.  Columbus may have been the greatest genius in the world; very
possibly they admitted it; but in the meanwhile Spain was resounding with
the cries of the impoverished colonists who had returned from his ocean
Paradise.  No doubt the Sovereigns ignored them as much as they possibly
could; but when it came to ragged emaciated beggars coming in batches of
fifty at a time and sitting in the very courts of the Alhambra,
exhibiting bunches of grapes and saying that that was all they could
afford to live upon since they had come back from the New World, some
notice had to be taken of it.  Even young Diego and Ferdinand, the
Admiral's sons, came in for the obloquy with which his name was
associated; the colonial vagabonds hung round the portals of the palace
and cried out upon them as they passed so that they began to dislike
going out.  Columbus, as we know, had plenty of enemies who had access to
the King and Queen; and never had enemies an easier case to urge.  Money
was continually being spent on ships and supplies; where was the return
for it?  What about the Ophir of Solomon?  What about the Land of Spices?
What about the pearls?  And if you want to add a touch of absurdity, what
about the Garden of Eden and the Great Khan?

To the most impartial eyes it began to appear as though Columbus were
either an impostor or a fool.  They look back sadly as they go. Another
tragedy....

Now I am going to be a bloater myself. Here is a jolly one, though her
stable-name is much too long. She is a Saloon-de-Luxe, and she only
costs £2,125 (why 5, I wonder--why not 6?) I can run to that, _surely_.
At any rate I can climb up and sit down on her cushions; none of the
grooms is looking. Dark-blue, I see, like Jane. That is the sort
of car I love. I am like the lady herring; I don't approve of all
this talk about the _insides_ of things; it seems to me to be rather
indecent--unless, of course, you do it very nicely, like that young herring.
When you go and look at a horse you don't ask how its sweetbread is
arranged, or what is the principle of its liver. Then why should
you...?

Well, here we are, and very comfortable too. But why does none of these
cars have any means of communication between the owner and the man
next to the chauffeur? There is always a telephone to the chauffeur,
but none to the overflow guest on the box. So that when the host
sees an old manor-house which he thinks the guest hasn't noticed
he has to hammer on the glass and do semaphore; and the guest thinks
he is being asked if he is warm enough.

Otherwise, though, this is a nice car. It is very cosy in here. Dark and
quiet and warm.

I could go to sleep in here.

* * * * *
What? What's that? No, I don't really want to buy it, thank you. I just
wanted to see if it was a good sleeping-car. As a matter of fact I think
it is. But I don't like the colour. And what I really want is a _cabriolet_.
Good afternoon. Thank you....

A pleasant gentleman, that. I wish I could have bought the Saloon. She would
have liked me. So would he, I expect.

Well, we had better go home. I shan't buy any more cars to-day. And we
won't go up to the gallery; there is nothing but oleo-plugs and
graphite-grease up there. That sort of thing spoils the romance.

     Ah, here is dear Jane again! What a pity it was---- Hallo, they
     have come back--the two nice herrings. They are bargaining--they are
     beating him down. No, he is beating them up. Go on--go on. Yes,
     you can run to that--_of course_ you can. Sell those oil shares.
     Look at her--_look_ at her! You can't leave her here for one of the
     bloaters.

He wavers; he consults. "Such a lovely colour." Ah, that's done it! He
has decided. He has bought. She has bought. They have bought.
Hurrah!

A. P. H.

* * * * *
THE PREMIER'S METAPHORS.

Some time ago the PREMIER beheld the sunrise upon the mountains, and now
he has plunged his thermometer into the lava to discover that the
stream is cooling--indicating comfort, let us hope, to any who may be
buried beneath it.

Only by an oversight, we understand, did he omit to mention in his
speech at the Guildhall that the chamois is once more browsing
happily among the blooming edelweiss.

But in continuing his lofty metaphors Mr.

LLOYD GEORGE will find himself confronted by no small difficulty
when dealing with the glacier.

What can he say that the glacier is doing? It must do something. A
glacier is of no rhetorical value if it merely stays where it is. One may
take in hand the ice-axe of resolution and the alpenstock of enterprise
and pull over one's boots the socks of Coalition, but the glacier remains
practically unchanged by these preparations. It would be of little
use to declare that its uneven surface is being levelled by the
steam-roller of progress and its crevasses filled in by the cement
of human kindness, because the Opposition Press would soon get
scientists, engineers and statisticians to establish the absurdity
of such a claim. And to announce that the glacier is getting warmer
would create no end of a panic among the homesteads in the valley.
Unless he is very, very careful Mr. LLOYD GEORGE may make a grave
slip in negotiating the glacier.
Then the "awful avalanche" has not yet been dealt with. A few helpful
words on the direction this is likely to take and the safest rock
to make for when it begins to move might be welcomed by the PREMIER'S
followers. He may argue that it is folly to meet trouble half-way,
but on the other hand, if he does not speak on this subject soon,
the opportunity may disappear.While he was waiting for the tide so that he might enter the
harbour a boat put off from shore to ascertain who was on board the
caravels; and it was thus informally that Bobadilla first announced that
he had come to examine into the state of the island.  Columbus was not at
San Domingo, but was occupied in settling the affairs of the Vega Real;
Bartholomew also was absent, stamping out the last smouldering embers of
rebellion in Xaragua; and only James was in command to deal with this
awkward situation.

Bobadilla did not go ashore the first day, but remained on board his ship
receiving the visits of various discontented colonists who, getting early
wind of the purpose of his visit, lost no time in currying favour with
him, Probably he heard enough that first day to have damned the
administration of a dozen islands; but also we must allow him some
interest in the wonderful and strange sights that he was seeing; for
Espanola, which has perhaps grown wearisome to us, was new to him.  He
had brought with him an armed body-guard of twenty-five men, and in the
other caravel were the returned slaves, babies and all, under the charge
of six friars.  On the day following his arrival Bobadilla landed and
heard mass in state, afterwards reading out his commission to the
assembled people.  Evidently he had received a shocking impression of the
state of affairs in the island; that is the only explanation of the
action suddenly taken by him, for his first public act was to demand from
James the release of all the prisoners in the fortress, in order that
they and their accusers should appear before him.

James is in a difficulty; and, mule-like, since he does not know which
way to turn, stands stock still.  He can do nothing, he says, without the
Admiral's consent.  The next day Bobadilla, again hearing mass in state,
causes further documents to be read showing that a still greater degree
of power had been entrusted to his hands.  Mule-like, James still stands
stock still; the greatest power on earth known to him is his eldest
brother, and he will not, positively dare not, be moved by anything less
than that.  He refuses to give up the prisoners on any grounds
whatsoever, and Bobadilla has to take the fortress by assault--an easy
enough matter since the resistance is but formal.

The next act of Bobadilla's is not quite so easy to understand.  He
quartered himself in Columbus's house; that perhaps was reasonable enough
since there may not have been another house in the settlement fit to
receive him; but he also, we are told, took possession of all his papers,
public and private, and also seized the Admiral's store of money and
began to pay his debts with it for him, greatly to the satisfaction of
San Domingo.  There is an element of the comic in this interpretation of
a commissioner's powers; and it seemed as though he meant to wind up the
whole Columbus business, lock, stock, and barrel.  It would not be in
accordance with our modern ideas of honour that a man's private papers
should be seized unless he were suspected of treachery or some criminal
act; but apparently Bobadilla regarded it as necessary.  We must remember
that although he had only heard one side of the case it was evidently so
positive, and the fruits of misgovernment were there so visibly before
his eyes, that no amount of evidence in favour of Columbus would make him
change his mind as to his fitness to govern.  Poor James, witnessing
these things and unable to do anything to prevent them, finds himself
suddenly relieved from the tension of the situation.  Since inaction is
his note, he shall be indulged in it; and he is clapped in irons and cast
into prison.  James can hardly believe the evidence of his senses.  He
has been studying theology lately, it appears, with a view to entering
the Church and perhaps being some day made Bishop of Espanola, but this
new turn of affairs looks as though there were to be an end of all
careers for him, military and ecclesiastical alike.

Christopher at Fort Concepcion had early news of the arrival of
Bobadilla, but in the hazy state of his mind he did not regard it as an
event of sufficient importance to make his immediate presence at San
Domingo advisable.  The name of Bobadilla conveyed nothing to him; and
when he heard that he had come to investigate, he thought that he came
to set right some disputed questions between the Admiral and other
navigators as to the right of visiting Espanola and the Paria coast.
As the days went on, however, he heard more disquieting rumours; grew at
last uneasy, and moved to a fort nearer San Domingo in case it should be
necessary for him to go there.  An officer met him on the road bearing
the proclamations issued by Bobadilla, but not the message from the
Sovereigns requiring the Admiral's obedience to the commissioner.
Other mementos which adorn this remarkable room at the War Office
are a porcelain pot containing a preserve of Blenheim oranges, a
framed photograph of the Free Trade Hall at Manchester, a map of
Mesopotamia with the outpost lines and sentry groups of the
original Garden of Eden, marked by paper flags, and a number of lion-skin
rugs of which the original occupants were stalked and killed by their
owner on his famous African tour. In his more playful moments the WAR
MINISTER has been known to clothe himself completely in one of
these skins and growl ferociously from behind a palm at an unwelcome
intruder.

Of the man himself perhaps the most distinguishing characteristic is
dynamic energy. Whether other people's energy is ever dynamic I do not
know, but undoubtedly Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL'S is; he dominates, he
quells. He is like one of those people in the papers with zig-zags
sticking out all over them because they have been careful to wear an
electric belt. He exudes force. Sometimes one can almost hear him crackle.

As a politician it is true he has not yet tried every office; he has not,
for instance, been Chancellor of the Exchequer, though his unbounded
success in the Duchy of Lancaster amply shows what his capabilities
as a Chancellor are. But as a soldier, a pig-sticker and a polo-player he
is rapidly gaining pre-eminence, and as an author and journalist his
voice is already like a swan's amongst screech-owls.
(I admit that that last bit ought to have been in Latin, but I
cannot remember what the Latin for a screech-owl is.

I have an idea that it increases in the genitive, but quite possibly I
may be thinking of dormice.)
Anyhow, to return to Mr. CHURCHILL'S room: whilst the floor is littered
with volumes that have been sent to him for review, his desk is equally
littered with proofs of essays, sermons, leaders and leaderettes for the
secular and Sunday Press. As a novelist he has scarcely fulfilled his
early promise, but it is on record that he was once introduced to a
stranger from the backwoods, who asked ignorantly, "Am I speaking
to the statesman or the author?"

"Not _or_, but _and_," replied the SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WAR, with a simple
dignity like that of ST. AUGUSTINE.

To poetry he is not greatly attached, preferring to leave this field of
letters to his staff. When asked for his favourite passage of English
verse he has indeed been known to cite a single line from Mr.
HILAIRE BELLOC'S _Modern Traveller_--
"That marsh, that admirable marsh!"
which is far from being Mr. BELLOC'S most mellifluous effort.

We feel bound to ask what is most likely to be the next outlet for Mr.
CHURCHILL'S ebullient activity. Remembering that bust upon his
mantelpiece it is hard to say. There are some who consider that,
prevented by the sluggishness of our times from the chance of
commanding an army in the field, he may turn his strategic mind at
last to the position of Postmaster-General. If he does there can
be no man better fitted than he to make our telephones hum.He had
an accumulation of pearls of which he had given no account to Fonseca,
and the possession of which he excused by the queer statement that he was
waiting to announce it until he could match it with an equal amount of
gold!  He was accused of hating the Spaniards, who were represented as
having risen in the late rebellion in order to protect the natives and
avenge their own wrongs--, and generally of having abused his office in
order to enrich his own family and gratify his own feelings.  Bobadilla
appeared to believe all these charges; or perhaps he recognised their
nature, and yet saw that there was a sufficient degree of truth in them
to disqualify the Admiral in his position as Viceroy.  In all these
affairs his right-hand man was Roldan, whose loyalty to Columbus, as we
foresaw, had been short-lived.  Roldan collects evidence; Roldan knows
where he can lay his hands on this witness; Roldan produces this and that
proof; Roldan is here, there, and everywhere--never had Bobadilla found
such a useful, obliging man as Roldan.  With his help Bobadilla soon
collected a sufficient weight of evidence to justify in his own mind his
sending Columbus home to Spain, and remaining himself in command of the
island.

The caravels having been made ready, and all the evidence drawn up and
documented, it only remained to embark the prisoners and despatch them to
Spain.  Columbus, sitting in his dungeon, suffering from gout and
ophthalmic as well as from misery and humiliation, had heard no news;
but he had heard the shouting of the people in the streets, the beating
of drums and blowing of horns, and his own name and that of his brothers
uttered in derision; and he made sure that he was going to be executed.
Alonso de Villegio, a nephew of Bishop Fonseca's, had been appointed to
take charge of the ships returning to Spain; and when he came into the
prison the Admiral thought his last hour had come.

"Villegio," he asked sadly, "where are you taking me?"

"I am taking you to the ship, your Excellency, to embark," replied the
other.

"To embark?" repeated the Admiral incredulously.  "Villegio! are you
speaking the truth?"

"By the life of your Excellency what I say is true," was the reply, and
the news came with a wave of relief to the panic-stricken heart of the
Admiral.

In the middle of October the caravels sailed from San Domingo, and the
last sounds heard by Columbus from the land of his discovery were the
hoots and jeers and curses hurled after him by the treacherous,
triumphant rabble on the shore.  Villegio treated him and his brothers
with as much kindness as possible, and offered, when they had got well
clear of Espanola, to take off the Admiral's chains.  But Columbus, with
a fine counterstroke of picturesque dignity, refused to have them
removed.  Already, perhaps, he had realised that his subjection to this
cruel and quite unnecessary indignity would be one of the strongest
things in his favour when he got to Spain, and he decided to suffer as
much of it as he could.  "My Sovereigns commanded me to submit to what
Bobadilla should order.  By his authority I wear these chains, and I
shall continue to wear them until they are removed by order of the
Sovereigns; and I will keep them afterwards as reminders of the reward I
have received for my services."  Thus the Admiral, beginning to pick up
his spirits again, and to feel the better for the sea air.

The voyage home was a favourable one and in the course of it Columbus
wrote the following letter to a friend of his at Court, Dona Juana de la
Torre, who had been nurse to Prince Juan and was known by him to be a
favourite of the Queen:

     "MOST VIRTUOUS LADY,--Though my complaint of the world is new, its
     habit of ill-using is very ancient.  I have had a thousand struggles
     with it, and have thus far withstood them all, but now neither arms
     nor counsels avail me, and it cruelly keeps me under water.  Hope in
     the Creator of all men sustains me: His help was always very ready;
     on another occasion, and not long ago, when I was still more
     overwhelmed, He raised me with His right arm, saying, 'O man of
     little faith, arise: it is I; be not afraid.'

     "I came with so much cordial affection to serve these Princes, and
     have served them with such service, as has never been heard of or
     seen.

     "Of the new heaven and earth which our Lord made, when Saint John
     was writing the Apocalypse, after what was spoken by the mouth of
     Isaiah, He made me the messenger, and showed me where it lay.  In
     all men there was disbelief, but to the Queen, my Lady, He gave the
     spirit of understanding, and great courage, and made her heiress of
     all, as a dear and much loved daughter.  I went to take possession
     of all this in her royal name.  They sought to make amends to her
     for the ignorance they had all shown by passing over their little
     knowledge and talking of obstacles and expenses.  Her Highness, on
     the other hand, approved of it, and supported it as far as she was
     able.

     "Seven years passed in discussion and nine in execution.  During
     this time very remarkable and noteworthy things occurred whereof no
     idea at all had been formed.  I have arrived at, and am in, such a
     condition that there is no person so vile but thinks he may insult
     me: he shall be reckoned in the world as valour itself who is
     courageous enough not to consent to it.

     "If I were to steal the Indies or the land which lies towards them,
     of which I am now speaking, from the altar of Saint Peter, and give
     them to the Moors, they could not show greater enmity towards me in
     Spain.  Who would believe such a thing where there was always so
     much magnanimity?

     "I should have much desired to free myself from this affair had it
     been honourable towards my Queen to do so.  The support of our Lord
     and of her Highness made me persevere: and to alleviate in some
     measure the sorrows which death had caused her, I undertook a fresh
     voyage to the new heaven and earth which up to that time had
     remained hidden; and if it is not held there in esteem like the
     other voyages to the Indies, that is no wonder, because it came to
     be looked upon as my work.

     "The Holy Spirit inflamed Saint Peter and twelve others with him,
     and they all contended here below, and their toils and hardships
     were many, but last of all they gained the victory.

     "This voyage to Paria I thought would somewhat appease them on
     account of the pearls, and of the discovery of gold in Espanola.
     I ordered the pearls to be collected and fished for by people with
     whom an arrangement was made that I should return for them, and, as
     I understood, they were to be measured by the bushel.  When they met
     again at tea Edna made the suggestion of a sprinkling of puns.
     

     "We've got rather beyond that, I think," said the victim with
     dignity.
     
     "I'm not so sure," said George cruelly, "that you can afford to neglect
     any means. Some people laugh at them even now, in this twentieth
     century, in this beautiful England of ours."
     "And I can tell you why," broke in Raymond eagerly.

     He took from his pocket a well-known Manual of Psychology and whirled
     over the pages.
     
     "Meanwhile," said George learnedly, "BERGSON may be of some assistance
     to you. He knows all about laughter. He analysed it."
     "Why couldn't he leave it alone?" said Allegra uneasily.
     
     "He defines laughter," said George, "as 'a kind of social gesture.'"
     
     "It isn't," said Allegra rashly. "At least," she added, "that
     sort of thing isn't going to help Jerry. Do give it up."
     "Well, then, here's something more practical," said George.
     "Listen.
     'A situation is always comical when it belongs at one and the same
     time to two series of absolutely independent events, and can at the
     same time be interpreted in two different ways.'"
     "I should think," said Edna brightly, "that might be very amusing."
     
     She remarked later that it made it all seem very clear, but even
she showed signs of relief when Raymond interrupted, having found
his place.
"Here we are!" he exclaimed. "The book says that the reason a pun
amuses you----" 
"It doesn't amuse me," said most of the company.
"But it does--it must amuse you. It's all down here in black and
white. Listen. The reason a pun amuses you is as follows: 'It impels
the mind to identify objects quite disconnected. This obstructs the
flow of thought; but this is too transient to give rise to pain,
and the relief which comes with insight into the true state of the
case may be a source of keen pleasure. Mental activity suddenly
obstructed and so heightened is at once set free, and is so much
greater than the occasion demands that----'"
"And is that why we laugh at things?""A certain Adrian about this time endeavoured to rise in rebellion
     again, as he had done previously, but our Lord did not permit his
     evil purpose to succeed.  I had purposed in myself never to touch a
     hair of anybody's head, but I lament to say that with this man,
     owing to his ingratitude, it was not possible to keep that resolve
     as I had intended: I should not have done less to my brother, if he
     had sought to kill me, and steal the dominion which my King and
     Queen had given me in trust.

     "This Adrian, as it appears, had sent Don Ferdinand to Xaragua to
     collect some of his followers, and there a dispute arose with the
     Alcalde from which a deadly contest ensued, and he [Adrian] did not
     effect his purpose.  The Alcalde seized him and a part of his band,
     and the fact was that he would have executed them if I had not
     prevented it; they were kept prisoners awaiting a caravel in which
     they might depart.  We don't know who he is, but he certainly has
     our permission. We cannot, however, answer for Mr.

     BOB WILLIAMS.
     
     * * *
     With reference to the complaint that a City man made about his
telephone, we are pleased to say that a great improvement is
reported."I could have paid the people in full with six hundred thousand, and
     for this purpose I had four millions of tenths and somewhat more,
     besides the third of the gold.

