Light, oh where is the light!  Kindle it with the burning fire of
desire!  It thunders and the wind rushes screaming through the
void.  The night is black as a black stone.  Let not the hours
pass by in the dark.  Kindle the lamp of love with thy life.


Obstinate are the trammels, but my heart aches when I try to
break them.

Freedom is all I want, but to hope for it I feel ashamed.

I am certain that priceless wealth is in thee, and that thou art
my best friend, but I have not the heart to sweep away the tinsel
that fills my room

The shroud that covers me is a shroud of dust and death; I hate
it, yet hug it in love.

My debts are large, my failures great, my shame secret and heavy;
yet when I come to ask for my good, I quake in fear lest my
prayer be granted.


He whom I enclose with my name is weeping in this dungeon.  I am
ever busy building this wall all around; and as this wall goes up
into the sky day by day I lose sight of my true being in its dark
shadow.

I take pride in this great wall, and I plaster it with dust and
sand lest a least hole should be left in this name; and for all
the care I take I lose sight of my true being.


I came out alone on my way to my tryst.  But who is this that
follows me in the silent dark?

I move aside to avoid his presence but I escape him not.

He makes the dust rise from the earth with his swagger; he adds
his loud voice to every word that I utter.

He is my own little self, my lord, he knows no shame; but I am
ashamed to come to thy door in his company.


'Prisoner, tell me, who was it that bound you?'

'It was my master,' said the prisoner.  'I thought I could outdo
everybody in the world in wealth and power, and I amassed in my
own treasure-house the money due to my king.  When sleep overcame
me I lay upon the bed that was for my lord, and on waking up I
found I was a prisoner in my own treasure-house.'

'Prisoner, tell me, who was it that wrought this unbreakable
chain?'

'It was I,' said the prisoner, 'who forged this chain very
carefully.  I thought my invincible power would hold the world
captive leaving me in a freedom undisturbed.  Thus night and day
I worked at the chain with huge fires and cruel hard strokes.
When at last the work was done and the links were complete and
unbreakable, I found that it held me in its grip.'


By all means they try to hold me secure who love me in this
world.  But it is otherwise with thy love which is greater than
theirs, and thou keepest me free.

Lest I forget them they never venture to leave me alone.  But day
passes by after day and thou art not seen.

If I call not thee in my prayers, if I keep not thee in my heart,
thy love for me still waits for my love.


When it was day they came into my house and said, 'We shall only
take the smallest room here.'

They said, 'We shall help you in the worship of your God and
humbly accept only our own share in his grace'; and then they
took their seat in a corner and they sat quiet and meek.

But in the darkness of night I find they break into my sacred
shrine, strong and turbulent, and snatch with unholy greed the
offerings from God's altar.


Let only that little be left of me whereby I may name thee my
all.

Let only that little be left of my will whereby I may feel thee
on every side, and come to thee in everything, and offer to thee
my love every moment.

Let only that little be left of me whereby I may never hide thee.

Let only that little of my fetters be left whereby I am bound
with thy will, and thy purpose is carried out in my life--and
that is the fetter of thy love.


Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high;

Where knowledge is free;

Where the world has not been broken up into fragments by narrow
domestic walls;

Where words come out from the depth of truth;

Where tireless striving stretches its arms towards perfection;

