This ebook was produced by Roger Frank, Taavi Kalju and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


       [Illustration: "You Are Not Likely to Be of Any Use Here."]

               "You Are Not Likely to Be of Any Use Here."


                             _ Frontispiece._


                   The Submarine Boys and the Middies

                                   OR

                      The Prize Detail at Annapolis

                           By Victor G. Durham

Author of The Submarine Boys on Duty, The Submarine Boys' Trial Trip, The
                   Submarine Boys and the Spies, Etc.

_Illustrated_

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Akron, Ohio · New York
Made in U.S.A.


CONTENTS


CHAPTER I: THE PRIZE DETAIL
CHAPTER II: HOW EPH FLIRTED WITH SCIENCE
CHAPTER III: "YOU MAY AS WELL LEAVE THE BRIDGE!"
CHAPTER IV: MR. FARNUM OFFERS ANOTHER GUESS
CHAPTER V: TRUAX SHOWS THE SULKS
CHAPTER VI: TWO KINDS OF VOODOO
CHAPTER VII: JACK FINDS SOMETHING "NEW," ALL RIGHT
CHAPTER VIII: A YOUNG CAPTAIN IN TATTERS
CHAPTER IX: TRUAX GIVES A HINT
CHAPTER X: A SQUINT AT THE CAMELROORELEPHANT
CHAPTER XI: BUT SOMETHING HAPPENED!
CHAPTER XII: JACK BENSON, EXPERT EXPLAINER
CHAPTER XIII: READY FOR THE SEA CRUISE
CHAPTER XIV: THE "POLLARD" GOES LAME
CHAPTER XV: ANOTHER TURN AT HARD LUCK
CHAPTER XVI: BRAVING NOTHING BUT A SNEAK
CHAPTER XVII: THE EVIL GENIUS OF THE WATER FRONT
CHAPTER XVIII: HELD UP BY MARINES
CHAPTER XIX: THE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER'S VERDICT
CHAPTER XX: CONCLUSION


LIST OF FIGURES


"You Are Not Likely to Be of Any Use Here."
Down Dropped the Bag.
Eph Raced After Jack, Barking at Him.


                       CHAPTER I: THE PRIZE DETAIL


"The United States Government doesn't appear very anxious to claim its
property, does it, sir?" asked Captain Jack Benson.

The speaker was a boy of sixteen, attired in a uniform much after the
pattern commonly worn by yacht captains. The insignia of naval rank were
conspicuously absent.

"Now, that I've had the good luck to sell the 'Pollard' to the Navy,"
responded Jacob Farnum, principal owner of the shipbuilding yard, "I'm not
disposed to grumble if the Government prefers to store its property here
for a while."

Yet the young shipbuilder--he was a man in his early thirties, who had
inherited this shipbuilding business from his father--allowed his eyes to
twinkle in a way that suggested there was something else behind his words.

Jack Benson saw that twinkle, but he did not ask questions. If the
shipbuilder knew more than he was prepared to tell, it was not for his
young captain to ask for information that was not volunteered.

The second boy present, also in uniform, Hal Hastings by name, had not
spoken in five minutes. That was like Hal. _He_ was the engineer of the
submarine torpedo boat, "Pollard." Jack was captain of the same craft, and
could do all the talking.

Jacob Farnum sat back, sideways, at his rolltop desk. On top of the desk
lay stacked a voluminous though neat pile of papers, letters, telegrams
and memoranda that some rival builders of submarine torpedo boats might
have been willing to pay much for the privilege of examining. For, at the
present moment, there was fierce competition in the air between rival
American builders of submarine fighting craft designed for the United
States Navy. Even foreign builders and inventors were clamoring for
recognition. Yet just now the reorganized Pollard Submarine Boat Company
stood at the top of the line. It had made the last sale to the United
States Navy Department.

At this moment, out in the little harbor that was a part of the shipyard,
the "Pollard" rode gently at anchor. She was the first submarine torpedo
boat built at this yard, after the designs of David Pollard, the inventor,
a close personal friend of Jacob Farnum.

Moreover, the second boat, named the "Farnum," had just been launched and
put in commission, ready at an hour's notice to take the sea in search of
floating enemies of the United States.

"The United States will take its boat one of these days, Captain," Mr.
Farnum continued, after lighting a cigar. "By the way, did Dave tell you
the name we are thinking of for the third boat, now on the stocks?"

"Dave" was Mr. Pollard, the inventor of the Pollard Submarine boat.

"No, sir," Captain Jack replied.

"We have thought," resumed Mr. Farnum, quietly, after blowing out a ring
of smoke, "of calling the third boat, now building, the 'Benson.'"

"The--the--what, sir?" stammered Jack, flushing and rising.

"Now, don't get excited, lad," laughed the shipbuilder.

"But--but--naming a boat for the United States Navy after me, sir--"

Captain Jack's face flushed crimson.

"Of course, if you object--" smiled Mr. Farnum, then paused.

"Object? You know I don't, sir. But I am afraid the idea is going to my
head," laughed Jack, his face still flushed. "The very idea of there being
in the United States Navy a fine and capable craft named after me--"

"Oh, if the Navy folks object," laughed Farnum, "then they'll change the
name quickly enough. You understand, lad, the names we give to our boats
last only until the craft are sold. The Navy people can change those names
if they please."

"It will be a handsome compliment to me, Mr. Farnum. More handsome than
deserved, I fear."

"Deserved, well enough," retorted the shipbuilder. "Dave Pollard and I are
well enough satisfied that, if it hadn't been for you youngsters, and the
superb way in which you handled our first boat, Dave and I would still be
sitting on the anxious bench in the ante-rooms of the Navy Department at
Washington."

"Well, I don't deserve to have a boat named after me any more than Hal
does, or Eph Somers."

"Give us time, won't you, Captain?" pleaded Jacob Farnum, his face
straight, but his eyes laughing. "We expect to build at least five boats.
If we didn't, this yard never would have been fitted for the present work,
and you three boys, who've done so handsomely by us, wouldn't each own, as
you now do, ten shares of stock in this company. Never fear; there'll be a
'Hastings' and a 'Somers' added to our fleet one of these days--even though
some of our boats have to be sold to foreign governments."

"If a boat named the 'Hastings' were sold to some foreign government,"
laughed Jack Benson, "Hal, here, wouldn't say much about it. But call a
boat named the 'Somers,' after Eph, and then sell it, say, to the Germans
or the Japanese, and all of Eph's American gorge would come to the
surface. I'll wager he'd scheme to sink any submarine torpedo boat, named
after him, that was sold to go under a foreign flag."

"I hope we'll never have to sell any of our boats to foreign governments,"
replied Jacob Farnum, earnestly. How can one retrench here? Twenty
years, already, I have struggled and see no way out.

To-day or to-morrow my head will burst, or I may beat it to pieces against
a stone wall. Isn't it an effort at retrenchment when I say that I
cannot afford it? but with whom am I to speak here? Does anyone
understand me? Yes, reduce your expenses!
[_Goes toward the ante-room to the right and meets Nato with four sheets of
music in her hand_.

[43] Abace--20 kopecks.

Scene VII
_Nato, Ossep, Chacho_.

OSSEP. Yes, yes, reduce your expenses!

CHACHO. Little girl, how quickly you have come back!

NATO. I did not go far, aunt.

CHACHO. What have you in your hand, sweetheart?

NATO. I have bought some new music.

OSSEP [_stepping up to them_]. Yes, yes, retrench! [_Taking a sheet of
music out of her hand_.] What did you pay for this?

NATO. Four abaces.

OSSEP. And for this [_taking another_]?

NATO [_looking at it_]. Six abaces.

OSSEP [_taking a third_]. And for this?

NATO [_fretfully_]. One ruble and a half.

OSSEP [_taking the last_]. And certainly as much for this?

NATO.

No, papa; I paid two rubles and a half for that.

OSSEP [_angrily_]. And one is to economize! Am I to blame for this? What
have you bought four pieces for? Was not one or two enough?

NATO [_frightened_]. I need them.

OSSEP [_still more angrily_].

Tell me one thing--is this to be endured?
If she could play properly at least, but she only drums two or three
pieces and says she can play.

I cannot play myself, but I have heard persons who played well. They could
use these things, but not we. I wish the devil had the man who introduced
this! [_Throws the music on the floor_.] I'll cut off my hand if she can
play properly.

CHACHO. There, there, stop, now!

OSSEP.

Whatever she tries to do is only half done: music, languages--she has only
half learned. Tell me, what can she do? Is she able to sew anything?
or to cut out a dress for herself? Yes, that one seems like a European
girl! Ha! ha!

Five times I have been in Leipsic, and the daughter of the merest pauper
there can do more than she can. What have I not seen in the way of
needlework! I gaped with admiration. And she cannot even speak Armenian
properly, and that is her mother tongue! Can she write a page without
mistakes? Can she pronounce ten French words fluently?

Yes, tell me, what can she do? What does she understand? She will make
a fine housekeeper for you! The man who takes her for his wife is to be
pitied. She be able to share with him the troubles of life!
Some day or other she will be a mother and must bring up children. Ha, ha!
they will have a fine bringing-up! She is here to make a show; but
for nothing beside! She is an adept at spending money. Yes, give
her money, money, so that she can rig herself out and go to balls
and parties! [_Nato cries._] Can I stand this any longer? Can I go
on with these doings? Retrench, you say. What is this [_taking a
corner of Nato's tunic in his hand_]? How is this for a twelve-story
building?
Does it warm the back? How am I to reduce expenses here? And if I
do it, will others do it also? I'd like to see the man who could
do it!
[_Nato still crying._ 
CHACHO.
Do all these things you have said in my presence amount to anything?
You yourself said that you troubled yourself little about what
others did.
What do you want, then? Why should you poison the heart of this
innocent girl?
[_All are silent awhile._
OSSEP [_lays his hand on his forehead and recovers himself._] O
just heaven, what am I doing? I am beside myself. [_Goes up to
Nato._] Not to you, not to you, my Nato, should I say all this!
[_Embraces her._] No, you do not deserve it; you are innocent. We
are to blame for all. I am to blame, I! because I imitated the
others and brought you up as others brought up their daughters.
Don't cry! I did not wish to hurt you. I was in bad humor, for
everything has vexed me to-day, and unfortunately you came in at
the wrong moment. [_Picks up the music and gives it to her._] Here,
take the music, my child. [_Embraces her again._] Go and buy some
more. Do what you wish everywhere, and be behind no one. Until
to-day you have wanted nothing, and, with God's help, you shall
want nothing in the future.
[_Kisses her and turns to go._
CHACHO. Now, Ossep, think it over; come to some decision in the
matter.
OSSEP. I should like to, indeed; but what I cannot do I cannot
do.
[_Goes off at the right._ 

SCENE VIII
_Nato, Chacho, then Salome_.
NATO [_falling sobbing in Chacho's arms_]. O dear, dear aunt.
CHACHO. Stop; don't cry, my dear, my precious child. It is indeed
your father. Stop; stop, Salome.These readers
will remember how Jack and his comrades spoiled the Melville plans, and
how Captain Jack and his friends handled the "Pollard" so splendidly, in
the presence of a board of Navy officers, that the United States
Government was induced to buy that first submarine craft.

After that sale, each of the three boys received, in addition to his
regular pay, a bank account of a thousand dollars and ten shares of stock
in the new company. Moreover, Messrs. Farnum and Pollard had felt wholly
justified in promising these talented, daring, hustling submarine boys an
assured and successful future.

Jacob Farnum at last looked up from the final reading of the telegram in
his hands. Captain Jack Benson's gaze was fixed on his employer's face.
Hal Hastings was looking out of a window, with almost a bored look in his
eyes.

"You young men wanted action," announced Mr. Farnum, quietly. "I think
you'll get it."

"Soon?" questioned Jack, eagerly.

"Immediately, or a minute or two later," laughed the shipbuilder.

"I'm ready," declared Captain Jack, rising.

"It'll take you a little time to hear about it all and digest it, so you
may as well be seated again," declared Farnum.

Hal, too, wandered back to his chair.

"You've been wondering how much longer the Government would leave the
'Pollard' here," went on Mr. Farnum. "I am informed that the gunboat
'Hudson' is on her way here, to take over the 'Pollard.'"

"What are the Navy folks going to do?" demanded Captain Jack, all but
wrathfully. "Do they propose to _tow_ that splendid little craft away?"

"Hardly that, I imagine," replied Farnum. "It's the custom of the United
States Navy, you know, to send a gunboat along with every two or three
submarines. They call the larger craft the 'parent boat.' The parent boat
looks out for any submarine craft that may become disabled."

"The cheek of it," vented Jack, disgustedly. "Why, sir, I'd volunteer to
take the 'Pollard,' unassisted, around the world, if she could carry fuel
enough for such a trip."

"But the Navy hasn't been accustomed to such capable submarine boats as
ours, you know," replied Mr. Farnum. "Hence the parent boat."

"Parent boat?" interjected Hal Hastings, with his quiet smile. "You might
call it the 'Dad' boat, so to speak."

Mr. Farnum laughed, then continued:

"A naval crew will take possession of the 'Pollard,' and the craft will
proceed, under the care of the Dad boat"--with a side glance of amusement
at Hal--"to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis."

"Annapolis--where they train the naval cadets, the midshipmen, into United
States Naval officers? Oh, how I'd like to go there!" breathed Captain
Jack Benson, eagerly.

"As a cadet in the Navy, do you mean?" asked Mr. Farnum.

"Why, that would have been well enough," assented Jack, "before I had such
a chance in your submarine service. No; I mean I'd like to see Annapolis.
I'd like to watch the midshipmen at their training, and see the whole
naval life there."

"It's too bad every fellow can't have his wish gratified as easily,"
continued Jacob Farnum.

"Do you mean we're going to Annapolis, too?" asked Jack Benson, his eyes
glowing. Even Hal Hastings sat up straighter in his chair, watching the
shipbuilder's face closely.

"Yes," nodded Jacob Farnum. "Permission has been granted for me to send
our second boat, the 'Farnum,' along with the 'Pollard'--both under the
care of the--"

"The Dad boat," laughed Hastings.

"Yes; that will give us a chance to have the 'Farnum' studied most closely
by some of the most capable officers in the United States Navy. It ought
to mean, presently, the sale of the 'Farnum' to the Government."

"That's just what it will mean," promised Captain Jack, "if any efforts of
ours can make the Navy men more interested in the boat."

"You three youngsters are likely to be at Annapolis for some time," went
on Mr. Farnum. "In fact--but don't let your heads become too enlarged by
the news, will you?"

Hal, quiet young Hal, neatly hid a yawn behind one hand, while Benson
answered for both:

"We're already wearing the largest-sized caps manufactured, Mr. Farnum.
Don't tempt us too far, please!"

"Oh, you boys are safe from the ordinary perils of vanity, or your heads
would have burst long ago. Well, then, when you arrive at Annapolis, you
three are to act as civilian instructors to the middies. You three are to
teach the midshipmen of the United States Navy the principles on which the
Pollard type of boat is run. There; I've told you the whole news. What do
you think of it?"

Mr. Farnum's cigar having burned low, he tossed it away, then leaned back
as he lighted another weed.

"What do we think, sir?" echoed Captain Jack, eagerly. "Why, we think
we're in sight of the very time of our lives! Annapolis! And to teach the
middies how to run a 'Pollard' submarine."

"How soon are we likely to have to start, sir!" asked Hal Hastings, after
a silence that lasted a few moments.

"Whenever the 'Hudson' shows up along this coast, and the officer in
command of her gives the word. That may be any hour, now."

"Then we'd better find Eph," suggested Captain Jack, "and pass him the
word. Won't Eph Somers dance a jig for delight, though?"

"Yes; we'd better look both boats over at once," replied Mr. Farnum,
picking up his hat. "And we'll leave word for Grant Andrews and some of
his machinists to inspect both craft with us. There may be a few things
that will need to be done."

As they left the office, crossing the yard, Captain Jack Benson and Hal
Hastings felt exactly as though they were walking on air. Even Hal, quiet
as he was, had caught the joy-infection of these orders to proceed to
Annapolis. To be sent to the United States Naval Academy on a tour of
instruction is what officers of the Navy often call "the prize detail."

Farnum and his two youthful companions went, first of all, to the long,
shed-like building in which the third submarine craft to be turned out at
this yard was now being built. From inside came the noisy clang of hammers
against metal. The shipbuilder stepped inside alone, but soon came out,
nodding. The three now continued on their way down to the little harbor.
All of a sudden the three stopped short, almost with a jerk, in the same
second, as though pulled by a string.

At exactly the same instant Jacob Farnum, Captain Jack Benson and Engineer
Hal Hastings put up their hands to rub their eyes.

Their senses had told them truly, however. While the "Pollard" rode
serenely at her moorings, the "Farnum," the second boat to be launched,
was nowhere to be seen!

"What on earth has happened to the other submarine?" gasped the
shipbuilder, as soon as he could somewhat control his voice.

What, indeed?

There was not a sign of her. At least, she had not sunk at her moorings,
for the buoys floated in their respective places, with no manner of tackle
attached to them.

"A submarine boat can't slip its own cables and vanish without human
hands!" gasped the staggered Jack Benson.

"There's something uncanny about this," muttered Hal Hastings.

Jacob Farnum stood rooted to the spot, opening and closing his hands in a
way that testified plainly to the extent of his bewilderment.


                 CHAPTER II: HOW EPH FLIRTED WITH SCIENCE


Jack Benson was the first of the trio to move.

Without a word he broke into a run, heading for the narrow little shingle
of beach.

"Got an idea, Captain?" shouted Jacob Farnum, darting after his young
submarine skipper.

"Yes, sir!" floated back over Jack's shoulder.

"Then what's at the bottom--"

"Eph and the boat, both together, or I miss my guess," Captain Jack
shouted back as he halted at the water's edge, where a rowboat lay hauled
up on the shore.

Jacob Farnum's face showed suddenly pallid as he, also, reached the beach.
Hal, who was in the rear, did not seem so much startled.

"Do you think Eph has gone off on a cruise all alone?--that he has come to
any harm?" gasped the shipbuilder.

"I don't know, but I'm not going to worry a mite about Eph Somers until I
have to," retorted Jack Benson, easily.

"Eph can generally take care of himself," added Hal Hastings. "He rarely
falls into any kind of scrape that he can't climb out of."

"But this is a bad time for him to take the 'Farnum' and cruise away,"
objected the owner of the yard. "The 'Hudson' may be here at any hour, you
know, and we ought to be ready for orders."

As he spoke, Mr. Farnum scanned the horizon away to the south, out over
the sea.

"There's a line of smoke, now, and not many miles away," he announced. "It
may, as likely as not, be smoke from the 'Hudson's' pipe."

"Going out with us, sir?" inquired Captain Jack Benson, as Hal took his
place at a pair of oars.

"Yes," nodded the owner of the yard, dropping into a seat at the stern of
the boat, after which Benson pushed off at the bow.

Down on the seashore, on this day just past the middle of October, the air
was keen and brisk. There had been frost for several nights past.
Sleighing might be looked for in another month.

"Cable's gone from this buoy," declared Captain Jack, as Hal rowed close.
"Over to the other one, old fellow."

Here, too, the cable was missing. Evidently the "Farnum" had made a clean
get-away. If there had been any accident, it must have taken place after
the new submarine boat had slipped away from her moorings.

"Humph!" grunted Jack, scanning the sea. "No sign of the boat anywhere.
Eph may be anywhere within twenty miles of here."

"Or within twenty feet, either," grinned Hal, looking down into the waters
that were lead-colored under the dull autumn sky.

"What are we going to do, Captain?" inquired Jacob Farnum. "There are
Grant Andrews and three of his machinists coming down to the water."

"I reckon, sir, we'd better put them aboard the 'Pollard' first, sir,"
Benson suggested.

Mr. Farnum nodding, the boat was rowed in to the shore and Andrews and his
men were put aboard the "Pollard" at the platform deck. Captain Jack
Benson unlocking the door to the conning tower, was himself the first to
disappear down below. When he came back he carried a line to which was
attached a heavy sounding-lead.

"It won't take us long to sound the deep spots in this little harbor,"
said the young skipper, as he dropped down once more into the bow of the
shore boat. "Row about, Hal, over the places where the submarine could go
below out of sight."

As Hal rowed, Skipper Jack industriously used the sounding-lead.

For twenty minutes nothing resulted from this exploration. Then, all of a
sudden, Benson shouted:

"Back water, Hal! Easy; rest on your oars. Steady!"

Jack Benson raised the lead two or three feet, then let it down again,
playing it up and down very much as a cod fisherman uses his line and
hook.

"I'm hitting something, and it is hardly a rock, either," declared young
Benson. "Pull around about three points to starboard, Hal, then steal
barely forward."

Again Benson played see-saw with his sounding-line over the boat's
gunwale.

"If my lead isn't hitting the 'Farnum,'" declared the young skipper,
positively, "then it's the 'Farnum's' ghost. Hold steady, now, Hal."

Immediately afterward, Benson caused the lead fairly to dance a jig on
whatever it touched at bottom.

"What's the good of that, anyway?" demanded Jacob Farnum.

"You don't think I'm doing this just for fun, do you, sir?" asked Captain
Jack, with a smile.

"No; I know you generally have an object when you do anything unusual,"
responded the shipbuilder, good-humoredly.

"You know, of course, sir, that noises sound with a good deal of
exaggeration when you hear them under water?"

"Yes; of course."

"You also know that all three of us have been practicing at telegraphy a
good deal during the past few weeks, because every man who follows the sea
ought to know how to send and receive wireless messages at need."

"Yes; I know that, Benson."

"Well, sir, I guess that the lead has been hitting the top of the
'Farnum's' hull, and I've been tapping out the signal--"

"The signal, 'Come up--rush!'" broke in Hal, with an odd smile.

"Right-o," nodded Jack Benson.

"How on earth did _you_ know what the signal was, Hastings?" demanded Mr.
Farnum.

"Why, sir, I've been sitting so that I could see Jack's arm. I've been
reading, from the motions of his right arm, the dots and dashes of the
Morse telegraph alphabet."

"You youngsters certainly get me, for the things you think of," laughed
the shipyard's owner.

"And the 'Farnum,' or whatever it is, is coming up," called Captain Jack,
suddenly. "I just felt my lead slide down over the top of her hull.
Hard-a-starboard, Hal, and row hard," shouted young Benson, breathlessly.

Though Hastings obeyed immediately he was barely an instant too soon. To
his dismay, Mr. Farnum saw something dark, unwieldy, rising through the
water. It appeared to be coming up fairly under the stern of the shore
boat, threatening to overturn the little craft and plunge them all into
the icy water.

Hal shot just out of the danger zone, though. Then a round little tower
bobbed up out of the water. Immediately afterward the upper third of a
long, cigar-shaped craft came up into view, water rolling from her
dripping sides, which glistened brightly as the sun came out briefly from
behind a fall cloud.

In the conning tower, through the thick plate glass, the three people in
the shore boat made out the carroty-topped head and freckled,
good-humored, honest, homely face of Eph Somers. The boat lay on the
water, under no headway, drifting slightly with the wind-driven ripples.
Then Eph raised the man-hole cover of the top of the conning tower,
thrusting out his head to hail them.

"Hey, you landsmen, do you know a buoy from an umbrella?"

"Do _you_ know the difference between a Sunday-school text and petty
larceny?" retorted Jack Benson, sternly. "What do you mean by taking the
submarine without leave?"

"I've been experimenting--flirting with science," responded Eph, loftily.
"Say, if you landsmen know a buoy from a banana, get down to the bow
moorings of this steel mermaid, and I'll pass you the bow cable. It's a
heap easier to lead this submarine horse out of the stall, single-handed,
than it is to take him back and tie him."

Hal rowed easily to the buoy, while Eph, returning to the steering wheel
and the tower controls, ran the "Farnum," with just bare headway, up to
where he could toss the bow cable to those waiting in the boat. A few
moments later the stern cable, also, was made fast, in such a way as to
allow a moderate swing to the bulky steel craft.

"Now, you can take me ashore, if you feel like it," proposed Eph, standing
on the platform deck.

"Not quite yet," returned Skipper Jack, though the small boat lay
alongside. "We've got some inspecting to do. But how did you get on board
in the first place?"

"Why, the night watchman was in the yard for a few minutes, and I got him
to put me on board. I figured I could hail somebody else when I was ready
to go on shore."

"But what on earth made you do such a thing?" demanded Captain Jack, in a
low tone. "It's really more than you had a right to do, Eph, without
getting Mr. Farnum's permission."

"Why, I've known you to take the 'Pollard' and try something when Mr.
Farnum wasn't about," retorted Somers, looking surprised.

"You never knew me to do it when I could ask permission, although, as
captain, I have the right to handle the boat. But that leave doesn't
extend to all the rest, Eph. What were you doing down there, anyway?"

"Why, I came on board, and left the manhole open for ten minutes,"
answered Somers. "Then I found the cabin thermometer standing at 49
degrees. I wondered how much warmth could be gained by going below the
surface. I had been down an hour and five minutes when you began to signal
with that sledge-hammer--"

"Sounding-lead," Jack corrected him.

"Well, it sounded like a sledge-hammer, anyway," grinned young Somers.
"While I was down below I found that the temperature rose four degrees."

"Part of that was likely due to the warmth of your body, and the heat of
the breath you gave off," hinted Benson.

"You could have gotten it up to eighty or ninety degrees by turning on the
electric heater far enough," suggested Hal.

"I wanted to see whether it would be warmer in the depths; wanted to find
out how low I could go and be able to do without heat in winter," Somers
retorted.

"I could have told you that, from my reading, without any experiment,"
retorted Skipper Jack. "Close your conning tower and go down a little way,
and the temperature would gradually rise a few degrees. That's because of
the absence of wind and draft. But, if you could go down very, very deep
without smashing the boat under the water pressure, you'd find the
temperature falling quite a bit."

"Where did you read all that?" inquired Eph, looking both astonished and
sheepish.

"Here," replied Jack, going to a small wall book-case, taking down a book
and turning several pages before he stopped.

"Just my luck," muttered Eph, disconsolately. "Here I've been dull as
ditch-water for an hour, trying to find out something new, and it's all
stated in a book printed--ten years ago," he finished, after rapidly
consulting the title-page.

Jacob Farnum had been no listener to this conversation. Taking the marine
glasses from the conning tower, the shipbuilder was now well forward on
the platform deck, scanning what was visible of the steam craft to the
southward. At last the yard's owner turned around to say:

"I don't believe you young men can have things ship-shape a second too
soon. The craft heading this way has a military mast forward. She must be
the 'Hudson.' If there's anything to be done, hustle!"

Jack and Hal sprang below, to scan their respective departments. Five
minutes later Grant Andrews hailed from the "Pollard," and Eph rowed over
in the shore boat to ferry over the machinists.

Half an hour later Andrews and his men had put in the few needed touches
aboard the newer submarine boat. The sun, meanwhile, had gone down,
showing the hull of a naval vessel some four miles off the harbor.

Darkness came on quickly, with a clouded sky. As young Benson stepped on
deck Grant Andrews followed him.

"All finished here, Grant?" queried the yard's owner.

"Yes, sir. There's mighty little chance to do anything where Hal Hastings
has charge of the machinery."

"That's our gunboat out there, I think," went on Mr. Farnum, pointing to
where a white masthead light and a red port light were visible, about a
mile away.

"Dunhaven must be on the map, all right, if a strange navigating officer
knows how to come so straight to the place," laughed Jack Benson.

"Oh, you trust a United States naval officer to find any place he has
sailing orders for," returned Jacob Farnum. "I wonder if he'll attempt to
come into this harbor?"

"There's safe anchorage, if he wants to do so," replied Captain Jack.

While Somers was busy putting the foreman and the machinists ashore, Mr.
Farnum, Jack and Hal remained on the platform deck, watching the approach
of the naval vessel, which was now plainly making for Dunhaven.

Suddenly, a broad beam of glaring white light shot over the water, resting
across the deck of the "Farnum."

"I guess that fellow knows what he wants to know, now," muttered Benson,
blinking after the strong glare had passed.

"There, he has picked up the 'Pollard,' too," announced Hastings. "Now,
that commander must feel sure he has sighted the right place."

"There go the signal lights," cried Captain Jack, suddenly. "Hal, hustle
below and turn on the electric current for the signaling apparatus."

Then Benson watched as, from the yards high up on the gunboat's signaling
mast, colored electric lights glowed forth, twinkling briefly in turn.
This is the modern method of signaling by sea at night.

"He wants to know," said Benson, to Mr. Farnum, as he turned, "whether
there is safe anchorage for a twelve-hundred-ton gunboat of one hundred
and ninety-five feet length."

Reaching the inside of the conning tower at a bound, the young skipper
rapidly manipulated his own electric signaling control. There was a low
mast on the "Farnum's" platform deck, a mast that could be unstepped
almost in an instant when going below surface. So Captain Jack's
counter-query beamed out in colors through the night:

"What's your draught?"

"Under present ballast, seventeen-eight," came the answer from the
gunboat's signal mast.

"Safe anchorage," Captain Jack signaled back.

"Can you meet us with a pilot?" questioned the on-coming gunboat.

"Yes," Captain Jack responded.

"Do so," came the laconic request.

"That's all, Hal," the young skipper called, through the engine room
speaking tube. "Want to row me out and put me aboard the gunboat?"

In another jiffy the two young chums had put off in the boat, Hal at the
oars, Jack at the tiller ropes. The gunboat was now lying to, some seven
hundred yards off the mouth of the little harbor. Hastings bent lustily to
the oars, sending the boat over the rocking water until he was within a
hundred yards of the steam craft's bridge.

"Gun boat ahoy!" roared Hal, between his hands. Then, by a slip of the
tongue, and wholly innocent of any intentional offense, he bellowed:

"Is that the 'Dad' boat?"

"What's that?" came a sharp retort from the gunboat's bridge. "Don't try
to be funny, young man!"

"Beg your pardon, sir. That was a slip of the tongue," Hal replied,
meekly, as he colored. "Are you the gunboat 'Hudson?'"

"No; I'm her commanding officer, young man! Who in blazes are you?"

"I'm the goat, it seems," muttered Hastings, under his breath. But, aloud,
he replied:

"I have the pilot you requested."

"Then why don't you bring him on board?" came the sharp question. "Did you
think I only wanted to look at a pilot?"

"All right, sir. Shall I make fast to your starboard side gangway?" Hal
called.

"In a hurry, young man!"

"That's the naval style, I guess," murmured Jack to his chum. "No fooling
in the talk. I wonder if that fellow eats pie? Or is his temper due to
coffee?"

Answering only with a quiet grin, Hal rowed alongside the starboard side
gangway. Jack, waiting, sprang quickly to the steps, ascending, waving his
hand to Hal as he went. Young Hastings quickly shoved off, then bent to
his oars.

"Where's the pilot?" came a stern voice, from the bridge, as Jack Benson's
head showed above the starboard rail.

"I am the pilot, sir," Jack replied.

"Why, you're a boy."

"Guilty," Jack responded.

"What does this fooling mean? You're not old enough to hold a pilot's
license."

By this time Benson was on the deck, immediately under the bridge. A half
dozen sailors, forward, were eyeing him curiously.

"I have no license, sir," Jack admitted. "Neither has anyone else at
Dunhaven. For that matter, the harbor's a private one, belonging to the
shipyard."

"Hasn't Mr. Farnum a _man_ he can send out?"

"No one who knows the harbor better than I do, sir."

"Who are you? What are you?"

"Jack Benson, sir. Captain of the Pollard submarine boats."

"Why didn't you tell me that before?"

The question came sharply, almost raspingly.

"Beg your pardon, sir, but you didn't ask me," Jack replied.

"Come up here, Benson," ordered the lieutenant commander, in a loud voice
intended to drown out the subdued titter of some of the sailors forward.

Jack ascended to the bridge, to find himself facing a six-footer in his
early thirties. There was a younger officer at the far end of the bridge.

"Does Mr. Farnum consider you capable of showing us the way into the
harbor?" demanded the commanding officer of the "Hudson."

"I think so, sir. He trusts me with his own boats."

"Then you are--"

"Benson, Mr. Farnum's captain of the submarine boats."

Lieutenant Commander Mayhew gazed in astonishment for a moment, then held
out his hand as he introduced himself, remarking:

"I was told that I would find a very young submarine commander here, but--"

"You didn't expect to find one quite as young," Jack finished, smiling.

"No; I didn't. Mr. Trahern, I want you to know Captain Jack Benson, of the
Pollard submarines."

Ensign Trahern also shook hands with young Benson.

"And now," went on the commander of the "Hudson," "I think you may as well
show us the way into the harbor."

"You'll want to go at little more than headway, sir," Jack replied. "The
harbor is small, though there's enough deep water for you. In parts there
are some sand ledges that the tide washes up."

"I can't allow you to pilot us, exactly, but you'll indicate the course to
me, won't you, Mr. Benson?"

The "mister" was noticeable, now. Naval officers are chary of their
bestowal of the title "captain" upon one who does not hold it in the Army
or Navy service.

At Mr. Mayhew's order the "Hudson" was started slowly forward, the
searchlight playing about the entrance to the harbor.

"For your best anchorage, sir," declared Captain Jack, after he had
brought the gunboat slowly into the harbor, "you will do well to anchor
with that main arc-light dead ahead, that shed over there on your
starboard beam, and the front end of the submarine shed about four points
off your port bow."

Mr. Mayhew slowly manoeuvred his craft, while men stood on the deck below,
forward, prepared to heave the bow anchors.

"Go four points over to port, Mr. Trahern," instructed Mr. Mayhew. "Now,
back the engines--steady!"

Jack Benson opened his mouth wide. Then, as he saw the way the "Hudson"
was backing, he suddenly called:

"Slow speed ahead, quick, sir!"

"You said--" began Mr. Mayhew.

Gr-r-r-r! The stern of the gunboat dug its way into a sand ledge, lifting
the stern considerably.

"Slow speed ahead!" rasped Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, sharply.

But the gunboat could not be budged. She was stuck, stern on, fast in the
sand-ledge.

"Benson!" uttered the lieutenant commander, bitterly, "I congratulate you.
You've succeeded in grounding a United States Naval vessel!"


             CHAPTER III: "YOU MAY AS WELL LEAVE THE BRIDGE!"


There was so much of overwhelming censure in the naval officer's tone that
Jack's spirit was stung to the quick.

"It's your mistake, sir," he retorted. "You didn't follow the course I
advised. You swung the ship around to port, and--"

"Silence, now, if you please, while men are trying to get this vessel out
of a scrape a boy got her into," commanded Mr. Mayhem, sternly.

Jack flushed, then bit his tongue. In another moment a pallor had
succeeded the red in his face.

He was blamed for the disaster, and he was not really at fault.

Yet, under the rebuke he had just received, he did not feel it his place
to retort further for the present.

Mr. Mayhew and Mr. Trahern conferred in low tones for a moment or two.

"You may as well leave the bridge, young man," resumed Mr. Mayhew, turning
upon the submarine boy. "You are not likely to be of any use here."

As Jack, burning inwardly with indignation, though managing to keep
outwardly calm, descended to the deck below, he caught sight of Hal
Hastings, hovering near in the rowboat. Hal signaled to learn whether he
should put in alongside to take off his chum, but Benson shook his head.

Over on the "Farnum" the yard's owner and Eph Somers watched wonderingly.
They understood, well enough, that the new, trim-looking gunboat was in
trouble, but they did not know that Jack Benson was held at fault.

Down between decks the engines of the "Hudson" were toiling hard to run
the craft off out of the sand. Then the machinery stopped. An engineer
officer came up from below. He and Mr. Mayhew walked to the stern, while a
seaman, accompanying them, heaved the lead, reading the soundings.

"We're stuck good and fast," remarked the engineer officer. "We can't
drive off out of that sand for the reason that the propellers are buried
in the grit. They'll hardly turn at all, and, when they do, they only
churn the sand without driving us off."

"Confound that ignoramus of a boy!" muttered Mr. Mayhew, walking slowly
forward. It was no pleasant situation for the lieutenant commander. Having
run his vessel ashore, he knew himself likely to be facing a naval board
of inquiry.

Hal, finding that the shore boat was not wanted for the present, had rowed
over to the "Farnum's" moorings. Now Jacob Farnum came alongside in the
shore boat.

"May I speak with your watch officer?" he called.

"I am the commanding officer," Mr. Mayhew called down, in the cold, even,
dulled voice of a man in trouble.

"I am Mr. Farnum, owner of the yard. May I come on board?"

"Be glad to have you," Lieutenant Commander Mayhew responded.

So Mr. Farnum went nimbly up over the side.

"May I ask what is the trouble here, sir?" asked the yard's owner.

"The trouble is," replied Mr. Mayhew, "that your enterprising boy pilot
has run us aground--hard, tight and fast!"

Jacob Farnum glanced swiftly at his young captain. Jack shook his head
briefly in dissent. Jacob Farnum, with full confidence in his young man,
at once understood that there was more yet to be learned.

"Come up on the bridge, sir, if you will," requested the commander of the
gunboat, who was a man of too good breeding to wish any dispute before the
men of the crew. "You may come, too, Benson."

Jack followed the others, including the engineer officer of the "Hudson."
Yet Benson was clenching his hands, fighting a desperate battle to get
full command over himself. It was hard--worse than hard--to be unjustly
accused.

Jacob Farnum wished to keep on the pleasantest terms with these officers
of the Navy. At the same time he was man enough to feel determined that
Jack, whether right or wrong, should have a full chance to defend himself.

"I understand, sir," began Mr. Farnum, "that you attach some blame in this
matter to young Benson?"

"Perhaps he is not to be blamed too much, on account of his extreme
youth," responded Mr. Mayhew.

"Forget his youth altogether," urged Mr. Farnum. "Let us treat him as a
man. I've always found him one, in judgment, knowledge and loyalty. Do you
mind telling me, sir, in what way he erred in bringing you in here?"

"An error in giving his advice," replied Mr. Mayhew. "Or else it was
ignorance of how to handle a craft as large as this gunboat. For my
anchorage he told me--"

Here the lieutenant commander repeated the first part of Jack's directions
correctly, but wound up with:

"He advised me to throw my wheel over four points to port."

"Pardon me, sir," Jack broke in, unable to keep still longer. "What I
said, or intended to say, was to bring your vessel so that the forward end
of the submarine shed over there would be four points off the port bow."

"What did you hear Mr. Benson say, Mr. Trahern?" demanded the gunboat's
commander, turning to the ensign who had stood with him on the bridge.

"Why, sir, I understood the lad to say what he states that he said."

"You are sure of that, Mr. Trahern?"

"Unless my ears tricked me badly," replied the ensign, "Mr. Benson said
just what he now states. I wondered, sir, at your calling for slow speed
astern."

Lieutenant Commander Mayhew gazed for some moments fixedly at the face of
Ensign Trahern. Then, of a sudden, the gunboat's commander, who was both
an officer and a gentleman, broke forth, contritely:

"As I think it over, I believe, myself, that Benson advised as he now
states he did. It was my own error--I am sure of it now."

Wheeling about, Mayhew held out his right hand.

"Mr. Benson," he said, in a deep voice full of regret, "I was the one in
error. I am glad to admit it, even if tardily. Will you pardon my too
hasty censure?"

"Gladly, sir," Benson replied, gripping the proffered hand. Jacob Farnum
stood back, wagging his head in a satisfied way. It had been difficult for
him to believe that his young captain had been at fault in so simple a
matter, or in a harbor with which he was so intimately acquainted.

As for the young man himself, the thing that touched him most deeply was
the quick, complete and manly acknowledgment of this lieutenant commander.

"Mr. Farnum," inquired the gunboat's commander, "have you any towboats
about here that can be used in helping me to get the 'Hudson' off this
sand ledge?"

"The only one in near waters, sir," replied the yard's owner, "is a craft,
not so very much larger than a launch, that ties up some three miles down
the coast. She's the boat I use when I need any towing here. Of course, I
have the two torpedo boats, though their engines were not constructed for
towing work."

"May I offer a suggestion?" asked Jack, when the talk lagged.

"I'll be glad to have you, Mr. Benson," replied Mr. Mayhew, turning toward
the submarine boy.

"Flood tide will be in in about two hours and a half, sir," Benson
followed up. "That ought to raise this vessel a good deal. Then, with the
towboat Mr. Farnum has mentioned, and with such help as the engines of the
submarines may give, together with your own engines, Mr. Mayhew, I think
there ought to be a good chance of getting the 'Hudson' afloat with plenty
of water under her whole keel. We can even start some of the engines on
shore, and rig winches to haul on extra cables. Altogether, we can give
you a strong pull, sir."

"That sounds like the best plan to me," nodded Jacob Farnum. "I'll have a
message sent at once for that towboat."

A white-coated steward now appeared on deck, moving near the lieutenant
commander.

"Is dinner ready, Greers?" called Mr. Mayhew.

"Yes, sir."

"Lay two more plates, then. Mr. Farnum, I trust you and your young
submarine commander will sit as my guests to-night."

This invitation the yard's owner accepted, asking only time enough to
arrange for keeping some of his workmen over-time, awaiting the coming of
flood-tide.

So, presently, Jack and his employer found themselves seated at table in
the gunboat's handsome wardroom. Besides the lieutenant commander there
were Lieutenant Halpin, two ensigns, two engineer officers and a young
medical officer. In the "Hudson's" complement of officers there were also
four midshipmen, but these latter ate in their own mess.

The time passed most pleasantly, Mr. Mayhew plainly doing all in his power
to atone for his late censure of the submarine boy.

Before dinner was over the small towboat was in the harbor. At the coming
of flood tide this towing craft had a hawser made fast to the gunboat.
With the help of some of the naval machinists aboard the "Hudson," both
submarine craft were also manned and hawsers made fast. Two cables were
passed ashore to winches to which power was supplied by the shipyard's
engines. When all was ready a mighty pull was given, the gunboat's own
propellers taking part in the struggle. For two or three minutes the
efforts continued. Then, at last, the "Hudson," uninjured, ran off into
deep water and shortly afterwards anchored in safety.

It was a moment of tremendous relief for Mr. Mayhew.

"Call the tugboat captain aboard, and I'll settle with him at my own
expense," proposed the lieutenant commander.

"I trust you will think of nothing of the sort," replied Jacob Farnum,
quickly. "In this harbor I wish to consider you and your vessel as my
guests."

Again Mr. Mayhew expressed his thanks. Presently, glancing ashore through
the night, he asked:

"What sort of country is it hereabouts?"

"Mostly flat, as to the surface," Mr. Farnum replied. "If your question
goes further, there are some fine roads and several handsome estates
within a few miles of here. Mr. Mayhew, won't you and a couple of your
officers come on shore with me? I'll telephone for my car and put you over
quite a few miles this evening."

"Delighted," replied the commander of the gunboat.

One of the "Hudson's" cutters being now in the water alongside, the party
went ashore in this. Jack, after bidding the naval officers good-night,
found Hal and Eph, who had just come ashore from supper on board the
"Farnum."

"No sailing orders yet, I suppose?" Hal asked.

"None," Jack replied. "I reckon we'll start, all right, some time
to-morrow morning."

"What'll we do to-night?" Eph wondered.

"I don't know," replied Jack. "We've few friends around here we need to
take the trouble to say good-bye to. We could call on Mrs. Farnum, but I
imagine we'd run into the naval party up at the Farnum house. We want to
keep a bit in the background with these naval officers, except when they
may ask for our company."

"Let's take a walk about the old town, then," Hal suggested.

So the three submarine boys strolled across the shipyard. Just as they
were passing through the gate a man of middle height and seemingly about
thirty years of age quickened his pace to reach them.

"Is this shipyard open nights?" he queried.

"Only to some employees," Jack answered.

Did you not say that Jack was going to play a trick on me?

You see something very different has happened.

This forenoon four or five persons came into my shop who wished to
buy tea and tobacco.

I told them the matter was not yet settled; that we had not agreed
on the price; as soon as the agreement was made I would begin
business.

Do you see? I have not advertised that I was going to handle the goods,
yet everybody knows it and one customer after another comes into
my store.

How will it be when the goods are put on sale?

--they will fight for them. It will give me a great deal to do; I must only
go to John and settle on the terms. Yes, little mother, such a wholesale
trade is not to be despised; the wholesaler can often make more money
in a moment than the retailer makes in two years. Yes, my love, in business
that is really so!'

"'God grant that it may be so!' I said, and nothing more was said about
Jack.

"Several months passed by and November came.

One evening we were sitting together chatting comfortably when the
door opened softly and an old woman entered.

I knew immediately that she was a matchmaker.

In three days Takusch was betrothed to a plain, middle-rate man.

The wedding was to take place the next winter on her father's
name-day.

As a dowry her parents promised 3,000 rubles--1,500 in cash, and the rest
in jewels.

"Tagusch was at that time fifteen years old. Although I had lived in
her parents' house I had never looked right attentively at her face,
scarcely knew, in fact, whether she was beautiful or ugly; but
when on her betrothal day she put on a silk dress and adorned herself
as is customary at such a festive time; when she had put on her
head a satin fez with gold tassels and a flower set with brilliants,
I fairly gaped with admiration.

I am almost eighty years old, but in all my life I have never seen a more
beautiful girl.

"I am no dwarf, but she was a few inches taller than I. She was slender
as a sweet-pine tree. Her hands were delicate and soft, her fingers were
like wax. Hair and eyebrows were black, and her face like snow. Her
cheeks were tinged rose-red, and her glance!

that I cannot forget even to this day.

It was brighter than a genuine Holland diamond. Her eyelashes were so long
that they cast shadows on her cheeks. No, such a charming creature I have
never seen in dreams, let alone reality. She was--God forgive my
sins--the pure image of the Mother of God in our church; yes, she
was even more beautiful.

When I looked at her I could not turn my eyes away again. I gazed
at her and could not look enough.
On the betrothal day I sat in the corner of the room with my eyes
nailed on Takusch.

"'How sorry I am,' thought I, 'that you with that angel face are
to be the wife of a commonplace man, to be the mother of a family
and go into a dirty, smoky kitchen.

Shall your tender hands become hard as leather with washing, ironing,
kneading, and who knows what housework beside?
Shall your angel cheeks fade from the heat of the oven and your
eyes lose their diamond-shine from sewing?'

Yes, so thought I, and my heart bled within me for this girl who
ought to wear a queen's crown and live in a palace.

Surely, if this rose maiden had lived in olden times she would
certainly have married a king or a king's son.

And the poor thing stood there like a lamb, for she did not understand
what life was.

She thought marriage would be nothing more than a change in her
dwelling-place. Oh, but I was sorry that evening that she was going to
marry only an ordinary, but still eligible, young man, and yet it
would have been a great good fortune for her if this had come to
pass.

Had we thought at that time that great misfortunes were in store for the
poor child! And that cursed Hemorrhoid Jack was the cause of them all!

"That betrothal day was the last happy day of the poor wretches.

I never afterward saw smiles on their faces, for from that day their
circumstances grew worse and worse and their business became very
bad.

They lost house and ground, moved about for several months from one rented
house to another, until finally they disappeared from the city.

"The day after the betrothal Hemorrhoid Jack sent word to Sarkis by his
clerk that Sarkis must pay 2,700 rubles for the tobacco and tea
and 184 rubles for the manufactured goods.

I have forgotten to tell you that among the latter were old-fashioned
dress-goods, taxed cloth, linen, satin, and some silk.

The clerk also said that if Sarkis did not pay the 184 rubles the
ring and watch would be retained.

"Poor Sarkis was completely dazed.

"'Have I bought the goods?' he asked.

"'Certainly you have bought them,' answered the unscrupulous clerk.
'Otherwise you would not have sold a chest of tea and a bale of
tobacco.

Beside, the coat your boy is wearing was made from our cloth.'

"This was true. On the third day after receiving the goods, Sarkis had
sold a bale of tobacco and a chest of tea, and had cut off several
yards of cloth.

It was very singular that in the course of three months Sarkis had
not once caught sight of Hemorrhoid Jack to call him to account for the
delivery of the goods. He had been several times to his house, where they
said, 'He is at the store.' At the store they said Jack was at home. It
was very evident that he wished to defraud Sarkis. After much talk back
and forth the matter came into the courts, and since Sarkis had
sold part of the goods and had given a receipt for them, he had to
pay the sum demanded.

               "For several months past business had been going very badly with
the poor fellow and he could not raise the required sum, so he had
to give up his property.

First they drove the poor man out of his house and emptied his store and his
storehouse. Then they sold the tobacco and the tea, for which no one would
give more than fifty rubles, for both were half rotten.

The store and all that was in it were then auctioned off for a few hundred
rubles, and finally the house was offered for sale. No one would buy it,
for among our people the praiseworthy custom rules that they never buy a
house put up at auction till they convince themselves that the
owner sells it of his own free-will.

The household furniture was also sold, and Sarkis became almost a beggar,
and was obliged, half naked, to leave his house, with his wife and
children.

"I proposed that they should occupy my house, but he would not have
it.
'From to-day the black earth is my dwelling-place,' he said, and
rented a small house at the edge of the town near where the fields
begin.

"When the neighbors found out the treachery of Hemorrhoid Jack, they were
terribly angry, and one of them threw a note into his yard in which was
written: that if he took possession of poor Sarkis's house they would tear
or burn it down. That was just what John wished, and he immediately sent
carpenters to tear down the house and stable and then he sold the
wood.

                  "At this time I became very sick and lay two months in bed.

                          When I got up again I thought to myself, 'I must go and visit the
poor wretches!'

I went to their little house, but found the door locked and the windows
boarded up. I asked a boy, 'My child, do you know where the people of
this house are?' 'Two weeks ago they got into a wagon and drove away,'
answered the lad. 'Where are they gone?' I asked. 'That I don't know,'
he said.

"I would not have believed it, but an old woman came up to me on the street,
of her own accord, and said:

"'They all got into a wagon and have moved away into a Russian village.'

"What the village was called she could not tell me, and so every trace of
them was lost.

"Many years later a gentleman came from Stavropol to our city, who gave
me some news of the poor wretches.

They had settled in a Cossack village--he told me the name, but I have
forgotten--where at first they suffered great want; and just as things
were going a little better with them, Mairam and Sarkis died of the cholera
and Takusch and Toros were left alone.

Soon after, a Russian officer saw Takusch and was greatly pleased with her.
After a few months she married him.

Toros carried on his father's business for a time, then gave it up
and joined the army.

So much I found out from the gentleman from Stavropol.

"Some time later I met again one who knew Takusch. He told me that
she was now a widow.

Her husband had been a drunkard, spent his whole nights in inns, often
struck his poor wife, and treated her very badly. Finally they
brought him home dead.

Toros's neck had been broken at a horse-race and he was dead. He said also
that Takusch had almost forgotten the Armenian language and had changed
her faith.

"'That is the history of the Vacant Yard."

* * * * *

ARMENIAN POEMS
[_Metrical Version, by Robert Arnot, M.A._]

* * * * *

ARMENIAN POEMS

A PLAINT

Were I a springtime breeze, A breeze in the time when the song-birds pair,
I'd tenderly smooth and caress your hair, And hide from your eyes in
the budding trees.

Were I a June-time rose, I'd glow in the ardor of summer's behest, And
die in my passion upon your breast, In the passion that only a lover
knows.

Were I a lilting bird, I'd fly with my song and my joy and my pain, And
beat at your lattice like summer-rain, Till I knew that your inmost
heart was stirred.

Were I a winged dream, I'd steal in the night to your slumbering side,
And the joys of hope in your bosom I'd hide, And pass on my way
like a murmuring stream.

Tell me the truth, the truth, Have I merited woe at your tapering hands,
Have you wilfully burst love's twining strands, And cast to the winds
affection and ruth?

'Twas a fleeting vision of joy, While you loved me you plumed your
silvery wings, And in fear of the pain that a man's love brings You
fled to a bliss that has no alloy.

MUGURDITCH BESHETTASHLAIN.

* * * * *

SPRING IN EXILE
Wind of the morn, of the morn of the year, Violet-laden breath of spring,
To the flowers and the lasses whispering Things that a man's ear
cannot hear, In thy friendly grasp I would lay my hand, But thou
comest not from my native land.

Birds of the morn, of the morn of the year, Chanting your lays in the
bosky dell, Higher and fuller your round notes swell, Till the Fauns
and the Dryads peer forth to hear The trilling lays of your feathery band:

Ye came not, alas, from my native land.

Brook of the morn, of the morn of the year, Burbling joyfully on
your way, Maiden and rose and woodland fay Use as a mirror your
waters clear:
But I mourn as upon your banks I stand, That you come not, alas,
from my native land.

Breezes and birds and brooks of the Spring, Chanting your lays in
the morn of the year, Though Armenia, my country, be wasted and sere, And
mourns for her maidens who never shall sing, Yet a storm, did it come
from that desolate land, Would awaken a joy that ye cannot command.

RAPHAEL PATKANIAN.

* * * * *

FLY, LAYS OF MINE!

Fly, lays of mine, but not to any clime Where happiness and light and love
prevail, But seek the spots where woe and ill and crime Leave as
they pass a noisome serpent-trail
Fly, lays of mine, but not to the ether blue, Where golden sparks
illume the heavenly sphere, But seek the depths where nothing that
is true Relieves the eye or glads a listening ear.

Fly, lays of mine, but not to fruitful plains Where spring the harvests
by God's benison, But seek the deserts where for needed rains Both
prayers and curses rise in unison.

Fly, lays of mine, but not to riotous halls, Where dancing sylphs supply
voluptuous songs, But seek the huts where pestilence appals, And death
completes the round of human wrongs.

Fly, lays of mine, but not to happy wives, Whose days are one unending flow
of bliss, But seek the maidens whose unfruitful lives Have known as
yet no lover's passionate kiss.

                     Fly, lays of mine, and like the nightingales, Whose liquid liltings
charm away the night, Reveal in song the sweets of summer's gales,
Of lover's pleadings and of love's delight.

And tell my lady, when your quests are o'er, That I, away from her, my heart's
desire, Yearn for the blissful hour when I shall pour Down at her feet a
love surcharged with fire.

MUGURDITCH BESHETTASHLAIN.

* * * * *

THE WOE OF ARAXES

Meditating by Araxes, Pacing slowly to and fro, Sought I traces of the
grandeur Hidden by her turgid flow.

"Turgid are thy waters, Mother, As they beat upon the shore.

Do they offer lamentations For Armenia evermore?

"Gay should be thy mood, O Mother, As the sturgeons leap in glee:
Ocean's merging still is distant, Shouldest thou be sad, like me?

"Are thy spume-drifts tears, O Mother, Tears for those that are no more?
Dost thou haste to pass by, weeping, This thine own beloved shore?"

Then uprose on high Araxes, Flung in air her spumy wave, And from out her
depths maternal Sonorous her answer gave:

"Why disturb me now, presumptuous, All my slumbering woe to wake?
Why invade the eternal silence For a foolish question's sake?

"Know'st thou not that I am widowed; Sons and daughters, consort,
dead?

Wouldst thou have me go rejoicing, As a bride to nuptial bed?

"Wouldst thou have me decked in splendor, To rejoice a stranger's
sight, While the aliens that haunt me Bring me loathing, not
delight?

"Traitress never I; Armenia Claims me ever as her own; Since her mighty
doom hath fallen Never stranger have I known.

"Yet the glories of my nuptials Heavy lie upon my soul; Once again
I see the splendor And I hear the music roll.

"Hear again the cries of children Ringing joyfully on my banks, And
the noise of marts and toilers, And the tread of serried ranks.

"But where, now, are all my people?

Far in exile, homeless, lorn.

While in widow's weeds and hopeless, Weeping, sit I here and mourn.

"Hear now!

while my sons are absent Age-long fast I still shall keep; Till my
children gain deliverance, Here I watch and pray and weep."

Silent, then, the mighty Mother Let her swelling tides go free.
And in mournful meditation Slowly wandered to the sea.

RAPHAEL PATKANIAN.

* * * * *

THE ARMENIAN MAIDEN
In the hush of the spring night dreaming The crescent moon have you seen,
As it shimmers on apricots gleaming, Through velvety masses of green.

Have you seen, in a June-tide nooning, A languorous full-blown rose In the
arms of the lilies swooning And yielding her sweets to her foes?

Yet the moon in its course and the roses By Armenia's maiden pale, When she
coyly and slowly discloses The glories beneath her veil.

And a lute from her mother receiving, With a blush that a miser
would move, She treads a soft measure, believing That music is
sister to love.

Like a sapling her form in its swaying, Full of slender and lissomy
grace As she bends to the time of her playing, Or glides with a fairy-light
pace.

The lads for her beauty are burning, The elders hold forth on old age, But
the maiden flies merrily spurning Youth, lover, and matron and
sage.

RAPHAEL PATKANIAN.

* * * * *

ONE OF A THOUSAND
Sweet lady, whence the sadness in your face?
What heart's desire is still unsatisfied?
Your face and form are fair and full of grace, And silk and velvet
lend you all their pride.
A nod, a glance, and straight your maidens fly To execute your hest
with loving zeal.
By night and day you have your minstrelsy, Your feet soft carpets
kiss and half conceal; While fragrant blooms adorn your scented
bower, Fruits fresh and rare lie in abundance near.
The costly narghilé exerts its power To soothe vain longing and
dispel all fear:
Envy not angels; you have paradise.
No lowly consort you. A favored wife, Whose mighty husband can her
wants suffice; Why mar with grieving such a fortunate life?
So to Haripsime, the Armenian maid, On whom the cruel fortune of
her lot had laid Rejection of her faith, spake with a sigh The
wrinkled, ugly, haggard slave near by.
Haripsime replied not to the words, But, silent, turned her face
away. With scorn And sorrow mingled were the swelling chords Of
passionate lament, and then forlorn, Hopeless, she raised her tearful
orbs to heaven.
Silent her lips, her grief too deep for sound; Her fixed gaze sought
the heavy banks of cloud Surcharged with lightning bolts that played
around The gloomy spires and minarets; then bowed Her head upon her
hands; the unwilling eyes Shed tears as heavy as the thunder-shower
That trails the bolt to where destruction lies.I've been contented enough, so far, but now
it makes me almost blue, to think that we can only go on testing and
handling submarine craft like these, while others will be their real
officers in the Navy, and command them in any war that may come."

Though his head throbbed, and though a dizzy spell came over him every few
minutes, Jack Benson stuck it out, up there beside his chum, for an hour.
Then, disdaining aid, he crept down the stairs, stretching himself out on
one of the cabin seats. Eph brought him a pillow and a blanket. Jack soon
slept, tossing uneasily whenever pain throbbed dully in his head.

"Guess I'll go out and have a little look at the young captain," proposed
Sam Truax, an hour later.

"Try another guess," retorted Eph, curtly. "You'll stay here in the engine
room. Jack Benson isn't going to be bothered in any way."

"I'm not going to bother him; just going to take a look at him," protested
Truax, moving toward the door that separated the engine room from the
cabin.

But young Somers caught the stranger by the sleeve of the oily jumper that
Sam had donned on beginning his work.

"Do you know what folks say about me?" demanded Eph, with a significant
glare.

"What do they say?"

"Folks have an idea that, at most times, I'm one of the best-natured
fellows on earth," declared Eph, solemnly. "Yet they _do_ say that, when
I'm crossed in anything my mind's made up to, I can be tarnation ugly. I
just told you I don't want the captain disturbed. Do you know, Sam Truax,
I feel a queer notion coming over me? I've an idea that that feeling is
just plain ugliness coming to life!"

Truax came back from the door, a grin on his face. Yet, when he turned his
head away, there was a queer, almost deadly flash in the fellow's eyes.

Jack slept, uneasily, until towards the middle of the afternoon. As soon
as Eph found him awake, that young man brought the captain a plate of
toast and a bowl of broth, both prepared at the little galley stove.

"Sit up and get away with these," urged Eph, placing the tray on the cabin
table. "Wait a minute. I'll prop you up and put a pillow at your back."

"This boat isn't a bad place for a fellow when he's knocked out," smiled
Jack.

"Any place ought to be good, where your friends are," came, curtly, from
young Somers.

As Captain Jack ate the warm food he felt his strength coming back to him.

"Poor old Hal has been up there in the conning tower all these hours,"
muttered Captain Jack, uneasily. "He must have that cramped feeling in his
hands."

"Humph!" retorted Eph. "Not so you could notice it much, I guess. It's a
simpleton's job up in the conning tower to-day. All he has to do is to
shift the wheel a little to port, or to starboard, just so as to keep the
proper interval from the 'Dad' boat. Besides, I've been up there on
relief, for an hour while you slept, and Hal came down and sat with the
engines. Cheer up, Jack. No one misses you from the conning tower."

Benson laughed, though he said, warningly:

"I reckon we'll do as well to drop calling the gunboat the 'Dad boat'
instead of the 'parent vessel.'"

"Well, you needn't bother at all about the conning tower to-day," wound up
Eph, glancing at his watch. "It's after half-past three at this moment and
I understand we're to drop anchor about five o'clock."

So Skipper Jack settled back with a comfortable sigh. Truth to tell, it
was pleasant not to have any immediate duty, for his head throbbed, every
now and then, and he felt dizzy when he tried to walk.

"Who could have hit me in that fashion, last night, and for what earthly
purpose?" wondered the boy. "I've had some enemies, in the past, but I
don't know a single person about Dunhaven, now who has any reason for
wishing me harm."

Never a thought crossed his mind of suspecting Sam Truax. That worthy had
come with a note from David Pollard, the inventor of the boats. Sam,
therefore, must be all right, the boy reasoned.

Jack lay back on the upholstered seat. He sat with his eyes closed most of
the time, though he did not doze. At last, however, he heard the engine
room bell sound for reduced speed. Getting up, the young captain made his
way to the foot of the conning tower stairs.

"Making port, Hal?" he called.

"Yep," came the reply. "We'll be at anchor in five minutes more."

Jack made his way slowly to the door of the engine room.

"Eph," he called, "as soon as you've shut off speed, take Truax above and
you two attend to the mooring."

"Take this other man up with you," urged Sam Truax. "I don't know anything
about tying a boat up to moorings."

"Time you learned, then," returned Eph Somers, "if you're to stay aboard a
submarine craft."

"Take this other man up with you," again urged Truax.

Eph Somers turned around to face him with a good deal of a glare.

"What ails you, Truax? You heard the captain's order. You'll go with me."

"Don't be too sure of that," uttered Sam Truax, defiantly.

"If you don't go above with me, and if you don't follow every order you
get aboard this boat, I know where you _will_ go," muttered Eph,
decisively.

"Where?" jeered Sam.

"Ashore--in the first boat that can take you there."

"You seem to forget that I'm on board by David Pollard's order," sneered
Truax.

"All I am sure of," retorted Eph, "is that Jack Benson is captain on board
this craft. That means that he's sole judge of everything here when this
boat is cruising. If you were here by the orders of both owners, Jack
Benson would fire you ashore for good, just the same, after you've balked
at the first order."

"Humph! I--"

Clang! Jangle! The signal bell was sounding.

"Shut up," ordered Eph Somers, briskly. "I've got the engine to run on
signal from the watch officer."

There followed a series of signals, first of all for stopping speed, then
for a brief reversing of engines. A moment later headway speed ahead was
ordered. So on Eph went through the series of orders until the "Farnum"
had been manoeuvred to her exact position. Then, from above, Captain Jack's
voice was heard, roaring in almost his usual tones:

"Turn out below, there, to help make fast!"

"Take the lever, Williamson," directed Eph. "Come along lively, Truax."

"Humph! Let Williamson go," grumbled Truax.

"You come along with me, my man!" roared Eph, his face blazing angrily.
"Hustle, too, or I'll report you to the captain for disobedience of
orders. Then you'll go ashore at express speed. Coming?"

Sam Truax appeared to wage a very brief battle within himself. Then,
nodding sulkily, he followed.

"Hustle up, there!" Jack shouted down. "We don't want to drift."

Jack Benson stood out on the platform deck, holding to the conning tower
at the port side. A naval launch had just placed a buoy over an anchor
that had been lowered.

"Get forward, you two," Jack called briskly, "and make the bow cable fast
to that buoy."

Hal still sat at the wheel in the tower. As Eph and Truax crept forward
over the arched upper hull of the "Farnum," Hal sounded the engine room
signals and steered until the boat had gotten close enough to make the bow
cable fast. Then the stern cable was made fast, with more line, to another
buoy.

"A neat hitch, Mr. Benson," came a voice from the bridge of the "Hudson,"
which lay a short distance away. Jack, looking up, saw Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew leaning over the bridge rail.

"Thank you, sir," Jack acknowledged, saluting the naval officer.

The parent vessel and her two submarine charges now lay at anchor in the
harbor at Port Clovis, one of the towns down the coast from Dunhaven. This
mooring overnight was to be repeated each day until Annapolis should be
reached.

Within fifteen minutes the craft were surrounded by small boats from
shore. Some of these contained merchandise that it was hoped sailors would
buy. Other boats "ran" for hotels, restaurants, drinking places, amusement
halls, and all the varied places on shore that hope to fatten on Jack
Tar's money.

"I'd like to go ashore, sir," announced Sam Truax, approaching Captain
Jack.

"When?"

"Now."

"For how long?"

"Until ten o'clock to-night."

"Be back by that hour, then," Jack replied. "If you're not, you'll find
everything shut tight aboard here."

Truax quickly signaled one of the hovering boats, and put off in it. Eph
watched the boat for a few moments before he turned to Captain Jack to
mutter:

"Somehow, I wouldn't feel very badly about it if that fellow got lost on
shore!"


                     CHAPTER VI: TWO KINDS OF VOODOO


On the second day of the cruise Jack Benson returned to full duty.

For four nights, in all, the submarine squadron tied up at moorings in
harbors along the coast. On the fifth night, as darkness fell, the
squadron continued under way, in Chesapeake Bay, for Annapolis was but
three hours away.

Immediately after supper Captain Jack took his place in the conning tower.
He concerned himself principally with the compass, his only other task
being to keep the course by the "Hudson's" lights, for the parent boat
supplied in its own conduct all the navigation orders beyond the general
course. The "Farnum's" searchlight was not used, the gunboat picking up
all the coast-marks as they neared land.

"Annapolis is the place I've always wanted to see," Jack declared, as Hal
joined him in the conning tower.

"It's the place where I've always wanted to be a cadet," sighed Hal. "But
there's no chance for me, I fear. Jack, I'd rather be an officer of the
Navy than a millionaire."

"Same here," replied Jack, steadily. "It's hard to have to feel that I'll
never be either."

As she entered the mouth of the Severn River the "Hudson" signaled to the
submarines to follow, in file, the "Pollard" leading. A little later the
three craft entered the Basin at the Academy. While the gunboat anchored
off the Amphitheatre, the two submarine boats were ordered to anchorage
just off the Boat House. Then a cutter came alongside.

"The lieutenant commander's compliments to Mr. Benson. Will Mr. Benson go
aboard the 'Hudson'?" asked the young officer in command of the cutter.
Captain Jack lost no time in presenting himself before the lieutenant
commander.

"Mr. Benson," said Mr. Mayhew, after greeting the submarine boy, "your
craft will be under a marine guard to-night, and at all times while here
at the Naval Academy. If you and your crew would like to spend the night
ashore, in the quaint little old town of Annapolis, there's no reason why
you shouldn't. But you will all need to report back aboard, ready for
duty, by eight in the morning."

Jack thanked the naval commander, then hastened back to the "Farnum" to
communicate the news.

"Me for the shore trip," declared Eph, promptly. All the others agreed
with him.

"I'll come back by ten o'clock to-night, though," volunteered Sam Truax.
"One of the crew ought to be aboard."

"We'll stay ashore," decided Jack, "and return in the morning."

"I'm coming back to-night," retorted Truax.

"Keep still, and follow orders," muttered Eph, digging his elbow into
Truax's ribs. "The captain gives the orders here."

Jack, however, had turned away. Within five minutes a boat put off from
shore, bringing two soldiers of the marine guard alongside. With them, in
the shore boat, was a corporal of the guard.

"Any of your crew coming back to-night, sir?" asked the corporal.

"None," Benson answered. "Will you instruct the sentries to see that none
of the crew are allowed aboard during the night?"

"Very good, sir."

The shore boat waited to convey them to the landing. Before going, young
Captain Benson closed and locked the manhole entrance to the conning
tower. A sullen silence had fallen over Truax. The instructions to the
corporal of the guard, and the prompt acceptance of those instructions,
told Sam, beyond any doubt, that he was _not_ coming back on board that
night.

Truax followed the others as they passed through the Academy grounds.
Beyond the large, handsome buildings, there was not much to be seen at
night. Lights shone behind all the windows in Cadet Barracks. Nearly all
of the cadets of the United States Navy were in their quarters, hard at
study. Here and there a marine sentry paced. A few naval officers, in
uniform, passed along the walks. That was all, and the submarine party had
crossed the grounds to the gate through which they were to pass into the
town of Annapolis.

"Coming with us, Truax?" asked Williamson, as the party passed out into a
dimly lighted street.

"No," replied the fellow, sullenly. "I'll travel by myself."

"You're welcome to," muttered Eph, under his breath.

The others climbed the steps to the State Capitol grounds, continuing
until they reached one of the principal streets of the little town.

"Say, but this place must have gone to sleep before we got ashore,"
grumbled Eph. "Hanged if I don't think Dunhaven is a livelier little
place!"

"There isn't much to do, except to wander about a bit, then go to the
Maryland House for a good sleep on shore," Jack admitted.

For more than an hour the submarine boys wandered about. The principal
streets contained some stores that had a bright, up-to-date look, and in
these principal streets the evening crowds much resembled those to be
found in any small town. There were other streets, however, on which there
was little traffic. In some of these quieter streets were quaint,
old-fashioned houses built in the Colonial days.

"Annapolis is more of a place to see by daylight, I reckon," suggested
Hal. "How about that sleep, Jack?"

"The greatest fun, by night, I guess, consists in finding a drug-store and
spending some of our loose change on ice cream sodas," laughed the young
submarine skipper.

This done, they found their way to the Maryland House. Jack and Hal
engaged a room together, Eph and Williamson taking the adjoining one.

"As for me, in an exciting place like this," grimaced Eph, "I'm off for
bed."

Williamson followed him upstairs. For some minutes Hal sat with his chum
in the hotel office. Then Jack went over and talked with the night clerk
for a few moments.

"There's a place near here, Hal, where a fellow can get an oyster fry,"
Benson explained, returning to his chum. "With that information came the
discovery that I have an appetite. Come and join me?"

"No," gaped Hal. "I reckon I'll go up and turn in."

"I'll be along in half an hour, then."

Jack found the oyster house readily. As he entered the little, not
over-clean place, he found himself the only customer. He gave his order,
then picked up the local daily paper. As he ate, Jack found himself
yawning. The drowsiness of Annapolis by night was coming upon him. Little
did he dream how soon he was to discover that Annapolis, in some of its
parts, can be lively enough.

As he paid his bill and stepped to the street, a young mulatto hurried up
to him.

"Am Ah correct, sah, in supposin' yo' Cap'n Jack Benson?"

"That's my name," Jack admitted.

"Den Ah's jes' been 'roun' to de hotel, lookin' fo' yo', sah. One ob yo'
men, Mistah Sam Truax, am done took sick, an' he done sent me fo' yo'."

"Truax ill? Why, I saw him a couple of hours ago, and he looked as healthy
as a man could look," Jack replied, in astonishment.

"I reckon, sah, he's mighty po'ly now, sah," replied the mulatto. "He done
gib me money fo' to hiah a cab an' take yo' to him. Will yo' please to
come, sah?"

"Yes," agreed Jack. "Lead the way."

"T'ank yo', sah; t'ank yo', sah. Follow me, sah."

Jack's mulatto guide led him down the street a little way, then around a
corner. Here a rickety old cab with a single horse attached, waited. A
gray old darkey sat on the driver's seat.

"Step right inside, sah. We'll be dere direckly. Marse Truax'll be
powahful glad to see yo', sah."

"See here," demanded Jack, after they had driven several blocks at a good
speed, "Truax hasn't been getting into any drinking scrapes, has he?
Hasn't been getting himself arrested, has he?"

For young Benson had learned, from the night clerk at the hotel, that,
quiet and "dead" as Annapolis appears to the stranger, there are "tough"
places into which a seafaring stranger may find his way.

"No, sah; no, sah," protested the mulatto. "Marse Truax done got sick
right and proper."

"Why, confound it, we're leaving the town behind," cried Jack, a few
moments later, after peering out through the cab window.

"Dat's all right, sah. Dere ain' nuffin' to be 'fraid ob, sah."

"Afraid?" uttered Jack, scornfully, with a side glance at the mulatto. The
submarine boy felt confident that, in a stretch of trouble, he could
thrash this guide of his in very short order.

"Ah might jess well tell yo' wheah we am gwine, sah," volunteered the
mulatto, presently.

"Yes," Benson retorted, drily. "I think you may."

"Marse Truax, sah, he done hab er powah ob trouble, sah, las' wintah, wid
rheumatiz, sah. He 'fraid he gwine cotch it again dis wintah, sah. how
can I know what he says when I am not in the same room with him? What did
he say?"
"He has commanded them to bake bread in one-and-twenty ovens and to make
one-and-twenty kettles of soup.

If we eat it all, we can take his daughter; otherwise, not."
The brother who devoured all the meal that seven millstones, ground
said: "Fear not, I will eat everything that comes to hand, and then
cry, 'Little father, I die of hunger.'"

When the King saw the hungry man eat he screamed: "May he perish!

I shall certainly meet defeat at his hands."
Again he called his people to him and said, "Kindle a great fire,
strew it with ashes and cover it with blankets.

When they come in in the evening they will be consumed, all seven of
them."
The brother with the sharp ears said: "Brother who hast pierced a
steel shield with a steel spear, do you understand what the King said?"

"No; how can I know what he said?"
"He said, 'Kindle a fire, strew it with ashes, and cover it with blankets,
and when they come in in the evening they will be consumed, all seven of
them.'"

Then said the brother who drank up the brook: "I will drink all I can
and go in before you. I will spit it all out and turn the whole
house into a sea."

In the evening they begged the King to allow them to rest in the
room set apart for them. The water-drinker filled the whole room with water,
and they went into another.

The King lost his wits and knew not what to do.

He called his people together, and they said in one voice, "Let what will
happen, we will not let our princess go!"
The man with the sharp ears heard them, and said, "Brother who hast
pierced a steel shield with a steel spear, do you understand what
the King said?"

"How should I know what he said?"
"He said, 'Let what will happen, I will not let my daughter go.'"
The brother who had loaded himself with the whole world said: "Wait,
I will take his castle and all his land on my back and carry it
away."

He took the castle on his back and started off.

The shepherd played on his pipes, and mountains and valleys danced
to the music.

He who had fastened millstones to his feet led the march, and they
all went joyously forward, making a great noise.

The King began to weep, and begged them to leave him his castle. "Take my
daughter with you. You have earned her."
They put the castle back in its place, the shepherd stopped playing,
and mountain and valley stood still.

They took the King's daughter and departed, and each hero returned to his
dwelling-place, and he who had pierced the steel shield with the steel
spear took the maiden and came again to the King of the East.

And the King of the East gave him his own daughter, whom the youth had
long loved, for his wife.

So he had two wives--one was the daughter of the King of the East, the
other the daughter of the King of the West.

At night, when they lay down to sleep, he said: "Now, I have one
sun on one side and another sun on the other side, and a bright
star plays on my breast."

In the morning he sent for his parents and called also the King to
him, and said, "Now, I will tell my dream."

"What was it, then?" they all said. He answered: "I saw in my dream one sun
on one side of me and another sun on the other, and a bright star played
on my breast."

"Had you such a dream?" they asked.

"I swear I had such a dream."
And three apples fell from heaven: one for the story-teller, one
for him who made him tell it, and one for the hearer

.

* * * * *

            THE VACANT YARD

[_Translated by E.B. Collins, B.S._]

* * * * *

THE VACANT YARD
Several days ago I wished to visit an acquaintance, but it chanced
he was not at home.

I came therefore through the gate again out into the street, and
stood looking to right and left and considering where I could go.

In front of me lay a vacant yard, which was, I thought, not wholly
like other vacant yards.

On it was neither house nor barn nor stable: true, none of these
was there, but it was very evident that this yard could not have
been deserted long by its tenants.

The house must, also, in my opinion, have been torn down, for of traces
of fire, as, for example, charred beams, damaged stoves, and rubbish heaps,
there was no sign.

In a word, it could be plainly perceived that the house which once stood
there had been pulled down, and its beams and timbers carried away.

In the middle of the premises, near the line hedge, stood several high
trees, acacias, fig, and plum-trees; scattered among them were gooseberry
bushes, rose-trees, and blackthorns, while near the street, just
in the place where the window of the house was probably set, stood a high,
green fig-tree."Put those dogs back and come down here," challenged Jack, shaking his
fist. "Come down, and I'll teach you a few things, you rascal!"

"Don' yo' shake yo' fist at me, or dem dawgs will sure jump down and
tackle yo'," grinned the guide, gripping at the collars of the brutes,
which, truly, showed signs of intending to spring below.

Jack fell back, his hands dropping to his sides. Had there been but one
dog, the submarine boy, with all his grit forced to the surface, might
have chosen to face the brute, hoping to despatch it with a well-aimed
kick. But with two dogs, both intent on "getting" him, young Benson knew
that he would stand the fabled chance of a snow-flake on a red-hot stove.

"Dat's right, gemmun, yo' keep cool," observed the mulatto, mockingly.

"You've decoyed me--trapped me here with a mess of lies," flung back
Captain Jack, angrily. "What's your game?"

"Dis am a free lodgin' house--ho, ho, ho!" chuckled the late guide. "Ah's
gwine gib yo' er place to sleep fo' de night. Yo' sho'ly must feel
'bleeged to me--ho, ho, ho!"

"You lied to me about Sam Truax!"

"Yeah! Ah done foun' dat was de name ob a gemmun in yo' pahty dat wasn't
wid yo'. Truax do as well as any odder name--yah! Now, Ah's gwine leab yo'
heah t' git a sleep. Ah'll toss down some blankets. 'Pose yo'se'f and
gwine ter sleep, honey. Don't try to clim' up outer dat, or dem dawgs'll
sho'ly jump down at yo'. Keep quiet, an' go ter sleep, an' de dawgs done
lay heah an' jest watch. But don' try nuffin' funny, or de dawgs'll sho'ly
bring trubble to yo'. Dem is trained dawgs--train' fo' dis business ob
mine. Ho, ho, ho!"

Mulatto and light vanished, but enraged, baffled, helpless Captain Jack
could hear the two dogs moving about ere they settled down on the shelf of
flooring overhead.

"No matter how much of a liar that rascal is, he didn't lie to me about
the dogs," reflected Jack, his temper cooling, but his bitterness
increasing. "They're fighting dogs, and one wrong move would bring them
bounding down here on me--the two together. Ugh-gh!"

After a few moments the mulatto reappeared with a light and tossed down
three heavy blankets.

"Now, Ah's gwine leave yo' fo' de night," clacked the late guide. "Ef yo'
done feel lonesome, yo' jes' whistle de dawgs down to yo'. Dey'll come!"

While the light was still there Benson, in raging silence, gathered the
blankets and arranged them.

"Roll up one fo' a pillow, under yo' haid," grinned the mulatto. "Dat's
all right, sah. Now, good night, Marse Benson. Ef yo' feel lonesome, Marse
Benson, jes' whistle fo' de dawgs. _Dey'll come!_"

The light vanished while the mulatto's sinister words were ringing in the
boy's ears. Would the dogs jump down? Jack knew they would, at the first
false move or sound on his part. He huddled softly, stealthily, on the
blankets, there in the darkness.

As he lay there, thinking, Benson's sense of admiration gradually got to
the surface.

"Well, of all the slick man-traps!" he gasped. "I never heard of anything
more clever. Nor was there ever a bigger idiot than I, to walk stupidly
into this same trap! What's the game, I wonder? Robbery, it must be. And I
have a watch, some other little valuables and nearly a hundred and fifty
dollars in money on me. Oh, I'm the sleek, fat goose for plucking!"

Lying there, in enforced stillness, Jack Benson, after an hour or so,
actually fell asleep. A good, healthy sleeper at all times, he slumbered
on through the night. Once he awoke, just a trifle chilled. He heard one
of the dogs snoring overhead. Crawling under one of the blankets, Benson
went to sleep again.

"Hey, yo', Marse Benson. It am mawnin'. Time yo' was wakin' up an' movin'
erlong!"

It was the voice of the same mulatto, calling down into the pit. Again the
rays of the lantern illumined the darkness. Both bull-dogs displayed their
ferocious muzzles over the edge of the pit. Jack sat up cautiously, not
caring to attract unfriendly interest from the dogs.

"Ah want yo' to take off all yo' clothes 'cept yo' undahclothes, an' den
Ah'll let down a string fo' yo' to tie 'em to," declared the mulatto,
grinning. "Yo' needn't try ter slip yo' wallet, nor nuffin' outer mah
sight, cause Ah'll be watchin'. Now, git a hurry on, Marse Benson, or
Ah'll done push dem dawgs ober de aidge ob dis flooring."

Jack hesitated only a moment. Then, with a grunt of rage, he began
removing his outer garments. Down came a twine, to the lower end of which
the boy made fast his garments, one after another. His money and valuables
went up in the pockets, for the sharp eyes of the mulatto could not have
been eluded by any amateur slight-of-hand.

"Now, yo' cap an' yo' shoes," directed the grinning monster above.

These, too, Benson passed up at the end of the cord. The mulatto
disappeared, leaving the two dogs still on guard. At last, back came the
light and the yellowish man with it.

"Yo' sho' is good picking, Marse Benson," grinned the guide of the night
before. "Yo' has good pin feathers. Ah hope Ah'll suttinly meet yo'
again."

"I hope we do meet at another time!" Jack Benson flared back, wrathily.
The cool insolence of the fellow cut him to the marrow, yet where was the
use of disobeying a rascal flanked by two such willing and capable dogs?

"Now, yo' jes' put dese t'ings on, Marse Benson, ef yo' please, sah,"
mocked the mulatto, tossing down some woefully tattered, nondescript
garments, and, after them, a battered, rimless Derby hat and a pair of
brogans out at the toes.

"I'll be hanged if I'll put on such duds!" quivered Jack.

"Jes' as yo' please, ob co'se, Marse Benson," came the answer, from above.
"But, ef yo' don' put dem t'ings on, yo'll sho'ly hab ter gwine back ter
'Napolis in yo' undahclo's. An' yo's gwine back right away, too, so, ef
yo' wants ter gwine back weahin' ernuff clo'es--"

"Oh, well, then--!" ground out the submarine boy, savagely enough.

He attired himself in these tattered ends of raiment. Had he not been so
angry he must have roared at sight of his comical self when the dressing
was completed.


                 CHAPTER VIII: A YOUNG CAPTAIN IN TATTERS


"Now, yo'll do, Ah reckons."

With that, the mulatto guide of the night before threw down one end of an
inch rope.

"Ah reckon yo's sailor ernuff to clim' dat. Come right erlong, 'less yo'
wants de dawgs ter jump down dar."

"But they'll tackle me if I come up," objected Jack Benson.

"No, dey won't. Dem dawgs is train' to dis wo'k. Ah done tole yo' dat.
Come right erlong. Ah'll keep my two eyes on dem dawgs."

It looked like a highly risky bit of business, but Jack told himself that,
now he had been deprived of his valuables, this yellow worthy must be
genuinely anxious to be rid of the victim. So he took hold of the rope and
began to climb. The mulatto and the dogs disappeared from the upper edge
of the pit.

As his head came up above the level of the flooring Benson saw the mulatto
and the dogs in the next room, the connecting door of which had been taken
from its hinges.

"Come right in, Marse Benson. Dere ain' nuffin' gwineter hu't yo'," came
the rascal's voice reassuringly. Jack obeyed by stepping into the next
room, though he kept watch over the dogs out of the corners of his eyes.

"Now, yo' lie right down on de flo', Marse Benson," commanded the master
of the situation. "Ah's gotter tie yo' up, befo' Ah can staht yo' back ter
'Napolis, but dere ain' no hahm gwine come ter yo'."

Making a virtue of necessity, Captain Jack lay down as directed, passing
his hands behind his back. These were deftly secured, after which his
ankles were treated in the same fashion. Immediately the mulatto, who was
strong and wiry, lifted the boy and the lantern together. The dogs
remaining behind, Jack was carried out into the yard, where he discovered
that daylight was coming on in the East. He was dumped on the ground long
enough to permit his captor to lock the door securely. Then the submarine
boy was lifted once more, carried around the corner of the house and
dumped in the bottom of a shabby old delivery wagon. A canvas was pulled
over him, concealing him from any chance passer. Then the mulatto ran
around to the seat, picking up the reins and starting the horse.

It seemed like a long drive to the boy, though Benson was certainly in no
position to judge time accurately. At last the team was halted, along a
stretch of road in a deep woods. The mulatto lifted the submarine boy out
to the ground.

"Now, w'en yo's got yo' se'f free, yo' can take de road in dat
direckshun," declared the fellow, pointing. "Bimeby yo' come in sight ob
de town. Now, Marse Benson, w'at happen to yo' las' night am all in de
co'se ob a lifetime, an' Ah hope you ain't got no bad feelin's. Yo'
suttinly done learn somet'ing new in de way ob tricks. Good-bye, sah, an'
mah compliments to yo', Marse Benson."

With that the guide of the night before swiftly cut the cords at Jack's
wrists, then as swiftly leaped to the seat of the wagon, whipping up the
horse and disappearing in a cloud of dust.

Jack, having now no knife, and the bonds about his ankles being tied with
many hard knots, spent some precious minutes in freeing his feet. At last
he stood up, fire in his eyes.

"Oh, pshaw! There's no sense in trying to run after that rascal and his
wagon," decided the young submarine skipper. "I haven't the slightest idea
what direction he took after he got out of sight, and--oh, gracious! I'm
under orders to be aboard the 'Farnum' at eight this morning. And on Mr.
Farnum's business, at that!"

Clenching his hands vengefully, Jack started along in the direction
pointed out by his late captor. Brisk walking wore some of the edge off
his great wrath. Catching a comprehensive glimpse of himself, Jack could
not keep back a grim laugh.

"Well, I certainly am a dandy to spring myself on the trim and slick Naval
Academy!" he gritted. "What a treat I'll be to the cadets! That is, if the
sentry ever lets me through the gate into the Academy grounds."

As he hurried along, Jack Benson decided that he simply could not go to
the Naval Academy presenting any such grotesque picture as he did now. Yet
he had no money about him with which to purchase more presentable clothes
in town. So he formed another plan.

Within a few minutes he came in sight of Annapolis. Hurrying on faster, he
at last entered the town. The further he went the more painfully conscious
the boy became of the ludicrous appearance that he made. He saw men and
women turn their heads to look after him, and his cheeks burned to a deep
scarlet that glowed over the sea-bronze of his skin.

"The single consolation I have is that not a solitary person in town knows
me, anyway," he muttered. Then he caught sight of a clock on a church
steeple--twenty-five minutes of eight.

"That means a fearful hustle," he muttered, and went ahead under such
steam that he all but panted. At last he came to the Maryland House,
opposite the State Capitol grounds. Into the office of the hotel he
darted, going straight up to the desk.

A clerk who had been on duty for hours, and who was growing more drowsy
every moment, stared at the boy in amazement.

"See here, you ragamuffin, what--"

"My name is Benson," began the boy, breathlessly. "I'm a guest of the
house--arrived last night. I--"

"You, a guest of _this_ house?" demanded the clerk of the most select
hotel in the town. "You--"

That was as far as the disgust of the clerk would permit him to go in
words. A score of well-dressed gentlemen were staring in astonishment at
the scene. The clerk nodded to two stout porters who had suspended their
work nearby.

It had been Jack Benson's purpose to go to his room and keep out of sight,
while despatching one of the colored bell-boys of the hotel with a note to
Hal Hastings, asking that chum to send him up a uniform and other articles
of attire. However, before the young submarine captain fully realized what
was happening, the two porters had seized him. Firmly, even though gently,
they hustled him out through the entrance onto the street.

"Scat!" advised one of the pair.

Jack started to protest, then realized the hopelessness of such a course.
In truth, he did not blame the hotel folks in the least.

"Oh, well," he sighed, paling as soon as the new flush of mortification
had died out, "there's nothing for it but to hurry to the Academy. I hope
the sentries won't shoot when they see me," he added, bitterly.

Across the State Capitol grounds he hurried, then down through a side
street until he arrived at the gate of the Academy grounds.

"Halt!" challenged a sentry, as soon as Jack showed his face through the
gateway.

Young Benson stopped, bringing his heels together with a click.

"What do you want? Where are you going?" demanded the marine.

"I know I look pretty tough," Jack admitted, shamefacedly. "But I belong
aboard the 'Farnum,' one of the submarines that arrived last night. And
I'm due there at this minute. Please don't delay me."

"All right," replied the sentry, after surveying the boy from head to foot
once more. Then he added, in a lower tone, with just the suspicion of a
grin showing at the corners of his mouth:

"Say, friend, for a stranger, you must have had a high old frolic in the
town last night."

Jack frowned. The sentry's grin broadened a bit. As he did not offer to
detain the boy longer, Benson hurried on along one of the walks. He took
as short a course as he could making straight for the Basin, where he made
out the "Hudson" and the two submarines.

"Hey! There's the captain!" shouted Eph, wonderingly, for Somers's eyes
were sharp at all times.

Out of the conning tower sprang Hal Hastings, looking eagerly in the
direction in which Eph Somers pointed:

"Eh?" muttered another person, lounging near the rail of the gunboat. Then
Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, after a keen, wholly disapproving look at the
hard-looking figure of a young man at the landing, started, as he
muttered:

"Benson, by all that's horrible! How did he come to be in that fearful
shape? He must have been in one of the worst resorts within miles of
Annapolis!"

"This isn't the first time the young man has come back the worse for
wear," the lieutenant commander continued, under his breath. "His friends
were loyal enough to him, that time. ALEXANDER.

I am waiting for your father, Nato dear, I have something important
to discuss with him.

NATO. Why, we will soon return, and by that time father will be home. Do
you want to sit here alone?

ALEXANDER. Well, we will go.

NATO. Come! come! I want to introduce you to my coquettish aunt.
[_Mimics her while making a courtesy, and makes faces. Alexander,
shaking his head, goes out with Nato noisily through middle door_.

SCENE II
_Salome. Chacho_.

CHACHO. No, indeed, Salome.

She behaves too boldly. You must give her a warning.

Such self-confidence I have I never before seen in a girl.

SALOME. That is all a matter of fashion! What is to be done?
[_Shuffling the cards_.

CHACHO [_seating herself_]. When one thinks how the times have changed,
one grows dizzy! When I was engaged, my love, I dared not open my mouth;
it was as if they had put a lock on it.

Indeed, I dared not look anyone in the face, even, and kept my eyes always
cast down, as if glued fast to the floor.

SALOME. How could anyone endure all that?

The eyes are made to look with, I hope, and the tongue to speak! I wouldn't
have borne it. It is well that those times are past.

I should die of such a life.

CHACHO. Oh, your present times are the true ones! Isn't this shameful,
now, what goes on here?

                      All the money that the husband can make in a week, the wife loses
at play in a single evening.

Is that widow, the stout one, going to play with you? She is surely
more than fifty years old.

SALOME. Of course! we wouldn't play at all without her.

CHACHO. That is the best of all. Why, she has a married daughter
as old as you are!

SALOME. What of that? Whoever has money can always play. But what do you
say to the wife of blind Gigoli?

She hasn't enough to eat, but gives herself airs before us just the
same.

CHACHO. Don't talk to me about her!

A few weeks ago she pawned a silver pitcher to one of our neighbors for
five rubles without her husband's knowledge. God punished her for it,
for that same evening she lost it all at cards. I should like to know
how she is going to redeem the pitcher.

SALOME [_arranging her dress before the mirror_]. Yes, yes; no one can
take her measure better than I.

[_Enter Ossep_.

OSSEP [_angrily_]. And what have you gotten ready for again?

SALOME. What was to be done?

Look and see how many guests there are in the garden!

OSSEP. It was very wrong of them to come here. Has no one invited them,
then?

They should have asked me first.

SALOME. You are a singular being! We have betrothed our daughter and
they were obliged to come and congratulate us.

OSSEP. Congratulate! As though my joy went to their hearts! On the contrary,
they would enjoy it if I had a misfortune; they could put their
heads together and criticise and laugh at me.

CHACHO. What are you so ill-humored about?

For the last two days you have been intolerable.

OSSEP. If I could unbosom myself to you and show you my heart, you would
comprehend what the cause of it is.

CHACHO. God protect you from all evil!

OSSEP. Am I not right? Tell me yourself! This is not the time for
card-playing. Why have they come, then? If they wished to congratulate
us, they could come separately. How does it happen that they all thought
of us at once?

Perhaps each has sent word to the other that Salome has betrothed her
daughter and they have all taken advantage of the opportunity to come. Of
course only for the sake of those damned cards! This one or that one has
probably been invited by her [_pointing to Salome_].

She sent word to them, "Come to us, I pray! X and Z are already here." [_To
Salome_:] Say, isn't that so?

SALOME. What nonsense he talks! Ought they not to know at your uncle's house
that we have betrothed our daughter? I was obliged to give them some
information about it, was I not?

OSSEP. And to whom beside?

SALOME. Whom else? Your cousins. And I have just sent for your
sister-in-law.

OSSEP [_anxiously_]. For what purpose?

She could have come another time just as well.

SALOME. How useless it is to talk so!

You understand nothing at all about the matter. Your relatives would
take offence in every possible way if I did not invite them.

They would not speak to me for a year!

OSSEP.

Great heaven! I wish they were struck blind! [_Sits down and pulls at the
end of the table-cloth_.]

I would take pleasure in throwing them all out!

SALOME. I have no time to dispute with you.
[_Exit at left, angry_.

OSSEP. Great heaven! have women been created only to bleed the men?

CHACHO. Don't excite yourself so, dear Ossep. What you say is in every
way pure facts.

But you must overlook something now and then.

It can't be helped now; they are all here; you cannot chase them out
of the house.

The whole city would be stirred up about it.

OSSEP. And what will people say when to-morrow or the day after my
creditors come and chase me out of my house?

CHACHO. Oh, don't talk about such things!

OSSEP [_sitting down at the card-table_]. That's easily said.

But let me tell you, I feel as though the house was going to fall down
on top of me.

CHACHO. What has happened, Ossep?

OSSEP. They say Barssegh Leproink has brought action against me.

CHACHO. What? Brought action against you?

OSSEP. I owe him money, and on that account he holds the knife at my
throat.

CHACHO. God bless me!

OSSEP. The wicked fellow has my note, and another security beside,
and yet he will not wait.

CHACHO. His match for wickedness cannot be found in the whole world.

OSSEP. No, not another such miserable scoundrel! I expect every moment to
be notified, and have no idea where I can get the money. Everyone I have
asked to help me has refused me. I can borrow no more on my note, and I
cannot sell my goods at half price. That everyone must understand.
They all show their claws as soon as they find out the position I
am in.

Salome is to blame for all this; the 7,000 rubles she promised is the
cause of it all.

I would like to know who will pay them to him now.

CHACHO. You talk nonsense! You will make your daughter unhappy forever,
Ossep.

OSSEP. I am still more unhappy myself. But let us see what the coming
day brings forth. I still have hope of one. Perhaps he will supply me with
money.

CHACHO. How could you trust the scamp so blindly? Is such want of thought
consistent with reason?

OSSEP. What is the use of reason in this?

I have always said I could not stand the expense that now everybody assumes.
If a man conducts his business honestly, he makes little profit;
and as for a dishonest business, I am not fit for that!

So I have suffered one reverse after another; and where I was most
vulnerable I have been hit at last.

CHACHO. Heavens!

what do I hear? Why don't I sink into the earth?

OSSEP. In our line of trade only a few persons carry on their business with
their own money. Most of us have to borrow. When I sell goods to one,
I pay my debt to the other.

I sell goods to the third and pay to the fourth; and so it goes in
a circle, like a wheel drawing water, until one falls in the hands
of a man who draws the needle out of the knitting and everything
falls in pieces.

Who is in a position to fight against such conditions? One must pay
the store rent and the clerk's salary, and beside that the interest on the
working capital. Then there are the goods that are spoiled or stolen--and
here at home! [_Striking the cards_.] All this rubbish and more beside!
[_Striking the table again._] And the women are to blame for all
this; if my wife had not promised 7,000 rubles, without my knowledge,
the betrothal would not have taken place, and this bad luck would
not have come to me.

But where does one find among our women insight and forethought? For
model women give me some foreign countries. There the women stand by the
men in everything: the wife of a cook is a cook; the wife of a
writer, a writer; the wife of a merchant is in every case a merchant.

They earn jointly and spend jointly. With us the man is here only to
make money for them, so that they [_striking the table_] may kill
time with foolish things like this.

CHACHO. Say, rather, that times are changed; for the men also sit at
the club all day and play cards.

OSSEP. Ho! ho! As though women did not play cards also! Formerly the cards
were solely our diversion; but they have taken them away from us.
Don't worry yourself; with God's help they will be learning to play
billiards. Why do you dwell upon the fact that the men play cards?

One in a thousand plays; while of a thousand women, nine hundred play. Men
are always more moderate. They see that the times are hard, and have given
up most of their earlier pleasures. Where are the banquets that used
to be given, one after another? Where are the drinking-places where the
music played?

They have given them up; and the women are just like they were, only worse.
To-day they arrange a picnic, to-morrow a little party, and so on. The
men stand gaping at them, and the children are left to the servants. If
I could take the law into my own hands, I'd soon set them right.

[_Paces to and fro in anger_.

CHACHO [_rising, aside_]. He is right.

All that he says is pure truth.
[_Exit left_ 

SCENE III 
_Ossep.

Then Alexander_.

OSSEP. O dear! O dear!
[_Stands near fireplace; rests head on hand and remains motionless_.

ALEXANDER [_enter right_]. You have come, father? [_Silence--comes near
Ossep_.] Father.

OSSEP. Ah! Alexander [_offering his hand_]. Please sit down. Have you just
come?

ALEXANDER. No; I have been here a long time.

I was in the garden.

OSSEP.

What is the news? [_Both sit down_.

ALEXANDER. Nothing, except that I wish to have a wedding next week.

OSSEP. So soon?

ALEXANDER.

Yes; my chief goes soon to Petersburg, and I want him to be at the
wedding.

OSSEP. And can't we wait till he comes back?

ALEXANDER. That would be too long.

OSSEP. Very well. As you wish.

               ALEXANDER [_stammering_]. But--my dear father-- 
OSSEP.

I understand; I understand.

You want me to pay over the money at once?

ALEXANDER.

Yes, my dear father, if it is possible.

OSSEP. I am sorry to confess that at the present moment I have no money at
hand. You must wait a little.

If you wish to marry without money, that is your affair.

ALEXANDER. You amaze me!

OSSEP.

It is better for me to tell you this than to deceive you.

You know the law to some extent. Tell me, if I owe someone money on a
note, can my creditor bring action against me and put an execution
on me without having me called before the court?

ALEXANDER.

Is the note attested by a notary?

OSSEP. Yes.

ALEXANDER.

He has the right to come to your house and have everything put under
seal.

OSSEP. Without first bringing me into court?

ALEXANDER. Yes, without court proceedings.

OSSEP. But if he has received on account of this debt the note of a third
person?

ALEXANDER. That is another thing. Have you a receipt for it?

OSSEP. No; but I can take my oath on it.

ALEXANDER. According to law you must first pay the money and then produce
proofs that you gave him the other document.

OSSEP [_excited_]. Is that true?

ALEXANDER. Yes, it is so.

OSSEP [_wringing his hands and springing up_]. Then I am ruined. [_A
silence.

Nato's voice is heard outside_.] Alexander, they are calling you.

ALEXANDER [_approaching Ossep_]. What is it? For God's sake tell
me the truth.

OSSEP. There, there. Go out first. They are calling you.

ALEXANDER [_aside, taking his hat_].

So far as I see, I am ruined also.
[_Exit._
OSSEP [_alone_]. What do I not suffer!

If they really come here I shall perish through shame. Where can I
find so much money in such a hurry?
One must have time for it, and that fellow may come to-day even--perhaps
this minute. Then I am lost--who will trust me then? My creditors will
tie a rope around my neck and prevent me from saying a word in my
own behalf. "Pay us," they will cry; "pay us!"

O Salome, Salome!

_Enter Gewo_.

OSSEP. There he is.

GEWO. Good-evening, Ossep.

OSSEP. You have come, too. You want your money, too?

Yes, choke me; double my debt; say that I owe you, not 2,000 rubles, but
4,000. Speak!
You are my creditor; speak!

Have no pity on me. You want your money--why do you wait, then? Slay me; tear
my heart out of my body; hack me in pieces and sell it piece by
piece, so that your money shall not be lost.

[_Gewo wipes his eyes_.] Weep, weep, for your money is lost. I am
bankrupt--bankrupt!

GEWO [_embracing Ossep_]. Dear Ossep, dear Ossep!

OSSEP. You say "dear" to me? Yet you are my creditor.

GEWO. Take courage; be a man!

OSSEP. What kind of a man? I am a good-for-nothing; I have lost my
good name [_weeping_].

My good name is gone. [_Wipes his eyes_.]
GEWO. God is merciful, dear Ossep.

OSSEP. God and heaven have taken their mercy from me.

You see now where the marriage of my daughter has led me?

If I could at least pay you everything I owe you--that I must do
at any price.

GEWO. What are you saying, Ossep? If I had the means I would go on
your bond. Why should I be your friend otherwise?
OSSEP. If you had money, dear Gewo, you would not be my friend, nor
have such a good heart. Stay poor as you are, so that I shall not
lose your friendship. Only your sympathy is left me in this world.
I would not like to lose your friendship. In this one day I have
suffered everything. No one has shown interest in me; no one has
given proof of his sympathy--neither my uncle, nor my brother, nor
my nephew. When they saw I was near my last breath, they all forsook
me and shut the door in my face.
GEWO. Come with me; perhaps we will find help somewhere.
OSSEP. There can be no more talk of help.
GEWO. Come, come; there is still a way out.
OSSEP. What way out can there be?
GEWO. Come, come; let us not delay.
OSSEP. But tell me how is it to be managed?
GEWO. Come, come! I will tell you on the way.
OSSEP. What you say sounds very strange; tell me what it is. Speak,
what has occurred? Don't fear! Don't spare me! Whatever happens
cannot be worse than what has happened; they have already sent a
bullet into my heart, and what worse can they do to me, except tear
open my breast and take my heart out? Speak; what is it? Have they
put seals on my store?

GEWO. Come and you will see.
OSSEP. They have put seals on it, then?

GEWO. I tell--
OSSEP. You are ruined, Ossep. [_Rushes to the table, seizes the box
and scatters the cards; some fall on the floor_.] Now you may play;
now you may play. [_Exit_.
GEWO. Too bad; too bad about him! [_Follows him_.

SCENE IV
_Enter Salome, Martha, Nino, Pepel, and many well-dressed ladies,
followed by two footmen carrying candelabra and lamps, which they
put on the table_.
SALOME. Take seats, please. The cards are already here.
MARTHA. How pretty it is, isn't it? The cards are already dealt.
[_The ladies converse smilingly with one another_.
SALOME [_stepping forward and noticing the cards on the floor_].
What is this? Who can have done it?
MARTHA. Probably the cats ran over the table.
SALOME. I cannot think how it could have happened! Please sit
down.

_Enter Nato and her friends_.
SALOME [_collecting the cards_]. Who can have done it? Nato, did
you do it?

NATO. No, mamma, I did not touch them.
SALOME [_to the guests_]. Sit down, I beg.
[_All the guests sit down at the table, Nato and her friends sit
on the other side of the stage. Salome, standing, deals the cards
which the guests hand one to the other. Then they pay in the stakes
to Salome, which she lays on the table in front of her_.
_Enter Alexander_.
NATO [_going to meet Alexander_]. Alexander, why were you so
long?
ALEXANDER. I was obliged to be [_leading Nato aside excitedly, and
in a whisper_:] I have something to say to you.
NATO [_in a whisper_]. What makes your hand tremble?
ALEXANDER. They have brought action against your father in the
courts.

NATO. What! For what reason?
ALEXANDER. Because of debts.

NATO. Who told you so?
ALEXANDER. Your father himself.
NATO [_laughing aloud_]. Ha! ha! ha! [_Whispering_:] My father has
no debts.

ALEXANDER. Well, he told me so himself.
NATO. He was joking. Don't believe him.
[_Goes over to her friends, laughing_.
ALEXANDER. Well, I can't make it out. I am not so stupid, however.
Until I have the money in my hands I will not cross this threshold
again.

SALOME. Let us begin. [_Guests begin to play_.
SCENE V 
_Enter Chacho_.
CHACHO [_coming from left_]. Get this stuff out of the way.
SALOME. What is the matter? What has happened?
CHACHO. What was to happen? We are ruined. [_Behind the scenes are
heard threatening voices_:] "Here! Yes! No." [_Then Ossep's voice_:]
"Come in, come in." 
CHACHO [_to Salome_]. Do you not hear them?
_Enter Barssegh through middle door_.
BARSSEGH. This is really splendid! I work for my daily bread, and
you illuminate your house on my money.
CHACHO [_to Salome_]. Now you have it.
SALOME [_rising_]. Are you mad? Show him out.
BARSSEGH. I will show you pretty soon who is to be shown out.
SALOME. Alexander, show this man out.
ALEXANDER [_to Barssegh_]. What do you want, sir? How can you indulge
in such insolence?
BARSSEGH. That is not your affair, sir! I demand my money. Demand
yours also if you can. You will be obliged to wait a long while for
it.

CHACHO [_to Barssegh_]. Have you no conscience?
BARSSEGH. I want my money, and nothing more.
_Enter Ossep, Gewo, a sheriff and his secretary, Dartscho, and
several others_.
OSSEP [_opening the door with both hands as he enters_]. Come in!
come in! [_The others follow him_.] Play, play and laugh as much
as you will over my misfortunes!
CHACHO [_aside_]. Now it is all over with us!
SALOME. Tell me, for God's sake, the meaning of this.
OSSEP. God will judge you and me also. [_To sheriff and others:_]
Come, make your inventory, put your seals on everything--the house,
the furniture, and on the cards, too.
BARSSEGH. Make an inventory of everything.
[_The sheriff lists furniture in the background and puts a ticket
on each piece. The guests assemble, frightened, on the left side
of the table_.

SALOME [_beating her head_]. Good heavens!
MARTHA. This is a disgrace for us as well.
CHACHO [_in a low voice to Martha_]. You at least should be
silent.
OSSEP [_pointing to Barssegh_]. He has stripped me of my honor. Now
you will honor and esteem him. He will arrange for your parties.
Yes, he, the man who takes the shirt from my back and possesses
himself of all my property.

ALEXANDER [_aside_]."I wonder if it would be against the regulations for a lot of rank
outsiders like us to go through the grounds at this hour?"

"'Rank outsiders'?" mimicked Jack Benson, laughing. "You forget, Hal, old
fellow, that we're instruct--hem! civilian instructors--here."

"I wonder, though, if it would be in good taste for us to go prowling
through the grounds at this hour?" persisted Hal.

"There's one sure way to find out," proposed Benson. "We can try it, and,
if no marine sentry chases us, we can conclude that we're moving about
within our rights. Come along, fellows."

Putting on their caps, the three went up on the platform deck. The engine
room door was locked and Williamson and Truax had already turned in. There
was a shore boat at the landing. Jack sent a low-voiced hail that brought
the boat out alongside.

"Will it be proper for us to go through the Academy grounds at this hour?"
Jack inquired of the petty officer in the stern.

"Yes, sir; there's no regulation against it. And, anyway, sir, you're all
stationed here, just now."

"Thank you. Then please take us ashore."

At this hour the walks through the grounds were nearly deserted. A few
officers, and some of their ladies living at the naval station, were out.
The cadets were all in their quarters in barracks, hard at study, or
supposed to be.

For some time the submarine boys strolled about, enjoying the air and the
views they obtained of buildings and grounds. Back at Dunhaven the air had
been frosty. Here, at this more southern port, the October night was
balmy, wholly pleasant.

"I wonder if these cadets here ever have any real fun?" questioned Eph
Somers.

"I've heard--or read--that they do," laughed Hal.

"What sort of fun?"

"Well, for one thing, the cadets of the upper classes haze the plebe
cadets a good deal."

"Humph! That's fun for all but the plebes. Who are the plebes, anyway?"

"The new cadets; the youngest class at the Academy," Hal replied.

"What do they do to the plebe?" Eph wanted to know.

"I guess the only way you could find that out, Eph, would be to join the
plebe class."

"Reckon, when I come to Annapolis, I'll enter the class above the plebe,"
retorted Somers.

The three submarine boys had again approached the cadet barracks building.

"Here comes a cadet now, Eph," whispered Jack. "If he has the time, I
don't doubt he'd be glad to answer any questions you may have for him."

Young Benson offered this suggestion in a spirit of mischief, hoping the
approaching cadet, when questioned, would resent it stiffly. Then Eph
would be almost certain to flare up.

The cadet, however, suddenly turned, coming straight toward them, smiling.

"Good evening, gentlemen," was the cadet's greeting.

"Good evening," was Jack's hearty reply.

"You've never been here before, have you, sir?"

"Never," Jack confessed.

"Then I take it you have never, sir, seen the camelroorelephant?"

"The cam--" began Eph Somers.

Then he stopped, clapping both hands to his right jaw.

"Won't you please hand that to us in pieces?" begged Eph, speaking as
though with difficulty.

The cadet laughed heartily, then added:

"Don't try to pronounce it, gentlemen, until you've seen the
camelroorelephant. It's a cadet joke, but it's well worth seeing. Shall I
take you to it?"

"Why, yes, if you'll be good enough," Jack assented, heartily.

The cadet glanced quickly about him, then said in a low voice:

"This way, please, gentlemen."

He led the strangers quickly around the end of barracks to an open space
in the rear. Here he halted.

"Gentlemen, I must ask you to close your eyes, and keep them closed, on
honor, until I ask you to open them again. You won't have to keep your
eyes closed more than sixty seconds before the camelroorelephant will be
ready for inspection. Now, eyes closed, please."

Lingering only long enough to make sure that his request had been met, the
cadet stole noiselessly away.

Nor was it many seconds later when all three of the submarine boys began
to feel suddenly suspicious.

"I'm going to open my eyes," whispered Eph.

"You're on honor not to," warned Jack Benson, also in a whisper.

"I didn't give my word," retorted Eph, "and I'm going to--oh, great shades
of Santiago!"

The very genuine note of concern in Eph's voice caused Jack and Hal to
open their own eyes instantly.

Nor could any of the three repress a quick start.

From all quarters naval cadets were advancing stealthily upon them.
Something in the very attitude and poise of the young men told the
submarine boys that these naval cadets were out for mischief.

"We're in for it!" breathed Jack, in an undertone. "We're in for something
real and startling, I reckon. Fellows, brace up and take your medicine,
whatever it is, like men!"


                   CHAPTER XI: BUT SOMETHING HAPPENED!


Nor was Jack's guess in the least wrong.

Even had the submarine boys attempted to bolt they would have found it
impossible. They were surrounded.

The cadets closed quickly in upon them. There were more than thirty of
these budding young naval officers.

It was Cadet Merriam who stepped straight up to Jack, giving him a
grotesque and exaggerated salute, as he rumbled out:

"Good evening, SIR!"

Like a flash Jack Benson comprehended. These cadets intended fully to even
up matters for having been obliged to say "sir" to these very youthful
"civilian instructors."

"Good evening," Jack smiled.

"You have come to see the camelroorelephant, SIR?"

"We've been told that we might have that pleasure," Jack responded, still
smiling.

"Perhaps you may," retorted Cadet Merriam, "though, first of all, it will
be necessary to prove yourselves worthy of the privilege, SIR."

"Anything within our power," promised Jack.

"Then, SIR, let me see you all three stand 'at attention.'"

"At attention" is the rigid attitude taken by a United States soldier or
sailor when in the presence of his officers. Jack had already seen men in
that attitude, and did his best to imitate it in smart military manner.
Eph and Hal did likewise.

"No, no, no, you dense blockheads!" uttered Cadet Midshipman Merriam. "'At
attention' upside down--on your hands!"

The other cadet midshipmen now hemmed in closely about the three. Jack
thought he caught the idea. He bent over, throwing his feet up in the air
and resting on his hands. Unable to keep his balance, he walked two or
three steps.

"I didn't tell you to walk your post, blockhead!" scowled Mr. Merriam.
"Stand still when at attention."

Jack tried, but of course made a ludicrous failure of standing still on
his hands. So did Hal and Eph. The latter, truth to tell, didn't try very
hard, for his freckled temper was coming a bit to the surface.

"You're the rawest recruits, the worst landlubbers I've ever seen,"
declared Cadet Midshipman Merriam, with severe dignity. "Rest, before you
try it any further."

The smile had all but left Jack Benson's lips, though he tried to keep it
there. Hal Hastings made the most successful attempt at looking wholly
unconcerned. Eph's face was growing redder every minute. It is a
regrettable fact that Eph was really beginning to want to fight.

"See here," ordered Mr. Merriam, suddenly, taking Jack by the arm, "you're
a horse, a full-blooded Arab steed--understand!"

He gave young Benson a push that sent that youngster down to the ground on
all fours.

"You're General Washington, out to take a ride on your horse," announced
Mr. Merriam, turning to Hal. "It's a ride for your health. Do you
understand? It will be wholly for your health to take that ride!"

Hal Hastings couldn't help comprehending. With a sheepish grin he sat
astride of Jack Benson's back as the latter stood on all fours.

"Go ahead with your ride, General," called Mr. Merriam.

Jack pranced as best he could, on all fours, Hal making the load of his
own weight as light as he could. Over the ground the pair moved in this
nonsensical ride, the cadets following and grinning their appreciation of
the nonsense.

Two of the young men followed, holding Eph by the arms between them. Mr.
Merriam now turned upon the unhappy freckled boy.

"Down on all fours," ordered Mr. Merriam. "You're the measly dog that
barked at General Washington on that famous ride. Bark, you wretched
yellow cur--bark, bark, _bark_!"

Though Eph Somers was madder than ever, he had just enough judgment
remaining to feel that the wisest thing would be to obey instructions. So,
on all fours, Eph raced after Jack, barking at him.

"See how frightened the horse is," muttered one of the midshipmen.

Taking the hint, Jack shied as well as he could.

"That's all," said Mr. Merriam, at last. "All of that, at least."

As the three submarine boys rose, each found himself gently held by a pair
of cadet midshipmen. It was a more or less polite hint that the ordeal was
not yet over. Mr. Merriam turned to whisper to one of the cadets, who
darted inside the barracks building. He was back, promptly, carrying a
folded blanket on his arm.

A grin spread over the faces of the assembled cadet midshipmen. The bearer
of the blanket at once unfolded it. As many of the cadets as could got
hold of the edges, bending, holding the blanket spread out over the
ground.

Jack Benson's two captors suddenly hurled him across the length of the
blanket with no gentle force. Instantly the cadets holding the blankets
straightened up, jerking it taut. Up into the air a couple of feet bounded
Jack. As his body came down the cadets holding the blanket gave it a still
harder jerk. This time Jack shot up into the air at least four feet. It
was the same old blanket-tossing, long popular both in the Army and Navy.
Every time Jack landed the blanket was given a harder jerk by those
holding it. Benson began to go higher and higher.

          [Illustration: Eph Raced After Jack, Barking at Him.]

                  Eph Raced After Jack, Barking at Him.


And now the cadets broke into a low, monotonous chant, in time to their
movements. It ran:

  Sir, sir, surcingle!
    Sir, sir, circle!
  Sir, sir, with a shingle--
    Sir, sir, sir!

As regular as drumbeats the cadets ripped out the syllables of the
refrain. At each word Jack Benson's body shot higher and higher. These
young men were experts in the gentle art of blanket-tossing. Ere long the
submarine boy was going up into the air some eight or nine feet at every
tautening of the blanket.

As for escape, that was out of the question. No sooner did the submarine
boy touch the blanket than he shot skyward again. Had he desired to he
could not have called out. The motion and the sudden jolts shook all the
breath out of him.

"Ugh! Hm! Pleasant, isn't it?" uttered Hal Hastings, grimly, under his
breath.

"If they try to do that to me," whispered Eph, hotly, under his breath,
"I'll fight."

"More simpleton you, then!" Hal shot back at him in warning. "What chance
do you think you stand against a crowd like this?"

Just as suddenly as it had begun the blanket-tossing stopped. Yet, hardly
had Jack been allowed to step out than Hal Hastings was unceremoniously
dropped athwart the blanket. The tossing began again, to the chant of:

  Sir, sir, surcingle!
    Sir, sir, circle!

Right plentifully were these cadet midshipmen avenging themselves for
having had to say "sir" to these young submarine boys that day.

"Woof!" breathed Jack, as soon as breath entered his body again. Eph
clenched his fists tightly, as Hal continued to go higher and higher. But
at last Hastings's ordeal was over.

"I suppose they'll try that on me!" gritted Eph Somers to himself. "If
they do--"

That was far as he got, for Eph was suddenly flung upon the blanket.

  Sir, sir, surcingle!

Then how Eph _did_ go up and down! It was as though these cadet midshipmen
knew that it would make Eph mad, madder, maddest! These budding young
naval officers fairly bent to their work, tautening and loosening on the
blanket until their muscles fairly ached.

It was lofty aerial work that Eph Somers was doing. Up and up--higher and
higher! Without the need of any effort on his own part young Somers was
now traveling upward at the rate of ten or eleven feet at every punctuated
bound.

Then, suddenly, there came a sound that chilled the blood of every young
cadet midshipman hazer present.

"_Halt!_ Where you are!"

Under the shadow of the barracks building a naval officer had appeared. He
now came forward, a frown on his face, eyeing the culprits.

It is no merry jest for cadet midshipmen to be caught at hazing! And here
were some thirty of them--red-handed!


                CHAPTER XII: JACK BENSON, EXPERT EXPLAINER


At the first word of command from the officer several of the cadet
midshipmen who were near enough to an open doorway vanished through it.

As the officer strode through the group of startled young men a few more,
left behind his back, made a silent disappearance.

There were left, however, as the officer looked about him, sixteen of the
young men, all too plainly headed and led by Cadet Midshipman Merriam.

"Young gentlemen," said the officer, severely, "I regret to find so many
of you engaged in hazing. It is doubly bad when your victims are men
outside the corps. And, if I mistake not, these young gentlemen are here
as temporary civilian instructors in submarine work."

Mr. Merriam and his comrades made no reply in words. Nor did their faces
express much. They stood at attention, looking stolidly ahead of them,
though their faces were turned toward the officer. It was not the place of
any of them to speak unless the officer asked questions.

Severe as the hazing had been, however, Jack and Hal, at least, had taken
it all in good part. Nor was Jack bound by any of the rules of etiquette
that prevented the cadets from speaking.

"May I offer a word, sir?" asked Jack, wheeling upon the officer.

"You were one of the victims of a hazing, were you not?" demanded the
officer, regarding Jack, keenly.

"Why, could you call it that, sir?" asked Jack, a look of innocent
surprise settling on his face. "We called it a demonstration--an
explanation."

"Demonstration? Explanation?" repeated the officer, astonished in his
turn. "What do you mean, Mr.--er--?"

"Benson," Jack supplied, quietly.

"I think you would better tell me a little more, Mr. Benson," pursued the
unknown naval officer.

"Why, it was like this, sir," Jack continued. "My two friends--Hastings and
Somers--and myself were talking about the West Point and Annapolis hazings,
of which we had heard and read. We were talking about the subject when a
cadet came along. I suggested to Somers that we ask the cadet about
hazing. Well, sir, to make a long story short, some of the cadets
undertook to show us just how hazing is--or used to be--done at Annapolis."

"Oh! Then it was all thoroughly good-natured, all in the way of a joke, to
show you something you wanted to know?" asked the naval officer, slowly.

"That's the way I took it," replied Jack. "So did Hastings and Somers.
We've enjoyed ourselves more than anyone else here has."

This was truth surely enough, for, in the last two minutes, not one of the
cadet midshipmen present could have been accused of _enjoying_ himself.

"Then what took place here, Mr. Benson, really took place at your
request?" insisted the naval officer.

"It all answered the questions that we had been asking," Jack replied,
promptly, though, it must be admitted, rather evasively.

"This is your understanding, too, Mr. Hastings?" demanded the officer.

"Surely," murmured Hal.

"You, Mr. Somers?"

"I--I haven't had so much fun since the gasoline engine blew up," protested
Eph.

"We entered most heartily into the spirit of the thing," Jack hastened on
to say, "and feel that we owe the deepest thanks to these young gentlemen
of the Navy. Yet, if our desire to know more about the life--that is, the
former life--of the Academy is to result in getting our entertainers into
any trouble, we shall never cease regretting our unfortunate curiosity."

For some moments the naval officer regarded the three submarine boys,
solemnly, in turn. From them he turned to look over the cadet midshipmen.
The latter looked as stolid, and stood as rigidly at attention, as ever.

"Under this presentation of the matter," said the officer, after a long
pause, "I am not prepared to say that there has been any violation of
discipline. At least, no grave infraction. However, some of these young
gentlemen are, I believe, absent from their quarters without leave. Mr.
Merriam?"

"I have permission to be absent from my quarters between nine and ten,
sir."

"Mr. Caldwell?"

"Absent from quarters without permission, sir."

So on down through the list the officer ran. Nine of the young men proved
to have leave to be away from their quarters. The other seven did not have
such permission. The names of these seven, therefore, were written down to
be reported. The seven, too, were ordered at once back to their quarters.

Having issued his instructions, the naval officer turned and walked away.
Jack and his comrades, too, left the scene.

Yet they had not gone far when they heard a low hail behind. Turning, they
saw Cadet Midshipmen Merriam hastening toward them.

"Gentlemen," he said, earnestly, as he reached them, "it may not be best
for me to be seen lingering here to talk with you. But my comrades wanted
me to come after you and to say that we think you bricks. You carried that
off finely, Mr. Benson. None of us will ever forget it."

"It wasn't much to do," smiled Jack, pleasantly.

"It was quick-witted of you, and generous too, sir," rejoined Mr. Merriam,
finding it now very easy to employ the "sir." "Probably you agree with us
that no great crime was committed, anyway. But, just the same, hazing is
under a heavy ban these days. If you hadn't saved the day as you did, sir,
all of our cadet party might have been dismissed the Service. Those absent
from quarters without leave will get only a few demerits apiece. We have
that much to thank you for, sir, and we do. All our thanks, remember. Good
night, sir."

"My courage was down in my boots for a while," confessed Hal Hastings, as
the three chums continued their walk back to the Basin.

"When?" demanded Eph, grimly. "When your boots--and the rest of you--were so
high up in the air over the blanket?"

"No; when the cadets were caught at it," replied Hal.

"Say, Jack," demanded Eph, "do you ever give much thought to the future
life?"

"Meaning the life in the next world?" questioned Benson.

"Yes."

"I sometimes give a good deal of thought to it," Jack confessed.

"Then where do you expect to go, when the time comes?"

"Why?"

"After the whoppers you told that officer?"

"I didn't tell him even a single tiny fib," protested Jack, indignantly.

"Oh, you George Washington!" choked Eph Somers.

"Well, I didn't," insisted Jack. "Now, just stop and think. Weren't we all
three discussing hazing?"

"Yes."

"Then that part of what I told the officer was straight. Now, Eph, when we
saw that first cadet come along, didn't I suggest to you to ask him about
hazing?"

"Ye-es," admitted Somers, thoughtfully.

"Then, didn't the cadet midshipmen offer to show us all about hazing
pranks, and didn't they do it?"

"Well, rather," muttered Eph.

"Now, young man, that's all I told the officer, except that we enjoyed our
entertainment greatly."

"_Did_ we enjoy it, though?" demanded Eph Somers, bridling up.

"I did," replied Jack, "and I spoke for myself. I enjoyed it as I would
enjoy almost any new experience."

"So did I," added Hal, warmly. "It was rough--mighty rough--but now I know
what an Annapolis hazing is like, and I'm glad I do."

"Well, I want to tell you I didn't enjoy it," blazed Eph. "It was a mighty
cheeky--"

"Then why did you let the officer imagine you enjoyed it?" taunted Jack.

While Hal put in, slyly:

"Eph, you're too quick to talk about others fibbing. From the evidence
just put in, it's evident that you're the only one of the three who fibbed
any. Won't you please walk on the other side of the road? I never did like
to travel with liars."

"Oh, you go to Jericho!" flared Eph. But, as he walked along, he blinked a
good deal, and did some hard thinking.

"I'll tell you," broke out Jack, suddenly, "who thanks us even more than
the cadets themselves do."

"Who?" queried Hal.

"That officer who caught the crowd at it."

"Do you think he cared?"

"Of course he did," said Jack, positively. "He'd rather have gone hungry
for a couple of days than have to report that bunch for hazing."

"Then why was he so infernally stiff with the young men?"

"He had to be; that's the answer. That officer, like every other officer
of the Navy detailed here, is sworn to do his full duty. So he has to
enforce the regulations. But don't you suppose, fellows, that officer was
hazed, and did some hazing on his own account, when he was a cadet
midshipman here years ago? Of course! And that's why the officer didn't
question us any more closely than he did. He was afraid he might stumble
on something that would oblige him to report the whole crowd for hazing.
_He_ didn't want to do it. That officer, I'm certain, knew that, if he
questioned us too closely, he'd find a lot more beneath the surface that
he simply didn't want to dig up."

"Would you have told the truth, if he had questioned you searchingly, and
pinned you right down?" demanded Eph Somers.

"Of course I would," Jack replied, soberly. "I'm no liar. But I feel
deeply grateful to that officer for not being keener."

Before nine o'clock the next morning news of the night's doings back of
barracks had spread through the entire corps of cadet midshipmen.

With these young men of the Navy there was but one opinion of the
submarine boys--that they were trumps, wholly of the right sort.

As a result, Jack, Hal and Eph had hundreds of new friends among those who
will officer the Navy of the morrow.

Not so bad, even just as a stroke of business!


                  CHAPTER XIII: READY FOR THE SEA CRUISE


For the next ten days things moved along without much excitement for the
submarine boys.

During that time they had an average of four sections a day of cadet
midshipmen to instruct in the workings of the Pollard type of submarine
torpedo boat.

During the last few days short cruises were taken on the Severn River, in
order that the middies might practise at running the motors and handling
the craft. At such times one squad of midshipmen would be on duty in the
engine room, another in the conning tower and on the platform deck.

Of course, when the midshipmen handled the "Farnum," under command of a
Navy officer, the submarine boys had but little more to do than to be on
board. Certainly they were not overworked. Yet all three were doing fine
work for their employers in making the Navy officers of the future like
the Pollard type of craft.

After waiting a few days Jack Benson reported to the Annapolis police his
experience with the mulatto "guide." The police thought they recognized
the fellow, from the description, and did their best to find him. The
mulatto, however, seemed to have disappeared from that part of the
country.

There came a Friday afternoon when, as the last detachment of middies
filed over the side into the waiting cutter, Lieutenant Commander Mayhew
announced:

"This, Mr. Benson, completes the instruction desired in the Basin and in
the river. To-morrow and Sunday you will have for rest. On Monday, at 10
A.M., a section will report aboard for the first trip out to sea. Then you
will show our young men how the boat dives, and how she is run under
water. As none of our cadet midshipmen have ever been below in a submarine
before, you will be sure of having eager students."

"And perhaps some nervous ones," smiled Skipper Jack.

"Possibly," assented Mr. Mayhew. "I doubt it, though. Nervousness is not a
marked trait of any young man who has been long enrolled at the Naval
Academy."

"Can we have a slight favor done us, Mr. Mayhew?" Jack asked.

"Any reasonable favor, of course."

"Then, sir, we'd like to spend a little time ashore, as we've been
confined so long aboard. If I lock up everything tight on the boat until
Sunday night, may we know that the 'Farnum' will be under the protection
of the marine guard?"

"I feel that there will not be the slightest difficulty in promising you
that," replied Mr. Mayhew. "I will telephone the proper authorities about
it as soon as I go on shore."

All hands on board were pleased over the prospect of going ashore, with
the exception of Sam Truax.

"You don't need any guard on the boat," he protested. "I don't want to go
ashore. Leave me here and I'll be all the guard necessary."

"We're all going ashore," Jack replied.

"But I haven't any money to spend ashore," objected Truax.

"I'll let you have ten dollars on account, then," replied Jack, who was
well supplied with money, thanks to a draft received from Jacob Farnum.

"I don't want to go ashore, anyway."

"I'm sorry, Truax, but it doesn't really make any difference. The boat
will be closed up tight, and there wouldn't be any place for you to stay,
except on the platform deck."

"You're not treating me fairly," protested Sam Truax, indignantly.

"I'm sorry you think so. Still, if you're not satisfied, all I can do is
to pay you off to date. Then you can go where you please."

"I'm here by David Pollard's order. Do you forget that?"

"He sent you along to us, true," admitted Jack, "but I have instructions
from Mr. Farnum to dismiss anyone whose work on board I don't like. Now,
Truax, you're a competent enough man in the engine room, and there's no
sense in having to let you go. You're well paid, and can afford the time
on shore. I wouldn't make any more fuss about this, but do as the rest of
us are going to do."

"Oh, I'll have to, then, since you're boss here," grumbled Truax, sulkily.

"I don't want to make it felt too much that I _am_ boss here," Jack
retorted, mildly. "At the same time, though, I'm held responsible, and so
I suppose I'll have to have things done the way that seems best to me."

Sam Truax turned to get his satchel. The instant his back was turned on
the young commander Sam's face was a study in ugliness.

"Oh, I'll take this all out of you," muttered the fellow to himself. "I
don't believe, Jack Benson, you'll go on the cruising next week. If you
do, you won't be much good, anyway!"

Ten minutes later a shore boat landed the entire party from the submarine
craft.

"Going with the rest of us, Truax?" inquired Jack, pleasantly.

"No; I'm going to find a boarding-house. That will be cheaper than the
hotel."

So the other four kept straight on to the Maryland House, giving very
little more thought to the sulky one.

It was not until after supper that Eph turned the talk back to Sam Truax.

"I don't like the fellow, at all," declared young Somers. "He always wants
to be left alone in the engine room, for one thing."

"And I've made it my business, regular," added Williamson, the machinist,
"to see that he doesn't have his wish."

"He's always sulky, and kicking about everything," added Eph. "I may be
wrong, but I can't get it out of my head that the fellow came aboard on
purpose to be a trouble-maker."

"Why, what object could he have in that?" asked Captain Jack.

"Blessed if I know," replied Eph. "But that's the way I size the fellow
up. Now, take that time you were knocked senseless, back in Dunhaven. Who
could have done that? The more I think about Sam Truax, the more I suspect
him as the fellow who stretched you out."

"Again, what object could he have?" inquired Benson.

"Blessed if I know. What object could anyone have in such a trick against
you? It was a state prison job, if the fellow had been caught at the
time."

"Well, there's one thing Truax was innocent of, anyway," laughed Captain
Jack. "He didn't have any hand in the way I was tricked and robbed by the
mulatto."

"Blamed if I'm so sure he didn't have a hand in that, too," contended Eph
Somers, stubbornly.

"Yet Mr. Pollard recommended him," urged Jack.

"Yes, and a fine fellow Dave Pollard is--true as steel," put in Hal
Hastings, quietly. "Yet you know what a dreamer he is. Always has his head
in the air and his thoughts among the stars. He'd as like as not take a
fellow like Truax on the fellow's own say-so, and never think of looking
him up."

"Oh, we've no reason to think Truax isn't honest enough," contended Jack
Benson. "He's certainly a fine workman. As to his being sulky, you know
well enough that's a common fault among men who spend their lives
listening to the noise of great engines. A man who can't make himself
heard over the noise of a big engine hasn't much encouragement to talk.
Now, a man who can't find much chance to talk becomes sulky a good many
times out of ten."

"We'll have trouble with that fellow, Truax, yet," muttered Eph.

"Oh, I hope not," Jack answered, then added, significantly:

"If he _does_ start any trouble he may find that he has been trifling with
the wrong crowd!"

Very little more thought was given to the sulky one. The submarine boys
and their companion, Williamson, enjoyed Saturday and Sunday ashore.

All of them might have felt disturbed, however, had they known of one
thing that happened.

The naval machinists aboard the first submarine boat, the "Pollard," now
owned by the United States Government, found something slightly out of
order with the "Pollard's" engine that they did not know exactly how to
remedy.

Sam Truax, hanging around the Basin that Sunday forenoon, was called upon.
He gladly responded to the call for help. For four hours he toiled along
in the "Pollard's" engine room. Much of that time he spent there alone.

The job done, at last, Truax quietly received the thanks of the naval
machinists and went ashore again.

Yet, as he turned and walked toward the main gate of the grounds, there
was a smile on Sam Truax's face that was little short of diabolical.

"Now, if I can only get the same chance at the 'Farnum's' engines!" he
muttered, to himself. "If I can, I think Mr. Jack Benson will find himself
out of favor with his company, for his company will be out of favor with
the Navy Department at Washington!"


                   CHAPTER XIV: THE "POLLARD" GOES LAME


"The submarine boats when out in the Bay will keep abreast of the
'Hudson,' two hundred yards off on either beam. The speed will be fourteen
knots when the signal is given for full speed. The general course, after
leaving the mouth of the Bay will be East."

Such were the instructions called from the rail of the gunboat, through a
megaphone, Monday forenoon.

On each of the submarine craft were sixteen cadet midshipmen, out for
actual practice in handling a submarine in diving and in running under
water. On board the gunboat were eighty more cadets. Thus a large class of
the young men were to receive instruction during the cruise, for the
detachments aboard the submarines could be changed at the pleasure of
Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, who was in charge of the cruise.

Captain Jack, his own hands on the conning tower wheel, ran the "Farnum"
out into the river, first of all. Then the "Pollard," under command of a
naval officer, followed. Both backed water, then waited for the "Hudson"
to come out, for the gunboat was to lead the way until the Bay was
reached. Then the formation ordered would be followed.

Though it was nearing the first of November, the day, near land, was
ideally soft and balmy. As many of the midshipmen as could sought the
platform deck of the "Farnum." Those, however, who belonged to the
engineer division were obliged to spend the greater part of their time
below.

By the time that the three craft were in the ordered formation, abreast,
and well started down Chesapeake Bay, the parent vessel signaled that the
designated cadets were to take charge of the handling of the submarine
boats.

Jack Benson cheerfully relinquished the wheel to Cadet Midshipman Merriam,
and stepped out on to the platform deck. At need, as in case of accident
or misunderstanding of signals or orders, Benson was still in command.
While all ran smoothly, however, Mr. Merriam enjoyed command.

Hal, being likewise relieved in the engine room, came also out on deck.

"Where's Eph?" inquired the young commander of the "Farnum."

"In the engine room," smiled Hal. "He said I could leave, if I wanted, but
that he'd be hanged if he'd let Truax out of his sight while I was away."

"Eph seems to have Truax on the brain," laughed Jack.

"Well, Truax _is_ a queer and surly one," Hal admitted. "This morning he
gives one the impression of peeking over his shoulder all the time to see
whether he's being watched."

"So Eph means to humor him by watching him, eh?" asked Jack.

Hal laughed quietly.

Some of the cadets who were familiar with the landmarks of Chesapeake Bay
pointed out many of the localities and sights to the two submarine boys.

At last, however, Eph was obliged to call for Hal.

"You know, Hal, old fellow, I've got to look out for the feeding of a lot
of boarders to-day," complained Eph, whimsically.

This task of Eph's took time, though it was not a hard one. The food for
the cadets had been sent aboard. Eph had to make coffee and heat soup. For
the rest, cold food had to do. The young men, on this trip, were required
to wait on themselves.

Hal found Sam Truax sitting moodily in a corner of the engine room, though
there was something about the fellow's appearance that suggested the
watchfulness of a cat.

"Why don't you go on deck a while, Truax?" asked Hal, kindly.

"Don't want to," snapped the fellow, irritably. So Hal turned his back on
the man.

"Doesn't that part need loosening up a bit, sir?" asked the cadet in
charge of the engineer division.

"Yes," replied Hastings, after watching a moment; "it does."

"I'll do it, then," proposed Truax, roughly. He attempted to crowd his way
past Hal, but the latter refused to be crowded, and stood his ground until
the midshipman passed him a wrench. Then Hastings loosened up the part.

"You might let me do a little something," growled Sam Truax, in a tone
intentionally offensive.

"Don't forget, Truax, that I'm in command in this department," retorted
Hal, in a quieter tone than usual, though with a direct, steady look that
made Sam Truax turn white with repressed wrath.

"You won't let me forget it, will you?" snarled the fellow.

"No; for I don't want you to forget it, and least of all on this cruise,"
responded Hal Hastings.

"You don't give me any chance to--"

"Silence!" ordered Hal, taking a step toward him.

Sam Truax opened his mouth to make some retort, then wisely changed his
mind, dropping back into his former seat.

The noon meal was served to all hands. By the time it was well over the
mouth of the Bay was in sight, the broad Atlantic rolling in beyond.

The sea, when reached, proved to be almost smooth. It was ideal weather
for such a cruise.

Then straight East, for an hour they went, getting well out of the path of
coasting vessels.

"Hullo! What in blazes does that mean?" suddenly demanded Hal, pointing
astern at starboard.

The "Pollard" lay tossing gently on the water, making no headway. Hardly
ten seconds later the "Hudson" signaled a halt.

Then followed some rapid signaling between the gunboat and the submarine
that had stopped. There was some break in the "Pollard's" machinery, but
the cause had not yet been determined.

"Blazes!" muttered Jack, uneasily. "It couldn't have happened at a worse
time. This looks bad for our firm, Hal!"

The "Farnum" now lay to, as did the "Hudson," for the officer in command
of the "Pollard" signaled that his machinists were making a rapid but
thorough investigation of the unfortunate submarine's engines.

Finally, a cutter put off from the "Hudson," with a cadet midshipman in
charge. The small boat came over alongside, and the midshipman called up:

"The lieutenant commander's compliments, and will Mr. Benson detail Mr.
Hastings to go over to the 'Pollard' and assist?"

"My compliments to the lieutenant commander," Jack replied. "And be good
enough to report to him, please, that Mr. Hastings and I will both go."

"My orders, sir, are to convey you to the 'Pollard' before reporting back
to the parent vessel," replied the midshipman.

The cutter came alongside, taking off the two submarine boys, while Eph
Somers devoted himself to watching Sam Truax as a bloodhound might have
hung to a trail.

Arrived on board the good, old, familiar "Pollard," Jack and Hal hurried
below.

"The machinery is too hot to handle, now, sir," reported one of the naval
machinists, "but it looks as though something was wrong right in
there"--pointing.

"Put one of the electric fans at work there, at once," directed Hal. "Then
things ought to be cool enough in half an hour, to make an examination
possible."

After seeing this done, the two submarine boys left for the platform deck,
for the engine room was both hot and crowded.

"How long is it going to take you, Mr. Hastings?" asked the naval officer
in command of the "Pollard."

"Half an hour to get the parts cool enough to examine, but I can't say,
sir, how long the examination and repairs will take."

So the officer in command signaled what proved to be vague and
unsatisfactory information to Lieutenant Commander Mayhew.

"This is a bad time to have this sort of thing happen," observed the naval
officer in charge.

"A mighty bad time, sir," Jack murmured.

"And the engines of the 'Pollard' were supposed to be in first-class
condition."

"They _were_ in A-1 condition, when the boat was turned over to the Navy,"
Jack responded.

"Do you imagine, then, Mr. Benson, that some of the naval machinists have
been careless or incompetent?"

"Why, that would be a wild guess to make, sir, when one remembers what
high rank your naval machinists take in their work," Jack Benson replied.

"And this boat was sold to the Navy with the strongest guarantee for the
engines," pursued the officer in charge.

Jack and Hal were both worried. The sudden break had a bad look for the
Pollard boats, in the success of which these submarine boys were most
vitally interested.

At last, from below, the suspected parts of the engine were reported to be
cool enough for examination. The naval officer in charge followed Jack and
Hal below.

Taking off his uniform blouse and rolling up his sleeves, Hal sailed in
vigorously to locate the fault. Machinists and cadets stood about, passing
him the tools he needed, and helping him when required.

At last, after disconnecting some parts, Hal drew out a long, slender
brass piston.

As he held it up young Hastings's face went as white as chalk.

"Do you see this?" he demanded, hoarsely.

"Filed, crazily, and it also looks as though the inner end had been heated
and tampered with," gasped Jack Benson.

"This, sir," complained Hal, turning around to face the naval officer in
charge, "looks like a direct attempt to tamper with and damage the engine.
Someone has done this deliberately, sir. It only remains to find the
culprit."

"Then we'll find out," retorted the naval officer, "if it takes a court of
inquiry and a court martial to do it. But are you sure of your charge, Mr.
Hastings?"

"Am I sure?" repeated Hal, all the soul of the young engineer swelling to
the surface. "Take this piston, sir, and examine it. Could such a job have
been done, unless by sheer design and intent?"

"Will the lieutenant permit me to speak?" asked the senior machinist,
taking a step forward and saluting.

"Yes; go ahead."

"Yesterday morning, sir," continued the senior machinist, "we thought the
engines needed some overhauling by someone more accustomed to them than we
were. We saw one of the machinists of the 'Farnum,' sir, hanging about on
shore. So we invited him aboard and asked him to look the engines over."

"Describe the man," begged Jack.

The senior machinist gave a description that instantly denoted Sam Truax
as the man in question.

"Did you leave him alone in here, at any time?" demanded Hal.

"Let me see. Why, yes, sir. The man must have been alone in here some
three-quarters of an hour."

Jack and Hal exchanged swift glances.

There seemed, now, very little need of carrying the investigation further.


                  CHAPTER XV: ANOTHER TURN AT HARD LUCK


When he could trust himself to speak Hal Hastings addressed the naval
officer.

"I think Mr. Benson and myself understand, sir, how it happened that this
damage was done. There are extra parts in the repair kit. In twenty
minutes, sir, I think we can have the engines running smoothly once more."

The naval officer was wise enough not to press the questioning further
just then. Instead, he went on deck.

Working like beavers, and with the assistance of others standing about,
Jack and Hal had the piston replaced and all the other parts in place
within fifteen minutes. Then, once more, Hal turned on the gasoline, set
the ignition, and watched.

The engine ran as smoothly as ever.

"There won't be any more trouble, unless someone is turned loose here with
files and a blast lamp," pronounced Hal. Then he and his chum sought the
deck, to report to the officer in charge.

"You think we're in running order, now?" asked that officer.

"If you give the speed-ahead signal, sir, I think you'll feel as though
you had a live engine under your deck," Hal assured him.

The signal was given, the "Pollard" immediately responding. She cut a wide
circle, at good speed, returning to her former position, where the
propellers were stopped.

"You suspect your own machinist, who was aboard?" asked the naval officer,
in a low tone, of the submarine boys.

"If you'll pardon our not answering directly, sir," Captain Jack replied,
"we want to have more than suspicions before we make a very energetic
report on this strange accident. But we shall not be asleep, sir, in the
matter of finding out. Then we shall make a full report to Mr. Mayhew."

"Success to you--and vigilance!" muttered the naval officer.

The gunboat's cutter came alongside, transferring Jack and Hal back to the
"Farnum."

Hal went directly below to the engine room.

"You fixed the trouble with the 'Pollard'?" demanded Eph Somers, eagerly.

"Yes," Hal admitted.

"What was wrong?"

"Why, I don't know as I'd want to commit myself in too offhand a way,"
replied Hal, slowly, as though thinking.

"What appeared to be at the bottom of the trouble?"

"Why, it _may_ have been that one of the naval machinists, not
understanding our engines any too well, allowed one of the pistons to get
overheated, and then resorted to filing," Hal replied.

"What? Overheat a piston, and then try to correct it with a file?" cried
young Somers, disgustedly. "The crazy blacksmith! He ought to be set to
shoeing snails--that's all he's fit for."

"It looks that way," Hal assented, smiling.

Artful, clever Hal! He had carried it all off so coolly and naturally that
Sam Truax, who had been closely studying Hastings's face from the
background, was wholly deceived.

"This fellow, Hastings, isn't as smart as I had thought him," muttered
Truax, to himself.

The interrupted cruise now proceeded, the parent vessel signaling for a
temporary speed of sixteen knots in order to make up for lost time.

Twenty minutes later came the signal from the "Hudson:"

"At the command, the submarines will dash ahead at full speed, each making
its best time. During this trial, which will end at the firing of a gun
from the parent vessel, all cadets will be on deck."

Word was immediately passed below, and all the cadets of the engineer
division came tumbling up.

To these, who had been in the engine room constantly for hours, the cool
wind blowing across the deck was highly agreeable.

For the speed dash Captain Jack Benson had again taken command. He passed
word below to Eph Somers to take the wheel in the conning tower.

Eph, therefore, came up with the last of the cadets from below. In the
excitement of the pending race it had not been noticed by any of the
submarine boys that Williamson was already on deck, aft. That left Sam
Truax below in sole possession of the boat's engine quarters.

The gunboat now fell a little behind, leaving the two submarines some four
hundred yards apart, but as nearly as possible on a line.

"Look at the crowd over on the 'Pollard's' decks," muttered Hal. "They're
all Navy folks over there."

"And they mean to beat such plain 'dubs' as they must consider us,"
laughed Captain Jack, in an undertone.

"Will they beat us, though?" grinned Hal Hastings. "You and I, Jack,
happen to know that the 'Farnum' is a bit the faster boat by rights."

Suddenly the signal broke out from the gunboat.

"Race her, Eph!" shouted Captain Jack.

"Aye, aye, sir!"

Eph Somers's right hand caught at the speed signals beside the wheel. He
called for all speed, the bell jangling merrily in the engine room.

A little cheer of excitement went up from the cadets aboard the "Farnum"
as that craft shot ahead over the waters. The cadets were catching the
thrill of what was virtually a race. At the same time, though, these
midshipmen could not help feeling a good deal of interest in the success
of the "Pollard," which was manned wholly by representatives of the Navy.

In the first three minutes the "Farnum" stole gradually, though slowly,
ahead of the "Pollard." Then, to the disgust of all three of the submarine
boys, the other craft was seen to be gaining. Before long the "Pollard"
had the lead, and looked likely to increase it. Already gleeful cheers
were rising from the all-Navy crowd on the deck of the other submarine.

Behind the racers sped the "Hudson," keeping just far enough behind to be
able to observe everything without interfering with either torpedo craft.

From looking at the "Pollard" Captain Jack glanced down at the water. His
own boat's bows seemed to be cutting the water at a fast gait. The young
skipper, knowing what he knew about both boats, could not understand this
losing to the other craft.

"The Navy men must know a few tricks with engines that we haven't
guessed," he observed, anxiously, to young Hastings.

"I don't know what it can be, then," murmured Hal, uneasily. "There aren't
so confusingly many parts to a six-cylinder gasoline motor. They aren't
hard engines to run. More depends on the engine itself than on the
engineer."

"But look over there," returned Captain Jack Benson. "You see the
'Pollard' taking the wind out of our teeth, don't you?"

"Yes," Hal admitted, looking more puzzled.

"Do you think our engines are doing the top-notch of their best?" asked
Benson.

"Yes; for Williamson is a crackerjack machinist. He knows our engines as
well as any man alive could do."

"Do you think it would do any good for you to go below, Hal?"

"I will, if you say so," offered Hastings. "Yet there's another side to
it."

"What?"

"Williamson might get it into his head that I went below because I thought
he was making a muddle of the speed. As a matter of fact, he knows every
blessed thing I do about our motors, and Williamson is loyal to the core."

"I know," nodded Captain Jack. "I'd hate to hurt a fine fellow's feelings.
Yet--confound it, I _do_ want to win this burst of speed. It means,
perhaps, the quick sale of this boat to the Navy. BARSSEGH. Yes, I see
it; I see it, my son, and it is on that account I am so good to you.
Only wait till next year and you shall be my partner.

I will supply the money and you the labor.

DARTSCHO.

May God give you a long life for that! I seem to myself like a tree which
you have planted.

I hope I will still bear fruit and you will have your joy in me. Do you
know that I have gotten rid of those damaged goods?

BARSSEGH. Is it possible?

DARTSCHO. It's a fact.

BARSSEGH. To whom have you sold them?

DARTSCHO. To a man from Signach. I laid two good pieces on top so
that he did not notice it.

Let him groan now.

BARSSEGH. And how? On credit?

DARTSCHO. Am I then crazy? Have I ever sold damaged goods on credit, that
you make such a supposition?

Of course I took something off for it, but made believe I only did it
to please him.

He paid me the full sum at once; and if he is now boasting how cheap
he bought the goods, I hope he will sing my praises also.

BARSSEGH.

Do you know, dear Dartscho, you are a fine fellow? Yes, I have always said
that you would amount to something.

DARTSCHO. God grant it! What commands have you, Mr.

Barssegh? There is no one in the store.

BARSSEGH.

Oh, right! I had almost forgotten. If Ossep Gulabianz comes to borrow
money, give him nothing.

DARTSCHO.

What has happened?

BARSSEGH. I am terribly angry at him.

DARTSCHO. And I have even more reason to be angry at him; he is altogether
too stuck-up. But what has occurred?

BARSSEGH. I will show him now who I am. His whole business is just like a
hayrick; a match is enough to set the whole thing ablaze.

DARTSCHO. I would not be sorry for ten matches! Tell me what I can do about
it? The rest I know already.

BARSSEGH. Think of it! The fellow has snatched away a fine fat
morsel from my very mouth.

I had found an excellent husband for my daughter.
For a whole week we carried on negotiations with him and everything
was near final settlement when this Ossep came in and bid over us.

On the very same day he betrothed his daughter to the man.

DARTSCHO.

The devil take him for it!

                 BARSSEGH. And do you know, also, whose money he is going to use?

It is my money he is going to give him.

DARTSCHO. That is just it! That is it!

BARSSEGH. Things look bad for his pocket.

Now he is going to marry off his daughter and put himself in a tight place.
Go, therefore, and get out an execution against him; otherwise
nothing can be squeezed out of him.

DARTSCHO. We shall see. I will go at once and demand our money.

BARSSEGH. I have already sent Micho, but I hardly believe he will give
it up so easily.

On that account I sent for you to find out someone who can help us.

DARTSCHO. I know a lawyer who can manage so that in three hours they will
put an attachment on his store.

BARSSEGH. Go on so forever, dear Dartscho!

Yes, I have long known that you were going to be the right sort of
fellow!

DARTSCHO.

The apprentice of a right good master always gets on in the world.

BARSSEGH. Go quickly then; lose no time.

DARTSCHO. I will not waste an hour.

BARSSEGH. Go! May you succeed!

[_Exit Dartscho, middle door_.

BARSSEGH [_alone_]. Yes, yes, friend Ossep, now show what you can do!
I would burn ten candles to have you in my power.

[_Exit, right, taking the account book_.

SCENE VI
_Khali. Salome_.

KHALI [_entering from the left_].

Such a bold creature I never saw before in my life! [_Calling through
the window_:] Come in! come in! I pray!

Do you hear, Salome? I am calling you.

Come in here a moment [_coming back from the window_].

She is coming.

Wait, you insolent thing! I will give you a setting-out such as no one has
ever given you before!

SALOME [_dressed in the latest fashion, with a parasol in her hand;
enters at middle door_].

Why did you call me? Good-morning! How are you?
[_They shake hands_.

KHALI. Thank you. Pray sit down. [_They both sit down_.] So you have
betrothed your daughter?

SALOME. Yes, dear Khali.

God grant that we soon hear of your Nino's like good-fortune!

I betrothed her last evening. I found a good husband for her. He is as
handsome as a god. I can scarcely stand for joy!

KHALI. Yes, make yourself important about it!

SALOME [_offended_]. What is this? What does it mean?

KHALI. You owed us a favor, and you have done it for us.

SALOME. What have I done to you?

KHALI. You could not do more, indeed.

You have cheated me out of a son-in-law.

Is not that enough?

SALOME. But, my dear Khali, what kind of things are you saying to me?
What do you mean by it?

KHALI. Be still! be still! I know well enough how it was.

SALOME.

May I go blind if I know what you are talking about!

KHALI. Didn't you know very well that I wished to give my daughter to
him?

SALOME.

I don't understand you! You said no earthly word to me about it.

KHALI. Even if I have not said anything about it, someone has certainly told
you of it.

SALOME. No one has said a word about it.

KHALI.

She lies about it, beside! Isn't that shameful?

SALOME. Satan lies. What are you accusing me of?

KHALI. And you really did not know that I wished to give him my
daughter?

SALOME. And if I had known it?

When a man wants to marry, they always speak of ten, and yet he
marries only one.

KHALI. So you knew it very well? Why did you lie, then?

SALOME. You are out of your head! How was I to find it out?

Did you send word by anyone that you were going to give your daughter to the
man? In what way am I to blame for it? You knew as much as I did.
You treated with him just as I did and sent marriage brokers to
him.

KHALI. I approached him first.

SALOME. O my dear, the flowers in the meadow belong not to those who see
them first, but to those who pluck them.

KHALI. You did not wait. Perhaps I would have plucked them.

SALOME. And why didn't you pluck them?

KHALI. You wouldn't let me.

Do you think I do not know that you promised him more than we did?

SALOME. May I go blind! Khali, how can you say that?

How much did you promise him?

KHALI. How much did we promise him? Ha! ha! as though you did not know it!
Eight thousand rubles.

SALOME.

Then you promised more than we did, for we can give him only 7,000.

KHALI.

You surely do not think me so stupid as to believe that!

SALOME. As sure as I wish my Nato all good fortune, what I say is
true.

KHALI. And you think that I believe you?

SALOME.

What? What do you say? Would I swear falsely about my daughter?

KHALI. Of course it is so! Would he let my 8,000 go to take your
7,000?

SALOME. I am not to blame for that. Probably your daughter did not please
him, since he did not want her.

             KHALI. What fault have you to find with my daughter?

As though yours were prettier, you insolent woman, you!

SALOME [_standing up_]. You are insolent! Is it for this you called me
in? Can your daughter be compared to my Nato? Is it my fault that your
daughter has a wide mouth?

KHALI. You have a wide mouth yourself; and your forward daughter is not
a bit prettier than mine!

SALOME.

What! you say she is forward?

Everyone knows her as a modest and well-behaved girl, while everybody
calls yours stupid.

Yes, that is true; and if you want to know the truth, I can tell it to
you--it is just on that account that he would not have her.

KHALI. Oh, you witch, you! You have caught the poor young man in
your nets and deceived him.

I would like to know where you are going to get the 7,000 rubles.

SALOME. That is our affair. I would rather have broken my leg than to
have come in here.

KHALI.

He is up to the ears in debt and is going to give such a dowry!

SALOME [_coming back_]. Even if we are in debt, we have robbed nobody, as
you have.

KHALI [_springing up_]. 'Tis you who steal; you!

You are a thief!

Look out for yourself that I do not tear the veil off your head, you wicked
witch, you!

SALOME [_holding her veil toward her_]. Try it once. I would like to see
how you begin it. You have altogether too long a tongue, and are
only the daughter-in-law of the cobbler Matus.

KHALI. And what better are you? You are a gardener's daughter, you insolent
thing!

SALOME. You are insolent, yourself! Do not think so much of yourself--everyone
knows that you have robbed the whole world, and only in that way
have gotten up in the world.

KHALI. Oh, you good-for-nothing!
[_Throws herself on Salome and tears her veil off_.

SALOME. Oh! oh! [_Gets hold of Khali's hair_.

KHALI. Oh! oh!

SALOME. I'll pull all your hair out!
[_Astonished, she holds a lock in her hand_.

_Enter Ossep_.

OSSEP. What do I see?

KHALI [_tearing the lock from Salome's hand_]. May I be blind!
[_Exit embarrassed_.

SALOME [_arranging her veil_]. Oh, you monkey, you!

OSSEP. What is the meaning of this?

SALOME. God only knows how it came to this. I was walking quietly in the
street and she called me in and tore the veil from my head because
I, as she said, took her daughter's suitor away from her.

OSSEP. It serves you right! That comes from your having secrets from me
and promising him 7,000 rubles instead of 6,000.

SALOME. I would rather have broken a leg than come into this horrid house.
I did it only out of politeness. I wish these people might lose everything
they have got [_pinning her veil_].

At any rate, I punished her for it by pulling off her false hair. If
she tells on herself now, she may also tell about me. She got out of
the room quickly, so that no one would find out that her hair was as
false as everything else.

OSSEP. It would be best for us if the earth opened and swallowed
us up.

SALOME [_crying_]. Am I, then, so much to blame here?

OSSEP. Really, you look splendid! Go! go! that no one sees you here.
It is not the first time that you have put me in a dilemma.

Go! and pray God to change noon into midnight and make the streets dark,
so that no one sees that you have a torn veil on your head.

SALOME [_wiping away her tears_].

God only knows everything I have to suffer from you!

OSSEP [_alone_]. Great heaven! how this world is arranged! When one trouble
comes to a man a second comes along, too, and waits at his door.
When I am just about ready to cope with the first, in comes the
second and caps the climax.

I don't know which way to turn with all my debts; and now this women's
quarrel will be laid at my door.

SCENE VII

BARSSEGH [_coming in, angry_].

I will show him that I am a man!

OSSEP. Good-morning!

BARSSEGH. I want neither "good-morning" nor any other wish from you. You
have, I suppose, come to help your wife. Give me a blow, too, so the
measure will be full.

This is surely the interest on the money you owe me.

OSSEP. Calm yourself. What, indeed, do you want?

BARSSEGH. Do you, then, believe that I will overlook my wife's hair being
pulled out? That I will not pardon.

OSSEP. What is there to pardon? Your wife tore my wife's veil from
her head.

BARSSEGH. A veil is not hair.

OSSEP. For heaven's sake, stop! Is a women's spat our affair?

BARSSEGH. Say what you wish, but I will do what pleases me.

OSSEP. Calm yourself; calm yourself.

BARSSEGH. Yes, yes; I will calm you, too.

OSSEP. Believe me; it is unworthy of you.

BARSSEGH. She has torn her veil, he says. What is a veil, then? A thing
that one can buy, and at most costs two rubles.

OSSEP. The hair was also not her own.

Why do you worry yourself about it? For a two-ruble veil she tore a
two-kopeck band. The band is there, and she can fasten the hair on
again.

BARSSEGH. No, you can't get out of it that way.

I will not pardon her for this insolence.

OSSEP [_aside_]. Great heaven!

BARSSEGH. You'll see! you'll see!

OSSEP. Do what you will! I did not come to you on that account. You sent
for me by Micho?

BARSSEGH. Yes, you are right. Have you brought me my money?

Give it to me, quick!

OSSEP. How you speak to me! Am I your servant, that you speak so roughly?
You surely do not know whom you have before you. Look out, for if I go for
you, you will sing another tune.

BARSSEGH. That has not happened to me yet! He owes me money, and even here
he makes himself important!

OSSEP. Do you think because I owe you money I shall stand your insults?

I speak politely to you, and I demand the same from you.

BARSSEGH. Enough of that! Tell me whether you have brought the money or
not.

OSSEP. Have I ever kept back from you any of your money? Why should I do
it to-day?

BARSSEGH. Then give it to me now.

OSSEP. You said at that time--
BARSSEGH.

I know nothing of that time.

OSSEP. What is the matter with you? You speak as if in a dream.

BARSSEGH. Whether I speak as in a dream or not, give me the money, and
have done with it.

OSSEP [_takes a chair and sits down_]. You are mistaken, my dear Mr.
Barssegh; you are mistaken. Sit down, pray.

BARSSEGH [_ironically_]. Thank you very much.

OSSEP. You will surely not take back your word?

BARSSEGH. Hand over the money.

OSSEP.

What has happened to you?

You speak like a madman.

BARSSEGH. It is all the same to me however I speak.

OSSEP. When I gave you the 5,000 rubles that time, did not you say that I
was to pay the rest in a month?

BARSSEGH [_sitting down_]. And if I did say so, what does it amount
to?

I need it now.
OSSEP. You should have said so at the time and I would not have
paid out my money in other ways. How comes it that you demand it
so suddenly? I am no wizard, I am sure, to procure it from the stars
for you.
BARSSEGH. You may get it wherever you want to. I need it, and that
settles it.
OSSEP. Just heaven! Why did you give me a month's grace and reckon
on an additional twelve per cent. for it?
BARSSEGH. What kind of grace? Have you anything to show for it?
OSSEP. Isn't your word enough? Why do we need a paper in
addition?

BARSSEGH. I didn't give you my word.
OSSEP. What? You did not give it? You admitted it just a few minutes
ago.

BARSSEGH. No, I said nothing about it.
OSSEP [_standing_]. My God! what do I see and hear? You are a
merchant and tread your word under foot. Shame on you! [_Takes him
by the arm and leads him to the mirror_.] Look! look at your face!
Why do you turn pale?

BARSSEGH. Let me go!
OSSEP [_holding him fast by the sleeve_]. How can you be so
unscrupulous? Look! How pale your lips are!
BARSSEGH. Let me go! [_Freeing himself_.] You act exactly as though
you were the creditor.
OSSEP. No, you are the creditor. I would rather be swallowed up
alive by the earth than be such a creditor as you are. What do you
think you will be in my eyes after this?
BARSSEGH. I tell you, hand out my money or I will lay your note
before the court immediately! I would only like to know where you
are going to get the dowry for your daughter. You will pay over my
money to your son-in-law, will you, and give me the go-by?
OSSEP. Give yourself no trouble! Even if you should beg me now, I
would not keep your money. To-morrow at this time you shall have
it, and then may the faces turn black of those who still look at
you.

BARSSEGH. I want it at once.
OSSEP. Then come with me. You shall have it. The sooner a man is
rid of a bad thing, the better it is. Give me the note! No, don't
give it to me, for you don't trust me. You are not worthy of trusting
me. Take it yourself and come with me. We will go at once to the
bazaar, sell it, then you can have your money. I may lose something
by it. It makes no difference. It is easier to bear this misfortune
than to talk to you. Do you hear? Shall we go?
BARSSEGH. What do you mean?
OSSEP. Get the note, I tell you! Don't you hear?
BARSSEGH. What kind of a note?

OSSEP. Rostom's note.
BARSSEGH. Rostom's' note? What is this note to you?
OSSEP. What is it to me? It is no word, indeed, that you can deny.
It is a document.
BARSSEGH. What is it to you that I have this document in my hands?
That is mine and Rostom's business.
OSSEP. Yours and Rostom's business! [_Pauses_.] It is, I see, not
yet enough that you lie. You are a thief and a robber beside. What
people say of you is really true; namely, that you have robbed
everybody, and by this means have acquired your wealth. Yes, it is
true that you have ruined twenty-five families; that you have put
out their candle and lighted yours by it. Now I see, for the first
time, that everything that people say about you is true. Now I
believe, indeed, that these chairs, this sofa, this mirror, your
coat, your cane--in a word, every article that you call yours--represents
some person you have robbed. Take my bones and add to them. Make
the measure full. You have made your conscience a stone and will
hear nothing; but I tell you, one day it will awake, and every
object that lies or stands here will begin to speak and hold up to
you your villanies. Then you can go and justify yourself before
your Maker. Shame upon him who still calls you a human being! [_Exit
by the middle door_.
BARSSEGH. Ha! ha! ha! [_Exit at the right_.

CURTAIN.
ACT THIRD 
SCENE I--OSSEP'S HOUSE
NATO [_stands before the mirror elegantly dressed, and, while she
prinks, hums a European melody. Then she draws out of her pocket a
little photograph and speaks to herself while looking in the mirror_].
O my treasure! my treasure! [_Presses the photo to her breast and
kisses it._] _Mon chèr!_ Come; we will dance. [_Dances around the
table_.] Tra-la-la, Tra-la-la. [_Sits down at the right_.] Alexander;
my Alexander; dear Alexander! Yes, you are really an angel. Why are
you so handsome? You have black eyes and I also have black. Then
arched eyebrows just like me. [_Touches her eyebrows_.] A pretty
little mustache, which I lack. Which of us is more beautiful, I or
you? You are handsomest; no, I am handsomest [_springing up_]. We
will see at once.
[_Looks at herself in the mirror and then at the photograph. Enter
Alexander at the middle door_.
NATO [_without noticing Alexander_]. No, you are the more
beautiful!
[_Kisses the photograph_.
[_Alexander approaches softly and kisses Nato_.
NATO [_frightened_]. Oh!
ALEXANDER. No, you are the more beautiful, Natalie, dear. _Ma chère
Nathalie!_
NATO. _O mon chèr Alexandre!_ How you frightened me!
ALEXANDER [_putting his arm around her_]. Let me kiss you again,
and your fright will pass away. [_Kisses her_.] Give me a kiss just
once!

NATO [_kissing him_]. There, you have one.
ALEXANDER. Well, I ought to allow you to kiss me. Am I not worth
more than that piece of paper?
[_Takes her by the hand; they sit down on sofa at the right_.
NATO. They have come to congratulate us.
ALEXANDER. Yes, your grandmother, your aunts, and your cousins.
Nato, shall you give evening parties like this?
NATO [_smiling_]. Ha! ha! ha! No such _soirées_ as this, my dear
Alexander. Two evenings every month we will give little dances,
either on Tuesdays or Thursdays. Which is better? Do you not think,
Alexander, that Thursday will be best?
ALEXANDER [_with a grimace_]. As you wish, _chère Nathalie_. If you
like, you can give a _soirée_ every week.
NATO. No, twice a month is better. Sophie, who is now Madame
Jarinskaja, gives only two _soirées_ in a month.
ALEXANDER. Very well, Nato dear.
NATO. That is agreed, then. And every Thursday we will dance at the
Casino. [_Alexander makes another grimace_.] Mind, now! every
Thursday.

ALEXANDER. Do you like to visit the Casino?
NATO [_laying her hand on his shoulder_]. Who doesn't like to visit
it?
Is there another place where one can amuse one's self better? The
beautiful long _salon_! the _boudoir_! the beautiful music and the
rich costumes! How beautiful they all are! [_Embracing Alexander_.]
We will dance together, and when we are tired, we will go into the
mirror-room and rest ourselves and talk and laugh.
ALEXANDER. And then we will dance again and rest ourselves, and
talk and laugh again.
NATO. It will be splendid! [_Kisses him_.] I will dress beautifully
_à
la mode_, so that everyone will say, "Look! look! what a charming
woman Madame Marmarow is!" And then, dear Alexander, we will subscribe
for a box at the theatre for Fridays.
ALEXANDER [_making another grimace aside_]. She's piling it on.
NATO. And do you know where? In the upper tier at the left, near
the foyer.
ALEXANDER. Wouldn't it be better to subscribe for two evenings a
week?

NATO. Wouldn't it cost too much?
ALEXANDER. What has that to do with it? Do you think I could deny
you any pleasure? No! no! you shall have everything.
NATO [_embracing him_]. _Chèr Alexandre_! do you really love me so
much?
ALEXANDER. I cannot tell you at all how much I love you. Right at
our first meeting I fell in love with you!
NATO. I don't believe it! I don't believe it! All young men talk
so!
ALEXANDER. Ha! ha! ha! Do you think I am like them? With them the
tongues have nothing to do with the heart; but my tongue speaks
what is here!
[_Strikes himself on the breast_.
NATO [_ironically_]. I know! I know! If I had no dowry you would
not marry me.
ALEXANDER. Nato dear, you wrong me! _ma chère_! As if the dowry
made any difference! _Fi donc_!
NATO. Then you really love me so much?
ALEXANDER. Very, very much, Nato dear. You can put me to the test
if you will.

NATO. Do you know, my piano is not fit to use!
ALEXANDER [_smoothing his hair_--_aside_]. Something new again.
NATO. Buy me a new piano. To-day I saw one at a store; it cost 500
rubles.
ALEXANDER. Five hundred rubles! You cannot buy a decent piano for
that!

NATO. Dear Alexander!
ALEXANDER. Be patient awhile, Nato dear. One of my friends brought
a piano from abroad that cost 1,000; yes, even 1,500 rubles.
NATO. My sweetheart; my dear sweetheart! [_Kissing him_.] I will
come right back. [_Rises_.] I must go and prepare for our reception
or mamma will be angry."Why, your friend _is_ drowsy, isn't he?" laughed the bearded one, turning
to the submarine skipper.

Jack Benson's own eyelids were suspiciously close together.

"Why--what--ails you?"

Curtis spoke in a low, droning, far-away voice that caused Jack Benson's
upper eyelids to sink. Curtis stood watching him, in malicious glee, for
some moments. Then, at last, he took hold of the young skipper.

"Come, old fellow," coaxed the bearded one, "you'll do best to join your
friend in a good nap. Get up in the berth."

"Lemme alone," protested the boy, thickly, feeling that he was being
lifted. Jack struggled, partly rousing himself.

"Come, get up into the berth. You'll be more comfortable there."

"Lemme alone. What are you trying to do?" demanded Jack, swinging an arm.

Curtis dodged the light blow, then gripped Jack Benson resolutely.

"Now, see here, young man," hissed the bearded one, "I'm not going to have
any more nonsense out of you. Up into the berth you go! Do you want me to
hit you?"

Another man thrust his head down the cabin hatchway, showing an evil,
grinning face.

"Got 'em right?" demanded the one from the hatchway.

"Yes," snapped the bearded one, then turned to give his attention to Jack
Benson, who was putting up an ineffectual fight while Hal slumbered on.
"Now, see here, Benson, quit all your fooling!"

"You lemme up," insisted the submarine boy, in a low, dull voice, though
he swung both his arms in an effort to assert himself. "'M not goin' t'
stay here. Lemme up, I say! 'M goin' back to--own boat."

"The submarine?" jeered the bearded man.

"Yep."

"Guess again, son," laughed Curtis, jeeringly. "You're not going back
aboard the submarine to-night."

"Am so," declared Benson, obstinately, though his tone was growing more
drowsy every instant, and his busy hands moved almost as weakly as an
infant's.

"Listen, if you've got enough of your senses left," growled the bearded
men. "You're not going back to the 'Farnum'--neither to-night, nor at any
other time during the next few months. You're bound on a long cruise, but
not on a submarine boat. I am the captain here, and I'll name the cruise!"


                    CHAPTER XVIII: HELD UP BY MARINES


It was barely a minute afterward that Jack Benson lapsed into a very
distinct snore.

"No more trouble from this pair," laughed the bearded one to his companion
at the hatchway. "Now, I'll douse the cabin light, and then we'll cast
off. This thing has moved along very slickly."

Eph, after having made up his mind to turn in early, had found his sleepy
fit passing. He read for a while in the cabin, then pulled on a reefer and
went up on deck. Williamson was already in a berth, sound asleep.

"It would be a fine night if there was a moon," Eph remarked to the marine
sentry on deck.

"Yes, sir."

The marine--"soldier, and sailor, too"--not being there for conversational
purposes, continued his slow pacing, his rifle resting over his right
shoulder.

As Eph strolled about in the limited space of the platform deck he heard a
distant creaking. It was a sound that he well knew--the hoisting of sail.

"I wonder if the local fishermen start out at this time of the night?" Eph
Somers remarked, musingly, to the sentry.

"It may be so, sir; I don't know," replied the marine.

Presently Eph made out the lines and the spread of canvas of a handsome
knockabout sloop standing on out of the harbor.

The course being narrow, the sloop was obliged to sail rather close to the
fleet.

"That's no fisherman!" muttered Somers, watching, his hands thrust deep in
his pockets.

Presently the sloop's hull was lost to Eph's sight beyond the gunboat.
Then the boy heard a voice from the "Hudson's" deck roar out:

"Look alive, you lubber! Do you want to foul our anchor chain?"

"No, sir," came from the sloop's deck. "We'll clear you all right."

"See that you do, then!"

Then the sloop's hull came into view again, as the craft headed out toward
the open water beyond.

"That's the kind of a craft Jack would give a heap to be on," thought Eph.
"Queer that he should spend all his time on gasoline peanut-roasters when
he's so fond of whistling for a breeze behind canvas."

As the sloop neared the mouth of the little bay, and her lines became
rather indistinct in the darkness, Eph Somers turned to resume his pacing
of the deck.

"Hullo," muttered the submarine boy, two or three minutes later. "Here's
the shore boat coming on its regular trip. I wonder if Jack and Hal are in
it? It's about time for them to be coming on board."

But the shore boat, instead of coming out to the submarine, lay in at the
side gangway of the gunboat opposite, and Eph discovered that his two
comrades were not in the boat.

"I say," hailed Eph, "have you seen Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings on shore!"

"No, sir," replied the petty officer in charge.

Then one of the sailors in the boat spoke in an undertone.

"This man says, sir," continued the petty officer, "that he saw your
friends, sir, going aboard a white knockabout sloop."

"He did, eh?" demanded the astonished Eph. "How long ago was that?"

"Only a few minutes ago, sir," replied the sailor.

"You're sure you saw Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings?"

"Yes, sir."

"That's queer," reflected Eph. "It wouldn't be like them to go sailing at
this time of the night, and without notifying me, either. But, then, I
didn't see anything of 'em aboard that sloop, either."

Eph was silent for a few moments, thinking. Then, suddenly, he leaped up
in the air, coming down flat-footed.

"Crackey!" ejaculated Eph Somers.

For a moment or two his face was a study in bewilderment.

"Mighty strange things have been happening all through this cruise," Eph
muttered, half-aloud. "Especially happening to Jack! Now, the two of them
go aboard that sloop, and immediately after the boat puts out to sea in
the dead of night. What if Jack and Hal have been shanghaied on that
infernal sloop?"

Cold chills began to chase each other up and down the spine of Eph Somers.
He was not, ordinarily, an imaginative youth, but just now the gruesome
thought that had entered his mind persisted there.

He began to pace the platform deck in deep agitation.

"Anything wrong, sir?" questioned the marine sentry, halting and throwing
his rifle over to port arms.

"That's just what I'd give a million dollars and ten cents to know!"
exploded Eph.

"Gunboat, ahoy!" he shouted, some twenty seconds later.

"'Farnum,' ahoy!"

"I half believe, sir," Eph rattled on, "that my two comrades, Mr. Benson
and Mr. Hastings have been tricked, in some way, and carried out to sea on
that knockabout. They'd have been back from shore by this time, if nothing
had happened."

"What do you want to do, Mr. Somers?"

"Want to do, sir?" retorted Eph. "I know what I'm going to do. I'm going
to slip moorings and chase after that knockabout. What I wish to know from
you, sir, is whether you'll send another marine or two on board, so that I
can back up my demand to find my friends?"

"I'll have to ask the lieutenant commander about that, Mr. Somers."

"Can you do it, now, sir?" asked Eph, energetically.

"Instantly. I'll let you know the decision as soon as it's made."

Eph, hanging at the rail in the silence that followed, had no notion of
whether his request had been a correct one. All he knew was that his
suspicions had surged to the surface, and were threatening to boil over.
It was a huge relief to the boy when Mr. Mayhew's voice sounded from the
rail of the gunboat. Somers swiftly answered all questions.

"Your craft and crew are in a measure under our protection and orders,"
decided Mr. Mayhew. "I think we may properly extend you some help. I will
send some men to you, and a cadet midshipman who will have my
instructions."

"Will you send them quickly, sir?" begged Eph.

"I'll have men on board of you by the time that your engines are running,"
promised the lieutenant commander.

"Engines?" That word came as a fortunate reminder to the submarine boy. He
darted below, almost yanking Williamson from his berth, nearly pulling the
machinist into his clothes. By the time that Williamson was really wide
awake he found himself standing by the motors forward.

Then young Somers darted onto deck again, just in time to see the boat
coming alongside. It brought two more marines, one of them a corporal.
There were also two sailors. A cadet midshipman commanded them.

"Mr. Somers," reported the cadet midshipman, "I am not intended to
displace you from the command of this boat. I am here only with definite
instructions in case you succeed in overhauling that white sloop."

"What--" began Eph. Then he paused, with a half-grin. "Really," he added,
"I ought to know better than to quiz you about your instructions from your
superior officer."

"Yes, sir," assented the midshipman, simply.

Eph turned on the current to the search-light, swinging the ray about the
bay. Then, too impatient to sit in the conning tower, the submarine boy
took his place by the deck wheel.

"Will your seamen cast loose from the moorings?" Somers asked.

"Yes, sir," replied the midshipman.

"If there's anything wrong, good luck to you," sounded the cool voice of
Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, from the gunboat's rail.

"Thank you, sir."

No sooner had the moorings been cast loose from than Eph sounded the slow
speed ahead bell. Within sixty seconds the propellers of the "Farnum" were
doing a ten-knot stunt, which was soon increased to fourteen.

One of the seamen now stood by to swing the searchlight under Eph's
orders.

By the time that the submarine reached the mouth of the bay the light
faintly picked up a spread of white sail, off to the East.

"That's the knockabout," cried Eph, excitedly. "Now, see here, keep that
ray right across the boat as soon as we get half a mile nearer."

"It'll show the boat that you're chasing 'em, sir," advised the
midshipman.

"I know it," admitted Eph. "But it will also keep the rascals from dumping
my friends overboard without our catching 'em at it."

"What do you think the men in charge of that boat are, sir--pirates?"

"They're mighty close to it, if they've shanghaied Mr. Benson and Mr.
Hastings and put to sea with 'em," rejoined Eph. Then he rang for more
speed. Down below, Williamson almost instantly responded. The "Farnum" now
fairly leaped through the water.

"Turn the light on the knockabout, now, and keep it there," directed the
submarine boy.

There was a seven-knot breeze blowing. At the speed at which the submarine
boat was traveling the distance was soon covered.

And now the searchlight revealed two men in the standing-room of the
sloop, one of whom, a bearded man, was looking backward over his wake much
of the time.

"Can one of the marines fire a shot to stop those fellows?" asked Eph
Somers.

"In the air, do you mean, sir?" asked the midshipman. "Certainly."

"Then I wish he'd do it."

Bang! The discharge of the rifle sounded sharply on the night air.

"It ain't stopping 'em any," muttered Eph, after a few seconds had gone
by.

"Nothing would, unless fired into them," volunteered Midshipman Terrell.

It did not take long, however, to run the submarine up alongside of the
sloop, at a distance of about one hundred yards.

"Now, we want you men to stop," called Midshipman Terrell, between his
hands. "We are United States naval forces, from the gunboat, and you will
regard this as an order that you must obey. No!" thundered the midshipman,
suddenly, as the bearded one started to step down into the cabin. "You
will both keep on deck. Otherwise we shall be obliged to fire into you. We
mean business, remember!"

"What do you want to board us for?" demanded Curtis, pausing.

"We will explain when we come aboard."

"How are you coming, aboard? You've no small boat."

"We can land this submarine right up beside you," responded the
midshipman, "if you keep straight to your present course."

"And scrape all the paint off our side," objected Curtis.

"That has no bearing on my instructions, sir. I direct you to keep
straight to your present course. We will come up alongside."

"What if we don't do it?" demanded Curtis, with sudden bluster.

"Then your danger will be divided between being shot where you stand and
having your craft cut in two by the bow of our craft," retorted Mr.
Terrell. "You will realize, I think, that there can be no parleying with
our orders."

The bearded one swore, but the corporal and his two marines stood at the
rail with their rifles ready, waiting only the midshipman's order to aim
and fire.

Eph allowed the "Farnum" to fall back a little way. Then he exerted
himself to show his best in seamanship as he ran the submarine up to board
the sloop by the starboard quarter. The two boats barely touched. Mr.
Terrell, his three marines and two seamen leaped to the standing room of
the yacht. Eph, all aquiver, let the nose of the "Farnum" fall back
slightly. Then he trailed along, under bare headway.

Then a shout came from the sloop, as the two seamen reappeared, bearing
the forms of Jack and Hal.

"We've found them aboard, Mr. Somers," shouted Terrell. "Drugged, I think,
sir. Will you come alongside, sir."

Eph quickly rang the signal, then did some careful manoeuvring. As he
touched, one of the marines leaped back to the platform deck, then passed
a line to Mr. Terrell. The two craft were held together until Jack and Hal
had been passed, still unconscious, over the side. The naval party quickly
followed, then cast loose from the sloop.

"This whole proceeding is high-handed," growled Curtis, as soon as he saw
that he was not to be molested.

"Oh, you shut up, and keep your tongue padlocked," retorted Midshipman
Terrell, in high disgust. "You're lucky as it is. Now, Mr. Somers, are you
going back to the bay, sir?"

"Aren't you going to take those two--body-snatchers?" demanded Eph, glaring
venomously at the pair on the sloop.

"My instructions don't cover that, sir," replied the cadet midshipman.

"Then hang your orders!" muttered young Somers, but he kept the words
behind his teeth. Eph veered off, next headed about, while the two seamen
bore Jack and Hal below to their berths.

"Will you take the wheel, Mr. Terrell?" asked Eph, edging away, with one
hand on the spokes.

"Yes, sir."

Eph hurried below to the port stateroom. Jack lay in the lower berth, Hal
in the upper. The two seamen, after feeling for pulse, stood by looking at
the unconscious submarine boys.

"What's been done to them?" demanded Eph.

"The same old knockout drops, sir, that sailors in all parts of the world
know so well, sir, I think," answered one of the men, with a quiet grin.

"Humph!" gritted Eph, bending over Jack's face. "Smell his breath."

"Yes, sir," said the sailor, obeying.

"There's no smell of liquor, there, is there?"

"No, sir," admitted the sailor, looking up, rather puzzled.

"There is some infernally mean trick in all this," growled Eph. "I am
mighty sorry we didn't bring those rascals back with us."

When he went on deck again the submarine boy relieved Mr. Terrell at the
wheel, completing the run in to moorings.

"Did you find your comrades aboard the sloop, Mr. Somers?" hailed the
lieutenant commander, from the gunboat.

"Yes, sir."

"Are they all right?"

"Drugged, sir."

"Hm! Mr. Terrell and his detachment will return to this vessel."

The boat took them away. It was five minutes later when the boat returned,
bringing the lieutenant commander, Doctor McCrea, the surgeon, and a
sailor belonging to the hospital detachment aboard the "Hudson." Eph
conducted them below.

"Drugged," announced the medical officer, after a brief examination.

"Humph!" uttered Mr. Mayhew. "That sort of trick isn't played on folks in
any decent resort on shore. I don't understand Mr. Benson's conduct. I
remember his mishap at Dunhaven. I remember the plight he got into at
Annapolis; and now he and Mr. Hastings are found in this questionable
shape. I am very much afraid these young men do not conduct themselves, on
shore, in the careful manner that must be expected of civilian instructors
to cadets."

Eph Somers felt something boiling up inside of him.


             CHAPTER XIX: THE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER'S VERDICT


"Let me try to get at your meaning, sir, if you please," begged Somers,
after standing for a few seconds with clenched fists. "Do you mean that my
friends have been going into tough resorts on shore?"

"Where else do sailors usually get drugged?" inquired Mr. Mayhew. "What
kind of people usually feed sea-faring men with what are generally known
as knock-out drops?"

"How should I know?" demanded Eph, solemnly.

"You see your friends, and you see their condition."

"Smell their breaths, sir. There isn't a trace of the odor of liquor."

The surgeon did so, confirming Eph's claim.

"But I remember that Mr. Benson came aboard, at Dunhaven, with a very
strong odor of liquor," continued the lieutenant commander.

"That had been sprinkled on his clothes, sir," argued Somers.

"Perhaps. But then there was the Annapolis affair."

"Mr. Benson explained that to you, sir."

"It's very strange," returned the lieutenant commander, "that such things
seem to happen generally to Mr. Benson when he gets on shore. I know I
have been ashore, in all parts of the world, without having such things
happen to me."

"There is something behind this, sir, that doesn't spell bad conduct on
the part of either of my friends," cried Eph, hotly. "There's some plot,
some trick in the whole thing that we don't understand. And we might
understand much more about it, sir, if your midshipman had arrested that
pair of blackguards on the sloop, and brought them back with us."

"Had Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings been members of the naval forces we could
have done that," replied Mr. Mayhew. "Probably you don't understand, Mr.
Somers, how very careful the Navy has to be about making arrests in times
of peace, when the civil authorities are all-supreme. We carried our right
as far as it could possibly be stretched when we boarded and searched that
sloop for you."

"I don't care so much about that," contended Eph, warmly. "But it does jar
on me, sir, to have you take such a view of my friends. You don't know
them; you don't understand them as Mr. Farnum and Mr. Pollard do."

"Perhaps you wouldn't blame me as much for my opinions," replied Mr.
Mayhew, "if you could look at the matter from my viewpoint, Mr. Somers. I
am in charge of this cruise, which is one of instruction to naval cadets,
and I am in a very large measure responsible for the conduct and good
behavior of young men who have been selected as instructors to the cadets.
If you were in my place, Mr. Somers, would you be patient over young men
who, when they get ashore, get into one unseemly scrape after another? Or
would you wonder, as I do, whether it will not be best for me to end this
practice cruise and sail back to Annapolis, there to make my report in the
matter?"

"For heaven's sake don't do that," begged Eph Somers, hoarsely. "At least,
not until you have talked with Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings. You'll wait
until morning, sir?"

"I'm afraid I shall have to, if I want to talk with your friends," replied
the lieutenant commander, smiling coldly. "And now, Mr. Somers, you and I
had better leave here. The doctor and his nurse will want the room cleared
in order to look after their patients. I hope your friends will be all
right in the morning," added the naval officer, as the pair gained the
deck.

"Now, see here, sir," began Eph, earnestly, all over again. "I hope you'll
soon begin to understand that, whatever has happened, there are no two
straighter boys alive than Jack Benson and Hal Hastings."

"I trust you're right," replied Mr. Mayhew, less coldly. "Yet, what can
you expect me to think, now that Benson has been in such scrapes three
different times? And, in this last instance, he drags even the quiet Mr.
Hastings into the affair with him."

"I see that I'll have to wait, sir," sighed Eph, resignedly.

"Yes; it will be better in every way to wait," agreed the lieutenant
commander. "It is plain justice, at the least, to wait and give the young
men a chance to offer any defense that they can."

"Now, of course, from his way of looking at it, I can't blame him so very
much," admitted Eph Somers, as he leaned over the rail, watching Mr.
Mayhew going back through the darkness. "But Jack--great old Jack!--having
any liking at all for mixing up in saloons and such places on shore! Ha,
ha! Ho, ho!"

Williamson, now able to leave his motors, came on deck, asking an account
of what had happened. The machinist listened in amazement, though, like
Eph, he needed no proof that the boys, whatever trouble they had
encountered, had met honestly and innocently.

"Of course that naval officer is right, too, from his own limited point of
view," urged Williamson.

"Oh, yes, I suppose so," nodded Somers, gloomily. "I've been trying to
tell myself that. But it would be fearful, wouldn't it, if the 'Farnum'
were ordered away from the fleet, and Jack disgraced, just because of
things he really didn't do."

"It's a queer old world," mused the machinist, thoughtfully. "We hear a
lot about the consequences of wrong things we do. But how often people
seem to have to pay up for things they never did!"

"Oh, well," muttered Eph, philosophically, "let's wait until morning. A
night's sleep straightens out a lot of things."

Williamson, however, having had some sleep earlier in the night, was not
drowsy, now. He lighted a pipe, lingering on the platform deck. Eph, not
being a user of tobacco, went below to find that Doctor McCrea, from the
gunboat, was sitting in the cabin, reading a book he had chosen from the
book-case.

"I've brought the young men around somewhat," reported the physician.
"I've made them throw off the drug, and now I've left some stuff with the
nurse to help brace them up. They'll have sour stomachs and aching heads
in the morning, though."

"But you noticed one thing, Doctor?" pressed Somers.

"What was that?"

"That there were no signs of liquor about them? Those boys never tasted a
drop of the vile stuff in their lives!"

"I'm inclined to believe you," nodded the surgeon. "They have splendid,
clear skins, eyes bright as diamonds, sound, sturdy heart-beats, and
they're full of vitality. I've met boys from the slums, once in a
while--beer-drinkers and cigarette-smokers. But such boys never show the
splendid physical condition that your friends possess."

"You know, then, as well as I do, Doctor, that neither of my chums are
rowdies, and that, whatever happened to them to-night, they didn't get to
it through any bad habits or conduct?"

"I'm much inclined to agree with you, Mr. Somers."

"I hope, then, you'll succeed in impressing all that on Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew in the morning."

With that the submarine boy passed on to the starboard stateroom. He would
have given much to have stepped into the room opposite, but felt, from the
doctor's manner, that the latter did not wish his patients disturbed.

Eph slept little that night. Though Jack and Hal fared better in that
single respect, Somers looked far the best of the three in the morning.

Jack and Hal came out with bandages about their heads, which buzzed and
ached.

The two, however, told their story to Somers and Williamson as soon as
possible.

"Just as I supposed," nodded Eph, vigorously.

"Why, how did you guess it all?" asked Benson, in astonishment.

"I mean, I knew you hadn't been in any low sailor resorts."

"Who said we had?" demanded Jack, flaring in spite of his dizziness.

"Some of the Navy folks didn't know but you had," replied Eph, then bit
his tongue for having let that much out of the bag.

Doctor McCrea came aboard early. He looked the boys over.

"Eat a little toast, if you want, and drink some weak tea," he suggested.
"After that, eat nothing more until to-night."

"But the day's work--?" hinted Jack.

"I don't know," replied the doctor, shrugging his shoulders. "I'm not a
line officer, and therefore know nothing about the fleet's manoeuvres."

That reply, however, was quite enough to send Jack Benson's suspicions
aloft.

"Eph," he cried, wheeling upon his friend the moment Doctor McCrea was
gone, "there's something you haven't told us."

"Such as--what?" asked Somers, doing his best to look mighty innocent.

"Doctor McCrea as good as admitted that we won't have anything to do
to-day. What's wrong?" Then, after a brief pause: "Good heavens, does Mr.
Mayhew believe we've been acting disgracefully? Are we barred out of the
instruction work?"

Hal had been raising a glass of cold water to his lips. The glass fell,
with a crash. He wheeled about, then clutched at the edge of the cabin
table, most unsteadily.

"We-e-ll," admitted Somers, reluctantly, "Mr. Mayhew said he would want to
question you some, perhaps, this morning."

"What did he say? Out with it all, Eph!"

A moment before Jack Benson had been pallid enough. Now, two bright,
furious spots burned in either cheek.

The red-haired boy, however, was spared the pain of going any further,
for, at that moment, a heavy tread was heard on the spiral staircase. Then
Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, holding himself very erect, one hand resting
against the scabbard of the sword that he wore at his side, came into view
below.

Many were the questions that the naval officer put to the victims of the
night's mishap.

"Well, gentlemen," Mr. Mayhew said at last, rising, "your story is
strange. Yet, I believe you are young men of honor. I'm sorry we have not
in custody the men who sailed that sloop."

"Pardon me, sir!" burst out Eph.

"Well, Mr. Somers?"

"Perhaps, sir, if you should question Truax you could learn something from
him. I tell you, sir, there's a scheme to ruin Jack Benson; and that's
only part of a bigger plot to discredit our company with the Navy!"

Mr. Mayhew, looking thoughtful, replied:

"I'll find some way of questioning Truax. And now, Mr. Benson, since you
and Mr. Hastings are not fit to instruct the cadets to-day, I'll send out
sections under Lieutenant Halpin on board the 'Pollard' only. To-morrow
you should be in shape to resume your duties. Meanwhile, I must make one
condition."

"It will not be necessary, sir, to make any conditions with us," Jack
replied. "Your instructions will be sufficient."

"While you are on this present tour of duty, I shall ask Mr. Benson and
Mr. Hastings not to leave the 'Farnum' without my consent."

As soon as Mr. Mayhew had left the "Farnum" Eph Somers cried bitterly:

"You heard the verdict in the case! A great verdict! Not guilty--but don't
do it again!"

At half past eight the next morning a section of cadets, under the command
of Ensign Trahern, came aboard the "Farnum."

"The lieutenant commander sends word, with his compliments," reported
Trahern, "that after leaving the bay the formation will be as usual. The
signal to halt and be ready for the tour of instruction will be given when
we're about ten miles off shore."

Six of the cadets, of the engineer division, went below to the engine
room. To one of the ten left on deck Jack turned and said:

"You will take charge, Mr. Surles. Assume all the responsibilities of the
officer of the deck."

In all, five of the midshipmen had commanded briefly before the laying-to
signal was given. Hal Hastings then appeared on deck.

"Captain Benson," Hal stated, saluting, "I have inspected all the
submerging machinery, and I find everything in good order. We can go below
the surface at any time."

"Thank you, Mr. Hastings. All below!" ordered Jack crisply.

After the cadets and the ensign had filed below, Jack, having seen that
all was in order, followed. He made all fast in the conning tower, then
called Midshipman Surles up the stairway to the tower wheel.

"Do you think you can head due east and keep to that course under water,
Mr. Surles?"

"Yes, sir."

Going down to the cabin floor, Jack ordered two more midshipmen to the
tower as observers.

"The rest crowd about me and ask questions while I handle the submerging
machinery."

Under the impetus from the electric motors, the propeller shafts began to
throb. The next instant the submarine shot below, going down at so steep
an angle that many of the middies were forced to reach for new footing.

"The gauge registers sixty feet below," announced Jack.

In another moment, by the quick flooding of some of the compartments
astern, the young skipper brought the boat to an even keel.

Having finished the prescribed distance under water, Captain Jack turned
on the compressed air to expel the water from the compartments. The
conning tower soon rose above the water, and a moment later the "Pollard"
also emerged.

Other cadets were transferred from the gunboat to the submarines, and the
instruction proceeded. The manoeuvers for the day were ended with a
half-hour run under water.

"By the way, sir, did you question Truax to see what you could learn about
his reasons for acting as he did on the 'Farnum'?" asked Jack Benson the
next day. Jack and Doctor McCrea were talking with Mr. Mayhew.

"I had him before me last night, and again this morning," replied Mr.
Mayhew. "He said he hadn't an idea what I meant, and that is all I could
get out of him."

Jack looked thoughtfully at Doctor McCrea for a moment before he
exclaimed:

"Doctor, if I had anything like your chance, I'd have Sam Truax talking!"

"How?" Doctor McCrea looked interested.

"Why, I'd--" Jack hesitated, glancing toward the gunboat's commanding
officer.

"I'd better go and see how the midshipmen are doing," laughed Mr. Mayhew,
rising.

For some minutes Jack talked with Doctor McCrea. As the medical officer
listened, he grinned, then laughed unrestrainedly.

"Mr. Benson, you're certainly ingenious!"

"Will you do what I've suggested?"

"Why, I--er--er--" Doctor McCrea hesitated. "I--well, I'll think it over."
Again Doctor McCrea roared with laughter.


                          CHAPTER XX: CONCLUSION


Sam Truax sat in the brig, between decks on the "Hudson," his scowling
face turned toward the barred door, when the marine guard, taking a turn,
peered in.

"Good heavens, man! What ails you?" demanded the marine.

"I'm all right," growled the prisoner.

"I'll be hanged if you look it."

"What are you talking about!" demanded the prisoner angrily.

"Man alive, I wish you could see your face!"

Three minutes later a sailor halted at the door, looked at Truax, then
wheeled about to the marine.

"Say, what ails that man? What's the matter with his face?"

"Don't know. Looks fearful, doesn't he?"

"Awful! Ought to have the doctor."

Sam shifted uneasily.

Five minutes later a sailor wearing on one sleeve the Red Cross of the
hospital squad came along.

"Say," said the marine, "I wish you'd look at the feller in the brig."

The hospital man showed his face at the grating and looked at Truax
keenly.

"Wow! The sawbones officer has got to look at this chap!"

Sam Truax sprang to his feet, but his legs wobbled. He felt his
heart-beats racing and his face flushing.

"I felt all right a little while ago, but I certainly feel queer now," he
muttered.

Doctor McCrea soon hurried below.

"Sentry, unlock the door! Let me in there!"

Doctor McCrea made a brief examination.

"How long have you been feeling ill?"

"N-not long," faltered Truax.

"Hospital man!" called Doctor McCrea.

"Aye, aye, sir!"

"Have the stretcher brought here at once."

"Aye, aye, sir!"

The stretcher was brought, and the attendants put Truax on it.

"I can walk, Doctor," he protested feebly.

"Can't risk it! To the 'sick bay,' men."

"What's wrong, Doctor?" Truax asked, when he was lifted from the stretcher
and placed in one of the berths.

"Don't talk, my man. Just lie quietly and let us get you on your feet--if
we can," he added under his breath, but not so softly but that Sam Truax
heard him.

The attendant came with a glass of liquid.

"Drink this," ordered the surgeon, "and in a few minutes you'll feel
better."

"I--I feel awful," Truax groaned.

The dose was repeated, but the patient continued to grow worse. His nausea
was overwhelming and he vomited over and over. In an interval of quiet the
doctor leaned over him.

"Have you anything on your mind, man? Any wrong you'd like to set straight
before--before--"

A look of fright came into Truax's eyes.

"Doctor, I--I wonder if Jack Benson would come to see me?"

"I'll see," replied the doctor, rising and leaving the "sick bay."

Ten minutes later the naval surgeon returned with Benson. Hal Hastings,
Mr. Mayhew and Ensign Trahern followed Jack and the doctor.

"Here's Mr. Benson, Truax," announced Doctor McCrea. "If there's anything
you wish to confess, the rest of us can bear witness and help straighten
matters out if you've done any wrong that you now regret."

Sam Truax feebly stretched out a hand that was hot and dry.

"Benson, will you give me your hand?"

"Certainly."

"Can you ever forgive me?" moaned the man.

"Why, what have you done?" asked Jack.

"That assault back in Dunhaven--"

"Was it you who knocked me out there?" demanded Benson sharply.

"Yes." In a shaking voice Truax confessed the details of the affair and
from that passed to Jack's trip to the suburbs of Annapolis.

"I found the mulatto in a low den. I told him you carried a lot of money
and that he could have it all if he'd decoy you somewhere, keep you all
night, and send you back to the Naval Academy looking like a tramp." He
then added the name of the mulatto.

"But why have you done this?" demanded Jack. "What have you against me?"

"I didn't do it on my own account. I did it for Tip Gaynor, a salesman for
Sidenham."

"The Sidenham Submarine Company?" cried Jack, deeply interested. "The
Sidenham people are our nearest competitors in the submarine business!" he
exclaimed.

"Yes; and they wanted to get the business away from the Pollard Company.
They told Tip Gaynor it would be worth ten thousand dollars to him for
each Sidenham boat he could sell to the Government. Tip hired me--"

"One moment, please," interrupted Jack. "Did the Sidenham officials know
that Gaynor intended to use such methods?"

"I don't believe they did," replied Truax.

"Humph! So Gaynor hired you to do all you could to disgrace me in the eyes
of the naval authorities and to injure the machinery in the engine room of
the submarine!"

"Yes. Tip said it was highly important that the Pollard boats should break
down while under the eyes of all Annapolis, so that it would seem that
they could not be depended upon."

Truax here became so ill that his audience had to wait until he could
proceed. Then Jack asked:

"What sort of looking fellow is Gaynor?"

"He was the black-bearded man who shanghaied you in the white knockabout.
He doesn't usually wear a beard. He grew it for the occasion."

"So, acting for Tip Gaynor, you undertook to ruin us all and the good name
of our boats! You even met Dave Pollard and got him to take you on as a
machinist for our boats!"

"Tip knew a man who was willing to introduce me to Mr. Pollard."

"It was like kindly, unsuspicious Dave Pollard to be taken in by a rascal
like that," muttered Jack to himself.

This year little tea has been brought from Siberia, and what they
have brought has almost all fallen into my hands.

Do not think that I seek a buyer in you! God forbid!

When I learned what a good man you were, I thought to myself, "I
must give him a chance to make something.

Yes, I want him to make a few kopecks."

Do you think I am in need of purchasers?

Now, Sarkis, to-morrow I will send you the goods. What?'
"'By heaven, I know not how I ought to answer you.

Do you know, I am afraid,' said Sarkis.

"The poor fellow could say nothing farther, for he was such an honest,
good-natured fellow that it was hard for him to refuse anybody
anything.

The word 'no' did not exist for him.

"'You are talking nonsense,' began Hemorrhoid Jack anew.
After we got you in here, we dosed you with ipecac.
That started your stomach to moving up and down."

"What? You poisoned me?"

"The ipecac was my choice. It isn't poison. The general idea was Captain
Benson's. With a lad like him you haven't a chance."

"Benson, you infernal cheat, you!" muttered Truax, and started to get out
of the berth. But he was weak, and the attendant had no difficulty in
thrusting him back.

"In view of what you've been telling us, you'd better not sprinkle bad
names about," said the surgeon, turning on his heel. He was followed by
the others, all chuckling.

"Mr. Benson," said Doctor McCrea, when the party was in the cabin, "are
you my friend?"

"I certainly am, sir," cried Jack warmly.

"Thank you," said the doctor, making a comical face. "With your head for
doing things, Mr. Benson, I feel safer with your friendship than I should
if I had your enmity."

While they were still chatting in the cabin of the gunboat a shot sounded
on deck. Then a corporal of marines rushed in, saluting.

"The prisoner, Truax, sir, escaped while walking under guard on deck. He
dived headlong, sir. The marine guard fired after him through the
darkness, sir. He beheaded them so that the bodies flew over the walls
and the heads remained lying in the court.

And he laid hold of Holbaschi, and tore out his teeth and drove
them into his brow like nails.

And he bent his lance till it curved like a dog's collar and put it
around his neck. "Now," he said, "take yourself off and tell all to
Mösramelik. If people still remain in his country let him herd them
together before I come."

Holbaschi met the women a second time, and they were singing and
dancing.Then, the tour of
instruction over, the little flotilla returned to the Academy at
Annapolis. From there Captain Benson wired Mr. Farnum for further orders.
Without delay came back the dispatch:

"Navy Department requests that for present 'Farnum' be left at Annapolis.
You and crew return by rail when ready."

Soon after this Jack was informed that the Annapolis police had run down
the mulatto who had decoyed the young submarine skipper on that memorable
night. Jack's money, watch and other valuables were later recovered and
returned to him.

Just before Jack and his mates were to leave the "Farnum" for the last
time, Lieutenant Commander Mayhew came aboard, followed by Ensign Trahern
and three of the midshipmen who had been under submarine instruction.

"Mr. Benson and gentlemen," said Mr. Mayhew, "I shall not make a set
speech. What I have to say is that the cadet midshipmen who have been
under your capable and much-prized instruction of late wish each of you to
take away a slight memento of your stay here."

Machinist Williamson had not been omitted. Each of the four received from
the lieutenant commander a small box, each containing a small gold shield.
In the center was the coat of arms of the United States Naval Academy. In
the same year the merchant whom he served suddenly died after making over
to Sarkis the whole store and all that was in it, on condition
that a certain sum should be paid every year to the widow.

                                "Sarkis
                        took the business, and
                          after three years he
                        was sole owner of it.

Mayhew, "that none of you will hesitate to wear this
pin on vest or coat lapel. The gift is a simple one, but it practically
makes you honorary members of the United States Navy of the future, and I
am glad of it."