
Next day I landed in Aoba, at "Albert's." He was an American negro,
who, after having been a stoker and sailor, had settled here as a
coprah trader. His language was of the strangest, a mixture of biche la
mar, negro French and English, and was very hard to understand. With
the help of two native women he kept his house in good order, and
he was decidedly one of the most decent colonists of the group,
and tried to behave like a gentleman, which is more than can be said
of some whites. He seemed to confirm the theory that the African is
superior to the Melanesian. Albert sheltered me to the best of his
ability, although I had to sleep in the open, under a straw roof,
and his bill of fare included items which neither my teeth nor my
stomach could manage, such as an octopus. There were several other
negroes in Aoba; one was Marmaduke, an enormous Senegalese, who had
grown somewhat simple, and lived like the natives, joining the Suque
and dancing at their festivals. He occasionally came to dinner at
Albert's; this was always amusing, as Albert thought himself far
superior to Marmaduke, and corrected his mistakes with still more
comical impossibilities. Both were most polite and perfectly sober. The
talk, as a rule, turned on stories of ghosts, in which both of them
firmly believed, and by which both were much troubled. Marmaduke was
strangled every few nights by old women, while a goblin had sat on
Albert's chest every night until he had cleared the bush round his
house and emptied his Winchester three times into the darkness. This
had driven the ghosts away,--a pretty case of auto-suggestion. I
was interested in hearing these stories, though I should hardly have
thought a sensible man like Albert could have believed such things.

The people of Aoba are quite different from those of the other
islands,--light-coloured, often straight-haired, with Mongolian
features; they are quite good-looking, intelligent, and their habits
show many Polynesian traits. The Suque is not all-important here:
it scarcely has the character of a secret society, and the separation
of the sexes is not insisted on. Men and women live together, and the
fires do not appear to be separated. As a result, there is real family
life, owing in part to the fact that meals are eaten in common. The
gamal is replaced by a cooking-house, which is open to the women;
generally it is nothing but a great gabled roof, reaching to the
ground on one side and open on the others. Here the families live
during the day, and the young men and guests sleep at night, while
the married couples sleep in their huts, which are grouped around
the cooking-house.

The position of the women, so much better here than elsewhere, is
not without effect on their behaviour. They are independent and
self-possessed, and do not run away from a stranger nor hide in
dark corners when a white man wants to speak to them. Because of
their intelligence they are liked on plantations as house-servants,
and so many of them have gone away for this purpose that Aoba has
been considerably depopulated in consequence; few of these women ever
return, and those who do are usually sick. Some Aoba women have made
very good wives for white men.

The people of Aoba are remarkable for their cleanliness, the dwellers
on the coast spending half the day in the water, while those from the
mountains never miss their weekly bath, after which they generally
carry a few cocoa-nuts full of salt water up to their homes. The
women are very pretty, slim and strong; their faces often have quite a
refined outline, a pointed chin, a small mouth and full but well-cut
lips; their eyes are beautiful, with a soft and sensual expression;
and the rhythm of their movements, their light and supple walk,
give them a charm hardly ever to be found in Europe. The men, too,
are good to look at. Considering the intelligence and thriftiness of
the race, it is doubly regrettable that alcoholism, recruiting and
consumption have had such evil effects of recent years.

I roamed about in the neighbourhood of Nabutriki and attended several
festivals; they are much the same as elsewhere, except that the
pigs are not killed by braining, but by trampling on their stomachs,
which apparently causes rupture of the heart and speedy death.

As I mentioned elsewhere, a man's rise in caste is marked on every
occasion by the receipt of new fire, rubbed on a special stick
ornamented with flowers. Fire is lighted here, as in all Melanesia,
by "ploughing," a small stick being rubbed lengthwise in a larger
one. If the wood is not damp, it will burn in less than two minutes:
it is not necessary, as is often stated, to use two different kinds
of wood. To-day matches are used nearly everywhere, and the natives
hardly ever "plough" their fire, except for ceremonial purposes;
but they are still very clever about keeping the fire burning, and
often take along a smouldering log on their walks.

Wood-carving and sculpture are wanting, except in the shape of drums,
which are placed in a horizontal position, and often reach considerable
dimensions.

Not far from Albert's lived a man of the highest caste, my friend
Agelan. He was planning to kill one hundred tusked pigs in the near
future, which would raise him to the highest caste far and wide,
but would also impoverish him for the rest of his life. He lived
quietly and comfortably, like a country squire, surrounded by his
relatives and descendants. He seemed fond of good living, and his wife
was an excellent housekeeper. In the midst of a somewhat colourless
Christian population, wearing trousers and slovenly dresses, using
enamel pots and petrol-lamps, Agelan and his household were a genuine
relic of the good old times, and no one could have pretended that
his home was less pleasant than those around him. These things are
largely a matter of taste; and those who prefer grotesque attire to
beautiful nakedness will be happy to know that their wishes will soon
be fulfilled. I liked the old heathen, and spent a good deal of time
with him. A sketch of his home life may not come amiss, just because
these primitive ways are dying out so fast.

As I near the house, some dogs rush out at me, and a woman's voice
calls them back; Agelan roars a welcome--he always shouts, and likes to
put on masterful airs; for in years gone by he was a very unpleasant
customer, until the man-of-war--but that is all ancient history, and
now his bark is much worse than his bite. I have the honour of being
in his good books, thanks to certain medical services I was able to
render him; he has an ugly cough, for which we have tried in turn:
iodine, Peruvian balsam, eucalyptus oil, quinine, and other medicines;
nothing helps, but he seems to enjoy swallowing the drugs.

The floor of the house is hard clay; there are two fireplaces at one
end, and at the other some large drums serve as seats. Everywhere
in the roofing hang bows, arrows, bones, plummets, ropes, and
clubs. Agelan has been toasting himself at a little fire of his
own; now he rises, coughing, and shakes hands. He is a very tall,
strongly-made man of about sixty, with a high forehead, long,
hooked nose, wide mouth, thin lips and white beard. His dress is the
old-fashioned loin-mat, and around his wrists he wears heavy strands
of shell money. His wife, too, is very tall and strong, with quiet,
dignified movements; she may be forty years old. Everything about
her is calm and determined; while not handsome, she has such a kind
expression as to look very pleasant. She wears a small loin-cloth, and
her light coffee-coloured skin is scrupulously clean. Around her neck
and over her left shoulder she wears a string of shells, and around
her ankles, small red beads. Near her squats her little daughter,
a pretty child of six; an adopted daughter plays near the fire with
a small, thick-bellied orphan boy, who is always crying. The girls,
too, wear little ornaments; and their dainty movements, curly heads,
round faces and great dark eyes are very attractive.

The midday meal is steaming under a heap of leaves and dust, and a man
is busily scraping cocoa-nuts for the delicious cocoa-nut milk. Agelan
sends one of the girls for an unripe nut, which is opened in three
deft cuts, and I am offered the refreshing drink as a welcome. Now
Agelan, who has been brooding for days over these matters, questions
me as to my origin and plans, and he roars himself nearly hoarse,
for we cannot understand each other. The other man, a fugitive from
the east coast, is asked to interpret, but he is sulky and awkward;
not that he is a bad sort, but he is sick, and spends most of his time
asleep in a shed he has built for himself in a corner of the house,
and only appears at meals.

The youngest son comes in, the last left to Agelan, for the older
ones have all joined the mission,--it is the fashion. This boy is a
quiet, cheerful lad of twelve, already a high caste, for his father
has killed many pigs for him. He has shot a miserable pigeon, and
his mother and the girls laugh at the poor booty, much to his chagrin.

Agelan now takes me to "view" a particularly fine tusked pig, tied
under a roof, on a clean couch of straw; the boy shows it bits of
cocoa-nut to make it open its mouth, so that I can see and admire its
tusks. Agelan would like nothing better than to show off all his pigs,
and if I were a native I would pass them in review as we Europeans
visit picture-galleries; but I refuse as politely as I can. We
return to the cook-house, where the cocoa-nut rasping is finished;
the man washes his hands in the water of a nut, splitting it open and
squeezing the water in a little spray on to his hands. Mrs. Agelan
knows a simpler way; she fills her mouth with water and squirts it on
her hands. The cocoa-nut gratings are kneaded with a little water,
while the girls sweep the earth off the cooking-place and uncover
the stones; an appetizing smell spreads, and the master of the house
watches the preparations with a sharp eye and a silent tongue. One
feels that the least carelessness will provoke an outburst, and,
indeed, a solemn silence has fallen on the company, only the wife
smiles quietly.

"Lap-lap banana good!" Agelan roars in my ear, and I nod assent. Now
the hot stones are removed with bamboo tongs, and the great flat
object, wrapped in banana leaves, is taken out. Mrs. Agelan throws back
the leaves and uncovers the beautifully cooked golden lap-lap. Her
lord looks at it critically, and returns to his corner silent, but
evidently satisfied. His wife cannot quite hide a smile of pride.

The stranger now squeezes the cocoa-nut gratings over a wooden bowl,
and a creamy juice runs through his fingers. The bowl is brought to
Agelan, who looks at it as if reading an oracle; then he selects a
hot stone from his own fire, and sends the bowl back to be embedded
in the gratings. He approaches with his stone in a wooden fork,
and squats down near the bowl lost in thought, as if anxious not to
miss the right moment; then he drops the stone into the milk, which
hisses, bubbles and steams. A fine smell of burnt fat is noticeable;
and while the liquid thickens, Agelan behaves as if he could perform
miracles and was in league with supernatural powers. After a while
his wife hands him the bowl, and he holds it over the pudding,
undecided how and where to pour the milk; one would think the fate
and welfare of creation depended on his action. Being a man of energy,
he makes up his mind, and pours one stream right across the pudding,
then empties his bowl and retires with a sigh to his seat. About ten
more bowlfuls are needed, but these are poured by Mrs. Agelan without
further ceremony. The solemn hush is over. With a long bush-knife,
Mama cuts the pudding into strips and squares and distributes it,
and the meal proceeds amid general satisfaction. I am given a large
slab; fortunately it tastes very good and is easily digestible,
for politeness ordains that one must eat enormous quantities. At
one stage of the proceedings the girls are sent to take some food to
the neighbours as a present. When everyone has finished, Agelan lies
down for a siesta, while his wife lights a pipe and squats in silent
happiness near the fire. The girls play with the dirty little boy,
and the son plucks his tiny pigeon and a flying-fox; singeing the
creature's fur off occasions such an evil smell that I prefer to take
my leave. Mrs. Agelan smiles her farewell, the girls giggle, and when
I have gone some distance I hear Agelan, awakened from his siesta,
roar a sleepy good-bye after me.


CHAPTER XIV

LOLOWAY--MALO--THE BANKS ISLANDS


Having traversed the western part of the island, I sailed to
Loloway, near the eastern point, one of the loveliest spots in the
archipelago. Lofty cliffs flank two sides of a round bay; at the
entrance a barrier-reef breaks the swell, which glides in a soft
undulation over the quiet water, splashing up on the sandy beach. All
around is the forest, hanging in shadowy bowers over the water,
and hardly a breeze is astir. The white whale-boat of the Anglican
missionary floats motionless on the green mirror; sometimes a fish
leaps up, or a pigeon calls from the woods. In the curve of the
bay the shore rises in two terraces; on the lower lies the Anglican
missionary's house, just opposite the entrance. In the evening the sun
sets between the cliffs, and pours a stream of the purest gold through
the narrow gap. It is a pity this fairy spot is so rarely inhabited;
Melanesian missionaries are not often at home, being constantly on
the road, or at work in the native villages. Mr. G., too, was on the
point of departure, and agreed to take me with him on his trip.

In his alarmingly leaky boat we sailed westward, two boys baling all
the time. We ran into a small anchorage, pulled the boat ashore, and
marched off inland. The people I found here were similar to those in
the west, except that they had developed certain arts to a greater
degree of perfection, particularly mat-braiding and tattooing. The
braiding is done by a method very similar to that in vogue on
Pentecoste. The tattooing is mostly done by women and on women;
but the men, especially the high castes, often have a beautifully
designed sicca leaf running from the chest towards one shoulder,
which probably has some religious significance. The women often have
their whole body, arms and legs, covered with tattooing, as if with
fine lace. The operation is done bit by bit, some one part being
treated every few days. The colour used is the rosin of a nut-tree
precipitated on a cool stone and mixed with the juice of a plant;
the pattern is drawn on the skin with a stick, and then traced with
the tattooing-needle. This consists of three orange thorns, tied
at right angles to a stick. The needles are guided along the design
with the left hand, while the right keeps striking the handle softly
with a light stick, to drive the needles into the skin. This is kept
up until a distinct outline is produced; the operation is not very
painful. The skin is then washed and rubbed with a certain juice,
which evidently acts as a disinfectant; at least I never saw any
inflammation consequent on tattooing. During the next few days some
of the dye works out and falls off with the dry crust that forms on
the wound, leaving the tattooing a little paler. The patterns are
rather complicated, and at the present day there are no recognizable
representations of real objects; yet there seems no doubt that at one
time all the designs represented some real thing. They are carefully
adapted to the body, and accentuate its structure. The women who do
the tattooing are well paid, so that only the wealthy can afford to
have their wives and daughters tattooed all over; and naturally a
tattooed woman brings a higher price in the matrimonial market than a
"plain" one.

In this same place I had occasion to observe an interesting zoological
phenomenon, the appearance of the palolo-worm, which occurs almost all
over the Pacific once a year, at a certain date after the October full
moon. The natives know the date exactly, which proves the accuracy
of their chronology. The palolo is a favourite delicacy, and they
never fail to fish for it. We went down to the shore on the first
night; there were not many worms as yet, but the next evening the
water was full of the greenish and brownish threads, wriggling about
helplessly. Each village had its traditional fishing-ground, and we
could see the different fires all along the coast. The worms were
gathered by hand and thrown into baskets, and after midnight we went
home with a rich harvest. The palolo is mixed with pudding, and said
to taste like fish; I am not in a position to pronounce an opinion.

I returned to Nabutriki, and thence to Malo, where Mr. W. informed me
that the Burns-Philp steamer had already passed, and asked me to stay
with him and his kind family until I should find an opportunity to
cross. I accepted all the more gladly, as this part of Malo was still
quite unknown to me. The population I found here is probably identical
with that which formerly inhabited the south shore of Santo. This
was interesting to me because of certain scientific details, though
on the whole the life was much the same as elsewhere in Melanesia,
with the Suque, etc. I collected a number of charms and amulets,
which the people sold willingly, as they no longer believed in their
power. Formerly, they were supposed to be useful for poisoning,
as love-charms, or for help in collecting many tusked pigs.

I also visited the neighbouring islands, and heard the gruesome story
of how the last village on Aoré disappeared. The Aoré people were for
ever at war with those of South Santo, across the Segond Channel. The
men of Aoré were about sixty strong, and one day they attacked a
Santo village. Everyone fled except one man, who was helpless from
disease. He was killed and eaten up, and in consequence of this meal
thirty out of the sixty men from Aoré died. The others dispersed among
the villages of Malo. In Aoré, I had the rare sensation of witnessing
an earthquake below the surface. I was exploring a deep cave in the
coral banks when I heard the well-known rumbling, felt the shock, and
heard some great stalactites fall from the ceiling. This accumulation
of effects seemed then to me a little theatrical and exaggerated.

The next steamer took me to the Banks Islands, and I went ashore at
Port Patterson on Venua Lava. Here were the headquarters of a rubber
planting company; but the rubber trees had not grown well, and the
company had started cocoa-nuts. I had met Mr. Ch., the director,
before, and he took me in. The company owned a motor-launch,
which cruised all through the Banks Islands, visiting the different
plantations; this gave me a good opportunity to see nearly all the
islands. The sea is much more dangerous here than in the New Hebrides,
being open everywhere; and the strong currents cause heavy tide rips
at the points of the jagged coasts.

An excursion to Gaua was a failure, owing to bad weather. After
having shivered in a wet hut for four days, we returned to Port
Patterson only just in time; for in the evening the barometer fell,
a bad sign at that season, and the wind set in afresh. The launch was
anchored in a sheltered corner of the bay, near an old yacht and a
schooner belonging to Mr. W., a planter on a neighbouring islet. All
the signs pointed to a coming cyclone, and suddenly it shot from the
mountains, furrowed the sea, and ruled supreme for two days. From
the director's house I watched the whirling squalls gliding over
the water, lifting great lumps of spray, that shot like snow over
the surface and disappeared in the misty distance. Rain rattled in
showers on the roof; everywhere was a hissing, rushing, thundering;
the surf broke in violent, irregular shocks like the trampling of an
excited horse; the wind roared in the forest till the strongest trees
trembled and the palms bent over with inverted crowns. In a moment
the creeks swelled to torrents, and in every gully there ran rivers,
which collected to a deep lake in the plain. In the house the rain
penetrated everywhere, leaked through the roof, dripped on the beds,
and made puddles on the floor.

Meanwhile the captain and engineer of the launch had passed an
unpleasant time; they had stayed aboard till the rolling of the boat
drove them to the larger yacht; but seeing the schooner break her
two chains and drift on to the reef, they became frightened and went
ashore in the dinghey, and home along the beach. Later they arrived
at the station and reported "all well," and were amazed when I told
them that the launch had stranded. I had just been looking from the
veranda through the glass at the boats, when a huge wave picked up
the launch and threw her on the beach. There she had rolled about a
little, and then dug herself into the sand, while the tide fell and
the wind changed. Next day the cyclone had passed, but the swell
was still very heavy. Equipped with everything necessary to float
the launch, we marched along the beach, which was beaten hard by the
waves. We had to cross a swollen river on an improvised raft; to our
satisfaction we found the boat quite unhurt, not even the cargo being
damaged; only a few copper plates were torn. Next day Mr. W. arrived,
lamenting his loss; for his beautiful schooner was pierced in the
middle by a sharp rock, and she hung, shaken by the waves that
broke over her decks and gurgled in the hold. The rigging was torn,
the cabin washed away, and the shore strewn with her doors, planks,
beams and trade goods. It was a pitiful sight to see the handsome
ship bending over like a fallen warrior, while the company's old
yacht had weathered the cyclone quite safely.

During the work of refloating the boat, Mr. Ch. was taken very ill
with fever, and I nursed him for some days; he was somewhat better by
Christmas Eve, and we had the satisfaction of bringing the saved launch
back to the station. He was visibly relieved, and his good humour was
agreeably felt by his boys as well as by his employés, to whom he sent
a goodly quantity of liquor to celebrate the occasion. We sat down to
a festive dinner and tried to realize that this was Christmas; but it
was so different from Christmas at home, that it was rather hard. At
our feet lay the wide bay, turquoise blue, edged with white surf;
in the distance rose the wonderful silhouette of Mota Lava Island;
white clouds travelled across the sky, and a gentle breeze rustled
in the palms of the forest. The peaceful picture showed no trace of
the fury with which the elements had fought so few days ago.

Tired with his exertions, Mr. Ch. withdrew early, and I soon followed;
but we were both aroused by the barking of the dogs, followed by the
pad of bare feet on the veranda, whispering and coughing, and then by
a song from rough and untrained throats. The singers were natives of
a Christian village some miles away, who came to sing Christmas hymns
in a strange, rough language, discordant and yet impressive. When
they had finished the director went out to them; he was a man whom one
would not have believed capable of any feeling, but he had tears in his
eyes; words failed him, and he thanked the singers by gestures. We all
went down to the store, where they sang to the employés, and received
presents; after which they spent the rest of the night with the hands,
singing, eating and chatting. On Christmas Day the natives roasted
a fat pig, the employés spent the day over their bottles, and I was
nurse once more, my patient being delirious and suffering very much.

Before New Year's Day the launch was sent to all the different
stations to fetch the employés, an interesting crowd of more or less
ruined individuals. There was a former gendarme from New Caledonia, a
cavalry captain, an officer who had been in the Boer war, an ex-priest,
a clerk, a banker and a cowboy, all very pleasant people as long as
they were sober; but the arrival of each was celebrated with several
bottles, which the director handed out without any demur, although the
amount was prodigious. Quarrels ensued; but by New Year's Eve peace was
restored, and we all decorated the director's house with wreaths for
the banquet of the evening. The feast began well, but towards midnight
a general fight was going on, which came to an end by the combatants
falling asleep one by one. Thus the new year was begun miserably,
and the next few days were just as bad. The natives looked on at the
fights with round-eyed astonishment; and the director was in despair,
for a second cyclone was threatening, and there was hardly anyone in
a fit condition to help him secure the launch.

All one morning it rained, and at noon the cyclone broke, coming from
the south-west, as it had done the first time, but with threefold
violence. We sat on the veranda, ready to jump off at any moment,
in case the house should be blown away. The view was wiped out by
the mist; dull crashes resounded in the forest, branches cracked and
flew whirling through the air, all isolated trees were broken off
short, and the lianas tangled and torn. The blasts grew ever more
violent and frequent, and if the house had not been protected by the
mountain, it could never have resisted them. As it was, it shook and
creaked, and a little iron shed went rolling along the ground like
a die. Down in the plain the storm tore the leaves off the palms,
and uprooted trees and blew down houses. The cyclone reached its
climax at sunset, then the barometer rose steadily, and suddenly
both wind and rain ceased. The stillness lasted for about half an
hour and then the storm set in again, this time from the north,
striking the house with all its strength; fortunately it was not so
violent as at first. With the rising barometer the storm decreased and
changed its direction to the east. All next day it rained and blew;
but on the third morning the storm died out in a faint breeze from
the south-east, and when we came to reckon up our damages, we found
that it might have been worse. Meanwhile the employés had had time
to recover from their orgy. A brilliant day dried the damp house,
and soon everything resumed a normal aspect except the forest, which
looked brown and ragged, like autumn woods at home.

I made use of the first calm day to visit the lonely little islet of
Meralava. As it has no anchorage, no one can land there except in
quiet weather, and so it had come about that the company's employé
had had no communication with the outside world for four months. The
island is an extinct volcano, a regular cone, with the crater as a deep
cavity in the top. There is hardly a level square mètre on the whole
island, and the shores rise steeply out of the sea; only a few huge
lava blocks form a base, on which the swell breaks and foams. When
we reached the island, this swell was so heavy as to render landing
almost impossible. All we could do was to take the employé aboard and
return home. I was very sorry to have to give up my visit to Meralava,
as the natives, though all christianized, have preserved more of
their old ways than those of other islands, owing to their infrequent
intercourse with civilization. For the same reason, the population is
quite large; but every time a ship has landed an epidemic goes through
the island, the germs of which appear to be brought by the vessels,
and the natives evidently have very small powers of resistance. We
may here observe on a small scale what has taken place all over the
archipelago in the degeneration and decimation of the aborigines.

The people of Meralava live on taro, which they grow in terraced
fields, the water being obtained from holes in the rocks, and on
cocoa-nuts, of which the island yields a fair supply.

The following day we started for Ureparapara, also a volcanic island,
with an enormous crater, one side of which has fallen in; because,
as the natives say, a great fish knocked against it. The sea has
penetrated into the interior of the crater, forming a lovely bay, so
that ships now lie at anchor where formerly the lava boiled and roared.

In consequence of the frequent intercourse with whites, the population
is scanty. There is hardly a level patch, except the small strip at
the base of the slope and the great reef outside. Here, too, we had
difficulty in landing, but in the evening we found an ideal anchorage
inside the bay. The water was scarcely ruffled, and little wavelets
splashed on the shore, where mangrove thickets spread their bright
foliage. Huge trees bent over the water, protecting the straw roofs
of a little village. In the deep shade some natives were squatting
round fires, and close by some large outrigger-canoes lay on the
beach. On three sides the steep wooded slopes of the former crater's
walls rise up to a sharply dented ridge, and it all looks like a
quiet Alpine lake, so that one involuntarily listens for the sound
of cow-bells. Instead, there is the call of pigeons, and the dull
thunder of the breakers outside.

We took a holiday in this charming bay; and though the joys of
picnicking were not new to us, the roasting of some pigeons gave us a
festive sensation and a hearty appetite. The night under the bright,
starlit sky, on board the softly rocking launch, wrapped me in a
feeling of safety and coziness I had not enjoyed for a long time.

Along the steepest path imaginable I climbed next morning to the
mountain's edge. The path often led along smooth rocks, where lianas
served as ropes and roots as a foothold; and I was greatly surprised
to find many fields on top, to which the women have to climb every
day and carry the food down afterwards, which implies acrobatic feats
of no mean order.

Ureparapara was the northernmost point I had reached so far, and
the neighbourhood of the art-loving Solomon Islands already made
itself felt. Whereas in the New Hebrides every form of art, except
mat-braiding, is at once primitive and decadent, here any number
of pretty things are made, such as daintily designed ear-sticks,
bracelets, necklaces, etc.; I also found a new type of drum, a regular
skin-drum, with the skin stretched across one end, while the other
is stuck into the ground. The skin is made of banana leaves. These
and other points mark the difference between this people and that of
the New Hebrides. As elsewhere all over the Banks group, the people
have long faces, high foreheads, narrow, often hooked, noses, and
a light skin. Accordingly, it would seem that they are on a higher
mental plane than those of the New Hebrides, and cannibalism is said
never to have existed here.

My collections were not greatly enriched, as a British man-of-war had
anchored here for a few days a short time before; and anyone who knows
the blue-jackets' rage for collecting will understand that they are
quite capable of stripping a small island of its treasures. A great
deal of scientifically valuable material is lost in this way, though
fortunately these collectors go in for size chiefly, leaving small
objects behind, so that I was able to procure several valuable pieces.

After our return to Port Patterson the launch took me to a plantation
from which I ascended the volcano of Venua Lava. Its activity shows
principally in sulphur springs, and there are large sulphur deposits,
which were worked fifteen years ago by a French company. A large amount
of capital had been collected for the purpose, and for a few weeks
or months the sulphur was carried down to the shore by natives and
exported. Then it was found that the deposits were not inexhaustible,
that the employés were not over-conscientious, that the consumption
of alcohol was enormous, and finally the whole affair was given up,
after large quantities of machinery had been brought out, which I saw
rusting away near the shore. In this way numerous enterprises have
been started and abandoned of late years, especially in Nouméa. It
is probably due to this mining scheme that the natives here have
practically disappeared; I found one man who had once carried sulphur
from the mine, and he was willing to guide me up the volcano.

There are always clouds hanging round the top of the mountain, and the
forest is swampy; but on the old road we advanced quite rapidly, and
soon found ourselves on the edge of a plateau, from which two streams
fell down in grand cascades, close together, their silver ribbons
gleaming brightly in the dark woods. One river was milk-white with
sulphur precipitate, the other had red water, probably owing to iron
deposits. The water was warm, and grew still warmer the farther up we
followed the river. Suddenly we came upon a bare slope, over certain
spots of which steam-clouds hung, while penetrating fumes irritated
one's eyes and nose. We had come to the lower margin of the sulphur
springs, and the path led directly across the sulphur rocks. Mounting
higher, we heard the hissing of steam more distinctly, and soon we
were in the midst of numerous hillocks with bright yellow tops, and
steam hissing and whistling as it shot out of cracks, to condense in
the air into a white cloud. The whole ground seemed furrowed with
channels and crevasses, beneath which one heard mysterious noises;
one's step sounded hollow, and at our side ran a dark stream, which
carried the hot sulphur water to the shore. Great boulders lay about,
some of them so balanced that a slight touch sent them rolling into the
depths, where they broke into atoms. Sometimes we were surrounded by a
thick cloud, until a breeze carried it away, and we had a clear view
over the hot, dark desert, up to the mountain-top. It was uncanny in
the midst of those viciously hissing hillocks, and I could not blame my
boys for turning green with fear and wishing to go home. But we went on
to a place where water boiled in black pools, sometimes quietly, then
with a sudden high jump; some of the water was black, some yellowish,
and everything around was covered with sulphur as if with hoar-frost.

We followed the course of a creek whose water was so hot as to scald
our feet, and the heat became most oppressive. We were glad to reach
the crater, though it was a gloomy and colourless desert, in the
midst of which a large grey pool boiled and bubbled. In front was a
deep crevice in the crater wall, and a cloud of steam hid whatever
was in it; yet we felt as though something frightful must be going
on there. Above this gloomy scene stretched a sky of serenest blue,
and we had a glimpse of the coast, with its little islands bathing
in the sapphire sea.

