"Sir," said I, "I am bold to think that you will not dare to tell
me, either now, or at any other time, that you have received, or
expect to receive, from me anything that is not true."

He then stood still, looking at me for a moment or two, and I beg to
assert that I looked as fully at him.  There was, at any rate, no
cause why I should tremble before him.  I was not his nephew, nor
was I responsible for his nephew's doings towards him.  Two of his
servants were behind him, and on my side there stood a boy and girl
belonging to the inn.  They, however, could not understand a word of
English.  I saw that he was hesitating, but at last he spoke out.  I
confess, now, that his words, when they were spoken, did, at the
first moment, make me tremble.

"I have to charge you," said he, "with eloping with my niece, and I
demand of you to inform me where she is.  You are perfectly aware
that I am her guardian by law."

I did tremble;--not that I cared much for Sir William's
guardianship, but I saw before me so terrible an embarrassment!  And
then I felt so thoroughly abashed in that I had allowed myself to be
so deceived!  It all came back upon me in a moment, and covered me
with a shame that even made me blush.  I had travelled through the
desert with a woman for days, and had not discovered her, though she
had given me a thousand signs.  All those signs I remembered now,
and I blushed pain fully.  When her hand was on my forehead I still
thought that she was a man!  I declare that at this moment I felt a
stronger disinclination to face my late companion than I did to
encounter her angry uncle.

"Your niece!" I said, speaking with a sheepish bewilderment which
should have convinced him at once of my innocence.  She had asked
me, too, whether I was a married man, and I had denied it.  How was
I to escape from such a mess of misfortunes?  I declare that I began
to forget her troubles in my own.

"Yes, my niece,--Miss Julia Weston.  The disgrace which you have
brought upon me must be wiped out; but my first duty is to save that
unfortunate young woman from further misery."

"If it be as you say," I exclaimed, "by the honour of a gentleman--"

"I care nothing for the honour of a gentleman till I see it proved.
Be good enough to inform me, sir, whether Miss Weston is in this
house."

For a moment I hesitated; but I saw at once that I should make
myself responsible for certain mischief, of which I was at any rate
hitherto in truth innocent, if I allowed myself to become a party to
concealing a young lady.  Up to this period I could at any rate
defend myself, whether my defence were believed or not believed.  I
still had a hope that the charming Julia might have escaped through
the window, and a feeling that if she had done so I was not
responsible.  When I turned the lock I turned it on Smith.

For a moment I hesitated, and then walked slowly across the yard and
opened the door.  "Sir William," I said, as I did so, "I travelled
here with a companion dressed as a man; and I believed him to be
what he seemed till this minute."

"Sir!" said Sir William, with a look of scorn in his face which gave
me the lie in my teeth as plainly as any words could do.  And then
he entered the room.  The Pole was standing in one corner,
apparently amazed at what was going on, and Smith,--I may as well
call her Miss Weston at once, for the baronet's statement was true,-
-was sitting on a sort of divan in the corner of the chamber hiding
her face in her hands.  She had made no attempt at an escape, and a
full explanation was therefore indispensable.  For myself I own that
I felt ashamed of my part in the play,--ashamed even of my own
innocency.  Had I been less innocent I should certainly have
contrived to appear much less guilty.  Had it occurred to me on the
banks of the Jordan that Smith was a lady, I should not have
travelled with her in her gentleman's habiliments from Jerusalem to
Jaffa.  Had she consented to remain under my protection, she must
have done so without a masquerade.

The uncle stood still and looked at his niece.  He probably
understood how thoroughly stern and disagreeable was his own face,
and considered that he could punish the crime of his relative in no
severer way than by looking at her.  In this I think he was right.
But at last there was a necessity for speaking.  "Unfortunate young
woman!" he said, and then paused.

"We had better get rid of the landlord," I said, "before we come to
any explanation."  And I motioned to the man to leave the room.
This he did very unwillingly, but at last he was gone.

"I fear that it is needless to care on her account who may hear the
story of her shame," said Sir William.  I looked at Miss Weston, but
she still sat hiding her face.  However, if she did not defend
herself, it was necessary that I should defend both her and me.

"I do not know how far I may be at liberty to speak with reference
to the private matters of yourself or of your--your niece, Sir
William Weston.  I would not willingly interfere--"

"Sir," said he, "your interference has already taken place.  Will
you have the goodness to explain to me what are your intentions with
regard to that lady?"

My intentions!  Heaven help me!  My intentions, of course, were to
leave her in her uncle's hands.  Indeed, I could hardly be said to
have formed any intention since I had learned that I had been
honoured by a lady's presence.  At this moment I deeply regretted
that I had thoughtlessly stated to her that I was an unmarried man.
In doing so I had had no object.  But at that time "Smith" had been
quite a stranger to me, and I had not thought it necessary to
declare my own private concerns.  Since that I had talked so little
of myself that the fact of my family at home had not been mentioned.
"Will you have the goodness to explain what are your intentions with
regard to that lady?" said the baronet.

"Oh, Uncle William!" exclaimed Miss Weston, now at length raising
her head from her hands.

"Hold your peace, madam," said he.  "When called upon to speak, you
will find your words with difficulty enough.  Sir, I am waiting for
an answer from you."

"But, uncle, he is nothing to me;--the gentleman is nothing to me!"

"By the heavens above us, he shall be something, or I will know the
reason why!  What! he has gone off with you; he has travelled
through the country with you, hiding you from your only natural
friend; he has been your companion for weeks--"

"Six days, sir," said I.

"Sir!" said the baronet, again giving me the lie.  "And now," he
continued, addressing his niece, "you tell me that he is nothing to
you.  He shall give me his promise that he will make you his wife at
the consulate at Alexandria, or I will destroy him.  I know who he
is."

"If you know who I am," said I, "you must know--"

But he would not listen to me.  "And as for you, madam, unless he
makes me that promise--"  And then he paused in his threat, and,
turning round, looked me in the face.  I saw that she also was
looking at me, though not openly as he did; and some flattering
devil that was at work round my heart, would have persuaded that she
also would have heard a certain answer given without dismay,--would
even have received comfort in her agony from such an answer.  But
the reader knows how completely that answer was out of my power.

"I have not the slightest ground for supposing," said I, "that the
lady would accede to such an arrangement,--if it were possible.  My
acquaintance with her has been altogether confined to--.  To tell
the truth, I have not been in Miss Weston's confidence, and have
only taken her for that which she has seemed to be."

"Sir!" said the baronet, again looking at me as though he would
wither me on the spot for my falsehood.

"It is true!" said Julia, getting up from her seat, and appealing
with clasped hands to her uncle--"as true as Heaven."

"Madam!" said he, "do you both take me for a fool?"

"That you should take me for one," said I, "would be very natural.
The facts are as we state to you.  Miss Weston,--as I now learn that
she is,--did me the honour of calling at my hotel, having heard--"
And then it seemed to me as though I were attempting to screen
myself by telling the story against her, so I was again silent.
Never in my life had I been in a position of such extraordinary
difficulty.  The duty which I owed to Julia as a woman, and to Sir
William as a guardian, and to myself as the father of a family, all
clashed with each other.  I was anxious to be generous, honest, and
prudent, but it was impossible; so I made up my mind to say nothing
further.

"Mr. Jones," said the baronet, "I have explained to you the only
arrangement which under the present circumstances I can permit to
pass without open exposure and condign punishment.  That you are a
gentleman by birth, education, and position I am aware,"--whereupon
I raised my hat, and then he continued:  "That lady has three
hundred a year of her own--"

"And attractions, personal and mental, which are worth ten times the
money," said I, and I bowed to my fair friend, who looked at me the
while with sad beseeching eyes.  I confess that the mistress of my
bosom, had she known my thoughts at that one moment, might have had
cause for anger.

"Very well," continued he.  "Then the proposal which I name, cannot,
I imagine, but be satisfactory.  If you will make to her and to me
the only amends which it is in your power as a gentleman to afford,
I will forgive all.  Tell me that you will make her your wife on
your arrival in Egypt."

I would have given anything not to have looked at Miss Weston at
this moment, but I could not help it.  I did turn my face half round
to her before I answered, and then felt that I had been cruel in
doing so.  "Sir William," said I, "I have at home already a wife and
family of my own."

"It is not true!" said he, retreating a step, and staring at me with
amazement.

"There is something, sir," I replied, "in the unprecedented
circumstances of this meeting, and in your position with regard to
that lady, which, joined to your advanced age, will enable me to
regard that useless insult as unspoken.  I am a married man.  There
is the signature of my wife's last letter," and I handed him one
which I had received as I was leaving Jerusalem.

But the coarse violent contradiction which Sir William had given me
was nothing compared with the reproach conveyed in Miss Weston's
countenance.  She looked at me as though all her anger were now
turned against me.  And yet, methought, there was more of sorrow
than of resentment in her countenance.  But what cause was there for
either?  Why should I be reproached, even by her look?  She did not
remember at the moment that when I answered her chance question as
to my domestic affairs, I had answered it as to a man who was a
stranger to me, and not as to a beautiful woman, with whom I was
about to pass certain days in close and intimate society.  To her,
at the moment, it seemed as though I had cruelly deceived her.  In
truth, the one person really deceived had been myself.

And here I must explain, on behalf of the lady, that when she first
joined me she had no other view than that of seeing the banks of the
Jordan in that guise which she had chosen to assume, in order to
escape from the solemnity and austerity of a disagreeable relative.
She had been very foolish, and that was all.  I take it that she had
first left her uncle at Constantinople, but on this point I never
got certain information.  Afterwards, while we were travelling
together, the idea had come upon her, that she might go on as far as
Alexandria with me.  And then I know nothing further of the lady's
intentions, but I am certain that her wishes were good and pure.
Her uncle had been intolerable to her, and she had fled from him.
Such had been her offence, and no more.

"Then, sir," said the baronet, giving me back my letter, "you must
be a double-dyed villain."

"And you, sir," said I -.  But here Julia Weston interrupted me.

"Uncle, you altogether wrong this gentleman," she said.  "He has
been kind to me beyond my power of words to express; but, till told
by you, he knew nothing of my secret.  Nor would he have known it,"
she added, looking down upon the ground.  As to that latter
assertion, I was at liberty to believe as much as I pleased.

The Pole now came to the door, informing us that any who wished to
start by the packet must go on board, and therefore, as the
unreasonable old gentleman perceived, it was necessary that we
should all make our arrangements.  I cannot say that they were such
as enable me to look back on them with satisfaction.  He did seem
now at last to believe that I had been an unconscious agent in his
niece's stratagem, but he hardly on that account became civil to me.
"It was absolutely necessary," he said, "that he and that
unfortunate young woman," as he would call her, "should depart at
once,--by this ship now going."  To this proposition of course I
made no opposition.  "And you, Mr. Jones," he continued, "will at
once perceive that you, as a gentleman, should allow us to proceed
on our journey without the honour of your company."

This was very dreadful, but what could I say; or, indeed, what could
I do?  My most earnest desire in the matter was to save Miss Weston
from annoyance; and under existing circumstances my presence on
board could not but be a burden to her.  And then, if I went,--if I
did go, in opposition to the wishes of the baronet, could I trust my
own prudence?  It was better for all parties that I should remain.

"Sir William," said I, after a minute's consideration, "if you will
apologise to me for the gross insults you have offered me, it shall
be as you say."

"Mr. Jones," said Sir William, "I do apologise for the words which I
used to you while I was labouring under a very natural misconception
of the circumstances."  I do not know that I was much the better for
the apology, but at the moment I regarded it sufficient.

Their things were then hurried down to the strand, and I accompanied
them to the ruined quay.  I took off my hat to Sir William as he was
first let down into the boat.  He descended first, so that he might
receive his niece,--for all Jaffa now knew that it was a lady,--and
then I gave her my hand for the last time.  "God bless you, Miss
Weston," I said, pressing it closely.  "God bless you, Mr. Jones,"
she replied.  And from that day to this I have neither spoken to her
nor seen her.

I waited a fortnight at Jaffa for the French boat, eating cutlets of
goat's flesh, and wandering among the orange groves.  I certainly
look back on that fortnight as the most miserable period of my life.
I had been deceived, and had failed to discover the deceit, even
though the deceiver had perhaps wished that I should do so.  For
that blindness I have never forgiven myself.