"All right, I promise!  I'll hug the remembrance secretly in my own
breast.  It will cheer me through the dullest hours!"

Clemence bridled, but made no further protest.  To think of Darsie
chuckling in secret was not agreeable, but it was as nothing compared
with the humiliation of meeting Dan's grave stare, and seeing the curl
of his lip at the repetition of her high-sounding phrase.  As the
quickest way of changing the conversation she suggested an adjournment
to the morning-room, where mother sat busy over the eternal mending-
basket, to broach the picnic project without delay.

Mother agreed instantly, eagerly, indeed, so that there was something
almost uncanny in the unusualness of the situation.  To every demand,
every suggestion came the unfailing, "Yes, darlings!  Certainly,
darlings!"  Even the audacity of the double programme aroused no more
notice than the remark that it was an admirable idea.  Darsie, striking
while the iron was hot, went a step farther and attacked the subject of
lunch.

"Could we--for once--have something substantialler than sandwiches?
Chickens?"  She gasped at the audacity of the request, for chickens were
a state dish, reserved for occasions, and in summer for some inscrutable
reasons just because they were smaller cost more than ever.  "Chickens
cut up are so easy to eat.  We needn't have knives and forks.  And
little cobby dinner-rolls from the confectioner's, with crisp, browny
crust, cut open and stuffed with butter and potted meat, and little
green pieces of lettuce.  They had them that way at supper at the
Masons' party, and they were superb!  And cakes and fruit!  Do, mother,
let us have a real swagger lunch just for once!"

And mother said, "Yes, darling!" like a lamb, swallowing as it were
spring chickens and cobby rolls at a gulp.  It was impossible in giving
the invitation to the Vernons to refrain from a hint at the magnificence
of the preparations, though good manners would, of course, have prompted
silence on such a point.

The Vernons accepted with acclamation, all except Dan, who rudely
declared that he "refused with pleasure," when Darsie bearded him in his
den and proffered the invitation.  He was seated at his desk, for the
moment the only occupant of the workroom, and his manner was not
expressive of welcome to the new-comer.  He was a big, heavily built
youth, with a face which was oddly attractive despite irregular features
and a dull complexion.  Dark eyes looked at you straight and square
beneath bushy eyebrows; thin lips curved into the oddest, most
expressive of lines, the square chin had a fashion of projecting until
it seemed to become one of the most eloquent features in his face.

Close observation showed that there was a shadow of his upper lip, and
rumour had it that he shaved, actually _shaved_ every morning of his
life.  His huge hands had a grip of steel, but it was wonderful how deft
and gentle they could be on occasion.  Every album and collection in the
house was labelled by Dan, indexed by Dan, embellished with ornamental
flourishes and headlines, which Dan's big fingers alone had the power to
produce.  Now he leaned an elbow on the desk, turned round on his chair,
and tilted that eloquent chin in scorn.

"Picnic?  Not much.  Hate 'em like poison!  You don't want me!"

"We _do_ want you!  We shouldn't have asked you if we didn't.  Don't be
unsociable, Dan.  It's an extra special occasion, and it would be so
much jollier to be complete.  The boys will behave better if you're
there."

Dan's chin tilted still an inch higher.  That was of course, but--

"I hate a family crowd!" he pronounced tersely.  "If there were only one
or two, it wouldn't be so bad.  Usual programme, I suppose--pick flowers
and eat biscuits?  Not much in my line--thank you all the same.  Hope
you'll have a good time!"

