But from the time that, placing himself at the head of the sbirri,
he had dared to enter boldly the den of the banditti, and seize them
at the hazard of his life, he was scarcely more an object of
attention among the women than among the men.  Greatly did they
admire his courage and unshaken presence of mind while engaged in so
perilous an adventure; but still more were they astonished at his
penetration in discovering where the bravoes concealed themselves,
an attempt which foiled even the keen wits of the so much celebrated
police of Venice.

The Doge Andreas cultivated the acquaintance of this singular young
man with increasing assiduity; and the more he conversed with him,
the more deserving of consideration did Flodoardo appear.  The
action by which he had rendered the Republic a service so essential
was rewarded by a present that would not have disgraced Imperial
gratitude, and one of the most important offices of the State was
confided to his superintendence.

Both favours were conferred unsolicited, but no sooner was the
Florentine apprised of the Doge's benevolent care of him, than with
modesty and respect he requested to decline the proposed advantages.
The only favour which he requested was, to be permitted to live free
and independent in Venice during a year, at the end of which he
promised to name that employment which he esteemed the best adapted
to his abilities and inclination.

Flodoardo was lodged in the magnificent palace of his good old
patron, Lomellino, here he lived in the closest retirement, studied
the most valuable parts of ancient and modern literature, remained
for whole days together in his own apartment, and was seldom to be
seen in public except upon some great solemnity.

But the Doge, Lomellino, Manfrone, and Conari, men who had
established the fame of Venice on so firm a basis that it would
require centuries to undermine it; men in whose society one seemed
to be withdrawn from the circle of ordinary mortals, and honoured by
the intercourse of superior beings, men who now graciously received
the Florentine stranger into their intimacy, and resolved to spare
no pains in forming him to support the character of a great man; it
could not long escape the observation of men like these, that
Flodoardo's gaiety was assumed, and that a secret sorrow preyed upon
his heart.

In vain did Lomellino, who loved him like a father, endeavour to
discover the source of his melancholy; in vain did the venerable
Doge exert himself to dispel the gloom which oppressed his young
favourite.  Flodoardo remained silent and sad.

And Rosabella?  Rosabella would have belied her sex had she remained
gay while Flodoardo sorrowed.  Her spirits were flown, her eyes were
frequently obscured with tears.  She grew daily paler and paler,
till the Doge, who doted on her, was seriously alarmed for her
health.  At length Rosabella grew really ill; a fever fixed itself
upon her; she became weak, and was confined to her chamber, and her
complaint baffled the skill of the most experienced physicians in
Venice.

In the midst of these unpleasant circumstances in which Andreas and
his friends now found themselves, an incident occurred one morning,
which raised their uneasiness to the very highest pitch.  Never had
so bold and audacious an action been heard of in Venice, as that
which I am going to relate.

The four banditti, whom Flodoardo had seized, Pietrino, Struzza,
Baluzza, and Thomaso, had been safely committed to the Doge's
dungeons, where they underwent a daily examination, and looked upon
every sun that rose as the last that would ever rise for THEM.
Andreas and his confidential counsellors now flattered themselves
that the public tranquillity had nothing more to apprehend, and that
Venice was now completely purified of the miscreants, whom gold
could bribe to be the instruments of revenge and cruelty; when all
at once the following address was discovered, affixed to most of the
remarkable statues, and pasted against the corners of the principal
streets, and pillars of the public buildings:-


"VENETIANS!

"Struzza, Thomaso, Pietrino, Baluzza, and Matteo, five as brave men
as the world ever produced, who, had they stood at the head of
armies, would have been called HEROES, and now being called
BANDITTI, are fallen victims to the injustice of State policy.
These men, it is true, exist for you no longer; but their place is
supplied by him, whose name is affixed to this paper, and who will
stand by his employers with body and with soul.  I laugh at the
vigilance of the Venetian police; I laugh at the crafty and insolent
Florentine, whose hand has dragged his brethren to the rack.  Let
those who need me, seek me; they will find me everywhere!  Let those
who seek me with the design of delivering me up to the law, despair
and tremble; they will find me nowhere, but _I_ shall find THEM, and
that when they least expect me!  Venetians, you understand me!  Woe
to the man who shall attempt to discover me; his life and death
depend upon my pleasure.  This comes from the Venetian Bravo,
ABELLINO."

"A hundred sequins," exclaimed the incensed Doge, on reading the
paper, "a hundred sequins to him who discovers this monster
Abellino, and a thousand to him who delivers him up to justice."

But in vain did spies ransack every lurking place in Venice; no
Abellino was to be found.  In vain did the luxurious, the
avaricious, and the hungry stretch their wits to the utmost, incited
by the tempting promise of a thousand sequins.  Abellino's prudence
set all their ingenuity at defiance.

But not the less did every one assert that he had recognised
Abellino, sometimes in one disguise, and sometimes in another, as an
old man, a gondolier, a woman, or a monk.  Everybody had seen him
somewhere; but, unluckily, nobody could tell where he was to be seen
again.


CHAPTER IV:  THE VIOLET.


I informed my readers, in the beginning of the last chapter, that
Flodoardo was become melancholy, and that Rosabella was indisposed,
but I did not tell them what had occasioned this sudden change.

Flodoardo, who on his first arrival at Venice was all gaiety, and
the life of every society in which he mingled, lost his spirits on
one particular day; and it so happened that it was on the very same
day that Rosabella betrayed the first symptoms of indisposition.

For on this unlucky day did the caprice of accident, or perhaps the
Goddess of Love (who has her caprices too every now and then),
conduct Rosabella into her uncle's garden, which none but the Doge's
intimate friends were permitted to enter; and where the Doge himself
frequently reposed in solitude and silence during the evening hours
of a sultry day.

Rosabella, lost in thought, wandered listless and unconscious along
the broad and shady alleys of the garden.  Sometimes, in a moment of
vexation, she plucked the unoffending leaves from the hedges and
strewed them upon the ground; sometimes she stopped suddenly, then
rushed forward with impetuosity, then again stood still, and gazed
upon the clear blue heaven.  Sometimes her beautiful bosom was
heaved with quick and irregular motion, and sometimes a half-
suppressed sigh escaped from her lips of coral.

"He is very handsome!" she murmured, and gazed with such eagerness
on vacancy, as though she had there seen something which was hidden
from the sight of common observers.

"Yet Camilla is in the right," she resumed, after a pause, and she
frowned as had she said that Camilla was in the wrong.

