Mr. Carleton had bought for her a copy of The Rape of the
Lock, and Bryant's poems. With these, sitting or lying among
her cushions, Fleda amused herself a great deal; and it was an
especial pleasure when he would sit down by her and read and
talk about them. Still a greater was to watch the sea, in its
changes of colour and varieties of agitation, and to get from
Mr. Carleton, bit by bit, all the pieces of knowledge
concerning it that he had ever made his own. Even when Fleda
feared it she was fascinated; and while the fear went off the
fascination grew deeper. Daintily nestling among her cushions,
she watched with charmed eyes the long rollers that came up in
detachments of three to attack the good ship, that like a
slandered character rode patiently over them; or the crested
green billows, or sometimes the little rippling waves that
showed old Ocean's placidest face; while with ears as charmed
as if he had been delivering a fairy tale, she listened to all
Mr. Carleton could tell her of the green water where the
whales feed, or the blue water where Neptune sits in his own
solitude, the furthest from land, and the pavement under his
feet outdoes the very canopy overhead in its deep colouring;
of the transparent seas where the curious mysterious marine
plants and animals may be clearly seen many feet down, and in
the North where hundreds of feet of depth do not hide the
bottom; of the icebergs; and whirling great fields of ice,
between which, if a ship get, she had as good be an almond in
a pair of strong nut-crackers. How the water grows colder and
murkier as it is nearer the shore; how the mountain waves are
piled together; and how old Ocean, like a wise man,. however
roughened and tumbled outwardly by the currents of life, is
always calm at heart. Of the signs of the weather; the out-
riders of the winds, and the use the seaman makes of the
tidings they bring, and before Mr. Carleton knew where he was,
he found himself deep in the science of navigation, and making
a star-gazer of little Fleda. Sometimes kneeling beside him as
he sat on her mattress, with her hand leaning on his shoulder,
Fleda asked, listened, and looked; as engaged, as rapt, as
interested, as another child would be in Robinson Crusoe,
gravely drinking in knowledge with a fresh healthy taste for
it that never had enough. Mr. Carleton was about as amused and
as interested as she. There is a second taste of knowledge
that some minds get in imparting it, almost as sweet as the
first relish. At any rate, Fleda never felt that she had any
reason to fear tiring him; and his mother, complaining of his
want of sociableness, said she believed Guy did not like to
talk to any-body but that little pet of his, and one or two of
the old sailors. If left to her own resources, Fleda was never
at a loss; she amused herself with her books, or watching the
sailors, or watching the sea, or with some fanciful
manufacture she had learned from one of the ladies on board,
or with what the company about her were saying and doing.

One evening she had been some time alone, looking out upon the
restless little waves that were tossing and tumbling in every
direction. She had been afraid of them at first, and they were
still rather fearful to her imagination. This evening, as heir
musing eye watched them rise and fall, her childish fancy
likened them to the up-springing chances of life, — uncertain,
unstable, alike too much for her skill and her strength to
manage. She was not more helpless before the attacks of the
one than of the other. But then — that calm blue heaven that
hung over the sea. It was like the heaven of power and love
above her destinies; only this was far higher, and more pure
and abiding. "He knoweth them that trust in him." "There shall
not a hair of your head perish."

Not these words, perhaps, but something like the sense of
them, was in little Fleda's head. Mr. Carleton coming up, saw
her gazing out upon the water, with an eye that seemed to see
nothing.

"Elfie! — Are you looking into futurity!"

"No, — yes — not exactly!" said Fleda, smiling.

"No, yes, and not exactly!" said he, throwing himself down
beside her. "What does all that mean?"

"I wasn't exactly looking into futurity," said Fleda.

"What then? — Don't tell me you were 'thinking;' I know that
already. What?"

Fleda was always rather shy of opening her cabinet of
thoughts. She glanced at him, and hesitated, and then yielded
to a fascination of eye and smile that rarely failed of its
end. Looking off to the sea again as if she had left her
thoughts there, she said,

"I was only thinking of that beautiful hymn of Mr. Newton's."

"What hymn?"

"That long one, 'The Lord will provide.' "

"Do you know it? Tell it to me, Elfie; let us see whether I
shall think it beautiful."

Fleda knew the whole, and repeated it.


"Though troubles assail,
And dangers affright,
Though friends should all fail,
And foes all unite;
Yet one thing secures us
Whatever betide,
The Scripture assures us
'The Lord will provide.'


"The birds without barn
Or storehouse are fed;
From them let us learn
To trust for our bread.
His saints what is fitting
Shall ne'er be denied,
So long as 'tis written,
'The Lord will provide.'


"His call we obey,
Like Abraham of old,
Not knowing our way,
But faith makes us bold.
And though we are strangers,
We have a good guide,
And trust in all dangers
'The Lord will provide.'

"We may like the ships
In tempests be tossed
On perilous deeps,
But cannot be lost.
Though Satan enrages
The wind and the tide,
The promise engages
'The Lord will provide.'


"When Satan appears
To stop up our path,
And fills us with fears,
We triumph by faith.
He cannot take from us,
Though oft he has tried,
This heart-cheering promise,
'The Lord will provide.'


"He tells us we're weak,
Our hope is in vain,
The good that we seek
We ne'er shall obtain;
But when such suggestions
Our spirits have tried,
This answers all questions,
'The Lord will provide.'


"No strength of our own,
Or goodness we claim;
But since we have known
The Saviour's great name,
In this, our strong tower,
For safety we hide;
The Lord is our power!
'The Lord will provide.'

"When life sinks apace,
And death is in view,
This word of his grace
Shall comfort us through.
No fearing nor doubting,
With Christ on our side,
We hope to die shouting
'The Lord will provide!' "


Guy listened very attentively to the whole. He was very far
from understanding the meaning of several of the verses, but
the bounding expression of confidence and hope he did
understand, and did feel.

"Happy to be so deluded!" he thought. "I almost wish I could
share the delusion!"

He was gloomily silent when she had done, and little Fleda's
eyes were so full that it was a little while before she could
look towards him, and ask in her gentle way, "Do you like it,
Mr. Carleton?"

She was gratified by his grave "Yes!"

"But Elfie," said he, smiling again, "you have not told me
your thoughts yet. What had these verses to do with the sea
you were looking at so hard?"

"Nothing; I was thinking," said Fleda, slowly, "that the sea
seemed something like the world — I don't mean it was like,
but it made me think of it; and I thought how pleasant it is
to know that God takes care of his people."

"Don't he take care of everybody?"

"Yes, in one sort of way," said Fleda; "but then it is only
his children that he has promised to keep from everything that
will hurt them."

"I don't see how that promise is kept, Elfie. I think those
who call themselves so meet with as many troubles as the rest
of the world, and perhaps more."

"Yes," said Fleda, quickly, "they have troubles, but then God
wont let the troubles do them any harm."

A subtle evasion, thought Mr. Carleton. "Where did you learn
that, Elfie?"

"The Bible says so," said Fleda.

"Well, how do you know it from that?" said Mr. Carleton,
impelled, he hardly knew whether by his bad or his good angel,
to carry on the conversation.

"Why," said Fleda, looking as if it were a very simple
question, and Mr. Carleton were catechising her, "you know,
Mr. Carleton, the Bible was written by men who were taught by
God exactly what to say, so there could be nothing in it that
is not true."

"How do you know those men were so taught?"

"The Bible says so."

A child's answer! but with a child's wisdom in it, not learnt
of the schools. "He that is of God heareth God's words." To
little Fleda, as to every simple and humble intelligence, the
Bible proved itself; she had no need to go further.

Mr. Carleton did not smile, for nothing would have tempted him
to hurt her feelings; but he said, though conscience did not
let him do it without a twinge, —

"But don't you know, Elfie, there are some people who do not
believe the Bible?"

"Ah, but those are bad people," replied Fleda, quickly; "all
good people believe it."

A child's reason again, but hitting the mark this time.
Unconsciously, little Fleda had brought forward a strong
argument for her cause. Mr. Carleton felt it, and rising up,
that he might not be obliged to say anything more, he began to
pace slowly up and down the deck, turning the matter over.

Was it so? that there were hardly any good men (he thought
there might be a few), who did not believe in the Bible and
uphold its authority? and that all the worst portion of
society was comprehended in the other class? — and if so, how
had he overlooked it? He had reasoned most unphilosophically,
from a few solitary instances that had come under his own eye;
but applying the broad principle of induction, it could not be
doubted that the Bible was on the side of all that is sound,
healthful, and hopeful, in this disordered world. And whatever
might be the character of a few exceptions, it was not
supposable that a wide system of hypocrisy should tell
universally for the best interests of mankind. Summoning
history to produce her witnesses, as he went on with his walk
up and down, he saw with increasing interest, what he had
never seen before, that the Bible had come like the breath of
spring upon the moral waste of mind; that the ice-bound
intellect and cold heart of the world had waked into life
under its kindly influence, and that all the rich growth of
the one and the other had come forth at its bidding. And
except in that sun-lightened tract, the world was and had been
a waste indeed. Doubtless, in that waste, intellect had at
different times put forth sundry barren shoots, such as a
vigorous plant can make in the absence of the sun, but also
like them immature, unsound, and groping vainly after the
light in which alone they could expand and perfect themselves;
ripening no seed for a future and richer growth. And flowers
the wilderness had none. The affections were stunted and
overgrown.

All this was so — how had he overlooked it? His unbelief had
come from a thoughtless, ignorant, one-sided view of life and
human things. The disorder and ruin which he saw, where he did
not also see the adjusting hand at work, had led him to refuse
his credit to the Supreme Fabricator. He thought the waste
would never be reclaimed, and did not know how much it already
owed to the sun of revelation; but what was the waste where
that light had not been! Mr. Carleton was staggered. He did
not know what to think. He began to think he had been a fool.

Poor little Fleda was meditating less agreeably the while.
With the sure tact of truth, she had discerned that there was
more than jest in the questions that had been put to her. She
almost feared that Mr. Carleton shared himself the doubts he
had so lightly spoken of, and the thought gave her great
distress. However, when he came to take her down to tea, with
all his usual manner, Fleda's earnest look at him ended in the
conviction that there was. nothing very wrong under that face.

For several days, Mr. Carleton pondered the matter of this
evening's conversation, characteristically restless till he
had made up his mind. He wished very much to draw Fleda to
speak further upon the subject, but it was not easy; she never
led to it. He sought in vain an opportunity to bring it in
easily, and at last resolved to make one..

"Elfie," said he, one morning, when all the rest of the
passengers were happily engaged at a distance with the letter-
bags — "I wish you would let me hear that favourite hymn of
yours again; l like it very much."

Fleda was much gratified, and immediately with great
satisfaction repeated the hymn. Its peculiar beauty struck him
yet more the second time than the first.

"Do you understand those two last verses?" said he, when she
had done.

Fleda said "Yes!" rather surprised.

"I do not," he said, gravely.

Fleda paused a minute or two, and then finding that it
depended on her to enlighten him, said in her modest way, —

"Why, it means that we have no goodness of our own, and only
expect to be forgiven, and taken to heaven, for the Saviour's
sake."

Mr. Carleton asked, "How _for his sake?_"

"Why, you know, Mr. Carleton, we don't deserve to go there,
and if we are forgiven at all, it must be for what He has
done."

"And what is that, Elfie?"

"He died for us," said Fleda, with a look of some anxiety into
Mr. Carleton's face.

"Died for us! — And what end was that to serve, Elfie?" said
he, partly willing to hear the full statement of the matter,
and partly willing to see how far her intelligence could give
it.

"Because we are sinners," said Fleda, "and God has said that
sinners shall die."

"Then how can he keep his word, and forgive at all?"

"Because Christ has died _for us_," said Fleda, eagerly —
"instead of us."

"Do you understand the justice of letting one take the place
of others?"

"He was willing, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, with a singular
wistful expression, that touched him.

"Still, Elfie," said he, after a minute's silence, "how could
the ends of justice be answered by the death of one man in the
place of millions?"

"No, Mr. Carleton, but He was God as well as man," Fleda said,
with a sparkle in her eye which perhaps delayed her
companion's rejoinder.

"What should induce him, Elfie," he said, gently, "to do such
a thing for people who had displeased him?"

"Because he loved us, Mr. Carleton."

She answered with so evident a strong and clear appreciation
of what she was saying, that it half made its way into Mr.
Carleton's mind by the force of sheer sympathy. Her words came
almost as something new.

Certainly Mr. Carleton had heard these things before; though
perhaps never in a way that appealed so directly to his
intelligence and his candour. He was again silent an instant,
pondering, and so was Fleda.

"Do you know, Elfie," said Mr. Carleton, "there are some
people who do not believe that the Saviour was anything more
than a man?"

"Yes, I know it," said Fleda; — "it is very strange!"

"Why is it strange?"

"Because the Bible says it so plainly."

"But those people hold, I believe, that the Bible does not say
it."

"I don't see how they could have read the Bible," said Fleda.
"Why, he said so himself."

"Who said so?"

"Jesus Christ. Don't you believe it, Mr. Carleton?"

She saw he did not, and the shade that had come over her face
was reflected in his before he said "No."

"But perhaps I shall believe it yet, Elfie," he said, kindly.
"Can you show me the place in your Bible where Jesus says this
of himself?"

Fleda looked in despair. She hastily turned over the leaves of
her Bible to find the passages he had asked for, and Mr.
Carleton was cut to the heart to see that she twice was
obliged to turn her face from him, and brush her hand over her
eyes, before she could find them. She turned to Matt. xxvi.
63-65, and, without speaking, gave him the book, pointing to
the passage. He read it with great care, and several times
over.

"You are right, Elfie," he said. "I do not see how those who
honour the authority of the Bible, and the character of Jesus
Christ, can deny the truth of His own declaration. If that is
false, so must those be."

Fleda took the Bible, and hurriedly sought out another
passage.

"Grandpa showed me these places," she said, "once when we were
talking about Mr. Didenhover — _he_ didn't believe that. There
are a great many other places, grandpa said; but one! is
enough." —

She gave him the latter part of the 20th chapter of John.

"You see, Mr. Carleton, he let Thomas fall down and worship
him, and call him God; and if he had _not_ been, you know — God
is more displeased with that than with anything."

"With what, Elfie?"

"With men's worshipping any other than himself. He says he
'will not give his glory to another.' "

"Where is that?"

"I am afraid I can't find it," said Fleda — "it is somewhere
in Isaiah, I know" —

She tried in vain; and failing, then looked up in Mr.
Carleton's face to see what impression had been made.

"You see Thomas believed when he _saw_," said he, answering her;
— "I will believe, too, when I see."

"Ah! if you wait for that" — said Fleda.

Her voice suddenly checked: she bent her face down again to
her little Bible, and there was a moment's struggle with
herself.

"Are you looking for something more to show me?" said Mr.
Carleton, kindly, stooping his face down to hers.

"Not much," said Fleda, hurriedly; and then making a great
effort, she raised her head, and gave him the book again.

"Look here, Mr. Carleton — Jesus said, 'Blessed are they that
have not seen, and yet have believed.' "

Mr. Carleton was profoundly struck, and the thought recurred
to him afterwards, and was dwelt upon. "Blessed are they that
have _not_ seen, and yet have believed." It was strange at
first, and then he wondered that it should ever have been so.
His was a mind peculiarly open to conviction, peculiarly
accessible to truth; and his attention being called to it, he
saw faintly now what he had never seen before, the beauty of
the principle of _faith_ — how natural, how reasonable, how
_necessary_, how honourable to the Supreme Being, how happy even
for man, that the grounds of his trust in God being
established, his acceptance of many other things should rest
on that trust alone.

Mr. Carleton now became more reserved and unsociable than
ever. He wearied himself with thinking. If he could have got
at the books, he would have spent his days and nights in
studying the evidences of Christianity; but the ship was bare
of any such books, and he never thought of turning to the most
obvious of all, the Bible itself. His unbelief was shaken; it
was within an ace of falling in pieces to the very foundation;
or, rather, he began to suspect how foundationless it had
been. Having first shown what attitude Bergson requires us to
adopt I have gone on to describe what he thinks this new way
of looking at reality will reveal. This at once involves me
in the difficulty with which Bergson wrestles in all his
attempts to describe reality, the difficulty which arises
from the fundamental discrepancy between what he sees the
actual fact to be and the abstract notions which are all
he has with which to describe it. I have attempted to show
how it comes about that we are in fact able to perform this
apparently impossible feat of describing the indescribable,
using Bergson's descriptions of sensible perception and the
relations of matter and memory to illustrate my point. If we
succeed in ridding ourselves of our common-sense preconceptions,
Bergson tells us that we may expect to know the old facts in a new
way, face to face, as it were, instead of seeing them through a web
of our own intellectual interpretations.

I have not attempted to offer any proof whether or not Bergson's
description of reality is in fact true: having understood the
meaning of the description it remains for each of us to
decide for himself whether or not it fits the facts.

KARIN STEPHEN.

Cambridge, January, 1922.

International Library of Psychology Philosophy and Scientific
Method GENERAL EDITOR - - - - C. K. OGDEN, M. A.

(Magdalene College, Cambridge).

VOLUMES ALREADY ARRANGED:

PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES by Q. E. MOORE, Litt. D.
CONFLICT AND DREAM by W. H. R. RIVERS, F. R. S.
THE MEASUREMENT OF EMOTION by W. WHATELY SMITH Introduction by
William Brown.

THE ANALYSIS OF MATTER by BERTRAND RUSSELL, F. R. S.
MATHEMATICS FOR PHILOSOPHERS by G. H. HARDY, F. R. S.
PSYCHOLOGICAL TYPES by C. G. JONG, M. D., LL. D.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF REASONING by EUGENIO RIGNANO THE ELEMENTS
OF PSYCHOTHERAPY by WILLIAM BROWN, M. D., D. Sc.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE UNCONSCIOUS by E. VON HARTMANN THE
FOUNDATIONS OF MUSICAL AESTHETICS by W. POLE, F. R.
S.
Edited by Edward J. Dent.

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MUSIC by EDWARD J. DENT SOME CONCEPTS OF
SCIENTIFIC THOUGHT by C. D.

BROAD, Litt. D.
PHILOSOPHICAL LOGIC by L. WITTGENSTEIN Introduction by Bertrand
Russell.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF ' AS IF by H. VAIHINGER THE LAWS OF FEELING by
F. PAULHAN THE HISTORY OF MATERIALISM by F. A. LANGE
COLOUR-HARMONY by JAMES WOOD and C.

K.

OGDEN THE STATISTICAL METHOD IN ECONOMICS AND POLITICS by P.
SARGANT FLORENCE THE PRINCIPLES OF CRITICISM by I. A. RICHARDS

CHAPTER I EXPLANATION
IN order to understand Bergson it is not necessary to have any
previous acquaintance with philosophy, indeed the less the reader
knows of current metaphysical notions the easier it may perhaps be
for him to adopt the mental attitude required for understanding
Bergson.

For Bergson says that the tradition of philosophy is all wrong
and must be broken with: according to his view philosophical
knowledge can only be obtained by "a reversal of the usual work
of the intellect

."[4]*

* Introduction to Metaphysics, page 34.

The usual work of the intellect consists in analysis and
classification: if you have anything presented to you
which you do not understand the obvious question to put
yourself is, "what is it?"

Suppose in a dark room which you expected to find empty
you stumble against something, the natural thing to do is
to begin at once to try to fit your experience into some class
already familiar to you. You find it has a certain texture
which you class as rather rough, a temperature which you class
as warm, a size which you class as about two feet high, a
peculiar smell which you recognise and you finally jump to
the answer to your question: it is "a dog." This intellectual
operation is a sample of the way in which it comes natural
to us to set to work whenever we find ourselves confronted
with any situation which we are not able to classify off hand,
we are not easy till we can say what the situation is, and
saying what consists in hitting upon some class with which
we are already familiar to which it belongs: in this instance
the question was answered when you succeeded in describing the
situation to yourself as "stumbling upon a dog."

Now you were only able to class what was stumbled upon as a dog
after you had recognised a certain number of properties as being
those shared by dogsthe rough texture, the size, the smell.

You analysed the situation as containing these qualities and
thereupon classified what had been stumbled upon as a dog.

Analysis and classification are the two methods which we are
accustomed to rely upon for improving our knowledge in unfamiliar
situations and we are accustomed to take it that they improve our
knowledge of the whole situation: anyone who said that after you
were able to say what you had stumbled upon you knew less of the
whole situation than you knew before would find it difficult to get
you to agree.

And yet this is very much the position which Bergson takes
up.

Analysis and classification, he would admit, are the way to get
more knowledge, of a kind; they enable us to describe situations
and they are the starting point of all explanation and prediction.

After analysis and classification you were able to say, "I
have stumbled upon a dog," and having got so far you could
then pass on to whatever general laws you knew of as applying
to the classes into which you had fitted the situation, and
by means of these laws still more of the situation could be
classified and explained.

Thus by means of the general law, "dogs lick," you would be
furnished with an explanation if perhaps you felt something
warm and damp on your hand, or again knowledge of this law might
lead you to expect such a feeling. When what we want is to
describe or to explain a situation in general terms then Bergson
agrees that analysis and classification are the methods to
employ, but he maintains that these methods which are useful
for describing and explaining are no use for finding out the actual
situation which we may want to describe or explain.

And he goes a step further. Not only do these methods fail to
reveal the situation but the intellectual attitude of
abstraction to which they accustom us seriously handicaps us when
we want not merely to explain the situation but to know it.

Now it is the business of science to explain situations
in terms of general laws and so the intellectual method
of abstract-ion is the right one for scientists to employ.
Bergson claims, however, that philosophy has a task quite distinct
from that of science.

In whatever situation he finds himself a man may take up one of two
attitudes, he may either adopt a practical attitude, in which case
he will set to work to explain the situation in order that he may
know what to do under the circumstances, or he may take a speculative
interest in it and then he will devote himself to knowing it simply
for the sake of knowing.

It is only, according to Bergson, in the former case, when his
interest is practical, that he will attain his object by using
the intellectual method of abstraction which proceeds by analysis
and classification.

These intellectual operations have such prestige, however, they
' have proved so successful in discovering explanations, that we
are apt to take it for granted that they must be the best way to
set, to work whatever sort of knowledge we want: we might almost
be tempted, off hand, to imagine that they were our only way of
knowing at all, but a moment's reflection will show | that this,
at any rate, would be going too far.

Before we can analyse and classify and explain we must have
something to analyse, some material to work upon: these
operations, are based upon something which we know directly,
what we see, for instance, or touch or feel. This something
is the foundation of knowledge, the intellectual operations
of analysis classification and the framing of general laws are
simply an attempt to describe and explain it.

It is the business of science to explain and intellectual methods
are the appropriate ones for science to employ.

But the business of philosophy, according to Bergson, is not
to explain reality but to know it. For this a different
kind of mental effort is required.
Analysis and classification, instead of increasing our direct
knowledge, tend rather to diminish it. They must always start
from some direct knowledge, but they proceed, not by widening
the field of this knowledge but by leaving out more and more of it.

Moreover, unless we are constantly on the alert, the
intellectual habit of using all our direct knowledge as material
for analysis and classification ends by completely misleading us
as to what it is that we do actually know.

So that the better we explain the less, in the end, we know.

There can be no doubt that something is directly known but
disputes break out as soon as we try to say what that something is.

Is it the "real" world of material objects, or a mental copy of
these objects, or are we altogether on the wrong track in looking
for two kinds of realities, the "real" world and "our mental states,"
and is it perceived events alone that are "real?"

This something which we know directly has been given various
names: "the external object," "sense data," "phenomena," and so
on, each more or less coloured by implications belonging to one or
other of the rival theories as to what it is.

We shall call it "the facts" to emphasise its indubitable reality,
and avoid, as far as possible, any other implications.

Controversy about "the facts" has been mainly as to what position
they occupy in the total scheme of reality.

As to what they are at the moment when we are actually being
acquainted with them one would have thought there could have
been no two opinions; it seems impossible that we should make any
mistake about that.

No doubt it is impossible to have such a thing as a false
experience, an experience is what it is, only judgments can be
false.

But it is quite possible to make a false judgment as to
what experience we are actually having, or, still more
commonly, simply to take for granted that our experience must be
such and such, without ever looking to see whether it is or not.

A small child taken to a party and told that parties are
great fun if questioned afterwards will very likely say it has
enjoyed itself though, if you happened to have been there, you may
have seen clearly that it was really bewildered or bored.

Even when we grow up names still have a tendency to impose
upon us and disguise from us the actual nature of our experiences.

There are not very many people who, if invited to partake,
for instance, of the last bottle of some famous vintage wine,
would have the courage to admit, even to themselves, that
it was nasty, even though it was, in fact, considerably past
its prime.

Cases of this kind, with which we are all familiar, are enough
to make us realize that it is actually quite possible to make
mistakes even about facts which we know directly, to overlook the
actual fact altogether because we have made up our minds in advance
as to what it is sure to be.

Now Bergson says that such errors are not confined to stray
instances, such as we have noticed, in which the imposition of
preconceived ideas can readily be detected by a little closer
attention to the actual facts.

He believes that a falsification due to preconceived ideas,
runs right through the whole of our direct experience.
He lays the blame both for this falsification and for our
failure to detect it upon our intellectual habit of relying upon
explanation rather than upon direct knowledge, and that is one of
the reasons why he says that our intellectual attitude is an obstacle
to direct knowledge of the facts.

The intellectual method of abstraction by which we analyse
and classify is the foundation of all description and explanation
in terms of general laws, and the truth is that we are, as a rule,
much more preoccupied with explaining the facts which we know than
with the actual experiencing of them.

This preoccupation is natural enough. The bare fact which we
know directly is not enough to enable us to carry on our
everyday lives, we cannot get on unless we supplement it with some
sort of explanation and, if it comes to choosing between fact and
explanation, the explanation is often of more practical use than
the fact.

So it comes about that we are inclined to use the facts which
we know directly simply as material for constructing explanations
and to pay so little attention to them for their own sakes that we
simply take it for granted that they must be what our explanations
lead us to suppose they are.

Now according to Bergson the attitude of mind required for explaining
the facts conflicts with that which is required for knowing them.

From the point of view simply of knowing, the facts are all
equally important and we cannot afford to discriminate, but for
explanation some facts are very much more important than others.

When we want to explain, therefore, rather than simply
to know, we tend to concentrate our attention upon
these practically important facts and pass over the rest. For
in order to describe and explain a situation we have to classify
it, and in order to do this we must pick out in it properties
required for membership of some one or other of the classes known
to us.

In the situation which we originally considered by way of
illustration, for instance, you had to pick out the qualities
of roughness, warmth and so on, in order to classify what you had
stumbled upon as "a dog."

Now the picking out of these particular qualities is really an
operation of abstraction from the situation as a whole: they were
the important features of the situation from the point of view of
classifying what you had stumbled upon, but they by no means exhausted
the whole situation.

Our preoccupation with explaining the facts, then, leads us
to treat what we know directly as so much material for abstraction.

This intellectual attitude, as Bergson calls it, though
practically useful, has, according to him, two grave drawbacks
from the point of view of speculation.

By focussing our attention upon anything less than the whole
fact, and so isolating a part from the rest, he says we
distort what we knew originally: furthermore just in so far as
we make a selection among the facts, attending to some and
passing over others, we limit the field of direct knowledge
which we might otherwise have enjoyed. For these two reasons
Bergson insists that it is the business of philosophy to
reverse the intellectual habit of mind and return to the
fullest possible direct knowledge of the fact.
"May not the task of philosophy, "he says," be to bring us
back to a fuller perception of reality by a certain displacement
of our attention?

What would be required would be to turn our attention away from
the practically interesting aspect of the universe in order to
turn it back to what, from a practical point of view, is useless.

And this conversion of attention would be philosophy itself
Most tenderly and judiciously he himself applied
various remedies to the suffering child, who could not direct
him otherwise than by gently putting away the things which she
felt would not avail her. Several were in vain. But there was
one bottle of strong aromatic vinegar which was destined to
immortalize its owner in Fleda's remembrance. Before she had
taken three whiffs of it, her colour changed. Mr. Carleton
watched the effect of a few whiffs more, and then bade the
stewardess take away all the other things, and bring him a cup
of fresh strong coffee. By the time it came Fleda was ready
for it; and by the time Mr. Carleton had administered the
coffee, he saw it would do to throw his mother's shawl round
her, and carry her up on deck, which he did without asking any
questions. All this while Fleda had not spoken a word, except
once when he asked her if she felt better. But she had given
him, on finishing the coffee, a full look and half smile of
such pure affectionate gratitude, that the young gentleman's
tongue was tied for some time after.

With happy skill, when he had safely bestowed Fleda among her
cushions on deck, Mr. Carleton managed to keep off the crowd
of busy inquirers after her well-doing, and even presently to
turn his mother's attention another way, leaving Fleda to
enjoy all the comfort of quiet and fresh air at once. He
himself seeming occupied with other things, did no more but
keep watch over her, till he saw that she was able to bear
conversation again. Then he seated himself beside her, and
said softly —

"Elfie, what were you crying about all yesterday afternoon?"

Fleda changed colour, for, soft and gentle as the tone was,
she heard in it a determination to have the answer; and
looking up beseechingly into his face, she saw in the steady
full blue eye, that it was a determination she could not
escape from. Her answer was an imploring request that he would
not ask her. But taking one of her little hands and carrying
it to his lips, he in the same tone repeated his question.
Fleda snatched away her hand, and burst into very frank tears;
Mr. Carleton was silent, but she knew through his silence that
he was only quietly waiting for her to answer him.

"I wish you wouldn't ask me, Sir," said poor Fleda, who still
could not turn her face to meet his eye — "It was only
something that happened yesterday."

"What was it, Elfie? — You need not be afraid to tell me."

"It was only — what you said to Mrs. Carleton yesterday — when
she was talking —"

"About my difficulty with those gentlemen!"

"Yes," said Fleda, with a new gush of tears, as if her grief
stirred afresh at the thought.

Mr. Carleton was silent a moment; and when he spoke, there was
no displeasure, and more tenderness than usual, in his voice.

"What troubled you in that, Elfie? tell me the whole."

"I was sorry, because it wasn't right," said Fleda, with a
grave truthfulness which yet lacked none of her universal
gentleness and modesty.

"What wasn't right?"

"To speak — I am afraid you wont like me to say it, Mr.
Carleton."

"I will, Elfie for I ask you."

"To speak to Mrs. Carleton, so; and, besides, you know what
you said, Mr. Carleton"

"It was _not_ right," said he, after a minute, "and I very
seldom use such an expression, but you know one cannot always
be on one's guard, Elfie."

"But," said Fleda, with gentle persistence, "one can always do
what is right."

"The deuce one can!" thought Mr. Carleton to himself.

"Elfie, was this all that troubled you? that I had said what
was not right?"

"It wasn't quite that only," said Fleda, hesitating.

"What else?"

She stooped her face from his sight, and he could but just
understand her words.

"I was disappointed —"

"What, in me?"

Her tears gave the answer; she could add to them nothing but
an assenting nod of her head.

They would have flowed in double measure if she had guessed
the pain she had given. Her questioner heard her with a keen
pang, which did not leave him. for days. There was some hurt
pride in it, though other and more generous feelings had a far
larger share. He, who had been admired, lauded, followed,
cited, and envied, by all ranks of his countrymen and
countrywomen; in whom nobody found a fault that could be dwelt
upon, amid the lustre of his perfections and advantages — one
of the first young men in England, thought so by himself, as
well as by others — this little pure being had been
_disappointed_ in him. He could not get over it. He reckoned the
one judgment worth all the others. Those whose direct or
indirect flatteries had been poured at his feet, were the
proud, the worldly, the ambitious, the interested, the
corrupted; their praise was given to what they esteemed, and
that, his candour said, was the least estimable part of him.
Beneath all that, this truth-loving, truth-discerning little
spirit had found enough to weep for. She was right, and they
were wrong. The sense of this was so keen upon him, that it
was ten or fifteen minutes before he could recover himself to
speak to his little reprover. He paced up and down the deck,
while Fleda wept more and more from the fear of having
offended or grieved him. But she was soon reassured on the
former point. She was just wiping away her tears, with the
quiet expression of patience her face often wore, when Mr.
Carleton sat down beside her and took one of her hands.

But the day came when she had to break with them, and once again
"act for herself."

She told them a year ago she would be a party to no aggressive
or selfish war, she would be no bully's accomplice. She
"denounced"--it is a good word--such a compact. _Non haec
in foedera veni._
Then it was, when the she-wolf showed her teeth, that
they offered to give her what was her own. But what would
the Trentino be worth if Germany and Austria were victorious?

No, the wolf is right, "she must fight for it," and behind
Austria's underhanded treachery stands Germany's open
violence and guns.

And Italy loves freedom.

This war is a war made by her people. As of old her King
and her diplomats go with them in this new _Resorgimento_.
And the she-wolf must beware the trap. She needs the spirit
again not only of her people and of Garibaldi and of Victor Emmanuel,
but of Cavour.

And she has it.

The cartoon suggests all the elements of the situation. The
wolf ponders with turned head, half doubtful, half desperate.
The poor little cub whimpers pitifully. The hunters
dissemble their craft, the trap waits in the path ready to spring.

It is not even concealed. Is that the irony of the artist, or
is it only due to the necessity of making his meaning plain?
Whichever it is, it is justified.

HERBERT WARREN.

[Illustration: THE WOLF TRAP
"You would make me believe that I shall have my cub given back
to me, but I know I shall have to fight for it."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
AHASUERUS II.

The legend of the Wandering Jew obsessed the imagination of the
Middle Age.

The tale, which an Armenian bishop first told at the Abbey of St.

Albans, concerned a doorkeeper in the house of Pontius Pilate--or,
as some say, a shoemaker in Jerusalem--who insulted Christ on His
way to Calvary.

He was told by Our Lord, "I will rest, but thou shalt go on
till the Last Day." Christendom saw the strange figure
in many places--at Hamburg and Leipsic and Lubeck, at Moscow and
Madrid, even at far Bagdad.

Goodwives in the little mediæval cities, hastening homeward
against the rising storm, saw a bent figure posting through the
snow, with haggard face and burning eyes, carrying his load
of penal immortality, and seeking in vain for "easeful death."

There is a profound metaphysic in such popular fancies. Good and
evil are alike eternal.

Arthur and Charlemagne and Ogier the Dane are only sleeping and
will yet return to save their peoples; and the Wandering Jew staggers
blindly through the ages, seeking the rest which he denied to his
Lord.

In George Meredith's "Odes in Contribution to the Song of French
History" there is a famous passage on Napoleon.

France, disillusioned at last,
"Perceives him fast to a harsher Tyrant bound; Self-ridden,
self-hunted, captive of his aim; Material gradeur's ape, the
Infernal's hound."

That is the penalty of mortal presumption. The Superman
who would shatter the homely decencies of mankind and set his foot
on the world's neck is himself bound captive.

He is the slave of the djinn whom he has called from the unclean
deeps.

There can be no end to his quest.
Weariness does not bring peace, for the whips of the Furies are in
his own heart.

The Wandering Jew of the Middle Age was a figure sympathetically
conceived.

He had still to pay the price in his tortured body, but his soul
was at rest, for he had repented his folly.

Raemaekers in his cartoon follows the conception of Gustave
Doré rather than that of the old fabulists.

The modern Ahasuerus has no surety of an eventual peace.
We have seen the German War Lord flitting hungrily
from Lorraine to Poland, from Flanders to Nish, watching the failure
of his troops before Nancy and Ypres, inditing grandiose proclamations
to Europe, prophesying a peace which never comes.

He is a figure worthy of Greek tragedy. The [Greek: hubris]
which defied the gods has put him outside the homely consolations
of mankind.

He has devoted his people to the Dance of Death, and
himself, like some new Orestes, can find no solace though
he seek it wearily in the four corners of the world.

JOHN BUCHAN.

[Illustration: AHASUERUS RETURNS
"Once I drove the Christ out of my door, now I am doomed to walk
from the Northern Seas to the Southern, from the Western shores to
the Eastern mountains, asking for Peace, and none will give it to me."

--From the Legend of the "Wandering Jew"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

OUR CANDID FRIEND
The position of Holland and Denmark is one of excruciating anxiety
to the citizens of those countries.

They know that the Allies are fighting the battle of their own
political existence, but they are so hypnotized with well-founded
terror of the implacable tyrant on their flank that they are not
only bound to neutrality, but are afraid to express their sympathies
too plainly.

Dutch editors have been admonished and punished under pressure
from Berlin; the brilliant artist of these cartoons is in
danger on his native soil. A leading German newspaper has
lately announced that "we will make Holland pay with
interest for these insults after the war." A German victory
would inevitably be followed in a few years by the disappearance
from the map of this gallant and interesting little nation, our
plucky rival in time past, our honoured friend to-day.

No nation has established a stronger claim to maintain its
independence, whether we consider the heroic and successful
struggles of the Dutch for religious and political liberty,
their triumphs in discovery, colonization, and naval warfare,
their unique contributions to art, or the manly and
vigorous character of their people. It is needless to say
that we have no designs upon any Dutch colony!

THE DEAN OF ST. PAUL'S.

[Illustration: OUR CANDID FRIEND
GERMANY, TO HOLLAND: "I shall have to swallow you up, if only
to prevent those English taking your colonies."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
PEACE AND INTERVENTION
Here is pictured a grim fact that the Peace cranks would do well
to see plainly.

The surgeon who is operating on a cancer case cannot allow himself
to be satisfied with merely the removal of the visible
growth which is causing such present agony to the patient.
He must cut and cut deep, must go beyond even the visible
roots of the disease, slice down into the clear, firm flesh
to make sure and doubly sure that he has cut away the last fragment
of the tainted tissues.

Only by doing so can he reasonably hope to prevent a recurrence
of the disease and the necessity of another operation in the years
to come.

And so only by carrying on this war until the last and least
possibility of the taint of militarism remaining in the German
system is removed can the Allies be satisfied that their task is
complete.

Modern surgery has through anæsthetics taken away from a patient
the physical pain of most operations, but modern War affords no
relief during its operation.

That, however, can be held as no excuse for refusing to "use the
knife."

What would be said of the surgeon who, because an operation--a
life-saving operation--was causing at the time even the
utmost agony, stayed his hand, patched up the wound, was content
only to stop the momentary pain, and to leave firm-rooted a disease
which in all human probability would some time later break out again
in all its virulence?

What would be said of such a surgeon is only in lesser degree
what would be said by posterity of the Allies if they consented
or were persuaded to apply the bandage and healing herbs of Peace
to the disease of Militarism, to make a surface cure and leave the
living tentacles of the disease to grow again deep and strong.

But here at least the doctors do not disagree. Once and
for all the Ally surgeons mean to make an end to Militarism.
The sooner the Peace cranks and Germany realize that the sooner
the operation will be over.

BOYD CABLE.

[Illustration: PEACE AND INTERVENTION--GERMAN MILITARISM ON THE
OPERATING-TABLE
"For the sake of the world's future we must first use the knife."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD
If you wish to see the position of Holland look at the map of Europe
as it was before August 4, 1914, and the map of Europe as it is
to-day.

In 1914 Holland lay overshadowed by the vast upper jaw-bone
of a monster--Prussia--a jaw-bone reaching from the Dollart to
Aix-la-Chapelle.

In August and September, 1914, Prussia, by the seizure of
Belgium, developed a lower jaw-bone reaching from
Aix-la-Chapelle to Cassandria on the West Schelde.

To-day Holland lies gripped between these two formidable mandibles
that are ready and waiting to close and crush her.

For years and years Prussia has been waiting to devour
Holland. Why? For the simple reason that Holland is rich in
the one essential thing that Prussia lacks--coast-line.

Look again at the map and see how Holland and Belgium
together absolutely wall Prussia in from the sea. Belgium has
been taken on by Prussia; if we do not tear that lower jaw from
Prussia, Holland will be lost, and the sea-power of England threatened
with destruction.

The ruffian with the automatic pistol waiting behind the tree
requires the life as well as the basket of the little figure
advancing toward him.

He has been in ambush for forty years.

H. DE VERE STACPOOLE.

[Illustration: LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD
Germany lying in wait for Holland.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE SEA MINE
When Raemaekers pictures Von Tirpitz to us, he does so with savage
scorn.

He is not the hard-bitten pirate of story--but a senile,
crapulous, lachrymose imbecile; an object of derision.

He fits more with one of Jacob's tales of longshore soakers, than
with the tragedies that have made him infamous.

But when he draws Von Tirpitz's victims, the touch is one
of almost harrowing tenderness. The Hun is a master of many
modes of killing, but however torn, or twisted, or tortured he
leaves the murdered, Raemaekers can make the dreadful spectacle
bearable by the piercing dignity with which he portrays the dead.

In none of these cartoons is his _sæva indignatio_ rendered
with more sheer beauty of design, or with a craftsmanship more
exquisite, than in this monument to the sea-mined prey.

The symbolism is perfect, and of the essence of the design.
The dead sink slowly to their resting-place, but the merciful
twilight of the sea veils from us the glazed horror of the eyes
that no piety can now close.

Even the dumb, senseless fish shoots from the scene in mute and
terrified protest, while from these poor corpses there rise
surfaceward the silver bubbles of their expiring
breath.

One seems to see crying human souls prisoned in these spheres.
And it is, indeed, such sins as these that cry to Heaven
for vengeance.

Blood-guiltiness must rest upon the heads of those that do them,
upon the heads of their children--aye, and of their children's
children too.

This exquisite and tender drawing is something more than the record
of inexpiable crime.

It is a prophecy. And the prophecy is a curse.

ARTHUR POLLEN.

[Illustration: THE SEA MINE]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

"SEDUCTION"
The cartoon in which the Prussian is depicted as saying to
his bound and gagged victim, "Ain't I a lovable fellow?"
is one of the most pointed and vital of all pictorial, or indeed
other, criticisms on the war.

It is very important to note that German savagery has not
interfered at all with German sentimentalism. The blood of the
victim and the tears of the victor flow together in an unpleasing
stream.

The effect on a normal mind of reading some of the things the
Germans say, side by side with some of the things they do, is an
impression that can quite truly be conveyed only in the violent
paradox of the actual picture.

It is exactly like being tortured by a man with an ugly face,
which we slowly realize to be contorted in an attempt at an
affectionate expression.

In those soliloquies of self-praise which have constituted
almost the whole of Prussia's defence in the international
controversy, the brigand of the Belgian annexation has incessantly
said that his apparent hardness is the necessary accompaniment
of his inherent strength. Nietzsche said:
"I give you a new commandment: Be hard." And the Prussian says:
"I am hard," in a prompt and respectful manner. But, as
a matter of fact, he is not hard; he is only heavy.

He is not indifferent to all feelings; he is only indifferent
to everybody else's feelings.

At the thought of his own virtues he is always ready to burst
into tears. His smiles, however, are even more frequent and
more fatuous than his tears; and they are all leers like that
which Mr. Raemaekers has drawn on the face of the expansive
Prussian officer in the arm-chair. Compared with such an
exhibition, there is something relatively virile about the
tiger cruelty which has occasionally defaced the record of
the Spaniard or the Arab.
But to be conquered by such Germans as these would be like
being eaten by slugs.

G. K. CHESTERTON.

[Illustration: SEDUCTION
"Ain't I a lovable fellow?"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

MURDER ON THE HIGH SEAS
The recent descent of so many of her citizens from the people now
warring in Europe has of necessity prevented America from looking
on events in Europe with a single eye.

But the predominant American type and the predominant American frame
of mind are still typified by the lithe and sinuous figure of the
New England pioneer.

It is his tradition to mind his own business, but it is also
his business to see that none of the old monarchies make
free with his rights or with his people.

And he stands for a race that has been cradled in wars with savages.

No one knows better the methods of the Apache and the Mohawk,
and when women and children fall into such pitiless hands as
these, it goes against the grain with Uncle Sam to keep his
hands off them, even if the women and children are not his
own. He would like to be indifferent if he could.
He would prefer to smoke his cigar, and pass along, and believe
those who tell him that it is none of his affair.

But when he does look--and he cannot help looking--he sees a figure
of such heavy bestiality that his gorge rises.

He must keep his hands clenched in his pockets lest he soils
them in striking down the blood-stained gnome before him.

Can he restrain himself for good?

That angry glint in his eye would make one doubt it. Here,
surely, the artist sees with a truer vision than the politician.

"What makes you wear such a happy face?" said he, with an
expression half envious, half regretful.

"I don't know!" said Fleda, innocently. "You I suppose."

He looked as bright as she did, for a minute.

"Were you ever angry, Elfie?"

"I don't know " said Fleda. " I don't know but I have."

He smiled to see that, although evidently her memory could not
bring the charge, her modesty would not deny it.

"Were you not angry yesterday with your cousin and that
unmannerly friend of his?"

"No," said Fleda, a shade crossing her face — "I was not _angry_
—"

And as she spoke, her hand was softly put upon Mr. Carleton's,
as if partly in the fear of what might have grown out of _his_
anger, and partly in thankfulness to him that he had rendered
it unnecessary. There was a singular delicate timidity and
tenderness in the action.

"I wish I had your secret, Elfie," said Mr. Carleton, looking
wistfully into the clear eyes that met his.

"What secret?" said Fleda, smiling.

"You say one can always do right — is that the reason you are
happy? — because you follow that out?"

"No," said Fleda, seriously. "But I think it is a great deal
pleasanter."

"I have no doubt at all of that — neither, I dare say, have
the rest of the world; only, somehow, when it comes to the
point, they find it is easier to do wrong. What's your secret,
Elfie?"

"I haven't any secret," said Fleda. But presently seeming to
bethink herself, she added gently and gravely —

"Aunt Miriam says —

"What?"

"She says that when we love Jesus Christ, it is easy to please
him."

"And do you love him, Elfie?" Mr. Carleton asked, after a
minute.

Her answer was a very quiet and sober "yes."

He doubted still whether she were not unconsciously using a
form of speech, the spirit of which she did not quite realize.
That one might "not see and yet believe," he could understand;
but for _affection_ to go forth towards an unseen object was
another matter. His question was grave and acute.

"By what do you judge that you do, Elfie?"

"Why, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, with an instant look of
appeal, "who else _should_ I love?"

"If not him" — her eye and her voice made sufficiently plain.
Mr. Carleton was obliged to confess to himself that she spoke
intelligently, with deeper intelligence than he could follow.
He asked no more questions. Yet truth shines by its own light,
like the sun. He had not perfectly comprehended her answers,
but they struck him as something that deserved to be
understood, and he resolved to make the truth of them his own.

The rest of the voyage was perfectly quiet. Following the
earnest advice of his friend, Captain Beebee, Thorn had given
up trying to push Mr. Carleton to extremity; who, on his part,
did not seem conscious of Thorn's existence.


CHAPTER XIII


"There the most daintie paradise on ground
Itselfe doth offer to his sober eye —
— The painted flowers, the trees upshooting hye,
The dales for shade, the hills for breathing space,
The trembling groves, the christall running by;
And that, which all faire works doth most aggrace,
The art which all that wrought appeared in no place."
FAERY QUEENE.


They had taken ship for London, as Mr. and Mrs. Carleton
wished to visit home for a day or two before going on to
Paris. So leaving Charlton to carry news of them to the French
capital, so soon as he could persuade himself to leave the
English one, they with little Fleda in company posted down to
Carleton, in — shire.

It was a time of great delight to Fleda, that is, as soon as
Mr. Carleton had made her feel at home in England; and,
somehow, he had contrived to do that, and to scatter some
clouds of remembrance that seemed to gather about her, before
they had reached the end of their first day's journey. To be
out of the ship was itself a comfort, and to be along with
kind friends was much more. With great joy Fleda put her
cousin Charlton and Mr. Thorn at once out of sight and out of
mind, and gave herself with even more than her usual happy
readiness, to everything the way and the end of the way had
for her. Those days were to be painted days in Fleda's memory.

She thought Carleton was a very odd place — that is, the
house, not the village, which went by the same name. If the
manner of her two companions had not been such as to put her
entirely at her ease, she would have felt strange and shy. As
it was, she felt half afraid of losing herself in the house;
to Fleda's unaccustomed eyes, it was a labyrinth of halls and
staircases, set with the most unaccountable number and variety
of rooms — old and new, quaint and comfortable, gloomy and
magnificent; some with stern old-fashioned massiveness of
style and garniture, others absolutely bewitching (to Fleda's
eyes and understanding) in the rich beauty and luxuriousness
of their arrangements. Mr. Carleton's own particular haunts
were of these; his private room (the little library as it was
called), the library, and the music-room, which was, indeed,
rather a gallery of the fine arts, so many treasures of art
were gathered there. To an older and nice-judging person,
these rooms would have given no slight indications of their
owner's mind — it had been at work on every corner of them. No
particular fashion had been followed in anything, nor any
model consulted, but that which fancy had built to the mind's
order. The wealth of years had drawn together an enormous
assemblage of matters, great and small, every one of which was
fitted either to excite fancy, or suggest thought, or to
satisfy the eye by its nice adaptation. And if pride had had
the ordering of them, all these might have been but a costly
museum, a literary alphabet that its possessor could not put
together, an ungainly confession of ignorance on the part of
the intellect that could do nothing with this rich heap of
material. But pride was not the genius of the place. A most
refined taste and curious fastidiousness had arranged and
harmonized all the heterogeneous items; the mental
hieroglyphics had been ordered by one to whom the reading of
them was no mystery. Nothing struck a stranger at first
entering, except the very rich effect and faultless air of the
whole, and perhaps the delicious facilities for every kind of
intellectual cultivation which appeared on every hand —
facilities which, it must be allowed, do seem in general not
to facilitate the work they are meant to speed. In this case,
however, it was different. The mind that wanted them had
brought them together to satisfy its own craving.

These rooms were Guy's peculiar domain. In other parts of the
house, where his mother reigned conjointly with him, their
joint tastes had struck out another style of adornment, which
might be called a style of superb elegance. Not superb alone,
for taste had not permitted so heavy a characteristic to be
predominant; not merely elegant, for the fineness of all the
details would warrant an ampler word. A larger part of the
house than both these together had been left as generations
past had left it, in various stages of refinement, comfort,
and comeliness. It was a day or two before Fleda found out
that it was all one; she thought at first that it was a
collection of several houses that had somehow inexplicably sat
down there with their backs to each other; it was so
straggling and irregular a pile of building, covering so much
ground, and looking so very unlike the different parts to each
other. One portion was quite old; the other parts ranged
variously between the present and the far past. After she once
understood this, it was a piece of delicious wonderment, and
musing, and great admiration to Fleda; she never grew weary of
wandering round it, and thinking about it — for, from a child,
fanciful meditation was one of her delights. Within doors, she
best liked Mr. Carleton's favourite rooms. Their rich
colouring and moderated light, and endless stores of beauty
and curiosity, made them a place of fascination.

Out of doors she found still more to delight her. Morning,
noon, and night, she might be seen near the house gazing,
taking in pictures of natural beauty, which were for ever
after to hang in Fleda's memory as standards of excellence in
that sort. Nature's hand had been very kind to the place,
moulding the ground in beautiful style. Art had made happy use
of the advantage thus given her; and now what appeared was
neither art nor nature, but a perfection that can only spring
from the hands of both. Fleda's eyes were bewitched. She stood
watching the rolling slopes of green turf, so soft and lovely,
and the magnificent trees, that had kept their ground for
ages, and seen generations rise and fall before their growing
strength and grandeur. They were scattered here and there on
the lawn; and further back stood on the heights, and stretched
along the ridges of the undulating ground, the outposts of a
wood of the same growth still beyond them.

"How do you like it, Elfie?" Mr. Carleton asked her, the
evening of the first day, as he saw her for a length of time
looking out gravely and intently from before the hall door.

"I think it is beautiful!" said Fleda. "The ground is a great
deal smoother here than it was at home."

"I'll take you to ride to-morrow," said he, smiling, "and show
you rough ground enough."

"As you did when we came from Montepoole?" said Fleda, rather
eagerly.

"Would you like that!"

"Yes, very much — if _you_ would like it, Mr. Carleton.

"Very well," said he. "So it shall be."

And not a day passed during their short stay that he did not
give her one of those rides. He showed her rough ground,
according to his promise, but Fleda still thought it did not
look much like the mountains "at home." And, indeed, unsightly
roughness had been skilfully covered or removed; and though a
large part of the park, which was a very extensive one, was
wildly broken, and had apparently been left as nature left it,
the hand of taste had been there; and many an unsuspected
touch, instead of hindering, had heightened both the wild and
the beautiful character. Landscape gardening had long been a
great hobby of its owner.

"How far does your ground come, Mr. Carleton?" inquired Fleda
on one of these rides, when they had travelled a good distance
from home.

"Further than you can see, Elfie."

"Further than I can see! — It must be a very large farm."

"This is not a farm where we are now," said he; "did you mean
that? This is the park; we are almost at the edge of it on
this side."

"What is the difference between a farm and a park?" said
Fleda.

"The grounds of a farm are tilled for profit; a park is an
uncultivated enclosure, kept merely for men and women and deer
to take pleasure in."

"_I_ have taken a good deal of pleasure in it," said Fleda. "And
have you a farm besides, Mr. Carleton?"

"A good many, Elfie."

Fleda looked surprised; and then remarked, that it must be
very nice to have such a beautiful piece of ground just for
pleasure.

She enjoyed it to the full during the few days she was there.
And one thing more, the grand piano in the music-room. The
first evening of their arrival she was drawn by the far-off
sounds, and Mrs. Carleton seeing it, went immediately to the
music-room with her. The room had no light, except from the
moonbeams that stole in through two glass doors which opened
upon a particularly private and cherished part of the grounds,
in summer-time full of flowers; for, in the very refinement of
luxury, delights had been crowded about this favourite
apartment. Mr. Carleton was at the instrument, playing. Fleda
sat down quietly in one corner, and listened — in a rapture of
pleasure she had hardly ever known from any like source. She
did not think it could be greater; till, after a time, in a
pause of the music, Mrs. Carleton asked her son to sing a
particular ballad; and that one was followed by two or three
more. Fleda left her corner — she could not contain herself,
and, favoured by the darkness, came forward; and stood quite
near; and if the performer had had light to see by, he would
have been gratified with the tribute paid to his power by the
unfeigned tears that ran down her cheeks. This pleasure was
also repeated from evening to evening.

"Do you know we set off for Paris to-morrow?" said Mrs.
Carleton the last evening of their stay, as Fleda came up to
the door after a prolonged ramble in the park, leaving Mr.
Carleton with one or two gardeners at a little distance.

"Yes!" said Fleda, with a sigh that was more than half
audible.

"Are you sorry?" said Mrs. Carleton, smiling.

"I cannot be glad," said Fleda, giving a sober look over the
lawn.

"Then you like Carleton?"

"Very much! — it is a prettier place than Queechy."

"But we shall have you here again, dear Fleda," said Mrs.
Carleton, restraining her smile at this, to her, very moderate
compliment.

"Perhaps not," said Fleda quietly. "Mr. Carleton said," she
added, a minute after, with more animation, "that a park was a
place for men and women and deer to take pleasure in. I am
sure it is for children too!"

"Did you have a pleasant ride this morning?"

"Oh, very! — I always do. There isn't anything I like so
well."

"What, as to ride on horseback with Guy?" said Mrs. Carleton,
looking exceedingly benignant.

"Yes — unless —"

"Unless what, my dear Fleda?"

"Unless, perhaps — I don't know, — I was going to say, unless
perhaps to hear him sing."

Mrs. Carleton's delight was unequivocally expressed; and she
promised Fleda that she should have both rides and songs there
in plenty another time — a promise upon which Fleda built no
trust at all.

The short journey to Paris was soon made. The next morning
Mrs. Carleton, making an excuse of her fatigue, left Guy to
end the care he had rather taken upon himself, by delivering
his little charge into the hands of her friends. So they drove
to the Hôtel —, Rue —, where Mr. Rossitur had apartments in
very handsome style. They found him alone in the saloon.

"Ha! Carleton — come back again. Just in time — very glad to
see you. And who is this? — Ah, another little daughter for
aunt Lucy."

Mr. Rossitur, who gave them this greeting very cordially, was
rather a fine-looking man — decidedly agreeable both in person
and manner. Fleda was pleasantly disappointed after what her
grandfather had led her to expect. There might be something of
sternness in his expression; people gave him credit for a
peremptory, not to say imperious, temper; but, if truly, it
could not often meet with opposition. The sense and
gentlemanly character which marked his face and bearing had an
air of smooth politeness which seemed habitual. There was no
want of kindness nor even of tenderness in the way he drew
Fleda within his arm and held her there, while he went on
talking to Mr. Carleton — now and then stooping his face to
look in at her bonnet and kiss her, which was his only
welcome. He said nothing to her after his first question.

He was too busy talking to Guy. He seemed to have a great deal
to tell him. There was this for him to see, and that for him
to hear, and charming new things which had been done or doing
since Mr. Carleton left Paris. The impression upon Fleda's
mind after listening awhile was, that the French capital was a
great gallery of the fine arts, with a magnified likeness of
Mr. Carleton's music-room at one end of' it. She thought her
uncle must be most extraordinarily fond of pictures and works
of art in general, and must have a great love for seeing
company, and hearing people sing. This latter taste, Fleda was
disposed to allow, might be a very reasonable one. Mr.
Carleton, she observed, seemed much more cool on the whole
subject. But, meanwhile, where was aunt Lucy? — and had Mr.
Rossitur forgotten the little armful that he held so fast and
so perseveringly? No, for here was another kiss, and another
look into her face, so kind, that Fleda gave him a piece of
her heart from that time.

"Hugh!" said Mr. Rossitur suddenly to somebody she had not
seen before — "Hugh! here is your little cousin. Take her off
to your mother."

A child came forward at this bidding, hardly larger than
herself. He was a slender, graceful little figure, with
nothing of the boy in his face or manner; delicate as a girl,
and with something almost melancholy in the gentle sweetness
of his countenance. Fleda's confidence was given to it on the
instant, which had not been the case with anything in her
uncle, and she yielded without reluctance the hand he took to
obey his father's command. Before two steps had been taken,
however, she suddenly broke away from him, and springing to
Mr. Carleton's side, silently laid her hand in his. She made
no answer whatever to a light word or two of kindness that he
spoke just for her ear. She listened with downcast eyes and a
lip that he saw was too unsteady to be trusted, and then after
a moment more, without looking, pulled away her hand, and
followed her cousin. Hugh did not once get a sight of her face
on the way to his mother's room, but owing to her exceeding
efforts; and quiet generalship, he never guessed the cause.
There was nothing in her face to raise suspicion, when he
reached the door, and opening it, announced her with —

"Mother, here's cousin Fleda come."

Fleda had seen her aunt before, though several years back, and
not long enough to get acquainted with her. But no matter — it
was her mother's sister sitting there, whose face gave her so
lovely a welcome at that speech of Hugh's, whose arms were
stretched out so eagerly towards her: and springing to them as
to a very haven of rest, Fleda wept on her bosom those
delicious tears that are only shed where the heart is at home.
And even before they were dried the ties were knit that bound
her to her new sphere.

"Who came with you, dear Fleda?" said Mrs. Rossitur then. "Is
Mrs. Carleton here? I must go and thank her for bringing you
to me."

"_Mr._ Carleton is here." said Hugh.

"I must go and thank him, then. Jump down, dear Fleda — I'll
be back in a minute."

Fleda got off her lap, and stood looking in a kind of
enchanted maze, while her aunt hastily arranged her hair at
the glass; — looking, while fancy and memory were making
strong the net in which her heart was caught. She was trying
to see something of her mother in one who had shared her blood
and her affection so nearly. A miniature of that mother was
left to Fleda, and she had studied it till she could hardly
persuade herself that she had not some recollection of the
original; and now she thought she caught a precious shadow of
something like it in her aunt Lucy. Not in those pretty bright
eyes which had looked through kind tears so lovingly upon her,
but in the graceful ringlets about the temples, the delicate
contour of the face, and a something — Fleda could only have
said it was "a something" — about the mouth when at rest, the
shadow of her mother's image rejoiced her heart. Rather that
faint shadow of the loved lost one for little Fleda, than any
other form or combination of beauty on earth. As she stood
fascinated, watching the movements of her aunt's light figure,
Fleda drew a long breath with which went off the whole burden
of doubt and anxiety that had lain upon her mind ever since
the journey began. She had not known it was there, but she
felt it go, yet even when that sigh of relief was breathed,
and while fancy and feeling were weaving their rich embroidery
into the very tissue of Fleda's happiness, most persons would
have seen merely that the child looked very sober, and have
thought, probably, that she felt very tired and strange.
Perhaps Mrs. Rossitur thought so, for, again tenderly kissing
her before she left the room, she told Hugh to take off her
things and make her feel at home.

Hugh upon this made Fleda sit down, and proceeded to untie her
tippet-strings and take off her coat, with an air of delicate
tenderness which showed he had great pleasure in his task, and
which made Fleda take a good deal of pleasure in it too.

"Are you tired, cousin Fleda?" said he, gently.

"No," said Fleda — "O no!"

"Charlton said you were tired on board ship."

"I wasn't tired," said Fleda, in not a little surprise; "I
liked it very much."

"Then maybe I mistook. I know Charlton said _he_ was tired, and
I thought he said you were too. You know my brother Charlton,
don't you?"

"Yes."

" Are you glad to come to Paris?"

"I am glad, now," said Fleda. "I wasn't glad before."

"I am very glad," said Hugh. "I think you will like it. We
didn't know you were coming till two or three days ago, when
Charlton got here. Do you like to take walks?"

"Yes, very much."

"Father and mother will take us delightful walks in the
Tuileries — the gardens, you know — and the Champs Elysées,
and Versailles, and the Boulevards, and ever so many places,
and it will be a great deal pleasanter now you are here. Do
you know French?"

"No."

"Then you'll have to learn. I'll help you if you will let me.
It is very easy. Did you get my last letter?"

"I don't know," said Fleda; "the last one I had came with one
of aunt Lucy's telling me about Mrs. Carleton — I got it just
before —"

Alas! before what? Fleda suddenly remembered, and was stopped
short. From all the strange scenes and interests which lately
had whirled her along, her spirit leapt back with strong
yearning recollection to her old home and her old ties; and
such a rain of tears witnessed the dearness of what she had
lost, and the tenderness of the memory that had let them slip
for a moment, that Hugh was as much distressed as startled.
With great tenderness and touching delicacy, he tried to
soothe her, and at the same time, though guessing, to find out
what was the matter, lest he should make a mistake.

"Just before what?" said he, laying his hand caressingly on
his little cousin's shoulder. "Don't grieve so, dear Fleda!"

"It was only just before grandpa died," said Fleda.

Hugh had known of that before, though like her he had
forgotten it for a moment. A little while his feeling was too
strong to permit any further attempt at condolence; but as he
saw Fleda grow quiet, he took courage to speak again.

"Was he a good man?" he asked softly.

"O yes!"

"Then," said Hugh, "you know he is happy now, Fleda. If he
loved Jesus Christ, he is gone to be with him. That ought to
make you glad as well as sorry."

Fleda looked up, though tears were streaming yet, to give that
full happy answer of the eye that no words could do. This was
consolation, and sympathy. The two children had a perfect
understanding of each other from that time forward, — a
fellowship that never knew a break nor a weakening.

Mrs. Rossitur found on her return that Hugh had obeyed her
charge to the letter. He had made Fleda feel at home. They
were sitting close together, Hugh's hand affectionately
clasping hers, and he was holding forth on some subject with a
gracious politeness that many of his elders might have copied,
while Fleda listened and assented with entire satisfaction.
The rest of the morning she passed in her aunt's arms,
drinking draughts of pleasure from those dear bright eyes,
taking in the balm of gentlest words of love and soft kisses,
every one of which was felt at the bottom of Fleda's heart,
and the pleasure of talking over her young sorrows with one
who could feel them all, and answer with tears as well as
words of sympathy. And Hugh stood by the while, looking at his
little orphan cousin as if she might have dropped from the
clouds into his mother's lap, a rare jewel or delicate flower,
but much more delicate and precious than they or any other
possible gift.

Hugh and Fleda dined alone: for, as he informed her, his
father never would have children at the dinner-table when he
had company, and Mr. and Mrs. Carleton, and other people were
to be there to-day. Fleda made no remark on the subject, by
word or look, but she thought none the less. She thought it
was a very mean fashion. _She_ not come to the table when
strangers were there! And who would enjoy them more? When Mr.
Rossitur and Mr. Carleton had dined with her grandfather, had
she not taken as much pleasure in their society, and in the
whole thing, as any other one of the party? And at Carleton
had she not several times dined with a tableful, and been
unspeakably amused to watch the different manners and
characteristics of people who were strange to her? However,
Mr. Rossitur had other notions. So she and Hugh had their
dinner in aunt Lucy's dressing-room by themselves; and a very
nice dinner it was, Fleda thought, and Rosaline, Mrs.
Rossitur's French maid, was well affected and took admirable
care of them. Indeed, before the close of the day, Rosaline
privately informed her mistress, "qu'elle serait entêtée
sûrement de cet enfant dans trois jours;" and "que son regard
vraiment lui serrait le coeur." And Hugh was excellent
company, failing all other, and did the honours of the table
with the utmost thoughtfulness, and amused Fleda the whole
time with accounts of Paris, and what they would do, and what
she should see; and how his sister Marion was at school at a
convent, and what kind of a place a convent was; and how he
himself always stayed at home and learned of his mother and
his father; "or by himself," he said, "just as it happened,"
and he hoped they would keep Fleda at home too. [Illustration]

Alas! it had of course to be!
For weeks I had not left my room, When one fell day there came
on me An awful doom.

A burly rough, who drank and swore, Without a word--I could not
shout-- Attacked me brutally, and tore My nails right out.

Then, dragging me out to the air-- No well-conducted conscience
pricked him-- He mercilessly beat me there, His helpless
victim.

With cruel zest he beat me well, He beat me till in parts
I grew-- I shudder as the tale I tell-- All black and blue.

But what on earth he was about, I could not guess, do what
I would; But when at length he cleaned me out I understood.

Yet do not shed a tear, because You've heard my story told in
metre, For I'm a Carpet, and he was A Carpet-Beater.

* * * * *
LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

_Thursday, June 12_.--Letters from Billsbury arrive by every
post, Horticultural Societies, sea-side excursions, Sunday
School pic-nics, cricket club _fêtes_, all demand subscriptions,
and, as a rule, get them. If this goes on much longer I
shall be wound up in the Bankruptcy Court. Shall have to
make a stand soon, but how to begin is the difficulty. Pretty
certain in any case to put my foot down in the wrong place,
and offend everybody. Amongst other letters came this one:--

_4, Stone Street, Billsbury, June 10._
[Illustration: "I will give any security you like."]
Sir,--I venture to appeal to your generosity in a matter
which I am sure you will recognise to be of the highest importance.

My services to the Conservative Party in Billsbury are well-known.
I can safely say that no man has, during the last ten
years, worked harder than I have to promote Conservative
interests, and for a smaller reward. My exertions at the last
election brought on a violent attack of malarial fever, which
laid me up for some months, and from which I still
suffer. The shaky character of my hand-writing attests the
sufferings I have gone through, and the shattered condition of
my bodily health at the present moment. I lost my situation as
head-clerk in the Export Department of the Ironmongers'
Association, and found myself, at the age of forty, compelled
to begin life again with a wife and three children. Everything I
have turned my hand to has failed, and I am in dire want. May I ask
you, under these circumstances, to be so good as to advance me £500
for a few months. I will give any security you like. Perhaps I might
repay some part of the loan by doing work for you during the election.
This must be a small matter to a wealthy and generous man like you.
To me it is a matter of life and death.
Anxiously awaiting your early and favourable reply, and begging you
to keep this application a secret,
I remain, Sir, Yours, faithfully, HENRY PIDGIN.
That sounded heart-breaking, but I happened to know that Mr.Always a delicate child,
always blameless in life and behaviour, his loveliness of mind
and person, his affectionateness, the winning sweetness that
was about him like a halo, and the slight tenure by which they
seemed to hold him, had wrought to bind the hearts of father
and mother to this child, as it were, with the very life-
strings of both. Not his mother was more gentle with Hugh than
his much sterner father. And now little Fleda, sharing
somewhat of Hugh's peculiar claims upon their tenderness, and
adding another of her own, was admitted, not to the same place
in their hearts — that could not be — but, to their honour be
it spoken, to the same place in all outward show of thought
and feeling. Hugh had nothing that Fleda did not have, even to
the time, care, and caresses of his parents. And not Hugh
rendered them a more faithful return of devoted affection.

Once made easy on the question of school, which was never
seriously stirred again, Fleda's life became very happy. It
was easy to make her happy; affection and sympathy would have
done it almost anywhere; but in Paris she had much more; and
after time had softened the sorrow she brought with her, no
bird ever found existence less of a burden, nor sang more
light-heartedly along its life. In her aunt she had all but
the name of a mother; in her uncle with kindness and
affection, she had amusement, interest, and improvement; in
Hugh, everything — love, confidence, sympathy, society, help;
their tastes, opinions, pursuits, went hand in hand. The two
children were always together. Fleda's spirits were brighter
than Hugh's, and her intellectual tastes stronger and more
universal. That might be as much from difference of physical
as of mental constitution. Hugh's temperament led him somewhat
to melancholy, and to those studies and pleasures which best
side with subdued feeling and delicate nerves. Fleda's nervous
system was of the finest too, but, in short, she was as like a
bird as possible. Perfect health, which yet a slight thing was
enough to shake to the foundation; joyous spirits, which a
look could quell; happy energies, which a harsh hand might
easily crush for ever. Well for little Fleda that so tender a
plant was permitted to unfold in so nicely tempered an
atmosphere. A cold wind would soon have killed it. Besides all
this, there were charming studies to be gone through every day
with Hugh — some for aunt Lucy to hear, some for masters and
mistresses. There were amusing walks in the Boulevards, and
delicious pleasure-taking in the gardens of Paris, and a new
world of people, and manners, and things, and histories, for
the little American. "How long do you think we could remain
happy here if we all began working from daylight until dark?
Life would soon become a burden, and you'd be the first one
to leave for the city, Bob. Besides, if we keep long
working hours, we'll miss our pleasant evenings together, and
I'm not willing to give them up," she smiled at him across
the table. "I guess you're right, Aunt Bettie," he replied,
as he sat down in a chair, too tired to read. "I won't do it
again."
The next morning Bob had his chores and milking done by six
o'clock and by six-thirty he was out at the new hen
house, where he was joined by Tony.

"Good-a morn, Mr. Bob," smiled Tony. "This-a the day we
make-a da concrete fast."
"That's what we will," replied Bob. "Get some cement,
Tony, and we'll start the mixer going right away."
While Tony was getting the cement, Bob filled his six cubic
foot measure with sand and gravel, and on top of these he
placed one bag of cement, then he started the engine and
the elevator emptied the load into the drum, which, as soon as he
added the water, he set revolving.

When the concrete was thoroughly mixed, he threw the dumping lever
over and filled the wheelbarrow that Tony placed under the discharging
end of the drum.

By the time Tony had
dumped the three barrows of concrete into the
trench, Bob had another batch ready for the machine, and while
this was being mixed Tony leveled off the concrete in the trench
even with the grade stakes, set in the trench six inches above the
bottom.

By night the footings were completed. They now located and dug
the footings for the piers of the cross partitions and concreted
them, so as to give the cement of the main footings a chance
to set up before they began putting the forms on top of
them. They could have saved the forms below grade by making the
excavation the exact width of the foundation wall, but they
felt this was poor economy, for the work was uncertain and
rough, and the extra labor caused by trying to fit the forms
to the sloping ground would more than offset the little saving;
besides, it took more cement to fill in irregular trenches than
it did ones of exact size. They had taken the forms they used
for the dairy house foundation, together with some new
sections, and set them up on the new footing, using wooden
spreaders for holding them the right distance apart and
placing heavy wires through the hole in the forms, the ends
of which encircled a pin and were twisted up tight securing
the forms firmly together.

The three-foot form sections brought the top of the forms just
under the line, which was now stretched between the nails marked
"B.L." and the outside of the wall was correctly located.
They drove pegs into the ground on both sides and braced the
top of the forms to hold them to the exact line. They had only
twenty sections, each ten feet long, enough for one end and
four sections down each side, so Bob decided to put in the
forms at the north end and concrete them, and then remove
them to the south end. When the concrete there was sufficiently
hard they could set up the forms between the two ends thus
finished. This would provide three expansion joints on each
side, which would be just right. They had just completed
the erection of the forms for the north end and filled the
hopper with a new batch, ready to be hoisted into the drum,
when Bob happened to look toward the barn and saw the car
come to a stop in the barnyard. By the time he had cranked
the engine, the occupants of the car had alighted and his uncle
was starting for the house, his arms full of suitcases. Bob
noticed that one of the girls who had alighted was of medium
height and slender, while the other was short and rather
stout.

"Is that your new hen house?"

he heard the stout one inquire of his aunt, as he stopped the
engine on the mixer, and she looked over in Bob's direction.

Bob had again filled the drum and was watching the
mixing of the concrete a few moments later, when he heard someone
behind him and turned around.

"We thought we'd come out and see how you're getting along,
Bob," said his aunt, smiling at him, while the two girls
came forward as she spoke. "I want you to meet my nieces, Bob.
This is Ruth Thomas, and this is Edith Atwood--and this young
man, girls, is Robert Williams, about whom I spoke."
"What a fib, Aunt Bettie," laughed Ruth. "You know you've
been talking about him ever since we got off the train, and besides,
you called him 'Bob,' not Robert."

"May I call you 'Bob,' too?" she asked, looking up at him. "I
like it better than Robert. It doesn't take so long
to say."
"Of course," replied Bob, blushing. "I guess I wouldn't know who
you meant if you called me 'Robert,' for I've been called
'Bob' ever since I can remember."
"Is that concrete, Bob?" asked Ruth suddenly, as he stopped
the engine and brought the drum to a standstill. "What makes
it so gray?"
"The cement," said Bob, pleased to see her interested in his
work.

"Is it sticky?" she asked, as she put her fingers into it and
stirred around in the mixture.

"Why, it's gritty, just like sand, Aunt Bettie," she said looking
up.

"Of course," said Bob. "That's because it's made of sand and
gravel and cement."
"May I see you make some?" she asked.

"Yes, in a few minutes," he replied; "just as soon as we empty
the drum. You'd better stand back a little so that you
won't get splashed when the concrete goes into the wheel-barrow,"
as Tony came forward.

"And this is Tony, Bob's assistant, girls," said their aunt.

"This is Ruth, Tony, and this is Edith."
"I-a please to meet da young-a ladies," said Tony, more embarrassed
even than Bob had been, as he awkwardly placed the wheel-barrow
under the drum.

As soon as the drum was empty, Bob measured out a charge of
four parts gravel, two parts sand and one part cement,
and then started the engine and dumped them into the drum,
where he added sufficient water for the mixing.

"How do you tell how much water to put in?" asked
Ruth.

"Oh, we learned that by experience," said Bob. You see the mixer
has a tank on top that holds the right amount, but this may
be varied if you like. The concrete must be wet enough so that
it quakes, but not thin enough to run like water."
"Let me put in the water next time, Bob, won't you?" she
asked. "Say, Aunt Bettie, may I help Bob mix his concrete?"

"You better come to the house and help me," replied her aunt
laughing.
"Bob and Tony, I'm afraid, would only find you in the way."

"All right," said Ruth, "but on Monday I'll help you, Bob," and
she started for the house with her aunt and cousin, the latter
Bob now recalled had not spoken a single word, beyond
the introduction.

"I'm going to help Bob mix concrete on Monday, Uncle Joe,"
said Ruth at supper that night. "I know how it's done. You
take four parts of cement, two of sand and one part of gravel,
and put them in the, 'What do you call it, Bob?'"
"Drum," said Bob.

"Yes, drum," repeated Ruth. "You see, Uncle Joe, I know how
to mix it."
"You use only one part of cement, Ruth," corrected her
cousin, "and two of sand and four of gravel."
Bob glanced up quickly at this clear statement of the facts, and
for the first time looked directly into the brown eyes of Edith
Atwood.

XIV
RUTH AND THE STRAW STACK

The Monday morning's mail brought them notice that the cement
drain tile had arrived in town.

They found it cheaper to buy this from a firm that made a
specialty of tile rather than try to make them, and, more
important still, a letter had been received by Tony saying his
wife would arrive on the ten o'clock train; so it was decided
that work should be suspended on the hen house for the morning
and that Tony and Bob should take the car and drive in to meet
the train, while Joe Williams would take the team and bring
out the tile and some new seed corn that he was getting for
the spring planting--a new variety that John White had
persuaded him to try.

At eight-thirty work on the hen house was suspended, the car
gotten out and cleaned, Bob changed his clothes, and Tony, with
as much of the dirt removed as possible--smiling and happy--got
into the car and drove to the station. They arrived just a few
minutes before the train, Bob remaining in the car while
Tony went around the station to meet his wife, as she alighted
from the train.

[Illustration: EVERY BOY THAT RAN AWAY FROM THE FARM AND MANY
THAT ARE STILL THERE CAN TELL OF THE DAYS WASTED ON REPAIRS
TO WOODEN FENCES AND CLEANING OUT FENCE ROWS. YOU WILL ALWAYS
FIND A PROSPEROUS FARMER BEHIND A NEAT WIRE FENCE ON PERMANENT
CONCRETE POSTS.]
A few minutes later Bob's ears were greeted by the sound of
animated conversation in a foreign tongue, not a word of
which was intelligible to him, but every word of which seemed
to please the speakers. A little later Tony came around
the corner of the station, a huge suitcase under each arm,
followed by a rather good-looking woman of medium height, and,
like Tony, a true type of sunny Italy.

She was dressed much better than Bob had expected to find her,
and when Tony said, "This-a my wife, Mr.

Bob," he was surprised to hear her say in very good English:
"I'm pleased to meet you, Mr. Williams," letting her gaze
fall as she greeted him.

As soon as Bob had recovered from his surprise, he jumped
down from the seat, opened the door of the tonneau and helped her
into the car, an act of courtesy which the smiling eyes of Tony
quickly acknowledged.

One of the suitcases was put on the empty front seat of the
car and the other was placed on end between Tony and his wife in
the tonneau, and then they started for the farm.

While Tony and his wife carried on an animated conversation in
Italian, Bob was not without his own thoughts.

He was trying to figure out how Tony, who had difficulty in expressing
his ideas in English, should happen to have such a good-looking
English-speaking Italian wife.

He was not aware that many of the American-born Italian boys
and girls receive high school educations, and, of course, he didn't
know that Tony, who had been born in Italy, should have met in the
house of a distant relative, a young woman who had had these
advantages, and who should have found in the good-natured Tony,
with his foreign manners, the object of her love.

He was wondering, too, how she might like farm work and how
his Aunt Bettie might like her.

He didn't have long to wait, for now that the roads were getting
dry and better, he made the trip in less than twenty minutes and
they were soon speeding up the new driveway to the house.

He jumped out of the car, and taking one of the suitcases conducted
Tony and his wife to his aunt, who had come out on the porch to
greet them, and he noticed that she was as much surprised as he had
been when Tony blushingly said:

"This-a my wife, Mrs.

Williams," and she had replied:

"I'm pleased to know you, Mrs. Williams," extending her hand.

"My name is Maria Martinelli," she added. "Tony has
been telling me what a fine place you have here, and how kind
you've been to him. I'm sure I'll be very happy working for you."

"Well, we do like Tony and I believe he likes us, and I hope
you'll like us also," Aunt Bettie replied.

Tony now started for his room, the suitcases under his arms.

"We haven't Tony's room very well fixed up yet," Mrs. Williams
continued, as Tony's wife followed him up the stairs, "but you and
I can take care of that in the next few days."

Bob felt sure that his Aunt Bettie had already established pleasant
relations with her new assistant, and whistled merrily as he changed
into his working clothes.

When he returned to the hen house he was surprised to see some
one in a brand new suit of funny-looking overalls sitting on
the gravel pile waiting for him.

As he came near, the stranger arose and looked toward
him, but it was not until he got within a few feet that he recognized
in the figure before him Ruth Thomas.

"Aunt Bettie said she'd let me help you with the concrete,
Bob, so I put on these. How do you like my farmerette clothes?"
she, asked smiling.

"Well, you surprised me, all right," laughed Bob, as, for the
first time in his life, he saw a girl dressed in man's
clothes.

"What do you do first, Bob?" she asked, going over to the mixer
and pulling on the levers; "put in the water or the cement?"

"Neither," said Bob, still trying to decide whether he
approved of her manner of dress or not.

"We've all the concrete mixed that we need until we finish setting
up the forms at the south end."

"Give me a hammer then, and I'll help drive the nails," she said,
coming round to where Bob was leveling up some of the
forms.

"All right, drive a nail in there," he said, indicating
the end of a brace that leaned against the forms.

Ruth took the hammer and tapped the nail gently, succeeding
in starting it, then she raised the hammer and struck hard.
The hammer descended squarely on the nail, but not the nail in the
brace, but the nail on her left thumb.

With a cry of pain she dropped the hammer and tried hard to keep
back the tears.

"You'll have--to--excuse--me, Bob, until--I go--to the house and
tie this up," she said, hesitatingly, "but as soon as Aunt Bettie
puts something on it, I'll be back," and as she disappeared Bob
heard her choking back her sobs.

His sympathy struggled for a few moments with his humor, but the
latter got the better of him, and as soon as Ruth got well out of
hearing, he couldn't refrain any longer from laughing at the funny
figure she cut in her new clothes and the abrupt ending to her
ambition to help build the hen house.

He found that he couldn't get along very well with the forms by
himself, so he decided to knock off until after dinner.

He was crossing over to the barn, where he met Ruth still
dressed in her overalls, her thumb tied up, coming into the
barnyard with her cousin Edith.

"We thought we'd like to look over the barn until my thumb quits
hurting," called Ruth.

"All right," said Bob, and he conducted them into the
thrashing floor where he explained how a barn was built and where
the hay was kept and how they fed the different horses and cattle
from the thrashing floor.

Most of the mows were now almost empty and the barn had the
appearance of great size.

"I'm going to climb up into the hay mow," said Ruth, as she
started for the ladder.

"Why do you want to go up there, Ruth?"

asked Edith.

"Oh, I want to see what the place looks like," replied Ruth,
as she nimbly climbed the ladder and stepped off into the
mow.

"Come on up, it's fine up here," she called.

Bob quickly followed her and a moment later Edith joined
them.

Pausing there for a few minutes, they climbed over into
another mow and looked out through a window on the side of the
barn.

"Why, we can get on the roof from here," said Ruth.

"Yes," said Bob, "we can."

"Let's go out then," she said.

"But you might slide off," warned Bob.

"No danger of that," replied Ruth; "we've got our sneakers
on."

So he crawled through the window and standing on the roof first
helped Ruth and then Edith through.

"It isn't as steep as it looks from the ground, and I'm
going on up to the top," said Ruth.

Bob helped Edith up and they sat on the ridge for several minutes
looking out over the farm, Bob pointing out to them the places of
interest, and telling them the story of how the new dam and ditch
came to be built.

As they sat there, they noticed their uncle coming up the lane and
that he had already reached the foot of the hill.

"Why, there comes Uncle Joe," shouted Ruth, as she started
running down the side of the barn toward him, on which side a
lean-to was built, and beyond which stood last year's straw stack,
the top about even with the roof of the lean-to.

"Come on, Edith, I'm going to jump off the roof on to the straw
stack," she shouted, and before Bob could stop her she had jumped
and landed on the stack.

"It didn't seem so difficult, Bob," said Edith, and she also started
running down the side.

"I guess I can make it, too," she called, and leaped on to the
stack, where Bob joined them a moment later.

The three stood waving their hands and shouting to their
uncle.

Suddenly Ruth exclaimed: "I'm going to slide down the side of
the stack," and moved over to the side nearest to her
uncle, who, seeing her intention, stood up in the wagon and shook
the whip at her, warning her not to do so.

Ruth only took his warning as a dare, and throwing her arms high
over her head with a loud shout started to slide down the side of
the stack.

Now the stack had furnished feed for the cattle all winter and
they had eaten under the edges, so that it was like a huge toadstool.

From his position in the lane, her uncle saw what Ruth could
not see from the top--that there were cattle under the
edge. As Ruth came noisily down the side her shouting caused a
cow standing under the edge of the stack to come running out.
The two met just at the edge of the stack, Ruth landing squarely
on the cow's back, her back to her head.

With a snort and a plunge, the cow started to race across the
barnyard, and it was hard to tell which was the more
surprised--Ruth or the cow.She had had the choice of what
she liked best, and had characteristically taken a flourishing
little rose-bush, that as yet showed nothing but leaves and
green buds, partly, because she would have the pleasure of
seeing its beauties come forward, and partly, because she
thought having no flowers, it would not cost much. The former
reason, however, was all that she had given to Mr. Carleton's
remonstrances.

"What is all this, Elfie?" said he. "Have you been robbing
your rose-tree?"

"No," said Elfie, "there are plenty more buds! Isn't it
lovely? This is the first one. They've been a great while
coming out."

His eye went from the rose to her; he thought the one was a
mere emblem of the other. Fleda was usually very quiet in her
demonstrations; it was as if a little green bud had suddenly
burst into a flush of loveliness; and he saw, it was as plain
as possible, that goodwill to him had been the moving power.
He was so much struck and moved, that his thanks, though as
usual perfect in their kind, were far shorter and graver than
he would have given if he had felt less. He turned away from
the house, his mind full of the bright unsullied purity and
single-hearted goodwill that had looked out of that beaming
little face; he seemed to see them again in the flower he held
in his hand, and he saw nothing else as he went.

Mr. Carleton preached to himself all the way home, and his
text was a rose.

Laugh who will. To many it may seem ridiculous; and to most
minds it would have been impossible; but to a nature very
finely wrought and highly trained, many a voice that grosser
senses cannot hear, comes with an utterance as clear as it is
sweet-spoken; many a touch that coarser nerves cannot heed,
reaches the springs of the deeper life; many a truth that
duller eyes have no skill to see, shows its fair features, hid
away among the petals of a rose, or peering out between the
wings of a butterfly, or reflected in a bright drop of dew.
The material is but a veil for the spiritual; but, then, eyes
must be quickened, or the veil becomes an impassable cloud.

That particular rose was to Mr. Carleton's eye a most perfect
emblem and representative of its little giver. He traced out
the points of resemblance as he went along. The delicacy and
character of refinement for which that kind of rose is
remarkable above many of its more superb kindred; a refinement
essential and unalterable by decay or otherwise, as true a
characteristic of the child as of the flower; a delicacy that
called for gentle handling and tender cherishing; the
sweetness, rare indeed, but asserting itself as it were
timidly, at least with equally rare modesty; the very style of
the beauty that, with all its loveliness, would not startle
nor even catch the eye among its more showy neighbours; and
the breath of purity that seemed to own no kindred with earth,
nor liability to infection.

As he went on with his musing, and drawing out this fair
character from the type before him, the feeling of contrast
that he had known before pressed upon Mr. Carleton's mind; the
feeling of self-reproach, and the bitter wish that he could be
again what he once had been — something like this. How changed
now he seemed to himself — not a point of likeness left. How
much less honourable, how much less worth, how much less
dignified, than that fair innocent child! How much better a
part she was acting in life — what an influence she was
exerting, — as pure, as sweet-breathed, and as unobtrusive, as
the very rose in his hand! And he — doing no good to an
earthly creature, and losing himself by inches.

He reached his room, put the flower in a glass on the table,
and walked up and down before it. It had come to a struggle
between the sense of what was and the passionate wish for what
might have been.

"It is late, Sir," said his servant, opening the door — "and
you were —"

"I am not going out."

"This evening, Sir?"

"No — not at all to-day. Spenser, I don't wish to see anybody
— let no one come near me."

The servant retired, and Guy went on with his walk and his
meditations — looking back over his life, and reviewing, with
a wiser ken now, the steps by which he had come. He compared
the selfish disgust with which he had cast off the world with
the very different spirit of little Fleda's look upon it that
morning; the useless, self-pleasing, vain life he was leading,
with her wish to be like the beloved disciple, and do
something to heal the troubles of those less happy than
herself. He did not very well comprehend the grounds of her
feeling or reasoning, but he began to see, mistily, that his
own had been mistaken and wild.

His step grew slower, his eye more intent, his brow quiet.

"She is right, and I am wrong," he thought. "She is by far the
nobler creature — worth many such as I. Like her I cannot be —
I cannot regain what I have lost — I cannot undo what years
have done. But I can be something other than I am! If there be
a system of remedy, as there well may, it may as well take
effect on myself first. She says everybody has his work; I
believe her. It must, in the nature of things, be so. I will
make it my business to find out what mine is; and when I have
made that sure, I will give myself to the doing of it. An All-
wise Governor must look for service of me. He shall have it.
Whatever my life be, it shall be to some end. If not what I
would, what I can. If not the purity of the rose, that of
tempered steel!"

Mr. Carleton walked his room for three hours; then rung for
his servant, and ordered him to prepare everything for leaving
Paris the second day thereafter.

The next morning over theirs coffee he told his mother of his
purpose.

"Leave Paris! To-morrow! My dear Guy, that is rather a sudden
notice."

"No, mother; for I am going alone."

His mother immediately bent an anxious and somewhat terrified
look upon him. The frank smile she met put half her suspicions
out of her head at once.

"What is the matter?"

"Nothing at all — if by 'matter' you mean mischief."

"You are not in difficulty with those young men again?"

"No, mother," said he, coolly. "I am in difficulty with no one
but myself."

"With yourself! But why will you not let me go with you?"

"My business will go on better if I am quite alone."

"What business?''

"Only to settle this question with myself," said he, smiling.

"But, Guy! you are enigmatical this morning. Is it the
question that of all others I wish to see settled?"

"No, mother," said he, laughing, and colouring a little; "I
don't want another half to take care of till I have this one
under management."

"I don't understand you," said Mrs. Carleton. "There is no
hidden reason under all this that you are keeping from me?"

"I wont say that. But there is none that need give you the
least uneasiness. There are one or two matters I want to study
out; I cannot do it here, so I am going where I shall be
free."

"Where?"

"I think I shall pass the summer between Switzerland and
Germany."

"And when and where shall I meet you again?"

"I think, at home; I cannot say when."

"At home!" said his mother with a brightening face. "Then you
are beginning to be tired of wandering at last?"

"Not precisely, mother," — rather out of humour.

"I shall be glad of anything," said his mother, gazing at him
admiringly, "that brings you home again, Guy."

"Brings me home a better man, I hope, mother," said he,
kissing her as he left the room. "I will see you again by and
by."

" 'A better man!' " thought Mrs. Carleton, as she sat with
full eyes, the image of her son filling the place where his
presence had been; "I would be willing never to see him
better, and be sure of his never being worse."

Mr. Carleton's farewell visit found Mr. and Mrs. Rossitur not
at home. They had driven out early into the country to fetch
Marion from her convent for some holiday. Fleda came alone
into the saloon to receive him.

"I have your rose in safe keeping, Elfie," he said. "It has
done me more good than ever a rose did before."

Fleda smiled an innocently pleased smile. But her look changed
when he added —

"I have come to tell you so, and to bid you good-bye."

"Are you going away, Mr. Carleton?"

"Yes."

"But you will be back soon?"

"No, Elfie — I do not know that I shall ever come back."

He spoke gravely, more gravely than he was used, and Fleda's
acuteness saw that there was some solid reason for this sudden
determination. Her face changed sadly, but she was silent, her
eyes never wavering from those that read hers with such gentle
intelligence.

"You will be satisfied to have me go, Elfie, when I tell you
that I am going on business which I believe to be duty.
Nothing else takes me away. I am going to try to do right,"
said he, smiling.

Elfie could not answer the smile. She wanted to ask whether
she should never see him again, and there was another thought
upon her tongue too; but her lip trembled, and she said
nothing.

"I shall miss my good fairy," Mr. Carleton went on, lightly;
"I don't know how I shall do without her. If your wand was
long enough to reach so far I would ask you to touch me now
and then, Elfie."

Poor Elfie could not stand it. Heir head sank. She knew she
had a wand that could touch him, and well and gratefully she
resolved that its light blessing should "now and then" rest on
his head; but he did not understand that; he was talking,
whether lightly or seriously — and Elfie knew it was a little
of both — he was talking of wanting her help, and was ignorant
of the help that alone could avail him. "O that he knew but
that!" What with this feeling and sorrow together, the child's
distress was exceeding great; and the tokens of grief in one
so accustomed to hide them were the more painful to see. Mr.
Carleton drew the sorrowing little creature within his arm,
and endeavoured with a mixture of kindness and lightness in
his tone to cheer her.

"I shall often remember you, dear Elfie," he said; "I shall
keep your rose always, and take it with me wherever I go. You
must not make it too hard for me to quit Paris — you are glad
to have me go on such an errand, are you not?"

She presently commanded herself, bade her tears wait till
another time as usual, and trying to get rid of those that
covered her face, asked him "What errand?"

He hesitated.

"I have been thinking of what we were talking of yesterday,
Elfie," he said at length. "I am going to try to discover my
duty, and then to do it."

But Fleda at that clasped his hand, and squeezing it in both
hers, bent down her little head over it to hide her face and
the tears that streamed again. He hardly knew how to
understand, or what to say to her. He half suspected that
there were depths in that childish mind beyond his fathoming.
He was not, however, left to wait long. Fleda, though she
might now and then be surprised into showing it, never allowed
her sorrow of any kind to press upon the notice or the time of
others. She again checked herself and dried her face.

"There is nobody else in Paris that will be so sorry for my
leaving it," said Mr. Carleton, half tenderly and half
pleasantly.

"There is nobody else that has so much cause," said Elfie,
near bursting out again, but she restrained herself.

"And you will not come here again;, Mr. Carleton?" she said,
after a few minutes.

"I do not say that — it is possible — if I do, it will be to
see you, Elfie."

A shadow of a smile passed over her face at that. It was gone
instantly.

"My mother will not leave Paris yet," he went on — you will
see her often."

But he saw that Fleda was thinking of something else; she
scarce seemed to hear him. She was thinking of something that
troubled her.

"Mr. Carleton," she began, and her colour changed.

"Speak, Elfie."

Her colour changed again. "Mr. Carleton, will you be
displeased if I say something?"

"Don't you know me better than to ask me that, Elfie?" he
said, gently.

"I want to ask you something — if you wont mind my saying it?"

"What is it?" said he, reading in her face that a request was
behind. "I will do it."

Her eyes sparkled, but she seemed to have some difficulty in
going on.

"I will do it whatever it is," he said, watching her.

"Will you wait for me one moment, Mr. Carleton?"

"Half an hour."

She sprang away, her face absolutely flashing pleasure through
her tears. It was much soberer, and again doubtful and
changing colour, when a few minutes afterwards she came back
with a book in her hand. With a striking mixture of timidity,
modesty, and eagerness in her countenance, she came forward,
and putting the little volume, which was her own Bible, into
Mr. Carleton's hands, said, under her breath, "Please read
it." She did not venture to look up.

He saw what the book was; and then taking the gentle hand
which had given it, he kissed it two or three times — if it
had been a princess's he could not with more respect.

"You have my promise, Elfie," he said; "I need not repeat it."

She raised her eves and gave him a look so grateful, so
loving, so happy, that it dwelt for ever in his remembrance. A
moment after it had faded, and she stood still where he had
left her listening to his footsteps as they went down the
stairs. She heard the last of them, and then sank upon her
knees by a chair, and burst into a passion of tears. Their
time was now, and she let them come. It was not only the
losing a loved and pleasant friend, it was not only the
stirring of sudden and disagreeable excitement — poor Elfie
was crying for her Bible. It had been her father's own — it
was filled with his marks — it was precious to her above price
— and Elfie cried with all her heart for the loss of it. She
had done what she had on the spur of the emergency — she was
satisfied she had done right; she would not take it back if
she could; but not the less her Bible was gone, and the pages
that loved eyes had looked upon were for hers to look upon no
more. Her very heart was wrung that she should have parted
with it; and yet, what could she do? It was as bad as the
parting with Mr. Carleton.

That agony was over, and even that was shortened, for "Hugh
would find out that she had been crying." Hours had passed,
and the tears were dried, and the little face was bending over
the wonted tasks, with a shadow upon its wonted cheerfulness,
when Rosaline came to tell her that Victor said there was
somebody in the passage who wanted to see her and would not
come in.

It was Mr. Carleton himself. He gave her a parcel, smiled at
her without saying a word, kissed her hand earnestly, and was
gone again. Fleda ran to her own room, and took the wrappers
off such a beauty of a Bible as she had never seen — bound in
blue velvet, with clasps of gold, and her initials in letters
of gold upon the cover. Fleda hardly knew whether to be most
pleased or sorry; for to have its place so supplied seemed to
put her lost treasure further away than ever. The result was
another flood of very tender tears; in the very shedding of
which, however, the new little Bible was bound to her heart
with cords of association as bright and as incorruptible as
its gold mountings.


CHAPTER XV.


"Her sports were such as carried riches of knowledge upon the
stream of delight."
SIDNEY.


Fleda had not been a year in Paris, when her uncle suddenly
made up his mind to quit it and go home. Some trouble in money
affairs, felt or feared, brought him to this step, which a
month before he had no definite purpose of ever taking. There
was cloudy weather in the financial world of New York, and he
wisely judged it best that his own eyes should be on the spot
to see to his own interests. Nobody was sorry for this
determination. Mrs. Rossitur always liked what her husband
liked, but she had at the same time a decided predilection for
home. Marion was glad to leave her convent for the gay world,
which her parents promised she should immediately enter. And
Hugh and Fleda had too lively a spring of happiness within
themselves to care where its outgoings should be.

So home they came, in good mood, bringing with them all manner
of Parisian delights that Paris could part with — furniture,
that at home at least they might forget where they were;
dresses, that, at home or abroad, nobody might forget where
they had been; pictures, and statuary, and engravings, and
books, to satisfy a taste really strong and well cultivated.
And, indeed, the other items were quite as much for this
purpose as for any other. A French cook for Mr. Rossitur, and
even Rosaline for his wife, who declared she was worth all the
rest of Paris. Hugh cared little for any of these things; he
brought home a treasure of books and a flute, to which he was
devoted. Fleda cared for them all, even Monsieur Emile and
Rosaline, for her uncle's and aunt's sake; but her special joy
was a beautiful little King Charles, which had been sent her
by Mr. Carleton a few weeks before. It came with the kindest
of letters, saying, that some matters had made it inexpedient
for him to pass through Paris on his way home, but that he
hoped, nevertheless, to see her soon. That intimation was the
only thing that made Fleda sorry to leave Paris. The little
dog was a beauty, allowed to be so not only by his mistress
but by every one else, of the true black and tan colours; and
Fleda's dearly loved and constant companion.

The life she and Hugh led was little changed by the change of
place. They went out and came in as they had done in Paris,
and took the same quiet but intense happiness in the same
quiet occupations and pleasures; only the Tuileries and Champs
Elysées had a miserable substitute in the Battery, and no
substitute at all anywhere else. And the pleasant drives in
the environs of Paris were missed too, and had nothing in New
York to supply their place. Mrs. Rossitur always said it was
impossible to get out of New York by land, and not worth the
trouble to do it by water. But, then, in the house Fleda
thought there was a great gain. The dirty Parisian hotel was
well exchanged for the bright, clean, well-appointed house in
State street. And if Broadway was disagreeable, and the Park a
weariness to the eyes, after the dressed gardens of the French
capital, Hugh and Fleda made it up in the delights of the
luxuriously furnished library, and the dear at-home feeling of
having the whole house their own.

They were left, those two children, quite as much to
themselves as ever. Marion was going into company, and she and
her mother were swallowed up in the consequent necessary calls
upon their time. Marion never had been anything to Fleda. She
was a fine, handsome girl, outwardly, but seemed to have more
of her father than her mother in her composition, though
colder-natured, and more wrapped up in self than Mr. Rossitur
would be called by anybody that knew him. She had never done
anything to draw Fleda towards her, and even Hugh had very
little of her attention. They did not miss it. They were
everything to each other.

Everything — for now morning and night there was a sort of
whirlwind in the house which carried the mother and daughter
round and round, and permitted no rest; and Mr. Rossitur
himself was drawn in. It was worse than it had been in Paris.
There, with Marion in her convent, there were often evenings
when they did not go abroad nor receive company, and spent the
time quietly and happily in each other's society. No such
evenings now: if by chance there were an unoccupied one, Mrs.
Rossitur and her daughter were sure to be tired, and Mr.
Rossitur busy.

Hugh and Fleda in those bustling times retreated to the
library; Mr. Rossitur would rarely have that invaded; and
while the net was so eagerly cast for pleasure among the gay
company below, pleasure had often slipped away, and hid
herself among the things on the library table, and was dancing
on every page of Hugh's book, and minding each stroke of
Fleda's pencil, and cocking the spaniel's ears whenever his
mistress looked at him. King, the spaniel, lay on a silk
cushion on the library table, his nose just touching Fleda's
fingers. Fleda's drawing was mere amusement; she and Hugh were
not so burdened with studies that they had not always their
evenings free, and, to tell truth, much more than their
evenings. Masters, indeed, they had; but the heads of the
house were busy with the interests of their grown-up child,
and, perhaps, with other interests, and took it for granted
that all was going right with the young ones.

"Haven't we a great deal better time than they have down
stairs, Fleda?" said Hugh, one of these evenings.

"Hum — yes" — answered Fleda, abstractedly, stroking into
order some old man in her drawing with great intentness.
"King! you rascal — keep back and be quiet, Sir!"

Nothing could be conceived more gentle and loving than Fleda's
tone of fault-finding, and her repulse only fell short of a
caress.

"What's he doing?"

"Wants to get into my lap."

"Why don't you let him?"

"Because I don't choose to — a silk cushion is good enough for
his majesty. King!" (laying her soft cheek against the little
dog's soft head, and forsaking her drawing for the purpose.)

"How you do love that dog!" said Hugh.

"Very well — why shouldn't I? — provided he steals no love
from anybody else," said Fleda, still caressing him.

"What a noise somebody is making down stairs!" said Hugh. " I
don't think I should ever want to go to large parties, Fleda;
do you?"

"I don't know," said Fleda, whose natural taste for society
was strongly developed; "it would depend upon what kind of
parties they were."

"I shouldn't like them, I know, of whatever kind," said Hugh.
"What are you smiling at?"

"Only Mr. Pickwick's face, that I am drawing here."

Hugh came round to look and laugh, and then began again.

"I can't think of anything pleasanter than this room as we are
now."

"You should have seen Mr. Carleton's library," said Fleda, in
a musing tone, going on with her drawing.

"Was it so much better than this?"

Fleda's eyes gave a slight glance at the room, and then looked
down again with a little shake of her head sufficiently
expressive.

"Well," said Hugh, "you and I do not want any better than
this; do we, Fleda?"

Fleda's smile — a most satisfactory one — was divided between
him and King.

"I don't believe," said Hugh, "you would have loved that dog
near so well if anybody else had given him to you."

"I don't believe I should! — not a quarter," said Fleda, with
sufficient distinctness.

"I never liked that Mr. Carleton as well as you did."

"That is because you did not know him," said Fleda, quietly.

"Do you think he was a good man, Fleda?"

"He was very good to me," said Fleda, "always. What rides I
did have on that great black horse of his!" —

"A black horse?"

"Yes, a great black horse, strong, but so gentle, and he went
so delightfully. His name was Harold. Oh, I should like to see
that horse! When I wasn't with him, Mr. Carleton used to ride
another, the greatest beauty of a horse, Hugh — a brown
Arabian — so slender and delicate — her name was Zephyr, and
she used to go like the wind, to be sure. Mr. Carleton said he
wouldn't trust me on such a fly-away thing."

"But you didn't use to ride alone?" said Hugh.

"O no! — and I wouldn't have been afraid if he had chosen to
take me on any one."

"But do you think, Fleda, he was a good man — as I mean?"

"I am sure he was better than a great many others," answered
Fleda, evasively — "the worst of him was infinitely better
than the best of half the people down stairs — Mr. Sweden
included."

"Sweden! — you don't call his name right."

"The worse it is called the better, in my opinion," said
Fleda.

"Well, I don't like him; but what makes you dislike him so
much?"

"I don't know — partly because Uncle Rolf and Marion like him
so much, I believe — I don't think there is any moral
expression in his face."

"I wonder why they like him," said Hugh.

It was a somewhat irregular and desultory education that the
two children gathered under this system of things. The masters
they had were rather for accomplishments and languages than
for anything solid — the rest they worked out for themselves.
That will not be easy; and what atonement can be made for
the innocent blood which drops from those pitiful spoils?

W. R. INGE.

[Illustration: WHAT ABOUT PEACE, LADS?]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE LIBERATORS
This is one of those cartoons in which the neutral in Raemaekers
speaks with peculiar force. Such a picture by a Britisher would
reasonably be discounted as unduly prejudiced, for it is none
too easy for us in our present stresses to see the
other fellow's point of view--in this difficult business of
the blockade for an instance.

That friendly championing of the rights of neutrals suffering
under the outrageous tyranny of the British Navy is a thing to
which only the detached humour of a neutral can do justice.
He can testify to the way in which the giant strength of that
navy, whether in peace or war, has been used in the main
not in the giants' tyrannous way; he can make allowance for
the exigencies which have caused occasional arbitrariness
under the stress of war or even in some untactful moment
of peace; he can contrast the two main opposing navy's notions
of justice, courtesy, seamanship--which is sportsmanship.

He can recall that no single right whether of combatant or
neutral, of state or individual, guaranteed by international
law, which the Germans have found it convenient or "necessary"
to violate has been left unviolated; that there is no
single method or practice of war condemned by the common
consent of civilization but has been employed by men who even
have the candour to declare that they stand above laws and
guarantees.

And therefore he can make grim, effective fun of the sinister
bandit with his foot planted on the shackled prisoner
that lies between two murdered victims fatuously
taking in vain the name of freedom.

JOSEPH THORP.

[Illustration: "Freedom of the land is ours--why should we
not have freedom of the sea?"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

TOM THUMB AND THE GIANT
The reference in this cartoon is to an incident which, at
the time of its occurrence, is said to have caused considerable
indignation in Germany. A Zeppelin, having been on a raiding
expedition to England, was hit on the return journey, and dropped
into the North Sea. The crew, clinging to the damaged
airship, besought the captain of a British trawler to take them
off, but the captain, seeing that the Zeppelin crew far outnumbered
his own, declined to trust them, and left them to their fate.
Whether the trawler's captain actually "put his thumb
unto his nose and spread his fingers out" is a matter for
conjecture, but under the circumstances it is scarcely
likely.

The whole point lies in the German view of the trawler's captain
and his inhuman conduct. He knew, perfectly well, that if
he rescued the crew of the Zeppelin, the probable reward for
himself and crew would be a voyage to the nearest German port
and interment in a prison camp for the remainder of the war--and
plenty of reliable evidence is forthcoming as to the treatment meted
out to men in German prison camps.

He knew, also, that these men who besought his aid were
returning from one of the expeditions which have killed
more women and children in England than able-bodied men, that
they had been sharing in work which could not be described as
even of indirect military value, but was more of the
nature of sheer murder. And Germany condemned his conduct
by every adjective that implied brutality and barbarity.

The unfortunate thing about the German viewpoint is that it
takes into consideration only such points as favour
Germany, a fact of which this incident affords striking
evidence.

E. CHARLES VIVIAN.

[Illustration: TOM THUMB AND THE GIANT

"Come and save me.

You know I am so fond of children."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
"WE HAVE FINISHED OFF THE RUSSIANS"
Assuming that the statement with regard to finishing off the Russians
was actually written--and there is every reason to assume it--one
may conjecture what memories it recalled.

The great battles of the Warsaw salient, the drive that lasted
for many months through the flats of Poland, the struggles of the
Vilna salient, and all the time the knowledge that mechanism, the
guns in which Germany put her trust, were shattering Russian legions
day after day.

Then the gradual settling of the eastern line, well into Russia,
with all the industrial districts of Poland firmly gripped
in German hands, and the certainty that though Russia had not been
utterly broken and forced to a peace, yet so much had been accomplished
that there was no longer any eastern menace, but both Germany and
Austria might go about their business of conquest in the west,
having "finished off" in the east.

But that strong figure with the pistol pointed at the writer, that
implacable, threatening giant, is a true type of Russia the
unconquerable.

It is a sign that the guns in which Germany put her trust
have failed her, that the line which was to hold firm during
the business of conquest in the west has broken--more, it is
a sign of the doom of the aggressor. The writing of that fat,
complacent figure--sorry imitator of the world's great conquerors--is
arrested, and in place of stolid self-conceit there shows fear.

Well-grounded fear. History can show no crimes to equal the rape
of Belgium and the desolation of Poland at the hands of Germany.

The giant with the pistol stands not only as a returned warrior,
but also as an avenger of unspeakable crimes.

E. CHARLES VIVIAN.

[Illustration: WE HAVE FINISHED OFF THE RUSSIANS
"Wait a moment."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

MUDDLE THROUGH
Although this striking cartoon of Raemaekers may, since the
consummation of Lord Derby's Scheme and the raising of the new
armies, be said to have lost its sting it cannot be said no longer
to have a lesson.

At the time of its first publication the sight of England assailed
by the central Empires bent on her destruction for having thrown
the weight of her trident and her sword into the scales on the side
of Justice and Right against Lawlessness and Might, failed to evoke
in many of her sons the spirit of patriotism which has since
manifested itself in many glorious and immortal deeds.

It was difficult for us to realize that we were at war.

And at war not merely to protect the weak and uphold ideals of
national righteousness, but for national existence itself.

The doctrine of "muddle through" was not confined to the War
Office and other Government Departments, but seemed to permeate
the whole nation to a lamentable extent.

In the cartoon we have three typical men with that fatal
"business (or pleasure) as usual" expression on their faces.

That Germany should seek to wrest the trident and sovereignty of
the seas from the hand of Britain, or should have devastated Belgium
and the North Eastern Department of France was obviously no personal
concern of theirs.

Let the other chaps fight if they would.

Happily for England and for her gallant Allies the point of the
cartoon has been blunted, if not entirely destroyed, by subsequent
events.

But the lesson? It is not far to seek. Is it not that had
"business as usual" not been so gladly adopted as the national
creed in the early days of war, we might have been happy
in the blessings of Peace by now, or at least have had Peace much
nearer.

We do not envy the men who might have gone but who stayed at home
in those early days, when their earlier presence on the field of
battle might have been the means not only of saving many thousands
of valuable lives, but of shortening the terrible carnage.

It would have been a thousand times better had the mind which
conceived the phrase "business as usual" been acute enough to
foresee the possible and disastrous misapplications of the phrase.

Rather would it have been better had the idea crystallized in
"Do it now."

CLIVE HOLLAND.

[Illustration: MUDDLE THROUGH]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
MY ENEMY IS MY BEST FRIEND
These words of Emerson's express exactly the thought of this cartoon.

The Netherlands is a country that has been slowly won from the
ocean; the cruel sea has always been its enemy, at first completely
triumphant, then gradually resisted and driven forth by the enterprise
and toil of men; but it is always an enemy to be dreaded.

Its inroads have to be guarded against by great dykes and by
the never-ceasing care and industry of the nation.

Now and again the floods come, and people barely escape in boats
from the waters.

Yet time and again the enemy has been the best friend of the
Netherlands.

This enemy has saved them from the domination of Spain, and now,
as the refugees on the floods of last winter are escaping from the
jaws of death they feel that the water which is now an enemy
(_vijand_), may to-morrow be a friend (_vriend_); for an invasion
by the Germans, that ever-dreaded danger to all patriotic Dutchmen,
can be guarded against only by the friendly help of the ocean which
can be invoked in case of need to save its own people.

It was only in the last resort that William the Silent consented
to let in the sea.

He resisted the Spaniards as long as he could, and only when
all possible chance of further resistance was at an end did
he have recourse to the sea as the last friend.

He saved the country by allowing the German Ocean to destroy
it. In this cartoon the people in the boats regard the
sea as their enemy; but an invasion by German armies could
not be resisted except with the help of the friendly sea, whose
voice is the voice of Freedom.

WILLIAM MITCHELL RAMSAY.

[Illustration: The Floods in Holland--now a fiend, to-morrow a
friend.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
HOW I DEAL WITH THE SMALL FRY
Perhaps only those who have the opportunity of reading the papers
published in neutral countries, and have made a study of the
mendacious "news for neutrals" issued by the notorious Woolf Agency
and German Wireless Bureau, are able to grasp the powerful inner
motive which actuates Raemaekers in the persistence with which he
seeks to drive home the tragic stories of Belgium and Luxemburg.

At this time of day it might seem superfluous to issue a cartoon
of this kind. But is it? With neutral opinion
apparently by no means convinced as yet of the sinister designs
of Prussianism upon the liberties of Europe and especially of smaller
nations a drawing of such poignancy and force cannot fail to arrest
the attention and bring home the lesson of that creed which has for
its gospel such phrases as "Necessity knows no law" and "Force shall
rule."

It is inconceivable to the thinking mind that there can be a man
or woman who, with the story of the violation of Belgium and Luxemburg
before them, can possibly hesitate to brand the German nation with
the mark of Cain, and tremble at the mere possibility that might
should triumph over right.

Our wonderment is all the greater when we remember how the Kaiser
and his murderous hordes have made no secret of their methods.

They may in the end seek to deny them, to repudiate the deeds of
blood and of unholy sacrilege and violence which in the early days
of war were avowed concomitants of their policy, but such disavowal
is not yet.

Beneath the Kaiser's heel in bloody reality lie at the present time
Belgium and unprotected Luxemburg every whit as much as is shown
by the powerful pencil of the artist.

The reign of lust, cruelty, and destruction is not yet
done, though the signs and portents of the end are not now a-wanting.

The blood of men, women, and little children shall not
cease to cry aloud for vengeance until the Prussian eagle is humbled
in the dust, and its power for evil is utterly destroyed.

This is a good cartoon to bear in mind and look upon should "War
weariness" ever overtake one.

It will be a good one to have upon one's wall when peace talk is
head in the land.

Thomas Moore may be said to have composed an epitaph for Prussianism
three-quarters of a century ago when he wrote the lines:
"Accursed is the march of that glory Which treads o'er the hearts
of the free."

A great statesman has declared "the Allies will not sheathe the
sword until Justice is vindicated."

Let us add "and until reparation is exacted to the uttermost farthing
from these responsible for this bloody conflict and its diabolical
crimes, whether the perpetrators be high or low."

CLIVE HOLLAND.

[Illustration: How I deal with the small fry.]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE TWO EAGLES 
A double-edged satire on both political birds.

Neither is a true eagle.
They have talons but nothing of the noble air proper to the king
of birds. The German bird is not an eagle but a
vulture; and he is in a sorry plight, with torn and ruffled feathers,
dishevelled, dripping blood.

He is disappointed, angry, soured, and unhappy. Yet he is
straightforward about it. He makes no attempt to disguise his
feelings, but glares at the other with the indignation of
one who has been deceived written on his face and vibrating in his
voice.

And his reproach gets home. The American bird, who is bigger
and stands on a bigger rock, is sleek enough except about the head
which is a bit ruffled.

But he is more of a raven than an eagle in his sable plumes
of professional cut, and he is obviously not at ease.

He does not look the other in the face.

He stares straight in front of him at nothing with a forced,
hard and fixed smile, obviously assumed because he has no reply
to make.

During the war many indiscreet phrases have dropped from the lips
of prominent persons who must bitterly regret them and wish them
buried deep in oblivion.

But they stand on record, and history will not let them die.

"Too proud to fight" is the most unfortunate of all, and when others
are forgotten it will remain, because it has a general application.

Mr. Raemaekers exposes its foolishness here with a single
masterly touch and he puts the exposure in the right mouth.

The cartoon is an illuminating epitome of the interminable exchange
of notes between the two Powers on submarine warfare.

A. SHADWELL.

[Illustration: "I thought you said you were too proud to fight."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
LONDON--INSIDE THE SAVOY
At first glance this cartoon would seem to imply that the people
inside the Savoy had little interest in the war, for the figures
in evening dress are well in the foreground; a count of heads,
however, will show six, and possibly seven men in uniform and only
four in civilian attire, and of the soldiers not one is dancing--they
are lookers-on at these strange beings who pursue the ordinary ways
of life.

Of such beings, not many are left--certainly not this proportion
of four to six, or four to seven.

Compulsion has thinned the ranks of the shirkers down to
an irreducible minimum, and a visit to the Savoy at any time in
the last six months of 1916 would show khaki entirely preponderant,
just as it is in the streets.

"I should be inclined rather to fear her not having stability
of character enough," said Mr. Rossitur. "She is so very meek
and yielding, I almost doubt whether anything would give her
courage to take ground of her own, and keep it."

"Hum — well, well!" said the old doctor, walking off after the
children. "Prince Arthur, will you bring this damsel up to my
den some of these days? — the 'faire Una' is safe from the
wild beasts, you know; — and I'll show her books enough to
build herself a house with, if she likes."

The acceptance of this invitation led to some of the
pleasantest hours of Fleda's city life. The visits to the
great library became very frequent. Dr. Gregory and the
children were little while in growing fond of each other; he
loved to see them, and taught them to come at such times as
the library was free of visitors and his hands of engagements.
Then he delighted himself with giving them pleasure,
especially Fleda, whose quick curiosity and intelligence were
a constant amusement to him. He would establish the children
in some corner of the large apartments, out of the way behind
a screen of books and tables; and there, shut out from the
world, they would enjoy a kind of fairyland pleasure over some
volume or set of engravings that they could not see at home.
Hours and hours were spent so. Fleda would stand clasping her
hands before Audubon, or rapt over a finely illustrated book
of travels, or going through and through, with Hugh, the works
of the best masters of the pencil and the graver. The doctor
found he could trust them, and then all the treasures of the
library were at their disposal. Very often he put chosen
pieces of reading into their hands; and it was pleasantest of
all when he was not busy and came and sat down with them; for
with all his odd manner he was extremely kind, and could and
did put them in the way to profit greatly by their
opportunities. The doctor and the children had nice times
there together.

They lasted for many months, and grew more and more worth. Mr.
Schwiden carried off Marion, as Fleda had foreseen he would,
before the end of spring; and after she was gone, something
like the old pleasant Paris life was taken up again. They had
no more company now than was agreeable, and it was picked not
to suit Marion's taste, but her father's — a very different
matter. Fleda and Hugh were not forbidden the dinner-table,
and so had the good of hearing much useful conversation, from
which the former, according to custom, made her steady,
precious gleanings. The pleasant evenings in the family were
still better enjoyed than they used to be. Fleda was older;
and the snug, handsome American house had a home-feeling to
her that the wide Parisian saloons never knew. She had become
bound to her uncle and aunt by all but the ties of blood;
nobody in the house ever remembered that she was not born
their daughter; except, indeed, Fleda herself, who remembered
everything, and with whom the forming of any new affections or
relations somehow never blotted out or even faded the register
of the old. It lived in all its brightness; the writing of
past loves and friendships was as plain as ever in her heart;
and often, often the eye and the kiss of memory fell upon it.
In the secret of her heart's core; for still, as at the first,
no one had a suspicion of the movings of thought that were
beneath that childish brow. No one guessed how clear a
judgment weighed and decided upon many things. No one dreamed,
amid their busy, bustling, thoughtless life, how often, in the
street, in her bed, in company and alone, her mother's last
prayer was in Fleda's heart; well cherished; never forgotten.

Her education and Hugh's meanwhile went on after the old
fashion. If Mr. Rossitur had more time, he seemed to have no
more thought for the matter; and Mrs. Rossitur, fine-natured
as she was, had never been trained to self-exertion, and, of
course, was entirely out of the way of training others. Her
children were pieces of perfection, and needed no oversight;
her house was a piece of perfection too. If either had not
been, Mrs. Rossitur would have been utterly at a loss how to
mend matters, — except in the latter instance, by getting a
new housekeeper; and as Mrs. Renney, the good woman who held
that station, was in everybody's opinion another treasure,
Mrs. Rossitur's mind was uncrossed by the shadow of such a
dilemma. With Mrs. Renney, as with every one else, Fleda was
held in highest regard — always welcome to her premises, and
to those mysteries of her trade which were sacred from other
intrusion. Fleda's natural inquisitiveness carried her often
to the housekeeper's room, and made her there the same curious
and careful observer that she had been in the library or at
the Louvre.

"Come," said Hugh, one day when he had sought and found her in
Mrs. Renney's precincts — "come away, Fleda! What do you want
to stand here and see Mrs. Renney roll butter and sugar for?"

"My dear Mr. Rossitur," said Fleda, "you don't understand
quelquechoses. How do you know but I may have to get my living
by making them, some day?"

"By making what?" said Hugh.

"Quelquechoses — Anglice, kickshaws — alias, sweet trifles,
denominated merrings."

"Pshaw, Fleda!"

"Miss. Fleda is more likely to get her living by eating them,
Mr. Hugh, isn't she?" said the housekeeper.

"I hope to decline both lines of life," said Fleda,
laughingly, as she followed Hugh out of the room. But her
chance remark had grazed the truth sufficiently near.

Those years in New York were a happy time for little Fleda — a
time when mind and body flourished under the sun of
prosperity. Luxury did not spoil her; and any one that saw her
in the soft furs of her winter wrappings, would have said that
delicate cheek and frame were never made to know the
unkindliness of harsher things.


CHAPTER XVI


"Whereunto is money good?
Who has it not wants hardihood.
Who has it has much trouble and care,
Who once has had it has despair."
LONGFELLOW. _From the German_.


It was the middle of winter. One day Hugh and Fleda had come
home from their walk. They dashed into the parlour,
complaining that it was bitterly cold, and began unrobing
before the glowing grate, which was a mass of living fire from
end to end. Mrs. Rossitur was there in an easy chair, alone,
and doing nothing. That was not a thing absolutely unheard of,
but Fleda had not pulled off her second glove before she bent
down towards her, and in a changed tone tenderly asked if she
did not feel well.

Mrs. Rossitur looked up in her face a minute, and then drawing
her down, kissed the blooming cheeks, one and the other,
several times. But as she looked off to the fire again, Fleda
saw that it was through watering eyes. She dropped on her
knees by the side of the easy chair, that she might have a
better sight of that face, and tried to read it as she asked
again what was the matter; and Hugh, coming to the other side,
repeated her question. His mother passed an arm round each,
looking wistfully from one to the other, and kissing them
earnestly, but she said only, with a very heart-felt emphasis,
"Poor children!"

Fleda was now afraid to speak, but Hugh pressed his inquiry.

"Why 'poor', Mamma? what makes you say so?"

"Because you are poor really, dear Hugh. We have lost
everything we have in the world."

"Mamma! What do you mean?"

"Your father has failed."

"Failed! — But, Mamma, I thought he wasn't in business?"

"So I thought," said Mrs. Rossitur; "I didn't know people
could fail that were not in business; but it seems they can.
He was a partner in some concern or other, and it's all broken
to pieces, and your father with it, he says!"

Mrs. Rossitur's face was distressful. They were all silent for
a little, Hugh kissing his mother's wet cheeks. Fleda had
softly nestled her head in her bosom. But Mrs. Rossitur soon
recovered herself.

"How bad is it, mother?" said Hugh.

"As bad as can possibly be."

"Is everything gone?"

"Everything!" —

"You don't mean the house, Mamma?"

"The house, and all that is in it."

The children's hearts were struck, and they were silent again,
only a trembling touch of Fleda's lips spoke sympathy and
patience, if ever a kiss did.

"But, Mamma," said Hugh, after he had gathered breath for it,
"do you mean to say that everything, literally everything, is
gone? Is there nothing left?"

"Nothing in the world — not a sou."

"Then what are we going to do?"

Mrs. Rossitur shook her head, and had no words.

Fleda looked across to Hugh to ask no more, and putting her
arms around her aunt's neck, and laying cheek to cheek, she
spoke what comfort she could.

"Don't, dear aunt Lucy! — there will be some way — things
always turn out better than at first, I dare say we shall find
out it isn't so bad by and by. Don't you mind it, and then we
wont. We can be happy anywhere together."

If there was not much in the reasoning, there was something in
the tone of the words, to bid Mrs. Rossitur bear herself well.
Its tremulous sweetness, its anxious love, was without a taint
of self-recollection; its sorrow was for her. Mrs. Rossitur
felt that she must not show herself overcome. She again kissed
and blessed, and pressed closer in her arms, her little
comforter, while her other hand was given to Hugh.

"I have only heard about it this morning. Your uncle was here
telling me just now — a little while before you came in. Don't
say anything about it before him."

Why not? The words struck Fleda disagreeably.

"What will be done with the house, Mamma?" said Hugh.

"Sold — sold, and everything in it."

"Papa's books, Mamma! and all the things in the library!"
exclaimed Hugh, looking terrified.

Mrs. Rossitur's face gave the answer; do it in words she could
not.

The children were a long time silent, trying hard to swallow
this bitter pill; and still Hugh's hand was in his mother's,
and Fleda's head lay on her bosom. Thought was busy, going up
and down, and breaking the companionship they had so long held
with the pleasant drawing-room, and the tasteful arrangements
among which Fleda was so much at home; the easy chairs in
whose comfortable arms she had had so many an hour of nice
reading; the soft rug, where, in the very wantonness of
frolic, she had stretched herself to play with King; that very
luxurious bright grateful of fire, which had given her so
often the same warm welcome home — an apt introduction to the
other stores of comfort which awaited her above and below
stairs; the rich-coloured curtains and carpet, the beauty of
which had been such a constant gratification to Fleda's eye;
and the exquisite French table and lamps they had brought out
with them, in which her uncle and aunt had so much pride, and
which could nowhere be matched for elegance — they must all be
said "good-bye" to; and as yet fancy had nothing to furnish
the future with; it looked very bare.

King had come in, and wagged himself up close to his mistress,
but even he could obtain nothing but the touch of most
abstracted finger-ends. Yet, though keenly recognised, these
thoughts were only passing compared with the anxious and
sorrowful ones that went to her aunt and uncle; for Hugh and
her, she judged, it was less matter. And Mrs. Rossitur's care
was most for her husband; and Hugh's was for them all. His
associations were less quick, and his tastes less keen, than
Fleda's, and less a part of himself. Hugh lived in his
affections; with a salvo to them he could bear to lose
anything and go anywhere.

"Mamma," said he, after a long time — "will anything be done
with Fleda's books?"

A question that had been in Fleda's mind before, but which she
had patiently forborne just then to ask.

"No, indeed!" said Mrs. Rossitur, pressing Fleda more closely,
and kissing in a kind of rapture the sweet, thoughtful face —
"not yours, my darling; they can't touch anything that belongs
to you — I wish it was more — and I don't suppose they will
take anything of mine either."

"Ah, well!" said Fleda, raising her head, "you have got quite
a parcel of books, aunt Lucy, and I have a good many — how
well it is I have had so many given me since I have been here!
That will make quite a nice little library, both together, and
Hugh has some; I thought perhaps we shouldn't have one at all
left, and that would have been rather bad."

"Rather bad!" Mrs. Rossitur looked at her, and was dumb.

"Only don't you wear a sad face for anything!" Fleda went on
earnestly; "we shall be perfectly happy if you and uncle Rolf
only will be."

"My dear children!" said Mrs. Rossitur, wiping her eyes, "it
is for you I am unhappy — you and your uncle; I do not think
of myself."

"And we do not think of ourselves, Mamma," said Hugh.

"I know it; but having good children don't make one care less
about them," said Mrs. Rossitur, the tears fairly raining over
her fingers.

Hugh pulled the fingers down and again tried the efficacy of
his lips.

"And you know Papa thinks most of you, Mamma."

"Ah, your father!" said Mrs. Rossitur shaking her head; "I am
afraid it will go hard with him! But I will be happy as long
as I have you two, or else I should be a very wicked woman. It
only grieves me to think of your education and prospects" —

"Fleda's piano, Mamma!" said Hugh, with sudden dismay.

Mrs. Rossitur shook her head again and covered her eyes, while
Fleda stretching across to Hugh, gave him, by look and touch,
an earnest admonition to let that subject alone. And then,
with a sweetness and gentleness like nothing but the breath of
the south wind, she wooed her aunt to hope and resignation.
Hugh held back, feeling or thinking that Fleda could do it
better than he, and watching her progress, as Mrs. Rossitur
took her hand from her face and smiled, at first mournfully,
and then really mirthfully, in Fleda's face, at some sally
that nobody but a nice observer would have seen was got up for
the occasion; and it was hardly that, so completely had the
child forgotten her own sorrow in ministering to that of
another. "Blessed are the peacemakers!" It is always so.

"You are a witch or a fairy," said Mrs. Rossitur, catching her
again in her arms — "nothing else! You must try your powers of
charming upon your uncle."

Fleda laughed without any effort; but as to trying her slight
wand upon Mr. Rossitur, she had serious doubts. And the doubts
became certainty when they met at dinner; he looked so grave
that she dared not attack him. It was a gloomy meal, for the
face that should have lighted the whole table cast a shadow
there.

Without at all comprehending the whole of her husband's
character, the sure magnetism of affection had enabled Mrs.
Rossitur to divine his thoughts. Pride was his ruling passion;
not such pride as Mr. Carleton's, which was rather like
exaggerated self-respect, but wider and more indiscriminate in
its choice of objects. It was pride in his family name; pride
in his own talents, which were considerable; pride in his
family, wife, and children, and all of which he thought did
him honour — if they had not, his love for them assuredly
would have known some diminishing; pride in his wealth, and in
the attractions with which it surrounded him; and, lastly,
pride in the skill, taste, and connoisseurship which enabled
him to bring those attractions together. Furthermore, his love
for both literature and art was true and strong; and for many
years he had accustomed himself to lead a life of great
luxuriousness, catering for body and mind in every taste that
could be elegantly enjoyed; and again proud of the elegance of
every enjoyment. The change of circumstances which touched his
pride, wounded him at every point where he was vulnerable at
all.

Fleda had never felt so afraid of him. She was glad to see Dr.
Gregory come in to tea. Mr. Rossitur was not there. The Doctor
did not touch upon affairs, if he had heard of their
misfortune; he went on as usual in a rambling cheerful way all
tea-time, talking mostly to Fleda and Hugh. But after tea he
talked no more, but sat still and waited till the master of
the house came in.

Fleda thought Mr. Rossitur did not look glad to see him. But
how could he look glad about anything? He did not sit down,
and for a few minutes there was a kind of meaning silence.
Fleda sat in the corner with the heartache, to see her uncle's
gloomy tramp up and down the rich apartment, and her aunt
Lucy's gaze at him.

"Humph! — well! — So!" said the Doctor, at last, "You've all
gone overboard with a smash, I understand?"

The walker gave him no regard.

"True, is it?" said the doctor.

Mr. Rossitur made no answer, unless a smothered grunt might be
taken for one.

"How came it about?"

"Folly and devilry."

"Humph! — bad capital to work upon. I hope the principal is
gone with the interest. What's the amount of your loss?"

"Ruin."

"Humph! French ruin, or American ruin? because there's a
difference. What do you mean?"

"I am not so happy as to understand you, Sir; but we shall not
pay seventy cents, on the dollar."

The old gentleman got up, and stood before the fire, with his
back to Mr. Rossitur, saying, "That was rather bad."

"What are you going to do?"

Mr. Rossitur hesitated a few moments for an answer, and then
said —

"Pay the seventy cents, and begin the world anew with
nothing."

"Of course," said the doctor. "I understand that; but where
and how? What end of the world will you take up first?."

Mr. Rossitur writhed in impatience or disgust, and after again
hesitating, answered drily, that he had not determined.

"Have you thought of anything in particular?"

"Zounds! no, Sir, nothing except my misfortune. That's enough
for one day."

"And too much," said the old doctor, "unless you can mix some
other thought with it. That's what I came for. Will you go
into business?"

Fleda was startled by the vehemence with which her uncle said,
"No, never!" and he presently added, "I'll do nothing here."

"Well, well," said the doctor to himself; "will you go into
the country?"

"Yes! — anywhere! the further the better."

Mrs. Rossitur startled, but her husband's face did not
encourage her to open her lips.

"Ay; but on a farm, I mean?"

"On anything, that will give me a standing."

"I thought that, too," said Dr. Gregory, now whirling about.
"I have a fine piece of land that wants a tenant. You may take
it at an easy rate, and pay me when the crops come in. I
shouldn't expect so young a farmer, you know, to keep any
closer terms."

"How far is it?"

"Far enough — up in Wyandot County."

"How large?"

"A matter of two or three hundred acres of so. It is very
fine, they say. It came into a fellow's hands that owed me
what I thought was a bad debt: so, for fear he would never pay
me, I thought best to take it and pay him; whether the place
will ever fill my pockets again remains to be seen — doubtful,
I think."

"I'll take it, Dr. Gregory, and see if I cannot bring that
about."

"Pooh, pooh! fill your own. I am not careful about it; the
less money one has the more it jingles, unless it gets too
low, indeed."

"I will take it, Dr. Gregory, and feel myself under obligation
to you."

"No, I told you, not till the crops come in. No obligation is
binding till the term is up. Well, I'll see you further about
it."

"But Rolf!" said Mrs. Rossitur, "stop a minute; uncle, don't
go yet; Rolf don't know anything in the world about the
management of a farm; neither do I."

"The 'faire Una' can enlighten you," said the doctor, waving
his hand towards his little favourite in the corner. — "But I
forgot! Well, if you don't know, the crops wont come in;
that's all the difference."

But Mrs. Rossitur looked anxiously at her husband. "Do you
know exactly what you are undertaking, Rolf!" she said.

"If I do not, I presume I shall discover in time."

"But it may be too late," said Mrs. Rossitur, in the tone of
sad remonstrance that had gone all the length it dared.

"It can not be too late!" said her husband, impatiently. "If I
do not know what I am taking up, I know very well what I am
laying down; and it does not signify a straw what comes after
— if it was a snail-shell, that would cover my head!"

"Hum —" said the old doctor, — "the snail is very well in his
way, but I have no idea that he was ever cut out for a
farmer."

"Do you think you will find it a business you would like, Mr.
Rossitur?" said his wife, timidly.

"I tell you," said he, facing about, "it is not a question of
liking. I will like anything that will bury me out of the
world."

Poor Mrs. Rossitur! She had not yet come to wishing herself
buried alive, and she had small faith in the permanence of her
husband's taste for it. She looked desponding.

"You don't suppose," said Mr. Rossitur, stopping again in the
middle of the floor, after another turn and a half — "you do
not suppose that I am going to take the labouring of the farm
upon myself? I shall employ some one, of course, who
understands the matter, to take all that off my hands."

The doctor thought of the old proverb, and the alternative the
plough presents to those who would thrive by it; Fleda thought
of Mr. Didenhover; Mrs. Rossitur would fain have suggested
that such an important person must be well paid; but neither
of them spoke.

"Of course," said Mr. Rossitur, haughtily, as he went on with
his walk, "I do not expect, any more than you, to live in the
back woods the life we have been leading here. That is at an
end."

"Is it a very wild country?" asked Mrs. Rossitur of the
doctor.

"No wild beasts, my dear, if that is your meaning — and I do
not suppose there are even many snakes left by this time."

"No, but, dear uncle, I mean, is it in all unsettled state?"

"No, my dear, not at all — perfectly quiet."

"Ah! but do not play with me," exclaimed poor Mrs. Rossitur,
between laughing and crying; — "I mean, is it far from any
town, and not among neighbours?"

"Far enough to be out of the way of morning calls," said the
doctor; "and when your neighbours come to see you, they will
expect tea by four o'clock. There are not a great many near
by, but they don't mind coming from five or six miles off."

Mrs. Rossitur looked chilled, and horrified. To her he had
described a very wild country indeed. Fleda would have laughed
if it had not been for her aunt's face; but that settled down
into a doubtful anxious look that pained her. It pained the
old doctor too.

"Come," said he, touching her pretty chin with his fore-finger
— "what are you thinking of? folks may be good folks, and yet
have tea at four o'clock, mayn't they?"

"When do they have dinner!" said Mrs. Rossitur.

"I really don't know. When you get settled up there, I'll come
and see."

"Hardly," said Mrs. Rossitur. "I don't believe it would be
possible for Emile to get dinner before the tea-time; and I am
sure I shouldn't like to propose such a thing to Mrs. Renney."

The doctor fidgeted about a little on the hearth-rug, and
looked comical, perfectly understood by one acute observer in
the corner.

"Are you wise enough to imagine, Lucy," said Mr. Rossitur,
sternly, "that you can carry your whole establishment with
you? What do you suppose Emile and Mrs. Renney would do in a
farmhouse?"

"I can do without whatever you can," said Mrs. Rossitur,
meekly. "I did not know that you would be willing to part with
Emile, and I do not think Mrs. Renney would like to leave us."

"I told you before, it is no more a question of liking,"
answered he.

"And if it were," said the doctor, "I have no idea that
Monsieur Emile and Madame Renney would be satisfied with the
style of a country kitchen, or think the interior of
Yankeeland a hopeful sphere for their energies."

"What sort of a house is it?" said Mrs. Rossitur.

"A wooden-frame house, I believe."

"No, but, dear uncle, do tell me."

"What sort of a house? — Humph — large enough, I am told. It
will accommodate you in one way."

"Comfortable?"

"I don't know," said the doctor, shaking his head — "depends
on who's in it. No house is that per se. But I reckon there
isn't much plate glass. I suppose you'll find the doors all
painted blue, and every fireplace with a crane in it."

"A crane!" said Mrs. Rossitur, to whose imagination the word
suggested nothing but a large water-bird with a long neck.

"Ay!" said the doctor. "But it's just as well. You wont want
hanging lamps there — and candelabra would hardly be in place
either, to hold tallow candles."

"Tallow candles!" exclaimed Mrs. Rossitur. Her husband winced,
but said nothing.

"Ay," said the doctor, again — "and make them yourself, if you
are a good housewife. Come, Lucy," said he, taking her hand,
"do you know how the wild fowl do on the Chesapeake? — duck
and swim under water till they can show their heads with
safety. 'T wont spoil your eyes to see by a tallow candle."

Mrs. Rossitur half smiled, but looked anxiously towards her
husband.

"Pooh, pooh! Rolf wont care what the light burns that lights
him to independence — and when you get there, you may
illuminate with a whole whale if you like. By the way, Rolf,
there is a fine water power up yonder, and a saw-mill in good
order, they tell me, but a short way from the house. Hugh
might learn to manage it, and it would be fine employment for
him."

"Hugh!" said his mother, disconsolately. Mr. Rossitur neither
spoke nor looked an answer. Fleda sprang forward.

"A saw-mill! — Uncle Orrin! — where is it?"

"Just a little way from the house, they say. You can't manage
it, fair Saxon! — though you look as if you would undertake
all the mills in creation, for a trifle."

"No, but the place, uncle Orrin; — where is the place?"

"The place? Hum — why it's up in Wyandot County — some five or
six miles from the Montepoole Spring — what's this they call
it? — Queechy! — By the way!" said he, reading Fleda's
countenance, "it is the very place where your father was born!
— it is! I didn't think of that before."

Fleda's hands were clasped.

"Oh, I am very glad!" she said. "It's my old home. It is the
most lovely place, aunt Lucy! — most lovely — and we shall
have some good neighbours there too. Oh, I am very glad! — The
dear old saw-mill! —"

"Dear old saw-mill!" said the doctor, looking at her. "Rolf,
I'll tell you what, you shall give me this girl. I want her. I
can take better care of her, perhaps, now, than you can. Let
her come to me when you leave the city — it will be better for
her than to help work the saw-mill; and I have as good a right
to her as anybody, for Amy before her was like my own child."

The doctor spoke not with his usual light jesting manner, but
very seriously. Hugh's lips parted — Mrs. Rossitur looked with
a sad thoughtful look at Fleda — Mr. Rossitur walked up and
down looking at nobody. Fleda watched him.

"What does Fleda herself say?" said he, stopping short
suddenly. His face softened, and his eye changed as it fell
upon her, for the first time that day. Fleda saw her opening;
she came to him, within his arms, and laid her head upon his
breast.

"What does Fleda say?" said he, softly kissing her.

Fleda's tears said a good deal, that needed no interpreter.
She felt her uncle's hand passed more and more tenderly over
her head — so tenderly that it made it all the more difficult
for her to govern herself and stop her tears. But she did stop
them, and looked up at him then with such a face — so glowing
through smiles and tears — it was like a very rainbow of hope
upon the cloud of their prospects. Mr. Rossitur felt the power
of the sunbeam wand; it reached his heart; it was even with a
smile that he said, as he looked at her —

"Will you go to your uncle Orrin, Fleda?"

"Not if uncle Rolf will keep me."

"Keep you!" said Mr. Rossitur; "I should like to see who
wouldn't keep you! There, Dr. Gregory, you have your answer."

"Hum! — I might have known," said the doctor, "that the 'faire
Una' would abjure cities. Come here, you Elf!" — and he
wrapped her in his arms so tight she could not stir — "I have
a spite against you for this. What amends will you make me for
such an affront?"

"Let me take breath," said Fleda, laughing, "and I'll tell
you. You don't want any amends, uncle Orrin."

"Well," said he, gazing with more feeling than he cared to
show into that sweet face, so innocent of apology-making — you
shall promise me that you will not forget uncle Orrin, and the
old house in Bleecker Street."

Fleda's eyes grew more wistful.

"And will you promise me that if ever you want anything, you
will come, or send straight there?"

And it is neither the spirit of a tyrant nor of a booby; but
the spirit of a sly invalid.

G. K. CHESTERTON.

[Illustration: MISS CAVELL
WILLIAM: "Now you can bring me the American protest."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE HOSTAGES 
Ay', boy--you may well ask.

And the world asks also, and in due time will exact an answer
to the last drop of innocent blood.

What have you done?

You have fallen into the hands of the most scientifically organized
barbarism the world has ever seen, or, please God, ever will see--to
whom, of deliberate choice, such words as truth, honour, mercy,
justice, have become dead letters, by reason of the pernicious
doctrines on which the race has been nourished--by which its very
soul has been poisoned.

Dead letters?--worn-out rags, the very virtues they once
represented, even in Germany, long since flung to the
dust-heaps of the past in the soulless scramble for power and
a place in the sun which no one denied her.

Deliberately, and of malice prepense, the military caste of
Prussia has taught, and the unhappy common-folk have accepted,
that as a nation they are past all that kind of thing.
There is only one right in the world--the might of the
strongest. The weak to the wall! Make way for the Hun,
whose god is power, and his high-priests the Kaiser and the
Krupps.

And so, every nation, even the smallest, on whom the eye of
the Minotaur has settled in baleful desire, has said,
"Better to die fighting than fall into the hands of the
devil!"

And they have fought--valiantly, and saved their souls alive,
though their bodies may have been crushed out of existence by
overwhelming odds. As nations, however, they shall rise
again, and with honour, when their treacherous torturers
have been crushed in their turn.

And, wherever the evil tide has welled over a land, indemnities,
incredible and unreasonable, have been exacted, and hostages
for their payment, and for good behaviour under the yoke
meanwhile, have been taken.

Woe unto such! In many cases they have simply been shot in
cold blood--murdered as brazenly as by any Jack-the-Ripper.
Murder, too, of the most despicable--murder for gain--the gain
that should accrue through the brutal terrorism of the act and its
effect on the rest.

And, if deemed advisable to gloss the crime with some thin veneer
of imitation justice for the--unsuccessful--hoodwinking of a shocked
and astounded world, what easier than an unseen shot in some obscure
corner from a German rifle?

Then--"Death to the hostages!--destruction
to the village!--a fine of
£100,000 on the town!"
Those provocative
shots from German rifles have surely
been the most
profitably engineered basenesses in the whole war.

They have justified--but in German eyes only--every committable
crime, and they cost nothing--except the souls of their
perpetrators.

"It's your money we want--and your land--and your property--and,
if necessary, your lives! You are weak--we are strong--and
so----!" That is the simple Credo of the Hun.

But for all these things there shall come a day of reckoning
and the account will be a heavy one.

May it be exacted to the full--from the rightful debtors!

"What have you done?"

You have at all events put the rope round the necks of your
murderers, and the whole world's hands are at the other
end of it.

JOHN OXENHAM.

[Illustration: THE HOSTAGES
"Father, what have we done?"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

KING ALBERT'S ANSWER TO THE POPE
The war has been singularly barren of heroic figures,
perhaps because the magnitude of the events has called forth
such a multitude of individually heroic acts that no one
can be placed before the rest; yet, when this greatest phase
of history comes to be written down with historic perspective,
one figure--that of King Albert of Belgium--will stand as that
of a twentieth-century Bayard, a great knight without fear
and without reproach.

Action on such far-flung lines as those of the European conflict
has called for no great leaders in the sense in which that
phrase has applied to previous wars; no Napoleon has arisen,
though William Hohenzollern has aspired to Napoleonic
dignity; war has become more mechanical, more a matter of
mathematics--and the barbarians of Germany have made it more
horrible. But, as if to accentuate German brutality and
crime, this figure of King Albert stands emblematic of the
virtues in which civilization is rooted; to the broken word of
Germany it opposes untarnished honour; to the treacherous
spirit of Germany it opposes inviolable truth; to the
relentless selfishness of Germany it opposes the vicarious
sacrifice of self, of a whole country and nation for the sake
of a principle. And, in later days, men will remember how this
truly great king held steadfastly to the little portion of his
kingdom that the invasion left him; how he remained to inspirit his
men by noble example, stubbornly rejecting peace without honour,
and holding, when all else was wrecked, to the remnants of that
army which saved Europe in the gateway of Liége.

Amid violation, desecration, and destruction, Albert of Belgium
has won imperishable fame.

E. CHARLES VIVIAN.

[Illustration: KING ALBERT'S ANSWER TO THE POPE
"With him who broke his word, devastated my country,
burned my villages, destroyed my towns, desecrated my churches,
and murdered my people, I will not make peace before
he is expelled from my country and punished for his
crimes."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE GAS FIEND
There is an order of minds that intuitively distrusts
Science, detracts from the force of her achievements, and
contends that devotion to machinery ends by making men
machines. Many who argue thus have fastened on Germany's new
war inventions as proof that Science makes for materialism
and opposes the higher values of humanity and culture.

This is special pleading, for against the destructive
forces discovered and liberated by German chemists in this
war, one has only to consider the vast amelioration of human
life for which modern science has to be thanked. Because art
has been created to evil purpose, shall we condemn pictures
or statues? Because the Germans have employed gas poisons in
warfare, are we to condemn the incalculable gifts of
organic chemistry?

Look at the eye of Louis Raemaekers' snake. That is the answer.
It is the force behind this application of it that has brought
German Science to shame. A precious branch of human knowledge
has been prostituted by lust of blood and greed of gain until
Science, in common with all learning, comes simply to be
regarded by the masters of Germany as one more weapon in the
armoury, one more power to help win "The Day." Every culture
is treated in their alembic for the same purpose.

We may picture the series of experiments that went to
perfection of their poison gas; we may see their Higher Command
watching the death of guinea-pig, rabbit, and ape with increasing
excitement and enthusiasm as the hideous effects of their
discovery became apparent. Be sure an iron cross quickly
hung over the iron heart that conceived and developed this
filthy arm; for does it not offer the essence--quintessence
of all "frightfulness?" Does it not challenge every human
nerve-centre by its horror? Does it not, once proclaimed, by
anticipation awake those very emotions of dread and
dismay that make the stroke more fatal when it falls?

These people pictured their snake paralyzing the enemy into
frozen impotence; the floundering Prussian psychology
that cuts blocks with a razor and regards German mind as the
measure of all mind, anticipated that poison gas would
appeal to British and French as it has appealed to them. But
it was not so. Their foresight gave them an initial success
in the field; it slew a handful of men with additions of
unspeakable agony--and rekindled the execration and contempt
of Civilization.

As an arm, poison gas cannot be considered conspicuously
successful, since it is easily encountered; but for the
Allies it had some value, since it weighted appreciably the
scale against Germany in neutral minds and added to the
universal loathing astir at the heart of the world.
Only fear now holds any kingdom neutral: there is not an impartial
nation left on earth.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

[Illustration: THE GAS FIEND]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE GERMAN TANGO
A blond woman, wearing the Imperial crown and with her hair
braided in pigtails like a German _backfisch_, is whirling
in the tango with a skeleton partner.

Her face is livid with terror and fatigue, her limbs are
drooping, but she is held by inexorable bony claws.

On the feet of the skeleton are dancing pumps, a touch which
adds to the grimness.

This ghoulish dance does not lack its element of ghastly
ceremonial.

The Dance of Death has long been the theme of the moralist in art,
from Orcagna's fresco on the walls of the Campo Santo at Pisa to
Holbein's great woodcuts and our own Rowlandson.

In Germany especially have these _macabre_ imaginings flourished.
The phantasmagoria of decay has haunted German art, as it haunted
Poe, from Dürer to Boecklin. But the mediæval Dance of Death
was stately allegory, showing the pageant of life brooded over by
the shadow of mortality.

In M. Raemaekers' cartoon there is no dignity, no lofty
resignation.

He shows Death summoned in a mad caprice and kept as companion till
the revel becomes a whirling horror.

It is the profoundest symbol of the war. In a hot fit of
racial pride Death has been welcomed as an ally. And the
dance on which Germany enters is no stately minuet with
something of tragic dignity in it. It is a common modern vulgar
shuffle, a thing of ugly gestures and violent motions, the
true sport of degenerates. Once begun there is no halting.
From East to West and from West to East the dancers move.

There is no rest, for Death is a pitiless comrade.

From such a partner, lightly and arrogantly summoned, there
can be no parting. The traveller seeks a goal, but the
dancers move blindly and aimlessly among the points of the compass.

Death, when called to the dance, claims eternal possession.

JOHN BUCHAN.

[Illustration: THE GERMAN TANGO

"From East to West and West to East I dance with thee!"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE ZEPPELIN TRIUMPH
When the future historian gives to another age his account of all
that is included in German "frightfulness," there is no feature
upon which he will dilate more emphatically than the extraordinary
use made by the enemy of their Zeppelin fleet.

In the experience we have gained in the last few months
we discover that the Zeppelins are not employed--or, at all
events, not mainly employed--for military purposes, but in order
to shake the nerves of the non-combatant population.

The history of the last few Zeppelin raids in England is quite
sufficient testimony to this fact.

London is bombarded, although it is an open city, and a large amount
of damage is done to buildings wholly unconnected with the purposes
of the war.

The persons who are killed are not soldiers, they are civilians;
the buildings destroyed are not munition works, but dwelling-houses,
and some of the points of attack are theatres.

The same thing has happened in the provinces.

In the last raid over the Midlands railway stations were destroyed,
some breweries were injured, but, with exceedingly few exceptions,
munition works and factories for the production of arms were
untouched.

Here again the victims are not either soldiers or sailors, or even
workmen employed in turning out instruments of war, but peaceable
citizens and a large proportion of women and children.

Some such act of brutality is illustrated in the accompanying
cartoon.

A private house has been attacked, the mother has been killed,
the father and child are left desolate.

The little daughter at her father's knee, who cannot understand
why guiltless people should suffer, asks the importunate
question whether her mother had done anything wrong to deserve so
terrible a fate.

To the childish mind it seems incomprehensible that aimless and
indiscriminate murder should fall on the guiltless.

Indeed the mother had done no wrong. She only happened to
belong to one of the nations who are struggling against
a barbaric tyranny.

In that reckless crusade which the Central Powers are waging
against all the higher laws of morality and civilization, some of
the heaviest of the blows fall on the defenceless.

It is this appalling inhumanity, this godless desire to maim and
wound and kill, which nerves the arms of the Allies, who know that
in a case like this they are fighting for freedom and for the Divine
laws of mercy and loving-kindness.

And it is for the young especially that the war is being waged,
young boys and young girls like the motherless child in the picture,
in order that they may inherit a Europe which shall be free from
the horrible burden of German militarism, and be able to live useful
lives in peace and quietness.

No, little girl, mother did no wrong! But _we_ should be
guilty of the deepest wrong if we did not avenge her death and
that of other similar victims by making such unparalleled
crimes impossible hereafter.

W. L. COURTNEY.

[Illustration: THE ZEPPELIN TRIUMPH
"But Mother had done nothing wrong, had she, Daddy?"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
KEEPING OUT THE ENEMY
The Prussian turns everything to account, from the scrapings of the
pig-trough to the Austrian Emperor.

The Bavarian lists, the Saxon lists, the Austrian lists--these
are all only indications of injuries to the Prussian's
life-saving waistcoat. If this war is to be a war to the last
penny and the last man, the last Austrian will die
before the last Saxon, the last Saxon before the last Bavarian,
the last Bavarian before the last Prussian--and the last
Prussian will not die: he will live to clutch at the
last penny.

And the pity of it is that the Austrian is quite a good
fellow, the Saxon is a decent sort of man, the Bavarian
is chiefly a brute in drink, whilst the Prussian--we all know
what the Prussian is, the black centre of hardness, the
incarnation of the shady trick, and the very complex soul
of mechanical efficiency.

The Hohenzollern here makes a sandbag of the Hapsburg, of
whom Fate has already made a football.

Fate has always been behind the Hapsburg for his own sins and
those of his house. She has made him kneel at last.

H. DE VERE STACPOOLE.

[Illustration: "You see how I manage to keep the enemy out of _my_
country!"]

said Mrs. Rossitur, after a moment.

A question men are not fond of answering, especially when they
have not made up their minds. Mr. Rossitur was silent, and his
wife too, after that.

"If I could get some long-headed Yankee to go along with him,"
he remarked again, balancing his spoon on the edge of his cup,
in curious illustration of his own mental position at the
moment — Donohan being the only fixed point, and all the rest
wavering in uncertainty. There were a few silent minutes
before anybody answered.

"If you want one, and don't know of one, uncle Rolf," said
Fleda, "I dare say cousin Seth might."

That gentle modest speech brought his attention round upon
her. His face softened.

"Cousin Seth? who is cousin Seth?"

"He is aunt Miriam's son," said Fleda. "Seth Plumfield. He's a
very good farmer, I know; grandpa used to say he was; and he
knows everybody."

"Mrs. Plumfield," said Mrs. Rossitur, as her husband's eyes
went inquiringly to her — "Mrs. Plumfield was Mr. Ringgan's
sister, you remember. This is her son."

"Cousin Seth, eh?" said Mr. Rossitur, dubiously. " Well — Why,
Fleda, your sweet air don't seem to agree with you, as far as
I see; I have not known you look so — so triste — since we
left Paris. What have you been doing, my child?"

"She has been doing everything, father," said Hugh.

"Oh! it's nothing," said Fleda, answering Mr. Rossitur's look
and tone of affection with a bright smile. " I'm a little
tired, that's all!"

"A little tired!' She went to sleep on the sofa directly after
supper, and slept like a baby all the evening; but her power
did not sleep with her; for that quiet, sweet, tired face,
tired in their service, seemed to bear witness against the
indulgence of anything harsh or unlovely in the same
atmosphere. A gentle witness-bearing, but strong in its
gentleness. They sat close together round the fire, talked
softly, and from time to time cast loving glances at the quiet
little sleeper by their side. They did not know that she was a
fairy, and that though her wand had fallen out of her hand it
was still resting upon them.


CHAPTER XVIII.


"_Gon_. Here is everything advantageous to life.
_Ant_. True; save means to live."
TEMPEST.


Fleda's fatigue did not prevent her being up before sunrise
the next day. Fatigue was forgotten, for the light of a fair
spring morning was shining in at her windows, and she meant to
see aunt Miriam before breakfast. She ran out to find Hugh,
and her merry shout reached him before she did, and brought
him to meet her.

"Come, Hugh! I'm going off up to aunt Miriam's, and I want
you. Come! Isn't this delicious?"

"Hush!" said Hugh. " Father's just here in the barn. I can't
go, Fleda."

Fleda's countenance clouded.

"Can't go! what's the matter? can't you go, Hugh?"

He shook his head, and went off into the barn.

A chill came upon Fleda. She turned away with a very sober
step. What if her uncle was in the barn, why should she hush?
He never had been a check upon her merriment — never; what was
coming now? Hugh, too, looked disturbed. It was a spring
morning no longer. Fleda forgot the glittering wet grass that
had set her own eyes a-sparkling but a minute ago; she walked
along, cogitating, swinging her bonnet by the strings in
thoughtful vibration, till, by the help of sunlight and sweet
air, and the loved scenes, her spirits again made head and
swept over the sudden hindrance they had met. There were the
blessed old sugar maples, seven in number, that fringed the
side of the road — how well Fleda knew them! Only skeletons
now, but she remembered how beautiful they looked after the
October frosts; and presently they would be putting out their
new green leaves, and be beautiful in another way. How
different in their free-born luxuriance from the dusty and
city-prisoned elms and willows she had left! She came to the
bridge then, and stopped with a thrill of pleasure and pain to
look and listen. Unchanged! — all but herself. The mill was
not going; the little brook went by quietly chattering to
itself, just as it had done the last time she saw it, when she
rode past on Mr. Carleton's horse. Four and a half years ago!
And now how strange that she had come to live there again.

Drawing a long breath, and swinging her bonnet again, Fleda
softly went on up the hill, past the saw-mill, the ponds, the
factories, the houses of the settlement. The same, and not the
same! Bright with the morning sun, and yet, somehow, a little
browner and homelier than of old they used to be. Fleda did
not care for that — she would hardly acknowledge it to herself
— her affection never made any discount for infirmity. Leaving
the little settlement behind her thoughts as behind her back,
she ran on now towards aunt Miriam's, breathlessly, till field
after field was passed, and her eye caught a bit of the smooth
lake, and the old farm-house in its old place. Very brown it
looked, but Fleda dashed on, through the garden, and in at the
front door.

Nobody at all was in the entrance-room, the common sitting-
room of the family. With trembling delight, Fleda opened the
well-known door, and stole noiselessly through the little
passage-way to the kitchen. The door of that was only on the
latch, and a gentle movement of it gave to Fleda's eye the
tall figure of aunt Miriam, just before her, stooping down to
look in at the open mouth of the oven, which she was at that
moment engaged in supplying with more work to do. It was a
huge one, and, beyond her aunt's head, Fleda could see in the
far end the great loaves of bread, half baked, and more near a
perfect squad of pies and pans of gingerbread just going in to
take the benefit of the oven's milder mood. Fleda saw all
this, as it were, without seeing it; she stood still as a
mouse and breathless, till her aunt turned, and then — a
spring and a half shout of joy, and she had clasped her in her
arms, and was crying with her whole heart. Aunt Miriam was
taken all aback — she could do nothing but sit down and cry
too, and forgot her oven-door."

"Aint breakfast ready yet, mother?" said a manly voice coming
in. "I must be off to see after them ploughs. Hollo — why,
mother!"

The first exclamation was uttered as the speaker put the door
to the oven's mouth; the second as he turned in quest of the
hand that should have done it. He stood wondering, while his
mother and Fleda, between laughing and crying, tried to rouse
themselves and look up.

"What is all this?"

"Don't you see, Seth?"

"I see somebody that had like to have spoiled your whole
baking — I don't know who it is yet."

"Don't you now, cousin Seth?" said Fleda, shaking away her
tears and getting up.

"I ha'n't quite lost my recollection. Cousin, you must give me
a kiss. How do you do! You ha'n't forgot how to colour, I see,
for all you've been so long among the pale city folks."

"I hav'n't forgotten anything, cousin Seth," said Fleda,
blushing indeed, but laughing and shaking his hand with as
hearty good-will.

"I don't believe you have — anything that is good," said he.
"Where have you been all this while?"

"Oh, part of the time in New York, and part of the time in
Paris, and some other places."

"Well, you ha'n't seen anything better than Queechy, or
Queechy bread and butter, have you?"

"No, indeed!"

"Come, you shall give me another kiss for that," said he,
suiting the action to the word; "and now sit down and eat as
much bread and butter as you can. It's just as good as it used
to be. Come, mother, I guess breakfast is ready by the looks
of that coffee-pot."

"Breakfast ready!" said Fleda.

"Ay indeed; it's a good half-hour since it ought to ha' been
ready. If it aint, I can't stop for it. Them boys will be
running their furrows like sarpents if I aint there to start
them."

"Which like sarpents," said Fleda, — "the furrows or the men?"

"Well, I was thinking of the furrows," said he, glancing at
her. "I guess there aint cunning enough in the others to
trouble them. Come, sit down, and let me see whether you have
forgot a Queechy appetite."

"I don't know," said Fleda, doubtfully; "they will expect me
at home."

"I don't care who expects you — sit down! you aint going to
eat any bread and butter this morning but my mother's — you
haven't got any like it at your house. Mother, give her a cup
of coffee, will you, and set her to work."

Fleda was too willing to comply with the invitation, were it
only for the charm of old times. She had not seen such a table
for years, and little as the conventionalities of delicate
taste were known there, it was not without a comeliness of its
own in its air of wholesome abundance and the extreme purity
of all its arrangements. If but a piece of cold pork were on
aunt Miriam's table, it was served with a nicety that would
not have offended the most fastidious; and amid irregularities
that the fastidious would scorn, there was a sound excellence
of material and preparation that they very often fail to know.
Fleda made up her mind she would be wanted at home; all the
rather, perhaps, for Hugh's mysterious "hush;" and there was
something in the hearty kindness and truth of these friends
that she felt particularly genial. And if there was a lack of
silver at the board, its place was more than filled with the
pure gold of association. They sat down to table, but aunt
Miriam's eyes devoured Fleda. Mr. Plumfield set about his more
material breakfast with all despatch.

"So Mr. Rossitur has left the city for good?" said aunt
Miriam. "How does he like it?"

"He hasn't been here but a day, you know, aunt Miriam," said
Fleda evasively.

"Is he anything of a farmer?" asked her cousin.

"Not much," said Fleda.

"Is he going to work the farm himself?"

"How do you mean?"

"I mean, is he going to work the farm himself, or hire it out,
or let somebody else work it on shares?"

"I don't know," said Fleda — "I think he is going to have a
farmer, and oversee things himself."

"He'll get sick o' that," said Seth; "unless he's the luck to
get hold of just the right hand."

"Has he hired anybody yet?" said aunt Miriam, after a little
interval of supplying Fleda with "bread and butter."

"Yes, Ma'am, I believe so."

"What's his name?"

"Donohan — an Irishman, I believe; uncle Rolf hired him in New
York."

"For his head man?" said Seth, with a sufficiently
intelligible look.

"Yes," said Fleda. "Why?"

But he did not immediately answer her.

"The land's in poor heart now," said he, "a good deal of it;
it has been wasted; it wants first-rate management to bring it
in order, and make much of it for two or three years to come.
I never see an Irishman's head yet that was worth more than a
joke. Their hands are all of 'em that's good for anything."

"I believe uncle Rolf wants to have an American to go with
this man," said Fleda.

Seth said nothing; but Fleda understood the shake of his head
as he reached over after a pickle.

"Are you going to keep a dairy, Fleda?" said her aunt.

"I don't know, Ma'am — I haven't heard anything about it."

"Does Mrs. Rossitur know anything about country affairs?"

"No — nothing," Fleda said, her heart sinking perceptibly with
every new question.

"She hasn't any cows yet?"

She? — any cows! — But Fleda only said they had not come; she
believed they were coming.

"What help has she got?"

"Two women — Irishwomen," said Fleda.

"Mother, you'll have to take hold and learn her," said Mr.
Plumfield.

"Teach her?" cried Fleda, repelling the idea — "aunt Lucy? she
cannot do anything — she isn't strong enough; not anything of
that kind."

"What did she come here for?" said Seth.

"You know," said his mother, "that Mr. Rossitur's
circumstances obliged him to quit New York."

"Ay, but that aint my question. A man had better keep his
fingers off anything he can't live by. A farm's one thing or
t'other, just as it's worked. The land wont grow specie — it
must be fetched out of it. Is Mr. Rossitur a smart man?"

"Very," Fleda said, "about everything but farming."

"Well, if he'll put himself to school, maybe he'll learn,"
Seth concluded, as he finished his breakfast and went off.
Fleda rose too, and was standing thoughtfully by the fire,
when aunt Miriam came up and put her arms round her. Fleda's
eyes sparkled again.

"You're not changed — you're the same little Fleda," she said.

"Not quite so little," said Fleda, smiling.

"Not quite so little, but my own darling. The world hasn't
spoiled thee yet."

"I hope not, aunt Miriam."

"You have remembered your mother's prayer, Fleda?"

"Always!"

How tenderly aunt Miriam's hand was passed over the bowed head
— how fondly she pressed her! And Fleda's answer was as fond.

"I wanted to bring Hugh up to see you, aunt Miriam, with me,
but he couldn't come. You will like Hugh. He is so good!"

"I will come down and see him," said aunt Miriam; and then she
went to look after her oven's doings. Fleda stood by, amused
to see the quantities of nice things that were rummaged out of
it. They did not look like Mrs. Renney's work, but she knew
from old experience that they were good.

"How early you must have been up to put these things in," said
Fleda.

"Put them in! yes, and make them. These were all made this
morning, Fleda."

"This morning! — before breakfast! Why, the sun was only just
rising when I set out to come up the hill, and I wasn't long
coming, aunt Miriam."

"To be sure; that's the way to get things done. Before
breakfast! — What time do you breakfast, Fleda?"

"Not till eight or nine o'clock."

"Eight or nine! — Here?"

"There hasn't been any change made yet, and I don't suppose
there will be. Uncle Rolf is always up early, but he can't
bear to have breakfast early."

Aunt Miriam's face showed what she thought; and Fleda went
away with all its gravity and doubt settled like lead upon her
heart. Though she had one of the identical apple pies in her
hands, which aunt Miriam had quietly said was for "her and
Hugh," and though a pleasant savour of old times was about it,
Fleda could not get up again the bright feeling with which she
had come up the hill. There was a miserable misgiving at
heart. It would work off in time.

It had begun to work off, when, at the foot of the hill, she
met her uncle. He was coming after her to ask Mr. Plumfield
about the desideratum of a Yankee. Fleda put her pie in safety
behind a rock, and turned back with him, and aunt Miriam told
them the way to Seth's ploughing ground.

A pleasant word or two had set Fleda's spirits a-bounding
again, and the walk was delightful. Truly the leaves were not
on the trees, but it was April, and they soon would be; there
was promise in the light, and hope in the air, and everything
smelt of the country and spring-time. The soft tread of the
sod, that her foot had not felt for so long, the fresh look of
the newly-turned earth; here and there the brilliance of a
field of winter grain, and that nameless beauty of the budding
trees, that the full luxuriance of summer can never equal —
Fleda's heart was springing for sympathy. And to her, with
whom association was everywhere so strong, there was in it all
a shadowy presence of her grandfather, with whom she had so
often seen the spring-time bless those same hills and fields
long ago. She walked on in silence, as her manner commonly was
when deeply pleased; there were hardly two persons to whom she
would speak her mind freely then. Mr. Rossitur had his own
thoughts.

"Can anything equal the spring-time?" she burst forth at
length.

Her uncle looked at her and smiled. "Perhaps not; but it is
one thing," said he, sighing, "for taste to enjoy, and another
thing for calculation to improve."

"But one can do both, can't one?" said Fleda, brightly.

"I don't know," said he, sighing again. "Hardly."

Fleda knew he was mistaken, and thought the sighs out of
place. But they reached her; and she had hardly condemned them
before they set her off upon a long train of excuses for him,
and she had wrought herself into quite a fit of tenderness by
the time they reached her cousin.

They found him on a gentle side-hill, with two other men and
teams, both of whom were stepping away in different parts of
the field. Mr. Plumfield was just about setting off to work
his way to the other side of the lot, when they came up with
him.

Fleda was not ashamed of her aunt Miriam's son, even before
such critical eyes as those of her uncle. Farmer-like as were
his dress and air, they showed him, nevertheless, a well-
built, fine-looking man, with the independent bearing of one
who has never recognised any but mental or moral superiority.
His face might have been called handsome; there was at least
manliness in every line of it; and his excellent dark eye
showed an equal mingling of kindness and acute common sense.
Let Mr. Plumfield wear what clothes he would, one felt obliged
to follow Burns' notable example, and pay respect to the man
that was in them.

"A fine day, Sir," he remarked to Mr. Rossitur, after they had
shaken hands.

"Yes, and I will not interrupt you but a minute. Mr.
Plumfield, I am in want of hands — hands for this very
business you are about, ploughing — and Fleda says you know
everybody; so I have come to ask if you can direct me."

" Heads or hands, do you want?" said Seth, clearing his boot-
sole from some superfluous soil upon the share of his plough.

"Why both, to tell you the truth. I want bands and teams, for
that matter, for I have only two, and I suppose there is no
time to be lost. And I want very much to get a person
thoroughly acquainted with the business to go along with my
man. He is an Irishman, and I am afraid not very well
accustomed to the ways of doing things here."

"Like enough," said Seth; " and the worst of 'em is, you can't
learn 'em."

"Well! — can you help me?"

"Mr. Douglass!" said Seth, raising his voice to speak to one
of his assistants who was approaching them — "Mr. Douglass!
you're holding that 'ere plough a little too obleekly for my
grounds."

"Very good, Mr. Plumfield!" said the person called upon, with
a quick accent that intimated, "If you don't know what is
best, it is not my affair!" — the voice very peculiar, seeming
to come from no lower than the top of his throat, with a
guttural roll of the words.

"Is that Earl Douglass?" said Fleda.

"You remember him?" said her cousin, smiling. "He's just where
he was, and his wife too. Well, Mr. Rossitur, 'tain't very
easy to find what you want just at this season, when most
folks have their hands full, and help is all taken up. I'll
see if I can't come down and give you a lift myself with the
ploughing, for a day or two, as I'm pretty beforehand with the
spring, but you'll want more than that. I ain't sure — I
haven't more hands than I'll want myself, but I think it is
possible Squire Springer may spare you one of his'n. He aint
taking in any new land this year, and he's got things pretty
snug; I guess he don't care to do any more than common, —
anyhow, you might try. I shall come over often to assist
you, and I know that many will find the same dear Friend in whom
you are rejoicing tonight.

"How wonderfully has the Lord's hand been guiding since
first I saw Rosa that cold December day; and the end is not
yet!"
For several minutes the little company sat in silence, each
one buried in thoughts too deep and sacred to find expression
in words.

Presently Rosa lifted her head from the doctor's shoulder, her
lustrous eyes becoming more luminous than ever, as she said:
"Oh, how glad I am that I have found the way to the beautiful land!

Mother's there, and don't cough no more. Grandpa's there,
and we're all going some day, 'cause Jesus paid the fare a long
time ago!"

AFTERWORD.

One bitterly cold December day, while riding in a streetcar in a
large city, a frail-looking little girl, bending beneath the weight
of a huge package, entered the car, sitting directly in front of me.

She was thinly, though neatly, clad. Her pale face was
overshadowed by an expression of care far too old for her baby
shoulders, while her eyes were large, dark, and pathetically
wistful.

There was something irresistible about her whole appearance,
impelling me to cross the aisle and sit down by her side.

She told me that her name was Rosa, and the conversation which
followed, suggested the story, "ROSA'S QUEST."
I asked her if she knew anything about Jesus.

To this she replied:

"Not much, ma'am, but it seems like I've heard just a little."

Of heaven and the way of salvation she was as ignorant as
a child in the wilds of Africa. The sad expression of her
face did not alter till I quoted John 3:16, then looking up
with a smile she said:

"Ain't that pretty?"

For some time we talked, her hungry soul eagerly drinking
in the old, old story, but to her so new.

Suddenly she left the car, and with a sense of deep depression,
I saw her disappear amid a great, seething mass of humanity.

If she has not succumbed to the hardships of poverty, she
probably is still toiling on in that proud "Christian" city,
and has any one taught her more of Jesus than she knew that
day?

Who will be responsible for these lost souls, constantly coming
into contact with those who profess to know the Lord?

Why is it that so many Christians view life from an inverted
standpoint, attaching apparently vastly more importance to the
few brief years spent upon this earth, than to the countless cycles
of eternity?

Why not view it normally, making our one business that
of serving that blessed Christ?

Surely the saddest word in a Christian's vocabulary is indifference.

By-and-by many a one would doubtless gladly forfeit ten thousand
years of heavenly bliss just to recall the wasted opportunities
of this day.

It is an incomparable privilege to be a child of the King, and
the only way in which one may prove his appreciation and loyalty
is by the degree of consecration and quality of service rendered.

At the day of Christ's appearing there will be many an unrewarded
Christian, saved eternally by the precious blood of God's sacrificial
Lamb, but with no glittering starry crown to cast at those once-pierced
and bleeding feet!

If the reading of this little story draws any nearer to the Lord,
influencing them to become more diligent in their search for the
lost, it shall accomplish that whereunto it is prayerfully sent.

MAN'S QUESTIONS; GOD'S ANSWERS

Am I accountable to God?

"Every one of us shall give account of himself to God" (Romans
14:12).
There's a good deal of fencing to be done too, aint
there?"

"All that there was, Sir, — I have done none since I came."

"Seth Plumfield got through ploughing yet?"

"We found him at it."

"Ay, he's a smart man. What are you going to do, Mr. Rossitur,
with that piece of marsh land that lies off to the south east
of the barn, beyond the meadow, between the hills? I had just
sich another, and I —"

"Before I do anything with the wet land, Mr. — I am so unhappy
as to have forgotten your name —"

"Springer, Sir," said the old gentleman, — "Springer — Joshua
Springer. That is my name, Sir."

"Mr. Springer, before I do anything with the wet land, I
should like to have something growing on the dry; and as that
is the present matter in hand, will you be so good as to let
me know whether I can have your assistance."

"Well, I don't know," said the old gentleman; "there aint
anybody to send but my boy Lucas, and I don't know whether he
would make up his mind to go or not."

"Well, Sir!" said Mr. Rossitur, rising, "in that case, I will
bid you good morning. I am sorry to have given you the
trouble."

"Stop," said the old man, "stop a bit. Just sit down. I'll go
in and see about it."

Mr. Rossitur sat down, and uncle Joshua left him to go into
the kitchen and consult his wife, without whose counsel, of
late years especially, he rarely did anything. They never
varied in opinion, but aunt Syra's wits supplied the steel
edge to his heavy metal.

"I don't know but Lucas would as lieve go as not," the old
gentleman remarked on coming back from this sharpening
process, — "and I can make out to spare him, I guess. You
calculate to keep him, I s'pose?"

"Until this press is over; and perhaps longer, if I find he
can do what I want."

"You'll find him pretty handy at a'most anything, but I mean —
I s'pose he'll get his victuals with you?"

"I have made no arrangement of the kind," said Mr. Rossitur,
controlling with some effort his rebelling muscles. "Donohan
is boarded somewhere else, and for the present it will be best
for all in my employ to follow the same plan."

"Very good," said uncle Joshua; "it makes no difference —
only, of course, in that case it is worth more, when a man has
to find himself and his team."

"Whatever it is worth, I am quite ready to pay, Sir."

"Very good. You and Lucas can agree about that. He'll be along
in the morning."

So they parted; and Fleda understood the impatient quick step
with which her uncle got over the ground.

"Is that man a brother of your grandfather?"

"No, Sir — Oh no! only his brother-in-law. My grandmother was
his sister, but they weren't in the least like each other."

"I should think they could not," said Mr. Rossitur.

"Oh, they were not!" Fleda repeated. "I have always heard
that."

After paying her respects to aunt Syra in the kitchen, she had
come back time enough to hear the end of the discourse in the
parlour, and had felt its full teaching. Doubts returned, and
her spirits were sobered again. Not another word was spoken
till they reached home; when Fleda seized upon Hugh, and went
off to the rock after her forsaken pie.

"Have you succeeded?" asked Mrs. Rossitur, while they were
gone.

"Yes — that is, a cousin has kindly consented to come and help
me."

"A cousin!" said Mrs. Rossitur.

"Ay — we're in a nest of cousins."

"In a what, Mr. Rossitur?"

"In a nest of cousins; and I had rather be in a nest of rooks.
I wonder if I shall be expected to ask my ploughmen to dinner!
Every second man is a cousin, and the rest are uncles."


CHAPTER XIX.


"Whilst skies are blue and bright,
Whilst flowers are gay,
Whilst eyes that change ere night
Make glad the day;
Whilst yet the calm hours creep,
Dream thou — and from thy sleep
Then wake to weep."
SHELLEY.


The days of summer flew by, for the most part lightly, over
the heads of Hugh and Fleda. The farm was little to them but a
place of pretty and picturesque doings, and the scene of
nameless delights by wood and stream, in all which, all that
summer, Fleda rejoiced; pulling Hugh along with her, even when
sometimes he would rather have been poring over his books at
home. She laughingly said it was good for him, and one half,
at least, of every fine day their feet were abroad. They knew
nothing, practically, of the dairy, but that it was an
inexhaustible source of the sweetest milk and butter, and,
indirectly, of the richest custards and syllabubs. The flock
of sheep that now and then came in sight, running over the
hill-side, were to them only an image of pastoral beauty, and
a soft link with the beauty of the past. The two children took
the very cream of country life. The books they had left were
read with greater eagerness than ever. When the weather was
"too lovely to stay in the house," Shakespeare, or Massillon,
or Sully, or the "Curiosities of Literature," or "Corinne," or
Milner's Church History — for Fleda's reading was as
miscellaneous as ever — was enjoyed under the flutter of
leaves and along with the rippling of the mountain spring;
whilst King curled himself up on the skirt of his mistress's
gown, and slept for company; hardly more thoughtless and
fearless of harm than his two companions. Now and then Fleda
opened her eyes to see that her uncle was moody and not like
himself, and that her aunt's gentle face was clouded in
consequence; and she could not sometimes help the suspicion
that he was not making a farmer of himself; but the next
summer-wind would blow these thoughts away, or the next look
of her flowers would put them out of her head. The whole
courtyard in front of the house had been given up to her
peculiar use as a flower garden, and there she and Hugh made
themselves very busy.

But the summer-time came to an end.

It was a November morning, and Fleda had been doing some of
the last jobs in her flower-beds. She was coming in with
spirits as bright as her cheeks, when her aunt's attitude and
look, more than usually spiritless, suddenly checked them.
Fleda gave her a hopeful kiss, and asked for the explanation.

"How bright you look, darling!" said her aunt, stroking her
cheek.

"Yes, but you don't, aunt Lucy. What has happened?"

"Mary and Jane are going away."

"Going away! — What for?"

"They are tired of the place — don't like it, I suppose."

"Very foolish of them! Well, aunt Lucy, what matter? we can
get plenty more in their room."

"Not from the city — not possible; they would not come at this
time of year."

"Sure? — Well, then, here we can, at any rate."

"Here! But what sort of persons shall we get here? And your
uncle — just think!" —

"Oh, but I think we can manage," said Fleda. "When do Mary and
Jane want to go?"

"Immediately! — to-morrow; they are not willing to wait till
we can get somebody. Think of it!"

"Well, let them go," said Fleda; "the sooner the better."

"Yes: and I am sure I don't want to keep them; but" — and Mrs.
Rossitur wrung her hands — "I haven't money enough to pay them
quite — and they wont go without it."

Fleda felt shocked; so much that she could not help looking
it.

"But can't uncle Rolf give it you?"

Mrs. Rossitur shook her head. "I have asked him."

"How much is wanting?"

"Twenty-five. Think of his not being able to give me that!" —
Mrs. Rossitur burst into tears.

"Now don't, aunt Lucy!" said Fleda, guarding well her own
composure; "you know he has had a great deal to spend upon the
farm, and paying men, and all, and it is no wonder that he
should be a little short just now — now, cheer up! — we can
get along with this, anyhow."

"I asked him," said Mrs. Rossitur, through her tears, "when he
would be able to give it to me; and he told me he didn't
know!"

Fleda ventured no reply, but some of the tenderest caresses
that lips and arms could give; and then sprang away, and in
three minutes was at her aunt's side again.

"Look here, aunt Lucy," said she, gently, "here is twenty
dollars, if you can manage the five."

"Where did you get this?" Mrs. Rossitur exclaimed.

"I got it honestly. It is mine, aunt Lucy," said Fleda,
smiling. "Uncle Orrin gave me some money, just before we came
away, to do what I liked with; and I haven't wanted to do
anything with it till now."

But this seemed to hurt Mrs. Rossitur more than all the rest.
Leaning her head forward upon Fleda's breast, and clasping her
arms about her, she cried worse tears than Fleda had seen her
shed. If it had not been for the emergency, Fleda would have
broken down utterly too.

"That it should have come to this! — I can't take it, dear
Fleda! —"

"Yes, you must, aunt Lucy," said Fleda, soothingly. "I
couldn't do anything else with it that would give me so much
pleasure. I don't want it; it would lie in my drawer till I
don't know when. We'll let these people be off as soon as they
please. Don't take it so; uncle Rolf will have money again —
only just now he is out, I suppose — and we'll get somebody
else in the kitchen that will do nicely; you see if we don't."

Mrs. Rossitur's embrace said what words were powerless to say.

"But I don't know how we're to find any one here in the
country — I don't know who'll go to look — I am sure your
uncle wont want to; and Hugh wouldn't know —"

"I'll go," said Fleda, cheerfully — "Hugh and I. We can do
famously, if you'll trust me. I wont promise to bring home a
French cook."

"No, indeed; we must take what we can get. But you can get no
one to-day, and they will be off by the morning's coach; what
shall we do to-morrow — for dinner? — your uncle —"

"I'll get dinner," said Fleda, caressing her; "I'll take all
that on myself. It sha'n't be a bad dinner either. Uncle Rolf
will like what I do for him, I dare say. Now, cheer up, aunt
Lucy; do; that's all I ask of you. Wont you — for me?"

She longed to speak a word of that quiet hope with which in
every trouble she secretly comforted herself — she wanted to
whisper the words that were that moment in her own mind,
"Truly, I know that it shall be well with them that fear God;"
but her natural reserve and timidity kept her lips shut to her
grief.

The women were paid off and dismissed, and departed in the
next day's coach from Montepoole. Fleda stood at the front
door to see them go, with a curious sense that there was an
empty house at her back, and indeed upon her back. And in
spite of all the cheeriness of her tone to her aunt, she was
not without some shadowy feeling that soberer times might be
coming upon them.

"What is to be done now?" said Hugh, close beside her.

"Oh, we are going to get somebody else," said Fleda.

"Where?"

"I don't know! You and I are going to find out."

"You and I!"

"Yes. We are going out after dinner, Hugh, dear," said she,
turning her bright merry face towards him — "to pick up
somebody."

Linking her arm within his, she went back to the deserted
kitchen premises, to see how her promise about talking Mary's
place was to be fulfilled.

"Do you know where to look?" said Hugh.

"I've a notion; but the first thing is dinner, that uncle Rolf
mayn't think the world is turning topsy-turvy. There is
nothing at all here, Hugh — nothing in the world but bread —
it's a blessing there is that. Uncle Rolf will have to be
satisfied with a coffee dinner to-day, and I'll make him the
most superb omelette that my skill is equal to! Hugh, dear,
you shall set the table. — You don't know how? — then you
shall make the toast, and I will set it the first thing of
all. You perceive it is well to know how to do everything, Mr.
Hugh Rossitur."

"Where did you learn to make omelettes?" said Hugh, with
laughing admiration, as Fleda bared two pretty arms, and ran
about, the very impersonation of good-humoured activity. The
table was set — the coffee was making — and she had him
established at the fire with two great plates, a pile of
slices of bread, and the toasting-iron.

"Where? oh, don't you remember the days of Mrs. Renney? I have
seen Emile make them. And by dint of trying to teach Mary this
summer, I have taught myself. There is no knowing, you see,
what a person may come to."

"I wonder what father would say, if he knew you had made all
the coffee this summer?"

"That is an unnecessary speculation, my dear Hugh, as I have
no intention of telling him. But see! that is the way with
speculators! 'while they go on refining,' the toast burns!"

The coffee, and the omelette, and the toast, and Mr.
Rossitur's favourite French salad, were served with beautiful
accuracy; and he was quite satisfied. But aunt Lucy looked
sadly at Fleda's flushed face, and saw that her appetite
seemed to have gone off in the steam of her preparations.
Fleda had a kind of heart-feast, however, which answered as
well.

Hugh harnessed the little wagon, for no one was at hand to do
it, and he and Fleda set off as early as possible after
dinner. Fleda's thoughts had turned to her old acquaintance,
Cynthia Gall, who she knew was out of employment, and staying
at home somewhere near Montepoole. They got the exact
direction from aunt Miriam, who approved of her plan.

It was a pleasant, peaceful drive they had. They never were
alone together, they two, but vexations seemed to lose their
power, or be forgotten; and an atmosphere of quietness gather
about them, the natural element of both hearts. It might
refuse its presence to one, but the attraction of both
together was too strong to be resisted.

Miss Cynthia's present abode was in an out-of-the-way place,
and a good distance off; they were some time in reaching it.
The barest-looking and dingiest of houses, set plump in a
green field, without one softening or home-like touch from any
home-feeling within; not a flower, not a shrub, not an out-
house, not a tree near. One would have thought it a deserted
house, but that a thin wreath of smoke lazily stole up from
one of the brown chimneys; and graceful as that was, it took
nothing from the hard, stern barrenness below, which told of a
worse poverty than that of paint and glazing.

"Can this be the place?" said Hugh.

"It must be. You stay here with the horse, and I'll go in and
seek my fortune. — Don't promise much," said Fleda, shaking
her head.

The house stood back from the road. Fleda picked her way to it
along a little footpath which seemed to be the equal property
of the geese. Her knock brought an invitation to "come in."

An elderly woman was sitting there, whose appearance did not
mend the general impression. She had the same dull and
unhopeful look that her house had.

"Does Mrs. Gall live here?"

"I do," said this person.

"Is Cynthia at home?"

The woman, upon this, raised her voice, and directed it at an
inner door.

"Lucindy!" said she, in a diversity of tones; "Lucindy! tell
Cynthy here's somebody wants to see her." But no one answered;
and throwing the work from her lap, the woman muttered she
would go and see, and left Fleda, with a cold invitation to
sit down.

Dismal work! Fleda wished herself out of it. The house did not
look poverty-stricken within, but poverty must have struck to
the very heart, Fleda thought, where there was no apparent
cherishing of anything. There was no absolute distress
visible, neither was there a sign of real comfort, or of a
happy home. She could not fancy it was one.

She waited so long, that she was sure Cynthia did not hold
herself in readiness to see company. And when the lady at last
came in, it was with very evident marks of "smarting up" about
her.

"Why, it's Flidda Ringgan!" said Miss Gall, after a dubious
look or two at her visitor. "How do you do? I didn't 'spect to
see you. How much you have growed!"

She looked really pleased, and gave Fleda's hand a very strong
grasp as she shook it.

"There aint no fire here to-day," pursued Cynthy, paying her
attentions to the fire-place; "we let it go down on account of
our being all busy out at the back of the house. I guess
you're cold, aint you."

Fleda said, "No;" and remembered that the woman she had first
seen was certainly not busy at the back of the house, nor
anywhere else but in that very room, where she had found her
deep in a pile of patchwork.

"I heerd you had come to the old place. Were you glad to be
back again?" Cynthy asked, with a smile that might be taken to
express some doubt upon the subject.

"I was very glad to see it again."

"I ha'n't seen it in a great while. I've been staying to hum
this year or two. I got tired o' going out," Cynthy remarked,
with again a smile very peculiar, and, Fleda thought, a little
sardonical. She did not know how to answer.

"Well, how do you come along down yonder?" Cynthy went on,
making a great fuss with the shovel and tongs to very little
purpose. "Ha' you come all the way from Queechy?"

"Yes. I came on purpose to see you, Cynthy."

Without staying to ask what for, Miss Gall now went out to
"the back of the house," and came running in again with a live
brand pinched in the tongs, and a long tail of smoke running
after it. Fleda would have compounded for no fire and no
choking. The choking was only useful to give her time to
think. She was uncertain how to bring in her errand.

"And how is Mis' Plumfield?" said Cynthy, in an interval of
blowing the brand.

"She is quite well; but, Cynthy, you need not have taken all
that trouble for me. I cannot stay but a few minutes."

"There is wood enough!" Cynthia remarked, with one of her grim
smiles — an assertion Fleda could not help doubting. Indeed,
she thought Miss Gall had grown altogether more disagreeable
than she used to be in old times. Why, she could not divine,
unless the souring effect had gone on with the years.

"And what's become of Earl Douglass and Mis' Douglass? I
hain't heerd nothin' of 'em this great while. I always told
your grandpa he'd ha' saved himself a great deal o' trouble if
he'd ha' let Earl Douglass take hold of things. You han't got
Mr. Didenhover into the works again, I guess, have you? He was
there a good spell after your grandpa died.''

"I haven't seen Mrs. Douglass," said Fleda. "But, Cynthy, what
do you think I have come here for?"

"I don't know," said Cynthy, with another of her peculiar
looks directed at the fire. "I s'pose you want someh'n nother
of me."

"I have come to see if you wouldn't come and live with my
aunt, Mrs. Rossitur. We are left alone, and want somebody very
much; and I thought I would find you out and see if we
couldn't have you, first of all, before I looked for anybody
else."

Cynthy was absolutely silent. She sat before the fire, her
feet stretched out towards it as far as they would go, and her
arms crossed, and not moving her steady gaze at the smoking
wood, or the chimney-back, whichever it might be; but there
was in the corners of her mouth the threatening of a smile
that Fleda did not at all like.

"What do you say to it, Cynthy?"

"I reckon you'd best get somebody else," said Miss Gall, with
a kind of condescending dryness, and the smile showing a
little more.

"Why?" said Fleda. "I would a great deal rather have an old
friend than a stranger."

"Be you the housekeeper?" said Cynthy, a little abruptly.

"Oh, I am a little of everything," said Fleda — "cook and
housekeeper, and whatever comes first. I want you to come and
be housekeeper, Cynthy."

"I reckon Mis' Rossitur don't have much to do with her help,
does she?" said Cynthy, after a pause, during which the
corners of her mouth never changed. The tone of piqued
independence let some light into Fleda's mind.

"She is not strong enough to do much herself, and she wants
some one that will take all the trouble from her. You'd have
the field all to yourself, Cynthy."

"Your aunt sets two tables, I calculate, don't she?"

"Yes; my uncle doesn't like to have any but his own family
around him."

"I guess I shouldn't suit!" said Miss Gall, after another
little pause, and stooping very diligently to pick up some
scattered shreds from the floor. But Fleda could see the
flushed face, and the smile which pride and a touch of
spiteful pleasure in the revenge she was taking made
particularly hateful. She needed no more convincing that Miss
Gall "wouldn't suit;" but she was sorry, at the same time, for
the perverseness that had so needlessly disappointed her; and
went rather pensively back again down the little footpath to
the waiting wagon.

"This is hardly the romance of life, dear Hugh," she said, as
she seated herself.

"Haven't you succeeded?"

Fleda shook her head.

"What's the matter?"

"Oh — pride — injured pride of station! The wrong of not
coming to our table and putting her knife into our butter."

"And living in such a place!" said Hugh.

"You don't know what a place. They are rniserably poor, I am
sure; and yet — I suppose that the less people have to be
proud of, the more they make of what is left. Poor people!" —

"Poor Fleda!" said Hugh, looking at her. "What will you do
now?"

"Oh, we'll do somehow," said she, cheerfully. "Perhaps it is
just as well, after all; for Cynthy isn't the smartest woman
in the world. I remember grandpa used to say he didn't believe
she could get a bean into the middle of her bread."

"A bean into the middle of her bread!" said Hugh.

But Fleda's sobriety was quite banished by his mystified look,
and her laugh rang along over the fields before she answered
him.

That laugh had blown away all the vapours, for the present at
least, and they jogged on again very sociably.

"Do you know," said Fleda, after a while of silent enjoyment
in the changes of scene and the mild autumn weather — "I am
not sure that it wasn't very well for me that we came away
from New York."

"I dare say it was," said Hugh — "since we came; but what
makes you say so?"

"I don't mean that it was for anybody else, but for me. I
think I was a little proud of our nice things there."

"You, Fleda!" said Hugh, with a look of appreciating
affection.

"Yes, I was, a little. It didn't make the greatest part of my
love for them, I am sure; but I think I had a little undefined
sort of pleasure in the feeling that they were better and
prettier than other people had."

"You are sure you are not proud of your little King Charles
now?" said Hugh.

"I don't know but I am," said Fleda, laughing. "But how much
pleasanter it is here on almost every account! Look at the
beautiful sweep of the ground off among those hills — isn't
it? What an exquisite horizon line, Hugh!"

"And what a sky over it!"

"Yes — I love these fall skies. Oh, I would a great deal
rather be here than in any city that ever was built!"

"So would I," said Hugh. "But the thing is —"

Fleda knew quite well what the thing was, and did not answer.

"But, my dear Hugh," she said, presently — "I don't remember
that sweep of hills when we were coming?"

"You were going the other way," said Hugh.

"Yes, but Hugh — I am sure we did not pass these grain fields.
We must have got into the wrong road."

Hugh drew the reins, and looked and doubted.

"There is a house yonder," said Fleda — we had better drive
on, and ask."

"There is no house —"

"Yes, there is — behind that piece of wood. Look over it;
don't you see a light curl of blue smoke against the sky? — We
never passed that house and wood, I am certain. We ought to
make haste, for the afternoons are short now, and you will
please to recollect there is nobody at home to get tea."

"I hope Lucas will get upon one of his everlasting talks with
father," said Hugh.

"And that it will hold till we get home," said Fleda. "It will
be the happiest use Lucas has made of his tongue in a good
while."

Just as they stopped before a substantial-looking farm-house,
a man came from the other way and stopped there too, with his
hand upon the gate.

"How far are we from Queechy, Sir?" said Hugh.

"You're not from it at all, Sir," said the man, politely.
"You're in Queechy, Sir, at present."

"Is this the right road from Montepoole to Queechy village?"

"It is not, Sir. It is a very tortuous direction, indeed. Have
I not the pleasure of speaking to Mr. Rossitur's young
gentleman?"

Mr. Rossitur's young gentleman acknowledged his relationship,
and begged the favour of being set in the right way home.

"With much pleasure! You have been showing Miss Rossitur the
picturesque country about Montepoole?"

"My cousin and I have been there on business, and lost our way
coming back."

"Ah, I dare say! Very easy. First time you have been there?"

"Yes, Sir; and we are in a hurry to get home."

"Well, Sir — you know the road by Deacon Patterson's? — comes
out just above the lake."

Hugh did not remember.

"Well — you keep this road straight on, — I'm sorry you are in
a hurry, — you keep on till — do you know when you strike Mr.
Harris's ground?"

No, Hugh knew nothing about it, nor Fleda.

"Well, I'll tell you now how it is," said the stranger, "if
you'll permit me. You and your — a — cousin — come in and do
us the pleasure of taking some refreshment. I know my sister
'll have her table set out by this time — and I'll do myself
the honour of introducing you to — a — these strange roads,
afterwards."

"Thank you, Sir, but that trouble is unnecessary — cannot you
direct us?"

"No trouble — indeed, Sir, I assure you, I should esteem it a
favour — very highly. I — I am Dr. Quackenboss, Sir; you may
have heard —"

"Thank you, Dr. Quackenboss, but we have no time this
afternoon — we are very anxious to reach home as soon as
possible, if you would be so good as to put us in the way."

"I — really, Sir, I am afraid — to a person ignorant of the
various localities — you will lose no time — I will just hitch
your horse here, and I'll have mine ready by the time this
young lady has rested. Miss — a — wont you join with me? I
assure you I will not put you to the expense of a minute.
Thank you, Mr. Harden! — just clap the saddle on to Lollypop,
and have him up here in three seconds. Thank you! — My dear
Miss — a — wont you take my arm? I am gratified, I assure
you."

Yielding to the apparent impossibility of getting anything out
of Dr. Quackenboss, except civility, and to the real
difficulty of disappointing such very earnest good will, Fleda
and Hugh did what older persons would not have done — alighted
and walked up to the house.

"This is quite a fortuitous occurrence," the doctor went on.
"I have often had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Rossitur's family
in church — in the little church at Queechy Run — and that
enabled me to recognise your cousin, as soon as I saw him in
the wagon. Perhaps, Miss — a — you may have possibly heard of
my name? — Quackenboss — I don't know that you understood —"

"I have heard it, Sir."

"My Irishmen, Miss — a — my Irish labourers, can't get hold of
but one end of it — they call me Boss — ha, ha, ha!"

Fleda hoped his patients did not get hold of the other end of
it, and trembled, visibly.

"Hard to pull a man's name to pieces before his face — ha, ha!
but I am — a — not one thing myself — a kind of heterogynous —
I am a piece of a physician, and a little in the agricultural
line also; so it's all fair."

It is most true. Such has ever been War for War's sake, and
when the Germans themselves are wounded and beaten, they complain
like Mars of old of "lawless force."

But Raemaekers has introduced another touch more Roman than
Greek, and reminding us perhaps of Tacitus rather than of Homer.

Who was Caligula, and what does his name mean? "Little Jack-boots,"
in his childhood the spoiled child of the camp, as a man, and
Cæsar, the first of the thoroughly mad, as well as bad, Emperors
of Rome, the first to claim divine honours in his lifetime, to pose
as an artist and an architect, an orator and a _littérateur_, to
have executions carried out under his own eyes, and while he was
at meals; who made himself a God, and his horse a Consul.

Minerva blacking the boots of Caligula--it is a clever
combination!

But there is an even worse use of Pallas, which War and the
German War-lords have made. They have found a new Pallas
of their own, not the supernal Goddess of Heavenly Wisdom and
Moderation, but her infernal counterfeit, sung of by a famous
English poet in prophetic lines that come back to us to-day
with new force.

Who loves not Knowledge, who shall rail Against her beauty,
may she mix With men and prosper, who shall fix Her pillars?
let her work prevail----
Yes, but how do the lines continue?

What is she cut from love and faith But some wild Pallas from
the brain

Of Demons, fiery hot to burst All barriers in her onward race
For power? Let her know her place, She is the second, not
the first.

Knowledge is power, but, unrestrained by conscience, a very awful
power.

This is the Pallas whom the "Demons," from whose brain she has
sprung, are using for their demoniac purposes.

She too might have her portrait painted--and they. Perhaps Raemaekers
will paint them both before he has done.

HERBERT WARNER.

[Illustration: PALLAS ATHENE "Has it come to this?"]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE WONDERS OF CULTURE
Of all forms of "Kultur" or "frightfulness" that which materializes
in the "the terror which flieth by night" is to the intelligent
mind at one and the same time the most insensate and damnable.

It fails to accomplish, either in Paris or in London, the
subjugation by terror of the people for which Germans seem to
hope. It is only in German imagination that it accomplishes
"material and satisfactory damage to forts, camps, arsenals,
and fortified towns." In reality it inflicts misery and death
upon a mere handful of people (horrible as that may be) and
destroys chiefly the homes of the poor. It serves no
military end, and the damage done is out of all proportion
to the expenditure of energy and material used to accomplish it.

The fine cartoon which Raemaekers has drawn to bring home to
the imagination what this form of "Kultur" stands for makes
it easy for us in London to sympathize with our brothers and
sisters in Paris. We have as yet been spared daylight raids
in the Metropolitan area, and so we needed this cartoon to
enable us to realize fully what "Kultur" by indiscriminate
Zeppelin bombs means.

Who cannot see the cruel drama played out in that Paris street?
The artist has assembled for us in a few living figures all the
actors. The dead woman; the orphaned child, as yet scarcely
realizing her loss; the bereaved workman, calling down the vengeance
of Heaven upon the murderers from the air; the stern faces of the
_sergents de ville_, evidently feeling keenly their impotence to
protect; and in the background other _sergents_, the lines of whose
bent backs convey in a marvellous manner and with a touch of real
genius the impression of tender solicitude for the injured they are
tending.

And faintly indicated, further still in the background, the crowd
that differs little, whether it be French or English, in its deeper
emotions.

CLIVE HOLLAND.

[Illustration: THE WONDERS OF CULTURE]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
"FOLK WHO DO NOT UNDERSTAND THEM"
How often have I been asked by sorrow-stricken mothers and wives:
"Why does not Providence intervene either to stop this war, or at
least to check its cruelties and horrors?"

If for many amongst us not yet bereaved this European massacre is
a puzzle, it should not cause us dismay or surprise, if the widow
or son-bereaved mother lifts up her hands exclaiming: "Why did not
God save him?

Why did He let him be shot down by those Huns?"
Truth to tell, God has, so to speak, tied up His own hands in setting
ours free.

When He placed the human race upon the surface of this planet
He dowered them with freedom, giving to each man self-determining
force, by the exercise of which he was to become better
than a man or worse than a beast. Good and evil, like wheat
and cockle, grow together, in the same field. The winnowing
is at harvest-time, not before. Meanwhile, we ourselves
have lived to see the fairest portions of this fair creation
of God changed from a garden into a desert--pillaged, ravaged,
and brought to utter ruin by shot and shell, sword and fire.
When I have said this, I have but uttered a foreword to the hideous
story, spoken the prologue only of the "frightful" tragedy.

We are all familiar with at least some of the revolting facts
and details with which the German soldiery has been found
charged and convicted by Commissions appointed to investigate
the crimes and atrocities adduced against them. The verdicts
of French, Belgian, and English tribunals are unanimous. They
all agree that Germany has been caught redhanded in her work
of dyeing the map of Europe red with innocent blood.

When you bend your eyes to the pathetic cartoon standing
opposite this letterpress, is there not brought home to you
in a way, touching even to tears, the "frightful"
consequences of the misuse of human powers, more especially
of the attribute of freedom? If Germany had chosen to use,
instead of brute force, moral force, what a great, grand,
and glorious mission might have been hers to-day. If, instead
of trying the impossible task of dominating the whole world with
her iron hand upon its throat and her iron heel upon its foot, she
had been satisfied with the portion of the map already belonging
to her, and had not by processes of bureaucratic tyranny driven
away millions of her subjects who preferred liberty to slavery,
America to Germany, by this date she might have consolidated an
Empire second in the world to none but one.

Alas! in her over-reaching arrogance she has, on the contrary,
set out to de-Christianize, de-civilize, and even de-humanize
the race for which Christ lived and died.

Our high mission it is to try to save her from herself.
Already I can read written in letters of blood carved into the
gravestone of her corrupted greatness,
"Ill-weaved ambition, How much art thou shrunk!"
BERNARD VAUGHAN.

[Illustration: LES BEAUTES DE LA GUERRE
Folk who do not understand them.]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ON THE WAY TO CALAIS
They are coming, like a tempest, in their endless ranks of
gray, While the world throws up a cloud of dust upon their awful
way; They're the glorious cannon fodder of the mighty Fatherland,
Born to make the kingdoms tremble and the nations understand.

Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! the cannon fodder come Along their way to
Calais, (God help the hearth and home) They'll do his will
who taught them, on the earth and on the waves, Till land and sea
are festering with their unnumbered graves.

The garrison and barrack and the fortress give them vent; They
sweep, a herd of winter wolves, upon the flying scent; For all
their deeds of horror they are told that death atones, And their
master's harvest cannot spring till he has sowed their bones.

Into beasts of prey he's turned them; when they show their teeth
and growl.

The lash is buried in their cheeks; they're slaughtered if they
howl; To their bloody Lord of Battles must they only bend the knee,
For hard as steel and fierce as hell should cannon fodder be.

Scourge and curses are their portion, pain and hunger without end,
Till they hail the yell of shrapnel as the welcome of a friend;
They drink and burn and rape and laugh to hear the women cry, And
do the devil's work to-day, but on the morrow die.

Drift! Drift! Drift! the cannon fodder go Upon their way to
Calais, (God feed the carrion crow.) They've done his will
who taught them that the Germans shall be slaves, Till land and
sea are festering with their unnumbered graves.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

[Illustration: THE YSER. "We are on our way to Calais."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG AND TRUTH
_"Incorrupta Fides, nudaque Veritas"_ HORACE
"Good Faith unstained, and Truth all-unadorned"
_Nuda veritas_: it was Horace who in a famous Ode first presented
the figure of Truth thus.

And whom did he make her companions and sisters?

They were three, and their names were "Modesty," "Fair Dealing,"
and "Good Faith." The four sisters do indeed go together in
a quadruple alliance and _entente_, and when one is flouted or
estranged, the others are alienated and become enemies too.

The Germans were believed to be--some few still believe
them to be--a "truth-loving nation." They had a passion, we
were told, for truth, for accuracy, for scientific exactness.
Theirs might be a blunt and brutal frankness, but they
were at least downright and truthful.

Well, they first flouted Modesty--they bragged and blustered, bluffed
and "bounded."

They could not keep it up. They had to act. Fair Dealing
went by the board. Then Good Faith became impossible, for,
as this very von Bethmann-Hollweg declared, "Necessity knew no law."

Now they have forsaken Truth. They must deceive their own
people. The "lie" has entered into their soul. Never was so
systematic a use made of falsehoods small and great.

But Truth expelled is not powerless. Naked, she is still not
weaponless.
She has her little "periscope," her magic mirror, which shows the
liar himself, as well as the world, what he is like.

And she has another weapon, as those who know their "Paradise
Lost" will remember:

"Bright Ithuriel's lance Truth kindling truth where'er it glance"

It is not shown here, for it is invisible, but none the less potent.

With it Truth can indeed "shame the devil." She not only
shows what the liar is like outside, but reveals his inner
hideousness, and actual shape, for all to see.

There are many sayings about Truth, and they are all awkward for
the liar.

"Truth will out," said a witty English judge, "even in an
affidavit." It will out, even in a German Chancellor's
_démenti_.

The most famous is
"_Magna est veritas et prævalet_"

"Great is Truth and she prevails," in the end.

Yes, "She is on the path, and nothing will stop her." She
started on the hills of the little but free republic of Switzerland;
she is slowly traversing the plains of the vast free republic of
America.

Her last contest will be over the Germans themselves.

HERBERT WARREN.

[Illustration: VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG AND TRUTH
"Truth is on the path and nothing will stay her."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
VAN TROMP AND DE RUYTER
A generation ago a little clique of wise men at Oxford patted
themselves on the back for having discovered "The Historical Method."

But the common people of all countries have always known it.

The names of the great dead are not forgotten, nor yet the great
things for which they stood.

There may be no strict liturgy for the ancestor worship of the
West, but that worship is a simple fact, and it is a thing that
timorous politicians would do well to remember.

Here Raemaekers appeals to his countrymen to regard
their past, to be worthy of the great seamen who took
the Dutch fleet up the Medway, and lashed brooms to the mast-head
of the ships that swept the sea clear of British enemies.

The Dutch were fighting for their liberty then. Great Britain
is fighting for liberty in Europe to-day--and for Dutch
liberty to boot.
The enemy of all liberty uses Holland as a short cut whereby her
pirates of the air can get more quickly to their murder
work in England. Would the hero ancestors, of whom the Dutch
so boast, have tolerated this indignity? The artist seer
supplies the answer.

Note the mixture of the ghostly and the real in this vivid
and vivacious drawing. But if it is easy to see through the
faint outlines of the sailor spirits, it is easier for these
gallant ghosts to see through the unrealities of their descendants'
fears and hesitations.

The anger of the heroes is plainly too great for words. How
compressed the lips!

How tense the attitude!

The hands gripped in the angriest
sort of impatience! Mark the subtle mingling
of seaman and burgher in the poise and figures.

Mark particularly Van Tromp's stiffened forefinger on
his staff.

Is the fate of L19 the fruit of our artist's stinging reminder
that Holland once had nobler spirits and braver days?

ARTHUR POLLEN.

[Illustration: VAN TROMP AND DE RUYTER
"So long as you permit Zeppelins to cross our land you
surely should cease to boast of our deeds."
Whenever a Dutchman wishes to speak of the great past of
his country he calls to mind the names of these heroes.]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

WAR AND CHRIST
The deliberate war made by Prussia in all those areas which
she can reach or occupy against the symbols and sacred objects
of the Christian faith is a phenomenon in every way worthy
of consideration. It is clearly not a matter of accident.
The bombardment at Rheims Cathedral, for example, can be proved
to have been deliberate. It had no military object; and the
subsequent attempts to manufacture a military reason for it
only produced a version of the occurrence not only incredible
but in flat contradiction to the original admissions of the
Germans themselves.
But such episodes as those of Rheims and Louvain merely attract
the attention of the world because of the celebrity of
the outraged shrines.
All who are familiar with the facts know that deliberate
sacrilege no less than deliberate rape and deliberate murder
has everywhere marked the track of the German army.

The offence has been malignant. That does not, of course,
mean that it has been irrational; quite the contrary. One
fully admits that Prussia, being what she is, has every cause
to hate the Cross, and every motive to vent the agonized
fury of a lost soul upon things sacred to the God she hates.

The moral suggested by this cartoon of Raemaekers' must not
be confused with the ridiculous and unhistoric pretence that
war itself is essentially unchristian. When Mr. Bernard Shaw,
if I remember right, drew from the affair of Rheims the
astonishing moral that we cannot have at the same time
"glorious wars and glorious cathedrals," he might surely
have remembered that the age in which Rheims Cathedral was
built, whatever else it was, was not an age of Pacifism.
The insult to Jesus Christ is not in the sword (which in His
own words He came to bring), but in the profanation of the
sword. It is in cruelty, injustice, treachery, unbridled
lust, the worship of unrighteous strength--in fact, in all that
can be summed up in the single word "Prussia."

CECIL CHESTERTON.

[Illustration: WAR AND CHRIST]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
BARBED WIRE
Save for the spiked helmets, the gruesome figures in the foreground
of this cartoon might have belonged in life to any one of the warring
nationalities.

It is a noteworthy fact, however, that not one of the nations
at war has shown so little care for its dead as Germany,
whose corpses lie and rot on every front on which they are engaged.

The world cannot blame Germany for the introduction of barbed
wire as an accessory of war, though it is well known that German
wire surpasses any other in sheer devilish ingenuity; not that it
is more effective as an entanglement, but its barbs are longer, and
are set more closely together, than in the wire used by other
nationalities; it is, in short, more frightful, and thus is in
keeping with the rest of the accessories of the German war machine.

But this in the cartoon is normal barbed wire, with its normal
burden.
One may question whether the All-Highest War Lord, who in the
course of his many inspections of the various fronts must have
seen sights like this, is ever troubled by the thought that these,
his men, lie and hang thus for his pleasure, that their ghastly
fate is a part of his glorious plan.

He set out to remake the world, and here is one of the
many results--broken corpses in the waste.

Part of the plan, broken corpses in the waste. By the waste
and the corpses that he made shall men remember the author
and framer of this greatest war.

E. CHARLES VIVIAN.

[Illustration: BARBED WIRE]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE HIGHER POLITICS
There is a significance in this cartoon which I believe will appeal
much more strongly to the firing line than to Home.

The Front distrusts politics, and especially the higher politics.
That means the juggling and wire-pulling of the Chancelleries,
and the Front has an uneasy conviction that at the subtleties and
craftiness and cunning of the diplomatic game we cannot compete
with "The Bosche."

Hard knocks and straight fighting the Front does understand, and
at that game are cheerfully confident of winning in the
long run.

It would be bitter news to the fighting men that any peace had been
patched up on any terms but those the Allies soon or late will be
in a position to dictate, to lay down and say flatly, "Take them
and have Peace; or leave them and go on getting licked."

The Front doesn't like War.

No man who has endured the horrors and savagery and "blood,
mud, and misery" of civilized warfare could pretend to like it.

No man who has endured the long-drawn misery of manning the waterlogged
trenches for days and weeks and months can look forward with anything
but apprehension to another winter of war.

No man who has attacked across the inferno of the
shell-and-bullet-swept "neutral ground," or has hung on with
tight-clenched teeth to the battered ruins of the forward fire
trench under a murderous rain of machine-gun and rifle bullets, a
howling tempest of shells, an earth-shaking tornado of high explosives,
can but long for the day when Peace will be declared and these
horrors will be no more than a past nightmare.

But the Front will "stick it" for another winter or several
winters, will go through many bitter attacks and counter-attacks
to win the complete victory that will ensure, and alone will ensure,
lasting peace.

We know our limitations and our weaknesses. We admit that,
as the American journalist bluntly put it, we are "poor starters,"
but we know just as surely he was right in completing the phrase,
"but darn good finishers."

Let the "higher politicians" on our side stand down and leave the
fighting men to finish the argument.

Let them keep the ring clear, and let the Front fight it
out.

The Front doesn't mind "taking the responsibility," and it will
give "Kaiser Bill" and "Little Willie" all the responsibilities
they can handle before the Great Game is over.

BOYD CABLE.

[Illustration: THE HIGHER POLITICS
THE KAISER "We will propose peace terms; if they accept them,
we are the gainers, if they refuse them, the responsibility
will rest with them."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE LOAN GAME
Raemaekers is pitiless, but never oversteps the truth.

National Debts are ever national millstones, worn around the
neck. They are worn unwillingly, and they are not ornamental;
they are a burden, and the weight is sometimes crushing. A
prospect of that sort seems to be the lot of several of the
"Great Powers" of Europe for the remainder, and the greater portion,
of the Twentieth Century.

Though German "civilization" were more worthy of such a term and
its associations as Kultur ten times over, would it become any
Potentate and his advisers to impose it on so many countries at
such a cost in suffering as all this--and more?

But Kaiser Wilhelm and his crew of State-at-any-price men impose
not on other peoples only: they impose on their own kith and kin.

Look at these three sad and apprehensive figures playing the
Loan Game--the first, the second, the third Loan!

Children, says the artist, passing the coin from one hand
to another's, and getting richer at each pass!!

Yes, children, the German people treated so by a few dominies.
State dominies and the Director (or dupe!)

at Berlin! No people gains, every people loses by incurring a
Debt; but in Germany, and to-day! to incur an indebtedness,
contract a loss, does not suffice; the people must not know it.

Even the children know that coin has not left them richer: many,
very many Germans know the Kultur War to be ruinous: but Berlin
must play the Game still, and assume that the tricks and aims cannot
be understood!

It is lack of regard for other nations carried into German Finance;
and all because the bureaucratic military heart is a stone.

The piling up of State paper goes on, but not merrily, as Michael
goes from Darlehnkasse to Reichsbank, one, two, three (and is about
to go the fourth time!).

"There was one," said Miss Anastasia, looking about where one
should have been. I'll get another as soon as I give Mis'
Springer her tea."

"Ha'n't you got enough to go round?" said the old woman,
plucking at her daughter's sleeve. "Anastasy! ha'n't you got
enough to go round?"

This speech, which was spoken with a most spiteful simplicity,
Miss Anastasia answered with superb silence, and presently
produced spoons enough to satisfy herself and the company. But
Fleda! No earthly persuasion could prevail upon her to touch
pickles, sweetmeats, or custard that evening; and even in the
bread and cakes she had a vision of hands before her that took
away her appetite. She endeavoured to make a show with hung
beef and cups of tea, which indeed was not Pouchong; but her
supper came suddenly to an end upon a remark of her hostess,
addressed to the whole table, that they needn't be surprised
if they found any bits of pudding in the gingerbread, for it
was made from the molasses the children left the other day.
Who "the children" were Fleda did not know, neither was it
material.

It was sundown, but Hugh had not come when they went to the
upper rooms again. Two were open now, for they were small, and
the company promised not to be such. Fathers and brothers, and
husbands began to come, and loud talking, and laughing and
joking took place of the quilting chit-chat. Fleda would fain
have absorbed herself in the work again, but though the frame
still stood there, the minds of the company were plainly
turned aside from their duty, or perhaps they thought that
Miss Anastasia had had admiration enough to dispense with
service. Nobody showed a thimble but one or two old ladies;
and as numbers and spirits gathered strength, a kind of
romping game was set on foot, in which a vast deal of kissing
seemed to be the grand wit of the matter. Fleda shrank away
out of sight behind the open door of communication between the
two rooms, pleading, with great truth, that she was tired, and
would like to keep perfectly quiet; and she had soon the
satisfaction of being apparently forgotten.

In the other room, some of the older people were enjoying
themselves more soberly. Fleda's ear was too near the crack of
the door, not to have the benefit of more of their
conversation than she cared for. It soon put quiet of mind out
of the question.

"He'll twist himself up pretty short — that's my sense of it;
and he wont take long to do it, nother," said Earl Douglass's
voice.

Fleda would have known it anywhere, from its extreme
peculiarity. It never either rose or fell much from a certain
pitch; and at that level the words gurgled forth, seemingly
from an everbrimming fountain; he never wanted one; and the
stream had neither let nor stay till his modicum of sense had
fairly run out. People thought he had not a greater stock of
that than some of his neighbours; but he issued an amount of
word-currency sufficient for the use of the county.

"He'll run himself agin a post pretty quick," said uncle
Joshua, in a confirmatory tone of voice.

Fleda had a confused idea that somebody was going to hang
himself.

"He aint a-workin' things right," said Douglass; "he aint a-
workin' things right; he's takin' hold o' everything by the
tail end. He aint studied the business; he doesn't know when
things is right, and he doesn't know when things is wrong; and
if they're wrong, he don't know how to set 'em right. He's got
a feller there that aint no more fit to be there, than I am to
be Vice-President of the United States; and I aint a-going to
say what I think I am fit for, but I ha'n't studied for that
place, and I shouldn't like to stand an examination for't; and
a man hadn't ought to be a farmer no more if he ha'n't
qualified himself. That's my idee. I like to see a thing done
well, if it's to be done at all; and there aint a stitch o'
land been laid right on the hull farm, nor a furrow driv' as
it had ought to be, since he came on to it; and I say, Squire
Springer, a man aint going to get along in that way, and he
hadn't ought to. I work hard myself, and I calculate to work
hard, and I make a livin' by't; and I'm content to work hard.
When I see a man with his hands in his pockets, I think he'll
have nothin' else in 'em soon. I don't believe he's done a
hand's turn himself on the land the hull season!"

And upon this Mr. Douglass brought up.

"My son, Lucas, has been workin' with him, off and on, pretty
much the hull time since he come; and he says he ha'n't begun
to know how to spell farmer yet."

"Ay, ay! My wife — she's a little harder on folks than I be —
I think it aint worth while to say nothin' of a man without I
can say some good of him — that's my idee; and it don't do no
harm, nother; but my wife, she says he's got to let down his
notions a peg or two afore they'll hitch just in the right
place; and I wont say but what I think she aint, maybe, fur
from right. If a man's above his business, he stands a pretty
fair chance to be below it some day. I wont say myself, for I
haven't any acquaintance with him, and a man oughtn't to speak
but of what he's knowing to; but I have heerd say, that he
wa'n't as conversationable as it would ha' been handsome in
him to be, all things considerin.' There seems to be a good
many things said of him, somehow, and l always think men don't
talk of a man if he don't give 'em occasion; but, anyhow, I've
been past the farm pretty often myself this summer, working
with Seth Plumfield; and I've took notice of things myself;
and I know he's been makin' beds o' sparrowgrass when he had
ought to ha' been makin' fences, and he's been helpin' that
little girl o' his'n set her flowers, when he would ha' been
better sot to work lookin' after his Irishman. But I don't
know as it made much matter, nother; for if he went wrong, Mr.
Rossitur wouldn't know how to set him right, and if he was a-
going right, Mr. Rossitur would ha' been just as likely to ha'
set him wrong. Well, I'm sorry for him!"

"Mr. Rossitur is a most gentlemanlike man," said the voice of
Dr. Quackenboss.

"Ay — I dare say he is," Earl responded, in precisely the same
tone. "I was down to his house one day last summer to see him.
He wa'n't to hum, though."

"It would be strange if harm come to a man with such a
guardian angel in the house as that man has in his'n." said
Dr. Quackenboss.

"Well she's a pretty creetur!" said Douglass, looking up with
some animation. "I wouldn't blame any man that sot a good deal
by her. I will say I think she's as handsome as my own darter;
and a man can't go no furder than that, I suppose."

"She wont help his farming much, I guess," said uncle Joshua,
"nor his wife nother."

Fleda heard Dr. Quackenboss coming through the doorway, and
started from her corner, for fear he might find her out there,
and know what she had heard.

He very soon found her out in the new place she had chosen,
and came up to pay his compliments. Fleda was in a mood for
anything but laughing, yet the mixture of the ludicrous which
the doctor administered set her nerves a-twitching. Bringing
his chair down sideways at one angle and his person at
another, so as to meet at the moment of the chair's touching
the floor, and with a look and smile, slanting to match, the
doctor said —

"Well, Miss Ringgan, has — a — Mrs. Rossitur — does she feel
herself reconciled yet?"

"Reconciled, Sir?' said Fleda.

"Yes — a — to Queechy?"

"She never quarrelled with it, Sir," said Fleda, quite unable
to keep from laughing.

"Yes — I mean — a — she feels that she can sustain her spirits
in different situations?"

"She is very well, Sir, thank you."

"It must have been a great change to her — and to you all —
coming to this place."

"Yes, Sir; the country is very different from the city."

"In what part of New York was Mr. Rossitur's former
residence?"

" In State-street, Sir."

"State-street — that is somewhere in the direction of the
Park?"

"No, Sir, not exactly."

"Was Mrs. Rossitur a native of the city?"

"Not of New York. Oh, Hugh! my dear Hugh!" exclaimed Fleda, in
another tone — "what have you been thinking of?"

"Father wanted me," said Hugh. "I could not help it, Fleda."

"You are not going to have the cruelty to take your — a —
cousin away, Mr. Rossitur?" said the doctor.

But Fleda was for once happy to be cruel; she would hear no
remonstrances. Though her desire for Miss Lucy's "help" had
considerably lessened, she thought she could not in politeness
avoid speaking on the subject, after being invited there on
purpose. But Miss Lucy said she "calculated to stay at home
this winter," unless she went to live with somebody at Kenton,
for the purpose of attending a course of philosophy lectures
that she heard were to be given there. So that matter was
settled; and, clasping Hugh's arm, Fleda turned away from the
house with a step and heart both lightened by the joy of being
out of it.

"I coudn't come sooner, Fleda," said Hugh.

"No matter — Oh, I'm so glad to be away! Walk a little faster,
dear Hugh. Have you missed me at home?"

"Do you want me to say no or yes?" said Hugh, smiling. "We did
very well — mother and I — and I have left everything ready to
have tea the minute you get home. What sort of a time have you
had?"

In answer to which Fleda gave him a long history, and then
they walked on a while in silence. The evening was still, and
would have been dark but for the extreme brilliancy of the
stars through the keen, clear atmosphere. Fleda looked up at
them, and drew large draughts of bodily and mental refreshment
with the bracing air.

"Do you know to-morrow will be Thanksgiving-day?"

"Yes; what made you think of it?"

"They were talking about it; they make a great fuss here
Thanksgiving-day."

"I don't think we shall make much of a fuss," said Hugh.

"I don't think we shall. I wonder what I shall do — I am
afraid uncle Rolf will get tired of coffee and omelettes in
the course of time; and my list of receipts is very limited."

"It is a pity you didn't beg one of Mrs. Renney's books," said
Hugh, laughing. "If you had only known —"

" 'Tisn't too late!" said Fleda, quickly. "I'll send to New
York for one. I will! I'll ask uncle Orrin to get it for me.
That's the best thought!"

"But, Fleda, you're not going to turn cook in that fashion?"

"It would be no harm to have the book," said Fleda. "I can
tell you, we mustn't expect to get anybody here that can make
an omelette, or even coffee, that uncle Rolf will drink. Oh,
Hugh! —"

"What?"

"I don't know where we are going to get anybody! But don't say
anything to aunt Lucy about it."

"Well, we can keep Thanksgiving-day, Fleda, without a dinner,"
said Hugh, cheerfully.

"Yes, indeed — I am sure I can — after being among these
people to-night. How much I have that they want! Look at the
Great Bear over there! Isn't that better than New York?"

"The Great Bear hangs over New York, too," Hugh said, with a
smile.

"Ah! but it isn't the same thing. Heaven hasn't the same eyes
for the city and the country."

As Hugh and Fleda went quick up to the kitchen-door, they
overtook a dark figure, at whom looking narrowly as she
passed, Fleda recognised Seth Plumfield. He was joyfully let
into the kitchen, and there proved to be the bearer of a huge
dish, carefully covered with a napkin.

"Mother guessed you hadn't any Thanksgiving ready," he said,
"and she wanted to send this down to you; so I thought I would
come and fetch it myself."

"Oh, thank her! and thank you, cousin Seth; how good you are!"

"Mother ha'n't lost her old trick at 'em," said he; "so I hope
that's good."

"Oh, I know it is," said Fleda. "I remember aunt Miriam's
Thanksgiving chicken-pies. Now, cousin Seth, you must come in,
and see aunt Lucy."

"No," said he, quietly: "I've got my farm boots on. I guess I
wont see anybody but you."

But Fleda would not suffer that; and finding she could not
move him, she brought her aunt out into the kitchen. Mrs.
Rossitur's manner of speaking, and thanking him, quite charmed
Seth, and he went away with a kindly feeling towards those
gentle, bright eves, which he never forgot.

"Now, we've something for to-morrow, Hugh !" said Fleda; "and
such a chicken-pie, I can tell you, as you never saw. Hugh,
isn't it odd, how different a thing is in different
circumstances? You don't know how glad I was when I put my
hands upon that warm pie-dish, and knew what it was; and when
did I ever care in New York about Emile's doings?"

"Except the almond gauffres," said Hugh, smiling.

"I never thought to be so glad of a chicken-pie," said Fleda,
shaking her head.

Aunt Miriam's dish bore out Fleda's praise, in the opinion of
all that tasted it; for such fowls, such butter, and such
cream, as went to its composition, could hardly be known but
in an unsophisticated state of society. But one pie could not
last for ever; and as soon as the signs of dinner were got rid
of, Thanksgiving-day though it was, poor Fleda was fain to go
up the hill, to consult aunt Miriam about the possibility of
getting "help."

"I don't know, dear Fleda," said she; "if you cannot get Lucy
Flinn, I don't know who else there is you can get. Mrs. Toles
wants both her daughters at home, I know, this winter, because
she is sick; and Marietta Winchel is working at aunt Syra's. I
don't know — do you remember Barby Elster, that used to live
with me?"

"O yes!"

"She might go — she has been staying at home these two years,
to take care of her old mother, that's the reason she left me;
but she has another sister come home now — Hetty, that
married, and went to Montepoole; she's lost her husband and
come home to live; so perhaps Barby would go out again. But I
don't know — how do you think your aunt Lucy would get along
with her?"

"Dear aunt Miriam, you know we must do as we can. We must have
somebody."

"Barby is a little quick," said Mrs. Plumfield, "but I think
she is good-hearted, and she is thorough and faithful as the
day is long. If your aunt and uncle can put up with her ways."

"I am sure we can, aunt Miriam. Aunt Lucy's the easiest person
in the world to please; and I'll try and keep her away from
uncle Rolf. I think we can get along. I know Barby used to
like me."

"But then Barby knows nothing about French cooking, my child;
she can do nothing but the common, country things. What will
your uncle and aunt say to that?"

"I don't know," said Fleda, "but anything is better than
nothing. I must try and do what she can't do. I'll come up and
get you to teach me, aunt Miriam."

Aunt Miriam hugged and kissed her before speaking.

"I'll teach you what I know, my darling: — and now we'll go
right off and see Barby — we shall catch her just in a good
time."

It was a poor little unpainted house, standing back from the
road, and with a double row of' boards laid down to serve as a
path to it. But this board walk was scrubbed perfectly clean.
They went in without knocking. There was nobody there but an
old woman seated before the fire, shaking all over with the
St. Vitus's Dance. She gave them no salutation, calling
instead on "Barby!" — who presently made her appearance from
the inner door.

"Barby! who's this?"

"That's Mis' Plumfield, mother," said the daughter, speaking
loud as to a deaf person.

The old lady immediately got up and dropped a very quick and
what was meant to be a very respect-showing courtesy, saying
at the same time, with much deference, and with one of her
involuntary twitches, "I ' 'maun ' to know!" The sense of the
ludicrous and the feeling of pity together, were painfully
oppressive. Fleda turned away to the daughter, who came
forward and shook hands with a frank look of pleasure at the
sight of her elder visitor.

"Barby," said Mrs. Plumfield, "this is little Fleda Ringgan —
do you remember her?"

"I 'mind to know!" said Barby, transferring her hand to
Fleda's, and giving it a good squeeze. "She's growed a fine
gal, Mis' Plumfield. You ha'n't lost none of your good looks —
- ha' you kept all your old goodness along with 'em?"

Fleda laughed at this abrupt question, and said she didn't
know.

"If you ha'n't, I wouldn't give much for your eyes," said
Barby, letting go her hand.

Mrs. Plumfield laughed too at Barby's equivocal mode of
complimenting.

"Who's that young gal, Barby?" inquired Mrs. Elster.

"That's Mis' Plumfield's niece, mother."

"She's a handsome little creetur, aint she?"

They all laughed at that, and Fleda's cheeks growing crimson,
Mrs. Plumfield stepped forward to ask after the old lady's
health; and while she talked and listened, Fleda's eyes noted
the spotless condition of the room — the white table, the nice
rag-carpet, the bright many-coloured patchwork counterpane on
the bed, the brilliant cleanliness of the floor, where the
small carpet left the boards bare, the tidy look of the two
women; and she made up her mind that she could get along with
Miss Barbara very well. Barby was rather tall, and in face
decidedly a fine-looking woman, though her figure had the
usual scantling proportions which nature or fashion assigns to
the hard-working dwellers in the country. A handsome, quick,
gray eye, and the mouth, were sufficiently expressive of
character, and perhaps of temper, but there were no lines of
anything sinister or surly; you could imagine a flash, but not
a cloud.

"Barby, you are not tied at home any longer, are you?" said.
Mrs. Plumfield, coming back from the old lady and speaking
rather low; — "now that Hetty is here, can't your mother spare
you?"

"Well, I reckon she could, Mis' Plumfield, if I could work it
so that she'd be more comfortable by my being away."

"Then you'd have no objection to go out again?"

"Where to?"

"Fleda's uncle, you know, has taken my brother's old place,
and they have no help. They want somebody to take the whole
management — just you, Barby. Mrs. Rossitur isn't strong."

"Nor don't want to be, does she? I've heerd tell of her, Mis'
Plumfield — I should despise to have as many legs and arms as
other folks, and not be able to help myself!"

"But you wouldn't despise to help other folks, I hope," said
Mrs. Plumfield, smiling.

"People that want you very much, too," said Fleda; for she
quite longed to have that strong hand and healthy eye to rely
upon at home. Barby looked at her with a relaxed face, and,
after a little consideration, said she guessed "she'd try."

"Mis' Plumfield," cried the old lady, as they were moving —
"Mis' Plumfield, you said you'd send me a piece of pork."

"I haven't forgotten it, Mrs. Elster — you shall have it."

"Well, you get it out for me yourself," said the old woman,
speaking very energetically — "don't you send no one else to
the barrel for't, because I know you'll give me the biggest
piece."

Mrs. Plumfield laughed and promised.

"I'll come up and work it out some odd day," said the
daughter, nodding intelligently, as she followed them to the
door.

"We'll talk about that," said Mrs. Plumfield.

"She was wonderful pleased with the pie," said Barby, "and so
was Hetty; she ha'n't seen anything so good, she says, since
she quit Queechy."

"Well, Barby," said Mrs. Plumfield, as she turned and grasped
her hand, "did you remember your thanksgiving over it?"

"Yes, Mis' Plumfield," and the fine grey eyes fell to the
floor; "but I minded it only because it had come from you. I
seemed to hear you saying just that out of every bone I
picked."

"You minded my message," said the other, gently.

"Well, I don't mind the things I had ought to most," said
Barby, in a subdued voice — "never! — 'cept mother — I aint
very apt to forget her."

Mrs. Plumfield saw a tell-tale glittering beneath the drooping
eyelid. She added no more but a sympathetic strong squeeze of
the hand she held, and turned to follow Fleda who had gone on
ahead.

"Mis' Plumfield," said Barby, before they had reached the
stile that led into the road, where Fleda was standing, "will
I be sure of having the money regular down yonder? You know, I
hadn't ought to go otherways, on account of mother."

"Yes, it will be sure," said Mrs. Plumfield, "and regular;"
adding quietly, "I'll make it so."

There was a bond for the whole amount in aunt Miriam's eyes;
and, quite satisfied, Barby went back to the house.

"Will she expect to come to our table, aunt Miriam'? said
Fleda, when they had walked a little way.

"No, she will not expect that; but Barby will want a different
kind of managing from those Irish women of yours. She wont
bear to be spoken to in a way that don't suit her notions of
what she thinks she deserves; and perhaps your aunt and uncle
will think her notions rather high — I don't know."

"There is no difficulty with aunt Lucy," said Fleda; "and I
guess I can manage uncle Rolf — I'll try. _I_ like her very
much."

"Barby is very poor," said Mrs. Plumfield; "she has nothing
but her own earnings to support herself and her old mother,
and now, I suppose, her sister and her child; for Hetty is a
poor thing — never did much, and now I suppose does nothing."

"Are those Finns poor, aunt Miriam?"

"O no — not at all — they are very well off."

"So I thought — they seemed to have plenty of everything, and
silver spoons and all. But why then do they go out to work?"

"They are a little too fond of getting money, I expect," said
aunt Miriam. "And they are a queer sort of people rather — the
mother is queer, and the children are queer — they aint like
other folks exactly — never were."

"I am very glad we are to have Barby, instead of that Lucy
Finn," said Fleda. "Oh, aunt Miriam! you can't think how much
easier my heart feels."

"Poor child!" said aunt Miriam, looking at her. "But it isn't
best, Fleda, to have things work too smooth in this world."

"No, I suppose not," said Fleda, sighing. "Isn't it very
strange, aunt Miriam, that it should make people worse instead
of better to have everything go pleasantly with them?"

"It is because they are apt then to be so full of the present,
that they forget the care of the future."

"Yes, and forget there is anything better than the present, I
suppose," said Fleda.

"So we mustn't fret at the ways our Father takes to keep us
from hurting ourselves," said aunt Miriam, cheerfully.

"O no!" said Fleda, looking up brightly, in answer to the
tender manner in which these words were spoken; — "and I
didn't mean that _this_ is much of a trouble — only I am very
glad to think that somebody is coming to-morrow."

Aunt Miriam thought that gentle unfretful face could not stand
in need of much discipline.


CHAPTER XXI.


"Wise men alway
Affyrme and say,
That best is for a man
Diligently,
For to apply,
The business that he can." — MORE


Fleda waited for Barby's coming the next day with a little
anxiety. The introduction and installation, however, were
happily got over. Mrs. Rossitur, as Fleda knew, was most
easily pleased, and Barby Elster's quick eye was satisfied
with the unaffected and universal gentleness and politeness of
her new employer. She made herself at home in half an hour;
and Mrs. Rossitur and Fleda were comforted to perceive, by
unmistakable signs, that their presence was not needed in the
kitchen, and they might retire to their own premises and
forget there was another part of the house. Fleda had
forgotten it utterly, and deliciously enjoying the rest of
mind and body, she was stretched upon the sofa, luxuriating
over some volume from her remnant of a library, when the inner
door was suddenly pushed open far enough to admit of the
entrance of Miss Elster's head.

"Where's the soft soap?"

Fleda's book went down, and her heart jumped to her mouth, for
her uncle was sitting over by the window. Mrs. Rossitur looked
up in amaze, and waited for the question to be repeated.

"I say, where's the soft soap?"

"Soft soap!" said Mrs. Rossitur — "I don't know whether there
is any — Fleda, do you know?"

"I was trying to think, aunt Lucy — I don't believe there is
any."

"_Where_ is it?" said Barby.

"There is none, I believe," said Mrs. Rossitur

"Where _was_ it, then?"

"Nowhere — there has not been any in the house," said Fleda,
raising herself up to see over the back of her sofa.

"There ha'n't been none!" said Miss Elster, in a tone more
significant than her words, and shutting the door as abruptly
as she had opened it.

"What upon earth does the woman mean?" exclaimed Mr. Rossitur,
springing up and advancing towards the kitchen door. Fleda
threw herself before him.

"Nothing at all, uncle Rolf — she doesn't mean anything at all
— she doesn't know any better."

"I will improve her knowledge — get out of the way, Fleda."

"But, uncle Rolf, just hear me one moment — please don't! —
she didn't mean any harm — these people don't know any manners
— just let me speak to her, please, uncle Rolf!" said Fleda,
laying both hands upon her uncle's arms — "I'll manage her."

Mr. Rossitur's wrath was high, and he would have run over or
knocked down anything less gentle that had stood in his way;
hut even the harshness of strength shuns to set itself in
array against the meekness that does not _oppose;_ if the touch
of those hands had been a whit less light, or the glance of
her eye less submissively appealing, it would have availed
nothing. As it was, he stopped and looked at her, at first
scowling, but then with a smile.

"_You_ manage her!" said he.

"Yes," said Fleda, laughing, and now exerting her force, she
gently pushed him back towards the seat he had quitted — "yes,
uncle Rolf, you've enough else to manage, don't undertake our
'help.' Deliver over all your displeasure upon me when
anything goes wrong — I will be the conductor to carry it off
safely into the kitchen, and discharge it just at that point
where I think it will do most execution. Now, will you, uncle
Rolf? — Because we have got a new-fashioned piece of fire-arms
in the other room, that I am afraid will go off unexpectedly
if it is meddled with by an unskilful hand; and that would
leave us without arms, you see, or with only aunt Lucy's and
mine, which are not reliable."

"You saucy girl!" said her uncle, who was laughing partly at
and partly with her, "I don't know what you deserve exactly.
Well, keep this precious new operative of yours out of my way,
and I'll take care to keep out of hers. But mind, you must
manage not to have your piece snapping in my face in this
fashion, for I wont stand it."

And so, quieted, Mr. Rossitur sat down to his book again; and
Fleda, leaving hers open, went to attend upon Barby.

"There ain't much yallow soap neither," said this personage,
"if this is all. There's one thing — if we ha'n't got it, we
can make it. I must get Mis' Rossitur to have a leach-tub sot
up right away. I'm a dreadful hand for havin' plenty o' soap."

"What is a leach-tub?" said Fleda.

"Why, a leach-tub, for to leach ashes in. That's easy enough.
I'll fix it, afore we're any on us much older. If Mr. Rossitur
'll keep me in good hard wood, I sha'n't cost him hardly
anything for potash."

"I'll see about it," said Fleda; "and I will see about having
the leach-tub, or whatever it is, put up for you. And, Barby,
whenever you want anything, will you just speak to me about
it? — and if I am in the other room, ask me to come out here;
because my aunt is not strong, and does not know where things
are as well as I do; and when my uncle is in there, he
sometimes does not like to be disturbed with hearing any such
talk. If you'll tell me, I'll see and have everything done for
you."

"Well — you get me a leach sot up — that's all I'll ask of you
just now," said Barby, good-humouredly, "and help me to find
the soap-grease, if there is any. As to the rest, I don't want
to see nothin' o' him in the kitchen, so I'll relieve him if
he don't want to see much o' me in the parlour. I shouldn't
wonder if there wa'n't a speck of it in the house."

Not a speck was there to be found.

"Your uncle's pockets must ha' had a good hole in 'em by this
time," remarked Barby, as they came back from the cellar.
"However, there never was a crock so empty it couldn't be
filled. You get me a leach-tub sot up, and I'll find work for
it."

From that time, Fleda had no more trouble with her uncle and
Barby. Each seemed to have a wholesome appreciation of the
other's combative qualities, and to shun them. With Mrs.
Rossitur, Barby was soon all-powerful. It was enough that she
wanted a thing, if Mrs. Rossitur's own resources could compass
it. For Fleda, to say that Barby had presently a perfect
understanding with her, and joined to that, a most
affectionate, careful regard, is not, perhaps, saying much;
for it was true of every one, without exception, with whom
Fleda had much to do. Barby was to all of them a very great
comfort and stand-by.

It was well for them that they had her within doors to keep
things, as she called it, "right and tight;" for abroad the
only system in vogue was one of fluctuation and uncertainty.
Mr. Rossitur's Irishman, Donohan, staid his year out, doing as
little good, and as much, at least, negative harm, as he well
could; and then went, leaving them a good deal poorer than he
found them. Dr. Gregory's generosity had added to Mr.
Rossitur's own small stock of ready money, giving him the
means to make some needed outlays on the farm. But the outlay,
ill-applied, had been greater than the income; a scarcity of'
money began to be more and more felt; and the comfort of the
family accordingly drew within more and more narrow bounds.
The temper of the head of the family suffered in at least
equal degree.

From the first of Barby's coming, poor Fleda had done her
utmost to prevent the want of Mons. Emile from being felt. Mr.
Rossitur's table was always set by her careful hand, and all
the delicacies that came upon it were, unknown to him, of her
providing — even the bread. One day, at breakfast, Mr.
Rossitur had expressed his impatient displeasure at that of
Miss Elster's manufacture. Fleda saw the distressed shade that
came over her aunt's face, and took her resolution. It was the
last time. She had followed her plan of sending for the
receipts, and she studied them diligently, both at home and
under aunt Miriam. Natural quickness of eye and hand came in
aid of her affectionate zeal, and it was not long before she
could trust herself to undertake any operation in the whole
range of her cookery-book. But, meanwhile, materials were
growing scarce, and hard to come by. The delicate French rolls
which were now always ready for her uncle's plate in the
morning, had sometimes nothing to back them, unless the
unfailing water-cress from the good little spring in the
meadow. Fleda could not spare her eggs, for, perhaps, they
might have nothing else to depend upon for dinner. It was no
burden to her to do these things; she had a sufficient reward
in seeing that her aunt and Hugh ate the better, and that her
uncle's brow was clear; but it was a burden when her hands
were tied by the lack of means, for she knew the failure of
the usual supply was bitterly felt, not for the actual want,
but for that other want which it implied and prefigured.

On the first dismissal of Donohan, Fleda hoped for a good turn
of affairs. But Mr. Rossitur, disgusted with his first
experiment, resolved this season to be his own head man; and
appointed Lucas Springer the second in command, with a possé
of labourers to execute his decrees. It did not work well. Mr.
Rossitur found he had a very tough prime minister, who would
have every one of his plans to go through a kind of winnowing
process by being tossed about in an argument. The arguments
were interminable, until Mr. Rossitur not unfrequently quit
the field with, "Well, do what you like about it!" — not
conquered, but wearied. The labourers, either from want of
ready money, or of what they called "manners" in their
employer, fell off at the wrong times, just when they were
most wanted. Hugh threw himself then into the breach and
wrought beyond his strength; and that tried Fleda worst of
all. She was glad to see haying and harvest pass over; but the
change of seasons seemed to bring only a change of
disagreeableness, and she could not find that hope had any
better breathing-time in the short days of winter than in the
long days of summer. Her gentle face grew more gentle than
ever, for under the shade of sorrowful patience, which was
always there, now its meekness had no eclipse.

Mrs. Rossitur was struck with it one morning. She was coming
down from her room and saw Fleda standing on the landing-place
gazing out of the window. It was before breakfast one cold
morning in winter. Mrs. Rossitur put her arms round her softly
and kissed her.

"What are you thinking about, dear Fleda? — you ought not to
be standing here."

"I was looking at Hugh," said Fleda, and her eye went back to
the window. Mrs. Rossitur's followed it. The window gave them
a view of the ground behind the house; and there was Hugh,
just coming in with a large armful of heavy wood which he had
been sawing.

"He isn't strong enough to do that, aunt Lucy," said Fleda,
softly.

"I know it," said his mother, in a subdued tone, and not
moving her eye, though Hugh had disappeared.

"It is too cold for him; he is too thinly clad to bear this
exposure," said Fleda, anxiously.

"I know it," said his mother, again.

"Can't you tell uncle Rolf? can't you get him to do it? I am
afraid Hugh will hurt himself, aunt Lucy."

"I did tell him the other day — I did speak to him about it,"
said Mrs. Rossitur; "but he said there was no reason why Hugh
should do it — there were plenty of other people —"

"But how can he say so when he knows we never can ask Lucas to
do anything of the kind, and that other man always contrives
to be out of the way when he is wanted? Oh, what is he
thinking of?" said Fleda, bitterly, as she saw Hugh again at
his work.

It was so rarely that Fleda was seen to shed tears, that they
always were a signal of dismay to any of the household. There
was even agony in Mrs. Rossitur's voice as she implored her
not to give way to them. But, notwithstanding that, Fleda's
tears came this time from too deep a spring to be stopped at
once.

"It makes me feel as if all was lost, Fleda, when I see you do
so."

Fleda put her arms about her neck, and whispered that "she
would not" — that "she should not —"

Yet it was a little while before she could say any more.

"But, aunt Lucy, he doesn't know what he is doing."

"No; and I can't make him know. I cannot say anything more,
Fleda — it would do no good. I don't know what is the matter —
he is entirely changed from what he used to be."

"I know what is the matter," said Fleda, now turning comforter
in her turn, as her aunt's tears fell more quietly, because
more despairingly, than her own — "I know what it is — he is
not happy; — that is all. He has not succeeded well in these
farm doings, and he wants money, and he is worried — it is no
wonder if he don't seem exactly as he used to."

"And oh, that troubles me most of all!" said Mrs. Rossitur.
"The farm is bringing in nothing, I know — he don't know how
to get along with it — I was afraid it would be so; — and we
are paying nothing to uncle Orrin — and it is just a dead
weight on his hands; — and I can't bear to think of it! And
what will it come to?"

Mrs. Rossitur was now in her turn surprised into showing the
strength of her sorrows and apprehensions. Fleda was fain to
put her own out of sight, and bend her utmost powers to soothe
and compose her aunt, till they could both go down to the
breakfast-table. Perhaps, however, such a task is not uncongenial
to the man who began by asserting that solemnly ratified
treaties were only "scraps of paper."
W. L. COURTNEY.

[Illustration: NEW PEACE OFFERS
VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG "The worst of it is, I must always deny having
been there."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE SHIELDS OF ROSSELAERE
The climax of meanness and selfishness would seem to be reached
when an armed man shelters himself behind the unarmed; yet it is
not the climax, for here the artist depicts a body of German troops
sheltering themselves behind women, calculating that the Belgians
will not fire on their own countrywomen and unarmed friends, and
that so the attack may safely gain an advantage.

There is a studied contrast between the calm, orderly march of the
troops with shouldered arms and the huddled, disorderly progress
to which the townspeople are compelled.

These are not marching; they are going to their death. Several
of the women have their hands raised in frantic anguish,
their eyes are like the eyes of insanity, and one at least has
her mouth open to emit a shriek of terror.

Two of the men are in even worse condition; they are
collapsing, one forward, one backward, with outstretched hands as
if grasping at help.

The rest march on, courageously or stolidly. Some seem
hardly to understand, some understand and accept their
fate with calm resignation.

One old woman walks quietly with bowed head submissive.
In the front walks a priest, his hand raised in the gesture
of blessing his flock.
The heroism of the Catholic priesthood both in France and in Belgium
forms one of the most honourable features of the Great War, and
stands in striking contrast with the calculating diplomatic policy
of the Papacy.

There is always the same tendency in the "chief priests"
of every race and period to be tempted to sacrifice moral
considerations to expediency, and to prefer the empty fabric of an
imposing Church establishment to the people who make the Church.

But the clergy of Belgium are there to prove what the Church can
do for mankind.

This cartoon would be incomplete and would deserve
condemnation as inartistic if it were not redeemed by the priest
and the old woman.

WILLIAM MITCHELL RAMSAY.

[Illustration: THE SHIELDS OF ROSSELAERE
At Rosselaere the German troops forced the Belgian townsfolk to
march in front of them]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE OBSTINACY OF NICHOLAS
The venerable quip that what is firmness in ourselves is obstinacy
in our opponents is illustrated with a ludicrous explicitness in
the whole tenor of German official utterance since the failure of
the great drives.

The obtuseness of the Allies is so abysmal (it is again and again
complained in the Reichstag and through Wolff) that they are unable
to see that Germany is the permanently triumphant victor.

Whereas for Germany, whose cause even the neutrals judge to be
lost, to hold out at the cost of untold blood and treasure is
merely the manifestation of heaven-conferred German steadfastness.

The Army into whose obstinate corporate head it is hardest to
drive the idea of German military all-powerfulness is the Russian,
of which retreating units, actually armed with staves against a
superbly equipped (but innocent and wantonly attacked) foe, were
so stupid as to forget how to be broken and demoralized.

And this long, imperturbable, _verdamte_ Nicholas, who was declared
on the highest German authority (and what higher?)

to be annihilated twice, having turned a smashing tactical
defeat into strategical victory, bobs up serenely in another
and most inconvenient place. Absurd; particularly when "what
I tell you three times is true." ... Neonapoleon didn't remember
Moscow. But he will.

JOSEPH THORP.

[Illustration: "Why, I've killed you twice, and you dare
to come back again."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE ORDER OF MERIT

Turkey had no illusions from the beginning on the subject of the war.

If the choice had been left to the nation she would not have become
Germany's catspaw.

Unfortunately for Turkey, she has had no choice.

For years upon years the Sultan Abdul Hamid was Turkey.
Opposition to his will meant death for his opponent. Thus Turkey
became inarticulate.

Her voice was struck dumb. The revolution was looked upon
hopefully as the dawn of a new era.

Abdul Hamid was dethroned; his brother, a puppet, was exalted,
anointed, and enthroned. Power passed from the Crown, not, as
expected, to the people and its representatives, but into the hands
of a youthful adventurer, in German pay, who has led his country
from one folly to another.

Turkey did not want to fight, but she had no choice, and so she was
dragged in by the heels.

She has lost much besides her independence. The crafty German
has drained her of supplies while giving naught in return.

The German's policy is to strive throughout for a weak Turkey.

The weaker Turkey can be made, the better will it be for Germany,
which hopes still, no matter what may happen elsewhere,
so to manipulate things as to dominate the Ottoman Empire
after the war.

Turkey is still a rich country, in spite of her enormous sacrifices
in the past decade.

She has been exploited from end to end by the German adventurer,
who will continue the process of bleeding so long as there is
safety in the method; but Turkey is beginning to ask herself, as
does the figure of the fat Pasha in the cartoon: "And is this all
the compensation I get?"

An Iron Cross does not pay for the loss of half a million
good soldiers.

Yet that is the exact measure of Turkey's reward.

RALPH D. BLUMENFELD.

[Illustration: THE ORDER OF MERIT
TURKEY: "And is this all the compensation I get?"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE MARSHES OF PINSK
In what are we most like our kinsmen the Germans, and in what most
unlike?

I was convicted of Teutonism when first, in Germany, I ate "brod
und butter," and found the words pronounced in an English
way, slurred.
But if we are like the Germans in the names of simple and
childish things, we grow more unlike them, we draw farther apart
from them, as we grow up.

We love war less and less, as they love it more. We love our
word of honour more and more as they, for the love of war, love
their word less.

There is no nation in the world more unlike us; because
there is no war so perfect, so conscious, so complete as the
German.

And being thus all-predominant, German war is the greatest
of outrages on life and death. We English have a singular degree
of respect for the dead.

It has no doubt expressed itself in some slight follies and
vulgarities, such as certain funeral customs, not long gone by;
but such respect is a national virtue and emotion.

No nation loving war harbours that virtue.
And in nothing do the kinsmen with whom we have much language
in common differ from us more than in the policy that brought this
Prussian host to cumber the stagnant waters of the Marshes of Pinsk.

The love of war has cast them there, displayed, profaned,
in the "cold obstruction" of their dissolution. Corruption
is not sensible corruption when it is a secret in earth where
no eye, no hand, no breathing can be aware of it.

There is no offence in the grave. But the lover of war, the
Power that loved war so much as to break its oath for the
love of war, and for the love of war to strike aside the
hand of the peace-maker, Arbitration, that Power has chosen thus
to expose and to betray the multitude of the dead.

ALICE MEYNELL.

[Illustration: THE MARSHES OF PINSK, NOVEMBER, 1915.

The Kaiser said last spring: "When the leaves fall you'll have
peace."

They have!]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

GOD WITH US
Three _apaches_ sit crouched in shelter waiting the
moment to strike.
One is old and _gaga_, his ancient fingers splayed on the
ground to support him and his face puckered with the petulance
of age. One is a soft shapeless figure--clearly with small
heart for the business, for he squats there as limp as a sack.
One is the true stage conspirator with a long pendulous nose
and narrow eyes. His knife is in his teeth, and he would
clearly like to keep it there, for he has no stomach for a
fight.
He will only strike if he can get in a secret blow. The leader
of the gang has the furtive air of the criminal, his chin sunk
on his breast, and his cap slouched over his brows.

His right hand holds a stiletto, his pockets bulge with weapons
or plunder, his left hand is raised with the air of a priest
encouraging his flock. And his words are the words of
religion--"God with us." At the sign the motley crew will get
to work.

It is wholesome to strip the wrappings from grandiose things.
Public crimes are no less crimes because they are committed to the
sound of trumpets, and the chicanery of crowned intriguers is morally
the same as the tricks of hedge bandits.

It is privilege of genius to get down to fundamentals.
Behind the stately speech of international _pourparlers_ and
the rhetoric of national appeals burn the old lust and greed and
rapine.

A stab in the dark is still a stab in the dark though courts
and councils are the miscreants. A war of aggression is not
less brigandage because the armies march to proud songs and
summon the Almighty to their aid.

Raemaekers has done much to clear the eyes of humanity. The
monarch of _Felix Austria_, with the mantle of the Holy Roman
Empire still dragging from his shoulders, is no more than a puzzled,
broken old man, crowded in this bad business beside the Grand Turk,
against whom his fathers defended Europe.

The preposterous Ferdinand, shorn of his bombast, is only a
chicken-hearted assassin. The leader of the band, the All
Highest himself, when stripped of his white cloak and silver helmet,
shows the slouch and the furtive ferocity of the street-corner bravo.

And the cry "God with us," which once rallied Crusades, has
become on such lips the signal of the _apache_.

JOHN BUCHAN.

[Illustration: GOD WITH US

"At the command 'Gott mit uns' you will go for them."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
FERDINAND THE CHAMELEON
There is one whole field of the evil international influence of
Germany in which Ferdinand of Bulgaria is a much more important and
symbolic person than William of Prussia.

He is, of course, a cynical cosmopolitan. He is in great part a
Jew, and an advanced type of that _mauvais juif_ who is the principal
obstacle to all the attempts of the more genuine and honest Jews
to erect a rational status for their people.

Like almost every man of this type, he is a Jingo without being a
patriot.

That is to say, he is of the type that believes in big armaments
and in a diplomacy even more brutal than armaments; but the
militarism and diplomacy are not humanized either by the ancient
national sanctities which surround the Czar of Russia, or the
spontaneous national popularity which established the King of Serbia.

He is not national, but international; and even in his peaceful
activities has been not so much a neutral as a spy.

In the accompanying cartoon the Dutch caricaturist has thrust with
his pencil at the central point of this falsity.

It is something which is probably the central point of everything
everywhere, but is especially the central point of everything
connected with the deep quarrels of Eastern Europe.

It is religion.

Russian Orthodoxy is an enormously genuine thing; Austrian Romanism
is a genuine thing; Islam is a genuine thing; Israel, for that
matter, is also a genuine thing.

But Ferdinand of Bulgaria is not a genuine thing; and he represents
the whole part played by Prussia in these ancient disputes.

That part is the very reverse of genuine; it is a piece
of ludicrous and transparent humbug.

If Prussia had any religion, it would be a northern perversion
of Protestantism utterly distant from and indifferent to
the controversies of Slavonic Catholics.

But Prussia has no religion.

For her there is no God; and Ferdinand is his prophet.

G. K. CHESTERTON.

[Illustration: FERDINAND THE CHAMELEON

"I was a Catholic, but, needing Russian help, I became a Greek
Orthodox.
Now I need the Austrians, I again become Catholic.

Should things turn out badly, I can again revert to Greek Orthodoxy."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE LATIN SISTERS 
The Latin Sisters!

Note carefully the expression of France as contrasted with
that of Italy. France, violated by the Hun, exhibits grim
determination made sacrosanct by suffering. Italy's face
glows with enthusiasm. One can conceive of the one fighting on
to avenge her martyrs, steadfast to the inevitable end when Right
triumphs over Might.

One can conceive of the other drawing her sword because of the blood
tie which links them together in a bond that craft and specious
lies have tried in vain to sunder.

What do they stand for, these two noble sisters? Everything
which can be included in the word--ART. Everything which has
built up, stone upon stone, the stately temple of Civilization,
everything which has served to humanize mankind and to differentiate
him from the beasts of Prussia.

Looking at these two sisters, one wonders that there are
still to be found in England mothers who allow their children
to be taught German.

One hazards the conjecture that it might well be imparted to
exceptionally wicked children, if there be any, because none can
question that the Teutonic tongue will be spoken almost exclusively
in the nethermost deeps of Hades until, and probably after, the Day
of Judgment.

For my sins I studied German in Germany, and I rejoice to
think that I have forgotten nearly every word of that raucous
and obscene language.
Had I a child to educate, and the choice between German and
Choctaw were forced upon me, I should not select German. French,
Italian, and Spanish, cognate tongues, easy to learn,
delightful to speak, hold out sweet allurements to English
children. Do not these suffice? If any mother who happens to
read these lines is considering the propriety of teaching
German to a daughter, let her weigh well the responsibility
which she is deliberately assuming.

To master any foreign language, it is necessary to talk much
and often with the natives.

Do Englishwomen wish to talk with any Huns after this war? What
will be the feeling of an English mother whose daughter marries
a Hun any time within the next twenty years? And such a mother
will know that she planted the seed which ripened into
catastrophe when she permitted her child to acquire the language
of our detestable and detested enemies.

HORACE ANNESLEY VACHELL.

[Illustration: THE LATIN SISTERS
ITALY: "Indeed she is my sister"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
MISUNDERSTOOD
It need not necessarily be supposed that the directors of German
destiny, who are not devoid of intelligence, took the ravings of
Bernhardi over-seriously.

He had his special uses no doubt before the day.

But on the morrow of the day, when questions of responsibility came
to be raised, he became one of many inconvenient witnesses; and
there has scarcely been a better joke among the grim humours of
this catastrophe than the mission of this Redhot-Gospeller of the
New Unchivalry of War to explain to "those idiotic Yankees" that
he was really an ardent pacifist.

The most just, the most brilliant, the most bitter pamphlet
of invective could surely not say so much as this reeking
cleaver, those bloody hands, that fatuous leer and gesture,
this rigid victim.

Bernhardism was not a mere windy theory. It was exactly
practised on the Belgian people.

And this spare, dignified figure of Uncle Sam, contemptuously
incredulous, is, I make bold to say, a more representative symbol
of the American people than one which our impatience sometimes
tempts us now to draw.

Most Americans now regret, as Pope Benedict must regret, that the
first most cruel rape of Belgium was allowed to pass without formal
protest in the name of civilization.

But that occasion gone, none other, not the _Lusitania_ even,
showed so clear an opportunity. A people's sentiments are
not necessarily expressed by the action of its Government,
which moves always in fetters. Nor has President Wilson's task
been as simple as his critics on this or the other side of the
Atlantic profess to believe.

JOSEPH THORP.

[Illustration: MISUNDERSTOOD

BERNHARDI: "Indeed I am the most humane fellow in the world."]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
PROSPERITY REIGNS IN FLANDERS
Wherever Prussia rules she has only one method of ruling--that of
terror.

Wherever she finds civilization and the wealth which
civilization creates, she can do nothing but despoil. She
is as incapable of persuasion as of creation. No people forced
to endure her rule have ever been won to prefer it as the Alsatians
came to prefer the rule of France or as many Indians have come to
prefer the rule of England.

In Belgium she has been especially herself in this respect.

A wise policy would have dictated such a careful respect for
private rights and such a deference to native traditions as
might conceivably have weakened the determination of the Belgians
to resist to the death those who had violated their national
independence.

But Prussia is incapable of such a policy.

In any territory which she occupies, whether temporarily or
permanently, her only method is terror and her only aim loot.
She did indeed send some of her tame Socialists to Brussels
to embark on the hopeless enterprise of persuading the Belgian
Socialists that honour and patriotism were _ideologies bourgeoises_
and that the "economic interests" of Belgium would be best promoted
by a submission.

These pedantic barbarians got the answer which they deserved;
but on their pettifogging thesis Raemaekers' cartoon is perhaps
the best commentary.

The "prosperity" of Belgium under Prussian rule has consisted
in the systematic looting, in violation of international law,
of the wealth accumulated by the free citizens of Belgium, for the
advantage of their Prussian rulers; while to the mass of the people
it has brought and, until it is forever destroyed, can bring nothing
but that slavery which the Prussians have themselves accepted and
which they would now impose upon the whole civilization of Europe.

CECIL CHESTERTON.

[Illustration: PROSPERITY REIGNS IN FLANDERS
Four hundred and eighty millions of francs have been imposed
as a war tax, but soup is given gratis.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE LAST HOHENZOLLERN
Behind him stands the embodiment of all that Prussian kultur and
efficiency mean, wooden uninventiveness, clockwork accuracy of
movement--without soul or inspiration.

He himself is thin and scraggy--Raemaekers has intensified
these characteristics, but even so the caricature of the reality
is more accurate than unkind.

Many months ago, this vacuous heir of the house of Hohenzollern
set to work on the task of overcoming France, and the result
... may be found in bundles of four, going back to the incinerators
beyond Aix, in the piled corpses before the French positions at
and about Verdun; some of the results, the swag of the decadent
burglar, went back in sacks from the châteaux that this despicable
thing polluted and robbed as might any Sikes from Portland or
Pentonville.

He is the embodiment, himself, of the last phase of Prussian
kultur.
Somewhere back in the history of Prussia its rulers had to
invent and to create, and then kultur brought forth hard
men; later, it became possible to copy, and then kultur brought
forth mechanical perfection rather than creative perfection,
systematized its theories of life and work, and brought into being
a class of men just a little meaner, more rigid, more automaton-like,
than the original class; having reduced life to one system, and
that without soul or ideal, kultur brought forth types lacking more
and more in originality.

Here stands the culminating type; he will copy the good German
Gott--he is incapable of originating anything--and will "do
the same to France."
As far as lies in his power, he has done it; in the day
of reckoning, Germany will judge how he has done it, and it is to
be hoped that Germany will give him his just reward, for no punishment
could be more fitting.

The rest of the world already knows his vacuity, his utter
uselessness, his criminal decadence. As his father was
stripped of the Garter, so is he here shown stripped of the
attributes to which, in earlier days, he made false claim.
There remains a foolish knave posturing--and that is the real Crown
Prince of Germany.

E. CHARLES VIVIAN.

[Illustration: GOTT STRAFE ENGLAND!

It is time they were
gone, for they are running up to seed, this set; I have got
another fine set almost ready."

Mrs. Rossitur looked at her again, as if she had been a sort
of terrestrial angel.

"And how much will you get for them?"

"I don't know exactly — threepence, or sixpence, perhaps — I
guess not so much — they are so easily raised; though I don't
believe there are so fine as mine to be seen in this region.
If I only had somebody to water the strawberries! — we should
have a great many. Aunt Lucy, I am going to send as many as I
can without robbing uncle Rolf — he sha'n't miss them; but the
rest of us don't mind eating rather fewer than usual? I shall
make a good deal by them. And I think these morning rides do
Hugh good; don't you think so?"

"And what have you been busy about ever since breakfast,
Fleda?"

"Oh — two or three things," said Fleda, lightly.

"What?"

"I had bread to make — and then I thought, while my hands were
in, I would make a custard for uncle Rolf."

"You needn't have done that, dear, it was not necessary."

"Yes it was, because, you know, we have only fried pork for
dinner to-day; and while we have the milk and eggs, it doesn't
cost much — the sugar is almost nothing. He will like it
better, and so will Hugh. As for you," said Fleda, gently
touching her forehead again, "you know it is of no
consequence!"

"I wish you would think yourself of some consequence," said
Mrs. Rossitur.

"Don't I think myself of consequence?" said Fleda,
affectionately. "I don't know how you'd all get on without me.
What do you think I have a mind to do now, by way of resting
myself?"

"Well?" said Mrs. Rossitur, thinking of something else.

"It is the day for making presents to the minister, you know?"

"The minister? —"

"Yes, the new minister — they expect him to-day; you have
heard of it; the things are all to be carried to his house to-
day. I have a great notion to go and see the fun — If I only
had anything in the world I could possibly take with me —"

"Aren't you too tired, dear?"

"No — it would rest me; it is early yet; if I only had
something to take! I couldn't go without taking something —"

"A basket of eggs?" said Mrs. Rossitur.

"Can't, aunt Lucy — I can't spare them; so many of the hens
are setting now. A basket of strawberries! — that's the thing!
I've got enough picked for that and to-night too. That will
do!"

Fleda's preparations were soon made, and with her basket on
her arm she was ready to set forth.

"If pride had not been a little put down in me," she said,
smiling, "I suppose I should rather stay at home than go with
such a petty offering. And no doubt every one that sees it or
hears of it will lay it to anything but the right reason. So
much the world knows about the people it judges! It is too bad
to leave you all alone, aunt Lucy."

Mrs. Rossitur pulled her down for a kiss — a kiss in which how
much was said on both sides! — and Fleda set forth, choosing,
as she very commonly did, the old-time way through the
kitchen.

"Off again?" said Barby, who was on her knees scrubbing the
great flag-stones of the hearth.

"Yes, I am going up to see the donation party."

"Has the minister come?"

"No, but he is coming to-day, I understand."

"He ha'n't preached for 'em yet, has he?"

"Not yet; I suppose he will next Sunday."

"They are in a mighty hurry to give him a donation party!"
said Barby. "I'd a' waited till he was here first. I don't
believe they'd be quite so spry with their donations if they
had paid the last man up as they ought. I'd rather give a man
what belongs to him, and make him presents afterwards."

"Why, so I hope they will, Barby," said Fleda, laughing. But
Barby said no more.

The parsonage-house was about a quarter of a mile, a little
more, from the saw-mill, in a line at right angles with the
main road. Fleda took Hugh from his work, to see her safe
there. The road ran north, keeping near the level of the mid-
hill, where it branched off a little below the saw-mill; and
as the ground continued rising towards the east, and was well
clothed with woods, the way, at this hour, was still
pleasantly shady. To the left, the same slope of ground
carried down to the foot of the hill gave them an
uninterrupted view over a wide plain or bottom, edged in the
distance with a circle of gently swelling hills. Close against
the hills, in the far corner of the plain, lay the little
village of Queechy Run, hid from sight by a slight intervening
rise of ground. Not a chimney showed itself in the whole
spread of country. A sunny landscape just now; but rich in
picturesque associations of hay-cocks and win-rows, spotting
it near and far; and close by below them was a field of mowers
at work; they could distinctly hear the measured rush of the
scythes through the grass, and then the soft clink of the
rifles would seem to play some old delicious tune of childish
days. Fleda made Hugh stand still to listen. It was a warm
day, but "the sweet south that breathes upon a bank of
violets" could hardly be more sweet than the air which, coming
to them over the whole breadth of the valley, had been charged
by the new-made hay.

"How good it is, Hugh," said Fleda, "that one can get out of
doors, and forget everything that ever happened or ever will
happen within four walls!"

"Do you?" said Hugh, rather soberly.

"Yes, I do — even in my flower-patch, right before the house-
door; but here" — said Fleda, turning away, and swinging her
basket of strawberries as she went, "I have no idea I ever did
such a thing as make bread, — and how clothes get mended I do
not comprehend in the least!"

"And have you forgotten the pease and the asparagus too?"

"I am afraid you haven't, dear Hugh," said Fleda, linking her
arm within his. "Hugh — I must find some way to make money."

"More money!" said Hugh, smiling.

"Yes — this garden business is all very well, but it doesn't
come to any very great things after all, if you are aware of
it; and Hugh, I want to get aunt Lucy a new dress. I can't
bear to see her in that old merino, and it isn't good for her.
Why, Hugh, she couldn't possibly see anybody, if anybody
should come to the house."

"Who is there to come?" said Hugh.

"Why, nobody; but still, she ought not to be so."

"What more can you do, dear Fleda? You work a great deal too
hard already," said Hugh, sighing. "You should have seen the
way father and mother looked at you last night when you were
asleep on the sofa."

Fleda stifled her sigh, and went on.

"I am sure there are things that might be done — things for
the booksellers — translating, or copying, or something — I
don't know exactly — I have heard of people's doing such
things. I mean to write to uncle Orrin, and ask him. I am sure
he can manage it for me."

"What were you writing the other night?" said Hugh, suddenly.

"When!"

"The other night — when you were writing by the fire-light? I
saw your pencil scribbling away at a furious rate over the
paper, and you kept your hand up carefully between me and your
face, but I could see it was something very interesting. Ha!"
— said Hugh, laughingly trying to get another view of Fleda's
face which was again kept from him. "Send that to uncle Orrin,
Fleda; — or show it to me first, and then I will tell you."

Fleda made no answer; and at the parsonage-door Hugh left her.

Two or three wagons were standing there, but nobody to be
seen. Fleda went up the steps and crossed the broad piazza,
brown and unpainted, but picturesque still, and guided by the
sound of tongues turned to the right, where she found a large
low room, the very centre of the stir. But the stir had not by
any means reached the height yet. Not more than a dozen people
were gathered. Here were aunt Syra and Mrs. These Bible
studies were first given in embryo to pastors, evangelists,
teachers, and other Christian leaders in conferences held in China.

Later, printed in three volumes, they brought great blessing
to many.

_Other Books by Ruth Paxson_
GOD'S PLAN OF REDEMPTION
It will aid one in personal Bible study or provide a practical
outline for study groups. The questions are based on the teaching
in each chapter of "Life on the Highest Plane.""I humbly submit," said the doctor, graciously, "that nothing
ought to be expected of gentlemen that — a — are so unhappy as
to be alone; for they really — a — have nothing to give — but
themselves."

There was a shout of merriment.

"And suppos'n that's a gift that nobody wants?" said Mrs.
Douglass's sharp eye and voice at once.

"In that case," said the doctor, "I really — Miss Ringgan, may
I — a — may I relieve your hand of this fair burden?"

"It is not a very fair burden, Sir," said Fleda, laughing, and
relinquishing her strawberries.

"Ah, but, fair, you know, I mean — we speak — in that sense —
Mrs. Douglass, here is by far the most elegant offering that
your hands will have the honour of receiving this day."

"I hope so," said Mrs. Douglass, "or there wont be much to eat
for the minister. Did you never take notice how elegant things
somehow made folks grow poor?"

"I guess he'd as lieve see something a little substantial,"
said aunt Syra.

"Well, now," said the doctor, "here is Miss Ringgan, who is
unquestionably — a —elegant! — and I am sure nobody will say
that she — looks poor."

In one sense, surely not! There could not be two opinions. But
with all the fairness of health, and the flush which two or
three feelings had brought to her cheeks, there was a look as
if the workings of the mind had refined away a little of the
strength of the physical frame, and as if growing poor in Mrs.
Douglass's sense — that is, thin, might easily be the next
step.

"What's your uncle going to give us, Fleda?" said aunt Syra.

But Fleda was saved replying; for Mrs. Douglass, who, if she
was sharp, could be good-natured too, and had watched to see
how Fleda took the double fire upon elegance and poverty,
could bear no more trial of that sweet gentle face. Without
giving her time to answer, she carried her off to see the
things already stored in the closet, bidding the doctor, over
her shoulder, "be off after his goods, whether he had got 'em
or no."

There was certainly a promising beginning made for the future
minister's comfort. One shelf was already completely stocked
with pies, and another showed a quantity of cake, and biscuits
enough to last a good-sized family for several meals.

"That is always the way," said Mrs. Douglass; "it's the
strangest thing that folks has no sense! Now, one half o' them
pies 'll be dried up afore they can eat the rest; 't aint much
loss, for Mis' Prin sent 'em down, and if they are worth
anything, it's the first time anything ever come out of her
house that was. Now look at them biscuit!"

"How many are coming to eat them?" said Fleda.

"How?"

"How large a family has the minister?"

"He ha'n't a bit of a family! He ain't married."

"Not!"

At the grave way in which Mrs. Douglass faced round upon her
and answered, and at the idea of a single mouth devoted to all
that closetful Fleda's gravity gave place to most
uncontrollable merriment.

"No," said Mrs. Douglass, with a curious twist of her mouth,
but commanding herself, — "he aint, to be sure, not yet. He
ha'n't any family but himself and some sort of a housekeeper,
I suppose; they'll divide the house between 'em."

"And the biscuits, I hope," said Fleda. "But what will he do
with all the other things, Mrs. Douglass?"

"Sell 'em if he don't want 'em," said Mrs. Douglass,
quizzically. "Shut up, Fleda, I forget who sent them biscuit —
somebody that calculated to make a show for a little, I
reckon. My sakes! I believe it was Mis' Springer herself! she
didn't hear me though," said Mrs. Douglass, peeping out of the
half-open door. "It's a good thing the world aint all alike;
there's Mis' Plumfield — stop now, and I'll tell you all she
sent; that big jar of lard, there's as good as eighteen or
twenty pound — and that basket of eggs, I don't know how many
there is — and that cheese, a real fine one, I'll be bound,
she wouldn't pick out the worst in her dairy; and Seth fetched
down a hundred weight of corn meal, and another of rye flour;
now, that's what I call doing things something like; if
everybody else would keep up their end as well as they keep up
their'n, the world wouldn't be quite so one-sided as it is. I
never see the time yet when I couldn't tell where to find Mis'
Plumfield."

"No, nor anybody else," said Fleda, looking happy.

"There's Mis' Silbert couldn't find nothing better to send
than a kag of soap," Mrs. Douglass went on, seeming very much
amused; "I _was_ beat when I saw that walk in! I should think
she'd feel streaked to come here by and by, and see it a-
standing between Mis' Plumfield's lard and Mis' Clavering's
pork — that's a handsome kag of pork, aint it? What's that man
done with your strawberries? I'll put 'em up here, afore
somebody takes a notion to 'em. I'll let the minister know who
he's got to thank for 'em," said she, winking at Fleda.
"Where's Dr. Quackenboss?"

"Coming, Ma'am!" And the patriot, and the patriot alone, has
not only the right but the duty of criticising his own
country.

For us it is better to regard the figure as an
international, and often anti-national, character who exists in
all nations, and who, even in a belligerent country like our own,
can often contrive to be neutral and worse than neutral.

A prosperous bully with the white waistcoat and coarse, heavily
cuffed hands, with which such prosperity very frequently clothes
itself, is represented as thrusting food in the starved face of an
evicted Belgian and saying: "Eat and hold your tongue."

The situation is worthy of such record, if only because it
emphasizes an element in the general German plot against the
world which is often forgotten in phrases about fire and sword.

The Prussianized person is not only a military tyrant; he is equally
and more often a mercantile tyrant.

And what is in this respect true of the German is as true or
truer of the Pro-German.

The cosmopolitan agent of Prussia is a commercial agent, and
works by those modern methods of bribing and sacking, of boycott
and blackmail, which are not only meaner, but often more
cruel, than militarism. For any one who realizes the power of
such international combinations, there is the more credit due
to the artists and men of letters who, like Raemaekers himself,
have decisively chosen their side while the issue was very
doubtful. And among the Belgian confrères there must
certainly have been many who showed as much courage as any
soldier, when they decided not to eat and be silent, but
to starve and to speak.

G. K. CHESTERTON.

[Illustration: THE DUTCH JOURNALIST TO HIS BELGIAN CONFRÈRE:
"Eat and hold your tongue."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

A BORED CRITIC
From Homeric warfare to subterranean conflict of modern trenches
is a far cry, and Ares, God of Battles, may well yawn at the
entertainment with which the Demon of War is providing him.

But the spectator of this grim "revue" lacks something of
the patience of its creator, and our Mephistopheles, marking
the god's protest, will doubtless hurry the scene and
diversify it with new devilries to restore his interest.
Indeed, that has happened since Raemaekers made his
picture.

The etiquette of butchery has become more complicated since Troy
fell, yet it has been so far preserved till now that the fiend
measures Ares with his eyes and speculates as to how far the martial
god may be expected to tolerate his novel engines.

Will asphyxiating gas, and destruction of non-combatants and
neutrals on land and sea, trouble him?
Or will he demand the rules of the game, and decline to applaud
this satire on civilization, although mounted and produced
regardless of cost and reckoning?

As the devil's own entertainment consists in watching the effects
of his masterpiece on this warlike spectator, so it may
be that those who "staged" the greatest war in mankind's history
derive some bitter instruction from its reception by mankind.

They know now that it is condemned by every civilized nation on
earth; and before these lines are published their uncivilized
catspaws will have ample reason to condemn it also.

Neutrals there must be, but impartials none.

The sense and spirit of the thinking world now go so far with human
reason that they demand a condition of freedom for all men and
nations, be they weak or powerful.

That ideal inspires the majority of human kind, and it follows that
the evolution of morals sets strongly on the side of the Allies.

"War," says Bernhardi, "gives a biologically just decision,
since its decisions rest on the very nature of things."

So be it.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

[Illustration: "I say, do suggest something new.
— I
_am_ beat!"

"Where's t'other one?" said Mrs. Douglass, between paroxysms.

"Why, I ha'n't done nothin' to it," said Philetus, dismally;
"there was teu on 'em afore I started, and I took and tied 'em
together, and hitched 'em onto the stick, and that one must
ha' loosened itself off some way — I believe the darned thing
did it o' purpose."

"I guess your mother knowed that one wouldn't keep till it got
here," said Mrs. Douglass.

The room was now all one shout, in the midst of which poor
Philetus took himself off as speedily as possible. Before
Fleda had dried her eyes, her attention was taken by a lady
and gentleman who had just got out of a vehicle of more than
the ordinary pretension, and were coming up to the door. The
gentleman was young — the lady was not; both had a
particularly amiable and pleasant appearance; but about the
lady there was something that moved Fleda singularly, and,
somehow, touched the spring of old memories, which she felt
stirring at the sight of her. As they neared the house she
lost them; then they entered the room and came through it
slowly, looking about them with an air of good-humoured
amusement. Fleda's eye was fixed, but her mind puzzled itself
in vain to recover what, in her experience, had been connected
with that fair and lady-like physiognomy, and the bland smile
that was overlooked by those acute eyes. The eyes met hers,
and then seemed to reflect her doubt, for they remained as
fixed as her own, while the lady, quickening her steps, came
up to her.

"I am sure," she said, holding out her hand, and with a gentle
graciousness that was very agreeable, "I am sure you are
somebody I know. What is your name?"

"Fleda Ringgan."

"I thought so!" said the lady, now shaking her hand warmly,
and kissing her; "I knew nobody could have been your mother
but Amy Charlton! How like her you look! Don't you know me?
don't you remember Mrs. Evelyn?"

"Mrs. Evelyn!" said Fleda, the whole coming back to her at
once.

"You remember me now? — How well I recollect you! and all that
old time at Montepoole. Poor little creature that you were!
and dear little creature, as I am sure you have been ever
since! And how is your dear aunt Lucy?"

Fleda answered that she was well.

"I used to love her very much — that was before I knew you —
before she went abroad. We have just got home — this spring;
and now we are staying at Montepoole for a few days. I shall
come and see her to-morrow — I knew you were somewhere in this
region, but I did not know exactly where to find you; that was
one reason why I came here to-day, I thought I might hear
something of you. And where are your aunt Lucy's children? and
how are they?"

"Hugh is at home," said Fleda, "and rather delicate — Charlton
is in the army."

"In the army! In Mexico! —"

"In Mexico he has been —"

"Your poor aunt Lucy!"

"— In Mexico he has been, but he is just coming home now — he
has been wounded, and he is coming home to spend a long
furlough."

"Coming home. That will make you all very happy. And Hugh is
delicate; and how are you, love? you hardly look like a
country-girl. Mr. Olmney!" said Mrs. Evelyn, looking round for
her companion, who was standing quietly a few steps off,
surveying the scene. "Mr. Olmney! I am going to do you a
favour, Sir, in introducing you to Miss Ringgan, a very old
friend of mine. Mr. Olmney, these are not exactly the apple-
cheeks and _robustious_ demonstrations we are taught to look for
in country-land."

This was said with a kind of sly funny enjoyment, which took
away everything disagreeable from the appeal; but Fleda
conceived a favourable opinion of the person to whom it was
made from the fact that he paid her no compliment, and made no
answer beyond a very pleasant smile.

"What is Mrs. Evelyn's definition of a _very old_ friend?" said
he, with another smile, as that lady moved off to take a more
particular view of what she had come to see. "To judge by the
specimen before me, I should consider it very equivocal."

"Perhaps Mrs. Evelyn counts friendships by inheritance," said
Fleda. "I think they ought to be counted so."

" 'Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not,' "
said the young man.

Fleda looked up and smiled a pleased answer.

"There is something very lovely in the faithfulness of tried
friendship, and very uncommon."

"I know that it is uncommon only by hearsay," said Fleda. It
is possible that some people who do not understand this philosophy
may use Bergson's name as a cloak for giving up all self-direction
and letting themselves go intellectually to pieces, just as hooligans
may use a time of revolution to plunder in the name of the Red Guard.

But Bergson's philosophy is in reality as far from teaching mere
laziness as Communism is from being mere destruction of the old
social order.

Bergson attacks the use to which we usually put our minds, but
he most certainly does not suggest that a philosopher
should not use his mind at all; he is to use it for all it is
worth, only differently, more efficiently for the purpose he
has in view, the purpose of knowing for its own sake.

There is, of course, a sense in which doing anything in the right
way is simply letting one's self go, for after all it
is easier to do a thing well than badlyit certainly takes much
less effort to produce the same amount of result.

So to know in the way which Bergson recommends does in a sense
come more easily than attempting to get the knowledge we want by
inappropriate methods.

If this saving of waste effort is a fault, then Bergson must plead
guilty.

But as the field of knowledge open to us is far too wide for any
one mind to explore, the new method of knowing, though it
requires less effort than the old to produce the same result, does
not thereby let us off more easily, for with a better instrument
it becomes possible to work for a greater result.

It is not because it affords an excuse for laziness that
Bergson's philosophy is popular but because it gives expression
to a feeling which is very widespread at the present time, a
distrust of systems, theories, logical constructions, the assumption
of premisses and then the acceptance of everything that follows
logically from them.

There is a sense of impatience with thought and a thirst for
the actual, the concrete.

It is because the whole drift of Bergson's writing is an incitement
to throw over abstractions and get back to facts that so many
people read him, hoping that he will put into words and find
an answer to the unformulated doubt that haunts them.

It was in this spirit that the writer undertook the study of
Bergson.
You are, I am sure, a worthy
representative of Peter and Paul; and I am — a — a pupil of
Esculapius, Sir! You are the intellectual physician, and I am
the external."

"I hope we shall both prove ourselves good workmen, Sir," said
the young minister, shaking the doctor's hand heartily.

"This is Dr. Quackenboss; Mr. Olmney," said Fleda, making a
tremendous effort. But though she could see corresponding
indications about her companion's eyes and mouth, she admired
the kindness and self-command with which he listened to the
doctor's civilities and answered them; expressing his grateful
sense of the favours received, not only from him, but from
others.

"Oh — a little to begin with," said the doctor, looking round
upon the room, which would certainly have furnished _that_ for
fifty people; "I hope we aint done yet by considerable — But
here is Miss Ringgan, Mr. — a — Ummin, that has brought you
some of the fruits of her own garden, with her own fair hands
— a basket of fine strawberries, which, I am sure — a — will
make you forget everything else!"

Mr. Olmney had the good-breeding not to look at Fleda, as he
answered, "I am sure the spirit of kindness was the same in
all, Dr. Quackenboss, and I trust not to forget that readily."

Others now came up; and Mr. Olmney was walked off to be "made
acquainted" with all, or with all the chief of his
parishioners then and there assembled. Fleda watched him going
about, shaking hands, talking and smiling, in all directions,
with about as much freedom of locomotion as a fly in a
spider's web; till, at Mrs. Evelyn's approach, the others fell
off a little, and taking him by the arm, she rescued him.

"My dear Mr. Olmney," she whispered, with an intensely amused
face, "I shall have a vision of you every day for a month to
come, sitting down to dinner, with a rueful face, to a
whortleberry pie; for there are so many of them, your
conscience will not let you have anything else cooked, — you
cannot manage more than one a day."

"Pies!" said the young gentleman, as Mrs. Evelyn left talking,
to indulge her feelings in ecstatic quiet laughing — "I have a
horror of pies!"

"Yes, yes," said Mrs. Evelyn, nodding her head delightedly, as
she drew him towards the pantry — "I know! — Come and see what
is in store for you. You are to do penance for a month to come
with tin pans of blackberry jam, fringed with pie crust — no,
they can't be blackberries, they must be raspberries, the
blackberries are not ripe yet. And you may sup upon cake and
custards, unless you give the custards for the little pig out
there, he will want something."

"A pig!" said Mr. Olmney, in amaze — Mrs. Evelyn again giving
out in distress. "A pig!" said Mr. Olmney.

"Yes, a pig — a very little one," said Mrs. Evelyn,
convulsively. "I am sure he is hungry now."

They had reached the pantry, and Mr. Olmney's face was all
that was wanting to Mrs. Evelyn's delight. How she smothered
it, so that it should go no further than to distress his self-
command, is a mystery known only to the initiated. Mrs.
Douglass was forthwith called into council.

"Mrs. Douglass," said Mr. Olmney, "I feel very much inclined
to play the host, and beg my friends to share with me some of
these good things they have been so bountifully providing."

"He would enjoy them much more than he would alone, Mrs.
Douglass," said Mrs. Evelyn, who still had hold of Mr.
Olmney's arm, looking round to the lady with a most benign
face.

"I reckon some of 'em would be past enjoying by the time he
got to 'em, wouldn't they?" From that attitude of mind the
Prussian will never emerge. We shall, please God, see that mood
in all its beauty in later stages of the war, when the coercion
of the Prussian upon his own soil leads to acts indefensible by
Prussian logic.

We have already had a taste of this sort of reasoning when the
royalties fled from Karlsruhe and when the murderers upon the
sinking Zeppelin received the reward due to men who boast
that they will not keep faith.

HILAIRE BELLOC.

[Illustration: THE EX-CONVICT
"I was a 'lifer,' but they found I had many abilities for
bringing civilization amongst our neighbours, so now I am a
soldier."]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
MISS CAVELL
Most of the English caricaturists are much too complimentary to the
German Emperor.

They draw his moustaches, but not his face. Now his moustaches
are exactly what he, or the whole Prussian school he represents,
particularly wishes us to look at.

They give him the fierce air of a fighting cock; and however little
we may like fierceness, there will always be a certain residual
respect for fighting, even in a cock.

Now the Junker moustache is a fake; almost as much so as
if it were stuck on with gum.

It is, as Mr. Belloc has remarked, curled in a machine all night
lest it should hang down.

Raemaekers, in the sketch which shows the Kaiser as waiting
for Nurse Cavell's death to say, "Now you can bring me the
American protest," has gone behind the moustache to the face,
and behind the face to the type and the spirit.

The Emperor is not commanding in a lordly voice from a throne, but
with a leer and behind a curtain.

In the few lines of the lean, unnatural face is written the
real history of the Hohenzollerns, the kind of history not
often touched on in our comfortable English humour, but common
to the realism of Continental art: the madness of Frederick
William, the perversion of Frederick the Great, the hint, mingled
with subtler talents, of the mere idiocy that seems to have flowered
again in the last heir of that inhuman house.

But Mr. Olmney's attention was at the moment forcibly called
off by the "income" of a parishioner.

"I suppose," said Fleda, "his thievish character must depend
entirely on the use he makes of what he has."

"I don't know," said Mrs. Evelyn, shaking her head; "I think
the possession of great wealth is very hardening."

"To a fine nature?" said Fleda.

Mrs. Evelyn shook her head again, but did not seem to think it
worth while to reply; and Fleda was trying the question in her
own mind whether wealth or poverty might be the most hardening
in its effects; when Mr. He'll run when he see me a-comin',
but I'll put some peppermints in my pocket, and mebbe they'd
help catch him."
"Oh, Mrs. Gray," said Esther, "I am so glad that you are going
to help Billy. I saw him the other day, and feel
sure that you can bring him around all right.Olmney's other friends were many
and engrossing, he generally contrived in time to find his way
back to their window. Meanwhile, Mrs. Evelyn had a great deal
to say to Fleda, and to hear from her; and left her at last
under an engagement to spend the next day at the Pool.

Upon Mr. Olmney's departure with Mrs. Evelyn, the attraction
which had held the company together was broken, and they
scattered fast. Many other subjects, including Sewerage,
Piping, Lighting, Warming, Ventilating, Decorating, Laying
out of Grounds, etc., are illustrated.
An extensive Compendium of Manufacturers' Announcements is also
given, in which the most reliable and approved Building
Materials, Goods, Machines, Tools, and Appliances are
described and illustrated, with addresses of the makers, etc.

The fullness, richness, cheapness, and convenience of this work
have won for it the LARGEST CIRCULATION of any Architectural
publication in the world.She edged herself out of the conversation as much as
possible, and hoped it would prove so agreeable that he would
not think of attending her home. In vain. When they made a
stand at the cross roads the doctor stood on her side.

"I hope now you've made a commencement, you will come to see
us again, Fleda," said Miss Lucy.

"What's the use of asking?" said her sister, abruptly. "If she
has a mind to, she will, and if she ha'n't, I am sure we don't
want her."

They turned off.

"Those are excellent people," said the doctor, when they were
beyond hearing; "really respectable!"

But to those actively suffering in the struggle the comic element
is difficult to seize, and it is replaced by indignation.

This fantastic misconception of the thing that is being
fought is bound to be burned right out by the realities of the
enemy acts in belligerent countries.

It will be similarly destroyed--and that in no very great space of
time--in all neutral countries as well.

Prussia will have it so. She is allowing no moral defence
to remain for her future.

How do you like our — a — the stranger?"

"Who, Sir?"

"The new-comer — this young Mr. Ummin?"

Fleda answered, but she hardly knew what, for she was musing
whether the doctor would go away or come in. They reached the
door, and Fleda invited him, with terrible effort after her
voice; the doctor having just blandly offered an opinion upon
the decided polish of Mr. Olmney's manners.


CHAPTER XXIII.


"Labour is light, where love (quoth I) doth pay;
(Saith he) light burthens heavy, if far borne."
DRAYTON.

