(http://www.pgdp.net)
and revised by Joseph E. Loewenstein, M.D.


THE EUSTACE DIAMONDS

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published in serial form in the _Fortnightly Review_ from July,
1871, to February, 1873, and in book form in 1872


CONTENTS

         I. Lizzie Greystock
        II. Lady Eustace
       III. Lucy Morris
        IV. Frank Greystock
         V. The Eustace Necklace
        VI. Lady Linlithgow's Mission
       VII. Mr. Burke's Speeches
      VIII. The Conquering Hero Comes
        IX. Showing What the Miss Fawns Said, and What Mrs. Hittaway
            Thought
         X. Lizzie and Her Lover
        XI. Lord Fawn at His Office
       XII. "I Only Thought of It"
      XIII. Showing What Frank Greystock Did
       XIV. "Doan't Thou Marry for Munny"
        XV. "I'll Give You a Hundred Guinea Brooch"
       XVI. Certainly an Heirloom
      XVII. The Diamonds Are Seen in Public
     XVIII. "And I Have Nothing to Give"
       XIX. "As My Brother"
        XX. The Diamonds Become Troublesome
       XXI. "Ianthe's Soul"
      XXII. Lady Eustace Procures a Pony for the Use of Her Cousin
     XXIII. Frank Greystock's First Visit to Portray
      XXIV. Showing What Frank Greystock Thought About Marriage
       XXV. Mr. Dove's Opinion
      XXVI. Mr. Gowran Is Very Funny
     XXVII. Lucy Morris Misbehaves
    XXVIII. Mr. Dove in His Chambers
      XXIX. "I Had Better Go Away"
       XXX. Mr. Greystock's Troubles
      XXXI. Frank Greystock's Second Visit to Portray
     XXXII. Mr. and Mrs. Hittaway in Scotland
    XXXIII. "It Won't Be True"
     XXXIV. Lady Linlithgow at Home
      XXXV. Too Bad for Sympathy
     XXXVI. Lizzie's Guests
    XXXVII. Lizzie's First Day
   XXXVIII. Nappie's Grey Horse
     XXXIX. Sir Griffin Takes an Unfair Advantage
        XL. "You Are Not Angry?"
       XLI. "Likewise the Bears in Couples Agree"
      XLII. Sunday Morning
     XLIII. Life at Portray
      XLIV. A Midnight Adventure
       XLV. The Journey to London
      XLVI. Lucy Morris in Brook Street
     XLVII. Matching Priory
    XLVIII. Lizzie's Condition
      XLIX. Bunfit and Gager
         L. In Hertford Street
        LI. Confidence
       LII. Mrs. Carbuncle Goes to the Theatre
      LIII. Lizzie's Sick-Room
       LIV. "I Suppose I May Say a Word"
        LV. Quints or Semitenths
       LVI. Job's Comforters
      LVII. Humpty Dumpty
     LVIII. "The Fiddle with One String"
       LIX. Mr. Gowran Up in London
        LX. "Let It Be As Though It Had Never Been"
       LXI. Lizzie's Great Friend
      LXII. "You Know Where My Heart Is"
     LXIII. The Corsair Is Afraid
      LXIV. Lizzie's Last Scheme
       LXV. Tribute
      LXVI. The Aspirations of Mr. Emilius
     LXVII. The Eye of the Public
    LXVIII. The Major
      LXIX. "I Cannot Do It"
       LXX. Alas!
      LXXI. Lizzie Is Threatened with the Treadmill
     LXXII. Lizzie Triumphs
    LXXIII. Lizzie's Last Lover
     LXXIV. Lizzie at the Police-Court
      LXXV. Lord George Gives His Reasons
     LXXVI. Lizzie Returns to Scotland
    LXXVII. The Story of Lucy Morris Is Concluded
   LXXVIII. The Trial
     LXXIX. Once More at Portray
      LXXX. What Was Said About It All at Matching


VOLUME I

CHAPTER I

Lizzie Greystock


It was admitted by all her friends, and also by her enemies,--who
were in truth the more numerous and active body of the two,--that
Lizzie Greystock had done very well with herself. We will tell the
story of Lizzie Greystock from the beginning, but we will not dwell
over it at great length, as we might do if we loved her. She was the
only child of old Admiral Greystock, who in the latter years of his
life was much perplexed by the possession of a daughter. The admiral
was a man who liked whist, wine,--and wickedness in general we may
perhaps say, and whose ambition it was to live every day of his life
up to the end of it. People say that he succeeded, and that the
whist, wine, and wickedness were there, at the side even of his dying
bed. He had no particular fortune, and yet his daughter, when she was
little more than a child, went about everywhere with jewels on her
fingers, and red gems hanging round her neck, and yellow gems pendent
from her ears, and white gems shining in her black hair. She was
hardly nineteen when her father died and she was taken home by that
dreadful old termagant, her aunt, Lady Linlithgow. Lizzie would have
sooner gone to any other friend or relative, had there been any other
friend or relative to take her possessed of a house in town. Her
uncle, Dean Greystock, of Bobsborough, would have had her, and a more
good-natured old soul than the dean's wife did not exist,--and there
were three pleasant, good-tempered girls in the deanery, who had
made various little efforts at friendship with their cousin Lizzie;
but Lizzie had higher ideas for herself than life in the deanery at
Bobsborough. She hated Lady Linlithgow. During her father's lifetime,
when she hoped to be able to settle herself before his death, she was
not in the habit of concealing her hatred for Lady Linlithgow. Lady
Linlithgow was not indeed amiable or easily managed. But when the
admiral died, Lizzie did not hesitate for a moment in going to the
old "vulturess," as she was in the habit of calling the countess in
her occasional correspondence with the girls at Bobsborough.

The admiral died greatly in debt;--so much so that it was a marvel
how tradesmen had trusted him. There was literally nothing left
for anybody,--and Messrs. Harter and Benjamin of Old Bond Street
condescended to call at Lady Linlithgow's house in Brook Street, and
to beg that the jewels supplied during the last twelve months might
be returned. Lizzie protested that there were no jewels,--nothing
to signify, nothing worth restoring. Lady Linlithgow had seen the
diamonds, and demanded an explanation. They had been "parted with,"
by the admiral's orders,--so said Lizzie,--for the payment of other
debts. Of this Lady Linlithgow did not believe a word, but she could
not get at any exact truth. At that moment the jewels were in very
truth pawned for money which had been necessary for Lizzie's needs.
Certain things must be paid for,--one's own maid for instance; and
one must have some money in one's pocket for railway-trains and
little knick-knacks which cannot be had on credit. Lizzie when she
was nineteen knew how to do without money as well as most girls; but
there were calls which she could not withstand, debts which even she
must pay.

She did not, however, drop her acquaintance with Messrs. Harter and
Benjamin. Before her father had been dead eight months, she was
closeted with Mr. Benjamin, transacting a little business with him.
She had come to him, she told him, the moment she was of age, and
was willing to make herself responsible for the debt, signing any
bill, note, or document which the firm might demand from her, to that
effect. Of course she had nothing of her own, and never would have
anything. That Mr. Benjamin knew. As for payment of the debt by Lady
Linlithgow, who for a countess was as poor as Job, Mr. Benjamin,
she was quite sure, did not expect anything of the kind. But-- Then
Lizzie paused, and Mr. Benjamin, with the sweetest and wittiest
of smiles, suggested that perhaps Miss Greystock was going to be
married. Lizzie, with a pretty maiden blush, admitted that such a
catastrophe was probable. She had been asked in marriage by Sir
Florian Eustace. Now Mr. Benjamin knew, as all the world knew, that
Sir Florian Eustace was a very rich man indeed; a man in no degree
embarrassed, and who could pay any amount of jewellers' bills for
which claim might be made upon him. Well; what did Miss Greystock
want? Mr. Benjamin did not suppose that Miss Greystock was actuated
simply by a desire to have her old bills paid by her future husband.
Miss Greystock wanted a loan sufficient to take the jewels out of
pawn. She would then make herself responsible for the full amount
due. Mr. Benjamin said that he would make a few inquiries. "But you
won't betray me," said Lizzie, "for the match might be off." Mr.
Benjamin promised to be more than cautious.

There was not so much of falsehood as might have been expected in the
statement which Lizzie Greystock made to the jeweller. It was not
true that she was of age, and therefore no future husband would be
legally liable for any debt which she might then contract. And it was
not true that Sir Florian Eustace had asked her in marriage. Those
two little blemishes in her statement must be admitted. But it was
true that Sir Florian was at her feet, and that by a proper use of
her various charms,--the pawned jewels included,--she might bring
him to an offer. Mr. Benjamin made his inquiries, and acceded to the
proposal. He did not tell Miss Greystock that she had lied to him in
that matter of her age, though he had discovered the lie. Sir Florian
would no doubt pay the bill for his wife without any arguments as
to the legality of the claim. From such information as Mr. Benjamin
could acquire he thought that there would be a marriage, and that
the speculation was on the whole in his favour. Lizzie recovered
her jewels and Mr. Benjamin was in possession of a promissory note
purporting to have been executed by a person who was no longer a
minor. The jeweller was ultimately successful in his views,--and so
was the lady.

Lady Linlithgow saw the jewels come back, one by one, ring added
to ring on the little taper fingers, the rubies for the neck, and
the pendent yellow earrings. Though Lizzie was in mourning for her
father, still these things were allowed to be visible. The countess
was not the woman to see them without inquiry, and she inquired
vigorously. She threatened, stormed, and protested. She attempted
even a raid upon the young lady's jewel-box. But she was not
successful. Lizzie snapped and snarled and held her own,--for at that
time the match with Sir Florian was near its accomplishment, and
the countess understood too well the value of such a disposition of
her niece to risk it at the moment by any open rupture. The little
house in Brook Street,--for the house was very small and very
comfortless,--a house that had been squeezed in, as it were, between
two others without any fitting space for it,--did not contain a happy
family. One bedroom, and that the biggest, was appropriated to the
Earl of Linlithgow, the son of the countess, a young man who passed
perhaps five nights in town during the year. Other inmate there was
none besides the aunt and the niece and the four servants,--of whom
one was Lizzie's own maid. Why should such a countess have troubled
herself with the custody of such a niece? Simply because the
countess regarded it as a duty. Lady Linlithgow was worldly, stingy,
ill-tempered, selfish, and mean. Lady Linlithgow would cheat a
butcher out of a mutton-chop, or a cook out of a month's wages, if
she could do so with some slant of legal wind in her favour. She
would tell any number of lies to carry a point in what she believed
to be social success. It was said of her that she cheated at cards.
In back-biting, no venomous old woman between Bond Street and Park
Lane could beat her,--or, more wonderful still, no venomous old man
at the clubs. But nevertheless she recognised certain duties,--and
performed them, though she hated them. She went to church, not merely
that people might see her there,--as to which in truth she cared
nothing,--but because she thought it was right. And she took in
Lizzie Greystock, whom she hated almost as much as she did sermons,
because the admiral's wife had been her sister, and she recognised
a duty. But, having thus bound herself to Lizzie,--who was a
beauty,--of course it became the first object of her life to get rid
of Lizzie by a marriage. And, though she would have liked to think
that Lizzie would be tormented all her days, though she thoroughly
believed that Lizzie deserved to be tormented, she set her heart upon
a splendid match. She would at any rate be able to throw it daily in
her niece's teeth that the splendour was of her doing. Now a marriage
with Sir Florian Eustace would be very splendid, and therefore she
was unable to go into the matter of the jewels with that rigour which
in other circumstances she would certainly have displayed.

The match with Sir Florian Eustace,--for a match it came to
be,--was certainly very splendid. Sir Florian was a young man
about eight-and-twenty, very handsome, of immense wealth, quite
unencumbered, moving in the best circles, popular, so far prudent
that he never risked his fortune on the turf or in gambling-houses,
with the reputation of a gallant soldier, and a most devoted lover.
There were two facts concerning him which might, or might not, be
taken as objections. He was vicious, and--he was dying. When a
friend, intending to be kind, hinted the latter circumstance to Lady
Linlithgow, the countess blinked and winked and nodded, and then
swore that she had procured medical advice on the subject. Medical
advice declared that Sir Florian was not more likely to die than
another man,--if only he would get married; all of which statement on
her ladyship's part was a lie. When the same friend hinted the same
thing to Lizzie herself, Lizzie resolved that she would have her
revenge upon that friend. At any rate the courtship went on.

We have said that Sir Florian was vicious;--but he was not altogether
a bad man, nor was he vicious in the common sense of the word. He was
one who denied himself no pleasure, let the cost be what it might in
health, pocket, or morals. Of sin or wickedness he had probably no
distinct idea. In virtue, as an attribute of the world around him, he
had no belief. Of honour he thought very much, and had conceived a
somewhat noble idea that because much had been given to him much was
demanded of him. He was haughty, polite,--and very generous. There
was almost a nobility even about his vices. And he had a special
gallantry of which it is hard to say whether it is or is not to be
admired. They told him that he was like to die,--very like to die, if
he did not change his manner of living. Would he go to Algiers for a
period? Certainly not. He would do no such thing. If he died, there
was his brother John left to succeed him. And the fear of death never
cast a cloud over that grandly beautiful brow. They had all been
short-lived,--the Eustaces. Consumption had swept a hecatomb of
victims from the family. But still they were grand people, and never
were afraid of death.

And then Sir Florian fell in love. Discussing this matter with his
brother, who was perhaps his only intimate friend, he declared that
if the girl he loved would give herself to him, he would make what
atonement he could to her for his own early death by a princely
settlement. John Eustace, who was somewhat nearly concerned in
the matter, raised no objection to this proposal. There was ever
something grand about these Eustaces. Sir Florian was a grand
gentleman; but surely he must have been dull of intellect, slow of
discernment, blear-eyed in his ways about the town, when he took
Lizzie Greystock,--of all the women whom he could find in the
world,--to be the purest, the truest, and the noblest. It has been
said of Sir Florian that he did not believe in virtue. He freely
expressed disbelief in the virtue of women around him,--in the virtue
of women of all ranks. But he believed in his mother and sisters as
though they were heaven-born; and he was one who could believe in his
wife as though she were the queen of heaven. He did believe in Lizzie
Greystock, thinking that intellect, purity, truth, and beauty, each
perfect in its degree, were combined in her. The intellect and beauty
were there;--but, for the purity and truth--; how could it have been
that such a one as Sir Florian Eustace should have been so blind!

Sir Florian was not, indeed, a clever man; but he believed himself
to be a fool. And believing himself to be a fool, he desired, nay,
painfully longed, for some of those results of cleverness which
might, he thought, come to him, from contact with a clever woman.
Lizzie read poetry well, and she read verses to him,--sitting very
near to him, almost in the dark, with a shaded lamp throwing its
light on her book. He was astonished to find how sweet a thing was
poetry. By himself he could never read a line, but as it came from
her lips it seemed to charm him. It was a new pleasure, and one
which, though he had ridiculed it, he had so often coveted! And
then she told him of such wondrous thoughts,--such wondrous joys
in the world which would come from thinking! He was proud, I have
said, and haughty; but he was essentially modest and humble in his
self-estimation. How divine was this creature, whose voice to him was
as that of a goddess!

Then he spoke out to her, with his face a little turned from her.
Would she be his wife? But, before she answered him, let her listen
to him. They had told him that an early death must probably be his
fate. He did not himself feel that it must be so. Sometimes he was
ill,--very ill; but often he was well. If she would run the risk with
him he would endeavour to make her such recompense as might come from
his wealth. The speech he made was somewhat long, and as he made it
he hardly looked into her face.

But it was necessary to him that he should be made to know by some
signal from her how it was going with her feelings. As he spoke of
his danger, there came a gurgling little trill of wailing from her
throat, a soft, almost musical sound of woe, which seemed to add an
unaccustomed eloquence to his words. When he spoke of his own hope
the sound was somewhat changed, but it was still continued. When he
alluded to the disposition of his fortune, she was at his feet. "Not
that," she said, "not that!" He lifted her, and with his arm round
her waist he tried to tell her what it would be his duty to do
for her. She escaped from his arm and would not listen to him.
But,--but--! When he began to talk of love again, she stood with her
forehead bowed against his bosom. Of course the engagement was then a
thing accomplished.

But still the cup might slip from her lips. Her father was now dead
but ten months, and what answer could she make when the common
pressing petition for an early marriage was poured into her ear? This
was in July, and it would never do that he should be left, unmarried,
to the rigour of another winter. She looked into his face and knew
that she had cause for fear. Oh, heavens! if all these golden hopes
should fall to the ground, and she should come to be known only as
the girl who had been engaged to the late Sir Florian! But he himself
pressed the marriage on the same ground. "They tell me," he said,
"that I had better get a little south by the beginning of October.
I won't go alone. You know what I mean;--eh, Lizzie?" Of course she
married him in September.

They spent a honeymoon of six weeks at a place he had in Scotland,
and the first blow came upon him as they passed through London, back
from Scotland, on their way to Italy. Messrs. Harter and Benjamin
sent in their little bill, which amounted to something over £400, and
other little bills were sent in. Sir Florian was a man by whom such
bills would certainly be paid, but by whom they would not be paid
without his understanding much and conceiving more as to their
cause and nature. How much he really did understand she was never
quite aware;--but she did know that he detected her in a positive
falsehood. She might certainly have managed the matter better than
she did; and had she admitted everything there might probably have
been but few words about it. She did not, however, understand the
nature of the note she had signed, and thought that simply new bills
would be presented by the jewellers to her husband. She gave a false
account of the transaction, and the lie was detected. I do not
know that she cared very much. As she was utterly devoid of true
tenderness, so also was she devoid of conscience. They went abroad,
however; and by the time the winter was half over in Naples, he knew
what his wife was;--and before the end of the spring he was dead.

She had so far played her game well, and had won her stakes. What
regrets, what remorse she suffered when she knew that he was going
from her,--and then knew that he was gone, who can say? As man is
never strong enough to take unmixed delight in good, so may we
presume also that he cannot be quite so weak as to find perfect
satisfaction in evil. There must have been qualms as she looked at
his dying face, soured with the disappointment she had brought upon
him, and listened to the harsh querulous voice that was no longer
eager in the expressions of love. There must have been some pang when
she reflected that the cruel wrong which she had inflicted on him had
probably hurried him to his grave. As a widow, in the first solemnity
of her widowhood, she was wretched and would see no one. Then she
returned to England and shut herself up in a small house at Brighton.
Lady Linlithgow offered to go to her, but she begged that she might
be left to herself. For a few short months the awe arising from the
rapidity with which it had all occurred did afflict her. Twelve
months since she had hardly known the man who was to be her husband.
Now she was a widow,--a widow very richly endowed,--and she bore
beneath her bosom the fruit of her husband's love.

But, even in these early days, friends and enemies did not hesitate
to say that Lizzie Greystock had done very well with herself; for it
was known by all concerned that in the settlements made she had been
treated with unwonted generosity.


CHAPTER II

Lady Eustace


There were circumstances in her position which made it impossible
that Lizzie Greystock,--or Lady Eustace, as we must now call
her,--should be left altogether to herself in the modest widow's
retreat which she had found at Brighton. It was then April, and it
was known that if all things went well with her, she would be a
mother before the summer was over. On what the Fates might ordain
in this matter immense interests were dependent. If a son should be
born he would inherit everything, subject, of course, to his mother's
settlement. If a daughter, to her would belong the great personal
wealth which Sir Florian had owned at the time of his death. Should
there be no son, John Eustace, the brother, would inherit the estates
in Yorkshire which had been the backbone of the Eustace wealth.
Should no child be born, John Eustace would inherit everything that
had not been settled upon or left to the widow. Sir Florian had made
a settlement immediately before his marriage, and a will immediately
afterwards. Of what he had done then, nothing had been altered in
those sad Italian days. The settlement had been very generous. The
whole property in Scotland was to belong to Lizzie for her life,--and
after her death was to go to a second son, if such second son there
should be. By the will money was left to her, more than would be
needed for any possible temporary emergency. When she knew how it was
all arranged,--as far as she did know it,--she was aware that she was
a rich woman. For so clever a woman she was infinitely ignorant as
to the possession and value of money and land and income,--though,
perhaps, not more ignorant than are most young girls under
twenty-one. As for the Scotch property,--she thought that it was her
own, for ever, because there could not now be a second son,--and yet
was not quite sure whether it would be her own at all if she had
no son. Concerning that sum of money left to her, she did not know
whether it was to come out of the Scotch property or be given to
her separately,--and whether it was to come annually or to come
only once. She had received, while still in Naples, a letter from
the family lawyer, giving her such details of the will as it was
necessary that she should know, and now she longed to ask questions,
to have her belongings made plain to her, and to realise her wealth.
She had brilliant prospects; and yet, through it all, there was a
sense of loneliness that nearly killed her. Would it not have been
much better if her husband had lived, and still worshipped her, and
still allowed her to read poetry to him? But she had read no poetry
to him after that affair of Messrs. Harter and Benjamin.

The reader has, or will have, but little to do with these days, and
may be hurried on through the twelve, or even twenty-four months
which followed the death of poor Sir Florian. The question of the
heirship, however, was very grave, and early in the month of May
Lady Eustace was visited by her husband's uncle, Bishop Eustace, of
Bobsborough. The bishop had been the younger brother of Sir Florian's
father,--was at this time a man about fifty, very active and very
popular,--and was one who stood high in the world, even among
bishops. He suggested to his niece-in-law that it was very expedient
that, during her coming hour of trial, she should not absent herself
from her husband's family, and at last persuaded her to take up her
residence at the palace at Bobsborough till such time as the event
should be over. Lady Eustace was taken to the palace, and in due time
a son was born. John, who was now the uncle of the heir, came down,
and, with the frankest good humour, declared that he would devote
himself to the little head of the family. He had been left as
guardian, and the management of the great family estates was to be in
his hands. Lizzie had read no poetry to him, and he had never liked
her, and the bishop did not like her, and the ladies of the bishop's
family disliked her very much, and it was thought by them that the
dean's people,--the Dean of Bobsborough was Lizzie's uncle,--were not
very fond of Lizzie since Lizzie had so raised herself in the world
as to want no assistance from them. But still they were bound to do
their duty by her as the widow of the late and the mother of the
present baronet. And they did not find much cause of complaining as
to Lizzie's conduct in these days. In that matter of the great family
diamond necklace,--which certainly should not have been taken to
Naples at all, and as to which the jeweller had told the lawyer and
the lawyer had told John Eustace that it certainly should not now be
detained among the widow's own private property,--the bishop strongly
recommended that nothing should be said at present. The mistake, if
there was a mistake, could be remedied at any time. And nothing in
those very early days was said about the great Eustace necklace,
which afterwards became so famous.

Why Lizzie should have been so generally disliked by the Eustaces, it
might be hard to explain. While she remained at the palace she was
very discreet,--and perhaps demure. It may be said they disliked her
expressed determination to cut her aunt, Lady Linlithgow;--for they
knew that Lady Linlithgow had been, at any rate, a friend to Lizzie
Greystock. There are people who can be wise within a certain margin,
but beyond that commit great imprudences. Lady Eustace submitted
herself to the palace people for that period of her prostration, but
she could not hold her tongue as to her future intentions. She would,
too, now and then ask of Mrs. Eustace, and even of her daughter, an
eager, anxious question about her own property. "She is dying to
handle her money," said Mrs. Eustace to the bishop. "She is only like
the rest of the world in that," said the bishop. "If she would be
really open, I wouldn't mind it," said Mrs. Eustace. None of them
liked her,--and she did not like them.

She remained at the palace for six months, and at the end of that
time she went to her own place in Scotland. Mrs. Eustace had strongly
advised her to ask her aunt, Lady Linlithgow, to accompany her,
but in refusing to do this, Lizzie was quite firm. She had endured
Lady Linlithgow for that year between her father's death and her
marriage; she was now beginning to dare to hope for the enjoyment
of the good things which she had won, and the presence of the
dowager-countess,--"the vulturess,"--was certainly not one of these
good things. In what her enjoyment was to consist, she had not as
yet quite formed a definite conclusion. She liked jewels. She liked
admiration. She liked the power of being arrogant to those around
her. And she liked good things to eat. But there were other matters
that were also dear to her. She did like music,--though it may be
doubted whether she would ever play it or even listen to it alone.
She did like reading, and especially the reading of poetry,--though
even in this she was false and pretentious, skipping, pretending to
have read, lying about books, and making up her market of literature
for outside admiration at the easiest possible cost of trouble. And
she had some dream of being in love, and would take delight even in
building castles in the air, which she would people with friends
and lovers whom she would make happy with the most open-hearted
benevolence. She had theoretical ideas of life which were not
bad,--but in practice, she had gained her objects, and she was in a
hurry to have liberty to enjoy them.

There was considerable anxiety in the palace in reference to the
future mode of life of Lady Eustace. Had it not been for that
baby-heir, of course there would have been no cause for interference;
but the rights of that baby were so serious and important that it was
almost impossible not to interfere. The mother, however, gave some
little signs that she did not intend to submit to much interference,
and there was no real reason why she should not be as free as
air. But did she really intend to go down to Portray Castle all
alone;--that is, with her baby and nurses? This was ended by an
arrangement, in accordance with which she was accompanied by her
eldest cousin, Ellinor Greystock, a lady who was just ten years
her senior. There could hardly be a better woman than Ellinor
Greystock,--or a more good-humoured, kindly being. After many debates
in the deanery and in the palace,--for there was much friendship
between the two ecclesiastical establishments,--the offer was made
and the advice given. Ellinor had accepted the martyrdom on the
understanding that if the advice were accepted she was to remain at
Portray Castle for three months. After a long discussion between Lady
Eustace and the bishop's wife the offer was accepted, and the two
ladies went to Scotland together.

During those three months the widow still bided her time. Of her
future ideas of life she said not a word to her companion. Of her
infant she said very little. She would talk of books,--choosing
such books as her cousin did not read; and she would interlard her
conversation with much Italian, because her cousin did not know
the language. There was a carriage kept by the widow, and they had
themselves driven out together. Of real companionship there was
none. Lizzie was biding her time, and at the end of the three months
Miss Greystock thankfully, and, indeed, of necessity, returned to
Bobsborough. "I've done no good," she said to her mother, "and have
been very uncomfortable." "My dear," said her mother, "we have
disposed of three months out of a two years' period of danger. In two
years from Sir Florian's death she will be married again."

When this was said Lizzie had been a widow nearly a year, and had
bided her time upon the whole discreetly. Some foolish letters she
had written,--chiefly to the lawyer about her money and property; and
some foolish things she had said,--as when she told Ellinor Greystock
that the Portray property was her own for ever, to do what she liked
with it. The sum of money left to her by her husband had by that time
been paid into her own hands, and she had opened a banker's account.
The revenues from the Scotch estate,--some £4,000 a year,--were
clearly her own for life. The family diamond-necklace was still in
her possession, and no answer had been given by her to a postscript
to a lawyer's letter in which a little advice had been given
respecting it. At the end of another year, when she had just
reached the age of twenty-two, and had completed her second year
of widowhood, she was still Lady Eustace, thus contradicting the
prophecy made by the dean's wife. It was then spring, and she had
a house of her own in London. She had broken openly with Lady
Linlithgow. She had opposed, though not absolutely refused, all
overtures of brotherly care from John Eustace. She had declined
a further invitation, both for herself and for her child, to the
palace. And she had positively asserted her intention of keeping the
diamonds. Her late husband, she said, had given the diamonds to her.
As they were supposed to be worth £10,000, and were really family
diamonds, the matter was felt by all concerned to be one of much
importance. And she was oppressed by a heavy load of ignorance, which
became serious from the isolation of her position. She had learned to
draw cheques, but she had no other correct notion as to business. She
knew nothing as to spending money, saving it, or investing it. Though
she was clever, sharp, and greedy, she had no idea what her money
would do, and what it would not; and there was no one whom she would
trust to tell her. She had a young cousin, a barrister,--a son
of the dean's, whom she perhaps liked better than any other of
her relations,--but she declined advice even from her friend the
barrister. She would have no dealings on her own behalf with the old
family solicitor of the Eustaces,--the gentleman who had now applied
very formally for the restitution of the diamonds; but had appointed
other solicitors to act for her. Messrs. Mowbray and Mopus were of
opinion that as the diamonds had been given into her hands by her
husband without any terms as to their surrender, no one could claim
them. Of the manner in which the diamonds had been placed in her
hands, no one knew more than she chose to tell.

But when she started with her house in town,--a modest little house
in Mount Street, near the park,--just two years after her husband's
death, she had a large circle of acquaintances. The Eustace people,
and the Greystock people, and even the Linlithgow people, did not
entirely turn their backs on her. The countess, indeed, was very
venomous, as she well might be; but then the countess was known for
her venom. The dean and his family were still anxious that she should
be encouraged to discreet living, and, though they feared many
things, thought that they had no ground for open complaint. The
Eustace people were forbearing, and hoped the best. "D---- the
necklace!" John Eustace had said, and the bishop unfortunately had
heard him say it! "John," said the prelate, "whatever is to become
of the bauble, you might express your opinion in more sensible
language." "I beg your lordship's pardon," said John, "I only mean to
say that I think we shouldn't trouble ourselves about a few stones."
But the family lawyer, Mr. Camperdown, would by no means take this
view of the matter. It was, however, generally thought that the young
widow opened her campaign more prudently than had been expected.

And now as so much has been said of the character and fortune and
special circumstances of Lizzie Greystock, who became Lady Eustace
as a bride, and Lady Eustace as a widow and a mother, all within the
space of twelve months, it may be as well to give some description of
her person and habits, such as they were at the period in which our
story is supposed to have its commencement. It must be understood in
the first place that she was very lovely;--much more so, indeed, now
than when she had fascinated Sir Florian. She was small, but taller
than she looked to be,--for her form was perfectly symmetrical. Her
feet and hands might have been taken as models by a sculptor. Her
figure was lithe, and soft, and slim, and slender. If it had a fault
it was this,--that it had in it too much of movement. There were some
who said that she was almost snake-like in her rapid bendings and
the almost too easy gestures of her body; for she was much given to
action, and to the expression of her thought by the motion of her
limbs. She might certainly have made her way as an actress, had
fortune called upon her to earn her bread in that fashion. And her
voice would have suited the stage. It was powerful when she called
upon it for power; but, at the same time, flexible and capable of
much pretence at feeling. She could bring it to a whisper that would
almost melt your heart with tenderness,--as she had melted Sir
Florian's, when she sat near to him reading poetry; and then she
could raise it to a pitch of indignant wrath befitting a Lady Macbeth
when her husband ventured to rebuke her. And her ear was quite
correct in modulating these tones. She knew,--and it must have been
by instinct, for her culture in such matters was small,--how to use
her voice so that neither its tenderness nor its wrath should be
misapplied. There were pieces in verse that she could read,--things
not wondrously good in themselves,--so that she would ravish you; and
she would so look at you as she did it that you would hardly dare
either to avert your eyes or to return her gaze. Sir Florian had not
known whether to do the one thing or the other, and had therefore
seized her in his arms. Her face was oval,--somewhat longer than an
oval,--with little in it, perhaps nothing in it, of that brilliancy
of colour which we call complexion. And yet the shades of her
countenance were ever changing between the softest and most
transparent white, and the richest, mellowest shades of brown. It
was only when she simulated anger,--she was almost incapable of real
anger,--that she would succeed in calling the thinnest streak of pink
from her heart, to show that there was blood running in her veins.
Her hair, which was nearly black,--but in truth with more of softness
and of lustre than ever belong to hair that is really black,--she
wore bound tight round her perfect forehead, with one long love-lock
hanging over her shoulder. The form of her head was so good that
she could dare to carry it without a chignon, or any adventitious
adjuncts from an artiste's shop. Very bitter was she in consequence
when speaking of the head-gear of other women. Her chin was perfect
in its round, not over long,--as is the case with so many such faces,
utterly spoiling the symmetry of the countenance. But it lacked a
dimple, and therefore lacked feminine tenderness. Her mouth was
perhaps faulty in being too small, or, at least, her lips were
too thin. There was wanting from the mouth that expression of
eager-speaking truthfulness which full lips will often convey. Her
teeth were without flaw or blemish, even, small, white, and delicate;
but perhaps they were shown too often. Her nose was small, but struck
many as the prettiest feature of her face, so exquisite was the
moulding of it, and so eloquent and so graceful the slight inflations
of the transparent nostrils. Her eyes, in which she herself thought
that the lustre of her beauty lay, were blue and clear, bright as
cerulean waters. They were long large eyes,--but very dangerous. To
those who knew how to read a face, there was danger plainly written
in them. Poor Sir Florian had not known. But, in truth, the charm
of her face did not lie in her eyes. This was felt by many even who
could not read the book fluently. They were too expressive, too loud
in their demands for attention, and they lacked tenderness. How few
there are among women, few perhaps also among men, who know that the
sweetest, softest, tenderest, truest eyes which a woman can carry in
her head are green in colour! Lizzie's eyes were not tender,--neither
were they true. But they were surmounted by the most wonderfully
pencilled eyebrows that ever nature unassisted planted on a woman's
face.

We have said that she was clever. We must add that she had in truth
studied much. She spoke French, understood Italian, and read German.
She played well on the harp, and moderately well on the piano. She
sang, at least in good taste and in tune. Of things to be learned
by reading she knew much, having really taken diligent trouble with
herself. She had learned much poetry by heart, and could apply it.
She forgot nothing, listened to everything, understood quickly, and
was desirous to show not only as a beauty but as a wit. There were
men at this time who declared that she was simply the cleverest and
the handsomest woman in England. As an independent young woman she
was perhaps one of the richest.


CHAPTER III

Lucy Morris


Although the first two chapters of this new history have been
devoted to the fortunes and personal attributes of Lady Eustace,
the historian begs his readers not to believe that that opulent and
aristocratic Becky Sharp is to assume the dignity of heroine in the
forthcoming pages. That there shall be any heroine the historian will
not take upon himself to assert; but if there be a heroine, that
heroine shall not be Lady Eustace. The mind of the world is given
to me like a sheet of blank paper. I will write upon it with my
heart's blood.
But"--and here his manner became strangely impressive, and his
sombre, heavy eyes gazed deeply into the eyes of his friend--"remember
this!
You will finish this book. I feel that; I know it. I cannot tell you
why. But so it is ordained.

Let me write as far as I can, Jack, and let me write as I will. But do
not let us quarrel. The book is ours, not mine. And--don't--don't
take away your friendship from me."
The last words were said with an outburst of emotion that was
almost feminine in intensity. Henley felt deeply moved, for,
as a rule, Andrew's manner was not specially affectionate, or even
agreeable.

"It is all right, old fellow," he said, in the embarrassed English
manner which often covers so much that might with advantage be
occasionally revealed.

"Go on in your own way. I believe you are a genius, and I
am only trying to clip the wings that may carry you through the
skies. Go on in your own way, and consult me only when you feel
inclined."
Andrew took his hand and pressed it in silence.

III.

It was some three weeks after this that one afternoon Trenchard laid
down his pen at the conclusion of a chapter, and, getting up, thrust
his hands into his pockets and walked to the window.

The look-out was rather dreary. A gray sky leaned over the great,
barrack-like church that gives an ecclesiastical flavour to
Smith's Square. A few dirty sparrows fluttered above the gray
pavement--feverish, unresting birds, Trenchard named them silently,
as he watched their meaningless activity, their jerky, ostentatious
deportment, with lacklustre, yet excited, eyes. How gray everything
looked, tame, colourless, indifferent!

The light was beginning to fade stealthily out of things. The gray
church was gradually becoming shadowy. The flying forms of the
hurrying sparrows disappeared in the weary abysses of the air and
sky. The sitting-room in Smith's Square was nearly dark now. Henley
had gone out to a _matinée_ at one of the theatres, so Trenchard was
alone. He struck a match presently, lit a candle, carried it over
to his writing-table, and began to examine the littered sheets
he had just been writing. The book was nearing its end.
The tragedy was narrowing to a point. Trenchard read the last
paragraph which he had written:

"He hardly knew that he lived, except during those many hours when,
plunged in dreams, he allowed, nay, forced, life to leave him for
awhile. He had sunk to depths below even those which Olive had
reached.
And the thought that she was ever so little above him haunted him like
a spectre impelling him to some mysterious deed. When he was not
dreaming, he was dwelling upon this idea which had taken his soul
captive. It seemed to be shaping itself towards an act.

Thought was the ante-room through which he passed to the hall where
Fate was sitting, ready to give him audience. He traversed
this ante-room, which seemed lined with fantastic and terrible
pictures, at first with lagging footfalls. But at length he laid
his hand upon the door that divided him from Fate."
*****
And when he had read the final words he gathered the loose sheets
together with his long, thin fingers, and placed them one on the top
of the other in a neat pile. He put them into a drawer which contained
other unfinished manuscripts, shut the drawer, locked it, and carried
the key to Henley's room. There he scribbled some words on a bit of
notepaper, wrapped the key in it, and inclosed it in an envelope on
which he wrote Henley's name. Then he put on his overcoat, descended
the narrow stairs, and opened the front-door. The landlady heard him,
and screamed from the basement to know if he would be in to dinner.

"I shall not be in at all to-night," he answered, in a hard, dry voice
that travelled along the dingy passage with a penetrating distinctness.

The landlady murmured to the slatternly maidservant an ejaculatory
diatribe on the dissipatedness of young literary gentlemen as the
door banged. Trenchard disappeared in the gathering darkness, and
soon left Smith's Square behind him.
It chanced that day that, in the theatre, Henley encountered some
ladies who carried him home to tea after the performance. They lived
in Chelsea, and in returning to Smith's Square afterwards Henley
took his way along the Chelsea Embankment. He always walked near
to the dingy river when he could. The contrast of its life to the
town's life through which it flowed had a perpetual fascination for
him. In the early evening, too, the river presents many Doré effects.
It is dim, mysterious, sometimes meretricious, with its streaks of
light close to the dense shadows that lie under the bridges, its
wailful, small waves licking the wharves, and bearing up the inky
barges that look like the ferry-boat of the Styx. Henley loved to
feel vivaciously despairing, and he hugged himself in the belief
that the Thames at nightfall tinged his soul with a luxurious
melancholy, the capacity for which was not far from rendering him
a poet.Dean to her son.

"Her position! Well;--and what is her position mother?"

"You know what I mean, Frank. She is as sweet a girl as ever lived,
and a perfect lady. But with a governess, unless you mean to marry
her, you should be more careful than with another girl, because you
may do her such a world of mischief."

"I don't see that at all."

"If Lady Fawn knew that she had an admirer, Lady Fawn would not let
her come into her house."

"Then Lady Fawn is an idiot. If a girl be admirable, of course she
will be admired. Who can hinder it?"

"You know what I mean, Frank."

"Yes--I do; well. I don't suppose I can afford to marry Lucy Morris.
At any rate, mother, I will never say a word to raise a hope in
her,--if it would be a hope--"

"Of course it would be a hope."

"I don't know that at all. But I will never say any such word to
her,--unless I make up my mind that I can afford to marry her."

"Oh, Frank, it would be impossible!" said Mrs. Dean.

Mrs. Dean was a very good woman, but she had aspirations in the
direction of filthy lucre on behalf of her children, or at least on
behalf of this special child, and she did think it would be very
nice if Frank would marry an heiress. This, however, was a long time
ago, nearly two years ago; and many grave things had got themselves
transacted since Lucy's visit to the deanery. She had become quite
an old and an accustomed member of Lady Fawn's family. The youngest
Fawn girl was not yet fifteen, and it was understood that Lucy was to
remain with the Fawns for some quite indefinite time to come. Lady
Fawn's eldest daughter, Mrs. Hittaway, had a family of her own,
having been married ten or twelve years, and it was quite probable
that Lucy might be transferred. Lady Fawn fully appreciated her
treasure, and was, and ever had been, conscientiously anxious to make
Lucy's life happy. But she thought that a governess should not be
desirous of marrying, at any rate till a somewhat advanced period of
life. A governess, if she were given to falling in love, could hardly
perform her duties in life. No doubt, not to be a governess, but a
young lady free from the embarrassing necessity of earning bread,
free to have a lover and a husband, would be upon the whole nicer.
So it is nicer to be born to £10,000 a year than to have to wish for
£500. Lady Fawn could talk excellent sense on this subject by the
hour, and always admitted that much was due to a governess who knew
her place and did her duty. She was very fond of Lucy Morris, and
treated her dependent with affectionate consideration;--but she did
not approve of visits from Mr. Frank Greystock. Lucy, blushing up
to the eyes, had once declared that she desired to have no personal
visitors at Lady Fawn's house; but that, as regarded her own
friendships, the matter was one for her own bosom. "Dear Miss
Morris," Lady Fawn had said, "we understand each other so perfectly,
and you are so good, that I am quite sure everything will be as it
ought to be." Lady Fawn lived down at Richmond all the year through,
in a large old-fashioned house with a large old-fashioned garden,
called Fawn Court. After that speech of hers to Lucy, Frank Greystock
did not call again at Fawn Court for many months, and it is possible
that her ladyship had said a word also to him. But Lady Eustace, with
her pretty little pair of grey ponies, would sometimes drive down to
Richmond to see her "dear little old friend" Lucy, and her visits
were allowed. Lady Fawn had expressed an opinion among her daughters
that she did not see any harm in Lady Eustace. She thought that she
rather liked Lady Eustace. But then Lady Fawn hated Lady Linlithgow
as only two old women can hate each other;--and she had not heard the
story of the diamond necklace.

Lucy Morris certainly was a treasure,--a treasure though no heroine.
She was a sweetly social, genial little human being whose presence in
the house was ever felt to be like sunshine. She was never forward,
but never bashful. She was always open to familiar intercourse
without ever putting herself forward. There was no man or woman with
whom she would not so talk as to make the man or woman feel that
the conversation was remarkably pleasant,--and she could do the
same with any child. She was an active, mindful, bright, energetic
little thing to whom no work ever came amiss. She had catalogued
the library,--which had been collected by the late Lord Fawn with
peculiar reference to the Christian theology of the third and fourth
centuries. She had planned the new flower-garden,--though Lady Fawn
thought that she had done that herself. She had been invaluable
during Clara Fawn's long illness. She knew every rule at croquet,
and could play piquet. When the girls got up charades they had to
acknowledge that everything depended on Miss Morris. They were
good-natured, plain, unattractive girls, who spoke of her to her face
as one who could easily do anything to which she might put her hand.
Lady Fawn did really love her. Lord Fawn, the eldest son, a young man
of about thirty-five, a Peer of Parliament and an Under-Secretary
of State,--very prudent and very diligent,--of whom his mother and
sisters stood in great awe, consulted her frequently and made no
secret of his friendship. The mother knew her awful son well, and was
afraid of nothing wrong in that direction. Lord Fawn had suffered a
disappointment in love, but he had consoled himself with blue-books,
and mastered his passion by incessant attendance at the India Board.
The lady he had loved had been rich, and Lord Fawn was poor; but
nevertheless he had mastered his passion. There was no fear that his
feelings towards the governess would become too warm;--nor was it
likely that Miss Morris should encounter danger in regard to him. It
was quite an understood thing in the family that Lord Fawn must marry
money.

Lucy Morris was indeed a treasure. No brighter face ever looked into
another to seek sympathy there, either in mirth or woe. There was a
gleam in her eyes that was almost magnetic, so sure was she to obtain
by it that community of interest which she desired,--though it were
but for a moment. Lord Fawn was pompous, slow, dull, and careful;
but even he had given way to it at once. Lady Fawn, too, was very
careful, but she had owned to herself long since that she could not
bear to look forward to any permanent severance. Of course Lucy would
be made over to the Hittaways, whose mother lived in Warwick Square,
and whose father was Chairman of the Board of Civil Appeals. The
Hittaways were the only grandchildren with whom Lady Fawn had as yet
been blessed, and of course Lucy must go to the Hittaways.

She was but a little thing;--and it cannot be said of her, as of Lady
Eustace, that she was a beauty. The charm of her face consisted in
the peculiar, watery brightness of her eyes,--in the corners of which
it would always seem that a diamond of a tear was lurking whenever
any matter of excitement was afoot. Her light-brown hair was soft
and smooth and pretty. As hair it was very well, but it had no
speciality. Her mouth was somewhat large, but full of ever-varying
expression. Her forehead was low and broad, with prominent temples,
on which it was her habit to clasp tightly her little outstretched
fingers as she sat listening to you. Of listeners she was the very
best, for she would always be saying a word or two, just to help
you,--the best word that could be spoken, and then again she would
be hanging on your lips. There are listeners who show by their mode
of listening that they listen as a duty,--not because they are
interested. Lucy Morris was not such a one. She would take up your
subject, whatever it was, and make it her own. There was forward just
then a question as to whether the Sawab of Mygawb should have twenty
millions of rupees paid to him and be placed upon a throne, or
whether he should be kept in prison all his life. The British world
generally could not be made to interest itself about the Sawab, but
Lucy positively mastered the subject, and almost got Lord Fawn into a
difficulty by persuading him to stand up against his chief on behalf
of the injured prince.

What else can be said of her face or personal appearance that will
interest a reader? When she smiled, there was the daintiest little
dimple on her cheek. And when she laughed, that little nose, which
was not as well-shaped a nose as it might have been, would almost
change its shape and cock itself up in its mirth. Her hands were very
thin and long, and so were her feet,--by no means models as were
those of her friend Lady Eustace. She was a little, thin, quick,
graceful creature, whom it was impossible that you should see without
wishing to have near you. A most unselfish little creature she was,
but one who had a well-formed idea of her own identity. She was quite
resolved to be somebody among her fellow-creatures,--not somebody
in the way of marrying a lord or a rich man, or somebody in the way
of being a beauty, or somebody as a wit; but somebody as having a
purpose and a use in life. She was the humblest little thing in
the world in regard to any possible putting of herself forward or
needful putting of herself back; and yet, to herself, nobody was her
superior. What she had was her own, whether it was the old grey silk
dress which she had bought with the money she had earned, or the wit
which nature had given her. And Lord Fawn's title was his own, and
Lady Fawn's rank her own. She coveted no man's possessions,--and no
woman's; but she was minded to hold by her own. Of present advantages
or disadvantages,--whether she had the one or suffered from the
other,--she thought not at all. It was her fault that she had nothing
of feminine vanity. But no man or woman was ever more anxious
to be effective, to persuade, to obtain belief, sympathy, and
co-operation;--not for any result personal to herself, but because,
by obtaining these things, she could be effective in the object then
before her, be it what it might.

One other thing may be told of her. She had given her heart,--for
good and all, as she owned to herself,--to Frank Greystock. She
had owned to herself that it was so, and had owned to herself that
nothing could come of it. Frank was becoming a man of mark,--but was
becoming a man of mark without much money. Of all men he was the last
who could afford to marry a governess. And then, moreover, he had
never said a word to make her think that he loved her. He had called
on her once or twice at Fawn Court,--as why should he not? Seeing
that there had been friendship between the families for so many
years, who could complain of that? Lady Fawn, however, had--not
complained, but just said a word. A word in season, how good is
it? Lucy did not much regard the word spoken to herself; but
when she reflected that a word must also have been spoken to Mr.
Greystock,--otherwise how should it have been that he never came
again?--that she did not like.

In herself she regarded this passion of hers as a healthy man regards
the loss of a leg or an arm. It is a great nuisance, a loss that
maims the whole life,--a misfortune to be much regretted. But because
a leg is gone, everything is not gone. A man with a wooden leg may
stump about through much action, and may enjoy the keenest pleasures
of humanity. He has his eyes left to him, and his ears, and his
intellect. He will not break his heart for the loss of that leg. And
so it was with Lucy Morris. She would still stump about and be very
active. Eyes, ears, and intellect were left to her. Looking at her
position, she told herself that a happy love could hardly have been
her lot in life. Lady Fawn, she thought, was right. A governess
should make up her mind to do without a lover. She had given away her
heart, and yet she would do without a lover. When, on one dull, dark
afternoon, as she was thinking of all this, Lord Fawn suddenly put
into her hands a cruelly long printed document respecting the Sawab,
she went to work upon it immediately. As she read it, she could not
refrain from thinking how wonderfully Frank Greystock would plead the
cause of the Indian prince, if the privilege of pleading it could be
given to him.

The spring had come round, with May and the London butterflies, at
the time at which our story begins, and during six months Frank
Greystock had not been at Fawn Court. Then one day Lady Eustace came
down with her ponies, and her footman, and a new dear friend of hers,
Miss Macnulty. While Miss Macnulty was being honoured by Lady Fawn,
Lizzie had retreated to a corner with her old dear friend Lucy
Morris. It was pretty to see how so wealthy and fashionable a woman
as Lady Eustace could show so much friendship to a governess. "Have
you seen Frank, lately?" said Lady Eustace, referring to her cousin
the barrister.

"Not for ever so long," said Lucy, with her cheeriest smile.

"He is not going to prove a false knight?" asked Lady Eustace, in her
lowest whisper.

"I don't know that Mr. Greystock is much given to knighthood at all,"
said Lucy,--"unless it is to being made Sir Francis by his party."

"Nonsense, my dear; as if I didn't know. I suppose Lady Fawn has been
interfering--like an old cat as she is."

"She is not an old cat, Lizzie! and I won't hear her called so. If
you think so, you shouldn't come here. And she hasn't interfered.
That is, she has done nothing that she ought not to have done."

"Then she has interfered," said Lady Eustace, as she got up and
walked across the room, with a sweet smile to the old cat.


CHAPTER IV

Frank Greystock


Frank Greystock the barrister was the only son of the Dean of
Bobsborough. Now the dean had a family of daughters,--not quite so
numerous indeed as that of Lady Fawn, for there were only three of
them,--and was by no means a rich man. Unless a dean have a private
fortune, or has chanced to draw the happy lot of Durham in the
lottery of deans, he can hardly be wealthy. At Bobsborough the dean
was endowed with a large, rambling, picturesque, uncomfortable house,
and with £1,500 a year. In regard to personal property it may be
asserted of all the Greystocks that they never had any. They were a
family of which the males would surely come to be deans and admirals,
and the females would certainly find husbands. And they lived on the
good things of the world, and mixed with wealthy people. But they
never had any money. The Eustaces always had money, and the Bishop of
Bobsborough was wealthy. The dean was a man very different from his
brother the admiral, who had never paid anybody anything. The dean
did pay; but he was a little slow in his payments, and money with
him was never very plentiful. In these circumstances it became very
expedient that Frank Greystock should earn his bread early in life.

Nevertheless, he had chosen a profession which is not often lucrative
at first. He had been called to the Bar, and had gone,--and was still
going,--the circuit in which lies the cathedral city of Bobsborough.
Bobsborough is not much of a town, and was honoured with the judges'
visits only every other circuit. Frank began pretty well, getting
some little work in London, and perhaps nearly enough to pay the cost
of his circuit out of the county in which the cathedral was situated.
But he began life after that impecunious fashion for which the
Greystocks have been noted. Tailors, robemakers, and booksellers
gave him trust, and did believe that they would get their money. And
any persistent tradesman did get it. He did not actually hoist the
black flag of impecuniosity, and proclaim his intention of preying
generally upon the retail dealers, as his uncle the admiral had done.
But he became known as a young man with whom money was "tight." All
this had been going on for three or four years before he had met Lucy
Morris at the deanery. He was then eight-and-twenty, and had been
four years called. He was thirty when old Lady Fawn hinted to him
that he had better not pay any more visits at Fawn Court.

But things had much altered with him of late. At the time of that
visit to the deanery he had made a sudden start in his profession.
The Corporation of the City of London had brought an action against
the Bank of England with reference to certain alleged encroachments,
of which action, considerable as it was in all its interests, no
further notice need be taken here than is given by the statement
that a great deal of money in this cause had found its way among the
lawyers. Some of it penetrated into the pocket of Frank Greystock;
but he earned more than money, better than money, out of that
affair. It was attributed to him by the attorneys that the Bank
of England was saved from the necessity of reconstructing all its
bullion-cellars, and he had made his character for industry. In the
year after that the Bobsborough people were rather driven into a
corner in search of a clever young Conservative candidate for the
borough, and Frank Greystock was invited to stand. It was not thought
that there was much chance of success, and the dean was against it.
But Frank liked the honour and glory of the contest, and so did
Frank's mother. Frank Greystock stood, and at the time in which he
was warned away from Fawn Court had been nearly a year in Parliament.
"Of course it does interfere with one's business," he had said to his
father, "but then it brings one business also. A man with a seat in
Parliament who shows that he means work will always get nearly as
much work as he can do." Such was Frank's exposition to his father.
It may perhaps not be found to hold water in all cases. Mrs. Dean was
of course delighted with her son's success, and so were the girls.
Women like to feel that the young men belonging to them are doing
something in the world, so that a reflected glory may be theirs. It
was pleasant to talk of Frank as member for the city. Brothers do not
always care much for a brother's success, but a sister is generally
sympathetic. If Frank would only marry money, there was nothing he
might not achieve. That he would live to sit on the woolsack was
now almost a certainty to the dear old lady. But in order that he
might sit there comfortably it was necessary that he should at least
abstain from marrying a poor wife. For there was fear at the deanery
also in regard to Lucy Morris.

"That notion of marrying money as you call it," Frank said to his
second sister Margaret, "is the most disgusting idea in the world."

"It is as easy to love a girl who has something as one who has
nothing," said Margaret.

"No,--it is not; because the girls with money are scarce, and those
without it are plentiful,--an argument of which I don't suppose you
see the force." Then Margaret for the moment was snubbed and retired.

"Indeed, Frank, I think Lady Fawn was right," said the mother.

"And I think she was quite wrong. If there be anything in it, it
won't be expelled by Lady Fawn's interference. Do you think I should
allow Lady Fawn to tell me not to choose such or such a woman for my
wife?"

"It's the habit of seeing her, my dear. Nobody loves Lucy Morris
better than I do. We all like her. But, dear Frank, would it do for
you to make her your wife?"

Frank Greystock was silent for a moment, and then he answered his
mother's question. "I am not quite sure whether it would or would
not. But I do think this--that if I were bold enough to marry now,
and to trust all to the future, and could get Lucy to be my wife, I
should be doing a great thing. I doubt, however, whether I have the
courage." All of which made the dean's wife uneasy.

The reader, who has read so far, will perhaps think that Frank
Greystock was in love with Lucy as Lucy was in love with him. But
such was not exactly the case. To be in love, as an absolute,
well-marked, acknowledged fact, is the condition of a woman more
frequently and more readily than of a man. Such is not the common
theory on the matter, as it is the man's business to speak, and the
woman's business to be reticent. And the woman is presumed to have
kept her heart free from any load of love, till she may accept the
burthen with an assurance that it shall become a joy and a comfort to
her. But such presumptions, though they may be very useful for the
regulation of conduct, may not be always true. It comes more within
the scope of a woman's mind, than that of a man's, to think closely
and decide sharply on such a matter. With a man it is often chance
that settles the question for him. He resolves to propose to a woman,
or proposes without resolving, because she is close to him. Frank
Greystock ridiculed the idea of Lady Fawn's interference in so high
a matter as his love,--or abstinence from love. Nevertheless, had
he been made a welcome guest at Fawn Court, he would undoubtedly
have told his love to Lucy Morris. He was not a welcome guest, but
had been banished; and, as a consequence of that banishment, he had
formed no resolution in regard to Lucy, and did not absolutely know
whether she was necessary to him or not. But Lucy Morris knew all
about it.

Moreover, it frequently happens with men that they fail to analyse
these things, and do not make out for themselves any clear definition
of what their feelings are or what they mean. We hear that a man has
behaved badly to a girl, when the behaviour of which he has been
guilty has resulted simply from want of thought. He has found a
certain companionship to be agreeable to him, and he has accepted
the pleasure without inquiry. Some vague idea has floated across
his brain that the world is wrong in supposing that such friendship
cannot exist without marriage, or question of marriage. It is simply
friendship. And yet were his friend to tell him that she intended to
give herself in marriage elsewhere, he would suffer all the pangs
of jealousy, and would imagine himself to be horribly ill-treated!
To have such a friend,--a friend whom he cannot or will not make
his wife,--is no injury to him. To him it is simply a delight, an
excitement in life, a thing to be known to himself only and not
talked of to others, a source of pride and inward exultation. It is
a joy to think of when he wakes, and a consolation in his little
troubles. It dispels the weariness of life, and makes a green spot of
holiday within his daily work. It is, indeed, death to her;--but he
does not know it. Frank Greystock did think that he could not marry
Lucy Morris without making an imprudent plunge into deep water, and
yet he felt that Lady Fawn was an ill-natured old woman for hinting
to him that he had better not, for the present, continue his visits
to Fawn Court. "Of course you understand me, Mr. Greystock," she had
said, meaning to be civil. "When Miss Morris has left us,--should she
ever leave us,--I should be most happy to see you." "What on earth
would take me to Fawn Court, if Lucy were not there!" he said to
himself,--not choosing to appreciate Lady Fawn's civility.

Frank Greystock was at this time nearly thirty years old. He was a
good-looking, but not strikingly handsome man; thin, of moderate
height, with sharp grey eyes, a face clean shorn with the exception
of a small whisker, with wiry, strong dark hair, which was already
beginning to show a tinge of grey;--the very opposite in appearance
to his late friend Sir Florian Eustace. He was quick, ready-witted,
self-reliant, and not over scrupulous in the outward things of the
world. He was desirous of doing his duty to others, but he was
specially desirous that others should do their duty to him. He
intended to get on in the world, and believed that happiness was to
be achieved by success. He was certainly made for the profession
which he had adopted. His father, looking to certain morsels of
Church patronage which occasionally came in his way, and to the fact
that he and the bishop were on most friendly terms, had wished his
son to take orders. But Frank had known himself and his own qualities
too well to follow his father's advice. He had chosen to be a
barrister, and now, at thirty, he was in Parliament.

He had been asked to stand for Bobsborough in the Conservative
interest, and as a Conservative he had been returned. Those who
invited him knew probably but little of his own political beliefs or
feelings,--did not, probably, know whether he had any. His father was
a fine old Tory of the ancient school, who thought that things were
going from bad to worse, but was able to live happily in spite of his
anticipations. The dean was one of those old-world politicians,--we
meet them every day, and they are generally pleasant people,--who
enjoy the politics of the side to which they belong without any
special belief in them. If pressed hard they will almost own that
their so-called convictions are prejudices. But not for worlds would
they be rid of them. When two or three of them meet together, they
are as freemasons, who are bound by a pleasant bond which separates
them from the outer world. They feel among themselves that everything
that is being done is bad,--even though that everything is done by
their own party. It was bad to interfere with Charles, bad to endure
Cromwell, bad to banish James, bad to put up with William. The House
of Hanover was bad. All interference with prerogative has been bad.
The Reform bill was very bad. Encroachment on the estates of the
bishops was bad. Emancipation of Roman Catholics was the worst of
all. Abolition of corn-laws, church-rates, and oaths and tests were
all bad. The meddling with the Universities has been grievous. The
treatment of the Irish Church has been Satanic. The overhauling of
schools is most injurious to English education. Education bills and
Irish land bills were all bad. Every step taken has been bad. And yet
to them old England is of all countries in the world the best to live
in, and is not at all the less comfortable because of the changes
that have been made. These people are ready to grumble at every boon
conferred on them, and yet to enjoy every boon. They know, too, their
privileges, and, after a fashion, understand their position. It is
picturesque, and it pleases them. To have been always in the right
and yet always on the losing side; always being ruined, always under
persecution from a wild spirit of republican-demagogism,--and yet
never to lose anything, not even position or public esteem, is
pleasant enough. A huge, living, daily increasing grievance that does
one no palpable harm, is the happiest possession that a man can have.
There is a large body of such men in England, and, personally, they
are the very salt of the nation. He who said that all Conservatives
are stupid did not know them. Stupid Conservatives there may
be,--and there certainly are very stupid Radicals. The well-educated,
widely-read Conservative, who is well assured that all good things
are gradually being brought to an end by the voice of the people,
is generally the pleasantest man to be met. But he is a Buddhist,
possessing a religious creed which is altogether dark and mysterious
to the outer world. Those who watch the ways of the advanced Buddhist
hardly know whether the man does believe himself in his hidden god,
but men perceive that he is respectable, self-satisfied, and a man
of note. It is of course from the society of such that Conservative
candidates are to be sought; but, alas, it is hard to indoctrinate
young minds with the old belief, since new theories of life have
become so rife!

Nevertheless Frank Greystock, when he was invited to stand for
Bobsborough in the Conservative interest, had not for a moment
allowed any political heterodoxy on his own part to stand in the way
of his advancement. It may, perhaps, be the case that a barrister is
less likely to be influenced by personal convictions in taking his
side in politics than any other man who devotes himself to public
affairs. No slur on the profession is intended by this suggestion. A
busy, clever, useful man, who has been at work all his life, finds
that his own progress towards success demands from him that he shall
become a politician. The highest work of a lawyer can only be reached
through political struggle. As a large-minded man of the world,
peculiarly conversant with the fact that every question has two
sides, and that as much may often be said on one side as on the
other, he has probably not become violent in his feelings as a
political partisan. Thus he sees that there is an opening here or an
opening there, and the offence in either case is not great to him.
With Frank Greystock the matter was very easy. There certainly was no
apostasy. He had now and again attacked his father's ultra-Toryism,
and rebuked his mother and sisters when they spoke of Gladstone as
Apollyon, and called John Bright the Abomination of Desolation. But
it was easy to him to fancy himself a Conservative, and as such he
took his seat in the House without any feeling of discomfort.

During the first four months of his first session he had not
spoken,--but he had made himself useful. He had sat on one or two
Committees, though as a barrister he might have excused himself, and
had done his best to learn the forms of the House. But he had already
begun to find that the time which he devoted to Parliament was much
wanted for his profession. Money was very necessary to him. Then a
new idea was presented to him.

John Eustace and Greystock were very intimate,--as also had been Sir
Florian and Greystock. "I tell you what I wish you'd do, Greystock,"
Eustace said to him one day, as they were standing idly together in
the lobby of the House. For John Eustace was also in Parliament.

"Anything to oblige you, my friend."

"It's only a trifle," said Eustace. "Just to marry your cousin, my
brother's widow."

"By Jove,--I wish I had the chance!"

"I don't see why you shouldn't. She is sure to marry somebody, and
at her age so she ought. She's not twenty-three yet. We could trust
you,--with the child and all the rest of it. As it is, she is giving
us a deal of trouble."

"But, my dear fellow--"

"I know she's fond of you. You were dining there last Sunday.

"And so was Fawn. Lord Fawn is the man to marry Lizzie. You see if he
doesn't. He was uncommonly sweet on her the other night, and really
interested her about the Sawab."

"She'll never be Lady Fawn," said John Eustace. "And to tell the
truth, I shouldn't care to have to deal with Lord Fawn. He would
be infinitely troublesome; and I can hardly wash my hands of her
affairs. She's worth nearly £5,000 a year as long as she lives, and
I really don't think that she's much amiss."

"Much amiss! I don't know whether she's not the prettiest woman I
ever saw," said Greystock.

"Yes;--but I mean in conduct, and all that. She is making herself
queer; and Camperdown, our lawyer, means to jump upon her; but it's
only because she doesn't know what she ought to be at, and what she
ought not. You could tell her."

"It wouldn't suit me at all to have to quarrel with Camperdown," said
the barrister, laughing.

"You and he would settle everything in five minutes, and it would
save me a world of trouble," said Eustace.

"Fawn is your man;--take my word for it," said Greystock, as he
walked back into the House.

     *     *     *     *     *

Dramatists, when they write their plays, have a delightful privilege
of prefixing a list of their personages;--and the dramatists of old
used to tell us who was in love with whom, and what were the blood
relationships of all the persons. In such a narrative as this, any
proceeding of that kind would be unusual,--and therefore the poor
narrator has been driven to expend his first four chapters in the
mere task of introducing his characters. He regrets the length of
these introductions, and will now begin at once the action of his
story.


CHAPTER V

The Eustace Necklace


John Eustace, Lady Eustace's brother-in-law, had told his friend
Greystock, the lady's cousin, that Mr. Camperdown the lawyer intended
to "jump upon" that lady. Making such allowance and deduction from
the force of these words as the slang expression requires, we may say
that John Eustace was right. Mr. Camperdown was in earnest, and did
intend to obtain the restoration of those jewels. Mr. Camperdown
was a gentleman of about sixty, who had been lawyer to Sir
Florian's father, and whose father had been lawyer to Sir Florian's
grandfather. His connexion with the property and with the family
was of a nature to allow him to take almost any liberty with the
Eustaces. When therefore John Eustace, in regard to those diamonds,
had pleaded that the heir in his long minority would obtain ample
means of buying more diamonds, and of suggesting that the plunder for
the sake of tranquillity should be allowed, Mr. Camperdown took upon
himself to say that he'd "be ---- if he'd put up with it!" "I really
don't know what you are to do," said John Eustace.

"I'll file a bill in Chancery if it's necessary," said the old
lawyer. "Heaven on earth! as trustee how are you to reconcile
yourself to such a robbery? They represent £500 a year for ever, and
she is to have them simply because she chooses to take them!"

"I suppose Florian could have given them away. At any rate he could
have sold them."

"I don't know that," said Mr. Camperdown. "I have not looked as yet,
but I think that this necklace has been made an heirloom. At any rate
it represents an amount of property that shouldn't and couldn't be
made over legally without some visible evidence of transfer. It's
as clear a case of stealing as I ever knew in my life, and as bad
a case. She hadn't a farthing, and she has got the whole of the
Ayrshire property for her life. She goes about and tells everybody
that it's hers to sell to-morrow if she pleases to sell it! No,
John;--" Mr. Camperdown had known Eustace when he was a boy, and had
watched him become a man, and hadn't yet learned to drop the name by
which he had called the boy,--"we mustn't allow it. What do you think
of her applying to me for an income to support her child,--a baby not
yet two years old?" Mr. Camperdown had been very adverse to all the
circumstances of Sir Florian's marriage, and had subjected himself to
Sir Florian's displeasure for expressing his opinion. He had tried to
explain that as the lady brought no money into the family she was not
entitled to such a jointure as Sir Florian was determined to lavish
upon her. But Sir Florian had been obstinate,--both in regard to the
settlement and the will. It was not till after Sir Florian's death
that this terrible matter of the jewels had even suggested itself to
Mr. Camperdown. The jewellers in whose custody the things had been
since the death of the late Lady Eustace had mentioned the affair to
him immediately on the young widow's return from Naples. Sir Florian
had withdrawn, not all the jewels, but by far the most valuable of
them, from the jewellers' care on his return to London from their
marriage tour to Scotland, and this was the result. The jewellers
were at that time without any doubt as to the date at which the
necklace was taken from them.

Mr. Camperdown's first attempt was made by a most courteous and even
complimentary note, in which he suggested to Lady Eustace that it
would be for the advantage of all parties that the family jewels
should be kept together. Lizzie as she read this note smiled, and
said to herself that she did not exactly see how her own interests
would be best served by such an arrangement. She made no answer to
Mr. Camperdown's note. Some months after this, when the heir was
born, and as Lady Eustace was passing through London on her journey
from Bobsborough to Portray, a meeting had been arranged between her
and Mr. Camperdown. She had endeavoured by all the wiles she knew to
avoid this meeting, but it had been forced upon her. She had been
almost given to understand that unless she submitted to it, she would
not be able to draw her income from the Portray property. Messrs.
Mowbray and Mopus had advised her to submit. "My husband gave me a
necklace, and they want me to give it back," she had said to Mr.
Mopus. "Do nothing of the kind," Mr. Mopus had replied. "If you find
it necessary, refer Mr. Camperdown to us. We will answer him." The
interview had taken place, during which Mr. Camperdown took the
trouble to explain very plainly and more than once that the income
from the Portray property belonged to Lady Eustace for her life
only. It would after her death be rejoined, of necessity, to the
rest of the Eustace property. This was repeated to Lady Eustace
in the presence of John Eustace; but she made no remark on being
so informed. "You understand the nature of the settlement, Lady
Eustace?" Mr. Camperdown had said. "I believe I understand
everything," she replied. Then, just at the close of the interview,
he asked a question about the jewels. Lady Eustace at first made no
reply. "They might as well be sent back to Messrs. Garnett's," said
Mr. Camperdown. "I don't know that I have any to send back," she
answered; and then she escaped before Mr. Camperdown was able to
arrange any further attack. "I can manage with her better by letter
than I can personally," he said to John Eustace.

Lawyers such as Mr. Camperdown are slow, and it was three or four
months after that when he wrote a letter in his own name to Lady
Eustace, explaining to her, still courteously, that it was his
business to see that the property of the Eustace family was placed in
fit hands, and that a certain valuable necklace of diamonds, which
was an heirloom of the family, and which was undeniably the property
of the heir, was believed to be in her custody. As such property was
peculiarly subject to risks, would she have the kindness to make
arrangements for handing over the necklace to the custody of the
Messrs. Garnett? To this letter Lizzie made no answer whatever, nor
did she to a second note, calling attention to the first. When John
Eustace told Greystock that Camperdown intended to "jump on" Lady
Eustace, the following further letter had been written by the
firm;--but up to that time Lizzie had not replied to it:


   62, New Square, Lincoln's Inn,
   May 5, 186--.

   MADAM,

   It is our duty as attorneys acting on behalf of the estate
   of your late husband Sir Florian Eustace, and in the
   interest of your son, his heir, to ask for restitution
   of a certain valuable diamond necklace which is believed
   to be now in the possession of your ladyship. Our senior
   partner, Mr. Camperdown, has written to your ladyship more
   than once on the subject, but has not been honoured with
   any reply. Doubtless had there been any mistake as to
   the necklace being in your hands we should have been
   so informed. The diamonds were withdrawn from Messrs.
   Garnett's, the jewellers, by Sir Florian soon after his
   marriage, and were, no doubt, entrusted to your keeping.
   They are appanages of the family which should not be in
   your hands as the widow of the late baronet, and they
   constitute an amount of property which certainly cannot
   be alienated from the family without inquiry or right, as
   might any trifling article either of use or ornament. The
   jewels are valued at over £10,000.

   We are reluctantly compelled, by the fact of your having
   left unanswered three letters from Mr. Camperdown, Senior,
   on the subject, to explain to you that if attention be
   not paid to this letter, we shall be obliged, in the
   performance of our duty, to take legal steps for the
   restitution of the property.

   We have the honour to be,
   Madam,
   Your ladyship's most obedient servants,

   CAMPERDOWN & SON.

   To Lady Eustace.
   &c. &c.


A few days after it was sent old Mr. Camperdown got the letter-book
of the office and read the letter to John Eustace.

"I don't see how you're to get them," said Eustace.

"We'll throw upon her the burthen of showing that they have become
legally her property. She can't do it."

"Suppose she sold them?"

"We'll follow them up. £10,000, my dear John! God bless my soul! it's
a magnificent dowry for a daughter,--an ample provision for a younger
son. And she is to be allowed to filch it, as other widows filch
china cups, and a silver teaspoon or two! It's quite a common thing,
but I never heard of such a haul as this."

"It will be very unpleasant," said Eustace.

"And then she still goes about everywhere declaring that the Portray
property is her own. She's a bad lot. I knew it from the first. Of
course we shall have trouble." Then Mr. Eustace explained to the
lawyer that their best way out of it all would be to get the widow
married to some respectable husband. She was sure to marry sooner or
later,--so John Eustace said,--and any "decently decent" fellow would
he easier to deal with than she herself. "He must be very indecently
indecent if he is not," said Mr. Camperdown. But Mr. Eustace did not
name Frank Greystock the barrister as the probable future decent
husband.

When Lizzie first got the letter, which she did on the day after the
visit at Fawn Court of which mention has been made, she put it by
unread for a couple of days. She opened it, not knowing the clerk's
handwriting, but read only the first line and the signature. For two
days she went on with the ordinary affairs and amusements of her
life, as though no such letter had reached her; but she was thinking
of it all the time. The diamonds were in her possession, and she had
had them valued by her old friend Mr. Benjamin--of the firm of Harter
and Benjamin. Mr. Benjamin had suggested that stones of such a value
should not be left to the risk of an ordinary London house; but
Lizzie had felt that if Mr. Benjamin got them into his hands, Mr.
Benjamin might perhaps not return them. Messrs. Camperdown and
Garnett between them might form a league with Mr. Benjamin. Where
would she be, should Mr. Benjamin tell her that under some legal
sanction he had given the jewels up to Mr. Camperdown? She hinted
to Mr. Benjamin that she would perhaps sell them if she got a good
offer. Mr. Benjamin, who was very familiar with her, hinted that
there might be a little family difficulty. "Oh, none in the least,"
said Lizzie;--"but I don't think I shall part with them." Then she
gave Mr. Benjamin an order for a strong box, which was supplied to
her. The strong box, which was so heavy that she could barely lift it
herself, was now in her London bedroom.

On the morning of the third day she read the letter. Miss Macnulty
was staying with her, but she had not said a word to Miss Macnulty
about the letter. She read it up in her own bedroom, and then sat
down to think about it. Sir Florian, as he had handed to her the
stones for the purpose of a special dinner party which had been
given to them when passing through London, had told her that they
were family jewels. "That setting was done for my mother," he said,
"but it is already old. When we are at home again they shall be
reset." Then he had added some little husband's joke as to a future
daughter-in-law who should wear them. Nevertheless she was not sure
whether the fact of their being so handed to her did not make them
her own. She had spoken a second time to Mr. Mopus, and Mr. Mopus had
asked her whether there existed any family deed as to the diamonds.
She had heard of no such deed, nor did Mr. Camperdown mention such a
deed. After reading the letter once she read it a dozen times; and
then, like a woman, made up her mind that her safest course would be
not to answer it.

But yet she felt sure that something unpleasant would come of it. Mr.
Camperdown was not a man to take up such a question and to let it
drop. Legal steps! What did legal steps mean, and what could they do
to her? Would Mr. Camperdown be able to put her in prison,--or to
take away from her the estate of Portray? She could swear that her
husband had given them to her, and could invent any form of words
she pleased as accompanying the gift. No one else had been near them
then. But she was, and felt herself to be absolutely, alarmingly
ignorant, not only of the laws, but of custom in such matters.
Messrs. Mowbray and Mopus and Mr. Benjamin were the allies to whom
she looked for guidance; but she was wise enough to know that
Mowbray and Mopus, and Harter and Benjamin were not trustworthy,
whereas Camperdown and Son and the Messrs. Garnett were all
as firm as rocks and as respectable as the Bank of England.
Circumstances,--unfortunate circumstances,--drove her to Harter and
Benjamin and to Mowbray and Mopus, while she would have taken so much
delight in feeling the strong honesty of the other people to be on
her side! She would have talked to her friends about Mr. Camperdown
and the people at Garnett's with so much satisfaction! But ease,
security, and even respectability may be bought too dearly. Ten
thousand pounds! Was she prepared to surrender such a sum as that?
She had, indeed, already realised the fact that it might be very
difficult to touch the money. When she had suggested to Mr. Benjamin
that he should buy the jewels, that worthy tradesman had by no means
jumped at the offer. Of what use to her would be a necklace always
locked up in an iron box, which box, for aught she knew, myrmidons
from Mr. Camperdown might carry off during her absence from the
house? Would it not be better to come to terms and surrender? But
then what should the terms be?

If only there had been a friend whom she could consult; a friend
whom she could consult on a really friendly footing!--not a simply
respectable, off-handed, high-minded friend, who would advise her as
a matter of course to make restitution. Her uncle the dean, or her
cousin Frank, or old Lady Fawn, would be sure to give her such advice
as that. There are people who are so very high-minded when they have
to deal with the interests of their friends! What if she were to ask
Lord Fawn?

Thoughts of a second marriage had, of course, crossed Lady Eustace's
mind, and they were by no means the worst thoughts that found a place
there. She had a grand idea,--this selfish, hard-fisted little woman,
who could not bring herself to abandon the plunder on which she had
laid her hand,--a grand idea of surrendering herself and all her
possessions to a great passion. For Florian Eustace she had never
cared. She had sat down by his side, and looked into his handsome
face, and read poetry to him,--because of his wealth, and because
it had been indispensable to her to settle herself well. And he had
been all very well,--a generous, open-hearted, chivalrous, irascible,
but rather heavy-minded gentleman; but she had never been in love
with him. Now she desired to be so in love that she could surrender
everything to her love. There was as yet nothing of such love in her
bosom. She had seen no one who had so touched her. But she was alive
to the romance of the thing, and was in love with the idea of being
in love. "Ah," she would say to herself in her moments of solitude,
"if I had a Corsair of my own, how I would sit on watch for my
lover's boat by the sea-shore!" And she believed it of herself, that
she could do so.

But it would also be very nice to be a peeress,--so that she might,
without any doubt, be one of the great ladies of London. As a
baronet's widow with a large income, she was already almost a great
lady; but she was quite alive to a suspicion that she was not
altogether strong in her position. The bishop's people and the dean's
people did not quite trust her. The Camperdowns and Garnetts utterly
distrusted her. The Mopuses and Benjamins were more familiar than
they would be with a really great lady. She was sharp enough to
understand all this. Should it be Lord Fawn or should it be a
Corsair? The worst of Lord Fawn was the undoubted fact that he was
not himself a great man. He could, no doubt, make his wife a peeress;
but he was poor, encumbered with a host of sisters, dull as a
blue-book, and possessed of little beyond his peerage to recommend
him. If she could only find a peer, unmarried, with a dash of the
Corsair about him! In the meantime, what was she to do about the
jewels?

There was staying with her at this time a certain Miss Macnulty, who
was related, after some distant fashion, to old Lady Linlithgow, and
who was as utterly destitute of possessions or means of existence
as any unfortunate, well-born, and moderately-educated, middle-aged
woman in London. To live upon her friends, such as they might be,
was the only mode of life within her reach. It was not that she had
chosen such dependence; nor, indeed, had she endeavoured to reject
it. It had come to her as a matter of course,--either that or the
poor-house. As to earning her bread, except by that attendance which
a poor friend gives,--the idea of any possibility that way had never
entered her head. She could do nothing,--except dress like a lady
with the smallest possible cost, and endeavour to be obliging.
Now, at this moment, her condition was terribly precarious. She
had quarrelled with Lady Linlithgow, and had been taken in by
her old friend Lizzie,--her old enemy might, perhaps, be a truer
expression,--because of that quarrel. But a permanent home had not
even been promised to her; and poor Miss Macnulty was aware that even
a permanent home with Lady Eustace would not be an unmixed blessing.
In her way, Miss Macnulty was an honest woman.

They were sitting together one May afternoon in the little back
drawing-room in Mount Street. They had dined early, were now drinking
tea, and intended to go to the opera. It was six o'clock, and was
still broad day, but the thick coloured blind was kept across the
single window, and the folding doors of the room were nearly closed,
and there was a feeling of evening in the room. The necklace during
the whole day had been so heavy on Lizzie's heart, that she had been
unable to apply her thoughts to the building of that castle in the
air in which the Corsair was to reign supreme, but not alone. "My
dear," she said,--she generally called Miss Macnulty my dear,--"you
know that box I had made by the jewellers."

"You mean the safe."

"Well,--yes; only it isn't a safe. A safe is a great big thing. I had
it made especially for the diamonds Sir Florian gave me."

"I supposed it was so."

"I wonder whether there's any danger about it?"

"If I were you, Lady Eustace, I wouldn't keep them in the house. I
should have them kept where Sir Florian kept them. Suppose anybody
should come and murder you!"

"I'm not a bit afraid of that," said Lizzie.

"I should be. And what will you do with it when you go to Scotland?"

"I took them with me before;--in my own care. I know that wasn't
safe. I wish I knew what to do with them!"

"There are people who keep such things," said Miss Macnulty.

Then Lizzie paused a moment. She was dying for counsel and for
confidence. "I cannot trust them anywhere," she said. "It is just
possible there may be a lawsuit about them."

"How a lawsuit?"

"I cannot explain it all, but I am very unhappy about it. They want
me to give them up;--but my husband gave them to me, and for his
sake I will not do so. When he threw them round my neck he told me
that they were my own;--so he did. How can a woman give up such a
present,--from a husband,--who is dead? As to the value, I care
nothing. But I won't do it." By this time Lady Eustace was in tears,
and had so far succeeded as to have produced some amount of belief in
Miss Macnulty's mind.

"If they are your own, they can't take them from you," said Miss
Macnulty.

"They sha'n't. They shall find that I've got some spirit left." Then
she reflected that a real Corsair lover would protect her jewels
for her;--would guard them against a score of Camperdowns. But she
doubted whether Lord Fawn would do much in that way. Then the door
was opened, and Lord Fawn was announced. It was not at all unusual
with Lord Fawn to call on the widow at this hour. Mount Street is not
exactly in the way from the India Office to the House of Lords; but
a Hansom cab can make it almost in the way. Of neglect of official
duty Lord Fawn was never guilty; but a half hour for private business
or for relaxation between one stage of duty and another,--can any
Minister grudge so much to an indefatigable follower? Lady Eustace
had been in tears as he was announced, but the light of the room was
so low that the traces of them could hardly be seen. She was in her
Corsair state of mind, divided between her jewels and her poetry, and
caring not very much for the increased rank which Lord Fawn could
give her. "The Sawab's case is coming on in the House of Commons this
very night," he said, in answer to a question from Miss Macnulty.
Then he turned to Lady Eustace. "Your cousin, Mr. Greystock, is going
to ask a question in the House."

"Shall you be there to answer him?" asked Miss Macnulty innocently.

"Oh dear, no. But I shall be present. A peer can go, you know."
Then Lord Fawn, at considerable length, explained to the two ladies
the nature and condition of the British Parliament. Miss Macnulty
experienced an innocent pleasure in having such things told to her by
a lord. Lady Eustace knew that this was the way in which Lord Fawn
made love, and thought that from him it was as good as any other way.
If she were to marry a second time simply with the view of being a
peeress, of having a respected husband, and making good her footing
in the world, she would as lief listen to parliamentary details and
the prospects of the Sawab as to any other matters. She knew very
well that no Corsair propensities would be forthcoming from Lord
Fawn. Lord Fawn had just worked himself round to the Sawab again,
when Frank Greystock entered the room. "Now we have both the Houses
represented," said Lady Eustace, as she welcomed her cousin.

"You intend to ask your question about the Sawab to-night?" asked
Lord Fawn, with intense interest, feeling that, had it been his lot
to perform that task before he went to his couch, he would at this
moment have been preparing his little speech.

But Frank Greystock had not come to his cousin's house to talk of
the Prince of the Mygawb territory. When his friend Eustace had
suggested to him that he should marry the widow, he had ridiculed
the idea;--but nevertheless he had thought of it a good deal. He was
struggling hard, working diligently, making for himself a character
in Parliament, succeeding,--so said all his friends,--as a barrister.
He was a rising young man, one of those whose names began to be much
in the mouths of other men;--but still he was poor. It seemed to
himself that among other good gifts that of economy had not been
bestowed upon him. He owed a little money, and though he owed it,
he went on spending his earnings. He wanted just such a lift in the
world as a wife with an income would give him. As for looking about
for a girl whom he could honestly love, and who should have a fortune
of her own as well as beauty, birth, and all the other things,--that
was out of his reach. If he talked to himself of love, if he were
ever to acknowledge to himself that love was to have sway over him,
then must Lucy Morris be the mistress of his heart. He had come to
know enough about himself to be aware of that;--but he knew also
that he had said nothing binding him to walk in that path. It was
quite open to him to indulge a discreet ambition without dishonour.
Therefore he also had come to call upon the beautiful widow. The
courtship with her he knew need not be long. He could ask her to
marry him to-morrow,--as for that matter to-day,--without a feeling
of hesitation. She might accept him or might reject him; but, as he
said to himself, in neither case would any harm be done.

An idea of the same kind flitted across Lizzie's mind as she sat
and talked to the two gentlemen. She knew that her cousin Frank was
poor, but she thought that she could fall in love with him. He was
not exactly a Corsair;--but he was a man who had certain Corsair
propensities. He was bold and dashing, unscrupulous and clever, a man
to make a name for himself, and one to whom a woman could endure to
be obedient. There could be no question as to choice between him and
Lord Fawn, if she were to allow herself to choose by liking. And she
thought that Frank Greystock would keep the necklace, if he himself
were made to have an interest in the necklace; whereas Lord Fawn
would undoubtedly surrender it at once to Mr. Camperdown.

Lord Fawn had some slight idea of waiting to see the cousin go; but
as Greystock had a similar idea, and as he was the stronger of the
two, of course Lord Fawn went. He perhaps remembered that the Hansom
cab was at the door,--costing sixpence every fifteen minutes,--and
that he wished to show himself in the House of Lords before the peers
rose. Miss Macnulty also left the room, and Frank was alone with the
widow. "Lizzie," said he, "you must be very solitary here."

"I am solitary."

"And hardly happy."

"Anything but happy, Frank. I have things that make me very
unhappy;--one thing that I will tell you if you will let me." Frank
had almost made up his mind to ask her on the spot to give him
permission to console all her sorrows, when there came a clattering
double-knock at the door. "They know I shall be at home to nobody
else now," said Lady Eustace. But Frank Greystock had hardly regained
his self-possession when Miss Macnulty hurried into the room, and,
with a look almost of horror, declared that Lady Linlithgow was in
the parlour.


CHAPTER VI

Lady Linlithgow's Mission


"Lady Linlithgow!"--said Frank Greystock, holding up both his hands.

"Yes, indeed!" said Miss Macnulty. "I did not speak to her, but I saw
her. She has sent her--love to Lady Eustace, and begs that she will
see her."

Lady Eustace had been so surprised by the announcement that hitherto
she had not spoken a word. The quarrel between her and her aunt
had been of such a nature that it had seemed to be impossible that
the old countess should come to Mount Street. Lizzie had certainly
behaved very badly to her aunt;--about as badly as a young woman
could behave to an old woman. She had accepted bread, and shelter,
and the very clothes on her back from her aunt's bounty, and had
rejected even the hand of her benefactress the first moment that she
had bread, and shelter, and clothes of her own. And here was Lady
Linlithgow down-stairs in the parlour, and sending up her love to her
niece! "I won't see her!" said Lizzie.

"You had better see her," said Frank.

"I can't see her!" said Lizzie. "Good gracious, my dear--what has she
come for?"

"She says it's very important," said Miss Macnulty.

"Of course you must see her," said Frank. "Let me get out of the
house, and then tell the servant to show her up at once. Don't be
weak now, Lizzie, and I'll come and find out all about it to-morrow."

"Mind you do," said Lizzie. Then Frank took his departure, and Lizzie
did as she was bidden. "You remain in here, Julia," she said,--"so as
to be near if I want you. She shall come into the front room." Then,
absolutely shaking with fear of the approaching evil, she took her
seat in the largest drawing-room. There was still a little delay.
Time was given to Frank Greystock to get away, and to do so without
meeting Lady Linlithgow in the passage. The message was conveyed by
Miss Macnulty to the servant, and the same servant opened the front
door for Frank before he delivered it. Lady Linlithgow, too, though
very strong, was old. She was slow, or perhaps it might more properly
be said she was stately in her movements. She was one of those old
women who are undoubtedly old women,--who in the remembrance of
younger people seem always to have been old women,--but on whom old
age appears to have no debilitating effects. If the hand of Lady
Linlithgow ever trembled, it trembled from anger;--if her foot ever
faltered, it faltered for effect. In her way Lady Linlithgow was
a very powerful human being. She knew nothing of fear, nothing of
charity, nothing of mercy, and nothing of the softness of love. She
had no imagination. She was worldly, covetous, and not unfrequently
cruel. But she meant to be true and honest, though she often failed
in her meaning;--and she had an idea of her duty in life. She was not
self-indulgent. She was as hard as an oak post,--but then she was
also as trustworthy. No human being liked her;--but she had the good
word of a great many human beings. At great cost to her own comfort
she had endeavoured to do her duty to her niece, Lizzie Greystock,
when Lizzie was homeless. Undoubtedly Lizzie's bed, while it had been
spread under her aunt's roof, had not been one of roses; but such as
it had been, she had endured to occupy it while it served her needs.
She had constrained herself to bear her aunt;--but from the moment
of her escape she had chosen to reject her aunt altogether. Now her
aunt's heavy step was heard upon the stairs! Lizzie also was a brave
woman after a certain fashion. She could dare to incur a great danger
for an adequate object. But she was too young as yet to have become
mistress of that persistent courage which was Lady Linlithgow's
peculiar possession.

When the countess entered the drawing-room Lizzie rose upon her
legs, but did not come forward from her chair. The old woman was not
tall;--but her face was long, and at the same time large, square
at the chin and square at the forehead, and gave her almost an
appearance of height. Her nose was very prominent, not beaked, but
straight and strong, and broad at the bridge, and of a dark-red
colour. Her eyes were sharp and grey. Her mouth was large, and over
it there was almost beard enough for a young man's moustache. Her
chin was firm, and large, and solid. Her hair was still brown, and
was only just grizzled in parts. Nothing becomes an old woman like
grey hair, but Lady Linlithgow's hair would never be grey. Her
appearance on the whole was not pre-possessing, but it gave one
an idea of honest, real strength. What one saw was not buckram,
whalebone, paint, and false hair. It was all human,--hardly
feminine, certainly not angelic, with perhaps a hint in the other
direction,--but a human body, and not a thing of pads and patches.
Lizzie, as she saw her aunt, made up her mind for the combat. Who is
there that has lived to be a man or woman, and has not experienced
a moment in which a combat has impended, and a call for such sudden
courage has been necessary? Alas!--sometimes the combat comes, and
the courage is not there. Lady Eustace was not at her ease as she saw
her aunt enter the room. "Oh, come ye in peace, or come ye in war?"
she would have said had she dared. Her aunt had sent up her love,--if
the message had been delivered aright; but what of love could there
be between the two? The countess dashed at once to the matter in
hand, making no allusion to Lizzie's ungrateful conduct to herself.
"Lizzie," she said, "I've been asked to come to you by Mr.
Camperdown. I'll sit down, if you please."

"Oh, certainly, Aunt Penelope. Mr. Camperdown!"

"Yes;--Mr. Camperdown. You know who he is. He has been with me
because I am your nearest relation. So I am, and therefore I have
come. I don't like it, I can tell you."

"As for that, Aunt Penelope, you've done it to please yourself," said
Lizzie, in a tone of insolence with which Lady Linlithgow had been
familiar in former days.

"No, I haven't, miss. I haven't come for my own pleasure at all.
I have come for the credit of the family, if any good can be done
towards saving it. You've got your husband's diamonds locked up
somewhere, and you must give them back."

"My husband's diamonds were my diamonds," said Lizzie stoutly.

"They are family diamonds, Eustace diamonds, heirlooms,--old property
belonging to the Eustaces, just like their estates. Sir Florian
didn't give 'em away, and couldn't, and wouldn't if he could. Such
things ain't given away in that fashion. It's all nonsense, and you
must give them up."

"Who says so?"

"I say so."

"That's nothing, Aunt Penelope."

"Nothing, is it? You'll see. Mr. Camperdown says so. All the world
will say so. If you don't take care, you'll find yourself brought
into a court of law, my dear, and a jury will say so. That's what it
will come to. What good will they do you? You can't sell them;--and
as a widow you can't wear 'em. If you marry again, you wouldn't
disgrace your husband by going about showing off the Eustace
diamonds! But you don't know anything about 'proper feelings.'"

"I know every bit as much as you do, Aunt Penelope, and I don't want
you to teach me."

"Will you give up the jewels to Mr. Camperdown?"

"No--I won't."

"Or to the jewellers?"

"No; I won't. I mean to--keep them--for--my child." Then there came
forth a sob, and a tear, and Lizzie's handkerchief was held to her
eyes.

"Your child! Wouldn't they be kept properly for him, and for the
family, if the jewellers had them? I don't believe you care about
your child."

"Aunt Penelope, you had better take care."

"I shall say just what I think, Lizzie. You can't frighten me. The
fact is, you are disgracing the family you have married into, and as
you are my niece--"

"I'm not disgracing anybody. You are disgracing everybody."

"As you are my niece, I have undertaken to come to you and to tell
you that if you don't give 'em up within a week from this time,
they'll proceed against you for--stealing 'em!" Lady Linlithgow, as
she uttered this terrible threat, bobbed her head at her niece in a
manner calculated to add very much to the force of her words. The
words, and tone, and gesture combined were, in truth, awful.

"I didn't steal them. My husband gave them to me with his own hands."

"You wouldn't answer Mr. Camperdown's letters, you know. That alone
will condemn you. After that there isn't a word to be said about
it;--not a word. Mr. Camperdown is the family lawyer, and when he
writes to you letter after letter you take no more notice of him
than a--dog!" The old woman was certainly very powerful. The way in
which she pronounced that last word did make Lady Eustace ashamed of
herself. "Why didn't you answer his letters, unless you knew you were
in the wrong? Of course you knew you were in the wrong."

"No; I didn't. A woman isn't obliged to answer everything that is
written to her."

"Very well! You just say that before the judge! for you'll have to go
before a judge. I tell you, Lizzie Greystock, or Eustace, or whatever
your name is, it's downright picking and stealing. I suppose you want
to sell them."

"I won't stand this, Aunt Penelope!" said Lizzie, rising from her
seat.

"You must stand it;--and you'll have to stand worse than that. You
don't suppose Mr. Camperdown got me to come here for nothing. If you
don't want to be made out to be a thief before all the world--"

"I won't stand it!" shrieked Lizzie. "You have no business to come
here and say such things to me. It's my house."

"I shall say just what I please."

"Miss Macnulty, come in." And Lizzie threw open the door, hardly
knowing how the very weak ally whom she now invoked could help her,
but driven by the stress of the combat to seek assistance somewhere.
Miss Macnulty, who was seated near the door, and who had necessarily
heard every word of the conversation, had no alternative but to
appear. Of all human beings Lady Linlithgow was to her the most
terrible, and yet, after a fashion, she loved the old woman. Miss
Macnulty was humble, cowardly, and subservient; but she was not a
fool, and she understood the difference between truth and falsehood.
She had endured fearful things from Lady Linlithgow; but she knew
that there might be more of sound protection in Lady Linlithgow's
real wrath than in Lizzie's pretended affection.

"So you are there, are you?" said the countess.

"Yes;--I am here, Lady Linlithgow."

"Listening, I suppose. Well;--so much the better. You know well
enough, and you can tell her. You ain't a fool, though I suppose
you'll be afraid to open your mouth."

"Julia," said Lady Eustace, "will you have the kindness to see that
my aunt is shown to her carriage. I cannot stand her violence, and I
will go up-stairs." So saying she made her way very gracefully into
the back drawing-room, whence she could escape to her bed-room.

But her aunt fired a last shot at her. "Unless you do as you're bid,
Lizzie, you'll find yourself in prison as sure as eggs!" Then, when
her niece was beyond hearing, she turned to Miss Macnulty. "I suppose
you've heard about these diamonds, Macnulty?"

"I know she's got them, Lady Linlithgow."

"She has no more right to them than you have. I suppose you're afraid
to tell her so, lest she should turn you out;--but it's well she
should know it. I've done my duty. Never mind about the servant. I'll
find my way out of the house." Nevertheless the bell was rung, and
the countess was shown to her carriage with proper consideration.

The two ladies went to the opera, and it was not till after their
return, and just as they were going to bed, that anything further was
said about either the necklace or the visit. Miss Macnulty would not
begin the subject, and Lizzie purposely postponed it. But not for a
moment had it been off Lady Eustace's mind. She did not care much for
music, though she professed to do so,--and thought that she did. But
on this night, had she at other times been a slave to St. Cecilia,
she would have been free from that thraldom. The old woman's threats
had gone into her very heart's blood. Theft, and prison, and juries,
and judges had been thrown at her head so violently that she was
almost stunned. Could it really be the case that they would prosecute
her for stealing? She was Lady Eustace, and who but Lady Eustace
should have these diamonds or be allowed to wear them? Nobody could
say that Sir Florian had not given them to her. It could not, surely,
be brought against her as an actual crime that she had not answered
Mr. Camperdown's letters? And yet she was not sure. Her ideas about
law and judicial proceedings were very vague. Of what was wrong and
what was right she had a distinct notion. She knew well enough that
she was endeavouring to steal the Eustace diamonds; but she did not
in the least know what power there might be in the law to prevent, or
to punish her for the intended theft. She knew well that the thing
was not really her own; but there were, as she thought, so many
points in her favour, that she felt it to be a cruelty that any one
should grudge her the plunder. Was not she the only Lady Eustace
living? As to these threats from Mr. Camperdown and Lady Linlithgow,
she felt certain they would be used against her whether they were
true or false. She would break her heart should she abandon her
prey and afterwards find that Mr. Camperdown would have been wholly
powerless against her had she held on to it. But then who would tell
her the truth? She was sharp enough to understand, or at any rate
suspicious enough to believe, that Mr. Mopus would be actuated by no
other desire in the matter than that of running up a bill against
her. "My dear," she said to Miss Macnulty, as they went up-stairs
after the opera, "come into my room a moment. You heard all that my
aunt said?"

"I could not help hearing. You told me to stay there, and the door
was ajar."

"I wanted you to hear. Of course what she said was the greatest
nonsense in the world."

"I don't know."

"When she talked about my being taken to prison for not answering
a lawyer's letter, that must be nonsense?"

"I suppose that was."

"And then she is such a ferocious old termagant,--such an old
vulturess. Now isn't she a ferocious old termagant?" Lizzie paused
for an answer, desirous that her companion should join her in her
enmity against her aunt, but Miss Macnulty was unwilling to say
anything against one who had been her protectress, and might,
perhaps, be her protectress again. "You don't mean to say you don't
hate her?" said Lizzie. "If you didn't hate her after all she has
done to you, I should despise you. Don't you hate her?"

"I think she's a very upsetting old woman," said Miss Macnulty.

"Oh, you poor creature! Is that all you dare to say about her?"

"I'm obliged to be a poor creature," said Miss Macnulty, with a red
spot on each of her cheeks.

Lady Eustace understood this, and relented. "But you needn't be
afraid," she said, "to tell me what you think."

"About the diamonds, you mean?"

"Yes; about the diamonds."

"You have enough without them. I'd give 'em up for peace and quiet."
That was Miss Macnulty's advice.

"No;--I haven't enough;--or nearly enough. I've had to buy ever so
many things since my husband died. They've done all they could to be
hard to me. They made me pay for the very furniture at Portray." This
wasn't true; but it was true that Lizzie had endeavoured to palm off
on the Eustace estate bills for new things which she had ordered for
her own country-house. "I haven't near enough. I am in debt already.
People talked as though I were the richest woman in the world; but
when it comes to be spent, I ain't rich. Why should I give them up if
they're my own?"

"Not if they're your own."

"If I give you a present and then die, people can't come and take it
away afterwards because I didn't put it into my will. There'd be no
making presents like that at all." This Lizzie said with an evident
conviction in the strength of her argument.

"But this necklace is so very valuable."

"That can't make a difference. If a thing is a man's own he can give
it away;--not a house, or a farm, or a wood, or anything like that;
but a thing that he can carry about with him,--of course he can give
it away."

"But perhaps Sir Florian didn't mean to give it for always,"
suggested Miss Macnulty.

"But perhaps he did. He told me that they were mine, and I shall
keep them. So that's the end of it. You can go to bed now." And Miss
Macnulty went to bed.

Lizzie, as she sat thinking of it, owned to herself that no help was
to be expected in that quarter. She was not angry with Miss Macnulty,
who was, almost of necessity, a poor creature. But she was convinced
more strongly than ever that some friend was necessary to her who
should not be a poor creature. Lord Fawn, though a peer, was a poor
creature. Frank Greystock she believed to be as strong as a house.


CHAPTER VII

Mr. Burke's Speeches


Lucy Morris had been told by Lady Fawn that,--in point of fact that,
being a governess, she ought to give over falling in love with
Frank Greystock, and she had not liked it. Lady Fawn no doubt had
used words less abrupt,--had probably used but few words, and had
expressed her meaning chiefly by little winks, and shakings of her
head, and small gestures of her hands, and had ended by a kiss,--in
all of which she had intended to mingle mercy with justice, and had,
in truth, been full of love. Nevertheless, Lucy had not liked it. No
girl likes to be warned against falling in love, whether the warning
be needed or not needed. In this case Lucy knew very well that the
caution was too late. It might be all very well for Lady Fawn to
decide that her governess should not receive visits from a lover in
her house;--and then the governess might decide whether, in those
circumstances, she would remain or go away; but Lady Fawn could have
no right to tell her governess not to be in love. All this Lucy said
to herself over and over again, and yet she knew that Lady Fawn had
treated her well. The old woman had kissed her, and purred over her,
and praised her, and had really loved her. As a matter of course,
Lucy was not entitled to have a lover. Lucy knew that well enough. As
she walked alone among the shrubs she made arguments in defence of
Lady Fawn as against herself. And yet at every other minute she would
blaze up into a grand wrath, and picture to herself a scene in which
she would tell Lady Fawn boldly that as her lover had been banished
from Fawn Court, she, Lucy, would remain there no longer. There were
but two objections to this course. The first was that Frank Greystock
was not her lover; and the second, that on leaving Fawn Court
she would not know whither to betake herself. It was understood
by everybody that she was never to leave Fawn Court till an
unexceptionable home should be found for her, either with the
Hittaways or elsewhere. Lady Fawn would no more allow her to go away,
depending for her future on the mere chance of some promiscuous
engagement, than she would have turned one of her own daughters out
of the house in the same forlorn condition. Lady Fawn was a tower
of strength to Lucy. But then a tower of strength may at any moment
become a dungeon.

Frank Greystock was not her lover. Ah,--there was the worst of it
all! She had given her heart and had got nothing in return. She
conned it all over in her own mind, striving to ascertain whether
there was any real cause for shame to her in her own conduct. Had she
been unmaidenly? Had she been too forward with her heart? Had it been
extracted from her, as women's hearts are extracted, by efforts on
the man's part; or had she simply chucked it away from her to the
first comer? Then she remembered certain scenes at the deanery, words
that had been spoken, looks that had been turned upon her, a pressure
of the hand late at night, a little whisper, a ribbon that had been
begged, a flower that had been given;--and once, once--; then there
came a burning blush upon her cheek that there should have been so
much, and yet so little that was of avail. She had no right to say
to any one that the man was her lover. She had no right to assure
herself that he was her lover. But she knew that some wrong was done
her in that he was not her lover.

Of the importance of her own self as a living thing with a heart to
suffer and a soul to endure, she thought enough. She believed in
herself, thinking of herself, that should it ever be her lot to be a
man's wife, she would be to him a true, loving friend and companion,
living in his joys, and fighting, if it were necessary, down to the
stumps of her nails in his interests. But of what she had to give
over and above her heart and intellect she never thought at all. Of
personal beauty she had very little appreciation even in others. The
form and face of Lady Eustace, which indeed were very lovely, were
distasteful to her; whereas she delighted to look upon the broad,
plain, colourless countenance of Lydia Fawn, who was endeared to
her by frank good humour and an unselfish disposition. In regard to
men she had never asked herself the question whether this man was
handsome or that man ugly. Of Frank Greystock she knew that his face
was full of quick intellect; and of Lord Fawn she knew that he bore
no outward index of mind. One man she not only loved, but could not
help loving; the other man, as regarded that sort of sympathy which
marriage should recognise, must always have been worlds asunder from
her. She knew that men demand that women shall possess beauty, and
she certainly had never thought of herself as beautiful; but it did
not occur to her that on that account she was doomed to fail. She was
too strong-hearted for any such fear. She did not think much of these
things, but felt herself to be so far endowed as to be fit to be
the wife of such a man as Frank Greystock. She was a proud, stout,
self-confident, but still modest little woman, too fond of truth to
tell lies of herself even to herself. She was possessed of a great
power of sympathy, genial, very social, greatly given to the mirth
of conversation,--though in talking she would listen much and say
but little. She was keenly alive to humour, and had at her command a
great fund of laughter, which would illumine her whole face without
producing a sound from her mouth. She knew herself to be too good to
be a governess for life;--and yet how could it be otherwise with her?

Lady Linlithgow's visit to her niece had been made on a Thursday,
and on that same evening Frank Greystock had asked his question in
the House of Commons,--or rather had made his speech about the Sawab
of Mygawb. We all know the meaning of such speeches. Had not Frank
belonged to the party that was out, and had not the resistance to
the Sawab's claim come from the party that was in, Frank would not
probably have cared much about the prince. We may be sure that he
would not have troubled himself to read a line of that very dull
and long pamphlet of which he had to make himself master before he
could venture to stir in the matter, had not the road of Opposition
been open to him in that direction. But what exertion will not a
politician make with the view of getting the point of his lance
within the joints of his enemies' harness? Frank made his speech, and
made it very well. It was just the case for a lawyer, admitting that
kind of advocacy which it is a lawyer's business to practise. The
Indian minister of the day, Lord Fawn's chief, had determined, after
much anxious consideration, that it was his duty to resist the claim;
and then, for resisting it, he was attacked. Had he yielded to the
claim, the attack would have been as venomous, and very probably
would have come from the same quarter. No blame by such an assertion
is cast upon the young Conservative aspirant for party honours. It is
thus the war is waged. Frank Greystock took up the Sawab's case, and
would have drawn mingled tears and indignation from his hearers, had
not his hearers all known the conditions of the contest. On neither
side did the hearers care much for the Sawab's claims, but they felt
that Greystock was making good his own claims to some future reward
from his party. He was very hard upon the minister,--and he was
hard also upon Lord Fawn, stating that the cruelty of Government
ascendancy had never been put forward as a doctrine in plainer terms
than those which had been used in "another place" in reference to the
wrongs of this poor ill-used native chieftain. This was very grievous
to Lord Fawn, who had personally desired to favour the ill-used
chieftain;--and harder again because he and Greystock were intimate
with each other. He felt the thing keenly, and was full of his
grievance when, in accordance with his custom, he came down to Fawn
Court on the Saturday evening.

The Fawn family, which consisted entirely of women, dined early. On
Saturdays, when his lordship would come down, a dinner was prepared
for him alone. On Sundays they all dined together at three o'clock.
On Sunday evening Lord Fawn would return to town to prepare himself
for his Monday's work. Perhaps, also, he disliked the sermon which
Lady Fawn always read to the assembled household at nine o'clock on
Sunday evening. On this Saturday he came out into the grounds after
dinner, where the oldest unmarried daughter, the present Miss Fawn,
was walking with Lucy Morris. It was almost a summer evening;--so
much so, that some of the party had been sitting on the garden
benches, and four of the girls were still playing croquet on the
lawn, though there was hardly light enough to see the balls. Miss
Fawn had already told Lucy that her brother was very angry with
Mr. Greystock. Now, Lucy's sympathies were all with Frank and the
Sawab. She had endeavoured, indeed, and had partially succeeded, in
perverting the Under-Secretary. Nor did she now intend to change her
opinions, although all the Fawn girls, and Lady Fawn, were against
her. When a brother or a son is an Under-Secretary of State, sisters
and mothers will constantly be on the side of the Government, so far
as that Under-Secretary's office is concerned.

"Upon my word, Frederic," said Augusta Fawn, "I do think Mr.
Greystock was too bad."

"There's nothing these fellows won't say or do," exclaimed Lord Fawn.
"I can't understand it myself. When I've been in opposition, I never
did that kind of thing."

"I wonder whether it was because he is angry with mamma," said Miss
Fawn. Everybody who knew the Fawns knew that Augusta Fawn was not
clever, and that she would occasionally say the very thing that ought
not to be said.

"Oh, dear, no," said the Under-Secretary, who could not endure the
idea that the weak women-kind of his family should have, in any way,
an influence on the august doings of Parliament.

"You know mamma did--"

"Nothing of that kind at all," said his lordship, putting down his
sister with great authority. "Mr. Greystock is simply not an honest
politician. That is about the whole of it. He chose to attack me
because there was an opportunity. There isn't a man in either House
who cares for such things, personally, less than I do;"--had his
lordship said "more than he did," he might, perhaps, have been
correct;--"but I can't bear the feeling. The fact is, a lawyer never
understands what is and what is not fair fighting."

Lucy felt her face tingling with heat, and was preparing to say
a word in defence of that special lawyer, when Lady Fawn's voice
was heard from the drawing-room window. "Come in, girls. It's nine
o'clock." In that house Lady Fawn reigned supreme, and no one ever
doubted, for a moment, as to obedience. The clicking of the balls
ceased, and those who were walking immediately turned their faces to
the drawing-room window. But Lord Fawn, who was not one of the girls,
took another turn by himself, thinking of the wrongs he had endured.

"Frederic is so angry about Mr. Greystock," said Augusta, as soon as
they were seated.

"I do feel that it was provoking," said the second sister.

"And considering that Mr. Greystock has so often been here, I don't
think it was kind," said the third.

Lydia did not speak, but could not refrain from glancing her eyes at
Lucy's face. "I believe everything is considered fair in Parliament,"
said Lady Fawn.

Then Lord Fawn, who had heard the last words, entered through the
window. "I don't know about that, mother," said he. "Gentleman-like
conduct is the same everywhere. There are things that may be said
and there are things which may not. Mr. Greystock has altogether
gone beyond the usual limits, and I shall take care that he knows my
opinion."

"You are not going to quarrel with the man?" asked the mother.

"I am not going to fight him, if you mean that; but I shall let him
know that I think that he has transgressed." This his lordship said
with that haughty superiority which a man may generally display with
safety among the women of his own family.

Lucy had borne a great deal, knowing well that it was better that she
should bear such injury in silence;--but there was a point beyond
which she could not endure it. It was intolerable to her that Mr.
Greystock's character as a gentleman should be impugned before all
the ladies of the family, every one of whom did, in fact, know her
liking for the man. And then it seemed to her that she could rush
into the battle, giving a side blow at his lordship on behalf of his
absent antagonist, but appearing to fight for the Sawab. There had
been a time when the poor Sawab was in favour at Fawn Court. "I think
Mr. Greystock was right to say all he could for the prince. If he
took up the cause, he was bound to make the best of it." She spoke
with energy and with a heightened colour; and Lady Fawn, hearing her,
shook her head at her.

"Did you read Mr. Greystock's speech, Miss Morris?" asked Lord Fawn.

"Every word of it, in the _Times_."

"And you understood his allusion to what I had been called upon to
say in the House of Lords on behalf of the Government?"

"I suppose I did. It did not seem to be difficult to understand."

"I do think Mr. Greystock should have abstained from attacking
Frederic," said Augusta.

"It was not--not quite the thing that we are accustomed to," said
Lord Fawn.

"Of course I don't know about that," said Lucy. "I think the prince
is being used very ill,--that he is being deprived of his own
property,--that he is kept out of his rights, just because he is
weak, and I am very glad that there is some one to speak up for him."

"My dear Lucy," said Lady Fawn, "if you discuss politics with Lord
Fawn, you'll get the worst of it."

The story he and his friend were fashioning fastened upon him like
some strange, determined shadow from the realms of real life, gripped
him more and more closely, held him for long spells of time in a new
and desolate world.

For the book so far was a deepening tragedy, and although, at times,
Henley strove to resist the paramount influence which the genius
of Trenchard began to exercise over him, he found himself comparatively
impotent, unable to shed gleams of popular light upon the darkness
of the pages.

The power of the tale was undoubted. Henley felt that it was a big
thing that they two were doing; but would it be a popular thing--a
money-making thing? That was the question.

He sometimes wished with all his heart they had chosen a different
subject to work their combined talent upon.

The germ of the work seemed only capable of tragic treatment, if
the book were to be artistic. Their hero was a man of strong intellect,
of physical beauty, full at first of the joy of life, chivalrous,
a believer in the innate goodness of human nature.

Believing in goodness, he believed also ardently in influence.

In fact, he was a worshipper of influence, and his main passion was
to seize upon the personalities of others, and impose his own
personality upon them.

He loved to make men and women see with his eyes and hear with his
ears, adopt his theories as truth, take his judgment for their own.
All that he thought _was_--to him. He never doubted himself,
therefore he could not bear that those around him should not think
with him, act towards men and women as he acted, face life as he
faced it.

Yet he was too subtle ever to be dogmatic. He never shouted in the
market-place. He led those with whom he came in contact as adroitly
as if he had been evil, and to the influence of others he was as
adamant.

Events brought into his life a woman, complex, subtle too, with a
naturally noble character and fine understanding, a woman who,
like so many women, might have been anything, and was far worse
than nothing--a hopeless, helpless slave, the victim of the morphia
habit, which had gradually degraded her, driven her through sloughs
of immorality, wrecked a professional career which at one time had
been almost great, shattered her constitution, though not all her
still curious beauty, and ruined her, to all intents and purposes,
body and soul.

The man and the woman met, and in a flash the man saw what she had
been, what she might have been, what, perhaps, in spite of all,
she still was, somewhere, somehow. In her horrible degradation, in
her dense despair, she fascinated him.

He could only see the fire bursting out of the swamp.

He could only feel on his cheek the breath of the spring in the
darkness of the charnel-house.

He knew that she gave to him his great lifework. Her monstrous habit
he simply could not comprehend. It was altogether as fantastic to him
as absolute virtue sometimes seems to absolute vice. He looked upon
it, and felt as little kinship with it as a saint might feel with a
vampire.

To him it was merely a hideous and extraordinary growth, which had
fastened like a cancer upon a beautiful and wonderful body, and which
must be cut out. He was profoundly interested.

He loved the woman. Seeing her governed entirely by a vice, he made
the very common mistake of believing her to have a weak personality,
easily falling, perhaps for that very reason as easily lifted to her
feet. He resolved to save her, to devote all his powers, all his
subtlety, all his intellect, all his strong force of will, to
weaning this woman from her fatal habit. She was a married woman,
long ago left, to kill herself if she would, by the husband whose
happiness she had wrecked. He took her to live with him. For her sake
he defied the world, and set himself to do angel's work when people
believed him at the devil's. He resolved to wrap her, to envelop her
in his influence, to enclose her in his strong personality. Here,
at last, was a grand, a noble opportunity for the legitimate
exercise of his master passion. He was confident of victory.

But his faith in himself was misplaced.

This woman, whom he thought so weak, was yet stronger than he.
Although he could not influence her, he began to find that she
could influence him.

"Lucy, you astonish me."

"But it is so. Dear Lady Fawn, don't look like that. I know how good
you are to me. I know you let me do things which other governesses
mayn't do;--and say things; but still I am a governess, and I know I
misbehaved--to you." Then Lucy burst into tears.

Lady Fawn, in whose bosom there was no stony corner or morsel of hard
iron, was softened at once. "My dear, you are more like another
daughter to me than anything else."

"Dear Lady Fawn!"

"But it makes me unhappy when I see your mind engaged about Mr.
Greystock. There is the truth, Lucy. You should not think of Mr.
Greystock. Mr. Greystock is a man who has his way to make in the
world, and could not marry you, even if, under other circumstances,
he would wish to do so. You know how frank I am with you, giving you
credit for honest, sound good sense. To me and to my girls, who know
you as a lady, you are as dear a friend as though you were--were
anything you may please to think. Lucy Morris is to us our own dear,
dear little friend Lucy. But Mr. Greystock, who is a Member of
Parliament, could not marry a governess."

"But I love him so dearly," said Lucy, getting up from her chair,
"that his slightest word is to me more than all the words of all the
world beside! It is no use, Lady Fawn. I do love him, and I don't
mean to try to give it up!" Lady Fawn stood silent for a moment, and
then suggested that it would be better for them both to go to bed.
During that minute she had been unable to decide what she had better
say or do in the present emergency.


CHAPTER VIII

The Conquering Hero Comes


The reader will perhaps remember that when Lizzie Eustace was told
that her aunt was down-stairs Frank Greystock was with her, and that
he promised to return on the following day to hear the result of the
interview. Had Lady Linlithgow not come at that very moment Frank
would probably have asked his rich cousin to be his wife. She had
told him that she was solitary and unhappy; and after that what else
could he have done but ask her to be his wife? The old countess,
however, arrived, and interrupted him. He went away abruptly,
promising to come on the morrow;--but on the morrow he never came. It
was a Friday, and Lizzie remained at home for him the whole morning.
When four o'clock was passed she knew that he would be at the House.
But still she did not stir. And she contrived that Miss Macnulty
should be absent the entire day. Miss Macnulty was even made to go
to the play by herself in the evening. But her absence was of no
service. Frank Greystock came not; and at eleven at night Lizzie
swore to herself that should he ever come again, he should come in
vain. Nevertheless, through the whole of Saturday she expected him
with more or less of confidence, and on the Sunday morning she was
still well-inclined towards him. It might be that he would come on
that day. She could understand that a man with his hands so full of
business, as were those of her cousin Frank, should find himself
unable to keep an appointment. Nor would there be fair ground
for permanent anger with such a one, even should he forget an
appointment. But surely he would come on the Sunday! She had been
quite sure that the offer was about to be made when that odious old
harridan had come in and disturbed everything. Indeed, the offer had
been all but made. She had felt the premonitory flutter, had asked
herself the important question,--and had answered it. She had told
herself that the thing would do. Frank was not the exact hero that
her fancy had painted,--but he was sufficiently heroic. Everybody
said that he would work his way up to the top of the tree, and become
a rich man. At any rate she had resolved;--and then Lady Linlithgow
had come in! Surely he would come on the Sunday.

He did not come on the Sunday, but Lord Fawn did come. Immediately
after morning church Lord Fawn declared his intention of returning at
once from Fawn Court to town. He was very silent at breakfast, and
his sisters surmised that he was still angry with poor Lucy. Lucy,
too, was unlike herself,--was silent, sad, and oppressed. Lady Fawn
was serious, and almost solemn;--so that there was little even of
holy mirth at Fawn Court on that Sunday morning. The whole family,
however, went to church, and immediately on their return Lord Fawn
expressed his intention of returning to town. All the sisters felt
that an injury had been done to them by Lucy. It was only on Sundays
that their dinner-table was graced by the male member of the family,
and now he was driven away. "I am sorry that you are going to desert
us, Frederic," said Lady Fawn. Lord Fawn muttered something as to
absolute necessity, and went. The afternoon was very dreary at Fawn
Court. Nothing was said on the subject; but there was still the
feeling that Lucy had offended. At four o'clock on that Sunday
afternoon Lord Fawn was closeted with Lady Eustace.

The "closeting" consisted simply in the fact that Miss Macnulty was
not present. Lizzie fully appreciated the pleasure, and utility, and
general convenience of having a companion, but she had no scruple
whatever in obtaining absolute freedom for herself when she desired
it. "My dear," she would say, "the best friends in the world
shouldn't always be together; should they? Wouldn't you like to
go to the Horticultural?" Then Miss Macnulty would go to the
Horticultural,--or else up into her own bed-room. When Lizzie was
beginning to wax wrathful again because Frank Greystock did not come,
Lord Fawn made his appearance. "How kind this is," said Lizzie. "I
thought you were always at Richmond on Sundays."

"I have just come up from my mother's," said Lord Fawn, twiddling his
hat. Then Lizzie, with a pretty eagerness, asked after Lady Fawn and
the girls, and her dear little friend Lucy Morris. Lizzie could be
very prettily eager when she pleased. She leaned forward her face
as she asked her questions, and threw back her loose lustrous lock
of hair, with her long lithe fingers covered with diamonds,--the
diamonds, these, which Sir Florian had really given her, or which she
had procured from Mr. Benjamin in the clever manner described in the
opening chapter. "They are, all quite well, thank you," said Lord
Fawn. "I believe Miss Morris is quite well, though she was a little
out of sorts last night."

"She is not ill, I hope," said Lizzie, bringing the lustrous lock
forward again.

"In her temper, I mean," said Lord Fawn.

"Indeed! I hope Miss Lucy is not forgetting herself. That would be
very sad, after the great kindness she has received." Lord Fawn said
that it would be very sad, and then put his hat down upon the floor.
It came upon Lizzie at that moment, as by a flash of lightning,--by
an electric message delivered to her intellect by that movement of
the hat,--that she might be sure of Lord Fawn if she chose to take
him. On Friday she might have been sure of Frank,--only that Lady
Linlithgow came in the way. But now she did not feel at all sure of
Frank. Lord Fawn was at any rate a peer. She had heard that he was a
poor peer,--but a peer, she thought, can't be altogether poor. And
though he was a stupid owl,--she did not hesitate to acknowledge to
herself that he was as stupid as an owl,--he had a position. He was
one of the Government, and his wife would, no doubt, be able to go
anywhere. It was becoming essential to her that she should marry.
Even though her husband should give up the diamonds, she would not
in such case incur the disgrace of surrendering them herself. She
would have kept them till she had ceased to be a Eustace. Frank had
certainly meant it on that Thursday afternoon;--but surely he would
have been in Mount Street before this if he had not changed his mind.
We all know that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. "I have
been at Fawn Court once or twice," said Lizzie, with her sweetest
grace, "and I always think it a model of real family happiness."

"I hope you may be there very often," said Lord Fawn.

"Ah, I have no right to intrude myself often on your mother, Lord
Fawn."

There could hardly be a better opening than this for him had he
chosen to accept it. But it was not thus that he had arranged
it,--for he had made his arrangements. "There would be no feeling of
that kind, I am sure," he said. And then he was silent. How was he to
deploy himself on the ground before him so as to make the strategy
which he had prepared answer the occasion of the day? "Lady Eustace,"
he said, "I don't know what your views of life may be."

"I have a child, you know, to bring up."

"Ah, yes;--that gives a great interest, of course."

"He will inherit a very large fortune, Lord Fawn;--too large, I fear,
to be of service to a youth of one-and-twenty; and I must endeavour
to fit him for the possession of it. That is,--and always must be,
the chief object of my existence." Then she felt that she had said
too much. He was just the man who would be fool enough to believe
her. "Not but what it is hard to do it. A mother can of course devote
herself to her child;--but when a portion of the devotion must be
given to the preservation of material interests there is less of
tenderness in it. Don't you think so?"

"No doubt," said Lord Fawn;--"no doubt." But he had not followed
her, and was still thinking of his own strategy. "It's a comfort, of
course, to know that one's child is provided for."

"Oh, yes;--but they tell me the poor little dear will have forty
thousand a year when he's of age; and when I look at him in his
little bed, and press him in my arms, and think of all that money, I
almost wish that his father had been a poor plain gentleman." Then
the handkerchief was put to her eyes, and Lord Fawn had a moment in
which to collect himself.

"Ah!--I myself am a poor man;--for my rank I mean."

"A man with your position, Lord Fawn, and your talents and genius for
business, can never be poor."

"My father's property was all Irish, you know."

"Was it indeed?"

"And he was an Irish peer, till Lord Melbourne gave him an English
peerage."

"An Irish peer, was he?" Lizzie understood nothing of this, but
presumed that an Irish peer was a peer who had not sufficient money
to live upon. Lord Fawn, however, was endeavouring to describe his
own history in as few words as possible.

"He was then made Lord Fawn of Richmond, in the peerage of the United
Kingdom. Fawn Court, you know, belonged to my mother's father before
my mother's marriage. The property in Ireland is still mine, but
there's no place on it."

"Indeed!"

"There was a house, but my father allowed it to tumble down. It's in
Tipperary;--not at all a desirable country to live in."

"Oh, dear, no! Don't they murder the people?"

"It's about five thousand a year, and out of that my mother has half
for her life."

"What an excellent family arrangement," said Lizzie. There was so
long a pause made between each statement that she was forced to make
some reply.

"You see, for a peer, the fortune is very small indeed."

"But then you have a salary;--don't you?"

"At present I have;--but no one can tell how long that may last."

"I'm sure it's for everybody's good that it should go on for ever so
many years," said Lizzie.

"Thank you," said Lord Fawn. "I'm afraid, however, there are a great
many people who don't think so. Your cousin Greystock would do
anything on earth to turn us out."

"Luckily, my cousin Frank has not much power," said Lizzie. And
in saying it she threw into her tone, and into her countenance, a
certain amount of contempt for Frank as a man and as a politician,
which was pleasant to Lord Fawn.

"Now," said he, "I have told you everything about myself which I was
bound, as a man of honour, to tell before--I--I--I--. In short you
know what I mean."

"Oh, Lord Fawn!"

"I have told you everything. I owe no money, but I could not afford
to marry a wife without an income. I admire you more than any woman I
ever saw. I love you with all my heart." He was now standing upright
before her, with the fingers of his right hand touching his left
breast, and there was something almost of dignity in his gesture and
demeanour. "It may be that you are determined never to marry again.
I can only say that if you will trust yourself to me,--yourself and
your child,--I will do my duty truly by you both, and will make your
happiness the chief object of my existence." When she had listened to
him thus far, of course she must accept him; but he was by no means
aware of that. She sat silent, with her hands folded on her breast,
looking down upon the ground; but he did not as yet attempt to seat
himself by her. "Lady Eustace," he continued, "may I venture to
entertain a hope?"

"May I not have an hour to think of it?" said Lizzie, just venturing
to turn a glance of her eye upon his face.

"Oh, certainly. I will call again whenever you may bid me."

Now she was silent for two or three minutes, during which he still
stood over her. But he had dropped his hand from his breast, and had
stooped, and picked up his hat ready for his departure. Was he to
come again on Monday, or Tuesday, or Wednesday? Let her tell him that
and he would go. He doubtless reflected that Wednesday would suit him
best, because there would be no House. But Lizzie was too magnanimous
for this. "Lord Fawn," she said, rising, "you have paid me the
greatest compliment that a man can pay a woman. Coming from you it is
doubly precious; first, because of your character; and secondly--"

"Why secondly?"

"Secondly, because I can love you." This was said in her lowest
whisper, and then she moved towards him gently, and almost laid her
head upon his breast. Of course he put his arm round her waist,--but
it was first necessary that he should once more disembarrass himself
of his hat,--and then her head was upon his breast. "Dearest Lizzie!"
he said.

"Dearest Frederic!" she murmured.

"I shall write to my mother to-night," he said.

"Do, do;--dear Frederic."

"And she will come to you at once, I am sure."

"I will receive her and love her as a mother," said Lizzie, with
all her energy. Then he kissed her again,--her forehead and her
lips,--and took his leave, promising to be with her at any rate on
Wednesday.

"Lady Fawn!" she said to herself. The name did not sound so well as
that of Lady Eustace. But it is much to be a wife; and more to be a
peeress.


CHAPTER IX

Showing What the Miss Fawns Said, and What Mrs. Hittaway Thought


In the way of duty Lord Fawn was a Hercules,--not, indeed, "climbing
trees in the Hesperides," but achieving enterprises which, to other
men, if not impossible, would have been so unpalatable as to have
been put aside as impracticable. On the Monday morning, after he was
accepted by Lady Eustace, he was with his mother at Fawn Court before
he went down to the India Office.

He had at least been very honest in the description he had given of
his own circumstances to the lady whom he intended to marry. He had
told her the exact truth; and though she, with all her cleverness,
had not been able to realise the facts when related to her so
suddenly, still enough had been said to make it quite clear that,
when details of business should hereafter be discussed in a less
hurried manner, he would be able to say that he had explained all his
circumstances before he had made his offer. And he had been careful,
too, as to her affairs. He had ascertained that her late husband had
certainly settled upon her for life an estate worth four thousand a
year. He knew, also, that eight thousand pounds had been left her,
but of that he took no account. It might be probable that she had
spent it. If any of it were left, it would be a godsend. Lord Fawn
thought a great deal about money. Being a poor man, filling a place
fit only for rich men, he had been driven to think of money, and had
become self-denying and parsimonious,--perhaps we may say hungry
and close-fisted. Such a condition of character is the natural
consequence of such a position. There is, probably, no man who
becomes naturally so hard in regard to money as he who is bound to
live among rich men, who is not rich himself, and who is yet honest.
The weight of the work of life in these circumstances is so crushing,
requires such continued thought, and makes itself so continually
felt, that the mind of the sufferer is never free from the
contamination of sixpences. Of such a one it is not fair to judge
as of other men with similar incomes. Lord Fawn had declared to his
future bride that he had half five thousand a year to spend,--or the
half, rather, of such actual income as might be got in from an estate
presumed to give five thousand a year,--and it may be said that an
unmarried gentleman ought not to be poor with such an income. But
Lord Fawn unfortunately was a lord, unfortunately was a landlord,
unfortunately was an Irish landlord. Let him be as careful as he
might with his sixpences, his pounds would fly from him, or, as
might, perhaps, be better said, could not be made to fly to him. He
was very careful with his sixpences, and was always thinking, not
exactly how he might make two ends meet, but how to reconcile the
strictest personal economy with the proper bearing of an English
nobleman.

Such a man almost naturally looks to marriage as an assistance in
the dreary fight. It soon becomes clear to him that he cannot marry
without money, and he learns to think that heiresses have been
invented exactly to suit his case. He is conscious of having been
subjected to hardship by Fortune, and regards female wealth as his
legitimate mode of escape from it. He has got himself, his position,
and, perhaps, his title to dispose of, and they are surely worth
so much per annum. As for giving anything away, that is out of the
question. He has not been so placed as to be able to give. But, being
an honest man, he will, if possible, make a fair bargain. Lord Fawn
was certainly an honest man, and he had been endeavouring for the
last six or seven years to make a fair bargain. But then it is so
hard to decide what is fair. Who is to tell a Lord Fawn how much per
annum he ought to regard himself as worth? He had, on one or two
occasions, asked a high price, but no previous bargain had been made.
No doubt he had come down a little in his demand in suggesting a
matrimonial arrangement to a widow with a child, and with only four
thousand a year. Whether or no that income was hers in perpetuity, or
only for life, he had not positively known when he made his offer.
The will made by Sir Florian Eustace did not refer to the property
at all. In the natural course of things, the widow would only have
a life-interest in the income. Why should Sir Florian make away, in
perpetuity, with his family property? Nevertheless, there had been
a rumour abroad that Sir Florian had been very generous; that the
Scotch estate was to go to a second son in the event of there being
a second son;--but that otherwise it was to be at the widow's own
disposal. No doubt, had Lord Fawn been persistent, he might have
found out the exact truth. He had, however, calculated that he could
afford to accept even the life-income. If more should come of it, so
much the better for him. He might, at any rate, so arrange the family
matters, that his heir, should he have one, should not at his death
be called upon to pay something more than half the proceeds of the
family property to his mother,--as was now done by himself.

Lord Fawn breakfasted at Fawn Court on the Monday, and his mother sat
at the table with him, pouring out his tea. "Oh, Frederic," she said,
"it is so important!"

"Just so;--very important indeed. I should like you to call and see
her either to-day or to-morrow."

"That's of course."

"And you had better get her down here."

"I don't know that she'll come. Ought I to ask the little boy?"

"Certainly," said Lord Fawn, as he put a spoonful of egg into his
mouth; "certainly."

"And Miss Macnulty?"

"No; I don't see that at all. I'm not going to marry Miss Macnulty.
The child, of course, must be one of us."

"And what is the income, Frederic?"

"Four thousand a year. Something more, nominally, but four thousand
to spend."

"You are sure about that?"

"Quite sure."

"And for ever?"

"I believe so. Of that I am not sure."

"It makes a great difference, Frederic."

"A very great difference indeed. I think it is her own. But, at any
rate, she is much younger than I am, and there need be no settlement
out of my property. That is the great thing. Don't you think
she's--nice?"

"She is very lovely."

"And clever?"

"Certainly very clever. I hope she is not self-willed, Frederic."

"If she is, we must try and balance it," said Lord Fawn, with a
little smile. But, in truth, he had thought nothing about any such
quality as that to which his mother now referred. The lady had an
income. That was the first and most indispensable consideration. She
was fairly well-born, was a lady, and was beautiful. In doing Lord
Fawn justice, we must allow that, in all his attempted matrimonial
speculations, some amount of feminine loveliness had been combined
with feminine wealth. He had for two years been a suitor of Violet
Effingham, who was the acknowledged beauty of the day,--of Violet
Effingham who, at the present time, was the wife of Lord Chiltern;
and he had offered himself thrice to Madame Max Goesler, who was
reputed to be as rich as she was beautiful. In either case, the
fortune would have been greater than that which he would now win, and
the money would certainly have been for ever. But in these attempts
he had failed; and Lord Fawn was not a man to think himself ill-used
because he did not get the first good thing for which he asked.

"I suppose I may tell the girls?" said Lady Fawn.

"Yes;--when I am gone. I must be off now, only I could not bear not
to come and see you."

"It was so like you, Frederic."

"And you'll go to-day?"

"Yes; if you wish it,--certainly."

"Go up in the carriage, you know, and take one of the girls with you.
I would not take more than one. Augusta will be the best. You'll see
Clara, I suppose." Clara was the married sister, Mrs. Hittaway.

"If you wish it."

"She had better call too,--say on Thursday. It's quite as well that
it should be known. I sha'n't choose to have more delay than can be
avoided. Well;--I believe that's all."

"I hope she'll be a good wife to you, Frederic."

"I don't see why she shouldn't. Good-bye, mother. Tell the girls I
will see them next Saturday." He didn't see why this woman he was
about to marry should not be a good wife to him! And yet he knew
nothing about her, and had not taken the slightest trouble to make
inquiry. That she was pretty he could see; that she was clever he
could understand; that she lived in Mount Street was a fact; her
parentage was known to him;--that she was the undoubted mistress
of a large income was beyond dispute. But, for aught he knew, she
might be afflicted by every vice to which a woman can be subject. In
truth, she was afflicted by so many, that the addition of all the
others could hardly have made her worse than she was. She had never
sacrificed her beauty to a lover,--she had never sacrificed anything
to anybody,--nor did she drink. It would be difficult, perhaps, to
say anything else in her favour; and yet Lord Fawn was quite content
to marry her, not having seen any reason why she should not make a
good wife! Nor had Sir Florian seen any reason;--but she had broken
Sir Florian's heart.

When the girls heard the news, they were half frightened and half
delighted. Lady Fawn and her daughters lived very much out of the
world. They also were poor rich people,--if such a term may be
used,--and did not go much into society. There was a butler kept at
Fawn Court, and a boy in buttons, and two gardeners, and a man to
look after the cows, and a carriage and horses, and a fat coachman.
There was a cook and a scullery maid, and two lady's maids,--who had
to make the dresses,--and two housemaids and a dairymaid. There was a
large old brick house to be kept in order, and handsome grounds with
old trees. There was, as we know, a governess, and there were seven
unmarried daughters. With such encumbrances, and an income altogether
not exceeding three thousand pounds per annum, Lady Fawn could not be
rich. And yet who would say that an old lady and her daughters could
be poor with three thousand pounds a year to spend? It may be taken
almost as a rule by the unennobled ones of this country, that the
sudden possession of a title would at once raise the price of every
article consumed twenty per cent. Mutton that before cost ninepence
would cost tenpence a pound, and the mouths to be fed would demand
more meat. The chest of tea would run out quicker. The labourer's
work, which for the farmer is ten hours a day, for the squire nine,
is for the peer only eight. Miss Jones, when she becomes Lady de
Jongh, does not pay less than threepence apiece for each "my lady"
with which her ear is tickled. Even the baronet when he becomes a
lord has to curtail his purchases, because of increased price, unless
he be very wide awake to the affairs of the world. Old Lady Fawn, who
would not on any account have owed a shilling which she could not
pay, and who, in the midst of her economies, was not close-fisted,
knew very well what she could do and what she could not. The old
family carriage and the two lady's maids were there,--as necessaries
of life; but London society was not within her reach. It was,
therefore, the case that they had not heard very much about Lizzie
Eustace. But they had heard something. "I hope she won't be too fond
of going out," said Amelia, the second girl.

"Or extravagant," said Georgina, the third.

"There was some story of her being terribly in debt when she married
Sir Florian Eustace," said Diana, the fourth.

"Frederic will be sure to see to that," said Augusta, the eldest.

"She is very beautiful," said Lydia, the fifth.

"And clever," said Cecilia, the sixth.

"Beauty and cleverness won't make a good wife," said Amelia, who was
the wise one of the family.

"Frederic will be sure to see that she doesn't go wrong," said
Augusta, who was not wise.

Then Lucy Morris entered the room with Nina, the cadette of the
family. "Oh, Nina, what do you think?" said Lydia.

"My dear!" said Lady Fawn, putting up her hand and stopping further
indiscreet speech.

"Oh, mamma, what is it?" asked the cadette.

"Surely Lucy may be told," said Lydia.

"Well, yes; Lucy may be told certainly. There can be no reason why
Lucy should not know all that concerns our family;--and the more so
as she has been for many years intimate with the lady. My dear, my
son is going to be married to Lady Eustace."

"Lord Fawn going to marry Lizzie!" said Lucy Morris, in a tone which
certainly did not express unmingled satisfaction.

"Unless you forbid the banns," said Diana.

"Is there any reason why he should not?" said Lady Fawn.

"Oh, no;--only it seems so odd. I didn't know that they knew each
other;--not well, that is. And then--"

"Then what, my dear?"

"It seems odd;--that's all. It's all very nice, I dare say, and I'm
sure I hope they will be happy." Lady Fawn, however, was displeased,
and did not speak to Lucy again before she started with Augusta on
the journey to London.

The carriage first stopped at the door of the married daughter in
Warwick Square. Now, Mrs. Hittaway, whose husband was chairman of
the Board of Civil Appeals and who was very well known at all Boards
and among official men generally, heard much more about things that
were going on than did her mother. And, having been emancipated from
maternal control for the last ten or twelve years, she could express
herself before her mother with more confidence than would have become
the other girls. "Mamma," she said, "you don't mean it!"

"I do mean it, Clara. Why should I not mean it?"

"She is the greatest vixen in all London."

"Oh, Clara!" said Augusta.

"And such a liar," said Mrs. Hittaway.

There came a look of pain across Lady Fawn's face, for Lady Fawn
believed in her eldest daughter. But yet she intended to fight her
ground on a matter so important to her as was this. "There is no word
in the English language," she said, "which conveys to me so little
of defined meaning as that word vixen. If you can, tell me what you
mean, Clara."

"Stop it, mamma."

"But why should I stop it,--even if I could?"

"You don't know her, mamma."

"She has visited at Fawn Court, more than once. She is a friend of
Lucy's."

"If she is a friend of Lucy Morris, mamma, Lucy Morris shall never
come here."

"But what has she done? I have never heard that she has behaved
improperly. What does it all mean? She goes out everywhere. I don't
think she has had any lovers. Frederic would be the last man in the
world to throw himself away upon an ill-conditioned young woman."

"Frederic can see just as far as some other men, and not a bit
farther. Of course she has an income,--for her life."

"I believe it is her own altogether, Clara."

"She says so, I don't doubt. I believe she is the greatest liar about
London. You find out about her jewels before she married poor Sir
Florian, and how much he had to pay for her; or rather, I'll find
out. If you want to know, mamma, you just ask her own aunt, Lady
Linlithgow."

"We all know, my dear, that Lady Linlithgow quarrelled with her."

"It's my belief that she is over head and ears in debt again. But
I'll learn. And when I have found out, I shall not scruple to tell
Frederic. Orlando will find out all about it." Orlando was the
Christian name of Mrs. Hittaway's husband. "Mr. Camperdown, I have
no doubt, knows all the ins and outs of her story. The long and the
short of it is this, mamma, that I've heard quite enough about Lady
Eustace to feel certain that Frederic would live to repent it."

"But what can we do?" said Lady Fawn.

"Break it off," said Mrs. Hittaway.

Her daughter's violence of speech had a most depressing effect upon
poor Lady Fawn. As has been said, she did believe in Mrs. Hittaway.
She knew that Mrs. Hittaway was conversant with the things of the
world, and heard tidings daily which never found their way down
to Fawn Court. And yet her son went about quite as much as did
her daughter. If Lady Eustace was such a reprobate as was now
represented, why had not Lord Fawn heard the truth? And then she had
already given in her own adhesion, and had promised to call. "Do you
mean that you won't go to her?" said Lady Fawn.

"As Lady Eustace,--certainly not. If Frederic does marry her, of
course I must know her. That's a different thing. One has to make
the best one can of a bad bargain. I don't doubt they'd be separated
before two years were over."

"Oh, dear, how dreadful!" exclaimed Augusta.

Lady Fawn, after much consideration, was of opinion that she must
carry out her intention of calling upon her son's intended bride
in spite of all the evil things that had been said. Lord Fawn had
undertaken to send a message to Mount Street, informing the lady of
the honour intended for her. And in truth Lady Fawn was somewhat
curious now to see the household of the woman who might perhaps do
her the irreparable injury of ruining the happiness of her only son.
Perhaps she might learn something by looking at the woman in her own
drawing-room. At any rate she would go. But Mrs. Hittaway's words had
the effect of inducing her to leave Augusta where she was. If there
were contamination, why should Augusta be contaminated? Poor Augusta!
She had looked forward to the delight of embracing her future
sister-in-law;--and would not have enjoyed it the less, perhaps,
because she had been told that the lady was false, profligate, and a
vixen. As, however, her position was that of a girl, she was bound to
be obedient,--though over thirty years old,--and she obeyed.

Lizzie was of course at home, and Miss Macnulty was of course
visiting the Horticultural Gardens or otherwise engaged. On such an
occasion Lizzie would certainly be alone. She had taken great pains
with her dress, studying not so much her own appearance as the
character of her visitor. She was very anxious, at any rate for the
present, to win golden opinions from Lady Fawn. She was dressed
richly, but very simply. Everything about her room betokened wealth;
but she had put away the French novels, and had placed a Bible on
a little table, not quite hidden, behind her own seat. The long
lustrous lock was tucked up, but the diamonds were still upon
her fingers. She fully intended to make a conquest of her future
mother-in-law and sister-in-law;--for the note which had come up to
her from the India Office had told her that Augusta would accompany
Lady Fawn. "Augusta is my favourite sister," said the enamoured
lover, "and I hope that you two will always be friends." Lizzie, when
she had read this, had declared to herself that of all the female
oafs she had ever seen, Augusta Fawn was the greatest oaf. When she
found that Lady Fawn was alone, she did not betray herself, or ask
for the beloved friend of the future. "Dear, dear Lady Fawn!" she
said, throwing herself into the arms and nestling herself against the
bosom of the old lady, "this makes my happiness perfect." Then she
retreated a little, still holding the hand she had grasped between
her own, and looking up into the face of her future mother-in-law.
"When he asked me to be his wife, the first thing I thought of was
whether you would come to me at once." Her voice as she thus spoke
was perfect. Her manner was almost perfect. Perhaps there was a
little too much of gesture, too much gliding motion, too violent an
appeal with the eyes, too close a pressure of the hand. No suspicion,
however, of all this would have touched Lady Fawn had she come to
Mount Street without calling in Warwick Square on the way. But those
horrible words of her daughter were ringing in her ears, and she did
not know how to conduct herself.

"Of course I came as soon as he told me," she said.

"And you will be a mother to me?" demanded Lizzie.

Poor Lady Fawn! There was enough of maternity about her to have
enabled her to undertake the duty for a dozen sons' wives,--if the
wives were women with whom she could feel sympathy. And she could
feel sympathy very easily; and was a woman not at all prone to
inquire too curiously as to the merits of a son's wife. But what was
she to do after the caution she had received from Mrs. Hittaway? How
was she to promise maternal tenderness to a vixen and a liar? By
nature she was not a deceitful woman. "My dear," she said, "I hope
you will make him a good wife."

It was not very encouraging, but Lizzie made the best of it. It was
her desire to cheat Lady Fawn into a good opinion, and she was not
disappointed when no good opinion was expressed at once. It is seldom
that a bad person expects to be accounted good. It is the general
desire of such a one to conquer the existing evil impression; but it
is generally presumed that the evil impression is there. "Oh, Lady
Fawn!" she said, "I will so strive to make him happy. What is it that
he likes? What would he wish me to do and to be? You know his noble
nature, and I must look to you for guidance."

Lady Fawn was embarrassed. She had now seated herself on the sofa,
and Lizzie was close to her, almost enveloped within her mantle. "My
dear," said Lady Fawn, "if you will endeavour to do your duty by him,
I am sure he will do his by you."

"I know it. I am sure of it. And I will; I will. You will let me love
you, and call you mother?" A peculiar perfume came up from Lizzie's
hair which Lady Fawn did not like. Her own girls, perhaps, were not
given to the use of much perfumery. She shifted her seat a little,
and Lizzie was compelled to sit upright, and without support.
Hitherto Lady Fawn had said very little, and Lizzie's part was one
difficult to play. She had heard of that sermon read every Sunday
evening at Fawn Court, and she believed that Lady Fawn was peculiarly
religious. "There," she said, stretching out her hand backwards and
clasping the book which lay upon the small table,--"there; that
shall be my guide. That will teach me how to do my duty by my noble
husband."

Lady Fawn in some surprise took the book from Lizzie's hand, and
found that it was the Bible. "You certainly can't do better, my dear,
than read your Bible," said Lady Fawn,--but there was more of censure
than of eulogy in the tone of her voice. She put the Bible down very
quietly, and asked Lady Eustace when it would suit her to come down
to Fawn Court. Lady Fawn had promised her son to give the invitation,
and could not now, she thought, avoid giving it.

"Oh, I should like it so much!" said Lizzie. "Whenever it will suit
you, I will be there at a minute's notice." It was then arranged
that she should be at Fawn Court on that day week, and stay for a
fortnight. "Of all things that which I most desire now," said Lizzie,
"is to know you and the dear girls,--and to be loved by you all."

Lady Eustace, as soon as she was alone in the room, stood in the
middle of it, scowling,--for she could scowl. "I'll not go near
them," she said to herself,--"nasty, stupid, dull, puritanical
drones. If he don't like it, he may lump it. After all it's no such
great catch." Then she sat down to reflect whether it was or was not
a catch. As soon as ever Lord Fawn had left her after the engagement
was made, she had begun to tell herself that he was a poor creature,
and that she had done wrong. "Only five thousand a year!" she said
to herself;--for she had not perfectly understood that little
explanation which he had given respecting his income. "It's nothing
for a lord." And now again she murmured to herself, "It's my money
he's after. He'll find out that I know how to keep what I've got in
my own hands." Now that Lady Fawn had been cold to her, she thought
still less of the proposed marriage. But there was this inducement
for her to go on with it. If they, the Fawn women, thought that they
could break it off, she would let them know that they had no such
power.

"Well, mamma, you've seen her?" said Mrs. Hittaway.

"Yes, my dear; I've seen her. I had seen her two or three times
before, you know."

"And you are still in love with her?"

"I never said that I was in love with her, Clara."

"And what has been fixed?"

"She is to come down to Fawn Court next week, and stay a fortnight
with us. Then we shall find out what she is."

"That will be best, mamma," said Augusta.

"Mind, mamma; you understand me. I shall tell Frederic plainly just
what I think. Of course he will be offended, and if the marriage goes
on, the offence will remain,--till he finds out the truth."

"I hope he'll find out no such truth," said Lady Fawn. She was,
however, quite unable to say a word in behalf of her future
daughter-in-law. She said nothing as to that little scene with the
Bible, but she never forgot it.


CHAPTER X

Lizzie and Her Lover


During the remainder of that Monday and all the Tuesday, Lizzie's
mind was, upon the whole, averse to matrimony. She had told Miss
Macnulty of her prospects, with some amount of exultation; and the
poor dependant, though she knew that she must be turned out into the
street, had congratulated her patroness. "The Vulturess will take
you in again, when she knows you've nowhere else to go," Lizzie had
said,--displaying, indeed, some accurate discernment of her aunt's
character. But after Lady Fawn's visit she spoke of the marriage in a
different tone. "Of course, my dear, I shall have to look very close
after the settlement."

"I suppose the lawyers will do that," said Miss Macnulty.

"Yes;--lawyers! That's all very well. I know what lawyers are. I'm
not going to trust any lawyer to give away my property. Of course we
shall live at Portray, because his place is in Ireland;--and nothing
shall take me to Ireland. I told him that from the very first. But I
don't mean to give up my own income. I don't suppose he'll venture to
suggest such a thing." And then again she grumbled. "It's all very
well being in the Cabinet--!"

"Is Lord Fawn in the Cabinet?" asked Miss Macnulty, who in such
matters was not altogether ignorant.

"Of course he is," said Lizzie, with an angry gesture. It may
seem unjust to accuse her of being stupidly unacquainted with
circumstances, and a liar at the same time; but she was both. She
said that Lord Fawn was in the Cabinet because she had heard some
one speak of him as not being a Cabinet Minister, and in so speaking
appear to slight his political position. Lizzie did not know how much
her companion knew, and Miss Macnulty did not comprehend the depth of
the ignorance of her patroness. Thus the lies which Lizzie told were
amazing to Miss Macnulty. To say that Lord Fawn was in the Cabinet,
when all the world knew that he was an Under-Secretary! What good
could a woman get from an assertion so plainly, so manifestly false?
But Lizzie knew nothing of Under-Secretaries. Lord Fawn was a lord,
and even commoners were in the Cabinet. "Of course he is," said
Lizzie; "but I sha'n't have my drawing-room made a Cabinet. They
sha'n't come here." And then again on the Tuesday evening she
displayed her independence. "As for those women down at Richmond, I
don't mean to be overrun by them, I can tell you. I said I would go
there, and of course I shall keep my word."

"I think you had better go," said Miss Macnulty.

"Of course, I shall go. I don't want anybody to tell me where I'm to
go, my dear, and where I'm not. But it'll be about the first and the
last visit. And as for bringing those dowdy girls out in London, it's
the last thing I shall think of doing. Indeed, I doubt whether they
can afford to dress themselves." As she went up to bed on the Tuesday
evening, Miss Macnulty doubted whether the match would go on. She
never believed her friend's statements; but if spoken words might
be supposed to mean anything, Lady Eustace's words on that Tuesday
betokened a strong dislike to everything appertaining to the Fawn
family. She had even ridiculed Lord Fawn himself, declaring that he
understood nothing about anything beyond his office.

And, in truth, Lizzie almost had made up her mind to break it off.
All that she would gain did not seem to weigh down with sufficient
preponderance all that she would lose. Such were her feelings on the
Tuesday night. But on the Wednesday morning she received a note which
threw her back violently upon the Fawn interest. The note was as
follows: "Messrs. Camperdown and Son present their compliments to
Lady Eustace. They have received instructions to proceed by law for
the recovery of the Eustace diamonds, now in Lady Eustace's hands,
and will feel obliged to Lady Eustace if she will communicate to
them the name and address of her attorney. 62, New Square, May 30,
186--." The effect of this note was to drive Lizzie back upon the
Fawn interest. She was frightened about the diamonds, and was,
nevertheless, almost determined not to surrender them. At any rate,
in such a strait she would want assistance, either in keeping them or
in giving them up. The lawyer's letter afflicted her with a sense of
weakness, and there was strength in the Fawn connexion. As Lord Fawn
was so poor, perhaps he would adhere to the jewels. She knew that she
could not fight Mr. Camperdown with no other assistance than what
Messrs. Mowbray and Mopus might give her, and therefore her heart
softened towards her betrothed. "I suppose Frederic will be here
to-day," she said to Miss Macnulty, as they sat at breakfast together
about noon. Miss Macnulty nodded. "You can have a cab, you know, if
you like to go anywhere." Miss Macnulty said she thought she would
go to the National Gallery. "And you can walk back, you know," said
Lizzie. "I can walk there and back too," said Miss Macnulty,--in
regard to whom it may be said that the last ounce would sometimes
almost break the horse's back.

"Frederic" came and was received very graciously. Lizzie had placed
Mr. Camperdown's note on the little table behind her, beneath the
Bible, so that she might put her hand upon it at once, if she could
make an opportunity of showing it to her future husband. "Frederic"
sat himself beside her, and the intercourse for awhile was such as
might be looked for between two lovers of whom one was a widow, and
the other an Under-Secretary of State from the India Office. They
were loving, but discreetly amatory, talking chiefly of things
material, each flattering the other, and each hinting now and again
at certain little circumstances of which a more accurate knowledge
seemed to be desirable. The one was conversant with things in
general, but was slow; the other was quick as a lizard in turning
hither and thither, but knew almost nothing. When she told Lord Fawn
that the Ayrshire estate was "her own, to do what she liked with,"
she did not know that he would certainly find out the truth from
other sources before he married her. Indeed, she was not quite sure
herself whether the statement was true or false, though she would not
have made it so frequently had her idea of the truth been a fixed
idea. It had all been explained to her;--but there had been something
about a second son, and there was no second son. Perhaps she might
have a second son yet,--a future little Lord Fawn, and he might
inherit it. In regard to honesty, the man was superior to the woman,
because his purpose was declared, and he told no lies;--but the one
was as mercenary as the other. It was not love that had brought Lord
Fawn to Mount Street.

"What is the name of your place in Ireland?" she asked.

"There is no house, you know."

"But there was one, Frederic?"

"The town-land where the house used to be, is called Killeagent. The
old demesne is called Killaud."

"What pretty names! and--and--does it go a great many miles?"
Lord Fawn explained that it did run a good many miles up into the
mountains. "How beautifully romantic!" said Lizzie. "But the people
live on the mountain and pay rent?"

Lord Fawn asked no such inept questions respecting the Ayrshire
property, but he did inquire who was Lizzie's solicitor. "Of course
there will be things to be settled," he said, "and my lawyer had
better see yours. Mr. Camperdown is a--"

"Mr. Camperdown!" almost shrieked Lizzie. Lord Fawn then explained,
with some amazement, that Mr. Camperdown was his lawyer. As far as
his belief went, there was not a more respectable gentleman in the
profession. Then he inquired whether Lizzie had any objection to Mr.
Camperdown. "Mr. Camperdown was Sir Florian's lawyer," said Lizzie.

"That will make it all the easier, I should think," said Lord Fawn.

"I don't know how that may be," said Lizzie, trying to bring her mind
to work upon the subject steadily. "Mr. Camperdown has been very
uncourteous to me;--I must say that; and, as I think, unfair. He
wishes to rob me now of a thing that is quite my own."

"What sort of a thing?" asked Lord Fawn slowly.

"A very valuable thing. I'll tell you all about it, Frederic. Of
course I'll tell you everything now. I never could keep back anything
from one that I loved. It's not my nature. There; you might as
well read that note." Then she put her hand back and brought Mr.
Camperdown's letter from under the Bible. Lord Fawn read it very
attentively, and as he read it there came upon him a great doubt.
What sort of woman was this to whom he had engaged himself because
she was possessed of an income? That Mr. Camperdown should be in the
wrong in such a matter was an idea which never occurred to Lord Fawn.
There is no form of belief stronger than that which the ordinary
English gentleman has in the discretion and honesty of his own family
lawyer. What his lawyer tells him to do, he does. What his lawyer
tells him to sign, he signs. He buys and sells in obedience to the
same direction, and feels perfectly comfortable in the possession of
a guide who is responsible and all but divine. "What diamonds are
they?" asked Lord Fawn in a very low voice.

"They are my own,--altogether my own. Sir Florian gave them to me.
When he put them into my hands, he said that they were to be my own
for ever and ever. 'There,' said he,--'those are yours to do what you
choose with them.' After that they oughtn't to ask me to give them
back,--ought they? If you had been married before, and your wife had
given you a keepsake,--to keep for ever and ever, would you give it
up to a lawyer? You would not like it;--would you, Frederic?" She had
put her hand on his, and was looking up into his face as she asked
the question. Again, perhaps, the acting was a little overdone; but
there were the tears in her eyes, and the tone of her voice was
perfect.

"Mr. Camperdown calls them Eustace diamonds,--family diamonds," said
Lord Fawn. "What do they consist of? What are they worth?"

"I'll show them to you," said Lizzie, jumping up and hurrying out of
the room. Lord Fawn, when he was alone, rubbed his hands over his
eyes and thought about it all. It would be a very harsh measure,
on the part of the Eustace family and of Mr. Camperdown, to demand
from her the surrender of any trinket which her late husband might
have given her in the manner she had described. But it was, to his
thinking, most improbable that the Eustace people or the lawyer
should be harsh to a widow bearing the Eustace name. The Eustaces
were by disposition lavish, and old Mr. Camperdown was not one who
would be strict in claiming little things for rich clients. And yet
here was his letter, threatening the widow of the late baronet with
legal proceedings for the recovery of jewels which had been given by
Sir Florian himself to his wife as a keepsake! Perhaps Sir Florian
had made some mistake, and had caused to be set in a ring or brooch
for his bride some jewel which he had thought to be his own, but
which had, in truth, been an heirloom. If so, the jewel should, of
course, be surrendered,--or replaced by one of equal value. He was
making out some such solution, when Lizzie returned with the morocco
case in her hand. "It was the manner in which he gave it to me," said
Lizzie, as she opened the clasp, "which makes its value to me."

Lord Fawn knew nothing about jewels, but even he knew that if the
circle of stones which he saw, with a Maltese cross appended to it,
was constituted of real diamonds, the thing must be of great value.
And it occurred to him at once that such a necklace is not given by a
husband even to a bride in the manner described by Lizzie. A ring, or
brooch, or perhaps a bracelet, a lover or a loving lord may bring in
his pocket. But such an ornament as this on which Lord Fawn was now
looking, is given in another sort of way. He felt sure that it was
so, even though he was entirely ignorant of the value of the stones.
"Do you know what it is worth?" he asked.

Lizzie hesitated a moment, and then remembered that "Frederic," in
his present position in regard to herself, might be glad to assist
her in maintaining the possession of a substantial property. "I think
they say its value is about--ten thousand pounds," she replied.

"Ten--thousand--pounds!" Lord Fawn riveted his eyes upon them.

"That's what I am told--by a jeweller."

"By what jeweller?"

"A man had to come and see them,--about some repairs,--or something
of that kind. Poor Sir Florian wished it. And he said so."

"What was the man's name?"

"I forget his name," said Lizzie, who was not quite sure whether her
acquaintance with Mr. Benjamin would be considered respectable.

"Ten thousand pounds! You don't keep them in the house;--do you?"

"I have an iron case up-stairs for them;--ever so heavy."

"And did Sir Florian give you the iron case?"

Lizzie hesitated for a moment. "Yes," said she. "That is,--no. But he
ordered it to be made; and then it came,--after he was--dead."

"He knew their value, then?"

"Oh, dear, yes. Though he never named any sum. He told me, however,
that they were very--very valuable."

Lord Fawn did not immediately recognise the falseness of every word
that the woman said to him, because he was slow and could not think
and hear at the same time. But he was at once involved in a painful
maze of doubt and almost of dismay. An action for the recovery of
jewels brought against the lady whom he was engaged to marry, on
behalf of the family of her late husband, would not suit him at all.
To have his hands quite clean, to be above all evil report, to be
respectable, as it were, all round, was Lord Fawn's special ambition.
He was a poor man, and a greedy man, but he would have abandoned his
official salary at a moment's notice, rather than there should have
fallen on him a breath of public opinion hinting that it ought to be
abandoned. He was especially timid, and lived in a perpetual fear
lest the newspapers should say something hard of him. In that matter
of the Sawab he had been very wretched, because Frank Greystock had
accused him of being an administrator of tyranny. He would have liked
his wife to have ten thousand pounds' worth of diamonds very well;
but he would rather go without a wife for ever,--and without a wife's
fortune,--than marry a woman subject to an action for claiming
diamonds not her own. "I think," said he, at last, "that if you were
to put them into Mr. Camperdown's hands--"

"Into Mr. Camperdown's hands!"

"And then let the matter be settled by arbitration--"

"Arbitration? That means going to law?"

"No, dearest,--that means not going to law. The diamonds would be
entrusted to Mr. Camperdown. And then some one would be appointed to
decide whose property they were."

"They're my property," said Lizzie.

"But he says they belong to the family."

"He'll say anything," said Lizzie.

"My dearest girl, there can't be a more respectable man than Mr.
Camperdown. You must do something of the kind, you know."

"I sha'n't do anything of the kind," said Lizzie. "Sir Florian
Eustace gave them to me, and I shall keep them." She did not look
at her lover as she spoke; but he looked at her, and did not like
the change which he saw on her countenance. And he did not like
the circumstances in which he found himself placed. "Why should Mr.
Camperdown interfere?" continued Lizzie. "If they don't belong to me,
they belong to my son;--and who has so good a right to keep them for
him as I have? But they belong to me."

"They should not be kept in a private house like this at all, if they
are worth all that money."

"If I were to let them go, Mr. Camperdown would get them. There's
nothing he wouldn't do to get them. Oh, Frederic, I hope you'll stand
to me, and not see me injured. Of course I only want them for my
darling child."

Frederic's face had become very long, and he was much disturbed in
his mind. He could only suggest that he himself would go and see Mr.
Camperdown, and ascertain what ought to be done. To the last, he
adhered to his assurance that Mr. Camperdown could do no evil;--till
Lizzie, in her wrath, asked him whether he believed Mr. Camperdown's
word before hers. "I think he would understand a matter of business
better than you," said the prudent lover.

"He wants to rob me," said Lizzie, "and I shall look to you to
prevent it."

When Lord Fawn took his leave,--which he did not do till he
had counselled her again and again to leave the matter in Mr.
Camperdown's hands,--the two were not in good accord together. It was
his fixed purpose, as he declared to her, to see Mr. Camperdown; and
it was her fixed purpose,--so, at least, she declared to him,--to
keep the diamonds, in spite of Mr. Camperdown. "But, my dear, if it's
decided against you--" said Lord Fawn gravely.

"It can't be decided against me, if you stand by me as you ought to
do."

"I can do nothing," said Lord Fawn, in a tremor. Then Lizzie looked
at him,--and her look, which was very eloquent, called him a poltroon
as plain as a look could speak. Then they parted, and the signs of
affection between them were not satisfactory.

The door was hardly closed behind him before Lizzie began to declare
to herself that he shouldn't escape her. It was not yet twenty-four
hours since she had been telling herself that she did not like the
engagement and would break it off; and now she was stamping her
little feet, and clenching her little hands, and swearing to herself
by all her gods, that this wretched, timid lordling should not get
out of her net. She did, in truth, despise him because he would not
clutch the jewels. She looked upon him as mean and paltry because he
was willing to submit to Mr. Camperdown. But still she was prompted
to demand all that could be demanded from her engagement,--because
she thought that she perceived a something in him which might
produce in him a desire to be relieved from it. No! he should not be
relieved. He should marry her. And she would keep the key of that
iron box with the diamonds, and he should find what sort of a noise
she would make if he attempted to take it from her. She closed the
morocco case, ascended with it to her bed-room, locked it up in the
iron safe, deposited the little patent key in its usual place round
her neck, and then seated herself at her desk, and wrote letters to
her various friends, making known to them her engagement. Hitherto
she had told no one but Miss Macnulty,--and, in her doubts, had gone
so far as to desire Miss Macnulty not to mention it. Now she was
resolved to blazon forth her engagement before all the world.

The first "friend" to whom she wrote was Lady Linlithgow. The reader
shall see two or three of her letters, and that to the countess shall
be the first.


   MY DEAR AUNT,

   When you came to see me the other day, I cannot say that
   you were very kind to me, and I don't suppose you care
   very much what becomes of me. But I think it right to
   let you know that I am going to be married. I am engaged
   to Lord Fawn, who, as you know, is a peer, and a member
   of Her Majesty's Government, and a nobleman of great
   influence. I do not suppose that even you can say anything
   against such an alliance.

   I am, your affectionate niece,

   ELI. EUSTACE.


Then she wrote to Mrs. Eustace, the wife of the Bishop of
Bobsborough. Mrs. Eustace had been very kind to her in the first
days of her widowhood, and had fully recognised her as the widow
of the head of her husband's family. Lizzie had liked none of
the Bobsborough people. They were, according to her ideas, slow,
respectable, and dull. But they had not found much open fault with
her, and she was aware that it was for her interest to remain on good
terms with them. Her letter, therefore, to Mrs. Eustace was somewhat
less acrid than that written to her aunt Linlithgow.


   MY DEAR MRS. EUSTACE,

   I hope you will be glad to hear from me, and will not be
   sorry to hear my news. I am going to be married again. Of
   course I am not about to take a step which is in every way
   so very important without thinking about it a great deal.
   But I am sure it will be better for my darling little
   Florian in every way; and as for myself, I have felt for
   the last two years how unfitted I have been to manage
   everything myself. I have therefore accepted an offer
   made to me by Lord Fawn, who is, as you know, a peer
   of Parliament, and a most distinguished member of Her
   Majesty's Government; and he is, too, a nobleman of very
   great influence in every respect, and has a property in
   Ireland, extending over ever so many miles, and running up
   into the mountains. His mansion there is called Killmage,
   but I am not sure that I remember the name quite rightly.
   I hope I may see you there some day, and the dear bishop.
   I look forward with delight to doing something to make
   those dear Irish happier. The idea of rambling up into our
   own mountains charms me, for nothing suits my disposition
   so well as that kind of solitude.

   Of course Lord Fawn is not so rich a man as Sir Florian,
   but I have never looked to riches for my happiness. Not
   but what Lord Fawn has a good income from his Irish
   estates; and then, of course, he is paid for doing Her
   Majesty's Government;--so there is no fear that he will
   have to live upon my jointure, which, of course, would not
   be right. Pray tell the dear bishop and dear Margaretta
   all this, with my love. You will be happy, I know, to hear
   that my little Flo is quite well. He is already so fond of
   his new papa! [Lizzie's turn for lying was exemplified in
   this last statement, for, as it happened, Lord Fawn had
   never yet seen the child.]

   Believe me to be always your most affectionate niece,

   ELI. EUSTACE.


There were two other letters,--one to her uncle, the dean, and the
other to her cousin Frank. There was great doubt in her mind as to
the expediency of writing to Frank Greystock; but at last she decided
that she would do it. The letter to the dean need not be given in
full, as it was very similar to that written to the bishop's wife.
The same mention was made of her intended husband's peerage, and the
same allusion to Her Majesty's Government,--a phrase which she had
heard from Lord Fawn himself. She spoke of the Irish property, but
in terms less glowing than she had used in writing to the lady, and
ended by asking for her uncle's congratulation--and blessing. Her
letter to Frank was as follows, and, doubtless, as she wrote it,
there was present to her mind a remembrance of the fact that he
himself might have offered to her, and have had her if he would.


   MY DEAR COUSIN,

   As I would rather that you should hear my news from myself
   than from any one else, I write to tell you that I am
   going to be married to Lord Fawn. Of course I know that
   there are certain matters as to which you and Lord Fawn do
   not agree,--in politics, I mean; but still I do not doubt
   but you will think that he is quite able to take care of
   your poor little cousin. It was only settled a day or
   two since, but it has been coming on ever so long. You
   understand all about that;--don't you? Of course you
   must come to my wedding, and be very good to me,--a
   kind of brother, you know; for we have always been
   friends;--haven't we? And if the dean doesn't come up to
   town, you must give me away. And you must come and see me
   ever so often; for I have a sort of feeling that I have
   no one else belonging to me that I can call really my
   own, except you. And you must be great friends with Lord
   Fawn, and must give up saying that he doesn't do his work
   properly. Of course he does everything better than anybody
   else could possibly do it,--except Cousin Frank.

   I am going down next week to Richmond. Lady Fawn has
   insisted on my staying there for a fortnight. Oh, dear,
   what shall I do all the time? You must positively come
   down and see me,--and see somebody else too! Only, you
   naughty coz! you mustn't break a poor girl's heart.

   Your affectionate cousin,

   ELI. EUSTACE.


Somebody, in speaking on Lady Eustace's behalf, and making the best
of her virtues, had declared that she did not have lovers. Hitherto
that had been true of her;--but her mind had not the less dwelt on
the delight of a lover. She still thought of a possible Corsair who
would be willing to give up all but his vices for her love, and
for whose sake she would be willing to share even them. It was but
a dream, but nevertheless it pervaded her fancy constantly. Lord
Fawn,--peer of Parliament, and member of Her Majesty's Government,
as he was,--could not have been such a lover to her. Might it not
be possible that there should exist something of romance between
her and her cousin Frank? She was the last woman in the world to
run away with a man, or to endanger her position by a serious
indiscretion; but there might, perhaps, be a something between her
and her cousin,--a liaison quite correct in its facts, a secret
understanding, if nothing more,--a mutual sympathy, which should be
chiefly shown in the abuse of all their friends,--and in this she
could indulge her passion for romance and poetry.


CHAPTER XI

Lord Fawn at His Office


The news was soon all about London,--as Lizzie had intended. She had
made a sudden resolve that Lord Fawn should not escape her, and she
had gone to work after the fashion we have seen. Frank Greystock had
told John Eustace, and John Eustace had told Mr. Camperdown before
Lord Fawn himself, in the slow prosecution of his purpose, had
consulted the lawyer about the necklace. "God bless my soul;--Lord
Fawn!" the old lawyer had said when the news was communicated to him.
"Well,--yes;--he wants money. I don't envy him; that's all. We shall
get the diamonds now, John. Lord Fawn isn't the man to let his wife
keep what doesn't belong to her." Then, after a day or two, Lord Fawn
had himself gone to Mr. Camperdown's chambers. "I believe I am to
congratulate you, my lord," said the lawyer. "I'm told you are going
to marry--; well, I mustn't really say another of my clients, but the
widow of one of them. Lady Eustace is a very beautiful woman, and she
has a very pretty income too. She has the whole of the Scotch
property for her life."

"It's only for her life, I suppose?" said Lord Fawn.

"Oh, no, no;--of course not. There's been some mistake on her
part;--at least, so I've been told. Women never understand. It's
all as clear as daylight. Had there been a second son, the second
son would have had it. As it is, it goes with the rest of the
property--just as it ought to do, you know. Four thousand a year
isn't so bad, you know, considering that she isn't more than a girl
yet, and that she hadn't sixpence of her own. When the admiral died,
there wasn't sixpence, Lord Fawn."

"So I have heard."

"Not sixpence. It's all Eustace money. She had six or eight thousand
pounds, or something like that, besides. She's as lovely a young
widow as I ever saw,--and very clever."

"Yes;--she is clever."

"By-the-bye, Lord Fawn, as you have done me the honour of
calling,--there's a stupid mistake about some family diamonds."

"It is in respect to them that I've come," said Lord Fawn. Then Mr.
Camperdown, in his easy, off-hand way, imputing no blame to the lady
in the hearing of her future husband, and declaring his opinion that
she was doubtless unaware of its value, explained the matter of the
necklace. Lord Fawn listened, but said very little. He especially did
not say that Lady Eustace had had the stones valued. "They're real, I
suppose?" he asked. Mr. Camperdown assured him that no diamonds more
real had ever come from Golconda, or passed through Mr. Garnett's
hands. "They are as well known as any family diamonds in England,"
said Mr. Camperdown. "She has got into bad hands,"--continued Mr.
Camperdown. "Mowbray and Mopus;--horrible people; sharks, that make
one blush for one's profession; and I was really afraid there would
have been trouble. But, of course, it'll be all right now;--and if
she'll only come to me, tell her I'll do everything I can to make
things straight and comfortable for her. If she likes to have another
lawyer, of course, that's all right. Only make her understand who
Mowbray and Mopus are. It's quite out of the question, Lord Fawn,
that your wife should have anything to do with Mowbray and Mopus."
Every word that Mr. Camperdown said was gospel to Lord Fawn.

And yet, as the reader will understand, Mr. Camperdown had by no
means expressed his real opinion in this interview. He had spoken of
the widow in friendly terms,--declaring that she was simply mistaken
in her ideas as to the duration of her interest in the Scotch
property, and mistaken again about the diamonds;--whereas in truth he
regarded her as a dishonest, lying, evil-minded harpy. Had Lord Fawn
consulted him simply as a client, and not have come to him an engaged
lover, he would have expressed his opinion quite frankly; but it is
not the business of a lawyer to tell his client evil things of the
lady whom that client is engaged to marry. In regard to the property
he spoke the truth, and he spoke what he believed to be the truth
when he said that the whole thing would no doubt now be easily
arranged. When Lord Fawn took his leave, Mr. Camperdown again
declared to himself that as regarded money the match was very well
for his lordship; but that, as regarded the woman, Lizzie was dear
at the price. "Perhaps he doesn't mind it," said Mr. Camperdown to
himself, "but I wouldn't marry such a woman myself, though she owned
all Scotland."

There had been much in the interview to make Lord Fawn unhappy.
In the first place, that golden hope as to the perpetuity of the
property was at an end. He had never believed that it was so; but a
man may hope without believing. And he was quite sure that Lizzie was
bound to give up the diamonds,--and would ultimately be made to give
them up. Of any property in them, as possibly accruing to himself,
he had not thought much;--but he could not abstain from thinking of
the woman's grasp upon them. Mr. Camperdown's plain statement, which
was gospel to him, was directly at variance with Lizzie's story. Sir
Florian certainly would not have given such diamonds in such a way.
Sir Florian would not have ordered a separate iron safe for them,
with a view that they might be secure in his wife's bed-room. And
then she had had them valued, and manifestly was always thinking of
her treasure. It was very well for a poor, careful peer to be always
thinking of his money, but Lord Fawn was well aware that a young
woman such as Lady Eustace should have her thoughts elsewhere. As he
sat signing letters at the India Board, relieving himself when he was
left alone between each batch by standing up with his back to the
fire-place, his mind was full of all this. He could not unravel truth
quickly, but he could grasp it when it came to him. She was certainly
greedy, false, and dishonest. And,--worse than all this,--she had
dared to tell him to his face that he was a poor creature because he
would not support her in her greed, and falsehoods, and dishonesty!
Nevertheless, he was engaged to marry her! Then he thought of one
Violet Effingham whom he had loved, and then came over him some
suspicion of a fear that he himself was hard and selfish. And yet
what was such a one as he to do? It was of course necessary for the
maintenance of the very constitution of his country that there should
be future Lord Fawns. There could be no future Lord Fawns unless he
married;--and how could he marry without money? "A peasant can marry
whom he pleases," said Lord Fawn, pressing his hand to his brow, and
dropping one flap of his coat, as he thought of his own high and
perilous destiny, standing with his back to the fire-place, while a
huge pile of letters lay there before him waiting to be signed.

It was a Saturday evening, and as there was no House there was
nothing to hurry him away from the office. He was the occupier for
the time of a large, well-furnished official room, looking out into
St. James's Park, and as he glanced round it he told himself that his
own happiness must be there, and not in the domesticity of a quiet
home. The House of Lords, out of which nobody could turn him, and
official life,--as long as he could hold to it,--must be all in all
to him. He had engaged himself to this woman, and he must--marry
her. He did not think that he could now see any way of avoiding that
event. Her income would supply the needs of her home, and then there
might probably be a continuation of Lord Fawns. The world might have
done better for him,--had he been able to find favour in Violet
Effingham's sight. He was a man capable of love,--and very capable
of constancy to a woman true to him. Then he wiped away a tear as he
sat down to sign the huge batch of letters. As he read some special
letter in which instructions were conveyed as to the insufficiency
of the Sawab's claims, he thought of Frank Greystock's attack upon
him, and of Frank Greystock's cousin. There had been a time in
which he had feared that the two cousins would become man and wife.
At this moment he uttered a malediction against the member for
Bobsborough, which might perhaps have been spared had the member
been now willing to take the lady off his hands. Then the door was
opened, and the messenger told him that Mrs. Hittaway was in the
waiting-room. Mrs. Hittaway was, of course, at once made welcome to
the Under-Secretary's own apartment.

Mrs. Hittaway was a strong-minded woman,--the strongest-minded
probably of the Fawn family,--but she had now come upon a task
which taxed all her strength to the utmost. She had told her mother
that she would tell "Frederic" what she thought about his proposed
bride, and she had now come to carry out her threat. She had asked
her brother to come and dine with her, but he had declined. His
engagements hardly admitted of his dining with his relatives. She had
called upon him at the rooms he occupied in Victoria Street,--but
of course she had not found him. She could not very well go to his
club;--so now she had hunted him down at his office. From the very
commencement of the interview Mrs. Hittaway was strong-minded. She
began the subject of the marriage, and did so without a word of
congratulation. "Dear Frederic," she said, "you know that we have all
got to look up to you."

"Well, Clara,--what does that mean?"

"It means this,--that you must bear with me, if I am more anxious as
to your future career than another sister might be."

"Now I know you are going to say something unpleasant."

"Yes, I am, Frederic. I have heard so many bad things about Lady
Eustace!"

The Under-Secretary sat silent for awhile in his great arm-chair.
"What sort of evil things do you mean, Clara?" he asked at last.
"Evil things are said of a great many people,--as you know. I am sure
you would not wish to repeat slanders."

Mrs. Hittaway was not to be silenced after this fashion. "Not
slanders, certainly, Frederic. But when I hear that you intend to
raise this lady to the rank and position of your wife, then of course
the truth or falsehood of these reports becomes a matter of great
moment to us all. Don't you think you had better see Mr. Camperdown?"

"I have seen him."

"And what does he say?"

"What should he say? Lady Eustace has, I believe, made some mistake
about the condition of her property, and people who have heard it
have been good-natured enough to say that the error has been wilful.
That is what I call slander, Clara."

"And have you heard about her jewels?" Mrs. Hittaway was alluding
here to the report which had reached her as to Lizzie's debt to
Harter and Benjamin when she married Sir Florian; but Lord Fawn of
course thought of the diamond necklace.

Let us get to work; and in time, as the story progresses, it will
seem inevitable.

We shall see it in front of us, and we shall not be able to avoid
it.
Let us get to work"--he glanced at his watch and laughed--"or,
rather, let us get to bed. It is past four. This way madness lies.
When we collaborate, we will write in the morning. Our book shall
be a book of the dawn, and not of the darkness, despite its sombre
theme."

"No, no; it must be a book of the darkness."

"Of the darkness, then, but written in the dawn. Your tragedy tempered
by my trust in human nature, and the power that causes things to
right themselves. Good-night, old boy."
"Good-night."
When Henley had left the room, Tren-chard sat for a moment with his
head sunk low on his breast and his eyes half closed. Then, with a
jerk, he gained his feet, went to the door, opened it, and looked forth
on the deserted landing.

He listened, and heard Henley moving to and fro in his bedroom.

Then he shut the door, took off his smoking-coat, and bared his
left arm.

There was a tiny blue mark on it.

"What will the _dénouement_ be?" he whispered to himself, as he felt
in his waistcoat pocket with a trembling hand.

II.

The book was moving onward by slow degrees and with a great deal of
discussion.
In those days Henley and Trenchard lived much with sported oaks.
They were battling for fame. They were doing all they knew. Literary
gatherings missed them. First nights knew them no more.Lord Fawn was, therefore, well aware that Lady Eustace had published
the engagement. It was known to everybody, and could not be broken
off without public scandal.


CHAPTER XII

"I Only Thought of It"


There was great perturbation down at Fawn Court. On the day fixed,
Monday, June 5, Lizzie arrived. Nothing further had been said by Lady
Fawn to urge the invitation; but, in accordance with the arrangement
already made, Lady Eustace, with her child, her nurse, and her own
maid, was at Fawn Court by four o'clock. A very long letter had been
received from Mrs. Hittaway that morning,--the writing of which
must have seriously interfered with the tranquillity of her Sunday
afternoon. Lord Fawn did not make his appearance at Richmond on the
Saturday evening,--nor was he seen on the Sunday. That Sunday was,
we may presume, chiefly devoted to reflection. He certainly did not
call upon his future wife. His omission to do so no doubt increased
Lizzie's urgency in the matter of her visit to Richmond. Frank
Greystock had written to congratulate her. "Dear Frank," she had said
in reply, "a woman situated as I am has so many things to think of.
Lord Fawn's position will be of service to my child. Mind you come
and see me at Fawn Court. I count so much on your friendship and
assistance."

Of course she was expected at Richmond,--although throughout the
morning Lady Fawn had entertained almost a hope that she wouldn't
come. "He was only lukewarm in defending her," Mrs. Hittaway had said
in her letter, "and I still think that there may be an escape." Not
even a note had come from Lord Fawn himself,--nor from Lady Eustace.
Possibly something violent might have been done, and Lady Eustace
would not appear. But Lady Eustace did appear,--and, after a fashion,
was made welcome at Fawn Court.

The Fawn ladies were not good hypocrites. Lady Fawn had said almost
nothing to her daughters of her visit to Mount Street, but Augusta
had heard the discussion in Mrs. Hittaway's drawing-room as to the
character of the future bride. The coming visit had been spoken of
almost with awe, and there was a general conviction in the dovecote
that an evil thing had fallen upon them. Consequently, their
affection to the new-comer, though spoken in words, was not made
evident by signs and manners. Lizzie herself took care that the
position in which she was received should be sufficiently declared.
"It seems so odd that I am to come among you as a sister," she said.
The girls were forced to assent to the claim, but they assented
coldly. "He has told me to attach myself especially to you," she
whispered to Augusta. The unfortunate chosen one, who had but little
strength of her own, accepted the position, and then, as the only
means of escaping the embraces of her newly-found sister, pleaded the
violence of a headache. "My mother!" said Lizzie to Lady Fawn. "Yes,
my dear," said Lady Fawn. "One of the girls had perhaps better go up
and show you your room." "I am very much afraid about it," said Lady
Fawn to her daughter Amelia. Amelia replied only by shaking her head.

On the Tuesday morning there came a note from Lord Fawn to his
lady-love. Of course the letter was not shown, but Lizzie received it
at the breakfast table, and read it with many little smiles and signs
of satisfaction. And then she gave out various little statements as
having been made in that letter. He says this, and he says that, and
he is coming here, and going there, and he will do one thing, and
he won't do the other. We have often seen young ladies crowing over
their lovers' letters, and it was pleasant to see Lizzie crowing over
hers. And yet there was but very little in the letter. Lord Fawn told
her that what with the House and what with the Office, he could not
get down to Richmond before Saturday; but that on Saturday he would
come. Then he signed himself "yours affectionately, Fawn." Lizzie
did her crowing very prettily. The outward show of it was there
to perfection,--so that the Fawn girls really believed that their
brother had written an affectionate lover's letter. Inwardly, Lizzie
swore to herself, as she read the cold words with indignation, that
the man should not escape her.

The days went by very tediously. On the Wednesday and the Friday Lady
Eustace made an excuse of going up to town, and insisted on taking
the unfortunate Augusta with her. There was no real reason for these
journeys to London,--unless that glance which on each occasion
was given to the contents of the iron case was a real reason. The
diamonds were safe, and Miss Macnulty was enjoying herself. On the
Friday Lizzie proposed to Augusta that they should jointly make a
raid upon the member of Her Majesty's Government at his office; but
Augusta positively refused to take such a step. "I know he would
be angry," pleaded Augusta. "Psha! who cares for his anger?" said
Lizzie. But the visit was not made.

On the Saturday,--the Saturday which was to bring Lord Fawn down to
dinner,--another most unexpected visitor made his appearance. At
about three o'clock Frank Greystock was at Fawn Court. Now it was
certainly understood that Mr. Greystock had been told not to come to
Fawn Court as long as Lucy Morris was there. "Dear Mr. Greystock, I'm
sure you will take what I say as I mean it," Lady Fawn had whispered
to him. "You know how attached we all are to our dear little Lucy.
Perhaps you know--." There had been more of it; but the meaning of it
all was undoubtedly this,--that Frank was not to pay visits to Lucy
Morris at Fawn Court. Now he had come to see his cousin Lizzie
Eustace.

On this occasion Lady Fawn, with Amelia and two of the other girls,
were out in the carriage. The unfortunate Augusta had been left at
home with her bosom friend;--while Cecilia and Nina were supposed to
be talking French with Lucy Morris. They were all out in the grounds,
sitting upon the benches, and rambling among the shrubberies, when
of a sudden Frank Greystock was in the midst of them. Lizzie's
expression of joy at seeing her cousin was almost as great as though
he had been in fact a brother. She ran up to him and grasped his
hand, and hung on his arm, and looked up into his face, and then
burst into tears. But the tears were not violent tears. There were
just three sobs, and two bright eyes full of water, and a lace
handkerchief,--and then a smile. "Oh, Frank," she said, "it does make
one think so of old times!" Augusta had by this time been almost
persuaded to believe in her,--though the belief by no means made the
poor young woman happy. Frank thought that his cousin looked very
well, and said something as to Lord Fawn being "the happiest fellow
going." "I hope I shall make him happy," said Lizzie, clasping her
hands together.

Lucy meanwhile was standing in the circle with the others. It never
occurred to her that it was her duty to run away from the man she
loved. She had shaken hands with him, and felt something of affection
in his pressure. She did believe that his visit was made entirely to
his cousin, and had no idea at the moment of disobeying Lady Fawn.
During the last few days she had been thrown very much with her old
friend Lizzie, and had been treated by the future peeress with many
signs of almost sisterly affection. "Dear Lucy," Lizzie had said,
"you can understand me. These people,--oh, they are so good, but
they can't understand me." Lucy had expressed a hope that Lord
Fawn understood her. "Oh, Lord Fawn,--well; yes; perhaps;--I don't
know. It so often happens that one's husband is the last person to
understand one."

"If I thought so, I wouldn't marry him," said Lucy.

"Frank Greystock will understand you," said Lizzie. It was indeed
true that Lucy did understand something of her wealthy friend's
character, and was almost ashamed of the friendship. With Lizzie
Greystock she had never sympathised, and Lizzie Eustace had always
been distasteful to her. She already felt that the less she should
see of Lizzie Fawn the better she should like it.

Before an hour was over, Frank Greystock was walking round the
shrubberies with Lucy,--and was walking with Lucy alone. It was
undoubtedly the fact that Lady Eustace had contrived that it should
be so. The unfitness of the thing recommended it to her. Frank could
hardly marry a wife without a shilling. Lucy would certainly not
think at all of shillings. Frank,--as Lizzie knew,--had been almost
at her feet within the last fortnight, and might, in some possible
emergency, be there again. In the midst of such circumstances nothing
could be better than that Frank and Lucy should be thrown together.
Lizzie regarded all this as romance. Poor Lady Fawn, had she known it
all, would have called it diabolical wickedness and inhuman cruelty.

"Well, Lucy;--what do you think of it?" Frank Greystock said to her.

"Think of what, Mr. Greystock?"

"You know what I mean;--this marriage?"

"How should I be able to think? I have never seen them together. I
suppose Lord Fawn isn't very rich. She is rich. And then she is very
beautiful. Don't you think her very beautiful?"

"Sometimes exquisitely lovely."

"Everybody says so;--and I am sure it is the fact. Do you know;--but
perhaps you'll think I am envious."

"If I thought you envious of Lizzie, I should have to think you very
foolish at the same time."

"I don't know what that means;"--she did know well enough what it
meant;--"but sometimes to me she is almost frightful to look at."

"In what way?"

"Oh, I can't tell you. She looks like a beautiful animal that you are
afraid to caress for fear it should bite you;--an animal that would
be beautiful if its eyes were not so restless, and its teeth so sharp
and so white."

"How very odd."

"Why odd, Mr. Greystock?"

"Because I feel exactly in the same way about her. I am not in
the least afraid that she'll bite me; and as for caressing the
animal,--that kind of caressing which you mean,--it seems to me to be
just what she's made for. But, I do feel sometimes, that she is like
a cat."

"Something not quite so tame as a cat," said Lucy.

"Nevertheless she is very lovely,--and very clever. Sometimes I think
her the most beautiful woman I ever saw in the world."

"Do you, indeed?"

"She will be immensely run after as Lady Fawn. When she pleases she
can make her own house quite charming. I never knew a woman who could
say pretty things to so many people at once."

"You are making her out to be a paragon of perfection, Mr.
Greystock."

"And when you add to all the rest that she has four thousand a year,
you must admit that Lord Fawn is a lucky man."

"I have said nothing against it."

"Four thousand a year is a very great consideration, Lucy." Lucy for
a while said nothing. She was making up her mind that she would say
nothing;--that she would make no reply indicative of any feeling on
her part. But she was not sufficiently strong to keep her resolution.
"I wonder, Mr. Greystock," she said, "that you did not attempt to win
the great prize yourself. Cousins do marry."

He had thought of attempting it, and at this moment he would not lie
to her. "The cousinship had nothing to do with it," he said.

"Perhaps you did think of it."

"I did, Lucy. Yes, I did. Thank God, I only thought of it." She
could not refrain herself from looking up into his face and clasping
her hands together. A woman never so dearly loves a man as when he
confesses that he has been on the brink of a great crime,--but has
refrained, and has not committed it. "I did think of it. I am not
telling you that she would have taken me. I have no reason whatever
for thinking so."

"I am sure she would," said Lucy, who did not in the least know what
words she was uttering.

"It would have been simply for her money,--her money and her beauty.
It would not have been because I love her."

"Never--never ask a girl to marry you, unless you love her, Mr.
Greystock."

"Then there is only one that I can ever ask," said he. There was
nothing of course that she could say to this. If he did not choose
to go further, she was not bound to understand him. But would he go
further? She felt at the moment that an open declaration of his love
to herself would make her happy for ever, even though it should be
accompanied by an assurance that he could not marry her. If they only
knew each other,--that it was so between them,--that, she thought,
would be enough for her. And as for him--if a woman could bear such a
position, surely he might bear it. "Do you know who that one is?" he
asked.

"No," she said,--shaking her head.

"Lucy, is that true?"

"What does it matter?"

"Lucy;--look at me, Lucy," and he put his hand upon her arm.

"No,--no,--no!" she said.

"I love you so well, Lucy, that I never can love another. I have
thought of many women, but could never even think of one, as a woman
to love, except you. I have sometimes fancied I could marry for
money and position,--to help myself on in the world by means of a
wife,--but when my mind has run away with me, to revel amidst ideas
of feminine sweetness, you have always--always been the heroine of
the tale, as the mistress of the happy castle in the air."

"Have I?" she asked.

"Always,--always. As regards this,"--and he struck himself on the
breast,--"no man was ever more constant. Though I don't think much of
myself as a man, I know a woman when I see her." But he did not ask
her to be his wife;--nor did he wait at Fawn Court till Lady Fawn had
come back with the carriage.


CHAPTER XIII

Showing What Frank Greystock Did


Frank Greystock escaped from the dovecote before Lady Fawn had
returned. He had not made his visit to Richmond with any purpose of
seeing Lucy Morris, or of saying to her when he did see her anything
special,--of saying anything that should, or anything that should
not, have been said. He had gone there, in truth, simply because his
cousin had asked him, and because it was almost a duty on his part to
see his cousin on the momentous occasion of this new engagement. But
he had declared to himself that old Lady Fawn was a fool, and that
to see Lucy again would be very pleasant. "See her;--of course I'll
see her," he had said. "Why should I be prevented from seeing her?"
Now he had seen her, and as he returned by the train to London, he
acknowledged to himself that it was no longer in his power to promote
his fortune by marriage. He had at last said that to Lucy which made
it impossible for him to offer his hand to any other woman. He had
not, in truth, asked her to be his wife; but he had told her that he
loved her, and could never love any other woman. He had asked for no
answer to this assurance, and then he had left her.

In the course of that afternoon he did question himself as to his
conduct to this girl, and subjected himself to some of the rigours
of a cross-examination. He was not a man who could think of a girl
as the one human being whom he loved above all others, and yet look
forward with equanimity to the idea of doing her an injury. He could
understand that a man unable to marry should be reticent as to his
feelings,--supposing him to have been weak enough to have succumbed
to a passion which could only mar his own prospects. He was frank
enough in owning to himself that he had been thus weak. The weakness
had come upon himself early in life,--and was there, an established
fact. The girl was to him unlike any other girl;--or any man. There
was to him a sweetness in her companionship which he could not
analyse. She was not beautiful. She had none of the charms of
fashion. He had never seen her well-dressed,--according to the ideas
of dress which he found to be prevailing in the world. She was a
little thing, who, as a man's wife, could attract no attention by
figure, form, or outward manner,--one who had quietly submitted
herself to the position of a governess, and who did not seem to think
that in doing so she obtained less than her due. But yet he knew
her to be better than all the rest. For him, at any rate, she was
better than all the rest. Her little hand was cool and sweet to him.
Sometimes when he was heated and hard at work, he would fancy how it
would be with him if she were by him, and would lay it on his brow.
There was a sparkle in her eye that had to him more of sympathy in it
than could be conveyed by all the other eyes in the world. There was
an expression in her mouth when she smiled, which was more eloquent
to him than any sound. There were a reality and a truth about her
which came home to him, and made themselves known to him as firm
rocks which could not be shaken. He had never declared to himself
that deceit or hypocrisy in a woman was especially abominable. As a
rule he looked for it in women, and would say that some amount of
affectation was necessary to a woman's character. He knew that his
cousin Lizzie was a little liar,--that she was, as Lucy had said, a
pretty animal that would turn and bite;--and yet he liked his cousin
Lizzie. He did not want women to be perfect,--so he would say. But
Lucy Morris, in his eyes, was perfect; and when he told her that she
was ever the queen who reigned in those castles in the air which he
built,--as others build them, he told her no more than the truth.

He had fallen into these feelings and could not now avoid them, or be
quit of them;--but he could have been silent respecting them. He knew
that in former days, down at Bobsborough, he had not been altogether
silent. When he had first seen her at Fawn Court he had not been
altogether silent. But he had been warned away from Fawn Court, and
in that very warning there was conveyed, as it were, an absolution
from the effect of words hitherto spoken. Though he had called Lady
Fawn an old fool, he had known that it was so,--had, after a fashion,
perceived her wisdom,--and had regarded himself as a man free to
decide, without disgrace, that he might abandon ideas of ecstatic
love and look out for a rich wife. Presuming himself to be reticent
for the future in reference to his darling Lucy, he might do as he
pleased with himself. Thus there had come a moment in which he had
determined that he would ask his rich cousin to marry him. In that
little project he had been interrupted, and the reader knows what
had come of it. Lord Fawn's success had not in the least annoyed
him. He had only half resolved in regard to his cousin. She was very
beautiful no doubt, and there was her income;--but he also knew that
those teeth would bite and that those claws would scratch. But Lord
Fawn's success had given a turn to his thoughts, and had made him
think, for a moment, that if a man loved, he should be true to his
love. The reader also knows what had come of that,--how at last he
had not been reticent. He had not asked Lucy to be his wife; but he
had said that which made it impossible that he should marry any other
woman without dishonour.

As he thought of what he had done himself, he tried to remember
whether Lucy had said a word expressive of affection for himself.
She had in truth spoken very few words, and he could remember almost
every one of them. "Have I?"--she had asked, when he told her that
she had ever been the princess reigning in his castles. And there had
been a joy in the question which she had not attempted to conceal.
She had hesitated not at all. She had not told him that she loved
him. But there had been something sweeter than such protestation in
the question she had asked him. "Is it indeed true," she had said,
"that I have been placed there where all my joy and all my glory
lies?" It was not in her to tell a lie to him, even by a tone. She
had intended to say nothing of her love, but he knew that it had all
been told. "Have I?"--he repeated the words to himself a dozen times,
and as he did so, he could hear her voice. Certainly there never was
a voice that brought home to the hearer so strong a sense of its own
truth!

Why should he not at once make up his mind to marry her? He could
do it. There was no doubt of that. It was possible for him to alter
the whole manner of his life, to give up his clubs,--to give up even
Parliament, if the need to do so was there,--and to live as a married
man on the earnings of his profession. There was no need why he
should regard himself as a poor man. Two things, no doubt, were
against his regarding himself as a rich man. Ever since he had
commenced life in London he had been more or less in debt; and then,
unfortunately, he had acquired a seat in Parliament at a period of
his career in which the dangers of such a position were greater than
the advantages. Nevertheless he could earn an income on which he and
his wife, were he to marry, could live in all comfort; and as to his
debts, if he would set his shoulder to the work they might be paid
off in a twelvemonth. There was nothing in the prospect which would
frighten Lucy, though there might be a question whether he possessed
the courage needed for so violent a change.

He had chambers in the Temple; he lived in rooms which he hired from
month to month in one of the big hotels at the West End; and he dined
at his club, or at the House, when he was not dining with a friend.
It was an expensive and a luxurious mode of life,--and one from
the effects of which a man is prone to drift very quickly into
selfishness. He was by no means given to drinking,--but he was
already learning to like good wine. Small economies in reference to
cab-hire, gloves, umbrellas, and railway fares were unknown to him.
Sixpences and shillings were things with which, in his mind, it was
grievous to have to burden the thoughts. The Greystocks had all lived
after that fashion. Even the dean himself was not free from the
charge of extravagance. All this Frank knew, and he did not hesitate
to tell himself, that he must make a great change if he meant to
marry Lucy Morris. And he was wise enough to know that the change
would become more difficult every day that it was postponed. Hitherto
the question had been an open question with him. Could it now be an
open question any longer? As a man of honour, was he not bound to
share his lot with Lucy Morris?

That evening,--that Saturday evening,--it so happened that he met
John Eustace at a club to which they both belonged, and they dined
together. They had long known each other, and had been thrown into
closer intimacy by the marriage between Sir Florian and Lizzie. John
Eustace had never been fond of Lizzie, and now, in truth, liked
her less than ever; but he did like Lizzie's cousin, and felt that
possibly Frank might be of use to him in the growing difficulty of
managing the heir's property and looking after the heir's interests.
"You've let the widow slip through your fingers," he said to Frank,
as they sat together at the table.

"I told you Lord Fawn was to be the lucky man," said Frank.

"I know you did. I hadn't seen it. I can only say I wish it had been
the other way."

"Why so? Fawn isn't a bad fellow."

"No;--not exactly a bad fellow. He isn't, you know, what I call a
good fellow. In the first place, he is marrying her altogether for
her money."

"Which is just what you advised me to do."

"I thought you really liked her. And then Fawn will be always afraid
of her,--and won't be in the least afraid of us. We shall have to
fight him, and he won't fight her. He's a cantankerous fellow,--is
Fawn,--when he's not afraid of his adversary."

"But why should there be any fighting?"

Eustace paused a minute, and rubbed his face and considered the
matter before he answered. "She is troublesome, you know," he said.

"What; Lizzie?"

"Yes;--and I begin to be afraid she'll give us as much as we know how
to do. I was with Camperdown to-day. I'm blessed if she hasn't begun
to cut down a whole side of a forest at Portray. She has no more
right to touch the timber, except for repairs about the place, than
you have."

"And if she lives for fifty years," asked Greystock, "is none to be
cut?"

"Yes;--by consent. Of course the regular cutting for the year is
done, year by year. That's as regular as the rents, and the produce
is sold by the acre. But she is marking the old oaks. What the deuce
can she want money for?"

"Fawn will put all that right."

"He'll have to do it," said Eustace. "Since she has been down with
the old Lady Fawn, she has written a note to Camperdown,--after
leaving all his letters unanswered for the last twelvemonth,--to tell
him that Lord Fawn is to have nothing to do with her property, and
that certain people, called Mowbray and Mopus, are her lawyers.
Camperdown is in an awful way about it."

"Lord Fawn will put it all right," said Frank.

"Camperdown is afraid that he won't. They've met twice since the
engagement was made, and Camperdown says that, at the last meeting,
Fawn gave himself airs, or was, at any rate, unpleasant. There were
words about those diamonds."

"You don't mean to say that Lord Fawn wants to keep your brother's
family jewels?"

"Camperdown didn't say that exactly;--but Fawn made no offer of
giving them up. I wasn't there, and only heard what Camperdown told
me. Camperdown thinks he's afraid of her."

"I shouldn't wonder at that in the least," said Frank.

"I know there'll be trouble," continued Eustace, "and Fawn won't
be able to help us through it. She's a strong-willed, cunning,
obstinate, clever little creature. Camperdown swears he'll be too
many for her, but I almost doubt it."

"And therefore you wish I were going to marry her?"

"Yes, I do. You might manage her. The money comes from the Eustace
property, and I'd sooner it should go to you than a half-hearted,
numb-fingered, cold-blooded Whig, like Fawn."

"I don't like cunning women," said Frank.

"As bargains go, it wouldn't be a bad one," said Eustace. "She's very
young, has a noble jointure, and is as handsome as she can stand.
It's too good a thing for Fawn;--too good for any Whig."

When Eustace left him, Greystock lit his cigar and walked with it
in his mouth from Pall Mall to the Temple. He often worked there at
night when he was not bound to be in the House, or when the House
was not sitting,--and he was now intent on mastering the mysteries
of some much-complicated legal case which had been confided to him,
in order that he might present it to a jury enveloped in increased
mystery. But, as he went, he thought rather of matrimony than of
law;--and he thought especially of matrimony as it was about to
affect Lord Fawn. Could a man be justified in marrying for money, or
have rational ground for expecting that he might make himself happy
by doing so? He kept muttering to himself as he went, the Quaker's
advice to the old farmer, "Doan't thou marry for munny, but goa where
munny is!" But he muttered it as condemning the advice rather than
accepting it.

He could look out and see two altogether different kinds of life
before him, both of which had their allurements. There was the
Belgravia-cum-Pimlico life, the scene of which might extend itself
to South Kensington, enveloping the parks and coming round over
Park Lane, and through Grosvenor Square and Berkeley Square back
to Piccadilly. Within this he might live with lords and countesses
and rich folk generally, going out to the very best dinner-parties,
avoiding stupid people, having everything the world could give,
except a wife and family and home of his own. All this he could
achieve by the work which would certainly fall in his way, and by
means of that position in the world which he had already attained by
his wits. And the wife, with the family and house of his own, might
be forthcoming, should it ever come in his way to form an attachment
with a wealthy woman. He knew how dangerous were the charms of such a
life as this to a man growing old among the flesh-pots, without any
one to depend upon him. He had seen what becomes of the man who is
always dining out at sixty. But he might avoid that. "Doan't thou
marry for munny, but goa where munny is." And then there was that
other outlook, the scene of which was laid somewhere north of Oxford
Street, and the glory of which consisted in Lucy's smile, and Lucy's
hand, and Lucy's kiss, as he returned home weary from his work.

There are many men, and some women, who pass their lives without
knowing what it is to be or to have been in love. They not improbably
marry,--the men do, at least,--and make good average husbands. Their
wives are useful to them, and they learn to feel that a woman, being
a wife, is entitled to all the respect, protection, and honour which
a man can give, or procure for her. Such men, no doubt, often live
honest lives, are good Christians, and depart hence with hopes as
justifiable as though they had loved as well as Romeo. But yet, as
men, they have lacked a something, the want of which has made them
small and poor and dry. It has never been felt by such a one that
there would be triumph in giving away everything belonging to him
for one little whispered, yielding word, in which there should be
acknowledgment that he had succeeded in making himself master of a
human heart. And there are other men,--very many men,--who have felt
this love, and have resisted it, feeling it to be unfit that Love
should be Lord of all. Frank Greystock had told himself, a score
of times, that it would be unbecoming in him to allow a passion to
obtain such mastery of him as to interfere with his ambition. Could
it be right that he who, as a young man, had already done so much,
who might possibly have before him so high and great a career, should
miss that, because he could not resist a feeling which a little chit
of a girl had created in his bosom,--a girl without money, without
position, without even beauty; a girl as to whom, were he to marry
her, the world would say, "Oh, heaven!--there has Frank Greystock
gone and married a little governess out of old Lady Fawn's nursery!"
And yet he loved her with all his heart, and to-day he had told her
of his love. What should he do next?

The complicated legal case received neither much ravelling nor
unravelling from his brains that night; but before he left his
chambers he wrote the following letter:--


   Midnight, Saturday,
   All among my books and papers,
   2, Bolt Court, Middle Temple.

   DEAR, DEAR LUCY,

   I told you to-day that you had ever been the Queen who
   reigned in those palaces which I have built in Spain.
   You did not make me much of an answer; but such as it
   was,--only just one muttered doubtful-sounding word,--it
   has made me hope that I may be justified in asking you to
   share with me a home which will not be palatial. If I am
   wrong--? But no;--I will not think I am wrong, or that I
   can be wrong. No sound coming from you is really doubtful.
   You are truth itself, and the muttered word would have
   been other than it was, if you had not--! may I say,--had
   you not already learned to love me?

   You will feel, perhaps, that I ought to have said all this
   to you then, and that a letter in such a matter is but
   a poor substitute for a spoken assurance of affection.
   You shall have the whole truth. Though I have long loved
   you, I did not go down to Fawn Court with the purpose of
   declaring to you my love. What I said to you was God's
   truth; but it was spoken without thought at the moment. I
   have thought of it much since;--and now I write to ask you
   to be my wife. I have lived for the last year or two with
   this hope before me; and now-- Dear, dear Lucy, I will not
   write in too great confidence; but I will tell you that
   all my happiness is in your hands.

   If your answer is what I hope it may be, tell Lady Fawn at
   once. I shall immediately write to Bobsborough, as I hate
   secrets in such matters. And if it is to be so,--then I
   shall claim the privilege of going to Fawn Court as soon
   and as often as I please.

   Yours ever and always,--if you will have me,--

   F. G.


He sat for an hour at his desk, with his letter lying on the table,
before he left his chambers,--looking at it. If he should decide on
posting it, then would that life in Belgravia-cum-Pimlico,--of which
in truth he was very fond,--be almost closed for him. The lords and
countesses, and rich county members, and leading politicians, who
were delighted to welcome him, would not care for his wife; nor
could he very well take his wife among them. To live with them as
a married man, he must live as they lived;--and must have his own
house in their precincts. Later in life, he might possibly work up to
this;--but for the present he must retire into dim domestic security
and the neighbourhood of Regent's Park. He sat looking at the letter,
telling himself that he was now, at this moment, deciding his own
fate in life. And he again muttered the Quaker's advice, "Doan't thou
marry for munny, but goa where munny is!" It may be said, however,
that no man ever writes such a letter, and then omits to send it. He
walked out of the Temple with it in his hand, and dropped it into
a pillar letter-box just outside the gate. As the envelope slipped
through his fingers, he felt that he had now bound himself to his
fate.


CHAPTER XIV

"Doan't Thou Marry for Munny"


As that Saturday afternoon wore itself away, there was much
excitement at Fawn Court. When Lady Fawn returned with the carriage,
she heard that Frank Greystock had been at Fawn Court; and she heard
also, from Augusta, that he had been rambling about the grounds alone
with Lucy Morris. At any exhibition of old ladies, held before a
competent jury, Lady Fawn would have taken a prize on the score of
good humour. No mother of daughters was ever less addicted to scold
and to be fretful. But just now she was a little unhappy. Lizzie's
visit had not been a success, and she looked forward to her son's
marriage with almost unmixed dismay. Mrs. Hittaway had written daily,
and in all Mrs. Hittaway's letters some addition was made to the evil
things already known. In her last letter Mrs. Hittaway had expressed
her opinion that even yet "Frederic" would escape. All this Lady Fawn
had, of course, not told to her daughters generally. To the eldest,
Augusta, it was thought expedient to say nothing, because Augusta had
been selected as the companion of the, alas! too probable future Lady
Fawn. But to Amelia something did leak out, and it became apparent
that the household was uneasy. Now,--as an evil added to this,--Frank
Greystock had been there in Lady Fawn's absence, walking about the
grounds alone with Lucy Morris. Lady Fawn could hardly restrain
herself. "How could Lucy be so very wrong?" she said, in the hearing
both of Augusta and Amelia.

Lizzie Eustace did not hear this; but knowing very well that a
governess should not receive a lover in the absence of the lady of
the house, she made her little speech about it. "Dear Lady Fawn," she
said, "my cousin Frank came to see me while you were out."

"So I hear," said Lady Fawn.

"Frank and I are more like brother and sister than anything else. I
had so much to say to him;--so much to ask him to do! I have no one
else, you know, and I had especially told him to come here."

"Of course he was welcome to come."

"Only I was afraid you might think that there was some little lover's
trick,--on dear Lucy's part, you know."

"I never suspect anything of that kind," said Lady Fawn, bridling up.
"Lucy Morris is above any sort of trick. We don't have any tricks
here, Lady Eustace." Lady Fawn herself might say that Lucy was
"wrong," but no one else in that house should even suggest evil of
Lucy. Lizzie retreated smiling. To have "put Lady Fawn's back up," as
she called it, was to her an achievement and a pleasure.

But the great excitement of the evening consisted in the expected
coming of Lord Fawn. Of what nature would be the meeting between
Lord Fawn and his promised bride? Was there anything of truth in the
opinion expressed by Mrs. Hittaway that her brother was beginning
to become tired of his bargain? That Lady Fawn was tired of it
herself,--that she disliked Lizzie, and was afraid of her, and averse
to the idea of regarding her as a daughter-in-law,--she did not now
attempt to hide from herself. But there was the engagement, known
to all the world, and how could its fulfilment now be avoided? The
poor dear old woman began to repeat to herself the first half of the
Quaker's advice, "Doan't thou marry for munny."

Lord Fawn was to come down only in time for a late dinner. An ardent
lover, one would have thought, might have left his work somewhat
earlier on a Saturday, so as to have enjoyed with his sweetheart
something of the sweetness of the Saturday summer afternoon;--but it
was seven before he reached Fawn Court, and the ladies were at that
time in their rooms dressing. Lizzie had affected to understand all
his reasons for being so late, and had expressed herself as perfectly
satisfied. "He has more to do than any of the others," she had said
to Augusta. "Indeed, the whole of our vast Indian empire may be said
to hang upon him, just at present;"--which was not complimentary to
Lord Fawn's chief, the Right Honourable Legge Wilson, who at the
present time represented the interests of India in the Cabinet. "He
is terribly overworked, and it is a shame;--but what can one do?"

"I think he likes work," Augusta had replied.

"But I don't like it,--not so much of it; and so I shall make him
understand, my dear. But I don't complain. As long as he tells me
everything, I will never really complain." Perhaps it might some
day be as she desired; perhaps as a husband he would be thoroughly
confidential and communicative; perhaps when they two were one flesh
he would tell her everything about India;--but as yet he certainly
had not told her much.

"How had they better meet?" Amelia asked her mother.

"Oh;--I don't know;--anyhow; just as they like. We can't arrange
anything for her. If she had chosen to dress herself early, she might
have seen him as he came in; but it was impossible to tell her so."
No arrangement was therefore made, and as all the other ladies were
in the drawing-room before Lizzie came down, she had to give him his
welcome in the midst of the family circle. She did it very well.
Perhaps she had thought of it, and made her arrangements. When he
came forward to greet her, she put her cheek up, just a little, so
that he might see that he was expected to kiss it;--but so little,
that should he omit to do so, there might be no visible awkwardness.
It must be acknowledged on Lizzie's behalf, that she could always
avoid awkwardness. He did touch her cheek with his lips, blushing as
he did so. She had her ungloved hand in his, and, still holding him,
returned into the circle. She said not a word; and what he said was
of no moment;--but they had met as lovers, and any of the family who
had allowed themselves to imagine that even yet the match might be
broken, now unconsciously abandoned that hope. "Was he always such a
truant, Lady Fawn?"--Lizzie asked, when it seemed to her that no one
else would speak a word.

"I don't know that there is much difference," said Lady Fawn. "Here
is dinner. Frederic, will you give--Lady Eustace your arm?" Poor Lady
Fawn! It often came to pass that she was awkward.

There were no less than ten females sitting round the board, at the
bottom of which Lord Fawn took his place. Lady Fawn had especially
asked Lucy to come in to dinner, and with Lucy had come the two
younger girls. At Lord Fawn's right hand sat Lizzie, and Augusta at
his left. Lady Fawn had Amelia on one side and Lucy on the other. "So
Mr. Greystock was here to-day," Lady Fawn whispered into Lucy's ear.

"Yes; he was here."

"Oh, Lucy!"

"I did not bid him come, Lady Fawn."

"I am sure of that, my dear;--but--but--" Then there was no more to
be said on that subject on that occasion.

During the whole of the dinner the conversation was kept up at the
other end of the table by Lizzie talking to Augusta across her lover.
This was done in such a manner as to seem to include Lord Fawn in
every topic discussed. Parliament, India, the Sawab, Ireland, the
special privileges of the House of Lords, the ease of a bachelor
life, and the delight of having at his elbow just such a rural
retreat as Fawn Court,--these were the fruitful themes of Lizzie's
eloquence. Augusta did her part at any rate with patience; and as for
Lizzie herself, she worked with that superhuman energy which women
can so often display in making conversation under unfavourable
circumstances. The circumstances were unfavourable, for Lord Fawn
himself would hardly open his mouth; but Lizzie persevered, and the
hour of dinner passed over without any show of ill-humour, or of
sullen silence. When the hour was over, Lord Fawn left the room with
the ladies, and was soon closeted with his mother, while the girls
strolled out upon the lawn. Would Lizzie play croquet? No; Lizzie
would not play croquet. She thought it probable that she might catch
her lover and force him to walk with her through the shrubberies; but
Lord Fawn was not seen upon the lawn that evening, and Lizzie was
forced to content herself with Augusta as a companion. In the course
of the evening, however, her lover did say a word to her in private.
"Give me ten minutes to-morrow between breakfast and church, Lizzie."
Lizzie promised that she would do so, smiling sweetly. Then there was
a little music, and then Lord Fawn retired to his studies.

"What is he going to say to me?" Lizzie asked Augusta the next
morning. There existed in her bosom a sort of craving after
confidential friendship,--but with it there existed something that
was altogether incompatible with confidence. She thoroughly despised
Augusta Fawn, and yet would have been willing,--in want of a better
friend,--to press Augusta to her bosom, and swear that there should
ever be between them the tenderest friendship. She desired to be
the possessor of the outward shows of all those things of which the
inward facts are valued by the good and steadfast ones of the earth.
She knew what were the aspirations,--what the ambition, of an honest
woman; and she knew, too, how rich were the probable rewards of
such honesty. True love, true friendship, true benevolence, true
tenderness, were beautiful to her,--qualities on which she could
descant almost with eloquence; and therefore she was always shamming
love and friendship and benevolence and tenderness. She could tell
you, with words most appropriate to the subject, how horrible were
all shams, and in saying so would be not altogether insincere;--yet
she knew that she herself was ever shamming, and she satisfied
herself with shams. "What is he going to say to me?" she asked
Augusta, with her hands clasped, when she went up to put her bonnet
on after breakfast.

"To fix the day, I suppose," said Augusta.

"If I thought so, I would endeavour to please him. But it isn't that.
I know his manner so well! I am sure it is not that. Perhaps it is
something about my boy. He will not wish to separate a mother from
her child."

"Oh dear, no," said Augusta. "I am sure Frederic will not want to do
that."

"In anything else I will obey him," said Lizzie, again clasping her
hands. "But I must not keep him waiting,--must I? I fear my future
lord is somewhat impatient." Now, if among Lord Fawn's merits one
merit was more conspicuous than another, it was that of patience.
When Lizzie descended he was waiting for her in the hall without a
thought that he was being kept too long. "Now, Frederic! I should
have been with you two whole minutes since, if I had not had just a
word to say to Augusta. I do so love Augusta."

"She is a very good girl," said Lord Fawn.

"So true and genuine,--and so full of spirit. I will come on the
other side because of my parasol and the sun. There, that will do. We
have an hour nearly before going to church;--haven't we? I suppose
you will go to church."

"I intend it," said Lord Fawn.

"It is so nice to go to church," said Lizzie. Since her widowhood had
commenced, she had compromised matters with the world. One Sunday
she would go to church, and the next she would have a headache and
a French novel and stay in bed. But she was prepared for stricter
conduct during at least the first months of her newly-married life.

"My dear Lizzie," began Lord Fawn, "since I last saw you I have been
twice with Mr. Camperdown."

"You are not going to talk about Mr. Camperdown to-day?"

"Well;--yes. I could not do so last night, and I shall be back in
London either to-night or before you are up to-morrow morning."

"I hate the very name of Mr. Camperdown," said Lizzie.

"I am sorry for that, because I am sure you could not find an
honester lawyer to manage your affairs for you. He does everything
for me, and so he did for Sir Florian Eustace."

"That is just the reason why I employ some one else," she answered.

"Very well. I am not going to say a word about that. I may regret it,
but I am, just at present, the last person in the world to urge you
upon that subject. What I want to say is this. You must restore those
diamonds."

"To whom shall I restore them?"

"To Mr. Garnett, the silversmith, if you please,--or to Mr.
Camperdown;--or, if you like it better, to your brother-in-law, Mr.
John Eustace."

"And why am I to give up my own property?"

Lord Fawn paused for some seconds before he replied. "To satisfy
my honour," he then said. As she made him no immediate answer, he
continued,--"It would not suit my views that my wife should be seen
wearing the jewels of the Eustace family."

"I don't want to wear them," said Lizzie.

"Then why should you desire to keep them?"

"Because they are my own. Because I do not choose to be put upon.
Because I will not allow such a cunning old snake as Mr. Camperdown
to rob me of my property. They are my own, and you should defend my
right to them."

"Do you mean to say that you will not oblige me by doing what I ask
you?"

"I will not be robbed of what is my own," said Lizzie.

"Then I must declare--" and now Lord Fawn spoke very slowly--"then
I must declare that under these circumstances, let the consequences
be what they may, I must retreat from the enviable position which
your favour has given me." The words were cold and solemn, and were
ill-spoken; but they were deliberate, and had been indeed actually
learned by heart.

"What do you mean?" said Lizzie, flashing round upon him.

"I mean what I say,--exactly. But perhaps it may be well that I
should explain my motives more clearly."

"I don't know anything about motives, and I don't care anything about
motives. Do you mean to tell me that you have come here to threaten
me with deserting me?"

"You had better hear me."

"I don't choose to hear a word more after what you have said,--unless
it be in the way of an apology, or retracting your most injurious
accusation."

"I have said nothing to retract," said Lord Fawn solemnly.

"Then I will not hear another word from you. I have friends, and you
shall see them."

Lord Fawn, who had thought a great deal upon the subject, and had
well understood that this interview would be for him one of great
difficulty, was very anxious to induce her to listen to a few further
words of explanation. "Dear Lizzie--" he began.

"I will not be addressed, sir, in that way by a man who is treating
me as you are doing," she said.

"But I want you to understand me."

"Understand you! You understand nothing yourself that a man ought to
understand. I wonder that you have the courage to be so insolent. If
you knew what you were doing, you would not have the spirit to do
it."

Her words did not quite come home to him, and much of her scorn was
lost upon him. He was now chiefly anxious to explain to her that
though he must abide by the threat he had made, he was quite willing
to go on with his engagement if she would oblige him in the matter of
the diamonds. "It was necessary that I should explain to you that I
could not allow that necklace to be brought into my house."

"No one thought of taking it to your house."

"What were you to do with it, then?"

"Keep it in my own," said Lizzie stoutly. They were still walking
together, and were now altogether out of sight of the house. Lizzie
in her excitement had forgotten church, had forgotten the Fawn
women,--had forgotten everything except the battle which it was
necessary that she should fight for herself. She did not mean to
allow the marriage to be broken off,--but she meant to retain
the necklace. The manner in which Lord Fawn had demanded its
restitution,--in which there had been none of that mock tenderness by
which she might have permitted herself to be persuaded,--had made
her, at any rate for the moment, as firm as steel on this point. It
was inconceivable to her that he should think himself at liberty to
go back from his promise, because she would not render up property
which was in her possession, and which no one could prove not to be
legally her own! She walked on full of fierce courage,--despising
him, but determined that she would marry him.

"I am afraid we do not understand each other," he said at last.

"Certainly I do not understand you, sir."

"Will you allow my mother to speak to you on the subject?"

"No. If I told your mother to give up her diamonds, what would she
say?"

"But they are not yours, Lady Eustace, unless you will submit that
question to an arbitrator."

"I will submit nothing to anybody. You have no right to speak on such
a subject till after we are married."

"I must have it settled first, Lady Eustace."

"Then, Lord Fawn, you won't have it settled first. Or rather it is
settled already. I shall keep my own necklace, and Mr. Camperdown may
do anything he pleases. As for you,--if you ill-treat me, I shall
know where to go to." They had now come out from the shrubbery upon
the lawn, and there was the carriage at the door, ready to take the
elders of the family to church. Of course in such a condition of
affairs it would be understood that Lizzie was one of the elders. "I
shall not go to church now," she said, as she advanced across the
lawn towards the hall door. "You will be pleased, Lord Fawn, to let
your mother know that I am detained. I do not suppose that you will
dare to tell her why." Then she sailed round at the back of the
carriage and entered the hall, in which several of the girls were
standing. Among them was Augusta, waiting to take her seat among the
elders;--but Lizzie passed on through them all, without a word, and
marched up to her bed-room.

"Oh, Frederic, what is the matter?" asked Augusta, as soon as her
brother entered the house.

"Never mind. Nothing is the matter. You had better go to church.
Where is my mother?"

At this moment Lady Fawn appeared at the bottom of the stairs, having
passed Lizzie as she was coming down. Not a syllable had then been
spoken, but Lady Fawn at once knew that much was wrong. Her son went
up to her and whispered a word in her ear. "Oh, certainly," she said,
desisting from the operation of pulling on her gloves. "Augusta,
neither your brother nor I will go to church."

"Nor--Lady Eustace?"

"It seems not," said Lady Fawn.

"Lady Eustace will not go to church," said Lord Fawn.

"And where is Lucy?" asked Lydia.

"She will not go to church either," said Lady Fawn. "I have just been
with her."

"Nobody is going to church," said Nina. "All the same, I shall go by
myself."

"Augusta, my dear, you and the girls had better go. You can take the
carriage of course." But Augusta and the girls chose to walk, and the
carriage was sent round into the yard.

"There's a rumpus already between my lord and the young missus," said
the coachman to the groom;--for the coachman had seen the way in
which Lady Eustace had returned to the house. And there certainly was
a rumpus. During the whole morning Lord Fawn was closeted with his
mother, and then he went away to London without saying a word to any
one of the family. But he left this note for Lady Eustace:--


   DEAREST LIZZIE,

   Think well of what I have said to you. It is not that I
   desire to break off our engagement; but that I cannot
   allow my wife to keep the diamonds which belong of right
   to her late husband's family. You may be sure that I
   should not be thus urgent had I not taken steps to
   ascertain that I am right in my judgment. In the meantime
   you had better consult my mother.

   Yours affectionately,

   FAWN.


CHAPTER XV

"I'll Give You a Hundred Guinea Brooch"


There had been another "affair" in the house that morning, though of
a nature very different to the "rumpus" which had occurred between
Lord Fawn and Lady Eustace. Lady Fawn had been closeted with Lucy,
and had expressed her opinion of the impropriety of Frank Greystock's
visit. "I suppose he came to see his cousin," said Lady Fawn, anxious
to begin with some apology for such conduct.

"I cannot tell," said Lucy. "Perhaps he did. I think he said so.
I think he cared more to see me." Then Lady Fawn was obliged to
express her opinion, and she did so, uttering many words of wisdom.
Frank Greystock, had he intended to sacrifice his prospects by a
disinterested marriage, would have spoken out before now. He was old
enough to have made up his mind on such a subject, and he had not
spoken out. He did not mean marriage. That was quite evident to Lady
Fawn;--and her dear Lucy was revelling in hopes which would make her
miserable. If Lucy could only have known of the letter, which was
already her own property though lying in the pillar letter-box in
Fleet Street, and which had not already been sent down and delivered
simply because it was Sunday morning! But she was very brave. "He
does love me," she said. "He told me so."

"Oh, Lucy;--that is worse and worse. A man to tell you that he loves
you, and yet not ask you to be his wife!"

"I am contented," said Lucy. That assertion, however, could hardly
have been true.

"Contented! And did you tell him that you returned his love?"

"He knew it without my telling him," said Lucy. It was so hard upon
her that she should be so interrogated while that letter was lying in
the iron box!

"Dear Lucy, this must not be," said Lady Fawn. "You are preparing for
yourself inexpressible misery."

"I have done nothing wrong, Lady Fawn."

"No, my dear;--no. I do not say you have been wrong. But I think he
is wrong,--so wrong! I call it wicked. I do indeed. For your own sake
you should endeavour to forget him."

"I will never forget him!" said Lucy. "To think of him is everything
to me. He told me I was his Queen, and he shall be my King. I will
be loyal to him always." To poor Lady Fawn this was very dreadful.
The girl persisted in declaring her love for the man, and yet did
not even pretend to think that the man meant to marry her! And this,
too, was Lucy Morris,--of whom Lady Fawn was accustomed to say to her
intimate friends that she had altogether ceased to look upon her as a
governess. "Just one of ourselves, Mrs. Winslow,--and almost as dear
as one of my own girls!" Thus, in the warmth of her heart, she had
described Lucy to a neighbour within the last week. Many more words
of wisdom she spoke, and then she left poor Lucy in no mood for
church. Would she have been in a better mood for the morning service
had she known of the letter in the iron post?

Then Lady Fawn had put on her bonnet and gone down into the hall, and
the "rumpus" had come. After that, everybody in the house knew that
all things were astray. When the girls came home from church, their
brother was gone. Half an hour before dinner Lady Fawn sent the
note up to Lizzie, with a message to say that they would dine at
three,--it being Sunday. Lizzie sent down word that as she was
unwell, she would ask to have just a cup of tea and "something" sent
to her own room. If Lady Fawn would allow her, she would remain
up-stairs with her child. She always made use of her child when
troubles came.

The afternoon was very sad and dreary. Lady Fawn had an interview
with Lady Eustace, but Lizzie altogether refused to listen to any
advice on the subject of the necklace. "It is an affair," she said
haughtily, "in which I must judge for myself,--or with the advice
of my own particular friends. Had Lord Fawn waited until we were
married; then indeed--!"

"But that would have been too late," said Lady Fawn severely.

"He is, at any rate, premature now in laying his commands upon
me," said Lizzie. Lady Fawn, who was perhaps more anxious that
the marriage should be broken off than that the jewels should be
restored, then withdrew; and as she left the room Lizzie clasped her
boy to her bosom. "He, at any rate, is left to me," she said. Lucy
and the Fawn girls went to evening church, and afterwards Lizzie came
down among them when they were at tea. Before she went to bed Lizzie
declared her intention of returning to her own house in Mount Street
on the following day. To this Lady Fawn of course made no objection.

On the next morning there came an event which robbed Lizzie's
departure of some of the importance which might otherwise have
been attached to it. The post-office, with that accuracy in the
performance of its duties for which it is conspicuous among all
offices, caused Lucy's letter to be delivered to her while the
members of the family were sitting round the breakfast table.
Lizzie, indeed, was not there. She had expressed her intention of
breakfasting in her own room, and had requested that a conveyance
might be ready to take her to the 11.30 train. Augusta had been with
her, asking whether anything could be done for her. "I care for
nothing now, except my child," Lizzie had replied. As the nurse and
the lady's maid were both in the room, Augusta, of course, could say
nothing further. That occurred after prayers, and while the tea was
being made. When Augusta reached the breakfast-room, Lucy was cutting
up the loaf of bread, and at the same moment the old butler was
placing a letter immediately under her eyes. She saw the handwriting
and recognised it, but yet she finished cutting the bread. "Lucy, do
give me that hunchy bit," said Nina.

"Hunchy is not in the dictionary," said Cecilia.

"I want it in my plate, and not in the dictionary," said Nina.

Lucy did as she was asked, but her hand trembled as she gave the
hunch, and Lady Fawn saw that her face was crimson. She took the
letter and broke the envelope, and as she drew out the sheet of
paper, she looked up at Lady Fawn. The fate of her whole life was in
her hands, and there she was standing with all their eyes fixed upon
her. She did not even know how to sit down, but, still standing, she
read the first words, and at the last, "Dear, dear Lucy,"--"Yours
ever and always, if you will have me, F. G." She did not want to read
any more of it then. She sat down slowly, put the precious paper back
into its envelope, looked round upon them all, and knew that she was
crimson to the roots of her hair, blushing like a guilty thing.

"Lucy, my dear," said Lady Fawn,--and Lucy at once turned her face
full upon her old friend,--"you have got a letter that agitates you."

"Yes,--I have," she said.

"Go into the book-room. You can come back to breakfast when you have
read it, you know." Thereupon Lucy rose from her seat, and retired
with her treasure into the book-room. But even when she was there she
could not at once read her letter. When the door was closed and she
knew that she was alone she looked at it, and then clasped it tight
between her hands. She was almost afraid to read it lest the letter
itself should contradict the promise which the last words of it had
seemed to convey to her. She went up to the window and stood there
gazing out upon the gravel road, with her hand containing the letter
pressed upon her heart. Lady Fawn had told her that she was preparing
for herself inexpressible misery;--and now there had come to her joy
so absolutely inexpressible! "A man to tell you that he loves you,
and yet not ask you to be his wife!" She repeated to herself Lady
Fawn's words,--and then those other words, "Yours ever and always, if
you will have me!" Have him, indeed! She threw from her, at once, as
vain and wicked and false, all idea of coying her love. She would
leap at his neck if he were there, and tell him that for years he had
been almost her god. And of course he knew it. "If I will have him!
Traitor!" she said to herself, smiling through her tears. Then she
reflected that after all it would be well that she should read the
letter. There might be conditions;--though what conditions could he
propose with which she would not comply? However, she seated herself
in a corner of the room and did read the letter. "I go away to think
out what is coming. The environment I seek helps me," answered
Andrew, with a curious, gleaming smile. "I return full of fresh
copy."
This was true enough. He generally mysteriously departed when the
book was beginning to flag, and on his reappearance he always set
to work with new vigour and confidence.

"It seems to me," Henley said, "that it will be your book after all,
not mine. It is your plot, and when I think things over I find
that every detail is yours. You insisted on the house where the man
and the woman hid themselves being on the Chelsea Embankment. You
invented the woman, her character, her appearance. You named her Olive
Beauchamp."
"Olive Beauchamp," Andrew repeated, with a strange lingering over the
two words, which he pronounced in a very curious voice that trembled,
as if with some keen emotion, love or hate. "Yes; I named her as
you say."

"Then, as the man in the play remarks, 'Where do I come in?'" Henley
asked, half laughing, half vexed. "Upon my word, I shall have some
compunction in putting my name below yours on the title-page when
the book is published, if it ever is."
Andrew's lips twitched once or twice uneasily.

Then he said, "You need not have any such compunction. The greatest
chapter will probably be written by you."

"Which chapter do you mean?"

"That which winds the story up--that which brings the whole thing
to its legitimate conclusion.

You must write the _dénouement_."

"I doubt if I could. And then we have not even now decided what
it is to be."
"We need not bother about that yet.

It will come.

Fate will decide it for us."
"What do you mean, Andrew? How curiously you talk about the book
sometimes--so precisely as if it were true!"

Trenchard smiled again, struck a match, and lit his pipe.

"It seems true to me--when I am writing it," he answered.

"I have been writing it these last two days and nights when I
have been away, and now I can go forward, if you agree to the new
development which I suggest."

It was night. He had been absent for some days, and had just
returned.
Henley, meanwhile, had been raging because the book had come to a
complete standstill. He himself could do nothing at it, since they
had reached a dead-lock, and had not talked over any new scenes,
or mutually decided upon the turn events were now to take.

He felt rather cross and sore.

"_You_ can go forward," he said: "yes, after your holiday.

You might at least tell me when you are going."
"I never know myself," Andrew said rather sadly.

He was looking very white and worn, and his eyes were heavy.

"But I have thought some fresh material out.

My idea is this: The man now becomes such a complete slave to the
morphia habit that concealment of the fact is scarcely possible.

And, indeed, he ceases to desire to conceal it from the woman. The
next scene will be an immensely powerful one--that in which he tells
her the truth."

"You do not think it would be more natural if she found it out
against his will?

It seems to me that what he had concealed so long he would try to
hide for ever."
"No," Andrew said emphatically; "that would not be so."
"But----"
"Look here," the other interrupted, with some obvious irritability;
"let me tell you what I have conceived, and raise any objections
afterwards if you wish to raise them. He would tell her the truth
himself. He would almost glory in doing so. That is the nature of
the man. We have depicted his pride in his own powers, his temptation,
his struggle--his fall, as it would be called----"
"As it would be called.""Of course it is from him?" whispered Lydia. Lucy again nodded her
head while she was crunching her toast.

The fact that Mr. Greystock had proposed in form to Lucy Morris
was soon known to all the family, and the news certainly did take
away something from the importance which would otherwise have been
attached to Lizzie's departure. There was not the same awe of
the ceremony, the same dread of some scene, which, but for Frank
Greystock's letter, would have existed. Of course, Lord Fawn's future
matrimonial prospects were to them all an affair of more moment
than those of Lucy; but Lord Fawn himself had gone, and had already
quarrelled with the lady before he went. There was at present nothing
more to be done by them in regard to Lizzie, than just to get rid of
her. But Lucy's good fortune, so unexpected, and by her so frankly
owned as the very best fortune in the world that could have befallen
her, gave an excitement to them all. There could be no lessons that
morning for Nina, and the usual studies of the family were altogether
interrupted. Lady Fawn purred, and congratulated, and gave good
advice, and declared that any other home for Lucy before her marriage
would now be quite out of the question. "Of course it wouldn't do for
you to go even to Clara," said Lady Fawn,--who seemed to think that
there still might be some delay before Frank Greystock would be ready
for his wife. "You know, my dear, that he isn't rich;--not for a
member of Parliament. I suppose he makes a good income, but I have
always heard that he was a little backward when he began. Of course,
you know, nobody need be in a hurry." Then Lucy began to think that
if Frank should wish to postpone his marriage,--say for three or four
years,--she might even yet become a burthen on her friend. "But don't
you be frightened," continued Lady Fawn; "you shall never want a home
as long as I have one to give you. We shall soon find out what are
Mr. Greystock's ideas; and unless he is very unreasonable we'll make
things fit."

Then there came a message to Lucy from Lady Eustace. "If you please,
miss, Lady Eustace will be glad to see you for a minute up in her
room before she starts." So Lucy was torn away from the thoughts of
her own happiness, and taken up-stairs to Lady Eustace. "You have
heard that I am going?" said Lizzie.

"Yes;--I heard you were to go this morning."

"And you have heard why? I'm sure you will not deceive me, Lucy.
Where am I to look for truth, if not to an old, old friend like you?"

"Why should I deceive you, Lizzie?"

"Why, indeed? only that all people do. The world is so false, so
material, so worldly! One gives out one's heart and gets in return
nothing but dust and ashes,--nothing but ashes and dust. Oh, I have
been so disappointed in Lady Fawn!"

"You know she is my dearest friend," said Lucy.

"Psha! I know that you have worked for her like a slave, and that she
gives you but a bare pittance."

"She has been more like a mother to me than anything else," said Lucy
angrily.

"Because you have been tame. It does not suit me to be tame. It is
not my plan to be tame. Have you heard the cause of the disagreement
between Lord Fawn and me?"

"Well,--no."

"Tell the truth, Lucy."

"How dare you tell me to tell the truth? Of course I tell the truth.
I believe it is something about some property which he wants you to
give back to somebody; but I don't know any more."

"Yes, my dear husband, Sir Florian, who understood me,--whom I
idolized,--who seemed to have been made for me,--gave me a present.
Lord Fawn is pleased to say that he does not approve of my keeping
any gift from my late lord. Considering that he intends to live
upon the wealth which Sir Florian was generous enough to bestow
upon me, this does seem to be strange! Of course, I resented such
interference. Would not you have resented it?"

"I don't know," said Lucy, who thought that she could bring herself
to comply with any request made to her by Frank Greystock.

"Any woman who had a spark of spirit would resent it, and I have
resented it. I have told Lord Fawn that I will, on no account, part
with the rich presents which my adored Florian showered upon me in
his generosity. It is not for their richness that I keep them, but
because they are, for his sake, so inexpressibly dear to me. If Lord
Fawn chooses to be jealous of a necklace, he must be jealous." Lucy,
who had, in truth, heard but a small fragment of the story,--just so
much of it as Lydia had learned from the discreet Amelia, who herself
had but a very hazy idea of the facts,--did not quite know how
much of the tale, as it was now told to her, might be true and how
much false. After a certain fashion she and Lizzie Eustace called
themselves friends. But she did not believe her friend to be honest,
and was aware that in some matters her friend would condescend--to
fib. Lizzie's poetry, and romance, and high feelings, had never had
the ring of true soundness in Lucy's ears. But her imagination was
not strong enough to soar to the altitude of the lies which Lizzie
was now telling. She did believe that the property which Lizzie was
called upon to restore was held to be objectionable by Lord Fawn
simply because it had reached Lizzie from the hands of her late
husband. "What do you think of such conduct as that?" asked Lady
Eustace.

"Won't it do if you lock them up instead of wearing them?" asked
Lucy.

"I have never dreamed of wearing them."

"I don't understand about such things," said Lucy, determined not to
impute any blame to one of the Fawn family.

"It is tyranny, sheer tyranny," continued the other, "and he will
find that I am not the woman to yield to it. No. For love I could
give up everything;--but nothing from fear. He has told me in so many
words that he does not intend to go on with his engagement!"

"Has he indeed?"

"But I intend that he shall. If he thinks that I am going to be
thrown over because he takes ideas of that kind into his head, he's
mistaken. He shall know that I'm not to be made a plaything of like
that. I'll tell you what you can do for me, Lucy."

"What can I do for you?"

"There is no one in the world I trust more thoroughly than I do you,"
said Lizzie,--"and hardly any one that I love so well. Think how long
we have known each other! And you may be sure of this;--I always have
been, and always will be, your friend with my cousin Frank."

"I don't want anything of that kind," said Lucy,--"and never did."

"Nobody has so much influence with Frank as I. Just do you write to
me to-morrow, and the next day,--and the day after,--a mere line, you
know, to tell me how the land lies here."

"There would be nothing to tell."

"Yes, there will; ever so much. They will be talking about me every
hour. If you'll be true to me, Lucy, in this business, I'll make you
the handsomest present you ever saw in your life. I'll give you a
hundred-guinea brooch;--I will, indeed. You shall have the money, and
buy it yourself."

"A what!" said Lucy.

"A hundred guineas to do what you please with!"

"You mean thing!" said Lucy. "I didn't think there was a woman so
mean as that in the world. I'm not surprised now at Lord Fawn. Pick
up what I hear, and send it you in letters,--and then be paid money
for it!"

"Why not? It's all to do good."

"How can you have thought to ask me to do such a thing? How can you
bring yourself to think so badly of people? I'd sooner cut my hand
off; and as for you, Lizzie--I think you are mean and wicked to
conceive such a thing. And now good-bye." So saying, she left the
room, giving her dear friend no time for further argument.

Lady Eustace got away that morning, not in time, indeed, for the
11.30 train, but at such an hour as to make it unnecessary that she
should appear at the early dinner. The saying of farewell was very
cold and ceremonious. Of course, there was no word as to any future
visit,--no word as to any future events whatever. They all shook
hands with her, and special injunctions were given to the coachman
to drive her safely to the station. At this ceremony Lucy was not
present. Lydia had asked her to come down and say good-bye; but Lucy
refused. "I saw her in her own room," said Lucy.

"And was it all very affectionate?" Lydia asked.

"Well--no; it was not affectionate at all." This was all that Lucy
said, and thus Lady Eustace completed her visit to Fawn Court.

The letters were taken away for the post at eight o'clock in the
evening, and before that time it was necessary that Lucy should write
to her lover. "Lady Fawn," she said in a whisper, "may I tell him to
come here?"

"Certainly, my dear. You had better tell him to call on me. Of course
he'll see you, too, when he comes."

"I think he'd want to see me," said Lucy, "and I'm sure I should want
to see him!" Then she wrote her answer to Frank's letter. She allowed
herself an hour for the happy task; but though the letter, when
written, was short, the hour hardly sufficed for the writing of it.

"DEAR MR. GREYSTOCK;"--there was matter for her of great
consideration before she could get even so far as this; but, after
biting her pen for ten minutes, during which she pictured to herself
how pleasant it would be to call him Frank when he should have told
her to do so, and had found, upon repeated whispered trials, that of
all names it was the pleasantest to pronounce, she decided upon
refraining from writing it now--


   Lady Fawn has seen your letter to me,--the dearest letter
   that ever was written,--and she says that you may call
   upon _her_. But you mustn't go away without seeing _me
   too_.


Then there was great difficulty as to the words to be used by her for
the actual rendering herself up to him as his future wife. At last
the somewhat too Spartan simplicity of her nature prevailed, and the
words were written, very plain and very short.


   I love you better than all the world, and I will be your
   wife. It shall be the happiness of my life to try to
   deserve you.

   I am, with all my heart,
   Most affectionately your own

   LUCY.


When it was written it did not content her. But the hour was over,
and the letters must go. "I suppose it'll do," she said to herself.
"He'll know what it means." And so the letter was sent.


CHAPTER XVI

Certainly an Heirloom


The burden of his position was so heavy on Lord Fawn's mind that, on
the Monday morning after leaving Fawn Court, he was hardly as true to
the affairs of India as he himself would have wished. He was resolved
to do what was right,--if only he could find out what would be the
right thing in his present difficulty. Not to break his word, not
to be unjust, not to deviate by a hair's breadth from that line of
conduct which would be described as "honourable" in the circle to
which he belonged; not to give his political enemies an opportunity
for calumny,--this was all in all to him. The young widow was very
lovely and very rich, and it would have suited him well to marry her.
It would still suit him well to do so, if she would make herself
amenable to reason and the laws. He had assured himself that he was
very much in love with her, and had already, in his imagination,
received the distinguished heads of his party at Portray Castle.
But he would give all this up,--love, income, beauty, and
castle,--without a doubt, rather than find himself in the mess of
having married a wife who had stolen a necklace, and who would not
make restitution. He might marry her, and insist on giving it up
afterwards; but he foresaw terrible difficulties in the way of such
an arrangement. Lady Eustace was self-willed, and had already told
him that she did not intend to keep the jewels in his house,--but in
her own! What should he do, so that no human being,--not the most
bigoted Tory that ever expressed scorn for a Whig lord,--should be
able to say that he had done wrong? He was engaged to the lady, and
could not simply change his mind and give no reason. He believed in
Mr. Camperdown; but he could hardly plead that belief, should he
hereafter be accused of heartless misconduct. For aught he knew,
Lady Eustace might bring an action against him for breach of
promise, and obtain a verdict and damages, and annihilate him as an
Under-Secretary. How should he keep his hands quite clean?

Frank Greystock was, as far as he knew, Lizzie's nearest relative
in London. The dean was her uncle, but then the dean was down
at Bobsborough. It might be necessary for him to go down to
Bobsborough;--but in the meantime he would see Frank Greystock.
Greystock was as bitter a Tory as any in England. Greystock was the
very man who had attacked him, Lord Fawn, in the House of Commons
respecting the Sawab,--making the attack quite personal,--and that
without a shadow of a cause! Within the short straight grooves of
Lord Fawn's intellect the remembrance of this supposed wrong was
always running up and down, renewing its own soreness. He regarded
Greystock as an enemy who would lose no opportunity of injuring him.
In his weakness and littleness he was quite unable to judge of other
men by himself. He would not go a hair's breadth astray, if he knew
it; but because Greystock had, in debate, called him timid and
tyrannical, he believed that Greystock would stop short of nothing
that might injure him. And yet he must appeal to Greystock. He did
appeal, and in answer to his appeal Frank came to him at the India
House. But Frank, before he saw Lord Fawn, had, as was fitting, been
with his cousin.

Nothing was decided at this interview. Lord Fawn became more than
ever convinced that the member for Bobsborough was his determined
enemy, and Frank was more convinced than ever that Lord Fawn was an
empty, stiff-necked, self-sufficient prig.

Do you mean that he is glad, and tells almost with triumph; or that
he is appalled, and tells her with horror?"
"Ah! That is where the power of the scene lies. He is appalled. He is
like a man plunged at last into hell without hope of future redemption.

He tells her the truth with horror."
"And she?"
"It is she who triumphs. Look here: it will be like this."
Andrew leaned forward across the table that stood between their two
worn armchairs. His thin, feverish-looking hands, with the fingers
strongly twisted together, rested upon it.Sir
Florian, in putting the trinket into her hands, had explained to her
that it was very valuable, and that she was to regard it as her own
peculiar property. "If it was an heirloom he couldn't do it," Frank
had said, with all the confidence of a practising barrister.

"He made it over as an heirloom to me," said Lizzie, with plaintive
tenderness.

"That's nonsense, dear Lizzie." Then she smiled sweetly on him, and
patted the back of his hand with hers. She was very gentle with him,
and bore his assumed superiority with pretty meekness. "He could not
make it over as an heirloom to you. If it was his to give, he could
give it you."

"It was his,--certainly."

"That is just what I cannot tell as yet, and what must be found out.
If the diamonds formed part of an heirloom,--and there is evidence
that it is so,--you must give them up. Sir Florian could only give
away what was his own to give."

"But Lord Fawn had no right to dictate."

"Certainly not," said Frank; and then he made a promise, which he
knew to be rash, that he would stand by his pretty cousin in this
affair. "I don't see why you should assume that Lady Eustace is
keeping property that doesn't belong to her," he said to Lord Fawn.

"I go by what Camperdown tells me," said Lord Fawn.

"Mr. Camperdown is a very excellent attorney, and a most respectable
man," said Greystock. "I have nothing on earth to say against Mr.
Camperdown. But Mr. Camperdown isn't the law and the prophets, nor
yet can we allow him to be judge and jury in such a case as this."

"Surely, Mr. Greystock, you wouldn't wish it to go before a jury."

"You don't understand me, Lord Fawn. If any claim be really made
for these jewels by Mr. John Eustace on the part of the heir, or on
behalf of the estate, a statement had better be submitted to counsel.
The family deeds must be inspected, and no doubt counsel would agree
in telling my cousin, Lady Eustace, what she should, or what she
should not do. In the meantime, I understand that you are engaged to
marry her?"

"I was engaged to her, certainly," said Lord Fawn.

"You can hardly mean to assert, my lord, that you intend to be untrue
to your promise, and to throw over your own engagement because my
cousin has expressed her wish to retain property which she believes
to be her own!" This was said in a tone which made Lord Fawn surer
than ever that Greystock was his enemy to the knife. Personally, he
was not a coward; and he knew enough of the world to be quite sure
that Greystock would not attempt any personal encounter. But morally,
Lord Fawn was a coward, and he did fear that the man before him
would work him some bitter injury. "You cannot mean that," continued
Frank, "and you will probably allow me to assure my cousin that she
misunderstood you in the matter."

"I'd sooner see Mr. Camperdown again before I say anything."

"I cannot understand, Lord Fawn, that a gentleman should require an
attorney to tell him what to do in such a case as this." They were
standing now, and Lord Fawn's countenance was heavy, troubled, and
full of doubt. He said nothing, and was probably altogether unaware
how eloquent was his face. "My cousin, Lady Eustace," continued
Frank, "must not be kept in this suspense. I agree on her behalf that
her title to these trinkets must be made the subject of inquiry by
persons adequate to form a judgment. Of course, I, as her relative,
shall take no part in that inquiry. But, as her relative, I must
demand from you an admission that your engagement with her cannot in
any way be allowed to depend on the fate of those jewels. She has
chosen to accept you as her future husband, and I am bound to see
that she is treated with good faith, honour, and fair observance."

Frank made his demand very well, while Lord Fawn was looking like a
whipped dog. "Of course," said his lordship, "all I want is, that the
right thing should be done."

"The right thing will be done. My cousin wishes to keep nothing that
is not her own. I may tell her, then, that she will receive from you
an assurance that you have had no intention of departing from your
word?" After this, Lord Fawn made some attempt at a stipulation that
this assurance to Lizzie was to be founded on the counter-assurance
given to him that the matter of the diamonds should be decided by
proper legal authority; but Frank would not submit to this, and at
last the Under-Secretary yielded. The engagement was to remain in
force. Counsel were to be employed. The two lovers were not to see
each other just at present. And when the matter had been decided by
the lawyers, Lord Fawn was to express his regret for having suspected
his lady-love! That was the verbal agreement, according to Frank
Greystock's view of it. Lord Fawn, no doubt, would have declared that
he had never consented to the latter stipulation.

