 Aldous looked down upon her as he stood beside her, smiling.

"I wish you didn't trouble yourself so much about it," he said.

"How can I help it?" she answered quickly; and then flushed, like one
who has drawn attention indiscreetly to their own personal situation.

"Trouble herself!" echoed young Leven. "Now, look here Miss Boyce, will
you come for a walk with me? I'll convince you, as I convinced those
fellows over there. I know I could, and you won't give me the chance;
it's too bad."

"Oh, you!" she said, with a little shrug; "what do you know about it?
One might as well consult a gambler about gambling when he is in the
middle of his first rush of luck. I have ten times more right to an
opinion than you have. I can keep my head cool, and notice a hundred
things that _you_ would never see. I come fresh into your country life,
and the first thing that strikes me is that the whole machinery of law
and order seems to exist for nothing in the world but to protect your
pheasants! There are policemen--to catch poachers; there are
magistrates--to try them. To judge from the newspapers, at least, they
have nothing else to do. And if _you_ follow your sporting instincts,
you are a very fine fellow, and everybody admires you. But if a
shoemaker's son in Mellor follows his, he is a villain and a thief, and
the policeman and the magistrate make for him at once."

"But I don't steal his chickens!" cried the lad, choking with arguments
and exasperation; "and why should he steal my pheasants? I paid for the
eggs, I paid for the hens to sit on 'em, I paid for the coops to rear
them in, I paid the men to watch them, I paid for the barley to feed
them with: why is he to be allowed to take my property, and I am to be
sent to jail if I take his?"

"_Property_!" said Marcella, scornfully. "You can't settle everything
nowadays by that big word. We are coming to put the public good before
property. If the nation should decide to curtail your 'right,' as you
call it, in the general interest, it will do it, and you will be left to
scream."

She had flung her arm round the back of her chair, and all her lithe
young frame was tense with an eagerness, nay, an excitement, which drew
Hallin's attention. It was more than was warranted by the conversation,
he thought.

"Well, if you think the abolition of game preserving would be popular in
the country, Miss Boyce, I'm certain you make a precious mistake," cried
Leven. "Why, even you don't think it would be, do you, Mr. Hallin?" he
said, appealing at random in his disgust.

"I don't know," said Hallin, with his quiet smile. "I rather think, on
the whole, it would be. The farmers put up with it, but a great many of
them don't like it. Things are mended since the Ground Game Act, but
there are a good many grievances still left."

"I should think there are!" said Marcella, eagerly, bending forward to
him. "I was talking to one of our farmers the other day whose land goes
up to the edge of Lord Winterbourne's woods. '_They_ don't keep their
pheasants, miss,' he said. '_I_ do. I and my corn. If I didn't send a
man up half-past five in the morning, when the ears begin to fill,
there'd be nothing left for _us_.' 'Why don't you complain to the
agent?' I said. 'Complain! Lor' bless you, miss, you may complain till
you're black in the face. I've allus found--an' I've been here, man and
boy, thirty-two year--as how _Winterbournes generally best it.'_ There
you have the whole thing in a nutshell. It's a tyranny--a tyranny of the
rich."

Flushed and sarcastic, she looked at Frank Leven; but Hallin had an
uncomfortable feeling that the sarcasm was not all meant for him. Aldous
was sitting with his hands on his knees, and his head bent forward a
little. Once, as the talk ran on, Hallin saw him raise his grey eyes to
the girl beside him, who certainly did not notice it, and was not
thinking of him. There was a curious pain and perplexity in the
expression, but something else too--a hunger, a dependence, a yearning,
that for an instant gripped the friend's heart.

"Well, I know Aldous doesn't agree with you, Miss Boyce," cried Leven,
looking about him in his indignation for some argument that should be
final. "You don't, do you, Aldous? You don't think the country would be
the better, if we could do away with game to-morrow?"

"No more than I think it would be the better," said Aldous, quietly, "if
we could do away with gold-plate and false hair to-morrow. There would
be too many hungry goldsmiths and wig-makers on the streets."

Marcella turned to him, half defiant, half softened.

"Of course, your point lies in _to-morrow,"_ she said. "I accept that.
We can't carry reform by starving innocent people. But the question is,
what are we to work towards? Mayn't we regard the game laws as one of
the obvious crying abuses to be attacked first--in the great
campaign!--the campaign which is to bring liberty and self-respect back
to the country districts, and make the labourer feel himself as much of
a man as the squire?"

"What a head! What an attitude!" thought Hallin, half repelled, half
fascinated. "But a girl that can talk politics--hostile politics--to her
lover, and mean them too--or am I inexperienced?--and is it merely that
she is so much interested in him that she wants to be quarrelling with
him?"

Aldous looked up. "I am not _sure_," he said, answering her. "That is
always my difficulty, you know," and he smiled at her. "Game preserving
is not to me personally an attractive form of private property, but it
seems to me bound up with other forms, and I want to see where the
attack is going to lead me. But I would protect your farmer--mind!--as
zealously as you."

Hallin caught the impatient quiver of the girl's lip. The tea had just
been taken away, and Marcella had gone to sit upon an old sofa near the
fire, whither Aldous had followed her. Wharton, who had so far said
nothing, had left his post of observation on the hearth-rug, and was
sitting under the lamp balancing a paper-knife with great attention on
two fingers. In the half light Hallin by chance saw a movement of
Raeburn's hand towards Marcella's, which lay hidden among the folds of
her dress--quick resistance on her part, then acquiescence. He felt a
sudden pleasure in his friend's small triumph.

"Aldous and I have worn these things threadbare many a time," he said,
addressing his hostess. "You don't know how kind he is to my dreams. I
am no sportsman and have no landowning relations, so he ought to bid me
hold my tongue. But he lets me rave. To me the simple fact is that _game
preserving creates crime_. Agricultural life is naturally simpler--might
be, it always seems to me, so much more easily moralised and fraternised
than the industrial form. And you split it up and poison it all by the
emphasis laid on this class pleasure. It is a natural pleasure, you say.
Perhaps it is--the survival, perhaps, of some primitive instinct in our
northern blood--but, if so, why should it be impossible for the rich to
share it with the poor? I have little plans--dreams. I throw them out
sometimes to catch Aldous, but he hardly rises to them!"

