What the place lacked was the touch of a woman's
hand in vase, flower, or ornament--a touch that his
mother, for reasons of her own, never gave and which
no other woman had yet dared suggest.
 
For an instant the doctor sat with his elbows on
the desk in deep thought, the light illuminating his
calm, finely chiselled features and hands--those thin,
sure hands which could guide a knife within a hair's
breadth of instant death--and leaning forward, with
an indrawn sigh examined some letters lying under
his eye. Then, as if suddenly remembering, he
glanced at the office slate, his face lighting up as he
found it bare of any entry except the date.

Rex had been watching his master with ears
cocked, and was now on his haunches, cuddling
close, his nose resting on the doctor's knee. Doctor
John laid his hand on the dog's head and smoothing
the long, silky ears, said with a sigh of relief, as he
settled himself in his chair:

"Little Tod must be better, Rex, and we are going
to have a quiet night."

The anxiety over his patients relieved, his thoughts
reverted to Jane and their talk. He remembered the
tone of her voice and the quick way in which she
had warded off his tribute to her goodness; he recalled
her anxiety over Lucy; he looked again into the deep,
trusting eyes that gazed into his as she appealed to
him for assistance; he caught once more the poise
of the head as she listened to his account of little
Tod Fogarty's illness and heard her quick offer to
help, and felt for the second time her instant tenderness 
and sympathy, never withheld from the sick
and suffering, and always so generous and spontaneous.

A certain feeling of thankfulness welled up in
his heart. Perhaps she had at last begun to depend
upon him--a dependence which, with a woman such
as Jane, must, he felt sure, eventually end in love.

With these thoughts filling his mind, he settled
deeper in his chair. These were the times in which
he loved to think of her--when, with pipe in mouth,
he could sit alone by his fire and build castles in the
coals, every rosy mountain-top aglow with the love
he bore her; with no watchful mother's face trying
to fathom his thoughts; only his faithful dog
stretched at his feet.

Picking up his brierwood, lying on a pile of books
on his desk, and within reach of his hand, he started
to fill the bowl, when a scrap of paper covered with
a scrawl written in pencil came into view. He
turned it to the light and sprang to his feet.

"Tod worse," he said to himself. "I wonder
how long this has been here."

The dog was now beside him looking up into the
doctor's eyes. It was not the first time that he had
seen his master's face grow suddenly serious as he
had read the tell-tale slate or had opened some note
awaiting his arrival.

Doctor John lowered the lamp, stepped noiselessly
to the foot of the winding stairs that led to the sleeping 
rooms above--the dog close at his heels, watching 
his every movement--and called gently:

"Mother! mother, dear!" He never left his
office when she was at home and awake without telling 
her where he was going.

No one answered.

"She is asleep. I will slip out without waking
her. Stay where you are, Rex--I will be back some
time before daylight," and throwing his night-cloak
about his shoulders, he started for his gig.

The dog stopped with his paws resting on the
outer edge of the top step of the porch, the line he
was not to pass, and looked wistfully after the doctor.
His loneliness was to continue, and his poor master
to go out into the night alone. His tail ceased to wag,
only his eyes moved.

Once outside Doctor John patted the mare's neck
as if in apology and loosened the reins. "Come,
old girl," he said; "I'm sorry, but it can't be helped,"
and springing into the gig, he walked the mare clear
of the gravel beyond the gate, so as not to rouse
his mother, touched her lightly with the whip, and
sent her spinning along the road on the way to
Fogarty's.

The route led toward the sea, branching off within
the sight of the cottage porch, past the low, conical
ice-houses used by the fishermen in which to cool
their fish during the hot weather, along the sand-
dunes, and down a steep grade to the shore. The
tide was making flood, and the crawling surf spent
itself in long shelving reaches of foam. These so
packed the sand that the wheels of the gig hardly
made an impression upon it. Along this smooth
surface the mare trotted briskly, her nimble feet wet
with the farthest reaches of the incoming wash.

As he approached the old House of Refuge, black
in the moonlight and looking twice its size in the
stretch of the endless beach, he noticed for the hundredth 
time how like a crouching woman it appeared,
with its hipped roof hunched up like a shoulder close
propped against the dune and its overhanging eaves
but a draped hood shading its thoughtful brow; an
illusion which vanished when its square form, with
its wide door and long platform pointing to the sea,
came into view.

More than once in its brief history the doctor had
seen the volunteer crew, aroused from their cabins
along the shore by the boom of a gun from some
stranded vessel, throw wide its door and with a wild
cheer whirl the life-boat housed beneath its roof into
the boiling surf, and many a time had he helped to
bring back to life the benumbed bodies drawn from
the merciless sea by their strong arms.

There were other houses like it up and down the
coast. Some had remained unused for years, desolate 
and forlorn, no unhappy ship having foundered
or struck the breakers within their reach; others
had been in constant use. The crews were gathered
from the immediate neighborhood by the custodian,
who was the only man to receive pay from the
Government. If he lived near by he kept the key;
if not, the nearest fisherman held it. Fogarty, the
father of the sick child, and whose cabin was within
gunshot of this house, kept the key this year. No
other protection was given these isolated houses and
none was needed. These black-hooded Sisters of the
Coast, keeping their lonely vigils, were as safe from
beach-combers and sea-prowlers as their white-capped
namesakes would have been threading the lonely
suburbs of some city.

The sound of the mare's feet on the oyster-shell
path outside his cabin brought Fogarty, a tall, thin,
weather-beaten fisherman, to the door. He was still
wearing his hip-boots and sou'wester--he was just in
from the surf--and stood outside the low doorway
with a lantern. Its light streamed over the sand
and made wavering patterns about the mare's feet.

"Thought ye'd never come, Doc," he whispered,
as he threw the blanket over the mare. "Wife's nigh
crazy. Tod's fightin' for all he's worth, but there
ain't much breath left in him. I was off the inlet
when it come on."

The wife, a thick-set woman in a close-fitting cap,
her arms bared to the elbow, her petticoats above the
tops of her shoes, met him inside the door. She had
been crying and her eyelids were still wet and her
cheeks swollen. The light of the ship's lantern fastened 
to the wall fell upon a crib in the corner, on
which lay the child, his short curls, tangled with
much tossing, smoothed back from his face. The
doctor's ears had caught the sound of the child's
breathing before he entered the room.

"When did this come on?" Doctor John asked,
settling down beside the crib upon a stool that the
wife had brushed off with her apron.

"'Bout sundown, sir," she answered, her tear-
soaked eyes fixed on little Tod's face. Her teeth
chattered as she spoke and her arms were tight
pressed against her sides, her fingers opening and
shutting in her agony. Now and then in her nervousness 
she would wipe her forehead with the back of
her wrist as if it were wet, or press her two fingers
deep into her swollen cheek.

Fogarty had followed close behind the doctor and
now stood looking down at the crib with fixed eyes,
his thin lips close shut, his square jaw sunk in the
collar of his shirt. There were no dangers that the
sea could unfold which this silent surfman had not
met and conquered, and would again. Every fisherman 
on the coast knew Fogarty's pluck and skill,
and many of them owed their lives to him. To-
night, before this invisible power slowly closing
about his child he was as powerless as a skiff without
oars caught in the swirl of a Barnegat tide.

"Why didn't you let me know sooner, Fogarty?
You understood my directions?" Doctor John asked
in a surprised tone. "You shouldn't have left him
without letting me know." It was only when his
orders were disobeyed and life endangered that he
spoke thus.

The fisherman turned his head and was about to
reply when the wife stepped in front of him.

"My husband got ketched in the inlet, sir," she
said in an apologetic tone, as if to excuse his absence.
"The tide set ag'in him and he had hard pullin'
makin' the p'int. It cuts in turrible there, you know,
doctor. Tod seemed to be all right when he left him
this mornin'. I had husband's mate take the note
I wrote ye. Mate said nobody was at home and he
laid it under your pipe. He thought ye'd sure find
it there when ye come in."

Doctor John was not listening to her explanations;
he was leaning over the rude crib, his ear to the
child's breast. Regaining his position, he smoothed
the curls tenderly from the forehead of the little fellow, 
who still lay with eyes closed, one stout brown
hand and arm clear of the coverlet, and stood watching 
his breathing. Every now and then a spasm of
pain would cross the child's face; the chubby hand
would open convulsively and a muffled cry escape
him. Doctor John watched his breathing for some
minutes, laid his hand again on the child's forehead,
and rose from the stool.

"Start up that fire, Fogarty," he said in a crisp
tone, turning up his shirt-cuffs, slipping off his evening 
coat, and handing the garment to the wife, who
hung it mechanically over a chair, her eyes all the
time searching Doctor John's face for some gleam of
hope.

"Now get a pan," he continued, "fill it with water
and some corn-meal, and get me some cotton cloth--
half an apron, piece of an old petticoat, anything,
but be quick about it."

The woman, glad of something to do, hastened to
obey. Somehow, the tones of his voice had put new
courage into her heart. Fogarty threw a heap of
driftwood on the smouldering fire and filled the
kettle; the dry splinters crackled into a blaze.

The noise aroused the child.

The doctor held up his finger for silence and
again caressed the boy's forehead. Fogarty, with a
fresh look of alarm in his face, tiptoed back of the
crib and stood behind the restless sufferer. Under
the doctor's touch the child once more became quiet.

"Is he bad off?" the wife murmured when the
doctor moved to the fire and began stirring the mush
she was preparing. "The other one went this way;
we can't lose him. You won't lose him, will ye,
doctor, dear? I don't want to live if this one goes.
Please, doctor--"
 
The doctor looked into the wife's eyes, blurred
with tears, and laid his hand tenderly on her
shoulder.

"Keep a good heart, wife," he said; "we'll pull
him through. Tod is a tough little chap with plenty
of fight in him yet. I've seen them much worse. It
will soon be over; don't worry."

Mrs. Fogarty's eyes brightened and even the fisherman's 
grim face relaxed. Silent men in grave crises
suffer most; the habit of their lives precludes the
giving out of words that soothe and heal; when others
speak them, they sink into their thirsty souls like drops
of rain after a long drought. It was just such timely
expressions as these that helped Doctor John's patients 
most--often their only hope hung on some
word uttered with a buoyancy of spirit that for a
moment stifled all their anxieties.

The effect of the treatment began to tell upon the
little sufferer--his breathing became less difficult,
the spasms less frequent. The doctor whispered the
change to the wife, sitting close at his elbow, his impassive 
face brightening as he spoke; there was an
oven chance now for the boy's life.

The vigil continued.

No one moved except Fogarty, who would now and
then tiptoe quickly to the hearth, add a fresh log to
the embers, and as quickly move back to his position
behind the child's crib. The rising and falling of
the blaze, keeping rhythm, as it were, to the hopes
and fears of the group, lighted up in turn each figure
in the room. First the doctor sitting with hands
resting on his knees, his aquiline nose and brow
clearly outlined against the shadowy background in
the gold chalk of the dancing flames, his black evening 
clothes in strong contrast to the high white of the
coverlet, framing the child's face like a nimbus.
Next the bent body of the wife, her face in half-
tones, her stout shoulders in high relief, and behind,
swallowed up in the gloom, out of reach of the fire-.
gleam, the straight, motionless form of the fisherman, 
standing with folded arms, grim and silent, his
unseen eyes fixed on his child.

Far into the night, and until the gray dawn
streaked the sky, this vigil continued; the doctor,
assisted by Fogarty and the wife, changing the poultices, 
filling the child's lungs with hot steam by
means of a paper funnel, and encouraging the mother
by his talk. At one time he would tell her in half-
whispered tones of a child who had recovered and
who had been much weaker than this one. Again he
would turn to Fogarty and talk of the sea, of the
fishing outside the inlet, of the big three-masted
schooner which had been built by the men at Tom's
River, of the new light they thought of building at
Barnegat to take the place of the old one--anything
to divert their minds and lessen their anxieties, stopping 
only to note the sound of every cough the boy
gave or to change the treatment as the little sufferer
struggled on fighting for his life.

When the child dozed no one moved, no word was
spoken. Then in the silence there would come to
their ears above the labored breathing of the boy the
long swinging tick of the clock, dull and ominous,
as if tolling the minutes of a passing life; the ceaseless 
crunch of the sea, chewing its cud on the beach
outside or the low moan of the outer bar turning
restlessly on its bed of sand.

Suddenly, and without warning, and out of an
apparent sleep, the child started up from his pillow
with staring eyes and began beating the air for breath.
 
The doctor leaned quickly forward, listened for
a moment, his ear to the boy's chest, and said in
a quiet, restrained voice:

"Go into the other room, Mrs. Fogarty, and stay
there till I call you." The woman raised her eyes
to his and obeyed mechanically. She was worn out,
mind and body, and had lost her power of resistance.

As the door shut upon her Doctor John sprang
from the stool, caught the lamp from the wall, handed
it to Fogarty, and picking the child up from the
crib, laid it flat upon his knees.

He now slipped his hand into his pocket and took
from it a leather case filled with instruments.

"Hold the light, Fogarty," he said in a firm,
decided tone, "and keep your nerve. I thought he'd
pull through without it, but he'll strangle if I don't."

"What ye goin' to do--not cut him?" whispered
the fisherman in a trembling voice.

"Yes. It's his only chance. I've seen it coming
on for the last hour--no nonsense now. Steady, old
fellow. It'll be over in a minute. ... There, my
boy, that'll help you. Now, Fogarty, hand me that
cloth. ... All right, little man; don't cry; it's all.
over. Now open the door and let your wife in,"
and he laid the child back on the pillow.

When the doctor took the blanket from the sorrel
tethered outside Fogarty's cabin and turned his
horse's head homeward the sails of the fishing-boats
lying in a string on the far horizon flashed silver in
the morning sun, His groom met him at the stable
door, and without a word led the mare into the
barn.

The lamp in his study was still burning in yellow
mockery of the rosy dawn. He laid his case of
instruments on the desk, hung his cloak and hat to
a peg in the closet, and ascended the staircase on the
way to his bedroom. As he passed his mother's
open door she heard his step.

"Why, it's broad daylight, son," she called in a
voice ending in a yawn.

"Yes, mother."
 
"Where have you been?"

"To see little Tod Fogarty," he answered simply.

"What's the matter with him?"

"Croup."

"Is he going to die?"

"No, not this time."

"Well, what did you stay out all night for?"
The voice had now grown stronger, with a petulant
tone through it.

"Well, I could hardly help it. They are very
simple people, and were so badly frightened that
they were helpless. It's the only child they have
left to them--the last one died of croup."

"Well, are you going to turn nurse for half the
paupers in the county? All children have croup,
and they don't all die!" The petulant voice had
now developed into one of indignation.

"No, mother, but I couldn't take any risks. This
little chap is worth saving."

There came a pause, during which the tired man
waited patiently.

"You were at the Cobdens'?"

"Yes; or I should have reached Fogarty's sooner."

"And Miss Jane detained you, of course."

"No, mother."

"Good-night, John."

"Say rather 'Good-day,' mother," he answered
with a smile and continued on to his room.


CHAPTER IV


ANN GOSSAWAY'S RED CLOAK


The merrymakings at Yardley continued for
weeks, a new impetus and flavor being lent them by
the arrival of two of Lucy's friends--her schoolmate
and bosom companion, Maria Collins, of Trenton,
and Maria's devoted admirer, Max Feilding, of Walnut 
Hill, Philadelphia.

Jane, in her joy over Lucy's home-coming, and in
her desire to meet her sister's every wish, gladly
welcomed the new arrivals, although Miss Collins,
strange to say, had not made a very good impression
upon her. Max she thought better of. He was a
quiet, well-bred young fellow; older than either Lucy
or Maria, and having lived abroad a year, knew
something of the outside world. Moreover, their
families had always been intimate in the old days,
his ancestral home being always open to Jane's
mother when a girl.

The arrival of these two strangers only added to
the general gayety. Picnics were planned to the
woods back of Warehold to which the young people
of the town were invited, and in which Billy Tatham
with his team took a prominent part. Sailing and
fishing parties outside of Barnegat were gotten up;
dances were held in the old parlor, and even tableaux
were arranged under Max's artistic guidance. In
one of these Maria wore a Spanish costume fashioned
out of a white lace shawl belonging to Jane's grand-
mother draped over her head and shoulders, and made
the more bewitching by a red japonica fixed in her
hair, and Lucy appeared as a dairy-maid decked out
in one of Martha's caps, altered to fit her shapely
head.

The village itself was greatly stirred.

"Have you seen them two fly-up-the-creeks?"
Billy Tatham, the stage-driver, asked of Uncle
Ephraim Tipple as he was driving him down to the
boat-landing.

"No, what do they look like?"

"The He-one had on a two-inch hat with a green
ribbon and wore a white bob-tail coat that 'bout
reached to the top o' his pants. Looks like he lived
on water-crackers and milk, his skin's that white.
The She-one had a set o' hoops on her big as a circus 
tent. Much as I could do to git her in the 'bus
--as it was, she come in sideways. And her trunk!
Well, it oughter been on wheels--one o' them travellin' 
houses. I thought one spell I'd take the old
plug out the shafts and hook on to it and git it up
that-a-way."

"Some of Lucy's chums, I guess," chuckled Uncle
Ephraim. "Miss Jane told me they were coming.
How long are they going to stay?"

"Dunno. Till they git fed up and fattened,
maybe. If they was mine I'd have killin' time
to-day."

Ann Gossaway and some of her cronies also gave
free rein to their tongues.

"Learned them tricks at a finishin' school, did
they?" broke out the dressmaker. (Lucy had been
the only young woman in Warehold who had ever
enjoyed that privilege.) "Wearin' each other's hats,
rollin' round in the sand, and hollerin' so you could
hear 'em clear to the lighthouse. If I had my way
I'd finish 'em, And that's where they'll git if they
don't mind, and quick, too!"

The Dellenbaughs, Cromartins, and Bunsbys, being 
of another class, viewed the young couple's visit
in a different light. "Mr. Feilding has such nice
hands and wears such lovely cravats," the younger
Miss Cromartin said, and "Miss Collins is too sweet
for anything." Prim Mr. Bunsby, having superior
notions of life and deportment, only shook his head.
He looked for more dignity, he said; but then this
Byronic young man had not been invited to any of
the outings.

In all these merrymakings and outings Lucy was
the central figure. Her beauty, her joyous nature,
her freedom from affectation and conventionality,
her love of the out-of-doors, her pretty clothes and
the way she wore them, all added to her popularity.
In the swing and toss of her freedom, her true temperament 
developed. She was like a summer rose,
making everything and everybody glad about her,
loving the air she breathed as much for the color
it put into her cheeks as for the new bound it gave
to her blood. Just as she loved the sunlight for its
warmth and the dip and swell of the sea for its thrill.
So, too, when the roses were a glory of bloom, not
only would she revel in the beauty of the blossoms,
but intoxicated by their color and fragrance, would
bury her face in the wealth of their abundance, taking 
in great draughts of their perfume, caressing
them with her cheeks, drinking in the honey of their
petals.

This was also true of her voice--a rich, full,
vibrating voice, that dominated the room and thrilled
the hearts of all who heard her. When she sang she
sang as a bird sings, as much to relieve its own overcharged 
little body, full to bursting with the music
in its soul, as to gladden the surrounding woods with
its melody--because, too, she could not help it and
because the notes lay nearest her bubbling heart and
could find their only outlet through the lips.

Bart was her constant companion. Under his instructions 
she had learned to hold the tiller in sailing 
in and out of the inlet; to swim over hand; to
dive from a plank, no matter how high the jump; and
to join in all his outdoor sports. Lucy had been his
constant inspiration in all of this. She had surveyed 
the field that first night of their meeting and
had discovered that the young man's personality
offered the only material in Warehold available for
her purpose. --The castle continued in this family
till Roger Bigod, the last of the race, and a
man more turbulent than any of his predecessors, was
compelled to resign it to King Edward I.; Edward
II.
gave it to his half-brother, Thomas Plantagenet, surnamed De
Brotherton; from whom it descended to Thomas de Mowbray, twelfth
Baron Mowbray, created Duke of Norfolk 29th of September, 1397.

From the Mowbrays it descended to the Howards,
Dukes of Norfolk, Sir Robert Howard having married
Margaret, daughter of Thomas Mowbray, first Duke of
Norfolk. His son, John Howard, was created Earl
Marshal and Duke of Norfolk, 28th of June, 1483.
He was slain at Bosworth Field, 1485; and his son,
Thomas, Earl of Surrey, being attainted, the
castle fell into the hands of King Henry VII., who
granted it to John de Vere, thirteenth Earl of
Oxford, from whom it again returned to the
Howards.
Thomas Howard, third Duke of Norfolk, being attainted,
(38 Henry VIII.
1546,) it was seized by the king, who dying the
same year, his successor, Edward VI., granted
it to his sister, the Princess, afterwards Queen
Mary. King James I. granted it to Thomas Howard,
first Baron Howard de Walden, youngest son of Thomas, fourth Duke
of Norfolk, created Earl of Suffolk 21st of July, 1603; but his
lordship making Audley Inn his seat, the castle fell into decay,
and his son, Theophilus, second Earl of Suffolk, sold it in 1635,
with the domains, to Sir Robert Hitcham, knight, senior sergeant
to James I.; who by his will, dated 10th of August, 1636, bequeathed
it to the master and scholars of Pembroke College, in trust for
certain charitable uses; the advowson of the living, the castle and
the manor, he bequeathed to the college for its own use; since which
time the castle has remained in a dismantled state.

Loder, in his _History of Framlingham_, thus
describes the former state of the structure:
"This castle, containing an acre, a rood, and eleven
perches of land, within the walls now standing, but
anciently a much larger quantity before the
walls enclosing the same were demolished, was in
former ages very fair and beautiful, standing within
a park (long since disparked) on the north side
of the town; fortified with a double ditch, high banks,
rampires, and stone walls 44 feet high and 8 feet
thick; in these walls were thirteen towers, 14 feet
higher than the walls, built four-square--whereof
two were watch-towers, one looking towards the east and
the other towards the west: and the rooms
within the castle were very commodious and necessary,
capable to receive and contain abundance
of people.

"In the first court was a deep well, of excellent
workmanship, compassed with carved pillars, which
supported its leaden roof, and though out of repair,
was in being in the year of our Lord 1651. A chapel
stood in the same court, adjoining to the east
watch-tower; which in the reign of Henry VIII. was hung with cloth
of arras, of the history of Christ's passion; and a lamp of the
value of seven shillings was usually burnt before the altar there.

On the side of the court, towards the west
watch-tower, was the hall, covered with lead; and
over the gate thereof were formerly cut in stone the arms of
Brotherton impaled with Bouchier, quartering Louvain, supported
with a lion and an eagle.

Divers other arms there were in the rest of the
buildings, some cut on stone and some on timber, to
be seen in the year of our Lord 1651--as Bygods,
Brothertons, Seagraves, Mowbrays, Howards, and St.
Edmund's, the king and martyr. Between the hall and
chancel, fronting the great castle gate, was a large chamber, with
several rooms, and a cloyster under it, pulled down A.D. 1700; for
which, when standing, in the reign of King Henry VIII., there was
one suit of hangings of the story of Hercules; which are supposed
to be those still remaining at the seat of Lord Howard, of Walden.

"Out of the castle were three passages--one a postern,
with an iron gate, on the east side over a private
bridge into the park, where there were arbours,
pleasant walks, and trees planted for profit and
delight. Another passage was on the west side,
leading to a dungeon, and forth on to the mere,
now filled up with mire and weeds. But the
largest passage and most used was, and is, that
towards the south and town; there being formerly a portcullis over
that gate, which was made in one of the strongest towers, and a
drawbridge without, defended by an half-moon of stone, about a man's
height, standing in the year 1657."

These splendid buildings within the walls have long
since been demolished, so that scarcely a vestige
remains; but with their materials a workhouse has
been built for the poor. The only armorial bearings
traceable are three shields over the castle-gate.

Over the centre of the gate is a large one; the arms
and quarterings of John Howard IV., first Duke
of Norfolk, who died in 1485; and with lions for
supporters. Crest--a lion passant-guardant.

1. A bend between six cross crosslets, for ... Howard.

2. Three lions passant-guardant in pale--England, for
...

Brotherten.

3. Checky ... Warren.

4. A lion rampant ... Mowbray.

5. A lion rampant crowned ... Seagrave.

6. Semé de cross crosslets fitchy, and a lion rampant,
double queue ... Broes, or Bruce.

All within the garter.

On the west side, a shield, quarterly--1.
Howard--2.
Brotherton--3. Mowbray--4. Seagrave.

On the east side, quarterly--1. Brotherton--2.
Warren--3.
Seagrave--4. Broes.

This venerable and majestic remain of
antiquity, when viewed at a distance, has certainly more
the appearance of a castle than the ruins of one,
the outward walls being almost entire, and presenting
nearly the same appearance they did thirty
years ago.

Framlingham Church is a fine structure, and was built
by the Mowbrays; and the Chancel by the Howards, wherein are several
stately monuments of this noble family.

EDWARD DUNTHORN.

The original of the annexed Cut is a lithograph
frontispiece to _Framlingham_: a Narrative of _the Castle_--a poem
of very considerable merit, by Mr.

James Bird, of Yoxford: the introduction to which
furnishes the following impassioned apostrophe
to Framlingham and its decaying Castle:-- 
Heir of Antiquity!

--fair castled Town, Rare spot of beauty, grandeur,
and renown, Seat of East-Anglian kings!--proud
child of fame, Hallowed by time, illustrious
Framlinghame!
I touch my lyre delighted, thus to bring To thee
my heart's full homage while I sing!

And thou, old Castle!--thy bold turrets high,
Have shed their deep enchantment on mine eye,
Though years have changed thee, I have gazed
intent In silent joy, on tower and battlement,
When all thy time-worn glories met my sight;
Thou have I felt such rapture, such delight, That, had
the splendour of thy days of yore Flashed on my view,
I had not loved thee more!
Scene of immortal deeds! thy walls have rung To pealing
shouts from many a warrior's tongue; When first thy founder, Redwald
of the spear, Manned thy high towers, defied his foemen near, When,
girt with strength, East-Anglia's king of old, The sainted Edmund,
sought thy sheltering hold, When the proud _Dane_, fierce Hinguar,
in his ire Besieged the king, and wrapped thy walls in fire, While
Edmund fled, but left thee with his name Linked, and for ever, to
the chain of fame:
Then wast thou great!

and long, in after years Thy grandeur shone--thy
portraiture appears From history's pencil like
a summer-night, With much of shadow, but with more of light!

Pile of departed days!--my verse records, Thy time
of glory, thy illustrious Lords, The fearless
Bigods--Brotherton--De Vere, And Kings, who held
thee in their pride, or fear, And gallant Howards, 'neath
whose ducal sway Proud rose thy towers, thy
rugged heights were gay With glittering banners, costly trophies
rent From men in war, or tilt, or tournament, With all the pomp and
splendour that could grace The name, and honours of that warlike
race.

Howards! the rich! the noble! and the great!
Most brave! most happy! most unfortunate!
Kings were thy courtiers!--Queens have sued to share
Thy wealth, thy triumphs--e'en thy _name_ to bear!
Tyrants have bowed thy children to the dust, Some for
their worth--and some who broke their trust!
And there was _one_ among thy race, who died To
Henry's shame!--his country's boast and pride:
Immortal Surrey!--Offspring of the Muse!
Bold as the lion, gentle as the dews That fall on flowers
to 'wake their odorous breath, And shield their
blossoms from the touch of death, Surrey!

--thy fate was wept by countless eyes, A
nation's woe assailed the pitying skies, When thy
pure spirit left this scene of strife, And soared
to him who breathed it into life:
Thy funeral knell pealed o'er the world!--thy fall
Was mourned by hearts that loved thee, mourned by
all-- All, save thy murderers!--thou hast won thy
crown:
And _thou_, fair Framlinghame! a bright renown,
Yes! thy rich temple holds the stately tomb, Where
sleeps the Poet in his lasting home, Lamented
Surrey!

--hero, bard divine, Pride, grace, and glory
of brave Norfolk's line.
Departed spirit!--Oh! I love to hold Communion sweet
with lofty minds of old, To catch a spark
of that celestial fire Which glows and kindles in
thy rapturous lyre; Though varying themes demand
my future lays, Yet thus my soul a willing homage
pays To that bright glory which illumes thy name, Though naught
can raise the splendour of thy fame!

Mr. Bird is also advantageously known as the
author of the Vale of Slaughden; Poetical Memoirs;
Dunwich, a tale of the Splendid City; and other
poems, which abound with vivid imagery, life-breathing
incidents, and interesting narrative; though it
is but late justice to recommend his _Framlingham_ to the admirers
of fervid verse

.

* * * * *

SPIRIT DRINKING.

"Nothing like the simple element dilutes The
food, or gives the chyle so soon to flow."

The direful practice of spirit-drinking seems to
have arrived at its acme in the metropolis.
Splendid mansions rear their _dazzling heads_ at
almost every turning; and it appears as if Circe had
fixed her abode in these superb haunts. Happy
are those who, like Ulysses of old, will not partake
of her deadly cup. If the unhappy dram-drinker was
merely to calculate the annual expense of two glasses
of gin per day, he would find a sum expended which
would procure for him many comforts, for the want
of which he is continually grumbling. If this sum is
expended for only two glasses of spirits, what must
be the expense to the habitual and daily sot, who
constantly haunts the tap-room or the wretched
bar?

to say nothing of the loss of time, health, and
every comfort.

Dr. Willan says--"On comparing my own observations
with the bills of mortality, I am convinced that
considerably more than one-eighth of all the deaths
which take place in persons above twenty years old,
happen prematurely, through excess in drinking
spirits."
Spirits, like other poisons, if taken in a sufficient
quantity, prove immediately fatal. The newspapers
frequently furnish us with examples of almost
instant death, occasioned by wantonly swallowing a
pint or other large quantity of spirits, for
the sake of wager, or in boast.

Dr. Trotter says--"We daily see, in all parts of
the world, men who, by profligacy and hard-drinking,
have brought themselves to a goal; yet, if we consult the
register of the prison, it does not appear that
any of these habitual drunkards die by being forced
to lead sober lives." And he contends, that
"whatever debility of the constitution exists, it
is to be cured by the usual medicinal means which
are employed to restore weakened organs. But the
great difficulty in these attempts to cure inebriety
is in satisfying the mind, and in whetting the
blunted resolutions of the patient; and this is, doubtless, more
easily accomplished by a gradual abstraction of his favourite
potations."

Dr. Lettsom mentions a person who usually drank
twelve drams a day; but being convinced of his approaching
misery, took the resolution to wean himself
from this poison. He always drank out of one glass,
into which he daily let fall a drop of sealing-wax.
By this means he had twelve drops less of spirit every
day, till at length, his glass being filled with
wax, his habit was cured.

"In the drunkard," says Dr. Willan, "the memory
and the faculties depending on it, being impaired,
there takes place an indifference towards usual
occupations, and accustomed society or amusements.
No interest is taken in the concerns of others--no
love, no sympathy remain: even natural affection
to nearest relatives is gradually extinguished, and
the moral sense obliterated. The wretched victims
of a fatal poison fall, at length, into a state of fatuity, and
die with the powers both of body and mind wholly exhausted.

Some, after repeated fits of derangement, expire
in a sudden and violent phrenzy; some are
hurried out the world by apoplexies; others perish
by the slower process of jaundice, dropsy," &c.

P.T.W.

* * * * *

A SCENE ON WINDERMERE.

"Beautiful scene! how fitted to allure The printless
footsteps of some sea-born maid."

It was a holy calm--the sunbeams tinged The lake with
gold, and flush'd the gorgeous brow Of many
a cloud whose image shone beneath The blue translucent
wave; the mountain-peaks Were robed in purple, and
the balmy air Derived its fragrance from the breath
of flow'rs That seem'd as if they wish'd to close
their eyes, And yield their empire to the starry throng.

The wind, as o'er the lake it gently died, Bequeath'd
its cadence to the shore, and waked The echo
slumbering in the distant vales, Diversified with
woods, and rural homes.
The calm was lovely!

and o'er such a scene It brooded like a spirit,
softening all That lay beneath its blessed
influence!

On Windermere--what poetry belongs To such
a name--deep, pure and beautiful, As its
trout-peopled wave!--on Windermere Our skiff pursued
its way amid the calm Which fill'd the heart
with holiest communings.

On Windermere--what scenes entranced the eye
That wander'd o'er them! either undefined Or traced
upon the outline of the sky.
Afar the lovely panorama glow'd, Until the mountains,
on whose purple brows The clouds were pillow' d,
closed it from our view.

The fields were fraught with bloom, on them
appear'd The verdant robe that Nature loves to wear,
And rocky pathways fringed with bristling pine,
O'er which the wall of many a cottage-home Graced
with the climbing vine, or beautified With roses
bending to each passing breeze, Attracts the eye,
and glistens in the sun-- Were interspersed around;
while in the vale The streamlet gave a silver gleam,
and flow'd Beneath the hill, on whose majestic
brow, Dimm'd with the ivy of a thousand years,
The rural fane, encircled with its tombs, Displayed
its mouldering form.
When a turn in the
road shut her from view, she crouched down behind
a sand-dune, waited until she was sure Jane would
not change her mind and join her, and then folding
the cloak over her arm, gathered up her skirts and
ran with all her speed along the wet sand to the
House of Refuge. As she reached its side, Bart
Holt stepped out into the afternoon light.

"I thought you'd never come, darling," he said,
catching her in his arms and kissing her.

"I couldn't help it, sweetheart. I told sister I
was going to see Mrs. Cavendish, and she was so
delighted she said she would go, too."

"Where is she?" he interrupted, turning his head
and looking anxiously up the beach.

"Gone home. Oh, I fixed that. I was scared to
death for a minute, but you trust me when I want
to get off."

"Why didn't you let her take that beast of a dog
with her? We don't want him," he rejoined, pointing 
to Meg, who had come to a sudden standstill
at the sight of Bart.

"Why, you silly! That's how I got away. She
thought I was going to give him a bath. How long
have you been waiting, my precious?" Her hand
was on his shoulder now, her eyes raised to his.

"Oh, 'bout a year. It really seems like a year,
Luce" (his pet name for her), "when I'm waiting
for you. I was sure something was up. Wait till
I open the door." The two turned toward the house.

"Why! can we get in? I thought Fogarty, the
fisherman, had the key," she asked, with a tone of
pleasant surprise in her voice.

"So he has," he laughed. "Got it now hanging
up behind his clock. I borrowed it yesterday and
had one made just like it. I'm of age." This
came with a sly wink, followed by a low laugh of
triumph.

Lucy smiled. She liked his daring; she liked, too,
his resources. When a thing was to be done, Bart
always found the way to do it. She waited until
he had fitted the new bright key into the rusty lock,
her hand in his.

"Now, come inside," he cried, swinging wide the
big doors. "Isn't it a jolly place?" He slipped
his arm about her and drew her to him. "See,
there's the stove with the kindling-wood all ready
to light when anything comes ashore, and up on that
shelf are life-preservers; and here's a table and some
stools and a lantern--two of 'em; and there's the big
life-boat, all ready to push out. Good place to come
Sundays with some of the fellows, isn't it? Play
all night here, and not a soul would find you out,"
he chuckled as he pointed to the different things.
"You didn't think, now, I was going to have a
cubby-hole like this to hide you in where that old
spot-cat Martha can't be watching us, did you?"
he added, drawing her toward him and again kissing
her with a sudden intensity.

Lucy slipped from his arms and began examining
everything with the greatest interest. She had never
seen anything but the outside of the house before
and she always wondered what it contained, and as
a child had stood up on her toes and tried to peep
in through the crack of the big door. When she
had looked the boat all over and felt the oars, and
wondered whether the fire could be lighted quick
enough, and pictured in her mind the half-drowned
people huddled around it in their sea-drenched
clothes, she moved to the door. Bart wanted her to
sit down inside, but she refused.

"No, come outside and lie on the sand. Nobody
comes along here," she insisted. "Oh, see how beautiful 
the sea is! I love that green," and drawing
Jane's red cloak around her, she settled herself on
the sand, Bart throwing himself at her feet.

The sun was now nearing the horizon, and its
golden rays fell across their faces. Away off on the
sky-line trailed the smoke of an incoming steamer;
nearer in idled a schooner bound in to Barnegat
Inlet with every sail set. At their feet the surf rose
sleepily under the gentle pressure of the incoming
tide, its wavelets spreading themselves in widening
circles as if bent on kissing the feet of the radiant
girl.

As they sat and talked, filled with the happiness
of being alone, their eyes now on the sea and now
looking into each other's, Meg, who had amused himself 
by barking at the swooping gulls, chasing the
sand-snipe and digging holes in the sand for imaginary 
muskrats, lifted his head and gave a short
yelp. Bart, annoyed by the sound, picked up a bit
of driftwood and hurled it at him, missing him by a
few inches. The narrowness of the escape silenced
the dog and sent him to the rear with drooping tail
and ears.

Bart should have minded Meg's warning. A broad
beach in the full glare of the setting sun, even when
protected by a House of Refuge, is a poor place to
be alone in.

A woman was passing along the edge of the bluffs,
carrying a basket in one hand and a green umbrella
in the other; a tall, thin, angular woman, with the
eye of a ferret. It was Ann Gossaway's day for
visiting the sick, and she had just left Fogarty's
cabin, where little Tod, with his throat tied up in
red flannel, had tried on her mitts and played with
her spectacles. Miss Gossaway had heard Meg's bark
and had been accorded a full view of Lucy's back
covered by Jane's red cloak, with Bart sitting beside
her, their shoulders touching.

Lovers with their heads together interested the
gossip no longer, except as a topic to talk about. Such
trifles had these many years passed out of the dress-
maker's life.

So Miss Gossaway, busy with her own thoughts,
kept on her way unnoticed by either Lucy or Bart.

When she reached the cross-road she met Doctor
John driving in. He tightened the reins on the
sorrel and stopped.

"Lovely afternoon, Miss Gossaway. Where are
you from--looking at the sunset?"

"No, I ain't got no time for spoonin'. I might
be if I was Miss Jane and Bart Holt. Just see 'em
a spell ago squattin' down behind the House o'
Refuge. She wouldn't look at me. I been to
Fogarty's; she's on my list this week, and it's my day
for visitin', fust in two weeks. That two-year-old
of hers is all right ag'in after your sewing him up;
they'll never get over tellin' how you set up all night
with him. You ought to hear Mrs. Fogarty go on--
'Oh, the goodness of him!'" and she mimicked the
good woman's dialect. "'If Tod'd been his own
child he couldn't a-done more for him.' That's the
way she talks. I heard, doctor, ye never left him till
daylight. You're a wonder."

The doctor touched his hat and drove on.

Miss Gossaway's sharp, rasping voice and incisive
manner of speaking grated upon him. He liked
neither her tone nor the way in which she spoke
of the mistress of Yardley. No one else dared as
much. If Jane was really on the beach and with
Bart, she had some good purpose in her mind. It
may have been her day for visiting, and Bart, perhaps, 
had accompanied her. But why had Miss
Gossaway not met Miss Cobden at Fogarty's, his
being the only cabin that far down the beach? Then
his face brightened. Perhaps, after all, it was Lucy
whom she had seen. He had placed that same red
cloak around her shoulders the night of the reception 
at Yardley--and when she was with Bart,
too.

Mrs. Cavendish was sitting by her window when
the doctor entered his own house. She rose, and putting 
down her book, advanced to meet him.

"You should have come earlier, John," she said
with a laugh; "such a charming girl and so pretty
and gracious. Why, I was quite overcome. She is
very different from her sister. What do you think
Miss Jane wants to do now? Nurse in the new
hospital when it is built! Pretty position for a
lady, isn't it?"

"Any position she would fill would gain by her
presence," said the doctor gravely. "Have they been
gone long?" he asked, changing the subject. He
never discussed Jane Cobden with his mother if he
could help it.

"Oh, yes, some time. Lucy must have kept on
home, for I saw Miss Jane going toward the beach
alone."

"Are you sure, mother?" There was a note of
anxiety in his voice.

"Yes, certainly. She had that red cloak of hers
with her and that miserable little dog; that's how I
know. She must be going to stay late. You look
tired, my son; have you had a hard day?" added
she, kissing him on the cheek.

"Yes, perhaps I am a little tired, but I'll be all
right. Have you looked at the slate lately? I'll
go myself," and he turned and entered his office.

On the slate lay the rose. He picked it up and
held it to his nose in a preoccupied way.

"One of mother's," he said listlessly, laying it
back among his papers. "She so seldom does that
sort of thing. Funny that she should have given
it to me to-day; and after Miss Jane's visit, too."
Then he shut the office door, threw himself into his
chair, and buried his face in his hands. He was
still there when his mother called him to supper.

When Lucy reached home it was nearly dark. She
came alone, leaving Bart at the entrance to the village. 
At her suggestion they had avoided the main
road and had crossed the marsh by the foot-path,
the dog bounding on ahead and springing at the
nurse, who stood in the gate awaiting Lucy's return.

"Why, he's as dry as a bone!" Martha cried,
stroking Meg's rough hair with her plump hand.
"He didn't get much of a bath, did he?"

"No, I couldn't get him into the water. Every
time I got my hand on him he'd dart away again."

"Anybody on the beach, darlin'?"

"Not a soul except Meg and the sandsnipe."


CHAPTER V


CAPTAIN NAT'S DECISION


When Martha, with Meg at her heels, passed Ann
Gossaway's cottage the next morning on her way to
the post-office--her daily custom--the dressmaker,
who was sitting in the window, one eye on her needle
and the other on the street, craned her head clear of
the calico curtain framing the sash and beckoned
to her.

This perch of Ann Gossaway's was the eyrie from
which she swept the village street, bordered with a
double row of wide-spreading elms and fringed with
sloping grassy banks spaced at short intervals by
hitching-posts and horse-blocks. Her own cottage
stood somewhat nearer the flagged street path than
the others, and as the garden fences were low and
her lookout flanked by two windows, one on each
end of her corner, she could not only note what went
on about the fronts of her neighbors' houses, but
much of what took place in their back yards. From
this angle, too, she could see quite easily, and without
more than twisting her attenuated neck, the whole
village street from the Cromartins' gate to the spire
of the village church, as well as everything that
passed up and down the shadow-flecked road: which
child, for instance, was late for school, and how
often, and what it wore and whether its clothes
were new or inherited from an elder sister; who
came to the Bronsons' next door, and how long they
stayed, and whether they brought anything with
them or carried anything away; the peddler with
his pack; the gunner on his way to the marshes, his
two dogs following at his heels in a leash; Dr. John
Cavendish's gig, and whether it was about to stop
at Uncle Ephraim Tipple's or keep on, as usual,
and whirl into the open gate of Cobden Manor; Billy
Tatham's passenger list, as the ricketty stage passed
with the side curtains up, and the number of trunks
and bags, and the size of them, all indicative of
where they were bound and for how long; details
of village life--no one of which concerned her in the
least--being matters of profound interest to Miss
Gossaway.

These several discoveries she shared daily with
a faded old mother who sat huddled up in a rocking-
chair by the stove, winter and summer, whether it
had any fire in it or not.

Uncle Ephraim Tipple, in his outspoken way,
always referred to these two gossips as the "spiders."
"When the thin one has sucked the life out of you,"
he would say with a laugh, "she passes you on to her
old mother, who sits doubled up inside the web,
and when she gets done munching there isn't anything 
left but your hide and bones."

It was but one of Uncle Ephraim's jokes. The
mother was only a forlorn, half-alive old woman
who dozed in her chair by the hour--the relict of a
fisherman who had gone to sea in his yawl some
twenty years before and who had never come back.
The daughter, with the courage of youth, had then
stepped into the gap and had alone made the
fight for bread. Gradually, as the years went
by the roses in her cheeks--never too fresh at any
time--had begun to fade, her face and figure to
shrink, and her brow to tighten. At last, embitterred
by her responsibilities and disappointments, she had
lost faith in human kind and had become a shrew.
Since then her tongue had swept on as relentlessly
as a scythe, sparing neither flower nor noxious weed,
a movement which it was wise, sometimes, to check.

When, therefore, Martha, with Meg now bounding
before her, caught sight of Ann Gossaway's beckoning 
hand thrust out of the low window of her cottage
--the spider-web referred to by Uncle Ephraim--she
halted in her walk, lingered a moment as if undecided, 
expressed her opinion of the dressmaker to
Meg in an undertone, and swinging open the gate
with its ball and chain, made her way over the grass-
plot and stood outside the window, level with the sill.

"Well, it ain't none of my business, of course,
Martha Sands," Miss Gossaway began, "and that's
just what I said to mother when I come home, but
if I was some folks I'd see my company in my parlor,
long as I had one, 'stead of hidin' down behind the
House o' Refuge. I said to mother soon's I got in,
'I'm goin' to tell Martha Sands fust minute I see
her. She ain't got no idee how them girls of hers
is carryin' on or she'd stop it.' That's what I said,
didn't I, mother?"

Martha caught an inarticulate sound escaping from
a figure muffled in a blanket shawl, but nothing else
followed.

"I thought fust it was you when I heard that
draggle-tail dog of yours barkin', but it was only
Miss Jane and Bart Holt."

"Down on the beach! When?" asked Martha.
She had not understood a word of Miss Gossaway's
outburst.

"Why, yesterday afternoon, of course--didn't I
tell ye so? I'd been down to Fogarty's; it's my
week. Miss Jane and Bart didn't see me--didn't
want to. Might a' been a pair of scissors, they was
that close together."

"Miss Jane warn't on the beach yesterday afternoon," 
said Martha in a positive tone, still in the
dark.

"She warn't, warn't she? Well, I guess I know
Miss Jane Cobden. She and Bart was hunched
up that close you couldn't get a bodkin 'tween 'em.
She had that red cloak around her and the hood up
ever her head. Not know her, and she within ten
feet o' me? Well, I guess I got my eyes left,
ain't I?"

Martha stood stunned. She knew now who it was.
She had taken the red cloak from Lucy's shoulders
the evening before. Then a cold chill crept over her
as she remembered the lie Lucy had told--"not a
soul on the beach but Meg and the sandsnipe." For
an instant she stood without answering. But for
the window-sill on which her hand rested she would
have betrayed her emotion in the swaying of her
body. She tried to collect her thoughts. To deny
Jane's identity too positively would only make the
situation worse. If either one of the sisters were to be
criticised Jane could stand it best.

"You got sharp eyes and ears, Ann Gossaway,
nobody will deny you them, but still I don't think
Miss Jane was on the beach yesterday."

"Don't think, don't you? Maybe you think I
can't tell a cloak from a bed blanket, never havin'
made one, and maybe ye think I don't know my
own clo'es when I see 'em on folks. I made that red
cloak for Miss Jane two years ago, and I know every
stitch in it. Don't you try and teach Ann Gossaway
how to cut and baste or you'll git worsted," and the
gossip looked over her spectacles at Martha and
shook her side-curls in a threatening way.

Miss Gossaway had no love for the old nurse. There
had been a time when Martha "weren't no better'n
she oughter be, so everybody said," when she came
to the village, and the dressmaker never let a chance
slip to humiliate the old woman. Martha's open
denunciation of the dressmaker's vinegar tongue had
only increased the outspoken dislike each had for the
other. She saw now, to her delight, that the incident
which had seemed to be only a bit of flotsam that
had drifted to her shore and which but from Martha's 
manner would have been forgotten by her the
next day, might be a fragment detached from some
floating family wreck. Before she could press the
matter to an explanation Martha turned abruptly
on her heel, called Meg, and with the single remark,
"Well, I guess Miss Jane's of age," walked quickly
across the grass-plot and out of the gate, the ball and
chain closing it behind her with a clang.

Once on the street Martha paused with her brain
on fire. The lie which Lucy had told frightened her.
She knew why she had told it, and she knew, too,
what harm would come to her bairn if that kind of
gossip got abroad in the village. She was no longer
the gentle, loving nurse with the soft caressing hand,
but a woman of purpose. The sudden terror aroused
in her heart had the effect of tightening her grip
and bracing her shoulders as if the better to withstand 
some expected shock.

She forgot Meg; forgot her errand to the post-office; 
forgot everything, in fact, except the safety
of the child she loved. That Lucy had neglected and
even avoided her of late, keeping out of her way
even when she was in the house, and that she had
received only cool indifference in place of loyal love,
had greatly grieved her, but it had not lessened the
idolatry with which she worshipped her bairn.
Hours at a time she had spent puzzling her brain
trying to account for the change which had come over
the girl during two short years of school. She had
until now laid this change to her youth, her love
of admiration, and had forgiven it. Now she understood 
it; it was that boy Bart. He had a way with
him. He had even ingratiated himself into Miss
Jane's confidence. And now this young girl had
fallen a victim to his wiles. That Lucy should lie
to her, of all persons, and in so calm and self-
possessed a manner; and about Bart, of all men--
sent a shudder through her heart, that paled her
cheek and tightened her lips. Once before she had
consulted Jane and had been rebuffed. Now she
would depend upon herself.

Retracing her steps and turning sharply to the
right, she ordered Meg home in a firm voice, watched
the dog slink off and then walked straight down a
side road to Captain Nat Holt's house. That the
captain occupied a different station in life from herself 
did not deter her. She felt at the moment that
the honor of the Cobden name lay in her keeping.
The family had stood by her in her trouble; now
she would stand by them.

The captain sat on his front porch reading a newspaper. 
He was in his shirt-sleeves and bareheaded,
his straight hair standing straight out like the bristles 
of a shoe-brush. Since the death of his wife
a few years before he had left the service, and now
spent most of his days at home, tending his garden
and enjoying his savings. He was a man of positive
character and generally had his own way in everything. 
It was therefore with some astonishment that
he heard Martha say when she had mounted the
porch steps and pushed open the front door, her
breath almost gone in her hurried walk, "Come
inside."

Captain Holt threw down his paper and rising
hurriedly from his chair, followed her into the sitting-room. 
The manner of the nurse surprised him.
He had known her for years, ever since his old
friend, Lucy's father, had died, and the tones of her
voice, so different from her usual deferential air,
filled him with apprehension.

"Ain't nobody sick, is there, Martha?"

"No, but there will be. Are ye alone?"

"Yes."

"Then shut that door behind ye and sit down.
I've got something to say."

The grizzled, weather-beaten man who had made
twenty voyages around Cape Horn, and who was
known as a man of few words, and those always of
command, closed the door upon them, drew down the
shade on the sunny side of the room and faced her.
He saw now that something of more than usual
importance absorbed her.

"Now, what is it?" he asked. His manner had
by this time regained something of the dictatorial
tone he always showed those beneath him in authority.

"It's about Bart. You've got to send him away."
She had not moved from her position in the middle
of the room.

The captain changed color and his voice lost its
sharpness.

"Bart! What's he done now?"

"He sneaks off with our Lucy every chance he
gets. They were on the beach yesterday hidin' behind 
the House o' Refuge with their heads together.
She had on Miss Jane's red cloak, and Ann Gossaway 
thought it was Miss Jane, and I let it go at
that."

The captain looked at Martha incredulously for a
moment, and then broke into a loud laugh as the
absurdity of the whole thing burst upon him. Then
dropping back a step, he stood leaning against the
old-fashioned sideboard, his elbows behind him, his
large frame thrust toward her.

"Well, what if they were--ain't she pretty
enough?" he burst out. "I told her she'd have
'em all crazy, and I hear Bart ain't done nothin'
but follow in her wake since he seen her launched."

Martha stepped closer to the captain and held her
fist in his face.

"He's got to stop it. Do ye hear me?" she
shouted. "If he don't there'll be trouble, for you
and him and everybody. It's me that's crazy, not
him."

"Stop it!" roared the captain, straightening up,
the glasses on the sideboard ringing with his sudden
lurch. "My boy keep away from the daughter of
Morton Cobden, who was the best friend I ever had
and to whom I owe more than any man who ever
lived! And this is what you traipsed up here to
tell me, is it, you mollycoddle?"

Again Martha edged nearer; her body bent forward, 
her eyes searching his--so close that she could
have touched his face with her knuckles.

"Hold your tongue and stop talkin' foolishness,"
she blazed out, the courage of a tigress fighting for
her young in her eyes, the same bold ring in her
voice. "I tell ye, Captain Holt, it's got to stop short
off, and NOW! I know men; have known 'em to my
misery. I know when they're honest and I know
when they ain't, and so do you, if you would open
your eyes. Bart don't mean no good to my bairn.
I see it in his face. I see it in the way he touches
her hand and ties on her bonnet. I've watched him
ever since the first night he laid eyes on her. He
ain't a man with a heart in him; he's a sneak with a
lie in his mouth. Why don't he come round like any
of the others and say where he's goin' and what he
wants to do instead of peepin' round the gate-posts
watchin' for her and sendin' her notes on the sly,
and makin' her lie to me, her old nurse, who's done
nothin' but love her? Doctor John don't treat Miss
Jane so--he loves her like a man ought to love a
woman and he ain't got nothin' to hide--and you
didn't treat your wife so. There's something here
that tells me"--and she laid her hand on her bosom
--"tells me more'n I dare tell ye. I warn ye now
ag'in. Send him to sea--anywhere, before it is too
late. She ain't got no mother; she won't mind a word
I say; Miss Jane is blind as a bat; out with him and
NOW!"

The captain straightened himself up, and with his
clenched fist raised above his head like a hammer
about to strike, cried:

"If he harmed the daughter of Morton Cobden
I'd kill him!" The words jumped hot from his
throat with a slight hissing sound, his eyes still
aflame.

"Well, then, stop it before it gets too late. I
walk the floor nights and I'm scared to death every
hour I live." Then her voice broke. "Please,
captain, please," she added in a piteous tone. "Don't
mind me if I talk wild, my heart is breakin', and
I can't hold in no longer," and she burst into a paroxysm 
of tears.

The captain leaned against the sideboard again
and looked down upon the floor as if in deep thought.
Martha's tears did not move him. The tears of few
women did. He was only concerned in getting hold
of some positive facts upon which he could base his
judgment.

"Come, now," he said in an authoritative voice,
"let me get that chair and set down and then I'll
see what all this amounts to. Sounds like a yarn of
a horse-marine." As he spoke he crossed the room
and, dragging a rocking-chair from its place beside
the wall, settled himself in it. Martha found a seat
upon the sofa and turned her tear-stained face toward 
him.

"Now, what's these young people been doin' that
makes ye so almighty narvous?" he continued, lying 
back in his chair and looking at her from under
his bushy eyebrows, his fingers supporting his forehead.

"Everything. Goes out sailin' with her and goes
driftin' past with his head in her lap. Fogarty's
man who brings fish to the house told me." She
had regained something of her old composure now.

"Anything else?" The captain's voice had a
relieved, almost condescending tone in it. He had
taken his thumb and forefinger from his eyebrow
now and sat drumming with his stiffened knuckles on
the arm of the rocker.

"Yes, a heap more--ain't that enough along with
the other things I've told ye?" Martha's eyes were
beginning to blaze again.

"No, that's just as it ought to be. Boys and girls
will be boys and girls the world over." The tone
of the captain's voice indicated the condition of his
mind. He had at last arrived at a conclusion. Martha's 
head was muddled because of her inordinate
and unnatural love for the child she had nursed.
She had found a spookship in a fog bank, that was
all. Jealousy might be at the bottom of it or a certain 
nervous fussiness. Whatever it was it was too
trivial for him to waste his time over.

The captain rose from his chair, crossed the sitting-room, 
and opened the door leading to the porch,
letting in the sunshine. Martha followed close at
his heels.

"You're runnin' on a wrong tack, old woman,
and first thing ye know ye'll be in the breakers," he
said, with his hand on the knob. "Ease off a little
and don't be too hard on 'em. They'll make harbor
all right. You're makin' more fuss than a hen over
one chicken. Miss Jane knows what she's about.
She's got a level head, and when she tells me that
my Bart ain't good enough to ship alongside the
daughter of Morton Cobden, I'll sign papers for
him somewhere else, and not before. I'll have to
get you to excuse me now; I'm busy. Good-day,"
and picking up his paper, he re-entered the house
and closed the door upon her.


CHAPTER VI


A GAME OF CARDS


Should Miss Gossaway have been sitting at her.
lookout some weeks after Martha's interview with
Captain Nat Holt, and should she have watched the
movements of Doctor John's gig as it rounded into
the open gate of Cobden Manor, she must have
decided that something out of the common was either
happening or about to happen inside Yardley's hospitable 
doors. Not only was the sorrel trotting at her
best, the doctor flapping the lines along her brown
back, his body swaying from side to side with the
motion of the light vehicle, but as he passed her house
he was also consulting the contents of a small envelope 
which he had taken from his pocket.

"Please come early," it read. "I have something
important to talk over with you."

A note of this character signed with so adorable a
name as "Jane Cobden" was so rare in the doctor's
experience that he had at once given up his round
of morning visits and, springing into his waiting gig,
had started to answer it in person.

He was alive with expectancy. What could she
want with him except to talk over some subject that
they had left unfinished? As he hurried on there
came into his mind half a dozen matters, any one
of which it would have been a delight to revive. He
knew from the way she worded the note that nothing
had occurred since he had seen her--within the week,
in fact--to cause her either annoyance or suffering.
No; it was only to continue one of their confidential
talks, which were the joy of his life.

Jane was waiting for him in the morning-room.
Her face lighted up as he entered and took her
hand, and immediately relaxed again into an expression 
of anxiety.

All his eagerness vanished. He saw with a sinking 
of the heart, even before she had time to speak,
that something outside of his own affairs, or hers,
had caused her to write the note.

"I came at once," he said, keeping her hand in
his. "You look troubled; what has happened?"

"Nothing yet," she answered, leading him to the
sofa, "It is about Lucy. She wants to go away for
the winter."

"Where to?" he asked. He had placed a cushion
at her back and had settled himself beside her.

"To Trenton, to visit her friend Miss Collins
and study music. She says Warehold bores her."

"And you don't want her to go?"

"No; I don't fancy Miss Collins, and I am afraid
she has too strong an influence over Lucy. Her personality 
grates on me; she is so boisterous, and she
laughs so loud; and the views she holds are unaccountable 
to me in so young a girl. She seems to
have had no home training whatever. Why Lucy
likes her, and why she should have selected her as
an intimate friend, has always puzzled me." She
spoke with her usual frankness and with that directness 
which always characterized her in matters of
this kind. "I had no one else to talk to and am
very miserable about it all. You don't mind my
sending for you, do you?"

"Mind! Why do you ask such a question? I am
never so happy as when I am serving you."

That she should send for him at all was happiness. 
Not sickness this time, nor some question of
investment, nor the repair of the barn or gate or out-
buildings--but Lucy, who lay nearest her heart!
That was even better than he had expected.

"Tell me all about it, so I can get it right," he
continued in a straightforward tone--the tone of the
physician, not the lover. She had relied on him,
and he intended to give her the best counsel of which
he was capable. The lover could wait.

"Well, she received a letter a week ago from Miss
Collins, saying she had come to Trenton for the
winter and had taken some rooms in a house belonging 
to her aunt, who would live with her. She
wants to be within reach of the same music-teacher
who taught the girls at Miss Parkham's school. She
says if Lucy will come it will reduce the expenses
and they can both have the benefit of the tuition. At
first Lucy did not want to go at all, now she insists,
and, strange to say, Martha encourages her."

"Martha wants her to leave?" he asked in surprise.

"She says so."

The doctor's face assumed a puzzled expression.
He could account for Lucy's wanting the freedom
and novelty of the change, but that Martha should be
willing to part with her bairn for the winter mystified
him. He knew nothing of the flirtation, of course,
and its effect on the old nurse, and could not, therefore, 
understand Martha's delight in Lucy's and
Bart's separation.

"You will be very lonely," he said, and a certain
tender tone developed in his voice.

"Yes, dreadfully so, but I would not mind if I
thought it was for her good. But I don't think so.
I may be wrong, and in the uncertainty I wanted to
talk it over with you. I get so desolate sometimes.
I never seemed to miss my father so much as now.
Perhaps it is because Lucy's babyhood and childhood
are over and she is entering upon womanhood with
all the dangers it brings. And she frightens me so
sometimes," she continued after a slight pause.
"She is different; more self-willed, more self-
centred. Besides, her touch has altered. She doesn't
seem to love me as she did--not in the same way."

"But she could never do anything else but love
you," he interrupted quickly, speaking for himself
as well as Lucy, his voice vibrating under his emotions. 
It was all he could do to keep his hands
from her own; her sending for him alone restrained
him.

"I know that, but it is not in the old way. It
used to be 'Sister, darling, don't tire yourself,' or
'Sister, dear, let me go upstairs for you,' or 'Cuddle
close here, and let us talk it all out together.' There
is no more of that. She goes her own way, and when
I chide her laughs and leaves me alone until I make
some new advance. Help me, please, and with all
the wisdom you can give me; I have no one else in
whom I can trust, no one who is big enough to know
what should be done. I might have talked to Mr.
Dellenbaugh about it, but he is away."

"No; talk it all out to me," he said simply. "I
so want to help you"--his whole heart was going out
to her in her distress.

"I know you feel sorry for me." She withdrew
her hand gently so as not to hurt him; she too did not
want to be misunderstood--having sent for him. "I
know how sincere your friendship is for me, but
put all that aside. Don't let your sympathy for me
cloud your judgment. What shall I do with Lucy?
Answer me as if you were her father and mine,"
and she looked straight into his eyes.

The doctor tightened the muscles of his throat,
closed his teeth, and summoned all his resolution.
If he could only tell her what was in his heart how
much easier it would all be! For some moments he
sat perfectly still, then he answered slowly--as her
man of business would have done:

"I should let her go."

"Why do you say so?"

"Because she will find out in that way sooner
than in any other how to appreciate you and her
home. Living in two rooms and studying music
will not suit Lucy. When the novelty wears off she
will long for her home, and when she comes back it
will be with a better appreciation of its comforts.
Let her go, and make her going as happy as you can."

And so Jane gave her consent--it is doubtful
whether Lucy would have waited for it once her mind
was made up--and in a week she was off, Doctor
John taking her himself as far as the Junction, and
seeing her safe on the road to Trenton. Martha
was evidently delighted at the change, for the old
nurse's face was wreathed in smiles that last morning 
as they all stood out by the gate while Billy
Tatham loaded Lucy's trunks and boxes. Only
once did a frown cross her face, and that was when
Lucy leaned over and whispering something in Bart's
ear, slipped a small scrap of paper between his
fingers. Bart crunched it tight and slid his hand
carelessly into his pocket, but the gesture did not
deceive the nurse: it haunted her for days thereafter.

As the weeks flew by and the letters from Trenton 
told of the happenings in Maria's home, it became
more and more evident to Jane that the doctor's
advice had been the wisest and best. Lucy would
often devote a page or more of her letters to recalling 
the comforts of her own room at Yardley, so
different from what she was enduring at Trenton,
and longing for them to come again. Parts of these
letters Jane read to the doctor, and all of them to
Martha, who received them with varying comment.
It became evident, too, that neither the excitement
of Bart's letters, nor the visits of the occasional
school friends who called upon them both, nor the
pursuit of her new accomplishment, had satisfied the
girl.

Jane was not surprised, therefore, remembering
the doctor's almost prophetic words, to learn of the
arrival of a letter from Lucy begging Martha to come
to her at once for a day or two. The letter was
enclosed in one to Bart and was handed to the nurse
by that young man in person. As he did so he
remarked meaningly that Miss Lucy wanted Martha's 
visit to be kept a secret from everybody but
Miss Jane, "just as a surprise," but Martha answered 
in a positive tone that she had no secrets
from those who had a right to know them, and that
he could write Lucy she was coming next day, and
that Jane and everybody else who might inquire
would know of it before she started.

She rather liked Bart's receiving the letter. As
long as that young man kept away from Trenton
and confined himself to Warehold, where she could
keep her eyes on him, she was content.

To Jane Martha said: "Oh, bless the darlin'!
She can't do a day longer without her Martha. I'll
go in the mornin'. It's a little pettin' she wants--
that's all."

So the old nurse bade Meg good-by, pinned her
big gray shawl about her, tied on her bonnet, took
a little basket with some delicacies and a pot of
jelly, and like a true Mother Hubbard, started off,
while Jane, having persuaded herself that perhaps
"the surprise" was meant for her, and that she
might be welcoming two exiles instead of one the
following night, began to put Lucy's room in order
and to lay out the many pretty things she loved,
especially the new dressing-gown she had made for
her, lined with blue silk--her favorite color.

All that day and evening, and far into the next
afternoon, Jane went about the house with the refrain
of an old song welling up into her heart--one that
had been stifled for months. The thought of the
round-about way in which Lucy had sent for Martha
did not dull its melody. That ruse, she knew, came
from the foolish pride of youth, the pride that could
not meet defeat. Underneath it she detected, with a
thrill, the love of home; this, after all, was what her
sister could not do without. It was not Bart this
time. That affair, as she had predicted and had
repeatedly told Martha, had worn itself out and had
been replaced by her love of music. She had simply
come to herself once more and would again be her
old-time sister and her child. Then, too--and this
sent another wave of delight tingling through her--
it had all been the doctor's doing! But for his
advice she would never have let Lucy go.

Half a dozen times, although the November afternoon 
was raw and chilly, with the wind fresh from
the sea and the sky dull, she was out on the front porch
without shawl or hat, looking down the path, covered
now with dead leaves, and scanning closely every
team that passed the gate, only to return again to
her place by the fire, more impatient than ever.

Meg's quick ear first caught the grating of the
wheels. Jane followed him with a cry of joyous expectation, 
and flew to the door to meet the stage, which
for some reason--why, she could not tell--had
stopped for a moment outside the gate, dropping only
one passenger, and that one the nurse.

"And Lucy did not come, Martha!" Jane exclaimed, 
with almost a sob in her voice. She had
reached her side now, followed by Meg, who was
springing straight at the nurse in the joy of his
welcome.

The old woman glanced back at the stage, as if
afraid of being overheard, and muttered under her
breath:

"No, she couldn't come."

"Oh, I am so disappointed! Why not?"

Martha did not answer. She seemed to have lost
her breath. Jane put her arm about her and led
her up the path. Once she stumbled, her step was
so unsteady, and she would have fallen but for Jane's
assistance.

The two had now reached the hand-railing of the
porch. Here Martha's trembling foot began to feel
about for the step. Jane caught her in her arms.

"You're ill, Martha!" she cried in alarm. "Give
me the bag. What's the matter?"

Again Martha did not answer.

"Tell me what it is."

"Upstairs! Upstairs!" Martha gasped in reply.
Quick!"

"What has happened?"

"Not here; upstairs."

They climbed the staircase together, Jane half
carrying the fainting woman, her mind in a whirl.

"Where were you taken ill? Why did you try
to come home? Why didn't Lucy come with
you?"

They had reached the door of Jane's bedroom
now, Martha clinging to her arm.

Once inside, the nurse leaned panting against the
door, put her bands to her face as if she would
shut out some dreadful spectre, and sank slowly to
the floor.

"It is not me," she moaned, wringing her hands,
"not me--not--"

"Who?"

"Oh, I can't say it!"

"Lucy?"

"Yes"

"Not ill?"

The value of time is unknown: at least, it is not properly estimated,
till grey hairs, wrinkled features, and a debilitated frame check
the career; then eternity, with all its hopes and fears, opens to
the view.

We will for a moment consider you upon the bed of sickness, surrounded
by your family; a physician, with an air of irresolution, writing
a prescription, and your anxious countenance denoting the insufficiency
of all earthly aid; will the remembrance of balls, routs, and
artificial scenes, cheer the dying hour?

The moment arrives when you close your eyes upon this world and its
vanities; 'ashes to ashes, and dust to dust,' finish the scene!

The mouldering earth is lightly scattered over the
coffin, and the tomb is deserted by survivors.

But remember, a day will come when you will
be called to judgment, to answer for your deeds upon
earth. In what manner will days, months, and years
of folly be justified, in the presence of your Creator
and Judge?"

CHAPTER XI.

A little time after the discovery of the letter Miss Vincent returned
home to her mamma, who had been some time seriously indisposed;
and, to the great joy of Mrs.

Adair, the following week Miss Russel left the school,
to accompany her parents to the Continent.

"Now we shall go on pleasantly," said Mrs.
Adair to her daughters; "the only two disagreeable girls we had
under our care are removed: and if ever I have another of a similar
description, I will send her home immediately, whatever be the
consequence."

Mrs. Adair's mind, at the time she said this, was
a little irritated, for she had heard something
particularly unpleasant respecting the conduct of
her late pupils. She now resolved to be strict in
future; never allow the young ladies to be alone, even in the
play-ground, nor permit them to spend an hour from the school between
the vacations, except by the express desire of parents in particular
cases.

When the young ladies heard there would be no
half-day holydays between the vacations, there was
a general consternation amongst them. Some
murmured, and others were satisfied that Mrs.

Adair must have good reason for her proceeding.
When Miss Bruce heard the new rule, she said to
Isabella Vincent, "I never knew such a thing!
Not visit this half year!

And my Aunt promised to take me to the
exhibition, and Miss Linwood's works, and I don't
know where! I never knew any thing so provoking! But
I will be revenged, that I will!"
"And what will you do?" asked Isabella; "what do you
mean by revenge?

I am sure it is something very wrong."
"It is only making others feel as well as ourselves,
that's all."
"But if they vex us, why should we vex them? I
know I always feel sorry when I have made people
angry."
"Don't talk to me--I will write such a theme!"
"Ah, Miss Bruce! mamma says we should never do
wrong."
"I wish you would not mention your mamma, for it
is a very ugly word."
"O, Miss Bruce, I never heard such a thing!"

"I once loved it dearly," said Miss Bruce, in a
softened tone. "Those were happy days! I can fancy
I see somebody now, sitting up in bed, with
her nice white cap, so pale, and so pretty; and somebody kneeling
by her, and praying for her, and blessing her.

But all would not do, to save one I loved!" Here tears
trickled from her eyes: but she suddenly
recollected herself; "I must not think of it; it is over, and for
ever gone!

And now for my theme."
"Poor Miss Bruce," said Isabella, in a soothing tone, "I
wish you were my sister, and then you would have
my mamma, and she would love you so!"
"And do you think I would give up some one, for all
the mammas in the world! No, no--there is no one like
him. But I will mortify Mrs. Adair, that I
will! To think that I must not go to my Aunt's
on Thursday! And there will be my cousins, and
Edward Warner, and Margaret James, and some one
who is worth them all; though I don't talk of him as
you talk of your Papa."
After musing a few minutes, with her pencil in her
hand, and her head resting upon a slate, she
joyfully exclaimed, "I have it, I have it indeed!"

"And what have you got?" cried Isabella, as she
sprang from her seat, and looked over Miss Bruce's
shoulder.

"Only my ideas; neither apples nor plums. But I
wish you would not wipe my face with your curls.
I have got the clue to my fable; I will have Mrs.
Adair, and I think your papa too."
"I am sure you never shall: you never saw papa!"
"Indeed Miss Isabella, you are quite mistaken; I have seen
him in shop windows, in magazines, and I am certain he is in a
fine gilt frame in our study."

"I wish people would not take such liberties.
Papa has no business to be in windows, and other
people's frames."
"Why, don't you know that only great writers,
and great fighters, and very good men, and very
bad men, are noticed that way!

If your papa was not good as well as great, he
would not be fixed in our house, unless in
the servant's room, with Jemmy and Sandy, and the Storm, and Auld
Robin Grey.

Whatever you may think, it is a very great honour
to be noticed by somebody that I could name."

"I have not any thing to do with honour," cried
Isabella, "and talking of things I don't know."
"Hush! don't speak!

Can't you see that I am busy. I wish I knew
what people do when they have great books to write.

My thoughts jumble so together, I can't tell what to make of them;
it is sad teasing work."

"If Caroline was here, she could tell you what to write."

"And do you think that I should ask a dunce?

If I could but begin, I know I could go on."
Here Miss Bruce considered a little. "I must think
of my thoughts: no, I must write them down."

"O, Miss Bruce, Miss Bruce!" cried Isabella,
eagerly, "do look through the window; there is a
balloon flying, and a paper boy tied to it!"
"I wish you were flying too: don't you see that I
want to write my fable. Let me see: Ass, 1; Farmer
Killwell, 2; somebody's papa, but not mine. Turkey,
3; Barn-fowls, 4; Little schoolgirl, 5. O, how shall
I put all these words together to make any thing
of them! O, that I could but begin! There it is!"
said Miss Bruce joyfully; and she wrote several words
upon her slate. "Well, there is nothing like a good
beginning! I will finish to-night; so now let
us go to the ladies," and Miss Bruce skipped out of
the room, with her slate and Isabella.

CHAPTER XII.

With some surprise, Miss Damer, in looking over
the themes, read the following fable:

"One bleak, cold winter morning, an ass and her foals
were loitering upon the edge of a wild common;
not a tree was to be seen, and scarcely a bit of
herbage for their breakfast to be found.

'This is a comfortless life!' said the ass; 'the
winds are chilly, the snow will soon fall, and
we have not a shed to cover us!

What shall we do? for I fear we shall be lost.' The
ass turned her head, for she heard the tinkling
of bells, and saw a shepherd driving sheep from
the common. 'Ah! a happy thought!
we will go to Farmer Killwell, and tell our sorrows
unto him.' No sooner said than done; they plodded
through miry lanes, waded through shallow brooks,
and at length arrived at the farmer's gate. The
tale was soon told. The farmer pitied their piteous
case; 'but,' said he, 'idleness bringeth want. Exert
yourselves, and you will find friends.

Begin a school at once; here are my poultry, my
birds, and my young cattle to teach: not a moment is
to be lost.'

--'It is a good thing to have a good friend!'
said the ass, as she stalked into the farm-yard.
Here she brayed with a most audible voice: 'Hearken to me, parents
and little ones!'

she cried; 'I am come hither to inspire you all
with wisdom.'
"The goose, as wise as a goose can be, stared at
the speaker; tossed her head on one side, gave a
loud quack, and returned to comfort her goslings, who were fluttering
in every direction.

"'You little ducklings,' continued the ass,
'don't spread your feet so vulgarly.

Mrs. Turkey, I have long sighed for the honour
of your patronage: the charming little poults, I hope,
will gain new beauties from our exertions.

Mrs. Barn-fowl, your chickens are too timid; we
shall soon teach them to hop with grace.

As for these awkward maudlin rabbits, I fear
we cannot do any thing with them; and these ill-bred creatures, Mrs.

Sow's progeny, we cannot attempt to teach.'

A sturdy mastiff, who had followed the group
of gazers, now barked furiously; dispersed
the poultry, pushed Mrs. Sow and her family into
the mud; and, spite of Farmer Killwell, drove the
ass and her foals out of the farm-yard. A little
girl, who was witness to the hubbub, exclaimed,
'Ah!
this is excellent! Mrs.

Adair has borrowed a garment from the ass, to
teach simple ones wisdom; but she will never
teach little girls to love new rules.'"

"Where is the moral to your fable?"

asked Miss Damer, with some degree of anger.

"I never thought of the moral; of what use would
it be to my theme?" returned Miss Bruce.

"And of what use is any theme or fable
without a moral? But I wish to know your motive for
writing this ridiculous piece."
"To vex Mrs.

Adair, certainly, because she won't let me go to my Aunt's on
Thursday."

"And do you really think that it is in your power
to vex Mrs.

Adair with this trifling nonsense? You may be
assured of this, Miss Bruce, the only notice she will take of this
childish, insignificant fable, will be to make you read it to the
ladies."

"I won't be talked to in this way, though you are
my monitress.

I will write what I please;" so saying, she
snatched the slate from Miss Damer, and in
haste rubbed off the words.

"The wisest thing you could do," said Miss Damer.
"Now sit down, and reflect seriously upon your conduct, and then
tell me whether you feel quite satisfied with yourself, or whether
you are grateful to Mrs.

Adair for her care of you, and attention to you.
You are the only little girl who has not a mamma:
who would be so indulgent, so tender to you, as
Mrs. Adair?"
At these words Miss Bruce sobbed violently; but her
sorrow was of short duration: "You would vex any
thing, Miss Damer, with talking so quietly. I like
people to be angry with me, and then I can be angry
myself."
"My dear, I shall not listen to you, so I advise you to cease
talking:
it is my plan never to argue with unruly little girls.

Come, Miss Grey, and Isabella; we will go into
the play-ground."
Isabella whispered to Miss Bruce as she passed her; "do,
dear Miss Bruce, be good.

Why should you vex Miss Damer when she is so kind to you?"

Miss Bruce pushed her companion's hand from her shoulder, and turned
her face to the wall, and there they found her on their return.

When the bell rang for prayers, Miss Bruce sprang
across the room to Miss Damer, who was seated,
talking to Miss Arden, and throwing her arms round her neck, she
exclaimed, "You must indeed forgive me; I cannot sleep unless you
say, 'good night.'"

Miss Damer turned round, and kissed her: "Now, my dear, I hope you
will never offend me again."

"Oh, Miss Damer! I will love you for ever, for
forgiving me so soon." The bell rang, and she
hastened out of the room.

"Should you not have been a little more stern?"
said Miss Arden.

"My dear friend, ask yourself whether you could
be so to a little girl who has no mother."

Tears started into Miss Arden's eyes.

"I did not think of that."

CHAPTER XIII.

One evening after school-hours, Mrs. Adair went
into Jane's apartment, who at this time was chiefly
confined to her chamber, and found her busily
employed sealing small parcels.

One was directed, "For my friend Miss Damer;"
another, "For my dear little Isabella Vincent;" and a third,
"For my amiable young friend Miss Arden."

Mrs. Adair seated herself with the work in which
she was engaged: and as her eyes glanced to the
sealed parcels, tears stole down her cheeks.

"My dear mother," said Jane with tenderness, "I am only making a
little preparation before my journey.

You must have been aware, some time, that the days
of my life were numbered; and they will now be very few.

But do not grieve on my account: it is the
appointment of One, who is unerring in his ways. Excepting
the separation from you and my sister, I feel
that I have no regret at leaving this world.

"Death is a subject that I have often contemplated.
The grave, and the last perishable garment in which I
shall be clothed, have now lost all their terrors. The
evening I first arrived at school, when my
mind was filled with grief at our separation, I
remember being greatly shocked at the slow, solemn,
deep tones of the village church-bell. I cannot
describe my feelings at the time. Sorrow at leaving
home rendered the awful muffled peal more
dismal to my ears: but from that night I may
date my first serious thoughts of another world.
I have never troubled my friends with my reflections,
but that bell was as a monitor, to warn me that I
was not for this world."
Miss Arden now entered the room; and Mrs. Adair gladly
escaped, to indulge her tears in secret. With a
calm collected countenance she then re-joined her
pupils; but at the same time experienced the
sorrow of a parent, who knows she is soon to be
deprived of a beloved child. For Jane's appearance
too plainly denoted, that the period was at hand
"when the keepers of the house would tremble." At
this time her uneasiness was increased by a melancholy,
distressing letter from Mrs.

Vincent, urging her not to delay a moment
coming to her; that she was to undergo an operation,
that would either close life or restore her to
her family. Various feelings agitated Mrs. Adair's
mind as she read the letter. After a little
reflection, she fixed upon the proper mode of acting,
and in an hour a chaise was at the door, to convey
her to her old friend.

Jane had now been confined wholly to her chamber
a fortnight. Her disease was of a fluctuating nature:
sometimes she appeared almost in perfect health; at others,
as one dropping into the grave. She was
seated in an arm-chair, supported with pillows. When
Mrs. Adair entered the chamber, one hand rested upon a
book that lay open upon a small table, and near
the book was her watch; her head was thrown
back, and her face was covered with a muslin
handkerchief. Mrs.

Adair, who had slowly opened the door, now as
cautiously advanced; listened to hear her daughter
breathe; and then gently raised the handkerchief.

Jane started.
Afraid of disturbing her, Mrs. Adair remained some
time with fixed attention, holding the handkerchief
from her face.

A hectic flush was upon her cheeks; but her countenance
was placid and happy. When she returned into her own
chamber, Elizabeth was there, who anxiously
inquired if she had seen her sister.

"But have you taken leave of her?" she cried.

Mrs. Adair drew the veil of her bonnet over her face,
as she said, "taking leave is a trial of all
others--" and here she paused; "this is not of any
consequence to you."
"O, my dear mother, we have no earthly hope, no support but yourself;
let my sister's eyes rest for the last time upon the mother she has
so tenderly loved; she will not die in peace unless you are with
her."

"My feelings are as irritable as your own," said Mrs.
Adair; "leave me to act according to my own judgment: not another
word.

Bring Isabella to me, for the chaise is at the
door."
While the ladies were walking with Miss Wilkins,
the teacher, Elizabeth went into her sister's
chamber; and at the door met Mrs. Lloyd, the
housekeeper, who had been ordered by Mrs. Adair
to explain the motive of the journey to Jane.

"O, sister," cried Elizabeth, "how could my
mother, so considerate and good as she is, leave
you in this state!"
"We cannot tell all her motives," said Jane; "only consider
what were my mother's feelings, when she fixed her
eyes upon this poor emaciated frame, as she supposed, for the last
time."

"It was cruelty in the extreme," cried Elizabeth.

"Do no speak rashly, my dear Elizabeth; we will
hope--" and her eyes brightened with an expression of joy,
"that all will yet be well; that, through the mercy of
Providence, Mrs.

Vincent will be restored to health, and that I
shall be permitted to remain a little longer
with you."
"O, that it were to the day of my own death,"
exclaimed Elizabeth with fervency.

"There are few persons to whom my heart earnestly
inclines, and I would have them with me through this life, and all
eternity."

"My dear sister, these things are not at our
disposal. But let us consider the subject: every
night we experience temporary dissolution:
and then we are separated, even as if the hand of
death had smitten us; when we go to rest, we have
no positive assurance that we are to open our
eyes again upon the objects of this world; still
we project schemes; calculate upon probable and improbable events;
but the entire suspension of our faculties is never taken into the
account.

Yet we are ignorant whether we are to open our
eyes on the objects of this world, or that which
is to come. I own I have not any desponding thoughts; I
rest alone upon the mercies and the merits of
a suffering and a redeeming Saviour; he is my
sole refuge. To our mother, my conscience acquits
me either of intentional errors, or errors of omission.
This is a source of the purest consolation; it clears
the rough, the thorny path to the valley of death.
Elizabeth, my dearest sister, listen to me before I go
hence, and be no more seen. Every night recall to
mind the actions of the day.
Let this be the question you put to yourself:
"Have I done my duty in all things?" Where you
have failed, let the morning sun, as it rises, be a
token to you that another day is given for wise
and good purposes; in the grave there is no remembrance
of error, no atonement to be made for transgression,
for neglect of the social duties of life."
Elizabeth gazed at her sister with feelings of tenderness and
sorrow.

"All things pass away," said Jane, as she raised
her eyes to her sister's agitated face; "but 'when
this mortal has put on immortality,' then Elizabeth,
when we meet again, it will not be for transient
days, and years, but for ages of eternity."
Exhausted with speaking so long, she pointed to the
book upon the table.

"The spirit is willing," said she, faintly, "but my
voice is weak; will you oblige me, sister?"

"From my heart I will," exclaimed Elizabeth;
"would that I could not only oblige, but retain
you for our comfort, for this world to my mother
will be a wilderness indeed."
"Not so," said Jane, tears flowing into her eyes;
"my affectionate, my warm-hearted sister will be
my substitute! O, Elizabeth, friend dearest to me,
may you be blessed where your heart is fixed."

Elizabeth started, and her countenance became pale as death.

"Sister," Jane slowly added, "you could not keep the
secret from me; I have traced it in all your actions; but, rest
assured, it will descend with me to the grave."

CHAPTER XIV.

Elizabeth was restless and uneasy the whole of the
day that her mother had taken her departure for
Colonel Vincent's.

The evening was wet and gloomy; the young
people could not, therefore, take their usual
exercise in the play-ground. After sitting some time
with her sister and Miss Arden, she sauntered into
the school-room, to observe how they were employed.
Some of the young ladies were attending to their lessons
for the following day. One party had spread
the road to happiness upon a work-box; all anxious to attain the
desired haven.

Another young lady was seated alone, joining the
map of Europe. In a corner of the room, apart from all
her companions, Miss Bruce was reading the admirable
instructive tale "Display." Elizabeth looked over
her shoulder, "My dear, I thought you had read that book six months
ago."

"O yes, ma'am; but I can read it over and over
again: there is not a new book now in the school."

"You mean," said Elizabeth, smiling, "that
you have read them all.

But can you explain the word "Display?"

for I think most young ladies are partial to it,
in one shape or another."

A carriage now stopped at the door; and Elizabeth exclaimed, "who
is in that carriage?"

Miss Grey, who was near the window, raised herself
upon a box, and looking over the blind, cried, "Mrs.

Adair, ma'am, and Miss Isabella Vincent."

Elizabeth hastened from the room, and met her mother at the hall
door, joyfully exclaiming, "O, my dear mother, this is an unexpected,
welcome pleasure!

But how is Mrs.

Vincent?"
"Composed and comfortable; the operation was performed
yesterday: but it was not my intention to desert you: how
could you think so?"
The truth was, Mrs. Adair had called upon the
physician, and begged that he would inform her
daughter that she would return in the evening:
but a press of engagements had prevented his visit to Jane, who
now with joy beheld her mother enter her chamber.

"I thought you would return to see me on my
journey," she exclaimed; "and you are returned,
my dear mother. Blessed be this hour!"
Miss Arden and Miss Damer, from the hour they
met in the summer-house, were strict friends. Their
capacities were similar, and they were at the head of the different
classes.

On the days appointed for geography, the young ladies were in a
room called the study.

Miss Arden had observed that one of the
servants, a respectable looking young woman,
generally contrived to enter the apartment, and busy
herself with one thing or another: but always looked,
anxiously at the globes, or the maps, and stopped a
moment to listen, either to the teacher or the
pupils. Miss Arden noticed the circumstance
to her friend; "I will certainly ask Catherine," she
said, "if she has any motive in attending to our
pursuits; there is something in her countenance that
excites my curiosity."

The first time she met her alone, she made the
inquiry.

"I have, indeed, ma'am, a motive," said
Catherine; "I would give all my wages, could I but
learn as you do."
"But of what use, Catherine, would learning be
to you? You can read your Bible; and it will shew
you all that is necessary for you to know.

Your duty as a servant, and the way to heaven,
the place where we all hope to meet, when we have done with this
world, and its cares."

"Ah, ma'am, I am not satisfied even with knowing
this, though it is all that a servant should know."
"I do not understand you, Catherine. Tell me
why you wish to gain other knowledge?"
"Because, ma'am, I am most wishful to be useful to my
parents. They are poor, and have a large family
to bring up. If I could but open a little school in our
village, what a blessing should I be to them!"

"Well, Catherine," said Miss Arden, after
considering a little, "I will do what I can for
you--I mean if Miss Damer approves; for I dare not trust to my own
judgment.

Meet me in the school-room early to-morrow morning, and I well tell
you how it is to be."

When the friends met in the play-ground, they
talked the subject over.

"There cannot, I think, be any thing wrong in
doing good to a fellow-creature," said Miss Damer,
"therefore I think we may venture; but we must rise
an hour earlier than usual."
Catherine was delighted when she heard the result of their conference;
and, with many expressions of thankfulness, promised to leave a
lamp at their door.

The young ladies began the employment of teaching with alacrity.

They endeavoured to ground Catherine in those
things that would be useful in a village school. But
geography her mind was bent upon, so Miss Arden presented to her
a book; likewise several little works, which she thought would be
useful.

One morning, however, they were surprised in the
midst of their lessons.
"Begin that line again," said Miss Arden. Elizabeth
had walked gently into the room, and now stood
by the table where the two young ladies were seated, and Catherine
standing.

When they beheld her, they all started, and
looked aghast. "You are very early at your
tasks, young ladies! But I did not know that
we had a new pupil.

Pray when did she arrive?"
"I beg you a thousand pardons, ma'am, for leading the young ladies
to do wrong!

It was all my fault," said Catherine.

Miss Arden related the matter plainly as it was.

"I commend Catherine," said Elizabeth, "for her wish
to serve her parents; nor am I offended with you, young ladies,
for wishing to serve her.

But you must beware that we are not to do a
wrong thing, even with the very best motives. There is
always something mean in acting clandestinely.

Why could you not have been candid, and told
me her wish? You must not meet here again.
Catherine, when you have leisure, continue your
lessons; and I will fix upon some other mode of
instructing you; at least a proper time, not by the light of a
lamp."

CHAPTER XV.

When the physician was first called in to attend Jane, he strictly
forbad any person sleeping with her: Elizabeth, therefore, removed
to a small camp bed, which was placed by her sister.

Her hand was still under his, her fingers lying
limp, all the pathos of her suffering in her face:
determination to do her duty, horror over the situation, 
and above them all her overwhelming love for
him.

He put his arm about her shoulders and drew her
to him.

"You love me, Jane, don't you?"

"Yes, more than all else in the world," she
answered simply. "Too well"--and her voice broke
--"to have you give up your career for me or mine."

"Then why should we live apart? I am willing
to do as much for Lucy as you would. Let me share
the care and responsibility. You needn't, perhaps,
be gone more than a year, and then we will all come
back together, and I take up my work again. I
need you, my beloved. Nothing that I do seems of
any use without you. You are my great, strong
light, and have always been since the first day I
loved you. Let me help bear these burdens. You
have carried them so long alone."

His face lay against hers now, her hand still
clasped tight in his. For an instant she did not
answer or move; then she straightened a little and
lifted her cheek from his.

"John," she said--it was the first time in all her
life she had called him thus--"you wouldn't love
me if I should consent. You have work to do here
and I now have work to do on the other side. We
cannot work together; we must work apart. Your
heart is speaking, and I love you for it, but we must
not think of it now. It may come right some time--
God only knows! My duty is plain--I must go with
Lucy. Neither you nor my dead father would love
me if I did differently."

"I only know that I love you and that you love
me and nothing else should count," he pleaded impatiently. 
"Nothing else shall count. There is
nothing you could do would make me love you less.
You are practical and wise about all your plans.
Why has this whim of Lucy's taken hold of you as
it has? And it is only a whim; Lucy will want
something else in six months. Oh, I cannot--cannot 
let you go. I'm so desolate without you--my
whole life is yours--everything I do is for you.
O Jane, my beloved, don't shut me out of your life!
I will not let you go without me!" His voice
vibrated with a certain indignation, as if he had been
unjustly treated. She raised one hand and laid
it on his forehead, smoothing his brow as a mother
would that of a child. The other still lay in his.

"Don't, John," she moaned, in a half-piteous tone.
"Don't! Don't talk so! I can only bear comforting
words to-day. I am too wretched--too utterly broken
and miserable. Please! please, John!"

He dropped her hand and leaning forward put both
of his own to his head. He knew how strong was
her will and how futile would be his efforts to
change her mind unless her conscience agreed.

"I won't," he answered, as a strong man answers
who is baffled. "I did not mean to be impatient or
exacting." Then he raised his head and looked
steadily into her eyes. "What would you have me
do, then?"

"Wait."

"But you give me no promise."

"No, I cannot--not now. I am like one staggering 
along, following a dim light that leads hither
and thither, and which may any moment go out
and leave me in utter darkness."

"Then there is something you have not told me?"

"O John! Can't you trust me?"

"And yet you love me?"

"As my life, John."

When he had gone and she had closed the door
upon him, she went back to the sofa where the two
had sat together, and with her hands clasped tight
above her head, sank down upon its cushions. The
tears came like rain now, bitter, blinding tears that
she could not check.

"I have hurt him," she moaned. "He is so good,
and strong, and helpful. He never thinks of himself; 
it is always of me--me, who can do nothing.
The tears were in his eyes--I saw them. Oh, I've
hurt him--hurt him! And yet, dear God, thou
knowest I could not help it."

Maddened with the pain of it all she sprang up,
determined to go to him and tell him everything.
To throw herself into his arms and beg forgiveness
for her cruelty and crave the protection of his
strength. Then her gaze fell upon her father's portrait! 
The cold, steadfast eyes were looking down
upon her as if they could read her very soul. "No!
No!" she sobbed, putting her hands over her eyes
as if to shut out some spectre she had not the courage
to face. "It must not be--it CANNOT be," and she
sank back exhausted.

When the paroxysm was over she rose to her feet,
dried her eyes, smoothed her hair with both hands,
and then, with lips tight pressed and faltering steps,
walked upstairs to where Martha was getting Lucy's
things ready for the coming journey. Crossing the
room, she stood with her elbows on the mantel, her
cheeks tight pressed between her palms, her eyes on
the embers. Martha moved from the open trunk and
stood behind her.

"It was Doctor John, wasn't it?" she asked in a
broken voice that told of her suffering.

"Yes," moaned Jane from between her hands.

"And ye told him about your goin'?"

"Yes, Martha." Her frame was shaking with
her sobs.

"And about Lucy?"

"No, I could not."

Martha leaned forward and laid her hand on
Jane's shoulder.

"Poor lassie!" she said, patting it softly. "Poor
lassie! That was the hardest part. He's big and
strong and could 'a' comforted ye. My heart aches
for ye both!"


CHAPTER VIII


AN ARRIVAL


With the departure of Jane and Lucy the old
homestead took on that desolate, abandoned look
which comes to most homes when all the life and
joyousness have gone from them. Weeds grew in the
roadway between the lilacs, dandelions flaunted themselves 
over the grass-plots; the shutters of the porch
side of the house were closed, and the main gate
always thrown wide day and night in ungoverned
welcome, was seldom opened except to a few intimate
friends of the old nurse.

At first Pastor Dellenbaugh had been considerate
enough to mount the long path to inquire for news
of the travelers and to see how Martha was getting
along, but after the receipt of the earlier letters from
Jane telling of their safe arrival and their sojourn
in a little village but a short distance out of Paris,
convenient to the great city, even his visits ceased.
Captain Holt never darkened the door; nor did he
ever willingly stop to talk to Martha when he met
her on the road. She felt the slight, and avoided
him when she could. This resulted in their seldom
speaking to each other, and then only in the most
casual way. She fancied he might think she wanted
news of Bart, and so gave him no opportunity to discuss 
him or his whereabouts; but she was mistaken.
The captain never mentioned his name to friend or
stranger. To him the boy was dead for all time.
Nor had anyone of his companions heard from him
since that stormy night on the beach.

Doctor John's struggle had lasted for months, but
he had come through it chastened and determined.
For the first few days he went about his work as
one in a dream, his mind on the woman he loved,
his hand mechanically doing its duty. Jane had so
woven herself into his life that her sudden departure
had been like the upwrenching of a plant, tearing
out the fibres twisted about his heart, cutting off all
his sustenance and strength. The inconsistencies of
her conduct especially troubled him. If she loved
him--and she had told him that she did, and with
their cheeks touching--how could she leave him in
order to indulge a mere whim of her sister's? And
if she loved him well enough to tell him so, why
had she refused to plight him her troth? Such a
course was unnatural, and out of his own and everyone 
else's experience. Women who loved men with
a great, strong, healthy love, the love he could give
her, and the love he knew she could give him, never
permitted such trifles to come between them and
their life's happiness. What, he asked himself a
thousand times, had brought this change?

As the months went by these doubts and speculations 
one by one passed out of his mind, and only
the image of the woman he adored, with all her
qualities--loyalty to her trust, tenderness over Lucy
and unquestioned love for himself--rose clear. No,
he would believe in her to the end! She was still
all he had in life. If she would not be his wife she
should be his friend. That happiness was worth all
else to him in the world. His was not to criticise,
but to help. Help as SHE wanted it; preserving her
standard of personal honor, her devotion to her ideals,
her loyalty, her blind obedience to her trust.

Mrs. Cavendish had seen the change in her son's
demeanor and had watched him closely through his
varying moods, but though she divined their cause
she had not sought to probe his secret.

His greatest comfort was in his visits to Martha.
He always dropped in to see her when he made his
rounds in the neighborhood; sometimes every day,
sometimes once a week, depending on his patients
and their condition--visits which were always prolonged 
when a letter came from either of the girls,
for at first Lucy wrote to the old nurse as often as
did Jane. Apart from this the doctor loved the
patient caretaker, both for her loyalty and for her
gentleness. And she loved him in return; clinging
to him as an older woman clings to a strong man,
following his advice (he never gave orders) to the
minutest detail when something in the management
or care of house or grounds exceeded her grasp.
Consulting him, too, and this at Jane's special request
--regarding any financial complications which
needed prompt attention, and which, but for his
services, might have required Jane's immediate return
to disentangle. She loved, too, to talk of Lucy and of
Miss Jane's goodness to her bairn, saying she had
been both a sister and a mother to her, to which
the doctor would invariably add some tribute of
his own which only bound the friendship the
closer.

His main relief, however, lay in his work, and in
this he became each day more engrossed. He seemed
never to be out of his gig unless at the bedside of
some patient. So long and wearing had the routes
become--often beyond Barnegat and as far as Westfield
--that the sorrel gave out, and he was obliged
to add another horse to his stable. His patients saw
the weary look in his eyes--as of one who had often
looked on sorrow--and thought it was the hard work
and anxiety over them that had caused it. But the
old nurse knew better.

"His heart's breakin' for love of her," she would
say to Meg, looking down into his sleepy eyes--she
cuddled him more than ever these days--"and
I don't wonder. God knows how it'll all end."

Jane wrote to him but seldom; only half a dozen
letters in all during the first year of her absence
among them one to tell him of their safe arrival,
another to thank him for his kindness to Martha,
and a third to acknowledge the receipt of a letter
of introduction to a student friend of his who was
now a prominent physician in Paris, and who might
be useful in case either of them fell ill. He had
written to his friend at the same time, giving the
address of the two girls, but the physician had answered 
that he had called at the street and number,
but no one knew of them. The doctor reported this
to Jane in his next letter, asking her to write to his
friend so that he might know of their whereabouts
should they need his services, for which Jane, in a
subsequent letter, thanked him, but made no mention
of sending to his friend should occasion require.
These subsequent letters said very little about their
plans and carefully avoided all reference to their
daily life or to Lucy's advancement in her studies,
and never once set any time for their coming home.
He wondered at her neglect of him, and when no
answer came to his continued letters, except at long
intervals, he could contain himself no longer, and
laid the whole matter before Martha.

"She means nothing, doctor, dear," she had answered, 
taking his hand and looking up into his
troubled face. "Her heart is all right; she's goin'
through deep waters, bein' away from everybody she
loves--you most of all. Don't worry; keep on lovin'
her, ye'll never have cause to repent it."

That same night Martha wrote to Jane, giving her
every detail of the interview, and in due course of
time handed the doctor a letter in which Jane wrote:
"He MUST NOT stop writing to me; his letters are all
the comfort I have"--a line not intended for the
doctor's eyes, but which the good soul could not keep
from him, so eager was she to relieve his pain.

Jane's letter to him in answer to his own expressing 
his unhappiness over her neglect was less direct,
but none the less comforting to him. "I am constantly 
moving about," the letter ran, "and have
much to do and cannot always answer your letters,
so please do not expect them too often. But I am
always thinking of you and your kindness to dear
Martha. You do for me when you do for her."

After this it became a settled habit between them,
he writing by the weekly steamer, telling her every
thought of his life, and she replying at long intervals.
In these no word of love was spoken on her side; nor
was any reference made to their last interview. But
this fact did not cool the warmth of his affection
nor weaken his faith. She had told him she loved
him, and with her own lips. That was enough--
enough from a woman like Jane. He would lose
faith when she denied it in the same way. In the
meantime she was his very breath and being.

One morning two years after Jane's departure,
while the doctor and his mother sat at breakfast,
Mrs. Cavendish filling the tea-cups, the spring sunshine 
lighting up the snow-white cloth and polished
silver, the mail arrived and two letters were laid
at their respective plates, one for the doctor and the
other for his mother.

As Doctor John glanced at the handwriting his
face flushed, and his eyes danced with pleasure.
With eager, trembling fingers he broke the seal and
ran his eyes hungrily over the contents. It had
been his habit to turn to the bottom of the last page
before he read the preceding ones, so that he might
see the signature and note the final words of affection 
or friendship, such as "Ever your friend,"
or "Affectionately yours," or simply "Your friend,"
written above Jane's name. These were to him
the thermometric readings of the warmth of her
heart.

Half way down the first page--before he had time
to turn the leaf--he caught his breath in an effort
to smother a sudden outburst of joy. Then with a
supreme effort he regained his self-control and read
the letter to the end. (He rarely mentioned Jane's
name to his mother, and he did not want his delight
over the contents of the letter to be made the basis
of comment.)

Mrs. Cavendish's outburst over the contents of her
own envelope broke the silence and relieved his
tension.

"Oh, how fortunate!" she exclaimed. "Listen,
John; now I really have good news for you. You
remember I told you that I met old Dr. Pencoyd the
last time I was in Philadelphia, and had a long
talk with him. I told him how you were buried here
and how hard you worked and how anxious I was
that you should leave Barnegat, and he promised to
write to me, and he has. Here's his letter. He says
he is getting too old to continue his practice alone,
that his assistant has fallen ill, and that if you will
come to him at once he will take you into partnership
and give you half his practice. I always knew something 
good would come out of my last visit to Philadelphia. 
Aren't you delighted, my son?"

"Yes, perfectly overjoyed," answered the doctor,
laughing. He was more than delighted--brimming
over with happiness, in fact--but not over his
mother's news; it was the letter held tight in his
grasp that was sending electric thrills through him.
"A fine old fellow is Dr. Pencoyd--known him for
years," he continued; "I attended his lectures before
I went abroad. Lives in a musty old house on Chestnut 
Street, stuffed full of family portraits and old
mahogany furniture, and not a comfortable chair
or sofa in the place; wears yellow Nankeen waist-
coats, takes snuff, and carries a fob. Oh, yes, same
old fellow. Very kind of him, mother, but wouldn't
you rather have the sunlight dance in upon you as it
does here and catch a glimpse of the sea through
the window than to look across at your neighbors'
back walls and white marble steps?" It was across
that same sea that Jane was coming, and the sunshine 
would come with her!

"Yes; but, John, surely you are not going to refuse 
this without looking into it?" she argued, eyeing 
him through her gold-rimmed glasses. "Go and
see him, and then you can judge. It's his practice
you want, not his house."

"No; that's just what I don't want. I've got too
much practice now. Somehow I can't keep my people 
well. No, mother, dear, don't bother your dear
head over the old doctor and his wants. Write him
that I am most grateful, but that the fact is I need an
assistant myself, and if he will be good enough to send
someone down here, I'll keep him busy every hour of
the day and night. Then, again," he continued, a
more serious tone in his voice, "I couldn't possibly
leave here now, even if I wished to, which I do not."

Mrs. Cavendish eyed him intently. She had expected 
just such a refusal Nothing that she ever
planned for his advancement did he agree to.

"Why not?" she asked, with some impatience.

"The new hospital is about finished, and I am
going to take charge of it."

"Do they pay you for it?" she continued, in an
incisive tone.

"No, I don't think they will, nor can. It's not,
that kind of a hospital," answered the doctor gravely.

"And you will look after these people just as you
do after Fogarty and the Branscombs, and everybody 
else up and down the shore, and never take a
penny in pay!" she retorted with some indignation.

"I am afraid I will, mother. A disappointing
son, am I not? But there's no one to blame but
yourself, old lady," and with a laugh he rose from
his seat, Jane's letter in his hand, and kissed his
mother on the cheek.

"But, John, dear," she exclaimed in a pleading
petulance as she looked into his face, still holding on
to the sleeve of his coat to detain him the longer,
"just think of this letter of Pencoyd's; nothing has
ever been offered you better than this. He has the
very best people in Philadelphia on his list, and you
would get--"

The doctor slipped his hand under his mother's
chin, as he would have done to a child, and said
with a twinkle in his eye--he was very happy this
morning:

"That's precisely my case--I've got the very best
people in three counties on my list. That's much
better than the old doctor."

"Who are they, pray?" She was softening under
her son's caress.

"Well, let me think. There's the distinguished
Mr. Tatham, who attends to the transportation of
the cities of Warehold and Barnegat; and the Right
Honorable Mr. Tipple, and Mrs. and Miss Gossaway,
renowned for their toilets--"

Mrs. Cavendish bit her lip. When her son was
in one of these moods it was all she could do to keep
her temper.

"And the wonderful Mrs. Malmsley, and--"

Mrs. Cavendish looked up. The name had an aristocratic 
sound, but it was unknown to her.

"Who is she?"

"Why, don't you know the wonderful Mrs. Malmsley?" 
inquired the doctor, with a quizzical smile.

"No, I never heard of her."

"Well, she's just moved into Warehold. Poor
woman, she hasn't been out of bed for years! She's
the wife of the new butcher, and--"

"The butcher's wife?"

"The butcher's wife, my dear mother, a most
delightful old person, who has brought up three
sons, and each one a credit to her."

Mrs. Cavendish let go her hold on the doctor's
sleeve and settled back in her chair.

"And you won't even write to Dr. Pencoyd?"
she asked in a disheartened way, as if she knew he
would refuse.

"Oh, with pleasure, and thank him most kindly,
but I couldn't leave Barnegat; not now. Not at
any time, so far as I can see."

"And I suppose when Jane Cobden comes home
in a year or so she will work with you in the hospital. 
She wanted to turn nurse the last time I
talked to her." This special arrow in her maternal
quiver, poisoned with her jealousy, was always
ready.

"I hope so," he replied, with a smile that lighted
up his whole face; "only it will not be a year. Miss
Jane will be here on the next steamer."

Mrs. Cavendish put down her tea-cup and looked
at her son in astonishment. The doctor still kept
his eyes on her face.

"Be here by the next steamer! How do you
know?"

The doctor held up the letter.

"Lucy will remain," he added. "She is going
to Germany to continue her studies."

"And Jane is coming home alone?"

"No, she brings a little child with her, the son
of a friend, she writes. She asks that I arrange
to have Martha meet them at the dock."

"Somebody, I suppose, she has picked up out of
the streets. She is always doing these wild, unpractical 
things. Whose child is it?"

"She doesn't say, but I quite agree with you that
it was helpless, or she wouldn't have protected it."

"Why don't Lucy come with her?"

The doctor shrugged his shoulders.

"And I suppose you will go to the ship to meet
her?"

The doctor drew himself up, clicked his heels
together with the air of an officer saluting his superior
--really to hide his joy--and said with mock
gravity, his hand on his heart:

"I shall, most honorable mother, be the first to
take her ladyship's hand as she walks down the gangplank." 
Then he added, with a tone of mild reproof
in his voice: "What a funny, queer old mother you
are! Always worrying yourself over the unimportant
and the impossible," and stooping down, he kissed
her again on the cheek and passed out of the room
on the way to his office.

"That woman always comes up at the wrong
moment," Mrs. Cavendish said to herself in a bitter
tone. "I knew he had received some word from her,
I saw it in his face. He would have gone to Philadelphia 
but for Jane Cobden."


CHAPTER IX


THE SPREAD OF FIRE


The doctor kept his word. His hand was the first
that touched Jane's when she came down the gangplank, 
Martha beside him, holding out her arms for
the child, cuddling it to her bosom, wrapping her
shawl about it as if to protect it from the gaze of the
inquisitive.

"O doctor! it was so good of you!" were Jane's
first words. It hurt her to call him thus, but she
wanted to establish the new relation clearly. She
had shouldered her cross and must bear its weight
alone and in her own way. "You don't know what
it is to see a face from home! I am so glad to get
here. But you should not have left your people; I
wrote Martha and told her so. All I wanted you to
do was to have her meet me here. Thank you, dear
friend, for coming."

She had not let go his hand, clinging to him as a
timid woman in crossing a narrow bridge spanning
an abyss clings to the strong arm of a man.

He helped her to the dock as tenderly as if she
had been a child; asking her if the voyage had been
a rough one, whether she had been ill in her berth,
and whether she had taken care of the baby herself,
and why she had brought no nurse with her. She
saw his meaning, but she did not explain her weakness 
or offer any explanation of the cause of her appearance 
or of the absence of a nurse. In a moment
she changed the subject, asking after his mother and
his own work, and seemed interested in what he told
her about the neighbors.

When the joy of hearing her voice and of looking
into her dear face once more had passed, his skilled
eyes probed the deeper. He noted with a sinking at
the heart the dark circles under the drooping lids,
the drawn, pallid skin and telltale furrows that had
cut their way deep into her cheeks. Her eyes, too,
had lost their lustre, and her step lacked the spring
and vigor of her old self. The diagnosis alarmed
him. Even the mould of her face, so distinguished,
and to him so beautiful, had undergone a change;
whether through illness, or because of some mental
anguish, he could not decide.

When he pressed his inquiries about Lucy she
answered with a half-stifled sigh that Lucy had decided 
to remain abroad for a year longer; adding
that it had been a great relief to her, and that at first
she had thought of remaining with her, but that their
affairs, as he knew, had become so involved at home
that she feared their means of living might be
jeopardized if she did not return at once. The child,
however, would be a comfort to both Martha and
herself until Lucy came. Then she added in a constrained 
voice:

"Its mother would not, or could not care for it,
and so I brought it with me."

Once at home and the little waif safely tucked
away in the crib that had sheltered Lucy in the
old days, the neighbors began to flock in; Uncle
Ephraim among the first.

"My, but I'm glad you're back!" he burst out.
"Martha's been lonelier than a cat in a garret, and
down at our house we ain't much better. And so
that Bunch of Roses is going to stay over there, is
she, and set those Frenchies crazy?"

Pastor Dellenbaugh took both of Jane's hands into
his own and looking into her face, said:

"Ah, but we've missed you! There has been no
standard, my dear Miss Jane, since you've been gone.
I have felt it, and so has everyone in the church.
It is good to have you once more with us."

Mrs. Cavendish could hardly conceal her satisfaction, 
although she was careful what she said to her
son. Her hope was that the care of the child would
so absorb Jane that John would regain his freedom
and be no longer subservient to Miss Cobden's
whims.

"And so Lucy is to stay in Paris?" she said, with
one of her sweetest smiles. "She is so charming
and innocent, that sweet sister of yours, my dear
Miss Jane, and so sympathetic. I quite lost my heart
to her. And to study music, too? A most noble
accomplishment, my dear. My grandmother, who
was an Erskine, you know, played divinely on the
harp, and many of my ancestors, especially the Dagworthys, 
were accomplished musicians. Your sister
will look lovely bending over a harp. My grandmother 
had her portrait painted that way by Peale,
and it still hangs in the old house in Trenton. And
they tell me you have brought a little angel with you
to bring up and share your loneliness? How pathetic, 
and how good of you!"

The village women--they came in groups--asked
dozens of questions before Jane had had even time
to shake each one by the hand. Was Lucy so in love
with the life abroad that she would never come back?
was she just as pretty as ever? what kind of bonnets
were being worn? etc., etc.

The child in Martha's arms was, of course, the
object of special attention. They all agreed that
it was a healthy, hearty, and most beautiful baby;
just the kind of a child one would want to adopt
if one had any such extraordinary desires.

This talk continued until they had gained the
highway, when they also agreed--and this without
a single dissenting voice--that in all the village Jane
Cobden was the only woman conscientious enough
to want to bring up somebody else's child, and a
foreigner at that, when there were any quantity of
babies up and down the shore that could be had for
the asking. The little creature was, no doubt, helpless, 
and appealed to Miss Jane's sympathies, but
why bring it home at all? Were there not places
enough in France where it could be brought up? etc.,
etc. This sort of gossip went on for days after
Jane's return, each dropper-in at tea-table or village
gathering having some view of her own to express,
the women doing most of the talking.

The discussion thus begun by friends was soon
taken up by the sewing societies and church gatherings, 
one member in good standing remarking loud
enough to be heard by everybody:

"As for me, I ain't never surprised at nothin'
Jane Cobden does. She's queerer than Dick's hat-
band, and allus was, and I've knowed her ever since
she used to toddle up to my house and I baked cookies
for her. I've seen her many a time feed the dog
with what I give her, just because she said he
looked hungry, which there warn't a mite o' truth
in, for there ain't nothin' goes hungry round my
place, and never was. She's queer, I tell ye."

"Quite true, dear Mrs. Pokeberry," remarked
Pastor Dellenbaugh in his gentlest tone--he had
heard the discussion as he was passing through the
room and had stopped to listen--"especially when
mercy and kindness is to be shown. Some poor little
outcast, no doubt, with no one to take care of it, and
so this grand woman brings it home to nurse and
educate. I wish there were more Jane Cobdens in
my parish. Many of you talk good deeds, and justice, 
and Christian spirit; here is a woman who puts
them into practice."

This statement having been made during the dispersal 
of a Wednesday night meeting, and in the hearing 
of half the congregation, furnished the key to the
mystery, and so for a time the child and its new-
found mother ceased to be an active subject of discussion.

Ann Gossaway, however, was not satisfied. The
more she thought of the pastor's explanation the
more she resented it as an affront to her intelligence.

"If folks wants to pick up stray babies," she
shouted to her old mother on her return home one
night, "and bring 'em home to nuss, they oughter
label 'em with some sort o' pedigree, and not keep
the village a-guessin' as to who they is and where
they come from. I don't believe a word of this outcast 
yarn. Guess Miss Lucy is all right, and she
knows enough to stay away when all this tomfoolery's
goin' on. She doesn't want to come back to a child's
nussery." To all of which her mother nodded her
head, keeping it going like a toy mandarin long
after the subject of discussion had been changed.

Little by little the scandal spread: by innuendoes;
by the wise shakings of empty heads; by nods and
winks; by the piecing out of incomplete tattle. For
the spread of gossip is like the spread of fire: First a
smouldering heat--some friction of ill-feeling, perhaps, 
over a secret sin that cannot be smothered, try
as we may; next a hot, blistering tongue of flame
creeping stealthily; then a burst of scorching candor
and the roar that ends in ruin. Sometimes the victim
is saved by a dash of honest water--the outspoken
word of some brave friend. More often those who
should stamp out the burning brand stand idly by
until the final collapse and then warm themselves at
the blaze.

Here in Warehold it began with some whispered
talk: Bart Holt had disappeared; there was a woman
in the case somewhere; Bart's exile had not been entirely 
caused by his love of cards and drink. Reference 
was also made to the fact that Jane had gone
abroad but a short time AFTER Bart's disappearance,
and that knowing how fond she was of him, and how
she had tried to reform him, the probability was
that she had met him in Paris. Doubts having been
expressed that no woman of Jane Cobden's position
would go to any such lengths to oblige so young a
fellow as Bart Holt, the details of their intimacy
were passed from mouth to mouth, and when this was
again scouted, reference was made to Miss Gossaway,
who was supposed to know more than she was willing
to tell. The dressmaker denied all responsibility for
the story, but admitted that she had once seen them
on the beach "settin' as close together as they could
git, with the red cloak she had made for Miss Jane
wound about 'em.

"'Twarn't none o' my business, and I told Martha 
so, and 'tain't none o' my business now, but I'd
rather die than tell a lie or scandalize anybody, and
so if ye ask me if I saw 'em I'll have to tell ye I did.
I don't believe, howsomever, that Miss Jane went
away to oblige that good-for-nothin' or that she's ever
laid eyes on him since. Lucy is what took her. She's
one o' them flyaways. I see that when she was
home, and there warn't no peace up to the Cobdens'
house till they'd taken her somewheres where she
could git all the runnin' round she wanted. As for
the baby, there ain't nobody knows where Miss Jane
picked that up, but there ain't no doubt but what
she loves it same's if it was her own child. She's
named it Archie, after her grandfather, anyhow.
That's what Martha and she calls it. So they're not
ashamed of it."

When the fire had spent itself, only one spot remained 
unscorched: this was the parentage of little
Archie. That mystery still remained unsolved.
Those of her own class who knew Jane intimately
admired her kindness of heart and respected her
silence; those who did not soon forgot the boy's
existence.

The tavern loungers, however, some of whom only
knew the Cobden girls by reputation, had theories
of their own; theories which were communicated to
other loungers around other tavern stoves, most of
whom would not have known either of the ladies
on the street. The fact that both women belonged to
a social stratum far above them gave additional license 
to their tongues; they could never be called in
question by anybody who overheard, and were therefore 
safe to discuss the situation at their will. Condensed 
into illogical shape, the story was that Jane
had met a foreigner who had deserted her, leaving
her to care for the child alone; that Lucy had refused
to come back to Warehold, had taken what money
was coming to her, and, like a sensible woman, had
stayed away. That there was not the slightest foundation 
for this slander did not lessen its acceptance
by a certain class; many claimed that it offered the
only plausible solution to the mystery, and must,
therefore, be true.

It was not long before the echoes of these scandals
reached Martha's ears. The gossips dare not affront
Miss Jane with their suspicions, but Martha was
different. If they could irritate her by speaking
lightly of her mistress, she might give out some information 
which would solve the mystery.

One night a servant of one of the neighbors stopped
Martha on the road and sent her flying home; not
angry, but terrified.

"They're beginnin' to talk," she broke out savagely, 
as she entered Jane's room, her breath almost
gone from her run to the house. "I laughed at it
and said they dare not one of 'em say it to your
face or mine, but they're beginnin' to talk."

"Is it about Barton Holt? have they heard anything 
from him?" asked Jane. The fear of his
return had always haunted her.

"No, and they won't. He'll never come back here
ag'in. The captain would kill him."

"It isn't about Lucy, then, is it?" cried Jane,
her color going.

Martha shook her head in answer to save her
breath.

"Who, then?" cried Jane, nervously. "Not
Archie?"

"Yes, Archie and you."

"What do they say?" asked Jane, her voice fallen
to a whisper.

"They say it's your child, and that ye're afraid to
tell who the father is."

Jane caught at the chair for support and then sank
slowly into her seat.

"Who says so?" she gasped.

"Nobody that you or I know; some of the beach-
combers and hide-by-nights, I think, started it.
Pokeberry's girl told me; her brother works in the
shipyard."
 
Jane sat looking at Martha with staring eyes.

"How dare they--"

"They dare do anything, and we can't answer
back. That's what's goin' to make it hard. It's
nobody's business, but that don't satisfy 'em. I've
been through it meself; I know how mean they
can be."

"They shall never know--not while I have life
left in me," Jane exclaimed firmly.

"Yes, but that won't keep 'em from lyin'."

The two sat still for some minutes, Martha gazing 
into vacancy, Jane lying back in her chair, her
eyes closed. One emotion after another coursed
through her with lightning rapidity--indignation
at the charge, horror at the thought that any of her
friends might believe it, followed by a shivering fear
that her father's good name, for all her care and
suffering, might be smirched at last.

Suddenly there arose the tall image of Doctor
John, with his frank, tender face. What would he
think of it, and how, if he questioned her, could she
answer him? Then there came to her that day of
parting in Paris. She remembered Lucy's willingness 
to give up the child forever, and so cover up all
traces of her sin, and her own immediate determination 
to risk everything for her sister's sake. LLOYD
GEORGE may make a grave slip in negotiating the
glacier.

Then the "awful avalanche" has not yet been dealt with.

A few helpful words on the direction this is likely
to take and the safest rock to make for
when it begins to move might be welcomed by the
PREMIER'S followers. He may argue that it is folly
to meet trouble half-way, but on the other hand, if he does not
speak on this subject soon, the opportunity may disappear.

Let him avoid the glacier if he chooses; he cannot (so we are
informed) escape the avalanche

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: =TREATING UNDER PROHIBITION.=
"HELLO, OLD FRIGHT--HAVEN'T SEEN YOU FOR AGES!"

"WE MUST HAVE ONE." [entering SHIRT MAKER'S Establishment]

"WHAT'S YOURS?" "THINK I'LL HAVE A COLLAR."
"TWO COLLARS, PLEASE--SEVENTEENS." "CHEERIO!"
"NOW YOU MUST HAVE ONE WITH ME.

WHAT ABOUT AN EVENING SHIRT?" "NO, NO, IT'S TOO
EARLY." "THE SAME AGAIN, THEN?" "WELL, PERHAPS A
SOFT ONE THIS TIME."
"SAME AGAIN, PLEASE--ONLY SOFT."
"BYE-BYE! SEE YOU AGAIN SOON."]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Magistrate._ "BUT, MR. GOLDSTEIN, WHY DO
YOU HAVE YOUR HOUSE AND YOUR BUSINESS IN YOUR
WIFE'S NAME?"
_Mr. Goldstein._ "WELL, YOU SEE, I'M NOT A
BEESNESS MAN."]
* * * * *
THE SAYINGS OF BARBARA.

The man who sets out to expose popular fallacies or to
confound time-honoured legends is bound to make
enemies.

The latest legend I have been privileged to explore is not the
product of superstition and slow time, but a deliberately manufactured
growth of comparatively recent origin.

It is concerned with Barbara, not the impersonal
lady who figures in the old logic-book doggerel, but
an extremely live and highly illogical person to whom
for half a decade I have had the honour to be
father. It is also concerned with Barbara's Aunt
Julia and, in a lesser degree, with Barbara's mother.

From the time (just over three years ago) when Barbara
first attempted articulate speech I have been
bombarded with reports of the wonderful things
my
 
daughter has said. In the earlier years these
diverting stories, for which Julia was nearly always cited as
authority, reached me through the medium of the Field Post-Office,
and, being still fairly new to fatherhood, I used proudly to retail
them in Mess, until an addition was made to the rule relating to
offences punishable by a round of drinks.

On my brief visits home I would wait expectantly
for the brilliant flashes of humour or of uncanny intelligence to
issue from Barbara's lips, and her failure during these periods to
sustain her reputation I was content to explain on the assumption
that I came within the category of casual visitors.

But I have now lived in my own home for over a
year, and Barbara and I have become very well acquainted.
She talks to me without restraint, and at times
most engagingly, but seldom, if ever, does she give utterance in
my hearing to a _jeu d'esprit_ that I feel called upon to repeat
to others.

Nevertheless until a few days ago I was still
constantly being informed--chiefly by Barbara's aunt and less
frequently by her mother--of the "killing" things that child had
been saying.

I grew privately sceptical, but had no proof, and
it was only by accident that I was at last enabled
to prick the bubble.

Julia (who besides being Barbara's aunt is
Suzanne's sister) had come to tea and was chatting in
the drawing-room with Suzanne (who besides
being Julia's sister is Barbara's mother and
my wife) and Barbara (whose relationship all
round has been sufficiently indicated).
The drawing-room door was open, and so was that
of my study on the opposite side of the passage, where I was
coquetting with a trifle of work.

The doctor laughed. "He can be found," he
answered. "I saw his father only last week, and
he told me Bart was in Brazil. That is some thousand 
of miles from Paris, but a little thing like
that in geography doesn't seem to make much difference 
to some of our good people. Why do you listen
to such nonsense?" he added as he kissed her tenderly 
and, with a pat on her cheek, left the room
for his study. His mother's talk had made but little
impression upon him. Gossip of this kind was always 
current when waifs like Archie formed the
topic; but it hurt nobody, he said to himself--nobody
like Jane.
 
Sitting under his study lamp looking up some complicated 
case, his books about him, Jane's sad face
came before him. "Has she not had trouble
enough," he said to himself, "parted from Lucy and
with her unsettled money affairs, without having to
face these gnats whose sting she cannot ward off?"
With this came the thought of his own helplessness
to comfort her. He had taken her at her word that
night before she left for Paris, when she had refused
to give him her promise and had told him to wait,
and he was still ready to come at her call; loving
her, watching ever her, absorbed in every detail of
her daily life, and eager to grant her slightest wish,
and yet he could not but see that she had, since her
return, surrounded herself with a barrier which he
could neither understand nor break down whenever
he touched on their personal relations.
 
Had he loved her less he would, in justice to himself, 
have faced all her opposition and demanded an
answer--Yes or No--as to whether she would yield
to his wishes. But his generous nature forbade any
such stand and his reverence for her precluded any
such mental attitude.

Lifting his eyes from his books and gazing dreamily 
into the space before him, he recalled, with a certain 
sinking of the heart, a conversation which had
taken place between Jane and himself a few days
after her arrival--an interview which had made a
deep impression upon him. The two, in the absence
of Martha--she had left the room for a moment--
were standing beside the crib watching the child's
breathing. Seizing the opportunity, one he had
watched for, he had told her how much he had missed
her during the two years, and how much happier
his life was now that he could touch her hand and
listen to her voice. She had evaded his meaning,
making answer that his pleasure, was nothing compared 
to her own when she thought how safe the
baby would be in his hands; adding quickly that she
could never thank him enough for remaining in Barnegat 
and not leaving her helpless and without a
"physician." The tone with which she pronounced
the word had hurt him. He thought he detected a
slight inflection, as if she were making a distinction
between his skill as an expert and his love as a man,
but he was not sure.

Still gazing into the shadows before him, his unread 
book in his hand, he recalled a later occasion
when she appeared rather to shrink from him than
to wish to be near him, speaking to him with downcast 
eyes and without the frank look in her face
which was always his welcome. On this day she was
more unstrung and more desolate than he had ever
seen her. At length, emboldened by his intense desire 
to help, and putting aside every obstacle, he had
taken her hand and had said with all his heart in
his voice:
 
"Jane, you once told me you loved me. Is it
still true?"
 
He remembered how at first she had not answered,
and how after a moment she had slowly withdrawn
her hand and had replied in a voice almost inarticulate, 
so great was her emotion.

"Yes, John, and always will be, but it can never
go beyond that--never, never. Don't ask many
more questions. Don't talk to me about it. Not
now, John--not now! Don't hate me! Let us be
as we have always been--please, John! You would
not refuse me if you knew."
 
He had started forward to take her in his arms;
to insist that now every obstacle was removed she
should give him at once the lawful right to protect
her, but she had shrunk back, the palms of her hands
held out as barriers, and before he could reason with
her Martha had entered with something for little
Archie, and so the interview had come to an end.

Then, still absorbed in his thoughts, his eyes suddenly
brightened and a certain joy trembled in his
heart as he remembered that with all these misgivings 
and doubts there were other times--and their
sum was in the ascendency--when she showed the
same confidence in his judgement and the same readiness 
to take his advice; when the old light would once
more flash in her eyes as she grasped his hand and
the old sadness again shadow her face when his visits
came to an end. With this he must be for a time
content.

These and a hundred other thoughts raced through
Doctor John's mind as he sat to-night in his study
chair, the lamplight falling on his open books and
thin, delicately modelled hands.

Once he rose from his seat and began pacing his
study floor, his hands behind his back, his mind on
Jane, on her curious and incomprehensible moods,
trying to solve them as he walked, trusting and leaning 
upon him one day and shrinking from him the
next. Baffled for the hundredth time in this mental
search, he dropped again into his chair, and adjusting 
the lamp, pulled his books toward him to devote
his mind to their contents. As the light flared up
he caught the sound of a step upon the gravel outside,
and then a heavy tread upon the porch. An instant
later his knocker sounded. Doctor Cavendish gave
a sigh--he had hoped to have one night at home--
and rose to open the door.

Captain Nat Holt stood outside.

His pea-jacket was buttoned close up under his
chin, his hat drawn tight down over his forehead.
His weather-beaten face, as the light fell upon it,
looked cracked and drawn, with dark hollows under
the eyes, which the shadows from the lamplight
deepened.
 
"It's late, I know, doctor," he said in a hoarse,
strained voice; "ten o'clock, maybe, but I got somethin'
to talk to ye about," and he strode into the
room. "Alone, are ye?" he continued, as he loosened 
his coat and laid his hat on the desk. "Where's
the good mother? Home, is she?"

"Yes, she's inside," answered the doctor, pointing
to the open door leading to the salon and grasping
the captain's brawny hand in welcome. "Why? Do
you want to see her?"
 
"No, I don't want to see her; don't want to see
nobody but you. She can't hear, can she? 'Scuse
me--I'll close this door."

The doctor looked at him curiously. The captain
seemed to be laboring under a nervous strain, unusual
in one so stolid and self-possessed.
 
The door closed, the captain moved back a cushion,
dropped into a corner of the sofa, and sat looking
at the doctor, with legs apart, his open palms resting
on his knees.
 
"I got bad news, doctor--awful bad news for
everybody," as he spoke he reached into his pocket
and produced a letter with a foreign postmark.

"You remember my son Bart, of course, don't ye,
who left home some two years ago?" he went on.

The doctor nodded.

"Well, he's dead."

"Your son Bart dead!" cried the doctor, repeating 
his name in the surprise of the announcement.
"How do you know?"

"This letter came by to-day's mail. It's from the
consul at Rio. Bart come in to see him dead broke
and he helped him out. He'd run away from the
ship and was goin' up into the mines to work, so the
consul wrote me. He was in once after that and got
a little money, and then he got down with yellow
fever and they took him to the hospital, and he died
in three days. There ain't no doubt about it. Here's
a list of the dead in the paper; you kin read his name
plain as print."

Doctor John reached for the letter and newspaper
clipping and turned them toward the lamp. The
envelope was stamped "Rio Janeiro" and the letter
bore the official heading of the consulate.

"That's dreadful, dreadful news, captain," said
the doctor in sympathetic tones. "Poor boy! it's
too bad. Perhaps, however, there may be some mistake, 
after all. Foreign hospital registers are not
always reliable," added the doctor in a hopeful tone.

"No, it's all true, or Benham wouldn't write me
what he has. I've known him for years. He knows
me, too, and he don't go off half-cocked. I wrote
him to look after Bart and sent him some money
and give him the name of the ship, and he watched
for her and sent for him all right. He will mess
her with his muddy boots; he will scratch her
paint; he will drop tobacco-ash all over her
cushions--not from pipes; cigars only....

There--he has bought her. It is a tragedy. Let
us move on.

Here is a little _coupé_--a smart young creature with a nice blue
coat, fond of town, I should say, but quite at home in the country.

She also is inspecting two bloaters. But these two
are very shy. In fact they are not really bloaters
at all; they are rather a pair of nice-mannered
fresh
 
herrings, not long mated. The male had
something to do with that war, I should think;
the _coupé_ would help him a good deal. The lady likes
her because she is dark-blue. The other one likes her
because of something to do with her works; but
he is very reverent and tactful about it.

He seems to know that he is being scrutinised,
for he is nervous, and scarcely dares to speak about
her to the groom in the top-hat. He will drive her
himself; he will look after her himself; he will know all about
her, all about her moods and fancies and secret failings; he will
humour and coax her, and she will serve him very nobly.

Already, you see, they have given her a name--"Jane,"
I think they said; they will creep off into
the country with her when the summer comes, all
by themselves; they will plunge into the middle
of thick forests and sit down happily in the shade
at midday and look at her; and she will love
them.

But the question is----Ah, they are shaking their heads;
they are edging away.

She is too much. They look back sadly as they go.
Another tragedy....

Now I am going to be a bloater myself. Here is a jolly
one, though her stable-name is much too long. She
is a Saloon-de-Luxe, and she only costs £2,125
(why 5, I wonder--why not 6?) I can run to that,
_surely_. At any rate I can climb up and sit down on
her cushions; none of the grooms is looking.
Dark-blue, I see, like Jane. That is the sort of
car I love. I am like the lady herring; I don't
approve of all this talk about the _insides_ of
things; it seems to me to be rather indecent--unless,
of course, you do it very nicely, like that young
herring. When you go and look at a horse you don't ask
how its sweetbread is arranged, or what is the principle
of its liver. Then why should you...?

Well, here we are, and very comfortable too. But why
does none of these cars have any means of communication
between the owner and the man next to the chauffeur?
There is always a telephone to the chauffeur, but none to the
overflow guest on the box.Doctor John bent forward in his chair and looked
at the captain curiously. His words convey no
meaning to him. For an instant he thought that the
shock of his son's death had unsettled the man's
mind.
 
"Take an oath! What for?"

"'Bout Archie and herself."

"But I've taken no oath!"

"Well, perhaps it isn't your habit; it ain't some
men's. I did."

"What about?"

It was the captain's turn now to look searchingly
into his companion's face. The doctor's back was
toward the lamp, throwing his face into shadow, but
the captain could read its expression plainly.

"You mean to tell me, doctor, you don't know
what's goin' on up at Yardley? You do, of course,
but you won't say--that's like you doctors!"
 
"Yes, everything. But what has your son Bart
got to do with it?"
 
"Got to do with it! Ain't Jane Cobden motherin'
his child?"
 
The doctor lunged forward in his seat, his eyes
staring straight at the captain. Had the old sailor
struck him in the face he could not have been more
astounded.

"His child!" he cried savagely.
 
"Certainly! Whose else is it? You knew,
didn't ye?"
 
The doctor settled back in his chair with the movement 
of an ox felled by a sudden blow. With the
appalling news there rang in his ears the tones of his
mother's voice retailing the gossip of the village.
This, then, was what she could not repeat.

After a moment he raised his head and asked in a
low, firm voice:

"Did Bart go to Paris after he left here?"

"No, of course not! Went 'board the Corsair
bound for Rio, and has been there ever since. I told
you that before. There weren't no necessity for her
to meet him in Paris."

The doctor sprang from his chair and with eyes
biasing and fists tightly clenched, stood over the
captain.

"And you dare to sit there and tell me that Miss
Jane Cobden is that child's mother?"

The captain struggled to his feet, his open hands
held up to the doctor as if to ward off a blow.

"Miss Jane! No, by God! No! Are you crazy?
Sit down, sit down, I tell ye!"

"Who, then? Speak!"
 
"Lucy! That's what I drove Bart out for. Mort
Cobden's daughter--Mort, mind ye, that was a
brother to me since I was a boy! Jane that that child's
mother! Yes, all the mother poor Archie's got!
Ask Miss Jane, she'll tell ye. Tell ye how she sits
and eats her heart out to save her sister that's too
scared to come home. I want to cut my tongue out
for tellin' ye, but I thought ye knew. Martha told
me you loved her and that she loved you, and I
thought she'd told ye. Jane Cobden crooked! No
more'n the angels are. Now, will you tell her Bart's
dead, or shall I?"
 
"I will tell her," answered the doctor firmly,
"and to-night."


CHAPTER XI


MORTON COBDENS DAUGHTER


The cold wind from the sea freighted with the
raw mist churned by the breakers cut sharply against
Doctor John's cheeks as he sprang into his gig and
dashed out of his gate toward Yardley. Under the
shadow of the sombre pines, along the ribbon of a
road, dull gray in the light of the stars, and out on
the broader highway leading to Warehold, the sharp
click of the mare's hoofs striking the hard road
echoed through the night. The neighbors recognized
the tread and the speed, and Uncle Ephraim threw
up a window to know whether it was a case of life or
death, an accident, or both; but the doctor only
nodded and sped on. It WAS life and death--life for
the woman he loved, death for all who traduced her.
The strange news that had dropped from the captain's 
lips did not affect him except as would the
ending of any young life; neither was there any bitterness 
in his heart against the dead boy who had
wrecked Lucy's career and brought Jane humiliation
and despair. All he thought of was the injustice
of Jane's sufferings. Added to this was an overpowering 
desire to reach her side before her misery
should continue another moment; to fold her in his
arms, stand between her and the world; help her
to grapple with the horror which was slowly crushing 
out her life. That it was past her hour for retiring, 
and that there might be no one to answer his
summons, made no difference to him. He must see
her at all hazards before he closed his eyes.

As he whirled into the open gates of Yardley and
peered from under the hood of the gig at the outlines
of the old house, looming dimly through the avenue
of bushes, he saw that the occupants were asleep; no
lights shone from the upper windows and none
burned in the hall below. This discovery checked to
some extent the impetus with which he had flung
himself into the night, his whole being absorbed and
dominated by one idea. The cool wind, too, had
begun to tell upon his nerves. He drew rein on the
mare and stopped. For the first time since the captain's 
story had reached his ears his reason began to
work. He was never an impetuous man; always a
thoughtful and methodical one, and always overparticular 
in respecting the courtesies of life. He
began suddenly to realize that this midnight visit
was at variance with every act of his life. Then
his better judgment became aroused. Was it right
for him to wake Jane and disturb the house at this
hour, causing her, perhaps, a sleepless night, or
should he wait until the morning, when he could
break the news to her in a more gentle and less sensational 
way?

While he sat thus wondering, undetermined
whether to drive lightly out of the gate again or to
push forward in the hope that someone would be
awake, his mind unconsciously reverted to the figure
of Jane making her way with weary steps down the
gangplank of the steamer, the two years of her suffering 
deep cut into every line of her face. He recalled
the shock her appearance had given him, and his perplexity 
over the cause. He remembered her refusal
to give him her promise, her begging him to wait,
her unaccountable moods since her return.

Then Lucy's face came before him, her whole
career, in fact (in a flash, as a drowning man's life
is pictured), from the first night after her return
from school until he had bade her good-by to take
the train for Trenton. Little scraps of talk sounded
in his ears, and certain expressions about the corners
of her eyes revealed themselves to his memory. He
thought of her selfishness, of her love of pleasure, of
her disregard of Jane's wishes, of her recklessness.

Everything was clear now.

"What a fool I have been!" he said to himself.
"What a fool--FOOL! I ought to have known!"

Next the magnitude of the atonement, and the
cruelty and cowardice of the woman who had put
her sister into so false a position swept over him.
Then there arose, like the dawning of a light, the
grand figure of the woman he loved, standing clear
of all entanglements, a Madonna among the saints,
more precious than ever in the radiance of her own
sacrifice.

With this last vision his mind was made up. No,
he would not wait a moment. Once this terrible
secret out of the way, Jane would regain her old
self and they two fight the world together.

As he loosened the reins over the sorrel a light
suddenly flashed from one of the upper windows
disappeared for a moment, and reappeared again at
one of the smaller openings near the front steps. He
drew rein again. Someone was moving about--who
he did not know; perhaps Jane, perhaps one of the
servants. Tying the lines to the dashboard, he
sprang from the gig, tethered the mare to one of the
lilac bushes, and walked briskly toward the house.
As he neared the steps the door was opened and
Martha's voice rang clear:

"Meg, you rascal, come in, or shall I let ye stay
out and freeze?"

Doctor John stepped upon the porch, the light of
Martha's candle falling on his face and figure.

"It's I, Martha, don't be frightened; it's late, I
know, but I hoped Miss Jane would be up. Has
she gone to bed?"

The old nurse started back. "Lord, how ye
skeered me! I don't know whether she's asleep or
not. She's upstairs with Archie, anyhow. I come
out after this rapscallion that makes me look him up
every night. I've talked to him till I'm sore, and
he's promised me a dozen times, and here he is out
ag'in. Here! Where are ye? In with ye, ye little
beast!" The dog shrank past her and darted into
the hall. "Now, then, doctor, come in out of the
cold."

Doctor John stepped softly inside and stood in the
flare of the candle-light. He felt that he must give
some reason for his appearance at this late hour,
even if he did not see Jane. It would be just as well,
therefore, to tell Martha of Bart's death at once, and
not let her hear it, as she was sure to do, from someone 
on the street. Then again, he had kept few
secrets from her where Jane was concerned; she
had helped him many times before, and her advice
was always good. He knew that she was familiar
with every detail of the captain's story, but he did
not propose to discuss Lucy's share in it with the old
nurse. That he would reserve for Jane's ears
alone.

"Bring your candle into the sitting-room, Martha; 
I have something to tell you," he said gravely,
loosening the cape of his overcoat and laying his hat
on the hall table.

The nurse followed. The measured tones of the
doctor's voice, so unlike his cheery greetings, especially 
to her, unnerved her. This, in connection with
the suppressed excitement under which he seemed to
labor and the late hour of his visit, at once convinced
her that something serious had happened.

"Is there anything the matter?" she asked in a
trembling voice.

"Yes."

"Is it about Lucy? There ain't nothin' gone
wrong with her, doctor dear, is there?"

"No, it is not about Lucy. It's about Barton
Holt."

"Ye don't tell me! Is he come back?"

"No, nor never will. He's dead!

"That villain dead! How do you know?" Her
face paled and her lips quivered, but she gave no
other sign of the shock the news had been to her.

"Captain Nat, his father, has just left my office.
I promised I would tell Miss Jane to-night. He
was too much broken up and too fearful of its effect
upon her to do it himself. I drove fast, but perhaps
I'm too late to see her."

"Well, ye could see her no doubt,--she could
throw somethin' around her--but ye mustn't tell her
THAT news. She's been downhearted all day and is
tired out. Bart's dead, is he?" she repeated with
an effort at indifference. "Well, that's too bad. I
s'pose the captain's feelin' putty bad over it. Where
did he die?"

"He died in Rio Janeiro of yellow fever," said
the doctor slowly, wondering at the self-control of
the woman. Wondering, too, whether she was glad
or sorry over the event, her face and manner showing
no index to her feelings.

"And will he be brought home to be buried?" she
asked with a quick glance at the doctor's face.

"No; they never bring them home with yellow
fever."

"And is that all ye come to tell her?" She was
scrutinizing Doctor John's face, her quick, nervous
glances revealing both suspicion and fear.

"I had some other matters to talk about, but if
she has retired, perhaps I had better come to-
morrow," answered the doctor in undecided tones,
as he gazed abstractedly at the flickering candle.

The old woman hesitated. She saw that the doctor 
knew more than he intended to tell her. Her
curiosity and her fear that some other complication
had arisen--one which he was holding back--got
the better of her judgment. If it was anything about
her bairn, she could not wait until the morning.
She had forgotten Meg now.

"Well, maybe if ye break it to her easy-like she
can stand it. I don't suppose she's gone to bed yet.
Her door was open on a crack when I come down,
and she always shuts it 'fore she goes to sleep. I'll
light a couple o' lamps so ye can see, and then I'll
send her down to ye if she'll come. Wait here,
doctor, dear."

The lamps lighted and Martha gone, Doctor John
looked about the room, his glance resting on the
sofa where he had so often sat with her; on the portrait 
of Morton Cobden, the captain's friend; on
the work-basket filled with needlework that Jane
had left on a small table beside her chair, and upon
the books her hands had touched. He thought he
had never loved her so much as now. No one he
had ever known or heard of had made so great a
sacrifice. Not for herself this immolation, but for a
sister who had betrayed her confidence and who had
repaid a life's devotion with unforgivable humiliation 
and disgrace. This was the woman whose
heart he held. This was the woman he loved with
every fibre of his being. But her sufferings were
over now. He was ready to face the world and its
malignity beside her. Whatever sins her sister had
committed, and however soiled were Lucy's garments, 
Jane's robes were as white as snow, he was
glad he had yielded to the impulse and had come at
once. The barrier between them once broken down
and the terrible secret shared, her troubles would
end.

The whispering of her skirts on the stairs announced 
her coming before she entered the room.
She had been sitting by Archie's crib and had not
waited to change her loose white gown, whose clinging 
folds accentuated her frail, delicate form. Her
hair had been caught up hastily and hung in a dark
mass, concealing her small, pale ears and making
her face all the whiter by contrast.

"Something alarming has brought you at this
hour," she said, with a note of anxiety in her voice,
walking rapidly toward him. "What can I do?
Who is ill?"

Doctor John sprang forward, held out both hands,
and holding tight to her own, drew her close to him.

"Has Martha told you?" he said tenderly.

"No; only that you wanted me. I came as soon
as I could."

"It's about Barton Holt. His father has just
left my office. I have very sad news for you. The
poor boy--"

Jane loosened her hands from his and drew back.
The doctor paused in his recital.

"Is he ill?" she inquired, a slight shiver running 
through her.

"Worse than ill! I'm afraid you'll never see
him again."

"You mean that he is dead? Where?"

"Yes, dead, in Rio. The letter arrived this
morning."

"And you came all the way up here to tell me
this?" she asked, with an effort to hide her astonishment. 
Her eyes dropped for a moment and her
voice trembled. Then she went on. "What does
his father say?"

"I have just left him. He is greatly shaken.
He would not tell you himself, he said; he was afraid
it might shock you too much, and asked me to come
up. But it is not altogether that, Jane. I have
heard something to-night that has driven me half
out of my mind. That you should suffer this way
alone is torture to me. You cannot, you shall not
live another day as you have! Let me help!"

Instantly there flashed into her mind the story
Martha had brought in from the street. "He has
heard it," she said to herself, "but he does not believe 
it, and he comes to comfort me. I cannot tell
the truth without betraying Lucy."

She drew a step farther from him.

"You refer to what the people about us call a
mystery--that poor little child upstairs?" she said
slowly, all her self-control in her voice. "You think
it is a torture for me to care for this helpless baby?
It is not a torture; it is a joy--all the joy I have
now." She stood looking at him as she spoke with
searching eyes, wondering with the ever-questioning
doubt of those denied love's full expression.

"But I know--"

"You know nothing--nothing but what I have
told you; and what I have told you is the truth.
What I have not told you is mine to keep. You love
me too well to probe it any further, I am sorry for
the captain. He has an iron will and a rough exterior, 
but he has a warm heart underneath. If you
see him before I do give him my deepest sympathy.
Now, my dear friend, I must go back to Archie; he
is restless and needs me. Good-night," and she held
out her hand and passed out of the room.

She was gone before he could stop her. He started
forward as her hand touched the door, but she closed
it quickly behind her, as if to leave no doubt of her
meaning. He saw that she had misunderstood him.
He had intended to talk to her of Archie's father,
and of Lucy, and she had supposed he had only come
to comfort her about the village gossip.

For some minutes he stood like one dazed. Then
a feeling of unspeakable reverence stole over him.
Not only was she determined to suffer alone and in
silence, but she would guard her sister's secret at
the cost of her own happiness. Inside that sacred
precinct he knew he could never enter; that wine-
press she intended to tread alone.

Then a sudden indignation, followed by a contempt
of his own weakness took possession of him. Being
the older and stronger nature, he should have compelled 
her to listen. The physician as well as the
friend should have asserted himself. No woman
could be well balanced who would push away the hand
of a man held out to save her from ruin and misery.
He would send Martha for her again and insist upon
her listening to him.

He started for the door and stopped irresolute. A
new light broke in upon his heart. It was not against
himself and her own happiness that she had taken
this stand, but to save her father's and her sister's
name. He knew how strong was her devotion to her
duty, how blind her love for Lucy, how sacred she
held the trust given to her by her dead father. No;
she was neither obstinate nor quixotic. Hers was the
work of a martyr, not a fanatic. No one he had ever
known or heard of had borne so great a cross or made
so noble a sacrifice. It was like the deed of some
grand old saint, the light of whose glory had shone
down the ages. He was wrong, cruelly wrong. The
only thing left for him to do was to wait. For what
he could not tell. Perhaps God in his mercy would
one day find the way.

Martha's kindly voice as she opened the door awoke
him from his revery.

"Did she take it bad?" she asked.

"No," he replied aimlessly, without thinking of
what he said. "She sent a message to the captain.
I'll go now. No, please don't bring a light to the
door. The mare's only a short way down the road."

When the old nurse had shut the front door after
him she put out the lamps and ascended the stairs.
The other servants were in bed. Jane's door was
partly open. Martha pushed it gently with her
hand and stepped in. Jane had thrown herself at
full length on the bed and lay with her face
buried in her hands. She was talking to herself and
had not noticed Martha's footsteps.

"O God! what have I done that this should be
sent to me?" Martha heard her say between her
sobs. "You would be big enough, my beloved, to
bear it all for my sake; to take the stain and wear
it; but I cannot hurt you--not you, not you, my
great, strong, sweet soul. Your heart aches for
me and you would give me all you have, but I
could not bear your name without telling you. You
would forgive me, but I could never forgive myself.
No, no, you shall stand unstained if God will give
me strength!"

Martha walked softly to the bed and bent over
Jane's prostrate body.

"It's me, dear. What did he say to break your
heart?"

Jane slipped her arm about the old nurse's neck,
drawing her closer, and without lifting her own head
from the pillow talked on.

"Nothing, nothing. He came to comfort me, not
to hurt me."

"Do ye think it's all true 'bout Bart?" Martha
whispered.

Jane raised her body from the bed and rested her
head on Martha's shoulder.

"Yes, it's all true about Bart," she answered in a
stronger and more composed tone. "I have been
expecting it. Poor boy, he had nothing to live for,
and his conscience must have given him no rest."

"Did the captain tell him about--" and Martha 
pointed toward the bed of the sleeping child.
She could never bring herself to mention Lucy's name
when speaking either of Bart or Archie.

Jane sat erect, brushed the tears from her eyes,
smoothed her hair back from her temples, and said
with something of her customary poise:

"No, I don't think so. The captain gave me his
word, and he will not break it. Then, again, he will
never discredit his own son. The doctor doesn't
know, and there will be nobody to tell him. That's
not what he came to tell me. It was about the stories
you heard last week and which have only just reached
his ears. That's all. He wanted to protect me from
their annoyance, but I would not listen to him. There
is trouble enough without bringing him into it. Now
go to bed, Martha."

As she spoke Jane regained her feet, and crossing
the room, settled into a chair by the boy's crib. Long
after Martha had closed her own door for the night
Jane sat watching the sleeping child. One plump
pink hand lay outside the cover; the other little
crumpled rose-leaf was tucked under the cheek, the
face half-hidden in a tangle of glossy curls, now spun-
gold in the light of the shaded lamp.

"Poor little waif," she sighed, "poor little motherless, 
fatherless waif! Why didn't you stay in heaven? 
This world has no place for you."

Then she rose wearily, picked up the light, carried
it across the room to her desk, propped a book in
front of it so that its rays would not fall upon the
sleeping child, opened her portfolio, and sat down to
write.

When she had finished and had sealed her letter
it was long past midnight. It was addressed to Lucy
in Dresden, and contained a full account of all the
doctor had told her of Bart's death.


CHAPTER XII


A LETTER FROM PARIS


For the first year Jane watched Archie's growth
and development with the care of a self-appointed
nurse temporarily doing her duty by her charge.
Later on, as the fact became burned into her mind
that Lucy would never willingly return to Warehold,
she clung to him with that absorbing love and devotion 
which an unmarried woman often lavishes upon
a child not her own. In his innocent eyes she saw the
fulfilment of her promise to her father. He would
grow to be a man of courage and strength, the stain
upon his birth forgotten, doing honor to himself, to
her, and to the name he bore. In him, too, she sought
refuge from that other sorrow which was often
greater than she could bear--the loss of the closer
companionship of Doctor John--a companionship
which only a wife's place could gain for her. The
true mother-love--the love which she had denied herself, 
a love which had been poured out upon Lucy
since her father's death--found its outlet, therefore,
in little Archie.

Under Martha's watchful care the helpless infant
grew to be a big, roly-poly boy, never out of her
arms when she could avoid it. At five he had lost
his golden curls and short skirts and strutted about
in knee-trousers. At seven he had begun to roam
the streets, picking up his acquaintances wherever
he found them.

Chief among them was Tod Fogarty, the son of
the fisherman, now a boy of ten, big for his age and
bubbling over with health and merriment, and whose
life Doctor John had saved when he was a baby.
Tod had brought a basket of fish to Yardley, and
sneaking Meg, who was then alive--he died the year
after--had helped himself to part of the contents,
and the skirmish over its recovery had resulted in a
friendship which was to last the boys all their lives.
The doctor believed in Tod, and always spoke of his
pluck and of his love for his mother, qualities which
Jane admired--but then technical class distinctions
never troubled Jane--every honest body was Jane's
friend, just as every honest body was Doctor John's.

The doctor loved Archie with the love of an older
brother; not altogether because he was Jane's ward,
but for the boy's own qualities--for his courage, for
his laugh--particularly for his buoyancy. Often, as
he looked into the lad's eyes brimming with fun, he
would wish that he himself had been born with the
same kind of temperament. Then again the boy
satisfied to a certain extent the longing in his heart
for home, wife, and child--a void which he knew
now would never be filled. Fate had decreed that
he and the woman he loved should live apart--with
this he must be content. Not that his disappointments 
had soured him; only that this ever-present
sorrow had added to the cares of his life, and in later
years had taken much of the spring and joyousness
out of him. This drew him all the closer to Archie,
and the lad soon became his constant companion;
sitting beside him in his gig, waiting for him at the
doors of the fishermen's huts, or in the cabins of the
poor on the outskirts of Barnegat and Warehold.

"There goes Doctor John of Barnegat and his
curly-head," the neighbors would say; "when ye
see one ye see t'other."

Newcomers in Barnegat and Warehold thought
Archie was his son, and would talk to the doctor about
him:

"Fine lad you got, doctor--don't look a bit like
you, but maybe he will when he gets his growth."
At which the doctor would laugh and pat the boy's
head.

During all these years Lucy's letters came but
seldom. When they did arrive, most of them were
filled with elaborate excuses for her prolonged stay.
The money, she wrote, which Jane had sent her from
time to time was ample for her needs; she was making 
many valuable friends, and she could not see
how she could return until the following spring--
a spring which never came. In no one of them had
she ever answered Jane's letter about Bart's death,
except to acknowledge its receipt. Nor, strange to
say, had she ever expressed any love for Archie.
Jane's letters were always filled with the child's
doings; his illnesses and recoveries; but whenever
Lucy mentioned his name, which was seldom, she
invariably referred to him as "your little ward" or
"your baby," evidently intending to wipe that part
of her life completely out. Neither did she make
any comment on the child's christening--a ceremony
which took place in the church, Pastor Dellenbaugh
officiating--except to write that perhaps one name
was as good as another, and that she hoped he would
not disgrace it when he grew up.

These things, however, made but little impression
on Jane. She never lost faith in her sister, and
never gave up hope that one day they would all
three be reunited; how or where she could not tell
or foresee, but in some way by which Lucy would
know and love her son for himself alone, and the two
live together ever after--his parentage always a
secret. When Lucy once looked into her boy's face
she was convinced she would love and cling to him.
This was her constant prayer.

All these hopes were dashed to the ground by the
receipt of a letter from Lucy with a Geneva postmark. 
She had not written for months, and Jane
broke the seal with a murmur of delight, Martha
leaning forward, eager to hear the first word from
her bairn. As she read Jane's face grew suddenly
pale.

"What is it?" Martha asked in a trembling voice.

For some minutes Jane sat staring into space,
her hand pressed to her side. She looked like one
who had received a death message. Then, without
a word, she handed the letter to Martha.

The old woman adjusted her glasses, read the missive 
to the end without comment, and laid it back
on Jane's lap. The writing covered but part of the
page, and announced Lucy's coming marriage with a
Frenchman: "A man of distinction; some years
older than myself, and of ample means. He fell in
love with me at Aix."

There are certain crises in life with conclusions
so evident that no spoken word can add to their clearness. 
There is no need of comment; neither is there
room for doubt. The bare facts stand naked. No
sophistry can dull their outlines nor soften the insistence 
of their high lights; nor can any reasoning explain 
away the results that will follow. Both women,
without the exchange of a word, knew instantly that
the consummation of this marriage meant the loss
of Lucy forever. Now she would never come back,
and Archie would be motherless for life. They foresaw, 
too, that all their yearning to clasp Lucy once
more in their arms would go unsatisfied. In this
marriage she had found a way to slip as easily from
out the ties that bound her to Yardley as she would
from an old dress.

Martha rose from her chair, read the letter again
to the end, and without opening her lips left the
room. Jane kept her seat, her head resting on her
hand, the letter once more in her lap. The revulsion
of feeling had paralyzed her judgment, and for a
time had benumbed her emotions. All she saw was
Archie's eyes looking into hers as he waited for an
answer to that question he would one day ask and
which now she knew she could never give.

Then there rose before her, like some disembodied
spirit from a long-covered grave, the spectre of the
past. An icy chill crept over her. Would Lucy
begin this new life with the same deceit with which
she had begun the old? And if she did, would this
Frenchman forgive her when he learned the facts?
If he never learned them--and this was most to be
dreaded--what would Lucy's misery be all her life
if she still kept the secret close? Then with a pathos
all the more intense because of her ignorance of the
true situation--she fighting on alone, unconscious
that the man she loved not only knew every pulsation 
of her aching heart, but would be as willing as
herself to guard its secret, she cried:

"Yes, at any cost she must be saved from this
living death! I know what it is to sit beside the man
I love, the man whose arm is ready to sustain me,
whose heart is bursting for love of me, and yet be
always held apart by a spectre which I dare not
face."

With this came the resolve to prevent the marriage
at all hazards, even to leaving Yardley and taking the
first steamer to Europe, that she might plead with
Lucy in person.

While she sat searching her brain for some way
out of the threatened calamity, the rapid rumbling
of the doctor's gig was heard on the gravel road outside 
her open window. She knew from the speed
with which he drove that something out of the common 
had happened. The gig stopped and the doctor's 
voice rang out:

"Come as quick as you can, Jane, please. I've
got a bad case some miles out of Warehold, and I
need you; it's a compound fracture, and I want you
to help with the chloroform."

All her indecision vanished and all her doubts
were swept away as she caught the tones of his voice.
Who else in the wide world understood her as he
did, and who but he should guide her now? Had
he ever failed her? When was his hand withheld
or his lips silent? How long would her pride shut
out his sympathy? If he could help in the smaller
things of life why not trust him in this larger sorrow?
--one that threatened to overwhelm her, she
whose heart ached for tenderness and wise counsel.
Perhaps she could lean upon him without betraying
her trust. After all, the question of Archie's birth--
the one secret between them--need not come up. It
was Lucy's future happiness which was at stake.
This must be made safe at any cost short of exposure.

"Better put a few things in a bag," Doctor John
continued. "It may be a case of hours or days--I
can't tell till I see him. The boy fell from the roof
of the stable and is pretty badly hurt; both legs are
broken, I hear; the right one in two places."

She was upstairs in a moment, into her nursing
dress, always hanging ready in case the doctor called
for her, and down again, standing beside the gig, her
bag in her hand, before he had time to turn his horse
and arrange the seat and robes for her comfort.

"Who is it?" she asked hurriedly, resting her
hand in his as he helped her into the seat and took
the one beside her, Martha and Archie assisting with
her bag and big driving cloak.

"Burton's boy. His father was coming for me
and met me on the road. I have everything with
me, so we will not lose any time. Good-by, my boy,"
he called to Archie. "One day I'll make a doctor
of you, and then I won't have to take your dear
mother from you so often. Good-by, Martha. You
want to take care of that cough, old lady, or I shall
have to send up some of those plasters you
love so."

They were off and rattling down the path between
the lilacs before either Archie or the old woman
could answer. To hearts like Jane's and the doctor's, 
a suffering body, no matter how far away, was
a sinking ship in the clutch of the breakers. Until
the lifeboat reached her side everything was forgotten.

The doctor adjusted the robe over Jane's lap and
settled himself in his seat. They had often driven
thus together, and Jane's happiest hours had been
spent close to his side, both intent on the same errand 
of mercy, and BOTH WORKING TOGETHER. That was
the joy of it!

They talked of the wounded boy and of the needed
treatment and what part each should take in the
operation; of some new cases in the hospital and the
remedies suggested for their comfort; of Archie's
life on the beach and how ruddy and handsome he
was growing, and of his tender, loving nature; and of
the thousand and one other things that two people
who know every pulsation of each other's hearts are
apt to discuss--of everything, in fact, but the letter
in her pocket. "It is a serious case," she said to
herself--"this to which we are hurrying--and nothing 
must disturb the sureness of his sensitive hand."

Now and then, as he spoke, the two would turn
their heads and look into each other's eyes.

When a man's face lacks the lines and modellings
that stand for beauty the woman who loves him is
apt to omit in her eager glance every feature but
his eyes. His eyes are the open doors to his soul;
in these she finds her ideals, and in these she revels.
But with Jane every feature was a joy--the way
the smoothly cut hair was trimmed about his white
temples; the small, well-turned ears lying flat to his
head; the lines of his eyebrows; the wide, sensitive
nostrils and the gleam of the even teeth flashing
from between well-drawn, mobile lips; the white,
smooth, polished skin. Not all faces could boast
this beauty; but then not all souls shone as clearly
as did Doctor John's through the thin veil of his
face.

And she was equally young and beautiful to him.
Her figure was still that of her youth; her face had
not changed--he still caught the smile of the girl
he loved. Often, when they had been driving along
the coast, the salt wind in their faces, and he had
looked at her suddenly, a thrill of delight had swept
through him as he noted how rosy were her cheeks
and how ruddy the wrists above the gloves, hiding
the dear hands he loved so well, the tapering fingers
tipped with delicate pink nails. He could, if he
sought them, find many telltale wrinkles about the
corners of the mouth and under the eyelids (he knew
and loved them all), showing where the acid of anxiety 
had bitten deep into the plate on which the
record of her life was being daily etched, but her
beautiful gray eyes still shone with the same true,
kindly light, and always flashed the brighter when
they looked into his own. No, she was ever young
and ever beautiful to him!

To-day, however, there was a strange tremor in
her voice and an anxious, troubled expression in her
face--one that he had not seen for years. Nor had
she once looked into his eyes in the old way.

"Something worries you, Jane," he said, his
voice echoing his thoughts. "Tell me about it."

"No--not now--it is nothing," she answered
quickly.

"Yes, tell me. Don't keep any troubles from me.
I have nothing else to do in life but smooth them out.
Come, what is it?"

"Wait until we get through with Burton's boy.
He may be hurt worse than you think."

The doctor slackened the reins until they rested
on the dashboard, and with a quick movement turned
half around and looked searchingly into Jane's eyes.

"It is serious, then. What has happened?"

"Only a letter from Lucy."

"Is she coming home?"

"No, she is going to be married."

The doctor gave a low whistle. Instantly Archie's
laughing eyes looked into his; then came the thought
of the nameless grave of his father.

"Well, upon my soul! You don't say so! Who
to, pray?"

"To a Frenchman." Jane's eyes were upon his,
reading the effect of her news. His tone of surprise
left an uncomfortable feeling behind it.

"How long has she known him?" he continued,
tightening the reins again and chirruping to the mare..

"She does not say--not long, I should think."

"What sort of a Frenchman is he? I've known
several kinds in my life--so have you, no doubt,"
and a quiet smile overspread his face. "Come,
Bess! Hurry up, old girl."

"A gentleman, I should think, from what she
writes. He is much older than Lucy, and she says
very well off."

"Then you didn't meet him on the other side?"

"And never heard of him before?"

"Not until I received this letter."

The doctor reached for his whip and flecked off a
fly that had settled on the mare's neck.

"Lucy is about twenty-seven, is she not?"

"Yes, some eight years younger than I am. Why
do you ask, John?"

"Because it is always a restless age for a woman.
She has lost the protecting ignorance of youth and
she has not yet gained enough of the experience of
age to steady her. Marriage often comes as a balance-
weight. She is coming home to be married, isn't
she?"

"No; they are to be married in Geneva at his
mother's."

"I think that part of it is a mistake," he said in
a decided tone. "There is no reason why she should
not be married here; she owes that to you and to
herself." Then he added in a gentler tone, "And
this worries you?"

"More than I can tell you, John." There was a
note in her voice that vibrated through him. He
knew now how seriously the situation affected her.

"But why, Jane? If Lucy is happier in it we
should do what we can to help her."

"Yes, but not in this way. This will make her
all the more miserable. I don't want this marriage;
I want her to come home and live with me and
Archie. She makes me promises every year to come,
and now it is over six years since I left her and she
has always put me off. This marriage means that
she will never come. I want her here, John. It
is not right for her to live as she does. Please think
as I do!"



* * * * *
=HOW TO VITALISE THE DRAMA.=
_A hint of what might be done by following the example of the
Press_.

["More than one actor-manager during the past
few months has been searching round frantically
in his efforts to find a new play."

_The Times_.]
Oh, have you marked upon the breeze The wail of hunger which occurs
When starved theatrical lessees Commune with hollow managers?

"Where is Dramatic Art?"

they say; "Can no one, _no one_, write a
play?"

I cannot think why this should be, This bitter plaint
of sudden dearth; To write a play would seem to
me Almost the easiest thing on earth.
Sometimes I feel that even I Could do it if I chose to
try.

What! can this Art be in its grave Whose form was
lately so rotund, Whose strength was as a bull's
and gave No sign of being moribund?
I'm sure my facts are right, or how Do you account
for _Chu Chin Chow_?

As for the gods, their judgment shows No loss of
_flair_ for grace or wit; We see the comic's ruby nose Reduce to
pulp the nightly pit, Whose patrons, sound in head and heart, Still
love the loftiest type of Art.

Nor should the playwright fail for lack Of matter,
if with curious eyes He follows in our Pressmen's
track, Who find the source of their supplies In Life,
that ever-flowing font, And "give the public what they want."

If authors, moving with the times, Would only feed
us, like the Press, On squalid "mysteries,"
ugly crimes, Scandals and all that carrion mess,
I see no solid reason why Dramatic Art should ever die.

O. S.

* * * * *

=UNAUTHENTIC IMPRESSIONS.=
II.--MR. WINSTON CHURCHILL.

If it be urged that a few trifling inaccuracies have
crept into the sketch which is here given of a
great statesman's personality I can only say, "_Humanum est errare_,"
and "_Homo sum: humani nihil alienum a me puto_."

These two Latin sentences, I find, invariably
soothe all angry passions; you have only to
try their effect the next time you stamp on the
foot of a stout man when alighting from an Underground train.

Of all the present-day politicians, and indeed
there are not a few, upon whose mantelpieces the
bust of NAPOLEON BONAPARTE is displayed, Mr.
WINSTON CHURCHILL is probably the most assiduous
worshipper at the great Corsican's shrine. How often has
he not entered his sanctum at the War Office,
peering forward with that purposeful dominating look on
his face, and discovered a few specks of dust
upon his favourite effigy. With a quick characteristic
motion of the thumb resembling a stab he rings the
bell. A flunkey instantly appears. "Bust that dust,"
says the WAR MINISTER. And then, correcting himself
instantly, with a genial smile, "I should say,
Dust that bust."
But NAPOLEON'S is not the only head that adorns Mr.
WINSTON CHURCHILL'S room. On a bookshelf opposite
is a model of his own head, such as one may
sometimes see in the shop windows of hatters, and
close beside is a small private hat-making plant,
together with an adequate supply of the hair of the
rabbit, the beaver, the vicuna and similar rodents,
and a quantity of shellac. Few days pass in which
the WAR MINISTER does not spend an hour or two at
his charming hobby, for, contrary to the general opinion, he is
far from satisfied with the headgear by which he is so well known,
or even with the Sandringham hat of _The Daily Mail_, and lives
always in hopes of modelling the ideal hat which is destined to
immortalise him and be worn by others for centuries to come.

The work of a great statesman lives frequently
in the mindful brain of posterity, less frequently
upon it.

Other mementos which adorn this remarkable room
at the War Office are a porcelain pot containing a
preserve of Blenheim oranges, a framed photograph
of the Free Trade Hall at Manchester, a map of
Mesopotamia with the outpost lines and sentry
groups of the original Garden of Eden, marked by
paper flags, and a number of lion-skin rugs of
which the original occupants were stalked and killed
by their owner on his famous African tour. In his
more playful moments the WAR MINISTER has been
known to clothe himself completely in one of these
skins and growl ferociously from behind a palm at an unwelcome
intruder.

Of the man himself perhaps the most distinguishing
characteristic is dynamic energy. Whether other
people's energy is ever dynamic I do not know, but
undoubtedly Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL'S is; he dominates, he quells.

He is like one of those people in the papers
with zig-zags sticking out all over them because they have been
careful to wear an electric belt.

He exudes force. Sometimes one can almost hear him
crackle.

As a politician it is true he has not yet
tried every office; he has not, for instance, been
Chancellor of the Exchequer, though his unbounded success in the
Duchy of Lancaster amply shows what his capabilities as a Chancellor
are.

But as a soldier, a pig-sticker and a polo-player he is
rapidly gaining pre-eminence, and as an author
and journalist his voice is already like a swan's
amongst screech-owls.

(I admit that that last bit ought to have been in
Latin, but I cannot remember what the Latin for a
screech-owl is. I have an idea that it increases
in the genitive, but quite possibly I may be thinking
of dormice.)
Anyhow, to return to Mr. CHURCHILL'S room: whilst
the floor is littered with volumes that have been
sent to him for review, his desk is equally littered
with proofs of essays, sermons, leaders and
leaderettes for the secular and Sunday Press. As a
novelist he has scarcely fulfilled his early
promise, but it is on record that he was once
introduced to a stranger from the backwoods, who
asked ignorantly, "Am I speaking to the statesman
or the author?"
"Not _or_, but _and_," replied the SECRETARY OF
STATE FOR WAR, with a simple dignity like that of
ST. AUGUSTINE.

To poetry he is not greatly attached, preferring
to leave this field of letters to his staff. When
asked for his favourite passage of English verse
he has indeed been known to cite a single line
from Mr.

HILAIRE BELLOC'S _Modern Traveller_--
"That marsh, that admirable marsh!"
which is far from being Mr. BELLOC'S most mellifluous
effort.

We feel bound to ask what is most likely to be the
next outlet for Mr. CHURCHILL'S ebullient activity.
Remembering that bust upon his mantelpiece it is
hard to say. There are some who consider that, prevented by the
sluggishness of our times from the chance
of commanding an army in the field, he may turn his
strategic mind at last to the position of
Postmaster-General. If he does there can be no man
better fitted than he to make our telephones hum.

K.

* * * * *
"A.--Comme vous voudrai.--P."
_Agony Column in Daily Paper_.

Taking advantage of "P.'s" kindness we may say that
we prefer "_voudrez_."
* * * * *
"A TRUE FISHING STORY.

Lady ---- is surprising everyone with her skill
as an angler and a shot. Last Friday, I am told,
she caught two trout weighing 2-3/4 lb. and 3-1/4
lb. And on the same afternoon she got a right and a
left hit at a roebuck with a small four-bore
gun!"--_Daily Paper_.

Not caring to believe that she mistook a roebuck for an elephant,
we are glad to note that the epithet "true" is only applied to the
"fishing" part of the story

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: =THE ABYSMALISTS.=
BRITISH EXTREMIST. "WHAT ARE YOU DOING DOWN THERE?"
VOICE OF RUSSIAN BOLSHEVIST FROM BELOW. "DIGGING
A GRAVE FOR THE BOURGEOISIE."
BRITISH EXTREMIST. "THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO DO;
BUT HOW DO YOU GET OUT?"
VOICE FROM BELOW. "YOU DON'T."]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _French Visitor_ (_inspecting
artificial silk stockings_). "SOIE?"
_Shopman_ (_formerly of the B.E.F., resourcefully_).
"WELL, SCARCELY, MADAM; SHALL WE SAY 'SOI-DISANT'?"]
* * * * *
CONTEMPORARY FOLK-SONGS.

"THE GRAVE OF THE BOORZH-WAW-ZE."
[The following folk-song is believed to be a local
(and adult) version of the ballad which,
according to _The Times_, is now being sung by Communist
children in the Glasgow Proletarian Schools,
with the refrain:--
"Class-conscious we are singing, Class-conscious all
are we, For Labour now is digging The grave of the
Boorzh-waw-ze."
The metre is a bit jumpy, and so are the ideas,
but you know what folk-songs are.]
Look, we are digging a large round hole, _With a
Hey and a Ho and a Hee-haw-hee!_ To put the
abominable tyrant in-- The Minister, the Master, the
Mandarin; And never a bloom above shall blow But scarlet-runners
in a row to show _That this is the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With
a Hi-ti-tiddle-i!

... Honk, honk!_
Who do we put in the large round hole, _With a Hey and
a Ho and a Hee-haw-hee?_ The blackcoat, the parasite,
the keeper of the laws, Who works with his head
instead of with his paws; The doctor, the parson,
the pressman, the mayor, The poet and the barrister,
they'll all be there, _Snug in the grave of the
Boorzh-waw-ze, With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i! ... Honk,
honk!_
Dig, dig, dig, it will have to be big, _With a Hey and a Ho and a
Hee-haw-hee!

_ One great cavity, and then one more For the
bones of the SECRET'RY OF STATE FOR WAR; The editor, the clerk
and, of course, old THOMAS, We wring their necks
and we fling them from us _Into the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze,
With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i!

... Honk, honk!_

Peace and Brotherhood, that's our line, _With a Hey and a Ho and a
Hee-haw-hee!

_ But nobody, of course, can co-exist In the same small planet with
a Communist; Man is a brotherhood, that we know, And the whole damn
family has got to go _Plomp in the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With
a Hi-ti-tiddle-i!

... Honk, honk!_
Too many people are alive to-day, _With a Hey and
a Ho and a Hee-haw-hee!_ Red already is the Red, Red
Sea With the blood of the brutal Boorzh-waw-ze,
And that's what the rest of the globe will be--
_Believe me!_ We'll stand at last with the Red Flag
furled* In a perfectly void vermilion world With the citizens
(if any) who have _not_ been hurled _Into
the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i
... Honk, honk!_
A. P. H.

[* NOTE.--In the Somerset version the word is "_un_furled,"
which makes better sense but scans even worse than the
rest of the song. I have therefore followed the
Gloucestershire tradition.]
* * * * *
SOURCES OF LAUGHTER.

"It will have to be a great deal funnier than that before it's
funny," said George.

This represented the general opinion, though
Edna, who has a good heart, professed to find it
diverting already. Unfortunately she has no
sense of humour.

Jerry, the writer, claimed exemption on the ground
of being the writer, though he did not see why
his article should not remove gravity (as they say in _The Wallet
of Kai Lung_) from other people quite as effectually as the silly
tosh of A. and B. and C., naming some brilliant and successful
humorists.

The company then resolved itself into a Voluntary
Aid Detachment.

When they met again at tea Edna made the suggestion
of a sprinkling of puns.

"We've got rather beyond that, I think," said the victim
with dignity.

"I'm not so sure," said George cruelly, "that you can
afford to neglect any means.

Some people laugh at them even now, in this
twentieth century, in this beautiful England of ours."

"And I can tell you why," broke in Raymond eagerly.
He took from his pocket a well-known Manual of
Psychology and whirled over the pages.

"Meanwhile," said George learnedly, "BERGSON may be of
some assistance to you. He knows all about laughter.
He analysed it."
"Why couldn't he leave it alone?" said Allegra
uneasily.

"He defines laughter," said George, "as 'a kind of
social gesture.'"
"It isn't," said Allegra rashly.

"At least," she added, "that sort of thing isn't
going to help Jerry. Do give it up."
"Well, then, here's something more practical," said
George. "Listen.
'A situation is always comical when it belongs at
one and the same time to two series of absolutely
independent events, and can at the same time be
interpreted in two different ways.'"
"I should think," said Edna brightly, "that might be
very amusing."
She remarked later that it made it all seem very
clear, but even she showed signs of relief when
Raymond interrupted, having found his place.

"Here we are!" he exclaimed. "The book says that the
reason a pun amuses you----"
"It doesn't amuse me," said most of the company.

"But it does--it must amuse you. It's all down
here in black and white. Listen. The reason a pun
amuses you is as follows: 'It impels the mind to
identify objects quite disconnected. This obstructs
the flow of thought; but this is too transient to give
rise to pain, and the relief which comes with
insight into the true state of the case may be a
source of keen pleasure. Mental activity suddenly
obstructed and so heightened is at once set free, and
is so much greater than the occasion demands
that----'"
"And is that why we laugh at things?"

said Allegra sadly.

The heavy silence which followed was broken by
the voice of Mrs.
Purkis, the charlady, who "comes in to oblige," and
was now taking a short cut to the front gate, under
Cook's escort, by way of the parsley bed. This
brought her within earshot of the party, who were
taking tea on the lawn.

When Mrs. Purkis could contain her mirth so as to make
herself understood, her words were these: "I dunno
why, but when I see 'im stand like that, staring like
a stuck pig, I thought I'd died a-larf'n. I dunno
why, but it made me _larf_----"
She passed, like _Pippa_.

"Listen to her," said Allegra in bitter envy.

"_She doesn't know why._"
And Allegra burst into tears.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _The Fisherman._ "I SUPPOSE THIS RAIN
WILL DO A LOT OF GOOD, PAT?"
_Pat._ "YE MAY WELL SAY THAT, SORR. AN HOUR OF
UT NOW WILL DO MORE GOOD IN FIVE MINUTES THAN A MONTH OF UT WOULD
DO IN A WEEK AT ANNY OTHER TIME

."]
* * * * *
What's in a Name?

"'A Recital' will be given by Miss H. E. Stutter
(the well-known Elocutionist)."
_Local Paper._
* * * * *
AT THE BLOATER SHOW.

The last time I was at Olympia--as everybody says at
the door--it was a Horse Show. But this time it is
much the same. There they stand in their stalls,
the dear, magnificent, patient creatures, with
their glossy coats and their beautiful curves, their sensitive
radiators sniffing for something over the velvet ropes. Panting, I
know they are, to be out in the open again; and yet I fancy they
enjoy it all in a way. It would be ungrateful if they did not; for,
after all, the whole thing has been arranged for them. The whole
idea of the Show is to let the motors inspect the bloaters--and not
what you think. (You don't know what bloaters are? Well, I can't
explain without being rude.)
All the year round they can study _ad nauseam_ their own individual
bloaters; but this is the only occasion on which they have the whole
world of bloaters paraded in front of them for inspection. Now only
can they compare notes and exchange grievances.
And how closely they study the parade! Here is a pretty limousine,
a blonde; see how she watches the two huge exhibits in front of
her.
They are very new bloaters, and one of them--oh, horror!--one of
them is going to buy. He has never bought before; she knows his
sort. He will drive her to death; he may even drive her himself;
he will stroke her lovely coat in a familiar, proprietary fashion;
he will show her off unceasingly to other bloaters till she is hot
all over and the water boils in her radiator.Before he climbed down the ladder
he announced with a solemn smile that he thought
the craft was well protected so far as collisions on
foggy nights were concerned, but he doubted if their
arms were sufficient and that he had better leave
them his big sea knife which had been twice around
Cape Horn, and which might be useful in lopping
off arms and legs whenever the cutthroats got too
impudent and aggressive; whereupon Archie threw
his arms around his grizzled neck and said he was a
"bully commodore," and that if he would come and
live with them aboard the hulk they would obey his
orders to a man.

Archie leaned over the rotten rail and saw the
old salt stop a little way from the hulk and stand
looking at them for some minutes and then wave his
hand, at which the boys waved back, but the lad
did not see the tears that lingered for an instant on
the captain's eyelids, and which the sea-breeze caught
away; nor did he hear the words, as the captain
resumed his walk: "He's all I've got left, and yet
he don't know it and I can't tell him. Ain't it hell?"

Neither did they notice that he never once raised
his eyes toward the House of Refuge as he passed
its side. A new door and a new roof had been
added, but in other respects it was to him the same
grewsome, lonely hut as on that last night when he
had denounced his son outside its swinging door.

Often the boys made neighborly visits to friendly
tribes and settlers. Fogarty was one of these, and
Doctor Cavendish was another. The doctor's country 
was a place of buttered bread and preserves and
a romp with Rex, who was almost as feeble as Meg
had been in his last days. But Fogarty's cabin was a
mine of never-ending delight. In addition to the
quaint low house of clapboards and old ship-timber,
with its sloping roof and little toy windows, so unlike
his own at Yardley, and smoked ceilings, there was
a scrap heap piled up and scattered over the yard
which in itself was a veritable treasure-house. "Oh,
and what does Barbara say?" I asked.

"She says that when Father sits in that stuffy little room of his
he usually writes in his sleep. She really does take the most amazing
notice of things, and the way she expresses herself is quite weird."Here
were twisted iron rods, fish-baskets, broken lobster-
pots, rotting seines and tangled, useless nets--some
used as coverings for coops of restless chickens--old
worn-out rope, tangled rigging--everything that a
fisherman who had spent his life on Barnegat beach
could pull from the surf or find stranded on the
sand.

Besides all these priceless treasures, there was an
old boat lying afloat in a small lagoon back of the
house, one of those seepage pools common to the
coast--a boat which Fogarty had patched with a bit
of sail-cloth, and for which he had made two pairs
of oars, one for each of the "crew," as he called the
lads, and which Archie learned to handle with such
dexterity that the old fisherman declared he would
make a first-class boatman when he grew up, and
would "shame the whole bunch of 'em."
 
But these two valiant buccaneers were not to remain 
in undisturbed possession of the Bandit's Home
with its bewildering fittings and enchanting possibilities
--not for long. The secret of the uses to
which the stranded craft bad been put, and the
attendant fun which Commodore Tod and his dauntless 
henchman, Archibald Cobden, Esquire, were
daily getting out of its battered timbers, had already
become public property. The youth of Barnegat--
the very young youth, ranging from nine to twelve,
and all boys--received the news at first with hilarious
joy. She often smoked a cigarette, And did it in
the cutest fashion.
Before a week passed by she set My young heart in
a raging passion.

I swore I loved her as my life, I gave her gems
(don't tell my tailor).
She promised to become my wife, But whispered, 'Papa is
my jailer.'
'We must be very sly, you see, For Papa will not
list to reason.
You must not come to call on me Until he's gone from home a
season.
'I'll send you word, now don't forget, Take this as pledge, I will
remember.'All these denizens of Barnegat had at one time
or another climbed up the sloop's chains and peered
down the hatchway to the sand covering the keelson,
and most of them had used it as a shelter behind
which, in swimming-time, they had put on or peeled
off such mutilated rags as covered their nakedness,
but no one of them had yet conceived the idea of
turning it into a Bandit's Home. That touch of
the ideal, that gilding of the commonplace, had been
reserved for the brain of the curly-haired boy who,
with dancing eyes, his sturdy little legs resting on
Tod's shoulder, had peered over the battered rail,
and who, with a burst of enthusiasm, had shouted:
"Oh, cracky! isn't it nice, Tod! It's got a place we
can fix up for a robbers' den; and we'll be bandits
and have a flag. Oh, come up here! You never
saw anything so fine," etc., etc.

When, therefore, Scootsy Mulligan, aged nine, son
of a ship-caulker who worked in Martin Farguson's
ship-yard, and Sandy Plummer, eldest of three, and
their mother a widow--plain washing and ironing,
two doors from the cake-shop--heard that that
French "spad," Arch Cobden what lived up to Yardley, 
and that red-headed Irish cub, Tod Fogarty--
Tod's hair had turned very red--had pre-empted the
Black Tub, as the wreck was irreverently called,
claiming it as their very own, "and-a-sayin' they
wuz pirates and bloody Turks and sich," these two
quarrelsome town rats organized a posse in lower
Barnegat for its recapture.

no longer I needed to borrow My grief from the
actor's art.

And as life grows older, and therefore sadder
(Though sweeter maybe with its autumn haze), I
find more pleasure in watching the gladder And lighter
order of humorous plays.
Where the mirth is as mad, or maybe madder, Than
the mirth of my lost days.

I like to be forced to laugh and be merry, Though the earth with
sorrow and pain is rife:
I like for an evening at least to bury All thoughts of trouble, or
pain, or strife.

In sooth, I like to be moved to the very Emotions
I miss in life.

AS WE LOOK BACK (RONDEAU)
As we look back at our lost Used-to-Be, 'The light that never was
on land or sea' Touches the distant mountain peaks with gold, And
through the glass of memory we behold Such blossoms as grow not on
any lea.The commodore had not read as
deeply in pirate lore as had Archie, and was not,
therefore, so ready with its lingo.

"Band of savages, sir, approaching down the
beach."

"Where away?" thundered back the commodore,
his authority now asserting itself in the tones of
his voice.

"On the starboard bow, sir--six or seven of 'em."

"Armed or peaceable?"

"Armed, sir. Scootsy Mulligan is leadin' 'em."

