And there was spread, upon the ample floors,
 Work of the Levantine's laborious loom,
Such as by Euxine or Ionian shores
 Carpets the dim seraglio's scented gloom.
Each morn renewed, the garden's flowery stores
 Blushed in fair vases, ochre and peach-bloom,
And little birds through wicker doors left wide
Flew in to trill a space from the green world outside.

And there was many a dainty attitude,
 Bronze and eburnean.  All but disarrayed,
Here in eternal doubt sweet Psyche stood
 Fain of the bath's delight, yet still afraid
Lest aught in that palatial solitude
 Lurked of most menace to a helpless maid.
Therefore forever faltering she stands,
Nor yet the last loose fold slips rippling from her hands.

Close by upon a beryl column, clad
 In the fresh flower of adolescent grace,
They set the dear Bithynian shepherd lad,
 The nude Antinous.  That gentle face,
Forever beautiful, forever sad,
 Shows but one aspect, moon-like, to our gaze,
Yet Fancy pictures how those lips could smile
At revelries in Rome, and banquets on the Nile.

And there were shapes of Beauty myriads more,
 Clustering their rosy bridal bed around,
Whose scented breadth a silken fabric wore
 Broidered with peacock hues on creamiest ground,
Fit to have graced the barge that Cydnus bore
 Or Venus' bed in her enchanted mound,
While pillows swelled in stuffs of Orient dyes,
All broidered with strange fruits and birds of Paradise.

'Twas such a bower as Youth has visions of,
 Thither with one fair spirit to retire,
Lie upon rose-leaves, sleep and wake with Love
 And feast on kisses to the heart's desire;
Where by a casement opening on a grove,
 Wide to the wood-winds and the sweet birds' choir,
A girl might stand and gaze into green boughs,
Like Credhe at the window of her golden house.

Or most like Vivien, the enchanting fay,
 Where with her friend, in the strange tower they planned,
She lies and dreams eternity away,
 Above the treetops in Broceliande,
Sometimes at twilight when the woods are gray
 And wolf-packs howl far out across the lande,
Waking to love, while up behind the trees
The large midsummer moon lifts--even so loved these.

For here, their pleasure was to come and sit
 Oft when the sun sloped midway to the west,
Watching with sweet enjoyment interknit
 The long light slant across the green earth's breast,
And clouds upon the ranges opposite,
 Rolled up into a gleaming thundercrest,
Topple and break and fall in purple rain,
And mist of summer showers trail out across the plain.

Whereon the shafts of ardent light, far-flung
 Across the luminous azure overhead,
Ofttimes in arcs of transient beauty hung
 The fragmentary rainbow's green and red.
Joy it was here to love and to be young,
 To watch the sun sink to his western bed,
And streaming back out of their flaming core
The vesperal aurora's glorious banners soar.

Tinging each altitude of heaven in turn,
 Those fiery rays would sweep.  The cumuli
That peeped above the mountain-tops would burn
 Carmine a space; the cirrus-whorls on high,
More delicate than sprays of maiden fern,
 Streak with pale rose the peacock-breasted sky,
Then blanch.  As water-lilies fold at night,
Sank back into themselves those plumes of fervid light.

And they would watch the first faint stars appear,
 The blue East blend with the blue hills below,
As lovers when their shuddering bliss draws near
 Into one pulse of fluid rapture grow.
New fragrance on the freshening atmosphere
 Would steal with evening, and the sunset glow
Draw deeper down into the wondrous west
Round vales of Proserpine and islands of the blest.

So dusk would come and mingle lake and shore,
 The snow-peaks fade to frosty opaline,
To pearl the domed clouds the mountains bore,
 Where late the sun's effulgent fire had been --
Showing as darkness deepened more and more
 The incandescent lightnings flare within,
And Night that furls the lily in the glen
And twines impatient arms would fall, and then--and then . . .

Sometimes the peasant, coming late from town
 With empty panniers on his little drove
Past the old lookout when the Northern Crown
 Glittered with Cygnus through the scented grove,
Would hear soft noise of lute-strings wafted down
 And voices singing through the leaves above
Those songs that well from the warm heart that woos
At balconies in Merida or Vera Cruz.

And he would pause under the garden wall,
 Caught in the spell of that voluptuous strain,
With all the sultry South in it, and all
 Its importunity of love and pain;
And he would wait till the last passionate fall
 Died on the night, and all was still again, --
Then to his upland village wander home,
Marvelling whence that flood of elfin song might come.

O lyre that Love's white holy hands caress,
 Youth, from thy bosom welled their passionate lays --
Sweet opportunity for happiness
 So brief, so passing beautiful--O days,
When to the heart's divine indulgences
 All earth in smiling ministration pays --
Thine was the source whose plenitude, past over,
What prize shall rest to pluck, what secret to discover!

The wake of color that follows her when May
 Walks on the hills loose-haired and daisy-crowned,
The deep horizons of a summer's day,
 Fair cities, and the pleasures that abound
Where music calls, and crowds in bright array
 Gather by night to find and to be found;
What were these worth or all delightful things
Without thine eyes to read their true interpretings!

For thee the mountains open glorious gates,
 To thee white arms put out from orient skies,
Earth, like a jewelled bride for one she waits,
 Decks but to be delicious in thine eyes,
Thou guest of honor for one day, whose fetes
 Eternity has travailed to devise;
Ah, grace them well in the brief hour they last!
Another's turn prepares, another follows fast.

Yet not without one fond memorial
 Let my sun set who found the world so fair!
Frail verse, when Time the singer's coronal
 Has rent, and stripped the rose-leaves from his hair,
Be thou my tablet on the temple wall!
 Among the pious testimonials there,
Witness how sweetly on my heart as well
The miracles of dawn and starry evening fell!

Speak of one then who had the lust to feel,
 And, from the hues that far horizons take,
And cloud and sunset, drank the wild appeal,
 Too deep to live for aught but life's sweet sake,
Whose only motive was the will to kneel
 Where Beauty's purest benediction spake,
Who only coveted what grove and field
And sunshine and green Earth and tender arms could yield --

A nympholept, through pleasant days and drear
 Seeking his faultless adolescent dream,
A pilgrim down the paths that disappear
 In mist and rainbows on the world's extreme,
A helpless voyager who all too near
 The mouth of Life's fair flower-bordered stream,
Clutched at Love's single respite in his need
More than the drowning swimmer clutches at a reed --

That coming one whose feet in other days
 Shall bleed like mine for ever having, more
Than any purpose, felt the need to praise
 And seek the angelic image to adore,
In love with Love, its wonderful, sweet ways
 Counting what most makes life worth living for,
That so some relic may be his to see
How I loved these things too and they were dear to me.

I sometimes think a conscious happiness
 Mantles through all the rose's sentient vine
When summer winds with myriad calyces
 Of bloom its clambering height incarnadine;
I sometimes think that cleaving lips, no less,
 And limbs that crowned desires at length entwine
Are nerves through which that being drinks delight,
Whose frame is the green Earth robed round with day and night.

And such were theirs:  the traveller without,
 Pausing at night under the orchard trees,
Wondered and crossed himself in holy doubt,
 For through their song and in the murmuring breeze
It seemed angelic choirs were all about
 Mingling in universal harmonies,
As though, responsive to the chords they woke,
All Nature into sweet epithalamium broke.

And still they think a spirit haunts the place:
 'Tis said, when Night has drawn her jewelled pall
And through the branches twinkling fireflies trace
 Their mimic constellations, if it fall
That one should see the moon rise through the lace
 Of blossomy boughs above the garden wall,
That surely would he take great ill thereof
And famish in a fit of unexpressive love.

But this I know not, for what time the wain
 Was loosened and the lily's petal furled,
Then I would rise, climb the old wall again,
 And pausing look forth on the sundown world,
Scan the wide reaches of the wondrous plain,
 The hamlet sites where settling smoke lay curled,
The poplar-bordered roads, and far away
Fair snowpeaks colored with the sun's last ray.

Waves of faint sound would pulsate from afar --
 Faint song and preludes of the summer night;
Deep in the cloudless west the evening star
 Hung 'twixt the orange and the emerald light;
From the dark vale where shades crepuscular
 Dimmed the old grove-girt belfry glimmering white,
Throbbing, as gentlest breezes rose or fell,
Came the sweet invocation of the evening bell.


The Torture of Cuauhtemoc


Their strength had fed on this when Death's white arms
Came sleeved in vapors and miasmal dew,
Curling across the jungle's ferny floor,
Becking each fevered brain.  On bleak divides,
Where Sleep grew niggardly for nipping cold
That twinged blue lips into a mouthed curse,
Not back to Seville and its sunny plains
Winged their brief-biding dreams, but once again,
Lords of a palace in Tenochtitlan,
They guarded Montezuma's treasure-hoard.
Gold, like some finny harvest of the sea,
Poured out knee deep around the rifted floors,
Shiny and sparkling,--arms and crowns and rings:
Gold, sweet to toy with as beloved hair, --
To plunge the lustful, crawling fingers down,
Arms elbow deep, and draw them out again,
And watch the glinting metal trickle off,
Even as at night some fisherman, home bound
With speckled cargo in his hollow keel
Caught off Campeche or the Isle of Pines,
Dips in his paddle, lifts it forth again,
And laughs to see the luminous white drops
Fall back in flakes of fire. . . .  Gold was the dream
That cheered that desperate enterprise.  And now? . . .
Victory waited on the arms of Spain,
Fallen was the lovely city by the lake,
The sunny Venice of the western world;
There many corpses, rotting in the wind,
Poked up stiff limbs, but in the leprous rags
No jewel caught the sun, no tawny chain
Gleamed, as the prying halberds raked them o'er.
Pillage that ran red-handed through the streets
Came railing home at evening empty-palmed;
And they, on that sad night a twelvemonth gone,
Who, ounce by ounce, dear as their own life's blood
Retreating, cast the cumbrous load away:
They, when brown foemen lopped the bridges down,
Who tipped thonged chests into the stream below
And over wealth that might have ransomed kings
Passed on to safety;--cheated, guerdonless --
Found (through their fingers the bright booty slipped)
A city naked, of that golden dream
Shorn in one moment like a sunset sky.

Deep in a chamber that no cheerful ray
Purged of damp air, where in unbroken night
Black scorpions nested in the sooty beams,
Helpless and manacled they led him down --
Cuauhtemotzin--and other lords beside --
All chieftains of the people, heroes all --
And stripped their feathered robes and bound them there
On short stone settles sloping to the head,
But where the feet projected, underneath
Heaped the red coals.  Their swarthy fronts illumed,
The bearded Spaniards, helmed and haubergeoned,
Paced up and down beneath the lurid vault.
Some kneeling fanned the glowing braziers; some
Stood at the sufferers' heads and all the while
Hissed in their ears:  "The gold . . . the gold . . . the gold.
Where have ye hidden it--the chested gold?
Speak--and the torments cease!"

                                   They answered not.
Past those proud lips whose key their sovereign claimed
No accent fell to chide or to betray,
Only it chanced that bound beside the king
Lay one whom Nature, more than other men
Framing for delicate and perfumed ease,
Not yet, along the happy ways of Youth,
Had weaned from gentle usages so far
To teach that fortitude that warriors feel
And glory in the proof.  He answered not,
But writhing with intolerable pain,
Convulsed in every limb, and all his face
Wrought to distortion with the agony,
Turned on his lord a look of wild appeal,
The secret half atremble on his lips,
Livid and quivering, that waited yet
For leave--for leave to utter it--one sign --
One word--one little word--to ease his pain.

As one reclining in the banquet hall,
Propped on an elbow, garlanded with flowers,
Saw lust and greed and boisterous revelry
Surge round him on the tides of wine, but he,
Staunch in the ethic of an antique school --
Stoic or Cynic or of Pyrrho's mind --
With steady eyes surveyed the unbridled scene,
Himself impassive, silent, self-contained:
So sat the Indian prince, with brow unblanched,
Amid the tortured and the torturers.
He who had seen his hopes made desolate,
His realm despoiled, his early crown deprived him,
And watched while Pestilence and Famine piled
His stricken people in their reeking doors,
Whence glassy eyes looked out and lean brown arms
Stretched up to greet him in one last farewell
As back and forth he paced along the streets
With words of hopeless comfort--what was this
That one should weaken now?  He weakened not.
Whate'er was in his heart, he neither dealt
In pity nor in scorn, but, turning round,
Met that racked visage with his own unmoved,
Bent on the sufferer his mild calm eyes,
And while the pangs smote sharper, in a voice,
As who would speak not all in gentleness
Nor all disdain, said:  "Yes!  And am -I- then
Upon a bed of roses?"

                       Stung with shame --
Shame bitterer than his anguish--to betray
Such cowardice before the man he loved,
And merit such rebuke, the boy grew calm;
And stilled his struggling limbs and moaning cries,
And shook away his tears, and strove to smile,
And turned his face against the wall--and died.


The Nympholept


There was a boy--not above childish fears --
With steps that faltered now and straining ears,
Timid, irresolute, yet dauntless still,
Who one bright dawn, when each remotest hill
Stood sharp and clear in Heaven's unclouded blue
And all Earth shimmered with fresh-beaded dew,
Risen in the first beams of the gladdening sun,
Walked up into the mountains.  One by one
Each towering trunk beneath his sturdy stride
Fell back, and ever wider and more wide
The boundless prospect opened.  Long he strayed,
From dawn till the last trace of slanting shade
Had vanished from the canyons, and, dismayed
At that far length to which his path had led,
He paused--at such a height where overhead
The clouds hung close, the air came thin and chill,
And all was hushed and calm and very still,
Save, from abysmal gorges, where the sound
Of tumbling waters rose, and all around
The pines, by those keen upper currents blown,
Muttered in multitudinous monotone.
Here, with the wind in lovely locks laid bare,
With arms oft raised in dedicative prayer,
Lost in mute rapture and adoring wonder,
He stood, till the far noise of noontide thunder,
Rolled down upon the muffled harmonies
Of wind and waterfall and whispering trees,
Made loneliness more lone.  Some Panic fear
Would seize him then, as they who seemed to hear
In Tracian valleys or Thessalian woods
The god's hallooing wake the leafy solitudes;
I think it was the same:  some piercing sense
Of Deity's pervasive immanence,
The Life that visible Nature doth indwell
Grown great and near and all but palpable . . .
He might not linger, but with winged strides
Like one pursued, fled down the mountain-sides --
Down the long ridge that edged the steep ravine,
By glade and flowery lawn and upland green,
And never paused nor felt assured again
But where the grassy foothills opened.  Then,
While shadows lengthened on the plain below
And the sun vanished and the sunset-glow
Looked back upon the world with fervid eye
Through the barred windows of the western sky,
Homeward he fared, while many a look behind
Showed the receding ranges dim-outlined,
Highland and hollow where his path had lain,
Veiled in deep purple of the mountain rain.


The Wanderer


To see the clouds his spirit yearned toward so
Over new mountains piled and unploughed waves,
Back of old-storied spires and architraves
To watch Arcturus rise or Fomalhaut,

And roused by street-cries in strange tongues when day
Flooded with gold some domed metropolis,
Between new towers to waken and new bliss
Spread on his pillow in a wondrous way:

These were his joys.  Oft under bulging crates,
Coming to market with his morning load,
The peasant found him early on his road
To greet the sunrise at the city-gates, --

There where the meadows waken in its rays,
Golden with mist, and the great roads commence,
And backward, where the chimney-tops are dense,
Cathedral-arches glimmer through the haze.

White dunes that breaking show a strip of sea,
A plowman and his team against the blue,
Swiss pastures musical with cowbells, too,
And poplar-lined canals in Picardie,

And coast-towns where the vultures back and forth
Sail in the clear depths of the tropic sky,
And swallows in the sunset where they fly
Over gray Gothic cities in the north,

And the wine-cellar and the chorus there,
The dance-hall and a face among the crowd, --
Were all delights that made him sing aloud
For joy to sojourn in a world so fair.

Back of his footsteps as he journeyed fell
Range after range; ahead blue hills emerged.
Before him tireless to applaud it surged
The sweet interminable spectacle.

And like the west behind a sundown sea
Shone the past joys his memory retraced,
And bright as the blue east he always faced
Beckoned the loves and joys that were to be.

From every branch a blossom for his brow
He gathered, singing down Life's flower-lined road,
And youth impelled his spirit as he strode
Like winged Victory on the galley's prow.

That Loveliness whose being sun and star,
Green Earth and dawn and amber evening robe,
That lamp whereof the opalescent globe
The season's emulative splendors are,

That veiled divinity whose beams transpire
From every pore of universal space,
As the fair soul illumes the lovely face --
That was his guest, his passion, his desire.

His heart the love of Beauty held as hides
One gem most pure a casket of pure gold.
It was too rich a lesser thing to hold;
It was not large enough for aught besides.


The Need to Love


The need to love that all the stars obey
 Entered my heart and banished all beside.
Bare were the gardens where I used to stray;
 Faded the flowers that one time satisfied.

Before the beauty of the west on fire,
 The moonlit hills from cloister-casements viewed,
Cloud-like arose the image of desire,
 And cast out peace and maddened solitude.

I sought the City and the hopes it held:
 With smoke and brooding vapors intercurled,
As the thick roofs and walls close-paralleled
 Shut out the fair horizons of the world --

A truant from the fields and rustic joy,
 In my changed thought that image even so
Shut out the gods I worshipped as a boy
 And all the pure delights I used to know.

Often the veil has trembled at some tide
 Of lovely reminiscence and revealed
How much of beauty Nature holds beside
 Sweet lips that sacrifice and arms that yield:

Clouds, window-framed, beyond the huddled eaves
 When summer cumulates their golden chains,
Or from the parks the smell of burning leaves,
 Fragrant of childhood in the country lanes,

An organ-grinder's melancholy tune
 In rainy streets, or from an attic sill
The blue skies of a windy afternoon
 Where our kites climbed once from some grassy hill:

And my soul once more would be wrapped entire
 In the pure peace and blessing of those years
Before the fierce infection of Desire
 Had ravaged all the flesh.  Through starting tears

Shone that lost Paradise; but, if it did,
 Again ere long the prison-shades would fall
That Youth condemns itself to walk amid,
 So narrow, but so beautiful withal.

And I have followed Fame with less devotion,
 And kept no real ambition but to see
Rise from the foam of Nature's sunlit ocean
 My dream of palpable divinity;

And aught the world contends for to mine eye
 Seemed not so real a meaning of success
As only once to clasp before I die
 My vision of embodied happiness.


El Extraviado


Over the radiant ridges borne out on the offshore wind,
 I have sailed as a butterfly sails whose priming wings unfurled
Leave the familiar gardens and visited fields behind
 To follow a cloud in the east rose-flushed on the rim of the world.

I have strayed from the trodden highway for walking with upturned eyes
 On the way of the wind in the treetops, and the drift of the tinted rack.
For the will to be losing no wonder of sunny or starlit skies
 I have chosen the sod for my pillow and a threadbare coat for my back.

Evening of ample horizons, opaline, delicate, pure,
 Shadow of clouds on green valleys, trailed over meadows and trees,
Cities of ardent adventure where the harvests of Joy mature,
 Forests whose murmuring voices are amorous prophecies,

World of romance and profusion, still round my journey spread
 The glamours, the glints, the enthralments, the nurture of one whose feet
From hours unblessed by beauty nor lighted by love have fled
 As the shade of the tomb on his pathway and the scent of the winding-sheet.

I never could rest from roving nor put from my heart this need
 To be seeing how lovably Nature in flower and face hath wrought, --
In flower and meadow and mountain and heaven where the white clouds breed
 And the cunning of silken meshes where the heart's desire lies caught.

Over the azure expanses, on the offshore breezes borne,
 I have sailed as a butterfly sails, nor recked where the impulse led,
Sufficed with the sunshine and freedom, the warmth and the summer morn,
 The infinite glory surrounding, the infinite blue ahead.


La Nue


Oft when sweet music undulated round,
 Like the full moon out of a perfumed sea
Thine image from the waves of blissful sound
 Rose and thy sudden light illumined me.

And in the country, leaf and flower and air
 Would alter and the eternal shape emerge;
Because they spoke of thee the fields seemed fair,
 And Joy to wait at the horizon's verge.

The little cloud-gaps in the east that filled
 Gray afternoons with bits of tenderest blue
Were windows in a palace pearly-silled
 That thy voluptuous traits came glimmering through.

And in the city, dominant desire
 For which men toil within its prison-bars,
I watched thy white feet moving in the mire
 And thy white forehead hid among the stars.

Mystical, feminine, provoking, nude,
 Radiant there with rosy arms outspread,
Sum of fulfillment, sovereign attitude,
 Sensual with laughing lips and thrown-back head,

Draped in the rainbow on the summer hills,
 Hidden in sea-mist down the hot coast-line,
Couched on the clouds that fiery sunset fills,
 Blessed, remote, impersonal, divine;

The gold all color and grace are folded o'er,
 The warmth all beauty and tenderness embower, --
Thou quiverest at Nature's perfumed core,
 The pistil of a myriad-petalled flower.

Round thee revolves, illimitably wide,
 The world's desire, as stars around their pole.
Round thee all earthly loveliness beside
 Is but the radiate, infinite aureole.

Thou art the poem on the cosmic page --
 In rubric written on its golden ground --
That Nature paints her flowers and foliage
 And rich-illumined commentary round.

Thou art the rose that the world's smiles and tears
 Hover about like butterflies and bees.
Thou art the theme the music of the spheres
 Echoes in endless, variant harmonies.

Thou art the idol in the altar-niche
 Faced by Love's congregated worshippers,
Thou art the holy sacrament round which
 The vast cathedral is the universe.

Thou art the secret in the crystal where,
 For the last light upon the mystery Man,
In his lone tower and ultimate despair,
 Searched the gray-bearded Zoroastrian.

And soft and warm as in the magic sphere,
 Deep-orbed as in its erubescent fire,
So in my heart thine image would appear,
 Curled round with the red flames of my desire.


All That's Not Love . . .


All that's not love is the dearth of my days,
 The leaves of the volume with rubric unwrit,
The temple in times without prayer, without praise,
 The altar unset and the candle unlit.

Let me survive not the lovable sway
 Of early desire, nor see when it goes
The courts of Life's abbey in ivied decay,
 Whence sometime sweet anthems and incense arose.

The delicate hues of its sevenfold rings
 The rainbow outlives not; their yellow and blue
The butterfly sees not dissolve from his wings,
 But even with their beauty life fades from them too.

No more would I linger past Love's ardent bounds
 Nor live for aught else but the joy that it craves,
That, burden and essence of all that surrounds,
 Is the song in the wind and the smile on the waves.


Paris


    I

First, London, for its myriads; for its height,
Manhattan heaped in towering stalagmite;
But Paris for the smoothness of the paths
That lead the heart unto the heart's delight. . . .

Fair loiterer on the threshold of those days
When there's no lovelier prize the world displays
Than, having beauty and your twenty years,
You have the means to conquer and the ways,

And coming where the crossroads separate
And down each vista glories and wonders wait,
Crowning each path with pinnacles so fair
You know not which to choose, and hesitate --

Oh, go to Paris. . . .  In the midday gloom
Of some old quarter take a little room
That looks off over Paris and its towers
From Saint Gervais round to the Emperor's Tomb, --

So high that you can hear a mating dove
Croon down the chimney from the roof above,
See Notre Dame and know how sweet it is
To wake between Our Lady and our love.

And have a little balcony to bring
Fair plants to fill with verdure and blossoming,
That sparrows seek, to feed from pretty hands,
And swallows circle over in the Spring.

There of an evening you shall sit at ease
In the sweet month of flowering chestnut-trees,
There with your little darling in your arms,
Your pretty dark-eyed Manon or Louise.

And looking out over the domes and towers
That chime the fleeting quarters and the hours,
While the bright clouds banked eastward back of them
Blush in the sunset, pink as hawthorn flowers,

You cannot fail to think, as I have done,
Some of life's ends attained, so you be one
Who measures life's attainment by the hours
That Joy has rescued from oblivion.


    II

Come out into the evening streets.  The green light lessens in the west.
The city laughs and liveliest her fervid pulse of pleasure beats.

The belfry on Saint Severin strikes eight across the smoking eaves:
Come out under the lights and leaves
  to the Reine Blanche on Saint Germain. . . .

Now crowded diners fill the floor of brasserie and restaurant.
Shrill voices cry "L'Intransigeant," and corners echo "Paris-Sport."

Where rows of tables from the street are screened with shoots of box and bay,
The ragged minstrels sing and play and gather sous from those that eat.

