(29) Let them cease, therefore, who accuse us of impiety, inasmuch as we
have said nothing against the Word of God, neither have we corrupted it, but
let them keep their anger, if they would wreak it justly, for the ancients
whose malice desecrated the Ark, the Temple, and the Law of God, and all
that was held sacred, subjecting them to corruption. (30) Furthermore,
if, according to the saying of the Apostle in 2 Cor. iii:3, they possessed
"the Epistle of Christ, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the
living God, not in tables of stone, but in the fleshy tables of the heart,"
let them cease to worship the letter, and be so anxious concerning it.

(31) I think I have now sufficiently shown in what respect Scripture should
be accounted sacred and Divine; we may now see what should rightly be
understood by the expression, the Word of the Lord; debar (the Hebrew
original) signifies word, speech, command, and thing. (32) The causes for
which a thing is in Hebrew said to be of God, or is referred to Him, have
been already detailed in Chap. I., and we can therefrom easily gather what
meaning Scripture attaches to the phrases, the word, the speech, the
command, or the thing of God. (33) I need not, therefore, repeat what I
there said, nor what was shown under the third head in the chapter on
miracles. (34) It is enough to mention the repetition for the better
understanding of what I am about to say - viz., that the Word of the Lord
when it has reference to anyone but God Himself, signifies that Divine law
treated of in Chap. IV.; in other words, religion, universal and catholic
to the whole human race, as Isaiah describes it (chap. i:10), teaching that
the true way of life consists, not in ceremonies, but in charity, and a true
heart, and calling it indifferently God's Law and God's Word.

Regular mugs, these Mossoos, after all. Thought we _had_ taught 'em a bit
about _Ler Sport_ by this time: but, bless yer, BOB, once a Pollyvoo, always
a Pollyvoo! No Frenchy really hunderstands a 'Oss, or knows 'ow to make a
Book!

"Abolish Betting!!! Wot next, I wonder? Wot with County Councils, dunderheaded
Deppyties, and Swells who do the Detective bizness in their own
droring-rooms, pooty soon there won't be a safe look in for a party as wants
to do a nice little flutter--unless, of course, he's a Stock-Exchange
spekkylator, or a hinvester in South American Mines.
_Then_ he can plunge, and hedge, and jockey the jugginses as much as
he's a mind to. Wonder how that bloomin' French _Bourse_ 'ud get along
without a bit o' the pitch-and-toss barney, as every man as _is_ a man
finds the werry salt of life. Yah! This here Moral game is a gettin'
played down too darned low for anythink. And wot's it mean, arter
all?

Why, 'No Naughtiness, except for the Nobs!' That's about the exact size of
it, and it's blazing beastly, BOB!

"Only one of the dashed Deppyties talked a mossel o' sense, fur as _I_
see. A certain MOSSOO DER KERJEGU, a Republican, too, bless his boko!
said as 'races were essential to 'orsebreeding, and that without betting there
would be no races.' O.K. you are, MOSSOO DER K.!
And then they up and chuck hus Bookies! No bookies, no betting; no betting,
no races; no racing, no 'osses; no 'osses, no nothink! That's how it runs,
BOB, or I'm a sossidge!

"But this here bloomin' Republick is too rediklus for anythink. Look at the
kiddish kick-up along o' the visit of the Hempress! Why, if _we_ 'ad that
duffer, DEROULÈDE, on Newmarket 'Eath, we should just duck him in a
'orsepond, like a copped Welsher. Here they washup him, or else knuckle under
to him, like a skeery Coster's missus when her old man's on the
mawl, and feels round arter her ribs with his bloomin' high-lows.

_That's_ yer high-polite French Artists and brave booky-banishin' Dippyties!
Yah!

"'Owsomever, I suppose, BOB, I must clear out of this. MOSSOO CONSTANS, he
said, 'if the Bill were carried there would be an end to bookmakers.' And
it _was_ carried, by 340 mugs against 144 right 'uns.
And arter all me and my sort has done for Parry! It's mean, that's wot it
is, BOB. P'raps they'll chuck British _jockeys_ next! Much good
their _Grong Pree_, ancetrer, will be _then_, my boy. _Our_ 'osses,
_our_ jockeys, _and_ our bookies has bin the making of French
Sport,--and werrv nice little pickings there's bin out of it take
it all round. Wot'll _Ler Hig Life_, and Hart, and Leagues o'
Patriots, and miles o' bullyvards, and COOK's Tourists and Awful
Towers do for Parry without _hus_, I wonder? We shall _see_!.

(43) I. Because the books of both Testaments were not written by express
command at one place for all ages, but are a fortuitous collection of the
works of men, writing each as his period and disposition dictated. (44) So
much is clearly shown by the call of the prophets who were bade to
admonish the ungodly of their time, and also by the Apostolic Epistles.

(45) II. Because it is one thing to understand the meaning of Scripture
and the prophets, and quite another thing to understand the meaning
 of God, or the actual truth. (46) This follows from what we said in
Chap. II. (47) We showed, in Chap. VI., that it applied to historic
narratives, and to miracles: but it by no means applies to questions
concerning true religion and virtue.

(48) III. Because the books of the Old Testament were selected from many,
and were collected and sanctioned by a council of the Pharisees, as we
showed in Chap. X. (49) The books of the New Testament were also chosen from
many by councils which rejected as spurious other books held sacred by many.
(50) But these councils, both Pharisee and Christian, were not composed of
prophets, but only of learned men and teachers. (51) Still, we must grant
that they were guided in their choice by a regard for the Word of God ; and
they must, therefore, have known what the law of God was.

(52) IV. Because the Apostles wrote not as prophets, but as teachers (see
last Chapter), and chose whatever method they thought best adapted for those
whom they addressed: and consequently, there are many things in the Epistles
(as we showed at the end of the last Chapter) which are not necessary to
salvation.

(53) V. Spitta, you're about to give a lesson! Walburga, you and your teacher
are free to retire to the library.--If human arrogance and especially that
of very young people could be crystallised into one formation--humanity
would be buried under that rock like an ant under the granite masses
of an antediluvian mountain range!

SPITTA
But I wouldn't in any wise be refuted thereby.

HASSENREUTER
Man, I tell you that I've not only passed through two semesters of
formal study, but I have grown grey in the practice of the actor's
art!

And I tell you that Goethe's catechism for actors is the alpha and the
omega of my artistic convictions! If you don't like that--get another
teacher!

SPITTA
[_Pursuing his argument calmly._] According to my opinion, Goethe with
his senile regulations for actors denied, in the pettiest way, himself
and his whole original nature. What is one to say of his ruling that every
actor, irrespective of the quality of the character represented by him,
must--these are his very words--show an ogre-like expression of countenance
in order that the spectator be at once reminded of the nature of lofty
tragedy. Actually, these are his very words!

_KAeFERSTEIN and KEGEL make an effort to assume ogre-like expressions._

HASSENREUTER
Get out your note-book, most excellent Spitta, and record your opinion,
please, that Manager Hassenreuter is an ass, that Schiller is an ass,
Goethe an ass, Aristotle, too, of course--[_he begins suddenly to laugh
like mad_]--and, ha, ha, ha! a certain Spitta a--night watchman!

SPITTA
I'm glad to see, sir, that, at least, you've recovered your good humour.

HASSENREUTER
The devil! I haven't recovered it at all! You're a symptom. So you needn't
think yourself very important.--You are a rat, so to speak. One of those
rats who are beginning, in the field of politics, to undermine our glorious
and recently united German Empire!

They are trying to cheat us of the reward of our labours! And in the garden
of German art these rats are gnawing at the roots of the tree of
idealism. They are determined to drag its crown into the mire!--Down, down,
down into the dust with you!

_KAeFERSTEIN and KEGEL try to preserve their gravity but soon break out
into loud laughter, which HASSENREUTER is impelled to join.
WALBURGA looks on in wide-eyed astonishment. SPITTA remains serious._

_MRS. JOHN is now seen descending the stairs of the loft. After a little
while QUAQUARO follows her._ 
HASSENREUTER 
[_Perceives MRS.

JOHN and points her out to SPITTA with violent gesticulations as if he had
just made an important discovery._] There comes your tragic Muse!

MRS. JOHN
[_Approaches, abashed by the laughter of HASSENREUTER, KEGEL and KAeFERSTEIN._]
Why, what d'you see about me?

HASSENREUTER
Nothing but what is good and beautiful, Mrs. John! You may thank God that
your quiet, withdrawn and peaceful life unfits you for the part of a tragic
heroine.--But tell me, have you, by any chance, had an interview with
ghosts?

MRS. JOHN
[_Unnaturally pale._] Why do you ax that?
HASSENREUTER
Perhaps you even saw the famous soldier Sorgenfrei who closed his
career above as a deserter into a better world?

MRS. JOHN
If it was a livin' soul, maybe you might be right. But I ain't
scared o' no dead ghosts.

HASSENREUTER
Well, Mr. Quaquaro, how did it look under the roof there?
QUAQUARO
[_Who has brought down with him a Swedish riding-boot._] Well, I
took a pretty good look aroun' an' I came to the conclusion that,
at least, some shelterless ragamuffins has passed the night there;
though how they got in I ain't sayin'. An' then I found this here
boot.--
[_Out of the boot he draws an infant's bottle, topped by a rubber
nipple and half filled with milk._ 
MRS. JOHN
That's easily explained. I was up there settin' things to rights
an' I had little Adelbert along with me. But I don' know nothin'
about the rest.

HASSENREUTER
Nobody has undertaken to assert that you do, Mrs. John.
MRS. JOHN
When you considers how my little Adelbert came into the world ...
an' when you considers how he died ... nobody c'n come an' tell me
nothin' about bein' a reel mother ... But I gotta leave now, sir
... I can't be comin' up here for two three days. Good-bye! I has
to go to my sister-in-law an' let Adelbert enjoy the country air a
little.
[_She trots off through the door to the outer hall._
HASSENREUTER 
Can you make anything of her wild talk?
QUAQUARO
There's been a screw loose there ever since her first baby came,
an' all the more after it took an' died. Now since she's got the
second one, there's two screws what's wobbly. Howsoever, she c'n
count--that's a fac'. She's got a good bit o' money loaned out at
interest on pawned goods.

(69) We may conclude, therefore, that the whole Divine law, as taught by
Scripture, has come down to us uncorrupted. (70) Besides this there are
certain facts which we may be sure have been transmitted in good faith. (71)
For instance, the main facts of Hebrew history, which were perfectly well
known to everyone. (72) The Jewish people were accustomed in former times to
chant the ancient history of their nation in psalms. (73) The main facts,
also, of Christ's life and passion were immediately spread abroad through
the whole Roman empire. (74) It is therefore scarcely credible, unless
nearly everybody, consented thereto, which we cannot suppose, that
successive generations have handed down the broad outline of the Gospel
narrative otherwise than as they received it.

(74) Whatsoever, therefore, is spurious or faulty can only have reference to
details - some circumstances in one or the other history or prophecy
designed to stir the people to greater devotion; or in some miracle, with a
view of confounding philosophers; or, lastly, in speculative matters
after they had become mixed up with religion, so that some individual
might prop up his own inventions with a pretext of Divine authority.
(75) But such matters have little to do with salvation, whether
they be corrupted little or much, as I will show in detail in the next
chapter, though I think the question sufficiently plain from what I have
said already, especially in Chapter II.


CHAPTER XIII - IT IS SHOWN THAT SCRIPTURE TEACHES ONLY VERY SIMPLE
 DOCTRINES, SUCH AS SUFFICE FOR RIGHT CONDUCT.

(1) In the second chapter of this treatise we pointed out that the prophets
were gifted with extraordinary powers of imagination, but not of
understanding; also that God only revealed to them such things as are very
simple - not philosophic mysteries, - and that He adapted His
communications to their previous opinions. (2) We further showed in Chap. V.
that Scripture only transmits and teaches truths which can readily be
comprehended by all; not deducing and concatenating its conclusions from
definitions and axioms, but narrating quite simply, and confirming its
statements, with a view to inspiring belief, by an appeal to experience as
exemplified in miracles and history, and setting forth its truths in the
style and phraseology which would most appeal to the popular mind (cf. Chap.
VI., third division).

(3) Lastly, we demonstrated in Chap. VIII. that the difficulty of
understanding Scripture lies in the language only, and not in the
abstruseness of the argument.

(4) To these considerations we may add that the Prophets did not preach only
to the learned, but to all Jews, without exception, while the Apostles were
wont to teach the gospel doctrine in churches where there were public
meetings; whence it follows that Scriptural doctrine contains no lofty
speculations nor philosophic reasoning, but only very simple matters, such
as could be understood by the slowest intelligence.

(5) I am consequently lost in wonder at the ingenuity of those whom I have
already mentioned, who detect in the Bible mysteries so profound that they
cannot be explained in human language, and who have introduced so many
philosophic speculations into religion that the Church seems like
an academy, and religion like a science, or rather a dispute.

(6) It is not to be wondered at that men, who boast of possessing
supernatural intelligence, should be unwilling to yield the palm of
knowledge to philosophers who have only their ordinary, faculties; still I
should be surprised if I found them teaching any new speculative
doctrine, which was not a commonplace to those Gentile philosophers whom, in
spite of all, they stigmatize as blind; for, if one inquires what these
mysteries lurking in Scripture may be, one is confronted with nothing but
the reflections of Plato or Aristotle, or the like, which it would
often be easier for an ignorant man to dream than for the most accomplished
scholar to wrest out of the Bible.

(7) However, I do not wish to affirm absolutely that Scripture contains no
doctrines in the sphere of philosophy, for in the last chapter I pointed out
some of the kind, as fundamental principles; but I go so far as to say that
such doctrines are very few and very simple. (8) Their precise nature and
definition I will now set forth. (9) The task will be easy, for we know that
Scripture does not aim at imparting scientific knowledge, and, therefore, it
demands from men nothing but obedience, and censures obstinacy, but not
ignorance.

(10) Furthermore, as obedience to God consists solely in love to our
neighbour - for whosoever loveth his neighbour, as a means of obeying God,
hath, as St. Paul says (Rom. xiii:8), fulfilled the law, - it follows that
no knowledge is commended in the Bible save that which is necessary
for enabling all men to obey God in the manner stated, and without which
they would become rebellious, or without the discipline of obedience.

(11) Other speculative questions, which have no direct bearing on this
object, or are concerned with the knowledge of natural events, do not affect
Scripture, and should be entirely separated from religion.

(12) Now, though everyone, as we have said, is now quite able to see this
truth for himself, I should nevertheless wish, considering that the whole of
Religion depends thereon, to explain the entire question more accurately and
clearly. (13) To this end I must first prove that the intellectual
or accurate knowledge of God is not a gift, bestowed upon all good men
like obedience; and, further, that the knowledge of God, required by Him
through His prophets from everyone without exception, as needful to be
known, is simply a knowledge of His Divine justice and charity. (14) Both
these points are easily proved from Scripture. (15) The first plainly
follows from Exodus vi:2, where God, in order to show the singular grace
bestowed upon Moses, says to him: "And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac,
and unto Jacob by the name of El Sadai (A. V. God Almighty); but by my name
Jehovah was I not known to them" - for the better understanding of which
passage I may remark that El Sadai, in Hebrew, signifies the God who
suffices, in that He gives to every man that which suffices for him; and,
although Sadai is often used by itself, to signify God, we cannot doubt that
the word El (God, {power, might}) is everywhere understood. (16)
Furthermore, we must note that Jehovah is the only word found in Scripture
with the meaning of the absolute essence of God, without reference to
created things. (17) The Jews maintain, for this reason, that this is,
strictly speaking, the only name of God; that the rest of the words used are
merely titles; and, in truth, the other names of God, whether they be
substantives or adjectives, are merely attributive, and belong to Him, in
so far as He is conceived of in relation to created things, or manifested
through them. (18) Thus El, or Eloah, signifies powerful, as is well known,
and only applies to God in respect to His supremacy, as when we call Paul an
apostle; the faculties of his power are set forth in an accompanying
adjective, as El, great, awful, just, merciful, &c., or else all are
understood at once by the use of El in the plural number, with a singular
signification, an expression frequently adopted in Scripture.

[Footnote: "_Mémoires d'un Prisonnier d'Etat_." Par ALEXANDRE ANDRYANE. Paris.]

This observation was sagacious. It was by calm resolution and philosophic
self-possession, through faith in the ultimate triumph of justice and
freedom, that Foresti kept at bay the corrosive despair which irritated
less noble characters into melancholy or wasted spirits of gentler mould
to insanity. Yet his physical torture was extreme. Of robust frame
and in the plenitude of youthful vigor when arrested, the want of food
during the earlier years of his captivity made serious and permanent inroads
upon a naturally powerful constitution. We have heard him relate, with
a humorous emphasis indicative of brave endurance, yet suggestive
of the keenest pangs, how eagerly he one day seized a pudding,
thrust under his dress, as he passed the lodge of an official in
the court, by a compassionate woman,--how ingeniously he concealed
it from the sentinels, at the risk of burning his hands,--with what
triumph he unfolded and with what voracity he devoured it in the
solitude of his cell.

Sometimes an indignity overcame his self-possession, as, on one occasion,
when the jailer's attendant rudely awoke him with a kick, as he deposited a
basin of hot broth, which Foresti indignantly seized and dashed its scalding
contents into the face of the brutal menial, who thenceforward was more
respectful in his salutations. But it was the moral suffering against
which all his wisdom and courage were invoked to struggle,--the resolute
maintenance of healthful mental activity, without an object or motive
underived from will,--the repression of hopeless, vague, self-tormenting
reverie, which perverts intellect and drains moral energy,--the habitual
exercise of memory, reflection, and fancy, to preserve their functions
unimpaired. Such expedients were of special necessity at Spielberg; for
never were educated men so barbarously deprived of the legitimate resources
of mind and heart; thought and love were left uninvited, unappeased.
.

(25) Before I proceed I ought to explain how it comes that we are often told
in Genesis that the patriarchs preached in the name of Jehovah, this being
in plain contradiction to the text above quoted. (26) A reference to what
was said in Chap. VIII. will readily explain the difficulty. (27) It was
there shown that the writer of the Pentateuch did not always speak of things
and places by the names they bore in the times of which he was writing, but
by the names best known to his contemporaries. (28) God is thus said in the
Pentateuch to have been preached by the patriarchs under the name of
Jehovah, not because such was the name by which the patriarchs knew
Him, but because this name was the one most reverenced by the Jews.
(29) This point, I say, must necessarily be noticed, for in Exodus it is
expressly stated that God was not known to the patriarchs by this name; and
in chap. iii:13, it is said that Moses desired to know the name of God. (30)
Now, if this name had been already known it would have been known to Moses.
(31) We must therefore draw the conclusion indicated, namely, that the
faithful patriarchs did not know this name of God, and that the knowledge of
God is bestowed and not commanded by the Deity.

(32) It is now time to pass on to our second point, and show that God
through His prophets required from men no other knowledge of Himself than is
contained in a knowledge of His justice and charity - that is, of attributes
which a certain manner of life will enable men to imitate. (33) Jeremiah
states this in so many words (xxii:15, 16): "Did not thy father eat, and
drink, and do judgment and justice? Of course, the method thereof depends
on character; a cheerful heart In one, a buoyant imagination in another,
and the sweet self-oblivion which Faith imparts in a third, sentiment here
and will there, work the same miracle.
Foresti belonged to that class of Italians who combine perspicacity and force
of reasoning with a frank, affectionate, and trustful disposition,--types
of the manly intellect, the childlike heart; incarceration, while it failed
to enfeeble the former, by seclusion from life's game and the world's
encroachments from early youth to middle age, perhaps confirmed the latter
into the candid and loving nature which endeared him to so many friends
in Europe and America.
Sterne says, that, if he were in a desert, he would love some cypress; and
Isaac Taylor has observed, that the devout heart can find in a
single blade of grass the evidence of a Divine Creator.

We have all read of Bruce testing his fate, when a captive, by the gyrations
of a spider, of Baron Trenck finding solace in a dungeon in the companionship
of a mouse, and the imaginative prisoner of Fenestrelle absorbed in
vigilant and even affectionate observation of a little plant,--its
germination, slow approach to maturity, and consummate flowering. But there
were alleviating circumstances in the situation of these captives,--a
definite hope of release or a certainty of life-bondage, either of
which alternatives is more favorable to tranquillity of soul than
absolute suspense; they enjoyed tidings from without or indulgences
within. At Spielberg, the _sistema diabolico_, as it has been justly called,
especially at the epoch of Foresti's incarceration, retained the galling chain
on the limbs, cut off the supply of moral and intellectual vitality, refused
appropriate occupation, baffled hope, eclipsed knowledge, and kept up a
vile inquisitorial process to goad the crushed heart, sap the heroic will,
and stupefy or alienate the mental faculties; dawn ushered in the twilight
of a mausoleum, noon fell dimly on paralyzed manhood, night canopied
aggravating dreams.II.; or, again, that the sacred books speak
very inaccurately of God, attributing to Him hands, feet, eyes, ears, a
mind, and motion from one place to another; or that they ascribe to Him
emotions, such as jealousy, mercy, &c., or, lastly, that they describe
Him as a Judge in heaven sitting on a royal throne with Christ on His
right hand. (43) Such expressions are adapted to the understanding of the
multitude, it being the object of the Bible to make men not learned but
obedient.

(44) In spite of this the general run of theologians, when they come upon
any of these phrases which they cannot rationally harmonize with the Divine
nature, maintain that they should be interpreted metaphorically, passages
they cannot understand they say should be interpreted literally. (45) But if
every expression of this kind in the Bible is necessarily to be interpreted
and understood metaphorically, Scripture must have been written, not for the
people and the unlearned masses, but chiefly for accomplished experts and
philosophers.

(46) If it were indeed a sin to hold piously and simply the ideas about God
we have just quoted, the prophets ought to have been strictly on their guard
against the use of such expressions, seeing the weak-mindedness of the
people, and ought, on the other hand, to have set forth first of all, duly
and clearly, those attributes of God which are needful to be understood.

(47) This they have nowhere done; we cannot, therefore, think that opinions
taken in themselves without respect to actions are either pious or impious,
but must maintain that a man is pious or impious in his beliefs only in so
far as he is thereby incited to obedience, or derives from them license
to sin and rebel. (48) If a man, by believing what is true, becomes
rebellious, his creed is impious; if by believing what is false he becomes
obedient, his creed is pious; for the true knowledge of God comes not by
commandment, but by Divine gift. (49) God has required nothing from man but
a knowledge of His Divine justice and charity, and that not as necessary to
scientific accuracy, but to obedience.


His companion speculated on the identity of each of the captives.
 "That one, with dejected looks and hollow eyes, who seems so
exhausted, and, though a tall man, is bent down into a dwarf, is
Villa.
Poor fellow! he has but a few months to live.

(1) For a true knowledge of faith it is above all things necessary to
understand that the Bible was adapted to the intelligence, not only of the
prophets, but also of the diverse and fickle Jewish multitude. (2) This will
be recognized by all who give any thought to the subject, for they will see
that a person who accepted promiscuously everything in Scripture as being
the universal and absolute teaching of God, without accurately defining what
was adapted to the popular intelligence, would find it impossible to escape
confounding the opinions of the masses with the Divine doctrines, praising
the judgments and comments of man as the teaching of God, and
making a wrong use of Scriptural authority. (3) Who, I say, does not
perceive that this is the chief reason why so many sectaries teach
contradictory opinions as Divine documents, and support their contentions
with numerous Scriptural texts, till it has passed in Belgium into a
proverb, geen ketter sonder letter - no heretic without a text? (4) The
sacred books were not written by one man, nor for the people of a single
period, but by many authors of different temperaments, at times extending
from first to last over nearly two thousand years, and perhaps much longer.
(5) We will not, however, accuse the sectaries of impiety because they have
adapted the words of Scripture to their own opinions; it is thus that these
words were adapted to the understanding of the masses originally, and
everyone is at liberty so to treat them if he sees that he can thus obey God
in matters relating to justice and charity with a more full consent: but
we do accuse those who will not grant this freedom to their fellows,
but who persecute all who differ from them, as God's enemies, however
honourable and virtuous be their lives; while, on the other hand, they
cherish those who agree with them, however foolish they may be, as God's
elect. (6) Such conduct is as wicked and dangerous to the state as any that
can be conceivedHere, too, the most affecting reunions of long-severed kindred and
friends took place; their relatives hastened hither to embrace them.

Foresti used to relate many anecdotes illustrative of the sympathy and respect
felt and manifested by strangers during this interlude between prison
and exile. One deserves record here. Two travelling-carriages arrived at a
village-inn, one evening, where they were resting. While the gentlemen
were inspecting the apartments, a lady of distinguished appearance inquired
of a bystander, who the strangers were towards whom so many friendly
glances were directed; soon after, the landlord bore to them her
request for an interview; they rose at her entrance; she attempted
to speak, but her voice faltered, and, with tears, she turned to
her little boys and said, "Kneel, my darlings, to these brave Italian
patriots; they are illustrious victims in the great cause of Liberty;
and you, gentlemen, bless my sons; your blessing will be fruitful
to them of good; it will make them love their country and die for
it, if need be.

I am a Pole. My country is oppressed like yours. I have two brothers
compromised in the last insurrection in Cracow. May God preserve them!"--and
weeping bitterly, she retired.

They afterwards learned that her husband was Counsellor of State to the King
of Prussia.

On the 1st of August, 1836, they were transported by night to Trieste, and,
by a singular coincidence, placed on board the same brig-of-war whence
Kozsta was subsequently taken at Smyrna,--an incident memorable in our
subsequent diplomacy, as having occasioned the celebrated letter of Webster
to the Austrian envoy. Provided by that government with warm clothing, the
money they had taken to Spielberg was restored to them,
not, however, in the original gold coin, but in the Vienna bills for
which it had been then exchanged by the police, diminished nearly
two-thirds in value during the interval of fourteen years.
WHY, I'VE _ALWAYS_ TOLD YOU THE TRUTH ABOUT YOURSELF, HOWEVER
DISAGREEABLE!

IT'S A WAY I HAVE. AND YET WE'VE BEEN FAST FRIENDS FOR FORTY YEARS, AND
I LIKE YOU BETTER THAN ANY FRIEND I POSSESS! INDEED, YOU'RE ABOUT THE
ONLY FRIEND I'VE GOT LEFT!"

