Amanda had revealed an unexpected gift for nicknames and pretty fancies.
Donner-wetter!!'
Here is another of DICK'S, which dates from the days 'before Corinth'--for
he was one of those to whom it was _licet adire Corinthum_:

'Let me tell you a 'goak' that General Pope got off on us, and which we
take as quite a compliment. Our colonel commanding brigade asked
permission to take two days' rations, as we were going out to
'clean out' a rebel force that was in a swamp, keeping our men from
repairing the road and building a bridge for the passage of artillery,
and he didn't know how long we would have to be gone.But Benham was always
a Cheetah. That had come to her as a revelation from heaven. But so
clearly he was a Cheetah. He was a Hunting Leopard; the only beast that
has an up-cast face and dreams and looks at you with absent-minded eyes
like a man. She laced their journeys with a fantastic monologue telling
in the third person what the Leopard and the Cheetah were thinking and
seeing and doing. And so they walked up mountains and over passes and
swam in the warm clear water of romantic lakes and loved each other
mightily always, in chestnut woods and olive orchards and flower-starred
alps and pine forests and awning-covered boats, and by sunset and
moonlight and starshine; and out of these agreeable solitudes they
came brown and dusty, striding side by side into sunlit entertaining
fruit-piled market-places and envious hotels. For days and weeks
together it did not seem to Benham that there was anything that mattered
in life but Amanda and the elemental joys of living. And then the
Research Magnificent began to stir in him again. He perceived that Italy
was not India, that the clue to the questions he must answer lay in the
crowded new towns that they avoided, in the packed bookshops and the
talk of men, and not in the picturesque and flowery solitudes to which
their lovemaking carried them.

Moods began in which he seemed to forget Amanda altogether.

This happened first in the Certosa di Pavia whither they had gone one
afternoon from Milan. That was quite soon after they were married. They
had a bumping journey thither in a motor-car, a little doubtful if
the excursion was worth while, and they found a great amazement in
the lavish beauty and decorative wealth of that vast church and its
associated cloisters, set far away from any population as it seemed in
a flat wilderness of reedy ditches and patchy cultivation. The
distilleries and outbuildings were deserted--their white walls were
covered by one monstrously great and old wisteria in flower--the soaring
marvellous church was in possession of a knot of unattractive guides.
One of these conducted them through the painted treasures of the gold
and marble chapels; he was an elderly but animated person who evidently
found Amanda more wonderful than any church. He poured out great
accumulations of information and compliments before her. Benham dropped
behind, went astray and was presently recovered dreaming in the great
cloister. The guide showed them over two of the cells that opened
thereupon, each a delightful house for a solitary, bookish and clean,
and each with a little secret walled garden of its own. He was covertly
tipped against all regulations and departed regretfully with a beaming
dismissal from Amanda. She found Benham wondering why the Carthusians
had failed to produce anything better in the world than a liqueur. "One
might have imagined that men would have done something in this beautiful
quiet; that there would have come thought from here or will from here."

"In these dear little nests they ought to have put lovers," said Amanda.

"Oh, of course, YOU would have made the place Thelema...."

But as they went shaking and bumping back along the evil road to Milan,
he fell into a deep musing. Suddenly he said, "Work has to be done.
Because this order or that has failed, there is no reason why we should
fail. And look at those ragged children in the road ahead of us, and
those dirty women sitting in the doorways, and the foul ugliness of
these gaunt nameless towns through which we go! They are what they are,
because we are what we are--idlers, excursionists. In a world we ought
to rule....

"Amanda, we've got to get to work...."

That was his first display of this new mood, which presently became a
common one. He was less and less content to let the happy hours slip
by, more and more sensitive to the reminders in giant ruin and deserted
cell, in a chance encounter with a string of guns and soldiers on their
way to manoeuvres or in the sight of a stale newspaper, of a great
world process going on in which he was now playing no part at all. And
a curious irritability manifested itself more and more plainly, whenever
human pettiness obtruded upon his attention, whenever some trivial
dishonesty, some manifest slovenliness, some spiritless failure, a
cheating waiter or a wayside beggar brought before him the shiftless,
selfish, aimless elements in humanity that war against the great dream
of life made glorious. "Accursed things," he would say, as he flung some
importunate cripple at a church door a ten-centime piece; "why were they
born? Why do they consent to live? They are no better than some chance
fungus that is because it must."

"It takes all sorts to make a world," said Amanda.

"Nonsense," said Benham. "Where is the megatherium? That sort of
creature has to go. Our sort of creature has to end it."

"Then why did you give it money?"

"Because-- I don't want the thing to be more wretched than it is. But if
I could prevent more of them--... What am I doing to prevent them?"

"These beggars annoy you," said Amanda after a pause. "They do me. Let
us go back into the mountains."

But he fretted in the mountains.

They made a ten days' tour from Macugnaga over the Monte Moro to Sass,
and thence to Zermatt and back by the Theodule to Macugnaga. The sudden
apparition of douaniers upon the Monte Moro annoyed Benham, and he was
also irritated by the solemn English mountain climbers at Saas Fee.
They were as bad as golfers, he said, and reflected momentarily upon
his father. Amanda fell in love with Monte Rosa, she wanted to kiss its
snowy forehead, she danced like a young goat down the path to Mattmark,
and rolled on the turf when she came to gentians and purple primulas.
Benham was tremendously in love with her most of the time, but one
day when they were sitting over the Findelen glacier his perceptions
blundered for the first time upon the fundamental antagonism of their
quality. She was sketching out jolly things that they were to do
together, expeditions, entertainments, amusements, and adventures, with
a voluble swiftness, and suddenly in a flash his eyes were opened, and
he saw that she would never for a moment feel the quality that made life
worth while for him. He saw it in a flash, and in that flash he made
his urgent resolve not to see it. From that moment forth his bearing was
poisoned by his secret determination not to think of this, not to admit
it to his mind. And forbidden to come into his presence in its proper
form, this conflict of intellectual temperaments took on strange
disguises, and the gathering tension of his mind sought to relieve
itself along grotesque irrelevant channels.

There was, for example, the remarkable affair of the drive from
Macugnaga to Piedimulera.

They had decided to walk down in a leisurely fashion, but with the
fatigues of the precipitous clamber down from Switzerland still upon
them they found the white road between rock above and gorge below
wearisome, and the valley hot in the late morning sunshine, and already
before they reached the inn they had marked for lunch Amanda had
suggested driving the rest of the way. The inn had a number of
brigand-like customers consuming such sustenance as garlic and salami
and wine; it received them with an indifference that bordered on
disrespect, until the landlord, who seemed to be something of a beauty
himself, discovered the merits of Amanda. Then he became markedly
attentive. He was a large, fat, curly-headed person with beautiful eyes,
a cherished moustache, and an air of great gentility, and when he had
welcomed his guests and driven off the slatternly waiting-maid, and
given them his best table, and consented, at Amanda's request, to open a
window, he went away and put on a tie and collar. She contrives to let
him know that she is free, and the youth, whose pet hobby is hopeless
passion, at once sheers off in alarm. _Caroline_ is learning--is
beginning to understand the dark philosophy of Mr. SOMERSET MAUGHAM.
In despair she again turns to _Robert_."Bellissima," "bravissima," "signorina," "Inglesa," one
need not be born in Italy to understand such words as these. Also they
addressed sly comments and encouragements to the landlord as he went to
and fro.

Benham was rather still and stiff during the meal, but it ill becomes
an English aristocrat to discuss the manners of an alien population, and
Amanda was amused by the effusion of the landlord and a little disposed
to experiment upon him. She sat radiating light amidst the shadows.

The question of the vehicle was broached. The landlord was doubtful,
then an idea, it was manifestly a questionable idea, occurred to him.
He went to consult an obscure brown-faced individual in the corner,
disappeared, and the world without became eloquent. Presently he
returned and announced that a carozza was practicable. It had been
difficult, but he had contrived it. And he remained hovering over the
conclusion of their meal, asking questions about Amanda's mountaineering
and expressing incredulous admiration.

His bill, which he presented with an uneasy flourish, was large and
included the carozza.

He ushered them out to the carriage with civilities and compliments. It
had manifestly been difficult and contrived. It was dusty and blistered,
there had been a hasty effort to conceal its recent use as a hen-roost,
the harness was mended with string. The horse was gaunt and scandalous,
a dirty white, and carried its head apprehensively. The driver had but
one eye, through which there gleamed a concentrated hatred of God and
man.

"No wonder he charged for it before we saw it," said Benham.

"It's better than walking," said Amanda.

The company in the inn gathered behind the landlord and scrutinized
Amanda and Benham intelligently. The young couple got in. "Avanti," said
Benham, and Amanda bestowed one last ineradicable memory on the bowing
landlord.

Benham did not speak until just after they turned the first corner, and
then something portentous happened, considering the precipitous position
of the road they were upon. A small boy appeared sitting in the grass
by the wayside, and at the sight of him the white horse shied
extravagantly. The driver rose in his seat ready to jump. But the crisis
passed without a smash. "Cheetah!" cried Amanda suddenly. "This isn't
safe." "Ah!" said Benham, and began to act with the vigour of one
who has long accumulated force. He rose in his place and gripped the
one-eyed driver by the collar. "ASPETTO," he said, but he meant "Stop!"
The driver understood that he meant "Stop," and obeyed.

Benham wasted no time in parleying with the driver. He indicated to him
and to Amanda by a comprehensive gesture that he had business with the
landlord, and with a gleaming appetite upon his face went running back
towards the inn.

The landlord was sitting down to a little game of dominoes with his
friends when Benham reappeared in the sunlight of the doorway. There was
no misunderstanding Benham's expression.

