Produced by Curtis Weyant, Stephen Hope and PG Distributed Proofreaders


FORT LAFAYETTE

OR
LOVE AND SECESSION


A Novel

BY BENJAMIN WOOD


MDCCCLXII

1862


    ----"Whom they please they lay in basest bonds."
    _Venice Preserved._

       *       *       *       *       *

    "O, beauteous Peace!
    Sweet union of a state! what else but thou
    Gives safety, strength, and glory to a people?"
    _Thomson._

    "Oh, Peace! thou source and soul of social life;
    Beneath whose calm inspiring influence,
    Science his views enlarges, art refines,
    And swelling commerce opens all her ports;
    Blest be the man divine, who gives us thee!"
    _Thomson._


    "A peace is of the nature of a conquest;
    For then both parties nobly are subdued,
    And neither party loser."
    _Shakspeare._


CHAPTER I.


There is a pleasant villa on the southern bank of the James River, a few
miles below the city of Richmond. The family mansion, an old fashioned
building of white stone, surrounded by a spacious veranda, and embowered
among stately elms and grave old oaks, is sure to attract the attention
of the traveller by its picturesque appearance, and the dreamy elegance
and air of comfort that pervade the spot. The volumes of smoke that roll
from the tall chimneys, the wide portals of the hall, flung open as if
for a sign of welcome, the merry chat and cheerful faces of the sable
household, lazily alternating their domestic labors with a sly romp or a
lounge in some quiet nook, these and other traits of the old Virginia
home, complete the picture of hospitable affluence which the stranger
instinctively draws as his gaze lingers on the grateful scene. The house
stands on a wooded knoll, within a bowshot of the river bank, and from
the steps of the back veranda, where creeping flowers form a perfumed
network of a thousand hues, the velvety lawn shelves gracefully down to
the water's edge.

Toward sunset of one of the early days of April, 1861, a young girl
stood leaning upon the wicket of a fence which separated the garden from
the highway. She stood there dreamily gazing along the road, as if
awaiting the approach of some one who would be welcome when he came. The
slanting rays of the declining sun glanced through the honeysuckles and
tendrils that intertwined among the white palings, and threw a subdued
light upon her face. It was a face that was beautiful in repose, but
that promised to be more beautiful when awakened into animation. The
large, grey eyes were half veiled with their black lashes at that
moment, and their expression was thoughtful and subdued; but ever as the
lids were raised, when some distant sound arrested her attention, the
expression changed with a sudden flash, and a gleam like an electric
fire darted from the glowing orbs. Her features were small and
delicately cut, the nostrils thin and firm, and the lips most
exquisitely molded, but in the severe chiselling of their arched lines
betraying a somewhat passionate and haughty nature. But the rose tint
was so warm upon her cheek, the raven hair clustered with such luxuriant
grace about her brows, and the _petite_ and lithe figure was so
symmetrical at every point, that the impression of haughtiness was lost
in the contemplation of so many charms.

Oriana Weems, the subject of our sketch, was an orphan. Her father, a
wealthy Virginian, died while his daughter was yet an infant, and her
mother, who had been almost constantly an invalid, did not long survive.
Oriana and her brother, Beverly, her senior by two years, had thus been
left at an early age in the charge of their mother's sister, a maiden
lady of excellent heart and quiet disposition, who certainly had most
conscientiously fulfilled the sacred trust. Oriana had returned but a
twelvemonth before from a northern seminary, where she had gathered up
more accomplishments than she would ever be likely to make use of in the
old homestead; while Beverly, having graduated at Yale the preceding
month, had written to his sister that she might expect him that very
day, in company with his classmate and friend, Arthur Wayne.

She stood, therefore, at the wicket, gazing down the road, in
expectation of catching the first glimpse of her brother and his friend,
for whom horses had been sent to Richmond, to await their arrival at the
depot. So much was she absorbed in revery, that she failed to observe a
solitary horseman who approached from the opposite direction. He plodded
leisurely along until within a few feet of the wicket, when he quietly
drew rein and gazed for a moment in silence upon the unconscious girl.
He was a tall, gaunt man, with stooping shoulders, angular features,
lank, black hair and a sinister expression, in which cunning and malice
combined. He finally urged his horse a step nearer, and as softly as
his rough voice would admit, he bade: "Good evening, Miss Oriana."

She started, and turned with a suddenness that caused the animal he rode
to swerve. Recovering her composure as suddenly, she slightly inclined
her head and turning from him, proceeded toward the house.

"Stay, Miss Oriana, if you please."

She paused and glanced somewhat haughtily over her shoulder.

"May I speak a word with you?"

"My aunt, sir, is within; if you have business, I will inform her of
your presence."

"My business is with you, Miss Weems," and, dismounting, he passed
through the gate and stepped quickly to her side.

"Why do you avoid me?"

Her dark eye flashed in the twilight, and she drew her slight form up
till it seemed to gain a foot in height.

"We do not seek to enlarge our social circle, Mr. Rawbon. You will
excuse me if I leave you abruptly, but the night dew begins to fall."

She moved on, but he followed and placed his hand gently on her arm.
She shook it off with more of fierceness than dignity, and the man's
eyes fairly sought the ground beneath the glance she gave him.

"You know that I love you," he said, in a hoarse murmur, "and that's the
reason you treat me like a dog."

She turned her back upon him, and walked, as if she heard him not, along
the garden path. His brow darkened, and quickening his pace, he stepped
rudely before her and blocked the way.

"Look you, Miss Weems, you have insulted me with your proud ways time
and time again, and I have borne it tamely, because I loved you, and
because I've sworn that I shall have you. It's that puppy, Harold Hare,
that has stepped in between you and me. Now mark you," and he raised his
finger threateningly, "I won't be so meek with him as I've been with
you."

The girl shuddered slightly, but recovering, walked forward with a step
so stately and commanding, that Rawbon, bold and angry as he was,
involuntarily made way for her, and she sprang up the steps of the
veranda and passed into the hall. He stood gazing after her for a
moment, nervously switching the rosebush at his side with his heavy
horsewhip; then, with a muttered curse, he strode hastily away, and
leaping upon his horse, galloped furiously down the road.

Seth Rawbon was a native of Massachusetts, but for some ten years
previously to the date at which our tale commences, he had been mostly a
resident of Richmond, where his acuteness and active business habits had
enabled him to accumulate an independent fortune. His wealth and
vigorous progressive spirit had given him a certain degree of influence
among the middle classes of the community, but his uncouth manner, and a
suspicion that he was not altogether free from the degradation of
slave-dealing, had, to his great mortification and in spite of his
persistent efforts, excluded him from social intercourse with the
aristocracy of the Old Dominion. He was not a man, however, to give way
to obstacles, and with characteristic vanity and self-reliance, he had,
shortly after her return from school, greatly astonished the proud
Oriana with a bold declaration of love and an offer of his hand and
fortune. Not intimidated by a sharp and decidedly ungracious refusal, he
had at every opportunity advocated his hopeless suit, and with so much
persistence and effrontery, that the object of his unwelcome passion had
been goaded from indifference to repugnance and absolute loathing.
Harold Hare, whose name he had mentioned with so much bitterness in the
course of the interview we have represented, was a young Rhode Islander,
who had, upon her brother's invitation, sojourned a few weeks at the
mansion some six months previously, while on his way to engage in a
surveying expedition in Western Virginia. He had promised to return in
good time, to join Beverly and his guest, Arthur Wayne, at the close of
their academic labors.

A few moments after Rawbon's angry departure, the family carriage drove
rapidly up to the hall door, and the next instant Beverly was in his
sister's arms, and had been affectionately welcomed by his
old-fashioned, kindly looking aunt. As he turned to introduce his
friend, Arthur, the latter was gazing with an air of absent admiration
upon the kindled features of Oriana. The two young men were of the same
age, apparently about one-and-twenty; but in character and appearance
they were widely different. Beverly was, in countenance and manner,
curiously like his sister, except that the features were bolder and more
strongly marked. Arthur, on the contrary, was delicate in feature almost
to effeminacy. His brow was pale and lofty, and above the auburn locks
were massed like a golden coronet. His eyes were very large and blue,
with a peculiar softness and sadness that suited well the expression of
thoughtfulness and repose about his lips. He was taller than his friend,
and although well-formed and graceful, was slim and evidently not in
robust health. His voice, as he spoke in acknowledgment of the
introduction, was low and musical, but touched with a mournfulness that
was apparent even in the few words of conventional courtesy that he
pronounced.

Having thus domiciliated them comfortably in the old hall, we will leave
them to recover from the fatigues of the journey, and to taste of the
plentiful hospitalities of Riverside manor.


CHAPTER II.


Early in the fresh April morning, the party at Riverside manor were
congregated in the hall, doing full justice to Aunt Nancy's substantial
breakfast.

"Oriana," said Beverly, as he paused from demolishing a well-buttered
batter cake, and handed his cup for a second supply of the fragrant
Mocha, "I will leave it to your _savoir faire_ to transform our friend
Arthur into a thorough southerner, before we yield him back to his Green
Mountains. He is already half a convert to our institutions, and will
give you not half so much trouble as that obstinate Harold Hare."

She slightly colored at the name, but quietly remarked:

"Mr. Wayne must look about him and judge from his own observation, not
my arguments. I certainly do not intend to annoy him during his visit,
with political discussions."

"And yet you drove Harold wild with your flaming harangues, and gave
him more logic in an afternoon ride than he had ever been bored with in
Cambridge in a month."

"Only when he provoked and invited the assault," she replied, smiling.
"But I trust, Mr. Wayne, that the cloud which is gathering above our
country will not darken the sunshine of your visit at Riverside manor.
It is unfortunate that you should have come at an unpropitious moment,
when we cannot promise you that perhaps there will not be some cold
looks here and there among the townsfolk, to give you a false impression
of a Virginia welcome."

"Not at all, Oriana; Arthur will have smiles and welcome enough here at
the manor house to make him proof against all the hard looks in
Richmond. I prevailed on him to come at all hazards, and we are bound to
have a good time and don't want you to discourage us; eh, Arthur?"

"I am but little of a politician, Miss Weems," said Arthur, "although I
take our country's differences much at heart. I shall surely not provoke
discussion with you, like our friend Harold, upon an unpleasant
subject, while you give me _carte blanche_ to enjoy your conversation
upon themes more congenial to my nature."

She inclined her head with rather more of gravity than the nature of the
conversation warranted, and her lips were slightly compressed as she
observed that Arthur's blue eyes were fixed pensively, but intently, on
her face.

The meal being over, Oriana and Wayne strolled on the lawn toward the
river bank, while the carriage was being prepared for a morning drive.
They stood on the soft grass at the water's edge, and as Arthur gazed
with a glow of pleasure at the beautiful prospect before him, his fair
companion pointed out with evident pride the many objects of beauty and
interest that were within view on the opposite bank.

"Are you a sailor, Mr. Wayne? If so, we must have out the boat this
afternoon, and you will find some fairy nooks beyond the bend that will
repay you for exploring them, if you have a taste for a lovely
waterscape. I know you are proud of the grand old hills of your native
State, but we have something to boast of too in our Virginia scenery."

"If you will be my helmswoman, I can imagine nothing more delightful
than the excursion you propose. But I am inland bred, and must place
myself at the mercy of your nautical experience."

"Oh, I am a skillful captain, Mr. Wayne, and will make a good sailor of
you before you leave us. Mr. Hare will tell you that I am to be trusted
with the helm, even when the wind blows right smartly, as it sometimes
does even on that now placid stream. But with his memories of the
magnificent Hudson, he was too prone to quiz me about what he called our
pretty rivulet. You know him, do you not?"

"Oh, well. He was Beverly's college-mate and mine, though somewhat our
senior."

"And your warm friend, I believe?"

"Yes, and well worthy our friendship. Somewhat high-tempered and
quick-spoken, but with a heart--like your brother's, Miss Weems, as
generous and frank as a summer day."

"I do not think him high-tempered beyond the requisites of manhood," she
replied, with something like asperity in her tone. "I cannot endure
your meek, mild mannered men, who seem to forget their sex, and almost
make me long to change my own with them, that their sweet dispositions
may be better placed."

He glanced at her with a somewhat surprised air, that brought a slight
blush to her cheek; but he seemed unconscious of it, and said, almost
mechanically:

"And yet, that same high spirit, which you prize so dearly, had, in his
case, almost caused you a severe affliction."

"What do you mean?"

"Have you not heard how curiously Beverly's intimacy with Harold was
brought about? And yet it was not likely that he should have told you,
although I know no harm in letting you know."

She turned toward him with an air of attention, as if in expectation.

"It was simply this. Not being class-mates, they had been almost
strangers to each other at college, until, by a mere accident, an
argument respecting your Southern institutions led to an angry dispute,
and harsh words passed between them. Being both of the ardent
temperament you so much admire, a challenge ensued, and, in spite of my
entreaty and remonstrance, a duel. Your brother was seriously wounded,
and Harold, shocked beyond expression, knelt by his side as he lay
bleeding on the sward, and bitterly accusing himself, begged his
forgiveness, and, I need not add, received it frankly. Harold was
unremitting in his attentions to your brother during the period of his
illness, and from the day of that hostile meeting, the most devoted
friendship has existed between them. But it was an idle quarrel, Miss
Weems, and was near to have cost you an only brother."

She remained silent for a few moments, and was evidently affected by the
recital. Then she spoke, softly as if communing with herself: "Harold is
a brave and noble fellow, and I thank God that he did not kill my
brother!" and a bright tear rolled upon her cheek. She dashed it away,
almost angrily, and glancing steadily at Arthur:

"Do you condemn duelling?"

"Assuredly."

"But what would you have men do in the face of insult? Would you not
have fought under the same provocation?"

"No, nor under any provocation. I hold too sacred the life that God has
given. With God's help, I shall not shed human blood, except in the
strict line of necessity and duty."

"It is evident, sir, that you hold your own life most sacred," she said,
with a curl of her proud lip that was unmistakable.

She did not observe the pallor that overspread his features, nor the
expression, not of anger, but of anguish, that settled upon his face,
for she had turned half away from him, and was gazing vacantly across
the river. There was an unpleasant pause, which was broken by the noise
of voices in alarm near the house, the trampling of hoofs, and the
rattle of wheels.

The carriage had been standing at the door, while Beverly was arranging
some casual business, which delayed him in his rooms. While the
attention of the groom in charge had been attracted by some freak of his
companions, a little black urchin, not over five years of age, had
clambered unnoticed into the vehicle, and seizing the long whip, began
to flourish it about with all his baby strength. The horses, which were
high bred and spirited, had become impatient, and feeling the lash,
started suddenly, jerking themselves free from the careless grasp of the
inattentive groom. The sudden shout of surprise and terror that arose
from the group of idle negroes, startled the animals into a gallop, and
they went coursing, not along the road, but upon the lawn, straight
toward the river bank, which, in the line of their course, was
precipitous and rocky. As Oriana and Arthur turned at the sound, they
beheld the frightened steeds plunging across the lawn, and upon the
carriage seat the little fellow who had caused the mischief was
crouching bewildered and helpless, and screaming with affright. Then
there was a considerable interval between the van squadron and the
leading ship of the main squadron, the cruiser "Matsushima," flying
Count Ito's flag.

Next to her came the armoured cruiser "Chiyoda"; then the "Matsushima's"
two sister ships, the cruisers "Ikitsushima" and "Hashidate."

The four ships of the van squadron and the four leading ships of the main
squadron represented the chief strength of Ito's fleet, his eight
modern cruisers.
After them came the two old ironclads "Hiyei" and "Fuso," the gunboat
"Akagi," and the small armed merchant steamer "Saikio Maru." The long
line of warships steaming swiftly through the sunlight must have looked
more like a fleet arrayed for some festive occasion than squadrons
prepared for imminent battle, for every ship was painted a brilliant
white, with the gilded device of the chrysanthemum forming a broad
golden shield on her bows, and the red-and-white sun flag of Japan
flew from every masthead.

At half-past eleven, half an hour after the Chinese had perceived the
approach of the Japanese fleet, the "Yoshino," which was leading the
advancing line of the van squadron, signalled that there was a dense
mass of black smoke on the horizon inshore. This was the smoke
produced by Ting's furnaces, as his ships hurriedly stoked their fires
to get full pressure on the boilers. Then the Chinese fleet was seen
coming out and forming in line of battle.

Admiral Ting formed his ships in line abreast, that is side by side
with every bow towards the enemy. In the centre were the two little
battleships, with the armoured cruisers, "Lai-yuen" and "King-yuen,"
to right and left of them.

On each flank of these four heavy ships there was a group of three
unarmoured cruisers--the "Ching-yuen," "Chao-yung," and "Yang-wei"--on
the right; and the "Chi-yuen," "Kwang-chia," and "Tsi-yuen," on the
left.

These were the ten ships on which he relied to bear the brunt of the
fighting.

Away to the left flank and rear of the line, and nearer the shore, was
the small, armour-clad "Ping-yuen," the corvette "Kwang-ping,"
and four torpedo boats. The Chinese fleet was under easy steam. The
ships were painted a dull black, but had a large amount of gilding
and colour on their bows, upper works, and deck-houses, and they
were all dressed with flags.

The decks had been strewn with sand, to prevent accidents by men slipping,
and flooded with water from the fire hose to minimize the danger of
fire.

[Illustration: BATTLE OF THE YALU 1. THE JAPANESE ATTACK]
[Illustration: BATTLE OF THE YALU 2. END OF THE FIGHT]
The fleets were now rapidly closing. McGiffen, the American officer of the
"Chen-yuen," was impressed with the "holiday aspect" of the scene. "The
twenty-two ships," he wrote in an account of the battle, "trim and
fresh in their paint and their bright new bunting, and gay with fluttering
signal flags, presented such a holiday aspect, that one found a
difficulty in realizing that they were not there simply for a
friendly meeting."

When the range of the leading Japanese ship--the "Yoshino"--was
just 5400 metres, or something less than 3 1/2 miles, the Chinese
admiral fired one of his heavy barbette guns at her from the
"Ting-yuen."

The shot fell short, throwing up a great fountain of foaming water. The
guns of the other Chinese ships roared out, and the line was wrapped in
smoke, but the gunners had not the range in most cases, and their shooting
was everywhere bad. Untouched by the hostile fire, the Japanese
fleet came silently on.

At first the Japanese line had been heading directly for the Chinese
centre.

It now altered its course, ship after ship, the "Yoshino" leading the
line so that it would pass obliquely across the right front of the
enemy, and beyond the extreme right of his line, the wing of Ting's
fleet that was furthest from the shore.

At a range of about two miles, the "Yoshino" began replying to the
Chinese fire with her bow guns and her starboard battery, and the other
ships opened as they reached the same range. Thanks to McGiffen's
narrative, we know what was the impression made on the few skilled
observers in the Chinese fleet.

The advancing line of hostile cruisers was wrapped in a dense cloud
of smoke, out of which rose their tall masts.

Through the smoke came a continual flicker of the long red flashes of the
Japanese quick-firers. To men used to the old guns the rapidity of the
fire was something startling. But the Japanese had just missed getting
the range. The showers of shells were falling ahead of the Chinese ships.
The sea in front of their bows was a mass of spurting columns and fountains
of foam, and some of these geysers of sea-water shot up so close ahead
that they splashed over the Chinese ships, and numbers of men on their
forward-decks were drenched to the skin.

But as the range shortened the rain of shells began to find its target,
and fell crashing and exploding on the hulls and upper-works of the
Chinese line. It had now lost something of its first formation. The
centre had surged forward, the wings had hung back, and it had become
slightly convex.
Ito in his report stated that Admiral Ting had adopted a crescent formation,
but this was only the result of his ships not keeping station correctly.
His order had been to fight in "line abreast."

Presently the line became so irregular that some of the Chinese ships
were masking each other's fire. The slow fire of the Chinese guns, ill
directed as it was, did little damage to the Japanese cruisers. But the
Chinese ships were already suffering from the shower of shells. The
Japanese found themselves faced with an unexpected difficulty of detail.
In the older type of guns the silk cartridge-case was burned when the
shot was fired. But with the quick-firers the solid drawn brass
case of the cartridge, a thing like a big metal can, is jerked out
by an extractor as the breech-block is swung back after firing, and
these brass cases began to accumulate in heaps at the gun positions.

Extra men were sent to the batteries to throw them overboard.

The "Yoshino" was now on the extreme flank of Ting's right, about a
mile away from the "Yang-wei." Count Ito signalled from the "Matsushima"
for the van squadron to circle round the enemy's fleet by changing its
course to starboard. This would bring the weaker ships of the hostile
squadron under a cross-fire from the van squadron, sweeping round
astern of them, and the main squadron crossing their bows obliquely.
At the same time the ships on the Chinese left had most of their guns
masked by their consorts, and could only fire at relatively long
range with their bow guns at the rearward ships of the Japanese
main squadron.

Ting was out-generalled, and was paying the penalty of a bad formation.
His weak right wing was in imminent danger of being crushed by superior
numbers and weight of fire.

The two ironclads in the Chinese centre had been made the target of
the heaviest guns in Ito's fleet. Theoretically these guns should have
been able to pierce even the heavily armoured plating of the
barbettes, but no projectile penetrated the armour of the two ships,
though shot after shot came thundering against them. Their unarmoured
parts were pierced again and again, the shells bursting as they entered,
and lighting several fires that were extinguished with difficulty.

But the unarmoured ships on the Chinese right were suffering terribly
under the cross-fire of the enemy's van and main squadrons. The two
outer ships on this flank were the "Chao Yung" and the "Yang-wei."
Each of these ships had a barbette armed with a 10-inch gun fore
and aft. Amidships was a raised structure carrying machine guns on its
roof, and having on each side of it a passage, off which opened a
range of wooden cabins, oil-painted and varnished.

Under the rain of bursting shells these masses of dry, inflammable woodwork
were soon ablaze; the fire spreading rapidly made it impossible
to bring up ammunition for the guns, and the two cruisers drifted
helplessly out of the line, each wrapped in clouds of black smoke,
through which long tongues of red flame shot up into the air.

On the other flank practically no damage had been done by the few shots
fired by the Japanese in this direction.

But here there was a miserable display of cowardice on the part of
the Chinese. The ship on the extreme left was the "Tsi-yuen," which
still bore the marks of her encounter with the "Naniwa Kan," in the
first days of the war. The experiences of that adventure had evidently
got on the nerves of Captain Fong, who commanded her. As the Japanese
line swung round the other flank, he suddenly left his station and
steamed at full speed away from his admiral, crossing astern of the
Japanese, at what he thought a safe distance, and heading for
Port Arthur.

The rearmost Japanese cruiser, the "Chiyoda," sent a shell after him, that
dismounted one of his guns, and added wings to his flight.

The "Kwang-chia," the next ship in the Chinese line, followed his bad
example, and leaving the battle raging behind them, the two cruisers
soon disappeared over the south-western horizon.

Fong, with the "Tsi-yuen," reached Port Arthur. He said he had been
in the thick of the fight, and only left it when the day was lost.

But the evidence of his own crew was against him. He was promptly tried
by court-martial and beheaded. The other ship, the "Kwang-chia," never
reached Port Arthur. She was wrecked during the night after the battle,
with much loss of life, on a reef outside Talienwan Bay.

There were some other instances of half-heartedness or worse among the
Chinese as the fight developed, but on the whole they fought
bravely, and many showed the most self-sacrificing courage.

While the large Japanese cruisers of the two squadrons kept perfect station
and distance, and enveloped the Chinese right wing with as much
precision as if they had been carrying out a fleet exercise in peace
manoeuvres, the older ships in their line, less speedy and handy,
had dropped astern, and were under fire from Ting's two ironclads
in the centre.

The "Fuso" was at one time so close to them that one of the ironclads
made an attempt to ram her, but the Japanese ship evaded it, and
running along the broken front of the enemy, rejoined the main
cruiser squadron.

The other of the old Japanese ironclads, the "Hiyei," boldly steamed
between the Chinese battleships, amid a storm of fire.

Two torpedoes were discharged at her, but both missed, and she
joined the van squadron in the Chinese rear.

The little "Akagi" was for a while the target of many of the Chinese guns,
and one of her masts went over the side. Ito had signalled to her, and
to the armed merchantman, "Saikio Maru," that they might keep out
of the fight, but Japanese courage would not allow of this.

The "Saikio Maru" had a narrow escape.

As the two burning cruisers drifted away from the Chinese right, making
for the Yalu, the "Saikio" pursued them, firing her light guns. Two Chinese
gunboats opened upon her and four torpedo boats steamed out to
attack her.

But she turned her fire on them, and some of the Japanese cruisers
helped her by accurate shooting at long range. The Chinese flotilla,
which had expected an easy prey, turned back, and gunboats and torpedo
boats disappeared in the Yalu estuary.

But in the brief encounter the "Saikio Maru" had received a good
deal of damage from the light guns of the hostile flotilla.

Her funnel was riddled, and several steam-pipes cut through. She retired
from the engagement.

With her went the "Hiyei," which had been seriously damaged in her
dash through the Chinese centre. The "Akagi" also withdrew to clear her
decks, which were encumbered with wreckage.

The fall of her mast had killed her captain, Sakamoto, and her two
lieutenants were badly wounded.

So far Ting had lost four of his unarmoured cruisers, and Ito had sent
out of the fight three of his ships, the old ironclad "Hiyei," the
gunboat "Akagi," and the armed steamer "Saikio Maru." But none of these
were fighting units of serious value. His two squadrons of
protected cruisers were intact, and it was on these he counted for
victory.

The second phase of the battle was a prolonged cannonade at a range of
from one to two miles. Thanks to the superior speed of the
Japanese fleet, Ito could choose position and distance, and the training
of his officers and men enabled him to concentrate his fire now
on one part, now on another, of the straggling Chinese line.

His ships poured out a steady shower of shells, whose heavy bursting
charges not only scattered hurtling fragments of steel among the
Chinese crews, but also had a tendency to light a hot fire wherever
they exploded.

The Chinese had a very poor supply of inferior ammunition, most of it
armour-piercing projectiles, that were practically solid shot.

Their fire was slow and ill-directed, and even when it found its target
the damage done was seldom serious.

Two more Chinese ships were soon disposed of. The cruiser "Chi-yuen"
had been pluckily fought by her Chinese captain, Tang, and her
English engineer, Purvis.

She had received several shots between wind and water, and was
leaking badly.

Tang knew she could not be long kept afloat, and he made a desperate
resolution to attempt to ram a Japanese ship before he went down. As the
enemy's van squadron, headed by the "Yoshino," came sweeping to
closer range with the Chinese left the "Chi-yuen" made a dash for
the leading cruiser.

Even if she had not been half-sinking already, the Chinese ship had
neither the speed nor handiness to ram the swiftest ship in the enemy's
line. As the "Chi-yuen" came on, the guns of the van squadron were
concentrated on her. She was enveloped in a fierce storm of bursting
shells, and suddenly her bows plunged in the sea, her twin screws
whizzed for a moment in the air, and then all that was left to show
where she had sunk was floating wreckage and drowning men.

Purvis went down with his ship. Tang was seen swimming on an oar
for a few minutes, with a big dog--a pet of his--paddling near him.
Then the dog put its paws on his shoulders, and he was forced under
and drowned.

Another Chinese cruiser, the "Lai-yuen," which lay in the line to
the right of the two armour-clads, was now seen to be burning fiercely.
On board this ship the Chinese engine-room staff showed devoted
courage. While the fire spread through the upper works, so that after
the fight many of the iron deck beams were bare and twisted out
of shape, not one of the brave men below quitted his post. Stokers,
engineers, mechanics worked almost naked, in heat like that of a furnace.
Some died, all were in the doctor's hands after the fight,
but they kept the engines going, obeyed orders, and brought the half-burnt
ship out of action.

More than half of the Chinese fleet had now been destroyed or beaten
off, without any loss to the main fighting force of the Japanese.
Disregarding the Chinese cruisers, which were now badly cut up
and firing harmlessly at long range, Ito concentrated his attack on the
two armour-clads.

Though each ship was hit more than four hundred times, their armour
was never pierced. Yet the Japanese had some guns that theoretically
should have penetrated it.

Battle results are, however, often very different from experimental
work on the testing range.

Early in the fight a Japanese shell had cut down the foremast of the
Chinese flagship, sending overboard and drowning seven men who manned the
top--carrying away also the signal yards, so that no orders could for
some time be conveyed to the fleet. But for more than an hour Admiral
Ting was in no condition to give orders. Almost at the outset he
had carelessly taken a position that brought him within the danger arc
of the blast from his own big barbette guns. He was stunned, and
for a while it was thought that he was dead. The ship was fought by
two European officers, Herr Albrecht, a German, and Mr. Nicholls, who
had formerly been a petty officer in the British navy. Albrecht
distinguished himself by more than once going to terribly exposed
positions, and personally handling the hose with which he extinguished
the fires lighted by the Japanese shells.

Nicholls directed the barbette guns with a cool courage worthy of the
service in which he had been trained, until he was killed by a
bursting shell.

Two other white men, the German soldier, Captain von Hanneken, and the
American commander, McGiffen, took a prominent part in the fighting
on board the other armour-clad, the "Chen-yuen."

Both had more than one narrow escape. Von Hanneken was stunned for a while
by an explosion, and slightly wounded while at the barbette guns. When
the lacquered woodwork of the bow burst into flame and smoke, and none
of the Chinese would go forward to extinguish it, McGiffen, who was in
command of the ship, dragged the fire-hose to the danger point. Just
as he had drowned the fire he was wounded in two places and stunned
by a bursting shell. He had told the men in the barbette not to reopen
fire till he rejoined them, but, to his horror, as he recovered
from the shock he saw the guns swing round and point directly over
the bow.

He escaped being blown to pieces by dropping through an open hatchway.
Altogether during the fight the "Chen-yuen" was on fire eight
times.

Most of the Chinese crew fought pluckily, but there were some
skulkers.
McGiffen tells how once, when there was something wrong with the
revolving gear of the barbette guns, and he went down into a recess
under the barbette to clear it, he saw a group of frightened men
huddled in the semi-darkness, and heard the voice of a Chinese officer
saying: "You can't hide down here.

There are too many of us already." But he tells also of the courage
of others. The captain of one of the guns was killed as he prepared
to fire, the man's head being shattered by a shell, and his brains
scattered over the gun. Another man dragged the corpse away, took the
lanyard, looked along the sights, and fired without a moment's
hesitation.

Tsao-kai, the gunnery lieutenant, was badly wounded and taken below. He
had brought his brother, a mere boy, on board for a holiday, and
had him beside him in the barbette.

The boy remained there to the end, helping to pass up ammunition, and
apparently regarding the fight as an interesting game, though he
was the only unwounded individual in the barbette when the battle
ended.

McGiffen asserts that when the fight began the "Chen-yuen" had in her
magazine, besides a quantity of armour-piercing (almost solid)
shot, only three really effective shells for the 12-inch guns.

Two of these were fired early in the day. In the afternoon, in handling
the ammunition, a third was discovered. It was fired at the "Matsushima,"
Ito's flagship, and did terrible execution. Ito, in his report, says that
the incident occurred at 3.26 p.m., and that the shell came from the
"Ting-yuen," but this appears to have been a mistake. The shell dismounted
a 5-inch gun, seriously damaged two more, and exploded a quantity of
quick-firing ammunition that was lying ready near the guns.

According to the Japanese official report, forty-six men were
killed or badly wounded.

Unofficial narratives make the loss even greater. One officer was simply
blown to pieces. The flame of the explosion set the ship on fire, and
she was for a while in imminent danger of destruction.

"The crew," writes Mr. H. W. Wilson, "with unabated gallantry and
courage, divided their attention between the fire and the enemy. The
bandsmen went to the guns, and, though the position of the ship
was critical, and her loss appalling, there was no panic.

The fire was on the lower deck, just above the magazine. In charge
of the magazine were a gunner's mate and a seaman. The shell had
apparently dented the plating over the powder, and the red glow
through the crevices showed the danger. But these brave men did
not abandon their post.

Stripping off their clothes, they crammed them into the cracks, and
saved the 'Matsushima'; though nearly a third of the men above the
waterline had been put out of action, the remnant got the fire
under."

While the fire was still burning the "Matsushima" steamed out of the
fight, and Ito transferred his flag to the cruiser "Hashidate." This
was really the second narrow escape the "Matsushima" had experienced
during the battle.

Early in the fight a 10-inch shell had passed through her side,
killed four men in her torpedo-room, narrowly missed a loaded torpedo,
smashed up an oil-tank, and then broke into pieces.

Examination of the fragments showed there was no trace of a fuse, and a
plug of cement filled the place where the bursting charge should have
been.

It was really a bad specimen of a solid shot. If it had been a live
shell, it might well have destroyed the "Matsushima." It was thanks
to the wretched ammunition supplied by swindling contractors to
the mandarins that the Japanese were able to fight the battle with
such trifling loss.

After the transfer of Ito's flag to the "Hashidate" the battle became
a cannonade at an increasing range. The Chinese ammunition was running
low, and Ito, after having had his quick-firers in action for hours, had
also his magazines nearly empty.

The heavy fire of the afternoon had failed to destroy the two little
"battleships" that represented the only remaining effective units of
the Chinese fleet. Ito had accomplished enough in the destruction of
the Chinese cruisers, and he had no intention of giving their torpedo
boats a chance, by spending the night near the mouth of the Yalu
River. At half-past five he broke off the engagement.

Shortness of ammunition supply and exhaustion of officers and men
were probably his real reasons, for the explanation he gave in his
official report is not very convincing.

"About 5.30 p.m.," he writes, "seeing that the 'Chen-yuen' and the
'Ting-yuen' had been joined by other ships, and that my van squadron
was separated by a great distance from my main force, and considering
that sunset was approaching, I discontinued the action, and recalled
my main squadron by signal.

As the enemy's vessels proceeded on a southerly course, I assumed
that they were making for Wei-hai-wei; and having reassembled the
fleet, I proceeded upon what I supposed to be a parallel course to
that of the enemy, with the intention of renewing the engagement
in the morning, for I judged that a night action might be
disadvantageous, owing to the possibility of the ships becoming
separated in the darkness, and to the fact that the enemy had torpedo
boats in company.

However, I lost sight of the Chinese, and at daylight there were no
signs of the enemy."
There really were no ships of any importance available to join the Chinese
ironclads, so one is puzzled to imagine what Ito saw. It was only
when the firing died away that Admiral Ting sent orders to the
"Kwang-ping," the transports, gunboats, and torpedo craft to come
out.

Only the "Kwang-ping" and the torpedo boats obeyed.

As the sun went down he formed line ahead, and steered for Port
Arthur.

First came the two ironclads; then the "Lai-yuen," with her upper
works still on fire in places; then the "Ching-yuen," "Ping-yuen,"
"Kwang-ping," and the torpedo boats.

Beverly was busy finishing some correspondence for the North, which he
intended giving into the charge of his friend Arthur, and he therefore
remained at home. Phil, a smart mulatto, about ten years of age, who was
a general favorite in the family and an especial pet of Oriana, was
allowed to accompany the party.

It was a lovely evening, only cool enough to be comfortable for Oriana
to be wrapped in her woollen shawl. As the shadows of twilight darkened
on the silent river, a spirit of sadness was with the party, that vague
and painful melancholy that weighs upon the heart when happy ties are
about to be sundered, and loved ones are about to part. Arthur had
brought his flute, and with an effort to throw off the feeling of gloom,
he essayed a lively air; but it seemed like discord by association with
their thoughts. He ceased abruptly, and, at Oriana's request, chose a
more mournful theme. When the last notes of the plaintive melody had
been lost in the stillness of the night, there was an oppressive pause,
only broken by the rustle of the little sail and the faint rippling of
the wave.

"I seem to be sailing into the shadows of misfortune," said Oriana, in a
low, sad tone. "I wish the moon would rise, for this darkness presses
upon my heart like the fingers of a sorrowful destiny. What a coward I
am to-night!"

"A most obedient satellite," replied Arthur. "Look where she heralds
her approach by spreading a misty glow on the brow of yonder hill."

"We have left the shadows of misfortune behind us," said Harold, as a
flood of moonlight flashed over the river, seeming to dash a million of
diamonds in the path of the gliding boat.

"Alas! the fickle orb!" murmured Oriana; "it rises but to mock us, and
hides itself already in the bosom of that sable cloud. Is there not a
threat of rain there, Mr. Hare?"

"It looks unpromising, at the best," said Harold; "I think it would be
prudent to return."

Suddenly, little Phil, who had been lying at ease, with his head against
the thwarts, arose on his elbow and cried out:

"Wha'dat?"

"What is what, Phil?" asked Oriana. "Why, Phil, you have been dreaming,"
she added, observing the lad's confusion at having spoken so vehemently.

"Miss Orany, dar's a boat out yonder. I heard 'em pulling, sure."

"Nonsense, Phil! you've been asleep."

"By Gol! I heard 'em, sure. What a boat doing round here dis time o'
night? Dem's some niggers arter chickens, sure."

And little Phil, satisfied that he had fathomed the mystery, lay down
again in a fit of silent indignation. The boat was put about, but the
wind had died away, and the sail flapped idly against the mast. Harold,
glad of the opportunity for a little exercise, shipped the sculls and
bent to his work.

"Miss Oriana, put her head for the bank if you please. We shall have
less current to pull against in-shore."

The boat glided along under the shadow of the bank, and no sound was
heard but the regular thugging and splashing of the oars and the voices
of insects on the shore. They approached a curve in the river where the
bank was thickly wooded, and dense shrubbery projected over the stream.

"Wha' dat?" shouted Phil again, starting up in the bow and peering into
the darkness. A boat shot out from the shadow of the foliage, and her
course was checked directly in their path. The movement was so sudden
that, before Harold could check his headway, the two boats fouled. A
boathook was thrust into the thwarts; Arthur sprang to the bows to cast
it off.

"Don't touch that," shouted a hoarse voice; and he felt the muzzle of a
pistol thrust into his breast.

"None of that, Seth," cried another; and the speaker laid hold of his
comrade's arm. "We must have no shooting, you know."

Arthur had thrown off the boathook, but some half-dozen armed men had
already leaped into the frail vessel, crowding it to such an extent that
a struggle, even had it not been madness against such odds, would have
occasioned great personal danger to Oriana. Both Arthur and Harold
seemed instinctively to comprehend this, and therefore offered no
opposition. Their boat was taken in tow, and in a few moments the entire
party, with one exception, were landed upon the adjacent bank. That
exception was little Phil. In the confusion that ensued upon the
collision of the two boats, the lad had quietly slipped overboard, and
swam ground to the stern where his mistress sat. "Miss Orany, hist! Miss
Orany!"

The bewildered girl turned and beheld the black face peering over the
gunwale.

"Miss Orany, here I is. O Lor'! Miss Orany, what we gwine to do?"

She bowed her head toward him and whispered hurriedly, but calmly:

"Mind what I tell you, Phil. You watch where they take us to, and then
run home and tell Master Beverly. Do you understand me, Phil?"

"Yes, I does, Miss Orany;" and the little fellow struck out silently for
the shore, and crept among the bushes.

Oriana betrayed no sign, of fear as she stood with her two companions on
the bank a few paces from their captors. The latter, in a low but
earnest tone, were disputing with one who seemed to act as their leader.

"You didn't tell us nothing about the lady," said a brawny,
rugged-looking fellow, angrily. "Now, look here, Seth Rawbon, this ain't
a goin' to do. I'd cut your heart out, before I'd let any harm come to
Squire Weems's sister."

"You lied to us, you long-headed Yankee turncoat," muttered another.
"What in thunder do you mean bringing us down here for kidnapping a
lady?"

"Ain't I worried about it as much as you?" answered Rawbon. "Can't you
understand it's all a mistake?"

"Well, now, you go and apologize to Miss Weems and fix matters, d'ye
hear?"

"But what can we do?"

"Do? Undo what you've done, and show her back into the boat."

"But the two abo"--

"Damn them and you along with 'em! Come, boys, don't let's keep the lady
waiting thar."

The party approached their prisoners, and one among them, hat in hand,
respectfully addressed Oriana.

"Miss Weems, we're plaguy sorry this should 'a happened. It's a mistake
and none of our fault. Your boat's down thar and yer shan't be
merlested."

"Am I free to go?" asked Oriana, calmly.

"Free as air, Miss Weems."

"With my companions?"

"No, they remain with us," said Rawbon.

"Then I remain with them," she replied, with dignity and firmness.

The man who had first remonstrated with Rawbon, stepped up to him and
laid his hand heavily on his shoulder:

"Look here, Seth Rawbon, you've played out your hand in this game, now
mind that. Miss Weems, you're free to go, anyhow, with them chaps or
not, just as you like."

They stepped down the embankment, but the boats were nowhere to be seen.
Rawbon, anticipating some trouble with his gang, had made a pretence
only of securing the craft to a neighboring bush. The current had
carried the boats out into the stream, and they had floated down the
river and were lost to sight in the darkness.


CHAPTER V.


There was no remedy but to cross the woodland and cornfields that for
about a league intervened between their position and the highway. They
commenced the tedious tramp, Arthur and Harold exerting themselves to
the utmost to protect Oriana from the brambles, and to guide her
footsteps along the uneven ground and among the decayed branches and
other obstacles that beset their path. Their rude companions, too, with
the exception of Rawbon, who walked moodily apart, seemed solicitous to
assist her with their rough attentions. To add to the disagreeable
nature of their situation, the rain began to fall in torrents before
they had accomplished one half of the distance. They were then in the
midst of a tract of wooded land that was almost impassable for a lady in
the darkness, on account of the yielding nature of the soil, and the
numerous ruts and hollows that were soon transformed into miniature
pools and streams. Oriana strove to treat the adventure as a theme for
laughter, and for awhile chatted gaily with her companions; but it was
evident that she was fast becoming weary, and that her thin-shod feet
were wounded by constant contact with the twigs and sharp stones that it
was impossible to avoid in the darkness. Her dress was torn, and heavy
with mud and moisture, and the two young men were pained to perceive
that, in spite of her efforts and their watchful care, she stumbled
frequently with exhaustion, and leaned heavily on their arms as she
labored through the miry soil.

One of the party opportunely remembered a charcoal-burner's hut in the
vicinity, that would at least afford a rude shelter from the driving
storm. Several of the men hastened in search of it, and soon a halloo
not far distant indicated that the cabin, such as it was, had been
discovered. As they approached, they were surprised to observe rays of
light streaming through the cracks and crevices, as if a fire were
blazing within. It was an uninviting structure, hastily constructed of
unhewn logs, and upon ordinary occasions Oriana would have hesitated to
pass the threshold; but wet and weary as she was, she was glad to
obtain the shelter of even so poor a hovel.

"There's a runaway in thar, I reckon," said one of the party. He threw
open the door, and several of the men entered. A fire of logs was
burning on the earthen floor, and beside it was stretched a negro's
form, wrapped in a tattered blanket. He started up as his unwelcome
visitors entered, and looked frightened and bewildered, as if suddenly
awakened from a sound sleep. However, he had no sooner laid eyes upon
Seth Rawbon than, with a yell of fear, he sprang with a powerful leap
through the doorway, leaving his blanket in the hands of those who
sought to grasp him.

"That's my nigger Jim!" cried Rawbon, discharging his revolver at the
dusky form as it ran like a deer into the shadow of the woods. At every
shot, the negro jumped and screamed, but, from his accelerated speed,
was apparently untouched.

"After him, boys!" shouted Rawbon. "Five dollars apiece and a gallon of
whisky if you bring the varmint in."

With a whoop, the whole party went off in chase and were soon lost to
view in the darkness.

Harold and Arthur led Oriana into the hut, and, spreading their coats
upon the damp floor, made a rude couch for her beside the fire. The poor
girl was evidently prostrated with fatigue and excitement, yet, with a
faint laugh and a jest as she glanced around upon the questionable
accommodations, she thanked them for their kindness, and seated herself
beside the blazing fagots.

"This is a strange finale to our pleasure excursion," she said, as the
grateful warmth somewhat revived her spirits. "You must acknowledge me a
prophetess, gentlemen," she added, with a smile, "for you see that we
sailed indeed into the shadows of misfortune."

"Should your health not suffer from this exposure," replied Arthur, "our
adventure will prove no misfortune, but only a theme for mirth
hereafter, when we recall to mind our present piteous plight."

"Oh, I am strong, Mr. Wayne," she answered cheerfully, perceiving the
expression of solicitude in the countenances of her companions, "and
have passed the ordeal of many a thorough wetting with impunity. Never
fear but I shall fare well enough. I am only sorry and ashamed that all
our boasted Virginia hospitality can afford you no better quarters than
this for your last night among us."

"Apart from the discomfort to yourself, this little episode will only
make brighter by contrast my remembrance of the many happy hours we have
passed together," said Arthur, with a tone of deep feeling that caused
Oriana to turn and gaze thoughtfully into the flaming pile.

Harold said nothing, and stood leaning moodily against the wall of the
hovel, evidently a prey to painful thoughts. His mind wandered into the
glooms of the future, and dwelt upon the hour when he, perhaps, should
tread with hostile arms the soil that was the birthplace of his beloved.
"Can it be possible," he thought, "that between us twain, united as we
are in soul, there can exist such variance of opinion as will make her
kin and mine enemies, and perhaps the shedders of each other's blood!"

There was a pause, and Oriana, her raiment being partially dried,
rested her head upon her arm and slumbered.

The storm increased in violence, and the rain, pelting against the cabin
roof, with its weird music, formed a dismal accompaniment to the
grotesque discomfort of their situation. Arthur threw fresh fuel upon
the fire, and the crackling twigs sent up a fitful flame, that fell
athwart the face of the sleeping girl, and revealed an expression of
sorrow upon her features that caused him to turn away with a sigh.

"Arthur," asked Harold, abruptly, "do you think this unfortunate affair
at Sumter will breed much trouble?"

"I fear it," said Arthur, sadly. "Our Northern hearts are made of
sterner stuff than is consistent with the spirit of conciliation."

"And what of Southern hearts?"

"You have studied them," said Arthur, with a pensive smile, and bending
his gaze upon the sleeping maiden.

Harold colored slightly, and glanced half reproachfully at his friend.

"I cannot help believing," continued the latter, "that we are blindly
invoking a fatal strife, more in the spirit of exaltation than of calm
and searching philosophy. I am confident that the elements of union
still exist within the sections, but my instinct, no less than my
judgment, tells me that they will no longer exist when the
chariot-wheels of war shall have swept over the land. Whatever be the
disparity of strength, wealth and numbers, and whatever may be the
result of encounters upon the battle-field, such a terrible war as both
sides are capable of waging can never build up or sustain a fabric whose
cement must be brotherhood and kindly feeling. I would as soon think to
woo the woman of my choice with angry words and blows, as to reconcile
our divided fellow citizens by force of arms."

"You are more a philosopher than a patriot," said Harold, with some
bitterness.

"Not so," answered Arthur, warmly. "I love my country--so well, indeed,
that I cannot be aroused into hostility to any section of it. My reason
does not admit the necessity for civil war, and it becomes therefore a
sacred obligation with me to give my voice against the doctrine of
coercion. My judgment may err, or my sensibilities may be 'too full of
the milk of human kindness' to serve the stern exigencies of the crisis
with a Spartan's callousness and a Roman's impenetrability; but for you
to affirm that, because true to my own opinions, I must be false to my
country, is to deny me that independence of thought to which my country,
as a nation, owes its existence and its grandeur."

"You boast your patriotism, and yet you seem to excuse those who seek
the dismemberment of your country."

"I do not excuse them, but I would not have them judged harshly, for I
believe they have acted under provocation."

"What provocation can justify rebellion against a government so
beneficent as ours?"

"I will not pretend to justify, because I think there is much to be
forgiven on either side. But if anything can palliate the act, it is
that system of determined hostility which for years has been levelled
against an institution which they believe to be righteous and founded
upon divine precept. But I think this is not the hour for justification
or for crimination. I am convinced that the integrity of the Union can
only be preserved by withholding the armed hand at this crisis. And
pray Heaven, our government may forbear to strike!"

"Would you, then, have our flag trampled upon with impunity, and our
government confessed a cipher, because, forsooth, you have a
constitutional repugnance to the severities of warfare? Away with such
sickly sentimentality! Such theories, if carried into practice, would
reduce us to a nation of political dwarfs and puny drivellers, fit only
to grovel at the footstools of tyrants."

"I could better bear an insult to our flag than a deathblow to our
nationality. And I feel that our nationality would not survive a
struggle between the sections. There is no danger that we should be
dwarfed in intellect or spirit by practising forbearance toward our
brothers."

"Is treason less criminal because it is the treason of brother against
brother? If so, then must a traitor of necessity go unpunished, since
the nature of the crime requires that the culprit be your countryman.
How hollow are your arguments when applied to existing facts!"

"You forget that I counsel moderation as an expediency, as even a
necessity, for the public good. It were poor policy to compass the
country's ruin for the sake of bringing chastisement upon error."

"That can be but a questionable love of country that would humiliate a
government to the act of parleying with rebellion."

"My love of country is not confined to one section of the country, or to
one division of my countrymen. The lessons of the historic past have
taught me otherwise. If, when a schoolboy, poring over the pages of my
country's history, I have stood, in imagination, with Prescott at Bunker
Hill, and stormed with Ethan Allen at the gates of Ticonderoga, I have
also mourned with Washington at Valley Forge, and followed Marion and
Sumter through the wilds of Carolina. If I have fancied myself at work
with Yankee sailors at the guns, and poured the shivering broadside into
the Guerriere, I have helped to man the breastworks at New Orleans, and
seen the ranks that stood firm at Waterloo wavering before the blaze of
Southern rifles. If I have read of the hardy Northern volunteers on the
battle-plains of Mexico; I remember the Palmetto boys at Cherubusco,
and the brave Mississippians at Buena Vista. Is it a wonder, then, that
my heartstrings ache when I see the links breaking that bind me to such
memories? If I would have the Government parley awhile for the sake of
peace, even although the strict law sanction the bayonet and cannon, I
do it in the name of the sacred past, when the ties of brotherhood were
strong. I counsel not humiliation nor submission, but conciliation. I
counsel it, not only as an expedient, but as a tribute to the affinities
of almost a century. I love the Union too well to be willing that its
fate should be risked upon the uncertainties of war. I believe in my
conscience that the chances of its reconstruction depend rather upon
negotiation than upon battles. I may err, or you, as my opponent in
opinion, may err; for while I assume not infallibility for myself, I
deny it, with justice, to my neighbor. But I think as my heart and
intellect dictate, and my patriotism should not be questioned by one as
liable to error as myself. Should I yield my honest convictions upon a
question of such vital importance as my country's welfare, then indeed
should I be a traitor to my country and myself. But to accuse me of
questionable patriotism for my independence of thought, is, in itself,
treason against God and man."

"I believe you sincere in your convictions, Arthur, not because touched
by your argument, but because I have known you too long and well to
believe you capable of an unworthy motive. But what, in the name of
common justice, would you have us do, when rebellion already thunders at
the gates of our citadels with belching cannon? Shall we sit by our
firesides and nod to the music of their artillery?"

"I would have every American citizen, in this crisis, as in all others,
divest himself of all prejudice and sectional feeling: I would have him
listen to and ponder upon the opinions of his fellow citizens, and, with
the exercise of his best judgment, to discard the bad, and take counsel
from the good; then, I would have him conclude for himself, not whether
his flag has been insulted, or whether there are injuries to avenge, or
criminals to be punished, but what is best and surest to be done for
the welfare of his country. If he believe the Union can only be
preserved by war, let his voice be for war; if by peace, let him counsel
peace, as I do, from my heart; if he remain in doubt, let him incline to
peace, secure that in so doing he will best obey the teachings of
Christianity, the laws of humanity, and the mighty voice that is
speaking from the soul of enlightenment, pointing out the errors of the
past, and disclosing the secret of human happiness for the future."

Arthur's eye kindled as he spoke, and the flush of excitement, to which
he was habitually a stranger, colored his pale cheek. Oriana had
awakened with the vehemence of his language, and gazing with interest
upon his now animated features, had been listening to his closing words.
Harold was about to answer, when suddenly the baying of a hound broke
through the noise of the storm.

"That is a bloodhound!" exclaimed Harold with an accent of surprise.

"Oh, no," said Oriana. "There are no bloodhounds in this neighborhood,
nor are they at all in use, I am sure, in Virginia."

"I am not mistaken," replied Harold. "I have been made familiar with
their baying while surveying on the coast of Florida. Listen!"

The deep, full tones came swelling upon the night wind, and fell with a
startling distinctness upon the ear.

"It's my hound, Mister Hare," said a low, coarse voice at the doorway,
and Seth Rawbon entered the cabin and closed the door behind him.


CHAPTER VI.


"It's my hound. Miss Weems, and I guess he's on the track of that
nigger, Jim."

Oriana started as if stung by a serpent, and rising to her feet, looked
upon the man with such an expression of contempt and loathing that the
ruffian's brow grew black with anger as he returned her gaze. Harold
confronted him, and spoke in a low, earnest tone, and between his
clenched teeth:

"If you are a man you will go at once. This persecution of a woman is
beneath even your brutality. If you have an account with me, I will not
balk you. But relieve her from the outrage of your presence here."

"I guess I'd better be around," replied Rawbon, coolly, as he leaned
against the door, with his hands in his coat pocket. "That dog is
dangerous when he's on the scent. You see, Miss Weems," he continued,
speaking over Harold's shoulder, "my niggers are plaguy troublesome,
and I keep the hound to cow them down a trifle. But he wouldn't hurt a
lady, I think--unless I happened to encourage him a bit, do you see."

And the man showed his black teeth with a grin that caused Oriana to
shudder and turn away.

Harold's brow was like a thunder-cloud, from beneath which his eyes
flashed like the lightning at midnight.

"Your words imply a threat which I cannot understand. Ruffian! What do
mean?"

"I mean no good to you, my buck!"

His lip, with the deep cut upon it, curled with hate, but he still
leaned coolly against the door, though a quick ear might have caught a
click, as if he had cocked a pistol in his pocket. It was a habit with
Harold to go unarmed. Fearless and self-reliant by nature, even upon his
surveying expeditions in wild and out of the way districts, he carried
no weapon beyond sometimes a stout oaken staff. But now, his form
dilated, and the muscles of his arm contracted, as if he were about to
strike. Oriana understood the movement and the danger. She advanced
quietly but quickly to his side, and took his hand within her own.

"He is not worth your anger, Harold. For my sake, Harold, do not provoke
him further," she added softly, as she drew him from the spot.

At this moment the baying of the hound was heard, apparently in close
proximity to the hovel, and presently there was a heavy breathing and
snuffling at the threshold, followed by a bound against the door, and a
howl of rage and impatience. Nothing prevented the entrance of the
animal except the form of Rawbon, who still leaned quietly against the
rude frame, which, hanging upon leathern hinges, closed the aperture.

There was something frightful in the hoarse snarling of the angry beast,
as he dashed his heavy shoulder against the rickety framework, and
Oriana shrank nervously to Harold's side.

"Secure that dog!" he said, as, while soothing the trembling girl, he
looked over his shoulder reproachfully at Rawbon. His tone was low, and
even gentle, but it was tremulous with passion. But the man gave no
answer, and continued leering at them as before.

Arthur walked to him and spoke almost in an accent of entreaty.

"Sir, for the sake of your manhood, take away your dog and leave us."

He did not answer.

The hound, excited by the sound of voices, redoubled his efforts and his
fury. Oriana was sinking into Harold's arms.

"This must end," he muttered. "Arthur, take her from me, she's fainting.
I'll go out and brain the dog."

"Not yet, not yet," whispered Arthur. "For her sake be calm," and while
he received Oriana upon one arm, with the other he sought to stay his
friend.

But Harold seized a brand from the fire, and sprang toward the door.

"Stand from the door," he shouted, lifting the brand above Rawbon's
head. "Leave that, I say!"

Rawbon's lank form straightened, and in an instant the revolver flashed
in the glare of the fagots.

He did not shoot, but his face grew black with passion.

"By God! you strike me, and I'll set the dog at the woman."

At the sound of his master's voice, the hound set up a yell that seemed
unearthly. Harold was familiar with the nature of the species, and even
in the extremity of his anger, his anxiety for Oriana withheld his arm.

"Look you here!" continued Rawbon, losing his quiet, mocking tone, and
fairly screaming with excitement, "do you see this?" He pointed to his
mangled lip, from which, by the action of his jaws while talking, the
plaster had just been torn, and the blood was streaming out afresh. "Do
you see this? I've got that to settle with you. I'll hunt you, by G--d!
as that hound hunts a nigger. Now see if I don't spoil that pretty face
of yours, some day, so that she won't look so sweet on you for all your
pretty talk."

He seemed to calm abruptly after this, put up his pistol, and resumed
the wicked leer.

"What would you have?" at last asked Arthur, mildly and with no trace of
anger in his voice.

Rawbon turned to him with a searching glance, and, after a pause, said:

"Terms."

"What?"

"I want to make terms with you."

"About what?"

"About this whole affair."

"Well. Go on."

"I know you can hurt me for this with the law, and I know you mean to.
Now I want this matter hushed up."

Harold would have spoken, but Arthur implored him with a glance, and
answered:

"What assurance can you give us against your outrages in the future?"

"None."

"None! Then why should we compromise with you?"

"Because I've got the best hand to-night, and you know it. For her, you
know, you'll do 'most anything--now, won't you?"

The fellow's complaisant smile caused Arthur to look away with disgust.
He turned to Harold, and they were conferring about Rawbon's strange
proposition, when Oriana raised her head suddenly and her face assumed
an expression of attention, as if her ear had caught a distant sound.
She had not forgotten little Phil, and knowing his sagacity and
faithfulness, she depended much upon his having followed her
instructions. And indeed, a moment after, the plashing of the hoofs of
horses in the wet soil could be distinctly heard.

"Them's my overseer and his man, I guess," said Rawbon, with composure,
and he smiled again as he observed how effectually he had checked the
gleam of joy that had lightened Oriana's face.

"'Twas he, you see, that set the dog on Jim's track, and now he's
following after, that's all."

He had scarcely concluded, when a vigorous and excited voice was heard,
shouting: "There 'tis!--there's the hut, gentlemen! Push on!"

"It is my brother! my brother!" cried Oriana, clasping her hands with
joy; and for the first time that night she burst into tears and sobbed
on Harold's shoulder.

Rawbon's face grew livid with rage and disappointment. He flung open the
door and sprang out into the open air; but Oriana could see him pause
an instant at the threshold, and stooping, point into the cabin. The low
hissing word of command that accompanied the action reached her ear. She
knew what it meant and a faint shriek burst from her lips, more perhaps
from horror at the demoniac cruelty of the man, than from fear. The next
moment, a gigantic bloodhound, gaunt, mud-bespattered and with the froth
of fury oozing from his distended jaws, plunged through the doorway and
stood glaring in the centre of the cabin.

Oriana stood like a sculptured ideal of terror, white and immovable;
Harold with his left arm encircled the rigid form, while his right hand
was uplifted, weaponless, but clenched with the energy of despair, till
the blood-drops burst from his palm. But Arthur stepped before them both
and fixed his calm blue eyes upon the monster's burning orbs. There was
neither fear, nor excitement, nor irresolution in that steadfast
gaze--it was like the clear, straightforward glance of a father checking
a wayward child--even the habitual sadness lingered in the deep azure,
and the features only changed to be cast in more placid mold. It was
the struggle of a brave and tranquil soul with the ferocious instincts
of the brute. The hound, crouched for a deadly spring, was fascinated by
this spectacle of the utter absence of emotion. His huge chest heaved
like a billow with his labored respiration, but the regular breathing of
the being that awed him was like that of a sleeping child. For full five
minutes--but it seemed an age--this silent but terrible duel was being
fought, and yet no succor came. Beverly and those who came with him must
have changed their course to pursue the fleeing Rawbon.

"Lead her out softly, Harold," murmured Arthur, without changing a
muscle or altering his gaze. But the agony of suspense had been too
great--Oriana, with a convulsive shudder, swooned and hung like a corpse
upon Harold's arm.

"Oh, God! she is dying, Arthur!" he could not help exclaiming, for it
was indeed a counterpart of death that he held in his embrace.

Then only did Arthur falter for an instant, and the hound was at his
throat. The powerful jaws closed with a snap upon his shoulder, and you
might have heard the sharp fangs grate against the bone. The shock of
the spring brought Arthur to the ground, and man and brute rolled over
together, and struggled in the mud and gore. Harold bore the lifeless
girl out into the air, and returning, closed the door. He seized a
brand, and with both hands levelled a fierce blow at the dog's neck. The
stick shivered like glass, but the creature only shook his grisly head,
but never quit his hold. With his bare hand he seized the live coals
from the thickest of the fire and pressed them against the flanks and
stomach of the tenacious animal; the brute howled and quivered in every
limb, but still the blood-stained fangs were firmly set into the
lacerated flesh. With both hands clasped around the monster's throat, he
exerted his strength till the finger-bones seemed to crack. He could
feel the pulsations of the dog's heart grow fainter and slower, and
could see in his rolling and upheaved eyeballs that the death-pang was
upon him; but those iron jaws still were locked in the torn shoulder;
and as Harold beheld the big drops start from his friend's ashy brow,
and his eyes filming with the leaden hue of unconsciousness, the
agonizing thought came to him that the dog and the man were dying
together in that terrible embrace.

It was then that he fairly sobbed with the sensation of relief, as he
heard the prancing of steeds close by the cabin-door; and Beverly,
entering hastily, with a cry of horror, stood one moment aghast as he
looked on the frightful scene. Then, with repeated shots from his
revolver, he scattered the dog's brains over Arthur's blood-stained
bosom.

Harold arose, and, faint and trembling with excitement and exhaustion,
leaned against the wall. Beverly knelt by the side of the wounded man,
and placed his hand above his heart. Harold turned to him with an
anxious look.

"He has but fainted from loss of blood," said Beverly. "Harold, where is
my sister?"

As he spoke, Oriana, who, in the fresh night air, had recovered from her
swoon, pale and with dishevelled hair, appeared at the cabin-door.
Harold and Beverly sought to lead her out before her eyes fell upon
Arthur's bleeding form; but she had already seen the pale, calm face,
clotted with blood, but with the beautiful sad smile still lingering
upon the parted lips. She appeared to see neither Harold nor her
brother, but only those tranquil features, above which the angel of
Death seemed already to have brushed his dewy wing. She put aside
Beverly's arm, which was extended to support her, and thrust him away as
if he had been a stranger. She unloosed her hand from Harold's
affectionate grasp, and with a long and suppressed moan of intense
anguish, she kneeled down in the little pool of blood beside the
extended form, with her hands tightly clasped, and wept bitterly.

They raised her tenderly, and assured her that Arthur was not dead.

"Oh, no! oh, no!" she murmured, as the tears streamed out afresh, "he
must not die! He must not die for _me_! He is so good! so brave! A
child's heart, with the courage of a lion. Oh, Harold! why did you not
save him?"

But as she took Harold's hand almost reproachfully, she perceived that
it was black and burnt, and he too was suffering; and she leaned her
brow upon his bosom and sobbed with a new sorrow.

Beverly was almost vexed at the weakness his sister displayed. It was
unusual to her, and he forgot her weariness and the trial she had
passed. He had been binding some linen about Arthur's shoulder, and he
looked up and spoke to her in a less gentle tone.

"Oriana, you are a child to-night. I have never seen you thus. Come,
help me with this bandage."

She sighed heavily, but immediately ceased to weep, and said "Yes,"
calmly and with firmness. Bending beside her brother, without faltering
or shrinking, she gave her white fingers to the painful task.

In the stormy midnight, by the fitful glare of the dying embers, those
two silent men and that pale woman seemed to be keeping a vigil in an
abode of death. And the pattering rain and moan of the night-wind
sounded like a dirge.


CHAPTER VII.


Several gentlemen of the neighborhood, whom Beverly, upon hearing little
Phil's story, had hastily summoned to his assistance, now entered the
cabin, together with the male negroes of his household, who had mounted
the farm horses and eagerly followed to the rescue of their young
mistress. They had been detained without by an unsuccessful pursuit of
Rawbon, whose flight they had discovered, but who had easily evaded them
in the darkness. A rude litter was constructed for Arthur, but Oriana
declared herself well able to proceed on horseback, and would not listen
to any suggestion of delay on her account. She mounted Beverly's horse,
while he and Harold supplied themselves from among the horses that the
negroes had rode, and thus, slowly and silently, they threaded the
lonely forest, while ever and anon a groan from the litter struck
painfully upon their ears.

Arrived at the manor house, a physician who had been summoned,
pronounced Arthur's hurt to be serious, but not dangerous. Upon
receiving this intelligence, Oriana and Harold were persuaded to retire,
and Beverly and his aunt remained as watchers at the bedside of the
wounded man.

Oriana, despite her agitation, slept well, her rest being only disturbed
by fitful dreams, in which Arthur's pale face seemed ever present, now
smiling upon her mournfully, and now locked in the repose of death. She
arose somewhat refreshed, though still feverish and anxious, and walking
upon the veranda to breathe the morning air, she was joined by Harold,
with his hand in a sling, and much relieved by the application of a
poultice, which the skill of Miss Randolph had prepared. He informed her
that Arthur was sleeping quietly, and that she might dismiss all fears
as to his safety; and perhaps, if he had watched her closely, the
earnest expression of something more than pleasure with which she
received this assurance, might have given him cause for rumination.
Beverly descended soon afterward, and confirmed the favorable report
from the sick chamber, and Oriana retired into the house to assist in
preparing the morning meal.

"Let us take a stroll by the riverside," said Beverly; "the air breathes
freshly after my night's vigil."

"The storm has left none but traces of beauty behind," observed Harold,
as they crossed the lawn. The loveliness of the early morning was indeed
a pleasant sequel to the rude tempest of the preceding night. The
dewdrops glistened upon grass-blade and foliage, and the bosom of the
stream flashed merrily in the sunbeams.

"It is," answered Beverly, "as if Nature were rejoicing that the war of
the elements is over, and a peace proclaimed. Would that the black cloud
upon our political horizon had as happily passed away."

After a pause, he continued: "Harold, you need not fear to remain with
us a while longer. I am sure that Rawbon's confederates are heartily
ashamed of their participation in last night's outrage, and will on no
account be seduced to a similar adventure. Rawbon himself will not be
likely to show himself in this vicinity for some time to come, unless
as the inmate of a jail, for I have ordered a warrant to be issued
against him. The whole affair has resulted evidently from some
unaccountable antipathy which the fellow entertains against us."

"I agree with you," replied Harold, "but still I think this is an
unpropitious time for the prolongation of my visit. There are events, I
fear, breeding for the immediate future, in which I must take a part. I
shall only remain with you a few days, that I may be assured of Arthur's
safety."

"I will not disguise from you my impression that Virginia will withdraw
from the Union. In that case, we will be nominal enemies. God grant that
our paths may not cross each other."

"Amen!" replied Harold, with much feeling. "But I do not understand why
we should be enemies. You surely will not lend your voice to this
rebellion?"

"When the question of secession is before the people of my State, I
shall cast my vote as my judgment and conscience shall dictate.
Meanwhile I shall examine the issue, and, I trust, dispassionately. But
whatever may become of my individual opinion, where Virginia goes I go,
whatever be the event."

"Would you uphold a wrong in the face of your own conscience?"

"Oh, as to that, I do not hold it a question between right and wrong,
but simply of advisability. The right of secession I entertain no doubt
about."

"No doubt as to the right of dismembering and destroying a government
which has fostered your infancy, developed your strength, and made you
one among the parts of a nation that has no peer in a world's history?
Is it possible that intellect and honesty can harbor such a doctrine!"

"My dear Harold, you look at the subject as an enthusiast, and you allow
your heart not to assist but to control your brain. Men, by association,
become attached to forms and symbols, so as in time to believe that upon
their existence depends the substance of which they are but the signs.
Forty years ago, in the Hawaiian Islands, the death-penalty was
inflicted upon a native of the inferior caste, should he chance to pass
over the shadow of one of noble birth. So would you avenge an insult to
a shadow, while you allow the substance to be stolen from your grasp.
Our jewel, as freemen, is the right of self-government; the form of
government is a mere convenience--a machine, which may be dismembered,
destroyed, remodelled a thousand times, without detriment to the great
principle of which it is the outward sign."

"You draw a picture of anarchy that would disgrace a confederation of
petty savage tribes. What miserable apology for a government would that
be whose integrity depends upon the caprice of the governed?"

"It is as likely that a government should become tyrannical, as that a
people should become capricious. You have simply chosen an unfair word.
For _caprice_ substitute _will_, and you have my ideal of a true
republic."

"And by that ideal, one State, by its individual act, might overturn the
entire system adopted for the convenience and safety of the whole."

"Not so. It does not follow that the system should be overturned because
circumscribed in limit, more than that a business firm should
necessarily be ruined by the withdrawal of a partner. Observe, Harold,
that the General Government was never a sovereignty, and came into
existence only by the consent of each and every individual State. The
States were the sovereignties, and their connection with the Union,
being the mere creature of their will, can exist only by that will."

"Why, Beverly, you might as well argue that this pencil-case, which
became mine by an act of volition on your part, because you gave it me,
ceases to be mine when you reclaim it."

"If I had appointed you my amanuensis, and had transferred my pencil to
you simply for the purposes of your labor in my behalf, when I choose to
dismiss you, I should expect the return of my property. The States made
no gifts to the Federal Government for the sake of giving, but only
delegated certain powers for specific purposes. They never could have
delegated the power of coercion, since no one State or number of States
possessed that power as against their sister States."

"But surely, in entering into the bonds of union, they formed a
contract with each other which should be inviolable."

"Then, at the worst, the seceding States are guilty of a breach of
contract with the remaining States, but not with the General Government,
with which they made no contract. They formed a union, it is true. But
of what? Of sovereignties. How can those States be sovereignties which
admit a power above them, possessing the right of coercion? To admit the
right of coercion is to deny the existence of sovereignty."

"You can find nothing in the Constitution to intimate the right of
secession."

"Because its framers considered the right sufficiently established by
the very nature of the confederation. The fears upon the subject that
were expressed by Patrick Henry, and other zealous supporters of State
Rights, were quieted by the assurances of the opposite party, who
ridiculed the idea that a convention, similar to that which in each
State adopted the Constitution, could not thereafter, in representation
of the popular will, withdraw such State from the confederacy. You
have, in proof of this, but to refer to the annals of the occasion."

"I discard the theory as utterly inconsistent with any legislative
power. We have either a government or we have not. If we have one, it
must possess within itself the power to sustain itself. Our chief
magistrate becomes otherwise a mere puppet, and our Congress a shallow
mockery, and the shadow only of a legislative body. Our nationality
becomes a word, and nothing more. Our place among the nations becomes
vacant, and the great Republic, our pride and the world's wonder,
crumbles into fragments, and with its downfall perishes the hope of the
oppressed of every clime. I wonder, Beverly, that you can coldly argue
against the very life of your country, and not feel the parricide's
remorse! Have you no lingering affection for the glorious structure
which our fathers built for and bequeathed to us, and which you now seek
to hurl from its foundations? Have you no pride and love for the brave
old flag that has been borne in the vanguard to victory so often, that
has shrouded the lifeless form of Lawrence, that has gladdened the
heart of the American wandering in foreign climes, and has spread its
sacred folds over the head of Washington, here, on your own native
soil?"

"Yes, Harold, yes! I love the Union, and I love and am proud of the
brave old flag; I would die for either, and, although I reason with you
coldly, my soul yearns to them both, and my heart aches when I think
that soon, perhaps, they will no more belong to me. But I must sacrifice
even my pride and love to a stern sense of duty. So Washington did, when
he hurled his armed squadrons against the proud banner of St. George,
under which he had been trained in soldiership, and had won the laurel
of his early fame. He, too, no doubt, was not without a pang, to be
sundered from his share of Old England's glorious memories, the land of
his allegiance, the king whom he had served, the soil where the bones of
his ancestors lay at rest. It would cause me many a throb of agony to
draw my sword against the standard of the Republic--but I would do it,
Harold, if my conscience bade me, although my nearest friends, although
you, Harold--and I love you dearly--were in the foremost rank."

"Where I will strive to be, should my country call upon me. But Heaven
forbid that we should meet thus, Beverly!"

"Heaven forbid?" he replied, with a sigh, as he pressed Harold's hand.
"But yonder comes little Phil, running like mad, to tell us, doubtless,
that breakfast is cold with waiting for us."

They retraced their steps, and found Miss Randolph and Oriana awaiting
their presence at the breakfast-table.


CHAPTER VIII.


During the four succeeding days, the house hold at Riverside manor were
much alarmed for Arthur's safety, for a violent fever had ensued, and,
to judge from the physician's evasive answers, the event was doubtful.
The family were unremitting in their attentions, and Oriana, quietly,
but with her characteristic self-will, insisted upon fulfilling her
share of the duties of a nurse. And no hand more gently smoothed the
sick man's pillow or administered more tenderly the cooling draught. It
seemed that Arthur's sleep was calmer when her form was bending over
him, and even when his thoughts were wandering and his eyes were
restless with delirium, they turned to welcome her as she took her
accustomed seat. Once, while she watched there alone in the twilight,
the open book unheeded in her hand, and her subdued eyes bent
thoughtfully upon his face as he slept unconscious of her presence, she
saw the white lips move and heard the murmur of the low, musical voice.
Her fair head was bent to catch the words--they were the words of
delirium or of dreams, but they brought a blush to her cheek. And yet
she bent her head still lower and listened, until her forehead rested on
the pillow, and when she looked up again with a sigh, and fixed her eyes
mechanically on the page before her, there was a trace of tears upon the
drooping lashes.

He awoke from a refreshing slumber and it seemed that the fever was
gone; for his glance was calm and clear, and the old smile was upon his
lips. When he beheld Oriana, a slight flush passed over his cheek.

"Are you indeed there, Miss Weems," he said, "or do I still dream? I
have been dreaming, I know not what, but I was very happy." He sighed,
and closed his eyes, as if he longed to woo back the vision which had
fled. She seemed to know what he had been dreaming, for while his cheek
paled again, hers glowed like an autumn cloud at sunset.

"I trust you are much better, Mr. Wayne?"

"Oh yes, much better. I fear I have been very troublesome to you all.
You have been very kind to me."

"Do not speak so, Mr. Wayne," she replied, and a tear glistened in her
eyes. "If you knew how grateful we all are to you! You have suffered
terribly for my sake, Mr. Wayne. You have a brave, pure heart, and I
could hate myself with thinking that I once dared to wrong and to insult
it."

"In my turn, I say do not speak so. I pray you, let there be no thoughts
between us that make you unhappy. What you accuse yourself of, I have
forgotten, or remember only as a passing cloud that lingered for a
moment on a pure and lovely sky. There must be no self-reproaches
between us twain, Miss Weems, for we must become strangers to each other
in this world, and when we part I would not leave with you one bitter
recollection."

There was sorrow in his tone, and the young girl paused awhile and gazed
through the lattice earnestly into the gathering gloom of evening.

"We must not be strangers, Mr. Wayne."

"Alas! yes, for to be otherwise were fatal, at least to me."

She did not answer, and both remained silent and thoughtful, so long,
indeed, that the night shadows obscured the room. Oriana arose and lit
the lamp.

"I must go and prepare some supper for you," she said, in a lighter
tone.

He took her hand as she stood at his bed-side and spoke in a low but
earnest voice:

"You must forget what I have said to you, Miss Weems. I am weak and
feverish, and my brain has been wandering among misty dreams. If I have
spoken indiscreetly, you will forgive me, will you not?"

"It is I that am to be forgiven, for allowing my patient to talk when
the doctor prescribes silence. I am going to get your supper, for I am
sure you must be hungry; so, good bye," she added gaily, as she smoothed
the pillow, and glided from the room. Oriana was silent and reserved for
some days after this, and Harold seemed also to be disturbed and ill at
ease. Some link appeared to be broken between them, for she did not look
into his eyes with the same frank, trusting gaze that had so often
returned his glance of tenderness, and sometimes even she looked
furtively away with heightened color, when, with some gentle
commonplace, his voice broke in upon her meditation. Arthur was now able
to sit for some hours daily in his easy-chair, and Oriana often came to
him at such times, and although they conversed but rarely, and upon
indifferent themes, she was never weary of reading to him, at his
request, some favorite book. And sometimes, as the author's sentiment
found an echo in her heart, she would pause and gaze listlessly at the
willow branches that waved before the casement, and both would remain
silent and pensive, till some member of the family entered, and broke in
upon their revery.

"Come, Oriana," said Harold, one afternoon, "let us walk to the top of
yonder hillock, and look at this glorious sunset."

She went for her bonnet and shawl, and joined him. They had reached the
summit of the hill before either of them broke silence, and then Oriana
mechanically made some commonplace remark about the beauty of the
western sky. He replied with a monosyllable, and sat down upon a
moss-covered rock. She plucked a few wild-flowers, and toyed with them.

"Oriana, Arthur is much better now."

"Much better, Harold."

"I have no fears for his safety now. I think I shall go to-morrow."

"Go, Harold?"

"Yes, to New York. The President has appealed to the States for troops.
I am no soldier, but I cannot remain idle while my fellow citizens are
rallying to arms."

"Will you fight, Harold?"

"If needs be."

"Against your countrymen?"

"Against traitors."

"Against me, perhaps."

"Heaven forbid that the blood of any of your kin should be upon my
hands. I know how much you have suffered, dearest, with the thought that
this unhappy business may separate us for a time. Think you that the eye
of affection could fail to notice your dejection and reflective mood for
some days past?"

Her face grew crimson, and she tore nervously the petals of the flower
in her hand.

"Oriana, you are my betrothed, and no earthly discords should sever our
destinies or estrange our hearts. Why should we part at all. Be mine at
once, Oriana, and go with me to the loyal North, for none may tell how
soon a barrier may be set between your home and me."

"That would be treason to my kindred and the home of my birth."

"And to be severed from me--would it not be treason to your heart?"

She did not answer.

"I have spoken to Beverly about it, and he will not seek to control you.
We are most unhappy, Oriana, in our national troubles; why should we be
so in our domestic ties. We can be blest, even among the rude alarms of
war. This strife will soon be over, and you shall see the old homestead
once again. But while the dark cloud lowers, I call upon you, in the
name of your pledged affection, to share my fortunes with me, and bless
me with this dear hand."

That hand remained passively within his own, but her bosom swelled with
emotion, and presently the large tears rolled upon her cheek. He would
have pressed her to his bosom, but she gently turned from him, and
sinking upon the sward, sobbed through her clasped fingers.

"Why are you thus unhappy, dear Oriana?" he murmured, as he bent
tenderly above her. "Surely you do not love me less because of this
poison of rebellion that infects the land. And with love, woman's best
consolation, to be your comforter, why should you be unhappy?"

She arose, pale and excited, and raised his hand to her lips. The act
seemed to him a strange one for an affianced bride, and he gazed upon
her with a troubled air.

"Let us go home, Harold."

"But tell me that you love me."

She placed her two hands lightly about his neck, and looked up
mournfully but steadily into his face.

"I will be your true wife, Harold, and pray heaven I may love you as you
deserve to be loved. But I am not well to-day, Harold. Let us speak no
more of this now, for there is something at my heart that must be
quieted with penitence and prayer. Oh, do not question me, Harold," she
added, as she leaned her cheek upon his breast; "we will talk with
Beverly, and to-morrow I shall be stronger and less foolish. Come,
Harold, let us go home."

She placed her arm within his, and they walked silently homeward. When
they reached the house, Oriana was hastening to her chamber, but she
lingered at the threshold, and returned to Harold.

"I am not well to-night, and shall not come down to tea. Good night,
Harold. Smile upon me as you were wont to do," she added, as she pressed
his hand and raised her swollen eyes, beneath whose white lids were
crushed two teardrops that were striving to burst forth. "Give me the
smile of the old time, and the old kiss, Harold," and she raised her
forehead to receive it. "Do not look disturbed; I have but a headache,
and shall be well to-morrow. Good night--dear--Harold."

She strove to look pleasantly as she left the room, but Harold was
bewildered and anxious, and, till the summons came for supper, he paced
the veranda with slow and meditative steps.


CHAPTER IX.


The following morning was warm and springlike, and Arthur was
sufficiently strong and well to walk out a little in the open air. He
had been seated upon the veranda conversing with Beverly and Harold,
when the latter proposed a stroll with Beverly, with whom he wished to
converse in relation to his proposed marriage. As the beams of the
unclouded sun had already chased away the morning dew, and the air was
warm and balmy, Arthur walked out into the garden and breathed the
freshness of the atmosphere with the exhilaration of a convalescent
freed for the first time from the sick-room. Accidentally, or by
instinct, he turned his steps to the little grove which he knew was
Oriana's favorite haunt; and there, indeed, she sat, upon the rustic
bench, above which the drooping limbs of the willow formed a leafy
canopy. The pensive girl, her white hand, on which she leaned, buried
among the raven tresses, was gazing fixedly into the depths of the
clear sky, as if she sought to penetrate that azure veil, and find some
hope realized among the mysteries of the space beyond. The neglected
volume had fallen from her lap, and lay among the bluebells at her feet.
Arthur's feeble steps were unheard upon the sward, and he had taken his
seat beside her, before, conscious of an intruder, she started from her
dream.

"The first pilgrimage of my convalescence is to your bower, my gentle
nurse. I have come to thank you for more kindness than I can ever repay,
except with grateful thoughts."

She had risen when she became aware of his presence; and when she
resumed her seat, it seemed with hesitation, and almost an effort, as if
two impulses were struggling within her. But her pleasure to see him
abroad again was too hearty to be checked, and she timidly gave him the
hand which his extended palm invited to a friendly grasp.

"Indeed, Mr. Wayne, I am very glad to see you so far recovered."

"To your kind offices chiefly I owe it, and those of my good friends,
your brother and Harold, and our excellent Miss Randolph. My sick-room
has been the test of so much friendship, that I could almost be sinful
enough to regret the returning health which makes me no longer a
dependent on your care. But you are pale, Miss Weems. Or is it that my
eyes are unused to this broad daylight? Indeed, I trust you are not
ill?"

"Oh, no, I am quite well," she answered; but it was with an involuntary
sigh that was in contrast with the words. "But you are not strong yet,
Mr. Wayne, and I must not let you linger too long in the fresh morning
air. We had best go in under shelter of the veranda."

She arose, and would have led the way, but he detained her gently with a
light touch upon her sleeve.

"Stay one moment, I pray you. I seem to breathe new life with this pure
air, and the perfume of these bowers awakens within me an inexpressible
and calm delight. I shall be all the better for one tranquil hour with
nature in bloom, if you, like the guardian nymph of these floral
treasures, will sit beside me."

He drew her gently back into the seat, and looked long and earnestly
upon her face. She felt his gaze, but dared not return it, and her fair
head drooped like a flower that bends beneath the glance of a scorching
sun.

"Miss Weems," he said at last, but his voice was so low and tremulous
that it scarce rose above the rustle of the swinging willow boughs, "you
are soon to be a bride, and in your path the kind Destinies will shower
blessings. When they wreathe the orange blossoms in your hair, and you
are led to the altar by the hand to which you must cling for life, if I
should not be there to wish you joy, you will not deem, will you, that I
am less your friend?"

The fair head drooping yet lower was her only answer.

"And when you shall be the mistress of a home where Content will be
shrined, the companion of your virtues, and over your threshold many
friends shall be welcomed, if I should never sit beside your
hearthstone, you will not, will you, believe that I have forgotten, or
that I could forget?"

Still lower the fair head drooped, but she answered only with a falling
tear.

"I told you the other day that we should be strangers through life, and
why, I must not tell, although perhaps your woman's heart may whisper,
and yet not condemn me for that which, Heaven knows, I have struggled
against--alas, in vain! Do not turn from me. I would not breathe a word
to you that in all honor you should not hear, although my heart seems
bursting with its longing, and I would yield my soul with rapture from
its frail casket, for but one moment's right to give its secret wings. I
will bid you farewell to-morrow"--

"To-morrow!"

"Yes, the doctor says that the sea air will do me good, and an occasion
offers to-morrow which I shall embrace. It will be like setting forth
upon a journey through endless solitudes, where my only companions will
be a memory and a sorrow."

He paused a while, but continued with an effort at composure.

"Our hearts are tyrants to us, Miss Weems, and will not, sometimes, be
tutored into silence. I see that I have moved, but I trust not offended
you."

"You have not offended," she murmured, but in so low a tone that perhaps
the words were lost in the faint moan of the swaying foliage.

"What I have said," he continued earnestly, and taking her hand with a
gentle but respectful pressure, "has been spoken as one who is dying
speaks with his fleeting breath; for evermore my lips shall be shackled
against my heart, and the past shall be sealed and avoided as a
forbidden theme. We are, then, good friends at parting, are we not?"

"Yes."

"And, believe me, I shall be happiest when I think that you are
happy--for you will be happy."

She sighed so deeply that the words were checked upon his lips, as if
some new emotion had turned the current of his thought.

"Are you _not_ happy?"

The tears that, in spite of her endeavor, burst from beneath the
downcast lids, answered him as words could not have done. He was
agitated and unnerved, and, leaning his brow against his hand, remained
silent while she wept.

"Harold is a noble fellow," he said at last, after a long silence, and
when she had grown calmer, "and deserves to be loved as I am sure you
love him."

"Oh, he has a noble heart, and I would die rather than cause him pain."

"And you love him?"

"I thought I loved him."

The words were faint--hardly more than a breath upon her lips; but he
heard them, and his heart grew big with an undefined awe, as if some
vague danger were looming among the shadows of his destiny. Oriana
turned to him suddenly, and clasped his hand within her trembling
fingers.

"Oh, Mr. Wayne! you must go, and never see me more. I am standing on the
brink of an abyss, and my heart bids me leap. I see the danger, and, oh
God! I have prayed for power to shun it. But Arthur, Arthur, if you do
not help me, I am lost. You are a man, an honest man, an honorable man,
who will not wrong your friend, or tempt the woman that cannot love you
without sin. Oh, save me from myself--from you--from the cruel wrong
that I could even dream of against him to whom I have sworn my woman's
faith. I am a child in your hands, Arthur, and in the face of the
reproaching Providence above me, I feel--I feel that I am at your mercy.
I feel that what you speak I must listen to; that should you bid me
stand beside you at the altar, I should not have courage to refuse. I
feel, oh God! Arthur, that I love you, and am betrothed to Harold. But
you are strong--you have courage, will, the power to defy such weakness
of the heart--and you will save me, for I know you are a good and honest
man."

As she spoke, with her face upturned to him, and the hot tears rolling
down her cheeks, her fingers convulsively clasped about his hand, and
her form bending closer and closer toward him, till her cheek was
resting on his bosom, Arthur shuddered with intensity of feeling, and
from his averted eyes the scalding drops, that had never once before
moistened their surface, betrayed how terribly he was shaken with
emotion.

But while she spoke, rapt as they were within themselves, they saw not
one who stood with folded arms beside the rustic bench, and gazed upon
them.

"As God is my hope," said Arthur, "I will disarm temptation. Fear not.
From this hour we part. Henceforth the living and the dead shall not be
more estranged than we."

He arose, but started as if an apparition met his gaze. Oriana knelt
beside him, and touched her lips to his hand in gratitude. An arm raised
her tenderly, and a gentle voice murmured her name.

It was not Arthur's.

Oriana raised her head, with a faint cry of terror. She gasped and
swooned upon the intruder's breast.

It was Harold Hare who held her in his arms.

Arthur, with folded arms, stood erect, but pale, in the presence of his
friend. His eye, sorrowful, yet calm, was fixed upon Harold, as if
awaiting his angry glance. But Harold looked only on the lifeless form
he held, and parting the tresses from her cold brow, his lips rested
there a moment with such a fond caress as sometimes a father gives his
child.

"Poor girl!" he murmured, "would that my sorrow could avail for both.
Arthur, I have heard enough to know you would not do me wrong. Grief is
in store for us, but let us not be enemies."

Mournfully, he gave his hand to Arthur, and Oriana, as she wakened from
her trance, beheld them locked in that sad grasp, like two twin statues
of despair.

They led her to the house, and then the two young men walked out alone,
and talked frankly and tranquilly upon the subject. It was determined
that both should leave Riverside manor on the morrow, and that Oriana
should be left to commune with her own heart, and take counsel of time
and meditation. They would not grieve Beverly with their secret, at
least not for the present, when his sister was so ill prepared to bear
remonstrance or reproof. Harold wrote a kind letter for Oriana, in which
he released her from her pledged faith, asking only that she should take
time to study her heart, but in no wise let a sense of duty stand in the
way of her happiness. He took pains to conceal the depth of his own
affliction, and to avoid whatever she might construe as reproach.

They would have gone without an interview with Oriana, but that would
have seemed strange to Beverly. However, Oriana, although pale and
nervous, met them in the morning with more composure than they had
anticipated. Harold, just before starting, drew her aside, and placed
the letter in her hand.

"That will tell you all I would say, and you must read it when your
heart is strong and firm. Do not look so wretched. All may yet be well.
I would fain see you smile before I go."

But though she had evidently nerved herself to be composed, the tears
would come, and her heart seemed rising to her throat and about to burst
in sobs.

"I will be your true wife, Harold, and I will love you. Do not desert
me, do not cast me from you. I cannot bear to be so guilty. Indeed,
Harold, I will be true and faithful to you."

"There is no guilt in that young heart," he answered, as he kissed her
forehead. "But now, we must not talk of love; hereafter, perhaps, when
time and absence shall teach us where to choose for happiness. Part from
me now as if I were your brother, and give me a sister's kiss. Would you
see Arthur?"

She trembled and whispered painfully:

"No, Harold, no--I dare not. Oh, Harold, bid him forget me."

"It is better that you should not see him. Farewell! be brave. We are
good friends, remember. Farewell, dear girl."

Beverly had been waiting with the carriage, and as the time was short,
he called to Harold. Arthur, who stood at the carriage wheel, simply
raised his hat to Oriana, as if in a parting salute. He would have given
his right hand to have pressed hers for a moment; but his will was iron,
and he did not once look back as the carriage whirled away.


CHAPTER X.


In the drawing-room of an elegant mansion in a fashionable quarter of
the city of New York, toward the close of April, a social party were
assembled, distributed mostly in small conversational groups. The head
of the establishment, a pompous, well-to-do merchant, stout, short, and
baldheaded, and evidently well satisfied with himself and his position
in society, was vehemently expressing his opinions upon the affairs of
the nation to an attentive audience of two or three elderly business
men, with a ponderous earnestness that proved him, in his own
estimation, as much _au fait_ in political affairs as in the routine of
his counting-room. An individual of middle age, a man of the world,
apparently, who was seated at a side-table, carelessly glancing over a
book of engravings, was the only one who occasionally exasperated the
pompous gentleman with contradictions or ill-timed interruptions.

"The government must be sustained," said the stout gentleman, "and we,
the merchants of the North, will do it. It is money, sir, money," he
continued, unconsciously rattling the coin in his breeches pocket, "that
settles every question at the present day, and our money will bring
these beggarly rebels to their senses. They can't do without us, sir.
They would be ruined in six months, if shut out from commercial
intercourse with the North."

"How long before you would be ruined by the operations of the same
cause?" inquired the individual at the side-table.

"Sir, we of the North hold the wealth of the country in our pockets.
They can't fight against our money--they can't do it, sir."

"Your ancestors fought against money, and fought passably well."

"Yes, sir, for the great principles of human liberty."

"Which these rebels believe they are fighting for. You have need of all
your money to keep a respectable army in the field. These Southerners
may have to fight in rags, as insurgents generally do: witness the
struggle of your Revolution; but until you lay waste their corn-fields
and drive off their cattle, they will have full stomachs, and that,
after all, is the first consideration."

"You are an alien, sir, a foreigner; you know nothing of our great
institutions; you know nothing of the wealth of the North, and the
spirit of the people."

"I see a great deal of bunting in the streets, and hear any quantity of
declamation at your popular gatherings. But as I journeyed northward
from New Orleans, I saw the same in the South--perhaps more of it."

"And could not distinguish between the frenzy of treason and the
enthusiasm of patriotism?"

"Not at all; except that treason seemed more earnest and unanimous."

"You have seen with the eyes of an Englishman--of one hostile to our
institutions."

"Oh, no; as a man of the world, a traveller, without prejudice or
passion, receiving impressions and noting them. I like your country; I
like your people. I have observed foibles in the North and in the South,
but there is an under-current of strong feeling and good sense which I
have noted and admired. I think your quarrel is one of foibles--one
conceived in the spirit of petulance, and about to be prosecuted in the
spirit of exaltation. I believe the professed mutual hatred of the
sections to be superficial, and that it could be cancelled. It is
fostered by the bitterness of fanatics, assisted by a very natural
disinclination on the part of the masses to yield a disputed point. If
hostilities should cease to-morrow, you would be better friends than
ever."

"But the principle, sir! The right of the thing, and the wrong of the
thing! Can we parley with traitors? Can we negotiate with armed
rebellion? Is it not our paramount duty to set at rest forever the
doctrine of secession?"

"As a matter of policy, perhaps. But as a right, I doubt it. Your
government I look upon as a mere agency appointed by contracting parties
to transact certain affairs for their convenience. Should one or more of
those contracting parties, sovereignties in themselves, hold it to their
interest to transact their business without the assistance of an agent,
I cannot perceive that the right can be denied by any provision of the
contract. In your case, the employers have dismissed their agent, who
seeks to reinstate the office by force of arms. As justly might my
lawyer, when I no longer need his services, attempt to coerce me into a
continuance of business relations, by invading my residence with a
loaded pistol. The States, without extinguishing their sovereignty,
created the Federal Government; it is the child of State legislation,
and now the child seeks to chastise and control the parent. The General
Government can possess no inherent or self-created function; its power,
its very existence, were granted for certain uses. As regards your
State's connection with that Government, no other State has the right to
interfere; but as for another State's connection with it, the power that
made it can unmake."

"So you would have the government quietly acquiesce in the robbery of
public property, the occupation of Federal strongholds and the seizure
of ships and revenues in which they have but a share?"

"If, by the necessity of the case, the seceded States hold in their
possession more than their share of public property, a division should
be made by arbitration, as in other cases where a distribution of common
property is required. It may have been a wrong and an insult to bombard
Fort Sumter and haul down the Federal flag, but that does not establish
a right on the part of the Federal Government to coerce the wrong-doing
States into a union with the others. And that, I take it, is the avowed
purpose of your administration."

"Yes, and that purpose will be fulfilled. We have the money to do it,
and we will do it, sir."

A tall, thin gentleman, with a white cravat and a bilious complexion,
approached the party from a different part of the room.

"It can't be done with money, Mr. Pursely," said the new comer, "Unless
the great, the divine principle of universal human liberty is invoked.
An offended but merciful Providence has given the people this chance for
redemption, in the opportunity to strike the shackle from the slave. I
hold the war a blessing to the nation and to humanity, in that it will
cleanse the land from its curse of slavery. It is an invitation from God
to wipe away the record of our past tardiness and tolerance, by striking
at the great sin with fire and sword. The blood of millions is
nothing--the woe, the lamentation, the ruin of the land is nothing--the
overthrow of the Union itself is nothing, if we can but win God's smile
by setting a brand in the hand of the bondman to scourge his master. But
assuredly unless we arouse the slave to seize the torch and the dagger,
and avenge the wrongs of his race, Providence will frown upon our
efforts, and our arms will not prevail."

A tall man in military undress replied with considerable emphasis:

"Then your black-coated gentry must fight their own battle. The people
will not arm if abolition is to be the watchword. I for one will not
strike a blow if it be not understood that the institutions of the South
shall be respected."

"The government must be sustained, that is the point," cried Mr.
Pursely. "It matters little what becomes of the negro, but the
government must be sustained. Otherwise, what security will there be
for property, and what will become of trade?"

"Who thinks of trade or property at such a crisis?" interrupted an
enthusiast, in figured trowsers and a gay cravat. "Our beloved Union
must and shall be preserved. The fabric that our fathers reared for us
must not be allowed to crumble. We will prop it with our mangled
bodies," and he brushed a speck of dust from the fine broadcloth of his
sleeve.

"The insult to our flag must be wiped out," said the military gentleman.
"The honor of the glorious stripes and stars must be vindicated to the
world."

"Let us chastise these boasting Southrons," said another, "and prove our
supremacy in arms, and I shall be satisfied."

"But above all," insisted a third, "we must check the sneers and
exultation of European powers, and show them that we have not forgotten
the art of war since the days of 1776 and 1812."

"I should like to know what you are going to fight about," said the
Englishman, quietly; "for there appears to be much diversity of
opinion. However, if you are determined to cut each others' throats,
perhaps one pretext is as good as another, and a dozen better than only
one."

In the quiet recess of a window, shadowed by the crimson curtains, sat a
fair young girl, and a man, young and handsome, but upon whose
countenance the traces of dissipation and of passion were deeply marked.
Miranda Ayleff was a Virginian, the cousin and quondam playmate of
Oriana Weems, like her an orphan, and a ward of Beverly. Her companion
was Philip Searle. She had known him in Richmond, and had become much
attached to him, but his habits and character were such, that her
friends, and Beverly chiefly, had earnestly discouraged their intimacy.
Philip left for the North, and Miranda, who at the date of our story was
the guest of Mrs. Pursely, her relative, met him in New York, after a
separation of two years. Philip, who, in spite of his evil ways, was
singularly handsome and agreeable in manners, found little difficulty in
fanning the old flame, and, upon the plea of old acquaintance, became a
frequent visitor upon Miranda at Mr. Pursely's mansion, where we now
find them, earnestly conversing, but in low tones, in the little
solitude of the great bay window.

"You reproach me with vices which your unkindness has helped to stain me
with. Driven from your presence, whom alone I cared to live for, what
marvel if I sought oblivion in the wine-cup and the dice-box? Give me
one chance, Miranda, to redeem myself. Let me call you wife, and you
will become my guardian angel, and save me from myself."

"You know that I love you, Philip," she replied, "and willingly would I
share your destiny, hoping to win you from evil. Go with me to Richmond.
We will speak with Beverly, who is kind and truly loves me. We will
convince him of your good purposes, and will win his consent to our
union."

"No, Miranda; Beverly and your friends in Richmond will never believe me
worthy of you. Besides, it would be dangerous for me to visit Richmond.
I have identified myself with the Northern cause, and although, for your
sake, I might refrain from bearing arms against Virginia, yet I have
little sympathy with any there, where I have been branded as a drunkard
and a gambler."

"Yet, Philip, is it not the land of your birth--the home of your
boyhood?"

"The land of my shame and humiliation. No Miranda, I will not return to
Virginia. And if you love me, you will not return. What are these
senseless quarrels to us? We can be happy in each other's love, and
forget that madmen are at war around us. Why will you not trust me,
Miranda--why do you thus withhold from me my only hope of redemption
from the terrible vice that is killing me? Why, they seemed actually
to believe that I was play-acting, that my part was a becoming one!
Pretty, indeed!

And here such a strange revulsion of feeling took possession of me that
I absolutely shed a few tears, though none but myself was witness
to this humiliating fact.

I did not go downstairs for a long time after that, and then, to my
relief, I found Uncle Keith alone; for men are less sharp in some matters
than women, and he would never find out that I had been crying,
as Aunt Agatha would; but I was a little taken aback when he put
down his paper, and asked, in a kind voice, why I had stayed so
long in the cold, and if I had not finished my packing.

"Oh, yes," I returned, promptly, "everything was done, and my trunk was
only waiting to be strapped down."

"I have brought these letters for you from my good friend Beverly
Weems," said Arthur. "At his request, I have ventured to call in person,
most happy, if you will forgive the presumption, in the opportunity."

She gave her hand, and welcomed him gracefully and warmly, and, having
introduced Mr. Searle, excused herself while she glanced at the contents
of Beverly's letter. While thus employed, Arthur marked her changing
color; and then, lifting his eyes lest his scrutiny might be rude,
observed Philip's dark eye fixed upon her with a suspicious and
searching expression. Then Philip looked up, and their glances met--the
calm blue eye and the flashing black--but for an instant, but long
enough to confirm the instinctive feeling that there was no sympathy
between their hearts.

A half-hour's general conversation ensued, but Philip appeared restless
and uneasy, and rose to take his leave. She followed him to the parlor
door.

"Come to me to-morrow," she said, as she gave her hand, "and we will
talk again."

A smile of triumph rested upon his pale lips for a second; but he
pressed her hand, and, murmuring an affectionate farewell, withdrew.

Arthur remained a few moments, but observing that Miranda was pensive
and absent, he bade her good evening, accepting her urgent invitation to
call at an early period.


CHAPTER XI.


"Well, Arthur," said Harold Hare, entering the room of the former at his
hotel, on the following evening, "I have come to bid you good bye. I
start for home to-morrow morning," he added, in reply to Arthur's
questioning glance. "I am to have a company of Providence boys in my old
friend Colonel R----'s regiment. And after a little brisk recruiting,
ho! for Washington and the wars!"

"You have determined for the war, then?"

"Of course. And you?"

"I shall go to my Vermont farm, and live quietly among my books and
pastures."

"A dull life, Arthur, when every wind that blows will bring to your ears
the swell of martial music and the din of arms."

"If I were in love with the pomp of war, which, thank heaven, I am not,
Harold, I would rather dwell in a hermit's cave, than follow the fife
and drum over the bodies of my Southern countrymen."

"Those Southern countrymen, that you seem to love better than the
country they would ruin, would have little remorse in marching over your
body, even among the ashes of your farm-house. Doubtless you would stand
at your threshold, and welcome their butchery, should their ruffian
legions ravage our land as far as your Green Mountains."

"I do not think they will invade one foot of Northern soil, unless
compelled by strict military necessity. However, should the State to
which I owe allegiance be attacked by foreign or domestic foe, I will
stand among its defenders. But, dear Harold, let us not argue this sad
subject, which it is grief enough but to contemplate. Tell me of your
plans, and how I shall communicate with you, while you are absent. My
distress about this unhappy war will be keener, when I feel that my dear
friend may be its victim."

Harold pressed his hand affectionately, and the two friends spoke of the
misty future, till Harold arose to depart. They had not mentioned
Oriana's name, though she was in their thoughts, and each, as he bade
farewell, knew that some part of the other's sadness was for her sake.

Arthur accompanied Harold a short distance up Broadway, and returning,
found at the office of the hotel, a letter, without post-mark, to his
address. He stepped into the reading-room to peruse it. It was from
Beverly, and ran thus:

    "RICHMOND, _May_ --, 1861.

    "DEAR ARTHUR: The departure of a friend gives me an opportunity to
    write you about a matter that I beg you will attend to, for my sake,
    thoroughly. I learned this morning, upon receipt of a letter from
    Mr. Pursely, that Miranda Ayleff, of whom we spoke together, and to
    whom I presume you have already delivered my communication, is
    receiving the visits of one Philip Searle, to whom, some two years
    since, she was much attached. _Entre nous_, Arthur, I can tell you,
    the man is a scoundrel of the deepest dye. Not only a drunkard and a
    gambler, but dishonest, and unfit for any decent girl's society. He
    is guilty of forgery against me, and, against my conscience, I
    hushed the matter only out of consideration for her feelings. I
    would still have concealed the matter from her, had this resumption
    of their intimacy not occurred. But her welfare must cancel all
    scruples of that character; and I therefore entreat you to see her
    at once, and unmask the man fully and unequivocally. If necessary
    you may show my letter for that purpose. I would go on to New York
    myself immediately, were I not employed upon a State mission of
    exceeding delicacy and importance; but I have full confidence in
    your good judgment. Spare no arguments to induce her to return
    immediately to Richmond.

    "Oriana has not been well; I know not what ails her, but, though she
    makes no complaint, the girl seems really ill. She knows not of my
    writing, for I would not pain her about Miranda, of whom she is very
    fond. But I can venture, without consulting her, to send you her
    good wishes. Let me hear from you in full about what I have written.
    Your friend.

    "BEVERLY WEEMS."

    "P.S.--Knowing that you must yet be weak with your late illness, I
    would have troubled Harold, rather than you, about this matter, but
    I am ignorant of his present whereabouts, while I know that you
    contemplated remaining a week or so in New York. Write me about the
    ugly bite in the shoulder, from which I trust you are well
    recovered. B.W."

Arthur looked up from the letter, and beheld Philip Searle seated at the
opposite side of the table. He had entered while Arthur's attention was
absorbed in reading, and having glanced at the address of the envelope
which lay upon the table, he recognized the hand of Beverly. This
prompted him to pause, and taking up one of the newspapers which were
strewn about the table, he sat down, and while he appeared to read,
glanced furtively at his _vis-à-vis_ over the paper's edge. When his
presence was noticed, he bowed, and Arthur, with a slight and stern
inclination of the head, fixed his calm eye upon him with a searching
severity that brought a flush of anger to Philip's brow.

"That is Weems' hand," he muttered, inwardly, "and by that fellow's
look, I fancy that no less a person than myself is the subject of his
epistle."

Arthur had walked away, but, in his surprise at the unexpected presence
of Searle, he had allowed the letter to remain upon the table. No sooner
had he passed out of the room, than Philip quietly but rapidly stretched
his hand beneath the pile of scattered journals, and drew it toward him.
It required but an instant for his quick eye to catch the substance. His
face grew livid, and his teeth grated harshly with suppressed rage.

"We shall have a game of plot and counterplot before this ends, my
man," he muttered.

"Polly" will see that no arrangements are made by judges of true beauty
and its lines for waists of 15 or 16 inches. They are simply
deformities.

BUDDIE.--The book was published anonymously.

C. B. GLOUCESTER.--Easter Day fell on the 25th March, in 1546, 1641,
1736, 1886, and will fall next time in 1943.

Tram, used as a prefix to way and road, is the last syllable of the
name of their inventor, Mr.

Benjamin Outram, who in 1800 made improvements in the system of railways
for common roads, then in use in the North of England. The first iron
tramroad from Croydon to Wandsworth was completed July 24th, 1801. Mr.
Outram was the father of the celebrated Indian general, Sir James
Outram.

WILD HYACINTH.--We know of nothing save to benefit your general health.

The intense perspiration is evidently an effort of nature. Do you take
a tepid bath every morning, and as much exercise as possible? You
have doubtless received your book.

R. H. P.--We do not think cold and haughty people are at all nice, nor do
we think they could be happy themselves, or make others happy. The
Christian ideal is neither coldness nor haughtiness, but sympathy
and love. You must take care of those long tails at the end of your
words in writing. Better tie them up as the Dutch farmers do the tails
of their cows. They are in writing ugly and useless appendages.

NANNIE B. and FIDDLESTICKS have our best thanks for their letters.

ISIS.

--We are much obliged for the account of your visit to the Temple,
and we regret we can make no use of it.

You will acquire more ease in writing by constant practice.

GERTRUDE.

--We think the first year you must take what is offered to you in
the way of salary.

A FIELD OFFICER'S DAUGHTER.--We have perused the two poems, and consider
that they hold some promise of better things, though both are
faulty in construction and rhyme.

INCONSISTENCY'S paper is too much like a schoolgirl's composition
for our pages; but she evidently tries to think, which is more than
many people do.
ELSIE.--We never heard any more of the saying about Brighton, than
"a country without trees and a sea without ships," and we have
looked for the original authorship in vain.
SWEET VIOLETS.--We know of nothing but constant rubbing and the
practice of gymnastics to do your shoulders good.Bursts of forced and cheerless laughter, and the shrill sound of rude
and flippant talk, smote unpleasantly upon his ear. The room was richly
furnished, but without taste or modesty. The tall mirrors were displayed
with ostentation, and the paintings, offensive in design, hung
conspicuous in showy frames. The numerous gas jets, flashing among
glittering crystal pendants, made vice more glaring and heartlessness
more terribly apparent. Women, with bold and haggard eyes, with brazen
brows, and cheeks from which the roses of virgin shame had been plucked
to bloom no more forever--mostly young girls, scourging their youth into
old age, and gathering poison at once for soul and body--with sensual
indolence reclined upon the rich ottomans, or with fantastic grace
whirled through lewd waltzes over the velvet carpets. There was laughter
without joy--there was frivolity without merriment--there was the
surface of enjoyment and the substance of woe, for beneath those painted
cheeks was the pallor of despair and broken health, and beneath those
whitened bosoms, half veiled with gaudy silks, were hearts that were
aching with remorse, or, yet more unhappy, benumbed and callous with
habitual sin.

Yet there, like a crushed pearl upon a heap of garbage, lingers the
trace of beauty; and there, surely, though sepulchred in the caverns of
vice, dwells something that was once innocence, and not unredeemable.
But whence is the friendly word to come, whence the guardian hand that
might lift them from the slough. They live accursed by even charity,
shunned by philanthropy, and shut from the Christian world like a tribe
of lepers whose touch is contagion and whose breath is pestilence. In
the glittering halls of fashion, the high-born beauty, with wreaths
about her white temples and diamonds upon her chaste bosom, gives her
gloved hand for the dance, and forgets that an erring sister, by the
touch of those white fingers, might be raised from the grave of her
chastity, and clothed anew with the white garments of repentance. But
no; the cold world of fashion, that from its cushioned pew has listened
with stately devotion to the words of the Redeemer, has taught her that
to redeem the fallen is beneath her caste. The bond of sisterhood is
broken. The lost one must pursue her hideous destiny, each avenue of
escape blocked by the scorn and loathing which denies her the contact of
virtue and the counsel of purity. In the broad fields of charity,
invaded by cold philosophers, losing themselves in searching unreal and
vague philanthropies, none so practical in beneficence as to take her by
the hand, saying, "Go, and sin no more."

But whenever the path of benevolence is intricate and doubtful, whenever
the work is linked with a riddle whose solving will breed discord and
trouble among men, whenever there is a chance to make philanthropy a
plea for hate, and bitterness and charity can be made a battle-cry to
arouse the spirit of destruction, and spread ruin and desolation over
the fair face of the earth, then will the domes of our churches resound
with eloquence, then will the journals of the land teem with their
mystic theories, then will the mourners of human woe be loud in
lamentation, and lift up their mighty voices to cry down an abstract
evil. When actual misery appeals to them, they are deaf; when the plain
and palpable error stalks before them, they turn aside. They are too
busy with the tangles of some philanthropic Gordian knot, to stretch out
a helping hand to the sufferer at their sides. They are frenzied with
their zeal to build a bridge over a spanless ocean, while the drowning
wretch is sinking within their grasp. They scorn the simple charity of
the good Samaritan; theirs must be a gigantic and splendid achievement
in experimental beneficence, worthy of their philosophic brains. The
wrong they would redress must be one that half the world esteems a
right; else there would be no room for their arguments, no occasion for
their invective, no excuse for their passion. To do good is too simple
for their transcendentalism; they must first make evil out of their
logic, and then, through blood and wasting flames, drive on the people
to destruction, that the imaginary evil may be destroyed. While Charity
soars so high among the clouds, she will never stoop to lift the
Magdalen from sin.


CHAPTER XIII.


Arthur heaved an involuntary sigh, as he gazed upon those sad wrecks of
womanhood, striving to harden their sense of degradation by its impudent
display. But an expression of bewildered and sorrowful surprise suddenly
overspread his countenance. Seated alone upon a cushioned stool, at the
chimney-corner, was a young woman, her elbows resting upon her knees,
and her face bent thoughtfully upon her palms. She was apparently lost
in thought to all around her. She was thinking--of what? Perhaps of the
green fields where she played in childhood; perhaps of her days of
innocence; perhaps of the mother at whose feet she had once knelt in
prayer. But she was far away, in thought, from that scene of infamy of
which she was a part; for, in the glare of the gaslight, a tear
struggled through her eyelashes, and glittered like a ray from heaven
piercing the glooms of hell.

Arthur walked to her, and placed his hand softly upon her yellow hair.

"Oh, Mary!" he murmured, in a tone of gentle sorrow, that sounded
strangely amid the discordant merriment that filled the room.

She looked up, at his touch, but when his voice fell upon her ear, she
arose suddenly and stood before him like one struck dumb betwixt
humiliation and wonder. The angel had not yet fled that bosom, for the
blush of shame glowed through the chalk upon her brow and outcrimsoned
the paint upon her cheek. As it passed away, she would have wreathed her
lip mechanically with the pert smile of her vocation, but the smile was
frozen ere it reached her lips, and the coarse words she would have
spoken died into a murmur and a sob. She sank down again upon the
cushion, and bent her face low down upon her hands.

"Oh, Mary! is it you! is it you! I pray heaven your mother be in her
grave!"

She rose and escaped quickly from the room; but he followed her and
checked her at the stairway.

"Let me speak with you, Mary. No, not here; lead me to your room."

He followed her up-stairs, and closing the door, sat beside her as she
leaned upon the bed and buried her face in the pillow.

It was the child of his old nurse. Upon the hill-sides of his native
State they had played together when children, and now she lay there
before him, with scarce enough of woman's nature left to weep for her
own misery.

"Mary, how is this? Look up, child," he said, taking her hand kindly. "I
had rather see you thus, bent low with sorrow, than bold and hard in
guilt. But yet look up and speak to me. I will be your friend, you know.
Tell me, why are you thus?"

"Oh, Mr. Wayne, do not scold me, please don't. I was thinking of home
and mother when you came and put your hand on my head. Mother's dead."

"Well for her, poor woman. But how came you thus?"

"I scarcely seem to know. It seems to me a dream. I married John, and he
brought me to New York. Then the war came, and he went and was killed.
And mother was dead, and I had no friends in the great city. I could get
no work, and I was starving, indeed I was, Mr. Wayne. So a young man,
who was very handsome, and rich, I think, for he gave me money and fine
dresses, he promised me--Oh, Mr. Wayne, I was very wrong and foolish,
and I wish I could die, and be buried by my poor mother."

"And did he bring you here?"

"Oh no, sir. I came here two weeks ago, after he had left me. And when
he came in one night and found me here, he was very angry, and said he
would kill me if I told any one that I knew him. And I know why; but you
won't tell, Mr. Wayne, for it would make him angry. I have found out
that he is married to the mistress of this house. He's a bad man, I know
now, and often comes here drunk, and swears at the woman and the girls.
Hark! that's her room, next to mine, and I think he's in there now."

The faint sound of voices, smothered by the walls, reached them from the
adjoining chamber; but as they listened, the door of that room opened,
and the loud and angry tones of a man, speaking at the threshold, could
be distinctly heard. Arthur quietly and carefully opened the door of
Mary's room, an inch or less, and listened at the aperture. He was not
mistaken; he recognized the voice of Philip Searle.

"I'll do it, anyhow," said Philip, angrily, and with the thick utterance
of one who had been drinking. "I'll do it; and if you trouble me, I'll
fix you."

"Philip, if you marry that girl I'll peach; I will, so help me G--d,"
replied a woman's voice. "I've given you the money, and I've given you
plenty before, as much as I had to give you, Philip, and you know it. I
don't mind that, but you shan't marry till I'm dead. I'm your lawful
wife, and if I'm low now, it's your fault, for you drove me to it."

"I'll drive you to hell if you worry me. I tell you she's got lots of
money, and a farm, and niggers, and you shall have half if you only keep
your mouth shut. Come, now, Molly, don't be a fool; what's the use,
now?"

They went down the stairway together, and their voices were lost as they
descended. Arthur determined to follow and get some clue, if possible,
as to the man's, intentions. He therefore gave his address to Mary, and
made her promise faithfully to meet him on the following morning,
promising to befriend her and send her to his mother in Vermont. Hearing
the front door close, and surmising that Philip had departed, he bade
her good night, and descending hastily, was upon the sidewalk in time to
observe Philip's form in the starlight as he turned the corner.

It was now ten o'clock; too late to call upon Miranda without disturbing
the household, which he desired to avoid. Arthur's present fear was that
possibly an elopement had been planned for that night, and he therefore
determined, if practicable, to keep Searle in view till he had traced
him home. The latter entered a refreshment saloon upon Broadway; Arthur
followed, and ordering, in a low tone, some dish that would require time
in the preparation, he stepped, without noise, into an alcove adjoining
one whence came the sound of conversation.

"Well, what's up?" inquired a gruff, coarse voice.

"Fill me some brandy," replied Philip. "I tell you, Bradshaw, it's
risky, but I'll do it. The old woman's rock. She'll blow upon me if she
gets the chance; but I'm in for it, and I'll put it through. We must
manage to keep it mum from her, and as soon as I get the girl I'll
accept the lieutenancy, and be off to the wars till all blows over. If
Moll should smoke me out there, I'll cross the line and take sanctuary
with Jeff. Davis."

"What about the girl?"

"Oh; she's all right," replied Philip, with a drunken chuckle. "I had an
interview with the dear creature this morning, and she's like wax in my
hands. It's all arranged for to-morrow morning. You be sure to have the
carriage ready at the Park--the same spot, you know--by ten o'clock.
She can't well get away before, but that will be time enough for the
train."

"I want that money now."

"Moll's hard up, but I got a couple of hundred from her. Here's fifty
for you; now don't grumble, I'm doing the best I can, d--n you, and you
know it. Now listen--I want to fix things with you about that blue-eyed
chap."

The waiter here brought in Arthur's order, and a sudden silence ensued
in the alcove. The two men had evidently been unaware of the proximity
of a third party, and their tone, though low, had not been sufficiently
guarded to escape Arthur hearing, whose ear, leaning against the thin
partition, was within a few inches of Philip's head. A muttered curse
and the gurgling of liquor from a decanter was all that could be heard
for the space of a few-moments, when the two, after a brief whisper,
arose and left the place, not, however, without making ineffectual
efforts to catch a glimpse of the occupant of the tenanted alcove.
Arthur soon after followed them into the street. He was aware that he
was watched from the opposite corner, and that his steps were dogged in
the darkness. But he drew his felt hat well over his face, and by
mingling with the crowd that chanced to be pouring from one of the
theatres, he avoided recognition and passed unnoticed into his hotel.


CHAPTER XIV.


Arthur felt ill and much fatigued when he retired to rest, and was
restless and disturbed with fever throughout the night. He had
overtasked his delicate frame, yet scarce recovered from the effects of
recent suffering, and he arose in the morning with a feeling of
prostration that he could with difficulty overcome. However, he
refreshed himself with a cup of tea, and prepared to call upon Miss
Ayleff. It was but seven o'clock, a somewhat early hour for a morning
visit, but the occasion was one for little ceremony. As he was on the
point of leaving his room, there was a peremptory knock at the door,
and, upon his invitation to walk in, a stranger entered. It was a
gentlemanly personage, with a searching eye and a calm and quiet manner.
Arthur was vexed to be delayed, but received the intruder with a civil
inclination of the head, somewhat surprised, however, that no card had
been sent to give him intimation of the visit.

"Are you Mr. Arthur Wayne?" inquired the stranger.

"I am he," replied Arthur. "Be seated, sir."

"I thank you. My name is ----. I am a deputy United States marshal of
this district."

Arthur bowed, and awaited a further statement of the purpose of his
visit.

"You have lately arrived from Virginia, I understand?"

"A few days since, sir--from a brief sojourn in the vicinity of
Richmond."

"And yesterday received a communication from that quarter?"

"I did. A letter from an intimate acquaintance."

"My office will excuse me from an imputation of inquisitiveness. May I
see that letter?"

"Excuse me, sir. Its contents are of a private and delicate nature, and
intended only for my own perusal."

"It is because its contents are of that nature that I am constrained to
ask you for it. Pardon me, Mr. Wayne; but to be brief and frank you, I
must either receive that communication by your good will, or call in my
officers, and institute a search. I am sure you will not make my duty
more unpleasant than necessary."

Arthur paused awhile. He was conscious that it would be impossible for
him to avoid complying with the marshal's request, and yet it was most
annoying to be obliged to make a third party cognizant of the facts
contained in Beverly's epistle.

"I have no desire to oppose you in the performance of your functions,"
he finally replied, "but really there are very particular reasons why
the contents of this letter should not be made public."

A very faint indication of a smile passed over the marshal's serious
face; Arthur did not observe it, but continued:

"I will hand you the letter, for I perceive there has been some mistake
and misapprehension which of course it is your duty to clear up. But you
must promise me that, when your perusal of it shall have satisfied you
that its nature is strictly private, and not offensive to the law, you
will return it me and preserve an inviolable secrecy as to its
contents."

"When I shall be satisfied on that score, I will do as you desire."

Arthur handed him the letter, somewhat to the other's surprise, for he
had certainly been watching for an attempt at its destruction, or at
least was prepared for prevarication and stratagem. He took the paper
from its envelope and read it carefully. It was in the following words:

    Richmond, _May_ --, 1861.

    Dear Arthur: This will be handed to you by a sure hand. Communicate
    freely with the bearer--he can be trusted. The arms can be safely
    shipped as he represents, and you will therefore send them on at
    once. Your last communication was of great service to the cause,
    and, although I would be glad to have you with us, the President
    thinks you are too valuable, for the present, where you are. When
    you come, the commission will be ready for you. Yours truly,

    Beverly Weems, Capt. C.S.A.

"Are you satisfied?" inquired Arthur, after the marshal had silently
concluded his examination of the document.

"Perfectly satisfied," replied the other, placing the letter in his
pocket. "Mr. Wayne, it is my duty to arrest you."

"Arrest me!"

"In the name of the United States."

"For what offence?"

"Treason."

Arthur remained for a while silent with astonishment. At last, as the
marshal arose and took his hat, he said:

"I cannot conceive what act or word of mine can be construed as
treasonable. There is some mistake, surely; I am a quiet man, a stranger
in the city, and have conversed with but one or two persons since my
arrival. Explain to me, if you please, the particular nature of the
charge against me."

"It is not my province, at this moment, to do so, Mr. Wayne. It is
sufficient that, upon information lodged with me last evening, and
forwarded to Washington by telegraph, I received from the Secretary of
War orders for your immediate arrest, should I find the information
true. I have found it true, and I arrest you."

"Surely, nothing in that letter can be so misconstrued as to implicate
me."

"Mr. Wayne, this prevarication is as useless as it is unseemly. You
_know_ that the letter is sufficient warrant for my proceeding. My
carriage is at the door. I trust you will accompany me without further
delay."

"Sir, I was about to proceed, when you entered, upon an errand that
involves the safety and happiness of the young lady mentioned in that
letter. The letter itself will inform you of the circumstance, and I
assure you, events are in progress that require my immediate action. You
will at least allow me to visit the party?"

The marshal looked at him with surprise.

"What party?"

"The lady of whom my friend makes mention."

"I do not understand you. I can only conceive that, for some purpose of
your own, you are anxious to gain time. I must request you to accompany
me at once to the carriage."

"You will permit me at least to send a, letter--a word--a warning?"

"That your accomplice may receive information? Assuredly not."

"Be yourself the messenger--or send"----

"This subterfuge is idle." He opened the door and stood beside it. "I
must request your company to the carriage."

Arthur's cheek flushed for a moment with anger.

"This severity," he said, "is ridiculous and unjust. I tell you, you and
those for whom you act will be accountable for a great crime--for
innocence betrayed--for a young life made desolate--for perhaps a
dishonored grave. I plead not for myself, but for one helpless and pure,
who at this hour may be the victim of a villain's plot. In the name of
humanity, I entreat you give me but time to avert the calamity, and I
will follow you without remonstrance. Go with me yourself. Be present at
the interview. Of what consequence to you will be an hour's delay?"

"It may be of much consequence to those who are in league with you. I
cannot grant your request. You must come with me, sir, or I shall be
obliged to call for assistance," and he drew a pair of handcuffs from
his pocket.

Arthur perceived that further argument or entreaty would be of no avail.
He was much agitated and distressed beyond measure at the possible
misfortune to Miranda, which, by this untimely arrest, he was powerless
to avert. Knowing nothing of the true contents of the letter which
Philip had substituted for the one received from Beverly, he could not
imagine an excuse for the marshal's inflexibility. He was quite ill,
too, and what with fever and agitation, his brain was in a whirl. He
leaned against the chair, faint and dispirited. The painful cough, the
harbinger of that fatal malady which had already brought a sister to an
early grave, oppressed him, and the hectic glowed upon his pale cheeks.
The marshal approached him, and laid his hand gently on his shoulder.

"You seem ill," he said; "I am sorry to be harsh with you, but I must do
my duty. They will make you as comfortable as possible at the fort. But
you must come."

Arthur followed him mechanically, and like one in a dream. They stepped
into the carriage and were driven rapidly away; but Arthur, as he
leaned back exhausted in his seat, murmured sorrowfully:

"And poor little Mary, too! Who will befriend her now?"


CHAPTER XV.


In the upper apartment of a cottage standing alone by the roadside on
the outskirts of Boston, Miranda, pale and dejected, sat gazing vacantly
at the light of the solitary lamp that lit the room. The clock was
striking midnight, and the driving rain beat dismally against the
window-blinds. But one month had passed since her elopement with Philip
Searle, yet her wan cheeks and altered aspect revealed how much of
suffering can be crowded into that little space of time. She started
from her revery when the striking of the timepiece told the lateness of
the hour. Heavy footsteps sounded upon the stairway, and, while she
listened, Philip, followed by Bradshaw, entered the room abruptly.

"How is this?" asked Philip, angrily. "Why are you not in bed?"

"I did not know it was so late, Philip," she answered, in a deprecating
tone. "I was half asleep upon the rocking-chair, listening to the
storm. It's a bad night, Philip. How wet you are!"

He brushed off the hand she had laid upon his shoulder, and muttered,
with bad humor:

"I've told you a dozen times I don't want you to sit up for me. Fetch
the brandy and glasses, and go to bed."

"Oh, Philip, it is so late! Don't drink: to-night, Philip. You are wet,
and you look tired. Come to bed."

"Do as I tell you," he answered, roughly, flinging himself into a chair,
and beckoning Bradshaw to a seat. Miranda sighed, and brought the bottle
and glasses from the closet.

"Now, you go to sleep, do you hear; and don't be whining and crying all
night, like a sick girl."

The poor girl moved slowly to the door, and turned at the threshold.

"Good night, Philip."

"Oh, good night--there, get along," he cried, impatiently, without
looking at her, and gulping down a tumblerful of spirits. Miranda closed
the door and left the two men alone together.

They remained silent for a while, Bradshaw quietly sipping his liquor,
and Philip evidently disturbed and angry.

"You're sure 'twas she?" he asked at last.

"Oh, bother!" replied Bradshaw. "I'm not a mole nor a blind man. Don't I
know Moll when I see her?"

"Curse her! she'll stick to me like a leech. What could have brought her
here? Do you think she's tracked me?"

"She'd track you through fire, if she once got on the scent. Moll ain't
the gal to be fooled, and you know it."

"What's to be done?"

"Move out of this. Take the girl to Virginia. You'll be safe enough
there."

"You're right, Bradshaw. It's the best way. I ought to have done it at
first. But, hang the girl, she'll weary me to death with her sermons and
crying fits. Moll's worth two of her for that, matter--she scolds, but
at least she never would look like a stuck fawn when I came home a
little queer. For the matter of that, she don't mind a spree herself at
times." And, emptying his glass, the libertine laughed at the
remembrance of some past orgies.

While he was thus, in his half-drunken mood, consoling himself for
present perplexities by dwelling upon the bacchanalian joys of other
days, a carriage drove up the street, and stopped before the door. Soon
afterward, the hall bell was rung, and Philip, alarmed and astonished,
started from his seat.

"Who's that?" he asked, almost in a whisper.

"Don't know," replied his companion.

"She couldn't have traced me here already--unless you have betrayed me,
Bradshaw," he added suddenly, darting a suspicious glance upon his
comrade.

"You're just drunk enough to be a fool," replied Bradshaw, rising from
his seat, as a second summons, more violent than the first, echoed
through the corridors. "I'll go down and see what's the matter. Some
one's mistaken the house, I suppose. That's all."

"Let no one in, Bradshaw," cried Philip, as that worthy left the room.
He descended the stairs, opened the door, and presently afterward the
carriage drove rapidly away. Philip, who had been listening earnestly,
could hear the sound of the wheels as they whirled over the pavement.

"All right," he said, as he applied himself once more to the bottle
before him. "Some fool has mistaken his whereabouts. Curse me, but I'm
getting as nervous as an old woman."

He was in the act of lifting the glass to his lips, when the door was
flung wide open. The glass fell from his hands, and shivered upon the
floor. Moll stood before him.

She stood at the threshold with a wicked gleam in her eye, and a smile
of triumph upon her lips; then advanced into the room, closed the door
quietly, locked it, seated herself composedly in the nearest chair, and
filled herself a glass of spirits. Philip glared upon her with an
expression of mingled anger, fear and wonderment.

"Are you a devil? Where in thunder did you spring from?" he asked at
last.

"You'll make me a devil, with your tricks, Philip Searle," she said,
sipping the liquor, and looking at him wickedly over the rim of the
tumbler.

"Ha! ha! ha!" she laughed aloud, as he muttered a curse between his
clenched teeth, "I'm not the country girl, Philip dear, that I was when
you whispered your sweet nonsense in my ear. I know your game, my bully
boy, and I'll play you card for card."

"Bradshaw" shouted Philip, going to the door and striving to open it.

"It's no use," she said, "I've got the key in my pocket. Sit down. I
want to talk to you. Don't be a fool."

"Where's Bradshaw, Moll?"

"At the depot by this time, I fancy, for the carriage went off at a
deuce of a rate."

She laughed again, while he paced the room with angry strides.

"'Twas he, then, that betrayed me. The villain! I'll have his life for
that, as I'm a sinner."

"Your a great sinner; Philip Searle. Sit down, now, and be quiet.
Where's the girl?"

"What girl?"

"Miranda Ayleff. The girl you've ruined; the girl you've put in my
place, and that I've come to drive out of it. Where is she?"

"Don't speak so loud, Moll. Be quiet, can't you? See here, Moll," he
continued, drawing a chair to her side, and speaking in his old winning
way--"see here, Moll: why can't you just let this matter stand as it is,
and take your share of the plunder? You know I don't care about the
girl; so what difference does it make to you, if we allow her to think
that she's my lawful wife? Come, give us a kiss, Moll, and let's hear no
more about it."

"Honey won't catch such an old fly as I am, Philip," replied the woman,
but with a gentled tone. "Where is the girl?" she asked suddenly,
starting from the chair. "I want to see her. Is she in there?"

"No," said Philip, quickly, and rising to her passage to the door of
Miranda's chamber. "She is not there, Moll; you can't see her. Are you
crazy? You'd frighten the poor girl out of her senses."

"She's in there. I'm going in to speak with her. Yes I shall, Philip,
and you needn't stop me."

"Keep back. Keep quiet, can't you?"

"No. Don't hold me, Philip Searle. Keep your hands off me, if you know
what's good for you."

She brushed past him, and laid her hand upon the door-knob; but he
seized her violently by the arm and pulled her back. The action hurt her
wrist, and she was boiling with rage in a second. With her clenched
fist, she struck him straight in the face repeatedly, while with every
blow, she screamed out an imprecation.

"Keep quiet, you hag! Keep quiet, confound you!" said the infuriated
man. "Won't you? Take that!" and he planted his fist upon her mouth.

The woman, through her tears and sobs, howled at him curse upon curse.
With one hand upon her throat, he essayed to choke her utterance, and
thus they scuffled about the room.

"I'll cut you, Philip; I will, by ----"

Her hand, in fact, was fumbling about her pocket, and she drew forth a
small knife and thrust it into his shoulder. They were near the table,
over which Philip had thrust her down. He was wild with rage and the
brandy he had drank. His right hand instinctively grasped the heavy
bottle that by chance it came in contact with. The next instant, it
descended full upon her forehead, and with a moan of fear and pain, she
fell like lead upon the floor, and lay bleeding and motionless.

Philip, still grasping the shattered bottle, gazed aghast upon the
lifeless form. Then a cry of terror burst upon his ear. He turned, and
beheld Miranda, with dishevelled hair, pale as her night-clothes,
standing at the threshold of the open door. With a convulsive shudder,
she staggered into the room, and fainted at his feet, her white arm
stained with the blood that was sinking in little pools into the carpet.

He stood there gazing from one to the other, but without seeking to
succor either. The fumes of brandy, and the sudden revulsion from active
wrath to apathy, seemed to stupefy his brain. At last he stooped beside
the outstretched form of Molly, and, with averted face, felt in her
pocket and drew out the key. Stealthily, as if he feared that they could
hear him, he moved toward the door, opened it, and passing through,
closed it gently, as one does who would not waken a sleeping child or
invalid. Rapidly, but with soft steps, he descended the stairs, and went
out into the darkness and the storm.


CHAPTER XVI.


When Miranda awakened from her swoon, the lamp was burning dimly, and
the first light of dawn came faintly through the blinds. All was still
around her, and for some moments she could not recall the terrible scene
which had passed before her eyes. Presently her fingers came in contact
with the clots of gore that were thickening on her garment, and she
arose quickly, and, with a shudder, tottered against the wall. Her eyes
fell upon Moll's white face, the brow mangled and bruised, and the
dishevelled hair soaking in the crimson tide that kept faintly oozing
from the cut. She was alone in the house with that terrible object; for
Philip, careless of her convenience, had only procured the services of a
girl from a neighboring farm-house, who attended to the household duties
during the day, and went home in the evening. But her womanly compassion
was stronger than her sense of horror, and kneeling by the side of the
prostrate woman, with inexpressible relief she perceived, by the slight
pulsation of the heart, that life was there. Entering her chamber, she
hastily put on a morning wrapper, and returning with towel and water,
raised Moll's head upon her lap, and washed the thick blood from her
face. The cooling moisture revived the wounded woman; her bosom swelled
with a deep sigh, and she opened her eyes and looked languidly around.

"How do you feel now, madam?" asked Miranda, gently.

"Who are you?" said Moll, in reply, after a moment's pause.

"Miranda--Miranda Searle, the wife of Philip," she added, trembling at
the remembrance of the woman's treatment at her husband's hands.

Molly raised herself with an effort, and sat upon the floor, looking at
Miranda, while she laughed with a loud and hollow sound.

"Philip's wife, eh? And you love him, don't you? Well, dreams can't last
forever."

"Don't you feel strong enough to get up and lie upon the bed?" asked
Miranda, soothingly, for she was uncomfortable tinder the strange glare
that the woman fixed upon her.

"I'm well enough," said Moll. "Where's Philip?"

"Indeed, I do not know. I am very sorry, ma'am, that--that"--

"Never mind. Give me a glass of water."

Miranda hastened to comply, and Moll swallowed the water, and remained
silent for a moment.

"Shan't I go for assistance?" asked Miranda, who was anxious to put an
end to this painful interview, and was also distressed about her
husband's absence. "There's no one except ourselves in the house, but I
can go to the farmer's house near by."

"Not for the world," interrupted Moll, taking her by the arm. "I'm well
enough. Here, let me lean on you. That's it. I'll sit on the
rocking-chair. Thank you. Just bind my head up, will you? Is it an ugly
cut?" she asked, as Miranda, having procured some linen, carefully
bandaged the wounded part.

"Oh, yes! It's very bad. Does it pain you much, ma'am?"

"Never mind. There, that will do. Now sit down there. Don't be afraid of
me. I ain't a-going to hurt you. It's only the cut that makes me look so
ugly."

"Oh, no! I am not at all afraid, ma'am," said Miranda, shuddering in
spite of herself.

"You are a sweet-looking girl," said Moll, fixing her haggard, but yet
beautiful eyes upon the fragile form beside her. "It's a pity you must
be unhappy. Has that fellow been unkind to you?"

"What fellow madam?"

"Philip."

"He is my husband, madam," replied Miranda, mildly, but with the
slightest accent of displeasure.

"He is, eh? Hum! You love him dearly, don't you?"

Miranda blushed, and asked:

"Do you know my husband?"

"Know him! If you knew him as well, it would be better for you. You'll
know him well enough before long. You come from Virginia, don't you?"

"Yes."

"You must go back there."

"If Philip wishes it."

"I tell you, you must go at once--to-day. I will give you money, if you
have none. And you must never speak of what has happened in this house.
Do you understand me?"

"But Philip"--

"Forget Philip. You must never see him any more. Why should you want to?
Don't you know that he's a brute, and will beat you as he beat me, if
you stay with him. Why should you care about him?"

"He is my husband, and you should not speak about him so to me," said
Miranda, struggling with her tears, and scarce knowing in what vein to
converse with the rude woman, whose strange language bewildered and
frightened her.

"Bah!" said Moll, roughly. "You're a simpleton. There, don't cry, though
heaven knows you've cause enough, poor thing! Philip Searle's a villain.
I could send him to the State prison if I chose."

"Oh, no! don't say that; indeed, don't."

"I tell you I could; but I will not, if you mind me, and do what I tell
you. I'm a bad creature, but I won't harm you, if I can help it. You
helped me when I was lying there, after that villain hurt me, and I
can't help liking you. And yet you've hurt me, too."

"I!"

"Yes. Shall I tell you a story? Poor girl! you're wretched enough now,
but you'd better know the truth at once. Listen to me: I was an innocent
girl, like you, once. Not so beautiful, perhaps, and not so good; for I
was always proud and willful, and loved to have my own way. I was a
country girl, and had money left to me by my dead parents. A young man
made my acquaintance. He was gay and handsome, and made me believe that
he loved me. Well, I married him--do you hear? I married him--at the
church, with witnesses, and a minister to make me his true and lawful
wife. Curse him! I wish he had dropped down dead at the altar. There,
you needn't shudder; it would have been well for you if he had. I
married him, and then commenced my days of sorrow and--of guilt. He
squandered my money at the gambling-table, and I was sometimes in rags
and without food. He was drunk half the time, and abused me; but I was
even with him there, and gave him as good as he gave me. He taught me to
drink, and such a time as we sometimes made together would have made
Satan blush. I thought I was low enough; but he drove me lower yet. He
put temptation in my way--he did, curse his black heart! though he
denied it. I fell as low as woman can fall, and then I suppose you think
he left me? Well, he did, for a time; he went off somewhere, and perhaps
it was then he was trying to ruin some other girl, as foolish as I had
been. But he came back, and got money from me--the wages of my sin. And
all the while, he was as handsome, and could talk as softly as if he was
a saint. And with that smooth tongue and handsome face he won another
bride, and married her--married her, I tell you; and that's why I can
send him to the State prison."

"Send him! Who? My God! what do you mean?" cried Miranda, rising slowly
from her chair, with clasped hands and ashen cheeks.

"Philip Searle, my husband!" shouted Moll, rising also, and standing
with gleaming eyes before the trembling girl.

Miranda sank slowly back into her seat, tearless, but shuddering as
with an ague fit. Only from her lips, with a moaning sound, a murmur
came:

"No, no, no! oh, no!"

"May God strike me dead this instant, if it is not true!" said Moll,
sadly; for she felt for the poor girl's, distress.

Miranda rose, her hands pressed tightly against her heart, and moved
toward the door with tottering and uncertain steps, like one who
suffocates and seeks fresh air. Then her white lips were stained with
purple; a red stream gushed from her mouth and dyed the vestment on her
bosom; and ere Moll could reach her, she had sunk, with an agonizing
sob, upon the floor.


CHAPTER XVII.


The night after the unhappy circumstance we have related, in the
bar-room of a Broadway hotel, in New York city, a colonel of volunteers,
moustached and uniformed, and evidently in a very unmilitary condition
of unsteadiness, was entertaining a group of convivial acquaintances,
with bacchanalian exercises and martian gossip.

He had already, with a month's experience at the seat of war, culled the
glories of unfought fields, and was therefore an object of admiration to
his civilian friends, and of envy to several unfledged heroes, whose
maiden swords had as yet only jingled on the pavement of Broadway, or
flashed in the gaslight of saloons. They were yet none the less
conscious of their own importance, these embryo Napoleons, but wore
their shoulder straps with a killing air, and had often, on a sunny
afternoon, stood the fire of bright eyes from innumerable promenading
batteries, with gallantry, to say the least.

And now they stood, like Caesars, amid clouds of smoke, and wielded
their formidable goblets with the ease of veterans, though not always
with a soldierly precision. And why should they not? Their tailors had
made them heroes, every one; and they had never yet once led the van in
a retreat.

"And how's Tim?" asked one of the black-coated hangers-on upon
prospective glory.

"Tim's in hot water," answered the colonel, elevating his chin and elbow
with a gesture more suggestive of Bacchus than of Mars.

"Hot brandy and water would be more like him," said the acknowledged wit
of the party, looking gravely at the sugar in his empty glass, as if
indifferent to the bursts of laughter which rewarded his appropriate
sally.

"I'll tell you about it," said the colonel. "Fill up, boys. Thompson,
take a fresh segar."

Thompson took it, and the boys filled up, while the colonel flung down a
specimen of Uncle Sam's eagle with an emphasis that demonstrated what
he would do for the bird when opportunity offered.

"You see, we had a party of Congressmen in camp, and were cracking some
champagne bottles in the adjutant's tent. We considered it a military
necessity to floor the legislators, you know; but one old senator was
tough as a siege-gun, and wouldn't even wink at his third bottle. So the
corks flew about like minié balls, but never a man but was too good a
soldier to cry 'hold, enough.' As for that old demijohn of a senator, it
seemed he couldn't hold enough, and wouldn't if he could; so we directed
the main battle against him, and opened a masked battery upon him, by
uncovering a bottle of Otard; but he never flinched. It was a game of
_Brag_ all over, and every one kept ordering 'a little more grape.'
Presently, up slaps a mounted aid, galloping like mad, and in tumbles
the sleepy orderly for the officer of the day.

"'That's you, Tim,' says I. But Tim was just then singing the Star
Spangled Banner in a convivial whisper to the tune of the Red, White,
and Blue, and wouldn't be disturbed on no account.

"'Tumble out, Tim,' says I, 'or I'll have you court-martialled and
shot.'

"'In the neck,' says Tim. But he did manage to tumble out, and finished
the last stanzas with a flourish, for the edification of the mounted
aid-de-camp.

"'Where's the officer of the day?' asked the aid, looking suspiciously
at Tim's shaky knees.

"'He stands before you,' replied Tim, steadying himself a little by
affectionately hanging on to the horse's tail.

"'You sir? you're unfit for duty, and I'll report you, sir, at
headquarters,' said the aid, who was a West Pointer, you know, stiff as
a poker in regimentals.

"'Sir!--hic,' replied Tim, with an attempt at offended dignity, the
effect of which was rather spoiled by the accompanying hiccough.

"'Where's the colonel!' asked the aid.

"'Drunk,' says that rascal, Tim, confidentially, with a knowing wink.

"'Where's the adjutant?'

"'Drunk.'

"'Good God, sir, are you all drunk?'

"''Cept the surgeon--he's got the measles.'

"'Orderly, give this dispatch, to the first sober officer you can
find.'

"'It's no use, captain,' says Tim, 'the regiment's drunk--'cept me,
hic!' and Tim lost his balance, and tumbled over the orderly, for you
see the captain put spurs to his horse rather suddenly, and whisked the
friendly tail out of his hands.

"So we were all up before the general the next day, but swore ourselves
clear, all except Tim, who had the circumstantial evidence rather too
strong against him."

"And such are the men in whom the country has placed its trust?"
muttered a grey-headed old gentleman, who, while apparently absorbed in
his newspaper, had been listening to the colonel's narrative.

A young man who had lounged into the room approached the party and
caught the colonel's eye:

"Ah! Searle, how are you? Come up and take a drink."

A further requisition was made upon the bartender, and the company
indulged anew. Searle, although a little pale and nervous, was all life
and gaiety. His coming was a fresh brand on the convivial flame, and
the party, too much exhilarated to be content with pushing one vice to
excess, sallied forth in search of whatever other the great city might
afford. They had not to look far. Folly is at no fault in the metropolis
for food of whatever quality to feed upon; and they were soon
accommodated with excitement to their hearts content at a fashionable
gambling saloon on Broadway. The colonel played with recklessness and
daring that, if he carries it to the battle-field, will wreathe his brow
with laurels; but like many a rash soldier before him, he did not win.
On the contrary, his eagles took flight with a rapidity suggestive of
the old adage that "gold hath wings," and when, long after midnight, he
stood upon the deserted street alone with Philip Searle and his
reflections, he was a sadder and a soberer man.

"Searle, I'm a ruined man."

"You'll fight all the better for it," replied Philip, knocking the ashes
from his segar. "Come, you'll never mend the matter by taking cold here
in the night air; where do you put up? I'll see you home."

"D--n you, you take it easy," said the colonel, bitterly. Philip could
afford to take it easy, for he had most of the colonel's money in his
pocket. In fact, the unhappy votary of Mars was more thoroughly ruined
than his companion was aware of, for when fortune was hitting him
hardest, he had not hesitated to bring into action a reserve of
government funds which had been intrusted to his charge for specific
purposes.

"Searle," said the colonel, after they had walked along silently for a
few minutes, "I was telling you this evening about that vacant
captaincy."

"Yes, you were telling me I shouldn't have it," replied Philip, with an
accent of injured friendship.

"Well, I fancied it out of my power to do anything about it. But"--

"Well, but?"--

"I think I might get it for you, for--for"----

"A consideration?" suggested Philip, interrogatively.

"Well, to be plain with you, let me have five hundred, and you've won
all of that to-night, and I'll get you the captaincy."

"We'll talk about it to-morrow morning," replied Philip.

And in the morning the bargain was concluded; Philip, with the promise
that all should be satisfactorily arranged, started the same day for
Washington, to await the commission so honorably disposed of by the
gallant colonel.


CHAPTER XVIII.


We will let thirty days pass on, and bear the reader South of the
Potomac, beyond the Federal lines and within rifle-shot of an advanced
picket of the Confederate army, under General Beauregard. It was a
dismal night--the 16th of July. The rain fell heavily and the wind
moaned and shrieked through the lone forests like unhappy spirits
wailing in the darkness. A solitary horseman was cautiously wending his
way through the storm upon the Centreville road and toward the
Confederate Hue. He bore a white handkerchief, and from time to time, as
his ear seemed to catch a sound other than the voice of the tempest, he
drew his rein and raised the fluttering symbol at his drawn sword's
point. Through the dark masses of foliage that skirted the roadside,
presently could be seen the fitful glimmer of a watchfire, and the
traveller redoubled his precautions, but yet rode steadily on.

"Halt!" cried a stern, loud voice from a clump of bushes that looked
black and threatening in the darkness. The horseman checked his horse
and sat immovable in the centre of the road.

"Who goes there?" followed quick, in the same deep, peremptory tone.

"An officer of the United States, with a flag of truce," was answered in
a clear, firm voice.

"Stand where you are." There was a pause, and presently four dark forms
emerged from the roadside, and stood at the horse's head.

"You've chosen a strange time for your errand, and a dangerous one,"
said one of the party, with a mild and gentlemanly accent.

"Who speaks?"

"The officer in command of this picket."

"Is not that Beverly Weems?"

"The same. And surely I know that voice."

"Of course you do, if you know Harold Hare."

And the stranger, dismounting, stretched out his hand, which was eagerly
and warmly clasped, and followed by a silent and prolonged embrace.

"How rash you have been, Harold," said Beverly, at last. "It is a mercy
that I was by, else might a bullet have been your welcome. Why did you
not wait till morning?"

"Because my mission admits of no delay. It is most opportune that I have
met you. You have spoken to me at times, and Oriana often, of your young
cousin, Miranda."

"Yes, Harold, what of her?"

"Beverly, she is within a rifle-shot of where we stand, very sick--dying
I believe."

"Good God, Harold! what strange tale is this?"

"I am in command of an advanced picket, stationed at the old farm-house
yonder. Toward dusk this evening, a carriage drove up, and when
challenged, a pass was presented, with orders to assist the bearer,
Miranda Ayleff, beyond the lines. I remembered the name, and stepping to
the carriage door, beheld two females, one of whom was bending over her
companion, and holding a vial, a restorative, I suppose, to her lips.

"'She has fainted, sir,' said the woman, 'and is very ill. I'm afraid
she won't last till she gets to Richmond. Can't you help her; isn't
there a surgeon among you at the farm-house there?'

"We had no surgeon, but I had her taken into the house, and made as
comfortable as possible. When she recovered from her swoon, she asked
for you, and repeatedly for Oriana, and would not be comforted until I
promised her that she should be taken immediately on to Richmond. 'She
could not die there, among strangers,' she said; 'she must see one
friend before she died. She must go home at once and be forgiven.' And
thus she went, half in delirium, until I feared that her life would pass
away, from sheer exhaustion. I determined to ride over to your picket at
once, not dreaming, however, that you were in command. At dawn to-morrow
we shall probably be relieved, and it might be beyond my power then to
meet her wishes."

"I need not say how much I thank you, Harold. But you were ever kind and
generous. Poor girl! Let us ride over at once, Harold. Who is her
companion?"

"A woman some years her senior, but yet young, though prematurely faded.
I could get little from her. Not even her name. She is gloomy and
reserved, even morose at times; but she seems to be kind and attentive
to Miranda."

Beverly left some hasty instructions with his sergeant, and rode over
with Harold to the farm-house. They found Miranda reclining upon a couch
of blankets, over which Harold had spread his military cloak, for the
dwelling had been stripped of its furniture, and was, in fact, little
more than a deserted ruin. The suffering girl was pale and attenuated,
and her sunken eyes were wild and bright with the fire of delirium. Yet
she seemed to recognize Beverly, and stretched out her thin arms when he
approached, exclaiming in tremulous accents:

"Take me home, Beverly, oh, take me home!"

Moll was seated by her side, upon a soldier's knapsack; her chin resting
upon her hands, and her black eyes fixed sullenly upon the floor. She
would give but short and evasive answers to Beverly's questions, and
stubbornly refused to communicate the particulars of Miranda's history.

"She broke a blood-vessel a month ago in Boston. But she got better,
and was always wanting to go to her friends in Richmond. And so I
brought her on. And now you must take care of her, for I'm going back to
camp."

This was about all the information she would give, and the two young men
ceased to importune her, and directed their attentions to the patient.

The carriage was prepared and the cushions so arranged, with the help of
blankets, as to form a kind of couch within the vehicle. Upon this
Miranda was tenderly lifted, and when she was told that she should be
taken home without delay, and would soon see Oriana, she smiled like a
pleased child, and ceased complaining.

Beverly stood beside his horse, with his hand clasped in Harold's. The
rain poured down upon them, and the single watchfire, a little apart
from which the silent sentinel stood leaning on his rifle, threw its
rude glare upon their saddened faces.

"Good bye, old friend," said Beverly. "We have met strangely to-night,
and sadly. Pray heaven we may not meet more sadly on the battle-field."

"Tell Oriana," replied Harold, "that I am with her in my prayers." He
had not spoken of her before, although Beverly had mentioned that she
was at the old manor house, and well. "I have not heard from Arthur," he
continued, "for I have been much about upon scouting parties since I
came, but I doubt not he is well, and I may find a letter when I return
to camp. Good bye; and may our next meeting see peace upon the land."

They parted, and the carriage, with Beverly riding at its side, moved
slowly into the darkness, and was gone.

Harold returned into the farm-house, and found Moll seated where he had
left her, and still gazing fixedly at the floor. He did not disturb her,
but paced the floor slowly, lost in his own melancholy thoughts. After a
silence of some minutes, the woman spoke, without looking up.

"Have they gone?"

"Yes."

"She is dying, ain't she?"

"I fear she is very ill."

"I tell you, she's dying--and it's better that she is."

She then relapsed into her former mood, but after a while, as Harold
paused at the window and looked out, she spoke again.

"Will it soon be day?"

"Within an hour, I think," replied Harold. "Do you go back at daylight?"

"Yes."

"You have no horse?"

"You'll lend me one, won't you? If you don't, I don't care; I can walk."

"We will do what we can for you. What is your business at the camp?"

"Never mind," she answered gruffly. And then, after a pause, she asked:

"Is there a man named Searle in your army--Philip Searle?"

"Nay, I know not. There may be. I have never heard the name. Do you seek
such a person? Is he your friend, or relative?"

"Never mind," she said again, and then was silent as before.

With the approach of dawn, the sentry challenged an advancing troop,
which proved to be the relief picket guard. Harold saluted the officer
in command, and having left orders respectively with their
subordinates, they entered the farm-house together, and proceeded to the
apartment where Moll still remained seated. She did not seem to notice
their entrance; but when the new-comer's voice, in some casual remark,
reached her ear, she rose up suddenly, and walking straight forward to
where the two stood, looking out at the window, she placed her hand
heavily, and even rudely, upon his shoulder. He turned at the touch, and
beholding her, started back, with not only astonishment, but fear.

"You needn't look so white, Philip Searle," she said at last, in a low,
hoarse tone. "It's not a ghost you're looking at. But perhaps you're
only angry that you only half did your business while you were at it."

"Where did you pick up this woman?" asked Searle of Harold, drawing him
aside.

"She came with an invalid on her way to Richmond," replied Harold.

"What invalid?"

He spoke almost in a whisper, but Moll overheard him, and answered
fiercely:

"One that is dying, Philip; and you know well enough who murdered her.
'Twasn't me you struck the hardest blow that night. Do you see that
scar? That's nothing; but you struck her to the heart."

"What does she mean?" asked Harold, looking sternly into Philip's
disturbed eye.

"Heaven knows. She's mad," he answered. "Did she tell you nothing--no
absurd story?"

"Nothing. She was sullen and uncommunicative, and half the time took no
notice of our questions."

"No wonder, poor thing!" said Philip. "She's mad. However, I have some
little power with her, and if you will leave us alone awhile, I will
prevail upon her to go quietly back to Washington."

Harold went up to the woman, who was leaning with folded arms against
the wall, and spoke kindly to her.

"Should you want assistance, I will help you. We shall be going in half
an hour. You must be ready to go with us, you know, for you can't stay
here, where there may be fighting presently."

"Thank you," she replied. "Don't mind me. I can take care of myself.
You can leave us alone together. I'm not afraid of him."

Harold left the room, and busied himself about the preparations for
departure. Left alone with the woman he had wronged, Philip for some
moments paced the room nervously and with clouded brow. Finally, he
stopped abruptly before Moll, who had been following his motions with
her wild, unquiet eyes.

"Where have you sprung from now, and what do you want?"

"Do you see that scar?" she said again, but more fiercely than before.
"While that lasts, there's no love 'twixt you and me, and it'll last me
till my death."

"Then why do you trouble me. If you don't love me, why do you hang about
me wherever I go? We'll be better friends away from each other than
together. Why don't you leave me alone?"

"Ha! ha! we must be quits for that, you know," she answered, rather
wildly, and pointing to her forehead. "Do you think I'm a poor whining
fool like her, to get sick and die when you abuse me? I'll haunt you
till I die, Philip; and after, too, if I can, to punish you for that."

Philip fancied that he detected the gleam of insanity in her eye, and he
was not wrong, for the terrible blow he had inflicted had injured her
brain; and her mind, weakened by dissipation and the action of
excitement upon her violent temperament, was tottering upon the verge of
madness.

"When I was watching that poor sick girl," she continued, "I thought I
could have loved her, she was so beautiful and gentle, as she lay there,
white and thin, and never speaking a word against you, Philip, but
thinking of her friends far away, and asking to be taken home--home,
where her mother was sleeping under the sod--home, to be loved and
kissed again before she died. And I would have loved her if I hadn't
hated you so much that there wasn't room for the love of any living
creature in my bad heart. I used to sit all night and hear her
talk--talk in her dreams and in her fever--as if there were kind people
listening to her, people that were kind to her long ago. And the room
seemed full of angels sometimes, so that I was afraid to move and look
about; for I could swear I heard the fanning of their wings and the
rustle of their feet upon the carpet. Sometimes I saw big round tears
upon her wasted cheeks, and I wouldn't brush them away, for they looked
like jewels that the angels had dropped there. And then I tried to cry
myself, but, ha! ha! I had to laugh instead, although my heart was
bursting. I wished I could have cried; I'm sure it would have made my
heart so light, and perhaps it would have burst that ring of hot iron
that was pressing so hard around my head. It's there now, sinking and
burning right against my temples. But I can't cry, I haven't since I was
a little girl, long ago, long ago; but I think I cried when mother died,
long ago, long ago."

She was speaking in a kind of dreamy murmur, while Philip paced the
room; and finally she sank down upon the floor, and sat there with her
hands pressed against her brows, rocking herself to and fro.

"Moll," said Philip, stooping over her, and speaking in a gentle tone,
"I'm sorry I struck you, indeed I am; but I was drunk, and when you cut
me, I didn't know what I was about. Now let's be friends, there's a
good girl. You must go back to Washington, you know, and to New York,
and stay there till I come back. Won't you, now, Moll?"

"Won't I? No, Philip Searle, I won't. I'll stay by you till you kill me;
yes, I will. You want to go after that poor girl and torment her; but
she's dying and soon you won't be able to hurt her any more."

"Was it she, Moll, was it Miranda that came here with you? Was she going
to Richmond?"

"She was going to heaven, Philip Searle, out of the reach of such as you
and me. I'm good enough for you, Philip, bad as I am; and I'm your wife,
besides."

"You told her that?"

"Told her? Ha! ha! Told her? do you think I'm going to make that a
secret? No, no. We're a bad couple, sure enough; but I'm not going to
deny you, for all that. Look you, young man," she continued, addressing
Harold, who at that moment entered the room, "that is Philip Searle, and
Philip Searle is my husband--my husband, curse his black heart! and if
he dares deny it, I'll have him in the State prison, for I can do it."

"She's perfectly insane," said Philip; but Harold looked thoughtful and
perplexed, and scanned his fellow-officer's countenance with a searching
glance.

"At all events," he said, "she must not remain here. My good woman, we
are ready now, and you must come with us. We have a horse for you, and
will make you comfortable. Are you ready?"

"No," she replied, sullenly, "I won't go. I'll stay with my husband."

"Nay," remonstrated Harold, gently, "you cannot stay here. This is no
place for women. When we arrive at headquarters, you shall tell your
story to General McDowell, and he will see that you are taken care of,
and have justice if you have been wronged. But you must not keep us
waiting. We are soldiers, you know, and must do our duty."

Still, however, she insisted upon remaining where she was; but when two
soldiers, at a gesture from Harold, approached and took her gently by
the arms, she offered no resistance, and suffered herself to be led
quietly out. Harold coldly saluted Searle, and left him in charge of the
post; while himself and party, accompanied by Moll and the coachman who
had driven them from Washington, were soon briskly marching toward the
camp.


CHAPTER XIX.


Toward dusk of the same day, while Philip and his lieutenant were seated
at the rude pine table, conversing after their evening meal, the
sergeant of the guard entered with a slip of paper, on which was traced
a line in pencil.

"Is the bearer below?" asked Philip, as he cast his eyes over the paper.

"Yes, sir. He was challenged a minute ago, and answered with the
countersign and that slip for you, sir."

"It's all right, sergeant; you may send him up. Mr. Williams," he
continued, to his comrade, "will you please to look about a little and
see that all is in order. I will speak a few words with this messenger."

The lieutenant and sergeant left the room, and presently afterward there
entered, closing the door carefully after him, no less a personage than
Seth Rawbon.

"You're late," said Philip, motioning him to a chair.

"There's an old proverb to answer that," answered Rawbon, as he
leisurely adjusted his lank frame upon the seat. Having established
himself to his satisfaction, he continued:

"I had to make a considerable circuit to avoid the returning picket, who
might have bothered me with questions. I'm in good time, though. If
you've made up your mind to go, you'll do it as well by night, and safer
too."

"What have you learned?"

"Enough to make me welcome at headquarters. You were right about the
battle. There'll be tough work soon. They're fixing for a general
advance. If you expect to do your first fighting under the stars and
bars, you must swear by them to-night."

"Have you been in Washington?"

"Every nook and corner of it. They don't keep their eyes skinned, I
fancy, up there. Your fancy colonels have slippery tongues when the
champagne corks are flying. If they fight as hard as they drink, they'll
give us trouble. Well, what do you calculate to do?" he added, after a
pause, during which Philip was moody and lost in thought.

Philip rose from his seat and paced the floor uneasily, while Rawbon
filled a glass from a flask of brandy on the table. It was now quite
dark without, and neither of them observed the figure of a woman
crouched on the narrow veranda, her chin resting on the sill of the open
window. At last Philip resumed his seat, and he, too, swallowed a deep
draught from the flask of brandy.

"Tell me what I can count upon?" he asked.

"The same grade you have, and in a crack regiment. It's no use asking
for money. They've none to spare for such as you--now don't look
savage--I mean they won't buy men that hain't seen service, and you
can't expect them to. I told you all about that before, and it's time
you had your mind made up."

"What proofs of good faith can you give me?"

Rawbon thrust his hand into his bosom and drew out a roll of parchment.

"This commission, under Gen. Beauregard's hand, to be approved when you
report yourself at headquarters."

Philip took the document and read it attentively, while Rawbon occupied
himself with filling his pipe from a leathern pouch. The female figure
stepped in at the window, and, gliding noiselessly into the room, seated
herself in a third chair by the table before either of the men became
aware of her presence. They started up with astonishment and
consternation. She did not seem to heed them, but leaning upon the
table, she stretched her hand to the brandy flask and applied it to her
lips.

"Who's this?" demanded Rawbon, with his hand upon the hilt of his large
bowie knife.

"Curse her! my evil genius," answered Philip, grating his teeth with
anger. It was Moll.

"What's this, Philip!" she said, clutching the parchment which had been
dropped upon the table.

"Leave that," ejaculated her husband, savagely, and darting to take it
from her.

But she eluded his grasp, and ran with the document into a corner of the
room.

"Ha! ha! ha! I know what it is," she said, waving it about as a
schoolboy sometimes exultingly exhibits a toy that he has mischievously
snatched from a comrade.

"It's your death-warrant, Philip Searle, if somebody sees it over
yonder. I heard you. I heard you. You're going over to fight for Jeff.
Davis. Well, I don't care, but I'll go with you. Don't come near me.
Don't hurt me, Philip, or I'll scream to the soldier out there."

"I won't hurt you, Moll. Be quiet now, there's a good girl. Come here
and take a sup more of brandy."

"I won't. You want to hurt me. But you can't. I'm a match for you both.
Ha! ha! You don't know how nicely I slipped away from the soldiers when
they, were resting. I went into the thick bushes, right down in the
water, and lay still. I wanted to laugh when I saw them, hunting for me,
and I could almost have touched the young officer if I had wished. But I
lay still as a mouse, and they went off and never found me. Ha! ha! ha!"

"Is she drunk or mad?" asked Rawbon.

"Mad," answered Philip, "but cunning enough to do mischief, if she has a
mind to. Moll, dear, come sit down here and be quiet; come, now."

"Mad? mad?" murmured Moll, catching his word. "No, I'm not mad," she
continued wildly, passing her hands over her brows, "but I saw spirits
just now in the woods, and heard voices, and they've frightened me. The
ghost of the girl that died in the hospital was there. You knew little
blue-eyed Lizzie, Philip. She was cursing me when she died and calling
for her mother. But I don't care. The man paid me well for getting her,
and 'twasn't my fault if she got sick and died. Poor thing! poor thing!
poor little blue-eyed Lizzie! She was innocent enough when she first
came, but she got to be as bad as any--until she got sick and died. Poor
little Lizzie!" And thus murmuring incoherently, the unhappy woman sat
down upon the floor, and bent her head upon her knees.

"Clap that into her mouth," whispered Philip, handing Rawbon his
handkerchief rolled tightly into a ball. "Quietly now, but quick. Look
out now. She's strong as a trooper."

They approached her without noise, but suddenly, and while Philip
grasped her wrists, Rawbon threw back her head, and forcing the jaws
open by a violent pressure of his knuckles against the joint, thrust
the handkerchief between her teeth and bound it tightly there with two
turns of his sash. The shriek was checked upon her lips and changed into
a painful, gurgling groan. The poor creature, with convulsive efforts,
struggled to free her arms from Philip's grasp, but he managed to keep
his hold until Rawbon had secured her wrists with the stout cord that
suspended his canteen. A silk neckerchief was then tightly bound around
her ankles, and Moll, with heaving breast and glaring eyes, lay, moaning
piteously, but speechless and motionless, upon the floor.

"We can leave her there," said Rawbon. "It's not likely any of your men
will come in, until morning at least. Let's be off at once."

Philip snatched up the parchment where it had fallen, and silently
followed his companion.

"We are going beyond the line to look about a bit," he said to the
sergeant on duty, as they passed his post. "Keep all still and quiet
till we return."

"Take some of the boys with you, captain," replied the sergeant. "We're
unpleasant close to those devils, sir."

"It's all right, sergeant. There's no danger," And nodding to Seth, the
two walked leisurely along the road until concealed by the darkness,
when they quickened their pace and pushed boldly toward the Confederate
lines.

Half an hour, or less perhaps, after their departure, the sentry, posted
at about a hundred yards from the house, observed an unusual light
gleaming from the windows of the old farm-house. He called the attention
of Lieutenant Williams, who was walking by in conversation with the
sergeant, to the circumstance.

"Is not the captain there?" asked the lieutenant.

"No, sir," replied the sergeant, "he started off to go beyond the line
half an hour ago."

"Alone?"

"No, sir; that chap that came in at dusk was with him."

"It's strange he should have gone without speaking to me about it."

"I wanted him to take some of our fellows along, sir, but he didn't care
to. By George! that house is afire, sir. Look there."

While talking, they had been proceeding toward the farm-house, when the
light from the windows brightened suddenly into a broad glare, and
called forth the sergeant's exclamation. Before they reached the
building a jet of flame had leaped from one of the casements, and
continued to whirl like a flaming ribbon in the air. They quickened
their pace to a run, and bursting into the doorway, were driven back by
a dense volume of smoke, that rolled in black masses along the corridor.
They went in again, and the sergeant pushed open the door of the room
where Moll lay bound, but shut it quickly again, as a tongue of flame
lashed itself toward him like an angry snake.

"It's all afire, sir," he said, coughing and spluttering through the
smoke. "Are there any of the captain's traps inside?"

"Nothing at all," replied the lieutenant. "Let's go in, however, and see
what can be done."

They entered, but were driven back by the baffling smoke and the flames
that were now licking all over the dry plastering of the room.

"It's no use," said the lieutenant, when they had gained their breath in
the open air. "There's no water, except in the brook down yonder, and
what the men have in their canteens. The house is like tinder. Let it
go, sergeant; it's not worth saving at the risk of singing your
whiskers."

The men had now come up, and gathered about the officer to receive his
commands.

"Let the old shed go, my lads," he said. "It's well enough that some
rebel should give us a bonfire now and then. Only stand out of the
glare, boys, or you may have some of those devils yonder making targets
of you."

The men fell back into the shadow, and standing in little groups, or
seated upon the sward, watched the burning house, well pleased to have
some spectacle to relieve the monotony of the night. And they looked
with indolent gratification, passing the light jest and the merry word,
while the red flames kept up their wild sport, and great masses of
rolling vapor upheaved from the crackling roof, and blackened the
midnight sky. None sought to read the mystery of that conflagration. It
was but an old barn gone to ashes a little before its time. Perhaps some
mischievous hand among them had applied the torch for a bit of
deviltry. Perhaps the flames had caught from Rawbon's pipe, which he had
thrown carelessly among a heap of rubbish when startled by Molly's
sudden apparition. Or yet, perhaps, though Heaven forbid it, for the
sake of human nature, the same hand that had struck so nearly fatally
once, had been tempted to complete the work of death in a more terrible
form.

But within those blistering walls, who can tell what ghastly revels the
mad flames were having over their bound and solitary victim! Perhaps, as
she lay there with distended jaws, and eyeballs starting from their
sockets, that brain, amid the visions of its madness, became conscious
of the first kindling of the subtle element that was so soon to clasp
her in its terrible embrace. How dreadful, while the long minutes
dragged, to watch its stealthy progress, and to feel that one little
effort of an unbound hand could avert the danger, and yet to lie there
helpless, motionless, without even the power to give utterance to the
shriek of terror which strained her throat to suffocation. And then, as
the creeping flame became stronger and brighter, and took long and
silent leaps from one object to another, gliding along the lathed, and
papered wall, rolling and curling along the raftered ceiling, would not
the wretched woman, raving already in delirium, behold the spectres that
her madness feared, beckoning to her in the lurid glare, or gliding in
and out among the wild fires that whirled in fantastic gambols around
and overhead! Nearer and nearer yet the rolling flame advances; it
commences to hiss and murmur in its progress; it wreathes itself about
the chairs and tables, and laps up the little pool of brandy spilled
from the forgotten flask; it plays about her feet, and creeps lazily
amid the folds of her gown, yet wet from the brook in which she had
concealed herself that day; it scorches and shrivels up the flesh upon
her limbs, while pendent fiery tongues leap from the burning rafters,
and kiss her cheeks and brows where the black veins swell almost to
bursting; every muscle and nerve of her frame is strained with
convulsive efforts to escape, but the cords only sink into the bloating
flesh, and she lies there crisping like a log, and as powerless to
move. The dense, black smoke hangs over her like a pall, but prostrate
as she is, it cannot sink low enough to suffocate and end her agony. How
the bared bosom heaves! how the tortured limbs writhe, and the
blackening cuticle emits a nauseous steam! The black blood oozing from
her nostrils proclaims how terrible the inward struggle. The whole frame
bends and shrinks, and warps like a fragment of leather thrown into a
furnace--the flame has reached her vitals--at last, by God's mercy, she
is dead.


CHAPTER XX.


At dawn of the morning of the 21st of July, an officer in plain undress
was busily writing at a table in a plainly-furnished apartment of a
farm-house near Manassas. He was of middle age and medium size, with
dark complexion, bold, prominent features, and steady, piercing black
eyes. His manner and the respectful demeanor of several officers in
attendance, rather than any insignia of office which he wore, bespoke
him of high rank; and the earnest attention which he bestowed upon his
labor, together with the numerous orders, written and verbal, which he
delivered at intervals to members of his staff, denoted that an affair
of importance was in hand. Several horses, ready caparisoned, were held
by orderlies at the door-way, and each aid, as he received instructions,
mounted and dashed away at a gallop.

The building was upon a slight elevation of land, and along the plain
beneath could be seen the long rows of tents and the curling smoke of
camp-fires; while the hum of many voices in the distance, with here and
there a bugle-blast and the spirit-stirring roll of drums, denoted the
site of the Confederate army. The reveille had just sounded, and the din
of active preparation could be heard throughout the camp. Regiments were
forming, and troops of horse were marshalling in squadron, while others
were galloping here and there; while, through the ringing of sabres and
the strains of marshal music, the low rumbling of the heavy-wheeled
artillery was the most ominous sound.

An orderly entered the apartment where General Beauregard was writing,
and spoke with one of the members of the staff in waiting.

"What is it, colonel?" asked the general, looking up.

"An officer from the outposts, with two prisoners, general." And he
added something in a lower tone.

"Very opportune," said Beauregard. "Let them come in."

The orderly withdrew and reentered with Captain Weems, followed by
Philip Searle and Rawbon. A glance of recognition passed between the
latter and Beauregard, and Seth, obeying a gesture of the general,
advanced and placed a small package on the table. The general opened it
hastily and glanced over its contents.

"As I thought," he muttered. "You are sure as to the disposition of the
advance?"

"Quite sure of the main features."

"When did you get in?"

"Only an hour ago. Their vanguard was close behind. Before noon, I think
they will be upon you in three columns from the different roads."

"Very well, you may go now. Come to me in half an hour. I shall have
work for you. Who is that with you?"

"Captain Searle."

"Of whom we spoke?"

"The same."

The general nodded, and Seth left the apartment. Beauregard for a second
scanned Philip's countenance with a searching glance.

"Approach, sir, if you please. We have little time for words. Have you
information to impart?"

"Nothing beyond what I think you know already. You may expect at every
moment to hear the boom of McDowell's guns."

"On the right?"

"I think the movement will be on your left. Richardson remains on the
southern road, in reserve. Tyler commands the centre. Carlisle, Bicket
and Ayre will give you trouble there with their batteries. Hunter and
Heintzelman, with fourteen thousand, will act upon your left."

"Then we are wrong, Taylor," said Beauregard, turning to an officer at
his side; and rising, the two conversed for a moment in low but earnest
tone.

"It is plausible," said Beauregard, at length. "Taylor, ride down to Bee
and see about it. Captain Searle, you will report yourself to Colonel
Hampton at once. He will have orders for you. Captain Weems, you will
please see him provided for. Come, gentlemen, to the field!"

The general and his staff were soon mounted and riding rapidly toward
the masses and long lines of troops that were marshalling on the plain
below.

Beverly stood at the doorway alone with Philip Searle. He was grave and
sad, although the bustle and preparation of an expected battle lent a
lustre to his eye. To his companion he was stern and distant, and they
both walked onward for some moments without a word. At a short distance
from the building, they came upon a black groom holding two saddled
horses.

"Mount, sir, if you please," said Beverly, and they rode forward at a
rapid pace. Philip was somewhat surprised to observe that their course
lay away from the camp, and in fact the sounds of military life were
lessening as they went on. They passed the brow of the hill and
descended by a bridle-path into a little valley, thick with shrubbery
and trees. At the gateway of a pleasant looking cottage Beverly drew
rein.

"I must ask you to enter here," he said, dismounting. "Within a few
hours we shall both be, probably, in the ranks of battle; but first I
have a duty to perform."

They entered the cottage, within which all was hushed and still; the
sounds of an active household were not heard. They ascended the little
stair, and Beverly pushed gently open the door of an apartment and
motioned to Philip to enter. He paused at first, for as he stood on the
threshold a low sob reached his ear.

"Pass in," said Beverly, in a grave, stern tone. "I have promised that I
would bring you, else, be assured, I would not linger in your presence."

They entered. It was a small, pleasant room, and through the lattice
interwoven with woodbine the rising sun looked in like a friendly
visitor. Upon a bed was stretched the form of a young girl, sleeping or
dead, it would be hard to tell, the features were so placid and
beautiful in repose. One ray of sunlight fell among the tangles of her
golden hair, and glowed like a halo above the marble-white brow. The
long dark lashes rested upon her cheek with a delicate contrast like
that of the velvety moss when it peeps from the new-fallen snow. Her
hands were folded upon her bosom above the white coverlet; they clasped
a lily, that seemed as if sculptured upon a churchyard stone, so white
was the flower, so white the bosom that it pressed. One step nearer
revealed that she was dead; earthly sleep was never so calm and
beautiful. By the bedside Oriana Weems was seated, weeping silently.
She arose when her brother entered, and went to him, putting her hands
about his neck. Beverly tenderly circled his arm about her waist, and
they stood together at the bedside, gazing on all that death had left
upon earth of their young cousin, Miranda.

"She died this morning very soon after you left," said Oriana, "without
pain and I think without sorrow, for she wore that same sweet smile that
you see now frozen upon her lips. Oh, Beverly, I am sorry you brought
_him_ here!" she added, in a lower tone, glancing with a shudder at
Philip Searle, who stood looking with a frown out at the lattice, and
stopping the sunbeam from coming into the room. "It seems," she
continued, "as if his presence brought a curse that would drag upon the
angels' wings that are bearing her to heaven. Though, thank God, she is
beyond his power to harm her now!" and she knelt beside the pillow and
pressed her lips upon the cold, white brow.

"She wished to see him, Oriana, before she died," said Beverly, "and I
promised to bring him; and yet I am glad she passed away before his
coming, for I am sure he could bring no peace with him for the dying,
and his presence now is but an insult to the dead."

When he had spoken, there was silence for a while, which was broken by
the sudden boom of a distant cannon. They all started at the sound, for
it awakened them from mournful memories, to yet perhaps more solemn
thoughts of what was to come before that bright sun should rise upon the
morrow. Beverly turned slowly to where Philip stood, and pointed sternly
at the death-bed.

"You have seen enough, if you have dared to look at all," he said. "I
have not the power, nor the will, to punish. A soldier's death to-day is
what you can best pray for, that you may not live to think of this
hereafter. She sent for you to forgive you, but died and you are
unforgiven. Bad as you are, I pity you that you must go to battle
haunted by the remembrance of this murder that you have done."

If De Grasse had not had his mind so centred on the idea of avoiding a
battle, there is little doubt that he might have brought an overwhelming
force to bear on them.

Luckily for Rodney, he contented himself with sending his second in
command, Vaudreuil, to skirmish with them, passing and repassing Hood's
division at long range and firing at masts and rigging in the hope of
disabling them for further pursuit.

Hood returned the fire, doing as much damage as he suffered, and
towards midday the rest of the English had worked up to him by taking
advantage of every breath of wind that blew over the ridges of Dominica.
Then the wind fell again, and all through the night and the following
day (10 April) the fleets lay in sight of each other beyond even
distant cannon shot, Vaudreuil's and Hood's crews busying themselves
with repairing rigging and replacing damaged spars

.

[14] Treves, "Cradle of the Deep," p. 175.

During the 11th De Grasse tried to get his fleet through the Saints'
Passage, working by short tacks to windward, and baffled and delayed
by sudden calms.

In the afternoon several of his ships were still to the westward
of the strait, and Rodney, who had been getting gradually to the
northward, despite the frequent failure of the wind under the lee
of Dominica, was at last near enough seriously to threaten these
laggards.

In order to save them from being overwhelmed by the whole English fleet,
De Grasse gave up the advantage of weary hours of hard work and came
back before the wind out of the strait. At sunset the two fleets lay
to the westward of the Saints' Passage, and there was no probability
that De Grasse would attempt to tack through it during the hours
of darkness. In the night Rodney manoeuvred to get to windward of the
enemy, and at daylight on the 12th the two fleets were within striking
distance, De Grasse to the leeward, his fleet in a straggling line over
some nine miles of sea. Rodney had his opportunity of forcing on a
decisive battle at last.

At some distance from the French line a partly dismasted line-of-battle
ship, the "Zelé," was seen in tow of a frigate. She had been in
collision with the flagship during the night, and had been so badly
damaged that De Grasse was sending her away to Guadeloupe. Rodney's ships
had lost their order of battle somewhat in the darkness, and while he
was reforming his line he detached a couple of ships to threaten
the disabled "Zelé."

This had the effect he intended. It removed De Grasse's last hesitation
about fighting. The French line was soon seen bearing down on the port
tack, the rearward ships crowding sail to close up. Rodney's battle
line, in reversed order, led by Drake and the rear division, was already
on a course that would bring the two fleets sweeping past each other,
and the leading ship, the "Marlborough," was steered so as to make
the passage a close one.

Rodney had hoisted the signal to engage the enemy to leeward. While the
fleets were closing he sat in an arm-chair on his quarterdeck,
for he was older than his sixty-four years, broken by long illness
and only sustained by his dogged spirit.

One of his captains, Savage of the "Hercules," also went into battle
seated in an arm-chair beside the bulwarks of his ship.

He was lame with gout and unable to stand or walk without help. When the
firing began, and the ships were passing each other amid a thunder of
broadsides and a hail of shot and bullets, Captain Savage gravely
raised his cocked hat to salute each enemy as she ranged up abreast
of the "Hercules."

What would those old sailors have thought of the naval commander of
to-day peeping through the slits in the steel walls of a conning tower?
But it is only fair to ask also what they would have thought of
shells weighing half a ton bursting in fiery destruction.

The "Marlborough," approaching on a converging course, came to close
quarters with the "Brave," the sixth ship in De Grasse's line, and
then, shifting her helm to bring her course parallel to that of the
enemy, exchanged broadsides with the Frenchman. Ship after ship came
into action in the same way.

The speed was nearer three than four knots, and the lines some six
miles long, so it was more than an hour before the leading English
battleship was abreast of and engaged with the rearmost Frenchman.

As ship passed ship there was a thunder of artillery, a rattle of small
arms. Then a brief lull till the guns of two more opponents bore
on each other.

But in this cannonade the English had the advantage of the heavy
blows struck by their large-bore carronades at close range, and the
fact that their gun-mountings enabled them to keep a passing ship
longer under fire than was possible for the French gunners.

In De Grasse's ships, crowded with troops, the slaughter was terrible.
As the fight went on and the French ships came under the crushing fire
of adversary after adversary, it was seen that it was only with difficulty
the officers kept the men at the guns. In this first hour of the fight
the French began to throw the dead overboard to clear their encumbered
decks, and a strange horror was added to the scene, for shoals of
sharks that had followed the fleets to pick up anything thrown overboard
now swarmed around them, lashing the water into foam as they
struggled for their human prey.

At length the leading English ship was abeam of the rearmost of De Grasse's
fleet. Over some six miles of sea the two battle lines extended, every
ship ablaze with fire-flashes from her guns and with the dense
smoke-clouds drifting around the English vessels and wrapping them
in the fog of war.

If the battle was now to be fought out on the old traditional method, the
fleets would clear each other, wear and tack and repass each other in
opposite directions with a second exchange of fire.

But now came the event that made the battle of the Saints' Passage
epoch-making in naval history.

What precisely happened is wrapped in a fog of controversy as dense as
the smoke-fog that enveloped Rodney's fleet at the decisive moment. One
thing is certain.

The old admiral suddenly changed all his plans, and executed a new
manoeuvre with the signal he himself was disobeying--the order to
engage to leeward--still flying from his flagship. The act was the
sudden seizing of an unexpected opportunity. But some of the merit of
the new departure was due to Rodney's right-hand man, his "Captain
of the Fleet," Sir Charles Douglas. Douglas was one of those whose minds
had been influenced by new theories on naval war, which were just then
in the air.
In Britain a Scotch country gentleman, John Clerk, of Eldin, had been
arguing for some time in pamphlets and manuscripts circulated among
naval officers against the formal methods that led to indecisive results.
His paper plans for destroying an enemy were no doubt open to the
criticism that they would work out beautifully if the enemy stuck
to the old-fashioned ways and attempted no counter-stroke. But the essence
of Clerk's theories was that parallel orders of battle meant only
indecisive cannonading; that to crush an enemy one must break into
his line, bring parts of it under a close fire, not on one side,
but on both, and decide the fate of the ships thus cut off by
superior numbers and superior gun power before the rest could come
to their help.

His plans might not work out with the mechanical exactitude described
in his writings, but they would tend to produce the close mêlée, where
the best men and the steadiest fire would win, and after such
an encounter there would not be merely a few masts and spars shot away,
and a few holes to be plugged, but the beaten side would be minus a
number of ships sunk, burned, or taken, and condemned to hopeless
inferiority for the rest of the campaign. Clerk was not the only man
who put forward these ideas. A French Jesuit professor of
mathematics had worked out plans for securing local advantage of numbers
in a sea-fight at close quarters; but while French naval officers laughed
at naval battles worked out with a piece of chalk and a blackboard,
British sailors were either themselves thinking out similar schemes or
were beginning to think there might be something in the Scotch laird's
diagrams.

It was at the critical moment when the two fleets lay side by side
in parallel lines on opposite courses, wrapped in the battle-smoke, that
Douglas, looking out through a gap in the war-cloud, saw that a sudden
flaw of wind blowing steadily from the south-east was flattening the
French sails against the masts and checking their speed.

The same sudden change of wind was filling the English sails, and the
masters were squaring the yards to it, while the Frenchmen to keep any
way on their ships had to bring their bows partly round towards the English
line. Between the "Glorieux," the ship immediately opposed to Rodney's
flagship, the "Formidable," and the next Frenchman in the line, the
"Diadème," a wide gap was opening up.
Douglas saw the chance offered to his admiral. Half the English fleet
was ahead of the "Formidable," engaged with the rearward French ships.
If the "Formidable" pushed through the gap, leading the rest of the
line after her, the French rear would be cut off from the van and
brought under a double fire at close quarters, and there would be
a fair prospect of destroying it before De Grasse could come back
to its support.

He rushed to Rodney's side. Moments were precious. He urged his plan in
the briefest words.

At first the old admiral rejected it.

"No," he said, "I will not break my line."[15] Douglas insisted, and
the two officers stepped to the opening in the bulwarks at the
gangway and looked out.

The "Formidable" was opposite the tempting gap in the French line.

Rodney in a moment changed his mind, and told Douglas that he accepted
his plan.

[15] Rodney in at first refusing was upholding the strict letter of the
"Fighting Instructions," which forbade breaking the line or changing the
order of battle during an action. Instruction XVI laid it down that:--

"In all cases of fight with the enemy the commanders of His Majesty's
ships are to _keep the fleet in one line_, and (as much as may be)
to preserve that order of battle, which they have been directed to
keep before the time of fight."

In the haste to carry it out the signal to fight to leeward of the
French was forgotten and left flying. The "Formidable" turned her
high bows into the gap, and swept through it with all her hundred
guns and her carronades in action, pouring broadside after broadside
right and left into the "Glorieux" and the "Diadème."

Six ships in succession swung round and followed in the wake of the
flagship, which was now engaged with the French on the windward side.
Shattered by successive blasts of well-directed fire, the "Diadème" was
drifting a helpless wreck, and the rearward ships, with their way checked,
were huddling in confusion behind her, English ships firing into them
on both sides. Through another gap in the French line, ahead of De
Grasse's giant "Ville de Paris," other English ships made their
way in the dense cloud of smoke, some of the captains hardly aware
of what they were doing.

The French van had meanwhile forged ahead, and then, as the wind suddenly
fell to a dead calm, it was seen that De Grasse's fleet was broken into
three isolated fragments.

To the southward lay the van ships under De Bougainville becalmed,
with no enemy in range of them.

The "Ville de Paris," with several of her consorts of the French centre,
formed another group, with the whole of the rearward English division
exchanging fire with them at long range. The rear of the French,
under Vaudreuil, and the ships of the centre cut off by Rodney's manoeuvre
were huddled together, with Hood's division and the ships that had
followed the "Formidable" through the line shepherding them. The loss
of the wind had made it difficult or impossible to keep the broadsides
bearing, and for an hour the action died down into a desultory
cannonade.
When the breeze came again over the ridges of Dominica, De Bougainville's
division, now far to leeward, made no attempt to succour De
Grasse. Only one of his ships slowly beat up to the main battle. The
French admiral tried to get away to the westward, but Hood clung doggedly
to him, while Rodney and Drake completed the defeat of Vaudreuil and the
French rear. The "Diadème" soon struck her colours. A frigate tried
to tow the dismasted "Glorieux" out of the mêlée, but the captain of
the "Glorieux," De Kerlessi, saw that the effort would only end in the
friendly frigate being also captured, and with his own hand he cut the
tow-rope and hauled down his flag. Then the "César" struck her
colours, and while the rearward ships were being thus disposed of, in the
broken Centre the "Hector" and the "Ardent" surrendered to Hood's
division.

The English attack was now concentrated on the centre, and the battle raged
fiercely round the French flagship, distinguished by her huge bulk and
her towering masts. One by one these came down, trailing in a tangle
of spars, sails, and rigging over her sides. Her crowded decks were a
shambles of dead and dying, but still De Grasse fought on--for honour,
not for victory.

His van held aloof, his broken rear was in flight. Five of his ships had
struck.

Still he kept his guns in action till Hood in his flagship, the "Princesse,"
ranged close up alongside of him and poured in a series of destructive
broadsides.

Then the French flag came down at last, and De Grasse went on board
the "Princesse" and gave up his sword to the vice-admiral.

The sun was going down when the French flagship surrendered. The
captured "César," set on fire by her crew, was blazing from stem to
stern. The other prizes had been secured. Rodney attempted no pursuit
of the scattered French ships that were sailing away to the southward
and the north-westward. Enough had been done, he said. It was now
his business to refit his fleet and take it to Jamaica. He had shattered
the French power in the West Indian seas and made himself the
master of the field of operations.

A younger and more vigorous man would have perhaps marked down
Vaudreuil's or Bougainville's fugitive divisions for utter destruction.
But Rodney was content with the solid success he had obtained.

The losses of the French fleet had been very heavy. In their crowded decks
the English fire had effected something like a massacre. On board
the "Ville de Paris" more men had been killed and wounded than in the
whole English fleet. Very few officers and men had escaped some kind
of wound.
Many of the ships that had got away were now very shorthanded, with leaking
hulls, and spars and rigging badly cut up.

The effect of the victory was to enable England to obtain much better terms
in the treaty that was signed next year. A disastrous war was closed
by a brilliant success. But England owed to it more than this temporary
advantage. It was a new beginning, the opening event of the period of
splendid triumphs on the sea on the reputation of which we are still
living. To quote the words of Rodney's latest biographer,[16] "it marked
the beginning of that fierce and headlong yet well-calculated style
of sea-fighting which led to Trafalgar, and made England undisputed
mistress of the sea."
[16] David Hannay, "Rodney" (English Men of Action), p. 213.

[Illustration: A THREE-DECKER OF NELSON'S TIME]

CHAPTER IX
TRAFALGAR
1805

The closing years of the eighteenth century and the opening years of
the nineteenth represent the most splendid period in the annals of the
British Navy.

Howe destroyed the French fleet in the Atlantic on "the glorious
First of June, 1794," Nelson died in the midst of his greatest
victory off Cape Trafalgar on 21 October, 1805.

Little more than eleven years separated the two dates, and this brief
period was crowded with triumphs for Britain on the sea. The "First of
June," St. Vincent, Camperdown, the Nile, Copenhagen, and Trafalgar
are the great names in the roll of victory; but "the meteor flag
of England" flew victorious in a hundred fights on all the seas of
the world.

Men who were officers young in the service on the day when Rodney broke
at once the formal traditions of a century and the battle-line of the
Comte de Grasse lived through and shared in the glories of this decade
of victory. A new spirit had come into the navy. An English admiral would
no longer think he had done his duty in merely bringing his well-ordered
line into cannon-shot of an enemy's array and exchanging
broadsides with him at half-cannon range. Nor was the occupation of a
port or an island recognized as an adequate result for a naval
campaign. The enemy's fighting-fleet was now the object aimed at. It
was not merely to be brought to action, and more or less damaged by
distant cannonading. The ideal battle was the close fight amid the
enemy's broken line, and victory meant his destruction.

The spirit of the time was personified in its greatest sailor.

Nelson's battles were fought in grim earnest, taking risks boldly in order
to secure great results.

Trafalgar--the last of his battles, and the last great battle of
the days of the sail--was also the final episode in the long struggle
of Republican and Imperial France to snatch from England even for
a while the command of the sea.

When Napoleon assembled the Grand Army at Boulogne, gave it the official
title of the "_Armée d'Angleterre_," and crowded every creek from Dunkirk
to Havre with flat-bottomed boats for its transport across the Channel,
he quite realized that the first condition of success for the
scheme was that a French fleet should be in possession of the Channel
at the moment his veterans embarked for their short voyage.

He had twenty sail of the line, under Admiral Ganteaume, at Brest; twelve
under Villeneuve at Toulon; a squadron of five at Rochefort under
Admiral Missiessy; five more at Ferrol; and in this last port and
at Cadiz and Cartagena there were other ships belonging to his
Spanish allies.

But every port was watched by English battleships and cruisers.

The vigilant blockade had been kept up for two years, during which
Nelson, who was watching Toulon, had hardly been an hour absent from his
flagship, the "Victory"; and Collingwood, in the "Royal Sovereign,"
did not anchor once in twenty-two months of alternate cruising and
lying to.

Napoleon's mind was ceaselessly busy with plans for moving his fleets
on the sea as he moved army corps on land, so as to elude, mislead,
and out-manoeuvre the English squadrons, and suddenly bring a
concentrated French force of overwhelming strength into the narrow
seas.

The first move in these plans was usually assigned to the Toulon fleet.
According to one project it was to give Nelson the slip, make for the
Straits of Gibraltar, combine with the Cadiz fleet in driving off or
crushing the blockading squadron before that port, sail north with
the liberated vessels, fall on the blockading ships before Rochefort
and Brest, and then sweep the Channel with the united squadrons.

In other projects French fleets were to run the blockades simultaneously
or in succession, raid the West Indies, draw off a part of the naval
forces of England to the other side of the Atlantic, and then come
swooping back upon the Channel.

In the plan finally adopted the first move was to be the escape of the
Toulon fleet; the second, the threat against the West Indies.
CHAPTER XXIII.


The Federal troops, with successive charges, had now pushed the enemy
from their first position, and the torn battalions were still being
hurled against the batteries that swept their ranks. The excellent
generalship of the Confederate leaders availed itself of the valor and
impetuosity of their assailants to lure them, by consecutive advance and
backward movement, into the deadly range of their well planted guns. It
was then that, far to the right, a heavy column could be seen moving
rapidly in the rear of the contending hosts. Was it a part of Hunter's
division that had turned the enemy's rear? Such was the thought at
first, and with the delusion triumphant cheers rang from the parched
throats of the weary Federals. They were soon to be undeceived. The
stars and bars flaunted amid those advancing ranks, and the constant
yells of the Confederates proclaimed the truth. Johnston was pouring his
fresh troops upon the battle-field. The field was lost, but still was
struggled for in the face of hope. It was now late in the afternoon, and
the soldiers, exhausted with their desperate exertions, fought on,
doggedly, but without that fiery spirit which earlier in the day had
urged them to the cannon's mouth. There was a lull in the storm of
carnage, the brief pause that precedes the last terrific fury of the
tempest. The Confederates were concentrating their energies for a
decisive effort. It came. From the woods that skirted the left centre of
their position, a squadron of horsemen came thundering down upon our
columns. Right down upon Carlisle's battery they rode, slashing the
cannoneers and capturing the guns. Then followed their rushing ranks of
infantry, and full upon our flank swooped down another troop of cavalry,
dashing into the road where the baggage-train had been incautiously
advanced. Our tired and broken regiments were scattered to the right and
left. In vain a few devoted officers spurred among them, and called on
them to rally; they broke from the ranks in every quarter of the field,
and rushed madly up the hillsides and into the shelter of the trees.
The magnificent army that had hailed the rising sun with hopes of
victory was soon pouring along the road in inextricable confusion and
disorderly retreat. Foot soldier and horseman, field-piece and wagon,
caisson and ambulance, teamster and cannoneer, all were mingled together
and rushing backward from the field they had half won, with their backs
to the pursuing foe. That rout has been traced, to our shame, in
history; the pen of the novelist shuns the disgraceful theme.

Harold, although faint with loss of blood, which oozed from a
flesh-wound in his shoulder, was among the gallant few who strove to
stem the ebbing current; struck at last by a spent ball in the temple,
he fell senseless to the ground. He would have been trampled upon and
crushed by the retreating column, had not a friendly hand dragged him
from the road to a little mound over which spread the branches of an
oak. Here he was found an hour afterward by a body of Confederate troops
and lifted into an ambulance with others wounded and bleeding like
himself.

While the vehicle, with its melancholy freight, was being slowly
trailed over the scene of the late battle, Harold partially recovered
his benumbed senses. He lay there as in a dream, striving to recall
himself to consciousness of his position. He felt the dull throbbing
pain upon his brow and the stinging sensation in his shoulder, and knew
that he was wounded, but whether dangerously or not he could not judge.
He could feel the trickling of blood from the bosom of a wounded comrade
at his side, and could hear the groans of another whose thigh was
shattered by the fragment of a shell; but the situation brought no
feeling of repugnance, for he was yet half stunned and lay as in a
lethargy, wishing only to drain one draught of water and then to sleep.
The monotonous rumbling of the ambulance wheels sounded distinctly upon
his ear, and he could listen, with a kind of objectless curiosity, to
the casual conversation of the driver, as he exchanged words here and
there with others, who were returning upon the same dismal errand from
the scene of carnage. The shadows of night spread around him, covering
the field of battle like a pall flung in charity by nature over the
corpses of the slain. Then his bewildered fancies darkened with the
surrounding gloom, and he thought that he was coffined and in a hearse,
being dragged to the graveyard to be buried. He put forth his hand to
push the coffin lid, but it fell again with weakness, and when his
fingers came in contact with the splintered bone that protruded from his
neighbor's thigh, and he felt the warm gushing of the blood that welled
with each throb of the hastily bound artery, he puzzled his dreamy
thoughts to know what it might mean. At last all became a blank upon his
brain, and he relapsed once more into unconsciousness.

And so, from dreamy wakefulness to total oblivion he passed to and fro,
without an interval to part the real from the unreal. He was conscious
of being lifted into the arms of men, and being borne along carefully by
strong arms. Whither? It seemed to his dull senses that they were
bearing him into a sepulchre, but he was not terrified, but careless and
resigned; or if he thought of it at all, it was to rejoice that when
laid there, he should be undisturbed. Presently a vague fancy passed
athwart his mind, that perhaps the crawling worms would annoy him, and
he felt uneasy, but yet not afraid. Afterward, there was a sensation of
quiet and relief, and his brain, for a space, was in repose. Then a
bright form bent over him, and he thought it was an angel. He could feel
a soft hand brushing the dampness from his brow, and fingers, whose
light touch soothed him, parting his clotted hair. The features grew
more distinct, and it pleased him to look upon them, although he strove
in vain to fix them in his memory, until a tear-drop fell upon his
cheek, and recalled his wandering senses; then he knew that Oriana was
bending over him and weeping.

He was in the cottage where Beverly had last parted from his sister; not
in the same room, for they feared to place him there, where Miranda was
lying in a shroud, with a coffin by her bed-side, lest the sad spectacle
should disturb him when he woke. It would be long before I should have
a cosy time with her again. It put fresh heart in me somehow; like
Jonathan's taste of honey, "it lightened my eyes," so that when
the final good-bye came, I could smile as I said it, and carry away
an impression of Aunt Agatha's smile too, as she stood on the steps,
with Patience behind her, watching until I was out of sight.

I am afraid I am different to most young women of my age--more
imaginative, and perhaps a little morbid.

Many things in everyday life came to me in the guise of symbols or signs--a
good-bye, for example. A parting even for a short time always appears
to me a faint type of that last solemn parting when we bid good-bye
to temporal things. I suppose kind eyes will watch us then, kind hands
clasp ours; as we start on that long journey they will bid God help
us, as with failing breath and, perhaps, some natural longings for the
friends we love, we go out into the great unknown, waiting until a Diviner
Guide take us by the hand.

"God help you, poor soul," we seem to hear them say, and perhaps we
hear the drip of their tears as they say it; but in that other
room, who can tell how gently those human drops will be wiped away,
in that place where pain and trouble are unknown?

(_To be continued._)

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

MISCELLANEOUS.

IMPERIUM ET LIBERTAS.--There is no question of etiquette in the matter of
the Highland friends of the bridegroom appearing at the wedding in their
national costume.

It is only a matter for their own decision and their friends' permission.

V. D. V.--You were exceedingly wrong in taking walks with any man without
your parents' permission, and you degraded yourself by enlisting the aid
of a servant to get letters from him unknown to them, and so led
her to do wrong and to act in an untrustworthy way to her master
and mistress.

You ought to tell her that you regret having so done, and will
do so no more.

A DEVONSHIRE DUMPLING says: "I would rather not drink vinegar or raw
lemon-juice, if you do not mind, please.""How unnatural is this strife that makes us sorrow for our foes no less
than for our friends?" said Oriana. "I seem to be living in a strange
clime, and in an age that has passed away. And how long can friendship
endure this fiery ordeal? How many scenes of carnage like this last
terrible one can afflict the land, without wiping away all trace of
brotherhood, and leaving in the void the seed of deadly hate?"

"If this repulse," said Beverly, "which your arms have suffered so early
in the contest, will awaken the North to a sense of the utter futility
of their design of subjugation, the blood that flowed at Manassas will
not have been shed in vain."

"No, not in vain," replied Harold, "but its fruits will be other than
you anticipate. The North will be awakened, but only to gird up its
loins and put forth its giant strength. The shame of that one defeat
will be worth to us hereafter a hundred victories. The North has
been smitten in its sleep; it will arouse from its lethargy like a lion
awakening under the smart of the hunter's spear. Beverly, base no vain
hopes upon the triumph of the hour; it seals your doom, for it serves
but to throw into the scale against you the aroused energies that till
now have been withheld."

"You count upon your resources, Harold, like a purse-proud millionaire,
who boasts his bursting coffers. We depend rather upon our determined
hearts and resolute right hands. Upon our power to endure, greater than
yours to inflict, reverse. Upon our united people, and the spirit that
animates them, which can never be subdued. The naked Britons could
defend their native soil against Caesar's legions, the veterans of a
hundred fights. Shall we do less, who have already tasted the fruits of
liberty so dearly earned? Harold, your people have assumed an impossible
task, and you may as well go cast your treasures into the sea as
squander them in arms to smite your kith and kin. We are Americans, like
yourselves; and when you confess that _you_ can be conquered by invading
armies, then dream of conquering us."

"And we will startle you from your dream with the crack of our Southern
rifles," added Oriana, somewhat maliciously, while Harold smiled at her
enthusiasm.

"There is a great deal of romance in both your natures," he replied.
"But it is not so good as powder for a fighting medium. The spirit you
boast of will not support you long without the aid of good round
dollars."

"Thank heaven we have less faith in their efficacy than you Northern
gold-worshippers," observed Oriana, with playful sarcasm. "While our
soldiers have good round corn-cakes, they will ask for no richer metals
than lead and steel. Have you never heard of the regiment of
Mississippians, who, having received their pay in government
certificates, to a man tore up the documents as they took up the line of
march, saying 'we do not fight for money?'"

Harold smiled, thinking perhaps that nothing better could have been done
with the currency in question.

"I think," said Beverly, "you are far out of the way in your estimate of
our resources. The South is strictly an agricultural country, and as
such, best able to support itself under the exhaustion consequent upon a
lengthened warfare, especially as it will remain in the attitude of
resistance to invasion. From the bosom of its prolific soil it can draw
its natural nourishment and retain its vigor throughout any period of
isolation, while you are draining your resources for the means of
providing an active aggressive warfare. The rallying of our white
population to the battle field will not interrupt the course of
agricultural pursuit, while every enlistment in the North will take one
man away from the tillage of the land or from some industrial
avocation."

"Not so," replied Harold. "Our armies for the most part will be
recruited from the surplus population, and abundant hands will remain
behind for the purposes of industry."

"At first, perhaps. But not after a few more such fields as were fought
on Sunday last. To carry out even a show of your project of subjugation,
you must keep a million of men in the field from year to year. Your
manufacturing interests will be paralyzed, your best customers shut out.
You will be spending enormously and producing little beyond the
necessities of consumption. We, on the contrary, will be producing as
usual, and spending little more than before."

"Can your armies be fed, clothed, and equipped without expense?"

"No. But all our means will be applied to military uses, and our
operations will be necessarily much less expensive than yours. In other
matters, we will forget our habits of extravagance. We will become, by
the law of necessity, economists in place of spendthrifts. I only
wished I was not such a dry old fellow, and that you could
have been fonder of me. Perhaps you will understand me better some day,
and----" Here he stopped and cleared his throat, and said "hir-rumph"
once or twice, and then I felt a thin crackling bit of paper underneath
my palm. "It will buy you something useful, my dear," he finished,
getting up in a hurry. A five-pound note, and he had lost so much money
and had to do without so many comforts! Who can wonder that I
jumped up and gave him a penitent hug.

It was long before I slept that night, and my first waking thoughts the
next morning were hardly as pleasant as usual. A premonitory symptom
of homesickness seized me as I glanced round my little room in
the dim, winter light. Aunt Agatha had made it so pretty; but here a
certain suspicious moisture stole under my eyelids, and I gave myself
a resolute shake, and commenced my toilet in a business-like way
that chased away gloomy thoughts.

Never had the little dining-room looked more inviting than when I entered
it that morning. One of Uncle Keith's carefully hoarded logs blazed
and crackled in the roomy fireplace, a delicious aroma of coffee
and smoking ham pervaded the room.

Aunt Agatha, in her pretty morning cap, was placing a vase of hothouse
flowers some old pupil had sent her in the centre of the table, and the
bullfinch was whistling as merrily as ever, while old Tom watched
him, sleepily, from the rug. I was rather long warming my hands and
stroking his sleek fur, for somehow I could not bring myself to
look or speak in quite my ordinary manner; and though Uncle Keith
did his best to enliven us by reading out scraps from his newspaper,
I am afraid we gave him only a partial attention.

Beverly was busy with his military duties, and Harold, who
had already fully recovered from his wounds, was enjoying, in company
with Oriana, a pleasant canter over the neighboring country. They came
to where the rolling meadow subsided into a level plain of considerable
extent on either side of the road. At its verge a thick forest formed a
dark background, beyond which the peering summits of green hills showed
that the landscape was rugged and uneven. Oriana slackened her pace, and
pointed out over the broad expanse of level country.

"You see this plain that stretches to our right and left?"

"Of course I do," replied Harold.

"Yes; but I want you to mark it well," she continued, with a significant
glance; "and also that stretch of woodland yonder, beyond which, you
see, the country rises again."

"Yes, a wild country, I should judge, like that to the left, where we
fought your batteries a month ago."

"It is, indeed, a wild country as you say. There are ravines there, and
deep glens, fringed with almost impenetrable shrubbery, and deep down in
these recesses flows many a winding water-course, lined and overarched
with twisted foliage. Are you skillful at threading a woodland
labyrinth?"

"Yes; my surveying expeditions have schooled me pretty well. Why do you
ask? Do you want me to guide you through the wilderness, in search of a
hermit's cave."

"Perhaps; women have all manner of caprices, you know. But I want you to
pay attention to those landmarks. Over yonder, there are some nooks that
would do well to hide a runaway. I have explored some of them myself,
for I passed some months here formerly, before the war. Poor Miranda's
family resided once in the little cottage where we are stopping now.
That is why I came from Richmond to spend a few days and be with
Beverly. I little thought that my coming would bring me to Miranda's
death-bed. Look there, now: you have a better view of where the forest
ascends into the hilly ground."

"Why are you so topographical to-day? One would think you were tempting
me to run away," said Harold, smiling, as he followed her pointing
finger with his eyes.

"No; I know you would not do that, because Beverly, you know, has
pledged himself for your safe-keeping."

"Very true; and I am therefore a closer prisoner than if I were loaded
down with chains. When do you return to Richmond?"

"I shall return on the day after to-morrow. Beverly has been charged
with an important service, and will be absent for several weeks. But he
can procure your parole, if you wish, and you can come to the old
manor-house again."

"I think I shall not accept parole," replied Harold, thoughtfully. "I
must escape, if possible, for Arthur's sake. Beverly, of course, will
release himself from all obligations about me, before he goes?"

"Yes, to-morrow; but you will be strictly guarded, unless you give
parole. See here, I have a little present for you; it is not very
pretty, but it is useful."

She handed him a small pocket-compass, set in a brass case.

"You can have this too," she added, drawing a small but strong and sharp
poignard from her bosom. "But you must promise me never to use it except
to save your life?"

"I will promise that cheerfully," said Harold, as he received the
precious gifts.

"To-morrow we will ride out again. We will have the same horses that
bear us so bravely now. Do you note how strong and well-bred is the
noble animal you ride?"

"Yes," said Harold, patting the glorious arch of his steed's neck. "He's
a fine fellow, and fleet, I warrant."

"Fleet as the winds. There are few in this neighborhood that can match
him. Let us go home now. You need not tell Beverly that I have given you
presents. And be ready to ride to-morrow at four o'clock precisely."

He understood her thoroughly, and they cantered homeward, conversing
upon indifferent subjects and reverting no further to their previous
somewhat enigmatical theme.

On the following afternoon, at four o'clock precisely, the horses were
at the door, and five minutes afterward a mounted officer, followed by
two troopers, galloped up the lane and drew rein at the gateway.

Harold was arranging the girths of Oriana's saddle, and she herself was
standing in her riding-habit beside the porch. The officer, dismounting,
approached her and raised his cap in respectful salute. He was young and
well-looking, evidently one accustomed to polite society.

"Good afternoon, Captain Haralson," said Oriana, with her most gracious
smile. "I am very glad to see you, although, as you bring your military
escort, I presume you come to see Beverly upon business, and not for the
friendly visit you promised me. But Beverly is not here."

"I left him at the camp on duty, Miss Weems," replied the captain. "It
is my misfortune that my own duties have been too strict of late to
permit me the pleasure of my contemplated visit."

"I must bide my time, captain. Let me introduce my friend. Captain Hare,
our prisoner, Mr. Haralson; but I know you will help me to make him
forget it, when I tell you that he was my brother's schoolmate and is
our old and valued friend."

The young officer took Harold frankly by the hand, but he looked grave
and somewhat disconcerted as he answered:

"Captain Hare, as a soldier, will forgive me that my duty compels me to
play a most ungracious part upon our first acquaintance. I have orders
to return with him to headquarters, where I trust his acceptance of
parole will enable me to avail myself of your introduction to show him
what courtesy our camp life admits, in atonement for the execution of my
present unpleasant devoir."

"I shall esteem your acquaintance the more highly," answered Harold,
"that you know so well to blend your soldiership with kindness. I am
entirely at your disposition, sir, having only to apologize to Miss
Weems for the deprivation of her contemplated ride."

"Oh, no, we must not lose our ride," said Oriana. "It is perhaps the
last we shall enjoy together, and such a lovely afternoon. I am sure
that Captain Haralson is too gallant to interrupt our excursion."

She turned to him with an arch smile, but he looked serious as he
replied:

"Alas! Miss Weems, our gallantry receives some rude rebuffs in the harsh
school of the soldier. It grieves me to mar your harmless recreation,
but even that mortification I must endure when it comes in the strict
line of my duty."

"But your duty does not forbid you to take a canter with us this
charming afternoon. Now put away that military sternness, which does not
become you at all, and help me to mount my pretty Nelly, who is getting
impatient to be off. And so am I. Come, you will get into camp in due
season, for we will go only as far as the Run, and canter all the way."

She took his arm, and he assisted her to the saddle, won into
acquiescence by her graceful obstinacy, and, in fact, seeing but little
harm the tufted hills rolled into one another like the waves of a
swelling sea, their crests tipped with the slant rays of the descending
sun, and their graceful slopes alternating among purple shadows and
gleams of floating light.

"It is indeed so beautiful," answered Harold, "that I should deem you
might be content to live there as of old, without inviting the terrible
companionship of Mars."

"We do not invite it," said the young captain. "Leave us in peaceful
possession of our own, and no war cries shall echo among those hills. If
Mars has driven his chariot into our homes, he comes at your bidding, an
unwelcome intruder, to be scourged back again."

"At our bidding! No. The first gun that was fired at Sumter summoned
him, and if he should leave his foot-prints deep in your soil, you have
well earned the penalty."

"It will cost you, to inflict it, many such another day's work as that
at Manassas a month ago."

The taunt was spoken hastily, and the young Southron colored as if
ashamed of his discourtesy, and added:

"Forgive me my ungracious speech. It was my first field, sir, and I am
wont to speak of it too boastingly. I shall become more modest, I hope,
when I shall have a better right to be a boaster."

"Oh," replied Harold, "I admit the shame of our discomfiture, and take
it as a good lesson to our negligence and want of purpose. But all that
has passed away. One good whipping has awakened us to an understanding
of the work we have in hand. Henceforth we will apply ourselves to the
task in earnest."

"You think, then, that your government will prosecute the war more
vigorously than before?"

"Undoubtedly. You have heard but the prelude of a gale that shall sweep
every vestige of treason from the land."

"Let it blow on," said the Southron, proudly. "There will be
counter-blasts to meet it. You cannot raise a tempest that will make us
bow our heads."

"Do you not think," interrupted Oriana, "that a large proportion of your
Northern population are ready at least to listen to terms of
separation?"

"No," replied Harold, firmly. "Or if there be any who entertain such
thoughts, we will make them outcasts among us, and the finger of scorn
will be pointed at them as recreant to their holiest duty."

"That is hardly fair," said Oriana. "Why should you scorn or maltreat
those who honestly believe that the doctrine in support of which so many
are ready to stake their lives and their fortunes, may be worthy of
consideration? Do you believe us all mad and wicked people in the
South--people without hearts, and without brains, incapable of forming
an opinion that is worth an argument? If there are some among you who
think we are acting for the best, and Heaven knows we are acting with
sincerity, you should give them at least a hearing, for the sake of
liberty of conscience. Remember, there are millions of us united in
sentiment in the South, and millions, perhaps, abroad who think with us.
How can you decide by your mere impulses where the right lies?"

"We decide by the promptings of our loyal hearts, and by our reason,
which tells us that secession is treason, and that treason must be
crushed."

"Heart and brain have been mistaken ere now," returned Oriana. As soon
as war was declared he was anxious to go in search of his enemy. He
urged upon the Pekin Government that the first step to be taken
was to use the Chinese fleet to attack the Japanese transports,
which were conveying troops to Korea.

This would, of course, lead to a battle with the enemy's fleet, but
Ting was quite confident that he would defeat the Japanese if he
met them.

In giving this advice the Chinese admiral was reasoning on correct
principles, even if his confidence in his own fighting power
was not justified by facts. To keep the fleet idle at Port Arthur
or Wei-hai-wei would be to concede the command of the sea to Japan,
without an effort to dispute it.

But the mandarins at Pekin would not accept their admiral's view. In
the first place they were alarmed at the fact that in a minor naval
engagement off the Korean coast, at the very outset of the conflict,
the weak Chinese force in action had fared very badly. The quarrel in
Korea had begun without a regular declaration of war. On the coast there
were the Chinese cruiser, "Tsi-yuen," and a small gunboat, the "Kwang-yi."
On 24 July the two ships had gone to sea to look for, and give their
escort to, some transports that were expected with reinforcements from
China. In the grey of the morning on the 25th they fell in with, and were
attacked by, three of the swift protected cruisers of the Japanese
fleet, the "Yoshino," "Akitsushima," and "Naniwa Kan." The fight was soon
over. The gunboat was sunk, and the little cruiser was attacked at close
quarters by the "Naniwa Kan," whose shells riddled her weak
conning-tower, killing all within it.
The "Tsing Yuen" fled, pursued by the "Naniwa," whose commander, by the
way, was Captain Togo, famous afterwards as the victorious admiral of
the Russo-Japanese War. The "Tsing Yuen" made good her escape,
only because the chase brought the "Naniwa Kan" on the track of the
transport "Kowshing," and Togo stopped to dispose of her by sending
her to the bottom.

This incident made the Pekin Government nervous about the fighting
qualities of their ships. And then they were afraid that if Ting went
to sea with all his ships, the Japanese fleet would elude him, and
appear with an expeditionary force at the mouth of the Pei-ho,
capture the Taku forts, and land an army to march on Pekin.

They therefore ordered Admiral Ting to collect his fleet at Port
Arthur, and watch the sea-approach to the capital.

The Japanese were therefore able to land their troops in Korea without
interruption, and soon overran the peninsula. When they were advancing
to capture Ping-yang, the Chinese began to concentrate a second army
to defend the crossing of the Yalu River, the entrance into Southern
Manchuria. It was now evident even to the Pekin mandarins that the
Japanese plans did not at this stage of the war include a raid on the
Pei-ho and the Chinese capital, so Admiral Ting was at last allowed
to go to sea, in order to protect the movement of transports along the
western shores of the Korean Bay to the mouth of the Yalu.In the South, butchery and rapine by hordes of desperate
negroes--in the North anarchy and political intrigue, to be merged into
dictatorship and the absolutism of military power. Such would be the
results of your triumph and our defeat."

"Those are the visions of a heated brain," said Harold. "I must confess
that your fighting is better than your logic. There is no danger to our
country that the loyalty of its people cannot overcome--as it will your
rebellion."


CHAPTER XXVI.


They had now approached the edge of the plain which Oriana had pointed
out on the preceding day. The sun, which had been tinging the western
sky with gorgeous hues, was peering from among masses of purple and
golden clouds, within an hour's space of the horizon. Captain Haralson,
interested and excited by his disputation, had been riding leisurely
along by the side of his prisoner, taking but little note of the route
or of the lapse of time.

"Cease your unprofitable argument," cried Oriana, "and let us have a
race over this beautiful plain. Look! 'tis as smooth as a race-course,
and I will lay you a wager, Captain Haralson, that my Nelly will lead
you to yonder clump, by a neck."

She touched her horse lightly with the whip, and turned from the road
into the meadows.

"It is late, Miss Weems," said the Southron, "and I must report at
headquarters before sundown. Besides, I am badly mounted, and it would
be but a sorry victory to distance me. I pray you, let us return."

"Nonsense! Nelly is not breathed. I must have one fair run over this
field; and, gentlemen, I challenge you both to outstrip Nelly if you
can."

With a merry shout, she struck the fleet mare smartly on the flank, and
the spirited animal, more at the sound of her voice than aroused by the
whip-lash, stretched forward her neck and sprang over the tufted level.
Harold waved his hand, as if in invitation, to his companion, and was
soon urging his powerful horse in the same direction. Haralson shouted
to them to stop, but they only turned their heads and beckoned to him
gaily, and plunging the spurs into the strong but heavy-hoofed charger
that he rode, he followed them as best he could. He kept close in their
rear very well at first, but he soon observed that he was losing
distance, and that the two swift steeds in front, that had been held in
check a little at the start, were now skimming the smooth meadow at a
tremendous pace.

"Halt!" he cried, at the top of his lungs; but either they heard it not
or heeded it not, for they still swept on, bending low forward in the
saddle, almost side by side.

A vague suspicion crossed his mind.

"Halt, there!"

Oriana glanced over her shoulder, and could see a sunray gleaming from
something that he held in his right hand. He had drawn a pistol from his
holster. She slackened her pace a little, and allowing Harold to take
the lead, rode on in the line between him and the pursuer. Harold turned
in his saddle. She could hear the tones of his voice rushing past her on
the wind.

"Come no further with me, lest suspicion attach to yourself. The good
horse will bear me beyond pursuit. Remember, it is for Arthur's sake I
have consented you should make this sacrifice. God bless you! and
farewell!"

A pistol-shot resounded in the air. Oriana knew it was fired but to
intimidate--the distance was too great to give the leaden messenger a
deadlier errand. Yet she drew rein, and waited, breathless with
excitement and swift motion, till Haralson came up. He turned one
reproachful glance upon her as he passed, and spurred on in pursuit.
Harold turned once again, to assure himself that she was unhurt, then
waved his hand, and urging his swift steed to the utmost, sped on toward
the forest which was now close at hand. The two troopers soon came
galloping up to where Oriana still sat motionless upon her saddle,
watching the race with strained eyes and heaving bosom.

"Your prisoner has escaped," she said; "spur on in pursuit."

She knew that it was of no avail, for Harold had already disappeared
among the mazes of the wood, and the sun was just dipping below the
horizon. Darkness would soon shroud the fugitive in its friendly mantle.
She turned Nelly's head homeward, and cantered silently away in the
gathering twilight.


CHAPTER XXVII.


When Captain Haralson and the two troopers reached the verge of the
forest, they could trace for a short distance the hoof-prints of
Harold's horse, and followed them eagerly among the labyrinthine paths
which the fugitive had made through the tangled shrubbery and among the
briery thickets. But soon the gloom of night closed in upon them in the
depth of the silent wood, and they were left without a sign by which to
direct the pursuit. It was near midnight when they reached the further
edge of the forest, and there, throwing fantastic gleams of red light
among the shadows of the tall trees, they caught sight of what seemed to
be the glimmer of a watchfire. Soon after, the growl of a hound was
heard, followed by a deep-mouthed bay, and approaching cautiously, they
were hailed by the watchful sentinel. It was a Confederate picket,
posted on the outskirt of the forest, and Haralson, making himself
known, rode up to where the party, awakened by their approach, had
roused themselves from their blankets, and were standing with ready
rifles beside the blazing fagots.

Haralson made known his errand to the officer in command, and the
sentries were questioned, but all declared that nothing had disturbed
their watch; if the fugitive had passed their line, he had succeeded in
eluding their vigilance.

"I must send one of my men back to camp to report the escape," said
Haralson, "and will ask you to spare me a couple of your fellows to help
me hunt the Yankee down. Confound him, I deserve to lose my epaulettes
for my folly, but I'll follow him to the Potomac, rather than return to
headquarters without him."

"Who was it?" asked the officer; "was he of rank?"

"A captain, Captain Hare, well named for his fleetness; but he was
mounted superbly, and I suspect the whole thing was cut and dried."

"Hare?" cried a hoarse voice; and the speaker, a tall, lank man, who had
been stretched by the fire, with the head of a large, gaunt bloodhound
in his lap, rose suddenly and stepped forward.

"Harold Hare, by G--d!" he exclaimed; "I know the fellow. Captain, I'm
with you on this hunt, and Bully there, too, who is worth the pair of
us. Hey, Bully?"

The dog stretched himself lazily, and lifted his heavy lip with a grin
above the formidable fangs that glistened in the gleam of the watchfire.

"You may go," said his officer, "but I can't spare another. You three,
with the dog, will be enough. Rawbon's as good a man as you can get,
captain. Set a thief to catch a thief, and a Yankee to outwit a Yankee.
You'd better start at once, unless you need rest or refreshment."

"Nothing," replied Haralson. "Let your man put something into his
haversack. Good night, lieutenant. Come along, boys, and keep your eyes
peeled, for these Yankees are slippery eels, you know."

Seth Rawbon had already bridled his horse that was grazing hard by, and
the party, with the hound close at his master's side, rode forth upon
their search.


CHAPTER XXVIII.


Harold had perceived the watchfire an hour earlier than his pursuers,
having obtained thus much the advantage of them by the fleetness of his
steed. He moved well off to the right, riding slowly and cautiously,
until another faint glimmer in that direction gave him to understand
that he was about equi-distant between two pickets of the enemy. He
dismounted at the edge of the forest, and securing his steed to the
branch of a tree, crept forward a few paces beyond the shelter of the
wood, and looked about earnestly in the darkness. Nothing could be seen
but the long, straggling line of the forest losing itself in the gloom,
and the black outlines, of the hills before him; but his quick ear
detected the sound of coming hoof and the ringing of steel scabbards. A
patrol was approaching, and fearful that his horse, conscious of the
neighborhood of his kind, might betray his presence with a sign of
recognition, he hurried back, and standing beside the animal, caressed
his glossy neck and won his attention with the low murmurs of his voice.
The good steed remained silent, only pricking up his ears and peering
through the branches as the patrol went clattering by. Harold waited
till the trampling of hoofs died away in the distance, and judging, from
their riding on without a challenge or a pause, that there was no sentry
within hail, he mounted and rode boldly out into the open country. The
stars were mostly obscured by heavy clouds, but here and there was a
patch of clear blue sky, and his eye, practised with many a surveying
night-tramp, discovered at last a twinkling guide by which to shape his
path in a northerly direction. It was a wild, rough country over which
he passed. With slow and careful steps, his sagacious steed moved on,
obedient to the rein, at one time topping the crest of a rugged hill,
and then winding at a snail's pace down the steep declivity, or
following the tortuous course of the streamlet through deep ravines,
whose jagged and bush-clad sides frowned down upon them on either side,
deepening the gloom of night.

So all through the long hours of darkness, Harold toiled on his lonely
way, startled at times by the shriek of the night bird, and listening
intently to catch the sign of danger. At last the dawn, welcome although
it enhanced the chances of detection, blushed faintly through the
clouded eastern sky, and Harold, through the mists of morning, could see
a fair and rolling landscape stretched before him. The sky was overcast,
and presently the heavy drops began to fall. Consulting the little
friendly compass which Oriana had given him, he pushed on briskly,
turning always to the right or left, as the smoke, circling from some
early housewife's kitchen, betrayed the dangerous neighborhood of a
human habitation.

Crossing a rivulet, he dismounted, and filled a small leathern bottle
that he carried with him, his good steed and himself meanwhile
satisfying their thirst from the cool wave. His appetite, freshened by
exercise, caused him to remember a package which Oriana's forethought
had provided for him on the preceding afternoon. He drew it from, his
pocket, and while his steed clipped the tender herbage from the
streamlet's bank, he made an excellent breakfast of the corn bread and
bacon, and other substantial edibles, which his kind friend had
bountifully supplied. Man and horse thus refreshed, he remounted, and
rode forward at a gallant pace, the strong animal he bestrode seeming as
yet to show no signs of fatigue.

The rain was now falling in torrents, a propitious circumstance, since
it lessened the probabilities of his encountering the neighboring
inhabitants, most of whom must have sought shelter from the pelting
storm. He occasionally came up with a trudging negro, sometimes a group
of three or four, who answered timidly whenever he accosted them, and
glanced at him askance, but yet gave the information he requested. Once,
indeed, he could discern a troop of cavalry plashing along at same
distance through the muddy road, but he screened himself in a cornfield,
and was unobserved. His watch had been injured in the battle, and he had
no means, except conjecture, of judging of the hour; but by the flagging
pace of his horse, and his own fatigue, he knew that he must have been
many hours in the saddle. Surely the Potomac must be at hand! Yet there
was no sign of it, and over interminable hill and dale, through
corn-fields, and over patches of woodland and meadow, the weary steed
was urged on, slipping and sliding in the saturated soil. What was that
sound which caused his horse to prick up his ears and quicken his pace
with the instinct of danger? He heard it himself distinctly. It was the
baying of a bloodhound.

"They are on my track!" muttered Harold; "and unless the river is at
hand, I am lost. Forward, sir! forward, good fellow!" he shouted
cheerily to his horse, and the noble animal, snorting and tossing his
silken mane, answered with an effort, and broke into a gallop.

Down one hill into a little valley they pushed on, and up the ascent of
another. They reached the crest, and then, thank Heaven! there was the
broad river, winding through the valley. Dull and leaden hued as it
looked, reflecting the clouded sky, he had never hailed it so joyfully
when sparkling with sunbeams as he did at the close of that weary day.
"But, in fact, much of the nonsense that has been talked grew out of the
attempt, not unsuccessfully made, to represent the war as religious;
to describe it as a species of crusade instigated by the Pope, in order
to bring heretical England once more into the fold of the true
Church. In reality nothing can be more inaccurate. It is, indeed,
quite certain that religious bitterness was imported into the
quarrel; but the war had its origin in two perfectly clear and
wholly mundane causes."

Professor Laughton then goes on to explain what these causes were: (1) the
attempts of Drake and Hawkins to break the Spanish monopoly of trade in
the West Indies by armed expeditions, which included the capture of
Spanish ships and the sacking of Spanish trading posts. The Spaniards
regarded Drake and Hawkins as smugglers and pirates, and in vain asked
Elizabeth to disavow and make amends for their acts

.

(2) "The countenance and assistance which had been given by the English
to the King's rebellious subjects in the Low Countries."
The King was glad enough to put forward religious reasons as the motives
for his enterprise in the hope of thus enlisting new allies on his side,
but, like so many other wars, the conflict between Spain and England,
which began in 1585, arose largely from rivalry in trade.

The Marquis of Santa Cruz, the same who had commanded the allied reserve
at Lepanto, was then the most famous and the most trusted of King
Philip's admirals. Santa Cruz urged upon him the advisability of
attempting an invasion of England itself, as the only effective means
of cutting off the support given by Elizabeth to the revolt of the
Netherlands, and checking at their source the raids on the West Indies.
In March, 1586, he submitted to his master an elaborate plan for
the operation. Santa Cruz's scheme was an ambitious project for concentrating
the whole force of the Spanish Empire in an attack on England. Some
500 ships, great and small, were to be assembled in the ports of
the Spanish peninsula, and 85,000 men embarked on them.

Philip II thought the scheme too vast, and, above all, too costly.
He substituted for it another plan, which was more economical.
Santa Cruz was to assemble in the Atlantic ports of the Peninsula a fleet
of more modest proportions, just strong enough to secure command
of the Channel.

This done, he was to cover the transportation across the narrow seas of
the Spanish army that was already operating in the Netherlands, under
the Duke of Parma. The army of the Netherlands would be reinforced with
all the fighting-men that could be spared from the fleet. This was in
its essential points the plan of campaign of the "Gran' Armada" of 1588.
He heard a voice above, shouting:
"Look out for the bluff there, we must be near it!"

The warning came too late. There was a cry of terror--the blended voice
of man and horse, startling the night and causing Harold to crouch with
instinctive horror close to the dripping rock. There was a rush of wind
and the bounding by of a dark whirling body, which rolled over and over,
tearing over the sharp angles of the cliff, and scattering the loose
fragments of stone over him as he clung motionless to his support. Then
there was a dull thump below, and a little afterward a terrible moan,
and then all was still.

Harold continued his descent and reached the base of the bluff in
safety. Through the darkness he could see a dark mass lying like a
shadow among the pointed stones, with the waves of the river rippling
about it. He approached it. There lay the steed gasping in the last
agony, and the rider beneath him, crushed, mangled and dead. He stooped
down by the side of the corpse; it was bent double beneath the quivering
body of the dying horse, in such a manner as must have snapped the spine
in twain. Harold lifted the head, but let it fall again with a shudder,
for his fingers had slipped into the crevice of the cleft skull and were
all smeared with the oozing brain. Yet, despite the obscurity and the
disfigurement, despite the bursting eyeballs and the clenched jaws
through which the blood was trickling, he recognized the features of
Seth Rawbon.

No time for contemplation or for revery. There was a scrambling
overhead, with now and then a snarl and an angry growl. And further up,
he heard the sound of voices, labored and suppressed, as of men who were
speaking while toiling at some unwonted exercise. Harold threw off his
coat and boots, and waded out into the river. The dark hull of the
schooner could be seen looming above the gloomy surface of the water,
and he dashed toward it through the deepening wave. There was a splash
behind him and soon he could hear the puffing and short breathing of a
swimming dog. He was then up to his arm-pits in the water, and a few
yards further would bring him off his footing. He determined to wait the
onset there, while he could yet stand firm upon the shelving bottom. He
had not long to wait. The bloodhound made directly for him; he could see
his eyes snapping and glaring like red coals above the black water.
Harold braced himself as well as he could upon the yielding sand, and
held his poignard, Oriana's welcome gift, with a steady grasp. The dog
came so close that his fetid breath played upon Harold's cheek; then he
aimed a swift blow at his neck, but the brute dodged it like a fish.
Harold lost his balance and fell forward into the water, but in falling,
he launched out his left hand and caught the tough loose skin above the
animal's shoulder. He held it with the grasp of a drowning man, and over
and over they rolled in the water, like two sea monsters at their sport.
With all his strength, Harold drew the fierce brute toward him,
circling his neck tightly with his left arm, and pressed the sharp blade
against his throat. The hot blood gushed out over his hand, but he drove
the weapon deeper, slitting the sinewy flesh to the right and left, till
the dog ceased to struggle. Then Harold flung the huge carcass from him,
and struck out, breathless as he was, for the schooner. It was time, for
already his pursuers were upon the bank, aiming their pistol shots at
the black spot which they could just distinguish cleaving through the
water. But a few vigorous strokes carried him beyond their vision and
they ceased firing. Soon he heard the sound of muffled oars and a dark
shape seemed to rise from the water in front of him. The watch on board
the schooner, alarmed by the firing, had sent a boat's crew to
reconnoitre. Harold divined that it was so, and hailing the approaching
boat, was taken in, and ten minutes afterward, stood, exhausted but
safe, upon the schooner's deck.


CHAPTER XXIX.


With the earliest opportunity, Harold proceeded to Washington, and
sought an interview with the President, in relation to Arthur's case.
Mr. Lincoln received him kindly, but could give no information
respecting the arrest or alleged criminality of his friend. "There were
so many and pressing affairs of state that he could find no room for
individual cases in his memory." However, he referred him to the
Secretary of War, with a request that the latter would look into the
matter. By dint of persistent inquiries at various sources, Harold
finally ascertained that the prisoner had a few days previously been
released, upon the assurance of the surgeon at the fort, that his
failing health required his immediate removal. Inquiry had been made
into the circumstances leading to his arrest; made too late, however, to
benefit the victim of a State mistake, whose delicate health had already
been too severely tried by the discomforts attendant upon his
situation. However, enough had been ascertained to leave but little
doubt as to his innocence; and Arthur, with the ghastly signs of a rapid
consumption upon his wan cheek, was dismissed from the portals of a
prison, which had already prepared him for the tomb.

Harold hastened to Vermont, whither he knew the invalid had been
conveyed. It was toward the close of the first autumn day that he
entered the little village, upon whose outskirts was situated the farm
of his dying friend. The air was mild and balmy, but the voices of
nature seemed to him more hushed than usual, as if in mournful unison
with his own sad reveries. He had passed on foot from the village to the
farm-house, and when he opened the little white wicket, and walked along
the gravelled avenue that led to the flower-clad porch, the willows on
either side seemed to droop lower than willows are used to droop, and
the soft September air sighed through the swinging boughs, like the
prelude of a dirge.

Arthur was reclining upon an easy-chair upon the little porch, and
beside him sat a venerable lady, reading from the worn silver-clasped
Bible, which rested on her lap. The lady rose when he approached; and
Arthur, whose gaze had been wandering among the autumn clouds, that
wreathed the points of the far-off mountains, turned his head languidly,
when the footsteps broke his dream.

He did not rise. Alas! he was too weak to do so without the support of
his aged mother's arm, which had so often cradled him in infancy and had
now become the staff of his broken manhood. But a beautiful and happy
smile illumined his pale lips, and spread all over the thin and wasted
features, like sunlight gleaming on the grey surface of a church-yard
stone. He lifted his attenuated hand, and when Harold clasped it, the
fingers were so cold and deathlike that their pressure seemed to close
about his heart, compressing it, and chilling the life current in his
veins.

"I knew that you would come, Harold. Although I read that you were
missing at the close of that dreadful battle, something told me that we
should meet again. Whether it was a sick man's fancy, or the foresight
of a parting soul, it is realized, for you are here. And you come not
too soon, Harold," he added, with a pressure of the feeble hand, "for I
am going fast--fast from the discords of earth--fast to the calm and
harmony beyond."

"Oh, Arthur, how changed you are!" said Harold, who could not keep from
fastening his gaze on the white, sunken cheek and hollow eyes of his
dying comrade. "But you will get better now, will you not--now that you
are home again, and we can nurse you?"

Arthur shook his head with a mournful smile, and the fit of painful
coughing which overtook him answered his friend's vain hope.

"No, Harold, no. All of earth is past to me, even hope. And I am ready,
cheerful even, to go, except for the sake of some loved ones that will
sorrow for me."

He took his mother's hand as he spoke, and looked at her with touching
tenderness, while the poor dame brushed away her tears.

"I have but a brief while to stay behind," she said, "and my sorrow will
be less, to know that you have ever been a good son to me. Oh, Mr. Hare,
he might have lived to comfort me, and close my old eyes in death, if
they had not been so cruel with him, and locked him within prison
walls. He, who never dreamed of wrong, and never injured willingly a
worm in his path."

"Nay, mother, they were not unkind to me in the fort, and did what they
could to make me comfortable. But, Harold, it is wrong. I have thought
of it in the long, weary nights in prison, and I have thought of it when
I knew that death was beckoning me to come and rest from the thoughts of
earth. It is wrong to tamper with the sacred law that shields the
citizen. I believe that many a man within those fortress walls is as
innocent in the eyes of God as those who sent him there. Yet I accuse
none of willful wrong, but only of unconscious error. If the sacrifice
of my poor life could shed one ray upon the darkness, I would rejoice to
be the victim that I am, of a violated right. But all, statesmen, and
chieftains, and humble citizens, are being swept along upon the
whirlwinds of passion; all hearts are ablaze with the fiery magnificence
of war, and none will take warning till the land shall be desolate, and
thousands, stricken in their prime, shall be sleeping--where I shall
soon be--beneath the cold sod. I am weary, mother, and chill. Let us go
in."

A comparison of these two lists brings out some interesting points.
The advantage in gun power was clearly on the side of the Japanese.
Of the heavier class of guns they had seventy to fifty-five, and there
were no weapons in the Chinese squadron equal to the long 12 1/2-inch
rifled breech-loaders of French make, carried by four of the
Japanese cruisers.

But there was a further gain in gun power for the Japanese in the possession
of 128 quick-firers, some of them of fairly heavy calibre. The
quick-firing gun was then a new weapon.

It is really a quick loader, a gun fitted with a breech action that
can be opened and closed by a rapid movement, and so mounted that
the recoil is taken up by mechanism in the carriage which at once
automatically runs the gun back into firing position, while the
process of loading is further accelerated (for the smaller calibre
guns) by making up the ammunition like that of a rifle, with
projectile and charge in a big brass-cased cartridge, so that the
gun can be loaded up by one movement, and the cartridge contains
its own means of ignition, and is fired by pulling off a trigger.

The lighter quick-firers are further mounted on pivots, so that
they can be easily moved through an arc of a circle by one man, who
keeps his eyes on a moving target and his finger on the trigger
ready to fire.

The storm of shells that poured from the Japanese quick-firers was even
more terrible for the Chinese than the slower fire of the heavy guns,
and of these new quick-firing guns the Chinese only had three on the
little "Kwang-ping."

During my captivity, she was my jailer; in my
sickness, for I was slightly wounded, she was my nurse. I will tell you
all about it to-morrow."

"Yes, to-morrow," replied Arthur, breathing heavily. "To-morrow! the
word sounds meaningless to me, like something whose significance has
left me. Is she well, Harold?"

"Yes."

"And happy?"

"I think so, Arthur. As happy as any of us can be, amid severed ties and
dread uncertainties."

"I am glad that she is well. Harold, you will tell her, for I am sure
you will meet again, you will tell her it was my dying wish that you two
should be united. Will you promise, Harold?"

"I will tell her all that you wish, Arthur."

"I seem to feel that I shall be happy in my grave, to know that, she
will be your wife; to know that my guilty love--for I loved her, Harold,
and it _was_ guilt to love--to know that it left no poison behind, that
its shadow has passed away from the path that you must tread."

"Speak not of guilt, my friend. There could live no crime between two
such noble hearts. And had I thought you would have accepted the
sacrifice, I could almost have been happy to have given her to you, so
much was her happiness the aim of my own love."

"Yes, for you have a glorious heart, Harold; and I thank Heaven that she
cannot fail to love you. And you do not think, do you, Harold, that it
would be wrong for you two to speak of me when I am gone? I cannot bear
to think that you should deem it necessary to drive me from your
memories, as one who had stepped in between your hearts. I am sure she
will love you none the less for her remembrance of me, and therefore
sometimes you will talk together of me, will you not?"

"Yes, we will often talk of you, for what dearer theme to both could we
choose; what purer recollections could our memories cherish than of the
friend we both loved so much, and who so well deserved our love?"

"And I am forgiven, Harold?"

"Were there aught to be forgiven, I would forgive; but I have never
harbored in my most secret heart one trace of anger or resentment toward
you. Do not talk more, dear Arthur. To-morrow, perhaps, you will be
stronger, and then we will speak again. Here comes your mother, and she
will scold me for letting you fatigue yourself so much."

"Raise me a little on the pillow, please. I seem to breathe more heavily
to-night. Thank you, I will sleep now. Good night, mother; I will eat
the gruel when I wake. I had rather sleep now. Good night, Harold!"

He fell into a slumber almost immediately, and they would not disturb
him, although his mother had prepared the food he had been used to
take.

"I think he is better to-night. He seems to sleep more tranquilly," said
Mrs. Wayne. "If you will step below, I have got a dish of tea for you,
and some little supper."

Harold went down and refreshed himself at the widow's neat and
hospitable board, and then walked out into the evening, to dissipate, if
possible, the cloud that was lowering about his heart. He paced up and
down the avenue of willows, and though the fresh night air soothed the
fever of his brain, he could not chase away the gloom that weighed upon
his spirit. His mind wandered among mournful memories--the field of
battle, strewn with the dying and the dead; the hospital where brave
suffering men were groaning under the surgeon's knife; the sick chamber,
where his friend was dying.

"And I, too," he thought, "have become the craftsman of Death, training
my arm and intellect to be cunning in the butchery of my fellows!
Wearing the instrument of torture at my side, and using the faculties
God gave me to mutilate His image. Yet, from the pulpit and the
statesman's chair, and far back through ages from the pages of history,
precept and example have sought to record its justification, under the
giant plea of necessity. But is it justified? Has man, in his
enlightenment, sufficiently studied to throw aside the hereditary errors
that come from the past, clothed in barbarous splendors to mislead
thought and dazzle conscience? Oh, for one glimpse of the Eternal Truth!
to teach us how far is delegated to mortal man the right to take away
the life he cannot give. When shall the sword be held accursed? When
shall man cease to meddle with the most awful prerogative of his God?
When shall our right hands be cleansed forever from the stain of blood,
and homicide be no longer a purpose and a glory upon earth? I shudder
when I look up at the beautiful serenity of this autumn sky, and
remember that my deed has loosened an immortal soul from its clay, and
hurled it, unprepared, into its Maker's presence. My conscience would
rebuke my hand, should it willfully shatter the sculptor's marble
wrought into human shape, or deface the artist's ideal pictured upon
canvas, or destroy aught that is beautiful and costly of man's ingenuity
and labor. And yet these I might replace with emptying a purse into the
craftsman's hand. But will my gold recall the vital spark into those
cold forms that, stricken by my steel or bullet, are rotting in their
graves? The masterpiece of God I have destroyed. His image have I
defaced; the wonderful mechanism that He alone can mold, and molded for
His own holy purpose, have I shattered and dismembered; the soul, an
essence of His own eternity, have I chased from its alotted earthly
home, and I rely for my justification upon--what?--the fact that my
victim differed from me in political belief. Must the hand of man be
raised against the workmanship of God because an earthly bond has been
sundered? Our statesmen teach us so, the ministers of our faith
pronounce it just; but, oh God! should it be wrong! When the blood is
hot, when the heart throbs with exaltation, when martial music swells,
and the war-steed prances, and the bayonets gleam in the bright
sunlight--then I think not of the doubt, nor of the long train of
horrors, the tears, the bereavements, the agonies, of which this martial
magnificence is but the vanguard. Soldiers and sailors, veterans of many
wars, and the chief pilots of the fleet sat round his cabin table, and
there was anxious debate. No one could say how long it would be
before Parma's army was ready; ammunition and provisions were short,
men falling sick, ships badly damaged, though only a dozen had been
actually lost. The wind was increasing from the south-south-west, and
the pilots urged that the best course was to run up the North
Sea, round the north of Scotland, reach the open Atlantic, and so
return to Spain without further fighting.

Some of the best of the officers, men who had been throughout in the thick
of the fighting, protested against this course, to which their
admiral was evidently inclined.

Recalde, Oquendo, and Leyva spoke for the brave minority.

Most of the great fleet was still safe, and Recalde begged the Duke
to lie off and on till the wind blew fair for the Channel again, and then
risk another fight. Leyva supported him, and said that though his own
ship, the "Rata Coronada," had been sorely battered, was leaking like
a sieve, and had only thirty cartridges in her magazine, he would
rather take her into action again and sink fighting than see the
Armada run away northward like a pack of cowards.

But what seemed the easiest course prevailed. Medina-Sidonia saved his
conscience as a soldier by summing up the resolution of the council
as a decision to sail northward, but turn back and fight if the wind
and weather became favourable.

So in the following days the Armada sped northward before the
south-west wind, which sometimes blew hard and raised a sea that
increased the distress of the Spaniards.

Howard followed with the English fleet, just keeping the Armada in sight.

Everything was hushed
around, save the monotones of the insects in the fields, and the
breathing of those that slept. If there is an hour when the soul is
lifted above earth and communes with holy things, it is in the stillness
of the country night, when the solitary watcher sits beside the pillow
of a loved one, waiting the coming of the dark angel, whose footsteps
are at the threshold. Harold sat gazing silently at the face of the
invalid; sometimes a feeble smile would struggle with the lines of
suffering upon the pinched and haggard lineaments, and once from the
white lips came the murmur of a name, so low that only the solemn
stillness made the sound palpable--the name of Oriana.

Toward midnight, Arthur's breathing became more difficult and painful,
and his features changed so rapidly that Harold became fearful that the
end was come. With a sigh, he stepped softly to the sofa, and wakened
Mrs. Wayne, taking her gently by the hand which trembled in his grasp.
She knew that she was awakened to a terrible sorrow--that she was about
to bid farewell to the joy of her old age. Arthur opened his eyes, but
the weeping mother turned from them; she could not bear to meet them,
for already the glassy film was veiling the azure depths whose light had
been so often turned to her in tenderness.

"Give me some air, mother. It is so close--I cannot breathe."

They raised him upon the pillow, and his mother supported the languid
head upon her bosom.

"Arthur, my son! are you suffering, my poor boy?"

"Yes. It will pass away. Do not grieve. Kiss me, dear mother."

He was gasping for breath, and his hand was tightly clasped about his
mother's withered palm. She wiped the dampness from his brow, mingling
her tears with the cold dews of death.

"Is Harold there?"

"Yes, Arthur."

"You will not forget? And you will love and guard her well?"

"Yes, Arthur."

"Put away the sword, Harold; it is accursed of God. Is not that the
moonlight that streams upon the bed?"

"Yes. Does it disturb you, Arthur?"

"No. Let it come in. Let it all come in; it seems a flood of glory."

His voice grew faint, till they could scarce hear its murmur. His
breathing was less painful, and the old smile began to wreathe about his
lips, smoothing the lines of pain.

"Kiss me, dear mother! You need not hold me. I am well enough--I am
happy, mother. I can sleep now."

He slept no earthly slumber. As the summer air that wafts a rose-leaf
from its stem, gently his last sigh stole upon the stillness of the
night. Harold lifted the lifeless form from the mother's arms, and when
it drooped upon the pillow, he turned away, that the parent might close
the lids of the dead son.


THE END.