"

"Does it, Lady Arabella?"

"Yes, upon one thing. You won't be angry if I ask you another
question--eh, Mary?"

"No; at least I don't think I will."

"Is there any truth in what we hear about your being engaged to
Frank?"

Mary made no immediate answer to this, but sat quite silent, looking
Lady Arabella in the face; not but that she had made up her mind as
to what answer she would give, but the exact words failed her at the
moment.

"Of course you must have heard of such a rumour," continued Lady
Arabella.

"Oh, yes, I have heard of it."

"Yes, and you have noticed it, and I must say very properly. When you
went to Boxall Hill, and before that with Miss Oriel's to her aunt's,
I thought you behaved extremely well." Mary felt herself glow with
indignation, and began to prepare words that should be sharp and
decisive. "But, nevertheless, people talk; and Frank, who is still
quite a boy" (Mary's indignation was not softened by this allusion
to Frank's folly), "seems to have got some nonsense in his head. I
grieve to say it, but I feel myself in justice bound to do so, that
in this matter he has not acted as well as you have done. Now,
therefore, I merely ask you whether there is any truth in the report.
If you tell me that there is none, I shall be quite contented."

"But it is altogether true, Lady Arabella; I am engaged to Frank
Gresham."

"Engaged to be married to him?"

"Yes; engaged to be married to him."

What was to say or do now? Nothing could be more plain, more decided,
or less embarrassed with doubt than Mary's declaration. And as she
made it she looked her visitor full in the face, blushing indeed, for
her cheeks were now suffused as well as her forehead; but boldly,
and, as it were, with defiance.

"And you tell me so to my face, Miss Thorne?"

"And why not? Did you not ask me the question; and would you have me
answer you with a falsehood? I am engaged to him. As you would put
the question to me, what other answer could I make? The truth is,
that I am engaged to him."

The decisive abruptness with which Mary declared her own iniquity
almost took away her ladyship's breath. She had certainly believed
that they were engaged, and had hardly hoped that Mary would deny it;
but she had not expected that the crime would be acknowledged, or, at
any rate, if acknowledged, that the confession would be made without
some show of shame. On this Lady Arabella could have worked; but
there was no such expression, nor was there the slightest hesitation.
"I am engaged to Frank Gresham," and having so said, Mary looked her
visitor full in the face.

"Then it is indeed impossible that you should be received at
Greshamsbury."

"At present, quite so, no doubt: in saying so, Lady Arabella, you
only repeat the answer I made to your first question. I can now go
to Greshamsbury only in one light: that of Mr Gresham's accepted
daughter-in-law."

"And that is perfectly out of the question; altogether out of the
question, now and for ever."

"I will not dispute with you about that; but, as I said before, my
being at Beatrice's wedding is not to be thought of."

Lady Arabella sat for a while silent, that she might meditate, if
possible, calmly as to what line of argument she had now better take.
It would be foolish in her, she thought, to return home, having
merely expressed her anger. She had now an opportunity of talking to
Mary which might not again occur: the difficulty was in deciding in
what special way she should use the opportunity. Should she threaten,
or should she entreat? To do her justice, it should be stated, that
she did actually believe that the marriage was all but impossible;
she did not think that it could take place. But the engagement might
be the ruin of her son's prospects, seeing how he had before him one
imperative, one immediate duty--that of marrying money.

Having considered all this as well as her hurry would allow her,
she determined first to reason, then to entreat, and lastly, if
necessary, to threaten.

"I am astonished! you cannot be surprised at that, Miss Thorne: I am
astonished at hearing so singular a confession made."

"Do you think my confession singular, or is it the fact of my being
engaged to your son?"

"We will pass over that for the present. But do let me ask you, do
you think it possible, I say possible, that you and Frank should be
married?"

"Oh, certainly; quite possible."

"Of course you know that he has not a shilling in the world."

"Nor have I, Lady Arabella."

"Nor will he have were he to do anything so utterly hostile to his
father's wishes. The property, you are aware, is altogether at Mr
Gresham's disposal."

"I am aware of nothing about the property, and can say nothing about
it except this, that it has not been, and will not be inquired after
by me in this matter. If I marry Frank Gresham, it will not be for
the property. I am sorry to make such an apparent boast, but you
force me to do it."

"On what then are you to live? You are too old for love in a cottage,
I suppose?"

"Not at all too old; Frank, you know is 'still quite a boy.'"

Impudent hussy! forward, ill-conditioned saucy minx! such were
the epithets which rose to Lady Arabella's mind; but she politely
suppressed them.

"Miss Thorne, this subject is of course to me very serious; very
ill-adapted for jesting. I look upon such a marriage as absolutely
impossible."

"I do not know what you mean by impossible, Lady Arabella."

"I mean, in the first place, that you two could not get yourselves
married."

"Oh, yes; Mr Oriel would manage that for us. We are his parishioners,
and he would be bound to do it."

"I beg your pardon; I believe that under all the circumstances it
would be illegal."

Mary smiled; but she said nothing. "You may laugh, Miss Thorne, but I
think you will find that I am right. There are still laws to prevent
such fearful distress as would be brought about by such a marriage."

"I hope that nothing I shall do will bring distress on the family."

"Ah, but it would; don't you know that it would? Think of it, Miss
Thorne. Think of Frank's state, and of his father's state. You know
enough of that, I am sure, to be well aware that Frank is not in a
condition to marry without money. Think of the position which Mr
Gresham's only son should hold in the county; think of the old name,
and the pride we have in it; you have lived among us enough to
understand all this; think of these things, and then say whether it
is possible such a marriage should take place without family distress
of the deepest kind. Think of Mr Gresham; if you truly love my son,
you could not wish to bring on him all this misery and ruin."

Mary now was touched, for there was truth in what Lady Arabella said.
But she had no power of going back; her troth was plighted, and
nothing that any human being could say should shake her from it. If
he, indeed, chose to repent, that would be another thing.

"Lady Arabella," she said, "I have nothing to say in favour of this
engagement, except that he wishes it."

"And is that a reason, Mary?"

"To me it is; not only a reason, but a law. I have given him my
promise."

"And you will keep your promise even to his own ruin?"

"I hope not. Our engagement, unless he shall choose to break it off,
must necessarily be a long one; but the time will come--"

"What! when Mr Gresham is dead?"

"Before that, I hope."

"There is no probability of it. And because he is headstrong, you,
who have always had credit for so much sense, will hold him to this
mad engagement?"

"No, Lady Arabella; I will not hold him to anything to which he does
not wish to be held. Nothing that you can say shall move me: nothing
that anybody can say shall induce me to break my promise to him. But
a word from himself will do it. One look will be sufficient. Let him
give me to understand, in any way, that his love for me is injurious
to him--that he has learnt to think so--and then I will renounce my
part in this engagement as quickly as you could wish it."

There was much in this promise, but still not so much as Lady
Arabella wished to get. Mary, she knew, was obstinate, but yet
reasonable; Frank, she thought, was both obstinate and unreasonable.
It might be possible to work on Mary's reason, but quite impossible
to touch Frank's irrationality. So she persevered--foolishly.

"Miss Thorne--that, is, Mary, for I still wish to be thought your
friend--"

"I will tell you the truth, Lady Arabella: for some considerable time
past I have not thought you so."

"Then you have wronged me. But I will go on with what I was saying.
You quite acknowledge that this is a foolish affair?"

"I acknowledge no such thing."

"Something very much like it. You have not a word in its defence."

"Not to you: I do not choose to be put on my defence by you."

"I don't know who has more right; however, you promise that if Frank
wishes it, you will release him from his engagement."

"Release him! It is for him to release me, that is, if he wishes it."

"Very well; at any rate, you give him permission to do so. But will
it not be more honourable for you to begin?"

"No; I think not."

"Ah, but it would. If he, in his position, should be the first to
speak, the first to suggest that this affair between you is a foolish
one, what would people say?"

"They would say the truth."

"And what would you yourself say?"

"Nothing."

"What would he think of himself?"

"Ah, that I do not know. It is according as that may be, that he will
or will not act at your bidding."

"Exactly; and because you know him to be high-minded, because you
think that he, having so much to give, will not break his word to
you--to you who have nothing to give in return--it is, therefore,
that you say that the first step must be taken by him. Is that
noble?"

Then Mary rose from her seat, for it was no longer possible for her
to speak what it was in her to say, sitting there leisurely on her
sofa. Lady Arabella's worship of money had not hitherto been so
brought forward in the conversation as to give her unpardonable
offence; but now she felt that she could no longer restrain her
indignation. "To you who have nothing to give in return!" Had she not
given all that she possessed? Had she not emptied his store into her
lap? that heart of hers, beating with such genuine life, capable of
such perfect love, throbbing with so grand a pride; had she not given
that? And was it not that, between him and her, more than twenty
Greshamsburys, nobler than any pedigree? "To you who have nothing to
give," indeed! This to her who was so ready to give everything!

"Lady Arabella," she said, "I think that you do not understand me,
and that it is not likely that you should. If so, our further talking
will be worse than useless. I have taken no account of what will be
given between your son and me in your sense of the word giving. But
he has professed to--to love me"--as she spoke, she still looked on
the lady's face, but her eyelashes for a moment screened her eyes,
and her colour was a little heightened--"and I have acknowledged that
I also love him, and so we are engaged. To me my promise is sacred. I
will not be threatened into breaking it. If, however, he shall wish
to change his mind, he can do so. I will not upbraid him; will not,
if I can help it, think harshly of him. So much you may tell him if
it suits you; but I will not listen to your calculations as to how
much or how little each of us may have to give to the other."

She was still standing when she finished speaking, and so she
continued to stand. Her eyes were fixed on Lady Arabella, and her
position seemed to say that sufficient words had been spoken, and
that it was time that her ladyship should go; and so Lady Arabella
felt it. Gradually she also rose; slowly, but tacitly, she
acknowledged that she was in the presence of a spirit superior to her
own; and so she took her leave.

"Very well," she said, in a tone that was intended to be
grandiloquent, but which failed grievously; "I will tell him that he
has your permission to think a second time on this matter. I do not
doubt but that he will do so." Mary would not condescend to answer,
but curtsied low as her visitor left the room. And so the interview
was over.

The interview was over, and Mary was alone. She remained standing as
long as she heard the footsteps of Frank's mother on the stairs; not
immediately thinking of what had passed, but still buoying herself up
with her hot indignation, as though her work with Lady Arabella was
not yet finished; but when the footfall was no longer heard, and the
sound of the closing door told her that she was in truth alone, she
sank back in her seat, and, covering her face with her hands, burst
into bitter tears.

All that doctrine about money was horrible to her; that insolent
pretence, that she had caught at Frank because of his worldly
position, made her all but ferocious; but Lady Arabella had not the
less spoken much that was true. She did think of the position which
the heir of Greshamsbury should hold in the county, and of the fact
that a marriage would mar that position so vitally; she did think of
the old name, and the old Gresham pride; she did think of the squire
and his deep distress: it was true that she had lived among them
long enough to understand these things, and to know that it was not
possible that this marriage should take place without deep family
sorrow.

And then she asked herself whether, in consenting to accept Frank's
hand, she had adequately considered this; and she was forced to
acknowledge that she had not considered it. She had ridiculed Lady
Arabella for saying that Frank was still a boy; but was it not true
that his offer had been made with a boy's energy, rather than a man's
forethought? If so, if she had been wrong to accede to that offer
when made, would she not be doubly wrong to hold him to it now that
she saw their error?

It was doubtless true that Frank himself could not be the first to
draw back. What would people say of him? She could now calmly ask
herself the question that had so angered her when asked by Lady
Arabella. If he could not do it, and if, nevertheless, it behoved
them to break off this match, by whom was it to be done if not
by her? Was not Lady Arabella right throughout, right in her
conclusions, though so foully wrong in her manner of drawing them?

And then she did think for one moment of herself. "You who have
nothing to give in return!" Such had been Lady Arabella's main
accusation against her. Was it in fact true that she had nothing to
give? Her maiden love, her feminine pride, her very life, and spirit,
and being--were these things nothing? Were they to be weighed against
pounds sterling per annum? and, when so weighed, were they ever to
kick the beam like feathers? All these things had been nothing to
her when, without reflection, governed wholly by the impulse of the
moment, she had first allowed his daring hand to lie for an instant
in her own. She had thought nothing of these things when that other
suitor came, richer far than Frank, to love whom it was as impossible
to her as it was not to love him.

Her love had been pure from all such thoughts; she was conscious
that it ever would be pure from them. Lady Arabella was unable to
comprehend this, and, therefore, was Lady Arabella so utterly
distasteful to her.

Frank had once held her close to his warm breast; and her very soul
had thrilled with joy to feel that he so loved her,--with a joy which
she had hardly dared to acknowledge. At that moment, her maidenly
efforts had been made to push him off, but her heart had grown to
his. She had acknowledged him to be master of her spirit; her bosom's
lord; the man whom she had been born to worship; the human being to
whom it was for her to link her destiny. Frank's acres had been of no
account; nor had his want of acres. God had brought them two together
that they should love each other; that conviction had satisfied her,
and she had made it a duty to herself that she would love him with
her very soul. And now she was called upon to wrench herself asunder
from him because she had nothing to give in return!

Well, she would wrench herself asunder, as far as such wrenching
might be done compatibly with her solemn promise. It might be right
that Frank should have an opportunity offered him, so that he might
escape from his position without disgrace. She would endeavour to
give him this opportunity. So, with one deep sigh, she arose, took
herself pen, ink, and paper, and sat herself down again so that the
wrenching might begin.

And then, for a moment, she thought of her uncle. Why had he not
spoken to her of all this? Why had he not warned her? He who had ever
been so good to her, why had he now failed her so grievously? She had
told him everything, had had no secret from him; but he had never
answered her a word. "He also must have known," she said to herself,
piteously, "he also must have known that I could give nothing in
return." Such accusation, however, availed her not at all, so she sat
down and slowly wrote her letter.

"Dearest Frank," she began. She had at first written "dear Mr
Gresham;" but her heart revolted against such useless coldness. She
was not going to pretend she did not love him.


   DEAREST FRANK,

   Your mother has been here talking to me about our
   engagement. I do not generally agree with her about such
   matters; but she has said some things to-day which I
   cannot but acknowledge to be true. She says, that our
   marriage would be distressing to your father, injurious to
   all your family, and ruinous to yourself. If this be so,
   how can I, who love you, wish for such a marriage?

   I remember my promise, and have kept it. I would not
   yield to your mother when she desired me to disclaim our
   engagement. But I do think it will be more prudent if
   you will consent to forget all that has passed between
   us--not, perhaps, to forget it; that may not be possible
   for us--but to let it pass by as though it had never
   been. If so, if you think so, dear Frank, do not have any
   scruples on my account. What will be best for you, must be
   best for me. Think what a reflection it would ever be to
   me, to have been the ruin of one that I love so well.

   Let me have but one word to say that I am released from my
   promise, and I will tell my uncle that the matter between
   us is over. It will be painful for us at first; those
   occasional meetings which must take place will distress
   us, but that will wear off. We shall always think well
   of each other, and why should we not be friends? This,
   doubtless, cannot be done without inward wounds; but such
   wounds are in God's hands, and He can cure them.

   I know what your first feelings will be on reading this
   letter; but do not answer it in obedience to first
   feelings. Think over it, think of your father, and all you
   owe him, of your old name, your old family, and of what
   the world expects from you. [Mary was forced to put her
   hand to her eyes, to save her paper from her falling
   tears, as she found herself thus repeating, nearly word
   for word, the arguments that had been used by Lady
   Arabella.] Think of these things, coolly, if you can, but,
   at any rate, without passion: and then let me have one
   word in answer. One word will suffice.

   I have but to add this: do not allow yourself to think
   that my heart will ever reproach you. It cannot reproach
   you for doing that which I myself suggest. [Mary's logic
   in this was very false; but she was not herself aware of
   it.] I will never reproach you either in word or thought;
   and as for all others, it seems to me that the world
   agrees that we have hitherto been wrong. The world, I
   hope, will be satisfied when we have obeyed it.

   God bless you, dearest Frank! I shall never call you
   so again; but it would be a pretence were I to write
   otherwise in this letter. Think of this, and then let me
   have one line.

   Your affectionate friend,

   MARY THORNE.

   P.S.--Of course I cannot be at dear Beatrice's marriage;
   but when they come back to the parsonage, I shall see her.
   I am sure they will both be happy, because they are so
   good. I need hardly say that I shall think of them on
   their wedding day.


When she had finished her letter, she addressed it plainly, in her
own somewhat bold handwriting, to Francis N. Gresham, Jun., Esq., and
then took it herself to the little village post-office. There should
be nothing underhand about her correspondence: all the Greshamsbury
world should know of it--that world of which she had spoken in her
letter--if that world so pleased. Having put her penny label on it,
she handed it, with an open brow and an unembarrassed face, to the
baker's wife, who was Her Majesty's postmistress at Greshamsbury;
and, having so finished her work, she returned to see the table
prepared for her uncle's dinner. "I will say nothing to him," said
she to herself, "till I get the answer. He will not talk to me about
it, so why should I trouble him?"


CHAPTER XLIII

The Race of Scatcherd Becomes Extinct


It will not be imagined, at any rate by feminine readers, that Mary's
letter was written off at once, without alterations and changes, or
the necessity for a fair copy. Letters from one young lady to another
are doubtless written in this manner, and even with them it might
sometimes be better if more patience had been taken; but with Mary's
first letter to her lover--her first love-letter, if love-letter it
can be called--much more care was used. It was copied and re-copied,
and when she returned from posting it, it was read and re-read.

"It is very cold," she said to herself; "he will think I have no
heart, that I have never loved him!" And then she all but resolved to
run down to the baker's wife, and get back her letter, that she might
alter it. "But it will be better so," she said again. "If I touched
his feelings now, he would never bring himself to leave me. It is
right that I should be cold to him. I should be false to myself if
I tried to move his love--I, who have nothing to give him in return
for it." And so she made no further visit to the post-office, and the
letter went on its way.

We will now follow its fortunes for a short while, and explain how
it was that Mary received no answer for a week; a week, it may well
be imagined, of terrible suspense to her. When she took it to the
post-office, she doubtless thought that the baker's wife had nothing
to do but to send it up to the house at Greshamsbury, and that Frank
would receive it that evening, or, at latest, early on the following
morning. But this was by no means so. The epistle was posted on a
Friday afternoon, and it behoved the baker's wife to send it into
Silverbridge--Silverbridge being the post-town--so that all due
formalities, as ordered by the Queen's Government, might there be
perfected. Now, unfortunately, the post-boy had taken his departure
before Mary reached the shop, and it was not, therefore, dispatched
till Saturday. Sunday was always a _dies non_ with the Greshamsbury
Mercury, and, consequently, Frank's letter was not delivered at the
house till Monday morning; at which time Mary had for two long days
been waiting with weary heart for the expected answer.

Now Frank had on that morning gone up to London by the early train,
with his future brother-in-law, Mr Oriel. In order to accomplish
this, they had left Greshamsbury for Barchester exactly as the
postboy was leaving Silverbridge for Greshamsbury.

"I should like to wait for my letters," Mr Oriel had said, when the
journey was being discussed.

"Nonsense," Frank had answered. "Who ever got a letter that was worth
waiting for?" and so Mary was doomed to a week of misery.

When the post-bag arrived at the house on Monday morning, it was
opened as usual by the squire himself at the breakfast-table. "Here
is a letter for Frank," said he, "posted in the village. You had
better send it to him:" and he threw the letter across the table to
Beatrice.

"It's from Mary," said Beatrice, out loud, taking the letter up and
examining the address. And having said so, she repented what she had
done, as she looked first at her father and then at her mother.

A cloud came over the squire's brow as for a minute he went on
turning over the letters and newspapers. "Oh, from Mary Thorne, is
it?" he said. "Well, you had better send it to him."

"Frank said that if any letters came they were to be kept," said his
sister Sophy. "He told me so particularly. I don't think he likes
having letters sent after him."

"You had better send that one," said the squire.

"Mr Oriel is to have all his letters addressed to Long's Hotel, Bond
Street, and this one can very well be sent with them," said Beatrice,
who knew all about it, and intended herself to make a free use of the
address.

"Yes, you had better send it," said the squire; and then nothing
further was said at the table. But Lady Arabella, though she said
nothing, had not failed to mark what had passed. Had she asked for
the letter before the squire, he would probably have taken possession
of it himself; but as soon as she was alone with Beatrice, she did
demand it. "I shall be writing to Frank myself," she said, "and will
send it to him." And so, Beatrice, with a heavy heart, gave it up.

The letter lay before Lady Arabella's eyes all that day, and many a
wistful glance was cast at it. She turned it over and over, and much
she desired to know its contents; but she did not dare to break the
seal of her son's letter. All that day it lay upon her desk, and all
the next, for she could hardly bring herself to part with it; but on
the Wednesday it was sent--sent with these lines from herself:--

"Dearest, dearest Frank, I send you a letter which has come by the
post from Mary Thorne. I do not know what it may contain; but before
you correspond with her, pray, pray think of what I said to you. For
my sake, for your father's, for your own, pray think of it."

That was all, but it was enough to make her word to Beatrice true.
She did send it to Frank enclosed in a letter from herself. We must
reserve to the next chapter what had taken place between Frank and
his mother; but, for the present, we will return to the doctor's
house.

Mary said not a word to him about the letter; but, keeping silent on
the subject, she felt wretchedly estranged from him. "Is anything the
matter, Mary?" he said to her on the Sunday afternoon.

"No, uncle," she answered, turning away her head to hide her tears.

"Ah, but there is something; what is it, dearest?"

"Nothing--that is, nothing that one can talk about."

"What Mary! Be unhappy and not to talk about it to me? That's
something new, is it not?"

"One has presentiments sometimes, and is unhappy without knowing why.
Besides, you know--"

"I know! What do I know? Do I know anything that will make my pet
happier?" and he took her in his arms as they sat together on the
sofa. Her tears were now falling fast, and she no longer made an
effort to hide them. "Speak to me, Mary; this is more than a
presentiment. What is it?"

"Oh, uncle--"

"Come, love, speak to me; tell me why you are grieving."

"Oh, uncle, why have you not spoken to me? Why have you not told
me what to do? Why have you not advised me? Why are you always so
silent?"

"Silent about what?"

"You know, uncle, you know; silent about him; silent about Frank."

Why, indeed? What was he to say to this? It was true that he had
never counselled her; never shown her what course she should take;
had never even spoken to her about her lover. And it was equally true
that he was not now prepared to do so, even in answer to such an
appeal as this. He had a hope, a strong hope, more than a hope, that
Mary's love would yet be happy; but he could not express or explain
his hope; nor could he even acknowledge to himself a wish that would
seem to be based on the death of him whose life he was bound, if
possible, to preserve.

"My love," he said, "it is a matter in which you must judge for
yourself. Did I doubt your conduct, I should interfere; but I do
not."

"Conduct! Is conduct everything? One may conduct oneself excellently,
and yet break one's heart."

This was too much for the doctor; his sternness and firmness
instantly deserted him. "Mary," he said, "I will do anything that you
would have me. If you wish it, I will make arrangements for leaving
this place at once."

"Oh, no," she said, plaintively.

"When you tell me of a broken heart, you almost break my own. Come
to me, darling; do not leave me so. I will say all that I can say. I
have thought, do still think, that circumstances will admit of your
marriage with Frank if you both love each other, and can both be
patient."

"You think so," said she, unconsciously sliding her hand into his,
as though to thank him by its pressure for the comfort he was giving
her.

"I do think so now more than ever. But I only think so; I have been
unable to assure you. There, darling, I must not say more; only that
I cannot bear to see you grieving, I would not have said this:" and
then he left her, and nothing more was spoken on the subject.

If you can be patient! Why, a patience of ten years would be as
nothing to her. Could she but live with the knowledge that she was
first in his estimation, dearest in his heart; could it be also
granted to her to feel that she was regarded as his equal, she could
be patient for ever. What more did she want than to know and feel
this? Patient, indeed!

But what could these circumstances be to which her uncle had alluded?
"I do think that circumstances will admit of your marriage." Such was
his opinion, and she had never known him to be wrong. Circumstances!
What circumstances? Did he perhaps mean that Mr Gresham's affairs
were not so bad as they had been thought to be? If so, that alone
would hardly alter the matter, for what could she give in return? "I
would give him the world for one word of love," she said to herself,
"and never think that he was my debtor. Ah! how beggarly the heart
must be that speculates on such gifts as those!"

But there was her uncle's opinion: he still thought that they might
be married. Oh, why had she sent her letter? and why had she made it
so cold? With such a letter as that before him, Frank could not do
other than consent to her proposal. And then, why did he not at least
answer it?

On the Sunday afternoon there arrived at Greshamsbury a man and a
horse from Boxall Hill, bearing a letter from Lady Scatcherd to Dr
Thorne, earnestly requesting the doctor's immediate attendance. "I
fear everything is over with poor Louis," wrote the unhappy mother.
"It has been very dreadful. Do come to me; I have no other friend,
and I am nearly worn through with it. The man from the city"--she
meant Dr Fillgrave--"comes every day, and I dare say he is all very
well, but he has never done much good. He has not had spirit enough
to keep the bottle from him; and it was that, and that only, that
most behoved to be done. I doubt you won't find him in this world
when you arrive here."

Dr Thorne started immediately. Even though he might have to meet Dr
Fillgrave, he could not hesitate, for he went not as a doctor to the
dying man, but as the trustee under Sir Roger's will. Moreover, as
Lady Scatcherd had said, he was her only friend, and he could not
desert her at such a moment for an army of Fillgraves. He told
Mary he should not return that night; and taking with him a small
saddle-bag, he started at once for Boxall Hill.

As he rode up to the hall door, Dr Fillgrave was getting into his
carriage. They had never met so as to speak to each other since that
memorable day, when they had their famous passage of arms in the hall
of that very house before which they both now stood. But, at the
present moment, neither of them was disposed to renew the fight.

"What news of your patient, Dr Fillgrave?" said our doctor, still
seated on his sweating horse, and putting his hand lightly to his
hat.

Dr Fillgrave could not refrain from one moment of supercilious
disdain: he gave one little chuck to his head, one little twist to
his neck, one little squeeze to his lips, and then the man within him
overcame the doctor. "Sir Louis is no more," he said.

"God's will be done!" said Dr Thorne.

"His death is a release; for his last days have been very frightful.
Your coming, Dr Thorne, will be a comfort to Lady Scatcherd." And
then Dr Fillgrave, thinking that even the present circumstances
required no further condescension, ensconced himself in the carriage.

"His last days have been very dreadful! Ah, me, poor fellow! Dr
Fillgrave, before you go, allow me to say this: I am quite aware that
when he fell into your hands, no medical skill in the world could
save him."

Dr Fillgrave bowed low from the carriage, and after this unwonted
exchange of courtesies, the two doctors parted, not to meet again--at
any rate, in the pages of this novel. Of Dr Fillgrave, let it now be
said, that he grows in dignity as he grows in years, and that he is
universally regarded as one of the celebrities of the city of
Barchester.

Lady Scatcherd was found sitting alone in her little room on the
ground-floor. Even Hannah was not with her, for Hannah was now
occupied upstairs. When the doctor entered the room, which he did
unannounced, he found her seated on a chair, with her back against
one of the presses, her hands clasped together over her knees, gazing
into vacancy. She did not ever hear him or see him as he approached,
and his hand had slightly touched her shoulder before she knew that
she was not alone. Then, she looked up at him with a face so full of
sorrow, so worn with suffering, that his own heart was racked to see
her.

"It is all over, my friend," said he. "It is better so; much better
so."

She seemed at first hardly to understand him, but still regarding him
with that wan face, shook her head slowly and sadly. One might have
thought that she was twenty years older than when Dr Thorne last saw
her.

He drew a chair to her side, and sitting by her, took her hand in
his. "It is better so, Lady Scatcherd; better so," he repeated. "The
poor lad's doom had been spoken, and it is well for him, and for you,
that it should be over."

"They are both gone now," said she, speaking very low; "both gone
now. Oh, doctor! To be left alone here, all alone!"

He said some few words trying to comfort her; but who can comfort
a widow bereaved of her child? Who can console a heart that has
lost all that it possessed? Sir Roger had not been to her a tender
husband; but still he had been the husband of her love. Sir Louis had
not been to her an affectionate son; but still he had been her child,
her only child. Now they were both gone. Who can wonder that the
world should be a blank to her?

Still the doctor spoke soothing words, and still he held her hand.
He knew that his words could not console her; but the sounds of his
kindness at such desolate moments are, to such minds as hers, some
alleviation of grief. She hardly answered him, but sat there staring
out before her, leaving her hand passively to him, and swaying her
head backwards and forwards as though her grief were too heavy to be
borne.

At last, her eye rested on an article which stood upon the table, and
she started up impetuously from her chair. She did this so suddenly,
that the doctor's hand fell beside him before he knew that she had
risen. The table was covered with all those implements which become
so frequent about a house when severe illness is an inhabitant there.
There were little boxes and apothecaries' bottles, cups and saucers
standing separate, and bowls, in which messes have been prepared with
the hope of suiting a sick man's failing appetite. There was a small
saucepan standing on a plate, a curiously shaped glass utensil left
by the doctor, and sundry pieces of flannel, which had been used in
rubbing the sufferer's limbs. But in the middle of the débris stood
one black bottle, with head erect, unsuited to the companionship in
which it was found.

"There," she said, rising up, and seizing this in a manner that
would have been ridiculous had it not been so truly tragic. "There,
that has robbed me of everything--of all that I ever possessed; of
husband and child; of the father and son; that has swallowed them
both--murdered them both! Oh, doctor! that such a thing as that
should cause such bitter sorrow! I have hated it always, but now--Oh,
woe is me! weary me!" And then she let the bottle drop from her hand
as though it were too heavy for her.

"This comes of their barro-niting," she continued. "If they had let
him alone, he would have been here now, and so would the other one.
Why did they do it? why did they do it? Ah, doctor! people such as us
should never meddle with them above us. See what has come of it; see
what has come of it!"

The doctor could not remain with her long, as it was necessary that
he should take upon himself the direction of the household, and give
orders for the funeral. First of all, he had to undergo the sad duty
of seeing the corpse of the deceased baronet. This, at any rate,
may be spared to my readers. It was found to be necessary that the
interment should be made very quickly, as the body was already nearly
destroyed by alcohol. Having done all this, and sent back his horse
to Greshamsbury, with directions that clothes for a journey might be
sent to him, and a notice that he should not be home for some days,
he again returned to Lady Scatcherd.

Of course he could not but think much of the immense property
which was now, for a short time, altogether in his own hands. His
resolution was soon made to go at once to London and consult the
best lawyer he could find--or the best dozen lawyers should such be
necessary--as to the validity of Mary's claims. This must be done
before he said a word to her or to any of the Gresham family; but it
must be done instantly, so that all suspense might be at an end as
soon as possible. He must, of course, remain with Lady Scatcherd till
the funeral should be over; but when that office should be complete,
he would start instantly for London.

