Produced by David Garcia and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


                       THE LAST OF THE PETERKINS,

                       With Others of their kin.

                          BY LUCRETIA P. HALE.


                   *       *       *       *       *

                                BOSTON:
                       LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.
                                 1906.


                           _Copyright, 1886_,
                          BY ROBERTS BROTHERS.
                               Printers
                   S.J. PARKHILL & CO., BOSTON, U.S.A.


                                  TO

                      THE LADY FROM PHILADELPHIA,

                    BELOVED BY THE PETERKIN FAMILY,

                        This Book is Dedicated.


                   *       *       *       *       *


PREFACE.


The following Papers contain the last records of the Peterkin Family,
who unhappily ventured to leave their native land and have never
returned. Elizabeth Eliza's Commonplace Book has been found among the
family papers, and will be published here for the first time. It is
evident that she foresaw that the family were ill able to contend with
the commonplace struggle of life; and we may not wonder that they could
not survive the unprecedented, far away from the genial advice of
friends, especially that of the Lady from Philadelphia.

It is feared that Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin lost their lives after leaving
Tobolsk, perhaps in some vast conflagration.

Agamemnon and Solomon John were probably sacrificed in some effort to
join in or control the disturbances which arose in the distant places
where they had established themselves,--Agamemnon in Madagascar, Solomon
John in Rustchuk.

The little boys have merged into men in some German university, while
Elizabeth Eliza must have been lost in the mazes of the Russian language.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.


The Last of the Peterkins.


CHAPTER

     I. ELIZABETH ELIZA WRITES A PAPER

    II. ELIZABETH ELIZA'S COMMONPLACE-BOOK

   III. THE PETERKINS PRACTISE TRAVELLING

    IV. THE PETERKINS' EXCURSION FOR MAPLE SUGAR

     V. THE PETERKINS "AT HOME"

    VI. MRS. PETERKIN IN EGYPT

   VII. MRS. PETERKIN FAINTS ON THE GREAT PYRAMID

  VIII. THE LAST OF THE PETERKINS


Others of their Kin.


    IX. LUCILLA'S DIARY

     X. JEDIDIAH'S NOAH'S ARK

    XI. CARRIE'S THREE WISHES

   XII. "WHERE CAN THOSE BOYS BE?"

  XIII. A PLACE FOR OSCAR

   XIV. THE FIRST NEEDLE

       *       *       *       *       *


THE LAST OF THE PETERKINS.


I.

ELIZABETH ELIZA WRITES A PAPER.


Elizabeth Eliza joined the Circumambient Club with the idea that it
would be a long time before she, a new member, would have to read a
paper. She would have time to hear the other papers read, and to see how
it was done; and she would find it easy when her turn came. By that time
she would have some ideas; and long before she would be called upon,
she would have leisure to sit down and write out something. But a year
passed away, and the time was drawing near. She had, meanwhile, devoted
herself to her studies, and had tried to inform herself on all subjects
by way of preparation. She had consulted one of the old members of the
Club as to the choice of a subject.

"Oh, write about anything," was the answer,--"anything you have been
thinking of."

Elizabeth Eliza was forced to say she had not been thinking lately. She
had not had time. The family had moved, and there was always an
excitement about something, that prevented her sitting down to think.

"Why not write out your family adventures?" asked the old member.

Elizabeth Eliza was sure her mother would think it made them too public;
and most of the Club papers, she observed, had some thought in them. She
preferred to find an idea.

[Illustration: Elizabeth Eliza writes a paper.]

So she set herself to the occupation of thinking. She went out on
the piazza to think; she stayed in the house to think. She tried a
corner of the china-closet. She tried thinking in the cars, and lost her
pocket-book; she tried it in the garden, and walked into the strawberry
bed. In the house and out of the house, it seemed to be the same,--she
could not think of anything to think of. For many weeks she was seen
sitting on the sofa or in the window, and nobody disturbed her. "She is
thinking about her paper," the family would say, but she only knew that
she could not think of anything.

Agamemnon told her that many writers waited till the last moment, when
inspiration came which was much finer than anything studied. Elizabeth
Eliza thought it would be terrible to wait till the last moment, if the
inspiration should not come! She might combine the two ways,--wait till
a few days before the last, and then sit down and write anyhow. This
would give a chance for inspiration, while she would not run the risk
of writing nothing.

She was much discouraged. Perhaps she had better give it up? But, no;
everybody wrote a paper: if not now, she would have to do it sometime!

And at last the idea of a subject came to her! But it was as hard to
find a moment to write as to think. The morning was noisy, till the
little boys had gone to school; for they had begun again upon their
regular course, with the plan of taking up the study of cider in
October. And after the little boys had gone to school, now it was one
thing, now it was another,--the china-closet to be cleaned, or one of
the neighbors in to look at the sewing-machine. She tried after dinner,
but would fall asleep. She felt that evening would be the true time,
after the cares of day were over.

The Peterkins had wire mosquito-nets all over the house,--at every door
and every window. They were as eager to keep out the flies as the
mosquitoes. The doors were all furnished with strong springs, that
pulled the doors to as soon as they were opened. The little boys had
practised running in and out of each door, and slamming it after them.
This made a good deal of noise, for they had gained great success in
making one door slam directly after another, and at times would keep up
a running volley of artillery, as they called it, with the slamming of
the doors. Mr. Peterkin, however, preferred it to flies.

So Elizabeth Eliza felt she would venture to write of a summer evening
with all the windows open.

She seated herself one evening in the library, between two large
kerosene lamps, with paper, pen, and ink before her. Fill out this
Order-Form and send it to me by return of post with the necessary
remittance!

That last and entirely superfluous note of exclamation seems only to
be adequately vocalised as a chuckle. And as I listen it does not seem
to be myself that is laughing.

* * * * *
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE is already using his influence with the new WAR MINISTER.
In the Army Orders for March, 1914, we read:--
"Paragraph 555, line 4. _For '4d.' substitute '9d.'_"
* * * * *
Illustration: THE CONCERT OF SOUTH AMERICA.

THE MEDIATORS. "PARDON, MADAM, BUT YOU HAVE HAD A LOT OF EXPERIENCE
OF THIS KIND OF THING. HOW DO YOU DO IT?"
EUROPA. "OH, WE JUST TALK AND TALK--AND THEN TALK!"
* * * * *
Illustration: _First Player (encouragingly)._ "Bad luck! Well
tried!"

_Second Player (petulantly)._ "I didn't try for anything."
* * * * *
THE PIERCING OF THE VEIL.

"I think," says Dr. LYNCH in _The Daily Chronicle,_ "that a man
leaves some trace of himself in every sentence that he writes. What
then of works so extensive as Shakspeare's? Certainly we should see
him through and through if we only knew how to look."
_We_ do know how to look, and we have done so with results that can
hardly fail to astonish the reader. It has long been known, for
instance, that SHAKSPEARE was a good man of business, but until our
researches no one had realised quite how good. His theatre had to pay,
and he knew as well as any modern manager how to make it do so. That
he realised, for instance, the attractions of American dance tunes is
evident from his reference to "rags to split the ears of the
groundlings" (_Hamlet_, Act III., Scene 2).

Apart from his business SHAKSPEARE had private ambitions. We all know
that he applied for a grant of arms, but few are aware that he
also stood for Parliament, and, like many another, regretted the
expense after it was incurred.

"Almost all," he says feelingly, "repent in their election"
(_Coriolanus_, Act II., Scene 3).

His exact political views are still uncertain, but, at any rate,
we may be sure that he disapproved of the Lords, for he boldly
announced the fact in the _Two Gentlemen of Verona,_ Act V., Scene
4, where he says, "One house, one mutual happiness."

But these are serious matters. What of his hours of ease? That he golfed
there can now be no manner of doubt. In _The Tempest,_ Act IV., Scene
1, he refers to the "short grassed green," and in _Hamlet_, Act
II., Scene 2, he earns our respect by the simple statement, "I went
round," without any tedious details.

Possibly the "thousand marks in links" in the first part of _Henry IV._,
Act III., Scene 3, explains this reticence, but, at any rate, he occasionally
found one whom he fancied he could beat; witness his remark in
_Twelfth Night,_ Act II., Scene 3, "Sir Toby, I must be round with
you."

And, golf over, he liked his pipe and his glass. The "smoke and lukewarm
water" mentioned in _Timon of Athens,_ Act III., Scene 6, only needs
the addition of a dash of whisky to make an evening any of us might
enjoy; and his words in _Anthony and Cleopatra,_ Act I., Scene 2,
"We bring forth weeds when our quick minds are still," will find
an echo in many a chest.

In this connection it might be noted that he took an occasional holiday
in France. That at least seems a reasonable assumption when so keen a
smoker cries, as he does in _The Merchant of Venice,_ Act III., Scene
1, "I have another bad match."
* * * * *
A VAGRANT.

The humble bee No skep has he, No twisted, straw-thatched dome, A ferny
crest Provides his nest, The mowing-grass his home.

The crook-beaked shrike His back may spike And pierce him with a
thorn; The humble bee A tramp is he And there is none to mourn.

O'er bank and brook, In wooded nook, He wanders at his whim, Lives as he
can, Owes naught to man, And man owes naught to him.

No hive receives The sweets he gives, No flowers for him are sown, Yet
wild and gay He hums his way, A nomad on his own.

* * * * *

THE SUFFERER.

Having engaged a sleeping-berth I naturally hurried, coin in hand,
to the conductor, as all wise travellers do (usually to their
discomfiture), to see if I could be accommodated with a compartment
to myself and be guaranteed against invasion.

The carriage was full.

I then sought my compartment, to learn the worst as to my position,
whether above or below the necessarily offensive person who was to
be my companion.

He was already there, and we exchanged the hard implacable glare
that is reserved among the English for the other fellow in a
wagon-lit compartment.

When I discovered that to him had fallen the dreaded upper berth I
relaxed a little, and later we were full of courtesies to each
other--renunciations of hat-pegs, racks and so forth, and charming
mutual concessions as to the light, which I controlled from below--so
that by morning we were so friendly that he deemed me a fit recipient
of his Great Paris Grievance.

This grievance, which he considered that everyone should know
about, bears upon the prevalence of spurious coins in the so-called
Gay City and the tendency of Parisians to work them off on foreigners.
As he says, a more inhospitable course one cannot conceive. Foreigners
in Paris should be treated as guests, and just now, with all this Entente
talk, the English especially. But no. It is the English who are the first
victims of the possessor of obsolete francs, two-franc and five-franc
pieces guiltless of their country's silver and ten-franc pieces into whose
composition no gold has entered.

He had been in Paris but an hour or so when--but let me tell the
story as my travelling companion told it to me.

"I don't know what your experience in Paris has been," he said, "but I
have been victimised right and left."
He was now getting up while I lay at comparative ease in my berth and
watched his difficulties in the congested room and thought what horrid
vests he wore.

"I had been in Paris but a few hours," he continued, "when it was necessary
to pay a cabman. I handed him a franc. He examined it, laughed and
returned it. I handed him another. He went through the same performance.
Having found some good money to get rid of him, I sat down outside a café
to try and remember where I had received the change in which these
useless coins had been inserted. During a week in Paris much of my time
was spent in that way."
He sighed and drew on his trousers.

His braces were red.

"I showed the bad francs to a waiter," he went on, "and he, like the cabman,
laughed. In fact, next to an undressed woman, there is no stroke of wit
so certain of Parisian mirth as a bad coin. The first thought of everyone
to whom I showed my collection was to be amused." His face blackened
with rage. "This cheerful callousness in a matter involving a total
want of principle and straight-dealing as between man and man," he said,
"denotes to what a point of cynicism the Parisians have attained."

I agreed with him.

"The waiter," he continued, "went through my money and pointed
out what was good and what either bad or out of currency. He
called other waiters to enjoy the joke. It seemed that in about four
hours I had acquired three bad francs, one bad two-franc piece and two
bad five-franc pieces.
I put them away in another pocket and got fresh change from him,
which, as I subsequently discovered, contained one obsolete five-franc
piece and two discredited francs.

And so it went on. I was a continual target for them."
Here he began to wash, and the story was interrupted.

When he re-emerged I asked him why he didn't always examine his change.

"It's very difficult to remember to do so," he said, "and, besides, I am
not an expert. Anyway, it got worse and worse, and when a bad gold piece
came along I realised that I must do something so I wrote to the Chief
of the Police."

"In French?" I asked.

"No, in English--the language of honesty. I told him my own experiences.

I said that other English people whom I had met had testified to similar
trouble; and I put it to him that as a matter of civic pride--_esprit
de pays_--he should do his utmost to cleanse Paris of this evil. I added
that in my opinion the waiters were the worst offenders."
"Have you had a reply?" I asked.

"Not yet," he said, and having completed his toilet he made room for
me.

I thought about him a good deal and sympathised not a little, for he
seemed a good sort of fellow and might possibly have had his calculations
as to expenditure considerably upset by his adventures. It certainly
was a shame!

Later, meeting him in the restaurant-car I asked him to show me his store
of bad money.

I wanted to see for myself what those coins were like.

"I haven't got them," he said.

"You sent them to the Chief of the Police with your letter, I suppose?"
I said.

"No, I didn't," he replied. "The fact is--well--as a matter of fact
I managed to work them all off again."
* * * * *
Illustration: "Curfew _shall not_ ring to-night."
* * * * *

"At the beginning of the season good bowling performances are not
unusual--batsmen get themselves out so easily--but Barratt's bowling
yesterday was better than his figures.... Five times yesterday he
broke right across the wicket from leg, but none of those magnificent
balls got wickets, perhaps because it was too early in the season."--_Times._

       The beginning of the season seems rather a tricky time

.

* * * * *
"Death of Collar: Cobham Stud's severe loss."--_Yorkshire Post._
The converse of this accident occurred to us the other day, when our
Whitefriars collar lost its stud.

* * * * *
"Richard I.... at once began to prepare the third crusade. In 1190 he
started, and reached Acre in June, 1911."
_"Everyman" Encyclopædia._
Thus missing KING GEORGE Vth's Coronation.

* * * * *

Illustration: _Customer._ "This is a beautiful chop, waiter, the best
you've ever----" 
_Waiter._ "Yes, an' I won't 'arf cop nothing.

That was the boss's chop what I've giv you in mistake

."

* * * * *
VANDALISM.

The new proposals with regard to the water supply of the City of Glasgow
are causing, we are not surprised to learn, the utmost fury and
consternation throughout Scotland.

Criticism has concentrated especially upon two points: the imminent risk
of submerging ROBERT THE BRUCE'S Stone and, of course, the danger of
tampering in however slight a degree with the birthplace of ROB ROY. The
passive resistance movement has already assumed such proportions
that one enterprising publisher feels justified in announcing a new
cheap edition of the "Waverley Novels," illustrated from local
photographs.

There is, of course, another side to the question. As far as the stone
goes it is contended:--
(1) That no one knows why it should have belonged to ROBERT THE BRUCE,
where he got it or what he did with it when he had it

.

(2) That the fact of its being under water would not impair its value
in any way and at the same time would give an historical flavour to
every glass of mitigated whisky thereafter drunk in the City of
Glasgow.

       

(3) That it could very easily be shifted a bit up the hill if it is
desired to keep it dry, and a small permanent umbrella erected over
it.

With regard to ROB ROY'S birthplace the contention is that it is practically
impossible to construct a new reservoir in these days anywhere north of
the Tweed which will not interfere in some way with one or other of the
places where ROB ROY was born.

       It is not only Scotchmen, however, who have been touched to the
quick by this irreverent and thoughtless proposal.

The whole literary profession is up in arms. A memorial is being prepared
to be presented to the PRIME MINISTER, under the heading, "Hands off ROB
ROY!" _Mr. Punch_ himself has not been idle in the matter. He has spent
the last week in eliciting the opinions of some of our leading writers
on this vital question.

       

Mr. WILLIAM DE MORGAN (in a charming, if rather discursive, letter of
32,000 words) demands legislation.

       "Who knows," he asks, "to what lengths this modern craze for water
supplies may go?

It is even possible that, within a century, attempts may be made to
submerge that delightful little cottage in the county of Essex
where Ghost met Ghost."

Mr.

       BERNARD SHAW, interviewed on his doorstep, derided the action of
the Glasgow Corporation.

No amount of water, he told our representative, could have the least
effect in making our modern cities less beastly than they were.

For his part, however, he was taking no risks. He had that morning arranged
for the erection of a spiked iron fence twenty feet high round the
(supposed) birthplace of _Eliza Doolittle._ 
Mr.

       ARNOLD BENNETT writes:--"I have every sympathy with the widespread
indignation of my fellow-authors, but personally I am not very
closely concerned.

My position is secure: no one is likely to tamper with the Five Towns
in an attempt to improve their washing facilities."
"Might I suggest to the learned pundits of the House of Lords, if
it is not too late," writes Mrs.

       FLORENCE BARCLAY, "that a writer who, in his day, enjoyed such a
circulation as that of Sir WALTER SCOTT--this is, of course,
fundamentally a question of circulation--is not to be treated in
this cavalier fashion?

For oneself, whatever fate may be in store for the precious local associations
of one's past work, it is fortunately possible to make the future
secure.

I am laying the scene of my new romance, of which the fifth chapter is
almost completed, on the top of an inaccessible hill."
Mr. H. G.

       WELLS points out that there is no particular need in his case to
take action.

He hopes that by the day when the conditions in time and space of his
latest novel come into being every household in the country will be
supplied with its own water by a process of filtered absorption
from the atmosphere.

       It is anticipated that something definite will be done by the special
committee of the Authors Society which has been appointed with the
view of extending the law of copyright so as to secure the author's
undoubted property in his local associations

.

* * * * *
BILLET DOUX.

Monday's breakfast is never a jovial affair.

       One always has the feeling that something dreadful has happened or
is going to happen.

Thus, three days ago I had with a light heart handed over my practice
to a locum and my books to an accountant, telling the one to look up my
bad patients and the other to look up my bad debts, while I went
away to end the week with the Wrefords. Twelve hours ago it had seemed
that I should never know such happiness in this world again as I had
found with them, and here we all were on Monday morning with
everything changed, Mrs.

       Wreford sulking in bed and Wreford displaying a polite but firm
hatred of me and all the world.

In this case my feeling was that something dreadful _was_ happening.

"Mornin', Wreford," said I, as I took my place at table.

       "Mornin', Everall," he grunted, barely looking up from his letters,
and that seemed to end the dialogue.

When, however, one's host is also one's most valuable patient, there is
call for a special effort. He had all the correspondence, I had none;
in an emergency this suggested itself as a matter of comment.

"To me," I said chattily, "things seem to be just as badly managed
at the Post Office as they were in SAMUEL'S time."
"Was there a post office in those days?" he asked, without noticeable
enthusiasm.
"_The_ SAMUEL HERBERT," I explained, and that again seemed to end
it.
After a pause, "However," I said kindly, "you enjoy your letters
and I will find what consolation and company I can in a poached
egg."
"Enjoy?" asked Wreford. "But you are being sarcastic, no doubt."
"Only panel doctors can afford to be that," I murmured.I suppose there really is not as much danger about these uncommon things
as there is in the small things, because they don't happen so often, and
because you are more afraid of them.

I never saw it counted up, but I conclude that more children tumble into
mud-puddles than into the ocean or Niagara Falls, for instance. It was
so, at least, with our little boys; but that may have been partly
because they never saw the ocean till last summer, and have never been
to Niagara. To be sure, they had seen the harbor from the top of Bunker
Hill Monument, but there they could not fall in. They might have fallen
off from the top of the monument, but did not. I am sure, for our little
boys, they have never had the remarkable things happen to them. I
suppose because they were so dangerous that they did not try them, like
firing at marks and rowing boats. If they had used guns, they might
have shot themselves or others; but guns have never been allowed in the
house. My father thinks it is dangerous to have them. They might go
off unexpected. They would require us to have gunpowder and shot in the
house, which would be dangerous. Amanda, too, is a little careless.
And we never shall forget the terrible time when the "fulminating paste"
went off one Fourth of July. It showed what might happen even if you did
not keep gunpowder in the house.

To be sure, Agamemnon and Solomon John are older now, and might learn
the use of fire-arms; but even then they might shoot the wrong
person--the policeman or some friends coming into the house--instead of
the burglar.

And I have read of safe burglars going about. I don't know whether it
means that it is safe for them or for us; I hope it is the latter.
Perhaps it means that they go without fire-arms, making it safer for
them.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have the "Printed Rules for Emergencies," which will be of great use,
as I should be apt to forget which to do for which. I mean I should be
quite likely to do for burns and scalds what I ought to do for cramp.
And when a person is choking, I might sponge from head to foot, which
is what I ought to do to prevent a cold.

But I hope I shall not have a chance to practise. We have never had the
case of a broken leg, and it would hardly be worth while to break one on
purpose.

Then we have had no cases of taking poison, or bites from mad dogs,
perhaps partly because we don't keep either poison or dogs; but then our
neighbors might, and we ought to be prepared. We do keep cats, so that
we do not need to have poison for the rats; and in this way we avoid
both dangers,--from the dogs going mad, and from eating the poison by
mistake instead of the rats.

To be sure, we don't quite get rid of the rats, and need a trap for the
mice; but if you have a good family cat it is safer.

       *       *       *       *       *

About window-curtains--I mean the drapery ones--we have the same trouble
in deciding every year. We did not put any in the parlor windows when we
moved, only window-shades, because there were so many things to be done,
and we wanted time to make up our minds as to what we would have.

But that was years ago, and we have not decided yet, though we consider
the subject every spring and fall.

The trouble is, if we should have heavy damask ones like the Bromwicks',
it would be very dark in the winter, on account of the new, high
building opposite.

Now, we like as much light as we can get in the winter, so we have
always waited till summer, thinking we would have some light muslin
ones, or else of the new laces. But in summer we like to have the room
dark, and the sun does get round in the morning quite dazzling on the
white shades. (We might have dark-colored shades, but there would be the
same trouble of its being too dark in the winter.)

We seem to need the heavy curtains in summer and the light curtains in
winter, which would look odd. Besides, in winter we do need the heavy
curtains to shut out the draughts, while in summer we like all the air
we can get.

I have been looking for a material that shall shut out the air and yet
let in the light, or else shut out the light and let in the air; or else
let in the light when you want it, and not when you don't. I have not
found it yet; but there are so many new inventions that I dare say I
shall come across it in time. They seem to have invented everything
except a steamer that won't go up and down as well as across.

       *       *       *       *       *

I never could understand about averages. I can't think why people are so
fond of taking them,--men generally. It seems to me they tell anything
but the truth. They try to tell what happens every evening, and they
don't tell one evening right.

There was our Free Evening Cooking-school. We had a class of fourteen
girls; and they admired it, and liked nothing better, and attended
regularly. But Ann Maria made out the report according to the average of
attendance on the whole number of nights in the ten weeks of the school,
one evening a week; so she gave the numbers 12-3/5 each night.

Now the fact was, they all came every night except one, when there was
such a storm, nobody went,--not even the teacher, nor Ann Maria, nor any
of us. It snowed and it hailed and the wind blew, and our steps were so
slippery Amanda could not go out to put on ashes; ice even on the upper
steps. The janitor, who makes the fire, set out to go; but she was blown
across the street, into the gutter. She did succeed in getting in to Ann
Maria's, who said it was foolish to attempt it, and that nobody would
go; and I am not sure but she spent the night there,--at Ann Maria's, I
mean. Still, Ann Maria had to make up the account of the number of
evenings of the whole course.

But it looks, in the report, as though there were never the whole
fourteen there, and as though 1-2/5 of a girl stayed away every night,
when the facts are we did not have a single absence, and the whole
fourteen were there every night, except the night there was no school;
and I have been told they all had on their things to come that night,
but their mothers would not let them,--those that had mothers,--and they
would have been blown away if they had come.

It seems to me the report does not present the case right, on account of
the averages.

I think it is indeed the common things that trouble one to decide about,
as I have said, since for the remarkable ones one can have advice. The
way we do on such occasions is to ask our friends, especially the lady
from Philadelphia.

Whatever we should have done without her, I am sure I cannot tell, for
her advice is always inestimable. To be sure, she is not always here;
but there is the daily mail (twice from here to Boston), and the
telegraph, and to some places the telephone.

But for some common things there is not time for even the telephone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yesterday morning, for instance, going into Boston in the early train,
I took the right side for a seat, as is natural, though I noticed that
most of the passengers were crowding into the seats on the other side.
I found, as we left the station, that I was on the sunny side, which was
very uncomfortable. So I made up my mind to change sides, coming out.
But, unexpectedly, I stayed in till afternoon at Mrs. Easterly's. It
seems she had sent a note to ask me (which I found at night all right,
when I got home), as Mr. Easterly was away. So I did not go out till
afternoon. I did remember my determination to change sides in going out,
and as I took the right going in, not to take the right going out. But
then I remembered, as it was afternoon, the sun would have changed; so
if the right side was wrong in the morning, it would be right in the
afternoon. At any rate, it would be safe to take the other side. I did
observe that most of the people took the opposite side, the left side;
but I supposed they had not stopped to calculate.

When we came out of the station and from under the bridges, I found I
was sitting in the sun again, the same way as in the morning, in spite
of all my reasoning. Ann Maria, who had come late and taken the last
seat on the other side, turned round and called across to me, "Why do
you always take the sunny side? Do you prefer it?" I was sorry not to
explain it to her, but she was too far off.

It might be safe to do what most of the other people do, when you cannot
stop to inquire; but you cannot always tell, since very likely they may
be mistaken. And then if they have taken all the seats, there is not
room left for you. Still, this time, in coming out, I had reached the
train in plenty of season, and might have picked out my seat, but then
there was nobody there to show where most of the people would go. I
might have changed when I saw where most would go; but I hate changing,
and the best seats were all taken.

       *       *       *       *       *

My father thinks it would be a good plan for Amanda to go to the
Lectures on Physics. She has lived with us a great many years, and she
still breaks as many things as she did at the beginning.

Dr. Murtrie, who was here the other night, said he learned when quite a
boy, from some book on Physics, that if he placed some cold water in the
bottom of a pitcher, before pouring in boiling-hot water, it would not
break. Also, that in washing a glass or china pitcher in very hot water,
the outside and inside should be in the hot water, or, as he said,
should feel the hot water at the same time. I don't quite understand
exactly how, unless the pitcher has a large mouth, when it might be put
in sideways.

He told the reasons, which, being scientific, I cannot remember or
understand.

If Amanda had known about this, she might have saved a great deal of
valuable glass and china. Though it has not always been from hot water,
the breaking, for I often think she has not the water hot enough; but
often from a whole tray-full sliding out of her hand, as she was coming
up-stairs, and everything on it broke.

But Dr. Murtrie said if she had learned more of the Laws of Physics she
would not probably so often tip over the waiter.

The trouble is, however, remembering at the right time. She might have
known the law perfectly well, and forgotten it just on the moment, or
her dress coming in the way may have prevented.

Still, I should like very well myself to go to the Lectures on Physics.
Perhaps I could find out something about scissors,--why it is they do
always tumble down, and usually, though so heavy, without any noise, so
that you do not know that they have fallen. I should say they had no
law, because sometimes they are far under the sofa in one direction, or
hidden behind the leg of the table in another, or perhaps not even on
the floor, but buried in the groove at the back of the easy-chair, and
you never find them till you have the chair covered again. I do feel
always in the back of the chair now; but Amanda found mine, yesterday,
in the groove of the sofa.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is possible Elizabeth Eliza may have taken the remaining sheets of
her commonplace-book abroad with her. We have not been able to recover
them.


III.

THE PETERKINS PRACTISE TRAVELLING.


Long ago Mrs. Peterkin had been afraid of the Mohammedans, and would
have dreaded to travel among them; but since the little boys had taken
lessons of the Turk, and she had become familiar with his costume and
method of sitting, she had felt less fear of them as a nation.

To be sure, the Turk had given but few lessons, as, soon after making
his engagement, he had been obliged to go to New York to join a
tobacconist's firm. Mr. Peterkin had not regretted his payment for
instruction in advance; for the Turk had been very urbane in his
manners, and had always assented to whatever the little boys or any of
the family had said to him.

Mrs. Peterkin had expressed a desire to see the famous Cleopatra's
Needle which had been brought from Egypt. She had heard it was something
gigantic for a needle, and it would be worth a journey to New York. She
wondered at their bringing it such a distance, and would have supposed
that some of Cleopatra's family would have objected to it if they were
living now.

Agamemnon said that was the truth; there was no one left to object; they
were all mummies under ground, with such heavy pyramids over them that
they would not easily rise to object.

Mr. Peterkin feared that all the pyramids would be brought away in time.
Agamemnon said there were a great many remaining in Egypt. Still, he
thought it would be well to visit Egypt soon, before they were all
brought away, and nothing but the sand left. Mrs. Peterkin said she
would be almost as willing to travel to Egypt as to New York, and it
would seem more worth while to go so far to see a great many than to go
to New York only for one needle.

"That would certainly be a needless expense," suggested Solomon John.

Elizabeth Eliza was anxious to see the Sphinx. Perhaps it would answer
some of the family questions that troubled them day after day.

Agamemnon felt it would be a great thing for the education of the little
boys. If they could have begun with the Egyptian hieroglyphics before
they had learned their alphabet, they would have begun at the right end.
Perhaps it was not too late now to take them to Egypt, and let them
begin upon its old learning. The little boys declared it was none too
late. They could not say the alphabet backward now, and could never
remember whether _u_ came before _v_; and the voyage would be
a long one, and before they reached Egypt, very likely they would have
forgotten all.

It was about this voyage that Mrs. Peterkin had much doubt. What she was
afraid of was getting in and out of the ships and boats. She was afraid
of tumbling into the water between, when she left the wharf. Elizabeth
Eliza agreed with her mother in this, and began to calculate how many
times they would have to change between Boston and Egypt.

There was the ferry-boat across to East Boston would make two changes;
one more to get on board the steamer; then Liverpool--no, to land at
Queenstown would make two more,--four, five changes; Liverpool, six.
Solomon John brought the map, and they counted up. Dover, seven; Calais,
eight; Marseilles, nine; Malta, if they landed, ten, eleven; and
Alexandria, twelve changes.

Mrs. Peterkin shuddered at the possibilities, not merely for herself,
but for the family. She could fall in but once, but by the time they
should reach Egypt, how many would be left out of a family of eight?
Agamemnon began to count up the contingencies. Eight times twelve would
make ninety-six chances (8 × 12 = 96). Mrs. Peterkin felt as if all
might be swept off before the end could be reached.

Solomon John said it was not usual to allow more than one chance in a
hundred. People always said "one in a hundred," as though that were the
usual thing expected. It was not at all likely that the whole family
would be swept off.

Mrs. Peterkin was sure they would not want to lose one; they could
hardly pick out which they could spare, she felt certain. Agamemnon
declared there was no necessity for such risks. They might go directly
by some vessel from Boston to Egypt.

Solomon John thought they might give up Egypt, and content themselves
with Rome. "All roads lead to Rome;" so it would not be difficult to
find their way.

But Mrs. Peterkin was afraid to go. She had heard you must do as the
Romans did if you went to Rome; and there were some things she certainly
should not like to do that they did. There was that brute who killed
Cæsar! And she should not object to the long voyage. It would give them
time to think it all over.

Mr. Peterkin thought they ought to have more practice in travelling, to
accustom themselves to emergencies. It would be fatal to start on so
long a voyage and to find they were not prepared. Why not make their
proposed excursion to the cousins at Gooseberry Beach, which they had
been planning all summer? There they could practise getting in and out
of a boat, and accustom themselves to the air of the sea. To be sure,
the cousins were just moving up from the seashore, but they could take
down a basket of luncheon, in order to give no trouble, and they need
not go into the house.

Elizabeth Eliza had learned by heart, early in the summer, the list of
trains, as she was sure they would lose the slip their cousins had sent
them; and you never could find the paper that had the trains in when you
wanted it. They must take the 7 A.M. train into Boston in time to go
across to the station for the Gooseberry train at 7.45, and they would
have to return from Gooseberry Beach by a 3.30 train. The cousins would
order the "barge" to meet them on their arrival, and to come for them
at 3 P.M., in time for the return train, if they were informed the day
before. Elizabeth Eliza wrote them a postal card, giving them the
information that they would take the early train. The "barge" was the
name of the omnibus that took passengers to and from the Gooseberry
station. Mrs. Peterkin felt that its very name was propitious to this
Egyptian undertaking.

The day proved a fine one. On reaching Boston, Mrs. Peterkin and
Elizabeth Eliza were put into a carriage with the luncheon-basket to
drive directly to the station. Elizabeth Eliza was able to check the
basket at the baggage-station, and to buy their "go-and-return" tickets
before the arrival of the rest of the party, which appeared, however,
some minutes before a quarter of eight. Mrs. Peterkin counted the little
boys. All were there. This promised well for Egypt. But their joy was of
short duration. On presenting their tickets at the gate of entrance,
they were stopped. The Gooseberry train had gone at 7.35! The Mattapan
train was now awaiting its passengers. Impossible! Elizabeth Eliza
had repeated 7.45 every morning through the summer. It must be the
Gooseberry train. But the conductor would not yield. If they wished to
go to Mattapan they could go; if to Gooseberry, they must wait till the
5 P.M. train.

Mrs. Peterkin was in despair. Their return train was 3.30; how could 5
P.M. help them?

Mr. Peterkin, with instant decision, proposed they should try something
else. Why should not they take their luncheon-basket across some ferry?
This would give them practice. The family hastily agreed to this. What
could be better? They went to the baggage-office, but found their basket
had gone in the 7.35 train! They had arrived in time, and could have
gone too. "If we had only been checked!" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin. The
baggage-master, showing a tender interest, suggested that there was a
train for Plymouth at eight, which would take them within twelve miles
of Gooseberry Beach, and they might find "a team" there to take them
across. He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and played
both the violin and the piano better than most amateurs.

In fact, it was music that had first brought him and Dorian Gray
together--music and that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed
to be able to exercise whenever he wished, and indeed exercised
often without being conscious of it.

They had met at Lady Berkshire's the night that Rubinstein played
there, and after that used to be always seen together at the Opera,
and wherever good music was going on. For eighteen months their
intimacy lasted. Campbell was always either at Selby Royal or in Grosvenor
Square. To him, as to many others, Dorian Gray was the type of everything
that is wonderful and fascinating in life. Whether or not a quarrel had
taken place between them no one ever knew.

But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met,
and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at
which Dorian Gray was present. He had changed, too--was strangely
melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music, and
would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called
upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left
in which to practise.

And this was certainly true. Every day he seemed to become more interested
in biology, and his name appeared once or twice in some of the scientific
reviews, in connection with certain curious experiments.

This was the man Dorian Gray was waiting for. Every second he kept glancing
at the clock. As the minutes went by he became horribly agitated. At
last he got up, and began to pace up and down the room, looking
like a beautiful caged thing. He took long stealthy strides. His hands
were curiously cold.

The suspense became unbearable.

Time seemed to him to be crawling with feet of lead, while he by monstrous
winds was being swept towards the jagged edge of some black cleft of
precipice. He knew what was waiting for him there; saw it indeed, and,
shuddering, crushed with dank hands his burning lids as though he
would have robbed the very brain of sight, and driven the eyeballs
back into their cave. It was useless. The brain had its own food on
which it battened, and the imagination, made grotesque by terror,
twisted and distorted as a living thing by pain, danced like some foul
puppet on a stand, and grinned through moving masks. Then, suddenly,
Time stopped for him.

Yes: that blind, slow-breathing thing crawled no more, and horrible
thoughts, Time being dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a
hideous future from its grave, and showed it to him. He stared at it.
Its very horror made him stone.

At last the door opened, and his servant entered. He turned glazed eyes
upon him.

"Mr. Campbell, sir," said the man.

A sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the colour came back
to his cheeks.

"Ask him to come in at once, Francis." He felt that he was himself again.
His mood of cowardice had passed away.

The man bowed, and retired. In a few moments Alan Campbell walked in,
looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his
coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.

"Alan! this is kind of you. I thank you for coming."
"I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But you said it
was a matter of life and death." His voice was hard and cold. He spoke
with slow deliberation. There was a look of contempt in the steady
searching gaze that he turned on Dorian.

He kept his hands in the pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and seemed not
to have noticed the gesture with which he had been greeted.

"Yes: it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one
person. Sit down."
Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him. The
two men's eyes met. In Dorian's there was infinite pity. He knew
that what he was going to do was dreadful.

After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very
quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him
he had sent for, "Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house,
a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated
at a table.

He has been dead ten hours now. Don't stir, and don't look at me like
that. Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not
concern you. What you have to do is this----"
"Stop, Gray. I don't want to know anything further. Whether what you
have told me is true or not true, doesn't concern me.

I entirely decline to be mixed up in your life. Keep your horrible secrets
to yourself.

They don't interest me any more."

"Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest
you.

I am awfully sorry for you, Alan.

But I can't help myself. You are the one man who is able to save me.
I am forced to bring you into the matter. I have no option. Alan, you
are scientific. You know about chemistry, and things of that kind.
You have made experiments. What you have got to do is to destroy the
thing that is upstairs--to destroy it so that not a vestige of it will
be left. Nobody saw this person come into the house. Indeed, at the
present moment he is supposed to be in Paris. He will not be missed
for months.

When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here. You, Alan,
you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into a handful
of ashes that I may scatter in the air."
"You are mad, Dorian."
"Ah! I was waiting for you to call me Dorian."
"You are mad, I tell you--mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to
help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing
to do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril
my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil's work you are up
to?"

"It was suicide, Alan."
"I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy."
"Do you still refuse to do this for me?"
"Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I don't
care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all.

I should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. How
dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this
horror? I should have thought you knew more about people's characters.
Your friend Lord Henry Wotton can't have taught you much about psychology,
whatever else he has taught you.

Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. You have come to
the wrong man. Go to some of your friends. Don't come to me."
"Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don't know what he had made me
suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the
marring of it than poor Harry has had. He may not have intended it, the
result was the same."
"Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not
inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, without my stirring in
the matter, you are certain to be arrested. Nobody ever commits a crime
without doing something stupid.

But I will have nothing to do with it."
"You must have something to do with it. Wait, wait a moment; listen
to me. Only listen, Alan. All I ask of you is to perform a certain
scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the
horrors that you do there don't affect you. If in some hideous
dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a
leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow
through, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject.
You would not turn a hair. You would not believe that you were doing
anything wrong.
On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting the
human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the world, or
gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind.

What I want you to do is merely what you have often done before. Indeed,
to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are
accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence
against me. If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be
discovered unless you help me."
"I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent
to the whole thing. It has nothing to do with me."
"Alan, I entreat you.

Think of the position I am in. Just before you came I almost fainted
with terror. You may know terror yourself some day. No! don't think of
that. Look at the matter purely from the scientific point of view. You
don't inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from.
Don't inquire now. I have told you too much as it is. But I beg of you
to do this. We were friends once, Alan."

"Don't speak about those days, Dorian: they are dead."
"The dead linger sometimes. The man upstairs will not go away. He is
sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan!
Alan!
if you don't come to my assistance I am ruined. Why, they will hang me,
Alan! Don't you understand? They will hang me for what I have done."
"There is no good in prolonging this scene. I absolutely refuse to
do anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me."
"You refuse?"
"Yes."
"I entreat you, Alan."
"It is useless."
The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray's eyes. Then he stretched
out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. He
read it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the
table.
Having done this, he got up, and went over to the window.

Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and
opened it.

As he read it, his face became ghastly pale, and he fell back in his
chair.

A horrible sense of sickness came over him.

He felt as if his heart was beating itself to death in some empty
hollow.

After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round, and
came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.

"I am so sorry for you, Alan," he murmured, "but you leave me no
alternative.

I have a letter written already. Here it is. You see the address. If you
don't help me, I must send it. If you don't help me, I will send it. You
know what the result will be.

But you are going to help me. It is impossible for you to refuse now.
I tried to spare you.

You will do me the justice to admit that.

You were stern, harsh, offensive. You treated me as no man has ever dared
to treat me--no living man, at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for
me to dictate terms."

Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through
him.

"Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The
thing is quite simple. Come, don't work yourself into this fever. The
thing has to be done. Face it, and do it."
A groan broke from Campbell's lips, and he shivered all over.

The ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece seemed to him to be
dividing Time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too
terrible to be borne.

He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his
forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already
come upon him. The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead.
It was intolerable. It seemed to crush him.

"Come, Alan, you must decide at once."
"I cannot do it," he said, mechanically, as though words could alter
things.

"You must. You have no choice. Don't delay."
He hesitated a moment. "Is there a fire in the room upstairs?"

"Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos."

"I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory."

"No, Alan, you must not leave the house. Write out on a sheet of
note-paper what you want, and my servant will take a cab and bring
the things back to you."

Campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an
envelope to his assistant.

Dorian took the note up and read it carefully.

Then he rang the bell, and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as
soon as possible, and to bring the things with him.

As the hall door shut, Campbell started nervously, and, having got up
from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece.

He was shivering with a kind of ague. For nearly twenty minutes, neither
of the men spoke. A fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking
of the clock was like the beat of a hammer.

As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and, looking at Dorian
Gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears. There was something in
the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage
him.
"You are infamous, absolutely infamous!" he muttered.

"Hush, Alan: you have saved my life," said Dorian.

"Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is!

You have gone from corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated
in crime. In doing what I am going to do, what you force me to do, it
is not of your life that I am thinking."
"Ah, Alan," murmured Dorian, with a sigh, "I wish you had a thousandth
part of the pity for me that I have for you." He turned away as he
spoke, and stood looking out at the garden. Campbell made no answer.

After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant
entered, carrying a large mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long
coil of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously-shaped
iron clamps.

"Shall I leave the things here, sir?" he asked Campbell.

"Yes," said Dorian. "And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another
errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies
Selby with orchids?"

"Harden, sir."
"Yes--Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden
personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered,
and to have as few white ones as possible.

In fact, I don't want any white ones. It is a lovely day, Francis, and
Richmond is a very pretty place, otherwise I wouldn't bother you
about it."

"No trouble, sir. At what time shall I be back?"
Dorian looked at Campbell. "How long will your experiment take,
Alan?" he said, in a calm, indifferent voice. The presence of a third
person in the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage.

Campbell frowned, and bit his lip. "It will take about five hours," he
answered.

"It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven,
Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You can
have the evening to yourself. I am not dining at home, so I shall
not want you."
"Thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room.

"Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost. How heavy this chest is!
I'll take it for you. You bring the other things." He spoke rapidly, and
in an authoritative manner. Campbell felt dominated by him.

They left the room together.

When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and
turned it in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came
into his eyes. He shuddered. "I don't think I can go in, Alan," he
murmured.
"It is nothing to me. I don't require you," said Campbell,
coldly.
Dorian half opened the door. As he did so, he saw the face of his
portrait leering in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it the
torn curtain was lying. He remembered that, the night before he had
forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas,
and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.
What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening,
on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? How
horrible it was!--more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment,
than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table,
the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet
showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as he had
left it.
He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with
half-closed eyes and averted head walked quickly in, determined
that he would not look even once upon the dead man. Then, stooping
down, and taking up the gold and purple hanging, he flung it right
over the picture.
There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed
themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. He heard
Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other
things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began to
wonder if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they
had thought of each other.
"Leave me now," said a stern voice behind him.
He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had
been thrust back into the chair, and that Campbell was gazing into
a glistening yellow face. As he was going downstairs he heard the
key being turned in the lock.
It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library.
He was pale, but absolutely calm.Mrs. Peterkin thought there must be fresh sugar occasionally, as the old
would have been eaten up. She felt the same about chickens. She never
could understand why there were only the old, tough ones in the market,
when there were certainly fresh young broods to be seen around the
farm-houses every year. She supposed the market-men had begun with the
old, tough fowls, and so they had to go on so. She wished they had begun
the other way; and she had done her best to have the family eat up the
old fowls, hoping they might, some day, get down to the young ones.

As to the uncertainty about the weather, she suggested they should go to
Grandfather's the day before. But how can you go the day before, when
you don't yet know the day?

All were much delighted, therefore, when Hiram appeared with the
wood-sled, one evening, to take them, as early as possible the next
day, to their grandfather's. He reported that the sap had started,
the kettles had been on some time, there had been a light snow for
sleighing, and to-morrow promised to be a fine day. It was decided
that he should take the little boys and Elizabeth Eliza early, in the
wood-sled; the others would follow later, in the carry-all.

Mrs. Peterkin thought it would be safer to have some of the party go on
wheels, in case of a general thaw the next day.

A brilliant sun awoke them in the morning. The wood-sled was filled with
hay, to make it warm and comfortable, and an arm-chair was tied in for
Elizabeth Eliza. But she was obliged to go first to visit the secretary
of the Circumambient Society, to explain that she should not be present
at their evening meeting. One of the rules of this society was to take
always a winding road when going upon society business, as the word
"circumambient" means "compassing about." It was one of its laws to copy
Nature as far as possible, and a straight line is never seen in Nature.
Therefore she could not send a direct note to say she should not be
present; she could only hint it in general conversation with the
secretary; and she was obliged to take a roundabout way to reach the
secretary's house, where the little boys called for her in her
wood-sled.

What was her surprise to find eight little boys instead of three! In
passing the school-house they had picked up five of their friends, who
had reached the school door a full hour before the time. Elizabeth Eliza
thought they ought to inquire if their parents would be willing they
should go, as they all expected to spend the night at Grandfather's.
Hiram thought it would require too much time to stop for the consent of
ten parents; if the sun kept on at this rate, the snow would be gone
before they should reach the woods. But the little boys said most of the
little boys lived in a row, and Elizabeth Eliza felt she ought not to
take the boys away for all night without their parents' knowledge. The
consent of two mothers and two fathers was gained, and Mr. Dobson was
met in the street, who said he would tell the other mother. But at each
place they were obliged to stop for additional tippets and great-coats
and India-rubber boots for the little boys. At the Harrimans', too, the
Harriman girls insisted on dressing up the wood-sled with evergreens,
and made one of the boys bring their last Christmas-tree, that was
leaning up against the barn, to set it up in the back of the sled, over
Elizabeth Eliza. All this made considerable delay; and when they reached
the high-road again, the snow was indeed fast melting. Elizabeth Eliza
was inclined to turn back, but Hiram said they would find the sleighing
better farther up among the hills. The armchair joggled about a good
deal, and the Christmas-tree creaked behind her; and Hiram was obliged
to stop occasionally and tie in the chair and the tree more firmly.

But the warm sun was very pleasant, the eight little boys were very
lively, and the sleigh-bells jingled gayly as they went on.

It was so late when they reached the wood-road that Hiram decided they
had better not go up the hill to their grandfather's, but turn off into
the woods.

"Your grandfather will be there by this time," he declared.

Elizabeth Eliza was afraid the carry-all would miss them, and thought
they had better wait. Hiram did not like to wait longer, and proposed
that one or two of the little boys should stop to show the way. But it
was so difficult to decide which little boys should stay that he gave
it up. Even to draw lots would take time. So he explained that there
was a lunch hidden somewhere in the straw; and the little boys thought
it an admirable time to look it up, and it was decided to stop in the
sun at the corner of the road. Elizabeth Eliza felt a little jounced
in the armchair, and was glad of a rest; and the little boys soon
discovered an ample lunch,--just what might have been expected from
Grandfather's,--apple-pie and doughnuts, and plenty of them! "Lucky
we brought so many little boys!" they exclaimed.

Hiram, however, began to grow impatient. "There 'll be no snow left," he
exclaimed, "and no afternoon for the syrup!"

But far in the distance the Peterkin carry-all was seen slowly
approaching through the snow, Solomon John waving a red handkerchief.
The little boys waved back, and Hiram ventured to enter upon the
wood-road, but at a slow pace, as Elizabeth Eliza still feared that by
some accident the family might miss them.

It was with difficulty that the carry-all followed in the deep but soft
snow, in among the trunks of the trees and over piles of leaves hidden
in the snow. They reached at last the edge of a meadow; and on the high
bank above it stood a row of maples, a little shanty by the side, a slow
smoke proceeding from its chimney. The little boys screamed with
delight, but there was no reply. Nobody there!

"The folks all gone!" exclaimed Hiram; "then we must be late." And he
proceeded to pull out a large silver watch from a side pocket. It was so
large that he seldom was at the pains to pull it out, as it took time;
but when he had succeeded at last, and looked at it, he started.

"Late, indeed! It is four o'clock, and we were to have been here by
eleven; they have given you up."

The little boys wanted to force in the door; but Hiram said it was no
use,--they wouldn't understand what to do, and he should have to see to
the horses,--and it was too late, and it was likely they had carried off
all the syrup. But he thought a minute, as they all stood in silence and
gloom; and then he guessed they might find some sugar at Deacon Spear's,
close by, on the back road, and that would be better than nothing. Mrs.
Peterkin was pretty cold, and glad not to wait in the darkening wood; so
the eight little boys walked through the wood-path, Hiram leading the
way; and slowly the carry-all followed.

They reached Deacon Spear's at length; but only Mrs. Spear was at home.
She was very deaf, but could explain that the family had taken all their
syrup to the annual festival.

"We might go to the festival," exclaimed the little boys.

"It would be very well," said Mrs. Peterkin, "to eat our fresh syrup
there."

But Mrs. Spear could not tell where the festival was to be, as she had
not heard; perhaps they might know at Squire Ramsay's. Squire Ramsay's
was on their way to Grandfather's, so they stopped there; but they
learned that the "Squire's folks had all gone with their syrup to the
festival," but the man who was chopping wood did not know where the
festival was to be.

"They 'll know at your grandfather's," said Mrs. Peterkin, from the
carry-all.

"Yes, go on to your grandfather's," advised Mr. Peterkin, "for I think
I felt a drop of rain." So they made the best of their way to
Grandfather's.

At the moment they reached the door of the house, a party of young
people whom Elizabeth Eliza knew came by in sleighs. She had met them
all when visiting at her grandfather's.

"Come along with us," they shouted; "we are all going down to the sugar
festival."

"That is what we have come for," said Mr. Peterkin.

"Where is it?" asked Solomon John.

"It is down your way," was the reply.

"It is in your own New Hall," said another. "We have sent down all our
syrup. The Spears and Ramsays and Doolittles have gone on with theirs.
No time to stop; there's good sleighing on the old road."

There was a little consultation with the grandfather. Hiram said that
he could take them back with the wood-sled, when he heard there was
sleighing on the old road; and it was decided that the whole party
should go in the wood-sled, with the exception of Mr. Peterkin, who
would follow on with the carry-all. Mrs. Peterkin would take the
arm-chair, and cushions were put in for Elizabeth Eliza, and more
apple-pie for all. No more drops of rain appeared, though the clouds
were thickening over the setting sun.

"All the way back again," sighed Mrs. Peterkin, "when we might have
stayed at home all day, and gone quietly out to the New Hall!" But
the little boys thought the sledding all day was great fun,--and the
apple-pie! "And we did see the kettle through the cracks of the shanty!"

"It is odd the festival should be held at the New Hall," said Elizabeth
Eliza; "for the secretary did say something about the society meeting
there to-night, being so far from the centre of the town."

This hall was so called because it was once a new hall, built to be used
for lectures, assemblies, and entertainments of this sort, for the
convenience of the inhabitants who had collected about some flourishing
factories.

"You can go to your own Circumambient Society, then!" exclaimed Solomon
John.

"And in a truly circumambient manner," said Agamemnon; and he explained
to the little boys that they could now understand the full meaning of
the word, for surely Elizabeth Eliza had taken the most circumambient
way of reaching the place by coming away from it.

"We little thought, when we passed it early this morning," said
Elizabeth Eliza, "that we should come back to it for our maple sugar."

"It is odd the secretary did not tell you they were going to join the
sugar festival," said Mrs. Peterkin.

"It is one of the rules of the society," said Elizabeth Eliza, "that the
secretary never tells anything directly. She only hinted at the plan of
the New Hall."

"I don't see how you can find enough to talk about," said Solomon John.

"We can tell of things that never have happened," said Elizabeth Eliza,
"or that are not likely to happen, and wonder what would have happened
if they had happened."

They arrived at the festival at last, but very late, and glad to find a
place that was warm. There was a stove at each end of the hall, and an
encouraging sound and smell from the simmering syrup. There were long
tables down the hall, on which were placed, in a row, first a bowl of
snow, then a pile of saucers and spoons, then a plate of pickles,
intended to whet the appetite for more syrup; another of bread, then
another bowl of snow, and so on. Hot syrup was to be poured on the snow
and eaten as candy.

The Peterkin family were received at this late hour with a wild
enthusiasm. Elizabeth Eliza was an especial heroine, and was made
directly the president of the evening. Everybody said that she had best
earned the distinction; for had she not come to the meeting by the
longest way possible, by going away from it? The secretary declared that
the principles of the society had been completely carried out. She had
always believed that if left to itself, information would spread itself
in a natural instead of a forced way.

"Now, in this case, if I had written twenty-nine notifications to this
meeting, I should have wasted just so much of my time. But the
information has disseminated naturally. Ann Maria said what a good plan
it would be to have the Circumambients go to the sugaring at the New
Hall. Everybody said it would be a good plan. Elizabeth Eliza came and
spoke of the sugaring, and I spoke of the New Hall."

"But if you had told Elizabeth Eliza that all the maple syrup was to be
brought here--" began Mrs. Peterkin.

"We should have lost our excursion for maple syrup," said Mr. Peterkin.

Later, as they reached home in the carry-all (Hiram having gone back
with the wood-sled), Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin, after leaving little boys at
their homes all along the route, found none of their own to get out at
their own door. They must have joined Elizabeth Eliza, Agamemnon, and
Solomon John in taking a circuitous route home with the rest of the
Circumambients.

"The little boys will not be at home till midnight," said Mrs. Peterkin,
anxiously. "I do think this is carrying the thing too far, after such a
day!"

"Elizabeth Eliza will feel that she has acted up to the principles of
the society," said Mr. Peterkin, "and we have done our best; for, as the
little boys said, 'we did see the kettle.'"


V.

THE PETERKINS "AT HOME."


Might not something be done by way of farewell before leaving for Egypt?
They did not want to give another tea-party, and could not get in all at
dinner. They had had charades and a picnic. Elizabeth Eliza wished for
something unusual, that should be remembered after they had left for
Egypt. Why should it not be a fancy ball? There never had been one in
the place.

Mrs. Peterkin hesitated. Perhaps for that reason they ought not to
attempt it. She liked to have things that other people had. She however
objected most to the "ball" part. She could indeed still dance a minuet,
but she was not sure she could get on in the "Boston dip."

The little boys said they would like the "fancy" part and "dressing up."
They remembered their delight when they browned their faces for Hindus,
at their charades, just for a few minutes; and what fun it would be to
wear their costumes through a whole evening! Mrs. Peterkin shook her
head; it was days and days before the brown had washed out of their
complexions.

Still, she too was interested in the "dressing up." If they should wear
costumes, they could make them of things that might be left behind, that
they had done wearing, if they could only think of the right kind of
things.

Mrs. Peterkin, indeed, had already packed up, although they were not to
leave for two months, for she did not want to be hurried at the last.
She and Elizabeth Eliza went on different principles in packing.

Elizabeth Eliza had been told that you really needed very little to
travel with,--merely your travelling dress and a black silk. Mrs.
Peterkin, on the contrary, had heard it was best to take everything you
had, and then you need not spend your time shopping in Paris. So they
had decided upon adopting both ways. Mrs. Peterkin was to take her
"everything," and already had all the shoes and stockings she should
need for a year or two. Elizabeth Eliza, on the other hand, prepared a
small valise. She consoled herself with the thought that if she should
meet anything that would not go into it, she could put it in one of her
mother's trunks.

It was resolved to give the fancy ball.

Mr. Peterkin early determined upon a character. He decided to be Julius
Cæsar. He had a bald place on the top of his head, which he was told
resembled that of the great Roman; and he concluded that the dress would
be a simple one to get up, requiring only a sheet for a toga.

Agamemnon was inclined to take the part which his own name represented,
and he looked up the costume of the Greek king of men. But he was
dissatisfied with the representation given of him in Dr. Schliemann's
"Mykenæ." There was a picture of Agamemnon's mask, but very much
battered. He might get a mask made in that pattern, indeed, and the
little boys were delighted with the idea of battering it. Agamemnon
would like to wear a mask, then he would have no trouble in keeping up
his expression. But Elizabeth Eliza objected to the picture in Dr.
Schliemann's book; she did not like it for Agamemnon,--it was too
slanting in the eyes. So it was decided he should take the part of Nick
Bottom, in "Midsummer Night's Dream." He could then wear the ass's head,
which would have the same advantage as a mask, and would conceal his own
face entirely. Then he could be making up any face he pleased in the
ass's head, and would look like an ass without any difficulty, while his
feet would show he was not one. Solomon John thought that they might
make an ass's head if they could get a pattern, or could see the real
animal and form an idea of the shape. Barnum's Circus would be along in
a few weeks, and they could go on purpose to study the donkeys, as there
usually was more than one donkey in the circus. Agamemnon, however, in
going with a friend to a costumer's in Boston, found an ass's head
already made.

The little boys found in an illustrated paper an accurate description
of the Hindu snake-charmer's costume, and were so successful in their
practice of shades of brown for the complexion, that Solomon John
decided to take the part of Othello, and use some of their staining
fluid.

There was some discussion as to consulting the lady from Philadelphia,
who was in town.

Solomon John thought they ought to practise getting on by themselves,
for soon the Atlantic would lie between her and them. Mrs. Peterkin
thought they could telegraph. Elizabeth Eliza wanted to submit to her
two or three questions about the supper, and whether, if her mother were
Queen Elizabeth, they could have Chinese lanterns. Was China invented at
that time? Agamemnon was sure China was one of the oldest countries in
the world and did exist, though perhaps Queen Elizabeth did not know it.

Elizabeth Eliza was relieved to find that the lady from Philadelphia
thought the question not important. It would be impossible to have
everything in the house to correspond with all the different characters,
unless they selected some period to represent, such as the age of Queen
Elizabeth. Of course, Elizabeth Eliza would not wish to do this when her
father was to be Julius Cæsar.

The lady from Philadelphia advised Mrs. Peterkin to send for Jones the
"caterer" to take charge of the supper. But his first question staggered
her. How many did she expect?

They had not the slightest idea. They had sent invitations to everybody.
The little boys proposed getting the directory of the place, and marking
out the people they didn't know and counting up the rest. But even if
this would give the number of invitations, it would not show how many
would accept; and then there was no such directory. They could not
expect answers, as their invitations were cards with "At Home" on them.
One answer had come from a lady, that she too would be "at home" with
rheumatism. So they only knew there was one person who would not come.
Elizabeth Eliza had sent in Circumambient ways to all the members of
that society,--by the little boys, for instance, who were sure to stop
at the base-ball grounds, or somewhere, so a note was always delayed by
them. One Circumambient note she sent by mail, purposely omitting the
"Mass.," so that it went to the Dead-Letter Office, and came back six
weeks after the party.

But the Peterkin family were not alone in commotion. The whole town was
in excitement, for "everybody" had been invited. Ann Maria Bromwick
had a book of costumes that she lent to a few friends, and everybody
borrowed dresses or lent them, or went into town to the costumer's.
Weeks passed in preparation. "What are you going to wear?" was the only
question exchanged; and nobody answered, as nobody would tell.

At length the evening came,--a beautiful night in late summer, warm
enough to have had the party out-of-doors; but the whole house was
lighted up and thrown open, and Chinese lanterns hung in the portico and
on the pillars of the piazzas.

At an early hour the Peterkins were arrayed in their costumes. The
little boys had their legs and arms and faces browned early in the day,
and wore dazzlingly white full trousers and white turbans.

Elizabeth Eliza had prepared a dress as Queen Elizabeth; but Solomon
John was desirous that she should be Desdemona, and she gave up her
costume to her mother. Mrs. Peterkin therefore wore a red wig which Ann
Maria had found at a costumer's, a high ruff, and an old-fashioned
brocade. She was not sure that it was proper for Queen Elizabeth to wear
spectacles; but Queen Elizabeth must have been old enough, as she lived
to be seventy. As for Elizabeth Eliza, in recalling the fact that
Desdemona was smothered by pillows, she was so impressed by it that she
decided she could wear the costume of a sheet-and-pillow-case party. So
she wore a white figured silk that had been her mother's wedding-dress,
and over it draped a sheet as a large mantle, and put a pillow-case upon
her head, and could represent Desdemona not quite smothered. But Solomon
John wished to carry out the whole scene at the end.

As they stood together, all ready to receive, in the parlor at the
appointed hour, Mr. Peterkin suddenly exclaimed,--

"This will never do! We are not the Peterkins,--we are distinguished
guests! We cannot receive."

"We shall have to give up the party," said Mrs. Peterkin.

"Or our costumes," groaned Agamemnon from his ass's head.

"We must go out, and come in as guests," said Elizabeth Eliza, leading
the way to a back door, for guests were already thronging in, and up
the front stairs. They passed out by a piazza, through the hedge of
hollyhocks, toward the front of the house. Through the side windows of
the library they could see the company pouring in. The black attendant
was showing them upstairs; some were coming down, in doubt whether to
enter the parlors, as no one was there. The wide middle entrance hall
was lighted brilliantly; so were the parlors on one side and the library
on the other.

But nobody was there to receive! A flock of guests was
assembling,--peasant girls, Italian, German, and Norman; Turks, Greeks,
Persians, fish-wives, brigands, chocolate-women, Lady Washington,
Penelope, Red Riding-hood, Joan of Arc, nuns, Amy Robsart, Leicester,
two or three Mary Stuarts, Neapolitan fisher-boys, pirates of Penzance
and elsewhere,--all lingering, some on the stairs, some going up, some
coming down.

Charles I. without his head was entering the front door (a short
gentleman, with a broad ruff drawn neatly together on top of his own
head, which was concealed in his doublet below).

Three Hindu snake-charmers leaped wildly in and out among the throng,
flinging about dark, crooked sticks for snakes.

There began to be a strange, deserted air about the house. Nobody knew
what to do, where to go!

"Can anything have happened to the family?"

"Have they gone to Egypt?" whispered one.

No ushers came to show them in. A shudder ran through the whole
assembly, the house seemed so uninhabited; and some of the guests were
inclined to go away. The Peterkins saw it all through the long
library-windows.

"What shall we do?" said Mr. Peterkin. "We have said _we_ should
be 'At Home.'"

"And here we are, all out-of-doors among the hollyhocks," said Elizabeth
Eliza.

"There are no Peterkins to 'receive,'" said Mr. Peterkin, gloomily.

"We might go in and change our costumes," said Mrs. Peterkin, who
already found her Elizabethan ruff somewhat stiff; "but, alas! I could
not get at my best dress."

"The company is filling all the upper rooms," said Elizabeth Eliza; "we
cannot go back."

At this moment the little boys returned from the front door, and in a
subdued whisper explained that the lady from Philadelphia was arriving.

"Oh, bring her here!" said Mrs. Peterkin. And Solomon John hastened to
meet her.

She came, to find a strange group half lighted by the Chinese lanterns.
Mr. Peterkin, in his white toga, with a green wreath upon his head, came
forward to address her in a noble manner, while she was terrified by the
appearance of Agamemnon's ass's head, half hidden among the leaves.

"What shall we do?" exclaimed Mr. Peterkin. "There are no Peterkins;
yet we have sent cards to everybody that they are 'At Home'!"

The lady from Philadelphia, who had been allowed to come without
costume, considered for a moment. She looked through the windows to the
seething mass now crowding the entrance hall. The Hindu snake-charmers
gambolled about her.

"_We_ will receive as the Peterkin family!" she exclaimed. She
inquired for a cap of Mrs. Peterkin's, with a purple satin bow, such as
she had worn that very morning. Amanda was found by a Hindu, and sent
for it and for a purple cross-over shawl that Mrs. Peterkin was wont to
wear. The daughters of the lady from Philadelphia put on some hats of
the little boys and their India-rubber boots. It looks upon itself
as most unworthy--for in a room into which the sunlight enters
strongly, not a cobweb can be hid; it sees its own misery; self-conceit
is so far away, that it seems as if it never could have had any--for
now its own eyes behold how very little it could ever do, or rather,
that it never did anything, that it hardly gave even its own consent,
but that it rather seemed as if the doors of the senses were closed
against its will in order that it might have more abundantly the
fruition of our Lord.

It is abiding alone with Him: what has it to do but to love Him? It
neither sees nor hears, unless on compulsion: no thanks to it. Its past
life stands before it then, together with the great mercy of God,
in great distinctness; and it is not necessary for it to go forth to
hunt with the understanding, because what it has to eat and ruminate
upon, it sees now ready prepared. It sees, so far as itself is concerned,
that it has deserved hell, and that its punishment is bliss. It undoes
itself in the praises of God, and I would gladly undo myself now.

3. Blessed be Thou, O my Lord, who, out of a pool so filthy as I am,
bringest forth water so clean as to be meet for Thy table!

Praised be Thou, O Joy of the Angels, who hast been thus pleased to exalt
so vile a worm!

4. The good effects of this prayer abide in the soul for some time. Now
that it clearly apprehends that the fruit is not its own, the soul can
begin to share it with others, and that without any loss to itself. It
begins to show signs of its being a soul that is guarding the treasures
of heaven, and to be desirous of communicating them to others, [2]
and to pray to God that itself may not be the only soul that is
rich in them.

It begins to benefit its neighbours, as it were, without being aware of
it, or doing anything consciously: its neighbours understand the
matter, because the odour of the flowers has grown so strong as to
make them eager to approach them. They understand that this soul is
full of virtue: they see the fruit, how delicious it is, and they wish
to help that soul to eat it.

5.

If this ground be well dug by troubles, by persecutions, detractions,
and infirmities,--they are few who ascend so high without this,--if
it be well broken up by great detachment from all self-interest, it will
drink in so much water that it can hardly ever be parched again. But if
it be ground which is mere waste, and covered with thorns (as I was
when I began); if the occasions of sin be not avoided; if it be
an ungrateful soil, unfitted for so great a grace,--it will be
parched up again.

If the gardener become careless,--and if our Lord, out of His mere goodness,
will not send down rain upon it,--the garden is ruined. Thus has it been
with me more than once, so that I am amazed at it; and if I had
not found it so by experience, I could not have believed it.

6.

I write this for the comfort of souls which are weak, as I am, that they
may never despair, nor cease to trust in the power of God; even if they
should fall after our Lord has raised them to so high a degree of prayer
as this is, they must not be discouraged, unless they would lose
themselves utterly.

Tears gain everything, and one drop of water attracts another.

7. One of the reasons that move me, who am what I am, under obedience to
write this, and give an account of my wretched life, and of the
graces our Lord has wrought in me,--though I never served Him, but
offended Him rather,--is what I have just given:
and, certainly, I wish I was a person of great authority, that
people might believe what I say.

I pray to our Lord that His Majesty would be pleased to grant me this
grace. I repeat it, let no one who has begun to give himself to prayer
be discouraged, and say: If I fall into sin, it will be worse for me
if I go on now with the practice of prayer. I think so too, if he gives
up prayer, and does not correct his evil ways; but if he does not give
up prayer, let him be assured of this--prayer will bring him to
the haven of light.

8.

In this the devil turned his batteries against me, and I suffered so
much because I thought it showed but little humility if I persevered in
prayer when I was so wicked, that--as I have already said [3]--I gave it
up for a year and a half--at least, for a year, but I do not remember
distinctly the other six months. This could not have been, neither
was it, anything else but to throw myself down into hell; there was
no need of any devils to drag me thither. O my God, was there ever
blindness so great as this? How well Satan prepares his measures
for his purpose, when he pursues us in this way! The traitor knows that
he has already lost that soul which perseveres in prayer, and that
every fall which he can bring about helps it, by the goodness of
God, to make greater progress in His service.
Satan has some interest in this.

9. O my Jesus, what a sight that must be--a soul so highly exalted
falling into sin, and raised up again by Thee; who, in Thy mercy,
stretchest forth Thine hand to save!

How such a soul confesses Thy greatness and compassion and its own
wretchedness!
It really looks on itself as nothingness, and confesses Thy power.
It dares not lift up its eyes; it raises them, indeed, but it is
to acknowledge how much it oweth unto Thee.

It becomes devout to the Queen of Heaven, that she may propitiate Thee;
it invokes the Saints, who fell after Thou hadst called them, for
succour.

Thou seemest now to be too bountiful in Thy gifts, because it feels
itself to be unworthy of the earth it treads on.
It has recourse to the Sacraments, to a quickened faith, which abides
in it at the contemplation of the power which Thou hast lodged in them.
It praises Thee because Thou hast left us such medicines and ointment
for our wounds, which not only heal them on the surface, but remove all
traces whatever of them.

10. The soul is amazed at it. Who is there, O Lord of my soul, that is
not amazed at compassion so great and mercy so surpassing, after
treason so foul and so hateful? I know not how it is that my heart
does not break when I write this, for I am wicked. With these scanty
tears which I am now weeping, but yet Thy gift,--water out of a well,
so far as it is mine, so impure,--I seem to make Thee some recompense
for treachery so great as mine, in that I was always doing evil, labouring
to make void the graces Thou hast given me. Do Thou, O Lord, make my
tears available; purify the water which is so muddy; at least, let
me not be to others a temptation to rash judgments, as I have been
to myself, when I used to think such thoughts as these.

Why, O Lord, dost Thou pass by most holy persons, who have always served
Thee, and who have been tried; who have been brought up in religion,
and are really religious--not such as I am, having only the name--so
as to make it plain that they are not recipients of those graces
which Thou hast bestowed upon me?

11. I see clearly now, O Thou my Good, Thou hast kept the reward to give
it them all at once: my weakness has need of these succours. They,
being strong, serve Thee without them, and Thou dealest with them
as with a strong race, free from all self-interest.

But yet Thou knowest, O my Lord, that I have often cried unto Thee,
making excuses for those who murmured against me; for I thought
they had reason on their side.

This I did then when Thou of Thy goodness hadst kept me back from
offending Thee so much, and when I was departing from everything
which I thought displeasing unto Thee.

It was when I did this that Thou, O Lord, didst begin to lay open Thy
treasures for Thy servant. It seemed as if Thou wert looking for
nothing else but that I should be willing and ready to receive them;
accordingly, Thou didst begin at once, not only to give them, but
also to make others know that Thou wert giving them.

12. When this was known, there began to prevail a good opinion of
her, of whom all had not yet clearly understood how wicked she
was, though much of that wickedness was plain enough.

Calumny and persecution began at once, and, as I think, with good reason;
so I looked on none of them as an enemy, but made my supplications to
Thee, imploring Thee to consider the grounds they had.
They said that I wished to be a saint, and that I invented novelties; but
I had not then attained in many things even to the observance of my
rule; nor had I come near those excellent and holy nuns who were in
the house,--and I do not believe I ever shall, if God of His
goodness will not do that for me Himself; on the contrary, I was there
only to do away with what was good, and introduce customs which were not
good; at least, I did what I could to bring them in, and I was very
powerful for evil.
Thus it was that they were blameless, when they blamed me.

I do not mean the nuns only, but the others as well: they told me truths;
for it was Thy will.

13. I was once saying the Office,--I had had this temptation for some
time,--and when I came to these words, "Justus es, Domine, et rectum
judicium tuum," [4] I began to think what a deep truth it was. Satan
never was strong enough to tempt me in any way to doubt of Thy
goodness, or of any article of the faith: on the contrary, it seems
to me that the more these truths were above nature, the more firmly
I held them, and my devotion grew; when I thought of Thy omnipotence,
I accepted all Thy wonderful works, and I say it again, I never had
a doubt.

Then, as I was thinking how it could be just in Thee to allow so many,
who, as I said, are Thy most faithful servants, to remain without
those consolations and graces which Thou hast given to me, who am
what I am, Thou, O my Lord, didst answer me: Serve thou Me, and meddle
not with this.

14. This was the first word which I ever heard Thee speak to me, and
it made me greatly afraid. But as I shall speak hereafter [5] of this
way of hearing, and of other matters, I say nothing here; for to do
so would be to digress from my subject, and I have already made
digressions enough. I scarcely know what I have said, nor can it be
otherwise; but you, my father, must bear with these interruptions; for
when I consider what God must have borne with from me, and when I
see the state I am in, it is not strange that I should wander in
what I am saying, and what I have still to say.

15.

May it please our Lord that my wanderings may be of this kind, and may
His Majesty never suffer me to have strength to resist Him even in the
least; yea, rather than that, may He destroy me this moment. It is
evidence enough of His great compassions, that He has forgiven so much
ingratitude, not once, but often. He forgave St. Peter once; but I have
been forgiven many times. Satan had good reasons for tempting me: I
ought never to have pretended to a strict friendship with One, my hatred
of whom I made so public. Was there ever blindness so great as mine?
Where could I think I should find help but in Thee? What folly to run
away from the light, to be for ever stumbling! What a proud humility
was that which Satan devised for me, when I ceased to lean upon the
pillar, and threw the staff away which supported me, in order that my
fall might not be great! [6]
16. I make the sign of the cross this moment. I do not think I ever
escaped so great a danger as this device of Satan, which he would
have imposed upon me in the disguise of humility. [7] He filled me
with such thoughts as these: How could I make my prayer, who was so
wicked, and yet had received so many mercies?
It was enough for me to recite the Office, as all others did; but as I
did not that much well, how could I desire to do more?
I was not reverential enough, and made too little of the mercies
of God.

There was no harm in these thoughts and feelings in themselves; but to act
upon them, that was an exceedingly great wickedness. Blessed be Thou,
O Lord; for Thou camest to my help.
This seems to me to be in principle the temptation of Judas, only that
Satan did not dare to tempt me so openly. But he might have led me by
little and little, as he led Judas, to the same pit of destruction.
17.

Let all those who give themselves to prayer, for the love of God, look
well to this. They should know that when I was neglecting it, my
life was much worse than it had ever been; let them reflect on the excellent
help and the pleasant humility which Satan provided for me: it was a
grave interior disquietude.
But how could my spirit be quiet? It was going away in its misery from
its true rest. I remembered the graces and mercies I had received, and
felt that the joys of this world were loathsome. I am astonished that I
was able to bear it.

It must have been the hope I had; for, as well as I can remember now,
it is more than twenty-one years ago. I do not think I ever gave up my
purpose of resuming my prayer; but I was waiting to be very free
from sin first.

18. Oh, how deluded I was in this expectation!

The devil would have held it out before me till the day of judgment,
that he might then take me with him to hell. Then, when I applied myself
to prayer and to spiritual reading,--whereby I might perceive these
truths, and the evil nature of the way I was walking in, and was often
importunate with our Lord in tears,--I was so wicked, that it availed
me nothing; when I gave that up, and wasted my time in amusing myself,
in great danger of falling into sin, and with scanty helps,--and I may
venture to say no help at all, unless it was a help to my ruin,--what
could I expect but that of which I have spoken?

19. I believe that a certain Dominican friar, a most learned man, has
greatly merited in the eyes of God; for it was he who roused me from
this slumber. He made me--I think I said so before [8]--go to Communion
once a fortnight, and be less given to evil; I began to be converted,
though I did not cease to offend our Lord all at once: however, as I had
not lost my way, I walked on in it, though slowly, falling and
rising again; and he who does not cease to walk and press onwards, arrives
at last, even if late. To lose one's way is--so it seems to me--nothing
else but the giving up of prayer. God, of His mercy, keeps us from
this!

20. It is clear from this,--and, for the love of God, consider it
well,--that a soul, though it may receive great graces from God in prayer,
must never rely on itself, because it may fall, nor expose itself
in any way whatever to any risks of sin. This should be well considered
because much depends on it; for the delusion here, wherein Satan is able
to entangle us afterwards, though the grace be really from God, lies
in the traitor's making use of that very grace, so far as he can, for
his own purpose, and particularly against persons not grown strong in
virtues, who are neither mortified nor detached; for these are not at
present strong enough--as I shall explain hereafter [9]--to expose
themselves to dangerous occasions, notwithstanding the noble desires
and resolutions they may have.

21.

This doctrine is excellent, and not mine, but the teaching of God,
and accordingly I wish ignorant people like myself knew it; for even if
a soul were in this state, it must not rely so much upon itself as to
go forth to the battle, because it will have enough to do in defending
itself. Defensive armour is the present necessity; the soul is not yet
strong enough to assail Satan, and to trample him under foot, as those
are who are in the state of which I shall speak further on. [10]
22. This is the delusion by which Satan prevails: when a soul sees itself
so near unto God, when it sees the difference there is between the
things of heaven and those of earth, and when it sees the love which
our Lord bears it, there grows out of that love a certain trust and
confidence that there is to be no falling away from that the
fruition of which it then possesses.

It seems to see the reward distinctly, as if it were impossible
for it to abandon that which, even in this life, is so delicious and
sweet, for anything so mean and impure as worldly joy.
Through this confidence, Satan robs it of that distrust which it ought
to have in itself; and so, as I have just said, [11] the soul exposes
itself to dangers, and begins, in the fulness of its zeal, to give
away without discretion the fruit of its garden, thinking that now
it has no reason to be afraid for itself.

Yet this does not come out of pride; for the soul clearly understands
that of itself it can do no good thing; but rather out of an
excessive confidence in God, without discretion:
because the soul does not see itself to be unfledged. It can go forth out
of its nest, and God Himself may take it out, but still it cannot
fly, because the virtues are not strong, and itself has no experience
wherewith to discern the dangers; nor is it aware of the evil which
trusting to itself may do it.

23. This it was that ruined me.

Now, to understand this, and everything else in the spiritual life, we
have great need of a director, and of conference with spiritual persons.
I fully believe, with respect to that soul which God raises to this
state, that He will not cease to be gracious to it, nor suffer it to
be lost, if it does not utterly forsake His Majesty. But when that
soul--as I said--falls, let it look to it again and again, for the love
of our Lord, that Satan deceive it not by tempting it to give up prayer,
as he tempted me, through that false humility of which I have
spoken before, [12] and would gladly speak of again and again.

Let it rely on the goodness of God, which is greater than all the evil
we can do.

When we, acknowledging our own vileness, desire to return into His grace,
He remembers our ingratitude no more,--no, not even the graces He has
given us, for the purpose of chastising us, because of our misuse of
them; yea, rather, they help to procure our pardon the sooner, as of
persons who have been members of His household, and who, as they say,
have eaten of His bread.

24. Let them remember His words, and behold what He hath done unto me,
who grew weary of sinning before He grew weary of forgiving. He is
never weary of giving, nor can His compassion be exhausted. Let us not
grow weary ourselves of receiving.
It contained the family photographs,
from early childhood upward, and was a large volume, representing the
children at every age.

At Malta, as he supposed, Mr. Peterkin and the little boys landed, in
order to send their telegram. Indeed, all of the gentlemen among the
passengers, and some of the ladies, gladly went on shore to visit the
points of interest that could be seen in the time allotted. The steamer
was to take in coal, and would not leave till early the next morning.

Mrs. Peterkin did not accompany them. She still had her fears about
leaving the ship and returning to it, although it had been so quietly
accomplished at Marseilles.

The party returned late at night, after Mrs. Peterkin had gone to her
cabin. The next morning, she found the ship was in motion, but she did
not find Mr. Peterkin and the little boys at the breakfast-table as
usual. She was told that the party who went on shore had all been to
the opera, and had returned at a late hour to the steamer, and would
naturally be late at breakfast. Mrs. Peterkin went on deck to await
them, and look for Malta as it seemed to retreat in the distance. But
the day passed on, and neither Mr. Peterkin nor either of the little
boys appeared! She tried to calm herself with the thought that they must
need sleep; but all the rest of the passengers appeared, relating their
different adventures. At last she sent the steward to inquire for them.
He came back with one of the officers of the boat, much disturbed, to
say that they could not be found; they must have been left behind. There
was great excitement, and deep interest expressed for Mrs. Peterkin. One
of the officers was very surly, and declared he could not be responsible
for the inanity of passengers. Another was more courteous. Mrs. Peterkin
asked if they could not go back,--if, at least, she could not be put
back. He explained how this would be impossible, but that the company
would telegraph when they reached Alexandria.

Mrs. Peterkin calmed herself as well as she could, though indeed she was
bewildered by her position. She was to land in Alexandria alone, and the
landing she was told would be especially difficult. The steamer would
not be able to approach the shore; the passengers would go down the
sides of the ship, and be lifted off the steps, by Arabs, into a felucca
(whatever that was) below. She shuddered at the prospect. It was darker
than her gloomiest fancies had pictured. Would it not be better to
remain in the ship, go back to Southampton, perhaps meet Elizabeth Eliza
there, picking up Mr. Peterkin at Malta on the way? But at this moment
she discovered that she was not on a "P. & O." steamer,--it was a French
steamer of the "Messagerie" line; they had stopped at Messina, and not
at Malta. She could not go back to Southampton, so she was told by an
English colonel on his way to India. He indeed was very courteous, and
advised her to "go to an hotel" at Alexandria with some of the ladies,
and send her telegrams from there. To whom, however, would she wish to
send a telegram?

"Who is Mr. Peterkin's banker?" asked the Colonel. It was like a dreadful
wax image.

Having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs. The
woodwork creaked, and seemed to cry out as if in pain. He stopped
several times, and waited. No: everything was still. It was merely the
sound of his own footsteps.

When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.
They must be hidden away somewhere. He unlocked a secret press that was
in the wainscoting, a press in which he kept his own curious
disguises, and put them into it.

He could easily burn them afterwards. Then he pulled out his watch.
It was twenty minutes to two.

He sat down, and began to think. Every year--every month,
almost--men were strangled in England for what he had done.

There had been a madness of murder in the air.

Some red star had come too close to the earth....
And yet what evidence was there against him? Basil Hallward had left the
house at eleven.

No one had seen him come in again. Most of the servants were at
Selby Royal. His valet had gone to bed.... Paris! Yes. It was to
Paris that Basil had gone, and by the midnight train, as he had
intended. With his curious reserved habits, it would be months before any
suspicions would be aroused. Months! Everything could be destroyed long
before then.

A sudden thought struck him. He put on his fur coat and hat, and went
out into the hall. There he paused, hearing the slow heavy tread of the
policeman on the pavement outside, and seeing the flash of the bull's-eye
reflected in the window. He waited, and held his breath.

After a few moments he drew back the latch, and slipped out, shutting the
door very gently behind him. Then he began ringing the bell. In about
five minutes his valet appeared half dressed, and looking very
drowsy.
"I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis," he said, stepping
in; "but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is it?"
"Ten minutes past two, sir," answered the man, looking at the clock
and blinking.
"Ten minutes past two? How horribly late! You must wake me at nine
to-morrow. I have some work to do." 
"All right, sir."
"Did anyone call this evening?"
"Mr. Hallward, sir. He stayed here till eleven, and then he went
away to catch his train." 
"Oh! I am sorry I didn't see him.Should she now find herself
on the back of one of those high camels? Perhaps for this she came to
Egypt. But when she looked round again, she found she was leaning back
in a comfortable open carriage, with a bottle of salts at her nose. She
was in the midst of a strange whirl of excitement; but all the party
were bewildered, and she had scarcely recovered her composure when they
reached the hotel.

Here a comfortable meal and rest somewhat restored them. By the next day
a messenger from the boat brought her the return telegram from Messina.
Mr. Peterkin and family, left behind by the "Messagerie" steamer, had
embarked the next day by steamer, probably for Naples.

More anxious than ever was Mrs. Peterkin to send her despatch. It was
too late the day of their arrival; but at an early hour next day it was
sent, and after a day had elapsed, the answer came:--

  "All meet at the Sphinx."


Everything now seemed plain. The words were few but clear. Her English
friends were going directly to Cairo, and she accompanied them.

After reaching Cairo, the whole party were obliged to rest awhile. They
would indeed go with Mrs. Peterkin on her first visit to the Sphinx, as
to see the Sphinx and ascend the pyramid formed part of their programme.
But many delays occurred to detain them, and Mrs. Peterkin had resolved
to carry out completely the advice of the telegram. She would sit every
day before the Sphinx. She found that as yet there was no hotel exactly
in front of the Sphinx, nor indeed on that side of the river, and she
would be obliged to make the excursion of nine miles there and nine
miles back, each day. But there would always be a party of travellers
whom she could accompany. Each day she grew more and more accustomed to
the bewildering sights and sounds about her, and more and more willing
to intrust herself to the dark-colored guides. At last, chafing at so
many delays, she decided to make the expedition without her new friends.
She had made some experiments in riding upon a donkey, and found she was
seldom thrown, and could not be hurt by the slight fall.

And so, one day, Mrs. Peterkin sat alone in front of the Sphinx,--alone,
as far as her own family and friends were concerned, and yet not alone
indeed. A large crowd of guides sat around this strange lady who
proposed to spend the day in front of the Sphinx. Clad in long white
robes, with white turbans crowning their dark faces, they gazed into her
eyes with something of the questioning expression with which she herself
was looking into the eyes of the Sphinx.

There were other travellers wandering about. Just now her own party had
collected to eat their lunch together; but they were scattered again,
and she sat with a circle of Arabs about her, the watchful dragoman
lingering near.

Somehow the Eastern languor must have stolen upon her, or she could not
have sat so calmly, not knowing where a single member of her family was
at that moment. And she had dreaded Egypt so; had feared separation; had
even been a little afraid of the Sphinx, upon which she was now looking
as at a protecting angel. But they all were to meet at the Sphinx!

If only she could have seen where the different members of the family
were at that moment, she could not have sat so quietly. She little knew
that a tall form, not far away (following some guides down into the
lower halls of a lately excavated temple), with a blue veil wrapped
about a face shielded with smoke-colored spectacles, was that of
Elizabeth Eliza herself, from whom she had been separated two weeks
before.

She little knew that at this moment Solomon John was standing looking
over the edge of the Matterhorn, wishing he had not come up so high. But
such a gay young party had set off that morning from the hotel that he
had supposed it an easy thing to join them; and now he would fain go
back, but was tied to the rest of his party with their guide preceding
them, and he must keep on and crawl up behind them, still farther, on
hands and knees.

Agamemnon was at Mycenæ, looking down into an open pit.

Two of the little boys were roasting eggs in the crater of Mount
Vesuvius.

And she would have seen Mr. Peterkin comfortably reclining in a gondola,
with one of the little boys, in front of the palaces of Venice.

But none of this she saw; she only looked into the eyes of the Sphinx.


VII.

MRS. PETERKIN FAINTS ON THE GREAT PYRAMID.


"Meet at the Sphinx!" Yes; these were the words that the lady from
Philadelphia had sent in answer to the several telegrams that had
reached her from each member of the Peterkin family. She had received
these messages while staying in a remote country town, but she could
communicate with the cable line by means of the telegraph office at a
railway station. The intelligent operator, seeing the same date affixed
at the close of each message, "took in," as she afterward expressed it,
that it was the date of the day on which the message was sent; and as
this was always prefixed to every despatch, she did not add it to the
several messages. She afterward expressed herself as sorry for the
mistake, and declared it should not occur another time.

Elizabeth Eliza was the first at the appointed spot, as her route had
been somewhat shorter than the one her mother had taken. A wild joy had
seized her when she landed in Egypt, and saw the frequent and happy use
of the donkey as a beast of travel. She had never ventured to ride at
home, and had always shuddered at the daring of the women who rode at
the circuses, and closed her eyes at their performances. But as soon as
she saw the little Egyptian donkeys, a mania for riding possessed her.
She was so tall that she could scarcely, under any circumstances, fall
from them, while she could mount them with as much ease as she could the
arm of the sofa at home, and most of the animals seemed as harmless. It
is true, the donkey-boys gave her the wrong word to use when she might
wish to check the pace of her donkey, and mischievously taught her to
avoid the soothing phrase of _beschwesch_, giving her instead one
that should goad the beast she rode to its highest speed; but Elizabeth
Eliza was so delighted with the quick pace that she was continually
urging her donkey onward, to the surprise and delight of each fresh
attendant donkey-boy. He would run at a swift pace after her, stopping
sometimes to pick up a loose slipper, if it were shuffled off from his
foot in his quick run, but always bringing up even in the end.

Elizabeth Eliza's party had made a quick journey by the route from
Brindisi, and proceeding directly to Cairo, had stopped at a small
French hotel not very far from Mrs. Peterkin and her party. Every
morning at an early hour Elizabeth Eliza made her visit to the Sphinx,
arriving there always the first one of her own party, and spending the
rest of the day in explorations about the neighborhood.

[Illustration: Every morning at an early hour Elizabeth Eliza made her
visit to the Sphinx.]

Mrs. Peterkin, meanwhile, set out each day at a later hour, arriving
in time to take her noon lunch in front of the Sphinx, after which she
indulged in a comfortable nap and returned to the hotel before sunset.

A week--indeed, ten days--passed in this way. One morning, Mrs. Peterkin
and her party had taken the ferry-boat to cross the Nile. As they were
leaving the boat on the other side, in the usual crowd, Mrs. Peterkin's
attention was arrested by a familiar voice. She turned, to see a tall
young man who, though he wore a red fez upon his head and a scarlet wrap
around his neck, certainly resembled Agamemnon. But this Agamemnon was
talking Greek, with gesticulations. She was so excited that she turned
to follow him through the crowd, thus separating herself from the rest
of her party. At once she found herself surrounded by a mob of Arabs, in
every kind of costume, all screaming and yelling in the manner to which
she was becoming accustomed. Poor Mrs. Peterkin plaintively protested in
English, exclaiming, "I should prefer a donkey!" but the Arabs could not
understand her strange words. They had, however, struck the ear of the
young man in the red fez whom she had been following. He turned, and she
gazed at him. It was Agamemnon!

He, meanwhile, was separated from his party, and hardly knew how to
grapple with the urgent Arabs. His recently acquired Greek did not
assist him, and he was advising his mother to yield and mount one of the
steeds, while he followed on another, when, happily, the dragoman of her
party appeared. He administered a volley of rebukes to the persistent
Arabs, and bore Mrs. Peterkin to her donkey. She was thus carried away
from Agamemnon, who was also mounted upon a donkey by his companions.
But their destination was the same; and though they could hold no
conversation on the way, Agamemnon could join his mother as they
approached the Sphinx.

But he and his party were to ascend the pyramid before going on to the
Sphinx, and he advised his mother to do the same. He explained that it
was a perfectly easy thing to do. You had only to lift one of your feet
up quite high, as though you were going to step on the mantelpiece, and
an Arab on each side would lift you to the next step. Mrs. Peterkin was
sure she could not step up on their mantelpieces at home. She never had
done it,--she never had even tried to. But Agamemnon reminded her that
those in their own house were very high,--"old colonial;" and meanwhile
she found herself carried along with the rest of the party.

At first the ascent was delightful to her. It seemed as if she were
flying. The powerful Nubian guides, one on each side, lifted her
jauntily up, without her being conscious of motion. Having seen them
daily for some time past, she was now not much afraid of these handsome
athletes, with their polished black skins, set off by dazzling white
garments. She called out to Agamemnon, who had preceded her, that it was
charming; she was not at all afraid. All conversation gradually stopped,
and you only heard the number of the gharry or carriage shouted out
with a rich brogue and sometimes a little stifled joke and a "Chelo!"
which seems to stand for "All right," "Go ahead," "Look sharp," or "Go
on and be damned to you," according to intonation and person addressed.
I do not quite understand how it took such hours to get everyone away,
and I do not understand how we ever managed to get up that vast square
staircase up the enormous central tower of the Taj Hotel, for G. was
deadly tired, so of course the lift wasn't working--it looked so
big and grey, and silent in the cold light of morning.

Then to sleep, and tired dreams of the whole day and evening; I
dreamt I was in a Government House and the guests had gone and I met a
dream Prince and a dream of an A.D.C. in exquisite uniform who said,
"quai hai," and in an instant there were dream drinks, and cheroots
such as one used to be able to get long ago, and we planned ways to
remedy abuses, and the greatest was the abuse of the Royal Academical
privileges; and at such length we went into this, that this morning I
wrote out the whole indictment and it covered six of these pages,
and so it is too long to insert here. And our remedy as it was in a
dream was at once effective--sculpture and painting became as free and
as strong an influence in our national life in Britain as literature
is at this moment--then came a frightful explosion! and I awoke,
and the sun was blazing out of a blue sky through the open windows--then
it came again, a terrific bang! and the jalousies rattled and the whole
of the Taj Hotel shook for the war ships were saluting The Prince of
Wales, and he and his aides-de-camp and all the officials in his train
had been up for hours, "doing their best to serve their country and
their King," whilst we private people slumbered.

But whither have I strayed in this discourse?

Am I not rather wandering from the point, as the cook remarked to the
eel, telling dreams instead of making notes on a cold weather tour
as I proposed; so I will stop here, and tell what, by travel and
conference, I have observed about Royal functions.

The day has passed to the accompaniment of "God bless the Prince of Wales,"
and gun firing, and "God save the King," on brass bands, and more gun
firing. Somehow or other "God save the King" in India, where you are
surrounded by millions of black people, sounds a good deal more impressive
than it does at home--perhaps there's more of the feeling of God save
us all out here.

I find it impossible to remember nearly all I have seen and heard in
one of these bustling days; I should think that even a resident, long
familiar with all these everyday common sights that are so new and
interesting to us, could barely remember the ceremonies of one day in
connection with the Royal Visit.

[Illustration]
I remember a dock was opened to-day, and we were favoured with tickets
which gave us an admirable view. Again there were shears, at the bottom
of a place like a Greek theatre, very large shears this time, and a
stone suspended from them. The Prince and Princess came down a wide
flight of steps to a platform with two thrones on it. Behind them at
the top of the steps were splendid Ionic pillars and a pediment swagged
with great wreaths of green. The Prince was followed by officers and
ladies and leading Bombay citizens mixed with only a few Indian
princes.

Sir Walter Hughes of the Harbour Trust presented a magnificent piece of
silver in the shape of a barque of the time of Charles II., with high
stem and forecastle and billowy sails, guns, ports, standing rigging,
and running gear complete, including waves and mermaids, and all made
in the School of Art here to Mr Burns' instructions.

We sat opposite, in half circles of white uniforms and gay parasols and
dresses and dreams of hats. Behind us and all around and outside
the enclosure were thousands of natives in thousands of colours. There
were speeches, of course, and the Prince touched a button and the stone
descended into the bowels of the earth and made the beginning of the new
dock.

Then everyone got their carriages, gharries, bicycles, pony carts, dog
carts or whatever they came in, as best they could, and we all went
trotting, cantering, jambing, galloping, go-as-you-please down the
central thoroughfare between high houses of semi-European design,
with verandahs and balconies full of natives.

The crowds on the pavement stood four or five deep all the way, and hung
in bunches on the trees, some in gay dresses, others naked, brown and
glistening against the dusty fig trees, stems, and branches. You
saw all types and colours, one or two seedy Europeans amongst them, and
Eurasians of all degrees of colour, one, a beautiful girl of about
twelve I saw for a second as we passed; she had curling yellow
hair and white skin, might have sat for one of Millais pictures,
and she looked out from the black people with very wide blue eyes,
at the passing life of her fathers.

Most of us made for the Yacht Club for tea on the lawn; for the Prince,
it had been said, was to visit it informally, so all the seats and
tables on the lawn were booked days before!

It was rather pretty there; I should not wonder that Watteau never actually
saw anything so beautiful. There were, such elegant ladies and costumes,
and such an exquisite background, the low wall and the soft colour
of the water beyond; the colour calm water takes when you look to
the East and the sun is setting behind you, the colour of a fish's
silver.

And the lawn itself was fresh green; trees stood over the far end
of the Club House, and under these the band played.

When the lights began to glow along the sea wall and in the Club, and
under the trees to light the music, the Prince and the Princess,
with Lady Ampthill and Lord Lamington, came and walked up and down
and spoke to people, and all the ladies stood up from their tea
tables as they passed, and I tell you it was good; such soft glowing
evening colours and gracious figures, such groups there were to
paint--my apologies for the hasty attempt herewith.

The Prince you may discover in grey frock-coat speaking to the Bandmaster
of the 10th Hussars, the Princess and Lady Ampthill near.

[Illustration]
I've worked at Saturday's pictures and Sunday's and written my journal,
and seen Royal sights all day till now, and _opus terrat_ and it
is late and hot, and the mosquitos tune up--the beast that is least
eating the beast that is biggest; the beast that is biggest to sleep
if it may.

CHAPTER X

... Went this morning with Krishnaswami of Madras--Krishna is my "Boy,"
and is aged about forty--to Army and Navy Stores for clothes. The
thinnest I could get at home feel very thick and hot here in this hot
November. I'd also to get photograph films, and guitar strings, and
blankets for the Boy against the cold weather--just now the mere
thought of a blanket grills one's mind--also to book shops to get
books about India, which I am pretty sure never to have time to read.

In my innocence tried to get my return tickets on P. & O. changed to another
line, and signally failed to do so. Then drew a little and loafed a
good deal on the Bundar watching the lateen-rigged boats. These boats
take passengers to Elephanta or go off to the ships in the Bay with
cargoes of brightly coloured fruits.

The scene always reminds me of that beautiful painting by Tiepolo of the
landing of Queen Elizabeth in our National Gallery--I daresay
one or two Edinburgh people may know it.

The boats are about twenty feet long with narrow beam. Figures in rich
colours sit under the little awnings spread over the stern; the sailors
are naked and brown, and pole the boats to their moorings with long,
glistening bamboos, which they drive into the bottom and make fast
at stem and stern. It is pleasant to watch the play of muscle, and
attitudes, and the flicker of the reflected blue sky on their brown
perspiring backs as they swarm up the sloping yards and cotton sails to
brail up. No need for anatomy here, or at home for that matter; if an
artist can't remember the reflected blue on warm damp flesh, he does not
better matters by telling us what he has learned of the machinery
inside--that is, of course, where Michael Angelo did not quite pull
it off.

As I sat on the parapet a beautiful emerald fish some four feet
long came sailing beneath my feet in the yellowish water; a little
boy shouted with glee, and a brown naked boatman tried to gaff it,
then a brilliant butterfly, velvet black and blue, fluttered through
the little fleet; and with the colours of the draperies, of peaceful
but piratical looking men, the lateen sails, and sunlight and heat,
it all felt "truly Oriental."

To bring in a touch of the West, one of the "Renown's" white and
green launches with brass funnels rushed up and emptied a perfect
cargo of young Eastern princes in white muslins, and pink, orange, and
green turbans with floating tails to them.

They clambered up the stone slip with their bear leader and got into
carriages with uniformed drivers, six or more into each carriage
quite easily; the basket trick seems nothing to me now--they were such
slips of lads--but what colour!

At lunch we talked with Miss M. She gave us the latest ship news about
our late fellow passengers--the mutual interest has not quite evaporated
yet--gave us news of the ladies who had come out to be married. She
had asked one of these as they came off the ship into the tender what
it was she carried so carefully, and the reply was, "My wedding
cake," and of a poor man, she told us, who came on at Marseilles
bringing out his fiancee's trousseau, and who found on his arrival
here, he had utterly lost it!

What would the latter end of that man be; would she forgive?
Could she forget? It was said that another lady, finding the natives
were in the habit of going about without clothes, booked a return
passage by the next ship.

Here is a jotting at this same landing place of the Prince and
Princess going off to the Guard Ship, but I am so sorry it is not
reproduced in colour.

They were to have gone to the Caves of Elephanta across the bay,
but had not time. They apparently go on and on, without any "eight hour"
pause, through the procession of engagements--it must be dreadfully
fatiguing.

You see three Eurasians in foreground of the sketch, one of them
with almost white hair and white skin, and freckles and blue eyes, he
might be Irish or York shire. The two younger boys are, I think, his
brothers--they have taken more after their mother.

All three are nervous and excited watching for the Prince.

They are neatly dressed in thin clothes, through which their slightly
angular figures show, and have nervous movements of hand to mouth,
and quick gentle voices, slightly staccato, what is called "chee
chee," I believe.

[Illustration]
Beyond the boys you see a Parsi woman looking round. They are conspicuous
people in Bombay by their look of intense harmlessness.

The men are very tidy and wear what they probably would describe as
European clothes, trousers and long cutaway coats and white turndown
collars.
Some have grey pot hats, with a round moulding instead of a brim, but
their ordinary hat is something like a mitre in black lacquer, and
it does suggest heat! They all have very brainy-looking heads from
the youth upwards, and wear glasses over eyes that have no quickness--as
if they could count but couldn't see--and they constantly move their
long, weakly hands in somewhat purposeless angular fashion; the
women with similar movements frequently pat their front hair which
is plastered down off their foreheads, and shade their eyes with
their hands at a right angle to their wrists.

I suppose they and the Bengalis are the backbone of Indian mercantile
business.

Yet in "India," by Sir Thomas Holdich, I read that out of the population
of 287,000,000 the Parsis do not number even one-tenth of a million.
It seems to me that we have the Parsi woman's type at home in some of
our old families, as we have remains of their Zoroastrian fire-worship.
I've seen one or two really beautiful and highly cultured, but the average
is just a little high-shouldered and floppy, and their noses answer
too closely to Gainsborough's description of Mrs Siddons'.

Mrs Siddons is just the Parsi type glorified.

We went to the ladies gymkana to-day more for the sake of the drive,
I think, than for anything else--with the utmost deference
to ladies, they can be seen at home--a few people played Badminton by
lamplight; it was dusky, damp, and warm, and heavy matting hung round
the courts. Outside an orange sunset shone through palm stems, and flying
foxes as big as fox terriers passed moth-like within arms length.
From the height we were on we looked down over the Back Bay, and
far below in the twilight we could make out the lights from a few
boats on the sand, and fishermen's lamps flickered across the mud
flats, and from far out in the west a light kept flashing from an
island that was the haunt of pirates the other day.

Two more lights we saw were glowing to the south-east in Bombay
itself--one, the light of the native fair, and a slight glow from the
remains of the Bombay and Baroda Railway Offices, a great domed
building that burned up last night after the illuminations.

It was madness to cover public buildings with open oil lamps and leave
them to be looked after by natives--this huge Taj hotel, dry as tinder
outside, a complexity of dry wooden jalousies and balconies, was covered
with these lights and floating flags--how it didn't go off like a
squib was a miracle. I saw one flag gently float into a lamp, burn up
and fall in flaming shreds and no one was the wiser or the worse. The
faintest breath of air one way or the other and the other flags would
have caught fire, and in a second it would have run everywhere.

... After the Ladies Club, pegs and billiards inside the Yacht Club, the
Bombay ladies outside on the green lawn at tea, gossip, hats, local
affairs, and Imperialism, and beyond them the ships of the fleet
picked out with electric lights along the lines of their hulls and
up masts and funnels like children's slate drawings.

It was interesting to come from the street and the crowds of Parsis
and natives all so slenderly built and watch the British youth in
shirt sleeves and thin tweeds playing billiards--they were not
above the average physique of their class, mostly young fellows who
had already been through campaigns--and you noted the muscles showing
through their thin clothes and compared them with native figures,
and it did not seem surprising that one of them could keep in order
quite a number of such wisps as the billiard markers for example.

But up north they say the natives are stronger and bigger than here.

Every now and then a boy passed round bags of chalk on hot water enamelled
plates to dry the players' hands and cues, which gives one an idea
of the damp heat of Bombay.

...

Now my friend says he's off to dress, and we go into the dressing-room--that
is a sight for a nouveau! Dozens of dark men in white linen clothes
and turbans are waiting on these little chaps from home, as they
drop in.

They are tubbed and towelled, shirts studded and put on, and are fitted
without hardly lifting a hand themselves till they put the finishing
touch to hair and moustache at the glasses and dressing-tables that are
fixed round the pillars--sounds like effeminacy, but it is not, for
it is far more tiring for a man to be dressed here by two skilful
servants than it is to dash into his clothes at home by himself.

If you were to dress here without help you might as well have dropped
into your bath all standing, you would be so wet and uncomfortable;
but all the same I think it is stupid the way we people cling to
a particular style of evening dress regardless of circumstances.

Then home to the Taj in the dusk through a crowd of natives jammed tight
on the Bundar, all looking one way breathlessly at the fleet's
fireworks and search-lights. You touch them on the shoulder and say,
"With your leave," and they make way most politely, and you wonder
if it is because you are British or because they have bare toes.

I went to the theatre in the evening, a native Theatre Royal.

None of my relations or friends seemed interested, so I availed myself
of the kind offer of guidance given me by a fellow artist, an amateur
painter, but a professional cutter of clothes. I expected something
rather picturesque, possibly rather squalid, but found it intensely
interesting and characteristic and very clean, a cross-between a little
French theatre, say in Monte Parnasse, and one of the lesser London
theatres.

The acting was French in style and expressive, and full of humour and
frankness, and there was a quaint decorative style in all the tableaux
and in the actors' movements that made me think rather of Persian
figures in decorations than of India.

There was a parterre and a wide gallery, in which we got back seats; the
audience were all men and well-dressed, and laughed heartily at the
points. These I was fortunate enough to have most patiently described
to me by a Syrian who sat beside me, apple-faced and beaming,
pleased with the play and himself as interpreter.

Besides his valued assistance, I had from the doorkeeper a résumé of
the plot printed in English; my acquaintance was less fortunate,
for, owing to the house being full, we had to separate to get seats,
and I fear he lost a good deal of the interest.

The Syrian gave me the strong points of the different actors, and
told me that he himself was an importer of gold leaf and thread;
he had, I think, one of the jolliest faces I have ever seen.

The most simple and telling effect was when the Prime Minister found
his young master sickened of love for a beautiful lady, and sent to the
bazaar for musicians and dancers; they came and arranged themselves
facing the audience in the front of the stage in a perfectly
decorative arrangement, struck in a moment.

Every turn of hand and poise of body and arrangement of colour suggested
the smiling figures you see on Persian illuminations. I forgot the effect
on the Prince--I wonder he didn't die before we left; he had been
acting hours before we came, and we only saw a portion of the play--left
at twelve, and must have been there three hours!

As we drove home the bazaars were still busy. One street struck me as
peculiarly quiet.

There were Japs at balconies of low two-storied doll-houses, silhouetted
against lamplight which shone through their red fans and pink
kimonos, and other shabby houses with spindle-shanked darker natives,
in white draperies, also some larger people dimly seen, on long
chairs, who my friend said, were probably French--European at least.

One or two groups of rather orderly sailors, and a soldier or two, were
all the people on the street, and the only sound was "Come eer',
come eer'" from the balconies in various accents.

The Edinburgh café I noticed, loomed large and dark and very respectable
looking in the middle of the street. I suppose you could get drinks
there on week days; my companion, the cutter, did not take any drinks,
so I think he must be thinking of marriage.

He was very interested in Art--what a bond that is, wider than
freemasonry, what good fellows artists are to each other the world
over--till they become Associates.

This tailor was turned out of London by the aliens; he spoke gently
and pathetically of the way the unscrupulous and insinuating foreigner
works out the home-bred honest man from London.

"If all was known," he said, "aliens would be restricted;" and
Blessed are the meek, I thought, for they shall inherit the earth--if
they only live long enough.

[Illustration: Lord Minto's Landing in India.]

CHAPTER XA

17th.

--Everyone on the Apollo Bundar and in Bombay waited for the guns to
announce the arrival of the new Viceroy, and for The Mail; to
mothers and fathers just out, letters from little ones by the mail
was perhaps the more important event.

Maharajahs, aide-de-camps, generals, and hosts of officials were all trying
to keep cool, to speed the parting Viceroy, and welcome his successor
with all proper ceremony.

To understand and describe how this was done is beyond my powers, therefore
I must content myself with a note here and there.

It struck me as improper that the cheers which welcomed the new
Viceroy had practically to do duty for the departure of Lord Curzon.

They say, "Le roi est mort, vive le Roi," but in this case, "Le Roi" wasn't
dead, but on the contrary must have been painfully alive to the sounds
of cannons booming and cheers ringing to welcome his successor.

I'd have had three or four days decent calm for the Empire to note
the departure of so great an actor in its history.

Then, after silence and fasting; fresh paint and flags for the new
arrival!

Monday afternoon.--Guns fire, and the new Viceroy on the P. & O.
steamer arrives in the bay.

As she steams through the fleet, the hot air resounds with thunder
of guns, and smoke accumulates.

Now she is passing the _Renown_ and _Terrible_, and the smoke hangs
so thick that the hills and ships are almost hidden, and you can
only see the yellow flashes through the banks of grey smoke.

With his American dress, he looked almost foreign in contrast to the
otherwise universal Eastern color. A tall figure on either side seemed,
also, each to have a familiar air.

Were there three Solomon Johns?

No; it was Solomon John and the two other little boys--but grown so that
they were no longer little boys. Even Mrs. Peterkin was unable to
recognize them at first. But the tones of their voices, their ways, were
as natural as ever. Each had a banana in his hand, and pockets stuffed
with oranges.

Questions and answers interrupted each other in a most confusing
manner:--

"Are you the little boys?"

"Where have you been?"

"Did you go to Vesuvius?"

"How did you get away?"

"Why didn't you come sooner?"

"Our India-rubber boots stuck in the hot lava."

"Have you been there all this time?"

"No; we left them there."

"Have you had fresh dates?"

"They are all gone now, but the dried ones are better than those
squeezed ones we have at home."

"How you have grown!"

"Why didn't you telegraph?"

"Why did you go to Vesuvius, when Papa said he couldn't?"

"Did you, too, think it was Pnyx?"

"Where have you been all winter?"

"Did you roast eggs in the crater?"

"When did you begin to grow?"

The little boys could not yet thoroughly explain themselves; they always
talked together and in foreign languages, interrupting each other, and
never agreeing as to dates.

Solomon John accounted for his appearance in Smyrna by explaining that
when he received his father's telegram in Athens, he decided to meet
them at Smyrna. He was tired of waiting at the Pnyx. He had but just
landed, and came near missing his family, and the little boys too, who
had reached Athens just as he was leaving it. None of the family wished
now to continue their journey to Athens, but they had the advice and
assistance of their Russian friend in planning to leave the steamer at
Constantinople; they would, by adopting this plan, be _en route_
for the proposed excursion to the Volga.

Mrs. Peterkin was overwhelmed with joy at having all her family together
once more; but with it a wave of homesickness surged over her. They were
all together; why not go home?

It was found that there was a sailing-vessel bound absolutely for Maine,
in which they might take passage. No more separation; no more mistakes;
no more tedious study of guide-books; no more weighing of baggage. Every
trunk and bag, every Peterkin, could be placed in the boat, and safely
landed on the shores of home. It was a temptation, and at one time Mrs.
Peterkin actually pleaded for it.

But there came a throbbing in her head, a swimming in her eyes, a
swaying of the very floor of the hotel. Could she bear it, day after
day, week after week? Would any of them be alive? And Constantinople not
seen, nor steam-navigation on the Volga!

And so new plans arose, and wonderful discoveries were made, and the
future of the Peterkin family was changed forever.

In the first place a strange stout gentleman in spectacles had followed
the Peterkin family to the hotel, had joined in the family councils, and
had rendered valuable service in negotiating with the officers of the
steamer for the cancellation of their through tickets to Athens. He
dined at the same table, and was consulted by the (formerly) little
boys.

Who was he?

They explained that he was their "preceptor." It appeared that after
they parted from their father, the little boys had become mixed up with
some pupils who were being taken by their preceptor to Vesuvius. For
some time he had not noticed that his party (consisting of boys of their
own age) had been enlarged; and after finding this out, he had concluded
they were the sons of an English family with whom he had been
corresponding. He was surprised that no further intelligence came with
them, and no extra baggage. They had, however, their hand-bags; and
after sending their telegram to the lady from Philadelphia, they assured
him that all would be right. But they were obliged to leave Naples the
very day of despatching the telegram, and left no address to which an
answer could be sent. The preceptor took them, with his pupils, directly
back to his institution in Gratz, Austria, from which he had taken them
on this little excursion.

It was not till the end of the winter that he discovered that his
youthful charges--whom he had been faithfully instructing, and who had
found the gymnasium and invigorating atmosphere so favorable to
growth--were not the sons of his English correspondent, whom he had
supposed, from their explanations, to be travelling in America.

He was, however, intending to take his pupils to Athens in the spring,
and by this time the little boys were able to explain themselves better
in his native language. They assured him they should meet their family
in the East, and the preceptor felt it safe to take them upon the track
proposed.

It was now that Mr. Peterkin prided himself upon the plan he had
insisted upon before leaving home. "Was it not well," he exclaimed,
"that I provided each of you with a bag of gold, for use in case of
emergency, hidden in the lining of your hand-bags?"

This had worked badly for Elizabeth Eliza, to be sure, who had left hers
at Brindisi; but the little boys had been able to pay some of their
expenses, which encouraged the preceptor to believe he might trust them
for the rest. So much pleased were all the family with the preceptor
that they decided that all three of the little boys should continue
under his instructions, and return with him to Gratz. This decision made
more easy the other plans of the family.

Both Agamemnon and Solomon John had decided they would like to be
foreign consuls. They did not much care where, and they would accept any
appointment; and both, it appeared, had written on the subject to the
Department at Washington. Agamemnon had put in a plea for a vacancy at
Madagascar, and Solomon John hoped for an opening at Rustchuk, Turkey;
if not there, at Aintab, Syria. Answers were expected, which were now
telegraphed for, to meet them in Constantinople.

Meanwhile Mr. Peterkin had been consulting the preceptor and the Russian
Count about a land-journey home. More and more Mrs. Peterkin determined
she could not and would not trust herself to another voyage, though she
consented to travel by steamer to Constantinople. If they went as far as
Nijninovgorod, which was now decided upon, why could they not persevere
through "Russia in Asia"?

Their Russian friend at first shook his head at this, but at last agreed
that it might be possible to go on from Novgorod comfortably to Tobolsk,
perhaps even from there to Yakoutsk, and then to Kamtschatka.

"And cross at Behring's Strait!" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin. "It looks so
narrow on the map."

"And then we are in Alaska," said Mr. Peterkin.

"And at home," exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin, "and no more voyages."

But Elizabeth Eliza doubted about Kamtschatka and Behring's Strait, and
thought it would be very cold.

"But we can buy furs on our way," insisted Mrs. Peterkin.

"And if you do not find the journey agreeable," said their Russian
friend, "you can turn back from Yakoutsk, even from Tobolsk, and come to
visit us."

Yes--_us_! For Elizabeth Eliza was to marry the Russian Count!

He had been in a boat that was behind them on the Nile, had met them
often, had climbed the ruins with them, joined their excursions, and had
finally proposed at Edfu.

Elizabeth Eliza had then just written to consult the lady from
Philadelphia with regard to the offer of a German professor they had
met, and she could give no reply to the Count.

Now, however, it was necessary to make a decision. She had meanwhile
learned a few words of Russian. The Count spoke English moderately well,
made himself understood better than the Professor, and could understand
Elizabeth Eliza's French. Also the Count knew how to decide questions
readily, while the Professor had to consider both sides before he could
make up his mind.

Mrs. Peterkin objected strongly at first. She could not even pronounce
the Russian's name. "How should she be able to speak to him, or tell
anybody whom Elizabeth Eliza had married?" But finally the family all
gave their consent, won by the attention and devotion of Elizabeth
Eliza's last admirer.

The marriage took place in Constantinople, not at Santa Sophia, as
Elizabeth Eliza would have wished, as that was under a Mohammedan
dispensation. A number of American residents were present, and the
preceptor sent for his other pupils in Athens. Elizabeth Eliza wished
there was time to invite the lady from Philadelphia to be present, and
Ann Maria Bromwick. Would the name be spelled right in the newspapers?
All that could be done was to spell it by telegraph as accurately as
possible, as far as they themselves knew how, and then leave the papers
to do their best (or their worst) in their announcements of the wedding
"at the American Consulate, Constantinople, Turkey. No cards."

The last that was ever heard of the Peterkins, Agamemnon was on his way
to Madagascar, Solomon John was at Rustchuk, and the little boys at
Gratz; Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin, in a comfortable sledge, were on their way
from Tobolsk to Yakoutsk; and Elizabeth Eliza was passing her honeymoon
in the neighborhood of Moscow.

       *       *       *       *       *


OTHERS OF THEIR KIN.

       *       *       *       *       *


IX.

LUCILLA'S DIARY.


MONDAY.--I spent some time this morning watching for the rag-man. I wish
I had taken down a note which day it was I saw him before. I remember it
was washing-day, for I had to take my hands out of the tub and wipe the
suds off when Johnnie came to tell me that the rag-man was on the
street. He was just turning the corner by the Wylies when I got to the
front gate. But whether we washed on Monday I can't think. It rained
that Monday, or the week before, and we had to wait till Tuesday; but
which it was I couldn't say. I was in such a whirl fitting Artemas off,
and much as ever I made him hear; and he wasn't the right man after all,
for he wouldn't give more than a cent and a half a pound for the papers,
and Mrs. Carruthers got two cents. She could not remember what was his
day for coming, but agreed to send him if she should see him again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Carruthers sent the rag-man to-day; but I can't say much for the
bargain, though he was a different man from the one that came Monday,
and it seems it was Monday. He agreed to give me the same he gave Mrs.
Carruthers,--two cents a pound. And I had a lot of newspapers,--all the
papers Artemas has been taking through the winter; for he doesn't like
me to take them for kindlings, says he would rather pay separate for
kindlings, as I might burn the wrong one. And there were the papers that
came around his underclothes and inside the packing boxes he has taken
away. So I expected to make something; but he gave me no more than
forty-five cents! He weighed them, and said himself there were thirty
pounds. That ought to have come to sixty cents at least, according
to my arithmetic. But he made out it was all right, and had them all
packed up, and went off, though I followed him out to the gate and told
him that it didn't amount to no more than I might have got from the
other man at a cent and a half. He said it was all they were worth; that
he wished he could get as much for them. Then I asked him why he took
the trouble to come for them, under the circumstances. But by that time
he was off and down the street.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was just sitting at the window this morning, and there were Mr. and
Mrs. Peebles walking down the street,--he on one side and she on the
other. I do wonder why they didn't go on the same side! If they hadn't
got so far past the gate, I'd have asked them. I never heard there was
any quarrel between them, and it was just as muddy this side of the
street as that. They have been spending their winters in the city
lately, and perhaps it's some new fashion.

I declare it's worth while to sit at the window now and then, and see
what is going on. I'm usually so busy at the back of the house, I don't
know. But now Lavinia has taken to going to school with the boys, and
they are willing to take care of her, half my work seems taken out of my
hands. Not that she was much in the way for a girl of four, but she
might slip out of the gate at any time, as there are so many of those
grinding organs around with their monkeys.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Carruthers was in yesterday afternoon, and she said the Peebles
were looking up the numbers on the doors to find the Wylies. They got
puzzled because the numbers go up one side of the street and down the
other, and they haven't but just been put on. And it seems that up in
the city they have them go across. It does appear to me shiftless in our
town officers, when they undertook to have the streets numbered as they
do elsewhere, that they didn't number them the same way. But I can't see
but our way is as good, and more sensible than having to cross a muddy
street to look up the next number.

       *       *       *       *       *

Artemas has been gone a whole week. I told him I would put down the most
important things in a diary, and then he can look at it, if he has time,
when he comes home. He thinks it is a more sensible way than writing
letters every week.

He expects to be up and down in Texas, and perhaps across the mountains;
and in those lawless countries letters would not stand much
chance,--maybe they wouldn't ever reach him, after I'd had the trouble
of writing them. There's the expense of stamps too,--not so very much
for one letter, but it counts up.

Nothing worries me more than getting a letter, unless it's having a
telegraph come,--and that does give one a start. But even that's sooner
over and quicker read; while for a letter, it's long, and it takes a
good while to get to the end. I feel it might be a kind of waste of time
to write in my diary; but not more than writing letters, and it saves
the envelopes and hunting them up. I'm not likely to find much time for
either, for the boys are fairly through their winter suits; if I can
only keep them along while the spring hangs off so.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Norris was in yesterday, just as I was writing about the boys'
suits, to know if I would let Martha off to work for her after the
washing is over. I told her I didn't like to disoblige, but I couldn't
see my way clear to get along without Martha. The boys ought to be
having their spring suits this very minute, and Martha was calculating
to make them this week; and they'd have to have their first wear of them
Sundays for a while before they start on them for school. I never was so
behindhand; but what with fitting off Artemas and the spring cleaning
being delayed, I didn't seem to know how to manage. Martha is good at
making over, and there are two very good coats of Artemas's that she
would do the right thing by; while there was a good many who could scrub
and clean as well as she,--there was that Nora that used to live at
Patty's. But Mrs. Norris did not take to Nora. The Wylies tried her, but
could make nothing out of her. I said I thought it would be hard to find
the person Mrs. Wylie could get on with. Not that I ever knew anything
about her till she came to live on our street last winter, but they do
say she's just as hard on her own family; for there's a story that she
won't let that pretty daughter of hers, Clara, marry Bob Prince's son,
Larkin.

Mrs. Norris said she didn't wonder, for Larkin Prince hadn't found
anything to do since he came home. I thought there was enough to live
upon in the Wylie family, even if Larkin didn't find something the first
minute he'd got his education.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can see that Mrs. Norris didn't take it well that I was not willing to
give up Martha; but I don't really see why I should be the one to give
up. But I must say I haven't got on as well with the work as I had
hoped, Lavinia's going with the boys so much keeps her clothes half torn
off her back, and I can't seem to see how to make her tidy. I was real
ashamed when I went to lift her out of a mud-puddle yesterday outside
the gate; and there was Clara Wylie looking as clean as a white lily,
and she stopped to help her out. It seemed that Lavinia had left her
boot in the last mud-puddle, and I would have liked to have gone through
the ground. I hope it will be a lesson to Lavinia, for Miss Wylie
oughtn't to have touched her with her hand. But she did, yellow gloves
and all, and said it was dreadful walking now, the frost so late coming
out of the ground, and she had quite envied Lavinia running across the
fields after the boys. But Lavinia has taken to envying Miss Wylie, and
wishes she could wear that kind of boots she has, with high heels that
keep her out of the mud-puddles.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am thinking of having my ruby cashmere colored over. I don't seem to
feel like ripping it all up, pleatings and all; but Mrs. Peebles says
it can be dipped just as well made up, and I needn't take out a seam.
I might have it a kind of dark olive, like Mrs. Carruthers' dress.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have had a start! It is a letter from Artemas; nothing particular
about himself, only I should say he was well. Barber by Mr.
W. H. Pratt, president of the Davenport Academy (American Naturalist
for April, 1882, pp. 275, 276), is here subjoined:

The first elephant pipe, which we obtained (Fig. 17) a little more than a
year ago, was found some six years before by an illiterate German farmer
named Peter Mare, while planting corn on a farm in the mound region,
Louisa County, Iowa. He did not care whether it was elephant or kangaroo;
to him it was a curious 'Indian stone,' and nothing more, and he kept
it and smoked it. In 1878 he removed to Kansas, and when he left
he gave the pipe to his brother-in-law, a farm laborer, who also
smoked it. Mr. Gass happened to hear of it, as he is always inquiring
about such things, hunted up the man and borrowed the pipe to take
photographs and casts from it. He could not buy it. The man said his
brother-in-law gave it to him and as it was a curious thing--he
wanted to keep it.

We were, however, unfortunate, or fortunate, enough to break it; that
spoiled it for him and that was his chance to make some money out of
it. He could have claimed any amount, and we would, as in duty
bound, have raised it for him, but he was satisfied with three or four
dollars. During the first week in April, this month, Rev. Ad.
Blumer, another German Lutheran minister, now of Genesee, Illinois,
having formerly resided in Louisa County, went down there in company
with Mr.

       Gass to open a few mounds, Mr.

Blumer being well acquainted there. They carefully explored ten of them,
and found nothing but ashes and decayed bones in any, except one. In
that one was a layer of red, hard-burned clay, about five feet across
and thirteen inches in thickness at the center, which rested upon a bed
of ashes one foot in depth in the middle, the ashes resting upon the
natural undisturbed clay. In the ashes, near the bottom of the layer,
they found a part of a broken carved stone pipe, representing some
bird; a very small beautifully formed copper 'axe,' and this last
elephant pipe (Fig. 18).

This pipe was first discovered by Mr. Blumer, and by him, at our earnest
solicitation, turned over to the Academy.

It will be seen from the above that the same gentleman was instrumental
in bringing to light the two specimens constituting the present supply
of elephant pipes.

The remarkable archæologic instinct which has guided the finder of these
pipes has led him to even more important discoveries. By the aid of
his divining rod he has succeeded in unearthing some of the most
remarkable inscribed tablets which have thus far rewarded the diligent
search of the mound explorer. It is not necessary to speak in detail of
these here, or of the various theories to which they have given rise
and support, including that of phonetic writing, further than to call
attention to the fact that by a curious coincidence one of the tablets
contains, among a number of familiar animals, figures which suggest
in a rude way the mastodon again, which animal indeed some archæologists
have confidently asserted them to be.

       The resemblance they bear to that animal is, however, by no means
as close as exhibited by the pipe carvings; they are therefore not
reproduced here.

Both figures differ from the pipes in having tails; both lack trunks,
and also tusks.

Archæologists must certainly deem it unfortunate that outside of the
Wisconsin mound the only evidence of the co-existence of the Mound-Builder
and the mastodon should reach the scientific world through the agency
of one individual.

So derived, each succeeding carving of the mastodon, be it more or less
accurate, instead of being accepted by archæologists as cumulative
evidence tending to establish the genuineness of the sculptured
testimony showing that the Mound-Builder and mastodon were coeval, will
be viewed with ever increasing suspicion.

This part of the subject should not be concluded without allusion to a
certain class of evidence, which, although of a negative sort, must be
accorded very great weight in considering this much vexed question.

It may be asked why if the Mound-Builders and the mastodon were
contemporaneous, have no traces of the ivory tusks ever been exhumed
from the mounds?

No material is so perfectly adapted for the purposes of carving, an art
to which we have seen the Mound-Builders were much addicted, as ivory,
both from its beauty and the ease with which it is worked, to say
nothing of the other manifold uses to which it is put, both by
primitive and civilized man.

       The mastodon affords an abundant supply of this highly prized
substance, not a particle of which has ever been exhumed from the
mounds either in the shape of implements or carving.

Yet the exceedingly close texture of ivory enables it to successfully
resist the destroying influences of time for very long periods--very
long indeed as compared with certain articles which commonly reward the
search of the mound explorer.

Among the articles of a perishable nature that have been exhumed from
the mounds are large numbers of shell ornaments, which are by no
means very durable, as well as the perforated teeth of various
animals; sections of deers' horns have also been found, as well as
ornaments made of the claws of animals, a still more perishable
material.

       The list also includes the bones of the muskrat and turtle, as of
other animals, not only in their natural shape, but carved into the
form of implements of small size, as awls, etc.

Human bones, too, in abundance, have been exhumed in a sufficiently
well preserved state to afford a basis for various theories and
speculations.

But of the mastodon, with which these dead Mound-Builders are supposed to
have been acquainted, not a palpable trace remains. The tale of its
existence is told by a single mound in Wisconsin, which the most ardent
supporter of the mastodon theory must acknowledge to be far from
a facsimile, and two carvings and an inscribed tablet, the three
latter the finds of a single explorer.

       Bearing in mind the many attempts at archæological frauds that
recent years have brought to light, archæologists have a right to
demand that objects which afford a basis for such important deductions
as the coeval life of the Mound-Builder and the mastodon, should
be above the slightest suspicion not only in respect to their
resemblances, but as regards the circumstances of discovery.

If they are not above suspicion, the science of archæology can better
afford to wait for further and more certain evidence than to commit
itself to theories which may prove stumbling-blocks to truth until that
indefinite time when future investigations shall show their illusory
nature.

THE "ALLIGATOR" MOUND.

Although of much less importance than the mastodon, a word may be
added as to the so-called alligator mound, more especially because
the alligator, owing to its southern habitat, is not likely to have
been known to the Mound-Builders of Ohio.

       That it may have been known to them either through travel or hearsay
is of course possible.

A copy of the mound from the "Ancient Monuments" is subjoined.

The alligator mound was described under this name for no other reason
than because it was known in the vicinity as such, this designation
having been adopted by Squier and Davis, as they frankly say, "for want
of a better," adding "although the figure bears as close a resemblance
to the lizard as any other reptile." (Ancient Monuments, p. 99.)
In truth it bears a superficial likeness to almost any long-tailed animal
which has the power of curling its tail--which, the alligator has
not--as, for instance, the opossum.

       It is, however, the merest guess-work to attempt to confine its
resemblances to any particular animal.

Nevertheless recent writers have described this as the "alligator mound"
without suggesting a word of doubt as to its want of positive resemblance
to that saurian.

[Illustration: Fig. 30.--"Alligator" Mound.]

HUMAN SCULPTURES.

The conclusion reached in the foregoing pages that the animal sculptures
are not "exact and faithful copies from nature," but are imitations of a
general rather than of a special character, such as comport better with
the state of art as developed among certain of the Indian tribes than
among a people that has achieved any notable advance in culture
is important not only in its bearing on the questions previously
noticed in this paper, but in its relation to another and highly
interesting class of sculptures.

If a large proportion of the animal carvings are so lacking in artistic
accuracy as to make it possible to identify positively only the few
possessing the most strongly marked characters, how much faith is to
be placed in the ability of the Mound sculptor to fix in stone the features
and expressions of the human countenance, infinitely more difficult
subject for portrayal as this confessedly is?

That Wilson regards the human sculptures as affording a basis for sound
ethnological deductions is evident from the following paragraph,
taken from Prehistoric Man, vol. 1, p. 461:

Alike from the minute accuracy of many of the sculptures of animals,
hereafter referred to, and from the correspondence to well known
features of the modern Red Indian suggested by some of the human
heads, these miniature portraits may be assumed, with every
probability, to include faithful representations of the predominant
physical features of the ancient people by whom they were executed.

       Short, too, accepting the popular idea that they are faithful and
recognizable copies from nature, remarks in the North Americans of
Antiquity, p. 98, _ibid._, p. 187:
There is no reason for believing that the people who wrought stone
and clay into perfect effigies of animals have not left us sculptures
of their own faces in the images exhumed from the mounds;" and
again, "The perfection of the animal representations furnish us the
assurance that their sculptures of the human face were equally true
to nature.

Squier and Davis also appear to have had no doubt whatever of the
capabilities of the Mound-Builders in the direction of human portraiture.
They are not only able to discern in the sculptured heads niceties of
expression sufficient for the discrimination of the sexes, but, as
well, to enable them to point out such as are undoubtedly ancient
and the work of the Mound-Builders, and those of a more recent origin,
the product of the present Indians. Their main criterion of origin is,
apparently, that all of fine execution and finish were the work of the
Mound sculptors, and those roughly done and "immeasurably inferior to the
relics of the mounds," to use their own words, were the handicraft
of the tribes found in the country by the whites.

Conclusions so derived, it may strike some, are open to criticism,
however well suited they may be to meet the necessities of preconceived
theories.

After discussing in detail the methods of arranging the hair, the
paint lines, and tattooing, the features of the human carvings,
Squier and Davis arrive at the conclusion that the "physiological
characteristics of these heads do not differ essentially from those
of the great American family."

       Of later writers some agree with Squier and Davis in believing the
type illustrated by these heads to be Indian; others agree rather
with Wilson, who dissents from the view expressed by Squier and
Davis, and, in conformity with the predilections visible throughout
his work, is of the opinion that the Mound-Builders were of a
distinct type from the North American Indian, and that "the majority
of sculptured human heads hitherto recovered from their ancient
depositories do not reproduce the Indian features."

(Wilson's Prehistoric Man, vol. 1, p. 469.) Again, Wilson says that the
diversity of type found among the human sculptures "proves that the
Mound-Builders were familiar with the American Indian type, but nothing
more."--_Ibid._, p. 469.

The varying type of physiognomy represented by these heads would
better indicate that their resemblances are the result of accident
rather than of intention.

       For the same reason that the sculptured animals of the same species
display great differences of form and expression, according to the
varying skill of the sculptors or the unexacting demands made by a
rude condition of art, so the diversified character of the human
faces is to be ascribed, not to the successful perpetuation in stone
by a master hand of individual features, but simply to a want of
skill on the part of the sculptor.

The evidence afforded by the animal sculptures all tends to the conclusion
that exact individual portraiture would have been impossible to the mound
sculptor had the state of culture he lived in demanded it; the latter
is altogether improbable. A glance at the above quotations will show that
it is the assumed fidelity to nature of the animal carvings and their
fine execution which has been relied upon in support of a similar claim
for the human sculptures. As this claim is seen to have but slight
basis in fact the main argument for asserting the human sculptures to
be faithful representations of physical features, and to embody exact
racial characters falls to the ground, and it must be admitted as
in the last degree improbable that the art of the mound sculptor was
adequate for the task of accurate human portraiture.
To base important ethnologic deductions upon the evidence afforded by
the human sculptures in the present state of our knowledge concerning
them would seem to be utterly unscientific and misleading.

Copies of several of the heads as they appear in "Ancient Monuments"
(pp. 244-247) are here subjoined to show the various types of
physiognomy illustrated by them:

[Illustration: Fig. 31.

       Fig. 32. Fig. 33.

Human Carvings from the Mounds.]
[Illustration: Fig. 34. Fig. 35. Human Carvings from the Mounds.]
Could the many other stone and terra-cotta sculptures of the human face
which have been ascribed to the Mound-Builders be reproduced here
it would be seen that the specimens illustrated above are among
the very best.

       In not a few, traces of the grotesque are distinctly visible, and
there is little in their appearance to suggest that they had a
different origin or contain a deeper meaning than similar productions
found among present Indians.

As each of the many carvings differ more or less from every other,
it will at once be perceived that the advocates of different theories
can readily find in the series abundant testimony in support of any
and all assumptions they may choose to advance.

INDIAN AND MOUND-BUILDERS' ART COMPARED.

Turning from special illustrations of the artistic skill of the
Mound-Builders, brief attention may be paid to their art in its
more general features, and as compared with art as found among our
Indian tribes.

Among some of the latter the artistic instinct, while deriving its
characteristic features, as among the Mound-Builders, from animated
nature, exhibits a decided tendency towards the production of
conventional forms, and often finds expression in creations of the
most grotesque and imaginative character.

While this is true of some tribes it is by no means true of all,
nor is it true of all the art products of even those tribes most
given to conventional art.

But even were it true in its broadest terms, it is more than doubtful
if the significance of the fact has not been greatly overestimated.

Some authors indeed seem to discern in the introduction of the grotesque
element and the substitution of conventional designs of animals for a
more natural portrayal, a difference sufficient to mark, not
distinct eras of art culture merely, but different races with very
different modes of art expression.

To trace the origin of art among primitive peoples, and to note the
successive steps by which decorative art grew from its probable
origin in the readily recognized adornments of nature and in the mere
"accidents of manufacture," as they have been termed, would be not
only interesting, but highly instructive. Such a study should afford
us a clew to the origin and significance of conventional as contrasted
with imitative art.

The natural process of the evolution of art would seem to be from the
purely imitative to the conventional, the tendency being for
artistic expression of a partially or wholly imaginative character to
supplant or supplement the imitative form only in obedience to external
influences, especially those of a religious or superstitious kind.
In this connection it is interesting to note that even among tribes
of the Northwest, the Haidahs, for instance, whose carvings or
paintings of birds and animals are almost invariably treated in a
manner so highly conventional or are so distorted and caricatured as
to be nearly or quite unrecognizable, it is still some natural
object, as a well known bird or animal, that underlies and gives
primary shape to the design.

However highly conventionalized or grotesque in appearance such artistic
productions may be, evidences of an underlying imitative design may always
be detected; proof, seemingly, that the conventional is a later stage
of art superimposed upon the more natural by the requirements of
mythologic fancies.

As it is with any particular example of savage artistic fancy, so is it
with the art of certain tribes as a whole. Nor does it seem possible that
the growth of the religions or mythologic sentiment has so far
preceded or outgrown the development of art as to have had from the
first a dominating influence over it, and that the art of such tribes
as most strongly show its effect has never had what may be termed
its natural phase of development, but has reached the conventional
stage without having passed through the intermediate imitative era.

It is more natural to suppose, so far, at least as the North American
Indians are concerned, that the road to conventionalism has always led
through imitation.

The argument, therefore, that because a tribe or people is less
given than another to conventional methods of art, it therefore
must necessarily be in a higher stage of culture, is entitled to
much less weight than it has sometimes received.

Squier and Davis, for instance, referring to the Mound-Builders, state
that "many of these (_i.e._, sculptures) exhibit a close observance of
nature such as we could only expect to find among a people considerably
advanced in the minor arts, and to which the elaborate and laborious, but
usually clumsy and ungraceful, not to say unmeaning, productions of
the savage can claim but a slight approach."
It is clearly not the intention of the above authors to claim an
entire absence of the grotesque method of treatment in specimens
of the Mound-Builder's art, since elsewhere they call attention to
what appears to be a caricature of the human face, as well as to
the disproportionate size of the heads of many of the animal carvings.

Not only are the heads of many of the carvings of disproportionate size,
which, in instances has the effect of actual distortion, but in not a few
of the sculptures nature, instead of being copied, has been trifled
with and birds and animals show peculiarities unknown to science
and which go far to prove that the Mound-Builders, however else
endowed, possessed lively imaginations and no little creative fancy.

Decided traces of conventionalism also are to be found in many of the
animal carvings, and the method of indicating the wings and feathers
of birds, the scales of the serpent, &c., are almost precisely
what is to be observed in modern Indian productions of a similar
kind.

Few and faint as are these tendencies towards caricaturing and conventionalizing
as compared with what may be noted in the artistic productions of the
Haidahs, Chinooks, and other tribes of the Northwest, they are yet
sufficient to show that in these particulars no hard and fast line can
be drawn between the art of the Indian and of the Mound-Builder.

As showing how narrow is the line that separates the conventional and
imitative methods of art, it is of interest to note that among the
Esquimaux the two stages of art are found flourishing side by side.
Dyer; "all the wild tigers and
the lions loose in the house!" And she looked round to see if the closet
door were open for a place of retreat.

Mr. Dyer stepped up and shut the roof of the ark. It was in time; for a
large bear was standing on his hind legs on the back of a lion, and was
looking out. Noah and his family looked much pleased; the elephants
waved their trunks with joy; the camels stopped growling.

"I don't wonder they are glad to get out," said Jedidiah. "I do believe
they have been treading down those wild animals all night."

Mrs. Dyer wondered what they should do with the rest. Come Tuesday she
would want her ironing-board,--perhaps baking-day, to set the pies on.

"They ought to have some houses to live in, and barns," said Jedidiah.
Then it was Mr. Dyer had said they could never get them back into the
ark; and Jedidiah had said, "We might ask the 'grateful people,'"--for
this was the name the inhabitants of Spinville went by in the Dyer
family ever since the time of the potatoes.

The story of their coming for the potatoes had been told over and over
again; then how the "people" felt so grateful to Mr. Dyer. Mr. Dyer said
he was tired of hearing about it. Mrs. Dyer thought if they meant to do
anything to let Mr. Dyer see they were grateful, they had better not
talk so much about it. But Jedidiah called them the "grateful people;"
and it was he that caught the first glimpse of the procession when it
came up with the ark, Mr. Jones at the head. He had some faith in them;
so it was he that thought there ought to be a village built for Noah and
his family; and when Mr. Dyer had some doubts about building it he
suggested, "Let's ask the 'grateful people.'"

What they did will be told in another chapter.


II.

ABOUT THE GRATEFUL PEOPLE AND THE WILD BEASTS.


That very afternoon there was a great rush to see Jedidiah's Noah's Ark,
and there was immense enthusiasm about it. Some brave ones opened the
roof and looked in upon the growling wild animals. The girls liked the
lambs the best; the boys were delighted with the foxes that jumped on
the edge of the boat that formed the ark.

In a day or two there was a flourishing little village built on a smooth
place on the other side of Mr. Dyer's house. The minister's daughter had
brought a little toy village she had with red roofs, and one of the men
scooped out the houses, which were made of one block of wood, but could
now accommodate Noah and his family, and each one picked out a house to
match the color of his garments.

Tom Stubbs built a barn of wooden bricks for the larger animals, and
Lucy Miles brought a pewter bird-cage, with a door that would open and
shut, for the birds. The elephant knocked out a brick with his trunk as
soon as he went into the barn, but that made a good window for him to
look out of. Jedidiah himself made the loveliest coop for the hen; and
the boys had a nice time over a pond they dug in the mud, for the ducks.

Indeed, it occupied Spinville for some time; and Noah, Shem, and Ham
did not sit down much, but looked very busy. There was a fence built
round the whole village, high enough to keep in the elephants and the
giraffes, though they could look over. There was a bit of pasture-land
shut in for the cows, who fell to nibbling as soon as they were put in
it. A clover-leaf lasted one of the sheep two days. The tinman sent
some little tin dippers no bigger than a thimble, and the children were
delighted to see the animals drink. The boys handed one of the dippers
into the ark for the tigers. The giraffes found a bush just high enough
for them to eat from. The doves sat on the eaves of the ark, and
Agamemnon brought some pickled olives, as he had no olive-branch for
them.

The children were never tired of seeing the camels kneel and rise. They
made them carry little burdens,--stones that were to be cleared from the
field, chips from the henhouse. Sometimes the camels growled; then the
children took off a chip or two from their burdens,--the last ounce,
they thought.

The "grateful people" sent a large umbrella, used by the umbrella-maker
for a sign, that could be opened over the whole village in case of a
rain; and the toy-shop man sent a tin teapot, though Mrs. Dyer did not
venture to give Noah and his family any real tea; but it was a very
pretty teapot, with a red flower upon it. Mrs. Noah liked it, though it
was almost large enough for the whole family to get into.

All this was not the work of a day, by any means. First, all Spinville
had to come and look at the things, and then it had to discuss the whole
affair. Mrs. Dyer's knitting got on bravely, for so many of her friends
came in to sit in her best parlor, and talk it all over. Mrs. Dyer
agreed with them; she thought it was all very strange. She should be
thankful if only the tigers would never get out. She did not like having
tigers running in and out of the house, even if they were no bigger than
your thimble. She thought it quite likely some of the boys would let
them out some day; but it was no use looking forward. So, day by day,
the people came to look at the wonderful village. There was always
something new to see. At last, one of the deacons declared Jedidiah
ought to charge so much a sight. It was as good a show as the menagerie,
any day; and everybody was willing to give ten cents for that, children
half-price.

This made great talk. Should Jedidiah charge for the show, or not? Mr.
Dyer would have nothing to say about it. Mrs. Dyer thought they might as
well; then there would be fewer children in her front yard picking at
the currants. At last it was settled that Spinville should pay two cents
a sight, children half-price, and strangers could see the village for
nothing; but all those who had contributed anything towards the ark
should have a right to visit it with their families, without paying.
There was a great rush after this to see who was going to pay. It turned
out only the schoolmaster's and doctor's families had to buy tickets;
and when it came to that, Mr. Dyer said he would not let them pay
anything. So Jedidiah did not gain much by it; but he and a few of his
friends made some tickets, all the same, printing on them "Noah's Ark.
Admittance, two cents; children, half-price;" and a good many children
bought tickets for the fun of it.

At last there came a crash. One afternoon, Tim Stubbs, in setting up a
new pump, gave a knock to the ark, and sent the whole thing over. The
roof snapped open, and out came all the wild beasts. The hyenas laughed,
the lions roared, the bears growled, and the tigers leaped about to see
whom they could devour; Noah jumped up on top of the pump; the elephant
knocked out a side of the barn, to see what was the matter; all the
wives ran for the houses, and there was a general confusion. A leopard
seized a young chicken. Mrs. Dyer came out with a rolling-pin in her
hand. Tim and Tom Stubbs declared they would catch the animals, if
Jedidiah would only find something safe to put them in.

"If we only had a cave!" exclaimed Lucy Miles, who had hidden behind the
kitchen door.

Tim and Tom Stubbs caught one of the tigers, just as Jedidiah appeared
with his mother's bandbox. He had thrown his mother's caps and her
Sunday bonnet on the spare-room floor. They shut the tiger up in the
bandbox, then found one of the bears climbing up the pump after Noah.
Jedidiah brought a strong string, and tied him to a post. All the rest
of the boys ran away at first, but ventured to come back and join in the
search for the rest of the beasts.

The hunt grew quite exciting. One of the boys, who had read African
travels, prepared a leash of twine, and made a lasso, and with this he
succeeded in catching the two hyenas. Then no one knew if all the beasts
were caught or no. The boy who had read the travels could tell a long
list of wild animals that ought to be in the ark. There was the
rhinoceros, the hippopotamus, the jaguar; there was the leopard, the
panther, the ocelot. Mrs. Dyer put her hands up to her ears in dismay.
She could not bear to hear any more of their names; and to think she
might meet them any day, coming in at the wood-house door, or running
off with one of the chickens!

But the Stubbses thought very likely all these animals never were in
this ark at all, though they might have been in the original Noah's Ark.
This was only a play ark, after all, and you could not expect to find
every animal in it. The minister's wife said she did not know what you
should expect. The ark was quite a different one from any she had seen.
She had bought them for her children, year in and year out, and she had
never seen anything of the sort. You might expect a hippopotamus, or any
kind of beast. Those she had bought were always of wood, and the legs
broke off easily. You could mend them with Spalding's Glue; but even
Spalding was not as good as it used to be, and you could not depend
upon it.

Meanwhile the hunt went on. The Spinville people began to be sorry they
had ever bought a Noah's Ark. They had expected nothing of the sort. At
last the two leopards were found,--beautiful creatures, who lashed their
tails wildly; and before long, two hippopotami were discovered in the
duck-pond, wallowing in their native element. They were very fierce and
wild, and were caught with great difficulty. These were put in the
bandbox with the others. It was a strong, old-fashioned box; but it was
feared it would not last long for the wild beasts. Jedidiah tied it up
with some twine, and it was put for the present in the spare-room
closet.

Mrs. Dyer did not sleep well that night, though her doors had been shut
all day. She dreamed she heard lions all the night long, and was sure a
rhinoceros could get in at the window. Why had Mr. Dyer ever been so
generous with his potatoes? Why had he invited all the people to come?
Of what use had the Noah's Ark been? Jedidiah had got along without toys
before; now his head was turned. Better for him to amuse himself digging
potatoes, or seeing to the squashes, than meddling with the beasts.

And there were the Spinville boys round before breakfast. They were
there, indeed, and began again their search for the beasts. The girls
sat at the chamber windows, watching the chase. Under a cabbage-leaf,
fast asleep, the stray tiger was found. The boy learned in Natural
History went over the terrible list of all the fierce animals. "Yes,
there were ocelots and cougars and jaguars, peculiarly shy and
stealthy in approaching their prey," so the book said. "There was the
chibiguasu----" But Jedidiah said he didn't believe _his_ Noah
cared for such out-of-the-way beasts; they must have come in since his
ark. They had enough to do to catch the regular wild animals, and these
at last they found in some number. They were all seized, and with
difficulty put into a wooden lozenge-box. There was great delight; there
must be all; the ark surely could have held no more. Lions, tigers,
leopards, panthers, lynxes, wildcats,--all the animals necessary for
a respectable ark, all in twos.

But, oh horror! a jaguar was discovered, also, at the last moment just
before school. One jaguar, and there must be another somewhere. The one
found answered the description completely: "the body yellow, marked with
open black figures, considerable variety in the marking." A stray jaguar
in Spinville! so fierce a beast! No one could be sure of his footsteps.
Noah, his sons and their wives, had not been unmoved. Their satisfaction
had been great. They had carried water to the bears, and had looked much
pleased; and now they shook their heads at seeing only one jaguar.

"I think they must be all caught but that one jaguar," said Jedidiah.
"They look satisfied, and are going about their daily work; and it is
time we found some place for the wild beasts. They will come through
mother's bandbox before long."

The boys went to school. There was great consultation all that day,
which ended in Tom Stubbs bringing a squirrel-cage. It was just the
thing, for the wires were near enough to keep the animals in, and
everybody could have a look at them. But how were they to be got into
the squirrel-cage? There came a new question. Tim Stubbs remembered he
had often caught a butterfly under his hat, and a very handsome
butterfly, too, and he was sure he had him; but just as he lifted the
brim of the hat to show the other fellows that he was really there, the
butterfly would be off.

Happily there was no afternoon school, and a grand council of the
boys was held, assisted by some of the selectmen. The beasts in the
lozenge-box were easily disposed of, for it had a sliding cover, which
was dexterously raised high enough to let the beasts all into the
squirrel-cage. Then handy Tim Stubbs punched a hole in the bandbox
opposite to the entrance of the squirrel-cage, and one by one the
leopards and the rest were allowed to make their way into the wiry
prison. The tiger made a dash, but in vain; he was imprisoned like the
rest.

This is our last news from Spinville.

It is more than a month since the Spinville stage set out on its weekly
trip for that place. It was an old stage; the horses were old, the
harness was old, the driver was old. It is not then to be wondered
at that in crossing the bridge on the old road, which is so little
travelled that it is never kept in repair, the old wheel was caught in
a chink between the boards, the old coach tumbled over, the driver was
thrown from his seat and broke his leg, the horses fell on their knees,
and the whole concern was made a complete wreck.

Now, the stage-driver was the owner of the old coach and team. He had
always said the thing did not pay; he would give it all up. Indeed, he
only had driven to Spinville once a week to see the folks himself.
Nobody ever went there, and nobody ever came away, except once a year
Mr. Jones, and he had a team of his own. So there is no communication
with Spinville. That a jaguar is loose is the latest news.


XI.

CARRIE'S THREE WISHES.


Carrie Fraser was a great trouble to her mother, because she was always
wishing for something she had not got.

"The other girls always have things that I don't," she complained to her
mother. Her mother tried to explain to Carrie that she had a great many
things the other girls didn't have.

"But they are not always wishing for my things, just as I wish for
theirs."

"That is because they are not such 'teasers' as you are," her mother
would reply. "You do not hear them from morning till night teasing for
things they have not got."

Another thing in Carrie troubled her mother very much. She used a
great many extravagant phrases. She was not satisfied with saying even
"perfectly lovely," "splendid," "excruciatingly jolly." Her mother might
have permitted these terms, and was used to hearing the other girls use
them; but Carrie got hold of the strangest expressions and phrases, I am
afraid to put them into this story; for every boy and girl is perhaps
already too familiar with such, and I might only spread the use of them.

I will mention that "bang-up" and "bumptious," and that class of
expressions were her favorites, and the best-educated boy or girl will
be able to imagine the rest. This story will show how a careless use of
words brought Carrie to grief, and taught her a severe lesson.

One day, as usual, she had been complaining, and wishing she could have
everything she wanted. Her mother said: "You remember the old story of
the old couple who had their three wishes granted, and how they never
got any good from it."

"But that was because they acted like such geese," exclaimed Carrie. "I
could never have been so elephantinely idiotic! First, they wasted one
wish, for a black pudding."

"That is a sausage," said her mother.

"Yes, they asked for a common, every-day sausage to come down the
chimney; then they got into a fight, and wished it would settle on one
of their noses; and then they had to waste their last wish, by wishing
it off again! It is too bad to have such luck come to such out-and-out
idiots."

Mrs. Fraser was just setting out for the village street, to order the
dinner. The Governor was expected to pass through the place, and was to
be met at the Town Hall. Jimmy, the only son in the family, had gone off
to see the show.

"Now, if he were a real, genuine governor," said Carrie, "like a prince
in a fairytale, you would go and beseech him to grant your wishes. You
would fall on your knees, or something, and he would beg you to rise,
and your lovely daughter should have all that she wished."

"I am afraid you are very foolish," sighed Mrs. Fraser; "but I will see
the Governor. Perhaps he can advise what is best."

It seemed to Carrie as if her mother were gone a great while. "She might
have got six dinners!" she exclaimed to herself. "How tiresome! I wish I
had gone down myself, anyway. All the girls and boys have gone, and I
might have seen the Governor."

But she passed the time in rocking backward and forward in a
rocking-chair; for to her other faults Carrie added that of laziness,
and when the other girls had gone down town, and had urged her to go
with them, she had been quite too lazy to go for her hat or to hunt up
her boot button-hook.

"It seems as if Jimmy might have come back to tell about things," she
went on. "Oh dear me! if I had only a chariot and four to go down with,
and somebody to dress me and find my boots and my hat and my gloves,
then it would have been worth while to go. I mean to make out a list of
wishes, in case somebody should grant me the power to have them."

She took out a little blank-book from her pocket, and began to write
down:--

"1. A chariot and four, man to drive, striped afghan, etc.

"2. Maid to find and put on hat, boots, etc.

"3. Our Lord advances step by step to lay hold of the little bird, and
to lay it in the nest where it may repose.

He observed it fluttering for a long time, striving with the understanding
and the will, and with all its might, to seek God and to please
Him; so now it is His pleasure to reward it even in this life. And
what a reward!--one moment is enough to repay all the possible trials
of this life.

14. The soul, while thus seeking after God, is conscious, with a joy
excessive and sweet, that it is, as it were, utterly fainting away in a
kind of trance: breathing, and all the bodily strength, fail it, so
that it cannot even move the hands without great pain; the eyes close
involuntarily, and if they are open, they are as if they saw nothing;
nor is reading possible,--the very letters seem strange, and cannot be
distinguished,--the letters, indeed, are visible, but, as the
understanding furnishes no help, all reading is impracticable,
though seriously attempted.

The ear hears; but what is heard is not comprehended. The senses
are of no use whatever, except to hinder the soul's fruition; and
so they rather hurt it.

It is useless to try to speak, because it is not possible to conceive a
word; nor, if it were conceived, is there strength sufficient to
utter it; for all bodily strength vanishes, and that of the soul
increases, to enable it the better to have the fruition of its joy.

Great and most perceptible, also, is the outward joy now felt.

15. This prayer, however long it may last, does no harm--at least, it
has never done any to me; nor do I remember, however ill I might
have been when our Lord had mercy upon me in this way, that I ever
felt the worse for it--on the contrary, I was always better afterwards.

But so great a blessing, what harm can it do? The outward effects are
so plain as to leave no doubt possible that there must have been
some great cause, seeing that it thus robs us of our bodily powers
with so much joy, in order to leave them greater.

16.

The truth is, it passes away so quickly in the beginning--at least, so it
was with me--that neither by the outward signs, nor by the failure of
the senses, can it be perceived when it passes so quickly away.

But it is plain, from the overflowing abundance of grace, that the
brightness of the sun which had shone there must have been great,
seeing that it has thus made the soul to melt away.

And this is to be considered; for, as it seems to me, the period of
time, however long it may have been, during which the faculties of the
soul were entranced, is very short; if half an hour, that would
be a long time.

I do not think that I have ever been so long. [7] The truth of the
matter is this: it is extremely difficult to know how long, because the
senses are in suspense; but I think that at any time it cannot be
very long before some one of the faculties recovers itself. It is the
will that persists in the work; the other two faculties quickly
begin to molest it.

As the will is calm, it entrances them again; they are quiet for
another moment, and then they recover themselves once more.

17. In this way, some hours may be, and are, passed in prayer; for when
the two faculties begin to drink deep, and to perceive the taste of this
divine wine, they give themselves up with great readiness, in order to
be the more absorbed: they follow the will, and the three rejoice
together.

But this state of complete absorption, together with the utter rest of
the imagination,--for I believe that even the imagination is then
wholly at rest,--lasts only for a short time; though the faculties do
not so completely recover themselves as not to be for some hours
afterwards as if in disorder: God, from time to time, drawing them to
Himself.

18. Let us now come to that which the soul feels interiorly.
Let him describe it who knows it; for as it is impossible to understand
it, much more is it so to describe it. When I purposed to write this, I
had just communicated, and had risen from the very prayer of which I am
speaking. I am thinking of what the soul was then doing. Our Lord said
to me: It undoes itself utterly, My daughter, in order that it may
give itself more and more to Me: it is not itself that then lives,
it is I.

As it cannot comprehend what it understands, it understands by not
understanding. [8]

19. He who has had experience of this will understand it in some
measure, for it cannot be more clearly described, because what
then takes place is so obscure.

All the time she was talking Carrie was putting in her hand for
chocolate creams and cramming one after another. Mrs. Fraser, too, did
not refuse to taste them. How could they ever get into the parlor again,
unless they were eaten up?

"I am sure we can make quite a fortune," Carrie went on. "As soon as
Jimmy comes home we can calculate how much it will be. The last time I
was in Boston I gave fifteen cents for a quarter of a pound, and there
were just thirteen chocolate creams. Now, see. In my two hands I can
hold fourteen; now, how many times that do you suppose there are in the
room?"

Mrs. Fraser could not think. Carrie was triumphant.

"Jimmy will know how to calculate, for he knows how many feet and inches
there are in the room. If not, he can measure by the piazza; and we can
row the chocolate creams out, and see how many go to a foot, and then we
can easily find out. Of course, we shall sell them cheaper than they do
in Boston, and so there will be a rush for them. It will be bully!"

"I am glad we happened to take this rocking-chair out on the piazza this
morning," said Mrs. Fraser, languidly seating herself. "I don't see how
we shall ever get into the parlor again."

"Jimmy and I will eat our way in fast enough," said Carrie, laughing;
and Jimmy at that moment appeared with two boy friends, whom he had
brought home to dinner.

They were all delighted when they understood the situation, and had soon
eaten a little place by the window, inside the room.

"I quite forgot to buy any dinner," exclaimed Mrs. Fraser, starting up.
"I meant to have ordered a leg of mutton as I went down, and now it is
too late; and eggs for a pudding. Jimmy will have to go down----"

"Oh, the chocolate creams will do!" exclaimed Carrie. "Don't you see,
there's our first saving, and my wish does not turn out so extravagant,
after all. The boys will be glad to have chocolate creams for dinner,
I'm sure."

The boys all said they would, as far as they could, when their mouths
were so full.

"We must put out an advertisement," said Carrie, at last, as soon as she
could stop to speak: "'Chocolate creams sold cheap!' I guess we won't
give any away. We may as well make all we can. It will be geminy!
Suppose we look up some boxes and baskets, Jimmy, to sell them in; and
you boys can go to the gate and tell people there are chocolate creams
for sale."

But all the boxes and baskets were soon filled, and only a little space
made in the room. Jimmy pulled out the other rocking-chair that Carrie
had been sitting in, and she rested herself for a while.

"I declare, I never thought before I could eat enough chocolate creams;
but they are a trifle cloying."

"My dear," said Mrs. Fraser, "if you had not said 'chock full;' if you
had said 'a great many,' or 'a trunkful,' or something of that sort."

"But I meant 'chock full,'" insisted Carrie.

"I did not mean quite up to the ceiling. I didn't suppose that was what
'chock' meant. Now we know."

A great shouting was heard. All the boys of the town were gathering, and
quite a crowd of people seemed coming near.

Mrs. Fraser was a widow, and there was no man in the house. Jimmy was
the nearest approach to a man that she could depend upon; and here he
was, leading a band of boys! She sent one of the boys she knew the best
for Mr. Stetson, the neighboring policeman, who came quickly, having
already seen the crowd of boys flocking to the house.

Carrie was trying to sell off her boxes for fifteen, ten, even five
cents; but the crowd could not be easily appeased, for the boys could
see across the windows the chocolate creams closely packed. "The room is
chock full!" they exclaimed.

Mr. Stetson examined the premises. "You'll find it hard work to get
them chocolates out in a week, even if you set all the boys on them. I'd
advise letting them in one by one to fill their pockets, each to pay
a cent."

Even Carrie assented to this, and a line was formed, and boys let in
through the window. They ate a way to the door that led into the entry,
so that it could be opened and the room could be entered that way. The
boys now went in at the window and came out at the door, eating as they
went and filling their pockets. Carrie could not but sigh at thought of
the Boston chocolates, more than a cent apiece! But the boys ate, and
then the girls came and ate; but with night all had to leave, at last.
It was possible to shut the window and lock it, and shut the door for
the night, after they had gone.

"I don't see why the chocolates should not stay on there weeks and
weeks," said Carrie to her mother. "Of course, they won't be so fresh,
day after day; but they will be fresher than some in the shops. I'm
awfully tired of eating them now, and feel as if I never wanted to see
a chocolate cream again; but I suppose I shall feel different after a
night's sleep, and I think Mr. Stetson is wrong in advising us to sell
them so low."

Mrs. Fraser suggested she should like to go in the parlor to sit.

"But to-morrow is the day of the picnic," said Carrie, "and we shall be
out-of-doors anyhow. I will take chocolate creams for my share. But,
dear me! my dress is on the sofa,--my best dress. You were putting the
ruffles in!"

"I told you, my dear, one of the last things, to take it upstairs," said
Mrs. Fraser.

"And there it is, in the furthest corner of the room," exclaimed Carrie,
"with all those chocolates scrouching on it. I'll tell you. I'll get Ben
Sykes in early. He eats faster than any of the other boys, and he shall
eat up toward my dress. He made a great hole in the chocolates this
afternoon. I will have him come in early, and we don't go to the picnic
till after twelve o'clock."

"And at twelve o'clock you have your second wish," said Mrs. Fraser.

"Yes, Mamma," said Carrie; "and I have already decided what it shall
be,--a chariot and four. It will come just in time to take me to the
picnic."

"Oh, my dear Carrie," said her mother, "do think what you are planning!
Where would you keep your chariot and the four horses?"

"Oh! there will be a man to take care of them," said Carrie; "but I will
think about it all night carefully----"

At that very moment she went to sleep.

The next morning early, Carrie was downstairs. She found she could eat
a few more chocolate creams, and Jimmy was in the same condition. She
proposed to him her plan of keeping the chocolates still for sale, but
eating a way to the sofa in the corner, to her best dress.

Ben Sykes came early, and a few of the other boys. The rest were kept at
home, because it turned out they had eaten too many and their parents
would not let them come.

A good many of the older people came with baskets and boxes, and bought
some to carry away, they were so delicious and fresh.

Meanwhile Ben Sykes was eating his way toward the corner. It was very
hard making any passage, for as fast as he ate out a place others came
tumbling in from the top. Carrie and Jimmy invented "a kind of a tunnel"
of chairs and ironing-boards, to keep open the passage; and other boys
helped eat, as they were not expected to pay.

But the morning passed on. Mrs. Fraser tried to persuade Carrie to wear
another dress; but she had set her mind on this. She had a broad blue
sash to wear with it, and the sash would not go with any other dress.

She watched the clock, she watched Ben; she went in under the
ironing-boards, to help him eat, although she had begun to loathe the
taste of the chocolate creams.

Ben was splendid. He seemed to enjoy more the more he ate. Carrie
watched him, as he licked them and ate with glowing eyes.

"Oh, Ben," Carrie suddenly exclaimed, "you can't seem to eat them fast
enough. I wish your throat were as long as from one end of this room to
the other."

At this moment the clock was striking.

Carrie was ready to scream out her second wish; but she felt herself
pushed in a strange way. Ben was on all fours in front of her, and now
he pushed her back, back. His neck was so long that while his head was
still among the chocolates, at the far corner of the room, his feet were
now out of the door.

Carrie stood speechless. She had lost her wish by her foolish
exclamation. The faithful Ben, meanwhile, was flinging something through
the opening. It was her dress, and she hurried away to put it on.

When she came down, everybody was looking at Ben. At first he enjoyed
his long neck very much. He could stand on the doorstep and put his head
far out up in the cherry trees and nip off cherries, which pleased both
the boys and himself.

[Illustration: He enjoyed his long neck very much.]

Instead of a chariot and four, Carrie went off in an open wagon, with
the rest of the girls. It made her feel so to see Ben, with his long
neck, that she got her mother's permission to spend the night with the
friend in whose grounds the picnic was to be held.

She carried baskets of chocolate creams, and she found numbers of the
girls, who had not eaten any, who were delighted with them, and promised
to come the next day, to buy and carry away any amount of them. She
began to grow more cheerful, though she felt no appetite, and instead
of eating everything, as she always did at picnics, she could not even
touch Mattie Somers's cream-pie nor Julia Dale's doughnuts. Imagine the
soft rose light from the parasol over the white jackets and silk and
the sharp shadows on the sand.

How graceful the owner of the parasol was when she stood up! I think
it was her duenna who toppled off the edge of the gangway with one of
the Chittagong crew in the push to come aboard.

The old lady's face puckered as she went over, but she was out in a
second, and came aboard with the jolly crowd, smiling like the rest.
The pretty girls drop their red and blue velvet sandals with a clatter
on to our iron deck when they come up the gangway, shuffle their
toes into them and waddle off to the stalls with an air. No--waddle
is not the word, its a little body twist rather like that of our French
cousins, and their frank look is Spanish, but with less langour
and a little more lift in it for fun!

Leaving all this grace and colour behind, we marched away with a gun
and two men, a native and a Burman, which surely proves the vandalism
of our upbringing.

But I may have scored by not staying and painting, granted I may
never forget the charm of the mid-day stillness behind the village, and
the walk through half jungle, half cultivated country with everything
asleep in the quiet and warmth, and never a chance of game unless
I trod on it.

Through the village palms and trees I came on a lakelet with short grass
and tall white briar rose bushes round its edge. It was almost covered
with a water plant with leaves like a strawberry, which made a dull
rose tracery across the reflected blue sky. There were three white ibis,
distant dark blue hills and trees, and jungle grass and their reflections;
a cormorant and sea swallow were fishing, and a little pagoda, with
gleaming golden Hti hung its reflection in the mirror. It was so still
and the air so sweet that I felt perfectly happy with never a thing
to fire at but an occasional dove, or curiously coloured lapwing. The
only thing I actually did fire at was a swagger bluebird whose
plumage I did covet.

It let me have five shots, at from seventy to eighty yards but never
closer, and went off flaunting its green and blue plumage derisively,
and I hurried home at top speed long after the second whistle, rather
glad I'd done no damage to anything.

At Shewgee in the afternoon we pulled out of the sunlight on the river
into the shadow of a steep bank with some sixty black-tarred wooden
steps up it.

Creepers and foliage hung in masses over the edge and on the top were
the usual groups of brightly dressed people and palms and trees in
half tone, against a warm sky; and a pagoda too, of course, in
white and gold, with a banner staff in white glass mosaic.

The dainty figures came trooping down the long black steps and surged on
board, first of all politely making way to let us go ashore.

We wandered through, I think, the neatest village we have seen, each dainty
mat house had a tiny compound with palms, trees, and roses and other
flowers round it. We heard "The Potter thumping his wet clay" and
stopped and watched.

He, or she, sat on the ground with feet out in front and modelled
bowls round the left hand, thumping and patting the stiff clay with
a little wooden spade, and without any further appliance made
complicated forms perfectly symmetrical.

I'd no idea such symmetry could be attained without the use of the
wheel.

As we came back the darkness was falling and there were fires in
most of the houses on trays of earth and the light shone through
the bamboo walls, and we could see figures sitting beside them,
either for warmth or possibly to get away from mosquitoes.

We met a gold prospector here, a lean, brown, blue-eyed man in khaki
shirt and well-cut, and well-worn tweed continuations. I think all
prospectors must be somewhat alike.

The last I saw was a similar type--drinking beer in "The First and
Last,"--Port Stanley--he was just back from "the Coast," and his
rig, and particularly, his expression were much the same, but the
man from Terra del had found gold, "like melon seeds--G--D--two
inches deep!"

--this one hadn't.

Dinner talk suddenly interesting--the new passenger, Captain Kirke, R.
A., commandant of the military police is just in from the hills on the
west, where he has been on a punitive expedition.

His three hundred Sikhs and Ghurkas and ponies are on a small
government steamer which we have passed and repassed lately, so we have
the latest news of our neighbours to the west, the "partially subdued"
Chins.

The expedition was, I understand, to settle some family grievances of
these people.

One chief had taken some of a neighbouring chief's people when he wasn't
at home, and had them tied to trees and little arrows fired into
them, one by one, so that in the end they died.

The cruel chief's wives were said to be the instigators of this "most
bloody business" and the leading lady's photograph warranted the assertion.
Her face was tattooed and was curiously like a Red Indian's. I have
read in a book that the Chins tattoo their wives' faces to prevent
them being stolen for their beauty!

I gather this punitive expedition that we have come across unexpectedly,
was carried out without a shot being fired, so it won't be in the
papers.

The wicked chief and his wives awoke one morning to find their village
being looked at severely by two mountain guns, and a camera, and encircled
with rifles, so they came along quietly-some ten chiefs all told. I think
Captain Kirke was naturally a little pleased at the persuasive
effect of his pet guns, and gratified that he had managed to bring
them over the difficult country, and civil objections--but if I had
run that show I'd have felt much inclined to have fired just one
shot, for the sake of a medal and newspaper laurels.

We really begin to feel at the Empire's frontier now, when we have
pointed out to us to the northward, the mountain tops where the
military police, _i.e._, native troops and lonely British officers
keep watch and ward over our furthest marches--heliographing between
times to Bhamo for "news from Town." 
3rd February.

--We got away early this morning, and were stopped by a fog bank,
so I saw the Defiles.

The Defiles are considered the thing to see; and they are interesting
enough; we passed the Third Defile down the river somewhere.

At this the Second the river narrows and the mountains rise pretty steeply
on either side, and are clothed with grand trees and jungle.

It is less distinctive scenery than that of the wider valleys of the
Irrawaddy; you might see similar features in many other rivers.

At full flood the force of water down this narrow gorge must be rather
tremendous, it is said to be forty fathoms deep then, and the
captain told me, that when steaming up at fourteen knots, they could
sometimes barely make way!

Coming down must be kittle steering, I'd think. It is a good country for
elephants. I am told.

After the Defiles we stop at Sinkan on the left bank, where the river
spreads out again into the more usual style of Irrawaddy scenery,
the valley very wide, the sandy river's edge capped with a jungle
of waving kaing, or elephant grass, eighteen feet high, and over
and beyond bluey-green tree-clad mountains, not very high, but high
enough to be interesting and to raise hope.

[Illustration]
I made a sketch of cottages at Sinkan. The blue and black of the
Shans, and light blue colours of the Chinese dresses, begins to
tell more distinctly among the tulip colours of the Burmans.

The men here are armed with swords. The Shan's blade is slightly curved
and pointed, with no guard, the hilt sometimes of ivory and the
scabbard richly ornamented with silver, and the shoulder belt is
of red or green velvet rope; the Kachins' swords that I have seen
are more simply made as regards their scabbards and are square
across the end of the blade.

Only you who fish can understand what great restraint I was obliged
to exercise here; as I painted on the fore-deck a grand fish rose
in the stream that comes in beside us, within casting distance of
our bow, and with the surge of a thirty pound salmon!

And yet I went on painting! I confess I very nearly did not.

At Bhamo the river broadens into a lake again, something like what
it is between Saigang and Mandalay--beautiful enough to travel a
long way to see.

There is a little desert of sand between the water's edge and Bhamo,
across it were trekking in single file Burmans, Shans, and Chinese,
to and from our steamer with lines of ponies, with bales of merchandise
on their pack saddles.

We look at the distant mountains beyond Bhamo that bound the horizon--they
tempt us and we wonder if we should not venture further north; and take
the caravan route into China--rather a big affair for peaceful
tourists.

Captain Kirke came in strongly here, said, "Go, of course--I will
show you how to do it, give you ponies, and find you guide and
servants."

So we have taken our courage in both hands and decided to go. One of his
men in the meantime, had gone and brought an elephant, an enormous
beast, over the sand; I am sure it was twice the height of any I've
seen in Zoos.

It went down on its knees and elbows, bales of cotton were piled
alongside, and Miss B. and G. climbed up these on to the pad, and
I got up by its tail and the crupper.

Then up it heaved, and on we held, to ropes, and went off for half a
mile over the hot, soft sand; Captain Kirke riding a pretty Arab
pony.

I'd never been on an elephant before, to my knowledge, nor had I ever
experienced the sensation of the black hair pricking through thin
trousers, or the besom of a tail whacking my boots--I consider we
entered Bhamo with a good deal of éclat.

[Illustration]
4th February.--We all went shopping on the elephant, Captain Kirke
kindly showing us round. He and his pony might have passed under
our steed's girth.

It made a pretty fair block in the traffic of China Street, but the style
of shopping seemed to take the popular taste; and from our point
of view we could study at ease the various types of people.

The old ladies in tall blue serge turbans and tunics and putties of the
same colour rather struck me--they are Shans from the East--with
little shrewd twinkling black eyes, short noses and a gentle
expression, and that break in the eyebrow, which I think characteristic
of a certain dark Celtic type.

The above sketch represents a corner of the market; in the centre a Kachin
fairly characteristic but too tall, beside him his sturdy kilted
wife, with the usual basket on her back; other figures, a Burmese
girl, a Chinese woman, Sikhs, and distant Shan woman.

China Street, the principal street in Bhamo, is only about two hundred
yards long, but it is fairly wide and crammed full of interest to
the newcomer; it is so purely Chinese, you only see a Burman, a
Burmese woman rather, here and there, the wife of some Chinese
trader.

Burmese women they say, incline to marry either Indians or Chinese,
for though these men are not exactly beautiful they are great
workers, whilst the Burman is a pleasure-loving gentleman of the
golden age.

The Burmese and Indian cross is a sad sight.

We stopped at a leading citizen's house with whom Captain K. conversed
in Chinese, and why or how I don't know, but we found ourselves
sitting in his saloon, beyond his outer court, and it was just as
if I'd dropped into an old Holbein interior, it was all so subdued
and harmonious and perfect in finish.

There was lacquer work-and ivory-coloured panels on the walls,
brown beams above, and orange vermilion paper labels with black lettering
hanging from them in rows, each purporting the titles of our host;
he wore a loose black silk waistcoat with buff sleeves, buff shorts,
black silk skull-cap, and a weedy black moustache which he touched
every now and then with little pocket comb; the colouring of his
dress, and complexion, and background, all in perfect harmony.

He had gentle clever overhung eyes and was quite the great gentleman,
entertaining us intruders with calm smiling affability.

In a court which he showed us, he had a raised octagonal fish pond,
and in his porch his people were unlading ponies of bales of
merchandise.

Both the persons and the surroundings of his establishment seemed
to date away back to the happy and cruel Middle Ages.

At a shop over the way our elephant stood in the sun, the Burman on
its head with his white jacket and light red scarf round his hair,
calmly smoking a cheroot, a welcome contrast to the busy keen Chinese
life; above him hung large orange-red paper lanterns with large Chinese
inscriptions. At the young merchant's shop over the way, we bought
finely cut Chinese tobacco, and a number of Chinese silk satchels, note
books, and other things at trifling prices. The young owner I'd like to
be able to describe; I don't think I have ever seen such perfection
of finish of dress, and even form; his complexion was palest coffee-colour,
teeth perfectly white and symmetrical, cap and jacket of the most
delicate finish, silk shoes and white socks, and baggy trousers, all as
if split new and of perfection of workmanship, and he totted up his
accounts and did all the business with a polished self-possessed
manner!
I must say my first impression of the heathen Chinee at Bhamo was
tremendously in his favour; in many ways even the coolies, or Chinese
porters, struck me favourably, by their simple kit, blue tunic and
shorts, and their sturdy limbs and absence of any roughness of
manner.

A few yards along the road brought us to the Joss House. It would take
many drawings, to describe the many arrangements of courts and steps and
quaintly curved roofs, and the foliage and flickering shadows.

In the interior were Chinese and some Burmese, and all the pastime of
their lives seemed to go on there, prayers, feeding, gambling and
theatricals, at the same or at different times without hurry. We
patronised the gambling corner--gave the principal high priest who
did the honours of the place to us five rupees to gamble with for
us--he was a fine big man with a potent expression--he lost and won a
good deal, then lost the lot and two or three more rupees, and went on
playing with his own money. It was delightful to see the hearty way
these gamblers laughed when they lost, and chuckled when they won:
I got a respect for gambling that I'd never previously had. I've generally
seen people get a little white when they lose--and--well--I do not
care for their subdued expressions when they win--but there was a
boyish hilarity and hardihood about this gambling that made it
almost attractive.

Here is one view of the Joss House. The Chinamen were intensely interested,
as I painted, and crowded round.

They were perfectly polite and well-intentioned as also are the Burmese,
but I think the Chinaman's interest in the technique is so great that
he cannot keep at any distance, so it was an enormous effort to
concentrate on the subject and not just to draw the nearest heads.

Here is one, however, a boy with fur cap, his complexion was like fine
China and showed great finish of form.
I noticed they were all very clean indeed, their clothes spotless, and
the scent of their tobacco quite good.

I'll
sleep across the foot, and Sam shall have the sofa."

But Sam rose up from his study. "I've no notion of spending the night
here. The door must be open by this time."

He went to the window that looked out on the veranda. There was a heavy
rain-storm; it was pouring hard. It was hard work getting down to the
door in the dark. The candle kept going out; and they found the door
still locked when they reached it.

"Why not spend the night?" said Jonas. "They'll have got over their
worries at home by this time."

"Nobody could come up here to see after us in this rain," said Sam.
"I suppose they think that as we have made our bed we may as well sleep
in it."

Sleep they did until a late hour in the morning. All the windows but the
one upon the veranda closed with shutters. They woke up to find snow and
rain together. They went all over the house to find some way of getting
out, but doors and windows were well closed.

"It's no use, boys," said Sam. "We've tried it often enough from outside
to get in, and now it is as hard to get out. I was always disgusted that
the windows were so high from the ground. Anyhow, father or some of the
folks will be after us sometime. What was it you told mother?" Sam
asked.

John Stebbins had to confess that he had not seen Mrs. Wilson, and
indeed had been vague with the information he had left with Jane. "I
told them we were with the Pentz boys," he said; "I thought it just as
well to keep dark."

"Mighty dark we all of us are!" said Sam, in a rage. He was so angry
that John Stebbins began to think he had made Jane understand where they
were, and he tried to calm Sam down. Jonas proposed that Dick should be
put through the cold-air box again. With a little squeezing from behind
he must be able to get through. Everybody but Dick thought it such a
nice plan that he was obliged to agree. But what was their horror when
they reached the place to find some boards nailed across the outside!

"A regular siege!" said Sam. "Well, if they can stand it I guess we
can." His mettle was up. "We'll stay till relief forces come. It is some
trick of the boys. Lucky there's no school. They can't hold out long."

"A state of siege! What fun!" cried the boys.

"I only wish we had brought two pies," said John Stebbins. "But there's
plenty of gingerbread."

Now they would ransack the house at their leisure. There was light
enough in the attics to explore the treasures hidden there. They found
old coal-hods for helmets, and warming-pans for fiery steeds, and they
had tournaments in the huge halls. They piled up carpets for their
comfort in their bedroom,--bits of old carpet,--and Jonas and Sam
discovered a pile of old worm-eaten books. The day seemed too short,
and the provender lasted well.

The night, however, was not so happy. The candles were growing short
and matches fewer. Sam and Jonas had to economize in reading, and told
stories instead, and the stories had a tendency to ghosts. Dick and Jack
murmured to John Stebbins it was not such fun after all; when, lo! their
own talk was interrupted by noises below! A sound of quarrelling voices
came from the rooms beneath. Voices of men! They went on tiptoe to the
head of the stairs to listen.

Tramps, indeed!

How had they got in? Was it they who had locked the door? Did they come
in that way?

"Suppose we go down," said Sam, in a whisper. But John Stebbins and the
little boys would not think of it. The men were swearing at each other;
there was a jingle of bottles and sound of drinking.

"It's my opinion we had better keep quiet," said Jonas. "It is a poor
set, and I don't know what they would do to us if they saw we had found
them out and would be likely to tell of them."

So they crept back noiselessly. In a state of siege, indeed! John
Stebbins, with help of the others, lifted the sofa across the door and
begged Sam to sleep on it. But that night there was not much sleep! The
storm continued, snow, hail, and rain, and wind howling against the
windows. Toward morning they did fall asleep. It was at a late hour they
waked up and went to peer out from the veranda window. There was a
policeman passing round the house!

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile there had been great anxiety at the Wilsons'.

"If it were not for the storm," said Aunt Harriet, "I should send up to
the Pentzes' to inquire about those boys."

"I suppose it's the storm that keeps them," said Jane.

"If it were not for the storm," Mrs. Pentz was saying to Mary, "I should
like you to go down to the Wilsons' and see what those boys are about."

As to Mrs. Stebbins, John was so seldom at home it did not occur to her
to wonder where he was.

But when Saturday morning came, and no boys, Aunt Harriet said, "There's
a little lull in the storm. I can't stand it any longer, Jane. I am
going to put on my waterproof and go up to the Pentzes'."

"I will go too," said Jane; and Gertrude and George joined the party.

Half-way up the long street they met the Pentz family coming down to
make the same inquiries,--Mr. and Mrs. Pentz, Mary, Sophy, Will, and the
rest.

"Where are the boys?" was the exclamation as they met half-way between
the two houses.

Mr. Johnson, one of the leading men of the town, crossed the street to
ask what was the commotion in the two families. "Our boys are missing,"
said Mr. Pentz. "Five boys!"

"We haven't seen them since Thursday morning," said Aunt Harriet.

"They were at home Thursday afternoon," said Mary Pentz.

"I must speak to the police," said Mr. Pentz.

"He is up at the Wilson House," said Mr. Johnson. "There were tramps in
the house there last night, and the police came very near catching them.
He found the door unlocked night before last. The tramps kept off that
night, but turned up last night in the storm. They have got off,
however. There is only one policeman, but we've sworn in a special to
keep guard on the house."

"I'll go up and see him," said Mr. Pentz.

"We'll all go up," said Harriet.

"Perhaps the tramps have gone off with the boys," said Gertrude.

Quite a crowd had collected with the party as they moved up the street,
and all together came to the front of the house. The policeman was just
disappearing round the other side. They turned to the back to meet him,
and reached the corner where the veranda looked down upon the yard.

At this moment Mr. and Mrs. Wilson appeared. They had arrived at the
station from New York, and heard there the story of the disappearance of
the boys, and of tramps in the house. They hastened to the scene, Mrs.
Wilson almost distracted, and now stood with the rest of the Wilsons and
the Pentzes awaiting the policeman. They heard a cry from above, and
looked up to the veranda.

There were all the boys in a row.


XIII.

A PLACE FOR OSCAR.


"I don't like tiresome fables," said Jack, throwing down an old book in
which he had been trying to read; "it is so ridiculous making the beasts
talk. Of course they never do talk that way, and if they did talk, they
would not be giving that kind of advice But then they never did talk.
Did you ever hear of a beast talking, Ernest, except in a fable?"

Ernest looked up from his book.

"Why, yes," he said decidedly; "the horses of Achilles talked, don't you
remember?"

"Well, that was a kind of fable," said Jack. "Our horses never talked.
Bruno comes near it sometimes. But, Hester, don't you think fables are
tiresome? They always have a moral tagged on!" he continued, appealing
to his older sister; for Ernest proved a poor listener, and was deep in
his book again.

"I will tell you a fable about a boy," said Hester, sitting down with
her work, "and you shall see."

"But don't let the beasts speak," said Jack, "and don't let the boy give
advice!"

"He won't even think of it," said Hester; and she went on.

"Once there was a boy, and his name was Oscar, and he went to a very
good school, where he learned to spell and read very well, and do a few
sums. But when he had learned about as much as that, he took up a new
accomplishment. This was to fling up balls, two at a time, and catch
them in his hands. This he could do wonderfully well; but then a great
many other boys could. He, however, did it at home; he did it on the
sidewalk; he could do it sitting on the very top of a board fence; but
he was most proud of doing it in school hours while the teacher was not
looking. This grew to be his great ambition. He succeeded once or twice,
when she was very busy with a younger class, and once while her back was
turned, and she was at the door receiving a visitor.

"But that did not satisfy him: he wanted to be able to do it when she
was sitting on her regular seat in front of the platform; and every day
he practised, sometimes with one ball and sometimes with another. It
took a great deal of his time and all of his attention; and often some
of the other boys were marked for laughing when he succeeded. And he had
succeeded so well that the teacher had not the slightest idea what they
were laughing at.

Andrey ...
but I won't ... I can't ... he must have been right under the thing and
was blown to pieces. Mr., strangely enough, lying there with his arms
spread out, seemed to have been scarcely touched. But I saw at once
when I came to him that he had only a few moments to live, He had a
terrible stomach wound but was suffering no pain, I think. Semyonov
was kneeling, with his arm behind his head, looking straight into his
eyes.

"'Mr., Mr.,' he said several times, as though he wanted to rouse
him to consciousness.But there were a number of younger boys in the
room who enjoyed it all very much, so that he was a real hero, and
felt himself quite a favorite. He did manage to keep up better in his
arithmetic, too, in spite of his having so little time for his books.
Perhaps from having to watch the teacher so much, he did learn the
things that he heard her repeat over and over again; and then he picked
up some knowledge from the other boys. Still, all through his school
term, he was sent about more or less from one room to another. The
teachers could not quite understand why such a bright-looking boy, who
seemed to be always busy with his lessons, was not farther on in his
studies.

"So it happened, when they all left school, Oscar was himself surprised
to find that the boys of his age were ahead of him in various ways. A
large class went on to the high school; but Oscar, as it proved, was not
at all fitted.

"And his father took him round from one place to another to try to get
some occupation for him. He looked so bright that he was taken for an
office-boy here and there; but he never stayed. Who could it be?
Spraggs had certainly toured the capitals of Central Europe last autumn,
but he never mentioned Josef on his return. Harris? Well, one would
scarcely call Harris a _business_friend. Filmer? No, Filmer is too
selfish, I fear, to do me so good a turn. Ah, of course! Kelly, dear old
burly rubicund Kelly, with his unfailing memory for an address and
his delightfully abbreviated style.

And he goes everywhere too: the very man. I can almost hear him saying
it: "Then there's Johnson, my staunch old businessfriend Johnson, whom
I can trace right back as far as my impressions of 1912; mustn't leave
him out.

I think I can--yes, I have it: John Fdk. Johnson, 72, Chestnut Av.,
Mayfield Pk., S.W. You've got that?" Josef has it.

Josef, it appears, possesses a few tickets, and I gather that for some
reason he does not require all of them himself.

Naturally he turns to the friend of our mutual businessfriend. Will I
participate in the distribution of "many, many million within five
months?" The first prize is one--but perhaps I had better express it
as Josef loves to do. The first prize is
--->ONE MILLION CRS.<---
The chance, he goes on to say, is "without any risk worth mentioning."
Still, he does mention it. He mentions it quite explicitly so that there
shall be no mistake. The risk is as follows:--
1/4 Ticket sh 8/6.
1/2 Ticket sh 17/.
1/1 Ticket sh 34/.

"All tickets forwarded (paid for) belong to the customer," I am
assured, "from the moment of dispatch and play, of course, on his
account."

I fancy I see what Josef means, but I don't think that the expression,
"play, of course, on his account," is altogether well chosen. I think it
might have been phrased more felicitously.

You will not be surprised to know that Josef's interest, stimulated by
our mutual businessfriend, goes beyond my mere personality. He reminds
me--Philippa is quite affected by this--that there are others.

"The astonishing advantages ... must induce to serious consideration
anyone who is looking after his own welfare, and that of those near and
dear to him as well."

--Yet Josef can be almost stern when there is occasion, and he tersely
warns me that it is a chance which "probably NEVER WILL BE OFFERED to you
AGAIN!"
Ah, well.

I suppose that I shall give a miss as usual. It isn't that I doubt
a single word of Josef's splendid optimism on my behalf. It isn't
that I really mind the always, to me, inexplicable fact that every
second ticket is guaranteed to draw a prize, while the _lowest_
prize is double the amount charged for the ticket. It isn't
(altogether) that I distrust Philippa's rosy presentiment. I think
it is the concluding paragraph that settles it. I read:--
Will you become A MILLIONAIRE?"Will Leigh had the best chance, perhaps. He used to be a great crony of
Oscar. He went through the Latin School, and then to Harvard College.
'He was always burrowing into Latin and Greek,' said Oscar; 'much as
ever you could do to get an English word out of him.'

"Well, he was wanted as professor in a Western college; so they sent him
for three years to a German university to study up his Hebrew. But he
was to travel about Europe first.

"'I wish they would send me,' said Oscar. 'Travelling about Europe is
just what I should like, and just what I could do. It is a queer thing
that just these fellows that can work hard, and like to work too, get
the easiest places, where they have only to lie back and do nothing!'

"Even some of the boys who were behind him in school and below him in
lower classes came out ahead. Sol Smith, whom Oscar always thought a
stupid dunce, had the place in Mr. Spenser's office that he would have
liked.

"'Mr. Spenser took Sol out to his country place in the mountains,' Oscar
complained, 'where he has boats and plenty of fishing. I know I could
have caught a lot of trout. It is just what I can do. But that stupid
Sol, if he looked at a trout, he probably frightened it away.'

"It was just so all along through life. Oscar could not find exactly the
place he was fitted for. One of his friends, Tracy, went out West as
engineer. 'I could have done that,' said Oscar; 'I could have carried
the chain as easy as not. It is a little hard that all the rest of the
fellows tumble into these easy places. There's Tracy making money hand
over hand.'

"The next he heard of him Tracy was in the legislature. 'That I could
do,' said Oscar. 'It is easy enough to go and sit in the legislature,
with your hands in your pockets, and vote when your turn comes; or you
needn't be there all the time if you don't choose.'

"So they put Oscar up for the legislature; but he lost the vote, because
he forgot to sign his name to an important note, in answer to one of his
'constituents.' He tried for Congress, too, but without success. He
talked round among his friends about running for President. There was
the great White House to live in. I shouted.

"Mr...." he said, "Andrey Vassilievitch...."

I looked round. One of the sanitars nodded.

Then there followed a nightmare of which I can remember very little.

It seems that at about four in the afternoon the Austrians made a furious
attack. At about seven our men retreated and broke. They were gradually
beaten back towards the river. Then, out of Mittövo, the "Moskovsky Polk"
made a magnificent counter-attack, rallied the other Division and finally
drove the Austrians right back to their original trenches.

From nine o'clock until twelve we were in the thick of it.
After midnight all was quiet again. I will not give you details of
our experiences as they are not all to my present purpose."I never did it but just once in school, and that was when you happened
to come in and speak to Miss Eaton. I was real ashamed that you caught
me at it then, and I have never had the balls at school since, or
thought of them."

"The beast has spoken," said Ernest, looking up from his book.

Jack made a rush at his brother. "Oh! stop," said Ernest; "let us find
out what became of Oscar."

"He has married," said Hester, "and his wife supports him."


XIV.

THE FIRST NEEDLE.


  "Have you heard the new invention, my dears,
  That a man has invented?" said she.
  "It's a stick with an eye,
  Through which you can tie
  A thread so long, it acts like a thong;
  And the men have such fun
  To see the thing run!
  Respectable looking Parsi men in tight broad cloth
  coats and shiny black pointed pot hats
  did this marketing--not their wives--peered through their spectacles
very carefully, down their long noses at each little chunk.

  I hoped they could smell no better than they could
  see; and the grotesque little women
  slipped the minute
  coppers they
  secured under the damp mat on the wet stones
  between their feet. That was all very poor and
  small and sordid,
  but the grain sellers were
  pleasant to look at.
  The thorns, the tiresome thorns, will prick,
  But none of them ever consented to stick!
  Oh, won't the men let us this new thing use?
  If we mend their clothes, they can't refuse.
  Ah, to sew up a seam for them to see,--
  What a treat, a delightful treat, 't will be!"

  "Yes, a nice thing, too, for the babies, my dears,--
  But, alas, there is but one!" cried she.
  "I saw them passing it round, and then
  They said it was only fit for men!
  What woman would know
  How to make the thing go?
  There was not a man so foolish to dream
  That any woman could sew up a seam!"

  Oh, then there was babbling and screaming, my dears!
  "At least they might let us do that!" cried they.
  I should say this is a third
  cheaper and six times more
  comfortable, and many times more interesting. With
  regard to mosquitoes there are more at this
  present moment of writing than I have had the
  misfortune of meeting elsewhere, but it isn't so all the road.

  I still think, however, that those mosquitoes
  of the Bassein Creek are incomparable.
  
  We (that is merely "I"
  this time) went to-day with a very European
  party of Mandalay residents up
  and across the
  river to Mingun in a sort of large picnic on a
  Government launch. We went to see the second
  biggest bell in the world and a pagoda that
  would have been one of
  the biggest buildings,
  if it had ever been finished! Both are great _draws_, and neither
is of any account.And leave to the women forever the sewing."

  Ah! what are the words of an aged crone,
  For all have left her muttering alone;
  And the needle and thread they got with such pains.
  They forever must keep as dagger and chains.