'I cannot enter the house!' he exclaimed, in a low voice. 'I cannot
seek those loved ones there where once we dwelt in happiness together;
and where, perhaps, none now remain to welcome the wanderer home!  O,
that some one would appear who might tell me of their fate!'

Henrich spoke to himself in his native tongue. He could not speak a
strange language in that old familiar spot; and his voice attracted the
notice of the little girl, who was now slowly moving towards him, her
hands filled with the spoils of the flower-beds.  She stopped, and
gazed at the stranger, and then uttered a faint cry of fear that at
once roused Henrich from his reverie.  Then had come Achmet,
unrepentant, degraded still, but with the spirit of Something glowing--
Achmet to die for a cause, driven by that Something deep
beneath the degradation and the crime.

He had hope, and, as the camel-driver's voice died away, and he lay
down with a sheep-skin over him and went instantly to sleep, David
drew to the fire and sat down beside it. Presently Ebn Ezra came to
urge him to go to bed, but he would not. He had slept, he said; he had
slept and rested, and the night was good--he would wait.
Then the other brought rugs and blankets, and gave David some, and
lay down beside the fire, and watched and waited for he knew not
what.

Ever and ever his eyes were on David, and far back under the acacia-tree
Achmet slept as he had not slept since his doom fell on him.
The next she turned, and again hurried in to the house, from
whence she escaped by a back door, and sped breathlessly towards 'the
Burying Hill.' She knew that the service was over--for the last strains
of the parting hymn had been borne down by the evening breeze as she
left the house--and therefore she would find help and succor from the
returning congregation. That deep, melodious sound had been heard by
Henrich also; and it had struck a chord in his heart that vibrated
almost to agony.  The stillness and abstraction of his look, as he
listened to the dying cadence, silenced the cries of the little child.
It's a pity, for when we grip there'll be a heavy fall."
"For a poor man thou hast a proud stomach."
"Well, I'll admit the stomach, pasha. It's proud; and it's strong,
too; it's stood a lot in Egypt; it's standing a lot to-day."

"We'll ease the strain, perhaps," sneered Nahoum. He made a perfunctory
salutation and walked briskly from the room.

Mahommed Hassan crept in, a malicious grin on his face. Danger and
conflict were as meat and drink to him.
"Effendi, God hath given thee a wasp's sting to thy tongue.That name told a long history to the wanderer which his heart
had already guessed. The Indian warrior rose, but he did not fly. No!
he only met the terrified mother; and as he placed her child in her
trembling arms, he folded them both in his own.

In amazement and indignation at this rude action, Roger now caught his
arm, and in the Indian tongue, inquired hastily--

'Who are you? and what can cause this freedom?'

I am Henrich Maitland!' exclaimed the stranger; 'and the Lord has
brought me back to my home once more.'

Oh, the music--the thrilling, startling music--of those words to the
ears and hearts of those who bad so long believed him dead! "The
Jews of Europe would be angry," said Nahoum grimly but evenly. "The loans
have been many, and Kaid has given a lien by the new canal at
Suez.

The Jews will be angry," he repeated, "and for every drop of Christian
blood shed there would be a lanced vein here.Surely His mercies are
infinite, and His ways past finding out! Now I know why my heart
yearned so strangely towards the Indian Chief who saved my life in the
Fort of Mystic; and why his voice had such a thrilling and familiar
tone, that spoke of home, and bygone years. Look on me, my Henrich, and
say, do you not recognise the English soldier whom your generous
interference preserved from a dreadful death?'

