Transcribed from the 1911 John Lane edition by David Price, email
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


THE CHILDREN


Contents

Fellow Travellers with a Bird, I.
Fellow Travellers with a Bird, II.
Children in Midwinter
That Pretty Person
Out of Town
Expression
Under the Early Stars
The Man with Two Heads
Children in Burlesque
Authorship
Letters
The Fields
The Barren Shore
The Boy
Illness
The Young Children
Fair and Brown
Real Childhood


FELLOW TRAVELLERS WITH A BIRD, I.


To attend to a living child is to be baffled in your humour, disappointed
of your pathos, and set freshly free from all the pre-occupations.  You
cannot anticipate him.  Blackbirds, overheard year by year, do not
compose the same phrases; never two leitmotifs alike.  Not the tone, but
the note alters.  So with the uncovenated ways of a child you keep no
tryst.  They meet you at another place, after failing you where you
tarried; your former experiences, your documents are at fault.  You are
the fellow traveller of a bird.  The bird alights and escapes out of time
to your footing.

No man's fancy could be beforehand, for instance, with a girl of four
years old who dictated a letter to a distant cousin, with the sweet and
unimaginable message: "I hope you enjoy yourself with your loving dolls."
A boy, still younger, persuading his mother to come down from the heights
and play with him on the floor, but sensible, perhaps, that there was a
dignity to be observed none the less, entreated her, "Mother, do be a
lady frog."  None ever said their good things before these indeliberate
authors.  Even their own kind--children--have not preceded them.  No
child in the past ever found the same replies as the girl of five whose
father made that appeal to feeling which is doomed to a different,
perverse, and unforeseen success.  He was rather tired with writing, and
had a mind to snare some of the yet uncaptured flock of her sympathies.
"Do you know, I have been working hard, darling?  I work to buy things
for you."  "Do you work," she asked, "to buy the lovely puddin's?"  Yes,
even for these.  The subject must have seemed to her to be worth
pursuing.  "And do you work to buy the fat?  I don't like fat."

The sympathies, nevertheless, are there.  The same child was to be
soothed at night after a weeping dream that a skater had been drowned in
the Kensington Round Pond.  It was suggested to her that she should
forget it by thinking about the one unfailing and gay subject--her
wishes.  "Do you know," she said, without loss of time, "what I should
like best in all the world?  A thundred dolls and a whistle!"  Her mother
was so overcome by this tremendous numeral, that she could make no offer
as to the dolls.  But the whistle seemed practicable.  "It is for me to
whistle for cabs," said the child, with a sudden moderation, "when I go
to parties."  Another morning she came down radiant, "Did you hear a
great noise in the miggle of the night?  That was me crying.  I cried
because I dreamt that Cuckoo [a brother] had swallowed a bead into his
nose."

The mere errors of children are unforeseen as nothing is--no, nothing
feminine--in this adult world.  "I've got a lotter than you," is the word
of a very young egotist.  An older child says, "I'd better go, bettern't
I, mother?"  He calls a little space at the back of a London house, "the
backy-garden."  A little creature proffers almost daily the reminder at
luncheon--at tart-time: "Father, I hope you will remember that I am the
favourite of the crust."  Moreover, if an author set himself to invent
the naif things that children might do in their Christmas plays at home,
he would hardly light upon the device of the little _troupe_ who, having
no footlights, arranged upon the floor a long row of--candle-shades!

"It's _jolly_ dull without you, mother," says a little girl who--gentlest
of the gentle--has a dramatic sense of slang, of which she makes no
secret.  But she drops her voice somewhat to disguise her feats of
metathesis, about which she has doubts and which are involuntary: the
"stand-wash," the "sweeping-crosser," the "sewing chamine."  Genoese
peasants have the same prank when they try to speak Italian.

Children forget last year so well that if they are Londoners they should
by any means have an impression of the country or the sea annually.  A
London little girl watches a fly upon the wing, follows it with her
pointing finger, and names it "bird."  Her brother, who wants to play
with a bronze Japanese lobster, ask "Will you please let me have that
tiger?"

At times children give to a word that slight variety which is the most
touching kind of newness.  Thus, a child of three asks you to save him.
How moving a word, and how freshly said!  He had heard of the "saving" of
other things of interest--especially chocolate creams taken for
safe-keeping--and he asks, "Who is going to save me to-day?  Nurse is
going out, will you save me, mother?"  The same little variant upon
common use is in another child's courteous reply to a summons to help in
the arrangement of some flowers, "I am quite at your ease."

A child, unconscious little author of things told in this record, was
taken lately to see a fellow author of somewhat different standing from
her own, inasmuch as he is, among other things, a Saturday Reviewer.  As
he dwelt in a part of the South-west of the town unknown to her, she
noted with interest the shops of the neighbourhood as she went, for they
might be those of the _fournisseurs_ of her friend.  "That is his bread
shop, and that is his book shop.  And that, mother," she said finally,
with even heightened sympathy, pausing before a blooming _parterre_ of
confectionery hard by the abode of her man of letters, "that, I suppose,
is where he buys his sugar pigs."

In all her excursions into streets new to her, this same child is intent
upon a certain quest--the quest of a genuine collector.  We have all
heard of collecting butterflies, of collecting china-dogs, of collecting
cocked hats, and so forth; but her pursuit gives her a joy that costs her
nothing except a sharp look-out upon the proper names over all
shop-windows.  No hoard was ever lighter than hers.  "I began three weeks
ago next Monday, mother," she says with precision, "and I have got thirty-
nine."  "Thirty-nine what?"  "Smiths."


FELLOW TRAVELLERS WITH A BIRD, II.


The mere gathering of children's language would be much like collecting
together a handful of flowers that should be all unique, single of their
kind.  In one thing, however, do children agree, and that is the
rejection of most of the conventions of the authors who have reported
them.  They do not, for example, say "me is;" their natural reply to "are
you?" is "I are."  One child, pronouncing sweetly and neatly, will have
nothing but the nominative pronoun.  "Lift I up and let I see it
raining," she bids; and told that it does not rain, resumes, "Lift I up
and let I see it not raining."

An elder child had a rooted dislike to a brown corduroy suit ordered for
her by maternal authority.  She wore the garments under protest, and with
some resentment.  At the same time it was evident that she took no
pleasure in hearing her praises sweetly sung by a poet, her friend.  He
had imagined the making of this child in the counsels of Heaven, and the
decreeing of her soft skin, of her brilliant eyes, and of her hair--"a
brown tress."  She had gravely heard the words as "a brown dress," and
she silently bore the poet a grudge for having been the accessory of
Providence in the mandate that she should wear the loathed corduroy.  The
unpractised ear played another little girl a like turn.  She had a phrase
for snubbing any anecdote that sounded improbable.  "That," she said more
or less after Sterne, "is a cotton-wool story."

The learning of words is, needless to say, continued long after the years
of mere learning to speak.  The young child now takes a current word into
use, a little at random, and now makes a new one, so as to save the
interruption of a pause for search.  I have certainly detected, in
children old enough to show their motives, a conviction that a word of
their own making is as good a communication as another, and as
intelligible.  There is even a general implicit conviction among them
that the grown-up people, too, make words by the wayside as occasion
befalls.  How otherwise should words be so numerous that every day brings
forward some hitherto unheard?  The child would be surprised to know how
irritably poets are refused the faculty and authority which he thinks to
belong to the common world.

There is something very cheerful and courageous in the setting-out of a
child on a journey of speech with so small baggage and with so much
confidence in the chances of the hedge.  He goes free, a simple
adventurer.  Nor does he make any officious effort to invent anything
strange or particularly expressive or descriptive.  The child trusts
genially to his hearer.  A very young boy, excited by his first sight of
sunflowers, was eager to describe them, and called them, without allowing
himself to be checked for the trifle of a name, "summersets."  This was
simple and unexpected; so was the comment of a sister a very little
older.  "Why does he call those flowers summersets?" their mother said;
and the girl, with a darkly brilliant look of humour and penetration,
answered, "because they are so big."  There seemed to be no further
question possible after an explanation that was presented thus charged
with meaning.

To a later phase of life, when a little girl's vocabulary was, somewhat
at random, growing larger, belong a few brave phrases hazarded to express
a meaning well realized--a personal matter.  Questioned as to the eating
of an uncertain number of buns just before lunch, the child averred, "I
took them just to appetize my hunger."  As she betrayed a familiar
knowledge of the tariff of an attractive confectioner, she was asked
whether she and her sisters had been frequenting those little tables on
their way from school.  "I sometimes go in there, mother," she confessed;
"but I generally speculate outside."

Children sometimes attempt to cap something perfectly funny with
something so flat that you are obliged to turn the conversation.  Dryden
does the same thing, not with jokes, but with his sublimer passages.  But
sometimes a child's deliberate banter is quite intelligible to elders.
Take the letter written by a little girl to a mother who had, it seems,
allowed her family to see that she was inclined to be satisfied with
something of her own writing.  The child has a full and gay sense of the
sweetest kinds of irony.  There was no need for her to write, she and her
mother being both at home, but the words must have seemed to her worthy
of a pen:--"My dear mother, I really wonder how you can be proud of that
article, if it is worthy to be called a article, which I doubt.  Such a
unletterary article.  I cannot call it letterature.  I hope you will not
write any more such unconventionan trash."

This is the saying of a little boy who admired his much younger sister,
and thought her forward for her age: "I wish people knew just how old she
is, mother, then they would know she is onward.  They can see she is
pretty, but they can't know she is such a onward baby."

Thus speak the naturally unreluctant; but there are other children who in
time betray a little consciousness and a slight _mefiance_ as to where
the adult sense of humour may be lurking in wait for them, obscure.  These
children may not be shy enough to suffer any self-checking in their talk,
but they are now and then to be heard slurring a word of which they do
not feel too sure.  A little girl whose sensitiveness was barely enough
to cause her to stop to choose between two words, was wont to bring a cup
of tea to the writing-table of her mother, who had often feigned
indignation at the weakness of what her Irish maid always called "the
infusion."  "I'm afraid it's bosh again, mother," said the child; and
then, in a half-whisper, "Is bosh right, or wash, mother?"  She was not
told, and decided for herself, with doubts, for bosh.  The afternoon cup
left the kitchen an infusion, and reached the library "bosh"
thenceforward.


CHILDREN IN MIDWINTER


Children are so flowerlike that it is always a little fresh surprise to
see them blooming in winter.  Their tenderness, their down, their colour,
their fulness--which is like that of a thick rose or of a tight
grape--look out of season.  Children in the withering wind are like the
soft golden-pink roses that fill the barrows in Oxford Street, breathing
a southern calm on the north wind.  The child has something better than
warmth in the cold, something more subtly out of place and more
delicately contrary; and that is coolness.  To be cool in the cold is the
sign of a vitality quite exquisitely alien from the common conditions of
the world.  It is to have a naturally, and not an artificially, different
and separate climate.

We can all be more or less warm--with fur, with skating, with tea, with
fire, and with sleep--in the winter.  But the child is fresh in the wind,
and wakes cool from his dreams, dewy when there is hoar-frost everywhere
else; he is "more lovely and more temperate" than the summer day and than
the winter day alike.  He overcomes both heat and cold by another
climate, which is the climate of life; but that victory of life is more
delicate and more surprising in the tyranny of January.  By the sight and
the touch of children, we are, as it were, indulged with something finer
than a fruit or a flower in untimely bloom.  The childish bloom is always
untimely.  The fruit and flower will be common later on; the strawberries
will be a matter of course anon, and the asparagus dull in its day.  But
a child is a perpetual _primeur_.

Or rather he is not in truth always untimely.  Some few days in the year
are his own season--unnoticed days of March or April, soft, fresh and
equal, when the child sleeps and rises with the sun.  Then he looks as
though he had his brief season, and ceases for a while to seem strange.

It is no wonder that we should try to attribute the times of the year to
children; their likeness is so rife among annuals.  For man and woman we
are naturally accustomed to a longer rhythm; their metre is so obviously
their own, and of but a single stanza, without repetition, without
renewel, without refrain.  But it is by an intelligible illusion that we
look for a quick waxing and waning in the lives of young children--for a
waxing that shall come again another time, and for a waning that shall
not be final, shall not be fatal.  But every winter shows us how human
they are, and how they are little pilgrims and visitants among the things
that look like their kin.  For every winter shows them free from the east
wind; more perfectly than their elders, they enclose the climate of life.
And, moreover, with them the climate of life is the climate of the spring
of life; the climate of a human March that is sure to make a constant
progress, and of a human April that never hesitates.  The child "breathes
April and May"--an inner April and his own May.

The winter child looks so much the more beautiful for the season as his
most brilliant uncles and aunts look less well.  He is tender and gay in
the east wind.  Now more than ever must the lover beware of making a
comparison between the beauty of the admired woman and the beauty of a
child.  He is indeed too wary ever to make it.  So is the poet.  As
comparisons are necessary to him, he will pay a frankly impossible
homage, and compare a woman's face to something too fine, to something it
never could emulate.  The Elizabethan lyrist is safe among lilies and
cherries, roses, pearls, and snow.  He undertakes the beautiful office of
flattery, and flatters with courage.  There is no hidden reproach in the
praise.  Pearls and snow suffer, in a sham fight, a mimic defeat that
does them no harm, and no harm comes to the lady's beauty from a
competition so impossible.  She never wore a lily or a coral in the
colours of her face, and their beauty is not hers.  But here is the
secret: she is compared with a flower because she could not endure to be
compared with a child.  That would touch her too nearly.  There would be
the human texture and the life like hers, but immeasurably more lovely.
No colour, no surface, no eyes of woman have ever been comparable with
the colour, the surface, and the eyes of childhood.  And no poet has ever
run the risk of such a defeat.  Why, it is defeat enough for a woman to
have her face, however well-favoured, close to a child's, even if there
is no one by who should be rash enough to approach them still nearer by a
comparison.

This, needless to say, is true of no other kind of beauty than that
beauty of light, colour, and surface to which the Elizabethans referred,
and which suggested their flatteries in disfavour of the lily.  There
are, indeed, other adult beauties, but those are such as make no
allusions to the garden.  What is here affirmed is that the beautiful
woman who is widely and wisely likened to the flowers, which are
inaccessibly more beautiful, must not, for her own sake, be likened to
the always accessible child.

Besides light and colour, children have a beauty of finish which is much
beyond that of more finished years.  This gratuitous addition, this
completeness, is one of their unexpected advantages.  Their beauty of
finish is the peculiarity of their first childhood, and loses, as years
are added, that little extra character and that surprise of perfection.  A
bloom disappears, for instance.  In some little children the whole face,
and especially all the space between the growth of the eyebrows and the
growth of the hair, is covered with hardly perceptible down as soft as
bloom.  Look then at the eyebrows themselves.  Their line is as definite
as in later life, but there is in the child the flush given by the
exceeding fineness of the delicate hairs.  Moreover, what becomes,
afterwards, of the length and the curl of the eyelash?  What is there in
growing up that is destructive of a finish so charming as this?

Queen Elizabeth forbade any light to visit her face "from the right or
from the left" when her portrait was a-painting.  She was an observant
woman, and liked to be lighted from the front.  It is a light from the
right or from the left that marks an elderly face with minute shadows.
And you must place a child in such a light, in order to see the finishing
and parting caress that infancy has given to his face.  The down will
then be found even on the thinnest and clearest skin of the middle red of
his cheek.  His hair, too, is imponderably fine, and his nails are not
much harder than petals.

To return to the child in January.  It is his month for the laying up of
dreams.  No one can tell whether it is so with all children, or even with
a majority; but with some children, of passionate fancy, there occurs now
and then a children's dance, or a party of any kind, which has a charm
and glory mingled with uncertain dreams.  Never forgotten, and yet never
certainly remembered as a fact of this life, is such an evening.  When
many and many a later pleasure, about the reality of which there never
was any kind of doubt, has been long forgotten, that evening--as to which
all is doubt--is impossible to forget.  In a few years it has become so
remote that the history of Greece derives antiquity from it.  In later
years it is still doubtful, still a legend.

The child never asked how much was fact.  It was always so immeasurably
long ago that the sweet party happened--if indeed it happened.  It had so
long taken its place in that past wherein lurks all the antiquity of the
world.  No one would know, no one could tell him, precisely what
occurred.  And who can know whether--if it be indeed a dream--he has
dreamt it often, or has dreamt once that he had dreamt it often?  That
dubious night is entangled in repeated visions during the lonely life a
child lives in sleep; it is intricate with illusions.  It becomes the
most mysterious and the least worldly of all memories, a spiritual past.
The word pleasure is too trivial for such a remembrance.  A midwinter
long gone by contained the suggestion of such dreams; and the midwinter
of this year must doubtless be preparing for the heart of many an ardent
young child a like legend and a like antiquity.  For the old it is a mere
present.


THAT PRETTY PERSON


During the many years in which "evolution" was the favourite word, one
significant lesson--so it seems--was learnt, which has outlived
controversy, and has remained longer than the questions at issue--an
interesting and unnoticed thing cast up by the storm of thoughts.  This
is a disposition, a general consent, to find the use and the value of
process, and even to understand a kind of repose in the very wayfaring of
progress.  With this is a resignation to change, and something more than
resignation--a delight in those qualities that could not be but for their
transitoriness.

What, then, is this but the admiration, at last confessed by the world,
for childhood?  Time was when childhood was but borne with, and that for
the sake of its mere promise of manhood.  We do not now hold, perhaps,
that promise so high.  Even, nevertheless, if we held it high, we should
acknowledge the approach to be a state adorned with its own conditions.

But it was not so once.  As the primitive lullaby is nothing but a
patient prophecy (the mother's), so was education, some two hundred years
ago, nothing but an impatient prophecy (the father's) of the full stature
of body and mind.  The Indian woman sings of the future hunting.  If her
song is not restless, it is because she has a sense of the results of
time, and has submitted her heart to experience.  Childhood is a time of
danger; "Would it were done."  But, meanwhile, the right thing is to put
it to sleep and guard its slumbers.  It will pass.  She sings prophecies
to the child of his hunting, as she sings a song about the robe while she
spins, and a song about bread as she grinds corn.  She bids good speed.

John Evelyn was equally eager, and not so submissive.  His child--"that
pretty person" in Jeremy Taylor's letter of condolence--was chiefly
precious to him inasmuch as he was, too soon, a likeness of the man he
never lived to be.  The father, writing with tears when the boy was dead,
says of him: "At two and a half years of age he pronounced English,
Latin, and French exactly, and could perfectly read in these three
languages."  As he lived precisely five years, all he did was done at
that little age, and it comprised this: "He got by heart almost the
entire vocabulary of Latin and French primitives and words, could make
congruous syntax, turn English into Latin, and _vice versa_, construe
and prove what he read, and did the government and use of relatives,
verbs, substantives, ellipses, and many figures and tropes, and made a
considerable progress in Comenius's 'Janua,' and had a strong passion for
Greek."

Grant that this may be a little abated, because a very serious man is not
to be too much believed when he is describing what he admires; it is the
very fact of his admiration that is so curious a sign of those hasty
times.  All being favorable, the child of Evelyn's studious home would
have done all these things in the course of nature within a few years.  It
was the fact that he did them out of the course of nature that was, to
Evelyn, so exquisite.  The course of nature had not any beauty in his
eyes.  It might be borne with for the sake of the end, but it was not
admired for the majesty of its unhasting process.  Jeremy Taylor mourns
with him "the strangely hopeful child," who--without Comenius's "Janua"
and without congruous syntax--was fulfilling, had they known it, an
appropriate hope, answering a distinctive prophecy, and crowning and
closing a separate expectation every day of his five years.

There's something tells me, but it is not love, I would not lose you; and
you know yourself Hate counsels not in such a quality.
But lest you should not understand me well,-- And yet a maiden hath no
tongue but thought,-- I would detain you here some month or two Before
you venture for me.

I could teach you How to choose right, but then I am forsworn; So will I
never be; so may you miss me; But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your eyes, They have o'erlook'd me and
divided me:
One half of me is yours, the other half yours, Mine own, I would
say; but if mine, then yours, And so all yours.

O! these naughty times Puts bars between the owners and their rights; And
so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so, Let fortune go to hell for it,
not I.
I speak too long, but 'tis to peise the time, To eke it, and to
draw it out in length, To stay you from election.

BASSANIO.
Let me choose; For as I am, I live upon the rack.

PORTIA.

Upon the rack, Bassanio! Then confess What treason there is mingled with
your love.

BASSANIO.
None but that ugly treason of mistrust, Which makes me fear th'
enjoying of my love:
There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire as treason
and my love.

PORTIA.
Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack, Where men enforced do speak
anything.

BASSANIO.
Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.

PORTIA.
Well then, confess and live.

BASSANIO.
'Confess' and 'love' Had been the very sum of my confession:
O happy torment, when my torturer Doth teach me answers for
deliverance!

But let me to my fortune and the caskets.

PORTIA.
Away, then! I am lock'd in one of them:
If you do love me, you will find me out.
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof; Let music sound while he doth
make his choice; Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end, Fading in
music: that the comparison May stand more proper, my eye shall be the
stream And watery death-bed for him. He may win; And what is music
then?

Then music is Even as the flourish when true subjects bow To a
new-crowned monarch; such it is As are those dulcet sounds in break of day
That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear And summon him to
marriage. Now he goes, With no less presence, but with much more love,
Than young Alcides when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling
Troy To the sea-monster: I stand for sacrifice; The rest aloof are the
Dardanian wives, With bleared visages come forth to view The issue of th'
exploit. Go, Hercules!
Live thou, I live. With much much more dismay I view the fight than
thou that mak'st the fray.

[A Song, whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself.]
Tell me where is fancy bred, Or in the heart or in the head, How begot,
how nourished?

Reply, reply.

It is engend'red in the eyes, With gazing fed; and fancy dies In the
cradle where it lies.
Let us all ring fancy's knell:
I'll begin it.--Ding, dong, bell.

[ALL.] Ding, dong, bell.

BASSANIO.
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
The world is still deceiv'd with ornament.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt But, being season'd with a gracious
voice, Obscures the show of evil?

In religion, What damned error but some sober brow Will bless it, and
approve it with a text, Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
There is no vice so simple but assumes Some mark of virtue on his
outward parts.
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand, wear yet
upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars; Who,
inward search'd, have livers white as milk; And these assume but valour's
excrement To render them redoubted! Look on beauty And you shall see
'tis purchas'd by the weight:
Which therein works a miracle in nature, Making them lightest that
wear most of it:
So are those crisped snaky golden locks Which make such wanton
gambols with the wind, Upon supposed fairness, often known To be
the dowry of a second head, The skull that bred them, in the
sepulchre.

Thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea; the
beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word, The seeming truth
which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest. Therefore, thou
gaudy gold, Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee; Nor none of thee,
thou pale and common drudge 'Tween man and man: but thou, thou meagre lead,
Which rather threaten'st than dost promise aught, Thy plainness moves me
more than eloquence, And here choose I: joy be the consequence!

PORTIA.
[Aside] How all the other passions fleet to air, As doubtful thoughts, and
rash-embrac'd despair, And shuddering fear, and green-ey'd jealousy!

O love! be moderate; allay thy ecstasy; In measure rain thy joy; scant this
excess; I feel too much thy blessing; make it less, For fear I
surfeit!

BASSANIO.
What find I here? [Opening the leaden casket.]

Fair Portia's counterfeit!

What demi-god Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?
Or whether riding on the balls of mine, Seem they in motion? Here are
sever'd lips, Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar Should sunder
such sweet friends. Here in her hairs The painter plays the spider, and
hath woven A golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men Faster than gnats
in cobwebs: but her eyes!-- How could he see to do them? Having made one,
Methinks it should have power to steal both his, And leave itself
unfurnish'd: yet look, how far The substance of my praise doth wrong this
shadow In underprizing it, so far this shadow Doth limp behind the
substance. Here's the scroll, The continent and summary of my fortune.

'You that choose not by the view, Chance as fair and choose as true!
Since this fortune falls to you, Be content and seek no new.
If you be well pleas'd with this, And hold your fortune for your bliss,
Turn to where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss.'
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave; {Kissing her.] I come by
note, to give and to receive.
Like one of two contending in a prize, That thinks he hath done
well in people's eyes, Hearing applause and universal shout, Giddy
in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise
be his or no; So, thrice-fair lady, stand I, even so, As doubtful
whether what I see be true, Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by
you.

PORTIA.
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand, Such as I am: though for
myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much
better, yet for you I would be trebled twenty times myself, A thousand
times more fair, ten thousand times More rich; That only to stand high
in your account, I might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, Exceed
account. But the full sum of me Is sum of something which, to term
in gross, Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractis'd; Happy in this,
she is not yet so old But she may learn; happier than this, She is not
bred so dull but she can learn; Happiest of all is that her gentle
spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed, As from her lord,
her governor, her king.

Myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted. But now I
was the lord Of this fair mansion, master of my servants, Queen o'er
myself; and even now, but now, This house, these servants, and this
same myself, Are yours- my lord's. I give them with this ring, Which
when you part from, lose, or give away, Let it presage the ruin of your
love, And be my vantage to exclaim on you.

BASSANIO.
Madam, you have bereft me of all words, Only my blood speaks to you in
my veins; And there is such confusion in my powers As, after some
oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince, there doth appear Among the
buzzing pleased multitude; Where every something, being blent together,
Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy, Express'd and not express'd.
But when this ring Parts from this finger, then parts life from
hence:
O!

then be bold to say Bassanio's dead.

NERISSA.
My lord and lady, it is now our time, That have stood by and seen our wishes
prosper, To cry, good joy. Good joy, my lord and lady!

GRATIANO.
My Lord Bassanio, and my gentle lady, I wish you all the joy that you can
wish; For I am sure you can wish none from me; And when your honours
mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you Even
at that time I may be married too.

BASSANIO.
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.

GRATIANO.
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid; You lov'd, I lov'd; for intermission
No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
Your fortune stood upon the caskets there, And so did mine too, as the
matter falls; For wooing here until I sweat again, And swearing
till my very roof was dry With oaths of love, at last, if promise
last, I got a promise of this fair one here To have her love,
provided that your fortune Achiev'd her mistress.

PORTIA.
Is this true, Nerissa?

NERISSA.
Madam, it is, so you stand pleas'd withal.

BASSANIO.
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?

GRATIANO.
Yes, faith, my lord.

BASSANIO.

Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.

GRATIANO.
We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats.

NERISSA.
What! and stake down?

GRATIANO.

No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel?
What, and my old Venetian friend, Salanio!

[Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALANIO.]
BASSANIO.

Lorenzo and Salanio, welcome hither, If that the youth of my new interest
here Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave, I bid my very friends
and countrymen, Sweet Portia, welcome.

PORTIA.
So do I, my lord; They are entirely welcome.

LORENZO.

I thank your honour. For my part, my lord, My purpose was not to have
seen you here; But meeting with Salanio by the way, He did entreat me,
past all saying nay, To come with him along.

SALANIO.

I did, my lord, And I have reason for it.

Signior Antonio Commends him to you.

[Gives BASSANIO a letter]
BASSANIO.
Ere I ope his letter, I pray you tell me how my good friend doth.

SALANIO.
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind; Nor well, unless in mind; his
letter there Will show you his estate.

GRATIANO.
Nerissa, cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome.
Your hand, Salanio. What's the news from Venice?
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
I know he will be glad of our success:
We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.

SALANIO.
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.

PORTIA.
There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper.
That steal the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world Could turn so much
the constitution Of any constant man.

What, worse and worse!
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself, And I must freely have the
half of anything That this same paper brings you.

BASSANIO.

O sweet Portia!
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words That ever blotted paper. Gentle
lady, When I did first impart my love to you, I freely told you all the
wealth I had Ran in my veins, I was a gentleman; And then I told
you true.

And yet, dear lady, Rating myself at nothing, you shall see How much I was
a braggart. When I told you My state was nothing, I should then have
told you That I was worse than nothing; for indeed I have engag'd myself
to a dear friend, Engag'd my friend to his mere enemy, To feed my
means. Here is a letter, lady, The paper as the body of my friend,
And every word in it a gaping wound Issuing life-blood. But is it true,
Salanio?
Hath all his ventures fail'd?

What, not one hit?
From Tripolis, from Mexico, and England, From Lisbon, Barbary, and India?
And not one vessel scape the dreadful touch Of merchant-marring
rocks?

SALANIO.
Not one, my lord.
Besides, it should appear that, if he had The present money to
discharge the Jew, He would not take it. Never did I know A creature
that did bear the shape of man, So keen and greedy to confound a
man.
He plies the duke at morning and at night, And doth impeach the
freedom of the state, If they deny him justice. Twenty merchants,
The duke himself, and the magnificoes Of greatest port, have all
persuaded with him; But none can drive him from the envious plea
Of forfeiture, of justice, and his bond.

JESSICA.
When I was with him, I have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus,
his countrymen, That he would rather have Antonio's flesh Than
twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him; and I know,
my lord, If law, authority, and power, deny not, It will go hard
with poor Antonio.

PORTIA.
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?

BASSANIO.
The dearest friend to me, the kindest man, The best condition'd and
unwearied spirit In doing courtesies; and one in whom The ancient
Roman honour more appears Than any that draws breath in
Italy.

PORTIA.
What sum owes he the Jew?

BASSANIO.
For me, three thousand ducats.

PORTIA.
What! no more?
Pay him six thousand, and deface the bond; Double six thousand, and
then treble that, Before a friend of this description Shall lose a
hair through Bassanio's fault.
First go with me to church and call me wife, And then away to Venice
to your friend; For never shall you lie by Portia's side With an
unquiet soul. You shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times
over:
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime, Will live as maids and widows.
Come, away!
For you shall hence upon your wedding day.
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer; Since you are dear
bought, I will love you dear.
But let me hear the letter of your friend.

BASSANIO.
'Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all miscarried, my creditors grow
cruel, my estate is very low, my bond to the Jew is forfeit; and
since, in paying it, it is impossible I should live, all debts are
clear'd between you and I, if I might but see you at my death.
Notwithstanding, use your pleasure; if your love do not persuade
you to come, let not my letter.' 
PORTIA.
O love, dispatch all business and be gone!

BASSANIO.
Since I have your good leave to go away, I will make haste; but,
till I come again, No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay, Nor rest
be interposer 'twixt us twain.

[Exeunt.]
SCENE 3. Venice. A street
[Enter SHYLOCK, SALARINO, ANTONIO, and Gaoler.] 
SHYLOCK.
Gaoler, look to him. Tell not me of mercy; This is the fool that
lent out money gratis:
Gaoler, look to him.

ANTONIO.
Hear me yet, good Shylock.

SHYLOCK.
I'll have my bond; speak not against my bond.
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause, But, since I am a
dog, beware my fangs; The Duke shall grant me justice. I do wonder,
Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond To come abroad with him
at his request.

ANTONIO.
I pray thee hear me speak.

SHYLOCK.
I'll have my bond. I will not hear thee speak; I'll have my bond;
and therefore speak no more.
I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool, To shake the head,
relent, and sigh, and yield To Christian intercessors. Follow not;
I'll have no speaking; I will have my bond.

[Exit.] 
SALARINO.
It is the most impenetrable cur That ever kept with men.

ANTONIO.
Let him alone; I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
He seeks my life; his reason well I know:
I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures Many that have at times made
moan to me; Therefore he hates me.

SALARINO.
I am sure the Duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold.

ANTONIO.
The Duke cannot deny the course of law; For the commodity that
strangers have With us in Venice, if it be denied, 'Twill much
impeach the justice of the state, Since that the trade and profit
of the city Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go; These griefs
and losses have so bated me That I shall hardly spare a pound of
flesh To-morrow to my bloody creditor.
Well, gaoler, on; pray God Bassanio come To see me pay his debt,
and then I care not.

[Exeunt.]
SCENE 4. Belmont. A room in PORTIA's house.
[Enter PORTIA, NERISSA, LORENZO, JESSICA, and BALTHASAR.]
LORENZO.
Madam, although I speak it in your presence, You have a noble and
a true conceit Of godlike amity, which appears most strongly In
bearing thus the absence of your lord.There is in it such a sound of history as
must inspire any imaginative child, falling to sleep, with a sense of the
incalculable; and the songs themselves are old.  _Le Bon Roi
Dagobert_ has been sung over French cradles since the legend was fresh.
The nurse knows nothing more sleepy than the tune and the verse that she
herself slept to when a child.  The gaiety of the thirteenth century, in
_Le Pont a' Avignon_, is put mysteriously to sleep, away in the
_tete a tete of_ child and nurse, in a thousand little sequestered
rooms at night.  _Malbrook_ would be comparatively modern, were not all
things that are sung to a drowsing child as distant as the day of
Abraham.

If English children are not rocked to many such aged lullabies, some of
them are put to sleep to strange cradle-songs.  The affectionate races
that are brought into subjection sing the primitive lullaby to the white
child.  Asiatic voices and African persuade him to sleep in the tropical
night.  His closing eyes are filled with alien images.


THE MAN WITH TWO HEADS


It is generally understood in the family that the nurse who menaces a
child, whether with the supernatural or with simple sweeps, lions, or
tigers--goes.  The rule is a right one, for the appeal to fear may
possibly hurt a child; nevertheless, it oftener fails to hurt him.  If he
is prone to fears, he will be helpless under their grasp, without the
help of human tales.  The night will threaten him, the shadow will
pursue, the dream will catch him; terror itself have him by the heart.
And terror, having made his pulses leap, knows how to use any thought,
any shape, any image, to account to the child's mind for the flight and
tempest of his blood.  "The child shall not be frightened," decrees
ineffectual love; but though no man make him afraid, he is frightened.
Fear knows him well and finds him alone.

Such a child is hardly at the mercy of any human rashness and impatience;
nor is the child whose pulses go steadily, and whose brows are fresh and
cool, at their mercy.  This is one of the points upon which a healthy
child resembles the Japanese.  Whatever that extreme Oriental may be in
war and diplomacy, whatever he may be at London University, or whatever
his plans of Empire, in relation to the unseen world he is a child at
play.  He hides himself, he hides his eyes and pretends to believe that
he is hiding, he runs from the supernatural and laughs for the fun of
running.

So did a child, threatened for his unruliness with the revelation of the
man with two heads.  The nurse must have had recourse to this man under
acute provocation.  The boy, who had profited well by every one of his
four long years, and was radiant with the light and colour of health,
refused to be left to compose himself to sleep.  That act is an adult
act, learnt in the self-conscious and deliberate years of later life,
when man goes on a mental journey in search of rest, aware of setting
forth.  But the child is pursued and overtaken by sleep, caught,
surprised, and overcome.  He goes no more to sleep, than he takes a
"constitutional" with his hoop and hoopstick.  The child amuses himself
up to the last of his waking moments.  Happily, in the search for
amusement, he is apt to learn some habit or to cherish some toy, either
of which may betray him and deliver him up to sleep, the enemy.  What
wonder, then, if a child who knows that everyone in the world desires his
peace and pleasure, should clamour for companionship in the first
reluctant minutes of bed?  This child, being happy, did not weep for what
he wanted; he shouted for it in the rousing tones of his strength.  After
many evenings of this he was told that this was precisely the vociferous
kind of wakefulness that might cause the man with two heads to show
himself.

Unable to explain that no child ever goes to sleep, but that sleep, on
the contrary, "goes" for a child, the little boy yet accepted the
penalty, believed in the man, and kept quiet for a time.

There was indignation in the mother's heart when the child instructed her
as to what might be looked for at his bedside; she used all her emphasis
in assuring him that no man with two heads would ever trouble those
innocent eyes, for there was no such portent anywhere on earth.  There is
no such heart-oppressing task as the making of these assurances to a
child, for whom who knows what portents are actually in wait!  She found
him, however, cowering with laughter, not with dread, lest the man with
two heads should see or overhear.  The man with two heads had become his
play, and so was perhaps bringing about his sleep by gentler means than
the nurse had intended.  The man was employing the vacant minutes of the
little creature's flight from sleep, called "going to sleep" in the
inexact language of the old.

Nor would the boy give up his faith with its tremor and private laughter.
Because a child has a place for everything, this boy had placed the
monstrous man in the ceiling, in a corner of the room that might be kept
out of sight by the bed curtain.  If that corner were left uncovered, the
fear would grow stronger than the fun; "the man would see me," said the
little boy.  But let the curtain be in position, and the child lay alone,
hugging the dear belief that the monster was near.

He was earnest in controversy with his mother as to the existence of his
man.  The man was there, for he had been told so, and he was there to
wait for "naughty boys," said the child, with cheerful self-condemnation.
The little boy's voice was somewhat hushed, because of the four ears of
the listener, but it did not falter, except when his mother's arguments
against the existence of the man seemed to him cogent and likely to gain
the day.  Then for the first time the boy was a little downcast, and the
light of mystery became dimmer in his gay eyes.


CHILDREN IN BURLESQUE


Derision, which is so great a part of human comedy, has not spared the
humours of children.  Yet they are fitter subjects for any other kind of
jesting.  In the first place they are quite defenceless, but besides and
before this, it might have been supposed that nothing in a child could
provoke the equal passion of scorn.  Between confessed unequals scorn is
not even suggested.  Its derisive proclamation of inequality has no sting
and no meaning where inequality is natural and manifest.

Children rouse the laughter of men and women; but in all that laughter
the tone of derision is more strange a discord than the tone of anger
would be, or the tone of theological anger and menace.  These, little
children have had to bear in their day, but in the grim and serious
moods--not in the play--of their elders.  The wonder is that children
should ever have been burlesqued, or held to be fit subjects for irony.

Whether the thing has been done anywhere out of England, in any form,
might be a point for enquiry.  It would seem, at a glance, that English
art and literature are quite alone in this incredible manner of sport.

And even here, too, the thing that is laughed at in a child is probably
always a mere reflection of the parents' vulgarity.  None the less it is
an unintelligible thing that even the rankest vulgarity of father or
mother should be resented, in the child, with the implacable resentment
of derision.

John Leech used the caricature of a baby for the purposes of a scorn that
was not angry, but familiar.  It is true that the poor child had first
been burlesqued by the unchildish aspect imposed upon him by his dress,
which presented him, without the beauties of art or nature, to all the
unnatural ironies.  Leech did but finish him in the same spirit, with
dots for the childish eyes, and a certain form of face which is best
described as a fat square containing two circles--the inordinate cheeks
of that ignominious baby.  That is the child as _Punch_ in Leech's day
preserved him, the latest figure of the then prevailing domestic raillery
of the domestic.

In like manner did Thackeray and Dickens, despite all their sentiment.
Children were made to serve both the sentiment and the irony between
which those two writers, alike in this, stood double-minded.  Thackeray,
writing of his snobs, wreaks himself upon a child; there is no worse snob
than his snob-child.  There are snob-children not only in the book
dedicated to their parents, but in nearly all his novels.  There is a
female snob-child in "Lovel the Widower," who may be taken as a type, and
there are snob-children at frequent intervals in "Philip."  It is not
certain that Thackeray intended the children of Pendennis himself to be
innocent and exempt.

In one of Dickens's early sketches there is a plot amongst the humorous
_dramatis personae_, to avenge themselves on a little boy for the lack
of tact whereby his parents have brought him with them to a party on the
river.  The principal humorist frightens the child into convulsions.  The
incident is the success of the day, and is obviously intended to have
some kind of reflex action in amusing the reader.  In Dickens's maturer
books the burlesque little girl imitates her mother's illusory fainting-
fits.

Our glimpses of children in the fugitive pages of that day are grotesque.
A little girl in _Punch_ improves on the talk of her dowdy mother with
the maids.  An inordinate baby stares; a little boy flies, hideous, from
some hideous terror.


AUTHORSHIP


Authorship prevails in nurseries--at least in some nurseries.  In many it
is probably a fitful game, and since the days of the Brontes there has
not been a large family without its magazine.  The weak point of all this
literature is its commonplace.  The child's effort is to write something
as much like as possible to the tedious books that are read to him; he is
apt to be fluent and foolish.  If a child simple enough to imitate were
also simple enough not to imitate he might write nursery magazines that
would not bore us.

As it is, there is sometimes nothing but the fresh and courageous
spelling to make his stories go.  "He," however, is hardly the pronoun.
The girls are the more active authors, and the more prosaic.  What they
would write had they never read things written for them by the dull, it
is not possible to know.  What they do write is this--to take a passage:
"Poor Mrs. Bald (that was her name) thought she would never get to the
wood where her aunt lived, she got down and pulled the donky on by the
bridal . . . Alas! her troubles were not over yet, the donky would not go
where she wanted it, instead of turning down Rose Lane it went down
another, which although Mrs. Bald did not know it led to a very deep and
dangerous pond.  The donky ran into the pond and Mrs. Bald was dround."

To give a prosperous look to the magazine containing the serial story
just quoted, a few pages of mixed advertisements are laboriously written
out: "The Imatation of Christ is the best book in all the world."  "Read
Thompson's poetry and you are in a world of delight."  "Barrat's ginger
beer is the only ginger beer to drink."  "The place for a ice."  Under
the indefinite heading "A Article," readers are told "that they are
liable to read the paper for nothing."

A still younger hand contributes a short story in which the hero returns
to his home after a report of his death had been believed by his wife and
family.  The last sentence is worth quoting: "We will now," says the
author, "leave Mrs. White and her two children to enjoy the sudden
appearance of Mr. White."

Here is an editorial announcement: "Ladies and gentlemen, every week at
the end of the paper there will be a little article on the habits of the
paper."

On the whole, authorship does not seem to foster the quality of
imagination.  Convention, during certain early years, may be a very
strong motive--not so much with children brought up strictly within its
limits, perhaps, as with those who have had an exceptional freedom.
Against this, as a kind of childish bohemianism, there is, in one phase
of childhood, a strong reaction.  To one child, brought up
internationally, and with somewhat too much liberty amongst peasant play-
mates and their games, in many dialects, eagerness to become like "other
people," and even like the other people of quite inferior fiction, grew
to be almost a passion.  The desire was in time out-grown, but it cost
the girl some years of her simplicity.  The style is not always the
child.


LETTERS


The letter exacted from a child is usually a letter of thanks; somebody
has sent him a box of chocolates.  The thanks tend to stiffen a child's
style; but in any case a letter is the occasion of a sudden
self-consciousness, newer to a child than his elders know.  They speak
prose and know it.  But a young child possesses his words by a different
tenure; he is not aware of the spelt and written aspect of the things he
says every day; he does not dwell upon the sound of them.  He is so
little taken by the kind and character of any word that he catches the
first that comes at random.  A little child to whom a peach was first
revealed, whispered to his mother, "I like that kind of turnip."
Compelled to write a letter, the child finds the word of daily life
suddenly a stranger.

The fresher the mind the duller the sentence; and the younger the fingers
the older, more wrinkled, and more sidling the handwriting.  Dickens, who
used his eyes, remarked the contrast.  The hand of a child and his face
are full of rounds; but his written O is tottering and haggard.

His phrases are ceremonious without the dignity of ceremony.  The child
chatters because he wants his companion to hear; but there is no
inspiration in the act of writing to a distant aunt about whom he
probably has some grotesque impression because he cannot think of anyone,
however vague and forgotten, without a mental image.  As like as not he
pictures all his relatives at a distance with their eyes shut.  No boy
wants to write familiar things to a forgotten aunt with her eyes shut.
His thoughtless elders require him not only to write to her under these
discouragements, but to write to her in an artless and childlike fashion.

The child is unwieldy of thought, besides.  He cannot send the
conventional messages but he loses his way among the few pronouns: "I
send them their love," "They sent me my love," "I kissed their hand to
me."  If he is stopped and told to get the words right, he has to make a
long effort.  His precedent might be cited to excuse every politician who
cannot remember whether he began his sentence with "people" in the
singular or the plural, and who finishes it otherwise than as he began
it.  Points of grammar that are purely points of logic baffle a child
completely.  He is as unready in the thought needed for these as he is in
the use of his senses.

It is not true--though it is generally said--that a young child's senses
are quick.  This is one of the unverified ideas that commend themselves,
one knows not why.  We have had experiments to compare the relative
quickness of perception proved by men and women.  The same experiments
with children would give curious results, but they can hardly, perhaps,
be made, because the children would be not only slow to perceive but slow
to announce the perception; so the moment would go by, and the game be
lost.  Not even amateur conjuring does so baffle the slow turning of a
child's mind as does a little intricacy of grammar.


THE FIELDS


The pride of rustic life is the child's form of caste-feeling.  The
country child is the aristocrat; he has _des relations suivies_ with
game-keepers, nay, with the most interesting mole-catchers.  He has a
perfectly self-conscious joy that he is not in a square or a suburb.  No
essayist has so much feeling against terraces and villas.

As for imitation country--the further suburb--it is worse than town; it
is a place to walk in; and the tedium of a walk to a child's mind is
hardly measurable by a man, who walks voluntarily, with his affairs to
think about, and his eyes released, by age, from the custom of perpetual
observation.  The child, compelled to walk, is the only unresting
observer of the asphalt, the pavement, the garden gates and railings, and
the tedious people.  He is bored as he will never be bored when a man.

He is at his best where, under the welcome stress and pressure of
abundant crops, he is admitted to the labours of men and women, neither
in mere play nor in the earnest of the hop-field for the sake of his
little gains.  On the steep farm lands of the Canton de Vaud, where maize
and grapes are carried in the _botte_, so usually are children expected
in the field that _bottes_ are made to the shape of a back and arms of
five years old.  Some, made for harvesters of those years, can hold no
more than a single yellow ear of maize or two handfuls of beans.  You may
meet the same little boy with the repetitions of this load a score of
times in the morning.  Moreover the Swiss mother has always a fit sense
of what is due to that labourer.  When the plums are gathered, for
instance, she bakes in the general village oven certain round open tarts
across which her arm can hardly reach.  No plum tarts elsewhere are
anything but dull in comparison with these.  There is, besides, the first
loaf from the new flour, brown from the maize and white from the wheat.
Nor can a day of potato-gathering be more appropriately ended than with a
little fire built afield and the baking of some of the harvest under the
wood ashes.  Vintaging needs no praises, nor does apple-gathering; even
when the apples are for cider, they are never acrid enough to baffle a
child's tooth.

Yet even those children who are so unlucky as never to have worked in a
real field, but have been compelled to vary their education with nothing
but play, are able to comfort themselves with the irregular harvest of
the hedges.  They have no little hand in the realities of cultivation,
but wild growths give them blackberries.  Pale are the joys of nutting
beside those of haymaking, but at least they are something.

Harvests apart, Spring, not Autumn, should make a childhood of memories
for the future.  In later Autumn, life is speeding away, ebbing, taking
flight, a fugitive, taking disguises, hiding in the dry seed, retreating
into the dark.  The daily progress of things in Spring is for children,
who look close.  They know the way of moss and the roots of ivy, they
breathe the breath of earth immediately, direct.  They have a sense of
place, of persons, and of the past that may be remembered but cannot be
recaptured.  Adult accustomed eyes cannot see what a child's eye sees of
the personality of a person; to the child the accidents of voice and look
are charged with separate and unique character.  Such a sense of place as
he got in a day within some forest, or in a week by some lake, so that a
sound or odour can bring it back in after days, with a shock--even such a
sense of single personality does a little watchful girl get from the
accents, the turns of the head, the habits of the hands, the presence of
a woman.  Not all places, nor all persons, are so quick with the
expression of themselves; the child knows the difference.  As for places
that are so loaded, and that breathe so, the child discerns them
passionately.

A travelled child multiplies these memories and has them in their
variety.  His heart has room for many places that have the spirit of
place.  "There is a great deal of famine in London," said a friend to
me the other day, "but the police regulations drive it out of sight."
I was going through Oxford-street lately, when I saw an elderly man of
small stature, poorly dressed, with a mahogany complexion, walking
slowly before me. As I passed him he said in my ear, with a hollow
voice, "I am starving to death with hunger," and these words and
that hollow voice sounded in my ear all day.

Walking in Hampstead Heath a day or two since, with an English
friend, we were accosted by two laborers, who were sitting on a
bank, and who said that they had came to that neighborhood in search
of employment in hay-making, but had not been able to get either
work or food.

My friend appeared to distrust their story.

But in the evening, as we were walking home, we passed a company of some
four or five laborers in frocks, with bludgeons in their hands, who
asked us for something to eat. "You see how it is, gentlemen," said
one of them, "we are hungry; we have come for work, and nobody will hire
us; we have had nothing to eat all day." Their tone was dissatisfied,
almost menacing; and the Englishman who was with us, referred to it
several times afterward, with an expression of anxiety and alarm.

I hear it often remarked here, that the difference of condition
between the poorer and the richer classes becomes greater every
day, and what the end will be the wisest pretend not to foresee.

Letter XXII.

Edinburgh.

Edinburgh, _July_ 17, 1845.

I Had been often told, since I arrived in England, that in Edinburgh,
I should see the finest city I ever saw. I confess that I did not feel
quite sure of this, but it required scarcely more than a single look
to show me that it was perfectly true. It is hardly possible to imagine
a nobler site for a town than that of Edinburgh, and it is built as nobly.
You stand on the edge of the deep gulf which separates the old and the
new town, and before you on the opposite bank rise the picturesque
buildings of the ancient city--
"Piled deep and massy, close and high,"
looking, in their venerable and enduring aspect, as if they were
parts of the steep bank on which they stand, an original growth of
the rocks; as if, when the vast beds of stone crystallized from the
waters, or cooled from their fusion by fire, they formed themselves
by some freak of nature into this fantastic resemblance of the
habitations of men.

To the right your eyes rest upon a crag crowned with a grand old castle
of the middle ages, on which guards are marching to and fro; and near
you to the left, rises the rocky summit of Carlton Hill, with its monuments
of the great men of Scotland. Behind you stretch the broad streets of the
new town, overlooked by massive structures, built of the stone of the
Edinburgh quarries, which have the look of palaces.

"Streets of palaces and walks of slate,"
form the new town. Not a house of brick or wood exists in Edinburgh;
all are constructed of the excellent and lasting stone which the earth
supplies almost close to their foundations. High and solid bridges of
this material, with broad arches, connect the old town with the new, and
cross the deep ravine of the Cowgate in the old town, at the bottom of
which you see a street between prodigiously high buildings, swarming with
the poorer population of Edinburgh.

From almost any of the eminences of the town you see spread below you
its magnificent bay, the Frith of Forth, with its rocky islands; and close
to the old town rise the lofty summits of Arthur's Seat and Salisbury
Crag, a solitary, silent, mountainous district, without habitations or
inclosures, grazed by flocks of sheep. To the west flows Leith-water
in its deep valley, spanned by a noble bridge, and the winds of
this chilly climate that strike the stately buildings of the new
town, along the cliffs that border this glen, come from the very
clouds.

Beyond the Frith lie the hills of Fifeshire; a glimpse of the blue
Grampian ridges is seen where the Frith contracts in the northwest
to a narrow channel, and to the southwest lie the Pentland hills, whose
springs supply Edinburgh with water. All around you are places the names
of which are familiar names of history, poetry, and romance.

From this magnificence of nature and art, the transition was painful to
what I saw of the poorer population. On Saturday evening I found
myself at the market, which is then held in High-street and the
Netherbow, just as you enter the Canongate, and where the old wooden
effigy of John Knox, with staring black eyes, freshly painted every
year, stands in its pulpit, and still seems preaching to the crowd.
Hither a throng of sickly-looking, dirty people, bringing with them their
unhealthy children, had crawled from the narrow wynds or alleys
on each side of the street.

We entered several of these wynds, and passed down one of them, between
houses of vast height, story piled upon story, till we came to the
deep hollow of the Cowgate. Children were swarming in the way, all of
them, bred in that close and impure atmosphere, of a sickly appearance,
and the aspect of premature age in some of them, which were carried
in arms, was absolutely frightful. "Here is misery," said a Scotch
gentleman, who was my conductor. I asked him how large a proportion of
the people of Edinbugh belonged to that wretched and squalid class
which I saw before me. "More than half," was his reply. I will not vouch
for the accuracy of his statistics. Of course his estimate was but a
conjecture.

In the midst of this population is a House of Refuge for the
Destitute, established by charitable individuals for the relief of
those who may be found in a state of absolute destitution of the
necessaries of life.

Here they are employed in menial services, lodged and fed
until they can be sent to their friends, or employment found for them. We
went over the building, a spacious structure, in the Canongate, of the
plainest Puritan architecture, with wide low rooms, which, at
the time of the union of Scotland with England, served as the mansion
of the Duke of Queensbury.
The accommodations of course are of the humblest kind. We were shown
into the sewing-room, were we saw several healthy-looking young
women at work, some of them barefooted. Such of the inmates as can
afford it, pay for their board from three and sixpence to five
shillings a week, besides their labor.

In this part of the city also are the Night Asylums for the Houseless.

Here, those who find themselves without a shelter for the night,
are received into an antechamber, provided with benches, where they
first get a bowl of soup, and are then introduced into a bathing-room,
where they are stripped and scoured.

They are next furnished with clean garments and accommodated with
a lodging on an inclined plane of planks, a little raised from the
floor, and divided into proper compartments by strips of board.

Their own clothes are, in the mean time, washed, and returned to them
when they leave the place.

It was a very different spectacle from the crowd in the Saturday
evening market, that met my eyes the next morning in the clean and
beautiful streets of the new town; the throng of well-dressed
church-goers passing each other in all directions.

The women, it appeared to me, were rather gaily dressed, and a large
number of them prettier than I had seen in some of the more southern
cities.

I attended worship in one of the Free Churches, as they are called, in
which Dr. Candlish officiates. In the course of his sermon, he read long
portions of an address from the General Assembly of the Free Church of
Scotland, appointing the following Thursday as a day of fasting and prayer,
on account of the peculiar circumstances of the time, and more
especially the dangers flowing from the influence of popery,
alluding to the grant of money lately made by parliament to the
Roman Catholic College at Maynooth.

The address proposed no definite opposition, but protested against the
measure in general, and, as it seemed to me, rather vague terms. In the
course of the address the title of National Church was claimed for the
Free Church, notwithstanding its separation from the government, and the
era of that separation was referred to in phrases similar to those in
which we speak of our own declaration of national independence. There
were one or two allusions to the persecutions which the Free Church had
suffered, and something was said about her children being hunted
like partridges upon the mountains; but it is clear that if her
ministers have been hunted, they have been hunted into fine churches;
and if persecuted, they have been persecuted into comfortable
livings.

This Free Church, as far as I can learn, is extremely prosperous.

Dr. Candlish is a fervid preacher, and his church was crowded. In the
afternoon I attended at one of the churches of the established or endowed
Presbyterian Church, where a quiet kind of a preacher held forth,
and the congregation was thin.

This Maynooth grant has occasioned great dissatisfaction in England and
Scotland. If the question had been left to be decided by the public opinion
of these parts of the kingdom, the grant would never have been made. An
immense majority, of all classes and almost all denominations, disapprove
of it. A dissenting clergyman of one of the evangelical persuasions,
as they are called, said to me--"The dissenters claim nothing from
the government; they hold that it is not the business of the state
to interfere in religious matters, and they object to bestowing the
public money upon the seminaries of any religious denomination."

In a conversation which I had with an eminent man of letters, and a warm
friend of the English Church, he said: "The government is giving
offense to many who have hitherto been its firmest supporters.

There was no necessity for the Maynooth grant; the Catholics would have
been as well satisfied without it as they are with it; for you see
they are already clamoring for the right to appoint through their
Bishops the professors in the new Irish colleges.

The Catholics were already establishing their schools, and building their
churches with their own means: and this act of applying the money of the
nation to the education of their priests is a gratuitous offense offered
by the government to its best friends." In a sermon which I heard from the
Dean of York, in the magnificent old minster of that city, he commended
the liberality of the motives which had induced the government to make
the grant, but spoke of the measure as one which the friends of
the English Church viewed with apprehension and anxiety.

"They may dismiss their fears," said a shrewd friend of mine, with whom I
was discussing the subject. "Endowments are a cause of lukewarmness and
weakness. Our Presbyterian friends here, instead of protesting so
vehemently against what Sir Robert Peel has done, should thank him
for endowing the Catholic Church, for in doing it he has deprived it of
some part of its hold upon the minds of men."
There is much truth, doubtless, in this remark. The support of religion
to be effectual should depend upon individual zeal. The history of the
endowed chapels of dissenting denominations in England is a curious
example of this. Congregations have fallen away and come to nothing,
and it is a general remark that nothing is so fatal to a sect as a
liberal endowment, which provides for the celebration of public worship
without individual contributions.

Letter XXIII.

The Scottish Lakes.

Glasgow, _July_ 19, 1845.

I must not leave Scotland without writing you another letter.

On the 17th of this month I embarked at Newhaven, in the environs of Edinburgh,
on board the little steamer Prince Albert, for Stirling. On our way
we saw several samples of the Newhaven fishwives, a peculiar race,
distinguished by a costume of their own; fresh-colored women, who
walk the streets of Edinburgh with a large wicker-basket on their shoulders,
a short blue cloak of coarse cloth under the basket, short blue petticoats,
thick blue stockings, and a white cap. I was told that they were the
descendants of a little Flemish colony, which long ago settled at
Newhaven, and that they are celebrated for the readiness and point
of their jokes, which, like those of their sisters of Billingsgate,
are not always of the most delicate kind.

Several of these have been related to me, but on running them over in my
mind, I find, to my dismay, that none of them will look well on paper. The
wit of the Newhaven fishwives seems to me, however, like that of our
western boatmen, to consist mainly in the ready application of quaint
sayings already current among themselves.

It was a wet day, with occasional showers, and sometimes a sprinkling of
Scotch mist. I tried the cabin, but the air was too close. The steamboats
in this country have but one deck, and that deck has no shelter,
so I was content to stand in the rain for the sake of the air and
scenery.

After passing an island or two, the Frith, which forms the bay of Edinburgh,
contracts into the river Forth. We swept by country seats, one of which
was pointed out as the residence of the late Dugald Stewart, and another
that of the Earl of Elgin, the plunderer of the Parthenon; and castles,
towers, and churches, some of them in ruins ever since the time
of John Knox, and hills half seen in the fog, until we came opposite
to the Ochil mountains, whose grand rocky buttresses advanced from
the haze almost to the river.

Here, in the windings of the Forth, our steamer went many times backward
and forward, first towards the mountains and then towards the level country
to the south, in almost parallel courses, like the track of a ploughman
in a field. At length we passed a ruined tower and some fragments of massy
wall which once formed a part of Cambus Kenneth Abbey, seated on the
rich lands of the Forth, for the monks, in Great Britain at least, seem
always to have chosen for the site of their monasteries, the banks of a
stream which would supply them with trout and salmon for Fridays. We
were now in the presence of the rocky hills of Stirling, with the town
on its declivity, and the ancient castle, the residence of the former
kings of Scotland, on its summit.

We went up through the little town to the castle, which is still
kept in perfect order, and the ramparts of which frown as grimly over
the surrounding country as they did centuries ago.

No troops however are now stationed here; a few old gunners alone remain,
and Major somebody, I forget his name, takes his dinners in the
banqueting-room and sleeps in the bed-chamber of the Stuarts.

I wish I could communicate the impression which this castle and the
surrounding region made upon me, with its vestiges of power and
magnificence, and its present silence and desertion.

The passages to the dungeons where pined the victims of state, in the very
building where the court held its revels, lie open, and the chapel in
which princes and princesses were christened, and worshiped, and were
crowned and wed, is turned into an armory. From its windows we were
shown, within the inclosure of the castle, a green knoll, grazed
by cattle, where the disloyal nobles of Scotland were beheaded. Close to
the castle is a green field, intersected with paths, which we were told
was the tilting-ground, or place of tournaments, and beside it rises a
rock, where the ladies of the court sat to witness the combats, and
which is still called the Ladies' Rock. At the foot of the hill, to the
right of the castle, stretches what was once the royal park; it is shorn
of its trees, part is converted into a race-course, part into a pasture
for cows, and the old wall which marked its limits is fallen down. Near
it you see a cluster of grassy embankments of a curious form, circles and
octagons and parallelograms, which bear the name of King James's Knot,
and once formed a part of the royal-gardens, where the sovereign used to
divert himself with his courtiers. The cows now have the spot to themselves,
and have made their own paths and alleys all over it. "Yonder, to the
southwest of the castle," said a sentinel who stood at the gate,
"you see where a large field has been lately ploughed, and beyond
it another, which looks very green.

That green field is the spot where the battle of Bannockburn was fought,
and the armies of England were defeated by Bruce." I looked, and so fresh
and bright was the verdure, that it seemed to me as if the earth was still
fertilized with the blood of those who fell in that desperate struggle
for the crown of Scotland. Not far from this, the spot was shown us where
Wallace was defeated at the battle of Falkirk. This region is
now the scene of another and an unbloody warfare; the warfare between
the Free Church and the Government Church. Close to the church of the
establishment, at the foot of the rock of Stirling, the soldiers of the
Free Church have erected their place of worship, and the sound of
hammers from the unfinished interior could be heard almost up to
the castle.

We took places the same day in the coach for Callander, in the
Highlands.
In a short time we came into a country of hillocks and pastures brown
and barren, half covered with ferns, the breckan of the Scotch, where
the broom flowered gaudily by the road-side, and harebells now in bloom,
in little companies, were swinging, heavy with the rain, on their
slender stems.

Crossing the Teith we found ourselves in Doune, a Highland village, just
before entering which we passed a throng of strapping lasses, who
had just finished their daily task at a manufactory on the Teith,
and were returning to their homes.

To
such alterations children are sensitive even when they seem least
accessible to the commands, the warnings, the threats, or the counsels of
elders.  Of all these they may be gaily independent, and yet may droop
when their defied tyrants are dejected.

For though the natural spirit of children is happy, the happiness is a
mere impulse and is easily disconcerted.  They are gay without knowing
any very sufficient reason for being so, and when sadness is, as it were,
proposed to them, things fall away from under their feet, they are
helpless and find no stay.  For this reason the merriest of all children
are those, much pitied, who are brought up neither in a family nor in a
public home by paid guardians, but in a place of charity, rightly named,
where impartial, unalterable, and impersonal devotion has them in hand.
They endure an immeasurable loss, and are orphans, but they gain in
perpetual gaiety; they live in an unchanging temperature.  The separate
nest is nature's, and the best; but it might be wished that the separate
nest were less subject to moods.  The nurse has her private business, and
when it does not prosper, and when the remote affairs of the governess go
wrong, the child receives the ultimate vibration of the mishap.

The uniformity of infancy passes away long before the age when children
have this indefinite suffering inflicted upon them; and they have become
infinitely various, and feel the consequences of the cares of their
elders in unnumbered degrees.  The most charming children feel them the
most sensibly, and not with resentment but with sympathy.  It is
assuredly in the absence of resentment that consists the virtue of
childhood.  What other thing are we to learn of them?  Not simplicity,
for they are intricate enough.  Not gratitude; for their usual sincere
thanklessness makes half the pleasure of doing them good.  Not obedience;
for the child is born with the love of liberty.  And as for humility, the
boast of a child is the frankest thing in the world.  A child's natural
vanity is not merely the delight in his own possessions, but the triumph
over others less fortunate.  If this emotion were not so young it would
be exceedingly unamiable.  But the truth must be confessed that having
very quickly learnt the value of comparison and relation, a child
rejoices in the perception that what he has is better than what his
brother has; this comparison is a means of judging his fortune, after
all.  It is true that if his brother showed distress, he might make haste
to offer an exchange.  But the impulse of joy is candidly egotistic.

It is the sweet and entire forgiveness of children, who ask pity for
their sorrows from those who have caused them, who do not perceive that
they are wronged, who never dream that they are forgiving, and who make
no bargain for apologies--it is this that men and women are urged to
learn of a child.  Graces more confessedly childlike they make shift to
teach themselves.


FAIR AND BROWN


George Eliot, in one of her novels, has a good-natured mother, who
confesses that when she administers justice she is obliged to spare the
offenders who have fair hair, because they look so much more innocent
than the rest.  And if this is the state of maternal feelings where all
are more or less fair, what must be the miscarriage of justice in
countries where a _blond_ angel makes his infrequent visit within the
family circle?

In England he is the rule, and supreme as a matter of course.  He is
"English," and best, as is the early asparagus and the young potato,
according to the happy conviction of the shops.  To say "child" in
England is to say "fair-haired child," even as in Tuscany to say "young
man" is to say "tenor."  "I have a little party to-night, eight or ten
tenors, from neighbouring palazzi, to meet my English friends."

But France is a greater enthusiast than our now country.  The fairness
and the golden hair are here so much a matter of orthodoxy, that they are
not always mentioned; they are frequently taken for granted.  Not so in
France; the French go out of their way to make the exceptional fairness
of their children the rule of their literature.  No French child dare
show his face in a book--prose or poetry--without blue eyes and fair
hair.  It is a thing about which the French child of real life can hardly
escape a certain sensitiveness.  What, he may ask, is the use of being a
dark-haired child of fact, when all the emotion, all the innocence, all
the romance, are absorbed by the flaxen-haired child of fiction?  How
deplorable that our mothers, the French infants may say, should have
their unattained ideals in the nurseries of the imagination; how dismal
that they should be perpetually disillusioned in the nurseries of fact!
Is there then no sentiment for us? they may ask.  Will not convention,
which has been forced to restore the advantage to truth on so many other
points, be compelled to yield on this point also, and reconcile our aunts
to the family colouring?

All the schools of literature are in a tale.  The classic masters,
needless to say, do not stoop to the colouring of boys and girls; but as
soon as the Romantiques arise, the cradle is there, and no soft hair ever
in it that is not of some tone of gold, no eyes that are not blue, and no
cheek that is not white and pink as milk and roses.  Victor Hugo, who
discovered the child of modern poetry, never omits the touch of
description; the word _blond_ is as inevitable as any epithet marshalled
to attend its noun in a last-century poet's dictionary.  One would not
have it away; one can hear the caress with which the master pronounces
it, "making his mouth," as Swift did for his "little language."  Nor does
the customary adjective fail in later literature.  It was dear to the
Realist, and it is dear to the Symbolist.  The only difference is that in
the French of the Symbolist it precedes the noun.

And yet it is time that the sweetness of the dark child should have its
day.  He is really no less childlike than the other.  There is a pretty
antithesis between the strong effect of his colouring and the softness of
his years and of his months.  The blond human being--man, woman or
child--has the beauty of harmony; the hair plays off from the tones of
the flesh, only a few degrees brighter or a few degrees darker.  Contrast
of colour there is, in the blue of the eyes, and in the red of cheek and
lip, but there is no contrast of tone.  The whole effect is that of much
various colour and of equal tone.  In the dark face there is hardly any
colour and an almost complete opposition of tone.  The complete
opposition, of course, would be black and white; and a beautiful dark
child comes near to this, but for the lovely modifications, the warmth of
his white, and of his black alike, so that the one tone, as well as the
other, is softened towards brown.  It is the beauty of contrast, with a
suggestion of harmony--as it were a beginning of harmony--which is
infinitely lovely.

Nor is the dark child lacking in variety.  His radiant eyes range from a
brown so bright that it looks golden in the light, to a brown so dark
that it barely defines the pupil.  So is his hair various, answering the
sun with unsuspected touches, not of gold but of bronze.  And his cheek
is not invariably pale.  A dusky rose sometimes lurks there with such an
effect of vitality as you will hardly get from the shallower pink of the
flaxened haired.  And the suggestion is that of late summer, the colour
of wheat almost ready for the harvest, and darker, redder flowers--poppies
and others--than come in Spring.

The dark eyes, besides, are generally brighter--they shelter a more
liquid light than the blue or grey.  Southern eyes have generally most
beautiful whites.  And as to the charm of the childish figure, there is
usually an infantine slenderness in the little Southener that is at least
as young and sweet as the round form of the blond child.  And yet the
painters of Italy would have none of it.  They rejected the dusky
brilliant pale little Italians all about them; they would have none but
flaxen-haired children, and they would have nothing that was slim,
nothing that was thin, nothing that was shadowy.  They rejoiced in much
fair flesh, and in all possible freshness.  So it was in fair Flanders as
well as in dark Italy.  But so it was not in Spain.  The Pyrenees seemed
to interrupt the tradition.  And as Murillo saw the charm of dark heads,
and the innocence of dark eyes, so did one English painter.  Reynolds
painted young dark hair as tenderly as the youngest gold.


REAL CHILDHOOD


The world is old because its history is made up of successive childhoods
and of their impressions.  Your hours when you were six were the enormous
hours of the mind that has little experience and constant and quick
forgetfulness.  Therefore when your mother's visitor held you so long at
his knee, while he talked to her the excited gibberish of the grown-up,
he little thought what he forced upon you; what the things he called
minutes really were, measured by a mind unused; what passive and then
what desperate weariness he held you to by his slightly gesticulating
hands that pressed some absent-minded caress, rated by you at its right
value, in the pauses of his anecdotes.  You, meanwhile, were infinitely
tired of watching the play of his conversing moustache.

Indeed, the contrast of the length of contemporary time (this pleonasm is
inevitable) is no small mystery, and the world has never had the wit
fully to confess it.

You remembered poignantly the special and singular duration of some such
space as your elders, perhaps, called half-an-hour--so poignantly that
you spoke of it to your sister, not exactly with emotion, but still as a
dreadful fact of life.  We give the true record, except that we use the
fictitious names employed in this volume, and withhold the names of the
towns from whence they were conveyed to prison.

Five years later to the records of the same prison was added the
following:
"Samuel Drake: 33 years old--blue eyes--sandy hair--light
complexion--second comer. ----, Mass."

By this it appears that Samuel was twice in the State prison by the time
he was thirty-three years of age. What has been his course since that
period is not exactly known, though report said, a few years ago, that he
ended his life on board a pirate-ship.

But the reader is surprised, perhaps, that Benjamin should become the
inmate of a prison; for the last we saw of him was when he was
preparing for the ministry--a converted youth, as he thought, of
seventeen years.

We cannot furnish every link that connects his boyhood and manhood; but the
painful story is told, in substance, when it is said that his religion
proved like the morning dew, and his early vicious habits returned
with redoubled power, so that five years after he attended the prayer-meeting
with Frank Martin, he was incarcerated for theft. It is a startling
illustration of the force of boyhood's evil habits, often lording it over
a man to his shame and ruin, even when he has resolved to lead a better
life.

The remainder of this group of boys have proved an honor to their sex,
as the principles and habits of their early lives fairly promised.

Frank Martin stands at the head of a public institution, where great
responsibilities are devolved upon him, as a servant of the Commonwealth.
Strange as it may seem, the institution over which he presides is the one
in which his old associates, Samuel and Benjamin Drake, were incarcerated;
and Frank himself opened the prison records for the writer to make the
foregoing extracts.

Charlie Stone has been connected with manufactures from the beginning,
advancing from one post of responsibility to another, employing his
leisure time to improve his mental faculties; and he is now the honored
agent of one of the wealthiest and most celebrated manufacturing
companies of New England, commanding a salary of THREE THOUSAND AND FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS.

Marcus Treat, perhaps influenced by the example of Nat, devoted his spare
moments to self-culture, and made commendable progress before he resolved
to quit his trade, and educate himself for the legal profession.
Without means of his own, or wealthy friends to aid, he succeeded
in his laudable efforts, and, without being able to command a
collegiate education, was admitted to the bar. He now occupies a
post of honor and influence in a thriving State of our Union, where
he is known as one of the most popular members of the bar.
And Nat--what and where is he? He is now known to fame as His
Excellency, The Governor of ----, the best State in the Union, which
is only one remove from the Presidency of the best country in the
world.The fact is that children have a simple sense of the unnecessary ugliness
of things, and that--apart from the effects of _ennui_--they reject that
ugliness actively.  You have stood and listened to your mother's
compliments on her friend's hat, and have made your mental protest in
very definite words.  You thought it hideous, and hideous things offended
you then more than they have ever offended you since.  At nine years old
you made people, alas! responsible for their faces, as you do still in a
measure, though you think you do not.  You severely made them answer for
their clothes, in a manner which you have seen good reason, in later
life, to mitigate.  Upon curls, or too much youthfulness in the aged, you
had no mercy.  To sum up the things you hated inordinately, they were
friskiness of manner and of trimmings, and curls combined with rather
bygone or frumpish fashions.  Too much childish dislike was wasted so.

But you admired some things without regard to rules of beauty learnt
later.  At some seven years old you dwelt with delight upon the contrast
of a white kid glove and a bright red wrist.  Well, this is not the
received arrangement, but red and white do go well together, and their
distribution has to be taught with time.  Whose were the wrist and glove?
Certainly some one's who must have been distressed at the _bouquet_ of
colour that you admired.  This, however, was but a local admiration.  You
did not admire the girl as a whole.  She whom you adored was always a
married woman of a certain age; rather faded, it might be, but always
divinely elegant.  She alone was worthy to stand at the side of your
mother.  You lay in wait for the border of her train, and dodged for a
chance of holding her bracelet when she played.  You composed prose in
honour of her and called the composition (for reasons unknown to
yourself) a "catalogue."  She took singularly little notice of you.

Wordsworth cannot say too much of your passion for nature.  The light of
summer morning before sunrise was to you a spiritual splendour for which
you wanted no name.  The Mediterranean under the first perceptible touch
of the moon, the calm southern sea in the full blossom of summer, the
early spring everywhere, in the showery streets, in the fields, or at
sea, left old childish memories with you which you try to evoke now when
you see them again.  But the cloudy dusk behind poplars on the plains of
France, the flying landscape from the train, willows, and the last of the
light, were more mournful to you then than you care to remember now.  So
were the black crosses on the graves of the French village; so were
cypresses, though greatly beloved.

If you were happy enough to be an internationally educated child, you had
much at heart the heart of every country you knew.  And jewels! two
stones, two rich and precious stones, Stol'n by my daughter! Justice! find
the girl!
She hath the stones upon her and the ducats.'
SALARINO.
Why, all the boys in Venice follow him, Crying, his stones, his
daughter, and his ducats.You had disquieting dreams of landscape and sun, and of many
of these you cannot now tell which were visions of travel and which
visions of slumber.  Your strong sense of place made you love some places
too keenly for peace.