Produced by Al Haines


[Frontispiece: Hosier tightened a protecting arm around her waist]


THE STOWAWAY GIRL


By

LOUIS TRACY


AUTHOR OF

THE WINGS OF THE MORNING, SON OF THE IMMORTALS, CYNTHIA'S CHAUFFEUR,
THE MESSAGE, THE SILENT BARRIER, ETC.


ILLUSTRATIONS BY

NESBIT BENSON


NEW YORK

GROSSET & DUNLAP

PUBLISHERS


Copyright, 1909, 1912,

By EDWARD J. CLODE


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

    I.  THE "ANDROMEDA"
   II.  WHEREIN THE "ANDROMEDA" BEGINS HER VOYAGE
  III.  WHEREIN THE "ANDROMEDA" NEARS THE END OF HER VOYAGE
   IV.  SHOWING WHAT BECAME OF THE "ANDROMEDA"
    V.  THE REFUGEES
   VI.  BETWEEN THE BRAZILIAN DEVIL AND THE DEEP ATLANTIC
  VII.  CROSS PURPOSES
 VIII.  THE RIGOR OF THE GAME
   IX.  WHEREIN CERTAIN PEOPLE MEET UNEXPECTEDLY
    X.  ON THE HIGH SEAS
   XI.  A LIVELY MORNING IN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS
  XII.  THE LURE OF GOLD
 XIII.  THE NEW ERA
  XIV.  CARMELA
   XV.  SHOWING HOW BRAZIL CHOSE HER PRESIDENT
  XVI.  WHEREIN THE PRESIDENT PRESIDES


ILLUSTRATIONS


Hosier tightened a protective arm around her waist . . . _Frontispiece_

"Is that the Southern Cross?"

"How did I come here?"

"Well, gimme your 'and on it"

A withering volley crashed through the window


THE STOWAWAY


CHAPTER I

THE "ANDROMEDA"

"Marry Mr. Bulmer!  That horrid old man!  Uncle, what _are_ you saying?"

The girl sprang to her feet as if she were some timid creature of the
wild aroused from sylvan broodings by knowledge of imminent danger.  In
her terror, she upset the three wineglasses that formed part of the
display beside each _couvert_ on the luncheon table.  One, rose-tinted
and ornate, crashed to the floor, and the noise seemed to irritate the
owner of Linden House more than his niece's shrill terror.

"No need to bust up our best set of 'ock glasses just because I 'appen
to mention owd Dickey Bulmer," he growled.

The color startled so suddenly out of the girl's face began to return.
Her eyes lost their dilation of fear.  Somehow, the comment on the
broken glass seemed to deprive "owd Dickey Bulmer's" personality of its
real menace.

"I'm sorry," she said, and stooped to pick up the fragments scattered
over the carpet.

"Leave that alone," came the sharp order.  "So long as I've the brass
to pay for 'em, there's plenty more where that kem from, an' in any
case, it's the 'ousemaid's job.  Leave it alone, I tell you!  An' sit
down.  It's 'igh time you an' me 'ad a straight talk, an' I can't do
wi' folk bouncin' about like an injia-rubber ball when I've got things
to say to 'em."

He stretched a fat hand toward a mahogany cigar-box, affected to choose
a cigar with deliberative crackling, hacked at the selection with a
fruit knife, and dropped the severed end into an unused finger-bowl;
then he struck a match, and puffed furiously until a rim of white ash
tipped the brown.  This achieved, he helped himself to the port.
Though he carefully avoided glancing at his companion, he knew quite
well that she had drawn a chair to the opposite end of the table, and
was looking at him intently; her chin was propped on her clenched
hands; the skin on her white forehead was puckered into nervous lines;
her lips, pressed close, had lost their Cupid's bow that seemed ever
ready to bend into a smile.  Meanwhile, the man who had caused these
signs of distress gulped down some of the wine, held the glass up to
the light as a tribute to the excellence of its contents, darted his
tongue several times in and out between his teeth, smacked his lips,
replaced the cigar in his mouth, and leaned back in his chair until it
creaked.

The Territory of Kansas was saved to its prescriptive freedom. The
slavery propagandists sullenly withdrew and gave up the contest. The
last days of the dynasty that had meditated the conquest of the continent
to slave-holding government were evidently at hand. The result of the
struggle in Kansas had reversed the relation of the contesting powers.
The oligarchs, who had always before been aggressive, and intended
to subordinate the Union to slavery, or destroy it, found themselves
suddenly thrown on the defensive; and, with the quick intelligence of
a property interest, and the keen jealousy of class and caste which
their slave-holding had implanted, they saw that they were engaged
in an unequal struggle, that their sceptre was broken, and that, if
they continued to rule, it would have to be over the homogeneous half
of a dismembered Union. From this moment a severance of the Slave
States from the Free was resolved on, and every agency that could
operate on governments, State and National, was set to work. It was
not by accident that Virginia had procured the nomination of the facile
Buchanan for President in the Baltimore Convention of 1856; it was not
by accident that Floyd was made Secretary of War, or that, many months
before any outbreak of rebellion, this arch traitor had well-nigh
stripped the Northern arsenals of arms, and placed them where they
would be 'handy' for insurgents to seize. It was not by accident
that John C.

Breckenridge headed the factionists that willfully divided and defeated
the National Democracy, that perchance could have elected Judge
Douglas President; nor was it by accident that Beriah Magoffin, a
vain, weak man, the creature, adjunct, and echo of Breckenridge,
filled the office of governor of Kentucky, nominated thereto by
Breckenridge's personal intercession.

And lastly, to return to the special theatre of this sketch, it was
not by accident that Claiborne F.

Jackson, the original mover for Benton's destruction, was at this
remarkable juncture found occupying the governor's chair, with Thomas
C.

Reynolds for his lieutenant governor, a native of South Carolina,
an acknowledged missionary of the nullification faith to a State
that required to be corrupted, and that he had, during his residence,
zealously endeavored to corrupt.

We have now reached the turning point in the history of Missouri.

The State is about to be plunged into the whirlpool of civil war.
Undisguised disunionists are in complete possession of the State government,
and the population is supposed to be ripe for revolt. Only one spot in
it, and that the city of St. Louis, is regarded as having the slightest
sympathy with the political sentiments of the Free States of the
Union. The State is surely counted for the 'South' in the division that
impends, for where is the heart in St. Louis bold enough, or the hand
strong enough, to resist the swelling tide of pro-slavery fanaticism
that was about to engulf the State?
P'raps I ought to have explained things
differently, but it didn't occur to me you'd hobject to bein' the wife
of a millionaire, even if 'e is a doddrin' owd idiot to talk of
marryin' agin."

"Oh, uncle!"

With a wail of despair, the girl sank back and covered her face with
her hands.  Now that she believed the incredible, she could utter no
protest.  The sacrifice demanded was too great.  In that bitter moment
she would have welcomed poverty, prayed even for death, as the
alternative to marriage with the man to whom she was being sold.

Verity leaned over the table again and finished the glass of port.
This time there was no lip-smacking, or other aping of the connoisseur.
He was angry, almost alarmed.  Resistance, even of this passive sort,
raised the savage in him.  Hitherto, Iris had been ready to obey his
slightest whim.

"There's no use cryin' 'Oh, uncle,' an' kicking up a fuss," he snapped
viciously.  "Where would you 'ave bin, I'd like to know, if it wasn't
for me?  In the gutter--that's where your precious fool of a father
left your mother an' you.  You're the best dressed, an' best lookin',
an' best eddicated girl i' Bootle to-day--thanks to me.  When your
mother kem 'ere ten year ago, an' said her lit'rary gent of a 'usband
was dead, neither of you 'ad 'ad a square meal for weeks--remember
that, will you?  It isn't my fault you've got to marry Bulmer.  It's
just a bit of infernal bad luck--the same for both of us, if it comes
to that.  An' why shouldn't you 'ave some of the sours after I've given
you all the sweets?  You'll 'ave money to burn; I'm not axin' you to
give up some nice young feller for 'im.  If you play your cards well,
you can 'ave all the fun you want----"

The girl staggered to her feet.  She could endure the man's coarseness
but not his innuendoes.

"I will do what you ask," she murmured, though there was a pitiful
quivering at the corners of her mouth that bespoke an agony beyond the
relief of tears.  "But please don't say any more, and never again
allude to my dear father in that way, or I may--I may forget what I owe
you."

She was unconscious of the contempt in her eyes, the scornful ring in
her voice, and Verity had the good sense to restrain the wrath that
bubbled up in him until the door closed, and he was alone.  He grabbed
the decanter and refilled his glass.

"Nice thing!" he growled.  "I offer 'er a fortune an' a bald-'eaded owd
devil for a 'usband, 'oo ought to die in a year or two an' leave 'er
everything; yet she ain't satisfied.  D--n 'er eyes, if I'd keep 'er as
scullery-maid she'd 'ave different notions."

With the taste of the wine, however, came the consoling reflection that
Iris as a scullery-maid might not tickle the fancy of the dotard who
had undertaken to provide fifty thousand pounds for the new
partnership.  And she had promised--that was everything.  His lack of
diplomacy was obvious even to himself, but he had won where a man of
finer temperament might have failed.  Now, he must rush the wedding.
Dickey Bulmer's Lancashire canniness might stipulate for cash on
delivery as the essence of the marriage contract.  Not a penny would
the old miser part with until he was sure of the girl.

So David Verity, having much to occupy his mind, lingered over the
second glass of port, for this was a Sunday dinner, served at mid-day.
At last he closed his eyes for his customary nap; but sleep was not to
be wooed just then; instead of dozing, he felt exceedingly wide awake.
Indeed, certain disquieting calculations were running through his
brain, and he yielded forthwith to their insistence.  Taking a small
notebook from his pocket, he jotted down an array of figures.  He was
so absorbed in their analysis that he did not see Iris walk listlessly
across the lawn that spread its summer greenery in front of the
dining-room windows.  And that was an ill thing for David.  The sight
of the girl at that instant meant a great deal to him.

He did happen to look out, a second too late.

Even then, he might have caught a glimpse of Iris's pink muslin skirt
disappearing behind a clump of rhododendrons, were not his shifty eyes
screwed up in calculation--or perchance, the gods blinded him in behalf
of one who was named after Juno's bright messenger.

"Yes, that's it," he was thinking.  "I must wheedle Dickey into the
bank to-morrow.  A word from 'im, an' they'll all grovel, d--n 'em!"

The door opened.

"Captain Coke to see you, sir," said a servant.

"Send 'im in; bring 'im in 'ere."

The memorandum book disappeared; Verity's hearty greeting was that of a
man who had not a care in the world.  His visitor's description was
writ large on him by the sea.  No one could possibly mistake Captain
Coke for any other species of captain than that of master mariner.  He
was built on the lines of a capstan, short and squat and powerful.
Though the weather was hot, he wore a suit of thick navy-blue serge
that would have served his needs within the Arctic Circle.  It clung
tightly to his rounded contours; there was a purple line on his red
brows that marked the exceeding tightness of the bowler hat he was
carrying; and the shining protuberances on his black boots showed that
they were tight, too.  It was manifestly out of the question that he
should be able to walk any distance.  Though he had driven in a cab to
the shipowner's house, he was already breathless with exertion, and he
rolled so heavily in his gait that his shoulders hit both sides of the
doorway while entering the room.  Yet he was nimble withal, a man
capable of swift and sure movement within a limited area, therein
resembling a bull, or a hippopotamus.

The hospitable Verity pushed forward the mahogany box and the decanter.

"Glad to see you, Jimmie, my boy.  Sit yourself down.  'Ave a cigar an'
a glass o' port.  I didn't expect you quite so soon, but you're just as
welcome now as later."

Captain Coke placed his hat on top of a malacca cane, and balanced both
against the back of a chair.

"I'll take a smoke but no wine, thankee, Mr. Verity," said he.  "I kem
along now' 'coss I want to be aboard afore it's dark.  We're moored in
an awkward place."

"Poor owd _Andromeeda_!  Just 'er usual luck, eh, Jimmie?"

"Well, she ain't wot you might call one of fortune's fav'rits, but
she's afloat, an' that's more'n you can say for a good many
daisy-cutters I've known."

Verity chuckled.

"Some ships are worth less afloat than ashore, an' she's one of 'em,"
he grinned.  "You want a match.  'Ere you are!"

Whether Coke was wishful to deny or admit the _Andromeda's_
shortcomings--even the ship herself might have protested against the
horror of a long "e" in the penultimate syllable of her name--the other
man's rapid proffer of a light stopped him.  He puffed away in silence;
there was an awkward pause; for once in his career, Verity regretted
his cultivated trick of covering up a significant phrase by quickly
adding some comment on a totally different subject.  But the sailor
smoked on, stolidly heedless of a sudden lapse in the conversation, and
the shipowner was compelled to start afresh.  He was far too shrewd to
go straight back to the topic burked by his own error.  His
sledge-hammer methods might be crude to the verge of brutality where
Iris was concerned, but they were capable of nice adjustment in the
case of wary old sea-dogs of the Coke type.

"It's stuffy in 'ere with the two of us smokin'--let's stroll into the
garden," he said.

Coke was agreeable.  He liked gardens; they were a change from the
purple sea.

"It's the on'y bit of green stuff you seem to be fond of, Mr. Verity,"
he went on.  "You keep us crool short of vegetables."

David's little eyes twinkled.  Here was another opening; it would not
be his fault if it led again up a _cul-de-sac_.  He threw wide the
window, and they crossed the lawn.

"Vegetables!" he cried.  "Wish I could stock you from my place, an' I'd
stuff you with 'em.  I can grow 'em 'ere for next to nothing, but they
cost a heap o' money in furrin ports, an' _your_ crimson wave-catcher
doesn't earn money--she eats it."

"Even that's one better'n her skipper, 'oo doesn't do neether,"
commented Coke gloomily.

His employer seemed to find much humor in the remark.

"Gad, we both look starved!" he guffawed.  "To 'ear us, you'd think we
was booked for the workhus or till you ran a tape round the contoor,
eh?"

But Coke was not to be cheered.

"I can see as far into a stone wall as 'ere a one an' there a one," he
said, "an' there's no use blinkin' the fax.  The _Andromeda_ was a good
ship in 'er day, but that day is gone.  You ought to 'ave sold 'er to
the Dutchmen five years ago, Mr. Verity.  Times were better then, an'
now you'd 'ave a fine steel ship instead of a box of scrap iron."

They were passing the rhododendrons, and Verity's quick eyes noted that
a summer-house beneath the shade of two venerable elms was unoccupied.
The structure consisted of a rustic roof carried on half a dozen
uprights; it had a wooden floor, and held a table and some basket
chairs.  The roof and supports were laden with climbing roses, a
Virginian creeper, and a passion flower.  The day being Sunday, there
were no gardeners in the adjoining shrubbery or rose garden, and anyone
seated in the summer-house could see on all sides.

"Drop anchor in 'ere, Coke," said Verity.  "It's cool an' breezy, an'
we can 'ave a quiet confab without bein' bothered.  Now, I reelly sent
for you to-day to tell you I mean to better the supplies this
trip--Yes, honest Injun!"--for the _Andromeda's_ skipper had clutched
the cigar out of his mouth with the expression of a man who vows to
heaven that he cannot believe his ears--"I'm goin' to bung in an extry
'undred to-morrow in the way of stores.  Funny, isn't it?"

"Funny!  It's a meracle!"

Though not altogether gratified by this whole-hearted agreement with
his own views, Verity was too anxious to keep his hearer on the present
tack to resent any implied slur on his earlier efforts as a caterer.

"It's nothing to wot I'd do if I could afford it," he added graciously.
"But, as you said, let's look at the fax.  Wot chance 'as an iron ship,
built twenty years ago, at a cost of sixteen pound a ton, ag'in a steel
ship of to-day, at seven pound a ton, with twiced the cargo space, an'
three feet less draught?  W'y no earthly.  We're dished every way.  We
cost more to run; we can't jump 'arf the bars; we can't carry 'arf the
stuff; we pay double insurance; an' we're axed to find interest on
more'n double the capital.  As you say, Jimmie, wot bloomin' chanst
'ave we?"

Coke smoked silently; he had said none of these things, but when the
shipowner's glance suddenly dwelt on him, he nodded.  Silent
acquiescence on his part, however, was not what Verity wanted.  He,
too, knew when to hold his tongue.  After a long interval, during which
a robin piped a merry roundelay from the depths of a neighboring pink
hawthorn, Coke dug out a question.

"Premium gone up, then?" he inquired.

"She's on a twelve-month rate.  It runs out in September.  If you're
lucky, an' fill up with nitrate soon, you may be 'ome again.  If not,
I'll 'ave to whack up a special quotation.  After that, there'll be no
insurance.  The _Andromeeda_ goes for wot she'll fetch."

Another pause; then Coke broached a new phase.

"Meanin' that I lose the two thousand pounds I put in 'er to get my
berth?" he said huskily.

"An' wot about me?  _I_ lose eight times as much.  Just think of it!
Sixteen thousand pounds would give me a fair balance to go on wi' i'
these hard times, an' your two thou' would make the skipper's job in my
new ship a certainty."

Coke's brick-red face darkened.  He breathed hard.

"Wot new ship?" he demanded.

Verity smiled knowingly.

For as it left the horizon, a counterfeit sun began to unroll itself
from the true, as one might detach a petal from a rose; at first they
clung together, but soon, with a wrench, parted company, and while the
one soared aloft, the image remained below, weltering on the treacherous
mere.
For a short while the flaming phantasma lingered firm and orb-like,
while the space between itself and reality grew to a hand's breadth;
then slowly deliquesced.

It gave a prolonged shiver and sank, convulsed, into the earth.

Light was diffused; the colour of daytime invaded the ground at our feet,
flitting like some arterial rill through the dun spaces. Wonderful,
this magic touch of awakening!

It is the same swiftness of change as at sunset, when the desert
folds itself to sleep, like some gorgeously palpitating flower, in
the chill of nightfall; or rather, to use a metaphor which has often
occurred to me, it hardens its features, crystallizing them into a
stony mask, even as some face, once friendly, grows strangely
indifferent in death.

My companion of this morning, who happened to be of a religious
turn of mind, took the opportunity to glide off his beast and,
standing a little apart, with his arms thrown through the reins to
prevent the mule from straying, recited the dawn prayer.

The noble gesticulations looked well on that bare sandy dune, in
the face of the Chott.

As for myself, I thought of the old god Triton, who dwelt in yonder
foul lake and showed some kindness to Jason, long ago, when his
ships were entangled in the ooze; I thought of Tritogeneia, the
savage, mud-born creature who, cast into the purifying crucible of
Hellenic mythopoesis, emerged as bright-eyed Athene, mother of
wisdom and domestic arts.

The Amazon maidens of the country used to have combats in her honour
with sticks and stones, and the fairest of them, decked in a panoply
of Grecian armour, was conducted in a chariot about the lake.

A fabled land!

Here, they say, Poseidon was born, and Gorgo and Perseus, Medusa and
Pegasus and other comely and wondrous shapes that have become familiar
to us through Greek lore.

These folks of Atlantis "saw no dreams," but they studied astronomy
and navigation; their priests may well have been those Druids whose
temple-structures, the senams and cromlechs, have wandered from
the Tripolitan frontier as far as the chilly coasts of Brittany,
and Salisbury Plain, and Ultima Thule.

And every day, as the sun passed over their heads, they saluted him not
as the Giver of Life or Lord of Earth, but cursed him with
imprecations long and loathsome, for his scorching fires.

Shaw, I believe, was the first to identify the Chotts with Lake
Triton.

There were islands in this sea; the sacred isle of Phla, for instance,
which the Spartans were commanded by an oracle to colonize, and whereon
stood a temple to Aphrodite.

There are islands to this day, great and small; one of them is called
Faraoun--evidently an Egyptian name, for Egyptian influence was
felt early in these regions; at Faraoun grows a peculiar kind of
date which, we are told, an Egyptian army had left there.

The waters of the pool touched Nefta, whose Kadi gave Tissot a
description of a buried vessel which, from its shape, could be
nothing but a "galère antique"--it was dismembered for fuel, and
metal nails were found in its framework.

Movers is probably correct in seeking at Nefta the Biblical Naphtuhim
of the generation of Noah: an Egyptian document speaks of it as
the "land of Napit."

Arabs have another theory of its origin. According to a chronicle preserved
in the Nefta mosque, the founder of the town was Kostel, son of Sem, son
of Noah; he called it Nefta because it was here that water boiled, for
the first time, after the Deluge.

The Romans called it Nepte, but, in confirmation of this old story,
I observe that the Arabs of to-day invariably pronounce Nefta as
_Nafta_.

It is quite likely, too, that the name Hecatompylos, the city of a hundred
gates, which has been applied to Gafsa, is a misreading for Hecatompolis,
the land of those hundred cities which, they say, studded the shores
of this great lake.

For it was a lake, or series of lakes, and nothing else; geological
evidence is opposed to the supposition that the Chott country was
ever a gulf of the Mediterranean within historical times--it was
merely a chain of inland waters.

And another surprising discovery has been made of late, namely,
that these depressions lie at different levels and have, each of
them, its own system of alimentation.

This fact came to light between 1872 and 1883, when a number of
studies were undertaken with a view to the restoration of this
ancient Libyan Sea.

If she were not spoken by
some passing steamer, there was every possibility that the sturdy old
vessel would not be heard of again before reaching her destination.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

But David Verity heard of her much sooner, and no thunderbolt that ever
rent the heavens could have startled him more than the manner of that
hearing.

Resolving to clinch matters with regard to Iris and her elderly suitor,
he invited "Owd Dickey" to supper on Sunday evening.  The girl endured
the man's presence with a placid dignity that amazed her uncle.  On the
plea of a headache, she retired at an early hour, leaving Bulmer to
gloat over his prospective happiness, and primed to the point of
dementia.

He was quite willing to accompany Verity to the bank next morning; a
pleasant-spoken manager sighed his relief when the visitors were gone,
and he was free to look at the item "bills discounted" on Verity's page
in the ledger.  More than that, a lawyer was instructed to draw up a
partnership deed, and the representatives of various ship-building
firms were asked to supply estimates for two new vessels.

Altogether Dickey was complaisant, and David enjoyed a busy and
successful day.  He dined in town, came home at a late hour, and merely
grinned when a servant told him that Mr. Bulmer had called twice but
Miss Iris happened to be out on both occasions.

Nevertheless, at breakfast on Tuesday, he warned his niece not to keep
her admirer dangling at arm's length.

"E's a queer owd codger," explained the philosopher.  "Play up to 'im a
bit, an' you'll be able to twist 'im round your little finger.  I
b'lieve he's goin' dotty, an' you can trust me to see that the marriage
settlement is O. K."

"Will you be home to dinner?" was her response.

"No.  Now that the firm is in smooth water again I must show myself a
bit.  It's all thanks to you, lass, an' I'll not forget it.  Good-by!"

Iris smiled, and Verity was vastly pleased.

"I am sure you will not forget," she said.  "Good-by."

"There's no understandin' wimmin," mused David, as his victoria swept
through the gates of Linden House.  "Sunday afternoon Dickey might ha'
bin a dose of rat poison; now she's ready to swaller 'im as if 'e was a
chocolate drop."

Again he returned some few minutes after midnight; again the servant
announced Mr. Bulmer's visits, three of them; and again Miss Iris had
been absent--in fact, she had not yet come home.

"Not 'ome!" cried David furiously.  "W'y it's gone twelve.  W'ere
the--w'ere is she?"

No one knew.  She had quitted the house soon after Verity himself, and
had not been seen since.  Storm and rage as he might, and did, David
could not discover his niece's whereabouts.  He spent a wearying and
tortured night, a harassed and miserable day, devoted to frantic
inquiries in every possible direction with interludes of specious lying
to the infatuated Bulmer.  But enlightment came on Thursday morning.  A
letter arrived by the first post.  It was from Iris.


"MY DEAR UNCLE," she wrote: "Neither you nor Mr. Bulmer should have any
objection to my passing the few remaining weeks of my liberty in the
manner best pleasing to myself.  On Sunday evening, in your presence,
Mr. Bulmer urged me to fix an early date for our marriage.  Tell him
that I shall marry him when the _Andromeda_ returns to England from
South America.  You will remember that you promised last year to take
me to Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Ayres this summer; I have been learning
Spanish so as to help our sight-seeing.  Unfortunately, business
prevents you from keeping that promise, but there is no reason why I
should not go.  I am on board the _Andromeda_, and will probably be
able to explain matters satisfactorily to Captain Coke.  The vessel is
due back at the end of September, I believe, so Mr. Bulmer will not
have long to wait.  It is more than likely that Captain Coke will not
know I am aboard until Thursday, and I have arranged with a friend that
this letter shall reach you about the same time.  Please convey my
apologies to Mr. Bulmer, and accept my regret for any anxiety you may
have felt owing to my unaccountable absence.

"Your affectionate niece,

"IRIS YORKE."


David narrowly escaped an apoplectic seizure.  When he recovered his
senses he looked ten years older.  The instinct of self-preservation
alone saved him in his frenzy from blurting forth the tidings of the
girl's flight.  Incoherent with fear and passion, he contrived to give
orders for his carriage, and was driven to his office.  Thence he
dispatched telegrams to every signaling station in England, Ireland,
and Spain, at which by the remotest possibility the _Andromeda_ might
be intercepted.  Quadrille.

20th.--Richard the man went for a week to the Peasemarch to be aired;
he catched the smallpox coming to us. Paid for a cheesecake for
Jacky, 1d.

22nd.--War with France proclaimed at Guildford; the soldiers drawn
up in arms, and with music went before the Mayor, &c. Went to see the
wire-dancer; he tossed the straw very well, he laid a board on the
wire and sat on it himself with three children and a dog in full
swing; on the whole quite silly.

23rd, Sunday.

--To Stoke Church, afterwards to the Bowling-green, and had a syllabub
with Rawlins, Ford, Mellersh, Mersing, W.
Parson, Hallomby, and Elkins. Walked up the Velvet Walk with
them.
25th.--Sir Charles Howard reviewed his regiment in the Artillery
Ground.She figured in the "overdue" list at Lloyd's; sharp-eyed underwriters
did "specs" in her; woe-begone women began to haunt the Liverpool
office for news of husbands and sons; the love-lorn Dickey wore Verity
to a shadow of his former self by alternate pleadings and threats; but
the _Andromeda_ remained mute, and the fanciful letters from Iris
became fewer and more fragmentary as David's imagination failed, and
his excuses grew thinner.

And the odd thing was that if David had only known it, he could have
saved himself all this heart-burning and misery by looking through the
dining-room window on that Sunday afternoon when his prospects seemed
to be so rosy.  He never thought of that.  He cursed every circumstance
and person impartially and fluently, but he omitted from the Satanic
litany the one girlish prank of tree-climbing that led Iris to spring
out of sight amid the sheltering arms of an elm when her uncle and
Captain Coke deemed the summer-house a suitable place for "a plain talk
as man to man."

So David learnt what it meant to wait, and listen, and start
expectantly when postman's knock or telegraph messenger's imperative
summons sounded on door of house or office.

But he waited long in vain.  The _Andromeda_, like her namesake of old,
might have been chained to a rock on some mythical island guarded by
the father of all sea serpents.  As for a new Perseus, well--David knew
him not.


CHAPTER II

WHEREIN THE "ANDROMEDA" BEGINS HER VOYAGE

The second officer of the _Andromeda_ was pacing the bridge with the
slow alertness of responsibility.  He would walk from port to
starboard, glance forrard and aft, peer at the wide crescent of the
starlit sea, stroll back to port, and again scan ship and horizon.
Sometimes he halted in front of the binnacle lamp to make certain that
the man at the wheel was keeping the course, South 15 West, set by
Captain Coke shortly before midnight.  His ears listened mechanically
to the steady pulse-beats of the propeller; his eyes swept the vague
plain of the ocean for the sparkling white diamond that would betoken a
mast-head light; he was watchful and prepared for any unforeseen
emergency that might beset the vessel intrusted to his care.  But his
mind dwelt on something far removed from his duties, though, to be
sure, every poet who ever scribbled four lines of verse has found rhyme
and reason in comparing women with stars, and ships, and the sea.

If Philip Hozier was no poet, he was a sailor, and sailors are
notoriously susceptible to the charms of the softer sex.  But the only
woman he loved was his mother, the only bride he could look for during
many a year was a mermaid, though these sprites of the deep waters seem
to be frequenting undiscovered haunts since mariners ceased to woo the
wind.  For all that, if perforce he was heart-whole, there was no just
cause or impediment why he should not admire a pretty girl when he saw
one, and an exceedingly pretty girl had honored him with her company
during a brief minute of the previous day.

He was superintending the safe disposal of the last batch of cotton
goods in the forward hold--and had just found it necessary to explain
the correct principles of stowage with sailor-like fluency--when a
young lady, accompanied by a dock laborer carrying a leather
portmanteau, spoke to him from the quay.

"Is Captain Coke on board?" said she.

"No, madam," said he, lifting his cap with one hand, and restraining
the clanking of a steam windlass with the other.

"I am Mr. Verity's niece, and I wish to send this parcel to Monte
Video--may I put it in some place where it will be safe?" said she.

Hoping that the rattling winch had drowned his earlier remarks--which
were couched in an _lingua franca_ of the high seas--he began to tell
her that it would give him the utmost pleasure to take charge of it on
her account, but she nodded, bade the porter follow, ran along a
somewhat precarious gangway, and was on deck before he could offer any
assistance.

"You are Mr. Hozier, I suppose?" said Iris, gazing with frank brown
eyes into his frank blue ones.  She, of course, was severely
self-possessed; he, as is the way of mere man, grew more confused each
instant.

"Well, I will just pop the bag into Captain Coke's stateroom, and leave
this note with it.  I have explained everything fully.  I wrote a line
in case he might be absent."

All of which was so strictly accurate that it served its purpose
admirably, though the said purpose, it is regrettable to state, was the
misleading and utter bamboozling of Philip Hozier.  Miss Iris Yorke
knew quite well that Captain Coke was then closeted with David Verity
in Exchange Buildings; she knew, because she had watched him pass
through the big swing doors of her uncle's office.  She also knew,
having made it her business to find out, that in fifteen minutes, or
less, the crew would muster in the fo'c'sle for their mid-day meal.
Not having heard a word of Hozier's free speech to the gentlemen of
various nationalities at the bottom of the hold, she wondered why he
was blushing.

"Shall I show you the way?" asked Philip, finding his tongue.

"No, thank you.  I have been on board the _Andromeda_ many times.  Ah,
Peter, I see you.  What is it to-day, scouse or lobscouse?"

"Scouse, miss," said the ship's cook, grinning widely at her
recollection of the line drawn by both his patrons and himself between
ship's biscuit stewed with fresh meat and the same article flavored
with salt junk.

Peter's recognition placed Iris's identity beyond doubt.  She said
nothing more to Hozier, but tripped up the companionway.  Soon he saw
her paying the man who had carried the portmanteau.  She herself seemed
to be in no hurry.  Blenman, also of the Bar, and Mr. Fanshawe, but
they rose to be chief clerks. His usual attendance was from 11 to 3.
He took a house in Holles Street, and settled there December 14th,
but in the following year he moved to Great Russell Street

.

{43} This child died in July,
{44} After a Royal birth caudle was given to the Clerks of the
Green Cloth and others in office at St.

James's.

{45} Of Bury Hill, now Mr. Barclay's.

{46} Of the Rookery, now Mr. Fuller's. His son, Thomas Robert Malthus,
was the great writer on Population.

His youngest daughter married Mr. Bray's son Edward.

{47} His son Edward, who married Miss Malthus, and left a large family.
His other sons died in childhood. Mr. Bray had no collateral
relations of his name after the death of his uncle and brothers
within many generations. His ancestor, Sir Edward Bray, was the heir
male of Edmund, Lord Bray, and succeeded to the family estates;
but the title descended to Lord Bray's daughters, and was in
abeyance until obtained by the late Baroness Bray.

Mr. Bray was one of the few descendants then living of Sir Thomas
More, whose granddaughter, the daughter of Margaret Roper, married Sir
Edward Bray. His two daughters, Mary and Catherine, were not
married.

{48} He was now getting into the society of literary men.

{49} Afterwards Admiral Brodrick.

{50} He had entered into partnership with his friend Mr.

Jenkins, whose chambers were in New Inn.

{51} The Guildford Races were then in May.

{52} Mr. Sturt was a barrister, and a relation of Mr. Bray's. Mr.
Budgen, Mr. Talbot, and Mr. Scawen, were trustees of the charity.

{53} A tour with Mr. Jenkins to Oxford, Bath, Gloucester, Salisbury,
Blenheim, Fonthill, Longleat, Chepstow, &c. They hired a carriage
and horses for the journey; and, in a rhyming letter to his wife,
he writes:-
'We hired from friend Bryant a very good chaise, Intending thus
travelling quite at our ease.
James was mounted behind on a fine prancing steed, To take care of
the baggage and help us if need.'
Mr. Bray wrote a particular description of Fonthill, Stourton, and
other houses visited.
{54} Some of his intimate friends dined with him every week. The
dinner was over at 5 or 6, and he often went afterwards to a
coffee-house. He also went frequently to the theatres, and sometimes
in the summer to Vauxhall. His mornings were spent at the Board of
Green Cloth or in New Inn.
{55} The house which Mr. Jacobson built, called 'Lonesome,' has
been pulled downThough she addressed him with that absence of
restraint which is a heaven-sent attribute of every young woman when
circumstances compel her to speak to a strange young man--though her
tone to the more favored cook was kindly, and even sprightly--though
Philip himself was red and inclined to stammer--despite all these
hindrances to clear judgment, he felt that she was troubled in spirit.
His acquaintance with women was of the slightest, since a youth who is
taught his business on the _Conway_, and means to attach himself to one
of the great Trans-Atlantic shipping lines, has no time to spare for
dalliance in boudoirs.  But it gave him a thrill when he heard that
this charming girl knew his name, and it seemed to him, for an instant,
that she was looking into his very soul, analyzing him, searching for
some sign that he was not as others, which meant that there were some
whom she had bitter cause to distrust.  He and his descendants
were among the best clients of Mr. Bray's office.

{100} The thermometer fell one and a half degree below zero

.

{101} As one of the Clerks at the Board of Green Cloth he had to
collect the land tax from the Officers of State.He would contrive to take on his own
shoulders its mission in Monte Video; then, on returning to Liverpool,
he would have an excuse for calling on her.  He did not know her name
yet.  Possibly, Captain Coke would mention that interesting fact when
his temper lost its raw edge.  As a last resource, the cook might
enlighten him.

