But the kindness and deference with which we were treated, and the new
wonders that were shown to us in the capital, gradually drove Ingra from
our minds. Now we were permitted to enter the temples without opposition,
our presence there according with our new character of "children of the
sun." We saw the worship that was offered before the solar images by
family parties, and attended, as favored guests, the periodical
ceremonies in the great temple. Edmund confessed that the high priest
greatly embarrassed him by staring into his eyes, and plainly assuming
that he knew things of which he was profoundly ignorant.

"The hardest thing I ever undertook," he said, "is to hold my mind in
suspense during these trying interviews, when he endeavors to read the
depths of my soul, and I to throw a veil over them which he cannot
penetrate."

In some way, Edmund discovered that the high priest and all the priests
connected with the sun worship (and they certainly bore a family
likeness) belonged to a special race, whose roots ran back into the most
remote antiquity, and about whose persons clung a sacredness that placed
them, in some respects, above the royal family itself. We frequently
visited the great library, where Edmund undertook a study of the language
of the printed rolls, though what he made of it I never clearly
understood. BERTHA [Trying to escape]. Help, Mother, help, he wants to kill
me.

NURSE [Comes in]. Mr. Adolf, what is it?

CAPTAIN [Examining revolver]. Have you taken out the cartridges?

NURSE. Yes, I put them away when I was tidying up, but sit down and
be quiet and I'll get them out again!
[She takes the Captain by the arm and gets him into a chair, into
which he sinks feebly. Then she takes out the straitjacket and goes
behind the chair. Bertha slips out left.] 
NURSE. Mr.He fitted up a laboratory of his own in which he labored sometimes for
twenty hours at a stretch, and at last he brought to us the astonishing
invention he had made.

I can make no pretense of understanding it; although Edmund declared
that, in substance, it was no more wonderful than a telephone. The
machine consisted of a little metal box. (He made three of them, and I
have mine yet, but it will not work on the earth, and it lies on my table
as I write, serving for the most wonderful paper weight that a man ever
possessed.) When this box was pressed against the ear in front of one of
the revolving disks that threw out blending colors, or in the presence of
a "singing" bird, the most divine harmonies seemed to awake _in the
brain_. I cannot make the slightest approach to a description of the
marvelous phenomenon. One felt his whole being infused with ecstatic
joy. It was the very soul of music itself, celestial, ineffable! The
wonder-box also enabled us to catch many sounds peculiar to the
atmosphere of Venus, formed of vibrations, as Edmund had explained, that
lie outside our gamut. But to these, apart from the music, I could never
listen. They were _too_ abnormal, filling one with inexplicable terror,
as if he had been snatched out of nature and compelled to listen to the
sounds of a preternatural world. The only sound that I ever heard with my
natural ear which bore the slightest resemblance to these was the awful
piercing whistle of the monster that killed Ala's man.

Yet we derived immense pleasure from the possession of those little
boxes. With their aid, we could appreciate the exquisite melodies that
were played everywhere--in great halls where thousands were assembled, in
the temples great and small, and in the homes of the people, to which we
were often admitted. In every house there was on one of the walls a
"musical rose," whose harmonies entranced the visitor. And the variety of
musical _motifs_ seemed to be absolutely without limit. One was never
tired of the entertainment because there was so little repetition.

