SISTERS by Ada Cambridge


CHAPTER I.


Guthrie Carey began life young. He was not a week over twenty-one when,
between two voyages, he married Lily Harrison, simply because she was a
poor, pretty, homeless little girl, who had to earn her living as a
nondescript lady-help in hard situations, and never had a holiday. He
saw her in a Sandridge boarding-house, slaving beyond her powers, and
made up his mind that she should rest. With sailor zeal and
promptitude, he got the consent of her father, who was glad to be rid
of her out of the way of a new wife; took the trembling, clinging child
to the nearest parson, and made her a pensioner on his small wages in a
tiny lodging of her own. They honeymooned for a fortnight, off and on,
as his ship could spare him--the happiest pair of mortals in the wide
world--and then parted in tears and anguish unspeakable for the best
part of a twelvemonth.

He came back to find himself a father. Wonderful experience for
twenty-one! Never was such a heavenly mystery of a child! Never such an
angelic young mother!--eighteen, and with the bloom of that most
beautifying convalescence like a halo about her. He was first mate now,
with a master's certificate and a raised salary; it was time to make a
home. So while she nursed the baby in Sandridge--with the aid of a
devoted friend, the landlady's cousin--Guthrie Carey busied himself
across the way at Williamstown, fixing up a modest house. He also had a
devoted friend, in the person of a Customs officer, whose experienced
wife took charge of the operations. Lily was to see nothing until all
was ready for her. It was to be a "pleasant surprise".

The last touches had been given--tea put in the caddy, meat and butter
in the safe, flowers in the vases. Mrs Hardacre, in her best gown,
spread a festive supper-table, and Bill, her spouse, stood by with a
Government launch to take the proud young husband to his wife, and to
bring them back together.

Lily awaited him, trembling, tearful, wild with the joy of going home.
Her step-mother had come to Sandridge to see her off, and had brought
her a present of a macintosh, on the merits of which she dilated with
fervour as she twirled it round and round.

"Buttons right down to the feet," she urged persuasively, "and cape
hanging below the waist"--the second Mrs Harrison was a big woman.
"You might go through a deluge in it. And so stylish, my dear! You can
wear it when you go out in threatening weather of an afternoon, and be
quite smart."

The daring and success of that foreign adventure of mine had, with the
aid of Colonel and Clara Goodwin, convinced the squire of the folly
of standing between me and him I loved.

It was considered the best sign possible that he should take me
down on an inspection of his various estates and his great coal-mine,
and introduce me as the heir who would soon relieve him of the
task.

Perhaps he thought the smell of wealth a promising cure for such
fits of insubordination as I had exhibited.

My occasional absences on my own account were winked at. On my return the
squire was sour and snappish, I cheerful and complaisant; I grew
cold, and he solicitous; he would drink my health with a challenge
to heartiness, and I drank to him heartily and he relapsed to a fit
of sulks, informing me, that in his time young men knew when they
were well off, and asking me whether I was up to any young men's
villanies, had any concealed debts perchance, because, if so--Oh!

he knew the ways of youngsters, especially when they fell into bad
hands:
the list of bad titles rumbled on in an underbreath like cowardly
thunder:--well, to cut the matter short, because, if so, his
cheque-book was at my service; didn't I know that, eh?

Not being immediately distressed by debt, I did not exhibit the gush of
gratitude, and my sedate 'Thank you, sir,' confused his appeal for some
sentimental show of affection.

I am sure the poor old man suffered pangs of jealousy; I could even at
times see into his breast and pity him.

He wanted little more than to be managed; but a youth when he
perceives absurdity in opposition to him chafes at it as much as
if he were unaware that it is laughable.

Had the squire talked to me in those days seriously and fairly of my
father's character, I should have abandoned my system of defence
to plead for him as before a judge.

By that time I had gained the knowledge that my father was totally
of a different construction from other men.

I wished the squire to own simply to his loveable nature.
"No, no, Mr Carey, I'm going to carry him," said the landlady's cousin,
a strapping young woman, whose arms were equal to the task--"as far as
the boat, at any rate."

She did so, the elder ladies supporting her on either side. Guthrie and
Lily led the procession, hand in hand.

Ah, how like another world it was, coming out upon that breezy platform
from the gutter-smelling streets! And how royal a proceeding it seemed
to Lily to be, the setting apart of a Government vessel solely and
entirely to convey her to her new abode, as if she were a little queen
going to her husband's kingdom. She could not help holding herself with
dignity, if not with a trifle of vaingloriousness, as, between
half-a-dozen eager hands and admiring eyes, she stepped down into it.

"Now, have you got everything?" the landlady called from the pier. "Oh,
everything--everything in the world!" Guthrie shouted, in reply.

"Where's your waterproof, Lily?" screeched the step-mother. "Better put
it on, my dear; and I'd advise you to sit under cover, both of you.
You'll be drenched if you don't, in this wind. Why, Mr Hardacre, it's
blowing a perfect gale!"

"A bit fresh, ma'am," Bill admitted; "just enough to keep us
lively. All aboard, Mr Casey? Pass the word, sir, when you're ready."

"Ready!" called Guthrie. And then he said something to the men, Bill
Hardacre and his mate Dugald Finlayson, about having everything on
board--all his life and happiness, or something to that effect--at
which they laughed and chaffed him as the launch backed from the pier,
and started off in the tearing hurry characteristic of Customs boats.

Lily was in the cabin with the baby and the landlady's cousin, who had
'got round' Mr Hardacre to give her a return passage, after seeing the
little family safe home. Husband and wife had frowned at the suggestion
of having her with them on the launch, but when they had shut her in
out of sight and hearing, and found themselves free to follow their own
devices untrammelled by their child, they did not mind so much.

"Hadn't you better--?" Guthrie began, when his wife reappeared,
clinging to the door-jamb; but she exclaimed again:

"No, no! Let me be outside with you!" She wanted to feel "at sea" with
him, to bathe herself, under the shelter of his protection, in the
magnificent, tempestuous, inspiring night. To her, cooped up all her
life in streets and prosaic circumstances, there was something in the
present situation too poetical for words. No bride who had married
money, and was setting out by P. & O. upon her luxurious European tour,
could have been more keenly sensible of the romance of foreign travel
than she, crossing Hobson's Bay in a borrowed Customs launch; while the
squally darkness surrounding and isolating her and her mate
immeasurably enhanced the charm. "I want to see it--to feel it!" she
pleaded. "The air is so clean and fresh! The sea is so grand tonight!
How beautiful it smells! Guthrie, I must have been born for a sailor's
wife--I love it so!"

"Of course you were," the sailor assented heartily. "No manner of doubt
about that. Well, sit here, if you prefer it, sweetheart"--on the
stern grating--"only mind you don't catch cold. And don't let us get
that pretty frock spoiled before the Williamstown folks have seen it."

He steadied her while she stood to have the big macintosh drawn closely
about her--the round cape, flapping far and wide in the rough wind,
was like an unmanageable sail, he said--and when she was again seated,
he tucked it about her knees and feet. Buttons being hard to find and
fasten, he pulled the two fronts of the garment one over the other
across her lap, and she sat upon the outer one. Then he readjusted the
white fascinator, winding the fluffy ends round her neck, and finally
encircling all with his stalwart arm. There she sat, resting against
him, her left hand in his left hand, her contented eyes shining like
stars in the dark. They were practically alone in space, their deck
companions having thoughtfully turned their backs and made themselves
as remote as possible.

A long sigh fluttered through Lily's parted lips from her surcharged
heart. Guthrie heard it through all the clamour of the gale--for it
really was a gale--and the noise of the screw and fiercely snorting
funnel. He stopped his face to hers.

"Tired, pet?"

"No," she murmured, "oh, no!"

"What, then?"

"Only happy--PERFECTLY happy."

"Same here," he said, careless how he tempted Fate--"only more so."

Their lips met, and were holding that sweetest kiss of lovers that are
man and wife, when a wave, driven by the wind, flung a shower of spray
at them, giving each a playful slap of the face as a hint not to be too
confident.

"Hadn't you better get inside?" he urged, as he wiped her cheek.

"It'll be rougher still directly." "Oh, no, it's splendid! The rougher
the better. I'm so glad it's rough. I can't take any harm, so well
wrapped up, and with you, my husband."

"Ah, Lil!" The hug he gave her in acknowledgment of the word made her
gasp for breath. He was so carried away that he had to use both arms,
whereby a lurch of the boat nearly unseated him. "Never," he declared,
in an intense whisper--"never shall you come to harm, my precious one,
while you've got me to protect you; I can promise you that."

"Dear," she returned, in the same kind of tone, "I know I never shall."

And she cuddled closer up to him, and he took a firmer grip of her.
There was no rail for either to hold to, and drawing out from the
shelter of the pier, and meeting the force of the southerly swell, the
launch had begun to dance like a cork on boiling water.

"Why, there's quite a sea on," remarked Guthrie, with a laugh. "I hope
it won't make you sea-sick."

"Sea-sick!" she echoed, with fine scorn. "I am a sailor's wife, sir."

"Bless your little heart, I've been sea-sick myself many a time,
and for not much more than this, either. However, it'll soon be over.
There's home waiting for us, Lil--"

"Where? Where?" she interrupted him, with a tender eagerness. The
launch was tossed high in the air, and the lights of Williamstown
stretched across the darkness in front of them like a band of jewels.

"Oh, you can't distinguish it," said Guthrie, "but it's there--it's
one of those lights; Mrs Hardacre said she was going to keep the blind
up and the gas flaring, so that we might see it as we came over."

"That's what I shall do when you come back next time," said the girl,
with a voice like a dove cooing. "Make a beacon to guide you home."

"No fear that I shall mistake the course, little woman."

He had an irresistible impulse to hug her with both arms again, and
they happened to be on the verge of the river current. Hardacre and
Finlayson both shouted, "Look out, sir!" but he was not looking out--
his sailor eyes were otherwise occupied, and so he did not perceive the
enemy of love making the spring to seize him. Just as he was folding
his mate to his breast, he heard the warning cry for'ard, and it was
then too late to avert the catastrophe. In the same instant a sudden
wave struck the launch, and nearly turned her over, and the young wife
and husband, holding to nothing but one another, and simply sitting
upon an unprotected plank, were tipped out as easily as balls from a
capsized basket.

"Oh, this is too absurd!"

That was Guthrie's mental ejaculation in the astonishing first
moment. A deep-sea sailor, who had come through what he had come
through, to let himself be caught unawares by such a paltry mischance
as this! Then, what an unspeakable ass to have been so careless--to
have shown himself incapable of protecting his wife, after all his
boasts! Would he ever hear the last of it as long as he lived? Poor
little woman! How cold the water felt when he thought of her tender
skin. And her pretty dress, that she had set such store by, in which
she had intended to go to church with him on Sunday--utterly
destroyed, of course! Well, he must make shift to afford her another
and smarter one, and get it made quickly. She should have her pick and
choice. As the following wave soused his uprising head, slapping him
full in the face, so as to confuse and blind him for a second or two,
the fear that she might get "a dose of it" before they could pull her
out made him sharply anxious. If she got a bad cold, a shock to her
nerves, perhaps a serious illness, he would never forgive himself. And
what a sell that would be--what waste of this precious holiday, this
second honeymoon, so much sweeter than the first--after the weary
waiting for it!

He cleared his eyes, and had a momentary view of the surroundings
before another wave rushed upon him. Waves they were, by George! He
would not have believed it possible that such a sea would be running
right up here, in this little duck-pond of a bay. It had seemed rough
on the boat, but viewed from the surface, it might have been the middle
of Atlantic wastes. They were in the river channel--worse luck!and he
filled the jug again and put it to the man's lips.

He then turned away and already held the door-latch in his hand when
Steelpacha called to him, "Oh, sir, come back to me! You have twice
acted nobly by me; prove yourself a man a third time and I will give
you a third life. Take this jug, fill it to the brim, and pour it over
my head; and for this labour of love I will give you a third life."
When the Prince heard this he turned back, took the jug, filled it with
water, and poured it over the man's head. The moment the water touched
him the chains about his neck fell asunder and all the bonds which
held him were unloosed. Quick as lightning Steelpacha sprang up,
spread a pair of wings, flew out of the window, snatched up the Princess,
the wife of his deliverer, took flight with her under his wing, and in
a moment had disappeared from view. That was a prodigy indeed!

The Prince now looked forward with deepest dread to the Emperor's
return. However, when the Emperor came home, the Prince told the whole
story exactly as it had happened. The Emperor was beside
himself with grief. "Why did you do thus?" said he reproachfully.
"Did I not expressly forbid you to enter the ninth room?"
The Prince answered soothingly, "Don't be angry with me. I will go at
once to seek Steelpacha and rescue my wife from him."
The Emperor tried to dissuade him from this plan.

"Don't do that," said he; "you shall on no account move a step from this
place. You have no idea who Steelpacha is. Many an army and much
treasure did I waste before I got him in my power. So remain quietly
with me. I will provide another wife for you. And don't be
unhappy; I love you as my own son."
But the Prince was deaf to all these persuasions, and adhered to his
first resolution. He provided himself with the necessary money,
mounted his horse, and went forth into the world to seek
Steelpacha.

For a long time he wandered about, and at last he arrived at a city.

He was gazing around with some curiosity, when suddenly a woman called
to him from a balcony, "You Prince, get down from your horse and come
into the court!"
As the Prince entered the court the woman came to meet him. He looked
narrowly at her and recognized his eldest sister. They flew into each
other's arms and lavished sweet kisses upon each other.

The sister was the first to speak. "Come out upon the balcony with me,
brother."
When they were upon the balcony the Prince asked his sister whom she
had married, and she answered, "I am married to the Emperor of the
Dragons. My husband is himself a Dragon. So, brother, it would be worth
your while to hide, for my husband often says he would cut his
brothers-in-law in small bits if he ever laid eyes upon them. Let
me first question him; if he promises to do you no harm I will tell
him of your arrival."
So said and so done. The sister concealed her brother and his horse.
The evening drew on. The Dragon's supper was ready; they were
awaiting his arrival, when at last he came. When he flew in the whole
earth was bathed in blinding light; but he had hardly entered when he
called to his wife:

"Wife, I smell men's bones. Who is here? Tell me quick!"
"No one is here," she answered.

"That is not possible," said he.

Upon this the wife said, "I want to ask you a question, and do you answer
me truly and honestly. Would you do any harm to my brothers if they
happened to come here?"
The Dragon-emperor answered, "I would have the eldest and the second
killed and roasted, but I would do nothing to the youngest."
Upon this she said, "My youngest brother, your brother-in-law, is
arrived."

When the Dragon-emperor heard this he cried, "Out with him, then!" And
when the sister brought her brother from his hiding-place the Emperor
ran to meet him and showered kisses upon him.

"Welcome here, brother-in-law!"
"God be with you, sister's husband!"
"Where were you hiding?"

"Here I am!" And he told him the object of his journey, from beginning
to end.

The Dragon-emperor said to him, "You are running the greatest
risk, God help you! The day before yesterday Steelpacha flew past with
your wife. I was awaiting him with seven thousand dragons, but we could
not overcome him. I adjure you, let that fiend alone. I will give you
money to your heart's desire; just go quietly home."
But the Prince would not hear a word of this advice, and emphatically
declared that he would continue his journey on the morrow. When the
Emperor saw that he could not prevent him, nor induce him to turn
back, he drew a feather out of his wing and gave it to his
brother-in-law, with these words:
"Give good heed to what I now tell you.

Take this feather of mine, and if you come across Steelpacha and
find yourself in great danger, then burn my feather; that very moment
I will come to your aid with the whole strength of my army."

The Prince concealed the feather in a safe place and went his way.
He travelled on and on until he reached a second great city. Here
again, as he was going through the city, a woman called to him from
a balcony.

"Ho, there, you Prince, dismount from your horse and come into the
court!"

The Prince rode into the court. Behold, who comes to meet him? It is
his second sister! They rush into each other's arms and kiss each other
heartily. Then the sister led her brother into the castle.

When she had put the horse into the stable she asked the object of his
journey, and he told her the whole story of his adventures, finally
asking her, "And whom have you married, dear sister?"
She answered, "I am married to the Emperor of the Falcons. He will
come home to-night.

But I must carefully conceal you, for he is furious against my brothers."
So saying, she concealed the Prince.

In a little while the Falcon-emperor came home, and the whole city
quaked with the tumult of his approach. Supper was served at once, but
not before he had cried to his wife, "I smell men's flesh!"
The wife answered, "What are you thinking of, husband?"
At last, after talking for some time of this thing and that, she asked
him, "Would you do any harm to my brothers if they were to come here?"

The Emperor said, "It would surely go hard with the eldest and the
second, but I would do nothing to the youngest." Then she told him
of her youngest brother's arrival.

The Falcon-emperor commanded his wife to bring her brother before him,
and as soon as he beheld him he fell upon his neck and kissed him.

"Welcome, dear brother-in-law!"
"A lucky and joyful meeting, dear sister's husband!" answered the
Prince; upon which they sat down to supper.

After supper the Emperor asked his brother-in-law concerning the object
of his journey, and the Prince replied that he was seeking Steelpacha,
and told him all his adventures. But the Emperor began to counsel
him.

"Give up your journey," said he. "Just let me tell you something about
Steelpacha. That very day on which he stole your wife I was awaiting
him with five thousand falcons, and waged a fearful battle with him.
Blood flowed knee-deep around us, yet we could not prevail against
him.

And how shall you, a single man, overmaster him? So I give you this
well-meant advice: Go back home. So much of my treasure as your heart
desires is yours; take it and go."
But the Prince answered, "Hearty thanks for your offer, but go back
with my task unperformed I will not. No, never!

I must yet find Steelpacha."

For he thought to himself, "Why should I not? Have I not three lives?"

When the Falcon-emperor became convinced that he could not move
him from his purpose he drew a feather out of his wing and gave it to
him, with these words, "Here, take this feather of mine, and if you come
into great danger strike a fire and burn it I will come at once to your
aid with all my forces."
So the Prince took the feather and set forth to seek Steelpacha.

For a long time he went up and down through the wide world, until at
last he reached a third city. He had hardly entered it when a woman
called to him from a balcony, "Dismount and come into the court!"

The Prince turned his horse and rode into the court. Behold, there
was his youngest sister! They fell into each other's arms and lavished
kisses upon each other. She led the horse into the stable, the
brother into the castle. Then the Prince asked, "Sister, whom have you
married?"
And she answered, "My consort is the Emperor of the Eagles; it is he
whom I have married."
When the Eagle-emperor came home that night his wife met him
affectionately; but he paid no attention to her greeting, but asked
her, "What man has come into my castle? Tell me at once!"
She answered, "There is no one here," and they sat down to supper.

During supper she asked him, as if by chance, "Would you do any
harm to my brothers if they should suddenly arrive?"

The Emperor answered, "The eldest and the second I should kill without
hesitation, but not the youngest. On the contrary, I would hasten to
his aid at any time, as far as it was in my power."
Then she said to the Emperor, "My youngest brother is come to pay us a
visit."
The Emperor commanded that he should be presented at once, went to meet
him and greeted him with "Welcome, dear brother-in-law!"
The other answered, "A lucky and joyful meeting, dear sister's husband!"

So they sat down to the table.

After supper they talked of one thing and another, and at last the Prince
told them that he was seeking for Steelpacha. When the Eagle-emperor
heard this he said everything he could think of to dissuade him
from this idea.

"Dear brother-in-law," said he, "leave that fiend alone and give up your
journey. Stay, rather, here with me; you shall be made happy in
every respect."
But the Prince paid no heed to his words, and as soon as morning
dawned he made ready and set off to seek Steelpacha. But before
he went away the Eagle-emperor, who saw that he could not turn him
from his purpose, drew forth a feather from his wing and said:

"Take this feather, brother-in-law, and if ever you are in need or danger,
strike a fire and burn it.

I will come at once with my eagles to help you."
The Prince put the feather in his pocket and set forth.

Thus he roved around the world from city to city, going ever farther
and farther till at last one day he discovered his wife in a cavern.

She was not a little surprised to see him, and cried out to him,
"In the name of heaven, husband, how came you here?"

He hastily told her his adventures, and added, "Wife, my wife! Quick,
let us flee!"

But she hesitated. "Where shall we go, since Steelpacha can overtake
us in a moment? He will kill you on the spot, and bring me back here
again."

But the Prince, being mindful of the three lives which Steelpacha
had given him, still coaxed his wife to flee, and they set out. Hardly
had they started when Steelpacha heard of it, gave rapid chase, and
overtook them.

"Oho, little Prince!" he cried out, "you would steal my wife, would you?"

He tore her away from the Prince, and continued, "This time I give
you your life, for I have not forgotten that I promised you three
lives; but go now, and never come back again after her, for if you
do your life is at stake."

With these words Steelpacha took the woman away, while the Prince
remained alone, in doubt what to do next. At last he resolved to go
after his wife again.

When he arrived near the cavern he waited for his opportunity till
Steelpacha should be gone away; and once more he fled, taking his
wife with him.

Steelpacha soon heard of it, pursued after them, overtook them,
fitted an arrow to his bow, and cried out, "Would you rather that I
kill you with this arrow, or shall I cut you down with my sword?"

The Prince began to beg with all his might, and Steelpacha said to him,
"This second time I give you your life, but let me tell you one thing:
don't you try again to carry away this woman, for I will not again
give you your life, but will kill you on the spot as dead as a
mouse."

With these words he seized the woman and carried her away, while
the Prince again remained alone, always planning how to rescue his
wife.

Finally he said to himself, "After all, why should I be afraid?

I still have two lives--that one which he gave me and the one I had
before."

So he resolved to go back to his wife the next day when Steelpacha
was absent.

"Come," he said to her, "let us flee!" She objected that it was useless
to flee, since they would be at once overtaken; but he constrained
her to go with him.

But very soon Steelpacha overtook them, and cried out to the Prince,
"Wait, just wait! I will never forgive you this!" The Prince was
terrified and began to beg for mercy, but Steelpacha silenced him.

"You remember that I gave you three lives? All right; now I give you
the third, and you have nothing more to expect from me. So go home
in peace, and beware of hazarding the life which God lent you."
When the Prince saw that he was powerless against the might of Steelpacha
he turned back homeward with a heavy heart. Suddenly he
remembered what his brothers-in-law had said to him when they gave him
the feathers, and he said to himself, "Come what come may, I will
go once more to rescue my wife, and in case of need I will burn the
feathers and call my brothers-in-law to my assistance."

So said and so done.

He went back to the cavern and saw his wife in Steelpacha's arms. He
waited around till the latter had gone away, and then showed himself
to his wife.

She was not a little frightened, and cried out in terror, "In the name
of heaven! Is life so hateful that you come back again for me?"
He calmed her and told her that his brothers-in-law had promised to
help him in utmost need. "And therefore," said he, "I am come for
you once more; make ready to flee."
She did so, and they hastened away; but Steelpacha soon got news
of their flight, and cried to them from afar, "Just wait, little
Prince; you haven't escaped me yet!"

But as soon as the Prince saw Steelpacha he drew the three feathers
and his tinder-box out of his pocket, struck a light, and kindled
the feathers one by one.

But while they were kindling Steelpacha overtook him, drew his
sword, and cleft the Prince in half.

That very moment what a prodigy occurred! There came flying the
Dragon-emperor with his dragons, the Falcon-emperor with his falcons,
and the Eagle-emperor with all his eagles, and waged battle with
Steelpacha.

Blood flowed in streams, but fortune favoured Steelpacha, and he made
off safely, carrying his prize, the Princess, with him.

The three emperors now took counsel over their brother-in-law's body,
and decided to recall him to life. So they summoned three of the
swiftest dragons and asked which one of them could most speedily
bring some water from the river Jordan. The first one said, "I can do
it within half an hour;" the second said, "I can do it in a quarter
of an hour;" the third said, "I will have it here in nine minutes."

The emperors said to this one, "Then set out, Dragon, as fast as possible."

The Dragon put forth all his impetuous strength, and truly within nine
minutes he brought back the water from the Jordan. The emperors took
the water, poured it over the two portions of the Prince's body
and scarcely had the water touched them when the young man sprang
upon his feet, safe and sound, as if nothing had happened to him.

The emperors then counselled him, "Now go back home, since you have
been restored to life!"

But the Prince answered that he must once more try his luck, and, by one
means or another, free his wife from the clutches of that fiend.
His imperial brothers-in-law remonstrated:

"Do give it up! You will surely perish this time, for you have no life
at command except the one God lent you!"
But for all answer the Prince remained dumb.

Then the emperors said, "All right; if you are bent upon trying again,
come what come may, at least don't attempt to get your wife away
by flight, but beg her to wheedle Steelpacha into telling her wherein
his strength lies.

Then bring us word, that we may help you to get the best of him."

So the Prince stole secretly to his wife and told her how she should
coax Steelpacha to tell her the secret of his strength. Then he betook
himself to some place of safety.

When Steelpacha came home the Princess beset him with questions. "In
heaven's name, do tell me wherein your strength lies!"
Steelpacha answered, "My pretty wife, my strength lies in my sword."

Then the Princess prayed to the sword as if to God. At sight of
this Steelpacha burst into a mocking laugh and said to her, "Oh,
you simple woman!

my strength lies not in my sword but in my arrow."
Therefore she fell upon her knees before the arrow and began to pray
to it. Then Steelpacha said, "My wife, some one must have well
taught you how to coax from me the secret of my strength. If your husband
were alive I should say it was he who had taught you."

But she swore by body and soul that no one had taught her, no one had
been there.

After several days her husband came again, and she told him that thus
far it had been impossible to learn from Steelpacha wherein
his strength lay. But the Prince answered, "Try again," and went
away.

When Steelpacha came home she asked him anew wherein his strength
lay.

Upon which he answered her, "Since I see that you have a high respect
for my strength, I will confess the truth about it."

Then he told her: "Far from here is a mountain-peak. On this
mountain-peak lives a Fox. The Fox has a heart in which a bird is
concealed; this bird holds my strength.

But that Fox is very hard to catch, for he has many transformations."
The next day, when Steelpacha was away from home, the Prince came
again to his wife to learn what he had told her. She repeated
everything carefully, and the Prince went straight away to his
brothers-in-law with the much-longed-for news. They received it with
joy, and at once set out with the Prince to go to that
mountain-peak.

Arrived there, they set the eagles upon the Fox, which immediately
took refuge in a lake and there changed himself into a gull with
six wings.

But the falcons gave battle to the gull and drove him thence.

He flew high amid the clouds, the falcons ever following. In a trice
the gull changed himself into a fox again and tried to escape into
the earth; but, falling into the power of the eagles and all the
rest of the mighty host, he was surrounded and taken prisoner.

Then the emperors commanded that the Fox should be cut open and his heart
taken out. A fire was kindled, the heart cut open, and the bird taken
out and cast into the flames. As soon as the bird was burned Steelpacha
vanished forever.

So the Prince took his wife and went happily home.

_The Buried Moon_

Long ago in my grandmother's time, the Carland was all in bogs, great
pools of black water, and creeping trickles of green water, and
squishy mools which squirted when you stepped on them.

Well, granny used to say how long before her time the Moon herself
was once dead and buried in the marshes, and as she used to tell me,
I'll tell you all about it.

The Moon up yonder shone and shone just as she does now, and when she
shone she lighted up the bogpools, so that one could walk about almost
as safe as in the day.

But when she didn't shine, out came the Things that dwelt in the darkness
and went about seeking to do evil and harm; Bogles and Crawling
Horrors, all came out when the Moon didn't shine.

Well, the Moon heard of this, and being kind and good--as she surely
is, shining for us in the night instead of taking her natural
rest--she was main troubled.

"I'll see for myself, I will," said she, "maybe it's not so bad
as folks make out."
Sure enough, at the month's end down she stepped, wrapped up in a black
cloak, and a black hood over her yellow shining hair.

Straight she went to the bog edge and looked about her.

Water here and water there; waving tussocks and trembling mools, and
great black snags all twisted and bent. Before her all was dark--dark
but for the glimmer of the stars in the pools, and the light that
came from her own white feet, stealing out of her black cloak.

The Moon drew her cloak faster about her and trembled, but she wouldn't
go back without seeing all there was to be seen; so on she went,
stepping as light as the wind in summer from tuft to tuft between
the muddy, gurgling water holes. Just as she came near a big black
pool her foot slipped and she was nigh tumbling in. She grabbed
with both hands at a snag near by, to steady herself with, but as
she touched it, it twined itself round her wrists, like a pair of
handcuffs, and gripped her so that she couldn't move. She pulled
and twisted and fought, but it was no good. She was fast, and must
stay fast.
Presently as she stood trembling in the dark, wondering if help
would come, she heard something calling in the distance, calling,
calling, and then dying away with a sob, till the marshes were full
of this pitiful crying sound; then she heard steps floundering
along, squishing in the mud and slipping on the tufts, and through
the darkness she saw a white face with great feared eyes.
'T was a man strayed in the bogs. Mazed with fear he struggled on
toward the flickering light that looked like help and safety. And
when the poor Moon saw that he was coming nigher and nigher to the
deep hole, farther and farther from the path, she was so mad and
so sorry that she struggled and fought and pulled harder than ever.
And though she couldn't get loose she twisted and turned, till her
black hood fell back off her shining yellow hair, and the beautiful
light that came from it drove away the darkness.
Oh, but the man cried with joy to see the light again. And at once
all evil things fled back into the dark corners, for they cannot
abide the light. So he could see where he was, and where the path
was, and how he could get out of the marsh. And he was in such haste
to get away from the Quicks, and Bogles, and Things that dwelt
there, that he scarce looked at the brave light that came from the
beautiful shining yellow hair, streaming out over the black cloak
and falling to the water at his feet. And the Moon herself was so
taken up with saving him, and with rejoicing that he was back on
the right path, that she clean forgot that she needed help herself,
and that she was held fast by the Black Snag.
So off he went, spent and gasping, and stumbling and sobbing with
joy, flying for his life out of the terrible bogs. Then it came
over the Moon, she would main like to go with him. So she pulled
and fought as if she were mad, till she fell on her knees, spent
with tugging, at the foot of the snag. And as she lay there, gasping
for breath, the black hood fell forward over her head.But"--with another sigh--"he's there yet."

Miss Urquhart nodded, with an air of utter wisdom.

"Of course you went to see the child?"

"Three times--whenever I was in port. And found him always the same--
so beautifully cared for that, upon my soul, I never saw a baby in my
life so sweet and clean and wholesome-looking; jolly as a little
sandboy all the time, too."

"That means that he had a perfect constitution--inherited from
you evidently--and that you were fortunate in the nurse."

"Very fortunate. But it appeared that beyond--beyond running the
commissariat department, so to speak, she did next to nothing for him.
Miss--the lady I spoke of--did everything. Made herself a perfect
slave to him."

"Bought his clothes?"

"Oh," groaned the wretched man, "I suppose so. What did I know about a
baby's clothes? And she wouldn't answer my questions--said he was all
right, and didn't want for anything, as I could see with my own eyes. I
tried making presents--used to bring her curios and things--found out
her birthday, and sent her a jewel--took every chance I could see to
work off the obligation. But it was no use. She gave ME a birthday
present after I'd given her one."

"Well, if moths will go into spiders' webs," laughed his companion,
"they must take the consequences."

"Sometimes they get helped out," he replied. "Some beneficent, godlike
being puts out an omnipotent finger--"

He looked at her, and she looked at him. At this moment they seemed to
have known one another intimately for years. The moon again.

"Tell me everything," she said, "and I'll help you out."

So then he told her that he had not "this time" visited his son. He
might have added that he had come to Five Creeks partly to avoid being
visited by him. Cowardly and weak he frankly confessed himself. "But
the thing was too confoundedly awkward--too embarrassing altogether."

"But she writes--she writes continually. Tells me what he
weighs, and when he's got a fresh tooth, and how he crawls about the
carpet and into her bed of a morning, and imitates the cat mewing, and
drinks I don't know how many pints of new milk a day, and all that sort
of thing. I believe the rascal has the appetite of a young tiger--and
yet I can't pay for what he eats! The nurse was long ago dispensed
with, so that I've not even her board to send a cheque for, that they
might by chance make a trifle of profit out of. It seems too late now
to simply take the child away, and there leave it. I haven't the shabby
courage to do such a thing; and besides, he might come to any sort of
grief, poor little chap, in that case. There's no doubt in the world
that her taking of him and doing for him have been the salvation of his
health, and perhaps his life. And I know, by what she tells me, that he
regularly dotes on her--as so he ought--and would howl his very head
off if I took him from her. What could I do with him if I did take him?
I've no home, and nobody to look after it if I had; and hired servants
are the deuce with a lone man at their mercy. It would be worse now
than it was at first. And so'--with another heavy sigh--'you see the
situation. I'm just swallowed up, body and bones, drowned fathoms deep
in a sea of debt and obligation that I can never by any possibility
struggle out of, except--"

"Except," continued Alice, with the candid air of a kind and sensible
sister--"except by marrying her, you mean? Yes, I see the situation. I
appreciate your point of view. I should understand it if it were not
that she unquestionably laid the trap for you deliberately--just as
that spider laid his for moths and flies. And marriage by capture has
gone out."

"Oh, don't say that!" the man protested, in haste. "I would not
for a moment accuse her of that. She was Lily's friend; it was for her
--it was out of pure womanly compassion for the motherless child; at
any rate, in the beginning. And even now I have no right whatever to
suppose--"

"But you know it, all the same. Every word you have said to me tells me
that you know it. You may as well be frank."

He squirmed a little in his chair, but confessed as required.

"Well--but it's a caddish thing to say--I think she does expect it.
And hasn't she the right to expect it? However, that's neither here nor
there. The point is that, in common honesty and manliness, I should
repay her if I can; and there's no other way--at least, I can't see
any other way. It is my fault, and not hers, that I don't take to the
notion; for a better woman never walked, nor one that would make a
better mother to the boy. But, somehow, you DO like to have your free
choice, don't you?" He had come as far as this--that he could
entertain the idea of choice, which meant a second choice.

"It would be utterly wrong, absolutely immoral, downright wicked, to
forego it," Alice declaimed, with energy. "It would be nothing short of
criminal, Mr Carey."

She argued the point with eloquence, even excitedly; and when she had
brought him to reason--very willing to be brought--leaned back in her
chair with a joyous air.

"Oh, we will arrange it!" she reassured him. "There are plenty of ways.
I'll tell you"--bending forward again and gazing earnestly into eyes
from which something that had been looking out of them seemed to
have drawn back hastily--"you shall introduce me to her, and I will
bring him away up here for a visit. He ought to be in the country in
summer, and he will come with me, I know, and won't miss her after a
couple of days. I can get you a nurse cheap from some of the selectors,
and one more or less makes not the slightest difference in a house like
this; and I will take care of him for you until you come back next
voyage, or for just as long as you will trust him to me. So the
difficulty will solve itself without any fuss. Do you see?"

Guthrie Carey felt unable to reply. He could only murmur again and
again: "You are awfully good, Miss Urquhart. 'Pon my word, you are too
good altogether." Later, he declared more firmly that he could not
think of troubling her.

"Nonsense!" she returned lightly. "It is all settled."


CHAPTER III.


Decidedly he was a coward, with all his brawn and inches; for he dared
not protest straight-forwardly that all was not settled. He certainly
told himself that he did not know what to do, but he also told himself
that he would be a fool to do practically the same thing that he had
done before. He passed a sleepless night, poor fellow, cogitating the
matter; and in the morning, when the moon was gone, saw clearly himself
where the path of prudence lay. Still he lacked courage to make it
clear to Miss Urquhart, even while he saw her laying out, with
enthusiasm, that road of her own which his terrified imagination
pictured her marching along presently, bearing the baby aloft in her
arms, and dragging him on a dog-chain behind her. It was not until
mid-day that he suddenly became a brave man--about five minutes after
the arrival of Deborah Pennycuick.

She rode over from Redford, all by herself, as her frequent custom was,
to see how Five Creeks was getting on, and to talk over plans for
Christmas. She wore a brown holland habit over the most beautifully
moulded form, and, entering the house, tossed aside a shady hat from
the most beautiful face that ever delighted eyes of man and virile
heart of three-and-twenty. It is in such plain terms that one
must describe this noble creature; words in half-tones are unworthy of
the theme. Being introduced by Alice Urquhart, Guthrie Carey, in a
sense, expanded on the spot into a fresh stage, a larger scope of
being, with his unleaping recognition of her inspiring greatness. It
seemed to him that he had never looked upon a woman before. Lily, of
course, had been an angel. "I thought I should just strike lunch," she
said, as she came like a sunbeam into the dim, low-ceiled, threadbare,
comfortable room where the meal was ready. "I'm as hungry as a hunter,
Mrs Urquhart."

The homely old woman uttered a cry of joy, and spread her arms. The
visitor, incarnate dignity, bent to the maternal caress with willing
affection, yet with the tolerant air of good-nature that does not run
to gush. The children gathered round her, and hung upon her, undeterred
by the fact that she had no kisses or fondlings for them. Jim stood
motionless, glowing at the back of his fixed eyes.

When the family had done greeting her, Guthrie was brought forward.

"This is Mr Carey, Deb, who--"

"Oh, yes, I know"--and the frank hand, large, strong and beautiful,
like every bit of her, went out to him as if she had really known him--
"it is on Mr Carey's account that I have come, to tell you that you
must bring him over to Redford at once."

"We were going to," said Alice; for it was the natural thing to take
every Five Creeks visitor to Redford as soon as possible. "I was
writing to you only this morning."

"Well, we just wanted to make sure. My father--you will excuse him for
not calling on you; he is not able to get about as he used, poor
old man--hears that you belong to a family at home which was very
intimate with his family when he was young. Do you come from Norfolk?"

"No," replied the sailor, still in his dream.

"Oh, dear, what a pity! He will be so disappointed. We have been
hearing about the Careys of Wellwood all our lives--never were such
people, apparently--and when he heard your name, and got the idea that
you were of the clan, nothing would do but that you must be fetched at
once, to talk to him about them. Aren't you even a second cousin, or
something?"

"My grandfather was born at Wellwood--"

"Ah, that's right! That's all we want. That makes you a Carey of
Wellwood, of course. I hope you know the place?" "I have seen it. But
my grandfather was a younger son and a ne'er-do-weel; he was kicked out
--he quite broke off--"

"Never mind. You needn't go into inconvenient particulars. Try and
remember all you know that's nice about the Hall and the family. Did
you ever hear of a Mary Carey? But no--she would be before your time,
of course."

"There was an old Mary Carey; she married a Spencer. She was pointed
out to me last time I was at home--the nut-cracker type, nose and chin
together--"

"Goodness! Keep that dark too, for mercy's sake! She is his ideal
woman. It is for her sake he wants you to talk Wellwood with. If you
spoil his pleasure with that hint of nut-crackers, I'll never forgive
you."

"I hope I know better," Guthrie smiled, coming to himself a
little.

"I am sure you do," said she, and turned from him to take her chair at
table.

"Then we'll bring him tomorrow," Alice said, seating herself.

"This afternoon," said the visitor commandingly.

Alice wanted another moonlight talk about the baby, and knew the small
chance of getting it where Deborah Pennycuick was, and she raised
obstacles, fighting for delay. Deborah calmly turned to Jim.

"Anything to hinder your coming this afternoon, Jim?"

"Nothing," said Mr Urquhart promptly.

The matter was evidently settled.

They sat down to lunch, and the talk was brisk. It was almost confined
to the visitor and Alice, although the former carefully avoided the
shutting out of the hostess from the conversation, in which she was
incapable of taking a brilliant part. Jim, in the host's place, sat
dumb and still, except for his alertness in anticipating his guest's
little wants. Guthrie Carey, on her other hand, was equally silent.
Neither of the two men heard what she talked about for listening to the
mere notes of her charming voice.

After luncheon she put on her sensible straw hat.

"You must drive Mr Carey," she said to Jim. "I'll just ride ahead, and
let them know you are coming."

"Let us all go together," said Alice. "I'll drive Mr Carey, and Jim can
escort you."

But there was no gainsaying Deborah Pennycuick when she had expressed
her views.

"You have to get ready," she pointed out, "and you'll do it
quicker if I'm not here. Besides, I can't wait."

They all went out with her to the gate, where her superb, high-tempered
horse pawed the gravel, and champed upon his bit. Jim sent her
springing to the saddle from his horny palm like a bird let out of it,
and they watched in silence while she crossed two paddocks, leaped two
sets of slip-rails, and disappeared as a small dot of white
handkerchief from the sun-suffused landscape.

"What riding!" Guthrie Carey ejaculated, under his breath.

"She's the best horsewoman in the country," Jim Urquhart commented
slowly, after a still pause.

He was a slow--to some people a dull and heavy--man, who talked
little, and less of Deborah Pennycuick than of any subject in the world
--his world.

"And what a howling beauty!" the sailor added, in the same whisper of
awe.

Again the bushman spoke, muttering deeply in his beard: "She is as good
as she is beautiful."

Mrs Urquhart took her levelled hand from her eyes, and turned to
contribute her testimony.

"There, Mr Carey, goes the flower of the Western District. You won't
find her match amongst the best in England. I was with her mother when
she was born--not a soul else--and put her into her first clothes,
that I helped to make; and a bonny one she was, even then, with her
black eyes, that stared up at me as much as to say: 'Who are you, I'd
like to know?' Dear, it seems like yesterday, and it's nigh twenty
years ago. All poor Sally Pennycuick's girls are good girls, and the
youngest is going to be handsome too. Rose, the third, is not at all
bad-looking; poor Mary--I don't know who she takes after. The
father was the one with the good looks; but Sally was a fine woman too.
Poor dear old Sally! I wish she was here to see that girl."

Mrs Urquhart and Mrs Pennycuick, plain, brave, working women of the
rough old times, wives of high-born husbands, incapable of companioning
them as they companioned each other, had been great friends. On them
had devolved the drudgery of the pioneer home-making without its
romance; they had had, year in, year out, the task of 'shepherding' two
headstrong and unthrifty men, who neither owned their help nor thanked
them for it--the inglorious life-work of so many obscure women--and
had strengthened each other's hands and hearts that had had so little
other support.

"Mrs. Pennycuick--she is not living, I presume?" Guthrie enticed the
garrulous lady to proceed.

"Dear, no. She died when Francie was a baby," and Mrs Urquhart gave the
details of her friend's last illness in full. "Deb was just a little
trot of a thing--her father's idol; he wouldn't allow her mother to
correct her the least bit, though she was a wilful puss, with a temper
of her own; ruled the house, she did, just as she does now. If she
hadn't had such a good heart, she'd have grown up unbearable. There
never was a child in this world so spoiled. But spoiling's good for
her, she says. It's to be hoped so, for spoiling she'll have to the end
of the chapter. She's born to get the best of everything, is Debbie
Pennycuick. Fortunately, her father's rich, though not so rich as he
used to be; and when she leaves her beautiful home, it'll be to go to
another as good, or better. She's got to marry well, that girl;
she'd never get along as a poor woman, with her extravagant ways. It'd
never do"--Mrs Urquhart's voice had, subtly changed, and something in
it made the blood rise to the cheeks of the listeners "it'd never do to
put her into an ordinary bush-house, where often she couldn't get
servants for love or money, because of the dull life, and might have to
cook for station hands herself, and even do the washing at a pinch--"

Jim wheeled round suddenly, and strode back to the house--the house,
as he was quite aware, which his mother alluded to. She, agitated by
the movement, and without completing her sentence, turned and trotted
after him. Alice was left leaning over the gate, at Guthrie Carey's
side.

"You will enjoy this visit," she remarked calmly, ignoring the little
scene. "Redford is a beautiful place--quite one of the show-places of
the district--and they do things very well there. Mary is ostensibly
the housekeeper; she really does all the hard work, but it is Deb who
makes the house what it is. After she came home from school she got her
father to build the new part. Since then they have had much more
company than they used to have. Mary, who had been out for some years,
didn't care for gaieties. She is a dear girl--we are all awfully fond
of her--but she has a most curious complexion--quite bright red, as
if her skin had something the matter with it, although it hasn't. Of
course, that goes against her."

"Miss Deborah's complexion is wonderful."

"Yes. But oh, Deb isn't to be compared with Mary in anything except
looks. She is eaten up with vanity--one can't be surprised--and is
very dictatorial and overbearing; you could see that at lunch.
But Mary is so gentle, so unselfish--her father's right hand, and
everybody's stand-by."

"I don't think Miss Deborah seemed--"

"Because you don't know her. I do. She simply loathes children, while
Mary would mother all the orphan asylums in the world, if she could. I
always tell her that her mission in life is to run a creche--or should
be. Lawks! How she will envy me when I get that boy of yours to look
after!"

Guthrie's feet seemed to take tight hold of the ground. "Really, Miss
Urquhart--er--I can't thank you for your goodness in--in asking him
up here--but I've been thinking--I've made up my mind that the best
thing I can do is to take him home to my own people." The idea was an
inspiration of the desperate moment. How to put it into practice he
knew not, and she tried to show him that it was impracticable; but he
stuck to it as to a life-buoy. He would write to his sister--all the
'people' he owned apparently--and find somebody who was going home;
and "Isn't it time to be putting our things together? Miss Pennycuick
told us we were to be there for tea at four o'clock, if possible."


CHAPTER IV


Behold him at Redford, with his tea-cup in his hand. He was safe now
from talk about the baby; but he was also cut off from the lovely
Deborah, now wandering about her extensive grounds with another young
man. Old Father Pennycuick had him fast. They sat together under a
verandah of the great house.

"There were no pilots then," said the old man, puffing comfortably at
his pipe--"there were no pilots then, and we had to feel our way along
with the cast 'o the lead. We got ashore at Williamstown, on sailors'
backs, and walked to Melbourne. Crossed the Yarra on a punt, not far
from where Prince's Bridge now is--"

"Yes," said Guthrie Carey.

He seemed to be listening attentively, his strong, square face set like
a mask; but his eyes roamed here and there.

"Bread two-and-six the small loaf," Mr Pennycuick dribbled into his
dreaming ears. "Eggs sixpence apiece. Cheap enough, too, compared with
the gold prices. But gold was not thought of for ten years after that.
I tell you, sir, those were the times--before the gold brought all the
riff-raff in."

The sailor murmured something to the effect that he supposed they were.

"We'd got our club, and a couple of branch banks, and a
post-office, and Governor La Trobe, and Bishop Perry, and the nicest
lot of fellows that ever came together to make a new country. We were
as happy as kings. All young men. I was barely twenty-three when I took
up Redford--named after our place at home. You know our place at home,
of course?"

"I have seen it from the road," answered the guest, arrested in his
mental wanderings by the mention of his own age.

"You must have seen it often, living so close."

"I never lived close myself; I am a Londoner."

"It's all the same--your people do. The Pennycuicks and the Careys
have been neighbours for generations."

"I am only distantly related to that family."

"A Carey is a Carey," persisted the old man, who had determined to have
it so from the first, and he would listen to no disclaimers.

He had already referred darkly to that Mary Carey of the hooked nose
and pointed chin. His eldest daughter, he said, had been named after
her. This eldest daughter, with her too-ruddy face, had shyly drawn
near, and taken a chair at her father's elbow, where she sat very
quietly, busily tatting. Plain though her face was, she had beautiful
hands. Her play with thread and shuttle, just under Guthrie's eyes,
held them watchful for a time--the time during which no sign of
Deborah's white gown was to be perceived upon the landscape.

"My brother and I, we never hit it off, somehow. So when my father died
I cleared. You don't remember his funeral, I suppose? No, no--that was
before your time. They hung the church all over with black
broadcloth of the best. That was the way in those days, and the cloth
was the parson's perquisite. The funeral hangings used to keep him in
coats and trousers. And they used to deal out long silk hat-scarves to
all the mourners--silk that would stand alone, as they say--and the
wives made mantles and aprons of them. They went down from mother to
daughter, like the best china and family spoons. That's how women took
care of their clothes when I was young. They didn't want new frocks and
fallals every week, like some folks I could name." And he pinched his
daughter's ear.

"Talk to Deb, father," said Mary. "I have not had a new frock for a
great many weeks."

"Aye, Deb's the one! That girl's got to marry a millionaire, or I don't
know where she'll be."

Almost Mrs Urquhart's words! And, like hers, they pricked sharply into
the feelings of our young man. His eyes went a-roaming once more, to
discover the white gown afar off, trailing unheeded along a dusty
garden path. The old man saw it too, and his genial countenance clouded
over.

"Well," he continued, after a thoughtful pause, "poor old Billy Dalzell
and I, we emigrated together. He had a devil of a stepfather, and no
home to speak of. We were mates at school, and we made up our minds to
start out for ourselves. You remember the Dalzells of the Grange, of
course?"

"I can't say that I do, sir."

"Well, they're gone now. Billy's father went the pace, and the
mortgagees sold him up; and if his mother hadn't given him a bit when
we started, Billy wouldn't have had a penny. She pawned all she
could lay her hands on for him, we found out afterwards--Billy was cut
up about that--and got ill-used by Heggarty for it when he found it
out. She was a fool, that woman. Everybody could see what Heggarty was,
except her. Old Dalzell was a gentleman, anyhow, with all his faults."

The white dress drew nearer, and its grey tweed companion. The host was
once more wasting his story on deaf ears. "So we started off; and when
we got here we went in together. He had enough to buy a mob of cattle
and a dray and team, and so had I. We loaded up with all the
necessaries, and hired three good men, and travelled till we found
country. Took us about five months. At last we came here, and put our
pegs in, and I started off to Melbourne for the license--ten pounds,
and leave to renew at the end of the year--and here I've stuck ever
since. Billy, he took up other land, and got married, and died, poor
chap! And that's his boy over there," pointing with his pipe--"and
he'll never be the man his father was, if he lives to a hundred."

The person referred to was he in the grey tweed, who sauntered with
such assurance at white-robed Deborah's side. He was a tall, graceful
and most distinguished-looking young fellow; but Guthrie Carey was
prepared to believe heartily the statement that Dalzell junior would
never be the man his father was.

"You shall see the identical hut," Mr Pennycuick kindly promised. "Down
by the creek, where those big willows are--I planted them myself. Not
good enough for a dog-kennel, my daughters say; but the best thing I
can wish for them is that they may be as happy in their good
houses as I was in that old shanty--aye, in spite of many a hard time
I had there, with blacks and what not. We cut the stuff, Billy and I,
and set the whole thing up; and all our furniture was our
sleeping-bunks and a few stools and a table. We washed in a tin bowl on
a block outside the door. Not so particular about tubbing and clean
shirts in those days. Our windows were holes of a handy size for gun
barrels, and the shutters we put up o' nights were squares of bark hung
on to nails by strips of green hide. Many's the time I've woke to see
one of 'em tilted up, and a pair of eyes looking in--sometimes
friends, sometimes foes; we were ready for either. When Billy went, and
I thought I'd get married too, then I built a better house--brick this
time, and workmen from Melbourne to do it; that's it over there, now
the kitchens and store-rooms--and imported furniture--er--I am not
boring you, I hope?"

"Oh, dear, no! I am deeply interested."

"Well, Billy and I"--the tale seemed interminable--"Billy and I, we
gave sixty pounds apiece for our stock horses, and the same for a ton
of flour; and went right over Ballarat without knowing it. Camped
there, sir, and didn't see the gold we must actually have crunched
under our boot heels. And Billy had misfortunes, and died poor as a
rat. It was in the family. Mrs D. was all right, though. She used to
send a brother of hers to Melbourne market with her cattle, and cash
being scarce, he would sometimes have to take land deeds for them, and
she'd be wild with him for it. But what was the consequence? Those bits
of paper that she thought so worthless that it's a wonder she
took the trouble to save them, gave her city lots that turned out as
good as gold mines. She sold too soon, or she'd have made millions--
and died of a broken heart, they say, when she found out that mistake.
Still, she left a lot more than it's good for a young fellow to start
life with. That boy has been to Cambridge, and now he loafs about the
club, pretends to be a judge of wine, gets every stitch of clothes from
London--pah!" Mr Pennycuick spat neatly and with precision over the
verandah floor into a flower-bed. "But these mother's darlings--you
know them. If Mrs Dalzell could see him now, I daresay she'd be
bursting with pride, for there's no denying that he's a smart-looking
chap. But his father would be ashamed of him."

"Daddy dear!" Mary gently expostulated.

"So he would. An idle, finicking scamp, that'll never do an honest
stroke of work as long as he lives. And I wish Deb wouldn't waste her
time listening to his nonsense. Isn't it about time to be getting ready
for dinner, Moll?"

Mary looked through a window at a clock indoors, and said it was.
Guthrie hailed the news, and rose to his feet.

But not yet did he escape. His host, hoisting himself heavily out of
his big cane chair, hollowed like a basin under his vast weight,
extended a detaining hand.

"Come with me to my office a minute," he half whispered. "I'd like to
show you something."

With apparent alertness, but sighing inwardly, Guthrie followed his
host to the room in the old part of the house which he called his
office. Mr Pennycuick carefully shut the door, opened a desk
full of drawers and pigeon-holes, and brought forth a bit of cardboard
with a shy air. He had never shown it to his family, and doubtless
would not have shown it now if he had not been growing old and soft and
sentimental. It was a prim and niggling little water-colour drawing of
English Redford--a flat facade, with swallows as big as condors flying
over the roofs, and dogs that could never have got through any doorway
gambolling on the lawn in front. A tiny 'Mary Carey' in one corner was
just, and only just, visible to the naked eye.

"This was done for me, when we were both young, by her--your aunt,"
said Mr Pennycuick, gloating upon his treasure over Guthrie's shoulder.

"Not my aunt," explained Guthrie. "I don't know what relation, but a
long way farther off than that. I am only a very small Carey, you know,
sir."

Mr Pennycuick testily intimated, as before, that to be a Carey at all
was enough for him. It was his excuse for these confidences, of which
he was half ashamed.

While Guthrie studied the poor picture, trying to look as interested as
he was expected to be, his host turned and stared down into the drawer
that had held it for so many years. Other things were there--the usual
dead flowers, still holding together, still fusty to the nose; the
usual yellowing ball glove, the usual dance and invitation cards, and
faded letters, with their edges frayed; a book-marker with an
embroidered 'Friendship', mixed up with forget-me-nots, in coloured
silks upon perforated card, backed by a still gleaming red satin ribbon
looped at one end and fringed out at the other; the book that it
was tucked into ("The Language of Flowers"), a large valentine in a
wrapper with many broken seals, some newspaper cuttings, half a
sixpence, with a hole in it, and a daguerreotype in a leather case.

This last he took up, opened and gazed at steadily, until his companion
was compelled to interrupt him with an inquiring eye. Then he passed it
over, and Guthrie turned it this way and that, until he caught the
outlines of a long aquiline face between bunched ringlets, and a long
bodice with a deep point, which he understood to have belonged to his
distant relative at some period before he was born.

"And this?" he murmured politely.

"Yes," said Mr Pennycuick; "that's her. And I've never shown it to a
soul before--not even to my wife."

"A--a sweet expression. Fair, was she?"

"Fair as a lily, and as pure, and as beautiful. Gentle as a dove. With
blue eyes."

Guthrie did not care for this type just now. He liked them dark and
flashing and spirited, like Miss Deborah. But he murmured "Hm-m-m"
sympathetically.

"The loveliest woman in England," the old man maundered on. "Surely you
must have heard of her, in the family?"

Guthrie had not only heard of her, as we know, he had seen her; but he
shook a denying head, and dropped another hint of his own position in
the family--outside the royal enclosure, as it were.

"Well, now, I'll just tell you what happened," said Mr Pennycuick,
turning to the open drawer again. "Strictly between ourselves, of
course--and only because you are a Carey, you understand--
somehow you bring it all back--"

He was fumbling with the big valentine, getting it out of its case.

"Yes?" Guthrie encouraged him, while inwardly chafing to be gone.

"You see this?" It was an exquisite structure of foamy paper lace,
silver doves, gauzed-winged Cupids, transfixed hearts and wreaths of
flowers, miraculously delicate. How it had kept its frail form intact
for the many years of its age was a wonder to behold. "You see this?"
said the old man. "Well, when I was a young fellow, the 14th of
February was a time, I can tell you! You fellows nowadays, you don't
know what fun is, nor how to go a-courting, nor anything. . . .I was at
old Redford that year, and she was at Wellwood, and all through the
sleet and snow I rode there after dark, tied my horse to a tree, crept
up that nut-walk--you know it?--and round by the east terrace to the
porch, and laid my valentine on the door-step, and clanged the bell,
and hid behind the yew-fence till the man came out to get it. Then I
went home. And last thing at night there was a clatter-clatter at the
door at Redford, and I dashed out to catch whoever it was--her brother
she sent--but wasn't quite smart enough. If only I'd seen him. I
should have known--as I ought to have, without that; but I didn't. It
never occurred to me that she'd send the answer so soon, and she had
disguised her writing in the address, and there was another girl--name
of Myrtle Vining--who used to have myrtle on her note-paper, and all
over the place--and here these flowers looked to me as if they were
meant for myrtle, and these two crossed arrows are like capital
V--and how I came to be such an egregious dolt, Lord only knows! Well,
I've paid for it--that I have--I've paid for it. Look here--don't
touch! I'll show you what I found out when it was too late--after
she'd played shy with me till I got angry and left her, and it was all
over--my eyes aren't good enough to see it now, but I suppose it's
there still--"

With infinite care and the small blade of his pocket-knife, he lifted
the tiny tip of a tiny Cupid's wing. With bent head and puckered
eyelids, Guthrie peered under, and read: "Yours, M. C.," written on a
space of paper hardly larger than a pin's head.

"In my valentine that night," said Mr Pennycuick, "I'd asked her to
have me. I didn't hide it up in this way; I knew, while I wondered that
she took no notice, that she must have seen it. This was her answer.
And I never got it, sir, till she was married to another man--and then
by the merest accident. Then I couldn't even have the satisfaction of
telling her that I'd got it, and how it was I hadn't got it before. Of
course, I wasn't going to upset her after she was married to another
man. I've had to let her think what she liked of me."

Guthrie was certainly interested now, but not as interested as he would
have been the day before. The day before, this story would have moved
him to pour out the tale of his own untimely and irreparable loss. He
and old Mr Pennycuick would--metaphorically speaking--have mingled
their tears together.

"You forget, off and on," said Mr Pennycuick, as he wrapped up his
treasure with shaking hands and excessive care--"perhaps for
years at a time, while you are at work and full of affairs; but it
comes back--especially when you are old and lonely, and you think how
different your life might have been. You don't know anything about
these things yet. Perhaps, when you are an old man like me, you will."

Guthrie did know--no one better, he believed. But he did not say.
Unknown to himself, he had reached that stage which Mr Pennycuick came
to when he began courting Sally Dimsdale, who had made him such a good
and faithful (and uninteresting) wife.

"It is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all,"
says the old proverb. True enough. But one might write it this way,
with even more truth: "It is better to love and lose than to love and
gain." One means by love, romantic love, of course.


CHAPTER V.


Dinner was over. They had all gone up to the big drawing-room, which
was the feature of the 'new part'--the third house of the series which
now made one. The new part was incongruously solid and modern, with a
storey (comprising the drawing-room and its staircase only) which
overtopped the adjacent roofs. Below it was a corresponding
dining-room, and both apartments were furnished richly in the fashion
of the time--tons of solid mahogany in the latter, and a pasture of
grass-green carpet and brocade upholsterings in the former, lit up with
gilded wall-paper and curtain-cornices as by rays of a pale sun. Curly
rosewood sofas and arm-chairs, and marbled and mirrored chiffonniers,
and the like, were in such profusion upstairs as to do away with the
air of bleakness common to a right-angled chamber of large size and
middle-class arrangement. A fine grand piano stood open in a prominent
place. Four large shaded lamps and four piano candles pleasantly
irradiated the whole; while three French windows, opening on a balcony,
still stood wide to the summer night.

By the great white marble mantelpiece, under the great gilt-framed
pier-glass, filling the huge chair specially dedicated to his use,
Father Pennycuick sat in comfortable gossip with his old friend,
Thornycroft of Bundaboo. It irked him to separate himself from
pipe and newspaper, baggy coat and slouchy slippers, and his corpulent
frame objected to stairs; but when he had guests he considered it his
duty to toil up after them, in patent shoes and dining costume, and sit
amongst them until music or card games were on the way, when he would
retire as unobtrusively as his size and heavy footstep permitted. It
was the custom to pretend not to see or hear him go, and it would have
annoyed him exceedingly had anyone bidden him good-night.

The pair talked shop, after the manner of old squatters when they sit
apart; but the tall, spare, grey man with the thoughtful face--more
like a soldier than a sheep-farmer--was not thinking much of his
flocks and herds. His thoughts followed the direction of his quiet
eyes, focussed upon an amber silk gown and its immediate surroundings.
Mr Thornycroft was Deborah's godfather, and at forty-seven was to all
the sisters quite an elderly man, a sort of bachelor uncle to the
family, one with no concern in such youthful pastimes as love-making
and marrying, except as a benevolent onlooker and present-giver; and so
the veiled vigilance of his regard was not noticed, as it would not
have been understood, by anybody.

But other eyes, similarly occupied, were plainer to read.

Jim Urquhart's, of course. Jim--as ineligible for the most coveted
post in the Western District as he well could be, by reason of the
family already depending upon him, together with the load of debt left
along with it by his deceased father, a "pal" of Mr Pennycuick's in the
gay and good old times--still contrived to bring himself within
the radius of Deborah's observation whenever occasion served. And being
there, although silent and keeping to the background, his gaze followed
her as the gaze of an opossum follows a light on a dark night, with the
same still absorption. Nothing but her returning gaze could divert it
from its mark. It was so natural, so calmly customary, so unobtrusive,
that nobody cared to attach importance to it.

He sat now, far back against the green brocade hangings of a corner
window, where he could see the beloved profile in the middle of the
room. His big, work-roughened hands clasped his big, bony knees, and
his long, loose body hung forward out of the little chair that was
never built for such as he; and he seemed given over to Rose
Pennycuick's tale of the pony that had corns, and the cat that had been
mangled in a cruel rabbit trap. He gave her wise counsel regarding the
treatment of these poor things, his deep, drawling voice an unnoticed
instrument in the orchestra of tongues; but his crude-featured,
sunburnt face held itself steadily in the one direction. From the day
that he came to manhood his soul had kept the same attitude towards the
woman to whom the profile belonged. But he never alluded to the fact,
save in this silent way.

Then there was the Reverend Bennet Goldsworthy, "Church of England
minister", as his style and title ran. Privately, Mr Pennycuick did not
like him; but for the sake of the priestly office, and as being a
parishioner, he gave him the freedom of the house, and much besides.
The parson's buggy never went empty away. Redford hams, vegetables,
poultry, butter and eggs, etc., kept his larder supplied. His
horse-feed was derived therefrom; also his horse; also his cow. When
his cow began to fail, he promptly mentioned the fact--he was
mentioning it now to Mary Pennycuick. "Yes," he was saying, A PROPOS of
his motherless little girl--whom he often brought to Redford for
change of air, leaving her to the care of the sisters until convenient
to him to reclaim her--"yes, it will mean much to my child in after
life to have had the refining influences of this house at the most
impressionable age." Truth was, that Ruby was growing a little old for
her Kindergarten, and he wanted Redford to offer her (gratis, of
course) a share in Francie's governess. "I could not endure to see her
grow up like the daughters of so many of my brother clergy, ignorant of
the very rudiments of decent life"--meaning not decent life in the
ordinary acceptation of the term, but the life that included evening
dress and finger-glasses. "She has caught the colonial accent already
at that horrid school. 'When is the new keeow coming?' says she. And,
by the way, that reminds me--your good father promised me the cow a
fortnight ago. The one we have gives us hardly enough milk for the
table; we have had no butter from her for months."

"I am so sorry," grieved Mary, as if Redford had failed in its sacred
duty of hospitality. "I will tell him about it. The men have all been
so busy with the shearing."

She was also distressed that she could not definitely invite Ruby for
the impending holidays. But Deb had issued her commands that Redford
was not to be saddled with a nurseless child at Christmas, when
everybody's hands would be full.

Mary was Ruby's willing foster-mother when Redford had her in
charge; she was also the kindest hostess of them all to Ruby's father.
To her was left the task of entertaining him, and she never neglected
it. Naturally, he gave her no thanks. When he said that what Ruby
needed was a mother's tender care, it was at Deborah he looked, who
never turned a hair's-breadth in his direction at any time, except when
good manners obliged her, and who was not tender to Ruby, whom she
called "that brat", and had smartly spanked on several occasions.

A beautiful woman cannot help having objectionable lovers any more than
a king can help a cat looking at him. This man--a most well-meaning,
good-hearted, useful little underbred person, typical of so large a
class in the Colonial Church--was Deb's pet aversion, and did not know
it. He was not made to see his own deficiencies as she saw them. When
first she flashed upon his dazzled vision, splendid in a scarlet dinner
gown, and carrying her regal head as if the earth belonged to her, he
really saw no reason why he, with his qualifications of comparative
youth, good looks (his sort of good looks), and notorious pulpit
eloquence, should not aspire to rush in where so many feared to tread.
His rush had been checked at the outset, but he was still unaware of
the nature of the barrier that Deb held rigid between them. He
continued to gaze at her with his ardent little black eyes as if no
barrier were there. And it was because he did so that Deb, who could
not slap him for it, slapped Ruby sometimes, and called her a brat, and
would not have her asked to Redford for the holidays; thereby giving
occasion to envious Alice Urquhart for that warning to Guthrie
Carey not to trust his baby to her.

There was still another lover present--the favoured lover. He sat with
Alice near the piano where Francie and her governess were playing
duets, listening without listening to his companion's jerky talk--
those pathetic attempts to attract him which so many second-rate girls
were not too proud to make obvious to his keen apprehension. Claud
Dalzell's distinction was that he was the most polished young man of
his social circle. He had had all the advantages that money could give
and in addition, was naturally refined and handsome. To hear Claud
Dalzell read poetry, or sing German folk-songs to his own graceful
accompaniment, was to make a poet of the listener; to dance with him
was pure enchantment (to another good dancer); he was the best horseman
in the land; and if his present host could not appreciate his many
charms--except perhaps the last named--others did. The whole race of
girls, more or less, fell down and worshipped him.

He sat with Alice Urquhart because he could not sit with Deborah; or
rather, because he would not condescend to share her with that
"t'penny-ha'penny mate of a tramp cargo boat", as he styled Guthrie
Carey, whom she had made happy at last. She had rescued him from her
father's clutches; she had called him to a chair beside her, where
there was no room for a third chair. Her glistening skirt flowed over
his modest toes. Her firm, round arm, flung along the chair arm between
them, made him feel like Peter Ibbotson before the Venus of Milo--it
was so perfect a piece of human sculpture. She lay back, slowly fanning
herself, and smiling, her eyes wandering all the time in
Dalzell's neighbourhood, without actually touching him--a tall,
deep-bosomed, dark-eyed, dignified as well as beautiful young woman,
knowing herself to be such, and unspoiled by the knowledge. She wore
her crown with the air of feeling herself entitled to it; but it was an
unconscious air, without a trace of petty vanity behind it. Everything
about her was large and generous and incorruptibly wholesome, even her
undoubted high temper. And this was her charm to every man who knew her
--not less than her lovely face.

Guthrie Carey--and who shall blame him?--basked in his good luck. But
every now and then he looked up and met the glower of Claud Dalzell
with a steely eye. These two men, each so fine of his kind, met with
the sentiments of rival stags in the mating season; the impulse to
fight 'on sight' and assure the non-survival of the unfittest came just
as naturally to them as to the less civilised animals. Each recognised
in the other not merely a personal rival, but an opposing type.

It amused Deborah, who grasped the situation as surely as they did, to
note the bristling antipathy behind the careful politeness of their
mutual regard. If it did not bristle under her immediate eye, it
crawled.

"Look out for the articles of virtue," Claud had warned her earlier in
the evening. "That big sailor of yours is rather like a bull in a china
shop; he nearly had the carved table over just now. He doesn't know
just how to judge distance in relation to his bulk. I'd like to know
his fighting weight. When he plants his hoof you can feel the floor
shake."

"He IS a fine figure of a man," Deb commented, with a smile.

"I can't," yawned Mr Dalzell casually, "stand a person who eats curry
with a knife and fork."

"It was pretty tough, that curry. I expect he couldn't get it to pieces
with a spoon."

"He did not try to."

"I never noticed. I shouldn't remember to notice a little trifle like
that."

"My dear girl, it is the little trifle that marks the man."

"Oh!" said Deb. And then she sought Guthrie Carey, and brought him to
sit beside her.

"That gentleman sings well," remarked Guthrie tepidly, at the
conclusion of a finely rendered song. "I often wish I could do those
ornamental things. Unfortunately, a man who has his work--if he sticks
to it properly--gets no time to qualify. I'm afraid I shall never
shine at drawing-room tricks."

"Tell me about your work," said clever Deb, smiling behind her waving
fan.

At once she had him quite happy, talking about himself. No effort was
necessary to draw him out; that she deigned to listen to him was
enough. His struggles as boy--blue-nose boy; his tough battle for the
first certificate; his complicated trials as second mate, holding
theoretically an authority that was practically none; his rise to be
qualified master and actual mate--no "t'penny-ha'penny" position in
his eyes evidently; his anticipation of the "master extra" and the pass
in steam, which might lead to anything--the whole tale was told her in
terse, straightforward fashion, but with an art new to the modest
sailor-man, who hated brag as much as cowardice. He bragged in
self-defence, in challenge of the formidable equipment of his rival.
And how interested she was! How well she understood his case--that it
was better than the swellest training-ship to make your own way by your
own exertions, and splendid to have done so much while still on the
right side of thirty.

So much! He had done more than that--he had been a husband and father
at twenty-one. But this, his most distinguished exploit, was not
mentioned.


CHAPTER VI.


He mentioned it next day, however. He had to; for after breakfast a
letter, forwarded from Five Creeks, reached him from the baby's
caretaker--the lady of whom he stood in such undignified dread. The
sight of her handwriting paled his brown face and set his stout heart
fluttering. What did she want of him? He kept the letter unopened for
some time, because he was afraid to know, although convinced beforehand
that he did know--that, of course, it was the visit he should have
paid before coming up country. When at last he drew the sheet from its
envelope, as if it had come from an infected house, and had not been
fumigated, and cast a hurried glance over the contents, he found that
the unexpected had happened once more--the wildly unexpected.

She was going to be married. He was a "general merchant" in prosperous
business, and there was nothing to wait for--except Mr Carey's
instructions as to what was to be done with the dear little boy. She
would feel acutely the parting from him, after he had been from his
birth like a child of her own, but Mr Carey would understand that she
could not now continue her labour of love on his behalf--that she had
others to consider. But she knew of a most excellent substitute--a
dear friend of her own, who had long taken the deepest interest
in darling Harry, and with whom she was sure he would be as safe and
happy as with herself. She had expected to see Mr Carey when he
arrived, to arrange matters; she hoped he would come as soon as
possible.

In the bewilderment of his mingled elation and anxieties, the young
father did not know what to do for the moment, while recognising the
urgent need for action. He must go as soon as possible, of course; but
he could not depart suddenly without a reason, and to give the reason
would be to give himself away to Alice Urquhart. Besides, a day's
outing had been planned on purpose for him; the possibilities in
connection with it were enormous; and five days of his leave were
unexpended still. He must think it over. He must have advice. So, as a
first instalment of duty, he scrawled a recklessly affectionate letter,
full of gratitude to her who had been his good genius and the guardian
angel of his boy. He did not disguise his envy of the general merchant,
whose vows of love could not have excelled in fervent expression the
good wishes of the writer for the happiness of the betrothed pair. He
hoped to have the pleasure of seeing his dear old friend on the
following day, or the day after that at latest; and he promised himself
the satisfaction of squandering his saved pay on such a wedding present
as would at least cover the cost of the bread and milk the boy had
devoured at her expense. Guthrie dropped his letter in the post-bag
while they were calling to him that it was time to start. And he turned
the key of silence upon his secret until he could pour it into the
right ear.

It was a wonder he did not pour it into Mary's, for she drove
him to Bundaboo, and nobody could have been more sympathetic than she.
She was the virtual mother of the family, who loved children, and she
was not--she could not be--a husband-hunter; a sensible man in
domestic difficulties could not have sought a wiser confidante. Yet he
resisted stubbornly all her gentle invitations to confide. In the first
place, he did not want to go with her in the pony-carriage, while Deb
and Dalzell rode. He did not like to see it taken for granted, as it
seemed to be by all, that a sailor on horseback must necessarily make a
fool of himself; the slight to his self-respect was enough to dull the
edge of his joy in the general merchant's proceedings--for, as the
reader will remember, he was still but three-and-twenty.

He had to weigh down the springs of a little basket thing no better
than an invalid's wheel-chair, and see the young exquisite, whom he
could have tossed over his shoulder with one hand, show off feats of
fancy horsemanship to make Deb's dark eyes kindle. Mr Pennycuick had
carelessly asked Billy's degenerate son to "school a bit" a creature
which for weeks had not allowed a man upon his back, and had had no
exercise beyond his voluntary scamperings about the paddock from which
he had been brought, dancing with excitement and indignation. All the
stablemen had been required to get his bridle and saddle on; he now
wheeled round and round in the large space left for him, while Claud
Dalzell, in his London riding clothes, and with his air of a reigning
prince, warily turned with him. Guthrie Carey, in the waiting
pony-carriage, had but one interest in the performance--his hopeful
anticipation of a fatal, or at least a ridiculous, result.

But there was no fear of that, and evidently Deb knew it.
Sitting her own dancing chestnut, how her beautiful eyes glowed! She
gloried in the ring of breathless witnesses to the prowess of her
knight. Many a time did she scoff and scowl at the dandyisms which she
deemed effeminate; this was one of the moments which showed the man as
she desired him. Through those fine fingers, with the polished filbert
nails, the shortened reins were drawn and held as by clamps of steel;
so was the wild-eyed head by the lock of mane in the same hand. When no
one was looking--although every eye believed itself fixed upon him--
his left foot found its stirrup, his right gave a hop, and like
lightning he had sprung up and round, without touching the horse until
fairly down in the saddle; so that the animal was robbed of his best
chance of getting the rider off, which is at the moment before he is
quite on. No other chance was offered to the baffled one, although he
kicked like a demon for nearly ten minutes.

"I wish," Guthrie Carey ground through his strong teeth, "that the
cranky beast would break his neck." It was not the beast's neck he
meant.

But Deb called: "Bravo! Well done, indeed!" and when the battle was
over called the victor to her with her lovely face of pride and joy.
Right willingly he went, and they sailed away together like the wind,
and were lost to view. Yes, this was Dalzell's hour. She knew nothing
of the brave deeds of sailor-men--common and constant as eating and
drinking, and performed to no audience and for no reward.

Alice Urquhart and Rose Pennycuick, also on horseback, followed the
flying pair; then a buggy containing Jim and schoolgirl Francie
(her governess gone home for holidays today), and a load of ironwork
for a blacksmith on the route; last of all, Mary and the sailor, for
all the world like the old father and mother of the party. Mr
Pennycuick excused himself from excursions nowadays, and so did Miss
Keene, the elderly and quite uninfluential duenna of the house, when
one was needed (she "did the flowers" and knitted singlets for
everybody).

The Shetlands pattered along at a great rate, but did not come up with
the riders until they were nearly at Bundaboo. And all the way--a long
way--Guthrie Carey had to make efforts not to bore his hostess. They
talked about the clear air and the dun-coloured land--the richest
sheep-country in the colony, but now without a blade of green upon it--
and made comments upon three bullock drays piled with wool bales, and
two camping sundowners, and one Chinaman hawker's cart, which they
encountered on the way. And that was about all.

The home-coming was a different affair.

Tea had been served in Mr Thornycroft's cool drawing-room, hats and
gloves had been collected, orders sent to the stables; and the young
sailor, panting to emulate the prowess of his rival, and thereby compel
Miss Deborah to respect him, was asking one and another what were the
arrangements for the return journey.

"I," said Rose, who hugged a puppy in her arms--a puppy long
possessed, but only now old enough to leave its mother--"I am going in
the buggy with Jim."

"Wouldn't you rather go in the pony-carriage?" inquired Carey
anxiously. "You could make a better lap on the lower seat. I
could ride your horse home for you if they'll lend me a saddle; yours
could be put in the buggy--"

Even as he spoke, Deb came round the corner from somewhere, with swift
steps and a brilliant complexion, Dalzell hurrying after her.

"Mr Carey," she called, while the sailor was still yards away from her,
"Molly and I are going to change skirts. I am tired with my ride this
morning, and am going to drive home. Will you trust your neck to me?"

Would he not, indeed? He was but a pawn in the game, but what did that
matter? Eighteen miles absolutely alone with her! And possibly half of
them in the dark! No saddle horse in the world could have tempted him
now. He could hardly speak his gratitude and joy.

"Delighted, Miss Deborah!--delighted!--delighted!"

But Dalzell, black as thunder, swung aside, muttering in his teeth.

"Oh, oh!" Francie's loud whisper followed. "DID you hear what he said?
He said 'damn'. That's because--"

"You cut along," Jim's drawl broke in, "and get ready if you want to
ride."

Mr Thornycroft tucked Deb into the pony-carriage with the solicitude of
a mother fixing up a young baby going out with its nurse. He insisted
that she should wear a shawl over her linen jacket, and brought forth
an armful of softest WOOL, Indian wove.

"Where did you get this?" she asked, fondling it, for she loved fine
fabrics.

"Never mind," said he. "Put it on."

"I am suspicious of these shawls and fallals that Bundaboo seems
full of. Who is the hidden lady?"

He only smiled at her.

"Ah, godpapa, you spoil me!"

She drew the wrap about her, and he assisted to adjust it, with gentle
skill. Then he turned abruptly to Carey, as to a groom.

"See that she doesn't throw that off. It will be chilly presently. No,
she'd better drive--she knows the road. But take care of her.
Good-night."

"Isn't he an old dear?" said Deb to Carey, as they drove off. "He has
been a second father to me ever since I was a child."

She did not hurry the ponies, being anxious not to appear to be tearing
after her offended swain.

"The evening is the pleasantest time to be out, this weather," she
said, lolling back in her seat. "And I'm sure I don't want to look at
dinner after such a lunch as I have eaten. I don't know how you feel."

"I feel the same," he assured her, with truth.

So, for her own purposes, she made their drive half as long again as it
need have been. And was so friendly, so free, so intimate!--leading
that poor innocent to the belief that his great rival was already
virtually out of his way. He was an unsophisticated sailor-lad, who,
with that rival's help, had reached a certain stage and crisis--
another one--of his man's life; and--let us be honest in our
diagnosis--the bubbles of Mr Thornycroft's fine champagne still ran in
his blood and brightened his brain, lifting him above the prosaic
ground-level where a craven timidity would have smothered him. Not
touching the balance of his wits, be it understood; just
heartening him--no more.

Twice and thrice she branched off from the road to show him something
that could well have waited for another day. She was imprudent enough
to introduce him to so sentimental a spot as the family cemetery--
established at a time when there were only Dalzells and Pennycuicks to
feed it. "Their shepherds were killed by the blacks," said Deb, as she
pushed the ponies up to the wall, and he rose in the carriage to look
over the top, "and they buried them here, marking the place with a pile
of stones. There were other deaths, and they enclosed the piece of
land. Then a brother of Mr Dalzell's, and a girl; and Mr Dalzell
himself wished to be put here, beside his brother. Not his wife, she
wouldn't; she lies in the Melbourne cemetery. Then some of our babies,
then mother. She was the last. I don't suppose there will be any more
now. The State will insist on taking charge of us."

Real English churchyard elms crowded about the wall and blightingly
overshadowed the lonely group of graves. English ivy, instead of neatly
clothing the wall, as it had been meant to do, straggled wildly over
the part of the enclosure which had once been a garden around them. Out
of it, like sea-stripped wrecks, dead sticks of rose-bushes poked up,
and ragged things that had gone to seed. The turf was parched away,
like the grass of the surrounding paddocks; the mounds were cracked;
the head-stones--several of them ornate and costly--stained with the
drip from the trees and birds, and some distinctly out of the
perpendicular.

"It ought not to look like this," Deb apologised for it. "It
ought to have been seen to. We used to come often, and bring water from
the dam. But one forgets as time goes on; one doesn't think--or care.
Poor dead people! How out of it they are! And we shall be the same some
day--neglected and abandoned, just like this."

"DON'T!" muttered Guthrie Carey, shivering. The ghost of his sweet Lily
seemed to reproach him with Deb's voice. But the ghost-woman fifteen
months old had no chance with the glowing live woman born into his life
but yesterday; and no blame to him either, and no wrong to the dead, if
one can look at the thing dispassionately and with an unbiased mind.

"Let us go and see the dam," Deb cheered him, as she turned the ponies'
heads. "You haven't seen our big dam, have you? Everybody that comes to
Redford must see that, or father will want to know the reason why.
'Pennycuick's Folly' some people call it, because he spent so much
money on it; but father is not one to spoil the ship for a pen'orth of
paint. He likes to do things thoroughly. So do I."

And soon they halted on the embankment of a mile-wide sheet of water,
shining like a mirror in a setting of soft-bosomed hills, their dun day
colour changed to a heavenly rose-purple under the poetic evening sky.

"Why, it is a lake," said Guthrie Carey. "You could hold regattas on
it." "We do, now and then, with our little boats. We have three over
there"--pointing with her whip to a white shed on the farther shore.
"And swimming matches. We used sometimes, when we were younger, to come
down on hot nights and be mermaids. Once we moored ourselves out
in the middle, away from the mosquitoes, and slept in the bottom of the
boat, under the stars."

"How charming!"

"It was holiday time, and our parents were away. We took cushions and
things, and it was great fun; but Keziah reported us, and we were never
allowed to do it again."

They sat in the pony-carriage on the dam embankment, gazing silently. A
flock of wildfowl had been scared away by their approach, and now not a
wing, not an eye was near. At a great distance curlews wailed, only to
make the stillness and solitude more exquisite, more profound. The
purple of the hills grew deeper and softer, the lake a mere pulseless
shimmer through the twilight haze. And then, last touch of magic, the
moon swam up--the same moon that had transfigured Five Creeks garden
and Alice Urquhart last night.

He poured out his soul to Deborah Pennycuick.

First, it was only the story of the baby--the story he had told Alice,
with some omissions and additions. He took advantage of the opportunity
to ask Deb's invaluable advice.

Deb, well aware of the influence of a summer night and certain
accessories, tried her best to be practical. She asked straight
questions about the baby.

"Where have you got him? Where does this friend live who has been
recommended to you?"

"In Sandridge--all at Sandridge--"

"That dirty, low part! That's no place to rear a boy in. Bring him into
the bush, to clean air, if you want to make a man of him. I know a
dear, nice woman--she is our overseer's wife--who has no
children, and is dying to get hold of one somehow or other. We might
make some arrangement with her, I am sure; and, if so, the little
fellow would be in clover. We'd all look after him, of course, while
you were at sea--"

"Oh! oh! oh!" The young father's heart simply exhaled itself in
gratitude too vast for words. Ah! there was no hanging back now! Not
the baby only, but the dog-chain, was laid at Deborah's feet.

"You go and fetch him tomorrow," said she, "and I'll talk to Mrs Kelsey
while you are away. Then I'll meet you at the station on your return,
to help you with him, and tell you what Mrs Kelsey says--though I have
no doubt of what it will be. But we'll keep him at Redford for a bit,
till he gets used to everybody; and you must stay with him all you can
until your ship sails. . . ."

His eyes were full of tears. He laid his hand on her shawl again. He
leaned to her. It was no use--the moon and his feelings were too much
for him. They were talking of the baby, and the word "love" had not
been, and was not going to be, mentioned; but there the thing was,
unmistakable to her keen intelligence, looming like a frontier
custom-house on the road ahead.

She grasped his big, trembling hand, and with it held him back, meeting
his adoring gaze with steady eyes and mouth.

"My dear boy, don't--don't! Don't spoil this nice evening--"

It was all that was necessary. And still so kind, so gentle with him!
No scorn, no offended dignity, no displeasure even. She, who could
punish insolence with anybody, was never hard upon the humble
admirer--only too soft, in fact, with all her basic firmness, and
incapable of the hard-hearted coquetry that so commonly makes beauty
vile. "Face of waxen angel, with paw of desert beast"--that was not
Deborah Pennycuick.

A sob broke from him.

"I am a damned fool!" he muttered savagely, and by a violent effort
collected himself. "I beg your pardon."

"That's all right," she said, turning the ponies from the embankment
and whipping them to a gallop.


CHAPTER VII.


There was a moon the next night also. It did not appreciably affect him
this time--down in dirty Sandridge, hobnobbing with the baby's
caretaker and the general merchant, who, shutting his shop at six, was
free to make the sailor's acquaintance, and help him to spend a
pleasant evening. But it turned Redford garden, with its fine old trees
and lawns, into the usual bit of fairyland for those who strayed
therein.

Redford was packed with Christmas guests. The waggonette that had taken
Guthrie Carey to the train had returned full of them, and batches had
been arriving at intervals through the day. At bed-time the sisters
were sharing rooms; Rose had come to Deb's, Frances to Mary's; and the
unmarried men were all at the bachelors' quarters.

It was a hot night, and Deb, under the circumstances, was disinclined
for sleep. She paid visits to one guest chamber and another, for
private gossips and good-nights; when she returned to her own, where
placid Rose had long composed herself, she roamed the floor like a
caged animal.

"It is no use my coming to bed yet," she addressed her sister. "I could
not sleep. I should only kick about and disturb you. I'll sit down and
read a bit."

She found a novel and an easy-chair, and made deliberate efforts
to tranquillise herself. Soon Rose heard sighs and phews, and sudden
rustlings and slappings, and then the bang of a book upon the floor.

"I can't read! and the light brings the mosquitoes. It's too hot in
here. I'm going out to get cool, Rosie."

"A'right," mumbled drowsy Rose. And the light was extinguished, and the
blind of the French window rattled up.

Deb flung both leaves wide--like all the Redford doors, they were
never locked or barred--and drifting over the verandah, sat down on
the edge of it, with her feet on the gravel. She had tossed off her
pearl necklace and a breast-knot of wilted roses; otherwise, she sat in
full evening dress, and the night air bathed her bare neck and arms.
Also the mosquitoes found them--a delicious morsel!--so that she had
to turn her lacy skirt up over her head to be quite comfortable. From
under this hood the dark lamps of her eyes shone forth, gazing steadily
into the dim world--into the bit of future that she thought she saw
unveiled. The loom of the trees, the glimmer of flowering bushes, the
open spaces of lawn and pallid pathways, the translucent blue-green
sky, the rising moon--these things made the picture, but were to all
intents invisible to the inward sight. She really saw nothing, until
suddenly a pin-point spark appeared out of the shadows, moved along a
hedge of laurels, and fixed itself in the neighbourhood of a distant
garden-seat. Then at once she stiffened like a cat that has heard a
mouse squeak or a bird's wing rustle; she was alert on the
instant, concentrated upon the phenomenon. Instinct recognised the tip
of a cigar which had the handsome face of Claud Dalzell behind it.

"What is he doing out of doors at this time of night?" she wondered;
and the little star began to draw her like a magnet. The world becomes
another world in these mystic hours; it has new rulers and new laws--
or rather, it has none. The moon sways more than ocean tides. In broad
day Deb would no more have stalked a man than she would a crocodile; in
this soft, free, empty, irresponsible night the primal woman was out of
her husk, one with the desert-prowling animal that calls through the
moonlit silence for its mate. Twenty times had she snubbed an ardent
lover at the behest of all sorts of reasons and so-called instincts
cultivated for her guidance by generations of wise men, now, all in a
moment, came this moon-born impulse to give herself to him unasked. She
could not resist it.

Like Deb, Claud had not been inclined to sleep, and for much the same
reason. The guest chamber usually allotted to him being needed for a
lady, he had been sent to the bachelors' quarters--a barrack-like
dormitory amongst the outbuildings, very useful for the accommodation
of the occasional 'vet' or cattle-buyer, and to take the overflow of
company on festive occasions. Jim Urquhart, when at Redford, always
slept there; he preferred it, particularly when he had companions with
whom to smoke and talk sheep, and perhaps play cards, at liberty; for
the bachelors' quarters had its own wood-stack and supplies, and one
could sit by a blazing hearth all night, if so disposed, without
incommoding anybody.

Generally four bachelor beds were made up, and a screened end of
the room stacked with the material for twice as many more. At Christmas
all were in use, and lined the two long walls--which Dalzell called
"herding", and disliked extremely, while recognising that it was a
necessary arrangement to which it was his duty to conform.

The herd was undressing itself in a miscellaneous manner--yawning,
chaffing, cutting stupid jokes, some of them at his expense; until the
process was at an end, and he could reasonably assume the fellows to be
asleep, he preferred the gardens to the bachelors' quarters.

And the free night enfolded him--the rising moon uplifted him--in the
usual way, he being, like Deb, like Guthrie Carey, an instrument fitted
to respond to their mute appeals. Perhaps even more finely fitted than
Guthrie or Deb; for he had what are called "gifts" of intellect and
imagination transcending theirs--faculties of mind which, lacking
worthy use, bred in him a sort of chronic melancholy, the poetic
discontent of the unappreciated and misunderstood--a mood to which
moonlight ministers as wine to the drinking fever, at once an exquisite
exasperation and a divine appeasement. Salt was prevented by illness,
Mr. Stuart, whom he sent, by the jealousy of the natives, from
investigating these ruins: of their existence there seems no doubt.
Salt's 2d Journey, p. 452.--M.]
[Footnote 74: See the Christian missions in India, in Cosmas, (l. iii.
p. 178, 179, l. xi. p. 337,) and consult Asseman. Bibliot. Orient.
(tom.
iv. p. 413--548.)]

[Footnote 75: The invention, manufacture, and general
use of silk in China, may be seen in Duhalde, (Description Generale
de la Chine, tom.
ii. p. 165, 205--223.) The province of Chekian is the most renowned both
for quantity and quality.]
[Footnote 76: Procopius, (l. viii. Gothic. iv. c. 17. Theophanes
Byzant.
apud Phot. Cod. lxxxiv. p. 38. Zonaras, tom. ii. l. xiv. p. 69.
Pagi tom. ii. p. 602) assigns to the year 552 this memorable
importation.
Menander (in Excerpt. Legat. p. 107) mentions the admiration of the
Sogdoites; and Theophylact Simocatta (l. vii. c. 9) darkly represents
the two rival kingdoms in (China) the country of silk.]

[Footnote 77: Cosmas, surnamed Indicopleustes, or the Indian navigator,
performed his voyage about the year 522, and composed at Alexandria,
between 535, and 547, Christian Topography, (Montfaucon, Praefat.
c.
i.,) in which he refutes the impious opinion, that the earth is a
globe; and Photius had read this work, (Cod. xxxvi. p. 9, 10,) which
displays the prejudices of a monk, with the knowledge of a merchant;
the most valuable part has been given in French and in Greek by
Melchisedec Thevenot, (Relations Curieuses, part i.,) and the whole
is since published in a splendid edition by Pere Montfaucon, (Nova
Collectio Patrum, Paris, 1707, 2 vols. in fol., tom. ii. p.
113--346.) But the editor, a theologian, might blush at not discovering
the Nestorian heresy of Cosmas, which has been detected by La Croz
(Christianisme des Indes, tom. i. p. 40--56.)]

IV. The subjects of Justinian were dissatisfied with the
times, and with the government. Europe was overrun by the Barbarians,
and Asia by the monks: the poverty of the West discouraged the trade
and manufactures of the East: the produce of labor was consumed by the
unprofitable servants of the church, the state, and the army; and a
rapid decrease was felt in the fixed and circulating capitals which
constitute the national wealth.
The public distress had been alleviated by the economy of Anastasius,
and that prudent emperor accumulated an immense treasure, while
he delivered his people from the most odious or oppressive taxes.
[7711] Their gratitude universally applauded the abolition of the gold
of affliction, a personal tribute on the industry of the poor, [78]
but more intolerable, as it should seem, in the form than in the
substance, since the flourishing city of Edessa paid only one
hundred and forty pounds of gold, which was collected in four years
from ten thousand artificers. [79] Yet such was the parsimony which
supported this liberal disposition, that, in a reign of twenty-seven
years, Anastasius saved, from his annual revenue, the enormous sum
of thirteen millions sterling, or three hundred and twenty thousand
pounds of gold. [80] His example was neglected, and his treasure
was abused, by the nephew of Justin.

The riches of Justinian were speedily exhausted by alms and buildings,
by ambitious wars, and ignominious treaties. His revenues were found
inadequate to his expenses. Every art was tried to extort from the
people the gold and silver which he scattered with a lavish hand
from Persia to France: [81] his reign was marked by the vicissitudes
or rather by the combat, of rapaciousness and avarice, of splendor
and poverty; he lived with the reputation of hidden treasures, [82]
and bequeathed to his successor the payment of his debts. [83] Such
a character has been justly accused by the voice of the people and
of posterity: but public discontent is credulous; private malice
is bold; and a lover of truth will peruse with a suspicious eye the
instructive anecdotes of Procopius.

The secret historian represents only the vices of Justinian, and
those vices are darkened by his malevolent pencil.
Ambiguous actions are imputed to the worst motives; error is
confounded with guilt, accident with design, and laws with abuses;
the partial injustice of a moment is dexterously applied as the
general maxim of a reign of thirty-two years; the emperor alone is
made responsible for the faults of his officers, the disorders of
the times, and the corruption of his subjects; and even the calamities
of nature, plagues, earthquakes, and inundations, are imputed to
the prince of the daemons, who had mischievously assumed the form
of Justinian. [84]
[Footnote 7711: See the character of Anastasius in Joannes Lydus
de Magistratibus, iii. c. 45, 46, p. 230--232.

His economy is there said to have degenerated into parsimony. He
is accused of having taken away the levying of taxes and payment of
the troops from the municipal authorities, (the decurionate) in the
Eastern cities, and intrusted it to an extortionate officer named
Mannus. But he admits that the imperial revenue was enormously increased
by this measure. A statue of iron had been erected to Anastasius in
the Hippodrome, on which appeared one morning this pasquinade. This
epigram is also found in the Anthology.
Jacobs, vol. iv. p. 114 with some better readings. This iron statue
meetly do we place To thee, world-wasting king, than brass more base;
For all the death, the penury, famine, woe, That from thy wide-destroying
avarice flow, This fell Charybdis, Scylla, near to thee, This
fierce devouring Anastasius, see; And tremble, Scylla!

on thee, too, his greed, Coining thy brazen deity, may feed. But Lydus,
with no uncommon inconsistency in such writers, proceeds to paint
the character of Anastasius as endowed with almost every virtue,
not excepting the utmost liberality.

He was only prevented by death from relieving his subjects altogether
from the capitation tax, which he greatly diminished.

--M.]
[Footnote 78: Evagrius (l. ii. c. 39, 40) is minute and grateful,
but angry with Zosimus for calumniating the great Constantine.

In collecting all the bonds and records of the tax, the humanity
of Anastasius was diligent and artful: fathers were sometimes
compelled to prostitute their daughters, (Zosim.

Hist. l. ii. c. 38, p. 165, 166, Lipsiae, 1784.)

Timotheus of Gaza chose such an event for the subject of a tragedy,
(Suidas, tom. iii. p. 475,) which contributed to the abolition of
the tax, (Cedrenus, p. 35,)--a happy instance (if it be true) of
the use of the theatre.]

[Footnote 79: See Josua Stylites, in the Bibliotheca Orientalis of
Asseman, (tom. p. 268.)

This capitation tax is slightly mentioned in the Chronicle of Edessa.]

[Footnote 80: Procopius (Anecdot. c. 19) fixes this sum from the
report of the treasurers themselves.

Tiberias had vicies ter millies; but far different was his empire
from that of Anastasius.]

[Footnote 81: Evagrius, (l. iv. c. 30,) in the next generation, was
moderate and well informed; and Zonaras, (l. xiv. c. 61,) in the
xiith century, had read with care, and thought without prejudice;
yet their colors are almost as black as those of the anecdotes.]

[Footnote 82: Procopius (Anecdot. c. 30) relates the idle
conjectures of the times.

The death of Justinian, says the secret historian, will expose his
wealth or poverty.]
[Footnote 83: See Corippus de Laudibus Justini Aug. l. ii. 260,
&c., 384, &c "Plurima sunt vivo nimium neglecta parenti, Unde tot
exhaustus contraxit debita fiscus."

Centenaries of gold were brought by strong men into the Hippodrome,
"Debita persolvit, genitoris cauta recepit."]

[Footnote 84: The Anecdotes (c. 11--14, 18, 20--30) supply many facts
and more complaints. * Note: The work of Lydus de Magistratibus
(published by Hase at Paris, 1812, and reprinted in the new edition
of the Byzantine Historians,) was written during the reign of Justinian.

This work of Lydus throws no great light on the earlier history of
the Roman magistracy, but gives some curious details of the changes
and retrenchments in the offices of state, which took place at this
time.

The personal history of the author, with the account of his early
and rapid advancement, and the emoluments of the posts which he
successively held, with the bitter disappointment which he expresses,
at finding himself, at the height of his ambition, in an unpaid
place, is an excellent illustration of this statement.

Gibbon has before, c. iv. n.
45, and c. xvii. n. 112, traced the progress of a Roman citizen to the
highest honors of the state under the empire; the steps by which Lydus
reached his humbler eminence may likewise throw light on the civil
service at this period. He was first received into the office of the
Praetorian praefect; became a notary in that office, and made in
one year 1000 golden solidi, and that without extortion.

His place and the influence of his relatives obtained him a wife
with 400 pounds of gold for her dowry.

He became chief chartularius, with an annual stipend of twenty-four
solidi, and considerable emoluments for all the various services
which he performed.

He rose to an Augustalis, and finally to the dignity of
Corniculus, the highest, and at one time the most lucrative office in
the department.

But the Praetorian praefect had gradually been deprived of his
powers and his honors. He lost the superintendence of the supply and
manufacture of arms; the uncontrolled charge of the public posts;
the levying of the troops; the command of the army in war when the
emperors ceased nominally to command in person, but really through
the Praetorian praefect; that of the household troops, which fell
to the magister aulae.

At length the office was so completely stripped of its power, as to
be virtually abolished, (see de Magist. l. iii. c. 40, p. 220, &c.)

This diminution of the office of the praefect destroyed the emoluments
of his subordinate officers, and Lydus not only drew no revenue
from his dignity, but expended upon it all the gains of his former
services.

Lydus gravely refers this calamitous, and, as he considers it, fatal
degradation of the Praetorian office to the alteration in the style
of the official documents from Latin to Greek; and refers to a
prophecy of a certain Fonteius, which connected the ruin of the
Roman empire with its abandonment of its language.

Lydus chiefly owed his promotion to his knowledge of Latin!--M.]
After this precaution, I shall briefly relate the anecdotes of
avarice and rapine under the following heads: I.

Justinian was so profuse that he could not be liberal. The civil and
military officers, when they were admitted into the service of the palace,
obtained an humble rank and a moderate stipend; they ascended by
seniority to a station of affluence and repose; the annual pensions,
of which the most honorable class was abolished by Justinian,
amounted to four hundred thousand pounds; and this domestic economy
was deplored by the venal or indigent courtiers as the last outrage
on the majesty of the empire.

The posts, the salaries of physicians, and the nocturnal illuminations,
were objects of more general concern; and the cities might justly
complain, that he usurped the municipal revenues which had been
appropriated to these useful institutions. Even the soldiers were
injured; and such was the decay of military spirit, that they were
injured with impunity. The emperor refused, at the return of each fifth
year, the customary donative of five pieces of gold, reduced his
veterans to beg their bread, and suffered unpaid armies to melt
away in the wars of Italy and Persia. II.
The humanity of his predecessors had always remitted, in some
auspicious circumstance of their reign, the arrears of the public
tribute, and they dexterously assumed the merit of resigning those
claims which it was impracticable to enforce.

"Justinian, in the space of thirty-two years, has never granted a similar
indulgence; and many of his subjects have renounced the possession
of those lands whose value is insufficient to satisfy the demands
of the treasury.

To the cities which had suffered by hostile inroads Anastasius
promised a general exemption of seven years:
the provinces of Justinian have been ravaged by the Persians and
Arabs, the Huns and Sclavonians; but his vain and ridiculous
dispensation of a single year has been confined to those places
which were actually taken by the enemy."

Such is the language of the secret historian, who expressly denies that
any indulgence was granted to Palestine after the revolt of the Samaritans;
a false and odious charge, confuted by the authentic record which
attests a relief of thirteen centenaries of gold (fifty-two thousand
pounds) obtained for that desolate province by the intercession of
St.

Sabas. [85] III. Procopius has not condescended to explain the system
of taxation, which fell like a hail-storm upon the land, like a
devouring pestilence on its inhabitants: but we should become the
accomplices of his malignity, if we imputed to Justinian alone the
ancient though rigorous principle, that a whole district should
be condemned to sustain the partial loss of the persons or property
of individuals.

The Annona, or supply of corn for the use of the army and capital, was
a grievous and arbitrary exaction, which exceeded, perhaps in a tenfold
proportion, the ability of the farmer; and his distress was
aggravated by the partial injustice of weights and measures, and the
expense and labor of distant carriage. In a time of scarcity, an
extraordinary requisition was made to the adjacent provinces of Thrace,
Bithynia, and Phrygia: but the proprietors, after a wearisome journey
and perilous navigation, received so inadequate a compensation, that
they would have chosen the alternative of delivering both the corn
and price at the doors of their granaries.

These precautions might indicate a tender solicitude for the
welfare of the capital; yet Constantinople did not escape the rapacious
despotism of Justinian. Till his reign, the Straits of the Bosphorus
and Hellespont were open to the freedom of trade, and nothing was
prohibited except the exportation of arms for the service of the
Barbarians. At each of these gates of the city, a praetor was stationed,
the minister of Imperial avarice; heavy customs were imposed on the
vessels and their merchandise; the oppression was retaliated on the
helpless consumer; the poor were afflicted by the artificial scarcity,
and exorbitant price of the market; and a people, accustomed to
depend on the liberality of their prince, might sometimes complain
of the deficiency of water and bread. [86] The aerial tribute,
without a name, a law, or a definite object, was an annual gift of
one hundred and twenty thousand pounds, which the emperor accepted
from his Praetorian praefect; and the means of payment were abandoned
to the discretion of that powerful magistrate.

IV. Even such a tax was less intolerable than the privilege of
monopolies, [8611] which checked the fair competition of industry,
and, for the sake of a small and dishonest gain, imposed an arbitrary
burden on the wants and luxury of the subject.

"As soon" (I transcribe the Anecdotes) "as the exclusive sale of silk
was usurped by the Imperial treasurer, a whole people, the
manufacturers of Tyre and Berytus, was reduced to extreme misery, and
either perished with hunger, or fled to the hostile dominions of
Persia." A province might suffer by the decay of its manufactures, but
in this example of silk, Procopius has partially overlooked the inestimable
and lasting benefit which the empire received from the curiosity
of Justinian. His addition of one seventh to the ordinary price of
copper money may be interpreted with the same candor; and the
alteration, which might be wise, appears to have been innocent;
since he neither alloyed the purity, nor enhanced the value, of the
gold coin, [87] the legal measure of public and private payments.

V. The ample jurisdiction required by the farmers of the revenue
to accomplish their engagements might be placed in an odious light,
as if they had purchased from the emperor the lives and fortunes
of their fellow-citizens. And a more direct sale of honors and offices
was transacted in the palace, with the permission, or at least with
the connivance, of Justinian and Theodora. The claims of merit, even
those of favor, were disregarded, and it was almost reasonable to
expect, that the bold adventurer, who had undertaken the trade of
a magistrate, should find a rich compensation for infamy, labor,
danger, the debts which he had contracted, and the heavy interest
which he paid.

A sense of the disgrace and mischief of this venal practice, at length
awakened the slumbering virtue of Justinian; and he attempted, by
the sanction of oaths [88] and penalties, to guard the integrity
of his government: but at the end of a year of perjury, his rigorous
edict was suspended, and corruption licentiously abused her triumph
over the impotence of the laws.

VI. The testament of Eulalius, count of the domestics, declared the
emperor his sole heir, on condition, however, that he should
discharge his debts and legacies, allow to his three daughters a
decent maintenance, and bestow each of them in marriage, with a
portion of ten pounds of gold. But the splendid fortune of Eulalius
had been consumed by fire, and the inventory of his goods did not
exceed the trifling sum of five hundred and sixty-four pieces of
gold.

A similar instance, in Grecian history, admonished the emperor of the
honorable part prescribed for his imitation. He checked the selfish
murmurs of the treasury, applauded the confidence of his friend,
discharged the legacies and debts, educated the three virgins under the
eye of the empress Theodora, and doubled the marriage portion which had
satisfied the tenderness of their father. [89] The humanity of a
prince (for princes cannot be generous) is entitled to some praise;
yet even in this act of virtue we may discover the inveterate custom
of supplanting the legal or natural heirs, which Procopius imputes
to the reign of Justinian.

His charge is supported by eminent names and scandalous examples;
neither widows nor orphans were spared; and the art of soliciting,
or extorting, or supposing testaments, was beneficially practised
by the agents of the palace. This base and mischievous tyranny invades
the security of private life; and the monarch who has indulged an appetite
for gain, will soon be tempted to anticipate the moment of
succession, to interpret wealth as an evidence of guilt, and to proceed,
from the claim of inheritance, to the power of confiscation. VII.
Among the forms of rapine, a philosopher may be permitted to name the
conversion of Pagan or heretical riches to the use of the faithful; but
in the time of Justinian this holy plunder was condemned by the
sectaries alone, who became the victims of his orthodox avarice. [90]

[Footnote 85: One to Scythopolis, capital of the second Palestine, and
twelve for the rest of the province. Aleman. (p. 59) honestly produces
this fact from a Ms. life of St. Sabas, by his disciple Cyril, in the
Vatican Library, and since published by Cotelerius.]
[Footnote 86: John Malala (tom. ii. p. 232) mentions the want of bread,
and Zonaras (l. xiv. p. 63) the leaden pipes, which Justinian, or his
servants, stole from the aqueducts.]
[Footnote 8611: Hullman (Geschichte des Byzantinischen Handels. p.
15) shows that the despotism of the government was aggravated by the
unchecked rapenity of the officers. This state monopoly, even of corn,
wine, and oil, was to force at the time of the first crusade.--M.]

[Footnote 87: For an aureus, one sixth of an ounce of gold,
instead of 210, he gave no more than 180 folles, or ounces of copper.
A disproportion of the mint, below the market price, must have
soon produced a scarcity of small money.

In England twelve pence in copper would sell for no more than seven
pence, (Smith's Inquiry into the Wealth of Nations, vol. i. p. 49.)
For Justinian's gold coin, see Evagrius, (l. iv. c. 30.)]
[Footnote 88: The oath is conceived in the most formidable words,
(Novell. viii. tit. 3.)

The defaulters imprecate on themselves, quicquid haben: telorum
armamentaria coeli: the part of Judas, the leprosy of Gieza, the
tremor of Cain, &c., besides all temporal pains.]

[Footnote 89: A similar or more generous act of friendship is related by
Lucian of Eudamidas of Corinth, (in Toxare, c. 22, 23, tom. ii. p.
530,) and the story has produced an ingenious, though feeble, comedy of
Fontenelle.]
[Footnote 90: John Malala, tom. ii. p. 101, 102, 103.]

Chapter XL: Reign Of Justinian.--Part IV.

Dishonor might be ultimately reflected on the character of Justinian;
but much of the guilt, and still more of the profit, was intercepted
by the ministers, who were seldom promoted for their virtues, and not
always selected for their talents. [91] The merits of Tribonian
the quaestor will hereafter be weighed in the reformation of the
Roman law; but the economy of the East was subordinate to the
Praetorian praefect, and Procopius has justified his anecdotes by
the portrait which he exposes in his public history, of the notorious
vices of John of Cappadocia. [92]
[921] His knowledge was not borrowed from the schools, [93] and his
style was scarcely legible; but he excelled in the powers of native
genius, to suggest the wisest counsels, and to find expedients in
the most desperate situations.

The corruption of his heart was equal to the vigor of his understanding.
Although he was suspected of magic and Pagan superstition, he appeared
insensible to the fear of God or the reproaches of man; and his aspiring
fortune was raised on the death of thousands, the poverty of millions,
the ruins of cities, and the desolation of provinces. From the dawn
of light to the moment of dinner, he assiduously labored to enrich his
master and himself at the expense of the Roman world; the remainder
of the day was spent in sensual and obscene pleasures, [931] and
the silent hours of the night were interrupted by the perpetual
dread of the justice of an assassin.

His abilities, perhaps his vices, recommended him to the lasting
friendship of Justinian: the emperor yielded with reluctance to the
fury of the people; his victory was displayed by the immediate restoration
of their enemy; and they felt above ten years, under his oppressive
administration, that he was stimulated by revenge, rather than instructed
by misfortune. Their murmurs served only to fortify the resolution
of Justinian; but the resentment of Theodora, disdained a power before
which every knee was bent, and attempted to sow the seeds of discord
between the emperor and his beloved consort.

Even Theodora herself was constrained to dissemble, to wait a
favorable moment, and, by an artful conspiracy, to render John of
Coppadocia the accomplice of his own destruction. [932] At a time
when Belisarius, unless he had been a hero, must have shown himself
a rebel, his wife Antonina, who enjoyed the secret confidence of
the empress, communicated his feigned discontent to Euphemia, the
daughter of the praefect; the credulous virgin imparted to her
father the dangerous project, and John, who might have known the
value of oaths and promises, was tempted to accept a nocturnal, and
almost treasonable, interview with the wife of Belisarius.

An ambuscade of guards and eunuchs had been posted by the command of
Theodora; they rushed with drawn swords to seize or to punish the
guilty minister: he was saved by the fidelity of his attendants; but
instead of appealing to a gracious sovereign, who had privately
warned him of his danger, he pusillanimously fled to the sanctuary
of the church.

The favorite of Justinian was sacrificed to conjugal tenderness or
domestic tranquility; the conversion of a praefect into a priest
extinguished his ambitious hopes: but the friendship of the emperor
alleviated his disgrace, and he retained in the mild exile of Cyzicus
an ample portion of his riches.

The father carried the child, who loved the feel of the strong arms, in
which he jumped up and down, continuing to make play with his sturdy
little fists. Instead of striking back, Guthrie answered the baby
assaults with wild-beast roars and gestures that sent the little man
into fits of delight. Mary laughed in chorus, keeping touch with the
happy creature over the towering shoulder reared between them. It was
more than ever like a little self-contained family, taking its Sunday
stroll.

Mrs Kelsey had her Christmas dinner in hand, but came to them in her
big white apron and sleeves rolled to her dimpled elbows, smiling,
business-like, charming in her plain, reposeful, straightforward
attitude towards the visitors and their mission. No sooner had he
beheld her orderly and cheerful house, looked into her kind eyes, and
heard her sincere speech, than the young father was satisfied that he
had found a good place for his little son. The child seemed to know it
too, for when the strange woman drew him to her broad lap--calmly, as
if used to doing it--he surrendered himself without a protest. When
presently she gave him a drink of milk and a biscuit to munch, he
regaled himself peaceably, with the air of feeling quite at home. When
he had finished his lunch he played with a collie puppy.

"I'll do my best for him, sir, and I'll not let these young ladies
spoil him if I can help it," said Mrs Kelsey, with a smile at Mary
Pennycuick.

Terms had been arranged, and everything settled.

"I hope you will be able to keep him from being any bother to them,"
said Guthrie earnestly.

"Bother!" crowed Mary, whose intention was to visit the child
daily. "We'll see to that, Mr Carey--never fear."

Mrs Kelsey suggested beginning her duties, with the aid of the little
nurse, at once; but Mary would not hear of parting the boy from his
father while they could be together. So he was carried back to Redford,
to be the plaything of the housekeeper's room for the rest of the day.

"MY baby," Mary began to call him. She had to preside at the great
dinner, but was not visible to her family for hours before and after.

It was a better Christmas to Guthrie Carey in the end than in the
beginning. Deb came back from church chastened in spirit, to make up to
him for her unkindness, on the score of which her warm heart had
reproached her. She made him play billiards with her after tea, while
Claud was resting after his labours; she chaffed him deliciously on his
errors in the game. She forgot to ask after his baby; but she asked
whether it would not be possible to get his leave extended. When he
said "No"--he had had more than his share already--she commended him
for his sense of duty, and in her seriousness was more enchanting than
in her fun.

"But I do wish we could have kept you longer," she flattered him, in
her sweet way. "However, we shall have a hostage for your return."

Several new people came to dinner, including Mr Goldsworthy and Ruby--
the latter sent at once, by Deb's command, to keep little Carey
company. Spacious Redford was taxed to the utmost to accommodate its
guests, and never was better Christmas cheer provided in the old hall
of English Redford than its son in exile dispensed under his
Australian roof. When every leaf was put into the dining-table, it was
so long that Mary at one end was beyond speaking distance of her father
at the other, and those at the sides could scarce use their elbows as
they ate. The banquet was prodigious, with speeches to wind up with (Mr
Goldsworthy, in his oration, disgusted Deb by referring to the host as
"princely", and to the ladies of the house as his "bevy of beautiful
daughters"); and if the truth must be told, the crowning ceremony of
the loving cup was a bit superfluous. It found the host already fuddled
beyond a doubt, and several of the guests under suspicion of being so.
But in the opinion of all, Redford had celebrated Christmas in an
unsurpassably proper manner.

Two mornings later, a waggonette was packed with luggage and four
passengers--Mary Pennycuick, Guthrie Carey, the baby and the baby's
little nurse. They proceeded in a body to the overseer's house, where
the load was halved. Mary, the baby, and one box were left with Mrs
Kelsey (reinforced by the collie puppy and a plate of sugared
strawberries); the sailor and the nursemaid, after a few poignant
moments, went on to a distant railway station.

"Have an easy mind," said Mary, outside the parlour door. "He will be
well off with her, and we shall all be looking after him."

"How can I thank you?" said the parting guest, barely able to
articulate. He wrung her hand, and looked at her kind, red face with
feelings unspeakable. "God bless you! God reward you for your goodness
to the little chap and me."

He was including all the family in his benediction, and it was
the father in him that was so touched and overcome. None the less, she
accepted the tribute for her own, and to her poverty-stricken womanhood
it was wealth indeed.

She stood in the porch to watch the wheels of his departing chariot
flash through the sun and dust. She stared long at the vacant point of
disappearance, like one entranced. When she came to herself, she ran
into the house and fell upon little Harry.

"My baby," she crooned passionately, "MY baby!"

Carey Junior responded with his ready fist, pushing her from him. He
was feeding the puppy with a strawberry, and she put her head in the
way.

"Fie! You mustn't do that," said Mrs Kelsey, mindful of her
responsibilities. "That's rude."

"Oh, let him," pleaded the girl, infatuated with that look of his
father in his face; and she dropped on her knees before him and kissed
a dangling foot, with which he kicked her mouth. "Let him do what he
likes, so long as he's happy."

"Not at all," her old nurse reproved her. "I promised Mr Carey that he
should not be spoiled."

He was not spoiled. The admirable foster-mother, brooking no
interference with her system, improved him into a well-behaved child,
as well as the healthiest and most beautiful in all that countryside.
It was a standing grievance at Redford that she would not allow him to
be always on show there, subject to Mary's indulgence, and Deb's
caprices, and the temptations of the housekeeper's store-room. Only Mr
Kelsey, who was his idol, was permitted to withdraw him from Mrs
Kelsey's eye. The man used to take the child, with a toy whip in his
little hand, on the saddle before him, and let him think he was
guiding the steady horse and doing all the business of the station as
well. The overseer confessed, in bad weather, when he had to ride
alone, that he was lost without his little mate. "Hardly weaned," he
used to brag, "and knows every beast on the place as well as I do
myself." This was gross exaggeration, yet was the infant Harry a
conspicuously forward child, with the "makings of a man" in him visible
to all. His hearty whoas and gee-ups carried as far as the overseer's
gruff voice; and the picture of the jolly boy, with his rosy, joyous
face, and his fair curls blowing in the wind, was one to kindle the
admiration of all who saw it. The phrase continually on the lips of his
adopted family and connections was: 'Won't his father be surprised when
he sees him!' They enjoyed in anticipation the grateful praises that
would be heaped upon them then.

But Guthrie Carey never saw his son again.

The baby went a-visiting with his foster-parents to the local township,
and it was supposed caught the infection of typhoid there from some
unknown source. Having caught it, the robust little body, unused to any
ailment, was wrecked at once, where a frail child might easily have
weathered the storm. No little prince of blood royal could have been
better nursed and more strenuously fought for; but three days after he
had visibly sickened he was dead. And then the wail went up, "Oh! what
will his father say?"

When Guthrie came, prepared by letters from fellow-mourners as bereaved
as himself, it was but from one day to the next--only to "hear the
particulars" and to see the little grave. Deborah was away from home,
but in any case Mary would have been the one to perform the sad duties
of the occasion; they were hers by right. She took him to the
family cemetery on the only evening of his stay, and, herself
speechless and weeping, showed him the whole place renovated and made
beautiful for the sake of the latest comer. No weeds, no dead
rose-bushes, no vampire ivy now; but an orderly garden, new planted and
watered, and in the midst a small mound heaped with fresh-cut flowers.
She had visited the child daily while he lived at Mrs Kelsey's; now she
almost daily visited his grave.

They dropped on their knees beside it, close as bride and bridegroom on
altar steps, as father and mother at the firstborn's cradle. The dusk
was melting into moonlight; they could not see each other's faces. When
his big frame heaved with heavy sobs, she laid a timid hand--her
beautiful hand--on his shoulder; and when he felt that sympathetic
woman's touch, he turned suddenly and kissed her. Afterwards he did not
remember that he had done it.

She seemed to cling to him when, next morning, the time came for him to
go.

"You will come again?" she implored him, in a trembling whisper. "You
will come here when you return next time?"

"Oh, surely," he replied, whispering too, and to the full as deeply
moved. But when he got away it was to other lands that he turned his
eyes, in the search for new interests to occupy his lonely life. With
Lily and the baby dead, and Deborah Pennycuick given to another man,
Australia had no more hold on him. His first letter to Redford notified
that he had changed into another line, and that the name of his new
ship was the DOVEDALE. She traded to the West Indies.

He forgot to write again when, not very long afterwards, he went
back to his old line, at the invitation of the Company, as captain of
the ship on which he had served as mate.


CHAPTER IX.


"'Dovedale'--DOVEDALE--hullo!" Mr Pennycuick broke the silence of his
newspaper reading. "Why, isn't that--Well, upon my soul! it does seem
as if some folks were born unlucky. Here's that poor young fellow--
first he loses a charming wife, before he's been married any time, and
then the finest child going, and now here he's gone himself, before his
prime, with no end of a career before him--"

"Who?" cried Deb from the tea-table, where she was helping herself to a
hot cake.

"Young Carey--our Carey; oh, it's him all right, worse luck! His
ship's been wrecked, and only two A.B.s saved to tell the tale. Look
here."

He passed the newspaper, pressed under his broad thumb.

Deb stood to read the indicated item, while her father watched her
face. Neither of them noticed Mary's peculiar appearance, nor marked
her departure from the room.

"We must inquire about this," said Deb earnestly. "We must get the
names of those on board. He may have been on leave." She was a prompt
person, and as she spoke looked at the clock--a little after four--
and laid the paper down. "I'll drive you to the station, daddy, and
we'll telegraph to the shipping people and his doctor friend. We'll get
authentic information somehow, if we have to cable home for it."

They were off in a quarter of an hour, having sent a message to Mary by
Miss Keene to explain their errand. They dined in the township while
waiting for replies, and came home late at night, heavy-hearted, with
the melancholy news confirmed. Sir William! quit my house.

_Sir Wil_. A little girl To make you jealous!

W. Green. Sir, you'll drive me mad!

_Sir Wil_. A child, a perfect child, not ten years old!

_W. Green_. Sir, I would be alone, sir!

_Sir Wil_. Young enough To dandle still her doll!

_W. Green_. Sir William Fondlove!

_Sir Wil_. Dear Widow Green!

_W. Green_.

I hate you, sir! Detest you! Never wish To see you more! You have ruined
me! Undone me!
A blighted life I wear, and all through you!

The fairest hopes that ever woman nourished, You've cankered in the
very blowing!

bloom And sweet destroyed, and nothing left me, but The melancholy
stem.

_Sir Wil_. And all about A little slut I gave a rattle to!

-- Would pester me for gingerbread and comfits!-- A little roguish feigning!
A love-trick I played to prove your love!

_W. Green_. Sir William Fondlove!
If of my own house you'll not suffer me To be the mistress, I will
leave it to you!

_Sir Wil_. Dear Widow Green! The ring--
_W. Green_. Confound the ring, The donor of it, thee, and everything!

[Goes out.]
_Sir Wil_. She is over head and ears in love with me!
She's mad with love! There's love and all its signs!
She's jealous of me unto very death!
Poor Widow Green! I warrant she is now In tears! I think I hear her
sob! Poor thing!
Sir William! Oh, Sir William! You have raised A furious tempest!
Set your wits to work To turn it to a calm. No question that She
loves me! None then that she'll take me! So I'll have the marriage
settlements made out To-morrow, and a special licence got, And marry
her the next day! I will make Quick work of it, and take her by
surprise!
Who but a widower a widow's match?
What could she see with else but partial eyes To guess me only
forty? I'm a wonder!
What shall I pass for in my wedding suit?
I vow I am a puzzle to myself, As well as all the world besides.
Odd's life!
To win the heart of buxom Widow Green!
[Goes out.] 
[WIDOW GREEN re-enters with LYDIA.] 
_W. Green_.But then Deb's face was not heavy and
bricky, with prominent cheek-bones, and a forehead four inches high.

"My precious," she crooned, as tenderly as if she understood it all,
and as if her immense pity was not mixed with contempt--"don't, don't!
It doesn't matter about me, but don't let the others think--It would
be too undignified, darling--a casual acquaintance--though a dear,
good boy as ever lived--"

"There was nobody like him, Deb, and he was my all--"

"No, no, Mary--"

"You don't know, Debbie--oh, nobody knows!" And wrapping her head in
her arms again, Mary abandoned herself to her despair.

Deb got off the bed, lit dressing-table candles, and poured water and
eau de Cologne into a wash-basin. She returned with a fragrant
sponge, with which she stroked what she could reach of her sister's
face.

"Come now," said she briskly, "you must have a little pride, dear. You
mustn't give way like this--for a man who did not--and you know he
did not--"

Mary broke in with sudden passion, lifting her distorted countenance to
the cruel light.

"He did!" she affirmed. "You have no business to sneer and say he
didn't--he DID!"

It was not for nothing that the heart-hungry girl had brooded for
months over a few acts and words, magnifying them through the
spectacles that Nature and her needs had provided. Deb put her pitying
arms round her sister's shoulders.

"But, my dear, I know--we all know--"

"How could you know when you were not at home? Nobody knows--nobody
but him and me." Feeling Deb's continued scepticism in the silence of
her caresses, Mary burst out recklessly: "Would he have KISSED me if he
had not?"

Deb's arm was withdrawn. She twisted half round to look in Mary's face.
Mary covered it with her pretty hands, weeping bitterly.

"Is that--did he do that?" asked Deb, in a low tone.

"That night--that last night--oh, I ought not to have spoken of it!--
when we were at our little grave. It was that precious child that drew
us together. You think he had gone away and forgotten, but I know he
had not; he would have come back--he promised to. He gave me his dear
photograph. I have not shown it to anybody, but here it is--"

And still sobbing, and with tears running down her cheeks, she
reached to a drawer by the bedside, and dragged out this further
testimony to her claim--it was wrapped in layers of tissue-paper, like
her father's valentine--and displayed it with a touching pride. Before
handing it to Deb, she gazed at it with grotesquely distorted face,
kissed it, pressed it to her bosom, kissed it again, and moaned over
it, rocking to and fro; then, when she had pushed it from her, flung
herself into her former attitude of complete abandonment to grief.

Very calmly Deb carried the picture to the dressing-table, and held it
behind a candle. There he was, big, strong, healthy, manly, with that
clear brow, that square chin, that steady, good mouth; and he looked
her straight in the eyes. Was it possible that a countenance could so
deceive? No more tears from Deb for his untimely fate. Had it been his
face in the flesh, it could not possibly have gazed in that undaunted
way at hers; her expression would have withered him.

She returned to the morning-room--drawing-room also when no guests
were in the house--to report to her father.

"Mary has gone to bed," she said quietly. "She is very much upset by
this business. It appears there was something between her and Mr Carey.
She expected him to come back for her--"

"What! MARY?" cried Rose, waiting with Frances to say goodnight.

"There!" triumphed Frances, "what did I say?"

"MARY!" their father echoed Rose's surprised tone. "The dickens! You
don't say so. Poor little soul! Poor little girlie! Well, I never
thought of that. Did you, Deb?"

"Never, father. Not for a moment."

"I suppose it was the child. It must have been the child." Mr
Pennycuick was deeply concerned. "I wonder why he never said anything,"
he addressed Deb, when Rose and Frances had been sent to bed. "Eh, Deb?
Seems strange, don't it? We had so much talk together. Quite like a
sort of son, he was. If so, it must have marked the passage of every
sunny hour that has elapsed since Isaac Newton was a boy. It marked
all the famous moments of his life; it marked the hour of his death;
and still the sunshine creeps slowly over it, as regularly as when
Isaac first set it up.

Yet we must not say that the sundial has lasted longer than its maker;
for Isaac Newton will exist long after the dial--yes, and long after
the sun itself--shall have crumbled to decay.

Isaac possessed a wonderful faculty of acquiring knowledge by the
simplest means. For instance, what method do you suppose he took to find
out the strength of the wind?

You will never guess how the boy could compel that unseen, inconstant,
and ungovernable wonder, the wind, to tell him the measure of its strength.
Yet nothing can be more simple. He jumped against the wind; and by
the length of his jump he could calculate the force of a gentle
breeze, a brisk gale, or a tempest.

Thus, even in his boyish sports, he was continually searching out the
secrets of philosophy.

Not far from his grandmother's residence there was a windmill which
operated on a new plan. Isaac was in the habit of going thither
frequently, and would spend whole hours in examining its various
parts.
While the mill was at rest he pried into its internal machinery.
When its broad sails were set in motion by the wind, he watched the
process by which the mill-stones were made to revolve and crush the
grain that was put into the hopper. After gaining a thorough knowledge
of its construction he was observed to be unusually busy with his
tools.

It was not long before his grandmother and all the neighborhood knew
what Isaac had been about. He had constructed a model of the
windmill.
Though not so large, I suppose, as one of the box traps which boys set
to catch squirrels, yet every part of the mill and is machinery was
complete.

Its little sails were neatly made of linen, and whirled round very
swiftly when the mill was placed in a draught of air. Even a puff
of wind from Isaac's mouth or from a pair of bellows was sufficient
to set the sails in motion.

And, what was most curious, if a handful of grains of wheat were put
into the little hopper, they would soon be converted into snow-white
flour.

Isaac's playmates were enchanted with his new windmill. They thought
that nothing so pretty and so wonderful had ever been seen in the
whole world.

"But, Isaac," said one of them, "you have forgotten one thing that belongs
to a mill."
"What is that?" asked Isaac; for he supposed that, from the roof of the
mill to its foundation, he had forgotten nothing.

"Why, where is the miller?" said his friend.

"That is true,--I must look out for one," said Isaac; and he set himself
to consider how the deficiency should be supplied.

He might easily have made the miniature figure of a man; but then it
would not have been able to move about and perform the duties of a
miller.

As Captain Lemuel Gulliver had not yet discovered the island of Lilliput,
Isaac did not know that there were little men in the world whose size
was just suited to his windmill. It so happened, however, that a
mouse had just been caught in the trap; and, as no other miller
could be found, Mr. Mouse was appointed to that important office. The
new miller made a very respectable appearance in his dark gray coat. To
be sure, he had not a very good character for honesty, and was suspected
of sometimes stealing a portion of the grain which was given
him to grind. But perhaps some two-legged millers are quite as
dishonest as this small quadruped.

As Isaac grew older, it was found that he had far more important matters
in his mind than the manufacture of toys like the little windmill. All
day long, if left to himself, he was either absorbed in thought or
engaged in some book of mathematics or natural philosophy.

At night, I think it probable, he looked up with reverential curiosity
to the stars, and wondered whether they were worlds like our own,
and how great was their distance from the earth, and what was the
power that kept them in their courses. Perhaps, even so early in life,
Isaac Newton felt a presentiment that he should be able, hereafter,
to answer all these questions.

When Isaac was fourteen years old, his mother's second husband being now
dead, she wished her son to leave school and assist her in
managing the farm at Woolsthorpe. For a year or two, therefore, he
tried to turn his attention to farming. But his mind was so bent on
becoming a scholar that his mother sent him back to school, and
afterwards to the University of Cambridge.

I have now finished my anecdotes of Isaac Newton's boyhood. My story
would be far too long were I to mention all the splendid discoveries
which he made after he came to be a man. He was the first that found
out the nature of light; for, before his day, nobody could tell
what the sunshine was composed of.

You remember, I suppose, the story of an apple's falling on his
head, and thus leading him to discover the force of gravitation,
which keeps the heavenly bodies in their courses.

When he had once got hold of this idea, he never permitted his
mind to rest until he had searched out all the laws by which the planets
are guided through the sky. This he did as thoroughly as if he had gone
up among the stars and tracked them in their orbits. The boy had found
out the mechanism of a windmill; the man explained to his fellow-men
the mechanism of the universe.

While making these researches he was accustomed to spend night after
night in a lofty tower, gazing at the heavenly bodies through a
telescope. His mind was lifted far above the things of this world.
He may be said, indeed, to have spent the greater part of his life in
worlds that lie thousands and millions of miles away; for where the
thoughts and the heart are, there is our true existence.

Did you never hear the story of Newton and his little dog Diamond?
One day, when he was fifty years old, and had been hard at work more
than twenty years studying the theory of light, he went out of his
chamber, leaving his little dog asleep before the fire. On the table lay
a heap of manuscript papers, containing all the discoveries which
Newton had made during those twenty years.

When his master was gone, up rose little Diamond, jumped upon the table,
and overthrew the lighted candle. The papers immediately caught
fire.

Just as the destruction was completed Newton opened the chamber
door, and perceived that the labors of twenty years were reduced
to a heap of ashes.

There stood little Diamond, the author of all the mischief.
Almost any other man would have sentenced the dog to immediate
death.

But Newton patted him on the head with his usual kindness, although
grief was at his heart.

"O Diamond, Diamond," exclaimed he, "thou little knowest the mischief
then hast done!"
This incident affected his health and spirits for some time afterwards;
but, from his conduct towards the little dog, you may judge what
was the sweetness of his temper.

Newton lived to be a very old man, and acquired great renown, and was
made a member of Parliament, and received the honor of knighthood
from the king.

But he cared little for earthly fame and honors, and felt no pride
in the vastness of his knowledge. All that he had learned only
made him feel how little he knew in comparison to what remained
to be known.

"I seem to myself like a child," observed he, "playing on the
sea-shore, and picking up here and there a curious shell or a
pretty pebble, while the boundless ocean of Truth lies undiscovered
before me."

At last, in 1727, when he was fourscore and five years old, Sir Isaac
Newton died,--or rather, he ceased to live on earth. We may be
permitted to believe that he is still searching out the infinite
wisdom and goodness of the Creator as earnestly, and with even
more success, than while his spirit animated a mortal body.

He has left a fame behind him which will be as endurable as if his
name were written in letters of light formed by the stars upon the
midnight sky.

"I love to hear about mechanical contrivances, such as the water-clock
and the little windmill," remarked George.

"I suppose, if Sir Isaac Newton had only thought of it, he
might have found out the steam-engine, and railroads, and all the other
famous inventions that have come into use since his day."
"Very possibly he might," replied Mr. Temple; "and no doubt a great
many people would think it more useful to manufacture steam-engines than
to search out the system of the universe. Other great astronomers
besides Newton have been endowed with mechanical genius. There was
David Rittenhouse, an American,--lie made a perfect little water-mill
when he was only seven or eight years old.

But this sort of ingenuity is but a mere trifle in comparison with
the other talents of such men."
"It must have been beautiful," said Edward, "to spend whole nights in a
high tower as Newton did, gazing at the stars, and the comets, and
the meteors. But what would Newton have done had he been blind? or if
his eyes had been no better than mine?"
"Why, even then, my dear child," observed Mrs. Temple, "he would
have found out some way of enlightening his mind and of elevating
his soul.

But come; little Emily is waiting to bid you good night. You must
go to sleep and dream of seeing all our faces."
"But how sad it will be when I awake!" murmured Edward.

CHAPTER IV.

In the course of the next day the harmony of our little family was
disturbed by something like a quarrel between George and Edward.

The former, though he loved his brother dearly, had found it quite too
great a sacrifice of his own enjoyments to spend all his play-time in
a darkened chamber. Edward, on the other hand, was
inclined to be despotic. He felt as if his bandaged eyes entitled him
to demand that everybody who enjoyed the blessing of sight should
contribute to his comfort and amusement.

He therefore insisted that George, instead of going out to play at
football, should join with himself and Emily in a game of questions
and answers.

George resolutely refused, and ran out of the house. He did not
revisit Edward's chamber till the evening, when he stole in, looking
confused, yet somewhat sullen, and sat down beside his father's chair.
It was evident, by a motion of Edward's head and a slight trembling of
his lips, that he was aware of George's entrance, though his footsteps
had been almost inaudible. Emily, with her serious and earnest little
face, looked from one to the other, as if she longed to be a messenger
of peace between them.

Mr. Temple, without seeming to notice any of these circumstances, began
a story.

SAMUEL JOHNSON
[BORN 1709 DIED 1784.]
"Sam," said Mr. Michael Johnson, of Lichfield, one morning, "I am
very feeble and ailing to-day. You must go to Uttoxeter in my stead,
and tend the bookstall in the market-place there."
This was spoken above a hundred years ago, by an elderly man, who
had once been a thriving bookseller at Lichfield, in England.

Being now in reduced circumstances, he was forced to go every
market-day and sell books at a stall, in the neighboring village
of Uttoxeter.

His son, to whom Mr. Johnson spoke, was a great boy, of very singular
aspect. He had an intelligent face; but it was seamed and distorted by
a scrofulous humor, which affected his eyes so badly that sometimes
he was almost blind.

Owing to the same cause his head would often shake with a tremulous
motion as if he were afflicted with the palsy.

When Sam was an infant, the famous Queen Anne had tried to cure him of
this disease by laying her royal hands upon his head. But though the
touch of a king or queen was supposed to be a certain remedy for
scrofula, it produced no good effect upon Sam Johnson.

At the time which we speak of the poor lad was not very well dressed,
and wore shoes from which his toes peeped out; for his old father
had barely the means of supporting his wife and children.

But, poor as the family were, young Sam Johnson had as much pride as any
nobleman's son in England.

The fact was, he felt conscious of uncommon sense and ability, which,
in his own opinion, entitled him to great respect from the world.
Perhaps he would have been glad if grown people had treated him as
reverentially as his schoolfellows did.

Three of them were accustomed to come for him every morning; and
while he sat upon the back of one, the two others supported him on
each side; and thus he rode to school in triumph.

Being a personage of so much importance, Sam could not bear the
idea of standing all day in Uttoxeter market offering books to the
rude and ignorant country people.

Doubtless he felt the more reluctant on account of his shabby clothes,
and the disorder of his eyes, and the tremulous motion of his head.

When Mr. Michael Johnson spoke, Sam pouted and made an indistinct
grumbling in his throat; then he looked his old father in the face
and answered him loudly and deliberately.

"Sir," said he, "I will not go to Uttoxeter market!"
Mr. Johnson had seen a great deal of the lad's obstinacy ever since
his birth; and while Sam was younger, the old gentleman had probably
used the rod whenever occasion seemed to require. But he was
now too feeble and too much out of spirits to contend with this
stubborn and violent- tempered boy.

He therefore gave up the point at once, and prepared to go to Uttoxeter
himself.

"Well, Sam," said Mr.

Johnson, as he took his hat and staff, "if for the sake of your
foolish pride you can suffer your poor sick father to stand all
day in the noise and confusion of the market when he ought to be
in his bed, I have no more to say.

But you will think of this, Sam, when I am dead and gone."

So the poor old man (perhaps with a tear in his eye, but certainly
with sorrow in his heart) set forth towards Uttoxeter. The gray-haired,
feeble, melancholy Michael Johnson! How sad a thing it was that he
should be forced to go, in his sickness, and toil for the support
of an ungrateful son who was too proud to do anything for his father,
or his mother, or himself!

Sam looked after Mr. Johnson with a sullen countenance till he
was out of sight.

But when the old man's figure, as he went stooping along the street,
was no more to be seen, the boy's heart began to smite him.

He had a vivid imagination, and it tormented him with the image of
his father standing in the market-place of Uttoxeter and offering
his books to the noisy crowd around him.

Sam seemed to behold him arranging his literary merchandise upon the
stall in such a way as was best calculated to attract notice. Here was
Addison's Spectator, a long row of little volumes; here was Pope's
translation of the Iliad and Odyssey; here were Dryden's poems, or
those of Prior.

Here, likewise, were Gulliver's Travels, and a variety of little
gilt-covered children's books, such as Tom Thumb, Jack the Giant
Queller, Mother Goose's Melodies, and others which our great-grandparents
used to read in their childhood.

And here were sermons for the pious, and pamphlets for the
politicians, and ballads, some merry and some dismal ones, for the
country people to sing.

Sam, in imagination, saw his father offer these books, pamphlets,
and ballads, now to the rude yeomen who perhaps could not read a word;
now to the country squires, who cared for nothing but to hunt hares
and foxes; now to the children, who chose to spend their coppers
for sugar- plums or gingerbread rather than for picture-books.

And if Mr.

Johnson should sell a book to man, woman, or child, it would cost him
an hour's talk to get a profit of only sixpence.

"My poor father!" thought Sam to himself. "How his head will ache!
and how heavy his heart will be!

I am almost sorry that I did not do as he bade me."
Then the boy went to his mother, who was busy about the house. She did
not know of what had passed between Mr.

Johnson and Sam.

"Mother," said he, "did you think father seemed very ill to-day?"

"Yes, Sam," answered his mother, turning with a flushed face from the
fire, where she was cooking their scanty dinner.

"Your father did look very ill; and it is a pity he did not send
you to Uttoxeter in his stead.

You are a great boy now, and would rejoice, I am sure, to do something
for your poor father, who has done so much for you."

The lad made no reply.

But again his imagination set to work and conjured
up another picture of poor Michael Johnson. He was standing in the hot
sunshine of the market-place, and looking so weary, sick, and
disconsolate, that the eyes of all the crowd were drawn to him.

"Had this old man no son," the people would say among themselves,
"who might have taken his place at the bookstall while the father
kept his bed?"

And perhaps, but this was a terrible thought for Sam!

--perhaps his father would faint away and fall down in the marketplace,
with his gray hair in the dust and his venerable face as deathlike
as that of a corpse.I would like to understand, and I can't, for the life of
me. You must have had some reason. DID I do anything, unknowing--"

She shook her head hopelessly.

"No. You were only kind and good, as you would have been to anyone."

"Kind and good? Rubbish! It was you--all of you--who were kind and
good. Oh, I don't forget what you did for me, and never shall. I feel"
--it was the very feeling that had so oppressed him in the case of the
lady at Sandridge--"under a load of obligation to you that I can never
hope to discharge. But still--but still--though I trust I showed some
of the gratitude I felt--I cannot remember how I came to give you the
idea--I must have done something, I suppose; one is a blundering fool
without knowing it--"

"No," she protested--"no, no! It was my own idea entirely."

"But I can't reconcile that with your character, Miss Pennycuick."

"Nor can I," she laughed bitterly.

"There's a mystery somewhere. Did anybody tell you anything? Did Miss
Frances put constructions on innocent appearances? Did--"

"No," Mary resolutely stopped him. "It is good of you to try to
make excuses, but there is no excuse for me--none. Francie only said
what she knew. I let them believe you were my lover; I am twenty-seven
--I never had one--and--and--oh, I thought that, at least, you might
be mine when you were dead! I did not mean to be a liar, as you called
me--yes, that is the right word--"

"Forgive me for using it," he muttered. "You do not realise at first
that you are lying, when you only act lies and don't speak them. And I
DID think that perhaps, that possibly--of course, I was ridiculously
wrong--it was atrocious, unforgivable--I don't ask you to forgive me
--I don't want you to--but those dear days when our little boy--oh,
you know!--and when you kissed me that night beside his grave--"

"WHAT!" A lightning change came over the young man, as if the word had
been an electric current suddenly shot into him. "KISSED YOU?"

"It was nothing; you did not know you did it--"

"But here--hold on--this is serious. DID I kiss YOU? You are sure you
are not dreaming?"

"I would not be very likely to dream that," she said, with a strange
smile. "But of course it was only--at such a time--as you would have
kissed your sister--anybody. Your very forgetting it shows that."

But a dim memory was awakening in him, frightfully perturbing to his
mind.

"I KISSED you!" he repeated, and slowly realised that he had been that
consummate ass. The poor baby's dead hand had retained its old power to
entrap a simpleton unawares.

Well, simpleton or not, Guthrie Carey was Guthrie Carey--
sailor-bred, accustomed to meet vital emergencies with boldness and
promptness; accustomed also to take his own views of what was a man's
part at such times. While she implored him to say no more about that
kiss, crying shame upon herself for mentioning it, he sat in silence,
thinking hard. As soon as she had done, he spoke:

"Miss Pennycuick, I now understand everything. You are completely
justified. It is I who have been to blame." And he then, in precise
language, such as no real lover could have used, but still as prettily
as was possible under the circumstances, requested the honour of her
hand in marriage.

To his astonishment, she laughed. It was a wild-sounding cackle, and
quickly turned into a wail.

"Ah-h! Ah-h-h!" She faced him again, head up and hands down. "That, Mr
Carey, is the one way out of it that is utterly, absolutely, eternally
impossible."

"Why?" he demanded, with his man's dull incomprehension, and went on to
demonstrate that there was no other. "I do not wish," he lied
chivalrously, "to take any other. I--I--believe me, I am not
ungrateful for your--for your thinking a great deal more of me than I
deserve. I will try to show myself worthy--"

A magnanimous arm attempted to encircle her. She backed from it, and
rose hurriedly from her chair, with what he would have imagined a
gesture of repulsion if he had not known her, from her own showing, so
over-eager for his embraces. He rose too.

"Do not!" she cried breathlessly, passionately. "As if I could
dream--What can you think of me, to imagine that I would for a moment
--"

She broke from him and ran towards the door, sobbing, with her
handkerchief to her eyes. In three strides he was there before her,
cutting off her retreat; so she swung back into the room, cast herself
on the floor beside a sofa, and throwing up her arms, plunged her head
down between them into the depths of a large cushion, which smothered
cries that would otherwise have been shrieks. She abandoned all effort
to control herself, except the effort to hide, which was futile.

Guthrie Carey's first feeling was of alarm, lest anyone should hear and
come in to see what was the matter; he felt like wanting to guard the
door. But in a minute or two his soft heart was so worked upon by the
spectacle before him that he could think of nothing else. However
little he might want to marry Mary Pennycuick, he was not going to be
answerable for this sort of thing; so he marched resolutely to the
sofa, and stooped to lift the convulsed creature bodily into his arms.

He might as well have tried to grasp a sleeping porcupine.

"How dare you?" she cried shrilly, whirling to her feet, dilating like
a hooded snake before his astonished eyes. "How dare you touch me?" He
was too cowed to answer, and she stood a moment, all fire and fury,
glaring at him, her tear-ravaged face distorted, her hands clenched;
then she whirled out of the room, and this time he made no effort to
stop her.

He dropped back on the sofa, and said to himself helplessly:

"Well, I'm blowed!"

There was stillness for some time. This part of the house
seemed quite empty, save for one buzzing fly, which he or Mary had let
in. The little housekeeper was very particular about flies in summer,
every window and chimney-opening being wire-netted, every door labelled
with a printed request to the user to shut it; and his dazed mind
occupied itself with the idea of how this insect would have distressed
her if she had not had so much else to think of. He had an impulse to
hunt it, for her sake, through the green-shadowed space in which it
careered in long tacks with such energy and noise; but, standing up, he
was seized with a stronger impulse to leave the house forthwith, and
everything in it. He wanted liberty to consider his position and
further proceedings before he faced the family.

As he approached the door, it was opened from without. Deb stood on the
threshold, pale, proud, with tight lips and sombre eyes. She bowed to
him as only she could bow to a person she was offended with.

"Would you kindly see my father in his office, Mr Carey?" she inquired,
with stony formality. "He wishes to speak to you."

"Certainly, Miss Deborah," he replied, not daring to preface the words
with even a "How-do-you-do". "I want to see him--I want to see him
particularly."

Deb swept round to lead the way downstairs.

An embarrassing march it was, tandem fashion, through the long passages
of the rambling house. While trying to arrange his thoughts for the
coming interview, Captain Carey studied her imperious back and
shoulders, the haughty poise of her head; and though he was not the one
that had behaved badly, he had never felt so small. At the door
of the morning-room she dismissed him with a jerk of the hand. "You
know your way," said she, and vanished.

"She is more beautiful than ever," was his poignant thought, as he
walked away from her, and from all the glorious life that she suggested
--to such a dull and common doom.

Mr Pennycuick, at first, was a terrible figure, struggling between his
father-fury and his old-gentleman instincts of courtesy to a guest.

"Sir," said he, "I am sorry that I have to speak to you under my own
roof; in another place I could better have expressed what I have to say
--"

But before he could get to the gist of the matter, Mary intervened.

"Miss Keene has some refreshment for Mr Carey in the dining-room," she
said. "And, father, I want, if you please, to have a word with you
first." She had recovered self-possession, and wore a rigid, determined
air, contrasting with the sailor's bewilderment, which was so great
that he found himself driven from the office before he had made up his
mind whether he ought to go or stay.

He sat down to his unnecessary meal, and tried to eat, while an
embarrassed maiden lady talked platitudes to him. Didn't he find it
very dusty in town? Miss Keene, knitting feverishly, was anxious to be
informed. And didn't he think the country looked well for the time of
year?

He was relieved from this tedium by another summons to the office.
Fortified with a glass of good wine, he returned to the encounter,
inwardly calling upon his gods to direct him how to meet it. He found
poor old Father Pennycuick aged ten years in the hour since he
had seen him last. But he still stood in massive dignity, a true son of
his old race.

"Well, Mr Carey," said he, "I have had a great many troubles of late,
sir, but never one like this. I thought that losing money--the fruits
of a lifetime of hard work--was a thing to fret over; and then, again,
I've thought that money's no consequence so long as you've got your
children alive and well--that THAT was everything. I know better now.
I know there's things may happen to a man worse than death--worse than
losing everything belonging to him, no matter what it is. When that
child was a little thing, she had an illness, and the doctors gave her
up. Two nights her mother and I sat up watching her, expecting every
breath to be the last, and broken-hearted was no word for what we felt.
I cried like a calf, and I prayed--I never prayed like it before or
since--and fools we are to ask the Almighty for we don't know what!
Now I wish He had taken her. And I've told her so."

"Then you have been very cruel, Mr Pennycuick," Guthrie Carey replied
sharply--"and as unjust as cruel. She has done nothing--"

"I know what she's done," the stern parent interposed. "I wouldn't have
believed it if anybody else had told me; but I have her own word for
it. And if she has been a liar once, I still know when to believe her."

"If you will be so good as to tell me what she has said, then I will
make MY statement."

The old man put up his hand.

"Don't perjure yourself," said he, grimly smiling. "It is very kind of
you to try to let us down easily, but you can spare your breath.
Excuses only make it worse. There's nothing to be said for her,
and you'll really oblige me by not going into details. I only sent for
you to make such amends as I can--to apologise most humbly--to
express my sorrow--my shame--my unspeakable humiliation--that a
child of mine--a Pennycuick--a girl I thought was nothing if not
maidenly and self-respecting, and the very soul of honour and
straightness and proper pride--"

"You speak as if she was not all that now--"

"NOW!--and done a low, contemptible thing like that! Oh, I don't
understand it--I can't; it's too monstrous--except that I have her
word for it. She says she did it, and so there it is. And, sir, I beg
your pardon on behalf of the house that she has disgraced--the house
that reared her and thought her so different--"

He gulped, coughed, and gave Guthrie a chance to put in a word.

"Mr Pennycuick, the simple fact is that I made love to your daughter--
"

"Made her an offer of marriage?" snarled the other, wheeling round.

"I kissed her--"

Mr Pennycuick snapped his thumb and finger derisively.

"THAT kind of kiss!--as good as asked for."

"It was not as good as asked for. Your daughter is not that kind of
woman."

"I thought not, but she says she is."

"Pay no heed to what she says. Her morbid conscientiousness runs away
with her. I tell you the plain truth, as man to man, without any
hysterics--I kissed her of my own free will--your daughter, sir. And
I am here now to stand by my act. If she will forgive my--my
tardiness--as you know, I was in no position then to aspire to
marriage with a lady of this family; I am not now, but I am better off
than I was--will you give your consent to our engagement?"

"No!" roared Mr Pennycuick, looking as if threatened with an apoplectic
fit. "I'll see her engaged to the devil first!"

Like Mary, he seemed to take the generous offer as a personal insult.
Guthrie Carey, conscious of doing the duty of a gentleman at enormous
cost, could not understand why.


CHAPTER XI.


Captain Carey, while leaving it to be understood that he held himself
engaged to Mary Pennycuick until further orders, realised the welcome
fact that in the meantime he was honourably free; and he excused
himself from staying to dinner. But scarcely had he driven off in his
hired buggy than that of Mr Goldsworthy clattered into the stableyard.
It was the good man's habit, when on his parochial visitations, to
'make' Redford at meal times, or at bed-time, whenever distances
allowed; he called it, most appropriately, his second home, and walked
into the house as if it really belonged to him two or three times a
week.

The first person that he encountered on this occasion was Frances, who
had waylaid Guthrie Carey on his departure, and whom he had left
standing under the back porch, aglow with excitement. She was a picture
in her pale blue frock--put on for his eyes--and with her mane of
burnished gold falling about her sparkling blush-rose face; but the
parson, accustomed to regard her as a child, was unaffected by the
sight.

"Surely," he exclaimed, with agitation, "that was young Mr Carey that I
passed at the gate just now? He had his hat pulled over his eyes, and
did not stop to speak to me; but the figure--" "Was his," said
Frances, bursting to be the first to say it. "Very much in the flesh
still, isn't he? And oh, to think he's gone like this, just as we'd got
him back--SO big and handsome, and such a DEAR brother-in-law as he
would have made!"

She stamped her foot. "What do you think, Mr Goldsworthy?--he came for
her today, just as he promised, and then she turned round and wouldn't
have him! We thought he'd jilted her, and instead of that she's jilted
him. Oh, I could smack her! To have such a chance--SHE!--and after
all the fuss she made about him--and throw it away! But I think he'll
come back before his ship sails--he said he would--and perhaps she'll
be less of an idiot by then; she'd better, unless she wants to die an
old maid. Oh, if it was ME--!"

Mr Goldsworthy penetrated to the morning-room, where something of the
same tale was repeated to him. Yes, Guthrie Carey was alive and well,
and had been up to see them. Yes, he had asked for Mary--now that he
was a captain--but she had finally decided against marrying a sailor.
Wisely, perhaps; at any rate, it was her business; the family did not
wish to discuss the matter.

When Mr Goldsworthy found that Mary did not come to dinner, he drew
some conclusions for himself. He told himself there was something
"fishy" in the affair--something behind, that was purposely kept from
him. But he was hungry, and the fragrant soup steamed under his nose
and glittered in his spoon--it was so admirably clear. Just now the
doings of the Redford cook were of more concern to him than Mary's
doings.

But although he enjoyed the meal to which he had looked forward
all day, he enjoyed it much less than usual. A more sensitive person in
his place must have found it wretched. Deb was a chilling hostess. Her
frigid dignity and forced politeness caused discomfort even to him,
thereby lowering her status in his eyes, lessening the ardour of his
admiration for her. Mr Pennycuick, such a stickler for hospitality,
scarcely spoke a word to the guest. Rose was a nobody, but still might
have done something in the way of entertainment; and she quite ignored
him, looking down as if to hide eyes that had been crying. Frances was
eager to engage in conversation, but was bidden roughly by her father
to hold her tongue. The stately governess wore only more ostentatiously
than usual the detached air that always marked her out of school; and
it was left to poor Miss Keene, with her timid platitudes, to keep up
an appearance of civility.

Mr Pennycuick vanished abruptly after dinner; it was presently rumoured
that he was not well, and had gone to bed. Frances was taken away to
prepare lessons. Rose and Deborah came and went. Coffee was served. The
parson was again left to Miss Keene, who would not be pumped for
confidences, further than to admit that Mary was keeping her room with
a headache, in consequence of the agitating visit of Captain Carey, but
laboriously talked parish to him, without appearing to know anything of
the subject. So the poor man actually became so bored that he changed
his mind about staying for the night. He remembered that there was a
good moon, and that he had an early engagement next morning, and
ordered his buggy soon after nine o'clock. Afterwards he believed that
it was the direct voice of the Lord that had called him to take
his journey home at that hour.

He drove alone, having a steady (Redford) mare, that stood quietly at
gates and doors, and no groom--a luxury almost unknown amongst country
parsons, who must all keep horses. The night was beautiful, still, cool
and clear, the moon so full that he could see for miles. Because of
this, he took his daylight short cuts across country, preferring grass
when he could get it to the dusty summer road. And one of his short
cuts led along the top of the embankment of the big dam.

He slackened speed at this spot, touched by the beauty of the scene,
which could hardly have appealed in vain to any man who had just had a
good dinner. How peacefully the still water lay under the shining moon
--that moon which is capable of making, not soft young lovers only, but
the toughest old stagers sentimental--nay, maudlin--at times; an
intoxicant purged of the grossness of spirituous liquors, but acting on
the brain in precisely the same way. Mr Goldsworthy, already uplifted
by good Redford wine, felt the effect of the lovely night in dim poetic
stirrings of his sordid little soul. He mused of God and heaven, and
the other things that he made sermons out of, in a disinterested,
unprofessional way, these being the lines along which his imagination
worked. "Surely the Lord is in this place," was the unspoken thought,
elevating and inspiring, with which he surveyed the placid lake and the
dreaming hills; and "it is good for me to be here," he felt, even at
the cost of a Redford bed and breakfast, and the choice vegetables that
the gardener would have put into his buggy in the morning.

But what was this? A boat adrift! From out of the shadow of the
white shed on the further shore a black spot moved--one of the boats
that should have been locked up, since no one was allowed to use them
without Mr Pennycuick's permission. It came into the open moonlight,
into the middle of that silver mirror, and he saw that oars propelled
it, and saw the figure of the person wielding them. Who had dared to
take this liberty with sacred Redford property? he wondered, with the
indignation of a co-proprietor; and he assumed a poacher after the fish
that Mr Pennycuick had been trying with characteristic perseverance and
unsuccess to naturalise in his dam. But looking harder, the clergyman
saw the figure rise in the boat, and that it was a woman's. Almost at
the same instant he saw that it had disappeared. Seizing whip and
reins, he lashed his mare to a gallop along the embankment and down its
steep side, where she nearly upset him, and round the lake shore--the
buggy rocking like a cradle--to the point nearest to the boat, now
visibly adrift and empty. He jumped to the ground, tore off his coat
and vest (which had a valuable watch attached), flinging them and his
hat, and presently his boots, into the buggy; and with a word of
warning to the mare, he plunged into the water to the rescue of some
poor fool whom as yet he had not identified.

He returned to shore with Mary Pennycuick in his arms. Spent and
panting from his struggle, and awed by the tragical significance of the
affair, his heart exulted at his deed. He thanked God that he had been
in time--with a fervour proportionate to her rank and consequence--
and anticipated the splendid reward awaiting him as the
benefactor of the great family, entitled to their full confidence and
eternal gratitude. But also he was filled with solicitude for the poor
girl.

She was unconscious when he laid her down on the grass, but choked and
moaned when he set to work to revive her, and realised that she was
back in life and misery after he had succeeded in getting some whisky
down her throat--contents of the flask he always carried, as a
preventive of chills and remedy for undue fatigues, and from which he
had first helped himself. They sat upon the ground side by side, his
arm round her waist, her head--feeling only that it was cushioned
somewhere--on his shoulder. The night was so warm and windless that
their wet clothes were little discomfort to them, but he kept grasping
and wringing handfuls with the hand at liberty, while he supported her
with the other. The danger of damp "things" was more terrifying to him
now than the danger of death had been a few minutes ago.

"There, there," he said soothingly, "you feel better now--don't you?
Then I'll just put on my coat, if you don't mind. I'll wrap you up in
the buggy rug--and we'll get back to Redford as soon as we can. And in
the morning, dear, you'll wake up sorry for this--this madness, and
you'll never do it again, will you?"

"Hysteria," he said to himself. "Her head turned by this love affair.
He's treated her badly, whatever they may say, and it has unhinged her
mind."

This thought disposed him to be gentle with her when she positively
refused to be taken back to Redford.

"Leave me here," she implored him. "I cannot go home! I will
not go home! My father told me he wished I was dead. Oh, I should have
been dead now if you had left me alone, and then they would have been
satisfied, and I should have been out of my misery, which is more than
I can bear. Oh, Mr Goldsworthy, don't--don't!" "Mad as a hatter, poor
thing," he thought, as he desisted from his effort to raise her. "Why,
her father thinks the world of her!"

But something had to be done. It was unwise to use force in these cases
--nor could he have brought himself to use it--and of course he could
not leave her at the dam, or leave her at all, while she was in her
present mood, and without other protection; at the same time, it was
imperatively necessary that he should get out of his wet clothes--her
also. He mentioned this latter fact, and it was touching to see her own
careful housewifely instincts assert themselves through all her mental
agony.

"Oh, you ARE wet," she mourned, feeling him--it did not matter about
herself; "oh, I am so sorry! Do--do go home at once, and take them
off, and have something hot before you go to bed."

"I will," he said, "if you will go with me." A moment's reflection
showed him that this was the best course--to take her to his own
house, and send a message to Mr Pennycuick that she was there, and
safe.

The thought of the town frightened her. She dreaded to go anywhere out
of the solitude of Nature in which she had tried to hide. But he
assured her of privacy and protection, and she was spent and beaten,
and she gave in. Like a child, she stood to be wrapped in the
rug and lifted into the buggy, and they proceeded on their way to his
home, where his old sister kept house for him and mothered his child,
with the aid of one servant.

It was nearly midnight when they arrived, and the parsonage was dark.
Miss Goldsworthy, not expecting him, was sitting up with a sick
parishioner half a mile off; Ruby and the maid were fast asleep. When
the latter was heard stirring in her room, her master called a few
questions to her, and then bade her go back to bed.

"We don't want her poking round," he whispered to Mary, as (when
together they had hurried the mare into her stall) he led the drooping
girl to his study--and how grateful she was to him for this
consideration! He closed the door behind them, and led her gently to
his own arm-chair--she clung to the hand that was so kind to her in
her need--bidding her keep the rug about her (so as not to wet the
furniture); and he lit a kerosene stove that was one of his private
luxuries, always available when the maid-of-all-work was not. He
exhorted his charge to comfort herself by the poor blaze while he
fetched such odds and ends of clothes as he could gather from his
sister's room; and then he told her to change her wet garments for
these dry ones while he performed the same operation for himself
elsewhere. She obeyed him as meekly as a child, and was sitting huddled
in Miss Goldsworthy's faded flannel dressing-gown when he returned,
carrying a kettle and a tray.

"Now I will make you a nice hot cup of tea," said he cheerily, planting
the kettle on a round hole at the top of the stove and the tray on his
writing table. "You put your clothes in the passage? That's
right. We'll dry them presently. Oh, yes"--starting to cut bread and
butter--"you must have something to eat. You have had no dinner."

He forced her to eat, and to drink the hot tea, and she did feel the
better for it. Over her cup she lifted swimming eyes to his face,
whispering: "You are good to me!" And he remarked to himself that she
was not mad, as he had thought.

When the meal was disposed of, he felt that the time for explanations
and for considering how to deal with the extraordinary situation had
come.

"Now, my dear," he began, taking on something of the parson air at
last, "the first thing to be done is to inform your family of your
whereabouts. I must go and find up somebody to take a message to them,
to relieve their minds."

She roused from her semi-torpor to plead for a reprieve. Not yet--not
yet! Whatever she had to face, let her rest for a little first. They
had parted with her for the night; they would not go to her room, she
knew--outcast as she now was from the sympathy of them all; they would
not miss her before the morning. And, oh, she could not go home! She
had disgraced her family--her own father had wished her dead. She was
a wicked woman, not fit to live; but, if she must live, let it be
anywhere--anywhere--rather than at Redford now!

At this repetition of her strange charge against a doting father, and
the mention of disgrace, a distressing suspicion came into the parson's
mind. He calculated the length of time between Guthrie Carey's visits;
he looked at her searchingly. No, there was no evidence that she had
done the special wrong. But that there was wrong of some sort
somewhere was evident enough.

"I know your father's affection for you," he said seriously, "and I
cannot believe that he would express himself as you say he did."

"I deserved it," she said. "I don't blame him--nobody could."

"There must indeed have been some grave reason--"

"There was--there was!"

"What was it?"

"Oh, don't ask me!" she wailed, covering her face. But, crossing over
to her side, he took one of the shielding hands, and holding it
tenderly, assured her that she must tell him. He was her pastor--he
was her best friend; just now he was her champion, prepared to fight
her battle, whatever it was. And to do this successfully it was
necessary that he should know all. In the end she told him--not all,
but the main facts. He thought it the silliest case of making a
mountain of a molehill that he had ever heard of. He was convinced
there was more in the background, to account for the violent emotions
aroused--to account for a good girl leaving a good home in the middle
of the night to drown herself. In his conjectures he made Guthrie Carey
the villain of the piece--the young man who, after creating all the
disturbance, had significantly cleared out. Sailors were an immoral lot
--a sweetheart in every port, as the world knew. And this fellow--why,
you had only to look at his big, brawny build (Mr Goldsworthy was a
small man) to see that he had a brutal nature.

At any rate, the parson was satisfied that the heroine of the
story remained a "pure" girl--foolish, but womanly, and very, very
unfortunate. As she sat weeping by his side, dependent solely upon his
protection, he stroked her hand and looked at it--so shapely and
high-bred, the hand of a Pennycuick of the great house--a hand that
would be full of gold some day; and his thoughts were busy.

The beautiful Deborah was gone, and could never have been for him; he
had been an idiot to think it. She had no bent towards religion, was
ruinously dressy and extravagant, unhousewifely as a woman could be;
but Miss Pennycuick, great lady as she was, could cook and sew, was a
master hand with servants and with children, and had never failed of
interest in the church--nor in him. They had always been the best of
friends, he and she; did it not seem that Providence had decreed they
should be more? Why had he been sent to the dam in the nick of time,
when he had intended to stay at Redford until morning? Why was she
sitting here now, alone with him in his study, cut off from everybody
else in the world? The hand of the Lord was in it. Looks were of small
account when one considered her rank and the fortune she would inherit;
but, of course, he did not admit to himself that he considered any one
of these three things; nor that she was of age and her own mistress,
although she had just forced the fact upon him when, promising him to
make no further attempt upon her life, she announced an intention to
find a situation somewhere in which she would be able to support
herself apart from her family, and away from all who knew her. No, what
he considered was the will of God and the dictates of his conscience.
She had been given into his hands; he was bound to take care of
her, and there was but one way to do it. It would be wrong and cruel to
force her back to Redford. It was preposterous to think of making a
governess or companion of her, a daughter of the proud Pennycuicks. She
could not remain in his house as she was, without scandal, although he
was a clergyman, with a sister housekeeper. Here they were now--past
midnight, and practically without a soul in the house--and he so young
still, and, if he might presume to say it, so attractive!

He put the case to her guardedly, gradually, plainly at last, and
argued it for a full hour, while she drooped and wept, gazing at the
smelly stove and shaking her head wearily. By the time dawn came, and
she was quite worn out, he had won her consent to be his wife, which
meant for her a footing somewhere, and at the same time a means to
commit suicide without violating the law.

Miss Goldsworthy, who was but his humble slave, came home, put the
forlorn girl to bed, and made a wedding breakfast for her while she was
there; Mr Goldsworthy took the opportunity to fill up marriage papers
in his study. Ruby was sent to school, as usual. Before her return
therefrom, Mary Pennycuick had been led to the altar of the adjacent
church, the white frock in which she had tried to drown herself dried
and ironed to make her bridal robe. A neighbouring clergyman and crony
of the bridegroom's performed the ceremony. Old Miss Goldsworthy, the
chief witness, deposed, bewildered, wept bitterly. The bride was
unmoved--until little Ruby, returning during the course of the ghastly
wedding breakfast, was brought up, giggling and staring, to "kiss her
new mamma", when the new mamma snatched the child to her
breast, and went off into wild hysterics.

"There, there," said the new husband, pleased with the maternal
gesture, but alarmed by her excitement, "you are overwrought. You have
had no sleep. You must come and rest, my dear. Come and lie down. You
can have Ruby with you, if you like--while I go and settle things at
Redford. No, I won't be long; I'll just see your father, and be back by
tea-time. Have the drawing-room opened, Charlotte"--it never was
opened except for visitors--"and we will sit there this evening. And
meanwhile, make her some tea or something, and see that she has all she
wants. Come, my love--"

He led her to the door of a room, and she shrank back from it with a
shriek.

"Well, well," he soothed her; "the spare room, if you like--"

"Oh, promise me--promise me--!"

"Yes, yes; just as you wish, darling. I would not hurry you."

She turned to Miss Goldsworthy and clung to her. "Save me! save me!"
was what the desperate clutch meant, but what the paralysed tongue
could not articulate.

She was in a high fever and delirious on her wedding night, and a week
later at death's door. When she came out of her illness, reconciled to
her family, meekly obedient to her husband, she was a wreck of herself
--a prisoner for life, bound hand and foot, more pitiable than she
would have been as a dead body fished out of the dam.

The tragic disproportion between crimes and punishments in this world!


CHAPTER XII.


Mrs Goldsworthy was reconciled to her relations through her illness--
the greatest peacemaker in families, save death; and for her sake they
made a show of tolerating her husband, after they had given him some
bad hours behind her back. But the whole affair was like a blight on
Redford, which was never the same place again. Mr Pennycuick had a
slight "stroke" on hearing all the bad news at once. It was light
enough to be passed over and hushed up, but his vigour and faculties
declined from that hour with a rapidity that could be marked from day
to day. OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

A WOMAN'S OPINION OF PARIS AND THE PARISIANS.

I have now lived in Paris two consecutive years, and during this time
the question has often been put to me, "How do you like Paris and the
Parisians?" That question I will now try to answer.

Like Paris? Of course I do--heartily and truly. Cold indeed must
the heart be that does not find space in its depths for a
true affection for the fair queen-city which welcomes all strangers
so kindly and hospitably, which has a smile for all, and which at the
wide banquet of her bounty sets forth food for every phase of mental
hunger. Do you wish to study? Her libraries lie open to your
research--her monuments, her galleries, her public institutions are
given to your inspection, freely and without price. Do you
seek amusement?

Paris, in that respect, is like the rollicking heroine of _Barbe-Bleu:_
there is none like Boulotte, "quand il s'agit de batifoler."

Do you wish to hide yourself in depths of unbroken quiet? There are in
her very heart lonely streets where scarce a cart ever penetrates, and
in her suburbs green shaded nooks where the spirit of Solitude reigns
supreme.

Life runs on such smooth and well-oiled wheels for all humanity in Paris
that half the cares that torture us are cast aside as soon as we enter
her precincts. Take, for instance, the grand question of housekeeping.

Fancy living in a land where all the servants are skilled and civil,
if not all trustworthy and honest; where washing-days and ironing-days
and baking-days are unknown; where there are no staircases to sweep
down and no front-door steps to scour; where rents and eating and
all other household expenses may be gauged in accordance with one's
purse. If you wish to entertain, you may give a soirée that will cost
ten dollars if you cannot afford to give a ball that costs five
thousand. Nothing is _de rigueur_ in Paris. It is neither
incumbent upon you to be housed splendidly nor to feast sumptuously--to
drive your own carriage nor to entertain an army of servants. "Do the
best you can" is the motto of Parisian life.

And so it often happens that in a small room, up half a dozen flights of
stairs, with a cup of tea for sole refreshment and music or
conversation for sole amusement, one will find some of the pleasantest
society in Paris.

You do not get champagne and boned turkey and the German, but you hear
sometimes a little music, such as one pays untold gold to hear at
the opera, or a fragment of declamation by some noted elocutionist,
or a new poem fresh from the pen of some celebrated writer.

And you have always conversation; that is to say, the wit and sparkle
of the wittiest and brightest nation on the face of the earth.

In a world that is becoming more and more a Paradise of Fools the charm
of sheer brain and brightness is irresistible. To live in such an
intellectual centre is in itself delightful.

Paris is a veritable _Foire aux Idées_. Its criticism, keen as the
sword of Saladin, overwhelming as the battle-axe of Coeur de Lion,
is in itself a study. It is not so much the intellectual productions
of Paris as the comments they call forth that are at once instructive
and fascinating.
When we turn from the world of intellect to that of ordinary life
the same charm haunts our footsteps.What were you
all about, Debbie, not to see this Goldsworthy affair going on under
your noses?"

"It hasn't been going on. It has been Guthrie Carey--until now."

"I am told"--it was Frances who had told him in the passage just now--
"that she refused Carey only the day before."

"She did."

"In order to make a runaway match with this parson fellow. The facts
speak for themselves."

"Ah!" sighed Deb, turning to the tea-table, "I expect we don't know all
the facts."

She meant that he did not know them. He only knew what Frances knew,
and providentially they had been able to keep the episode of
the dam out of the published story. That was the secret of Mary
herself, her husband, her father, and this one sister; and they kept it
close, even from Claud Dalzell. "I will tell him some day when we are
married," Deb had promised herself; but as things fell out, she never
did tell him. And it was on account of her brother-in-law's part in the
suppressed event that she now forbore to call him behind his back what
she had not hesitated to call him before his face--that is, failed to
show that she fully shared her lover's indignation at the MESALLIANCE,
and the scandalous way that it had been brought about.

"But, good heavens!"--Claud took his cup perfunctorily from her hand,
and at once set it down--"are more facts necessary? She has made a
clandestine marriage with a man whose bishop will turn him out of the
church, I hope. They were right, I suppose, in concluding that no one
here would consent to it; and what conceivable circumstances could
excuse such an act?"

"Illness," said Deb. "Madness."

"Nonsense! There's too much method in it. It is obviously but the
climax of a long intrigue--a course of duplicity that I could never
have believed possible in a girl like Mary, although I have always
thought HIM cad enough for anything."

"Have your tea," said Deb, a trifle off-hand; "it will be cold."

And she sat down with her own cup, and began to sip it with a leisurely
air.

"A clandestine marriage," remarked Claud, ignoring her advice,
"logically implies a clandestine engagement. Carey was but a red
herring across the trail. And you ought to have known it, Deb."

"Well, I didn't," said she shortly.

He took a turn up and down the room, trying to preserve his wonted
well-bred calm. But he was intensely irritated by her attitude.

"I cannot understand you," he complained, with a hard edge to his
voice. "I should have thought that you--YOU of all people--would have
been wild--as wild as I am."

She exasperated him with a little laugh and a truly cutting sarcasm.
"It is bad form to SHOW that you are wild, you know, even if you feel
so."

"I am just wondering whether you feel so. You are not used to hiding
your feelings--at any rate, from me. I expected to find you out of
your mind almost."

"What's the use? If I raved till doomsday I couldn't alter anything.
The mischief is done. It is no use crying over spilt milk, my dear."

"You look as if you did not want to cry." "Do I?"

"As if it did not much matter to you whether it was spilt or not." "It
doesn't matter to me, compared with what it matters to her." "Well, it
matters to ME," Claud Dalzell announced, in a high tone, the crust of
his fine manners giving to the pressure of the volcano within. "I can't
stand the connection, if you can. Carey was bad enough, but he had some
claim beside his coat to rank as a gentleman. This crawling ass, who
would lick your boots for sixpence, to have him patting me on the back
and calling himself my brother--Good God! it's too sickening."

"Not YOUR brother," Deb gently corrected him.

"He is mine if he is yours." "Oh, not necessarily!"

"Deb," said Claud, with an air of desperation, planting himself before
her, "what are you going to do?"

She looked up at him with narrowing eyes and stiffening lips.

"What IS there to do?" she returned. "Are you going to put up with this
--this outrage--to condone everything--to tolerate that fellow at
Redford, taking the position of a son of the house, or are you going to
show them both that they have forfeited their right ever to set foot
upon the place again?"

"My sister too, you mean?"

"Certainly--if you can still bring yourself to call her your sister.
She belongs to him now, not to us. She has voluntarily cut herself off
from her world. Let her go. Deb, if you love me--"

He paused, and Deb smiled into his handsome but disgusted face.

"Ah, is that to be a test of love?" she asked. "I understand. I am to
choose between you. Well"--she rose, towering, drawing the big diamond
from her engagement finger--"I am going to her now. I ought to have
been there hours ago, but waited back to receive you. Good-bye! And
pray, don't come again to this contaminated house. We have too horribly
gone down in the world. I know it, and I would not have you compromised
on any account. We Pennycuicks, we don't abandon our belongings,
especially when they may be dying; we sink or swim together." She held
the jewel out to him.

"What rot!" he blurted vulgarly, flushing with anger that was
not unmixed with shame. "Why will you wilfully misunderstand me? Put it
on, Deb--put it on, and don't be so childish."

"I will not put it on," said she, "until you apologise for the things
you have been saying to me, and the manner of your saying them."

"My dear child, I do apologise humbly, if I have said what I shouldn't.
Perhaps I have; but I thought we were past the need for reserves and
for weighing words, you and I. And really, Debbie, you know--"

"Hush!" She stopped him from further arguing; but she did not stop him
from taking her hand and cramming the diamond back into its old place.
"I must go. Father cannot--he is ill himself; and Miss Keene is too
frightfully modest to nurse him alone, so that I must send Keziah back,
and stay--"

"Can't Miss Keene go and send her back, and stay?"

"Oh, she would be no use in such an illness as Mary's. And I must see
for myself how things are--whether they are taking proper care of the
poor, unfortunate child--"

"Is she so very ill? I did not know that."

There was commiseration in his tone, but in his heart he hoped that the
deservedly sick woman would crown her escapades by dying as quickly as
possible. Then, perhaps, he could forgive her.

Deb gave him sundry confidences. On his appearing to take them in a
proper spirit, she gave him some more tea. And so they lapsed into
their normal relations. When she again urged the need for her to be
getting off on her errand of mercy, he magnanimously offered to drive
her. She accepted with a full heart, and her arms about his
neck. While she was getting ready, he repacked his portmanteau, and
ordered it to be put into the buggy.

"It's no use my going back," he said to her, when they were on the
road, "with you away, and your father too ill to see me. I'll put up at
the hotel tonight, and go on to town in the morning. You can send for
me there whenever you want me, you know."

"Just as you like, dear," said Deb quietly; and for the rest of their
journey they talked commonplaces.

When they reached the parsonage gate, from which the maid-of-all-work
and a group of street gossips scattered in panic at their approach, the
lovers shook hands perfunctorily.

"Goodbye, then, for a little while," said Claud. "You don't want me to
come in, do you?"

"Certainly not," said she coldly.

"You know that it is totally against my judgment--and my wishes--that
you go in yourself, Deb?"

"Yes. But one's own judgment must be one's guide."

Thus they parted, each with a grievance against the other--a root of
bitterness to be nourished by much thinking about it, and by the
circumstance that poor Mary neither died nor was repudiated. Claud
drove on to the hotel, to be further disgusted with his accommodation
and his dinner; Deb walked into the house which hitherto she had
visited in a spirit of kindly condescension, to be revolted by the new
aspect which her changed relations with it now gave to its every
feature. Ruby, neglected, with a jam-smeared face--the flustered maid,
tousled, grubby, her frock gaping--the horrible hall, with its
imitation-marble paper and staring linoleum--the prim, trivial,
unaired, unused drawing-room, with its pathetic attempts at elegance--
Deb inwardly curled up at the sight of these things as things now
belonging to the family. When the master of the house came hurrying in
to her, rusty, unshaven, abject, she would have changed places with a
Christian of old Rome facing a lion of the amphitheatre.

"Oh, this is good of you! This is kind indeed!" Mr Goldsworthy greeted
her, and threatened in his grateful emotion to fall at her feet. "I did
not dare to hope--"

But Deb shudderingly swept him aside, with his gratitude and his
excuses and his timid justifications. He could stand up before his
other critics--he had a clear conscience, he said; but before her he
knew himself for what he was. He followed her like a dog to Mary's
room, obeyed her directions like a slave, wept when she consented to
"say no more", and stooped to beg from him a solemn vow and promise
that he would be good to his wife. This was after the doctors had
refused to permit his wife's removal to Redford to be nursed, and after
Redford had practically been in command of his establishment for seven
weeks.

Christmas is the time for reconciliations, and by Christmas Mary was
convalescent--pale as she had never been since childhood, and wearing
a little cap over her shaved head; very humble and gentle, and
strangely docile in her attitude towards her captor, who now gave
himself all the airs of a husband of his class. He was the benevolent
despot of his women-kind--the god of the machine; she was as properly
submissive as if born in the ranks. Negatively so, that is to
say; positively, her manifestations of duty to him took the form of
services and endearments bestowed upon his child and sister. Her first
occupation after she could use her hands was to improve Ruby's wardrobe
--the little girl, now her own, appealed to her motherly heart, a
saving interest in her wrecked life. The poor old ex-housekeeper was
the other prop to which she clung for a footing in the new and alien
world which was now all her home. When Miss Goldsworthy proposed to go
out into a situation, not to "be in the way of" the new wife, and when
her brother would have approved the plan as only right and proper (and
as facilitating his schemes for the raising of the "tone" of his
establishment to Redford level), Mary protested vehemently and with
tears, the only occasion of her showing a Pennycuick spirit since
renouncing the Pennycuick name. The old maid, for her part, was
enthusiastically devoted to the new sister-in-law, whom it was her joy
to pet and coddle. "I can be of use to her," she tremblingly commended
herself to her brother. "I can take the drudgery of the housework off
her, and save her in the parish." "Well, perhaps so," said Mr
Goldsworthy. And, sincerely desiring to endear himself to his
aristocratic wife, he consented to her wish.

The whole Goldsworthy family was transferred to Redford, while, on the
pretext of disinfecting it, the parsonage was painted and papered what
Deb called "decently", and its more offensive furniture replaced. Mary
was provided with a trousseau and many useful wedding presents, a
cheque from her father for 500 pounds amongst them. They did not forgive
her, but they pretended excellently that they did. Without any
pretence at all, they tried to make the best of a bad job. To this end,
they gathered their friends together as usual at Christmas. Mr
Thornycroft and the Urquharts needed no pressing; they came to see Mary
the day she returned home, and showed her the old affection without
asking questions. Mr Thornycroft's wedding presents to her were
magnificent--a complete service of silver plate and house linen of the
finest. Deb wrote to Claud: "I suppose we shall see you, as usual?"--
for he had always spent Christmas at Redford unless away on the other
side of the world. He wrote back: "I think not, this time." He was the
only defaulter.

"He will never have a chance to refuse again," said Deb fiercely, as
she tore up his note.

His absence was too marked not to provoke frequent comment, and
whenever it was alluded to in her hearing, her spine stiffened and her
head went up. It was quite evident to her family that the rift in the
lute was serious, and strange to say, it was her father, who might have
been expected to hail the signs, who was most concerned to see them. He
expostulated with her when she spoke bitterly of Billy's son, as once
he had been so ready to do himself.

"Well, my dear," said he, "I can understand it, if you can't. I
wouldn't come myself, if I was in his place, to mix-up with the sort of
thing we've got to mix up with."

"If I can mix up with it--!" quoth proud Deborah.

"Yes, yes--I know; but you must consider the silly way that he's been
reared. I don't like his taking upon himself to criticise what
we choose to do; but no doubt Goldsworthy IS a pretty big pill to
swallow--to a chap like him, always so faddy about breeding and
manners, and that sort of thing."

"If he is too faddy for the society that I can put up with, though it
be that of chimney-sweeps," said Deb, "he is too faddy for me, father."

"Now, my dear, don't talk so," the old man pleaded with her, quite
agitated by her mood. "We all have our little weaknesses--we have to
make allowances for temperament and for bringing up. Don't let a trifle
like this estrange you two--don't, Debbie, for my sake. Let me go down
to my grave feeling that one of you, at least, is safe and happy, and
well provided for."

"Decidedly," thought Deborah, "father is not the same man that he was
before his illness."

She understood the cause of his change of views on her engagement
better a few weeks later.

He had parted with his eldest daughter then, and the emotion of the
event had fatally affected him. Owing to some obscure working of the
"influence" which her social position had brought to her husband, the
latter had been promoted to the charge of a Melbourne parish. The
affair was arranged while they were still at Redford, and just on the
completion of the improvements to the local parsonage. In spite of all
they had done to make this first home fit for her, family and friends
were unanimous in hailing her removal to another and more distant one--
out of the buzz of the gossip of her native neighbourhood--as the best
thing that could have happened. But when it came to the point of
sending her forth to battle with her fate alone for the rest of her
life, the wrench was dreadful. She was the bravest of them all
under the ordeal. The shattered father, whose right hand she had been
for so many happy years, and whose heart was broken with the weight of
his responsibility for her misfortunes, was completely overwhelmed. She
had not been gone twelve hours when Deb found him in his office chair,
unable to rise from it, or to answer her questions. And he never spoke
again. He made signs that he wanted Claud sent for, and when the young
man quickly came, looked significant things at him and Deb, as they
stood by his bedside hand in hand. Then he lapsed into stupor and died,
without waiting for a third stroke.

Through all the shock and sorrow of the time, Claud was Deborah's
mainstay and consolation. He took the role of nearest male relative,
the right to which was undisputed by Mr Goldsworthy, preoccupied with
the important interests of his new parish; also by Mr Thornycroft and
Jim Urquhart, who, of course, "stood by" to serve her as far as she
would allow them. It was Claud who gave the orders for the funeral, and
superintended the ceremonies, and acted as chief mourner; it was Claud
to whom the household looked for direction, as if acknowledging him to
be the new master; it was on Claud's breast that Deb wept--who so
rarely wept--and his word that she obeyed, as if he were already her
husband; and in all that he did for her, and in all that he did not do,
he showed the grace, the tact, the tenderness, the thoughtfulness of
her ideal lover and gentleman.

But there came a day when he fell again below the indispensable
standard--when the rift in the lute, that had seemed closed,
gaped suddenly, and this time beyond repair. It was when, after close
investigation of the deceased man's affairs, and some heated interviews
with one of the executors (Deb being the other), Claud discovered that
the Pennycuick wealth was non-existent--that Redford was mortgaged to
the hilt, and that if the estate was realised and cleared, as Deb
desired it should be, nothing would be left for her and her sisters--
that is to say, a paltry three or four hundred a year amongst them,
less than Deb could spend comfortably on her clothes alone.

He was too upset by the discovery, and a bad quarter of an hour that Mr
Thornycroft had subsequently given him, to preserve that calm demeanour
which was his study and his pride. He came in to Deb where she sat
alone, and expressed his feelings as the ordinary man is wont to do to
the woman who loves and belongs to him.

"What could your father have been dreaming of," he rudely interrogated
her, "to let the place go to pieces like this? Drifting behind year
after year, and doing nothing to stop it--not cutting down one of the
living expenses--not giving us the least hint of how things really
were--"

"He gave several hints," said Deb, in that voice which always grew so
portentously quiet when his was raised, "if we had had the sense to
take them. I have been putting two and two together for some time, so
that I am not altogether taken by surprise."

"Why didn't you tell me?"

"Because you were not here, for one thing. Because it was father's
private business, for another."

"He seems not to have made it his business to take any care of
his children's interests," said Claud bitterly. "Bringing you up as he
has done, with the right to expect that you were to be properly
provided for, and then leaving you literally paupers--"

"Not LITERALLY paupers," corrected Deb gently. "We shall be quite
independent still. And if you want to insult my father now that he is
dead--the best of fathers, if he did have misfortunes in business and
make mistakes--do it somewhere else, not in this room." "You have no
right to take that tone with me, Deb." "No?" She raised sarcastic
eyebrows, under which her deep eyes gleamed. "Well, I suppose I haven't
--now. I forgot my new place. I am very sorry, Claud"--rising, and
making a gesture with her hands that he had seen before--"very sorry
indeed, that I did not know I was going to be a poor woman and a nobody
when you did me the honour to select me to be your wife. Now that you
have shown me that I am disqualified for the position--" she held out
the big diamond, with a cold smile. "That's vulgar, Deb," he loftily
admonished her, fending off her hand. "You know I am not actuated by
those low motives. DON'T let us have this cheap melodrama, for pity's
sake! Put it on."

But no more would she put it on. He had revealed his disappointment
that she was not something more than herself--that beautiful and
adorable self that she quite knew the worth of--and he had
permitted himself to take liberties of speech with her that she
instinctively felt to be provoked by the circumstance that she was no
longer rich and powerful.

Deb's love was great, but her pride was greater.


CHAPTER XIII.


Deb sat amid the ruins of her home. She occupied the lid of a deal
packing-case that enclosed a few hundreds of books, and one that was
half filled stood before her, with a scatter of odd volumes on the
floor around. The floor, which was that of the once cosy morning-room,
was carpetless; its usual furniture stood about higgledy-piggledy, all
in the wrong places, naked and forlorn. Mr Thornycroft leaned against
the flowerless mantel-shelf, and surveyed the scene, or rather, the
central figure, black-gowned, holland-aproned, with sleeves turned back
from her strong wrists, and a grey smudge on her beautiful nose.

"That cottage that you talk about," said he, "will not hold all those."

"Oh, books don't take any space," she replied brusquely. "They are no
more than tapestry or frescoes. I shall have cases made to fit flat to
the walls."

"That will cost money."

"One must have the bare necessaries of life. I presume I shall be able
to afford that much. Pine boards will do. I can Aspinall them."
"Aspinall is very nice, but sometimes it gets on the edges of your
books and spoils them."

"No, it doesn't. I have an Aspinalled book-case in my room now,
and not a mark ever came off it."

"Did you paint it?"

"I did."

"Are you going to leave it there?"

"I must. It is a fixture."

"That's all right. I am glad you are going to leave something."
"Something? I leave all."

"Except a library of books, and a collection of forty odd pictures,
that you will have to hang over the books--"

"You would not have us part with family portraits?"

"And a grand piano, extra sized, calculated to fill a suburban villa
drawing-room all by itself--"

"Pianos make nothing second-hand, and the girls must practise. Better
keep a good instrument than sell it for fifty pounds and spend the
money on a bad one."

"Certainly, if you can stow it. But with seven easy-chairs, and the
biggest Chesterfield sofa extant, and a large writing-table--"

"I can have that in my room."

"Along with a six-foot dressing-table, and a nine-foot wardrobe, and I
don't know how many chests of drawers--"

"The wardrobe will stand in a passage somewhere. We must have places to
put our clothes."

"A house with passages of that capacity--"

"Well, never you mind. If I can't find room for my things, I can sell
them in Melbourne as well as here."

"Having squandered a small fortune on the carriage down. Better
leave them with me, Debbie, and let me send you what you want
afterwards."

"Thank you. You would not have them to send afterwards."

"Oh, I think I would."

"No. I shall settle everything before I leave, and the sale will be
held immediately. The furniture first, and then the place." Her mouth
closed upon the words like a steel snap.

"Just as you please about that," he said quietly. "Any time will suit
me."

"By public auction," she added, with a sharp glance at him--"to the
highest bidder."

"Yes," was his laconic comment. "Me."

"Not necessarily," said she, roused by the small word that held such
large meanings. "There are a few other rich persons in the western
district, to whom Redford may appear desirable."

"There are," he agreed easily. "I know several. But I shall outbid
them."

She was strongly agitated. "Oh, I hope they won't let you!"

"Why?" he asked.

At first she fenced with the question.

"Because you don't want it. You have more land already than one man
ought to have." "I don't know about what I ought to have, but I know
that if you persist in throwing Redford away, I shall take it." He
smiled at her angry perturbation. "If I find I haven't enough money to
outbid everybody--but I think I have--I can sell Bundaboo. If you
won't have Redford, I will--yes, and every stick and stone that
belongs to it."

"And have people talking and saying that you did it for
something else, and not business reasons."

"People would be right, for once."

"But I won't have it!" cried Deb. "I won't stand being an object of
your benevolence. You want to pay a lot more than the place is worth,
so as to augment our income. You as good as own it--"

"I want to keep your home for you against you change your mind." "The
last thing I shall do, I assure you--particularly after your saying
that." Her nose, in spite of the smut on it, testified to her indignant
dignity, up in the air, with its fine nostrils quivering. "Now, look
here, godpapa--I will not have Redford put up to auction. I'll sell
privately--and to somebody else."

"You cannot."

"Oh, indeed! Not when I am executor?"

"Certainly not--except with the permission of your fellow-executor."

She fell to pleading.

"Oh, let me--do let me! You know what I want--to square up all the
debts and have done with them. I can't sleep for thinking of what we
owe you already. Do you know how much it is? Nearly forty thou--"

He checked her with an impatient wave of the hand.

"All the debts will be provided for, of course. The lawyers will adjust
those matters."

"I don't trust you," she urged, looking at him less angrily, but still
as puzzled and distressed. "I know you have designs to benefit me
somehow--unfairly, and because it's me--and if you only knew
how I HATED to be benefited--"

"I do--nobody better. That is why I am letting you do a lot of things
that won't benefit you, but just the opposite--things you will repent
of horribly by-and-by. Knowing your independent spirit, I do not offer
my advice--"

"Oh!"

"Not effectively. I do not force it upon you. I do not bring my
undoubted powers to bear upon you for your good--"

"Ah!"

"Because I know, of course, that you would rather suffer anything than
be guided by me."

She softened instantly. "I am not such a fool, I hope. But--but you
WILL bring friendship into business. You did things for my father that
you know you would never have dreamt of doing for strangers--that you
never ought to have done at all; and now you want to be twice as
idiotically generous to us, because we are girls, and out of pity for
us--to do us a kindness, as it is called--when, if you only knew--"

She had risen and drifted to him where he stood, and now laid a hand on
his arm. He put a hand over it, and looked into her pleading eyes. He
seemed not to have heard her last remark, to be far away in mind from
the point of discussion, and his fixed and strange gaze perplexed and
then embarrassed her. "How he feels our going!" she thought to herself,
and turned her face from his, and tried to turn his apparently sad
thoughts.

"If you would only let me sell Redford to somebody else, and have the
lump money to pay all the debts in a plain way that I could
understand, and take the remainder for ourselves, and know that we were
straight and free, I would do anything you liked to ask me in return!"

He still kept silence, and that tight grasp upon her hand. So she
looked at him again; and his far-away stare was bewildering.

"I wonder," said he slowly--"I wonder, if I were to take you at your
word, whether you would stick to it?"

"Try me," said she.

"I will. Deborah Pennycuick, if I let you sell Redford, and pay all
debts with your own hands, will you--I am your godfather, and
something over fifty, and it is quite preposterous, of course, but
still you said anything--will you be my wife?"

"Oh!" This was the unexpected happening, with a vengeance. Never had
she imagined such a notion on the part of this staid and venerable
person. She flushed hotly, and wrenched her imprisoned hand free. "I
don't like stupid jokes," she muttered, overcome with confusion. "Do I
give you the impression that I am joking?" he asked.

"If you are serious, that is worse," said she. "Then I know you are
only trying another way of providing for me."

"You believe I have only just thought of it?"

"Haven't you?"

"I have thought of it since you were fifteen, my dear. But never mind.
We will call it a joke, if you think that the least of two evils. I see
you do. The incident is closed. The bargain is off. And I can buy
Redford when it is put up for sale. Goodbye, goddaughter. No, I
can't stay to lunch today; I have some business to attend to. But of
course I shall see you again before you go."

And when he did see her again, he gave not the smallest sign of what
had happened, so that she almost grew to feel that she must have dreamt
it.

That same afternoon, Jim Urquhart, who was always doing so, rode over
to Redford to see if he could help her pack. He wondered at her
abstracted manner, and her sudden change of mind concerning the piano
and wardrobe and other things. Having laboriously packed books and
pictures, she now proposed to unpack half of them. She wanted to see
what room she would have in her cottage first. In fact, it seemed to
him that she did not know what she wanted. She was evidently tired and
overwrought. "Oh, Jim," she moaned, from amongst the dust and litter,
"it is a wrench!"

"What do you suppose it is for us?" he returned gloomily. "Without you
at Redford! I'm trying not to think of it."

"So am I. But it's no use--it has got to come."

"I suppose there is no way out?"

"None. That is all settled. I have told Mr Thornycroft, and he won't
tease me any more."

"Do you think you will be happy down there, cooped up in streets?"

"I know I shall not. But the streets down there will be better than the
streets of a bush township."

"Why streets at all? Why not stay about here somewhere, where you have
us all near you?"

"Exiled from Redford? No, thank you. Besides, where could we stay?
Detached cottages don't grow in these parts."

Then he blurted it out.

"I have never said anything, Deb. I knew I wasn't fit for you, and. I
am not now. I've got to look after my dear old mother and the children,
who haven't got anybody else, and I couldn't give you a home worthy of
you--perhaps never, no matter how I worked and tried; but if love is
any good, and the things that after all make homes--not money and fine
furniture--" "Dear old boy, don't!" she pleaded, with twitching lips.

"I may as well, now I have begun," said he. "I don't suppose it is any
use, but I'd just like you to know once--as far as my life is my own,
it is yours any day you like. It has been since I was a boy, and it
will be for a good while yet--I won't say for ever, because you can't
tell what's going to happen; but I'm ready to bet my soul that it will
be for ever. Now, do just what you feel inclined to, Debbie. I'm not
going to press you--I know my place too well; but if you should think
it a better plan to live with me, and have me work for you and take
care of you the best I can, why, any heaven that's coming to us
by-and-by simply won't be in it--not for me." He looked at her across
the packing-case between them, and dropped his voice to add: "But you
wouldn't, of course."

"I would, dear Jim!" she cried, with warm impulsiveness; "that is, I
might. A good man like you is worth a worldful of money and furniture.
I don't live for those things, as you seem to think; but--but you know
how it is--I can't change about from one to another--"

He dropped the saddest "No" into the pregnant pause.

"No, Deb--no; I expected that. Staunch through everything--
that's you all over. Well"--with a movement as if to pull himself
together--"I'm staunch too. We're equals in that, anyhow, and don't
you forget it. I'll not bother you any more--I never have bothered
you, have I?--but I'm here when you want me, body and soul, at any
hour of the day or night. You'll remember that?" stretching his horny
hand across to her, and being in the same instant electrified by the
touch of her lips upon it.

"Oh, I will! I will!"

The evening post brought a ship letter. Guthrie Carey was in port. He
had been there long enough to hear the news that Deborah Pennycuick was
penniless, and that Claud Dalzell had deserted her. So he had written
to her at length--the longest letter of his life--ten pages.

She took it to her bedroom and sat down to read it, while at the same
time she rested a little before dinner. She had frowned over the
envelope; now she smiled over the first pages; she sighed over the
middle ones; she even wept a little over the last. Then she wrote out
an answer and sent it by a groom to the nearest telegraph office:

"Please do not come. Am writing."

Thus she cast aside in one day three good men and true, heart-bound to
one who was not worthy to be ranked with any of them. But that is the
way of love.


CHAPTER XIV.


There was an attic at the top of a dark flight of stairs in the
suburban villa that was now the sisters' home. It contained a fireplace
and a long dormer window--three square casements in a row, of which
the outer pair opened like doors--facing the morning sun and a country
landscape. Now for her complexion.
What shall we liken to her dainty skin?
Her arm, for instance?--
_Wild_. Snow will match it.

_True_. Snow!
It is her arm without the smoothness on't; Then is not snow transparent.
'Twill not do.

_Wild_. A pearl's transparent!

_True_. So it is, but yet Yields not elastic to the thrilled touch!
I know not what to liken to her arm Except her beauteous fellow! Oh!
to be The chosen friend of two such neighbours!

_Wild_. Would His tongue would make a halt. He makes too free With
neighbour Constance! Can't he let her arms Alone! I trust their chosen
friend Will ne'er be he! I'm vexed. [Aside.]
_True_. But graceful things Grow doubly graceful in the graceful
use!
Hast marked her ever walk the drawing-room?

_Wild_. [Snappishly.] No.

_True_. No! Why, where have been your eyes?

_Wild_. In my head!
But I begin to doubt if open yet. [Aside.]

_True_. Yet that's a trifle to the dance; down which She floats as
though she were a form of air; The ground feels not her foot, or
tells not on't; Her movements are the painting of the strain, Its
swell, its fall, its mirth, its tenderness!

Then is she fifty Constances!--each moment Another one, and each,
except its fellow, Without a peer! You have danced with her!

_Wild_. I hate To dance! I can't endure to dance!--Of course You have
danced with her?

_True_. I have.

_Wild_. You have?

_True_. I have.

_Wild_. I do abominate to dance!--could carve Fiddlers and company! A
dancing man To me was ever like a dancing dog!
Save less to be endured.--Ne'er saw I one But I bethought me of the
master's whip.

_True_. A man might bear the whip to dance with her!

_Wild_. Not if I had the laying of it on!

_True_. Well; let that pass. The lady is the theme.

_Wild_. Yes; make an end of it!--I'm sick of it. [Aside.]
_True_. How well she plays the harpsichord and harp!
How well she sings to them!

Whoe'er would prove The power of song, should hear thy neighbour sing,
Especially a love-song!

_Wild_. Does she sing Such songs to thee?

_True_. Oh, yes, and constantly.
For such I ever ask her.

_Wild_. Forward minx! [Aside.] Maids should not sing love-songs to
gentlemen!
Think'st neighbour Constance is a girl to love?

_True_. A girl to love?--Ay, and with all her soul!

_Wild_. How know you that?

_True_. I have studied close the sex.

_Wild_.

You town-rakes are the devil for the sex! [Aside.]

_True_. Not your most sensitive and serious maid I'd always
take for deep impressions. Mind The adage of the bow. The pensive
brow I have oft seen bright in wedlock, and anon O'ercast in
widowhood; then, bright again.

Ere half the season of the weeds was out; While, in the airy one,
I have known one cloud Forerunner of a gloom that ne'er cleared up--
So would it prove with neighbour Constance. Not On superficial grounds
she'll ever love; But once she does, the odds are ten to one Her
first love is her last!

_Wild_. I wish I ne'er Had come to town! I was a happy man Among my dogs
and horses. [Aside.]

Hast thou broke Thy passion to her?

_True_. Never.

_Wild_. Never?

_True_. No.
I hoped you'd act my proxy there.

_Wild_. I thank you.

_True_. I knew 'twould be a pleasure to you.

_Wild_. Yes; A pleasure!--an unutterable pleasure!

_True_. Thank you! You make my happiness your own.

_Wild_. I do.

_True_. I see you do. Dear Master Wildrake!
Oh, what a blessing is a friend in need!

You'll go and court your neighbour for me?

_Wild_. Yes.

_True_.

And says she "nay" at first, you'll press again?

_Wild_. Ay, and again!

_True_.

There's one thing I mistrust--yea, most mistrust, That of my poor
deserts you'll make too much.

_Wild_. Fear anything but that.

_True_. 'Twere better far You slightly spoke of them.

_Wild_. You think so?

_True_. Yes.
Or rather did not speak of them at all.

_Wild_. You think so?

_True_. Yes.

_Wild_. Then I'll not say a word About them.

_True_. Thank you! A judicious friend Is better than a zealous: you are
both!
I see you'll plead my cause as 'twere your own; Then stay in town,
and win your neighbour for me; Make me the envy of a score of men
That die for her as I do.

Make her mine, And when the last "Amen!" declares complete
The mystic tying of the holy knot, And 'fore the priest a blushing
wife she stands, Be thine the right to claim the second kiss She
pays for change from maidenhood to wifehood.

[Goes out.]
_Wild_. Take that thyself! The first be mine, or none!
A man in love with neighbour Constance! Never Dreamed I that such a
thing could come to pass!
Such person, such endowments, such a soul!
I never thought to ask myself before If she were man or woman! Suitors,
too, Dying for her! I'll e'en make one among 'em!
Woo her to go to church along with him, And for my pains the privilege
to take The second kiss? I'll take the second kiss, And first one
too--and last! No man shall touch Her lips but me. I'll massacre
the man That looks upon her! Yet what chance have I With lovers of the
town, whose study 'tis To please your lady belles!--who dress, walk,
talk, To hit their tastes--what chance, a country squire Like me? Yet
your true fair, I have heard, prefers The man before his coat at any
time; And such a one may neighbour Constance be.

I'll show a limb with any of them! Silks I'll wear, nor keep my legs
in cases more.
I'll learn to dance town-dances, and frequent Their concerts! Die away
at melting strains, Or seem to do so--far the easier thing, And
as effective quite; leave naught undone To conquer neighbour
Constance.

[Enter LASH.]
_Lash_. Sir.

_Wild_. Well, sir?

_Lash_. So please you, sir, your horse is at the door.

_Wild_. Unsaddle him again and put him up.

And, hark you, get a tailor for me, sir-- The rarest can be found.

_Lash_. The man's below, sir, That owns the mare your worship thought
to buy.

_Wild_. Tell him I do not want her, sir.

_Lash_. I vow You will not find her like in Lincolnshire.

_Wild_. Go to! She's spavined.

_Lash_. Sir!

_Wild_. Touched in the wind.

_Lash_. I trust my master be not touched in the head!
I vow, a faultless beast! [Aside.]

_Wild_. I want her not, And that's your answer. Go to the hosier's,
sir, And bid him send me samples of his gear, Of twenty different
kinds.

_Lash_. I will, sir.--Sir!

_Wild_. Well, sir.

_Lash_. Squire Brush's huntsman's here, and says His master's kennel
is for sale.

_Wild_. The dogs Are only fit for hanging!--
_Lash_. Finer bred--
_Wild_. Sirrah, if more to me thou talkest of dogs, Horses, or aught
that to thy craft belongs, Thou mayst go hang for me!

--A cordwainer Go fetch me straight--the choicest in the town.
Away, sir! Do thy errands smart and well As thou canst crack thy whip!
[LASH goes out.]

Dear neighbour Constance, I'll give up horses, dogs, and all
for thee!

[Goes out.]

SCENE II.

[Enter WIDOW GREEN and LYDIA.]

_W. Green_. Lydia, my gloves. If Master Waller calls, I shall be in
at three; and say the same To old Sir William Fondlove.

Tarry yet!-- What progress, think you, make I in the heart
Of fair young Master Waller? Gods, my girl, It is a heart to win
and man as well!
How speed I, think you? Didst, as I desired, Detain him in my absence
when he called, And, without seeming, sound him touching me?

_Lydia_. Yes.

_W. Green_. And effects he me, or not? How guess you?
What said he of me? Looked he balked, or not, To find me not at home?
Inquired he when I would be back, as much he longed to see me?
What did he--said he? Come!--Is he in love, Or like to fall into it?
Goes well my game, Or shall I have my labour for my pains?

_Lydia_. I think he is in love.--O poor evasion!
O to love truth, and yet not dare to speak it!

[Aside.]

_W. Green_.

You think he is in love--I'm sure of it.
As well have asked you has he eyes and ears, And brain and heart to
use them? Maids do throw Trick after trick away, but widows know To
play their cards! How am I looking, Lydia?

_Lydia_. E'en as you ever look.

_W. Green_. Handsome, my girl?
Eh? Clear in my complexion? Eh?

--brimful Of spirits? not too much of me, nor yet Too little?--Eh?--A
woman worth a man?
Look at me, Lydia! Would you credit, girl, I was a scarecrow before
marriage?

_Lydia_. Nay!--
_W. Green_.

Girl, but I tell thee "yea."

That gown of thine-- And thou art slender--would have hung about
me!

There's something of me now!

good sooth, enough!

Lydia, I'm quite contented with myself; I'm just the thing,
methinks, a widow should be.

So, Master Waller, you believe, affects me?

But, Lydia, not enough to hook the fish; To prove the angler's
skill, it must be caught; And lovers, Lydia, like the angler's
prey-- Which, when he draws it near the landing-place, Takes warning
and runs out the slender line, And with a spring perchance jerks
off the hold When we do fish for them, and hook, and think They are
all but in the creel, will make the dart That sets them free to
roam the flood again!

_Lydia_. Is't so?

_W. Green_.

Thou'lt find it so, or better luck Than many another maid! Now mark
me, Lydia:
Sir William Fondlove fancies me.

'Tis well!

I do not fancy him!

What should I do With an old man?--Attend upon the gout, Or the
rheumatics!

Wrap me in the cloud Of a darkened chamber--'stead of shining out,
The sun of balls, and routs, and gala-days!
But he affects me, Lydia; so he may!

Now take a lesson from me--Jealousy Had better go with open, naked breast,
Than pin or button with a gem. Less plague, The plague-spot;
that doth speedy make an end One way or t'other, girl.

Yet, never love Was warm without a spice of jealousy.
Thy lesson now--Sir William Fondlove's rich, And riches, though they're
paste, yet being many, The jewel love we often cast away for.
I use him but for Master Waller's sake.
Dost like my policy?

_Lydia_. You will not chide me?

_W. Green_.

Nay, Lydia, I do like to hear thy thoughts, They are such novel
things--plants that do thrive With country air!

I marvel still they flower, And thou so long in town! Speak freely,
girl!

_Lydia_.

I cannot think love thrives by artifice, Or can disguise its mood, and
show its face.
I would not hide one portion of my heart Where I did give it and
did feel 'twas right, Nor feign a wish, to mask a wish that was,
Howe'er to keep it.

For no cause except Myself would I be loved. What were't to me, My
lover valued me the more, the more He saw me comely in another's eyes,
When his alone the vision I would show Becoming to?

I have sought the reason oft, They paint Love as a child, and still
have thought, It was because true love, like infancy, Frank, trusting,
unobservant of its mood, Doth show its wish at once, and means no
more!

_W. Green_. Thou'lt find out better when thy time doth come.
Now wouldst believe I love not Master Waller?
I never knew what love was, Lydia; That is, as your romances have it.

First, I married for a fortune. Having that, And being freed from
him that brought it me, I marry now, to please my vanity, A man
that is the fashion.

O the delight Of a sensation, and yourself the cause!
To note the stir of eyes, and ears, and tongues, When they do
usher Mistress Waller in, Late Widow Green, her hand upon the arm Of
her young, handsome husband!

--How my fan Will be in requisition--I do feel My heart begin to flutter
now--my blood To mount into my cheek! My honeymoon Will be a month
of triumphs!--"Mistress Waller!" That name, for which a score of
damsels sigh, And but the widow had the wit to win!
Why, it will be the talk of east to west, And north and south!--The
children loved the man, And lost him so--I liked, but there I stopped;
For what is it to love, but mind and heart And soul upon another to
depend?
Depend upon another? Nothing be But what another wills? Give up
the rights Of mine own brain and heart? I thank my stars I never came
to that extremity.

[Goes out.]
_Lydia_. She never loved, indeed!

She knows not love, Except what's told of it! She never felt
it.
To stem a torrent, easy, looking at it; But once you venture in,
you nothing know Except the speed with which you're borne away,
Howe'er you strive to check it. She suspects not Her maid, not she,
brings Master Waller hither.
Nor dare I undeceive her. Well might she say Her young and handsome
husband! Yet his face And person are the least of him, and vanish
When shines his soul out through his open eye!
He all but says he loves me! His respect Has vanquished me! He looks
the will to speak His passion, and the fear that ties his tongue--
The fear? He loves not honestly, and yet I'll swear he loves--I'll
swear he honours me!
It is but my condition is a bar, Denies him give me all. But knew
he me As I do know myself! Whate'er his purpose, When next we speak,
he shall declare it to me.

[Goes out.]
SCENE III.--Sir William Fondlove's.
[Enter CONSTANCE, dressed for riding, and PHOEBE.]
_Con_. Well, Phoebe, would you know me? Are those locks That cluster
on my forehead and my cheek, Sufficient mask? Show I what I would
seem, A lady for the chase? My darkened brows And heightened colour,
foreign to my face, Do they my face pass off for stranger too?
What think you?

_Phoebe_. That he'll ne'er discover you.
_Con_. Then send him to me. Say a lady wants To speak with him,
unless indeed it be A man in lady's gear; I look so bold And speak
so gruff. Away! [PHOEBE goes out.] That I am glad He stays in town,
I own, but if I am, 'Tis only for the tricks I'll play upon him,
And now begin, persuading him his fame Hath made me fancy him, and
brought me hither On visit to his worship. Soft, his foot!
_This_ he? Why, what has metamorphosed him.
And changed my sportsman to fine gentleman?
Well he becomes his clothes! But, check my wonder, Lest I forget
myself. Why, what an air The fellow hath. A man to set a cap
at!

[Enter WILDRAKE.]
_Wild_. Kind lady, I attend your fair commands.
_Con_. My veiled face denies me justice, sir, Else would you see a
maiden's blushing cheek Do penance for her forwardness; too late,
I own, repented of. Yet if 'tis true, By our own hearts of others
we may judge, Mine in no peril lies that's shown to you, Whose
heart, I'm sure, is noble. Worthy sir, Souls attract souls when
they're of kindred vein.
The life that you love, I love. Well I know, 'Mongst those who
breast the feats of the bold chase, You stand without a peer; and
for myself I dare avow 'mong such, none follows them With heartier
glee than I do.
_Wild_. Churl were he That would gainsay you, madam.
_Con_. [Curtseying.] What delight To back the flying steed, that
challenges The wind for speed!--seems native more of air Than
earth!--whose burden only lends him fire!-- Whose soul, in his task,
turns labour into sport; Who makes your pastime his! I sit him
now!
He takes away my breath! He makes me reel!
I touch not earth--I see not--hear not. All Is ecstasy of
motion!

_Wild_. You are used, I see, to the chase.
_Con_. I am, sir. Then the leap, To see the saucy barrier, and know
The mettle that can clear it! Then, your time To prove you master
of the manege. Now You keep him well together for a space, Both
horse and rider braced as you were one, Scanning the distance--then
you give him rein, And let him fly at it, and o'er he goes Light
as a bird on wing.
_Wild_. 'Twere a bold leap, I see, that turned you, madam.
_Con_. [Curtseying.] Sir, you're good!
And then the hounds, sir! Nothing I admire Beyond the running of
the well-trained pack.
The training's everything! Keen on the scent!
At fault none losing heart!--but all at work!
None leaving his task to another!--answering The watchful huntsman's
cautions, check, or cheer.
As steed his rider's rein! Away they go How close they keep together!
What a pack!
Nor turn, nor ditch, nor stream divides them--as They moved with
one intelligence, act, will!
And then the concert they keep up!--enough To make one tenant of
the merry wood, To list their jocund music!
_Wild_. You describe The huntsman's pastime to the life.
_Con_. I love it!
To wood and glen, hamlet and town, it is A laughing holiday! Not a
hill-top But's then alive! Footmen with horsemen vie, All earth's
astir, roused with the revelry Of vigour, health, and joy! Cheer
awakes cheer, While Echo's mimic tongue, that never tires, Keeps
up the hearty din! Each face is then Its neighbour's glass--where
Gladness sees itself, And at the bright reflection grows more
glad!
Breaks into tenfold mirth!--laughs like a child!
Would make a gift of its heart, it is so free!
Would scarce accept a kingdom, 'tis so rich!
Shakes hands with all, and vows it never knew That life was life
before!
_Wild_. Nay, every way You do fair justice, lady, to the chase; But
fancies change.

_Con_. Such fancy is not mine.
_Wild_. I would it were not mine, for your fair sake.
I have quite given o'er the chase.

_Con_. You say not so!
_Wild_. Forsworn, indeed, the sportsman's life, and grown, As you
may partly see, town-gentleman.
I care not now to mount a steed, unless To amble 'long the street;
no paces mind, Except my own, to walk the drawing-room, Or in the
ball-room to come off with grace; No leap for me, to match the light
coupe; No music like the violin and harp, To which the huntsman's
dog and horn I find Are somewhat coarse and homely minstrelsy:
Then fields of ill-dressed rustics, you'll confess, Are well exchanged
for rooms of beaux and belles In short, I've ta'en another thought
of life-- Become another man!

_Con_. The cause, I pray?
_Wild_. The cause of causes, lady.
_Con_. He's in love! [Aside.]
_Wild_. To you, of women, I would name it last; Yet your frank
bearing merits like return; I, that did hunt the game, am caught
myself In chase I never dreamed of!

[Goes out.]
_Con_. He is in love!
Wildrake's in love! 'Tis that keeps him in town, Turns him from
sportsman to town-gentleman.
I never dreamed that he could be in love!
In love with whom?--I'll find the vixen out!
What right has she to set her cap at him?
I warrant me, a forward, artful minx; I hate him worse than ever.
I'll do all I can to spoil the match. He'll never marry-- Sure he
will never marry! He will have More sense than that! My back doth
ope and shut-- My temples throb and shoot--I am cold and hot!
Were he to marry, there would be an end To neighbour Constance--neighbour
Wildrake--why, I should not know myself!

[Enter TRUEWORTH.]
Dear Master Trueworth, What think you!--neighbour Wildrake is in
love!
In love! Would you believe it, Master Trueworth?
Ne'er heed my dress and looks, but answer me.
Knowest thou of any lady he has seen That's like to cozen him?
_True_. I am not sure-- We talked to-day about the Widow Green!
_Con_. Her that my father fancies. Let him wed her!
Marry her to-morrow--if he will, to-night.
I can't spare neighbour Wildrake--neighbour Wildrake!
Although I would not marry him myself, I could not hear that other
married him!
Go to my father--'tis a proper match!
He has my leave! He's welcome to bring home The Widow Green. I'll
give up house and all!
She would be mad to marry neighbour Wildrake; He would wear out her
patience--plague her to death, As he does me. She must not marry
him!

[They go out.] 

ACT III.
SCENE I.--A Room in Widow Green's.
[Enter MASTER WALLER, following LYDIA.]
_Wal_. But thou shalt hear me, gentle Lydia.
Sweet maiden, thou art frightened at thyself!
Thy own perfections 'tis that talk to thee.One of
Deb's petticoats showed signs of fraying, and, Deb-like, she must have
fresh lace for it immediately. Rose offered to go to town to fetch it,
taking with her the money for her purchase.

Never before had she been to "Breen's." Second-rate, if not third or
fourth, was its class amongst Melbourne shops, and the Pennycuicks had
always been accustomed to the best. But when she turned in at the
somewhat narrow and encumbered doorway, she was pleasantly
surprised to note how far the shop ran back, and how well-stocked and
busy and solidly prosperous it seemed.

He was there--not, to her great relief, behind the counter, but in a
sort of raised office place at the farther end--attending to the books
apparently, while keeping an eye upon other matters. Hardly had she set
foot upon the carpeted aisle when his head popped up from behind his
desk, and she saw herself recognised. As it was her object to be
recognised, and to speak to him, she passed the lace department, the
ribbons, the silks, the dress stuffs, until she reached the Manchester
department, where they sold towels and table-cloths, and beautiful
satin eider-downs in all the colours of the rainbow. Here she halted
and asked sweetly for torchon lace.

All the way had Peter watched her, but with his head down, as if
wishing to hide from her. "He fancies I shall be ashamed of him because
he keeps a shop," thought she; and that was exactly what he did fancy,
knowing the world and its funny little inconsistent social ways. So,
when informed that she had left the lace counter far behind her, and
while turning to retrace her steps, she frankly sought his eye, and
catching it, bowed and smiled with all the friendliness that could be
expressed in such fashion.

That smile drew Peter out. But still he came with a bashful and
hesitating air, as if uncertain of his reception; so that she had to
meet him half-way, with bold hand extended.

"How do you do, Mr Breen? How is Bruce? But I see how well he is, and
happy--thanks to you. I am so sorry I did not have the pleasure of
seeing your mother and sister when they were so kind as to call
the other day; but I did not know they were in the house till they were
gone."

He glowed with joy. He clasped her hand with a vigour that made it
tingle for a minute afterwards.

"I was sorry too," he said. "My old mater is a good soul. I think you
and she--I wanted her to see you. Another time, perhaps--"

"Oh, I hope so! We are such near neighbours." She was ready to say
anything that would make him feel he was not being treated as a
shopman. "And did you have your day's shooting? Were you successful?"
"Well," with modest pride, "I came upon snipe unexpectedly, and brought
home a couple of brace. If I had thought you would condescend to accept
them, Miss Pennycuick--if I had dared--"

"Oh, thank you very much, but I could not have let you rob your mother--"

Conscious of heightened colour, and several pairs of watching eyes,
Rose hastily put out her hand. Peter took it respectfully, slightly
abashed.

"Can I--is there anything--anything I can do for you?"

"Yes, please," she said, struggling to remember what it was. "Some--er
--lace--torchon--for my sister; that is what I came for." "This way,"
said Peter gently; and they walked down the long, narrow shop together,
closely scrutinised by the young women behind the counters. Two or
three of these, with ingratiating smirks, converged upon the spot where
their young chief halted and called aloud for torchon lace. The
favoured one brought forth the stock, unexpectedly large and
valuable, and the girl was soon able to make her choice. She wanted one
dozen yards, and there was a piece of fourteen that Peter styled a
"remnant" for her benefit. If he could have presented it to her free of
cost, he would have loved to do so; as it was, she made an excellent
bargain.

"I only hope they won't ask me where I got it," she said to herself on
the way home. Happily, they did not. The usual Buckley was taken for
granted, and Deb slashed up the lace without noticing that she had
fourteen yards for twelve.

But Rose was a poor schemer, and it was inevitable that she should soon
be found out.

The sisters were gathered about their window table in the attic room on
the following afternoon. Keziah had brought their tea, and amid the
litter of their needlework they drank it leisurely, enjoying a spell of
rest. Both casements stood wide. Deb, at one end, gazed wistfully at
the Malvern Hills; Frances, at the other, looked down on objects nearer
home. Rose had purposely drawn her chair back farther into the room. A
joyous bark arose.

"There's your young man, Rose," said Frances flippantly. "Really, the
dandy has surpassed himself. Knickerbockers and a Norfolk jacket, if
you please! Why, actually a horse! He is going out to ride. This it is
to be a counter-jumper in these levelling times!"

"He is not a counter-jumper," said reckless Rose.

"How do you know?" returned Frances swiftly.

"Proprietors don't wait behind the counter."

"That is where he has had to learn his business, of course," said Deb.
"But there is nothing disgraceful in counters. Don't be snobbish,
Francie. Every trade--profession too, for that matter--has to
have a counter of some sort."

"Of course it has," said Rose, heartened.

"Oh, but to see a man--a miserable apology for a man--measuring out
calicoes and ribbons, and tapes and buttons, and stays and garters, and
all sorts of things that a man has no right to touch--pugh!"

"Only women sell the stays and garters," corrected Rose vehemently.
"And at least young Mr Breen is not a miserable apology for a man. He
is as much a real man as anybody else--goes out shooting--plays
tennis--"

Again Francie's cat's-paw pounced on her. "How do you know?"

"Why--why--you can see he is one of that sort," squirmed poor Rose.

"Oh!" said Frances significantly, with a firm stare at her sister's
scarlet face. "Deb, there is more in this than meets the eye--even
than meets the eye."

"I don't care what you say," struck Rose blindly.

"Don't tease her," Deb interposed. "And don't be putting preposterous
ideas into the child's head."

"Please, Deb, I am not a child."

"No, my dear, you are not; and therefore you know, as well as we do,
that young Mr Breen is nothing to us."

"Did I say he was anything? It is Francie that makes horrid, vulgar
insinuations."

"But how do you know that he shoots and plays tennis?" persisted
Frances, with a darkling smile.

"Because he told me so--there!"

In five minutes the inquisitor had drawn forth the whole innocent tale.
She fell back in her chair, while Deb seemed to congeal slowly.

"Oh," moaned Frances, "no wonder they thought they could come
and call and make friends with us! And no wonder," she added, more
viciously, "that there he stands leering up at this window, when his
horse has been ready this half hour."

"Is he doing that?" asked Deb quickly.

"Look at him!"

Deb rose and looked; then, with a firm hand, closed the two little
windows and drew down the blinds. With a sob of rage, Rose jumped from
her basket-chair, almost flung her cup and saucer upon the tea-tray,
and rushed out of the room.

Thereupon the little family resolved itself into a strong government
and one rebel.

"When I DO want to marry a shopkeeper," said weeping Rose to her
sisters, "then it will be time enough to make yourselves ridiculous."

But they thought not. "No use," said they, "to shut the stable door
after the steed is stolen." Danger, or the beginning of danger, had
distinctly declared itself, and it was their part to guard the
threatened point. So they took steps to guard it. The name of Breen was
not mentioned, but its flavour lurked in every mouthful of
conversation, like the taste of garlic that has been rubbed round the
salad bowl in the salad that has not touched it; it filled the domestic
atmosphere with a subtle acrimoniousness unknown to it before. And Rose
was watched--not openly, but systematically enough for her to know it
--never allowed to go out alone, or to sit in the attic after a certain
hour; driven into brooding loneliness and disaffection--in other
words, towards her fellow-victim instead of from him.


CHAPTER XVI.


Now that she could no longer entertain, Deb refused to be entertained,
much to the discontent of Frances, who pined continually for a larger
and brighter life, so that the invitations fell off to nothing before
the excuse of the deep mourning was worn out. But when Mrs Urquhart,
always maternally solicitous for her poor Sally's girls, wrote to beg
them to spend Christmas at Five Creeks, Deb and Frances, who did not,
for different reasons, wish to go themselves, agreed that it would be
'the very thing' for Rose to do so. She would be absolutely safe up
there, and with her old social world about her, and old interests to
occupy her mind, would recover that respect for herself which seemed to
have been more or less impaired by association with suburban villadom.
They hoped she would stay at Five Creeks a long, long time.

"And if only Jim would keep her altogether!" sighed Frances. "I would
be content with Jim now."

"I wish to goodness he would!" said Deb, with fervour--not thinking
particularly of her sister as she spoke.

The matter was put to Rose, and she consented to go. Five Creeks was
better than Lorne, which had been spoken of, and the companionship of
Alice than the shepherding sisters in the close limits of
seaside lodgings; besides, Rose was a born bush girl.

She was tenderly escorted to Spencer Street, and put into the hands of
Jim himself, in town on station business. Alice met them at the other
end, and the two friends slept, or rather bunked, together--the house
being full for the Christmas dance--and talked the night through. But
not a word about Peter Breen passed Rose's lips, so full of words as
they were.

Next day the trestle-tables and Chinese lanterns, the sandwiches and
creams, and what not, occupied her every moment and thought until it
was time to dress, when the interest of the ball itself became supreme.

"Well, there's one good thing," said Alice, as, hemmed into a corner of
a small room crowded with girls, she laced Rose's bodice, "we shall not
want for men. There'll be one to each girl, and three over. The
Simpsons alone have promised to bring six."

The Simpsons were new people at Bundaboo, which Mr Thornycroft had let.
He now lived at Redford--in a third part of the great house, the other
two-thirds being closed. He was not coming to the ball, Alice said.
"Getting too old for balls."

In their white frocks and flowers, the friends went to the
drawing-room, and in the thick of the arrivals Jim brought up from the
bachelors' quarters the six Bundaboo young men. Mrs Simpson introduced
them to Mrs Urquhart and her bevy of assistant hostesses.

"Mr Leader--Mr Henry Leader--down from Queensland; Mr Parkinson--
English--globe-trotter; my two sons, whom you know; my nephew,
Mr Breen."

Thus do the sportive Fates love to make mock of the most carefully-laid
family plans!

Rose and Peter faced each other, sharing one blush between them. Their
natural pleasure and astonishment was only equalled by their mutual
admiration.

"What a little love she is in that pretty gown," thought he, a
connoisseur in gowns. And "Who would take him for a draper now?"
thought she, noting the vigorous frame and the perfect correctness of
its garb. As a matter of fact, no one did take him for a draper, and no
one cared what he was, since he was Mrs Simpson's nephew and a man.

As soon as it was understood that a previous acquaintanceship existed
between them, Rose was given Peter to take care of--to show round and
introduce. They walked off, elated.

"Well, I never expected to see you here!" said she.

"Nor I you," said he. "I thought I was never going to see you any
more."

"How is your mother? How is dear Bruce? Will anyone take him for walks
while you are away? How terribly he will miss you!"

"Well, it is something to be missed, even by a dog."

"What a nice face your aunt has! Is she your father's--?"

"No, my mother's. They are very much alike. But--you don't know my
mother--"

The blessed Urquhart children romped up to them at this opportune
moment, thrusting forward their basket of programmes. Rose and
Peter each took a card, and Peter proceeded to business.

"With pleasure," said Rose. And then: "Oh, if you like."--"Well, only
one more round one."--"I belong to the house, and must distribute
myself."--"No, no, that's enough; leave room for all the nice girls I
am going to introduce you to--Miss Alice Urquhart--Mr Breen, dear--
Mrs Simpson's nephew, and a friend of mine in town."

It slipped out unawares. Peter's air, as he scribbled "Miss Urquhart"
on his card, was seraphic. Later, Alice snatched a chance to whisper to
Rose: "What a good-looking fellow! Who is he?" And Rose hastened to
explain that she knew him only very slightly.

They had their first waltz together, and he danced delightfully. This
was a fresh agreeable surprise to Rose--as if drapers did not take
dancing lessons and make use of them like other people; she was almost
indiscreet in her eulogies on his performance. But there was not room
for all, or half, or a quarter, to dance at once; and the crowded house
was hot, and the night outside soft, dry, delicious; and the Five
Creeks garden was simply made to be sat out in.

So presently Rose and Peter found themselves leaning over a gate at the
end of a long, sequestered path.

"That," said Rose, nodding towards open paddock, "is the boys' cricket
ground. They play matches in the holidays with the stations round. That
fence leads to Alice's fowl-yards--"

"Yes," said Peter. "But now, look here, Miss Rose--tell me straight
and true--am I to understand that my position in life makes me
unfit to associate with you?"

"What nonsense!" she protested, scarlet in the darkness. "What utter
stuff!"

"I am in retail trade," confessed Peter mournfully, "and lots of people
think that awful. Why, even the bookmakers and Jew usurers look down on
us! Not that I care a straw--"

"I should think not!"

"Except when it comes to your family--"

"What does it matter about my family--when I--"

"Ah, do you? Do you forgive me for being a shopkeeper?"

"As if I ever thought of it!" mocked Rose, which was disingenuous of
her. "I don't mind what anybody is if he's nice himself."

"Do you think I'm nice?"

"I am not going to pander to such egregious vanity."

"Do you think I am a gentleman? Do I pass for one--say, in a house
like this?"

"I am not going to answer any more of those horrid, indelicate,
unnecessary questions."

"Ah, I see--you don't."

"I DO," she flamed out, indignant with him. "You KNOW I do! Would I--
if I didn't--"

Her mouth was stopped. In the twinkling of an eye it happened, before
either of them knew it. He was carried away, and she was overwhelmed.
An earthquake could not have given them a greater shock.

"Forgive me," he muttered tremulously, when it was too late. "I know I
oughtn't to have--but I couldn't help it! You are not angry? It was
dashed impudence--but--oh, I say! we shall never get such a
chance as this again--could you, do you think, put up with me? Could
you--I have loved you ever since that dear morning that you came about
Bruce--could you try to care for me a little bit? I'd give up the
business, if you wished, and go into something else--" "If you mention
that blessed business again," laughed Rose hysterically, "I won't speak
to you any more."

"I won't--I won't!" he promised, a joyful ring in his young voice. "As
long as you don't mind--and of course I wouldn't like to disappoint
the old pater--and, thank God, there's plenty of money to make you
comfortable wherever you like to live--Yes, yes, I know it's awful
cheek--I've no business to count chickens like this; but here we are,
face to face at last, no one to keep me from speaking to you--and oh,
darling, it must be time for the next dance, and I'm engaged for it--"

"Then go--go," she urged. "The one after this is ours, and I will wait
here for you till you come back. It is only Jim, and he doesn't matter.
I must be alone to think--to make up my mind--"

"You ANGEL!" for he knew what that meant.

Off he went, wing-footed, to get through his duty dance as best he
could. Rose stayed behind, dodging amongst the bushes to hide her white
dress, deaf to Jim's strident calls. And then, presently, the lovers
flitted out of the gate, across the boys' cricket ground, and down the
bank of one of the five creeks, where Rose knew of a nice seat beyond
the area of possible disturbance. As they sat down on it together, they
leaned inwards, her head drooping to his shoulder, and his arm
sliding round her waist in the most natural way in the world. Then
silence, packed full. Beyond, in the moonlit waste, curlews wailing
sweetly; behind, a piano barely audible from the humming house. . . .


* * * * *


"What's the matter?" asked Alice Urquhart, when her bedfellow broke out
crying suddenly, for no reason that appeared.

"Oh, I don't know," cackled Rose. "I am upset with all this--this--"

"What has upset you? Aha! I saw you and that good-looking young Mr
Breen making off into the garden. You've been having a proposal, I
suppose?"

"Yes," sobbed Rose, between two foolish laughs, and forthwith poured
out the whole story to her bosom friend. She and Peter had decided not
to disclose it to a soul until further consideration; but she was so
full that a touch caused her to run over.

Miss Urquhart's feelings, when she realised the fact that one of the
Pennycuicks was committed to marry a draper, expressed themselves at
first in a rather chilling silence. But subsequently, having reviewed
the situation from its several sides, and weighed the pros and cons,
she decided to assist her friend to make the best of it, as against all
potential enemies.

"Of course, they will be as mad as so many March hares," said Alice,
referring to the other Pennycuicks. "But after all, when you come to
think of it, what is there in a draper's shop any more than in a
soft-goods warehouse?--and that's quite aristocratic, if it's big
enough. Trade is trade, and why we should make chalk of one and
cheese of another passes me. Oh, you've only got to be rich nowadays to
be received anywhere. These Breens seem well off, and anyway, there are
the Simpsons--they are all right. Solid comfort, my dear, is not to be
despised, especially when a girl can't pick and choose, and may
possibly never get another chance. He is awfully presentable, too, and
most gentlemanly, I am sure. Oh, on the whole--if you ask me--I'd
say, stick to him."

Alice's voice was sad, and she sighed inwardly.

"I'm going to stick to him," said Rose.

"Well, you may count on me. I'll get them all asked here for a picnic,
and we'll go over to Bundaboo to invite them--tomorrow. Mrs Simpson
said he was only with her for a few days."

"You darling!"

"And if I were in your place, Rose, I'd marry him just as soon as he
wanted me to. I'd walk out and get it done quietly, and tell them
afterwards. It would save a lot of unpleasantness, and it wouldn't
force the hostile clans to try and make one family when they never
could."

"I don't see why they couldn't. Mrs Simpson is his mother's sister--"

"Oh, well, we shall see. I don't know about Deb and Mary, but France
can be all sorts of a cat when the fit takes her; and as she is certain
to oppose it to the bitter end, she will never have done irritating his
people and setting everybody at loggerheads. However, never mind that
now." She enveloped Rose in a comforting embrace. "We'll just enjoy
ourselves while we can. And until we MUST start the fuss with the girls
at home, we'll keep things dark, shall we? Just you and I and
he. You can tell him, when you see him tomorrow, that I am his friend."

"I will--I will! And he will adore you for your goodness."

Alice, with still no lover of her own, was pleased with this prospect.
And so Rose had a heavenly time for a week or two--Peter extending his
visit to match hers--and went home, within a day of him, in good heart
for the inevitable struggle.


CHAPTER XVII.


The starting of the fuss was thus described by the starter in her first
letter to her friend:

"Oh, my dear, it is simply awful! There is not a scrap of hope. Dear
old Deb is the worst, because she cries--fancy DEB crying! I don't
care what Francie says and does, only, if she were not my sister, I
would never speak to her again. Even Mary is antagonistic, though I
don't believe she would be if it were not for that insufferable husband
of hers; he thinks himself, and puts it into her head, that we are all
going to fall into the bottomless pit if we let trade into the family--
as if nine-tenths and more of the aristocracy of the country were not
traders, and my Peter is as good as her parson any day. But I don't
care, except for Deb. I do hate her to have to cry, through me, and to
be so kind at the same time. She scolds Francie for being horrid--that
does no good, she says, and she is quite right--and then asks me if I
have any love left for her, and all that kind of thing. It makes me
feel like a selfish brute; and yet it would not be unselfish to
sacrifice Peter. Really, I am quite distacted. I have hardly slept a
wink since I came back."

Further details followed:

"I did not know until I got a letter from him (by the gardener)
that Peter came this morning to call--THE call--and was not let in.
Keziah had been got at, you must know, and works against us; the old
liar told him (under instructions, of course) that none of us was at
home!--she that goes to church every Sunday, and pretends to be so
pious. Old hypocrite! Well, as I was reading Peter's letter, the
door-bell rings, and who should it be but old Daddy Breen coming to
demand what we mean by it, snubbing his precious son, whom he thinks
good enough for a princess (and so he is). HE was not going to be
turned from the door--not he; and presently I heard him and Deb at it
hammer and tongs in the drawing-room, and she came up to me afterwards
simply in flames. She WAS wild. My dear, she has left off crying and
started to fight. Papa Breen (I am afraid he is a bit bumptious for
what she calls his class in life) turned the scale, and now she is as
implacable as Francie. She says she will NOT have the house of
Pennycuick disgraced (or words to that effect) while she is alive to
prevent it; and when I ask her to be just to Peter, who is no more
answerable for his family than I am for mine, and not to judge him
off-hand before she knows a scrap about him, she simply looks at me as
if she itched to box my ears. Isn't it too hard? Other girls have such
a lovely time when they are engaged--everybody considering them and
giving them opportunities to be together. There's not going to be
anything of that sort for us, I can plainly see. Well, I shall not give
him up, so they need not think it. . . .

"I have seen my poor old boy. He was much cut up, but feels better now.
. . . He asked me to go and see his mother. . . .The moment I walked in
and he said, 'Mother, here she is,' the darling opened her
arms, and we just hugged as if I was her daughter already. There is
nobody like mothers. . . .

"Papa Breen came home while I was there. I thought he was going to be
aggrieved, but he was not with ME. If it is not a snobbish thing to
say, he is rather proud of his son's choice. He was a bit too fussy and
outspoken, and dear Peter got the fidgets wondering what he would say
next; but I did not mind. He talked about building us a house, but
Peter whispered to me that that would take too long, and that already
he had one in his eye (I know it--a lovely place, with the prettiest
grounds, and stables, and coach-house, and all). Nothing is too good
for me. I tried to pacify the girls by telling them I should have a
comfortable home; but they seem to think that the vulgarest feature of
the whole affair. It may be, but it's nice. Would you condescend to
come and stay with a draper's wife sometimes? We are going to have
Bruce to live with us. . . .

"Then I made Peter come home with me, and I took him in myself to see
Deb. He behaved as nicely as possible, but it was no use. 'She is of
age, Mr Breen,' says Deb, with that look of hers; 'she will do as she
chooses, but she will never do this with my consent.' And I feel I
never shall. Papa Breen sticks in her throat. If only she had seen
Peter before his father came, and not after! But I daresay it would
have been the same. They are too eaten up with their prejudices to
begin to know him. . . .

"It is quite hopeless! Here I live in my own home without a friend, and
he is treated like a pariah, my poor dear boy! He has been to see me
two or three times, as he has a perfect right to do, and they
have just had him shown into the drawing-room, and left him to me,
neither of them coming near. And this while Bennet Goldsworthy loafs
all over the house, as if it was his own, and presumes to look at me in
a superior sort of way, as if I was one of his dirty little
Sunday-school children in disgrace. They bring him up into the attic
even--our own private room--mine as much as theirs; they never did it
before, and it is only because he is banded with them against me. Well,
I wouldn't marry Bennet Goldsworthy if there was not another man in the
world...

"I have my ring--SUCH diamonds! too valuable, I tell Peter; but he
says nothing can be that--and I know they can't help seeing it,
because the whole room flashes when I turn it this way and that, like
blue lightning playing; but they all pretend not to. Since they find
they cannot break our engagement, the idea is to ignore it as if it was
something so low as to be beneath their notice. Perhaps they fancy that
will wear me out; but it won't. . . . If they had been nice, and
pleaded with me, and if Peter had not been so VERY dear and good, I
might have caved in; but not now. And indeed, I am sure I never should
anyway, only we might have agreed to differ without quarrelling, which
we never did before. Oh, it is too miserable! Poor Mr and Mrs Breen
must hate the very name of Pennycuick, and they will end by hating me
if this goes on. . . .Peter has bought the house, and is asking me to
hurry our marriage, to get me out of it. He says a private ceremony
would not be dishonourable under the circumstances. It seems to me a
mean sort of way to go to him, but--what do YOU think?"

"My dear," wrote Alice Urquhart, "I think Peter is right. Next
time he asks you, you say yes. It will be a real kindness to both
families, who would never know what to do with a house wedding.
Besides, then you might have to be given away by B. G. Walk out quietly
and unbeknown, and don't come back. Write from the Blue Mountains or
somewhere--'Yours ever, Rose Breen.' And later on, when things have
settled down, their hearts will melt, and they will come and see you.
Let me know what day, and I will run down (to the dentist) to see fair
play and sign the register.

"Now, you need not have any scruples, child, because the whole of your
husband's family approve of the match (Simpsons delighted, if a little
huffy for the moment to see solid worth looked down upon), and Deb and
the others are certain to come round when they find it is no use doing
anything else. Outsiders don't matter; and I should hate touting for
wedding presents in such a mixed concern. As for your clothes, you have
plenty; when you want more, you can get them cost price at the shop. It
is a very good shop, I hear, and I mean to be a steady customer from
this out. Oh, yes, and I will come and see you, old girl, nows and
thens, when I have to go to town. And you and Peter must spend all your
Christmases up here. While he is seeing his people at Bundaboo, you can
camp with me, like old times."


* * * * *


At the last moment Rose broke down, and wept upon the breast of her
favourite sister in the act of bidding her goodbye--perhaps because
Frances chanced to be absent at the time.

"Oh, Debbie darling, I won't deceive you--I am not going
shopping; I am going into Melbourne to get married--to get married
quietly and have done with it, so as not to be a nuisance to you any
more."

"Married!" gasped Deb, holding the agitated creature at arm's-length.
"What--NOW? And you spring this on us without a word of warning--"

"What was the use, Deb? You know what you would have said. I have GOT
to have him, dear--I really have--and this seemed the only way."

"Where is he?"

"Waiting till I'm ready. They have a carriage outside. His mother and
sister are going with us. His father will join us when we get there.
And Alice Urquhart, who is in town, and one of his cousins from
Bundaboo--quite respectable and above-board, you see, only very quiet,
so as not to trouble you and the girls and poor dear Bennet Goldsworthy
more than we can help--"

"Not trouble us!" broke in Deb, her face, that had paled a moment ago,
flaming scarlet. "Rose, in your wildest aberrations, I did not credit
you with being capable of humiliating us to this extent."

"Ah, you always say that! If you only knew him; but some day you will,
and then you will wonder how you could have set yourself against us so.
I can't help it, Deb. I did it for the best. Marry him I must and will,
and I am only trying to do it in a way as inoffensive to you as
possible."

"You call this an inoffensive way? But those people cannot be expected
to know--"

"They can--they do. Don't insult them any more. They are giving me
everything they can think of to make me happy, and here I have
no home--no love--no sympathy from anybody--"

Tears gushed from her eyes and Deb's as from the same spring; they were
instantly locked in each other's arms.

"Poor little Rosie! Poor dear child! But you don't understand pet--you
don't know what you are doing--going right out of your class--out of
your world--"

"But to a good husband, Debbie, and the man I love--and that's first
of all! And I must go to him now--I must not keep him waiting. Bless
you, dearest! I am happy now. Never mind the others. You can tell them
after I'm gone. But I felt that I must speak to YOU before I went. Oh,
I am so glad I did! Goodbye, darling! I must go."

"You must NOT go," said Deb, swallowing her tears and resuming her
imperious air. "Not this way, Rose, as if your family had cast you off.
How can you treat us so, child? But perhaps we deserve it; only you
don't see what you are doing as clearly as we do--"

"Deb, Deb, don't stop me! They are waiting. It is late now!"

The bride-elect, pale with fright, struggled in her sister's strong
hands, which held her fast.

"Where is Mr Breen?" demanded Deb.

"Waiting at his house--waiting for me--"

"I must send for him."

"Oh, Deb, not now, when everything is settled, and they have had all
the expense and trouble--"

"Will you fetch him, Rose, if I let you go? For one minute only. No, I
won't stop it. I can't, of course; but I must go with you, Rose--I
MUST."

"Oh, Debbie, WOULD you? Oh, how I wish I had known before! Yes,
I'll run and bring him. We must drive faster, that's all. Oh, Deb, how
happy this will make us! But--"

"Run away and fetch him--ask him, with my compliments if he will be so
good--and I will get my hat on while you are gone."

How she managed it was a mystery, but by the time the bridegroom
appeared, Deb was in her best walking costume, hatted and veiled, with
a pair of new pale-coloured gloves in her hand.

"Mr Breen," said she, grave and stately, "I am going to ask a favour of
you. Allow me to take my sister to the church and give her away."

Peter was naturally flurried, besides being a trifle overawed. He
mumbled something to the effect that he was sure his family would be
"quite agreeable", and that his sister would give up her place in the
carriage and go by train; and Deb, facing him with the air of a
duchess, thought how thoroughly "shoppy" his manner was. His splendid
new clothes helped to give her that impression. Fine dressing was one
of the Breens' trifling errors of taste (as drapers) which damned them
in her eyes. But what would she have thought if he had not done all
honour to his bride in this respect?

"WE will go by train," said she decisively. "I have already delayed you
a little, and you must be there first. The train will be quicker than
driving, so that we shall be quite in time." She smiled as she caught
his swift glance of alarm at Rose. "No, I am not going to kidnap her; I
only wish to observe the proprieties a little--for her sake."

"If the proprieties have not been observed," retorted Peter,
suddenly bold, "it has not been ALL my fault, Miss Pennycuick."
"Perhaps not," she said gently, for she was a generous woman--"perhaps
not. At any rate," holding out her hand, "we must let bygones be
bygones now. Be good to her--that is all I ask." Peter seized her hand
in his superfine glove, and wrung it emotionally, while Rose embraced
her sister's left arm and kissed her sleeve. Then, after a hurried
consultation of timetables, the bridegroom retired, and was presently
seen to clatter past the house in the bridal carriage, which had white
horses to it, to Deb's disgust.

She and Rose talked little on their journey. Rose was questioned about
clothes and pocket-money, and asked whether she had a safe pocket
anywhere. On Rose answering that she had, Deb pressed into it a closed
envelope, which she charged her sister not to open until away on her
honeymoon. Rose disobeyed the order, and found a hastily scrawled
cheque for one hundred pounds--money which she knew could ill be
spared.

"Oh, you darling!" she murmured fondly. "But I won't take it, Deb--I
WON'T. It would leave you poor for years, while I shall have heaps of
everything--"

"If you don't," broke in Deb, tragically stern and determined--"if you
don't take it and buy your first clothes with it, I will never forgive
you as long as I live. Child, don't you see--?"

Rose saw this much--Deb's horror of the thought of being beholden to
the Breens for a post-nuptial trousseau. Reluctantly she pocketed the
gift.

"But I shall never want it, you know."

"I don't care about that," said Deb.

The bridegroom's relief of mind when he saw the bride coming was so
great as to do away with all the usual embarrassment of a man so
circumstanced.

"Ha! now we are all right," he said to Harry Simpson, cousin and best
man; and forthwith acted as if the trouble were over instead of just
beginning. There was nothing shoppy in his demeanour now, even to Deb's
prejudiced eye.

The sisters walked up the nave to the altar, hand in hand. Deb passed
the bridesmaid, Alice Urquhart, without a look--her people had brought
the young pair together, and were answerable for these consequences--
and similarly ignored those walking fashion-plates, Mrs and Miss Breen.
She landed her charge at the appointed hassock, and quietly facing the
clergyman, stood still and dry-eyed amid the usual tearful flutter,
apparently the calmest of the party. But poor Deb suffered pangs
unspeakable, and her excessive dignity was maintained only by the
sternest effort.

In the vestry, after the ceremony, she was introduced by the bride to
her new relations; and Papa Breen, with a great show of magnanimity,
expressed his satisfaction at seeing Miss Pennycuick "on this
suspicious occasion", and formally invited her to what he called "a
little snack" at Menzies', where a gorgeous wedding breakfast had been
prepared at his orders.

"Thank you very much, Mr Breen," she said affably. "It would have given
me great pleasure, but if you will excuse me, I must run home to my
other sisters, whom I left in ignorance of this--this event--which
concerns them so nearly."

"Oh, Deb, DO come!" pleaded the bride.

No; the line had to be drawn somewhere. Deb was very kind, very polite,
very plausible with her excuses; but to Menzies' with those people and
their white-horsed carriage she would not go.


CHAPTER XVIII.


Rose had never been reckoned a person of importance by her family, but
now that she was gone, there remained a terrible emptiness where she
had been. She was one of those unselfish, good-natured members of
households to whom falls the stocking-mending, the errand-going, the
fetching and carrying, the filling of gaps generally; and at every turn
Deb and Frances missed her unobtrusive ministrations, which they had
accepted as as much matters of course as the attentions of the butcher
and baker. It was presently perceived that Keziah missed her too--that
Keziah, who had loyally opposed the plebeian marriage, was become a
turncoat and renegade, blessing where she should have cursed, blaming
where she should have praised--yes, blaming even Queen Deborah, who,
needless to say, took her head off for it.

It had been Keziah's own choice to follow the sisters into exile, and
to share the privations involved in their change of life. She had given
up her Redford luxuries and importance to become a general servant,
with only her kitchen to sit in, for their sakes; and she had
cheerfully abided by her choice--until Rose went. Rose was the one who
had understood the cost of the sacrifice, and who had lightened it by
sympathetic companionship. They had cleaned rooms, and made
cakes and puddings, and set hens, and stirred jam, and ironed frocks
and laces together; they had spent hours in pleasant gossip over the
many homely subjects that interested both; their relation had been more
that of mother and daughter than of servant and mistress. Regarding her
as virtually her child, Keziah had been quick to spring to the side of
authority in the matter of the irregular love-affair; the natural
parental impulse was to nip it in the bud. But "Providence" had decided
the issue in this case. And a flirtatious girl was one thing, and a
respectable married woman another. And Keziah was lonely, and felt
neglected and "put upon" when nobody came to talk to her in her
kitchen, or to help her with her cooking and ironing--and particularly
after she had told Deb that it was a shame to bear malice to Miss Rose
now, and Deb had commanded her to mind her own business.

She was suspected of treacherous visits to the house next door; she was
known to have spent Sunday afternoons with Mrs Peter herself. The
iniquity of these proceedings was in the secrecy she observed, or tried
to observe, regarding them. It was she who knew, before anybody else,
when a baby Breen was coming--and if a married woman was a personage
to Keziah, an incipient mother was a being of the highest rank. She had
forgiven Mary everything for the sake of her black-eyed boy; now she
took the news that Rose was what she called "interesting" to Deb, and
demanded that action should be taken upon it, with an air that was
almost truculent. Deb, of course, did not believe in being
spoken to, even by Keziah, in that way.

"Has the muffin boy been?" she inquired, with a steady look.

"It's too soon yet--and I can tell you, Miss Deb, that if it was you
in her place, SHE wouldn't keep it up like this--and at such a time too."

"When the muffin boy comes, Keziah, please pay him the sixpence we owe
him from last week. You will find the money on my writing-table."

"Well, I don't care--I call it a shame not to go to her--"

"Perhaps you would like to go to her yourself?" Deb swiftly changed her
tone.

"I'd like nothing better," the old woman retorted, with spirit, "if you
are agreeable."

"I am perfectly agreeable."

"Well, it was only the other day she said she'd give anything to have
me, if it wasn't for taking me away from you."

"Oh, pray don't consider that. I can easily get somebody else," said
Deb affably, though her surprise at the idea of Keziah wanting to leave
her was only equalled by her dismay.

Keziah, also surprised to find herself of so much less consequence than
she had supposed, said that, if that was the case, she'd go and see
Miss Rose about it.

"You can go now," said Deb.

"Thank you, Miss Deb, I will," said Keziah, "as soon as I have cleared
up. Would a month's notice suit you? I don't wish to put you about at
all."

"A month will be ample," said Deb. "A week, if you like."

"I'll see what Miss Rose says," said Keziah.

Rose, after the interview, wrote affectionately to Deb, to say she
would not dream of taking Keziah if Deb wanted her; Deb wrote
affectionately to Rose, to say that she would be rather glad than
otherwise to make the change, as the work was too much for such an old
woman. So Keziah went over to the Breen camp, where she had comfort and
companionship, and her own way in everything; and Deb began to
experiment with the common or garden 'general' as purveyed by Melbourne
registry offices.

She loathed these creatures, one and all. They were of a race unknown
at Redford, and she was singularly unlucky in the specimens that fell
to her; although some of them could have been made something of by a
mistress who knew how to do it. It is only fair to state that they
loathed her--for a finicking, unreasonable, stuck-up poor woman, who
gave herself the airs of a wealthy lady. They came at the rate of two a
month, and each one as she passed seemed to leave the little house
meaner, dingier, more damaged than before. It was not living, it was
"pigging", Frances said--and Deb agreed with her--although when
Keziah ventured to call one day to inquire into the state of things,
Deb calmly asserted that all was well.

In despair she tried a lady-help, in the person of Miss Keene, dying to
return to her dear family (from relations who did not want her) on any
terms.

"Whatever we ask her to do we must do ourselves," said Deb to grumbling
Frances, who seemed never willing to do anything; "and of course we
shall have to get a washwoman, and a charwoman to scrub; but it will be
cheaper in the end. And oh, anything rather than sticky
door-handles and greasy spoons, and those awful voices hailing one all
over the house!"

But it was not cheaper, nor was the arrangement satisfactory in any way
after the first fortnight. Miss Keene, spoiled at Redford as they had
been, was as unfit for crude housework, and she aggravated her
incompetence by weeping over it. She had not gathered from Deb's
letters that the change in the family fortunes was as great as it now
proved to be; and Deb had not anticipated the effect of adversity upon
one so easily depressed. She had no 'heart', poor thing. She struggled
and muddled, sighing for flowers for the vases while the beds were
unmade; and when she saw a certain look on Deb's face, wept and mourned
and gave up hope. So they "pigged" still, although they did not defile
the furniture with unwashed hands, and the plate and crockery with
greasy dish-cloths. With no knowledge of cookery, they lived too much
on tinned provisions--a diet as wasteful as it was unwholesome--
feeding their wash-and-scrub-women with the same; and their efforts to
support the burden of their domestic responsibilities deprived them of
outdoor exercise and mental rest and recreation--kept them at too
close quarters with one another, each rubbing her quivering prickles
upon the irritable skins of the other two. Frances bore the strain with
least good-nature and self-control, and since she had to vent her
ill-humour on someone, naturally made Miss Keene her victim when it was
a choice between her and Deb. The poor lady grew more and more
disappointed, discouraged and tearful. She became subject to
indigestion, headaches, disordered nerves; finally fell ill and had to
have the doctor. The doctor said she was completely run down,
and that rest and change of air were indispensable. She went away to
her relatives, weeping still, wrapped in Deb's cloak, and with all
Deb's ready money in her pocket; and she did not come back.

Then Deb tried to carry on alone. Any sort of registry office drudge
would have been welcome now, but had become an expense that she dared
not continue. Moreover, the spectre of poverty, looming so distinct and
unmistakable in the house, was a thing to hide, if possible, from
anybody who could go outside and talk about it. The thing had become a
living terror to herself--its claws Jew money-lenders, so velvety and
innocent when her wilful ignorance made first acquaintance with them;
but nobody--not even Mr Thornycroft, not even Jim, CERTAINLY not Rose
--could be allowed to play Perseus to this proud Andromeda. Until she
could free herself, they were not even to know that she was bound. Of
course, she need not have been bound; it was her own fault. She should
have managed better with the resources at her disposal than to bring
herself to such a pass, and that so soon; either Mary or Rose would
certainly have done so in her place. But Nature had not made her or
Frances--whose rapacities had been one cause of the financial
breakdown--for the role of domestic economists; they had been dowered
with their lovely faces for other purposes.

That the fine plumage is for the sun was a fact well understood by
Frances, at any rate. And she was wild at the wrongs wrought by sordid
circumstances--her father's and sister's heedlessness--upon herself.
She thought only of herself. Deb was getting old, and she
deserved to suffer anyway; but what had Frances done to be deprived of
her birth-right, of all her chances of success in life? Eighteen, and
no coming out--beautiful, and nobody to see it--marriageable, and out
of the track of all the eligible men, amongst whom she might have had
her pick and choice. [Footnote 33: If the Ecclesiastes be truly a work
of Solomon, and not, like Prior's poem, a pious and moral composition
of more recent times, in his name, and on the subject of his repentance.
The latter is the opinion of the learned and free-spirited Grotius,
(Opp. Theolog. tom.
i. p. 258;) and indeed the Ecclesiastes and Proverbs display a
larger compass of thought and experience than seem to belong either
to a Jew or a king. * Note: Rosenmuller, arguing from the difference
of style from that of the greater part of the book of Proverbs, and
from its nearer approximation to the Aramaic dialect than any book
of the Old Testament, assigns the Ecclesiastes to some period between
Nehemiah and Alexander the Great Schol. in Vet.

Test. ix. Proemium ad Eccles. p. 19.--M.]

Chapter XLI: Conquests Of Justinian, Charact Of Balisarius.

--Part III.

Although Theodatus descended from a race of heroes, he was
ignorant of the art, and averse to the dangers, of war. Although he
had studied the writings of Plato and Tully, philosophy was incapable
of purifying his mind from the basest passions, avarice and fear. He
had purchased a sceptre by ingratitude and murder: at the first
menace of an enemy, he degraded his own majesty and that of a nation,
which already disdained their unworthy sovereign.

Astonished by the recent example of Gelimer, he saw himself dragged in
chains through the streets of Constantinople:
the terrors which Belisarius inspired were heightened by the eloquence
of Peter, the Byzantine ambassador; and that bold and subtle advocate
persuaded him to sign a treaty, too ignominious to become the foundation
of a lasting peace. It was stipulated, that in the acclamations of the
Roman people, the name of the emperor should be always proclaimed before
that of the Gothic king; and that as often as the statue of Theodatus
was erected in brass on marble, the divine image of Justinian should
be placed on its right hand. Instead of conferring, the king
of Italy was reduced to solicit, the honors of the senate; and the
consent of the emperor was made indispensable before he could execute,
against a priest or senator, the sentence either of death or confiscation.
The feeble monarch resigned the possession of Sicily; offered, as the
annual mark of his dependence, a crown of gold of the weight of
three hundred pounds; and promised to supply, at the requisition of his
sovereign, three thousand Gothic auxiliaries, for the service of the
empire.
Satisfied with these extraordinary concessions, the successful agent of
Justinian hastened his journey to Constantinople; but no sooner had
he reached the Alban villa, [60] than he was recalled by the anxiety
of Theodatus; and the dialogue which passed between the king and the
ambassador deserves to be represented in its original simplicity.

"Are you of opinion that the emperor will ratify this treaty? Perhaps.
If he refuses, what consequence will ensue? War. Will such a war, be
just or reasonable? Most assuredly: every to his character.
What is your meaning? You are a philosopher--Justinian is
emperor of the Romans: it would all become the disciple of Plato to shed
the blood of thousands in his private quarrel: the successor of
Augustus should vindicate his rights, and recover by arms the ancient
provinces of his empire." This reasoning might not convince, but it was
sufficient to alarm and subdue the weakness of Theodatus; and he soon
descended to his last offer, that for the poor equivalent
of a pension of forty-eight thousand pounds sterling, he would resign
the kingdom of the Goths and Italians, and spend the remainder of
his days in the innocent pleasures of philosophy and agriculture.

Both treaties were intrusted to the hands of the ambassador, on the
frail security of an oath not to produce the second till the first
had been positively rejected.

The event may be easily foreseen: Justinian required and accepted the
abdication of the Gothic king. His indefatigable agent returned from
Constantinople to Ravenna, with ample instructions; and a fair
epistle, which praised the wisdom and generosity of the royal philosopher,
granted his pension, with the assurance of such honors as a subject
and a Catholic might enjoy; and wisely referred the final execution
of the treaty to the presence and authority of Belisarius. But in the
interval of suspense, two Roman generals, who had entered the province
of Dalmatia, were defeated and slain by the Gothic troops. From blind
and abject despair, Theodatus capriciously rose to groundless and
fatal presumption, [61] and dared to receive, with menace and contempt,
the ambassador of Justinian; who claimed his promise, solicited the
allegiance of his subjects, and boldly asserted the inviolable
privilege of his own character.

The march of Belisarius dispelled this visionary pride; and as the
first campaign [62] was employed in the reduction of Sicily, the invasion
of Italy is applied by Procopius to the second year of the Gothic war.
[63]

[Footnote 60: The ancient Alba was ruined in the first age of Rome.
On the same spot, or at least in the neighborhood, successively arose.
1.
The villa of Pompey, &c.; 2. A camp of the Praetorian cohorts; 3. The
modern episcopal city of Albanum or Albano. (Procop. Goth. l. ii.
c. 4 Oluver. Ital. Antiq tom. ii. p. 914.)]
[Footnote 61: A Sibylline oracle was ready to pronounce--Africa
capta munitus cum nato peribit; a sentence of portentous ambiguity,
(Gothic.
l. i. c. 7,) which has been published in unknown characters by
Opsopaeus, an editor of the oracles.

The Pere Maltret has promised a commentary; but all his promises
have been vain and fruitless.]

[Footnote 62: In his chronology, imitated, in some degree, from
Thucydides, Procopius begins each spring the years of Justinian and
of the Gothic war; and his first aera coincides with the first of
April, 535, and not 536, according to the Annals of Baronius, (Pagi,
Crit. tom.
ii. p. 555, who is followed by Muratori and the editors of Sigonius.)

Yet, in some passages, we are at a loss to reconcile the dates of
Procopius with himself, and with the Chronicle of Marcellinus.]

[Footnote 63: The series of the first Gothic war is represented by
Procopius (l. i. c. 5--29, l. ii. c. l--30, l. iii. c. l) till the
captivity of Vitigas.

With the aid of Sigonius (Opp. tom. i. de Imp.
Occident. l. xvii. xviii.) and Muratori, (Annali d'Itaia, tom. v.,)
I have gleaned some few additional facts.]

After Belisarius had left sufficient garrisons in Palermo and
Syracuse, he embarked his troops at Messina, and landed them, without
resistance, on the opposite shores of Rhegium.

A Gothic prince, who had married the daughter of Theodatus, was
stationed with an army to guard the entrance of Italy; but he
imitated, without scruple, the example of a sovereign faithless to
his public and private duties.

The perfidious Ebermor deserted with his followers to the Roman
camp, and was dismissed to enjoy the servile honors of the Byzantine
court. [64] From Rhegium to Naples, the fleet and army of Belisarius,
almost always in view of each other, advanced near three hundred
miles along the sea-coast.

The people of Bruttium, Lucania, and Campania, who abhorred the
name and religion of the Goths, embraced the specious excuse, that
their ruined walls were incapable of defence: the soldiers paid a
just equivalent for a plentiful market; and curiosity alone interrupted
the peaceful occupations of the husbandman or artificer.

Naples, which has swelled to a great and populous capital, long cherished
the language and manners of a Grecian colony; [65] and the choice
of Virgil had ennobled this elegant retreat, which attracted the lovers
of repose and study, elegant retreat, which attracted the lovers
of repose and study, from the noise, the smoke, and the laborious
opulence of Rome. [66] As soon as the place was invested by sea and
land, Belisarius gave audience to the deputies of the people, who
exhorted him to disregard a conquest unworthy of his arms, to seek
the Gothic king in a field of battle, and, after his victory, to
claim, as the sovereign of Rome, the allegiance of the dependent
cities.

"When I treat with my enemies," replied the Roman chief, with a haughty
smile, "I am more accustomed to give than to receive counsel; but
I hold in one hand inevitable ruin, and in the other peace and
freedom, such as Sicily now enjoys."

The impatience of delay urged him to grant the most liberal terms;
his honor secured their performance: but Naples was divided into
two factions; and the Greek democracy was inflamed by their orators,
who, with much spirit and some truth, represented to the multitude that
the Goths would punish their defection, and that Belisarius himself
must esteem their loyalty and valor. Their deliberations, however,
were not perfectly free: the city was commanded by eight hundred
Barbarians, whose wives and children were detained at Ravenna as the
pledge of their fidelity; and even the Jews, who were rich and
numerous, resisted, with desperate enthusiasm, the intolerant laws
of Justinian. In a much later period, the circumference of Naples
[67] measured only two thousand three hundred and sixty three paces:
[68] the fortifications were defended by precipices or the sea; when
the aqueducts were intercepted, a supply of water might be
drawn from wells and fountains; and the stock of provisions was sufficient
to consume the patience of the besiegers. At the end of twenty days,
that of Belisarius was almost exhausted, and he had reconciled
himself to the disgrace of abandoning the siege, that he might
march, before the winter season, against Rome and the Gothic king.

But his anxiety was relieved by the bold curiosity of an Isaurian, who
explored the dry channel of an aqueduct, and secretly reported,
that a passage might be perforated to introduce a file of armed
soldiers into the heart of the city.

When the work had been silently executed, the humane general risked
the discovery of his secret by a last and fruitless admonition of the
impending danger. In the darkness of the night, four hundred Romans
entered the aqueduct, raised themselves by a rope, which they
fastened to an olive-tree, into the house or garden of a solitary
matron, sounded their trumpets, surprised the sentinels, and gave
admittance to their companions, who on all sides
scaled the walls, and burst open the gates of the city. Every crime
which is punished by social justice was practised as the rights of
war; the Huns were distinguished by cruelty and sacrilege, and
Belisarius alone appeared in the streets and churches of Naples to
moderate the calamities which he predicted.

"The gold and silver," he repeatedly exclaimed, "are the just rewards
of your valor.

But spare the inhabitants; they are Christians, they are suppliants, they
are now your fellow-subjects. Restore the children to their parents,
the wives to their husbands; and show them by you, generosity of
what friends they have obstinately deprived themselves."

The city was saved by the virtue and authority of its conqueror; [69] and
when the Neapolitans returned to their houses, they found some consolation
in the secret enjoyment of their hidden treasures. The Barbarian garrison
enlisted in the service of the emperor; Apulia and Calabria, delivered
from the odious presence of the Goths, acknowledged his dominion;
and the tusks of the Calydonian boar, which were still shown at
Beneventum, are curiously described by the historian of Belisarius. [70]

[Footnote 64: Jornandes, de Rebus Geticis, c. 60, p. 702, edit.

Grot., and tom. i. p. 221. Muratori, de Success, Regn. p. 241.]
[Footnote 65: Nero (says Tacitus, Annal. xv. 35) Neapolim quasi Graecam
urbem delegit. One hundred and fifty years afterwards, in the time of
Septimius Severus, the Hellenism of the Neapolitans is praised by
Philostratus. (Icon. l. i. p. 763, edit. Olear.)]
[Footnote 66: The otium of Naples is praised by the Roman poets, by
Virgil, Horace, Silius Italicus, and Statius, (Cluver. Ital. Ant.
l.
iv. p. 1149, 1150.) In an elegant epistles, (Sylv. l. iii. 5, p.
94--98, edit. Markland,) Statius undertakes the difficult task of drawing
his wife from the pleasures of Rome to that calm retreat.]
[Footnote 67: This measure was taken by Roger l., after the conquest
of Naples, (A.D. 1139,) which he made the capital of his new
kingdom, (Giannone, Istoria Civile, tom. ii. p. 169.) That city, the
third in Christian Europe, is now at least twelve miles in circumference,
(Jul. Caesar. Capaccii Hist. Neapol. l. i. p. 47,) and contains more
inhabitants (350,000) in a given space, than any other spot in the known
world.]
[Footnote 68: Not geometrical, but common, paces or steps, of 22
French inches, (D' Anville, Mesures Itineraires, p. 7, 8.) The 2363
do not take an English mile.]
[Footnote 69: Belisarius was reproved by Pope Silverius for
the massacre. He repeopled Naples, and imported colonies of African
captives into Sicily, Calabria, and Apulia, (Hist. Miscell. l. xvi. in
Muratori, tom. i. p. 106, 107.)]
[Footnote 70: Beneventum was built by Diomede, the nephew of Meleager
(Cluver. tom. ii. p. 1195, 1196.)

The Calydonian hunt is a picture of savage life, (Ovid, Metamorph. l.
viii.) Thirty or forty heroes were leagued against a hog: the brutes
(not the hog) quarrelled with lady for the head.]
The faithful soldiers and citizens of Naples had expected their deliverance
from a prince, who remained the inactive and almost indifferent spectator
of their ruin. Theodatus secured his person within the walls of Rome,
whilst his cavalry advanced forty miles on the Appian way, and encamped
in the Pomptine marshes; which, by a canal of nineteen miles in length,
had been recently drained and converted into excellent pastures. [71]
But the principal forces of the Goths were dispersed in Dalmatia,
Venetia, and Gaul; and the feeble mind of their king was confounded
by the unsuccessful event of a divination, which seemed to presage
the downfall of his empire. [72] The most abject slaves have arraigned
the guilt or weakness of an unfortunate master.

The character of Theodatus was rigorously scrutinized by a free and
idle camp of Barbarians, conscious of their privilege and power:
he was declared unworthy of his race, his nation, and his throne; and
their general Vitiges, whose valor had been signalized in the
Illyrian war, was raised with unanimous applause on the bucklers
of his companions.

On the first rumor, the abdicated monarch fled from the justice
of his country; but he was pursued by private revenge. A Goth, whom
he had injured in his love, overtook Theodatus on the Flaminian
way, and, regardless of his unmanly cries, slaughtered him,
as he lay, prostrate on the ground, like a victim (says the
historian) at the foot of the altar. The choice of the people is the
best and purest title to reign over them; yet such is the prejudice
of every age, that Vitiges impatiently wished to return to Ravenna,
where he might seize, with the reluctant hand of the daughter of
Amalasontha, some faint shadow of hereditary right.

A national council was immediately held, and the new monarch reconciled
the impatient spirit of the Barbarians to a measure of disgrace, which
the misconduct of his predecessor rendered wise and indispensable.
The Goths consented to retreat in the presence of a victorious
enemy; to delay till the next spring the operations of offensive
war; to summon their scattered forces; to relinquish their distant
possessions, and to trust even Rome itself to the faith of its
inhabitants.

Leuderis, an ancient warrior, was left in the capital with four
thousand soldiers; a feeble garrison, which might have seconded the
zeal, though it was incapable of opposing the wishes, of the Romans.

But a momentary enthusiasm of religion and patriotism was kindled in
their minds. They furiously exclaimed, that the apostolic throne should
no longer be profaned by the triumph or toleration of Arianism; that
the tombs of the Caesars should no longer be trampled by the savages
of the North; and, without reflecting, that Italy must sink into
a province of Constantinople, they fondly hailed the restoration
of a Roman emperor as a new aera of freedom and prosperity.

The deputies of the pope and clergy, of the senate and people,
invited the lieutenant of Justinian to accept their voluntary
allegiance, and to enter the city, whose gates would be thrown open
for his reception.

As soon as Belisarius had fortified his new conquests, Naples and
Cumae, he advanced about twenty miles to the banks of the Vulturnus,
contemplated the decayed grandeur of Capua, and halted at the
separation of the Latin and Appian ways.

The work of the censor, after the incessant use of nine centuries,
still preserved its primaeval beauty, and not a flaw could be
discovered in the large polished stones, of which that solid, though
narrow road, was so firmly compacted. [73] Belisarius, however,
preferred the Latin way, which, at a distance from the sea and the
marshes, skirted in a space of one hundred and twenty miles along
the foot of the mountains.

His enemies had disappeared: when he made his entrance through the
Asinarian gate, the garrison departed without molestation along the
Flaminian way; and the city, after sixty years' servitude, was
delivered from the yoke of the Barbarians.

Leuderis alone, from a motive of pride or discontent, refused to
accompany the fugitives; and the Gothic chief, himself a trophy of
the victory, was sent with the keys of Rome to the throne of the
emperor Justinian. [74]
[Footnote 71: The Decennovium is strangely confounded by Cluverius
(tom.
ii. p. 1007) with the River Ufens.

It was in truth a canal of nineteen miles, from Forum Appii to Terracina,
on which Horace embarked in the night.

The Decennovium, which is mentioned by Lucan, Dion Cassius, and
Cassiodorus, has been sufficiently ruined, restored, and obliterated,
(D'Anville, Anayse de l'Italie, p. 185, &c.)]

[Footnote 72: A Jew, gratified his contempt and hatred for all the
Christians, by enclosing three bands, each of ten hogs, and
discriminated by the names of Goths, Greeks, and Romans.
Of the first, almost all were found dead; almost all the second were
alive: of the third, half died, and the rest lost their bristles.

No unsuitable emblem of the event]
[Footnote 73: Bergier (Hist. des Grands Chemins des Romains, tom.
i. p.
221-228, 440-444) examines the structure and materials, while
D'Anville (Analyse d'Italie, p. 200--123) defines the geographical
line.]

[Footnote 74: Of the first recovery of Rome, the year (536) is certain,
from the series of events, rather than from the corrupt, or
interpolated, text of Procopius.

The month (December) is ascertained by Evagrius, (l. iv. v. 19;)
and the day (the tenth) may be admitted on the slight evidence of
Nicephorus Callistus, (l. xvii. c. 13.)

For this accurate chronology, we are indebted to the diligence and judgment
of Pagi, (tom, ii. p. 659, 560.) Note: Compare Maltret's note, in the
edition of Dindorf the ninth is the day, according to his reading,--M.]

The first days, which coincided with the old Saturnalia, were devoted
to mutual congratulation and the public joy; and the Catholics
prepared to celebrate, without a rival, the approaching festival of the
nativity of Christ.

In the familiar conversation of a hero, the Romans acquired some
notion of the virtues which history ascribed to their ancestors;
they were edified by the apparent respect of Belisarius for the
successor of St.

Peter, and his rigid discipline secured in the midst of war the blessings
of tranquillity and justice. They applauded the rapid success of his
arms, which overran the adjacent country, as far as Narni, Perusia,
and Spoleto; but they trembled, the senate, the clergy, and the unwarlike
people, as soon as they understood that he had resolved, and would
speedily be reduced, to sustain a siege against the powers of the
Gothic monarchy.

The designs of Vitiges were executed, during the winter season, with
diligence and effect. From their rustic habitations, from their distant
garrisons, the Goths assembled at Ravenna for the defence of their
country; and such were their numbers, that, after an army had been
detached for the relief of Dalmatia, one hundred and fifty thousand
fighting men marched under the royal standard.

According to the degrees of rank or merit, the Gothic king distributed
arms and horses, rich gifts, and liberal promises; he moved along
the Flaminian way, declined the useless sieges of Perusia and
Spoleto, respected he impregnable rock of Narni, and arrived within two
miles of Rome at the foot of the Milvian bridge. The narrow passage
was fortified with a tower, and Belisarius had computed the value
of the twenty days which must be lost in the construction of another
bridge. But the consternation of the soldiers of the tower, who either
fled or deserted, disappointed his hopes, and betrayed his person
into the most imminent danger.

At the head of one thousand horse, the Roman general sallied from the
Flaminian gate to mark the ground of an advantageous position, and to
survey the camp of the Barbarians; but while he still believed
them on the other side of the Tyber, he was suddenly encompassed
and assaulted by their numerous squadrons.

The fate of Italy depended on his life; and the deserters pointed
to the conspicuous horse a bay, [75] with a white face, which he
rode on that memorable day.

"Aim at the bay horse," was the universal cry.

Every bow was bent, every javelin was directed, against that fatal
object, and the command was repeated and obeyed by thousands who were
ignorant of its real motive. The bolder Barbarians advanced to the more
honorable combat of swords and spears; and the praise of an enemy has
graced the fall of Visandus, the standard-bearer, [76] who
maintained his foremost station, till he was pierced with thirteen
wounds, perhaps by the hand of Belisarius himself.

The Roman general was strong, active, and dexterous; on every
side he discharged his weighty and mortal strokes: his faithful guards
imitated his valor, and defended his person; and the Goths, after
the loss of a thousand men, fled before the arms of a hero.

"A tremendous lot--three hundred and
fifty guineas."

"The swindlers! They were worth two thousand."

"What!" She was thunderstruck. "You gave me a necklace worth two
thousand guineas?"

"I only wish you'd let me give you a score or two at the same price, on
condition that you sold them for three-fifty whenever you needed a
little cash."

She was quite upset by this remark, and what had given rise to it.
Impulsively--too impulsively, considering how weak he was--she kissed
his damp forehead, and rushed weeping from his sight.

In the hot evening, while the trained nurse had her tea at grateful
leisure in the housekeeper's room, Deb again took that nurse's place.
She sat by the pillow of the patient, leaning against it, holding his
hand in hers. Only the sound of the cruel north wind and his more cruel
breathing disturbed the stillness that enveloped them. She hoped he was
sleeping, until he spoke suddenly in a way that showed him only too
wide awake.

"Debbie," he said, "if I was quite sure I would not get well
this time, I should put that question to you again."

"What question, dear?" she queried softly.

"The question I asked you just before you left Redford."

"I don't remember--Oh!"

"Yes--that one. But if you consented, I might recover--it would be
enough to make me; then you would repent."

She was silent, agitated in every fibre of her, but thinking hard.

"What put that idea into your head?" she whispered, still holding his
hand.

"It was never put in; it was there always--since you were a kiddie."

"It seems so strange! I thought I was always a kiddie to you." "That
does seem the natural relationship, doesn't it?" There fell another
long silence, and, listening to his dragging breath, her heart smote
her. She squeezed his bony hand.

"I will stay with you, anyway," she comforted him.

He turned his head on the pillow. "Kiss me," he sighed, with eyes
closed.

She did, again and again.

The night was suffocating. She could not sleep for the heat and her
thoughts, and when, towards morning, she heard the nurse stirring, she
got up to inquire how he was.

"Pretty bad," the nurse said. "It's this awful weather. I can't cool
the room, though I've got all the doors and windows open, and the wet
sheets hanging up. It's air he wants, and there isn't any. If
it don't change soon, I'm afraid his strength won't hold out."

It did not change, and consequently grew worse to bear, the parching
and scorching of each day being carried over into the next. What the
newspapers call a heat-wave was drawing to its culmination, which
generally reaches the verge of the unbearable, even to the well and
strong, just before the "change"--that lightning change to coolness,
and even coldness, which comes while one draws a breath. How many a
life has hung upon the chance of the blessed moment coming in time!

The nurse looked at the thermometer in despair. Darkness had not taken
10 degrees from yesterday's temperature of 102 degrees when another
blazing sun arose. The fierce wind had raved and calmed, and raved and
calmed, but it had not shifted. She wetted and she fanned, turn and turn
about with Deb, the livelong day, without freshening the dead air that
soaked the house and seemed to soak the world. The fagged and perspiring
doctor (a great friend of the patient's), who came twice daily, came
again, too tired to care very much even for this special case. He looked
at it, and shook his head, and begged for a cool drink for the Lord's
sake; and then, having muddled the wits he had tried to stimulate with
quarts of whisky-and-soda, went away, saying: "I can do nothing. Send for
me at once if you see a change."

At sunset the sick man was very low, his weak heart and his distressed
lungs labouring heavily, while the sweat of agony glistened on his
forehead and plastered his white hair to his backward-tossed head. Deb
was frantic with fear and grief. She summoned the doctor again, sending
commands to him to summon more doctors--the best in Melbourne,
and any number of them--in defiance of Mr Thornycroft's known wishes
to the contrary. At the same time she sent for the clergyman.

"Dear," she crooned in the patient's ear, when he seemed a little
easier, "Mr Bentley will be here presently."

Mr Thornycroft's brows seemed to gather a momentary frown over his
closed eyes.

"I'd rather not, Deb--"

"Oh, not for THAT! But--the wind will change soon, and then you will
feel better; and then--you said it would help you to get well--I will
--if you like--"

He opened his eyes and gazed at her. It took him a few seconds to
understand.

"Ah--darling!" he breathed, between his pants, and with an effort drew
her hand to his lips. Then--they were his last words, whispered very
low--"Never mind now, Debbie--so long as you are here."

He seemed to drowse into a kind of half-sleep, in spite of his too
obvious and audible suffering. She sat beside him, sponging and fanning
him, listening to his shallow, jerky, wheezy respiration, watching for
the subtle something in the stifling room that should announce a change
of wind, thinking of Mr Bentley's coming, and many other things. The
weary nurse came back from her brief rest and cup of tea, and sat down
at the foot of the bed. She studied the patient's face intently for
some time, and felt his feet; then she took the fan from Deborah's
hand.

"You go and lie down, Miss Pennycuick. Mrs Dobson will come and sit
with me for a while."

"No, no," said Deb. "He wants me to be here. I cannot leave him."

After a few more minutes of silence, the nurse said again: "You had
better go, Miss Pennycuick." When Deb repeated her refusal, the nurse
went out to fetch the housekeeper to persuade her.

A minute afterwards, Deb lifted her head with a jerk, and sniffed
eagerly. At the same instant she heard a distant door bang.

"Thank God!" she ejaculated, and flew to the windows that all day had
had to be shut tight against the furnace blast outside, and flung them
wide, one after the other. The trees in the old garden were bending and
rustling; the sweet, cool air came pouring in.

"The wind has changed," she whispered, almost hysterically, to the
nurse and the housekeeper, as they stealthily crept in. "And"--as they
all gathered round the bed--"he is better already. His breathing is
easier."

The nurse bent over the long figure on the bed. "He is not breathing at
all," said she.


CHAPTER XX.


Jim Urquhart had been fighting bush fires for several days when the
wind changed and carried them back over the burnt ground that
extinguished them. When he rode home, dead beat, from helping a
neighbour who had helped him, it was to meet the news that Mr
Thornycroft was dead, and Mrs Urquhart gone to Redford to support
Deborah Pennycuick.

P. iv. No. 233.)]
Before the departure of Belisarius, Perusia was besieged, and few
cities were impregnable to the Gothic arms. Ravenna, Ancona, and
Crotona, still resisted the Barbarians; and when Totila asked
in marriage one of the daughters of France, he was stung by the just
reproach that the king of Italy was unworthy of his title till it was
acknowledged by the Roman people. Three thousand of the bravest soldiers
had been left to defend the capital. On the suspicion of a monopoly,
they massacred the governor, and announced to Justinian, by a deputation
of the clergy, that unless their offence was pardoned, and their
arrears were satisfied, they should instantly accept the tempting offers
of Totila.
But the officer who succeeded to the command (his name was
Diogenes) deserved their esteem and confidence; and the Goths, instead
of finding an easy conquest, encountered a vigorous resistance from
the soldiers and people, who patiently endured the loss of the
port and of all maritime supplies.

The siege of Rome would perhaps have been raised, if the liberality
of Totila to the Isaurians had not encouraged some of their
venal countrymen to copy the example of treason. In a dark
night, while the Gothic trumpets sounded on another side, they silently
opened the gate of St. Paul: the Barbarians rushed into the city; and
the flying garrison was intercepted before they could reach the
harbor of Centumcellae. A soldier trained in the school of Belisarius,
Paul of Cilicia, retired with four hundred men to the mole of
Hadrian.

They repelled the Goths; but they felt the approach of famine; and
their aversion to the taste of horse-flesh confirmed their resolution
to risk the event of a desperate and decisive sally. But their spirit
insensibly stooped to the offers of capitulation; they retrieved their
arrears of pay, and preserved their arms and horses, by enlisting in the
service of Totila; their chiefs, who pleaded a laudable attachment to
their wives and children in the East, were dismissed with honor;
and above four hundred enemies, who had taken refuge in the sanctuaries,
were saved by the clemency of the victor. He no longer entertained a
wish of destroying the edifices of Rome, [23] which he now respected
as the seat of the Gothic kingdom: the senate and people were
restored to their country; the means of subsistence were liberally
provided; and Totila, in the robe of peace, exhibited the equestrian
games of the circus.

Whilst he amused the eyes of the multitude, four hundred vessels
were prepared for the embarkation of his troops. The cities of Rhegium
and Tarentum were reduced: he passed into Sicily, the object of
his implacable resentment; and the island was stripped of
its gold and silver, of the fruits of the earth, and of an infinite
number of horses, sheep, and oxen. Sardinia and Corsica obeyed the
fortune of Italy; and the sea-coast of Greece was visited by a
fleet of three hundred galleys.
[24] The Goths were landed in Corcyra and the ancient continent of
Epirus; they advanced as far as Nicopolis, the trophy of Augustus,
and Dodona, [25] once famous by the oracle of Jove.

In every step of his victories, the wise Barbarian repeated to Justinian
the desire of peace, applauded the concord of their predecessors,
and offered to employ the Gothic arms in the service of the empire.

[Footnote 23: The Romans were still attached to the monuments of
their ancestors; and according to Procopius, (Goth. l. iv. c. 22,)
the gallery of Aeneas, of a single rank of oars, 25 feet in breadth,
120 in length, was preserved entire in the navalia, near Monte
Testaceo, at the foot of the Aventine, (Nardini, Roma Antica, l.
vii. c. 9, p. 466.

Donatus, Rom Antiqua, l. iv. c. 13, p. 334) But all antiquity is ignorant
of relic.]
[Footnote 24: In these seas Procopius searched without success for the
Isle of Calypso. He was shown, at Phaeacia, or Cocyra, the petrified
ship of Ulysses, (Odyss. xiii. 163;) but he found it a recent fabric
of many stones, dedicated by a merchant to Jupiter Cassius, (l.
iv. c. 22.)

Eustathius had supposed it to be the fanciful likeness of a rock.]
[Footnote 25: M. D'Anville (Memoires de l'Acad. tom. xxxii. p.
513--528) illustrates the Gulf of Ambracia; but he cannot ascertain
the situation of Dodona.

A country in sight of Italy is less known than the wilds of America.
Note: On the site of Dodona compare Walpole's Travels in the East,
vol. ii. p. 473; Col. Leake's Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 163; and a
dissertation by the present bishop of Lichfield (Dr. Butler) in
the appendix to Hughes's Travels, vol. i. p. 511.--M.]
Justinian was deaf to the voice of peace: but he neglected
the prosecution of war; and the indolence of his temper disappointed,
in some degree, the obstinacy of his passions.

From this salutary slumber the emperor was awakened by the pope
Vigilius and the patrician Cethegus, who appeared before his throne, and
adjured him, in the name of God and the people, to resume the conquest
and deliverance of Italy.
In the choice of the generals, caprice, as well as judgment, was
shown.

A fleet and army sailed for the relief of Sicily, under the conduct of
Liberius; but his youth [2511] and want of experience were afterwards
discovered, and before he touched the shores of the island he was
overtaken by his successor.

In the place of Liberius, the conspirator Artaban was raised from a
prison to military honors; in the pious presumption, that gratitude
would animate his valor and fortify his allegiance. Belisarius reposed
in the shade of his laurels, but the command of the principal army was
reserved for Germanus, [26] the emperor's nephew, whose rank and merit
had been long depressed by the jealousy of the court. Theodora had
injured him in the rights of a private citizen, the marriage of
his children, and the testament of his brother; and although his
conduct was pure and blameless, Justinian was displeased that he
should be thought worthy of the confidence of the malecontents.

The life of Germanus was a lesson of implicit obedience:
he nobly refused to prostitute his name and character in the factions
of the circus: the gravity of his manners was tempered by innocent
cheerfulness; and his riches were lent without interest to indigent
or deserving friends.

His valor had formerly triumphed over the Sclavonians of the Danube
and the rebels of Africa: the first report of his promotion revived
the hopes of the Italians; and he was privately assured, that a crowd
of Roman deserters would abandon, on his approach, the standard of
Totila. His second marriage with Malasontha, the
granddaughter of Theodoric endeared Germanus to the Goths themselves;
and they marched with reluctance against the father of a royal
infant the last offspring of the line of Amali. [27] A splendid allowance
was assigned by the emperor: the general contribute his private fortune:
his two sons were popular and active and he surpassed, in the promptitude
and success of his levies the expectation of mankind. He was permitted
to select some squadrons of Thracian cavalry: the veterans, as well
as the youth of Constantinople and Europe, engaged their voluntary
service; and as far as the heart of Germany, his fame and liberality
attracted the aid of the Barbarians. [2711] The Romans advanced to
Sardica; an army of Sclavonians fled before their march; but within two
days of their final departure, the designs of Germanus were
terminated by his malady and death.

Yet the impulse which he had given to the Italian war still continued
to act with energy and effect. The maritime towns Ancona,
Crotona, Centumcellae, resisted the assaults of Totila Sicily was
reduced by the zeal of Artaban, and the Gothic navy was defeated near
the coast of the Adriatic. The two fleets were almost equal,
forty-seven to fifty galleys: the victory was decided by the knowledge
and dexterity of the Greeks; but the ships were so closely grappled,
that only twelve of the Goths escaped from this unfortunate
conflict.
They affected to depreciate an element in which they were unskilled; but
their own experience confirmed the truth of a maxim, that the
master of the sea will always acquire the dominion of the land. [28]

[Footnote 2511: This is a singular mistake. Gibbon must have hastily
caught at his inexperience, and concluded that it must have been from
youth. Lord Mahon has pointed out this error, p. 401. I should add
that in the last 4to. edition, corrected by Gibbon, it stands "want
of youth and experience;"--but Gibbon can scarcely have intended
such a phrase.--M.]
[Footnote 26: See the acts of Germanus in the public (Vandal. l.
ii, c.

16, 17, 18 Goth. l. iii. c. 31, 32) and private history, (Anecdot.
c.
5,) and those of his son Justin, in Agathias, (l. iv. p. 130, 131.)
Notwithstanding an ambiguous expression of Jornandes, fratri suo,
Alemannus has proved that he was the son of the emperor's brother.]

[Footnote 27: Conjuncta Aniciorum gens cum Amala stirpe spem adhuc
utii usque generis promittit, (Jornandes, c. 60, p. 703.) He wrote at
Ravenna before the death of Totila]
[Footnote 2711: See note 31, p. 268.

--M.]
[Footnote 28: The third book of Procopius is terminated by the death
of Germanus, (Add. l. iv. c. 23, 24, 25, 26.)]
After the loss of Germanus, the nations were provoked to smile, by
the strange intelligence, that the command of the Roman armies was
given to a eunuch. But the eunuch Narses [29] is ranked among the
few who have rescued that unhappy name from the contempt and hatred
of mankind.

A feeble, diminutive body concealed the soul of a statesman and
a warrior.
His youth had been employed in the management of the loom and distaff,
in the cares of the household, and the service of female luxury;
but while his hands were busy, he secretly exercised the faculties
of a vigorous and discerning mind.

A stranger to the schools and the camp, he studied in the palace to
dissemble, to flatter, and to persuade; and as soon as he approached
the person of the emperor, Justinian listened with surprise and
pleasure to the manly counsels of his chamberlain and private treasurer.
[30] The talents of Narses were tried and improved in frequent
embassies: he led an army into Italy acquired a practical knowledge
of the war and the country, and presumed to strive with the genius
of Belisarius.

Twelve years after his return, the eunuch was chosen to achieve the
conquest which had been left imperfect by the first of the Roman
generals. Instead of being dazzled by vanity or emulation, he seriously
declared that, unless he were armed with an adequate force, he would
never consent to risk his own glory and that of his sovereign.

Justinian granted to the favorite what he might have denied to the
hero: the Gothic war was rekindled from its ashes, and the preparations
were not unworthy of the ancient majesty of the empire. The key of the
public treasure was put into his hand, to collect magazines, to levy
soldiers, to purchase arms and horses, to discharge the arrears of
pay, and to tempt the fidelity of the fugitives and deserters. The troops
of Germanus were still in arms; they halted at Salona in the expectation
of a new leader; and legions of subjects and allies were created by the
well-known liberality of the eunuch Narses. The king of the Lombards
[31] satisfied or surpassed the obligations of a treaty, by lending two
thousand two hundred of his bravest warriors, [3111] who
were followed by three thousand of their martial attendants. Three
thousand Heruli fought on horseback under Philemuth, their native
chief; and the noble Aratus, who adopted the manners and discipline
of Rome, conducted a band of veterans of the same nation.

Dagistheus was released from prison to command the Huns; and Kobad, the
grandson and nephew of the great king, was conspicuous by the
regal tiara at the head of his faithful Persians, who had devoted
themselves to the fortunes of their prince. [32] Absolute in the
exercise of his authority, more absolute in the affection of his troops,
Narses led a numerous and gallant army from Philippopolis to Salona,
from whence he coasted the eastern side of the Adriatic as far as the
confines of Italy. His progress was checked. The East could not supply
vessels capable of transporting such multitudes of men and horses. The
Franks, who, in the general confusion, had usurped the greater
part of the Venetian province, refused a free passage to the friends
of the Lombards.

The station of Verona was occupied by Teias, with the flower of the
Gothic forces; and that skilful commander had overspread the adjacent
country with the fall of woods and the inundation of waters. [33]
In this perplexity, an officer of experience proposed a measure,
secure by the appearance of rashness; that the Roman army should
cautiously advance along the seashore, while the fleet preceded
their march, and successively cast a bridge of boats over the mouths
of the rivers, the Timavus, the Brenta, the Adige, and the Po, that
fall into the Adriatic to the north of Ravenna.

Nine days he reposed in the city, collected the fragments of the Italian
army, and marching towards Rimini to meet the defiance of an insulting
enemy.

[Footnote 29: Procopius relates the whole series of this second
Gothic war and the victory of Narses, (l. iv. c. 21, 26--35.) A
splendid scene.
Among the six subjects of epic poetry which Tasso revolved in his
mind, he hesitated between the conquests of Italy by Belisarius and
by Narses, (Hayley's Works, vol. iv. p. 70.)]

[Footnote 30: The country of Narses is unknown, since he must not be
confounded with the Persarmenian. Procopius styles him (see Goth. l.
ii.
c. 13); Paul Warnefrid, (l. ii. c. 3, p. 776,) Chartularius:
Marcellinus adds the name of Cubicularius.

In an inscription on the Salarian bridge he is entitled Ex-consul,
Ex-praepositus, Cubiculi Patricius, (Mascou, Hist. of the Germans,
(l. xiii. c. 25.)

The law of Theodosius against ennuchs was obsolete or abolished,
Annotation xx.,) but the foolish prophecy of the Romans subsisted
in full vigor, (Procop. l. iv. c. 21.) * Note: Lord Mahon supposes
them both to have been Persarmenians.

Note, p. 256.--M.]
[Footnote 31: Paul Warnefrid, the Lombard, records with complacency
the succor, service, and honorable dismission of his countrymen--reipublicae
Romanae adversus aemulos adjutores fuerant, (l. ii. c. i. p. 774,
edit.

Grot.) I am surprised that Alboin, their martial king, did not lead his
subjects in person. * Note: The Lombards were still at war with the
Gepidae. See Procop. Goth. lib. iv. p. 25.--M.]
[Footnote 3111: Gibbon has blindly followed the translation of
Maltretus:
Bis mille ducentos--while the original Greek says expressly something
else, (Goth. lib. iv. c. 26.)

In like manner, (p. 266,) he draws volunteers from Germany, on the
authority of Cousin, who, in one place, has mistaken Germanus for
Germania.

Yet only a few pages further we find Gibbon loudly condemning the French
and Latin readers of Procopius.

Lord Mahon, p. 403. The first of these errors remains uncorrected in
the new edition of the Byzantines.

--M.]

[Footnote 32: He was, if not an impostor, the son of the blind Zames,
saved by compassion, and educated in the Byzantine court by the
various motives of policy, pride, and generosity, (Procop.

Persic. l. i. c.
23.)]
[Footnote 33: In the time of Augustus, and in the middle ages, the
whole waste from Aquileia to Ravenna was covered with woods, lakes,
and morasses.

Man has subdued nature, and the land has been cultivated since the
waters are confined and embanked.

See the learned researches of Muratori, (Antiquitat. Italiae
Medii Aevi. tom. i. dissert xxi. p.
253, 254,) from Vitruvius, Strabo, Herodian, old charters, and local
knowledge.]

Chapter XLIII: Last Victory And Death Of Belisarius, Death Of
Justinian.--Part III.

The prudence of Narses impelled him to speedy and decisive action.
His powers were the last effort of the state; the cost of each day
accumulated the enormous account; and the nations, untrained to discipline
or fatigue, might be rashly provoked to turn their arms against
each other, or against their benefactor.

The same considerations might have tempered the ardor of Totila. But he
was conscious that the clergy and people of Italy aspired to a
second revolution: he felt or suspected the rapid progress of
treason; and he resolved to risk the Gothic kingdom on the chance
of a day, in which the valiant would be animated by instant danger
and the disaffected might be awed by mutual ignorance.

In his march from Ravenna, the Roman general chastised the garrison
of Rimini, traversed in a direct line the hills of Urbino, and
reentered the Flaminian way, nine miles beyond the perforated rock,
an obstacle of art and nature which might have stopped or retarded
his progress. [34] The Goths were assembled in the neighborhood of
Rome, they advanced without delay to seek a superior enemy, and the
two armies approached each other at the distance of one hundred
furlongs, between Tagina [35] and the sepulchres of the Gauls. [36]
The haughty message of Narses was an offer, not of peace, but of
pardon.

The answer of the Gothic king declared his resolution to die or
conquer.

"What day," said the messenger, "will you fix for the combat?"

"The eighth day," replied Totila; but early the next morning he attempted
to surprise a foe, suspicious of deceit, and prepared for battle.
Ten thousand Heruli and Lombards, of approved valor and
doubtful faith, were placed in the centre. Each of the wings was
composed of eight thousand Romans; the right was guarded by the
cavalry of the Huns, the left was covered by fifteen hundred chosen
horse, destined, according to the emergencies of action, to sustain
the retreat of their friends, or to encompass the flank of the enemy.

From his proper station at the head of the right wing, the eunuch rode
along the line, expressing by his voice and countenance the assurance
of victory; exciting the soldiers of the emperor to punish the
guilt and madness of a band of robbers; and exposing to their view
gold chains, collars, and bracelets, the rewards of military virtue.

From the event of a single combat they drew an omen of success; and
they beheld with pleasure the courage of fifty archers, who maintained
a small eminence against three successive attacks of the Gothic
cavalry.

At the distance only of two bow-shots, the armies spent the morning
in dreadful suspense, and the Romans tasted some necessary food,
without unloosing the cuirass from their breast, or the bridle from
their horses.
And she had been to his Melbourne house but twice. On her first visit
she had penetrated to Mary's room, and been horrified to find the
husband's clothes hung up in it from her door-pegs, and his razors and
brushes mixed up with her things on her dressing-table. The arrangement
in the country parsonage was to be accounted for; to find it here, made
deliberately and of MALICE PREPENSE, was to see what gulfs now yawned
between Mary's old life and the new one. Deb reached forth for a comb,
and drew back her hand as if she had inadvertently touched a snake.
Mary's red face went purple as she explained that there was not space
in that house for a dressing-room. There was space enough going to
waste in the drawing-room, where Deb had her feelings hurt on her
second visit. It was a very large room, sharing the front of the house
with a large study; and behind them all the other rooms huddled as of
no account, none of them bigger than Keziah's Redford storeroom. The
study was sacred to the master of the house; the drawing-room to
"company". One look showed Deb that Mary never sat there, and that it
was not she who had chosen and arranged the furniture. The foundation
of the scheme was a costly "suite", upholstered in palish silk brocade,
the separate pieces standing at fixed intervals apart on a
gorgeous Axminster carpet. When Deb entered the room, Mr Goldsworthy
was bending over the central sofa, excited and talking loudly. Miss
Goldsworthy and Mary stood by, mute and drooping; Ruby looked on
irresponsibly, with joy in her eye.

"What's the matter?" inquired Deb, advancing.

As she was not a great lady then, but quite the contrary, Mr
Goldsworthy explained what was the matter, with scarcely any
modification of his minatory air. A caller had called yesterday,
bringing with her a little boy. Mary had thoughtlessly fed the little
boy with soft cake, and the little boy had first made his hands sticky
with it, and then pawed the sofa, which had cost him (B.G.) nearly
twenty pounds (part of Mary's 500 pounds). Greasy marks had been left on
that lovely brocade, for which he (not she) had given thirty-five
shillings a yard, and which he had forbidden children to be allowed to sit
on. As if that were not bad enough, "they"--i.e., those two poor
women--had, without telling him, tried to take the marks out with some
wretched chemist's stuff, which had not taken them out, but only spread
them more. Now the sofa was completely spoiled, and what to do he did not
know, unless he could match the brocade, which was scarcely likely. And
ill could he afford to be buying brocade--and so on. Finally he went
out to consult with a furniture repairer of his acquaintance, banging
doors behind him. Deb cast a scornful glance upon the smudged brocade.

"What a fuss about nothing!" she brushed the subject by.

"My brother is very particular about this room," Miss
Goldsworthy apologised for him.

"So I see."

"And he is very fond of this brocade, which he chose himself. It
certainly is very pretty--don't you think so? But too delicate to wear
well. I am always frightened to see children go near it, or even
grown-up people when it has been raining, or if they have been
gathering dust--it does show every spot so! And it was the mother's
fault. I signed to Mary to give him a biscuit, but his mother picked
out that cake, which had jam in it. It is very unfortunate. I don't
wonder at his being vexed."

"Why don't you have chintz covers, Moll?"

"Oh, he wouldn't like it to be covered up," Miss Goldsworthy struck in,
and seemed shocked herself at the suggested waste. Mary lifted dull
eyes to her sister's face.

"Come and have some tea," she said. "Come, auntie; it is no use your
worrying yourself."

And they went into the poky living room, which smelt of meals, and had
tea, and the sort of barren talk that the presence of the third person
necessitated. Mary seemed purposely to avoid a TETE-A-TETE. When Miss
Goldsworthy went to fetch the baby, Ruby was kept at her step-mother's
side. Only when the black-eyed boy appeared did Mary brighten into a
likeness to her old self. She was a born mother, and her child consoled
her. Then, in the midst of the baby worship, back came the still
agitated husband and father, the furniture man with him; and the house
was filled anew with the affair of the soiled sofa, so that Deb's
presence, as also her departure, attracted little attention. As her
brother-in-law pushed out a valedictory hand, she noticed a
shirt-cuff that had the grime of days upon it.

"He economises in the wash," she soliloquised, with wrinkling nostril
and curling lip. "And in those filthy cheap coals that choke the grate
with dust, and in tea that is undrinkable. Oh, what a house!"

And she had not been there since. But now--

Her benevolence embraced the world, and the world included Bennet
Goldsworthy. It was no longer in his power to make her feel ill. The
sun of her prosperity, shining on him at her sister's side--poor,
struggling, well-meaning little man!--gave him a pathetic and
appealing interest. In fact, it was to him that her maternal
dispositions towards her family drew her first.

"Thank God," she said to herself, "I can now make things a bit easier
for that poor child. She won't let me, I daresay, but he will."

She took the humble tram to their suburb, and rang at their parsonage
door. Having considerately sent word that she was coming, due
preparations had been made to receive her. She was shown into the
drawing-room, which had not a displaced chair, and where the
many-coloured Axminster and the cherished brocade still looked as good
as new. Almost her first act was to search for the grease marks on the
sofa--the spot was indicated by a bleached patch--and she sat down on
it, alone for a few minutes. On this occasion the old aunt had been
ordered to keep in the background; Ruby also, after due consideration
of her claims, had been denied the share she clamoured for of the
impending excitement, and sent out of the house; Mary had had her
directions, and remained invisible for a time. She was employed
in getting Robert ready for inspection--brushing his best jacket,
tying his best neck-tie, etc., while he jerked about under her hands,
and freely criticised her labours on his behalf. For Robert took after
his father as a knowing person. He was, in fact, a bright and clever
lad, who knew some things better than his mother did. She was ever
proud to admit it; but his own open acceptance of superiority, and
readiness to keep it before her eyes at all times, was one of the
secret crosses of her life, weighed down with so many. However, if you
marry the wrong man, you cannot expect to have the right children, and
it was something that this boy had the genuineness of his intellectual
gifts to give her an excuse to adore him.

"There, that will do. It is very bad form, you know, to be so fussy
about people coming, and so anxious about what they may think about
you," the young authority upon etiquette instructed the fine-fibred
gentlewoman, who had done him the honour to be his mother. And Mary
took the rebuke humbly.

Bennet Goldsworthy, alone, came softly into the drawing-room to receive
the distinguished guest. He had grown fat and tubby, and a phrase of
Claud Dalzell's flashed into Deb's memory as she marked the manner of
his approach--"that crawling ass, that would lick your boots for
sixpence". The noonday sun does not affect polished metal more
obviously than Deb's wealth affected him.

"This is good of you," he murmured brokenly, pressing her gloved hand.
"This is indeed good of you!" "I ought to have been before,"
she returned graciously--it was so easy to be gracious to him now--"I
have been wanting to come; but you cannot imagine how many hindrances I
have had."

"Oh, but I can indeed!" with earnest emphasis--"I can indeed! And have
grieved that I was not able to be of some service to you in your--your
very difficult position. I did not like to seem to force myself upon
you, but I hoped--I confidently hoped that you would send for me, if
it was in my power to be of the slightest assistance to you."

"Oh, yes--thank you so much--if I had needed anybody. But there were
only too many kind friends."

"Aha! Yes, I expect so." His eye lighted and his lip curled craftily.
"I have no doubt whatever of THAT. 'Where the carcase is--' You know
the rest?"

"I am not a carcase," she rallied him playfully--for quite the first
time in her life.

"No, indeed; I should have said 'prey'. Ah, my dear De--Miss
Pennycuick, you will find plenty and to spare of so-called friends,
professing anxiety to serve you, when their only object is to serve
themselves."

"I expect so," she assented, smiling.

"So young a girl"--subtle flattery this, now that Deb was in her late
thirties--"to be suddenly called to a position of such immense danger
and responsibility! But"--cheeringly--"I said when I heard of it that
Mr Thornycroft had justified my high opinion of his judgment and
character. It is not often that great wealth comes into hands so worthy
of it."

"I am afraid they are not very worthy," sighed Deb. Mr
Goldsworthy knew better. He knew HER better--not only from personal
intercourse, the observation and intuition of a man trained to read
character, but from the loving representations of his dear wife.

"Where is she?" Miss Pennycuick asked abruptly. "Not out, I hope?"

"Out--hardly! She will be here in a moment. I am afraid, when you see
her, you will think her looking delicate. The state of her health is a
matter of the most anxious concern to me."

"What is the matter with her health? She was always well at home. We
used to think her the strongest of the family--until--"

"Until she fell into the clutches of that dreadful man," Mr Goldsworthy
concluded for her.

"Oh!"--Deb coloured and frowned--"that is not what I was going to
say." (What she had really been going to say was--"until her
marriage.") "And why do you rake up that old story? I thought it had
all been forgotten long ago."

"It has been unpleasantly revived," said Mr Goldsworthy solemnly. "And
it is my duty to tell you about it, if you have not heard."

Deb looked equally annoyed and alarmed. "What has been revived?" she
asked.

He dropped his voice apologetically.

"I have been hearing of his going on in exactly the same way with
another."

"Oh," sighed Deb, relieved that it was not Mary who had been the
reviver; "then it's no business of ours, thank goodness."

"Pardon me--it is very much our business," he urged weightily.
"I grieve to tell you that it is your sister, Mrs Ewing, who is
implicated in the affair. Do you mean to say that you know nothing
about it?"

Deb knew something, and so she put the question by.

"I don't encourage scandalmongers. Mrs Ewing is young and thoughtless--
and pretty--which naturally lays her open to ill--natured gossip."
"My informant is one of the least ill-natured of women; she is a person
of the highest principle."

"Ah, those high-principled women--I know them!"

Mr Goldsworthy was nonplussed for the moment. He could not accept the
suggestion that Deb was not high-principled. But he gave up his
informant.

"There is ample evidence that the man is Mrs Ewing's lover," he
grieved. "He has been seen with her in the most equivocal situations. I
don't wish to go into details--to mention things unfit for a young
girl's ears--"

"I hope not," put in Deb, her patience giving out. "I am not fond of
that kind of talk. I should not believe, either, in any nasty tales
connected with my sister, or with Captain Carey. And you ought not to
listen to them, for Mary's sake. You should not pander to your
high-principled ladies. You should tell them to be more charitable, and
to mind their own business."

A year ago the parson would have taken umbrage at this rebuke; he now
hastened to deprecate displeasure on the part of the one whom, of all
the world, he most desired to please.

"Far be it from me to speak ill of anyone belonging to you," he
declared solemnly; but still he could not help it.

The most good-natured person, if he be greedy, will seek to ingratiate
himself with Power by disparagement of rival suitors. He was following
an impulse that might be described as an instinct, in trying to weaken
Deb's favour towards the rest of her relatives in order to concentrate
as much as possible upon himself--to push back, as it were, the hands
that he imagined eagerly outstretched to her (palm upwards), that the
more might be dropped into his own. He asked her if she had seen Mrs
Breen, and sighed over that plebeian connection.

"I may be poor," said he, "but I do come of a good family. It is
unfortunate, perhaps, but we cannot help our prejudices." "It is a
ridiculous prejudice," said Deb, "especially in a country like this."

"Oh, it is--it is. I own it; but--well, you know--"

She brusquely brought him back to the question of Mary's health.

"It is Mary that I want to hear about. Tell me--before she comes in--
what is the matter with her?"

He was willingly confidential.

"She has worries," said he--"worries that you, my dear young lady, in
YOUR position, know nothing of--would not understand if I were to tell
you."

"I have been in positions to understand most kinds of worries," said
Deb. "What are they? Money worries?"

"Well, I have a delicacy in--"

"Oh, you need not have! I know, of course, that you cannot have
been too well off, and I am here on purpose to do something for you, if
you will allow me.' There was no need to beat about the bush, she knew,
since Mary was out of hearing. 'Tell me exactly, if you don't mind--in
strict confidence, of course. No need to trouble her--and I shall not
say anything."

He told her, with fullness and fervour, when he had expressed his too
fulsome gratitude.

"I have done my best, Miss Pennycuick. You bade me be good to her; I
gave you my solemn promise--and I can conscientiously say that I have
kept my word." Well, so he had; according to his lights he had been an
exemplary husband. "But circumstances have been against me. In the
first place, I was in error somewhat, as you know, in regard to my
wife's expectations from her father. I did not marry her for her money,
as you also know, but appearances were such that I naturally concluded
she would have a considerable income of her own. I did not care for
myself one way or the other, but I was glad to believe that there would
be the means to continue to her the mode of life that she had been used
to. I acted upon this supposition, false, as it turned out, and
anticipated, most imprudently, I confess, the little fortune that I
imagined to be secure. When we came here, where living is so much more
expensive than in the country"--with no Redford to draw upon--"I
surrounded my wife with the comforts that were her due, and which I
fully believed she had every right to." He waved his hand over the
still blooming Axminster carpet and the brocaded suite the family was
not allowed to sit on. "I spent--we spent the little capital
represented by your father's wedding present--I had an erroneous idea
that it was to be an annual allowance pending the eventual division of
the estate; and then--well, then you know what happened."

Deb nodded.

"Did you," she inquired feelingly, "borrow of those professional
money-lenders?"

She was prepared to be very sympathetic in that case; but Mr
Goldsworthy repelled the suggestion with scorn.

"Certainly not. I never borrowed money in my life. I struggled and
scraped and saved, as best I could; I endeavoured in vain to augment my
small income by little speculations--harmless little dabblings in
mining shares; I--but I won't bore you with these disagreeables"--
pulling himself up with an air of forced cheerfulness.

"But I want to know," said Deb. "You spoke of worries--Mary's worries
--worries now; are you still--"

He spread his hands and wagged his head.

"I'd rather not talk about our troubles," he sighed. "I don't want to
dim the sunshine of your--"

And suddenly his eye flashed and his brow contracted with annoyance.
Mary--somewhat hesitatingly, to be sure--walked in.

Robert had insisted that the pater was all wrong in his idea that it
was proper for him alone to receive the visitor, and for the mistress
of the house to linger inhospitably after it was known that she must
know of the visitor's arrival. Robert had coerced his mother into doing
the correct thing. Politely he opened the drawing-room door for her--
that, of course, was absolutely the correct thing--and
escorted her forward with the aplomb of a man of the world, nicely
blended with the respectfulness appropriate to a nephew and a
school-boy.

"Ah, HERE she is!" Mr Goldsworthy exclaimed heartily.

The sisters were at once in each other's arms. Deb, pierced to the
heart by Mary's aged and faded looks, was the most demonstrative of the
two; Mary struck her after a moment as being a little reserved and
chilly--as if on the watch to repel benevolence as soon as it should
take tangible form. Deb understood, and was warned to be circumspect.

"And this is our boy--grown out of knowledge, eh?"

Mary stepped swiftly aside to let Robert come forward, and there was no
mistaking the sentiments held in common by the parents with regard to
their son. Their two faces were mirrors for each other, suffused with
the same tender pride.

"Perhaps the child has reconciled her to the rest of it," Deb hazarded
a hope. "She may be happy."

For Mary smiled and moved alertly about the room. She accepted her
husband's ostentatious hand and chair, and when he resumed the
conversation, or rather restarted it, on the subject of Robert's
achievements at school, she followed where he led, so long as he did
not seem leading towards Deb's pocket, backing him up in the most
wifely manner. "Can it be possible?" Deb kept asking herself, glad at
heart to see such signs, which yet lessened her pity for and interest
in her sister. But Mary, with all the pride of the Pennycuicks in her,
was not, one to "let on". Her skeleton was locked tight in the
cupboard it belonged to when visitors were about--especially such a
visitor as this--and also when they were not about, so far as she
could have it so.

So that a sort of air of entertaining "company" pervaded the room. Deb
felt a constraint with her sister, and that she was making no way with
her mission. But Robert stepped into the breach. With Mary's son the
impulsive lady of Redford was unexpectedly pleased. There was not a
trace of Pennycuick to be discerned in him; nevertheless, he was a
good-looking, intelligent and interesting boy. He sat by her on the
sacred brocaded sofa while she brightly questioned him, brightly
answering her with aptness and good sense; his parents beaming on the
pair, even the father content to play second fiddle to give the son his
chance. Here, at any rate, thought Deb, was material to hand for the
work she had come to do.

"I love boys," she remarked--and so she did, as some people love dogs
--"and Robert and I are going to be great friends; aren't we, Robert?"

"It is very good of you to say so, aunt," Robert replied, with
characteristic propriety.

"But, do you know, I don't think I shall call you Robert," she went on.
"It has a prim sound"--but it was the primness of himself that she
wanted to break down--"and it doesn't suit a boy of your tender years.
I think I'll call you Bob, if you don't mind."

"I wish you would," he adroitly answered her.

"What is your bent towards, in the way of a career, Bob?"

He said he thought the law--to be a judge some day.

"You don't care for station life?"

"Oh, he does," his father eagerly interposed. "He loves it. But
he has had so few chances--"

"Which is your school, Bob?"

A seminary of no repute was named, and the father again intervened to
regret that it was not one of the public schools. "But they,
unfortunately, have been beyond our means--"

Here Mary broke in with praises of the seminary. It had such an
excellent headmaster, was so conveniently situated--really better in
many ways than one of the great schools--

And then Robert broke in.

"My dear mother!" he ejaculated, in a compassionate and forbearing way.

"Ah, Bob knows it is not better," laughed Deb. "And it isn't, Mary; you
are no authority, my dear. Which of the public schools do you fancy,
Bob?"

He mentioned his choice, and the University scholarships that were to
be had there.

"Debbie!" implored Mrs Goldsworthy, under her breath.

"Hush-sh!" hissed her husband.

"You be quiet, Molly," Deb playfully adjured her. "This has nothing to
do with you, or with anybody except Bob and me. You come and spend your
next vacation with me at Redford, Bob, and then we can talk it all over
together."

She nodded to him meaningly. He smiled with perfect comprehension.

"How can we thank you," Mr Goldsworthy murmured emotionally, for he
also understood. "It is too, too--"

"It's all right, pater," the remarkable boy silenced him. "Aunt Deborah
knows how we feel about it."

Mary sat in stolid silence, for once indifferent to her
husband's dumb command; then tears welled into her tired eyes. She
pocketed her pride for her child's sake. It had been her hopeless
longing for years to give her darling's splendid abilities full scope.

"He will repay you, Debbie," she said.

"Ah, don't be so grudging--so ungenerous!" cried Deb.

Tea and cakes were brought in, and Bob, as he was thenceforth to be
styled, waited upon his aunt in the correctest manner. He had by this
time taken on an air that seemed to say: "You and I understand the
ropes; you must excuse these poor parents of mine, who were not born
with our perceptions." And Deb, no more proof against this sort of
thing than meaner mortals, had a feeling of special proprietorship in
him which she found pleasant, although he was not exactly the
heir-on-probation that she could have wished; which, of course, it
would have been preposterous to expect in a son of Bennet
Goldsworthy's. Bennet Goldsworthy accompanied her to the gate when she
went away, forbidding Mary to expose herself, hatless, to the wind. And
there the benevolent aunt's "intentions" were more distinctly
formulated.

"I wish to take entire charge of his education, if you will allow me.
He is a very promising boy, and should have all his chances. Let me
send him to the Melbourne Grammar after Christmas, and as a boarder, if
you don't mind. There are such advantages, both in position and for
study, in living at the school."

"I leave everything--everything, in your hands," murmured the
grateful father.

"By the way"--as an after-thought--"what about your little girl?"

She was not a little girl now, and had finished with school; but, oh,
the boon that a few good lessons in music and languages would be to
her!

That matter was settled.

"Well, now," said Deb, "we must think about Mary. She is frightfully
thin. I can see that she has had too many worries, as you say. She must
be taken out of them. I want to have her at Redford with me--as soon
as she can get ready--and give her a good long rest, and feed her up,
and make her fat and strong."

"I only wish you could prevail on her," he sighed. "But I am afraid you
will not get her to go anywhere without me. I have a devoted wife, Miss
Pennycuick"--even if she had not tacitly forbidden "Deborah" in her
poor days, he would not have ventured upon the liberty now that she was
rich--"too devoted, if that can be. She insists upon sharing all my
burdens, though I fain would spare her. I know well that, say what I
will, she will never consent to leaving me to struggle with them
alone."

"You have not told me what they are," said Deb, who saw that he was in
dread of her going before he could do so.

"Oh, debts--debts--debts!" he answered, with a reckless air. "The
millstone that we hung about our necks when we anticipated that she
would have money, and lived accordingly, and were then left stranded.
The eternal trying to make a shilling go as far as a pound--to make
bricks without straw, like the captive Israelites of old. But
why do you ask me? I hate to talk about it." He made a gesture of
putting the miserable subject aside.

"It was very hard on you," Deb said gently--contradicting the Deb of
an earlier time and different state of things--"to have those
expectations, which were certainly justified, and to be disappointed as
you were. I feel that we Pennycuicks were to blame in that--"

"Oh, dear, no!" he earnestly assured her.

"And that an obligation rests on me, now that I have the means, to make
some compensation to you--to Mary, rather."

"It is like you to think of that. But really--"

"And I put a blank cheque in my pocket, and a stylographic pen--and
will you let me"--she drew forth the articles mentioned, and made a
desk of the top rail of the gate--"will you do me the favour to accept
from me--what shall I say?--five hundred pounds? Would that relieve
you--and Mary--of the immediate worries?"

He said it would, with the mental reservation that it did not amount to
what he had been defrauded of by Mr Pennycuick (she had made a mistake
in the designation of her gift); but the slight coolness of his
acknowledgement quickly gave place to grateful fervour as he realised
what the immediate five hundred pounds would do for him, and read in
her words an implication that the sum was but an instalment of what she
felt to be his due. He was incoherent in his thanks and benedictions as
he slipped the cheque into his pocket.

"And you will let me have Mary at Redford?"

"Oh, yes! She will not want to go, but I shall make her."

"And do not tell her more than you can help about this little private
transaction. She might feel--"

"I will tell her nothing that is likely to vex her."

"Do not--PRAY do not. Only take these sordid worries off her
shoulders, and give her what she needs, and don't let her toil and
moil. Remember, it is for her I do it." There was a little sting in
that last remark, but he was too happy to feel it.


CHAPTER XXII.


Now, what to do for Rose.

Rose had written warm congratulations to her sister, without mentioning
any desire for a personal interview. Ever since her marriage, she had
refrained from giving invitations to her family, leaving the initiative
in social matters to them--a mark of consideration and good taste on
her part which they had quite approved of; and intercourse had been
limited to afternoon calls, more or less affectionate and informal, but
stopping short at meals in common under the roof of either party. Now,
however, Deb craved for a fuller sympathy with the sweetest-tempered
and kindest-hearted of her sisters, and now it seemed so perfectly easy
to go to her house in pursuit of it. She despatched an impulsive note:

"DEAREST,--I want a quiet talk with you about all that has happened.
May I come to lunch tomorrow, so as to make a long afternoon of it? If
not convenient, fix a day to lunch with me; but I am not so tied as you
are, and besides, I should like to have Peter's advice on one or two
little matters of business, if it would not bother him--of course,
after he comes from town. Don't keep him at home on purpose."

To which Rose replied by telegram:

"Shall expect you early tomorrow for a long day. Peter
delighted to place himself at your disposal."

So Deb set off next morning, full of benevolent intentions, to gather
poor humdrum Rose and her (in his way) truly worthy husband into the
sphere of her golden prosperity. Also, incidentally, to warm herself in
the light of faithful and familiar eyes. Since her final dismissal of
Claud Dalzell--although she was satisfied with that act, and ready to
repeat it again, if necessary--she had been conscious of a personal
loneliness, not sensibly mitigated by her crowd-attracting wealth.
"Someone of my own" was the want of her warm heart.

And Rose, with no petty grudge for past short-comings, answered that
need with open arms. Never was hostess more cordial to honoured guest.
Peter also was at home. He had been to town and back again, and now
stood upon his spotless doorstep, and anon upon his handsome
drawing-room hearthrug, determined that his house should lack nothing
befitting the great occasion. It was all in gala dress--newly-arranged
flowers, festive lunch-table, the best foot foremost; and yet, whereas
there was no hiding the self-seeker in the ingratiating Bennet
Goldsworthy, there was no finding him in this proud host and husband,
whose desire was only to do his dear wife credit.

Neither of them said, in word or manner, "Why didn't you come like this
before?" Deb knew that her welcome would have been the same, and had
hard work not to show too frankly her sense of their magnanimity. As it
was, she nearly kissed Peter in the hall--such a nice, warm,
comfortable, hospitable entrance to as comfortable a home (in
its undeniably middle-class style) as she had ever been inside of--the
more striking in its effect by contrast with Mary's. Peter's cuffs were
like the driven snow; he was charmingly fresh and clean, well barbered
and well tailored; grown quite handsome, too, now that he had filled
out and matured. As for Rose--"I hear," Frances wrote from Paris,
"that poor Rose has become a perfect tub." Mrs Peter was almost as
broad as she was long. But what health in the sunny face! What opulent
well-being in the full curves of her figure, gowned in a fashion to
satisfy even Deb's exigent taste.

They did not tell her it was good of her to come to see them, but they
told her in all the languages of courtesy that they were mighty glad
she had come. She was taken into the drawing-room--full of soft chairs
and sofas that anybody might sit on, and with a fire of clear coals in
a grate that glittered with constant polishing. But everything in
Peter's establishment seemed to shine with pure cleanliness; he took
after his mother, who, modest in other things, was fond of offering a
sovereign to anybody who would find a cobweb in her house.

Deb was peeled of her furs by Peter, with the greatest deference and
politeness, but with none of the obsequiousness that had sickened her
elsewhere; he laid down her sable cloak with the reverence of one who
knew its value, and he asked Rose in a whisper if her sister would like
a glass of wine before lunch. The smiling matron shook her head, and
whispered something else, which sent him out of the room. Then, while
he skipped about in the background, attending to the wines and beers,
she convoyed the guest to the very luxurious bedroom where
head-nurse Keziah dandled the youngest of the Breen children. The rest
had had their dinners and gone out a-walking, so as not to be made too
much of by a silly mother, if it could be helped. Warm was the greeting
between Keziah and her late mistress, and many the questions about
Redford and the old folks; but there was no hint that Mrs Moon hankered
after the big store-rooms and linen-closets, the dignities and
privileges of her former home. Her heart was with Rose's babies now.

"There, what do you think of THIS?" she demanded, as she proudly
displayed her charge, and, being invited thereto, condescendingly laid
it in Deb's outstretched arms.

It was a pretty, healthy creature, fat, dainty and about two months
old, still in the whitest and finest of long clothes. "Little duck!"
Deb crooned, and rubbed her cheek almost with passion on its rose-leaf
skin. Robert's nose, indeed, was dislocated on the spot.

"Oh, Rosie," she presently blurted out, "I would like to have this
child!"

"Would you?" replied Rose, all smiles.

"No, but, seriously and without joking, I really would, you know."

"I daresay," laughed the plump little mother, and her laugh was echoed
by Keziah as she passed into the adjoining nursery--to leave the long
parted sisters to themselves.

"Now, look here," the guest addressed the hostess, thoughtfully and
deliberately, as soon as they were alone, "if you will give her to me,
I will bring her up and educate her as perfectly as care and money can
do it. She shall take the name of Pennycuick, and be my
daughter, and my heiress, and the future representative of the family.
And," she added, for her own inward ear, "we can live at home or
somewhere, if necessary, where Breens and such will not have the chance
to interfere with us."

"As if I would give my baby away," Rose sweetly jeered her--"even for
a kingdom!"

"You have five more, and may have another five--or twenty-five. It
looks like it."

"But none to spare. Besides, you won't want other people's children
when you get your own. How about her being the heiress then?"

"I shall never have children of my own," said Deb, with tightened lips.
"That is why I want to adopt one." Rose laughed the idea to scorn.

"Of course you will!" cried she. "You must. All the money in the world
is nothing compared with a baby. I wouldn't give one of mine for twenty
fortunes--not if I had to earn their keep at the wash-tub."

"Not even for the child's own advantage?"

"It is not to any child's advantage to grow up thinking that its mother
did not care to be a mother to it," said Rose. "Nor yet--possibly--to
grow up to look down on her."

"Rose!" Deb's guilty face flamed scarlet.

"Or on her father," Rose continued, with soft but firm persistence.
"She must have a father too, Deb, and Peter would not give his job away
any more than I would give mine. He thinks the world of them all. He is
just as good a father as he is a husband," with a lift of head and
lighting of eye. "Come to me, my precious!" as the baby
whimpered. "Come to its own mother, then! No, no, Debbie dear, you be a
mother yourself in the natural and proper way; you will find it a deal
better than being rich. Marry some good, kind man straight away, before
you waste any more of your young years. I am sure there must be dozens
dying to have you."

"Dying to have the handling of Mr Thornycroft's money," said Deb, with
a bitterness that surprised her sister.

"Oh, no," said she; "you are sufficient attraction without that."

"I shall never know it. But this," thought Deb, "is a very Breen-like
turn that the conversation is taking. These people--and Rose has
become one of them--have quite the tradesman's idea of marriage. Any
'good, kind man' will do. They cannot be expected to understand." She
watched Rose billowing down into her nursing-chair, and pretended to
herself that she was not envious. "It would have been a wildly-rash
experiment to adopt this child, and I shall probably live to be
thankful that my offer was refused," she inwardly argued, while her
beautiful eyes melted at the spectacle of the happy mother snuggling
the babe to her bared breast. "It is a charming little creature now,
but it would probably grow up common, whatever its education and
environment. Blood will tell. And if she took the name of Pennycuick,
she could not pass it on. After all, a boy is best."

So Robert Goldsworthy remained in the position his gifts had gained for
him.

After an admirable meal--in the course of which Deb made herself most
charming to her brother-in-law, while Rose retired as much as
possible from the conversation, in order that he might shine to the
best advantage--those little matters of business that had been
mentioned were discussed. They were trifles invented for the purpose of
compliments to Mr Breen, and the serious energy with which he applied
himself to each case, and his exhaustive treatment of it, showed his
thorough enjoyment of the part alloted to him by the distinguished
woman who was so accomplished in the art of giving pleasure--
especially to men. Frankly, Deb always preferred a man to talk to, and
she was agreeably surprised to find that Peter was very intelligent,
and acquainted with several things beside shopkeeping. Rose was simply
enchanted to find herself 'cut out' by him. When she was not stealing
from the room to leave the coast clear, she was beaming over her
needlework in the background, still as a mouse. Not by word or look
would she spoil his chance of proving to Deb what he really was--how
mistaken in him she and the others had been.

It was Peter who escorted the guest round the garden and stables, Mrs
Peter excusing herself. In the well-stocked greenhouse Miss Pennycuick,
who was fond of flowers, obtained 'wrinkles' that she declared would be
most valuable to her in the management of her Redford houses--which
she implied that he must see; in the interview with the carriage horse
--Rose had a little brougham, not, as her sisters supposed, for paying
calls on other drapers' wives, which she had small leisure for, but for
shoppings and airings and taking children to dentists and pantomimes--
Miss Pennycuick was instructive in her turn, feeling legs and advising
about firing and bandages with the recognised authority of an
expert. Old Bruce, padding at his master's heels, was greeted by name,
patted and shaken hands with, as if he had never abetted rebels; and
the discovery of a litter of choice puppies gave opportunity for the
making of a little present, which was graciously received.

After tea, Rose was invited to show her house--a further proof of her
sister's tact and powers of divination. Now Peter was left behind--he
used the opportunity to cut flowers for Deb to take away with her--and
the little matron was in her glory. From top to bottom, and every
cupboard and corner, and the numerous up-to-date appliances, and the
stocks of silver, linen, china, the ample furnishings of every part,
the solid goodness of every bit of material--all was displayed with
modest pride, the complacence of one who knows there is nothing to hide
or apologise for.

"Isn't it a nice home, Debbie? Could any woman wish for a better home?"
she asked again and again, unable to restrain herself.

And Deb, with a few secret reservations, said "Yes" and "No" with
kindly warmth, thinking to herself: "Happy child, to be satisfied so
easily! How much happier than we who want the moon!"

"I often wonder why I am so blessed," Rose said, in the midst of the
house inspection, "when poor Molly, who deserved so much more, lives
the life she does. Ah, Deb--what a marriage!"

She spoke of it exactly as Bennet Goldsworthy had spoken of hers--in a
spirit compounded of benevolence and contempt, the former element
preponderating in him, the latter in her. At the moment she was
exhibiting the complete appointments of Peter's dressing-room.

"My husband may be a draper," said she, "but at least he does not shave
in my room."

The survey of the house ended at the nurseries. Rose had purposely left
the best till last. Her throwing open of the door revealed a picture so
charming that it persuaded Deb to accept an invitation to dinner in
order that she might do justice to it.

"Oh, what a delightful room!" she cried, as her eyes ran round its
pictured walls, glowing in the evening firelight.

"Not large enough now," the smiling mother objected. "We are going to
build new ones--a wing at the back--and turn these into bedrooms for
the elder children, who will soon be old enough to have their own."

"Oh, what little loves!" Deb then exclaimed, her eyes upon the young
inhabitants--five little fat, white, vigorous creatures in various
stages of preparation for bed.

"There is one absent," explained Rose, in accents of keen regret.
"John, the eldest; he is paying a visit to his grandparents. This is
Constance, the second"--a golden-haired girl, enjoying her nightly
treat of nursing the new baby. "And this is Kathleen"--a chubby
creature in a flannel dressing-gown, waiting for her bath; "and Lucy"--
being rubbed down by the nursery underling, Jane; "and Pennycuick"--
Deb started at the name, and was uncertain whether it pleased her or
not in this connection--the baby but one, in the tub under the hands
of old head-nurse Keziah. "ARE they not sweet?"

They really were. Clean-blooded, clear-eyed, well-fed,
well-kept, full of life and fun--the pride of the maternal heart was
amply justified. Deb plunged into the group delightedly, kissed them,
teased them, tickled them, did everything a proper aunt should do; and
Rose was in ecstasies.

"Oh, Debbie," she pleaded, "DON'T go yet! Stay with them for a little.
Stay and see baby undressed--I always do it myself--and have a bit of
dinner with us; you will, won't you? Give me my nursing apron, Jane."

As she tied the sheet of flannel over her smart gown, she whispered to
Jane:

"Go down and tell Mr Breen that Miss Pennycuick is going to stay to
dinner."

Then she turned up her sleeves, settled herself upon a low chair, and,
with bath-tub and belaced toilet basket, and warming night-clothes
around her, performed the task that made this hour the happiest of her
happy day. As closely as the romping children allowed, Deb watched her,
and marvelled at her quick skill and lightness of hand. Who would have
thought that little Rose could be so clever? The healthy baby, so
deftly handled, raised no protest, but curled her toes as if she
enjoyed it; and when all was done, the snowy-robed, perfumed creature
was laid to its young mother's generous breast, and sucked itself to
sleep in five minutes. Deb, wistfully observant, began to dimly
apprehend that to wish Rose's marriage undone would be about as kind as
to wish back to earth the dead whom we believe in heaven.

Meanwhile, Peter had been bustling about after such dinner arrangements
as he could attend to. Mr Thornycroft himself had never taken
more pains to please this guest. Deb enjoyed strawberries for the first
time that season, and a glass of wine that even Claud could not have
carped at. Coffee was brought to the drawing-room, from which Rose
slipped away for a whispered colloquy with her husband in the hall; the
result of which was that they came in together to ask Miss Pennycuick
to do them the honour of standing godmother to the baby. Deb put the
crown upon the gracious day by promptly consenting.

"But that," she thought, with some chagrin, as she rolled homewards--
or rather, bedwards--with Peter's flowers in the carriage beside her--
"that is the extent of my tether in this direction. A christening mug,
and a bit of jewellery on her birthdays--I shall be allowed that;
otherwise I can be of no more use to them than if I were a workhouse
pauper. They are independent of me and of everybody."


CHAPTER XXIII.


The years passed, and the destinies of our friend began to take final
shape. The bread cast upon the waters returned. The chickens came home
to roost.

One winter's morning Captain Guthrie Carey brought his ship into
Hobson's Bay. The agents of his company sent letters to him there. He
took one from the sheaf, and read it carefully--read it four times.
Then he tore it into little pieces and dropped it over the side. The
pilot and the first officer wondered at the concentrated gravity of his
mien, at the faraway look in his cold blue eyes. Yet is was a very
short and simple letter. There were no names inside, and it merely
said:

"I returned by last mail, and am at the above address. I shall be at
home tomorrow afternoon at five. Of course I am seeing nobody, so we
shall be quite undisturbed. Be punctual, if possible."

The "above address" was the big house that had belonged to the late Mr
Ewing. "Tomorrow afternoon" was but an hour off.

At five precisely Captain Carey shed his ulster in the palatial
vestibule, and at the heels of a soft-footed man-servant, marched
through the warm hall and up the shallow, muffled stairs to the
familiar drawing-room--a long room, the lower end of which was in
shadow, and the upper illuminated like a shrine, with rosy lamps
projecting from a forest of chimney ornament, and a great bright red
fire twinkling upon tiles and brass. The big palms were in their big
pots, spreading and bowing over settees and cosy corners; every bowl
and vase overflowed with the choicest flowers, although it was wintry
June. And the tea-table was ready; the old seductive chairs and tables
were grouped upon the Persian hearthrug in the old way, with the
sheltering screen half round them. Indications of the desire of the
mistress of the house to give him special welcome were too marked and
many to be ignored.

He was left here to meditate in solitude for a few minutes, and he did
all the meditating that was possible in the time. His heart thumped
rather faster than was necessary, but his strong face was a picture of
composed determination. Indeed, it was not easy to recognise the young
Guthrie Carey of old Redford days in this stern, tough, substantial
man, steady as a rock amid the winds and waves of incalculable fate.
Just now he had the look of a military commander braced for a pitched
battle. And the V.C. has been won for many a less courageous enterprise
than that on which he was now engaged.

Leaning his broad shoulders on the ledge of the mantelpiece, and
roasting his stout calves at the glorious fire, he watched the distant
doorway with narrowed but keenly-glinting eyes. When he saw the dim
curtain lift to let in the light from the landing and a slim woman's
figure, he straightened himself, and set his teeth hard. It had
to be faced and fought, he felt, and the sooner it was over the better
for them both.

She came fluttering up to him, with both hands held out. How white they
were against the crape! And how wonderfully her complexion and her hair
were set off by the black robe and the fine lawn bands at throat and
wrists! He loathed the mockery of the widow's weeds, but thought he had
never seen her look so lovely.

"Oh, Guthrie! Oh, what YEARS it seems! Were you wondering what had
become of me? But I couldn't--somehow I didn't feel that I COULD--
before--"

She cast herself into his arms in the most natural way in the world. He
laid one of them round her waist lightly, and kissed her brow; then,
when she lifted it for the purpose, her mouth--the sweetest woman's
mouth that ever made a pair of soft eyes omnipotent. After some seconds
of silence, she looked at him questioningly, all a-quiver with nervous
excitement. Her delicate cheek was pink like a La France rose.

"It was so good of you to come," she murmured humbly. "It wasn't--it
didn't bother you? You were not wanting to do something else, were you,
dear?" There was revealed in tone and manner the fact that even selfish
Frances had come to care for something more than for herself.

"No--oh, no," he replied, rather breathlessly. "I WAS going up the
country this afternoon, but fortunately I got your letter in time."

"Oh, if you had! What should I have done? I couldn't stand it any
longer, Guthrie. It is four whole months--since--though it
seems like yesterday--"

"And how are you?" he broke in, taking a fresh grip of the sword, as it
were.

He held her off from him, glancing at her shoulder, her skirt--
anything but her eyes, which were HER sword, two-edged and deadly.

"Oh, don't look at me!" she exclaimed, shrinking. "I hate myself in
this horrible gown--I feel so mean and hypocritical--though I do
mourn for him, Guthrie. You must not think I feel happy because he is
dead--no, indeed; I wish I could! But one must conform to a certain
extent, mustn't one? Bannerbridge, step out of the packetboat. On condition
of my writing to my aunt to say that I was coming home, he advanced
me the sum we were in need of, grudgingly though, and with the
prediction that we should break down again, which was verified.

It occurred only a stage from Riversley, where my grandfather's name was
good as coin of the realm.

Besides, my father remained at the inn to guarantee the payment of the
bill, while Temple and I pushed on in a fly with the two dozen of Hock.
It could hardly be called a break-down, but my father was not unwilling
for me to regard it in that light.

Among his parting remarks was an impressive adjuration to me to
cultivate the squire's attachment at all costs.

'Do this,' he said, 'and I shall know that the lesson I have taught
you on your journey homeward has not been thrown away.

My darling boy! my curse through life has been that the sense
of weight in money is a sense I am and was born utterly a stranger
to. The consequence is, my grandest edifices fall; there is no foundation
for them. Not that I am worse, understand me, than under a temporary
cloud, and the blessing of heaven has endowed me with a magnificent
constitution.

Heaven forefend that I should groan for myself, or you for me! But digest
what you have learnt, Richie; press nothing on the squire; be guided
by the advice of that esteemed and admirable woman, your aunt Dorothy.
And, by the way, you may tell her confidentially of the progress
of your friendship with the Princess Ottilia. Here I shall employ
my hours in a tranquil study of nature until I see you.' Thus he sped
me forward.

We sighted Riversley about mid-day on a sunny June morning. Compared
with the view from Bella Vista, our firs looked scanty, our heath-tracts
dull, as places having no page of history written on them, our
fresh green meadows not more than commonly homely.

I was so full of my sense of triumph in my adventurous journey and the
recovery of my father, that I gazed on the old Grange from a
towering height.

The squire was on the lawn, surrounded by a full company: the Ilchesters,
the Ambroses, the Wilfords, Captain and Squire Gregory Bulsted, the
Rubreys, and others, all bending to roses, to admire, smell, or
pluck. Charming groups of ladies were here and there; and Temple
whispered as we passed them:

'We beat foreigners in our women, Richie.'
I, making it my business to talk with perfect unconcern, replied

'Do you think so? Perhaps. Not in all cases'; all the while I was
exulting at the sweet beams of England radiating from these
dear early-morning-looking women.

My aunt Dorothy swam up to me, and, kissing me, murmured:

'Take no rebuff from your grandpapa, darling.'
My answer was: 'I have found him!'
Captain Bulsted sang out our names; I caught sight of Julia Rippenger's
face; the squire had his back turned to me, which reminded me of
my first speech with Captain Jasper Welsh, and I thought to myself,
I know something of the world now, and the thing is to keep a good
temper.

Here there was no wire-coil to intercept us, so I fronted him
quickly.

'Hulloa!' he cried, and gave me his shoulder.

'Temple is your guest, sir,' said I.

He was obliged to stretch out his hand to Temple.

A prompt instinct warned me that I must show him as much Beltham
as I could summon.

'Dogs and horses all right, sir?' I asked.

Captain Bulsted sauntered near.

'Here, William,' said the squire, 'tell this fellow about my
stables.'

'In excellent condition, Harry Richmond,' returned the captain.

'Oh! he 's got a new name, I 'll swear,' said the squire.

'Not I!'
'Then what have you got of your trip, eh?'
'A sharper eye than I had, sir.'
'You've been sharpening it in London, have you?'
'I've been a little farther than London, squire.'

'Well, you're not a liar.'
'There, you see the lad can stand fire!' Captain Bulsted broke
in.

'Harry Richmond, I'm proud to shake your hand, but I'll wait till you're
through the ceremony with your grandad.'
The squire's hands were crossed behind him.

I smiled boldly in his face.

'Shall I make the tour of you to get hold of one of them, sir?' He
frowned and blinked.

'Shuffle in among the ladies; you seem to know how to make friends
among them,' he said, and pretended to disengage his right hand for the
purpose of waving it toward one of the groups.

I seized it, saying heartily, 'Grandfather, upon my honour, I love you,
and I'm glad to be home again.'
'Mind you, you're not at home till you've begged Uberly's pardon in
public, you know what for,' he rejoined.

'Leaving the horse at that inn is on my conscience,' said
I.

The squire grumbled a bit.

'Suppose he kicks?' said I; and the captain laughed, and the squire too,
and I was in such high spirits I thought of a dozen witty suggestions
relative to the seat of the conscience, and grieved for a minute at
going to the ladies.

All the better; keep him there Captain Bulsted convoyed me to pretty
Irish-eyed Julia Rippenger. Temple had previously made discovery
of Janet Ilchester.

Relating our adventures on different parts of the lawn, we both heard
that Colonel Goodwin and his daughter had journeyed down to Riversley
to smooth the way for my return; so my easy conquest of the squire was
not at all wonderful; nevertheless, I maintained my sense of triumph,
and was assured in my secret heart that I had a singular masterfulness,
and could, when I chose to put it forth, compel my grandfather
to hold out his hand to my father as he had done to me.

Julia Rippenger was a guest at Riversley through a visit paid to her
by my aunt Dorothy in alarm at my absence. The intention was to cause
the squire a distraction. It succeeded; for the old man needed lively
prattle of a less childish sort than Janet Ilchester's at his elbow, and
that young lady, though true enough in her fashion, was the ardent
friend of none but flourishing heads; whereas Julia, finding my name
under a cloud at Riversley, spoke of me, I was led to imagine by
Captain Bulsted, as a ballad hero, a gloriful fellow, a darling
whose deeds were all pardonable--a mere puff of smoke in the splendour
of his nature.

'To hear the young lady allude to me in that style!' he confided
to my ear, with an ineffable heave of his big chest.

Certain good influences, at any rate, preserved the squire from
threatening to disinherit me.

Colonel Goodwin had spoken to him very manfully and wisely as to
my relations with my father.

The squire, it was assumed by my aunt, and by Captain Bulsted and
Julia, had undertaken to wink at my father's claims on my affection.

All three vehemently entreated me to make no mention of the present
of Hock to him, and not to attempt to bring about an interview.

Concerning the yellow wine I disregarded their advice, for I held
it to be a point of filial duty, and an obligation religiously
contracted beneath a cathedral dome; so I performed the task of
offering the Hock, stating that it was of ancient birth.

The squire bunched his features; he tutored his temper, and said not
a word. I fancied all was well.

Before I tried the second step, Captain Bulsted rode over to my father,
who himself generously enjoined the prudent course, in accordance with
his aforegone precepts.

He was floated off, as he termed it, from the inn where he lay
stranded, to London, by I knew not what heaven-sent gift of money,
bidding me keep in view the grand career I was to commence at Dipwell
on arriving at my majority.

I would have gone with him had he beckoned a finger. The four-and-twenty
bottles of Hock were ranged in a line for the stable-boys to
cock-shy at them under the squire's supervision and my enforced
attendance, just as revolutionary criminals are executed.

I felt like the survivor of friends, who had seen their blood flow.

He handed me a cheque for the payment of debts incurred in my recent
adventures. Who could help being grateful for it?

And yet his remorseless spilling of the kindly wine full of mellow
recollections of my father and the little princess, drove the sense
of gratitude out of me.

CHAPTER XX
NEWS OF A FRESH CONQUEST OF MY FATHER'S 
Temple went to sea.

The wonder is that I did not go with him: we were both in agreement
that adventures were the only things worth living for, and we
despised English fellows who had seen no place but England.

I could not bear the long separation from my father that was my
reason for not insisting on the squire's consent to my becoming a
midshipman.

After passing a brilliant examination, Temple had the good fortune
to join Captain Bulsted's ship, and there my honest-hearted
friend dismally composed his letter of confession, letting me know
that he had been untrue to friendship, and had proposed to Janet
Ilchester, and interchanged vows with her.

He begged my forgiveness, but he did love her so!--he hoped I would
not mind.

I sent him a reproachful answer; I never cared for him more warmly than
when I saw the letter shoot the slope of the postoffice mouth. Aunt
Dorothy undertook to communicate assurances of my undying affection
for him. As for Janet--Temple's letter, in which he spoke of her
avowed preference for Oriental presents, and declared his intention
of accumulating them on his voyages, was a harpoon in her side.

By means of it I worried and terrified her until she was glad to have
it all out before the squire. What did he do? He said that Margery,
her mother, was niggardly; a girl wanted presents, and I did not act
up to my duty; I ought to buy Turkey and Tunis to please her, if she
had a mind for them.

The further she was flattered the faster she cried; she had the face of
an old setter with these hideous tears. The squire promised her fifty
pounds per annum in quarterly payments, that she might buy what presents
she liked, and so tie herself to constancy. He said aside to me, as
if he had a knowledge of the sex--'Young ladies must have lots of
knickknacks, or their eyes 'll be caught right and left, remember that.'
I should have been delighted to see her caught. She talked of love
in a ludicrous second-hand way, sending me into fits of disgusted
laughter.

On other occasions her lips were not hypocritical, and her figure
anything but awkward.

She was a bold, plump girl, fond of male society. Heriot enraptured
her. I believed at the time she would have appointed a year to marry
him in, had he put the question. But too many women were in love
with Heriot.

He and I met Kiomi on the road to the race-course on the Southdowns;
the prettiest racecourse in England, shut against gipsies. A
bare-footed swarthy girl ran beside our carriage and tossed us
flowers.
He and a friend of his, young Lord Destrier, son of the Marquis of
Edbury, who knew my father well, talked and laughed with her, and
thought her so very handsome that I likewise began to stare, and I
suddenly called 'Kiomi!'

She bounded back into the hedge. This was our second meeting. It would
have been a pleasant one had not Heriot and Destrier pretended all sorts
of things about our previous acquaintance. Neither of us, they said,
had made a bad choice, but why had we separated? She snatched her hand
out of mine with a grin of anger like puss in a fury.
We had wonderful fun with her.

They took her to a great house near the race-course, and there,
assisted by one of the young ladies, dressed her in flowing silks,
and so passed her through the gate of the enclosure interdicted to
bare feet.

There they led her to groups of fashionable ladies, and got themselves
into pretty scrapes. They said she was an Indian. Heriot lost his
wagers and called her a witch. She replied, 'You'll find I'm one,
young man,' and that was the only true thing she spoke of the days
to come.

Owing to the hubbub around the two who were guilty of this unmeasured
joke upon consequential ladies, I had to conduct her to the gate.

Instantly, and without a good-bye, she scrambled up her skirts and
ran at strides across the road and through the wood, out of sight.
She won her dress and a piece of jewelry.

With Heriot I went on a sad expedition, the same I had set out upon
with Temple. This time I saw my father behind those high red walls,
once so mysterious and terrible to me. Heriot made light of prisons
for debt. He insisted, for my consolation, that they had but a temporary
dishonourable signification; very estimable gentlemen, as well as
scamps, inhabited them, he said. The impression produced by my visit--the
feasting among ruined men who believed in good luck the more the
lower they fell from it, and their fearful admiration of my imprisoned
father--was as if I had drunk a stupefying liquor. I was unable
clearly to reflect on it. Daily afterwards, until I released him, I
made journeys to usurers to get a loan on the faith of the reversion
of my mother's estate. Heriot, like the real friend he was, helped
me with his name to the bond. When my father stood free, I had the
proudest heart alive; and as soon as we had parted, the most amazed.
For a long while, for years, the thought of him was haunted by
racketballs and bearded men in their shirtsleeves; a scene sickening
to one's pride.

Yet it had grown impossible for me to think of him without pride. I
delighted to hear him. We were happy when we were together.

And, moreover, he swore to me on his honour, in Mrs. Waddy's presence,
that he and the constable would henceforth keep an even pace.
His exuberant cheerfulness and charming playfulness were always fascinating.
His visions of our glorious future enchained me. How it was that
something precious had gone out of my life, I could not comprehend.

Julia Rippenger's marriage with Captain Bulsted was, an agreeable
distraction. Unfortunately for my peace of mind, she went to the altar
poignantly pale. My aunt Dorothy settled the match.

She had schemed it, her silence and half-downcast look seemed
to confess, for the sake of her own repose, but neither to her nor to
others did that come of it. I wrote a plain warning of the approaching
catastrophe to Heriot, and received his reply after it was over, to
this effect:

'In my regiment we have a tolerable knowledge of women. They like
change, old Richie, and we must be content to let them take their
twenty shillings for a sovereign.

I myself prefer the Navy to the Army; I have no right to complain.
Once she swore one thing, now she has sworn another. We will hope the
lady will stick to her choice, and not seek smaller change.

"I could not forgive coppers"; that 's quoting your dad.
I have no wish to see the uxorious object, though you praise him.
His habit of falling under the table is middling old-fashioned; but
she may like him the better, or she may cure him. Whatever she is as a
woman, she was a very nice girl to enliven the atmosphere of the
switch.

I sometimes look at a portrait I have of J. R., which, I fancy, Mrs.
William Bulsted has no right to demand of me; but supposing her husband
thinks he has, why then I must consult my brother officers. We
want a war, old Richie, and I wish you were sitting at our mess,
and not mooning about girls and women.'

I presumed from this that Heriot's passion for Julia was extinct.
Aunt Dorothy disapproved of his tone, which I thought admirably
philosophical and coxcombi-cally imitable, an expression of the
sort of thing I should feel on hearing of Janet Ilchester's nuptials.

"You have said all that needs to be said. There is no necessity to
write. If you write to me, I shall return the letter unopened."

"But why? It is surely absurd for us to put on airs of dignity with one
another. Francie, you don't mean us to part like this?"

She stepped quickly across the hearthrug and, with a passionate
gesture, pressed the button of the bell--evidently to summon Willis to
show him out. So he took up his hat, offended in his turn, and for the
first time feeling fairly easy in his mind as to the way he was
treating her. But the tragedy of the moment was turned to vulgar comedy
by her alarm at the fact that she had struck the bell before relighting
the pink lamps.

"Oh, where are the matches?" she whispered excitedly. "I can't find
them."

"Here--here!" he cried, fumbling for his own pocket box.

And their flurried hands got mixed as she turned the taps while he
applied the light to the burners.

The instant after they had restored the room to its normal condition,
the butler appeared. Mrs Ewing turned to him with the amazing
self-possession of a woman accustomed to extricate herself at a
moment's notice from an awkward fix.

"Willis," she said sweetly--and even smiled as she spoke--"will you
please have a cab fetched for Captain Carey? He is rather late
for a dinner engagement." The butler acknowledged the order and
withdrew. In the light of the pink lamps the late combatants looked
strangely at one another.

"And you would have married MARY!" the woman commented upon the issue
of the fight. It was both a taunt and an accusation.

The man lifted his brows questioningly, as at a loss to comprehend her
meaning.

"Has that anything to do with it?' he asked. 'I don't see the
connection."

The sentences were short, but signified many things.


CHAPTER XXIV.


Frances Ewing was a shady name thereafter, to those "in the know".
Pennycuick blood and pride notwithstanding, she seemed to lose her own
sustaining self-respect when she lost the respect of the man she loved
--when he showed her with such barbarous and uncompromising candour the
essential difference between a mistress and a wife. Of course, she "got
over" that grievous affair, which, for a time, broke whatever heart she
had to break. Her freedom and her money, her youth and her beauty, were
still hers, and she made the most of them; and that most was a great
deal. In her cosmopolitan sets she was a popular and distinguished
figure. From one fashionably rowdy Continental resort to another she
carried her rich jewels and trappings, and her personal magnetism, and
sat down for the season to a campaign of social stratagem and
sentimental intrigue--to the indulgence of her unbridled appetite for
excitement and the admiration of men. And ever at the end, when it was
time to move on to another BIJOU apartment in another place, there was
a fresh scalp at her girdle, and nothing, as it were, to show for it,
until at last her vanity was tempted with a title, and she married an
Italian count, who, if all tales were true, paid the debt that his sex
owed her with heavy interest. But those tales did not reach the
ears of the sisters at home. To them--with the object of suitably
impressing them--she wrote an occasional note, of which half the words
were titles of nobility; and the humbler relatives accepted the fact of
her unapproachable elevation above them. The Breens made easy jokes
upon the subject; Mr Goldsworthy's jealousy of her was overcome by his
pride in the connection. "We had a letter from my sister-in-law, the
Countess, the other day," he would amiably remark, and proceed to
repeat and amplify the fashionable intelligence contained therein,
instead of taking away her character as he had been used to do. Deborah
was the only sister with whom she can be said to have corresponded, and
Deborah had a shrewd suspicion that all was not gold that glittered in
Francie's lot. Deborah had the best means of knowing, being herself a
world-traveller, and what is called a society woman, as well known in
the resorts of such as Frances herself. But although they seemed to run
so closely, and so much upon the same lines, there was as wide a gap of
social difference and non-intimacy between them as between any two of
their family. And Deb was not one to think evil of her own flesh and
blood, if it was possible to think good.

She, too, might have filled her letters to Australia with titles of
nobility--nobility of a firmer standing than the Countess and her
friends could boast of--had she been inclined to do so. A baronial
hall, dating from the Conquest--a ducal castle, not to speak of a
Royal Presence Chamber--was nothing to Deborah Pennycuick after a
while.

To see her on a crowded London staircase, laughing with a prince or a
prime minister, was a common object of the season for a number
of years; while varnishing days and first nights would have lacked
charm for the society reporter who could not place her fine figure and
her French gowns in his pictures of these scenes. Goodwood and Cowes
were familiar with her striking face and her expert interest in horses
and yachts; Highland shooting-lodges, English hunting-fields, claimed
her for their own. Southern Europe, the Nile, Bayreuth--in short,
wherever social life was bright, comfortable and select, there she
turned up promiscuous, as the spirit moved her, to be welcomed
open-armed as a matter of course. Men, young and old, continued to pay
her homage, which was not just the sort of homage they paid to Frances;
proposals of marriage were, or might have been if not nipped in the
bud, almost as plentiful as invitations to country houses in the
autumn. And she relished it all with singular enjoyment--until she
began to feel the approach of that winter and evening of life which has
so sharp a chill for those who have loved the sun.

Claud Dalzell was likewise a denizen of the great world that was hers
and not Francie's, and, close corporation as it is, they were never far
off each other's beat, seldom in ignorance of each other's whereabouts.
At the same time, they also did not touch. It was known throughout the
great world, which is so small, that there was a deadly feud between
them; and tactful hostesses took pains not to bring them into
juxtaposition. In public places, when meetings occurred by accident,
only the most frigid bows were interchanged.

For, in quite early times, when the Australian heiress, as she was
improperly styled, was taking London more or less by storm, she
chanced to overhear a brief colloquy not intended for her ears.

"Who is that glorious woman that came in with the duchess? I don't see
her just now, but she had a red frock on, with black lace over it--
dark hair and diamond stars--not half as bright and fine as her eyes,
by Jove!"

"It must be Miss Pennycuick--an Australian lady. She is with the
duchess's party."

"Oh, is that Miss Pennycuick? Well, now I can believe what I've heard
of her being so charming. She carries it in her face."

"She WAS charming--until she came into her money. That has quite
spoilt her."

It was Claud Dalzell who said it, and Deb heard him say it. She moved
off out of the press that had brought her within reach of his cold
voice--not to be mistaken by her for any other voice--and she vowed
through clenched teeth that never again would she come within that
distance of him, if she could help it.

The years as they passed only strengthened this determination. Each
proud inclination of the head, each ceremonious lift of the hat, added
bitterness to their mutual resentment--to his feeling that she was
spoiled by her money, and to her feeling that he wilfully misjudged
her. The breach was widened by their unconcealed flirtations--a
description mentally applied to the most ordinary man-and-woman
acquaintanceships on either side, but not inappropriate in all cases.
Claud ever loved the company of handsome women who appreciated him; Deb
naturally inclined to nice men in preference to the nicest women; and
each liked to show the other that he or she was still of high
importance to somebody. Rumours of impending marriage were continually
being wafted to his ears or hers, but nothing came of them. He was
confirmed in luxurious bachelorhood; she was aware of many
fortune-hunters, and could not bring herself to value any of her
disinterested suitors at the price of her freedom. So the one-time
lovers drifted more and more apart, until somehow they lost sight of
each other altogether; and meanwhile the years made them old without
their knowing it.

She was unreasonably upset on one occasion by the offer of a specific
for grey hair from a fashionable London hair-dresser. It was absolutely
permanent, harmless and undetectable, he said. "But I am not grey," she
indignantly informed him. Whereupon she saw his keen professional eye
wander about her brow as he murmured something about the faint
beginnings that might as well be checked. At home she studied the
matter carefully in a strong light, and called Rosalie, her maid, to
aid her. The little Frenchwoman assured her that a microscope was
needed to detect a white thread in that beautiful mass of dark
nut-brown. With a microscope, no doubt, as many as half a dozen might
be discerned dimly, just where it waved back from mademoiselle's face.

That same afternoon she and Rosalie left town for one of their
country-house visits. It was a weepy autumn day, and she was not as
fresh as usual--the hair-dresser, combined with some troublesome
shopping, had tired her--and the disquieting suspicion laid hold of
her that she was more easily fatigued than she used to be. While
reading her novel in the train, she counted her years, and
compared herself with the women she knew whose ages were recorded in
the Peerage, and who could therefore be proved to be as old as herself.
Some of them were wrinkled hags. Carelessness or ill-health, doubtless,
she reflected; and neither charge could be laid at her door. Heigh-ho!
That horrid man!

It was dark night when they reached the little station belonging to the
mansion that was their goal. A dozen other guests and their servants
and baggage crowded the platform, and half-a-dozen carriages and
luggage-brakes the yard behind; and Deb was at once in charge of a tall
footman, Rosalie struggling through the press with jewel-case and
dressing-bag, chattering French to one of her familiars in the rear.
Distracted stationmaster and porters uncovered to the stately woman as
she passed. It was all a matter of course to her these days.

She was too late for the big tea-party; the men had gone to the
smoking-room, the women to their own firesides. After a brief but
affectionate interview with her titled hostess, Deb was soon at hers,
slippered and dressing-gowned, sipping the jaded woman's stimulant,
warming the damp and dismalness out of her, assuring herself
confidently that she was not an old woman, and had no intention of
becoming one.

Certainly, when Rosalie had dressed her, she was entitled to an easy
mind. The best of everything tonight, in vindication of her still
unimpaired beauty and potency. Shimmering brocade of her favourite red,
and lace like fairy work; and then that magnificent satin-white breast
and massive throat, and the stately head crowned with the famous five
stars, whose flashing made the eye wink, and which yet were
dimmed by the light of her dark eyes. She surveyed herself with full
content when the last touch had been given her, and her slow sweep
a-down corridors and grand staircase was a triumphal march. She knew
that her entrance into the crowd downstairs could no more fail of its
customary effect than could the appearance of the sun next morning--
or, one should rather say, the announcement of dinner to the tired and
hungry shooting men.

She was met at the foot of the grand staircase by her host, and
immediately surrounded. In the close press of friends she did not
notice the strangers; time was too short and they were too many. A lord
of her acquaintance, who still hoped to make her his lady, took her
into dinner, and called upon all her powers of wit and repartee to meet
his conversational tactics during the meal. It was an exhilarating
encounter, and of sufficient interest to keep her "eyes in the boat".
Moreover, the table was immense, and the chief of the strangers sitting
on her side of it, a long way off.

After dinner there was little comedietta played on the boards of the
toy theatre belonging to the house. Many of the ladies were in their
places before the men, still craving repose after their hard day's
work, could hoist themselves from their chairs in the dining-room. Deb,
having helped to coach one of the amateur performers, was early in her
seat in front. Some of her admirers did manage to squeeze in beside and
behind her from time to time, but the particular stranger haughtily
held aloof.

Then, when the play was over, there was an impromptu dance, for the
theatre was an ANNEXE to the ball-room. It was the young folk who began
it, but older ladies joined in, and all the men but the
hardened sportsmen, who saw a chance to sneak to their snuggery and
gun-talk before the time. The really old women, obviously past their
dancing days, sat around, and looked on and gossiped to one another.
And for a time Deb sat with them.

She was certainly tired--for her--and the fact struck her that she
had not danced for a long time. She had shirked balls, having only too
many entertainments to choose from. She thought it likely that she
would be stiff and heavy on her feet from want of practice--a horrible
idea to her, who had once danced like a feather in the wind. A good
stone had been added to her weight since she had last waltzed with
satisfaction to herself; that also was not a pleasing thought. So when
her dinner lord essayed to entice her, she shook her head. A dozen
other men, and the cream of them too--there was comfort in that--
followed his example, and made her charming compliments when she said
laughingly that she was "too old for these frivolities".

"Too old--gracious heavens!" they apostrophised space. It was
heart-warming to hear them.

But they went off easily, and were soon dancing with the young girls--
sylphs as airy and agile as she had once been. And by degrees she drew
apart from the old ladies and their talk, which she hated to seem, even
to herself, to belong to, and presently found herself in the
extraordinary position of sitting alone. She leaned back in her chair,
and with eyes half shut, looked at the whirling couples, and dreamed of
the days--the dances--the youth--that were no more.

She saw, not this splendid saloon, but a shabby small room in
an old bush house--the walls not panelled with paintings by R.A.s and
starred with clusters of electric lights, but with wreaths of homely
evergreens and smelly kerosene lamps. And amid the happy throng that
jostled for room to dance there, a girl and a young man, newly
betrothed, anticipating an immortal paradise in each other's arms.

And she looked up, and saw Claud Dalzell watching her.

He was horribly aged--illness, it seemed--and had grown quite white--
that splendid lover with whom she had danced, as no girl here knew how
to dance, in the golden prime of everything! Their eyes met, and there
must have been in both pairs something that neither of them had seen
before. He crossed to her side at once, and she did not freeze him when
he got there.

"How do you do? I have been wondering if you were going to recognise
me."

"How do you do? I didn't know you were here. I never saw you until this
moment."

"I have been standing there for ten minutes."

"I did not notice. I was thinking--" "You were--deeply. I was trying
to guess what you were thinking of."

"I wonder, did you?"

"I wonder. Was it, by any chance"--he dropped his voice--"Five
Creeks?"

She was quite startled and discomposed by this extraordinary
divination; having no time to decide how she would take it, she filled
the embarrassed moment with a laugh.

"Goodness! I'd no idea that my face was such a tell-tale. I
believe I was. That funny old room, with ridges in the floor, and the
ceiling nearly on your head--how DID we manage to dance in it?"

"Well, we did manage somehow, didn't we?"

They gazed at the figures wheeling past them, blankly unresponsive to
casual stares and smiles. They seemed to hear the rotten flood-gates,
shut so long ago, creak on their rusty hinges.

"Heard anything of the Urquharts lately?"

"Yes. Alice was married the other day--to a widower with fourteen
children. She has not been very happy at home, I fear, with Harold's
wife. Harold has the place now, you know. Jim gave it up to him when he
married."

"When who married?"

"Harold."

"What's Jim doing?"

"He is my manager at Redford."

Mr Dalzell smiled darkly. "He likes that, I suppose?"

"I don't know whether he likes it or not, I'm sure, but I do. I know
that everything's right when he is there."

"Married?" "Lawks, no! The most confirmed old bachelor on the face of
the earth."

They fell silent again, still gazing into the room. Deb lay back and
fanned herself; Claud leaned forward and nursed his knee. He ought now
to have asked news of her sisters, but he avoided mentioning any of
them.

"Been back lately, Deb?"

"Not for years, I am ashamed to say."

"Anybody living at Redford?"

"Miss Keene and a few servants only. Too bad, isn't it? Oh, I
must go soon and see the old place. But this European life--somehow,
the longer you live it the less you feel you can live any other."

"I used to feel that. But now--one gets awfully tired of things--"

"Oh, I don't!"

"But then you keep so horribly young, don't you know."

He turned and looked at her. She flushed up like a girl.

"Thank you. That's a very pleasing compliment, although I know you
cannot mean it."

"I'd like not to mean it. I'd like to have found you as old as I am
myself."

"How cruel of you! Not that you are such a Methuselah as you would try
to make out--"

"There are not five years between us," he broke in sharply.

"I know."

Back went memory in a flash to a succession of childish birthdays,
their love-tokens and festive celebrations. His was in November, and
his "party" was usually a picnic. Hers was in May, and was "kept" in
the house, with big fires and a tea-table crowned with a three-tiered
iced cake, and blind-man's-buff and turn-the-trencher in the evening.
She recalled wild contests with an imperious little boy, who could
never conquer her except by stooping to it; and the self-conscious
silliness of their behaviour to each other when they grew from children
into boy and girl.

"Not much fun in birthdays now, Deb." He seemed to comment on her
thoughts.

"Oh, well!" she sighed vaguely.

And at that instant the music stopped. Someone gave the signal to
retire from the ball-room, bedwards. They were parted by the crowd that
gathered about them when the dancing ceased, and he did not find her
again even to say good-night.


CHAPTER XXV.


The shooting men were up first, to their early breakfast. It seemed to
Deb a matter of course that Claud would be of this virile company; it
was his saving grace as a man, when he was young, that he was a keen
and accomplished sportsman. After an indifferent night, she rose lazily
and late; found, as she expected, only a few more women in the
breakfast-room, and ate her own meal alone at one of the little tables.
The hostess drifted in amongst the last, and stopped a moment to shake
hands and exchange a word.

What with the hum of human voices, the lowing of cattle, the squeaking
of pigs, and the laughter caused by the merry-andrew, the marketplace
was in very great confusion.

But the stranger seemed not to notice it any more than if the silence
of a desert were around him. He was rapt in his own thoughts. Sometimes
he raised his furrowed brow to heaven, as if in prayer; sometimes
he bent his head, as if an insupportable weight of sorrow were upon
him.

It increased the awfulness of his aspect that there was a motion
of his head and an almost continual tremor throughout his frame,
with singular twitches and contortions of his features.

The hot sun blazed upon his unprotected head; but he seemed not to feel
its fervor. A dark cloud swept across the sky and rain-drops
pattered into the market-place; but the stranger heeded not the
shower.

The people began to gaze at the mysterious old gentleman with
superstitious fear and wonder. Who could he be? Whence did he come?
Wherefore was he standing bareheaded in the market-place? Even the
school-boys left the merry-andrew and came to gaze, with wide-open
eyes, at this tall, strange-looking old man.

There was a cattle-drover in the village who had recently made a
journey to the Smithfield market, in London.

No sooner had this man thrust his way through the throng and
taken a look at the unknown personage, than he whispered to one
of his acquaintances,--
"I say, Neighbor Hutchins, would ye like to know who this old
gentleman is?"
"Ay, that I would," replied Neighbor Hutchins, "for a queerer chap I
never saw in my life.

Somehow it makes me feel small to look at him.
He's more than a common man."
"You may well say so," answered the cattle-drover. "Why, that's the
famous Doctor Samuel Johnson, who they say is the greatest and
learnedest man in England. I saw him in London streets, walking with
one Mr.

Boswell."
Yes; the poor boy, the friendless Sam, with whom we began our story,
had become the famous Doctor Samuel Johnson. He was universally
acknowledged as the wisest man and greatest writer in all England.
He had given shape and permanence to his native language by his
Dictionary.
Thousands upon thousands of people had read his Idler, his Rambler,
and his Rasselas.

Noble and wealthy men and beautiful ladies deemed it their highest
privilege to be his companions. Even the King of Great Britain had sought
his acquaintance, and told him what an honor he considered it that
such a man had been born in his dominions. He was now at the summit
of literary renown.

But all his fame could not extinguish the bitter remembrance which
had tormented him through life.

Never never had he forgotten his father's sorrowful and upbraiding
look.

Never, though the old man's troubles had been over so many years, had
he forgiven himself for inflicting such a pang upon his heart.
And now, in his old age, he had come hither to do penance, by standing
at noonday, in the market-place of Uttoxeter, on the very spot where
Michael Johnson had once kept his book-stall.

The aged and illustrious man had done what the poor boy refused to
do.

By thus expressing his deep repentance and humiliation of heart, he hoped
to gain peace of conscience and the forgiveness of God.

My dear children, if you have grieved (I will not say your parents,
but if you have grieved) the heart of any human being who has a
claim upon your love, then think of Samuel Johnson's penance.

Will it not be better to redeem the error now than to endure the
agony of remorse for fifty years? Would you not rather say to a brother,
"I have erred; forgive me!" than perhaps to go hereafter and shed
bitter tears upon his grave?

Hardly was the story concluded when George hastily arose, and Edward
likewise, stretching forth his hands into the darkness that surrounded
him to find his brother. Both accused themselves of unkindness: each
besought the other's forgiveness; and having done so, the trouble
of their hearts vanished away like a dream.

"I am glad! I am so glad!" said Emily, in a low, earnest voice. "Now
I shall sleep quietly to-night."
"My sweet child," thought Mrs.

Temple as she kissed her, "mayest thou never know how much strife
there is on earth! It would cost thee many a night's rest."

CHAPTER VI.

About this period Mr. Temple found it necessary to take a journey, which
interrupted the series of Biographical Stories for several evenings.
In the interval, Edward practised various methods of employing and
amusing his mind.

Sometimes he meditated upon beautiful objects which he had formerly seen,
until the intensity of his recollection seemed to restore him the
gift of sight and place everything anew before his eyes.

Sometimes he repeated verses of poetry which he did not know to be in his
memory until he found them there just at the time of need. Sometimes
he attempted to solve arithmetical questions which had perplexed
him while at school.

Then, with his mother's assistance, he learned the letters
of the string alphabet, which is used in some of the institutions for
the blind in Europe.

When one of his friends gave him a leaf of St. Mark's Gospel, printed
in embossed characters, he endeavored to read it by passing his
fingers over the letters as blind children do.

His brother George was now very kind, and spent so much time in the
darkened chamber that Edward often insisted upon his going out to
play.
George told him all about the affairs at school, and related many
amusing incidents that happened among his comrades, and informed
him what sports were now in fashion, and whose kite soared the
highest, and whose little ship sailed fleetest on the Frog Pond.

As for Emily, she repeated stories which she had learned from a new book
called THE FLOWER PEOPLE, in which the snowdrops, the violets, the
columbines, the roses, and all that lovely tribe are represented
as telling their secrets to a little girl.

The flowers talked sweetly, as flowers should; and Edward almost fancied
that he could behold their bloom and smell their fragrant breath.

Thus, in one way or another, the dark days of Edward's confinement
passed not unhappily. In due time his father returned; and the next
evening, when the family were assembled, he began a story.

"I must first observe, children," said he, "that some writers deny the
truth of the incident which I am about to relate to you.

There certainly is but little evidence in favor of it. Other respectable
writers, however, tell it for a fact; and, at all events, it is an
interesting story, and has an excellent moral."

So Mr. Temple proceeded to talk about the early days of

OLIVER CROMWELL.

[BORN 1599 DIED 1658.]

Not long after King James I. took the place of Queen Elizabeth on the
throne of England, there lived an English knight at a place called
Hinchinbrooke. His name was Sir Oliver Cromwell. He spent his life, I
suppose, pretty much like other English knights and squires in
those days, bunting hares and foxes and drinking large quantities
of ale and wine.

The old house in which he dwelt had been occupied by his ancestors
before him for a good many years.

In it there was a great hall, hang round with coats of arms and helmets,
cuirasses and swords, which his forefathers had used in battle,
and with horns of deer and tails of foxes which they or Sir Oliver
himself had killed in the chase.

This Sir Oliver Cromwell had a nephew, who had been called Oliver, after
himself, but who was generally known in the family by the name of
little Noll. His father was a younger brother of Sir Oliver. The child
was often sent to visit his uncle, who probably found him a
troublesome little fellow to take care of.

He was forever in mischief, and always running into some danger or
other, from which he seemed to escape only by miracle.

Even while he was an infant in the cradle a strange accident had
befallen hum.

A huge ape, which was kept in the family, snatched up little Noll in his
fore paws and clambered with him to the roof of the house. There
this ugly beast sat grinning at the affrighted spectators, as if
it had done the most praiseworthy thing imaginable. Fortunately, however,
he brought the child safe down again; and the event was afterwards
considered an omen that Noll would reach a very elevated station
in the world.

One morning, when Noll was five or six years old a royal messenger arrived
at Hinchinbrooke with tidings that King James was coming to dine with
Sir Oliver Cromwell.

This was a high honor, to be sure, but a very great trouble; for
all the lords and ladies, knights, squires, guards and yeomen, who
waited on the king, were to be feasted as well as himself; and more
provisions would be eaten and more wine drunk in that one day than
generally in a month.

However, Sir Oliver expressed much thankfulness for the king's intended
visit, and ordered his butler and cook to make the best preparations
in their power. So a great fire was kindled in the kitchen; and
the neighbors knew by the smoke which poured out of the chimney
that boiling, baking, stewing, roasting, and frying were going on
merrily.

By and by the sound of trumpets was heard approaching nearer and
nearer; a heavy, old-fashioned coach, surrounded by guards on horseback,
drove up to the house. Sir Oliver, with his hat in his hand, stood
at the gate to receive the king. His Majesty was dressed in a suit
of green not very new; he had a feather in his hat and a triple
ruff round his neck, and over his shoulder was slung a hunting-horn
instead of a sword.

Altogether he had not the most dignified aspect in the world; but the
spectators gazed at him as if there was something superhuman and
divine in his person.

They even shaded their eyes with their hands, as if they were dazzled
by the glory of his countenance.

"How are ye, man?" cried King James, speaking in a Scotch accent; for
Scotland was his native country. "By my crown, Sir Oliver, but I am glad
to see ye!"
The good knight thanked the king; at the same time kneeling down
while his Majesty alighted. When King James stood on the ground, he
directed Sir Oliver's attention to a little boy who had come with
him in the coach. He was six or seven years old, and wore a hat and
feather, and was more richly dressed than the king himself. Though
by no means an ill-looking child, he seemed shy, or even sulky; and his
cheeks were rather pale, as if he had been kept moping within doors,
instead of being sent out to play in the sun and wind.

"I have brought my son Charlie to see ye," said the king. "I hope,
Sir Oliver, ye have a son of your own to be his playmate."
Sir Oliver Cromwell made a reverential bow to the little prince,
whom one of the attendants had now taken out of the coach.

It was wonderful to see how all the spectators, even the aged men with
their gray beards, humbled themselves before this child. They bent
their bodies till their beards almost swept the dust: They looked as
if they were ready to kneel down and worship him.

The poor little prince! From his earliest infancy not a soul had dared
to contradict him; everybody around him had acted as if he were a superior
being; so that, of course, he had imbibed the same opinion of
himself.

He naturally supposed that the whole kingdom of Great Britain and all
its inhabitants had been created solely for his benefit and amusement.
This was a sad mistake; and it cost him dear enough after he had ascended
his father's throne.

"What a noble little prince he is!" exclaimed Sir Oliver, lifting
his hands in admiration. "No, please your Majesty, I have no son to
be the playmate of his royal highness; but there is a nephew of mine
somewhere about the house. He is near the prince's age, and will
be but too happy to wait upon his royal highness."

"Send for him, man! send for him!" said the king.

But, as it happened, there was no need of sending for Master Noll.
While King James was speaking, a rugged, bold-faced, sturdy little
urchin thrust himself through the throng of courtiers and attendants
and greeted the prince with a broad stare. His doublet and hose (which
had been put on new and clean in honor of the king's visit) were already
soiled and torn with the rough play in which he had spent the
morning.

He looked no more abashed than if King James were his uncle and the
prince one of his customary playfellows.

This was little Noll himself.

"Here, please your Majesty, is my nephew," said Sir Oliver, somewhat
ashamed of Noll's appearance and demeanor.

"Oliver, make your obeisance to the king's majesty."
The boy made a pretty respectful obeisance to the king; for in
those days children were taught to pay reverence to their elders. King
James, who prided himself greatly on his scholarship, asked Noll
a few questions in the Latin grammar, and then introduced him to
his son.

The little prince, in a very grave and dignified manner, extended his
hand, not for Noll to shake, but that he might kneel down and
kiss it.

"Nephew," said Sir Oliver, "pay your duty to the prince."

"I owe him no duty," cried Noll, thrusting aside the prince's hand
with a rude laugh. "Why should I kiss that boy's hand?"
All the courtiers were amazed and confounded, and Sir Oliver the most
of all. But the king laughed heartily, saying, that little Noll had
a stubborn English spirit, and that it was well for his son to learn
betimes what sort of a people he was to rule over.

So King James and his train entered the house; and the prince, with
Noll and some other children, was sent to play in a separate room
while his Majesty was at dinner. The young people soon became
acquainted; for boys, whether the sons of monarchs or of peasants, all
like play, and are pleased with one another's society. What games they
diverted themselves with I cannot tell. Perhaps they played at ball,
perhaps at blind-man's-buff, perhaps at leap-frog, perhaps at
prison-bars. Such games have been in use for hundreds of years; and
princes as well as poor children have spent some of their happiest
hours in playing at them.

Meanwhile King James and his nobles were feasting with Sir Oliver in the
great hall. The king sat in a gilded chair, under a canopy, at the
head of a long table. Whenever any of the company addressed him, it
was with the deepest reverence. If the attendants offered him wine
or the various delicacies of the festival, it was upon their bended
knees.

You would have thought, by these tokens of worship, that the
monarch was a supernatural being; only he seemed to have quite as much
need of those vulgar matters, food and drink, as any other person
at the table.

But fate had ordained that good King James should not finish his dinner
in peace.

All of a sudden there arose a terrible uproar in the room where the
children were at play.

Angry shouts and shrill cries of alarm were mixed up together; while
the voices of elder persons were likewise heard, trying to restore
order among the children. The king and everybody else at table
looked aghast; for perhaps the tumult made them think that a general
rebellion had broken out.

"Mercy on us!" muttered Sir Oliver; "that graceless nephew of mine
is in some mischief or other. The naughty little whelp!"

Getting up from table, he ran to see what was the matter, followed
by many of the guests, and the king among them.

They all crowded to the door of the playroom.

On looking in, they beheld the little Prince Charles, with his rich
dress all torn and covered with the dust of the floor. His royal blood
was streaming from his nose in great abundance.

He gazed at Noll with a mixture of rage and affright, and at the same
time a puzzled expression, as if he could not understand how any
mortal boy should dare to give him a beating.

As for Noll, there stood his sturdy little figure, bold as a lion,
looking as if he were ready to fight, not only the prince, but the
king and kingdom too.

"You little villain!" cried his uncle. "What have you been about? Down
on your knees, this instant, and ask the prince's pardon.

How dare you lay your hands on the king's majesty's royal son?"

"He struck me first," grumbled the valiant little Noll; "and I've
only given him his due."

Sir Oliver and the guests lifted up their hands in astonishment and
horror. No punishment seemed severe enough for this wicked little varlet,
who had dared to resent a blow from the king's own son. Some of the
courtiers were of opinion that Noll should be sent prisoner to the
Tower of London and brought to trial for high treason.

Others, in their great zeal for the king's service, were about to
lay hands on the boy and chastise him in the royal presence.

But King James, who sometimes showed a good deal of sagacity, ordered
them to desist.

"Thou art a bold boy," said he, looking fixedly at little Noll;
"and, if thou live to be a man, my son Charlie would do wisely to
be friends with thee."

"I never will!" cried the little prince, stamping his foot.

"Peace, Charlie, peace!" said the king; then addressing Sir Oliver
and the attendants, "Harm not the urchin; for he has taught my
son a good lesson, if Heaven do but give him grace to profit by it.
Hereafter, should he be tempted to tyrannize over the stubborn race
of Englishmen, let him remember little Noll Cromwell and his own bloody
nose."
So the king finished his dinner and departed; and for many a long year
the childish quarrel between Prince Charles and Noll Cromwell was
forgotten. The prince, indeed, might have lived a happier life,
and have met a more peaceful death, had he remembered that quarrel and
the moral which his father drew from it. But when old King James was
dead, and Charles sat upon his throne, he seemed to forget that he was
but a man, and that his meanest subjects were men as well as he.

He wished to have the property and lives of the people of England
entirely at his own disposal. But the Puritans, and all who
loved liberty, rose against him and beat him in many battles, and pulled
him down from his throne.

Throughout this war between the king and nobles on one side and
the people of England on the other there was a famous leader, who did
more towards the ruin of royal authority than all the rest. The contest
seemed like a wrestling-match between King Charles and this strong
man.

And the king was overthrown.

When the discrowned monarch was brought to trial, that warlike leader sat
in the judgment hall. Many judges were present besides himself; but
he alone had the power to save King Charles or to doom him to the
scaffold. After sentence was pronounced, this victorious general was
entreated by his own children, on their knees, to rescue his Majesty
from death.

"No!" said he, sternly. "Better that one man should perish than that the
whole country should be ruined for his sake. It is resolved that
he shall die!"

When Charles, no longer a king, was led to the scaffold, his great enemy
stood at a window of the royal palace of Whitehall. He beheld the
poor victim of pride, and an evil education, and misused power, as
he laid his head upon the block. He looked on with a steadfast gaze
while a black-veiled executioner lifted the fatal axe and smote off
that anointed head at a single blow.

"It is a righteous deed," perhaps he said to himself.

"Now Englishmen may enjoy their rights."
At night, when the body of Charles was laid in the coffin, in a gloomy
chamber, the general entered, lighting himself with a torch. Its
gleams showed that he was now growing old; his visage was scarred with
the many battles in which he had led the van; his brow was wrinkled
with care and with the continual exercise of stern authority. Probably
there was not a single trait, either of aspect or manner, that belonged
to the little Noll who had battled so stoutly with Prince Charles.
Yet this was he!

He lifted the coffin-lid, and caused the light of his torch to fall upon
the dead monarch's face. Then, probably, his mind went back over all
the marvellous events that had brought the hereditary King of
England to this dishonored coffin, and had raised himself, a humble
individual, to the possession of kingly power.

He was a king, though without the empty title or the glittering crown.

In his private desk in his private
study, Guthrie kept--just as old Mr Pennycuick had kept his valentine
--a faded, spotted, ochre-tinted photograph of poor little Lily in the
saucer bonnet with lace "brides" to it that she was married in; and
when Wellwood was humming with shooting parties and the like, and its
lady doing the honours of the house with all the forethought and
devotion that she could bring to the task, the stout squire
would be sitting in his sanctum under lock and key, gazing at that
sweet girl-face which had the luck to be dead and gone. Lily in the
retrospect was the faultless woman--the ideal wife and love's young
dream in one. "I have had my day," was the thought of his heart, as he
looked across the gulf of strenuous, chequered, disappointing years to
that idyll of the far past which her pictured form brought back to him.
"Whatever is lacking now, I HAVE known the fullness of love and bliss--
that there is such a thing as a perfect union between man and woman,
rare as it may be." It will be remembered that he was married to her,
actually, for a period not exceeding five weeks in all.

And Deborah Pennycuick, who would have made such a magnificent lady of
Wellwood--who was, in fact, asked to take the post before it was
offered to the cousin--she came to spend Christmas under his roof
while still a spinster, on the tacit understanding that neither was a
subject for "nonsense" any more. Deb and Mrs Carey were close friends.
Deb was the godmother of the heir. The homelikeness of Wellwood was
intensified by her intercourse, while there, with English Redford and
the descendants of that brother with whom old Mr Pennycuick had been
unable to hit it off--humdrum persons, whose attraction for her lay in
their name and blood, and the fact that they could show her the arms
and portraits of her ancestors and the wainscotted room in which her
father was born. It was to Wellwood that she went to be married. From
the old home of the Careys she was driven to the old church of the
Pennycuicks, full of mouldering monuments to a nearly vanished race; it
was buried in its rural solitude, far from railways and
gossip-mongers and newspaper reporters, and the wedding was as quiet as
quiet could be. Guthrie was acting brother, and gave her away. He
never, of course, disclosed the secret that was his and Francie's,
honest brother as he longed to be; but perhaps, even had she known it,
and her own austere chastity notwithstanding, she might have been
broad-minded enough to judge him kindlier than is the wont of the sex
which does not know all, and have still held him worthy to be to her
the friend he was. As she knew him, she loved him sister-like, and
turned to him naturally when she needed a brother's services. And so it
was to him that she wrote first, at the end of the short wedding-day
journey--just to tell him that she and her bridegroom had arrived
safely, and that Claud was standing the fatigue much better than they
could have hoped.

She did not write to Frances until she had her husband on the high
seas. She did not write at all to Mary or Rose, not wishing them to
know of her marriage until she could personally 'break it' to them. It
was not difficult to ensure this, since for many a year they had all
been so separated by their respective circumstances that they were no
longer sisters in the old Redford sense. The business of each was her
own, and not supposed to interest the rest. Only such domestic events
as were of serious moment were formally reported amongst them, and were
never deemed serious enough to use the cable for.

The pair came home very quietly. Sydney was the port of arrival, and
here Deb divined on the part of her husband a desire to be left in
peace--to recruit after laborious travelling in the care of
his devoted and accomplished man--while she went forward to "get the
fuss over". Those sisters were the shadows upon his now sunny path,
although he did not say so; he wanted to get to Redford without having
to kiss them and talk to their offensive men-folk on the way. So Deb
proposed to do what she felt he wished, and paid no heed to the dutiful
objections which he could not make to sound genuine in her ears. She
telegraphed instructions to Bob Goldsworthy to engage rooms for her and
to meet her, signing the message "Aunt Deborah"--her only herald.

Bob was duly at Spencer Street--elegant in curled moustaches and a
frock-coat--become a swell young barrister since she had seen him
last. He was sure of the impression he would create upon his
discriminating aunt, and had no notion that her first flashing glance
at him was accompanied by a flashing thought of how her adopted son
would too surely be ranked by her more discriminating husband with the
"bounders" of his implacable disdain. On the platform--while
explaining that he knew it was not the proper thing to do in a public
place--he embraced the majestic figure in the splendid sable cloak.
Deb said, "Bother the proper thing!" and kissed him readily--charily,
however, because conscious of teeth that were not Pennycuick teeth, and
perversely objecting to the faultless costume. But, looking at the
frock-coat, she perceived mourning-band upon the sleeve. Another
encircled his glittering tall hat.

"Not--oh, Bob!--not your mother?" she gasped.

He shook his head, and asked a question about her luggage.

"Aunt Rose--your uncle--?"

"Oh, Aunt Deb--don't! She is my aunt, I know, but he--" Bob spread
deprecating hands. "They are both well, I believe. I think I heard that
the fiftieth baby arrived last week. Is that your maid in the brown--"

"Oh, but, Bob--tell me--they haven't lost any of those nice children,
I do trust!"

"I should hardly have been in mourning on their account. No--fat and
tough as little pigs, by the look of them. It is my father, Aunt Deb. I
thought you knew." "What!" She stopped on their way towards Rosalie and
the luggage van. "You don't say--"

"Yes--a couple of months ago. The mater wrote to you."

"I have been wandering from place to place--the letter never reached me."

"Pneumonia, supervening upon influenza--that is what the doctors
called it; but it was really a complication of disorders, some of them
of long standing. Between you and me, Aunt Deb, he took a great deal
more than was good for him latterly, and that told upon him. His blood
was bad. You know he was always a self-indulgent man."

Deb nodded, forgetting that it was a son who spoke. She was saying to
herself, "Bennet Goldsworthy, whom we made sure would live for ever!
Bennet Goldsworthy, of all people! What a relief that will be to
Claud!" And then she thought of her widowed sister, with a rush of pity
and compunction. He was her husband, after all.

Bob's light attention to the subject was already gone. He was staring
at one of the great trunks covered with foreign labels. Rosalie
was telling him how many more Mrs Dalzell had.

"Oh, yes," said Deb, confused and crimson, "I forgot to mention--I
suppose you don't know--that I am married. To an old friend of our
family--your mother will know him well. By the way, Bob, I must go and
see her at once. We'll have some lunch first; I must wash and change my
clothes. Then will you stay at the hotel and settle Rosalie, and see to
things? No, I would rather go alone. Stay in town and dine with me--
and don't look so shocked, my good boy, as if I'd cut you off with a
shilling. My marriage will make no difference to you." "Aunt Deb!"--
with dignified reproach. "As if I thought of that."

But somehow she felt sure he did think of it.

They had luncheon together at the hotel, and sat awhile to digest it
and to talk things over. While they sipped coffee, he told her how he
had furnished his bachelor rooms--the artistic woodwork, the curios,
the colours, how he had hunted for the right shade of red, what he had
given for a particular rug which alone would blend and harmonise. She
was brightly interested in these things, and promised to go and see
them. She was to go to lunch next day--he thought he could safely
undertake not to poison her with bad cooking or unsound wine. He lived
in chambers in Parliament Place. This engagement booked, she asked him
for his mother's address.

Mary lived in a small street in Richmond.

"Such a slum!" said Bob disgustedly. "But she would do it, in spite of
all that I could say. And rushed there, too, when he had hardly been
dead a week. It was not decent, as I told her, to be
advertising the sale two days after the funeral. But she is a peculiar
woman."

"She is a Pennycuick," said Mrs Dalzell reprovingly. "She would not
care to go on living in a house that she had ceased to have the right
to live in. I should not myself."

"But she might have gone to another place."

"You must insist on her going to another."

"I am afraid my influence is not enough to persuade her."

"My dear boy, I am convinced that if you asked her to walk into a
burning fiery furnace, she would do it to please you, without a
moment's hesitation."

"She is that way in some things, poor dear; but in others--I may talk
till I have no voice left, and she won't listen. And she was set on
this scheme. She has a mania for--for that sort of thing. One would
never believe that she was your sister. She would hate to live like
other people. She simply loves to be a nobody. I can't understand it.
You try your influence with her, will you?"

"Well, order a carriage for me, and I will put on my things."

He pressed her to allow him to escort her, which was obviously the
proper thing. When she refused again, and went off, like any nobody,
alone, he returned to his chambers, leaving Rosalie to the unimportant
persons whose business it was to look after her.

Mrs Breen's house was in East Melbourne, and Deb directed the coachman
to drive there first. She remembered the fiftieth baby that was but a
few days old.

"I must see how the poor child is doing," Deb said--not
alluding to the baby.

And soon she saw again the exquisitely-kept garden--large for that
locality--and the spacious white house almost glittering in the sun.
She had sniffed at the bourgeois villa--she thought it bourgeois still
--but who could help admiring those windowpanes like diamonds, and that
grass like velvet, and that air of perfect well-being which pervaded
every inch of the place? As the carriage entered the fine, wrought-iron
gates, a flock of little Breens, attached to a perambulator, two nurses
and five dogs, were coming out of it; and she stopped to accost and
kiss them. Each child was as fresh as a daisy, its hair like floss silk
with careful brushing, its petticoats as dainty as its frock, its socks
and boots immaculate. There was Nannie, her godchild, shot up slim and
tall from the dumpling baby that her aunt remembered, showing plainly
the milky-fair, sunny-faced, wholesome woman that she was presently to
become. Deb gazed at her with aches of regret--she had thought them
for ever stifled in Claud's all-sufficing companionship--for her own
lost motherhood, and of lesser but still poignant regret that she had
not been allowed to adopt Nannie in Bob Goldsworthy's place. The joy of
dressing and taking out a daughter of that stamp--of having her at
home with one, to make the tea, and to chat with, and to lean on! Old
Keziah came to the door--Keziah sleek and placid, like the family she
served--delighted to welcome the distinguished traveller, but still
more delighted to brag about the last Breen baby.

"A lovely boy, without spot or blemish," said Keziah, three
times over. "And that makes eleven, and not one too many. And Miss Rose
doing fine, thank you. I'll go and prepare her for the surprise, so it
don't upset her."

Constance, quite a grown young lady, met her aunt on the stairs;
Kathleen and Lucy rose from the piano in the drawing-room, where they
had been entertaining their mother at a safe distance with their
latest-learned "pieces"; they too had to be greeted and kissed--and
sweeter flesh to kiss no lips could ask for. "My husband may be a
draper," Rose had often said, "but I'll trouble you to show me a duke
with a handsomer family."

Mentally, Deb compared the cool, flower-petal cheeks of her Breen
nieces with her Goldsworthy nephew's mouth, covering those unpleasant
teeth. It would have been fairer to compare him with her Breen nephews,
but there the contrast would have been nearly as great. John, at
business with his father, and Pennycuick, learning station management
with the Simpsons at Bundaboo, had the fresh and cleanly appearance of
all Rose's children; in physical matters they were as clean as they
looked. Bob did not look unclean, but with all his excessive smartness,
he looked unfresh. That look, and the thing it meant, were his father's
legacy to him.

At last Deb reached her sister's room. It was another addition to the
ever-growing house, and marked, like each former one, the ever-growing
prosperity of the shop supporting it. The fastidious travelled eye
appraised the rich rugs and hangings, the massive "suite", the
delicately-furnished bed, and took in the general air of warm luxury
and unstinted comfort, even before it fell upon Rose herself--Rose,
fat and fair, and the picture of content, sitting in the
softest of arm-chairs, and the smartest of gowns and slippers, by the
brightest of wood fires, with a tableful of new novels and magazines on
one side of her, and a frilly cradle on the other.

"My husband may be a draper," she had remarked at various times, "but
he does give me a good home."

Deb, so long homeless amid her wealth, conceded at this moment, without
a grudge, that Rose's humble little arrow of ambition had fairly hit
the mark.

They embraced with all the warmth of the old Redford days. A few hasty
questions and answers were exchanged, and their heads met over the cradle.

"You poor child!" Deb exclaimed, as a matter of form. "Haven't you done
with this kind of thing yet?"

"Oh," said Rose, "I should feel lost without one now. And we wanted
another boy--we have only three, you know. Isn't he a darling?"

Number eleven, fast asleep, was fished from his downy bed and laid in
his aunt's arms, eagerly extended for him. His clothes might have been
woven by fairies, and he smelt like a violet bed in spring.

Strange thrills--sharper than those that Nannie had set going--shook
Deb's big heart as she cuddled and kissed him.

"The older I get," she confessed, "the greater fool I am about a baby.
And you do have such nice babies, Rose."

"Yes," simpered Rose. "They ARE nicer than most, certainly--I'm sure I
don't know why." Her eyes gloated on the white bundle; she fidgeted to
get it back. "Ah, Debbie, I wish--I wish you knew--"

"I know you do, my dear," laughed Deb, a little queerly, and she
returned the baby in order to hunt for her handkerchief. "And if you
must know the truth, so do I. It's tantalising to see you with more
than your share, while I have none--and never shall have, worse luck!
Well"--blowing her nose cheerfully--"it's no use crying over spilt
milk, is it? And I tipped the can over myself, so I can't complain.
How's Peter?"

Rose told her how Peter was--"so dear, so good"--and then had so much
to say about the children, one by one, through all the eleven of them,
that it was quite in a hurry at last that Deb disclosed her secret. And
Rose not only sustained no shock--which would have been bad for her--
but could see nothing in the marriage worth fussing about, except the
fact that it came too late for a family. Such a sordidly domestic
person was she! She mourned and condoled over this spilt milk--so sure
that poor Deb was but hungrily lapping up drops with the dust of the
floor--that Deb grew almost angry. She took back her own words, and
said she was glad there were no children to come between her and her
husband, who needed only each other. She implied that this union had a
higher significance than could be grasped by a mere suckler of fools
(nice fools, no doubt) and chronicler of small beer (however good the
brew). She believed it, too. Love--great, solemn, immortal Love,
passionate and suffering--was a thing unknown to comfortable,
commonplace Rose, as doubtless to Peter also. They were dear, good
people, and fortunate in their ignorance and in what it spared
them; but it was annoying when ignorance assumed superior knowledge,
and wanted to teach its grandmother to suck eggs. Was it come to this--
that marriage and a family were synonymous terms? No, indeed, nor ever
would, while intelligent men and women walked the earth. Deb reserved
the more sacred confidences for Mary's ear. Mary had loved--strangely
indeed, but tragically, with pain and loss, the dignified concomitants
of the divine state. Mary would understand.


CHAPTER XXVII.


Mary's house was a chill and meagre contrast to that of Rose, but there
was nothing cold in Mary's welcome. To Deb's 'Darling! darling!' and
smothering embrace of furs, the slim woman responded with a grip and
pressure that represented all her strength. Deb, although not the
eldest, was the mother of the family, as well as the second mother of
Bob.

"Where is he?" were Mary's first words--and Deb smiled inwardly to see
her as absurd in her mother's vanity and preoccupation as Rose herself.
But this was a case of a widow's only son, and the visitor was thankful
for such a beginning to the interview. "Where is he?" cried the anxious
voice. "He was to have met you. And he never fails--this is not like
him--"

"Oh," Deb struck in easily, "he was there all right, looking after his
old aunt like a good boy. He wanted to bring me, but I told him he
could be more useful looking after Rosalie and my things. I thought
we'd rather be by ourselves, Molly--poor old girl! You know I never
heard a word until he told me just now. Your letter did not reach me."

They kissed again, in the passage of the little house.

"You will send away the carriage, Debbie?" Mary urged, without
visible emotion. "There are stables in the next street. You will take
off your hat and stay with me a little?"

"Indeed I will, dearest, if you will have me. Are you alone?"

"Quite alone."

"Where's the old lady?"

"Oh, dead--dead long ago."

"And Ruby?"

Mary looked confused.

"Ruby? Ruby is--don't you know?--an actress in London. Doing very
well, they tell me--"Miss Pearla Gold" in the profession."

"Gracious! Why, I've seen her! Burlesque. Tights. The minx! Well, she
must be coining money, anyhow. I hope she doesn't forget to make some
return for all the trouble she has been to you."

"She forgets everything," said the step-mother, "and we are thankful
for it. Bob hates the thought; it is hard on him, who is so different.
Don't allude to it before him, please; he feels it too keenly. Debbie,
what did you think of my boy?" "Oh, splendid!" was the cordial
response. "I could hardly believe my eyes."

"Is he not?" the fond mother urged. "And it is not only his appearance,
Debbie--they say he is the cleverest lawyer in Melbourne. He is so
learned, so acute! He has a practice already that many a barrister,
well known and of twice his age, might envy."

The pale woman--for her bricky colour had faded out--thrilled and
glowed.

"Yes, he told me," said Deb; "and it was good hearing indeed.
But I always knew what he had in him.' To herself she said: 'Why, if he
is so well off, does he let her live like this?"

Poverty--though decent poverty--proclaimed itself in every detail of
the mean terrace-house, which stood in the most depressing street
imaginable. It made the wealthy sister's heart ache.

"And how are you yourself, Debbie?" Mary remembered to ask, as she shut
the door upon the departing carriage. "You look well. How is Francie?
We want you to tell us all about her grand doings. Bob is greatly
interested in his Italian aunt; he thinks he would like to take a
vacation trip to see her some day. By the way, did he tell you that
Rose has another? Isn't she a perfect little rabbit? And quite
delighted, Keziah says."

As she talked in this detachment from her personal affairs, she led the
way up bare stairs to her small bedroom. The resplendent woman behind
her took note of the widow's excessive thinness, the greyness of her
straight, tight hair, the rigid lines of a black stuff gown that had
not a scrap of trimming on it--not even the lawn sleeve-bands widows
use--and thought of Bennet Goldsworthy's old-time annoyance when his
wife was proved to have fallen behind the mode. And as she expatiated
upon the charms of Rose's eleventh baby, Deb's bright dark eyes roved
about Mary's room, in which she recognised a few of the plainer
furnishings of the nuptial chamber of the past.

But not a trace of the person who had been so much amongst them once.
His boots on the floor, his clothes on the door-pegs, his razors and
brushes on the toilet-table were gone; so were a basin and ewer
from the double wash-stand; so was the wide bed. In place of the latter
a small one--originally Bob's--had been set up, at the head of which
lay one large pillow fairly glistening with the shine of its fresh,
although darned, linen sheath. Carpet and curtains, essential to the
departed housefather, had disappeared; the bare windows stood open to
what fresh air there was; the floor, polished, and with one rug at the
bedside, exhaled the sweet perfume of beeswax and turpentine. It was
all so pathetic to the visitor, so eloquent of loss and change, that
she exclaimed, catching her sister in her arms:

"Oh, you poor thing! You poor, poor thing!"

Mrs Goldsworthy returned the embrace tenderly, but not the emotional
impulse.

"You are so dear and kind," she said, in a gentle, but quite steady
voice. "I am so glad you came--so thankful to have you; but we won't
talk about that, if you don't mind. I think it is best not to dwell on
troubles, if you can help it. Tell me about yourself. I suppose you
have had lunch? Well, then, we will have a nice cup of tea. Take off
that heavy cloak--what lovely fur! And your hat too--what a smart
affair! You always have such taste. No, I am not wearing crape; it is
such rough, uncomfortable stuff, and so perishable; and the rule is not
hard and fast nowadays, as it used to be. It would be stupid to make it
so in a climate like this. Do you want a comb, dear? How brown your
hair keeps still! Then let us go downstairs to the fire."

The fire was in a little bare parlour, as austerely appointed as the
bedroom. A tea-table was drawn up to the hearth, the kettle placed on
the coals. There seemed no servant on the premises, but the
neatness upstairs was repeated below; everything was speckless,
polished, smelling of its own purity. Well, it was a good thing poor
Molly could interest herself in these matters, and her resolve not to
brood over her troubles--if it was genuine, and not only a heroic pose
--both noble and wise. So Deb reflected; and such was the calmness of
the emotional atmosphere, the cheering effect of tea and rest and
sisterly companionship, the discursiveness of the talk, that she soon
found herself telling Mary the secret that she was so sure the widow
would hear with special sympathy and understanding.

"It is awfully selfish," she began, "to bother you with my affairs at
such a time as this, but you've got to know it some time. The fact is--
some folks would say there's no fool like an old fool, and perhaps
you'll agree with them; but no, I don't think you will--not you, for
you know...the fact is--don't laugh--but I'm sure nobody can help it
--I have been and gone and got married, Molly. There!"

And, after all, it seemed that she had not come to the right place for
sympathy and understanding. Mary did not laugh, but she stared in a
wooden manner that was even more hurtful to the feelings of the new
wife.

"Well?" she cried brusquely, after a painful pause. "Is there any just
cause or impediment that you know of? You look as if you thought I had
no business to be happy like other people."

"Oh, if you are happy! But I am so surprised. Who is it?"

"Guess," said Deb.

"I could not. I haven't an idea. Some Englishman, of course."

Deb shook her head.

"European, then? Some prince or count, as big as Francie's, or bigger?"

Deb wrinkled a disdainful nose.

"It is no use, Moll; you would not come near it in fifty tries. I'll
tell you--Claud Dalzell."

"What--the deadly enemy!" This time Mrs Goldsworthy did laugh. Deb
joined in.

"Funny, isn't it? I feel"--sarcastically--"like going into fits
myself when I think of it, it is so screamingly absurd. And how it
happened I can't tell you, unless it is that we are fallen into our
dotage. I suppose it must be that."

"You in your dotage!" Mary mocked, with an affectionate sincerity that
was grateful to her sister's ear. "You are the youngest of us all, and
always will be. Do you ever look at yourself in the glass? Upright as a
dart, and your pretty wavy hair--so thick, and scarcely a grey thread
in it! Of course, I don't know how it may be with him; I have not seen
him for such ages--"

"Oh, he is a perfect badger for greyness--not that I ever saw a
badger, by the way. And he walks with a stick, and has dreadful chronic
things the matter with him, from eating and drinking too much all his
life, and never taking enough exercise. Quite the old man, I should
have called him a few months ago. But he is better now."

Mrs Goldsworthy gave a little shudder, and her unsympathetic gravity
returned.

"I see," she sighed. "Your benevolent heart has run away with
you, as usual. His infirmities appealed to your pity. You married him
so that you might nurse and take care of him--"

"Not at all!" Deb broke in warmly. "And don't you talk about his
infirmities in that free-and-easy way; he is no more infirm than you
are. Did I say he was? That was my joke. He always was the handsomest
man that I ever set eyes on, and he is the same still. No, my dear, I
have not married him to take care of him, but so that he may take care
of me. I'm lonely. I want somebody. I've come to the time of life when
I am of no account to the young folks--not even to Bob, who would not
give me a second thought if I was a poor woman. No, Molly dear, it is
no use your pretending; you know it as well as I do. And quite natural
too. It is the same with all of them. Nothing but money gives me
importance in their eyes. And what's money? It won't keep you warm in
the winter of your days--nothing will, except a companion that is in
the same boat. That is what I want--it may be silly, but I do--
somebody to go down into the valley of the shadow with me; and he feels
the same.' Something in Mary's face as she stared into the fire,
something in the atmosphere of the conversation, drove her into this
line of self-defence. 'Oh, there is no love-making and young nonsense
in our case--we are not quite such idiots as that comes to; it is just
that we begin to feel the cold, as it were, and are going to camp
together to keep each other warm. That's all."

Mary remained silent.

"Well, I must go," said Deb, jumping up, as if washing her hands of a
disappointing job. "The carriage must be there, and Bob will be
starving for his dinner. No use asking you to join us, I know. But you
must come to Redford soon, Molly--or somewhere out of this--when you
feel better and able. You shall have rooms entirely to yourself, and
needn't see anybody. I will come tomorrow, and you must let me talk to
you about it."

Mrs Goldsworthy was stooping to sweep a sprinkle of ashes out of the
fender--she was like an old maid in her faddy tidiness--and when she
turned, her face was working as if to repress tears. Deb caught her up,
a moan bursting from her lips.

"Oh, what a brute I am! when you--poor, poor old girl!--have to
finish it alone. But, darling, after all, you have had the good years--
a child of your own--a home; we shall get only the dregs at the bottom
of the cup. So it is not so very unfair, is it?" Then Mary's pent
emotion issued in a laugh. With her face on her sister's shoulder, she
tried herself to silence it.

"I can't help it," she apologised. "I would if I could. Debbie, don't
go! Oh, my dear, don't think I envy you! Don't go yet! I want to tell
you something. I may never have another chance." "Of course I won't go
--I want to stay," said Deb at once.

And she stayed. The coachman was dismissed to get his meal, and
instructed to telephone to Bob to do the same. The sisters had a little
picnic dinner by themselves, washing up their plates and dishes in the
neat kitchen, Deb insisting upon taking part in the performance, and
sat long by the fireside afterwards. Fortunately, although the season
was late spring, it was a cold day; for the clear red fire was
the one bit of brightness to charm a visitor to that poor house. It
crackled cosily, toasting their toes outstretched upon the fender-bar,
melting their mood to such glowing confidences as they had not
exchanged since Mary was in her teens. No lamps were lighted. The widow
was frugal with gas when eyes were idle; her extravagant sister loved
firelight to talk in.

But for a while it seemed that Mary had nothing particular to
communicate. Deb did not like to put direct questions, but again and
again led the conversation in the likely direction, to find Mary
avoiding it like a shying horse. She would not talk of her husband, but
interested herself for an hour in the subject of Guthrie Carey,
Guthrie's wife, his child, his home, discussing the matter with a
calmness that made Deb forget how delicate a one it was. Then Mary had
a hundred questions to ask (probably on Bob's account) about the
Countess, of whom she had known nothing of late years, while Deb had
learned something from time to time, and could give an approximately
true tale. Quite another hour was taken up with Francie's wrongs and
wrong-doings, as to which Deb was more frank with this sister than she
would have been with Rose.

"It is no use blinking the fact," she said straight out, "that Francie
is no better than she should be. I can't understand it; no Pennycuick
that ever I heard of took that line before. She has a dog's life with
that ruffian, no doubt; and of course the poor child never had a chance
to enjoy the right thing in the right way--though that was her own
fault--"

"I don't think," Mary broke in, "that ANYTHING is ANYBODY'S
fault."

"That's a most dangerous heathen doctrine, my dear, but I'll admit
there's something in it. Poor Francie! she was born at a disadvantage,
with that fascinating face of hers set on the foundation of so light a
character. She was too pretty, to start with. The pretty people get so
spoiled, so filled with their own conceit, that they grow up expecting
a world made on purpose for them. They grab right and left, if the
plums don't fall into their mouths directly they open them, because it
gets to be a sort of matter of course that they should have everything,
and do exactly as they like."

"And the plain ones--they are born at a worse disadvantage still."

"No, they are not. Look at Rose. Francie, with her gilded wretchedness,
thinks Rosie's lot quite despicable; but I can tell you, Molly, she is
the most utterly comfortable and contented little soul on the face of
this earth. She would not change places with a queen." "But Rose is not
plain. Rose is the happy medium. Then Christina was brought into
the hall and placed before the old peasant.

It was strange, no doubt, to see a child--a little girl of six years
old--offered to the Swedes as their ruler instead of the brave
king, her father, who had led then to victory so many times.

Could her baby fingers wield a sword in war? Could her childish
mind govern the nation wisely in peace?

But the Swedes do not appear to have asked themselves these questions.
Old Lars Larrson took Christina up in his arms and gazed
earnestly into her face.

He had known the great Gustavus well; and his heart was touched
when he saw the likeness which the little girl bore to that heroic
monarch.

"Yes," cried he, with the tears gushing down his furrowed cheeks; "this
is truly the daughter of our Gustavus! Here is her father's brow!--here
is his piercing eye! She is his very picture!

This child shall be our queen!"
Then all the proud nobles of Sweden, and the reverend clergy, and
the burghers, and the peasants, knelt down at the child's feet and
kissed her hand.

"Long live Christina, Queen of Sweden!" shouted they.

Even after she was a woman grown Christina remembered the pleasure
which she felt in seeing all of hose men at her feet and
hearing them acknowledge her as their supreme ruler. Poor child! she
was yet to learn that power does not insure happiness. As yet, however,
she had not any real power. All the public business, it is true, was
transacted in her name; but the kingdom was governed by a number
of the most experienced statesmen, who were called a regency.

But it was considered necessary that the little queen, should be
present at the public ceremonies, and should behave just as if she
were in reality the ruler of the nation.

When she was seven years of age, some ambassadors from the Czar of
Muscovy came to the Swedish court.

They wore long beards, and were clad in a strange fashion, with furs
and other outlandish ornaments; and as they were inhabitants of a
half- civilized country, they did not behave like other people.

The Chancellor Oxenstiern was afraid that the young queen would
burst out a laughing at the first sight of these queer ambassadors,
or else that she would be frightened by their unusual aspect.

"Why should I be frightened?" said the little queen. "And do you suppose
that I have no better manners than to laugh? Only tell me how I must
behave, and I will do it."

Accordingly, the Muscovite ambassadors were introduced; and Christina
received them and answered their speeches with as much dignity and
propriety as if sho had been a grown woman.

All this time, though Christina was now a queen, you must not suppose
that she was left to act as she pleased.

She had a preceptor, named John Mathias, who was a very learned man
and capable of instructing her in all the branches of science.

But there was nobody to teach her the delicate graces and gentle virtues
of a woman. She was surrounded almost entirely by men, and had learned
to despise the society of her own sex. At the age of nine years she was
separated from her mother, whom the Swedes did not consider a proper
person to be intrusted with the charge of her. No little girl who sits
by a New England fireside has cause to envy Christina in the royal
palace at Stockholm.

Yet she made great progress in her studies. She learned to read the
classical authors of Greece and Rome, and became a great admirer
of the heroes and poets of old times.

"Some day," said Mary, "when I get into a place where I cannot hear
religion spoken of, nor see it practised, I may learn the value of it.
I hope so. I have a chance of it now--the way is clear. I am through
the wood at last."

Deb drew her filmy handkerchief across her eyes.

"Yes, I know." Mary smiled at her sister's grief. "But it is only for
this once, Debbie dear. I did want to let you know--to have the
delight of not being a liar and a shuffler for once. I shall not say
such things again. I am not going to shock anybody else, for Bob's
sake. Bob, of course, must be considered; after all, it was his father.
None of us, even the freest, can be a free agent altogether; I
understand that. I shall hold my tongue. The blessed thing is that that
will be sufficient--a negative attitude, with the mouth shut; one is
not driven any longer to positive deceit, without even being able to
say that you can't help it. Oh, Debbie, you have been a free woman--
why, why didn't you keep so?--but with all your freedom, and all your
money, you don't know the meaning of such luxury as I live in now."

Deb gazed at her sister's rapt face, glowing in the firelight, and
wondered if the brain behind it could be altogether sane.

"To call that HAPPINESS!" she ejaculated, with sad irony and scorn.

"If you must fix a name to it--yes," the widow considered
thoughtfully.

"After all, 'unmiserable' does not go far enough. I AM happy. For,
Debbie"--turning to look into the dark, troubled eyes--"I'm
clean now--I never thought to be again--to know anything so
exquisitely sweet, either in earth or heaven--I'm clean, body and
soul, day and night, inside and outside, at last."

"Oh, POOR girl!" Deb moaned, with tears, when she realised what this
meant.

"Rich," corrected Mary--"rich, dear, with just a roof and a crust of
bread."

"Well," said Deb presently, "what about that roof and crust of bread?
Since we are telling each other everything, tell me what your resources
are. Don't say it is not my business; I know it isn't, but I shall be
wretched if you don't let me make it mine a little. How much have you?"

"I don't know. I don't care. I haven't given money a thought. It
doesn't matter."

"But it does matter. You can't even keep clean without a bathtub and a
bit of soap. But what am I thinking of?--of course, you will settle
all that with Bob."

The little word of three letters brought Mrs Goldsworthy down from her
clouds at once.

"Oh, no!" she cried quickly, almost fearfully. "On no account would I
interfere with his arrangements, his career. He would do everything
that was right and dutiful, I am sure, but I would sooner starve than
take charity from my own child. But there's no need to take it from
anybody. I have all I want."

"How much?"

"I couldn't tell you to a pound or two, but enough for my small wants."

"They do seem small, indeed. Where are you going to live? Won't you
come to me, Molly? Redford is big enough, and it's morally
yours as much as mine. You should have your own rooms--all the privacy
you like--"

"No, darling--thank you all the same. I have made my plans. I am going
to have a little cottage somewhere in the country, where there is no
dust, or smoke, or people--where I can walk on clean earth and grass,
and smell only trees and rain and the growing things. Alone? Oh, yes!
Of course, I shall see you sometimes--and my boy; but for a home--all
the home I can want or wish for now--that is my dream."

"I don't think," said Deb, "that I ever heard human ambition--and
happiness--expressed in such terms before." It was the final result of
Mary's experiment in the business of a woman's life.

'Harry,' said he, half-kindly, and choking, 'you're better out of it.'

'I'm the best friend he could have by him, sir.'
'You're the best tool he could have handy, for you're a gentleman.'

'I hope I shan't offend you, grandfather, but I must go.'
'Don't you see, Harry Richmond, you're in for an infernal marriage
ceremony there!'
'The young lady is not of age,' interposed my aunt.
'Eh? An infernal elopement, then. It's clear the girl's mad-head's
cracked as a cocoa-nut bowled by a monkey, brains nowhere.I found my mate in the beginning,
before there was time to make mistakes--the right man, whom I could
love in the right way--and we have been kept for each other through
all these years, although for a long time we did not know it. And now
we are together--or shall be in a few days--never to part again. It
is the only love-story in the family--I don't except Rose's, because I
don't call that a love-story--which has had a happy ending."


CHAPTER XXVIII.


Down the middle of the big T-shaped wool-shed, in two rows of six pens
each, with an aisle between them, the bleating sheep were massed. They
had been driven into that aisle and thus distributed, as a crowd of
soldiers might be packed into their pews at church, and twelve little
gates had then been shut upon them. Each gate had a corresponding one
at the opposite end of the pen, opening upon a broad lane of floor, and
facing a doorway into outside pens and the sunny paddocks of the
background. Between gate and door, on his own section of the boarded
lane, a sweating, bare-armed man with shears performed prodigies of
strength and skill. Every few minutes he snatched a heavy sheep from
the pen beside him, flung it with a round turn into a sitting posture
between his knees, and with the calm indifference to its violent
objections of the spider to those of the fly that he makes into a
parcel, sliced off its coat like a cook peeling a potato. The fleece
gently fell upon the floor, as you may see an unnoticed shawl slip from
an old lady's shoulders, and before it could realise what had happened,
the poor naked animal found itself shot through the doorway, to stagger
headlong down the sloping stage that was its returning path to freedom.
Twelve of these stalwart and strenuous operators, lining the long walls
at regular intervals, six a side, were at it with might and
main (payment by results being the rule in this department of
industry), and attendant boys strolled up and down, picking the fleeces
from the floor and carrying them to the sorter's table. One was the
tar-boy, whose business it was to dab a brushful of tar upon any
scarlet patch appearing upon a white under-coat where the shears had
clipped too close. The sorter or classer stood behind his long table,
above and at right angles to the lines of sheep-pens and shearers. Near
him on either hand were racks like narrow loose-boxes, built against
the walls; behind him the hydraulic press cranked and creaked as its
attendants fed and manipulated it, and the great bales, that others
were sewing up, weighing, and branding, were mounting high in the
transepts of the building--the two arms of the capital T. The air was
thick with woolly particles and the smell of sheep; the floor was dark
and slippery, and everything one touched humid with the impalpable
grease of the silky fleeces circulating all about the shed. Strict,
downright, dirty business was the order of the day.

The manager--Jim Urquhart, grey-bearded, in a battered felt hat and a
slouchy old tweed suit--stood by the sorter's table, his wide-ranging,
vigilant eye suddenly fixed upon it. I could not avail myself of this,
having so little time to remain in London.

I must mention, as showing further Mr. Kingsley's state of mind toward
Maurice, that he had named his son after him. He spoke of the boy
as being intended for the army: the family, he said, had been soldiers
for generations. "That is the profession England will need for
the next five-and-twenty years."

Of Forster he said, "What a pity he had not been put in the army at
the age of eighteen!--he would have been a general now. England
has need of such men." I note this as showing the curious apprehension
of war which he, an Englishman, felt eighteen years ago, and which
he expressed to me, an American. How little either of us thought of the
struggle which men of English blood were to engage in in three years
from that time! How little I could dream that one of the decisive battles
of the world was so soon to be fought in my own State, Pennsylvania!

Our morning was spent in all this varied talk, walking partly on the lawn,
partly in the study. His pipe was still his companion. He seemed to
need to walk incessantly, such was his nervous activity of temperament.
He asked me if it annoyed me for him to walk so much up and down his
study.

The slight impediment in his speech one forgot as one listened to the
flow of his discourse.

He talked a volume while I was with him, and what he said often
rose to eloquence. There was humor too in it, of which I can give
no example, for it was fine and delicate.

But what most impressed me was his perfect simplicity of character.

He talked of his wife with the strongest affection--wished I could
remain longer with them, if only to know her better.

Nothing could be more tender than his manner toward her. He went for
her when we were in the study, and the last half hour of my stay she
sat with us. She is one of five sisters who are all married
to eminent men.

It occurs to me to note, as among my last recollections of our talk,
that I spoke of Spurgeon, whom I had heard in London a short time before,
and was very favorably impressed with. I could not but commend his
simple, strong Saxon speech, the charm of his rich full voice, and
above all the earnest aim which I thought was manifest in all he
uttered. Mr.Only there was plenty of vigour still manifest in the bushman's bony
frame, while the man of the world wore a valetudinarian air, leaning on
the arm of his regal, upright wife.

"Eh, isn't it like old times!" she mused aloud, as her eyes roamed
about the shed, where every sweating worker was finding time to gaze at
her. "I see some of the old faces--there's Harry Fox--and old David--
and isn't that Keziah's grandson? I must go and speak to them."

She left her husband at the sorter's table, that he and Jim might get
reacquainted--men never learned to know each other while women were in
the way--and it seemed to them both a long time before she came back.
Claud asked questions about the clip, and other matters of business;
and he criticised the manager's management.

"Rather behind the times--isn't it?--for a place like Redford. I
thought all the big stations sheared by machinery now."

"I've only been waiting for Miss--Mrs Dalzell's return to advise her
to have the machines," said Jim, scrupulous to give Deb's husband all
possible information.

"We must have them, of course. I believe in scientific methods."

Mr Dalzell did not ask Jim how his sisters were, and how his
brothers were getting on--did not remember that he had any. And when
Deb came back, to be gently but firmly ordered out of that dirty place
by her new lord and master, the latter failed to take, although he did
not fail to perceive, the hint of her eyes that Jim should be asked to
dinner.

"No," said he, linking his arm in hers as they left the shed, "no
outsiders, Debbie. I want you all to myself now."

And the words and tone were so sweet to her that she could not be sorry
for the possible hurt to Jim's feelings. She was young again today,
with her world-weary husband making love to her like this. That theory
of their having come together merely to keep each other warm on the
cold road to the grave was laughingly flung to the winds. She laid her
strong right hand on his, limp upon her arm, and expanded her deep
chest to the sunny morning air.

"Oh, Claud! Oh, isn't it wonderful, after all these years! You remember
that night--that night in the garden? The seat is there still--we
will go and sit on it tonight--"

"My dear, I dare not sit out after sunset, so subject as I am to
bronchitis."

"No, no, of course not--I forgot your bronchitis. This is the time for
you to be out--and this air will soon make another man of you, dear.
Isn't it a heavenly climate? Isn't it divine, this sun? Look here,
Claud, we've got some capital horses--or we had; I'll ask Jim. What do
you say to a ride--a long, lovely bush ride, like the old rides we
used to have together?"

Words cannot describe the pang that went through her when he
shook his head indifferently, and said he was too old for such violent
exercise now.

"Stuff!" she cried angrily.--

"Besides, I haven't been on a horse for so long that I shouldn't know
how to sit him," he teased her lazily. "You wouldn't like to see me
tumble off at your hall door, before the servants, would you?"

said Edward.

"Well, my dear Edward," observed his mother, with a smile, "I am glad
you are convinced that your own lot is not the hardest in the world."

CHAPTER VII.

It was a pleasant sight, for those who had eyes, to see how patiently
the blinded little boy now submitted to what he had at first deemed an
intolerable calamity.

The beneficent Creator has not allowed our comfort to depend on the
enjoyment of any single sense.

Though he has made the world so very beautiful, yet it is possible
to be happy without ever be holding the blue sky, or the green and
flowery earth, or the kind faces of those whom we love.

Thus it appears that all the external beauty of the universe is a free
gift from God over and above what is necessary to our comfort. How
grateful, then, should we be to that divine Benevolence, which showers
even superfluous bounties upon us!

One truth, therefore, which Edward's blindness had taught him was, that
his mind and soul could dispense with the assistance of his eyes.
Doubtless, however, he would have found this lesson far more
difficult to learn had it not been for the affection of those around
him. His parents, and George and Emily, aided him to bear his misfortune;
if possible, they would have lent him their own eyes. And this, too,
was a good lesson for him. It taught him how dependent on one another
God has ordained us to be, insomuch that all the necessities of
mankind should incite them to mutual love.
So Edward loved his friends, and perhaps all the world, better than
he ever did before. And be felt grateful towards his father for
spending the evenings in telling him stories,--more grateful,
probably, than any of my little readers will feel towards me for
so carefully writing these same stories down.At luncheon, as at every other meal--despite the new husband's
expressed desire to have his wife to himself--his valet was present as
butler, watching over the dyspeptic's diet, and seeing that the wine
was right. Neither master nor man trusted anybody else to do this. It
was a large crumple in Deb's rose-leaf, Manton's limpet-like attachment
to Claud, who seemed unable to do anything without his servant's help,
and the latter's cool relegation of herself to the second place in the
MENAGE. It was all very well for HER to give her husband the premier
place--she did it gladly--but for Manton to take possession of
Redford as a mere appendage of his lord's was quite another matter. It
was still the honeymoon, and he might do as he liked--or rather, as
Claud liked; but it was not difficult to foresee the day when the valet
who dictated to her cook would become too much for the proud spirit of
the lady of the house, with whom it had ever been dangerous to make too
free--or to foretell what would happen then.

Claud dozed through the afternoon--like most idle and luxurious men,
he drank a great deal of wine, which made him sleepy--and Deb took the
opportunity to go all through her house and put everything in order.
They met again at tea, and had a stroll about the garden, arm-in-arm
and happy. Dinner was a rather silent function. Deb wished for
Jim, and regretted her easy abandonment of him; Claud never talked when
he was eating--the business was too serious, and Manton was there. But
while her husband smoked over his coffee, serene and charming, she sat
alone with him, revelling in his wit and gaiety, telling herself that
he was indeed the splendid fellow she had always thought him.

Then they went up to the big drawing-room--he was used to big rooms--
and he flung himself at full length upon one of the downy couches, and
she put silk pillows under his head.

While she was doing it, he pulled her down to him and kissed her.

You jump plump into a furious lot of the girl's relatives; you might
as well take a header into a leech-pond.

Come! you're a man; think for yourself. Don't have this affair on
your conscience, boy.

I tell you, Harry Richmond, I'm against your going.
What years it was since she had cared to touch piano keys! And never
since the love-time of her youth had she played as she did now--all
the old things that he had ever cared for, with the old passion in
them. . . .

And while she played--he slumbered peacefully.