"I was waiting to learn what you and Langston would say."

"He will say take it."

"Then I will be too happy for words. Ruth, you have not only paid the
debt, but you have brought me the greatest joy a man ever had. And there
is no need to wait the ages I thought I must. He can tell in a year if I
can do the work, and I know I can now; so it's all settled, if Langston
agrees."

"He will," said the Girl. "Let me tell him!"

"I wish you would," said the doctor. "I don't know just how to go at
it."

Then for two days the Harvester and Belshazzar gathered herbs and spread
them on the drying trays. On the afternoon of the third, close three,
the doctor came to the door.

"Langston," he said, "we have a call for you. We can't keep Ruth quiet
much longer. She is tired. We want to change her bed completely. She
won't allow either of us to lift her. She says we hurt her. Will you
come and try it?"

"You'll have to give me time to dip and rub off and get into clean
clothing," he said. "I've been keeping away, because I was working on
time, and I smell to strangulation of stramonium and saffron."

"Can't give you ten seconds," said the doctor. "Our temper is getting
brittle. We are cross as the proverbial fever patient. If you don't come
at once we will imagine you don't want to, and refuse to be moved at
all."

"Coming!" cried the Harvester, as he plunged his hands in the wash bowl
and soused his face. A second later he appeared on the porch.

"Ruth," he said, "I am steeped in the odours of the dry-house. Can't you
wait until I bathe and dress?"

"No, I can't," said a fretful voice. "I can't endure this bed another
minute."

"Then let Doctor Harmon lift you. He is so fresh and clean."

The Harvester glanced enviously at the shaven face and white trousers
and shirt of the doctor.

"I just hate fresh, clean men. I want to smell herbs. I want to put my
feet in the dirt and my hands in the water."

The Harvester came at a rush. He brought a big easy chair from the
living-room, straightened the cover, and bent above the Girl. He picked
her up lightly, gently, and easing her to his body settled in the chair.
She laid her face on his shoulder, and heaved a deep sigh of content.

"Be careful with my back, Man," she said. "I think my spine is almost
worn through."

"Poor girl," said the Harvester. "That bed should be softer."

"It should not!" contradicted the Girl. "It should be much harder. I'm
tired of soft beds. I want to lie on the earth, with my head on a root;
and I wish it would rain dirt on me. I am bathed threadbare. I want to
be all streaky."

"I understand," said the Harvester. "Harmon, bring me a pad and pencil
a minute, I must write an order for some things I want. Will you call up
town and have them sent out immediately?"

On the pad he wrote: "Telephone Carey to get the highest grade
curled-hair mattress, a new pad, and pillow, and bring them flying in
the car. Call Granny and the girl and empty the room. Clean, air, and
fumigate it thoroughly. Arrange the furniture differently, and help me
into the living-room with Ruth." He handed the pad to the doctor.

"Please attend to that," he said, and to the Girl: "Now we go on a
journey. Doc, you and Molly take the corners of the rug we are on and
slide us into the other room until you get this aired and freshened."

In the living-room the Girl took one long look at the surroundings
and suddenly relaxed. She cuddled against the Harvester and lifting a
tremulous white hand, drew it across his unshaven cheek.

"Feels so good," she said. "I'm sick and tired of immaculate men."

The Harvester laughed, tucked her feet in the cover and held her
tenderly. The Girl lay with her cheek against the rough khaki, palpitant
with the excitement of being moved.

"Isn't it great?" she panted.

He caught the hand that had touched his cheek in a tender grip, and
laughed a deep rumble of exultation that came from the depths of his
heart.

"There's no name for it, honey," he said. "But don't try to talk until
you have a long rest. Changing positions after you have lain so long may
be making unusual work for your heart. Am I hurting your back?"

"No," said the Girl. "This is the first time I have been comfortable in
ages. Am I tiring you?"

"Yes," laughed the Harvester. "You are almost as heavy as a large sack
of leaves, but not quite equal to a bridge pillar or a log. Be sure to
think of that, and worry considerably. You are in danger of straining my
muscles to the last degree, my heart included."

"Where is your heart?" whispered the Girl.

"Right under your cheek," answered the Harvester. "But for Heaven's
sake, don't intimate that you are taking any interest in it, or it will
go to pounding until your head will bounce. It's one member of my body
that I can't control where you are concerned."

"I thought you didn't like me any more."

"Careful!" warned the Harvester. "You are yet too close Heaven to fib
like that, Ruth. What have I done to indicate that I don't love you more
than ever?"

"Stayed away nearly every minute for three awful days, and wouldn't come
without being dragged; and now you're wishing they would hurry and fix
that bed, so you can put me down and go back to your rank old herbs
again."

"Well of all the black prevarications! I went when you sent me, and
came when you called. I'd willingly give up my hope of what Granny calls
'salvation' to hold you as I am for an hour, and you know it."

"It's going to be much longer than that," said the Girl nestling to him.
"I asked for you because you never hurt me, and they always do. I knew
you were so strong that my weight now wouldn't be a load for one of your
hands, and I am not going back to that bed until I am so tired that I
will be glad to lie down."

For a long time she was so silent the Harvester thought her going to
sleep; and having learned that for him joy was probably transient, he
deliberately got all he could. He closely held the hand she had not
withdrawn, and often lifted it to his lips. Sometimes he stroked the
heavy braid, gently ran his hands across the tired shoulders, or eased
her into a different position. There was not a doubt in his mind of one
thing. He was having a royal, good time, and he was thankful for the
work he had set his assistants that kept them out of the room. They
seemed in no hurry, and from scuffling, laughing, and a steady stream of
talk, they were entertained at least. At last the Girl roused.

"There is something I want to ask you," she said. "I promised Doctor
Harmon I would."

Instantly the heart of the Harvester gave a leap that jarred the head
resting on it.

"You don't like him?" questioned the Girl.

"I do!" declared the Harvester. "I like him immensely. There is not a
fine, manly good-looking feature about him that I have missed. I don't
fail to do him justice on every point."

"I'm so glad! Then you will want him to remain."

"Here?" asked the Harvester with a light, hot breath.

"In Onabasha! Doctor Carey has offered him the place of chief assistant
at the hospital. There is a good salary and the chance of taking up
the doctor's work as he grows older. It means plenty to do at once,
healthful atmosphere, congenial society----everything to a young man.
He only had a call once in a while in Chicago, often among people who
received more than they paid, like me, and he was very lonely. I think
it would be great for him."

"And for you, Ruth?"

"It doesn't make the least difference to me; but for his sake, because I
think so much of him, I would like to see him have the place."

"You still think so much of him, Ruth?"

"More, if possible," said the Girl. "Added to all I owed him before, he
has come here and worked for days to save me, and it wasn't his fault
that it took a bigger man. Nothing alters the fact that he did all he
could, most graciously and gladly."

"What do you mean, Ruth?" stammered the Harvester.

"Oh they have worn themselves out!" cried the Girl impatiently. "First,
Granny Moreland told me every least little detail of how I went out, and
you resurrected me. I knew what she said was true, because she worked
with you. Then Doctor Carey told me, and Mrs. Carey, and Doctor Harmon,
and Molly, and even Granny's little assistant has left the kitchen to
tell me that I owe my life to you, and all of them might as well have
saved breath. I knew all the time that if ever I came out of this, and
had a chance to be like other women, it would be your work, and I'm glad
it is. I'd hate to be under obligations to some people I know; but I
feel honoured to be indebted to you."

"I'm mighty sorry they worried you. I had no idea----"

"They didn't 'worry,' me! I am just telling you that I knew it all the
time; that's all!"

"Forget that!" said the Harvester. "Come back to our subject. What was
it you wanted, dear?"

"To know if you have any objections to Doctor Harmon remaining in
Onabasha?"

"Certainly not! It will be a fine thing for him."

"Will it make any difference to you in any way?"

"Ruth, that's probing too deep," said the Harvester.

"I don't see why!"

"I'm glad of it!"

"Why?"

"I'd least rather show my littleness to you than to any one else on
earth."

"Then you have some feeling about it?"

"Perhaps a trifle. I'll get over it. Give me a little time to adjust
myself. Doctor Harmon shall have the place, of course. Don't worry about
that!"

"He will be so happy!"

"And you, Ruth?"

"I'll be happy too!"

"Then it's all right," said the Harvester.

He laid down her hand, drew the cover over it, and slightly shifted her
position to rest her. The door opened, and Doctor Harmon announced that
the room was ready. It was shining and fresh. The bed was now turned
with its head to the north, so that from it one could see the big
trees in Medicine Woods, the sweep of the hillside, the sparkle of
mallow-bordered Singing Water, the driveway and the gold flower
garden. Everything was so changed that the room had quite a different
appearance. The instant he laid her on it the Girl said, "This bed is
not mine."

"Yes it is," said the Harvester. "You see, we were a little excited
sometimes, and we spilled a few quarts of perfectly good medicine on
your mattress. It was hopelessly smelly and ruined; so I am going to
cremate it and this is your splinter new one and a fresh pad and
pillow. Now you try them and see if they are not much harder and more
comfortable."

"This is just perfect!" she sighed, as she sank into the bed.

The Harvester bent over her to straighten the cover, when suddenly
she reached both arms around his neck, and gripped him with all her
strength.

"Thank you!" she said.

"May I hold you to-morrow?" whispered the Harvester, emboldened by this.

"Please do," said the Girl.

The Harvester, with dog to heel, went to the oak to think.

"Belshazzar, kommen Sie!" said the man, dropping on the seat and holding
out his hand. The dog laid his muzzle in the firm grip.

"Bel," said the Harvester, "I am all at sea. One day I think maybe I
have a little chance, the next----none at all. I had an hour of solid
comfort to-day, now I'm in the sweat box again. It's a little selfish
streak in me, Bel, that hates to see Harmon go into the hospital and
take my place with the Careys. They are my best and only friends. He is
young, social, handsome, and will be ever present. In three months he
will become so popular that I might as well be off the earth. I wish I
didn't think it, but I'm so small that I do. And then there is my
Dream Girl, Bel. The girl you found for me, old fellow. There never was
another like her, and she has my heart for all time. And he has hers.
That hospital plan is the best thing in the world for her. It will keep
her where Carey can have an eye on her, where the air is better, where
she can have company without the city crush, where she is close the
country, and a good living is assured. Bel, it's the nicest arrangement
you ever saw for every one we know, except us."

The Harvester laughed shortly. "Bel," he said, "tell me! If a man lived
a hundred years, could he have the heartache all the way? Seems like
I've had it almost that long now. In fact, I've had it such ages I'd
be lonesome without it. This is some more of my very own medicine, so I
shouldn't make a wry face over taking it. I knew what would happen when
I sent for him, and I didn't hesitate. I must not now.

"Only I got to stop one thing, Bel. I told him I would play square,
and I have. But here it ends. After this, I must step back and be big
brother. Lots of fun in this brother business, Bel. But maybe I am cut
out for it. Anyway it's written! But if it is, how did she come to allow
me such privileges as I took to-day? That wasn't professional by any
means. It was just the stiffest love-making I knew how to do, Bel, and
she didn't object by the quiver of an eyelash. God knows I was watching
closely enough for any sign that I was distasteful. And I might have
been well enough. Rough, herb-stained old clothes, unshaven, everything
to offend a dainty girl. She said I might hold her again to-morrow. And,
Bel, what the nation did she hug me like that for, if she's going to
marry him? Boy, I see my way clear to an hour more. While I'm at it,
just to surprise myself, I believe I'll take it like other men. I think
I'll go on a little bender, and make what probably will be the last day
a plumb good one. Something worth remembering is better than nothing
at all, Bel! He hasn't told me that he has won. She didn't SAY she was
going to marry him, and she did say he hurt her, and she wanted me. Bel,
how about the grimness of it, if she should marry him and then discover
that he hurts her, and she wants me. Lord God Almighty, if you have any
mercy at all, never put me up against that," prayed the Harvester, "for
my heart is water where she is concerned."

The Harvester arose, and going to the lake, he cut an arm load of big,
pink mallows, covered each mound with fresh flowers, whistled to the
dog, and went to his work. Many things had accumulated, and he cleaned
the barn, carried herbs from the dry-house to the store-room, and put
everything into shape. Close noon the next day he went to Onabasha, and
was gone three hours. He came back barbered in the latest style, and
carrying a big bundle. When the hour for arranging the bed came, he was
yet in his room, but he sent word he would be there in a second.

As he crossed the living-room he pulled a chair to the veranda and
placed a footstool before it. Then he stepped into the sunshine room. A
quizzical expression crossed the face of Doctor Harmon as he closed the
book he was reading aloud to the Girl and arose. Wholly unembarrassed
the Harvester smiled.

"Have I got this rigging anywhere near right?" he inquired.

"David, what have you done?" gasped the amazed Girl.

"I didn't feel anywhere near up to the 'mark of my high calling'
yesterday," quoted the Harvester. "I don't know how I appear, but I'm
clean as shaving, soap and hot water will make me, and my clothing will
not smell offensively. Now come out of that bed for a happy hour. Where
is that big coverlet? You are going on the veranda to-day."

"You look just like every one else," complained Doctor Harmon.

"You look perfectly lovely," declared the Girl.

"The swale sends you this invitation to come and see star-shine at the
foot of mullein hill," said the Harvester, offering a bouquet. It was a
loose bunch of long-stemmed, delicate flowers, each an inch across, and
having five pearl-white petals lightly striped with pale green. Five
long gold anthers arose, and at their base gold stamens and a green
pistil. The leaves were heart-shaped and frosty, whitish-green,
resembling felt. The Harvester bent to offer them.

"Have some Grass of Parnassus, my dear," he said.

The Girl waved them away. "Go stand over there by the door and slowly
turn around. I want to see you."

The Harvester obeyed. He was freshly and carefully shaven. His hair
was closely cropped at the base of the head, long, heavy, and slightly
waving on top. He wore a white silk shirt, with a rolling collar and
tie, white trousers, belt, hose, and shoes, and his hands were manicured
with care.

"Have I made a mess of it, or do I appear anything like other men?" he
asked, eagerly.

The Girl lifted her eyes to Doctor Harmon and smiled.

"Do you observe anything messy?" she inquired.

"You needn't fish for compliments quite so obviously," he answered.
"I'll pay them without being asked. I do not. He is quite correct, and
infinitely better looking than the average. Distinguished is a proper
word for the gentleman in my opinion. But why, in Heaven's name, have we
never had the pleasure of seeing you thus before?"

"Look here, Doc," said the Harvester, "do you mean that you enjoy
looking at me merely because I am dressed this way?"

"I do indeed," said the doctor. "It is good to see you with the garb of
work laid aside, and the stamp of cleanliness and ease upon you."

"By gum, that is rubbing it in a little too rough!" cried the Harvester.
"I bathe oftener than you do. My clothing is always clean when I start
out. Of course, in my work I come hourly in contact with muck, water,
and herb juices."

"It's understood that is unavoidable," said Doctor Harmon.

"And if cleanliness is made an issue, I'd rather roll in any of it
than put my finger tips into the daily work of a surgeon," added the
Harvester, and the Girl giggled.

"That's enough Medicine Man!" she said. "You did not make a 'mess' of
it, or anything else you ever attempted. As for appearing like other
men, thank Heaven, you do not. You look just a whole world bigger and
better and finer. Come, carry me out quickly. I am wild to go. Please
put my lovely flowers in water, Molly, only give me a few to hold."

The Harvester arranged the pink coverlet, picked up the Girl, and
carried her to the living-room.

"We will rest here a little," he said, "and then, if you feel equal to
it, we will try the veranda. Are you easy now?"

She nestled her face against the soft shirt and smiled at him. She
lifted her hand, laid it on his smooth cheek and then the crisp hair.

"Oh Man!" she cried. "Thank God you didn't give me up, too! I want life!
I want LIFE!"

The Harvester tightened his grip just a trifle. "Then I thank God, too,"
he said. "Can you tell me how you are, dear? Is there any difference?"

"Yes," she answered. "I grow tired lying so long, but there isn't the
ghost of an ache in my bones. I can just feel pure, delicious blood
running in my veins. My hands and feet are always warm, and my head
cool."

The Harvester's face drew very close. "How about your heart, honey?" he
whispered. "Anything new there?"

"Yes, I am all over new inside and out. I want to shout, run, sing, and
swim. Oh I'd give anything to have you carry me down and dip me in the
lake right now."

"Soon, Girl! That will come soon," prophesied the Harvester.

"I scarcely can wait. And you did say a saddle, didn't you? Won't it be
great to come galloping up the levee, when the leaves are red and the
frost is in the air. Oh am I going fast enough?"

"Much faster than I expected," said the Harvester. "You are surprising
all of us, me most of any. Ruth, you almost make me hope that you regard
this as home. Honey, you are thinking a little of me these days?"

The hand that had fallen from his hair lay on his shoulder. Now it slid
around his neck, and gripped him with all its strength.

"Heaps and heaps!" she said. "All I get a chance to, for being bothered
and fussed over, and everlastingly read mushy stuff that's intended for
some one else. Please take me to the veranda now; I want to tell you
something."

His head swam, but the Harvester set his feet firmly, arose, and carried
his Dream Girl back to outdoor life. When he reached the chair, she
begged him to go a few steps farther to the bench on the lake shore.

"I am afraid," said the man.

"It's so warm. There can't be any difference in the air. Just a minute."

The Harvester pushed open the screen, went to the bench, and seating
himself, drew the cover closely around her.

"Don't speak a word for a long time," he said. "Just rest. If I tire you
too much and spoil everything, I will be desperate."

He clasped her to him, laid his cheek against her hair, and his lips on
her forehead. He held her hand and kissed it over and over, and again
he watched and could find no resentment. The cool, pungent breeze swept
from the lake, and the voices of wild life chattered at their feet.
Sometimes the water folks splashed, while a big black and gold butterfly
mistook the Girl's dark hair for a perching place and settled on it,
slowly opening its wonderful wings.

"Lie quietly, Girl," whispered the Harvester. "You are wearing a living
jewel, an ornament above price, on your hair. Maybe you can see it when
it goes. There!"

"Oh I did!" she cried. "How I love it here! Before long may I lie in the
dining-room window a while so I can see the water. I like the hill, but
I love the lake more."

"Now if you just would love me," said the Harvester, "you would have all
Medicine Woods in your heart."

"Don't hurry me so!" said the Girl. "You gave me a year; and it's only a
few weeks, and I've not been myself, and I'm not now. I mustn't make any
mistake, and all I know for sure is that I want you most, and I can rest
best with you, and I miss you every minute you are gone. I think that
should satisfy you."

"That would be enough for any reasonable man," said the Harvester
angrily. "Forgive me, Ruth, I have been cruel. I forgot how frail and
weak you are. It is having Harmon here that makes me unnatural. It
almost drives me to frenzy to know that he may take you from me."

"Then send him away!"

"SEND HIM AWAY?"

"Yes, send him away! I am tired to death of his poetry, and seeing him
spoon around. Send both of them away quickly!"

The Harvester gulped, blinked, and surreptitiously felt for her pulse.

"Oh, I've not developed fever again," she said. "I'm all right. But it
must be a fearful expense to have both of them here by the week, and I'm
so tired of them, Granny says she can take care of me just as well,
and the girl who helps her can cook. No one but you shall lift me, if I
don't get my nose Out until I can walk alone Both of them are perfectly
useless, and I'd much rather you'd send them away."

"There, there! Of course!" said the Harvester soothingly. "I'll do it
as soon as I possibly dare. You don't understand, honey. You are yet
delicate beyond measure, internally. The fever burned so long. Every
morsel you eat is measured and cooked in sterilized vessels, and I'd be
scared of my life to have the girl undertake it."

"Why she is doing it straight along now! She and Granny! Molly isn't out
of Doctor Harmon's sight long enough to cook anything. Granny says there
is 'a lot of buncombe about what they do, and she is going to tell them
so right to their teeth some of these days, if they badger her much
more,' and I wish she would, and you, too."

The Harvester gathered the Girl to him in one crushing bear hug.

"For the love of Heaven, Ruth, you drive me crazy! Answer me just one
question. When you told me that you 'adored and worshipped' Doctor
Harmon, did you mean it, or was that the delirium of fever?"

"I don't know WHAT I told you! If I said I 'adored' him, it was the
truth. I did! I do! I always will! So do I adore the Almighty, but
that's no sign I want him to read poetry to me, and be around all the
time when I am wild for a minute with you. I can worship Doctor Harmon
in Chicago or Onabasha quite as well. Fire him! If you don't, I will!"

"Good Lord!" cried the Harvester, helpless until the Girl had to cling
to him to prevent rolling from his nerveless arms. "Ruth, Ruth, will you
feel my pulse?"

"No, I won't! But you are going to drop me. Take me straight back to my
beautiful new bed, and send them away."

"A minute! Give me a minute!" gasped the Harvester. "I couldn't lift a
baby just now. Ruth, dear, I thought you LOVED the man."

"What made you think so?"

"You did!"

"I didn't either! I never said I loved him. I said I was under
obligations to him; but they are as well repaid as they ever can be. I
said I adored him, and I tell you I do! Give him what we owe him, both
of us, in money, and send them away. If you'd seen as much of them as I
have, you'd be tired of them, too. Please, please, David!"

"Yes," said the Harvester, arising in a sudden tide of effulgent joy.
"Yes, Girl, just as quickly as I can with decency. I----I'll send them
on the lake, and I'll take care of you."

"You won't read poetry to me?"

"I will not."

"You won't moon at me?"

"No!"

"Then hurry! But have them take your boat. I am going to have the first
ride in mine."

"Indeed you are, and soon, too!" said the Harvester, marching up the
hill as if he were leading hosts to battle.

He laid the Girl on the bed and covered her, and called Granny Moreland
to sit beside her a few minutes. He went into the gold garden and
proposed that the doctor and the nurse go rowing until supper time, and
they went with alacrity. When they started he returned to the Girl and,
sitting beside her, he told Granny to take a nap. Then he began to talk
softly all about wild music, and how it was made, and what the different
odours sweeping down the hill were, and when the red leaves would come,
and the nuts rattle down, and the frost fairies enamel the windows, and
soon she was sound asleep. Granny came back, and the Harvester walked
around the lake shore to be alone a while and think quietly, for he was
almost too dazed and bewildered for full realization.

As he softly followed the foot path he heard voices, and looking down,
he saw the boat lying in the shade and beneath a big tree on the bank
sat the doctor and the nurse. His arm was around her, and her head was
on his shoulder; and she said very distinctly, "How long will it be
until we can go without offending him?"


CHAPTER XIX. A VERTICAL SPINE

By middle September the last trace of illness had been removed from the
premises, and it was rapidly disappearing from the face and form of the
Girl. She was showing a beautiful roundness, there was lovely colour on
her cheeks and lips, and in her dark eyes sparkled a touch of mischief.
Rigidly she followed the rules laid down for diet and exercise, and as
strength flowed through her body, and no trace of pain tormented her,
she began revelling in new and delightful sensations. She loved to pull
her boat as she willed, drive over the wood road, study the books,
cook the new dishes, rearrange furniture, and go with the Harvester
everywhere.

But that was greatly the management of the man. He was so afraid that
something might happen to undo all the wonders accomplished in the Girl,
and again whiten her face with pain, that he scarcely allowed her out of
his sight. He remained in the cabin, helping when she worked, and then
drove with her and a big blanket to the woods, arranged her chair and
table, found some attractive subject, and while the wind ravelled her
hair and flushed her cheeks, her fingers drew designs. At noon they
went to the cabin to lunch, and the Girl took a nap, while the Harvester
spread his morning's reaping on the shelves to dry. They returned to
the woods until five o'clock; then home again and the Girl dressed
and prepared supper, while the Harvester spread his stores and fed the
stock. Then he put on white clothing for the evening. The Girl rested
while he washed the dishes, and they explored the lake in the little
motor boat, or drove to the city for supplies, or to see their friends.

"Are you even with your usual work at this time of the year?" she asked
as they sat at breakfast.

"I am," said the Harvester. "The only things that have been crowded out
are the candlesticks. They will have to remain on the shelf until the
herbs and roots are all in, and the long winter evenings come. Then I'll
use the luna pattern and finish yours first of all."

"What are you going to do to-day?"

"Start on a regular fall campaign. Some of it for the sake of having it,
and some because there is good money in it. Will you come?"

"Indeed yes. May I help, or shall I take my drawing along?"

"Bring your drawing. Next fall you may help, but as yet you are too
close suffering for me to see you do anything that might be even a
slight risk. I can't endure it."

"Baby!" she jeered.

"Christen me anything you please," laughed the Harvester. "I'm short on
names anyway."

He went to harness Betsy, and the Girl washed the dishes, straightened
the rooms, and collected her drawing material. Then she walked up the
hill, wearing a shirt and short skirt of khaki, stout shoes, and a straw
hat that shaded her face. She climbed into the wagon, laid the drawing
box on the seat, and caught the lines as the Harvester flung them to
her. He went swinging ahead, Belshazzar to heel, the Girl driving
after. The white pigeons circled above, and every day Ajax allowed his
curiosity to overcome his temper, and followed a little farther.

"Whoa, Betsy!" The Girl tugged at the lines; but Betsy took the bit
between her teeth, and plodded after the Harvester. She pulled with
all her might, but her strength was not nearly sufficient to stop the
stubborn animal.

"Whoa, David!" cried the Girl.

"What is it?" the Harvester turned.

"Won't you please wait until I can take off my hat? I love to ride
bareheaded through the woods, and Betsy won't stop until you do, no
matter how hard I pull."

"Betsy, you're no lady!" said the Harvester. "Why don't you stop when
you're told?"

"I shan't waste any more strength on her," said the Girl. "Hereafter I
shall say, 'Gee, David,' 'Haw, David,' 'Whoa, David,' and then she will
do exactly as you."

The Harvester stopped half way up the hill, and beside a large, shaded
bed spread the rug, and set up the little table and chair for the Girl.

"Want a plant to draw?" he asked. "This is very important to us. It
has a string of names as long as a princess, but I call it goldenseal,
because the roots are yellow. The chemists ask for hydrastis. That
sounds formidable, but it's a cousin of buttercups. The woods of Ohio
and Indiana produce the finest that ever grew, but it is so nearly
extinct now that the trade can be supplied by cultivation only. I
suspect I'm responsible for its disappearance around here. I used to get
a dollar fifty a pound, and most of my clothes and books when a boy I
owe to it. Now I get two for my finest grade; that accounts for the size
of these beds."

"It's pretty!" said the Girl, studying a plant averaging a foot in
height. On a slender, round, purplish stem arose one big, rough leaf,
heavily veined, and having from five to nine lobes. Opposite was a
similar leaf, but very small, and a head of scarlet berries resembling
a big raspberry in shape. The Harvester shook the black woods soil from
the yellow roots, and held up the plant.

"You won't enjoy the odour," he said.

"Well I like the leaves. I know I can use them some way. They are so
unusual. What wonderful colour in the roots!"

"One of its names is Indian paint," explained the Harvester. "Probably
it furnished the squaws of these woods with colouring matter. Now let's
see what we can get out of it. You draw the plant and I'll dig the
roots."

For a time the Girl bent over her work and the Harvester was busy.
Belshazzar ranged the woods chasing chipmunks. The birds came asking
questions. When the drawing was completed, other subjects were found at
every turn, and the Girl talked almost constantly, her face alive with
interest. The May-apple beds lay close, and she drew from them. She
learned the uses and prices of the plant, and also made drawings of
cohosh, moonseed and bloodroot. That was so wonderful in its root
colour, the Harvester filled the little cup with water and she began
to paint. Intensely absorbed she bent above the big, notched, silvery
leaves and the blood-red roots, testing and trying to match them
exactly. Every few minutes the Harvester leaned over her shoulder to see
how she was progressing and to offer suggestions. When she finished she
picked up a trailing vine of moonseed.

"You have this on the porch," she said. "I think it is lovely. There
is no end to the beautiful combinations of leaves, and these are such
pretty little grape-like clusters; but if you touch them the slightest
you soil the wonderful surface."

"And that makes the fairies very sad," said the Harvester. "They love
that vine best of any, because they paint its fruit with the most care.
'Bloom' the scientists call it. You see it on cultivated plums, grapes,
and apples, but never in any such perfection as on moonseed and black
haws in the woods. You should be able to design a number of pretty
things from the cohosh leaves and berries, too. You scarcely can get a
start this fall, but early in the spring you can begin, and follow the
season. If your work comes out well this winter, I'll send some of it to
the big publishing houses, and you can make book and magazine covers and
decorations, if you would like."

"'If I would like!' How modest! You know perfectly well that if I could
make a design that would be accepted, and used on a book or magazine, I
would almost fly. Oh do you suppose I could?"

"I don't 'suppose' anything about it, I know," said the Harvester. "It
is not possible that the public can be any more tired of wild roses,
golden-rod, and swallows than the poor art editors who accept them
because they can't help themselves. Dangle something fresh and new under
their noses and see them snap. The next time I go to Onabasha I'll get
you some popular magazines, and you can compare what is being used with
what you see here, and judge for yourself how glad they would be for a
change. And potteries, arts and crafts shops, and wall paper factories,
they'd be crazy for the designs I could furnish them. As for money,
there's more in it than the herbs, if I only could draw."

"I can do that," said the Girl. "Trail the vine and give me an idea
how to scale it. I'll just make studies now, and this winter I'll
conventionalize them and work them into patterns. Won't that be fun?"

"That's more than fun, Ruth," said the Harvester solemnly. "That is
creation. That touches the provinces of the Almighty. That is taking His
unknown wonders and making them into pleasure and benefit for thousands,
not to mention filling your face with awe divine, and lighting your eyes
with interest and ambition. That is life, Ruth. You are beginning to
live right now."

"I see," said the Girl. "I understand! I am!"

"You get your subjects now. When the harvest is over I'll show you what
I have in my head, and before Christmas the fun will begin."

"What next?"

"Sketch a sarsaparilla plant and this yam vine. It grows on your veranda
too----the rattle box, you remember. The leaves and seeding arrangements
are wonderful. You can do any number of things with them, and all will
be new."

He called her attention to and brought her samples of ginger leaves,
Indian hemp, queen-of-the-meadow, cone-flower, burdock, baneberry, and
Indian turnip, as he harvested them in turn. When they came to the large
beds of orange pleurisy root the Girl cried out with pleasure.

"We will take its prosaic features first," said the Harvester. "It is
good medicine and worth handling. Forget that! The Bird Woman calls it
butterfly flower. That's better. Now try to analyze a single bloom of
this gaudy mass, and you will see why there's poetry coming."

He knelt beside the Girl, separating the blooms and pointing out their
marvellous colour and construction. She leaned against his shoulder, and
watched with breathless interest. As his bare head brought its mop of
damp wind-rumpled hair close, she ran her fingers through it, and with
her handkerchief wiped his forehead.

"Sometimes I almost wish you'd get sick," she said irrelevantly.

"In the name of common sense, why?" demanded the Harvester.

"Oh it must be born in the heart of a woman to want to mother
something," answered the Girl. "I feel sometimes as if I would like to
take care of you, as if you were a little fellow. David, I know why
your mother fought to make you the man she desired. You must have been
charming when small. I can shut my eyes and just see the boy you were,
and I should have loved you as she did."

"How about the man I am?" inquired the Harvester promptly. "Any leanings
toward him yet, Ruth?"

"It's getting worser and worser every day and hour," said the Girl. "I
don't understand it at all. I wouldn't try to live without you. I don't
want you to leave my sight. Everything you do is the way I would have
it. Nothing you ever say shocks or offends me. I'd love to render you
any personal service. I want to take you in my arms and hug you tight
half a dozen times a day as a reward for the kind and lovely things you
do for me."

A dull red flamed up the neck and over the face of the Harvester. One
arm lifted to the chair back, the other dropped across the table so that
the Girl was almost encircled.

"For the love of mercy, Ruth, why haven't I had a hint of this before?"
he cried.

"You said you'd hate me. You said you'd drop me into the deepest part of
the lake if I deceived you; and if I have to tell the truth, why, that
is all of it. I think it is nonsense about some wonderful feeling that
is going to take possession of your heart when you love any one. I love
you so much I'd gladly suffer to save you pain or sorrow. But there are
no thrills; it's just steady, sober, common sense that I should love
you, and I do. Why can't you be satisfied with what I can give, David?"

"Because it's husks and ashes," said the Harvester grimly. "You drive me
to desperation, Ruth. I am almost wild for your love, but what you offer
me is plain, straight affection, nothing more. There isn't a trace of
the feeling that should exist between man and wife in it. Some men might
be satisfied to be your husband, and be regarded as a father or brother.
I am not. The red bird didn't want a sister, Ruth, he was asking for a
mate. So am I. That's as plain as I know how to put it. There is some
way to awaken you into a living, loving woman, and, please God, I'll
find it yet, but I'm slow about it; there's no question of that. Never
you mind! Don't worry! Some of these days I have faith to believe it
will sweep you as a tide sweeps the shore, and then I hope God will be
good enough to let me be where you will land in my arms."

The Girl sat looking at him between narrowed lids. Suddenly she took his
head between her hands, drew his face to hers and deliberately kissed
him. Then she drew away and searched his eyes.

"There!" she challenged. "What is the matter with that?"

