"We have quarrelled," Adelaide had said when the Duchess told her
that her lover was to come. "Then you had better make it up again,"
the Duchess had answered,--and there had been an end of it. Nothing
more was done; no arrangement was made, and Adelaide was left to
meet the man as best she might. The quarrel to her had been as the
disruption of the heavens. She had declared to herself that she would
bear it; but the misfortune to be borne was a broken world falling
about her own ears. She had thought of a nunnery, of Ophelia among
the water-lilies, and of an early death-bed. Then she had pictured to
herself the somewhat ascetic and very laborious life of an old maiden
lady whose only recreation fifty years hence should consist in
looking at the portrait of him who had once been her lover. And now
she was told that he was coming to Matching as though nothing had
been the matter! She tried to think whether it was not her duty to
have her things at once packed, and ask for a carriage to take her
to the railway station. But she was in the house of her nearest
relative,--of him and also of her who were bound to see that things
were right; and then there might be a more pleasureable existence
than that which would have to depend on a photograph for its keenest
delight. But how should she meet him? In what way should she address
him? Should she ignore the quarrel, or recognize it, or take some
milder course? She was half afraid of the Duchess, and could not ask
for assistance. And the Duchess, though good-natured, seemed to her
to be rough. There was nobody at Matching to whom she could say a
word;--so she lived on, and trembled, and doubted from hour to hour
whether the world would not come to an end.

The Duchess was rough, but she was very good-natured. She had
contrived that the two lovers should be brought into the same house,
and did not doubt at all but what they would be able to adjust their
own little differences when they met. Her experiences of the world
had certainly made her more alive to the material prospects than to
the delicate aroma of a love adventure. She had been greatly knocked
about herself, and the material prospects had come uppermost. But all
that had happened to her had tended to open her hand to other people,
and had enabled her to be good-natured with delight, even when she
knew that her friends imposed upon her. She didn't care much for
Laurence Fitzgibbon; but when she was told that the lady with
money would not consent to marry the aristocratic pauper except on
condition that she should be received at Matching, the Duchess at
once gave the invitation. And now, though she couldn't go into the
"fal-lallery,"--as she called it, to Madame Goesler,--of settling
a meeting between two young people who had fallen out, she worked
hard till she accomplished something perhaps more important to their
future happiness. "Plantagenet," she said, "there can be no objection
to your cousin having that money."

"My dear!"

"Oh come; you must remember about Adelaide, and that young man who is
coming here to-day."

"You told me that Adelaide is to be married. I don't know anything
about the young man."

"His name is Maule, and he is a gentleman, and all that. Some day
when his father dies he'll have a small property somewhere."

"I hope he has a profession."

"No, he has not. I told you all that before."

"If he has nothing at all, Glencora, why did he ask a young lady to
marry him?"

"Oh, dear; what's the good of going into all that? He has got
something. They'll do immensely well, if you'll only listen. She is
your first cousin."

"Of course she is," said Plantagenet, lifting up his hand to his
hair.

"And you are bound to do something for her."

"No; I am not bound. But I'm very willing,--if you wish it. Put the
thing on a right footing."

"I hate footings,--that is, right footings. We can manage this
without taking money out of your pocket."

"My dear Glencora, if I am to give my cousin money I shall do so by
putting my hand into my own pocket in preference to that of any other
person."

"Madame Goesler says that she'll sign all the papers about the Duke's
legacy,--the money, I mean,--if she may be allowed to make it over to
the Duke's niece."

"Of course Madame Goesler may do what she likes with her own. I
cannot hinder her. But I would rather that you should not interfere.
Twenty-five thousand pounds is a very serious sum of money."

"You won't take it."

"Certainly not."

"Nor will Madame Goesler; and therefore there can be no reason why
these young people should not have it. Of course Adelaide being the
Duke's niece does make a difference. Why else should I care about it?
She is nothing to me,--and as for him, I shouldn't know him again if
I were to meet him in the street."

And so the thing was settled. The Duke was powerless against the
energy of his wife, and the lawyer was instructed that Madame Goesler
would take the proper steps for putting herself into possession of
the Duke's legacy,--as far as the money was concerned,--with the view
of transferring it to the Duke's niece, Miss Adelaide Palliser. As
for the diamonds, the difficulty could not be solved. Madame Goesler
still refused to take them, and desired her lawyer to instruct her
as to the form by which she could most thoroughly and conclusively
renounce that legacy.

Gerard Maule had his ideas about the meeting which would of course
take place at Matching. He would not, he thought, have been asked
there had it not been intended that he should marry Adelaide. He did
not care much for the grandeur of the Duke and Duchess, but he was
conscious of certain profitable advantages which might accrue from
such an acknowledgement of his position from the great relatives of
his intended bride. It would be something to be married from the
house of the Duchess, and to receive his wife from the Duke's hand.
His father would probably be driven to acquiesce, and people who were
almost omnipotent in the world would at any rate give him a start.
He expected no money; nor did he possess that character, whether it
be good or bad, which is given to such expectation. But there would
be encouragement, and the thing would probably be done. As for the
meeting,--he would take her in his arms if he found her alone, and
beg her pardon for that cross word about Boulogne. He would assure
her that Boulogne itself would be a heaven to him if she were with
him,--and he thought that she would believe him. When he reached the
house he was asked into a room in which a lot of people were playing
billiards or crowded round a billiard-table. The Chilterns were gone,
and he was at first ill at ease, finding no friend. Madame Goesler,
who had met him at Harrington, came up to him, and told him that
the Duchess would be there directly, and then Phineas, who had been
playing at the moment of his entrance, shook hands with him, and said
a word or two about the Chilterns. "I was so delighted to hear of
your acquittal," said Maule.

"We never talk about that now," said Phineas, going back to his
stroke. Adelaide Palliser was not present, and the difficulty of
the meeting had not yet been encountered. They all remained in the
billiard-room till it was time for the ladies to dress, and Adelaide
had not yet ventured to show herself. Somebody offered to take him to
his room, and he was conducted upstairs, and told that they dined at
eight,--but nothing had been arranged. Nobody had as yet mentioned
her name to him. Surely it could not be that she had gone away when
she heard that he was coming, and that she was really determined to
make the quarrel perpetual? He had three quarters of an hour in which
to get ready for dinner, and he felt himself to be uncomfortable and
out of his element. He had been sent to his chamber prematurely,
because nobody had known what to do with him; and he wished
himself back in London. The Duchess, no doubt, had intended to be
good-natured, but she had made a mistake. So he sat by his open
window, and looked out on the ruins of the old Priory, which were
close to the house, and wondered why he mightn't have been allowed to
wander about the garden instead of being shut up there in a bedroom.
But he felt that it would be unwise to attempt any escape now. He
would meet the Duke or the Duchess, or perhaps Adelaide herself, in
some of the passages,--and there would be an embarrassment. So he
dawdled away the time, looking out of the window as he dressed, and
descended to the drawing room at eight o'clock. He shook hands with
the Duke, and was welcomed by the Duchess, and then glanced round the
room. There she was, seated on a sofa between two other ladies,--of
whom one was his friend, Madame Goesler. It was essentially necessary
that he should notice her in some way, and he walked up to her, and
offered her his hand. It was impossible that he should allude to what
was past, and he merely muttered something as he stood over her. She
had blushed up to her eyes, and was absolutely dumb. "Mr. Maule,
perhaps you'll take our cousin Adelaide out to dinner," said the
Duchess, a moment afterwards, whispering in his ear.

"Have you forgiven me?" he said to her, as they passed from one room
to the other.

"I will,--if you care to be forgiven." The Duchess had been quite
right, and the quarrel was all over without any arrangement.

On the following morning he was allowed to walk about the grounds
without any impediment, and to visit the ruins which had looked so
charming to him from the window. Nor was he alone. Miss Palliser was
now by no means anxious as she had been yesterday to keep out of the
way, and was willingly persuaded to show him all the beauties of the
place.

"I shouldn't have said what I did, I know," pleaded Maule.

"Never mind it now, Gerard."

"I mean about going to Boulogne."

"It did sound so melancholy."

"But I only meant that we should have to be very careful how we
lived. I don't know quite whether I am so good at being careful about
money as a fellow ought to be."

"You must take a lesson from me, sir."

"I have sent the horses to Tattersall's, he said in a tone that was
almost funereal.

"What!--already?"

"I gave the order yesterday. They are to be sold,--I don't know when.
They won't fetch anything. They never do. One always buys bad horses
there for a lot of money, and sells good ones for nothing. Where the
difference goes to I never could make out."

"I suppose the man gets it who sells them."

"No; he don't. The fellows get it who have their eyes open. My eyes
never were open,--except as far as seeing you went."

"Perhaps if you had opened them wider you wouldn't have to go to--"

"Don't, Adelaide. But, as I was saying about the horses, when they're
sold of course the bills won't go on. And I suppose things will come
right. I don't owe so very much."

"I've got something to tell you," she said.

"What about?"

"You're to see my cousin to-day at two o'clock."

"The Duke?"

"Yes,--the Duke; and he has got a proposition. I don't know that you
need sell your horses, as it seems to make you so very unhappy. You
remember Madame Goesler?"

"Of course I do. She was at Harrington."

"There's something about a legacy which I can't understand at all. It
is ever so much money, and it did belong to the old Duke. They say
it is to be mine,--or yours rather, if we should ever be married.
And then you know, Gerard, perhaps, after all, you needn't go to
Boulogne." So she took her revenge, and he had his as he pressed his
arm round her waist and kissed her among the ruins of the old Priory.

Precisely at two to the moment he had his interview with the Duke,
and very disagreeable it was to both of them. The Duke was bound
to explain that the magnificent present which was being made to
his cousin was a gift, not from him, but from Madame Goesler; and,
though he was intent on making this as plain as possible, he did
not like the task. "The truth is, Mr. Maule, that Madame Goesler is
unwilling, for reasons with which I need not trouble you, to take
the legacy which was left to her by my uncle. I think her reasons to
be insufficient, but it is a matter in which she must, of course,
judge for herself. She has decided,--very much, I fear, at my wife's
instigation, which I must own I regret,--to give the money to one of
our family, and has been pleased to say that my cousin Adelaide shall
be the recipient of her bounty. I have nothing to do with it. I
cannot stop her generosity if I would, nor can I say that my cousin
ought to refuse it. Adelaide will have the entire sum as her fortune,
short of the legacy duty, which, as you are probably aware, will be
ten per cent., as Madame Goesler was not related to my uncle. The
money will, of course, be settled on my cousin and on her children.
I believe that will be all I shall have to say, except that Lady
Glencora,--the Duchess, I mean,--wishes that Adelaide should be
married from our house. If this be so I shall, of course, hope to
have the honour of giving my cousin away." The Duke was by no means a
pompous man, and probably there was no man in England of so high rank
who thought so little of his rank. But he was stiff and somewhat
ungainly, and the task which he was called upon to execute had been
very disagreeable to him. He bowed when he had finished his speech,
and Gerard Maule felt himself bound to go, almost without expressing
his thanks.

"My dear Mr. Maule," said Madame Goesler, "you literally must not
say a word to me about it. The money was not mine, and under no
circumstances would or could be mine. I have given nothing, and could
not have presumed to make such a present. The money, I take it, does
undoubtedly belong to the present Duke, and, as he does not want it,
it is very natural that it should go to his cousin. I trust that you
may both live to enjoy it long, but I cannot allow any thanks to be
given to me by either of you."

After that he tried the Duchess, who was somewhat more gracious. "The
truth is, Mr. Maule, you are a very lucky man to find twenty thousand
pounds and more going begging about the country in that way."

"Indeed I am, Duchess."

"And Adelaide is lucky, too, for I doubt whether either of you are
given to any very penetrating economies. I am told that you like
hunting."

"I have sent my horses to Tattersall's."

"There is enough now for a little hunting, I suppose, unless you
have a dozen children. And now you and Adelaide must settle when
it's to be. I hate things to be delayed. People go on quarrelling
and fancying this and that, and thinking that the world is full of
romance and poetry. When they get married they know better."

"I hope the romance and poetry do not all vanish."

"Romance and poetry are for the most part lies, Mr. Maule, and are
very apt to bring people into difficulty. I have seen something of
them in my time, and I much prefer downright honest figures. Two and
two make four; idleness is the root of all evil; love your neighbour
like yourself, and the rest of it. Pray remember that Adelaide is to
be married from here, and that we shall be very happy that you should
make every use you like of our house until then."

We may so far anticipate in our story as to say that Adelaide
Palliser and Gerard Maule were married from Matching Priory at
Matching Church early in that October, and that as far as the
coming winter was concerned, there certainly was no hunting for
the gentleman. They went to Naples instead of Boulogne, and there
remained till the warm weather came in the following spring. Nor was
that peremptory sale at Tattersall's countermanded as regarded any of
the horses. What prices were realised the present writer has never
been able to ascertain.


CHAPTER LXXVII

Phineas Finn's Success


When Phineas Finn had been about a week at Matching, he received a
letter, or rather a very short note, from the Prime Minister, asking
him to go up to London; and on the same day the Duke of Omnium spoke
to him on the subject of the letter. "You are going up to see Mr.
Gresham. Mr. Gresham has written to me, and I hope that we shall
be able to congratulate ourselves in having your assistance next
Session." Phineas declared that he had no idea whatever of Mr.
Gresham's object in summoning him up to London. "I have his
permission to inform you that he wishes you to accept office."
Phineas felt that he was becoming very red in the face, but he did
not attempt to make any reply on the spur of the moment. "Mr. Gresham
thinks it well that so much should be said to you before you see him,
in order that you may turn the matter over in your own mind. He would
have written to you probably, making the offer at once, had it not
been that there must be various changes, and that one man's place
must depend on another. You will go, I suppose."

"Yes; I shall go, certainly. I shall be in London this evening."

"I will take care that a carriage is ready for you. I do not presume
to advise, Mr. Finn, but I hope that there need be no doubt as to
your joining us." Phineas was somewhat confounded, and did not know
the Duke well enough to give expression to his thoughts at the
moment. "Of course you will return to us, Mr. Finn." Phineas said
that he would return and trespass on the Duke's hospitality for yet a
few days. He was quite resolved that something must be said to Madame
Goesler before he left the roof under which she was living. In the
course of the autumn she purposed, as she had told him, to go to
Vienna, and to remain there almost up to Christmas. Whatever there
might be to be said should be said at any rate before that.

He did speak a few words to her before his journey to London, but in
those words there was no allusion made to the great subject which
must be discussed between them. "I am going up to London," he said.

"So the Duchess tells me."

"Mr. Gresham has sent for me,--meaning, I suppose, to offer me the
place which he would not give me while that poor man was alive."

"And you will accept it of course, Mr. Finn?"

"I am not at all so sure of that."

"But you will. You must. You will hardly be so foolish as to let the
peevish animosity of an ill-conditioned man prejudice your prospects
even after his death."

"It will not be any remembrance of Mr. Bonteen that will induce me to
refuse."

"It will be the same thing;--rancour against Mr. Gresham because he
had allowed the other man's counsel to prevail with him. The action
of no individual man should be to you of sufficient consequence to
guide your conduct. If you accept office, you should not take it as a
favour conferred by the Prime Minister; nor if you refuse it, should
you do so from personal feelings in regard to him. If he selects you,
he is presumed to do so because he finds that your services will be
valuable to the country."

"He does so because he thinks that I should be safe to vote for him."

"That may be so, or not. You can't read his bosom quite
distinctly;--but you may read your own. If you go into office you
become the servant of the country,--not his servant, and should
assume his motive in selecting you to be the same as your own in
submitting to the selection. Your foot must be on the ladder before
you can get to the top of it."

"The ladder is so crooked."

"Is it more crooked now than it was three years ago;--worse than it
was six months ago, when you and all your friends looked upon it as
certain that you would be employed? There is nothing, Mr. Finn, that
a man should fear so much as some twist in his convictions arising
from a personal accident to himself. When we heard that the Devil
in his sickness wanted to be a monk, we never thought that he would
become a saint in glory. When a man who has been rejected by a lady
expresses a generally ill opinion of the sex, we are apt to ascribe
his opinions to disappointment rather than to judgment. A man
falls and breaks his leg at a fence, and cannot be induced to ride
again,--not because he thinks the amusement to be dangerous, but
because he cannot keep his mind from dwelling on the hardship that
has befallen himself. In all such cases self-consciousness gets the
better of the judgment."

"You think it will be so with me?"

"I shall think so if you now refuse--because of the misfortune which
befell you--that which I know you were most desirous of possessing
before that accident. To tell you the truth, Mr. Finn, I wish Mr.
Gresham had delayed his offer till the winter."

"And why?"

"Because by that time you will have recovered your health. Your mind
now is morbid, and out of tune."

"There was something to make it so, Madame Goesler."

"God knows there was; and the necessity which lay upon you of bearing
a bold front during those long and terrible weeks of course consumed
your strength. The wonder is that the fibres of your mind should
have retained any of their elasticity after such an ordeal. But as
you are so strong, it would be a pity that you should not be strong
altogether. This thing that is now to be offered to you is what you
have always desired."

"A man may have always desired that which is worthless."

"You tried it once, and did not find it worthless. You found yourself
able to do good work when you were in office. If I remember right,
you did not give it up then because it was irksome to you, or
contemptible, or, as you say, worthless; but from difference of
opinion on some political question. You can always do that again."

"A man is not fit for office who is prone to do so."

"Then do not you be prone. It means success or failure in the
profession which you have chosen, and I shall greatly regret to see
you damage your chance of success by yielding to scruples which have
come upon you when you are hardly as yet yourself."

She had spoken to him very plainly, and he had found it to be
impossible to answer her, and yet she had hardly touched the motives
by which he believed himself to be actuated. As he made his journey
up to London he thought very much of her words. There had been
nothing said between them about money. No allusion had been made to
the salary of the office which would be offered to him, or to the
terrible shortness of his own means of living. He knew well enough
himself that he must take some final step in life, or very shortly
return into absolute obscurity. This woman who had been so strongly
advising him to take a certain course as to his future life, was very
rich;--and he had fully decided that he would sooner or later ask
her to be his wife. He knew well that all her friends regarded their
marriage as certain. The Duchess had almost told him so in as many
words. Lady Chiltern, who was much more to him than the Duchess,
had assured him that if he should have a wife to bring with him to
Harrington, the wife would be welcome. Of what other wife could Lady
Chiltern have thought? Laurence Fitzgibbon, when congratulated on his
own marriage, had returned counter congratulations. Mr. Low had said
that it would of course come to pass. Even Mrs. Bunce had hinted
at it, suggesting that she would lose her lodger and be a wretched
woman. All the world had heard of the journey to Prague, and all the
world expected the marriage. And he had come to love the woman with
excessive affection, day by day, ever since the renewal of their
intimacy at Broughton Spinnies. His mind was quite made up;--but
he was by no means sure of her mind as the rest of the world might
be. He knew of her, what nobody else in all the world knew,--except
himself. In that former period of his life, on which he now sometimes
looked back as though it had been passed in another world, this woman
had offered her hand and fortune to him. She had done so in the
enthusiasm of her love, knowing his ambition and knowing his poverty,
and believing that her wealth was necessary to the success of his
career in life. He had refused the offer,--and they had parted
without a word. Now they had come together again, and she was
certainly among the dearest of his friends. Had she not taken that
wondrous journey to Prague in his behalf, and been the first among
those who had striven,--and had striven at last successfully,--to
save his neck from the halter? Dear to her! He knew well as he sat
with his eyes closed in the railway carriage that he must be dear to
her! But might it not well be that she had resolved that friendship
should take the place of love? And was it not compatible with her
nature,--with all human nature,--that in spite of her regard for him
she should choose to be revenged for the evil which had befallen her,
when she offered her hand in vain? She must know by this time that he
intended to throw himself at her feet; and would hardly have advised
him as she had done as to the necessity of following up that success
which had hitherto been so essential to him, had she intended to
give him all that she had once offered him before. It might well be
that Lady Chiltern, and even the Duchess, should be mistaken. Marie
Goesler was not a woman, he thought, to reveal the deeper purposes of
her life to any such friend as the Duchess of Omnium.

Of his own feelings in regard to the offer which was about to be made
to him he had hardly succeeded in making her understand anything.
That a change had come upon himself was certain, but he did not
at all believe that it had sprung from any weakness caused by his
sufferings in regard to the murder. He rather believed that he
had become stronger than weaker from all that he had endured. He
had learned when he was younger,--some years back,--to regard
the political service of his country as a profession in which a
man possessed of certain gifts might earn his bread with more
gratification to himself than in any other. The work would be hard,
and the emolument only intermittent; but the service would in itself
be pleasant; and the rewards of that service,--should he be so
successful as to obtain reward,--would be dearer to him than
anything which could accrue to him from other labours. To sit in
the Cabinet for one Session would, he then thought, be more to him
than to preside over the Court of Queen's Bench as long as did Lord
Mansfield. But during the last few months a change had crept across
his dream,--which he recognized but could hardly analyse. He had seen
a man whom he despised promoted, and the place to which the man had
been exalted had at once become contemptible in his eyes. And there
had been quarrels and jangling, and the speaking of evil words
between men who should have been quiet and dignified. No doubt Madame
Goesler was right in attributing the revulsion in his hopes to Mr.
Bonteen and Mr. Bonteen's enmity; but Phineas Finn himself did not
know that it was so.

He arrived in town in the evening, and his appointment with Mr.
Gresham was for the following morning. He breakfasted at his club,
and there he received the following letter from Lady Laura Kennedy:--


   Saulsby 28th August, 18--

   MY DEAR PHINEAS,

   I have just received a letter from Barrington in which he
   tells me that Mr. Gresham is going to offer you your old
   place at the Colonies. He says that Lord Fawn has been so
   upset by this affair of Lady Eustace's husband, that he
   is obliged to resign and go abroad. [This was the first
   intimation that Phineas had heard of the nature of the
   office to be offered to him.--] But Barrington goes on to
   say that he thinks you won't accept Mr. Gresham's offer,
   and he asks me to write to you. Can this possibly be true?
   Barrington writes most kindly,--with true friendship,--and
   is most anxious for you to join. But he thinks that you
   are angry with Mr. Gresham because he passed you over
   before, and that you will not forgive him for having
   yielded to Mr. Bonteen. I can hardly believe this
   possible. Surely you will not allow the shade of that
   unfortunate man to blight your prospects? And, after all,
   of what matter to you is the friendship or enmity of Mr.
   Gresham? You have to assert yourself, to make your own
   way, to use your own opportunities, and to fight your own
   battle without reference to the feelings of individuals.
   Men act together in office constantly, and with constancy,
   who are known to hate each other. When there are so many
   to get what is going, and so little to be given, of course
   there will be struggling and trampling. I have no doubt
   that Lord Cantrip has made a point of this with Mr.
   Gresham;--has in point of fact insisted upon it. If so,
   you are lucky to have such an ally as Lord Cantrip. He and
   Mr. Gresham are, as you know, sworn friends, and if you
   get on well with the one you certainly may with the other
   also. Pray do not refuse without asking for time to think
   about it;--and if so, pray come here, that you may consult
   my father.

   I spent two weary weeks at Loughlinter, and then could
   stand it no longer. I have come here, and here I shall
   remain for the autumn and winter. If I can sell my
   interest in the Loughlinter property I shall do so, as I
   am sure that neither the place nor the occupation is fit
   for me. Indeed I know not what place or what occupation
   will suit me! The dreariness of the life before me is
   hardly preferable to the disappointments I have already
   endured. There seems to be nothing left for me but to
   watch my father to the end. The world would say that such
   a duty in life is fit for a widowed childless daughter;
   but to you I cannot pretend to say that my bereavements or
   misfortunes reconcile me to such a fate. I cannot cease to
   remember my age, my ambition, and I will say, my love. I
   suppose that everything is over for me,--as though I were
   an old woman, going down into the grave, but at my time
   of life I find it hard to believe that it must be so.
   And then the time of waiting may be so long! I suppose I
   could start a house in London, and get people around me
   by feeding and flattering them, and by little intrigues,
   --like that woman of whom you are so fond. It is money
   that is chiefly needed for that work, and of money I have
   enough now. And people would know at any rate who I am.
   But I could not flatter them, and I should wish the food
   to choke them if they did not please me. And you would
   not come, and if you did,--I may as well say it boldly,
   --others would not. An ill-natured sprite has been busy
   with me, which seems to deny me everything which is so
   freely granted to others.

