I crossed the Cortlandt Street ferry and walked up Broadway, wondering
what Helen would say if I called before breakfast. I could scarcely wait.
I stopped in front of St. Paul's Church, gaping up at a twenty-six story
building opposite; a monstrous shaft with a gouge out of its south side as
if lightning had rived off a sliver. I went over to it and saw that I had
come to Ann Street, where Barnum's museum used to stand. The Post Office,
the City Hall, the restaurant where I ate breakfast, studying upon the
wall the bible texts and signs bidding me watch my hat and overcoat; the
_Tribune_ building, just as it looks on the almanac cover--all these
made an instant, deep impression. Not in the least like a dream.

By the statue of Horace Greeley I stood a moment irresolute. I knew that,
before I could reach her, Helen would have left her rooms for Barnard
College; breakfast had been a mistake. Then I noticed that Nassau Street
was just opposite; and, in spite of my impatience to be at her door, I
constrained myself to look up Judge Baker.

Between its Babel towers narrow Nassau Street was like a canyon. The
pavements were wet, for folks had just finished washing windows, though it
was eight o'clock in the forenoon. Bicycles zipped past and from somewhere
north a freshet of people flooded the sidewalk and roadway.

Down a steep little hill and up another--both thronged past belief--and in
a great marble maze of lawyers' offices I found the sign of Baker &
Magoun.

The boy who alone represented the firm said that I might have to wait some
minutes, and turned me loose to browse in the big, high-ceiled outer room
or library of the place where I am to work. After the dim corridors it was
a blaze of light. On all sides were massive bookshelves; the doorways gave
glimpses of other rooms, fine with rugs and pictures and heavy desks,
different enough from the plain fittings of the country lawyers' workshops
I had known. The carpet sank under my feet as I went to the window.

I stood looking at the Jersey hills, blue and fair in the distance, and
dreaming of Helen, who was to bless and crown my good fortune, when I
heard a step at the door and a young man came in--a tall, blonde, supple
fellow not much older than I. Then the Judge appeared, ponderous, slow of
tread, immaculate of dress; the same, unless his iron-gray locks have
retreated yet farther from his wall of a brow, that I have remembered him
from boyhood.

"Burke!" he said, "I am glad to see you. Welcome to New York and to this
office, my boy!"

The grasp of his big warm hand was as good as the words and the eyes
beneath his heavy gray brows were full of kindness as, holding both my
hands in his, he drew me toward the young man who had preceded him. With a
winning smile the latter turned.

"Hynes," said the Judge, with a heartiness that made one forget his formal
manner, "you have heard me speak of Burke's father, the boyhood companion
with whom, when the finny tribes were eager, I sometimes strayed from the
strait and narrow path that led to school. Burke, Hynes is the sportsman
here--our tiger-slayer. He beards in their lairs those Tammany ornaments
of the bench whom the flippant term 'necessity Judges,' because of their
slender acquaintance with the law."

"Glad to see you, Burke," said Hynes, as dutifully we laughed together at
the time-honoured jest.

I knew from the look of him that he was a good fellow, and he had an
honest grip; though out where I come from we might call him a dude. All
New Yorkers seem to dress pretty well.

Presently Managing Clerk Crosby came, and Mr. Magoun, as lean, brusque and
mosquito-like as his partner is elephantine; and after a few words with
them I was called into the Judge's private room, where a great lump rose
in my throat when I tried, and miserably failed, to thank him for all his
great kindness.

"Consider, if it pleases you," he said, to put me quite at my ease, "that
I have proposed our arrangement, not so much on your own account as
because I loved your father and must rely upon his son. It brings back my
youth to speak his name--your name, Johnny Burke!"

Yes, I remember the words, I remember the tremour in the kind voice and
the mist of unshed tears through which he looked at me. I'm not dreaming;
sometimes I wish I were, almost.

When I left the Judge, of course I pasted right up to Union Square, though
I felt sure that Helen would be at college. No. 2 proved to be a dingy
brick building with wigs and armour and old uniforms and grimy pictures in
the windows, and above them the signs of a "dental parlour" and a school
for theatrical dancing.

It seemed an odd place in which to look for Nelly, but I pounded up the
worn stairs--dressmakers' advertisements on every riser--until I reached
the top floor, where a meal-bag of a woman whose head was tied up in a
coloured handkerchief confronted me with dustpan and broom.

"I'm the new leddy scrubwoman, and not afther knowin' th' names av th'
tinants," she said, "but av ut's a gir-rul ye're seekin', sure they's two
av thim in there, an' both out, I'm thinkin'."

I pushed a note for Nelly under the door she indicated--it bore the cards
of "Miss Helen Winship" and "Miss Kathryn Reid"--and hurried away to look
up this gem of a hall bedroom where I am writing; you could wear it on a
watch chain, but I pay $3 a week for it. The landlady would board me for
$8, but regular dinners at restaurants are only twenty-five cents; good,
too. And anybody can breakfast for fifteen.

Then I went back to Union Square, where I hung about, looking at the
statues. Once I walked as far as Tammany Hall and rushed back again to
watch Helen's door. Finally I sat down on a bench from which I could see
her windows; and there in the brief December sunlight, with the little
oasis around me green even in winter, and the roar of Dead Man's Curve
just far enough away, I suppose I spent almost the happiest moments of my
life.

I was looking at Nelly's picture, taken in cap and gown just before she
graduated last June. My Nelly! Nelly as she used to be before this strange
thing happened; eager-eyed, thin with over-study and rapid growth. Nelly,
whose bright face, swept by so many lights and shadows of expression,
sensitive to so many shifting moods, I loved and yearned for. Nearly six
months we'd been apart, but at last I had followed to New York to claim
her. As I sat smiling at the dream pictures the dear face evoked, my brain
was busy with thoughts of the new home we would together build. I'd hoard
every penny, I planned; I'd walk to save car-fare, practice all
economies--

Wasn't that a face at her window?

I reached the top landing again, three steps at a time; but the voice that
said "Come!" was not Helen's and the figure that turned from pulling at
the shades was short and rolypoly and crowned by flaming red hair.

"Miss Winship?" said the voice, as its owner seated herself at a big
table. "Can't imagine what's, keeping her. Are you the John Burke I've
heard so much about? And--perhaps Helen has written to you of Kitty Reid?"

Without waiting for a reply, she bent over the table, scratching with a
knife at a sheet of bold drawings of bears.

"You won't mind my keeping right on?" she queried briskly, lifting a rosy,
freckled face. "This is the animal page of the Sunday _Star_ and
Cadge is in a hurry for it, to do the obbligato."

I suppose I must have looked the puzzlement I felt, for she added
hastily:--

"The text, you know; a little cool rill of it to trickle down through the
page like a fine, thin strain of music that--that helps out the song--tee-
e-e-um; tee-e-e-um--" She lifted her arm, sawing with a long ruler at a
violin of air,--"but you don't have to listen unless you wish--to the
obbligato, you know."

"Doesn't the writer think the pictures the unobtrusive embroidery of the
violin, and the writing the magic melody one cannot choose but hear?"

I thought that rather neat for my first day in New York, but the shrewd
blue eyes opened wide at the heresy.

"Why, no; of course Cadge knows it's the pictures that count; everybody
knows that."

A writing-table jutted into the room from a second window, backing against
Miss Reid's. On its flap lay German volumes on biology and a little
treatise in English about "Advanced Methods of Imbedding, Sectioning and
Staining." The window ledge held a vase of willow and alder twigs, whose
buds appeared to be swelling. Beside it was a glass of water in which
seeds were sprouting on a floating island of cotton wool.

"Admiring Helen's forest?" came the voice from the desk. "I'm afraid
there's only second growth timber left; she carried away the great
redwoods and all the giants of the wilderness this morning. Are you
interested in zoology? Sometimes, since I have been living with Helen, I
have wished more than anything else to find out, What is protoplasm? Do
you happen to know?"

"I'm afraid not."

"Neither does Helen--nor any one else."

Miss Reid's merry ways are infectious. I'm glad Helen is rooming with a
nice girl.

The place was shabby enough, with cracked and broken ceiling, marred
woodwork and stained wall paper; but etchings, foreign photographs,
sketches put up with thumb tacks and bright hangings made it odd and
attractive. On a low couch piled with cushions lay Helen's mandolin and a
banjo. A plaster cast of some queer animal roosted on the mantel, craning
its neck down towards the fireplace.

"That's the Notre Dame devil," Miss Reid said, following my glance; "the
other is the Lincoln Cathedral devil." She nodded at a wide-mouthed imp,
clawing at a door-top. "Don't you just adore gargoyles?"

"Yes; that is--very much," I stammered, wandering back to Helen's desk.
And then!

And then I heard quick steps outside. They reached the door and paused. I
looked up eagerly. "There's Helen now," said Miss Reid; "or else Cadge."

A tall girl burst into the room, dropping an armful of books, and sprang
to Miss Reid.

"Kitty! Kitty!" she cried, in a voice of wonderful music. "Two camera
fiends! One in front of the college, the other by the elevated station;
waiting for me to pass, I do believe! And such crowds! They followed me!
Look! Look! Down in the Square!"


CHAPTER II.


THE MOST BEAUTIFUL WOMAN IN THE WORLD.

Both girls ran to the window. Miss Reid laughed teasingly. "I see nobody--
or all the world; it's much the same," she said; "but you have a caller."

I rose from behind the desk with some confused, trivial thought that I
ought to have spent part of the afternoon getting my hair cut.

I had had but a glimpse of the new comer in her flight across the floor; I
knew she had scarlet lips and shining eyes; that youth and joy and
unimagined beauty had entered with her like a burst of sunlight and
flooded the room. I felt, rather than saw, that she had turned from the
window and was looking at me, curiously at first, then smiling. Her smile
had bewildered me when she opened the door; it was a soft, flashing light
that shone from her face and blessed the air. She seemed surrounded by an
aureole.

But she--how could this wonderful girl know me?--she surely was smiling!
She was coming towards me. She was putting out her hands. That glorious
voice was speaking.

"John! Is it you? I'm so glad!" it said.

Had I read about her? Had I seen her picture? Had Helen described her in a
letter? Was she Cadge? No; not altogether a stranger; somewhere before I
had seen--or dreamed--

"John," she persisted. "Why didn't you write? I thought you were coming
next week. Did you plan to surprise me?"

Miss Reid must have made a mistake, I felt; I must explain that I was
waiting for Helen. But I could not speak; I could only gape, choking and
giddy. I did not speak when the bright vision seemed to take the hands I
had not offered. I could feel the blood beat in my neck. I could not
think; and yet I knew that a real woman stood before me, albeit unlike all
the other women that ever lived in the world; and that something surprised
and perplexed her. The smile still curved her lips; I felt myself grin in
idiotic imitation.

"What is the matter?" the radiant stranger persisted. "You act as if--"

The smile grew sunnier; it rippled to a laugh that was merriment set to
music.

"John! John Burke!" she said, giving my hands a little, impatient shake,
just as Nelly used to do. "It isn't possible! Don't you--why, you goose!
Don't you know me?"

"Helen!"

Of course! I had known her from the beginning! A man couldn't be in the
same room with Nelly Winship and feel just as if she were any other girl.
But she was not Helen at all--that radiant impossibility! And yet she was.
Or she said so, and my heart agreed. But when I would have drawn her to
me, she stepped back in lovely confusion, with a fluttered question:--

"How long have you been here, John?"

That voice! Sweet, fresh; full of exquisite cadences such as one might
hear in dreams and ever after yearn for--from the first it had baffled me
more than the beautiful face. It was not Helen's. What a blunder!

I gazed at her, still giddy. Who was she? I could not trust the astounding
recognition. She returned the look, bending towards me, seeking as
eagerly, I saw with confused wonderment, to read my thought as I to fathom
hers. Then, as some half knowledge grew to certainty, the light of her
beauty became a glory; she seemed transfigured by a mighty joy such as no
other woman could ever have felt.

An instant she stood motionless, the sunshine of her eyes still on me.
Then, drawing a long breath, she turned away, pulling the pins out of her
feathered hat with hands that trembled.

I watched the process with the strained attention one gives at crucial
moments to nothings. I laughed out of sheer inanity; every pulse in my
body was throbbing. She lifted the hat from her shining head. She put it
down. She unfastened her coat. In a minute she would turn again, and I
should once more see that face imbued with light and fire. I waited for
her voice.

"I'm sure of it!" she cried, wheeling about of a sudden, with a laugh like
caressing music, and confronting me again. "You didn't know me, John; did
you?"

"Why didn't I know you?" I gasped. "Why are you glad I don't know you?
What does it all mean, Helen?"

Instead of answering she laughed again. It was the happiest joy-song in
the world. A mirthful goddess might have trilled it--a laugh like sunshine
and flowers and chasing cloud shadows on waving grass.

"Helen Winship, stop it! Stop this masquerade!" I shouted, not knowing
what I did.

"But I--I'm afraid I can't, John."

The glorious face brimmed with mischief. In vain the Woman Perfect
struggled to subdue her mirth to penitence.

"I--I'm so glad to see you, John. Won't you--won't you sit down and let
Kitty give you some tea?"

Tea! At that moment!

Clattering little blue and white cups and saucers, Miss Reid recalled
herself to my remembrance. I had forgotten that she was in the room. I
suspect that she dared not lift her head for fear I might see the laughter
in her eyes.

"I've made it extra strong, Mr. Burke," she managed to say, "because I'm
starting for the _Star_ office to find the photo-engravers routing
the noses and toeses off all my best beastesses."

"Kitty thinks all photo-engravers the embodiment of original sin," said
the Shining One. "They clip her bears' claws."

