"You're right there, Sammul," said his father; "now old Job's uncle to
our John here.  I'd seen a good deal of old Job of late.  He'd taken to
me and our Betty, and used often to call and have a cup of tea with us.
He knowed how I wished to get away from Langhurst; and one night he says
to me, `I've a nephew, John Walters, down at Fairmow, in Shropshire.
He's one of the right sort.  I heard from him a while since as his
squire wants a steady man to overlook a small colliery as he's got on
his estate.  The man as is there now's taken to drinking, so the
squire's parting with him in December.  Would you like me to mention
yourself to my nephew?'  You may be sure, Sammul, I were very thankful
for the chance.  But it wasn't chance--the word slipped out of my mouth;
but I've done with chance long since--it were the Lord's doing.  So old
Job wrote to our John about it, and the end were, the squire offered the
place to me.  I got Job to keep it quite snug, for I didn't want my old
mates to know anything about it.  This were all settled afore I'd agreed
to speak at the meeting.  So when we found, from Martha Jones's lad,
what my old mates was up to, I talked the matter over with old Job
Paynter, and we hit upon a plan as'd just turn the tables on 'em, and
might do 'em some good.  It were all arranged with our John as we should
be at liberty to come to his cottage here till the place were ready for
me at the colliery.  Then Job and I talked it over, and it were settled
as our Betty should go to her aunt's at Rochdale, and take all her
things with her, and meet me on the twenty-third of November at
Stockport.  Job was to come to our house on the twenty-second.  So, a
little afore nine, he slips in when it were very dark, and brings a lot
of old letters with him ready cut out, and some paste.  You must know as
he'd a large quantity of old posters by him as had been soiled or torn.
So he cuts what black letters he wants out of these, and some red 'uns
too, enough to make the two texts, `No drunkard shall inherit the
kingdom of God,' and `Prepare to meet thy God.'  Then Job and me goes
quietly up-stairs, and I holds the candle while he pastes the words on
the chamber-floor.  Then we rolls up some old bits of stuff into a
bundle, and lays 'em on my bed, and puts the old coverlid over 'em.
Then Job and me leaves the house, and locks the door; and that, Sammul,
is last I've seen of Langhurst."

It is a very grievous performance; and Shakespeare, who had read it
thoroughly, made sport of it in _A Midsummer Night's Dream._]
One reason for the regarding of Nash's sneer as especially directed
against Shakespeare is the occurrence in it of the phrase, "whole
_Hamlets_,--I should say, handfuls of tragical speeches," which has
been looked upon as an allusion to Shakespeare's great tragedy.

But the earliest edition of "Hamlet" known was published in 1603, and even
this is an imperfect and surreptitiously obtained copy of an early
sketch of the play.

That Shakespeare had written this tragedy in 1586, when he was but
twenty-two years old, is improbable to the verge of impossibility; and
Nash's allusion, if, indeed, he meant a punning sneer at a play, (which
is not certain.) was, doubtless, to an old lost version of the Danish
tragedy upon which Shakespeare built his "Hamlet."
We have, then, direct contemporary testimony, that, at the period of
Shakespeare's entrance upon London life, it was a common practice for
those lawyers whom want of success or an unstable disposition impelled
to a change in their avocation to devote themselves to writing or
translating plays; and this statement is not only sustained by all
that we know of the customs of the time to which it refers, but
is strongly confirmed by the notably frequent occurrence of legal
phrases in the dramatic literature of that age.

"And so you've been here ever since?"

"Yes.  Our John's mother died two years since come Christmas; and then
fayther came to live with us.  He'd had a cottage of his own afore, with
a housekeeper to look arter him."

"And is your squire, Mr Collington, a total abstainer?"

"Ay, he is, for sure, and a gradely 'un too.  He's owner of most of the
land and houses here.  The whole village belongs to him; and he'll not
have a drop of intoxicating drinks sold in it.  You passed the public.
You heard no swearing nor rowing, I'll warrant.  You'll find church, and
chapel too, both full of Sundays; and there's scarce a house where the
Bible isn't read every night.  Ah! the drink's the great curse as robs
the heart of its love, the head of its sense, and the soul of its
glory!"


CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

CONCLUSION.

There just remain a few creases to be smoothed out, and our story is
done.

The morning after Samuel's arrival Betty made her way to the Hall,
taking her brother with her.  She knew that the squire and his lady, and
indeed the whole family, would rejoice to hear that the wanderer was
returned, for all loved the simple-hearted Lancashire girl, and had long
sympathised with her and her father in their sorrow about Samuel.

Mr Collington and his lady having heard Betty's statement with the
deepest interest, sent for Samuel, and had a long conversation with him.

"And what do you say to entering my service?" asked the squire.  "We
have learned to prize your father and sister so highly, that I shall
feel perfect confidence in taking you with no other recommendation than
your story and your relationship to them."

"Well, sir," replied Samuel, "you're very good.  I'm tired of roving,
and shall be glad to settle, if you can find me a place as'll suit me;
only I mustn't forget as there's others I owe a duty to."

"You mean the friends you have left behind in Bolton?"

"Yes, sir," said Betty; "he's bound to be looking arter them.  And
there's Deborah, as he'll be bringing to share his home with him."

"And Old Crow too?" asked Mrs Collington.

"I cannot say, ma'am," replied Samuel; "but I must either take his cart
back to him, or bring him over this side to his cart."

"Well, we'll see what can be done," said the squire.

Let us leave them for a while, and pass to Greymoor Park.  The first,
is love, downright love, on the part of this young girl, for the poor
little misshapen man. You may laugh, if you like. But women are apt
to love the men who they think have the largest capacity of loving;--and
who can love like one that has thirsted all his life long for the smile
of youth and beauty, and seen it fly his presence as the wave ebbed from
the parched lips of him whose fabled punishment is the perpetual type of
human longing and disappointment?But the past cannot be recalled, and a sorrow
lies heavy on her heart which must go with her to her grave; and oh,
there is a peculiar bitterness in that sorrow when she reflects what her
poor boy might have been had she never herself broken down his resolve
to renounce entirely that drink which proved his after-ruin.  And what
of the Oliphants at the Rectory?  Bernard Oliphant still keeps on his
holy course, receiving and scattering light.  Hubert is abroad and
prospers, beloved by all who know him.

