"Lose none before you have the vessel searched," Liane pleaded, with a
change of tone. "You know, messieurs, I am not a woman given to
hallucinations. I _saw_ ... And I tell you, while that assassin is at
liberty aboard this yacht, not one of our lives is worth a sou--no, not
one!"

"Oh, you shall have your search." Monk gave in as one who indulges a
childish whim. "But I can tell you now what we'll find--or won't."

"Then Heaven help us all!" Liane went swiftly to the door of her room,
but there hesitated, looking back in appeal to Lanyard. "I am
afraid...."

"Let me have a look round first."

And when Lanyard had satisfied himself there was nobody concealed in
any part of Liane's suite, and had been rewarded with a glance of
gratitude--"I shall lock myself in, of course," the woman said from the
threshold--"and I have my pistol, too."

"But I assure you," Monk commented in heavy sarcasm, "our intentions
are those of honourable men."

The door slammed, and the sound of the key turning in the lock
followed. Monk trained the eyebrows into a look of long-suffering
patience.

"A glass too much... Seein' things!"

"No," Lanyard voiced shortly his belief; "you are wrong. Liane saw
something."

"Nobody questions that," Phinuit yawned. "What one does question is
whether she saw a man or a figment of her imagination--some effect of
the shadows that momentarily suggested a man."

"Shadows do play queer tricks at night, at sea," Monk agreed. "I
remember once--"

"Then let us look the ground over and see if we can make that
explanation acceptable to our own intelligences," Lanyard cut in.

"No harm in that."

Phinuit fetched a pocket flash-lamp, and the three reconnoitred
exhaustively the quarters of the deck in which the apparition had
manifested itself to the woman. By no strain of credulity could the
imagination be made to accept the effect of shadows at the designated
spot as the shape of somebody standing there. On the other hand, when
Phinuit obligingly posed himself between the mouth of the companionway
and the skylight, it had to be admitted that the glow from either side
provided fairly good cover for one who might wish to linger there,
observing and unobserved.

"Still, I don't believe she saw anything," Monk persisted--"a phantom
Popinot, if anything."

"But wait. What is it we have here?"

Lanyard, scrutinising the deck with the flashlamp, stooped, picked up
something, and offered it on an outspread palm upon which he trained
the clear electric beam.

"Cigarette stub?" Monk said, and sniffed. It will be seen from their details, that the structures have been
built within the last half century, at an expense of more than one
hundred thousand pounds; while their association with the fame and
fortunes of men illustrious in science[2] will render the subjoined
Engravings of no common interest.

The details which follow have been abridged from Lewis's Topographical
Dictionary, 4to. 1831

.

[1] Ed. Rev. No. 109--article "Life and Writings of Dr. Currie." For
quotations from this paper, see "Improvement of Lancashire," and
"London and the Provinces compared";--in _The Mirror_, vol. xix

.

[2] DR. FERRIAR was physician to the Infirmary and Lunatic Asylum; and
the Royal Institution has been the area of the philosophical
labours of DALTON and HENRY.

THE TOWN-HALL

Is a noble and elegant edifice, erected under the superintendance and
from a design of Mr.

Francis Goodwin, of London, in the Grecian style, after the temple
of Erectheus at Athens, with a beautiful tower and dome in the
centre, resembling the tower of Andronicus, called "The Temple of
the Winds."

The principal entrance is by a magnificent colonnade, with a rich
entablature, in front of which are sculptured representations of
the town of Manchester, and emblems of trade and commerce.

In the wings are niches for statues of Solon and Alfred; in the
medallions of the attic are busts in alto relievo of Pythagoras,
Lycurgus, Hale, and Locke.

The building contains various apartments for conducting the public
business of the town: on the principal floor is a splendid room,
132 feet long, 43 ft. 8 in. wide, and 51-1/2 feet in height to the
centre of the principal dome.

The room is divided into three parts by two ranges of eight elegant
Ionic pillars, so disposed that each may form a separate apartment;
the central part being lighted by a superb dome, supported on 16 dwarf
columns of scagliola marble, corresponding with the exterior design of
the tower. The style of the whole room is that of chaste and classic
beauty: the light is tastefully introduced into the extreme sections
of the great room by concealed skylights, and through stained glass
in the panels of the ceiling and the dome, decorated to correspond
with those that are not pierced for that purpose.

Three staircases lead to this splendid room, with the interior of
which the principal staircase is made to harmonize.

The foundation-stone of the building was laid August 19, 1822, by
James Brierley, Esq.
Without his participation the discussion continued.

He heard Phinuit's voice utter in accents of malicious amusement:
"Barring, of course, the possibility of connivance on the part of
officers or crew."

"Don't be an ass!" Monk snapped.

"Don't be unreasonable: I am simply as God made me."

"Well, it was a nasty job of work."

"Now, listen." Phinuit rose to leave, as one considering the conference
at an end. "If you persist in picking on me, skipper, I'll ravish you
of those magnificent eyebrows with a safety razor, some time when
you're asleep, and leave you as dumb as a Wop peddler who's lost both
arms."

Liane followed him out in silence, but her carriage was that of a queen
of tragedy. Lanyard got up in turn, and to his amazement found the
eyebrows signalling confidentially to him.

"What the devil!" he exclaimed, in an open stare.

Immediately the eyebrows became conciliatory.

"Well, monsieur, and what is your opinion?"

"Why, to me it would seem there might be something in the suggestion of
Monsieur Phinuit."

"Ridiculous!" Monk dismissed it finally. "Do you know, I rather fancy
my own.... Liane's up to something," he added, explanatory; and then,
as Lanyard said nothing--"You haven't told me yet what she was talking
to you about last night just before her--alleged fright."

Lanyard contrived a successful offensive with his own eyebrows.

"Oh?" he said, "haven't I?" and walked out.

Here was a new angle to consider. Monk's attitude hinted at a possible
rift in the entente cordiale of the conspirators. Why else should he
mistrust Liane's sincerity in asserting that she had seen Popinot?
Aside from the question of what he imagined she could possibly gain by
making a scene out of nothing--a riddle unreadable--one wondered
consumedly what had happened to render Monk suspicious of her good
faith.

The explanation, when it was finally revealed to Lanyard by the most
trivial of incidents, made even his own blindness seem laughable.

For three more days the life of the ship followed in unruffled
tranquillity its ordered course. Liane Delorme was afflicted with no
more visions, as the captain would have called them; though by common
consent the subject had been dropped upon the failure of the search,
and to all seeming was rapidly fading from the minds of everybody but
Liane herself and Lanyard. This last continued to plague himself with
the mystery and, maintaining always an open mind, was prepared at any
time to be shockingly enlightened; that is, to discover that Liane had
not cried wolf without substantial reason. For he had learned this much
at least of life, that everything is always possible.

As for Liane, she made no secret of her unabated timidity, yet suffered
it with such fortitude as could not fail to win admiration. If she was
a bit more subdued, a trifle less high-spirited than was her habit, if
she refused positively to sit with her back to any door or to retire
for the night until her quarters had been examined, if (as Lanyard
suspected) she was never unarmed for a moment, day or night, she
permitted no signs of mental strain to mar the serenity of her
countenance or betray the studied graciousness of her gestures.

Toward Lanyard she bore herself precisely as though nothing had
happened to disturb the even adjustment of their personal relations;
or, perhaps, as if she considered everything had happened, so that
their rapport had become absolute; at all events, with a pleasing
absence of constraint. He really couldn't make her out. Sometimes he
thought she wished him to believe she was not as other women and could
make rational allowance for his poor response to her naïve overtures.
But that seemed so abnormal, he felt forced to fall back on the theory
that her declaration had been nothing more than a minor gambit in
whatever game she was playing, and that consequently she bore no malice
because of its failure. No matter which explanation was the true one,
no matter which keyed her temper toward him, Lanyard found himself
liking the woman better, not as a woman but as another human being,
than he had ever thought to. Say what you liked, in this humour she was
charming.

But he never for an instant imagined she was meekly accepting defeat at
his hands instead of biding her time to resume the attack from a new
quarter. So he wasn't at all surprised when, one evening, quite early
after dinner, she contrived another tête-à-tête, and with good
conversational generalship led their talk presently into a channel of
amiable personalities.

"And have you been thinking about what we said--or what I said, my
friend--that night--so long ago it seems!--three nights ago?"

"But inevitably, Liane."

"You have not forgotten my stupidity, then."

"I have forgotten nothing."

She made a pretty mouth of doubt. "Would it not have been more kind to
forget?"

"Such compliments are not easily forgotten."

"You are sure, quite sure it was a compliment?"

"No-o; by no means sure. Still, I am a man, and I am giving you the
full benefit of every doubt."

She laughed, not ill-pleased. "But what a man! how blessed of the gods
to be able to laugh at yourself as well as at me."

"Undeceive yourself: I could never laugh at you, Liane. Even if one did
not believe you to be a great natural comedienne at will, one would
always wonder what your purpose was--oh yes! with deep respect one
would wonder about that."

"And you have been wondering these last three days? Well, tell me what
you think my purpose was in abandoning all maidenly reserve and
throwing myself at your head."

"Why," said Lanyard with a look of childlike candour, "you might, you
know, have been uncontrollably swayed by some passionate impulses of
the heart."

"But otherwise--?" she prompted, hugely amused.

"Oh, if you had a low motive in trying to make a fool of me, you know
too well how to hide your motive from such a fool."

In a fugitive seizure of thoughtfulness the violet eyes lost all their
impishness. She sighed, the bright head drooped a little toward the
gleaming bosom, a hand stole out to rest lightly upon his once again.

"It was not acting, Michael--I tell you that frankly--at least, not all
acting."

"Meaning, I take it, you know love too well to make it artlessly."

"I'm afraid so, my dear," said Liane Delorme with another sigh. "You
know: I am afraid of you. You see everything so clearly..."

"It's a vast pity. I wish I could outgrow it. One misses so many
amusing emotions when one sees too clearly."

During another brief pause, Lanyard saw Monk come on deck, pause, and
search them out, in the chairs they occupied near the taffrail, much as
on that other historic night. Not that he experienced any difficulty in
locating them; for this time the decklights were burning clearly.
Nevertheless, Captain Monk confessed emotion at sight of those two in a
quite perceptible start; and Lanyard saw the eyebrows tremendously
agitated as their manipulator moved aft.

Unconscious of all this, Liane ended her pensive moment by leaning
toward Lanyard and making demoralizing eyes, while the hand left his
and stole with a caressing gesture up his forearm.

"Is love, then, distasteful to you unless it be truly artless,
Michael?"

"There's so much to be said about that, Liane," he evaded.

Monk was standing over them, a towering figure in white with the most
forbidding eyebrows Lanyard had ever seen.

"Might one suggest," he did suggest in iced accents, "that the
quarter-deck is a fairly conspicuous place for this exhibition of
family affection?"

Liane Delorme turned up an enquiring look, tinged slightly with an
impatience which all at once proved too much for her.

"Oh, go to the devil!" she snapped in that harsh voice of the sidewalks
which she was able to use and discard at will.

For a moment Monk made no reply; and Lanyard remarked a curious
quivering of that excessively tall, excessively attenuated body, a real
trembling, and suddenly understood that the absurd creature was being
shaken by jealousy, by an enormous passion of jealousy, quite beyond
his control, that shook him very much as a cat might shake a mouse.

It was too funny to be laughable, it was comic in a way to make one
want to weep. So that Lanyard, who refused to weep in public, could
merely gape in speechless and transfixed rapture. And perhaps this was
fortunate; otherwise Monk must have seen that his idiotic secret was
out, the sport of ribald mirth, and the situation must have been
precipitated with a vengeance and an outcome impossible to predict. As
it was, absorbed in his inner torment, Monk was insensible to the peril
that threatened his stilted but precious dignity, which he proceeded to
parade, as it were underlining it with the eyebrows, to lend emphasis
to his words.

"So long as this entertaining fiction of brother-and-sister is thought
worth while," he said with infuriated condescension, "it might be
judicious not to indulge in inconsistent and unseemly demonstrations of
affection within view of my officers and crew. Suppose we..." He choked
a little. "In short, I came to invite you to a little conference in my
rooms, with Mr. Phinuit."

"Conference?" Liane enquired coolly, without stirring. "I know nothing
of this conference."

"Mr. Phinuit and I are agreed that Monsieur Lanyard is entitled to know
more about our intentions while he has time to weigh them carefully. We
have only four more days at sea..."

Unable longer to contain himself, Lanyard left his chair with alacrity.
"But this is so delightful! You've no idea, really, monsieur, how I
have looked forward to this moment." And to Liane: "Do come, and see
how I take it, this revelation of my preordained fate. It will be, I
trust sincerely, like a man."

With momentary hesitation, and in a temper precluding any sympathy,
with his humour, the woman rose and silently followed with him that
long-legged figure whose stalk held so much dramatic significance as he
led to the companionway.

After that it was refreshing to find unromantic Mr. Phinuit lounging
beside the captain's desk with crossed feet overhanging one corner of
it and mind intent on the prosaic business of paring his fingernails.
Lanyard nodded to him with great good temper and--while Phinuit lowered
his feet and put away his penknife--considerately placed a chair for
Liane in the position in which she preferred to sit, with her face
turned a little from the light. Nor would his appreciation of the
formality which seemed demanded by Monk's solemn manner, permit him to
sit before the captain had taken his own chair behind the desk.

Then, however, he discovered the engaging spontaneity of a schoolboy at
a pantomime, and drawing up a chair sat on the edge of it and addressed
himself with unaffected eagerness to the most portentous eyebrows in
captivity.

"Now," he announced with a little bow, "for what, one imagines, Mr.
Phinuit would term the Elaborate Idea!"


XXIV

HISTORIC REPETITION


Phinuit grinned, then smothered a little yawn. Liane Delorme gave a
small, disdainful movement of shoulders, and posed herself becomingly,
resting an elbow on the arm of her chair and inclining her cheek upon
two fingers of a jewelled hand. Thus she sat somewhat turned from Monk
and Phinuit, but facing Lanyard, to whom her grave but friendly eyes
gave undivided heed, for all the world as if there were no others
present: she seemed to wait to hear him speak again rather than to care
in the least what Monk would find to say.

Captain Monk filled in that pause with an impressive arrangement of
eyebrows. Then, fixing his gaze, not upon Lanyard, but upon the point
of a pencil with which his incredibly thin fingers traced elaborate but
empty designs upon the blotter, he opened his lips, hemmed in warning
that he was about to speak, and seemed tremendously upset to find that
Liane was inconsiderately forestalling him.

Her voice was at its most musical pitch, rather low for her, fluting,
infinitely disarming and seductive.

"Let me say to you, mon ami, that--naturally I know what is coming--I
disapprove absolutely of this method of treating with you."

"But it is such an honour to be considered important enough to be
treated with at all!"

"You have the true gift for sarcasm: a pity to waste it on an audience
two-thirds incapable of appreciation."

"Oh, you're wrong!" Phinuit declared earnestly. "I'm appreciative, I
think the dear man's immense."

"Might I suggest"--the unctuous tones of Captain Monk issued from under
mildly wounded eyebrows--"if any one of us were unappreciative of
Monsieur Lanyard's undoubted talents, he would not be with us tonight."

"You might suggest it," Phinuit assented, "but that wouldn't make it
so, it is to mademoiselle's appreciation that you and I owe this treat,
and you know it. Now quit cocking those automatic eyebrows at me;
you've been doing that ever since we met, and they haven't gone off
yet, not once."

Irrepressible, Liane's laughter pealed; and though he couldn't help
smiling, Lanyard hastened to offer up himself on the altar of peace.

"But--messieurs!--you interest me so much. Won't you tell me quickly
what possible value my poor talents can have found in your sight?"

"You tell him, Monk," Phinuit said irreverently--"I'm no tale-bearer."

Monk elevated his eyebrows above recognition of the impertinence, and
offered Lanyard a bow of formidable courtesy.

"They are such, monsieur," he said with that deliberation which becomes
a diplomatic personage--"your talents are such that you can, if you
will, become invaluable to us."

Phinuit chuckled outright at Lanyard's look of polite obtuseness.

"Never sail a straight course--can you skipper?--when you can get there
by tacking. Here: I'm a plain-spoken guy, let me act as an interpreter.
Mr. Lanyard: this giddy association of malefactors here present has the
honour to invite you to become a full-fledged working member and
stockholder of equal interest with the rest of us, participating in all
benefits of the organization, including police protection. Macleod has
offered me an island; if it were not too far off I should hardly
refuse it: my island would be pleasanter than Brighthelmstone, if
you and my master could come to it; but I cannot think it pleasant
to live quite alone.

Oblitusque meorum, obliviscendus et illis.

That I should be elated by the dominion of an island to forgetfulness
of my friends at Streatham I cannot believe, and I hope never to
deserve that they should be willing to forget me.

It has happened that I have been often recognised in my journey where
I did not expect it. At Aberdeen I found one of my acquaintance professor
of physic; turning aside to dine with a country gentleman, I was
owned at table by one who had seen me at a philosophical lecture; at
Macdonald's I was claimed by a naturalist, who wanders about the islands
to pick up curiosities; and I had once in London attracted the
notice of Lady Macleod. I will now go on with my account.

The Highland girl made tea, and looked and talked not inelegantly; her
father was by no means an ignorant or a weak man; there were books in
the cottage, among which were some volumes of Prideaux's _Connection_:

this man's conversation we were glad of while we stayed. He had
been _out_, as they call it, in forty-five, and still retained his
old opinions.

He was going to America, because his rent was raised beyond what
he thought himself able to pay.

At night our beds were made, but we had some difficulty in persuading
ourselves to lie down in them, though we had put on our own sheets;
at last we ventured, and I slept very soundly in the vale of Glen
Morrison, amidst the rocks and mountains.

Next morning our landlord liked us so well, that he walked some
miles with us for our company, through a country so wild and barren
that the proprietor does not, with all his pressure upon his tenants,
raise more than four hundred pounds a year for near one hundred
square miles or sixty thousand acres.

For some moments Lanyard continued to stare reflectively at his feet.
Nothing whatever of his thought was to be gathered from his
countenance, though eyes more shrewd to read than those of Phinuit or
Monk were watching it intently.

"Well, Mr. Lanyard, what do you say?"

Lanyard lifted his meditative gaze to the face of Phinuit. "But surely
there is more...." he suggested in a puzzled way.

"More what?"

"I find something lacking.... You have shown me but one side of the
coin. What is the reverse? I appreciate the honour you do me, I
comprehend fully the strong inducements I am offered. But you have
neglected--an odd oversight on the part of the plain-spoken man you
profess to be--you have forgotten to name the penalty which would
attach to a possible refusal."

"I guess it's safe to leave that to your imagination."

"There would be a penalty, however?"

"Well, naturally, if you're not with us, you're against us. And to take
that stand would oblige us, as a simple matter of self-preservation, to
defend ourselves with every means at our command."

"Means which," Lanyard murmured, "you prefer not to name."

"Well, one doesn't like to be crude."

"I have my answer, monsieur--and many thanks. The parallel is
complete."

With a dim smile playing in his eyes and twitching at the corners of
his lips, Lanyard leaned back and studied the deck beams. Liane Delorme
sat up with a movement of sharp uneasiness.

"Of what, my friend, are you thinking?"

"I am marvelling at something everybody knows--that history does repeat
itself."

The woman made a sudden hissing sound, of breath drawn shortly between
closed teeth. "I hope not!" she sighed.

Lanyard opened his eyes wide at her. "You hope not, Liane?"

"I hope this time history will not altogether repeat itself. You see,
my friend, I think I know what is in your mind, memories of old
times...."

"True: I am thinking of those days when the Pack hunted the Lone Wolf
in Paris, ran him to earth at last, and made him much the same offer as
you have made to-night.... The Pack, you should know, messieurs, was
the name assumed by an association of Parisian criminals, ambitious
like you, who had grown envious of the Lone Wolf's success, and wished
to persuade him to run with them."

"And what happened?" Phinuit enquired.

"Why it so happened that they chose the time when I had made up my mind
to be good for the rest of my days. It was all most unfortunate."

"What answer did you give them, then?"

"As memory serves, I told them they could all go plumb to hell."

"So I hope history will not repeat, this time," Liane interjected.

"And did they go?" Monk asked.

"Presently, some of them, ultimately all; for some lingered a few years
in French prisons, like that great Popinot, the father of monsieur who
has caused us so much trouble."

"And you----?"

"Why," Lanyard laughed, "I have managed to keep out of jail, so I
presume I must have kept my vow to be good."

"And no backsliding?" Phinuit suggested with a leer.

"Ah! you must not ask me to tell you everything. That is a matter
between me and my conscience."

"Well," Phinuit hazarded with a good show of confidence, "I guess you
won't tell us to go plumb to hell, will you?"

"No; I promise to be more original than that."

"Then you refuse!" Liane breathed tensely.

"Oh, I haven't said that! You must give me time to think this over."

"I knew that would be his answer," Monk proclaimed, pride in his
perspicuity shaping the set of his eyebrows. "That is why I was firm
that we should wait no longer. You have four days in which to make up
your mind, monsieur."

"I shall need them."

"I don't see why," Phinuit argued: "it's an open and shut proposition,
if ever there was one."

"But you are asking me to renounce something upon which I have set much
store for many years, monsieur. I can't be expected to do that in an
hour or even a day."

You shall have your answer, I promise you, by the time we make our
landfall--perhaps before."

"The sooner, the better."

"Are you sure, monsieur? But one thought it was the tortoise who won
the famous race."

"Take all the time you need," Captain Monk conceded generously, "to
come to a sensible decision."

"But how good you are to me, monsieur!"


XXV

THE MALCONTENT


Singular though the statement may seem, when one remembers the
conditions that circumscribed his freedom of action on board the
Sybarite, that he stood utterly alone in that company of conspirators
and their creatures, alone and unarmed, with never a friend to guard
his back or even to whisper him one word of counsel, warning or
encouragement, with only his naked wits and hands to fortify and
sustain his heart: it is still no exaggeration to say that Lanyard got
an extraordinary amount of private diversion out of those last few
days.

From the hour when Liane Delorme, Phinuit and Captain Monk, in conclave
solemnly assembled at the instance of the one last-named, communicated
their collective mind in respect of his interesting self, the man was
conscious of implicit confidence in a happy outcome of the business,
with a conscientiousness less rational than simply felt, a sort of
bubbling exhilaration in his mood that found its most intelligible
expression in the phrase, which he was wont often to iterate to
himself: Ça va bien--that goes well!

That--the progressive involution of this insane imbroglio--went very
well indeed, in Lanyard's reckoning; he could hardy wish, he could not
reasonably demand that it should go better.

He knew now with what design Liane Delorme had made him a party to this
sea adventure and intimate with every detail of the conspiracy; and he
knew to boot why she had offered him the free gift of her love; doubt
as to the one, scruples inspired by the other--that reluctance which
man cannot but feel to do a hurt to a heart that holds him dear,
however scanty his response to its passion--could no longer influence
him to palter in dealing with the woman. The revelation had in effect
stricken shackles from Lanyard's wrists, now when he struck it would be
with neither hesitation nor compunction.

As to that stroke alone, its hour and place and fashion, he remained
without decision. He had made a hundred plans for its delivery, and one
of them, that seemed the wildest, he thought of seriously, as something
really feasible. But single-handed! That made it difficult. If only one
could devise some way to be in two places at one time and the same! An
impossibility? He wouldn't deny that. But Lanyard had never been one to
be discouraged by the grim, hard face of an impossibility. He had known
too many such to dissipate utterly, vanish into empty air, when
subjected to a bold and resolute assault. He wouldn't say die.

Never that while he could lift hand or invent stratagem, never that so
long as fools played their game into his hands, as this lot wished to
and did. What imbecility! What an escape had been his when, in that
time long since, he had made up his mind to have done with crime once
and for all time! But for that moment of clear vision and high resolve
he might be to-day even as these who had won such clear title to his
contempt, who stultified themselves with vain imaginings and the
everlasting concoction of schemes whose sheer intrinsic puerility
foredoomed them to farcical failure.

Lanyard trod the decks for hours at a time, searching the stars for an
answer to the question: What made the Law by whose decree man may
garner only punishment and disaster where he has husbanded in iniquity?
That Law implacable, inexorable in its ordained and methodic workings,
through which invariably it comes to pass that failure and remorse
shall canker in the heart even of success ill-gained....

But if he moralized it was with a cheerful countenance, and his sermons
were for himself alone. He kept his counsel and spoke all men fairly,
giving nowhere any manner of offense: for could he tell in what
unlikely guise might wait the instrument he needed wherewith to work
out his unfaltering purpose?

And all the while they were watching him and wondering what was in his
mind. Well, he gave no sign. Let them watch and wonder to their heart's
content; they must wait until the time he had appointed for the
rendering of his decision, when the Sybarite made her landfall.

Winds blew and fell, the sea rose and subsided, the Sybarite trudged on
into dull weather. The sky grew overcast; and Lanyard, daily scanning
the very heavens for a sign, accepted this for one, and prayed it might
hold. Nothing could be more calculated to nullify his efforts than to
have the landfall happen on a clear, calm night of stars.

He went to bed, the last night out, leaving a noisy gathering in the
saloon, and read himself drowsy. Then turning out his light he slept.
Sometime later he found himself instantaneously awake, and alert, with
a clear head and every faculty on the qui vive--much as a man might
grope for a time in a dark strange room, then find a door and step out
into broad daylight.

Only there was no light other than in the luminous clarity of his mind.
Even the illumination in the saloon had been dimmed down for the night,
as he could tell by the tarnished gleam beneath his stateroom door.

Still, not everyone had gone to bed. The very manner of his waking
informed him that he was not alone; for the life Lanyard had led had
taught him to need no better alarm than the entrance of another person
into the place where he lay sleeping. All animals are like that, whose
lives hang on their vigilance.

Able to see nothing, he still felt a presence, and knew that it waited,
stirless, within arm's-length of his head. Without much concern, he
thought of Popinot, that "phantom Popinot" of Monk's derisive naming.

Well, if the vision Liane had seen on deck had taken material form here
in his stateroom, Lanyard presumed it meant another fight, and the
last, to a finish, that is to say, to a death.

'As a matter of fact, no man living, or who ever lived--not CÆSAR or
PERICLES, not SHAKESPEARE or MICHAEL ANGELO--could confer honour
more than he took on entering the House of Lords.'--_Saturday Review_,
December 15, 1883.
'Clumsy and shallow snobbery--can do no hurt.'"Awake, Monsieur Delorme?" it said. "Hush! Don't make a row, and never
mind the light."

His astonishment was so overpowering that instinctively his tensed
muscles relaxed and his hand fell back upon the bedding.

"Who the deuce----?"

"Not so loud. It's me--Mussey."

Lanyard echoed witlessly: "Mussey?"

"Yes. I don't wonder you're surprised, but if you'll be easy you'll
understand pretty soon why I had to have a bit of a talk with you
without anybody's catching on."

"Well," Lanyard said, "I'm damned!"

"I say!" The subdued mutter took on a note of anxiety. "It's all right,
isn't it? I mean, you aren't going to kick up a rumpus and spill the
beans? I guess you must think I've got a hell of a gall, coming in on
you like this, and I don't know as I blame you, but... Well, time's
getting short, only two more days at sea, and I couldn't wait any
longer for a chance to have a few minutes' chin with you."

The mutter ceased and held an expectant pause. Lanyard said nothing.
But he was conscious that the speaker occupied a chair by the bed, and
knew that he was bending near to catch his answer; for the air was
tainted with vinous breath. Yes: one required no stronger
identification, it was beyond any doubt the chief engineer of the
Sybarite.

"Say it's all right, won't you?" the mutter pleaded.

"I am listening," Lanyard replied--"as you perceive."

"I'll say it's decent of you--damned decent. Blowed if I'd take it as
calm as you, if I waked up to find somebody in my room."

"I believe," said Lanyard pointedly, "you stipulated for a few minutes'
chin with me. Time passes, Mr. Mussey. Get to your business, or let me
go to sleep again."

"Sharp, you are," commented the mutter. "I've noticed it in you. You'd
be surprised if you knew how much notice I've been taking of you."

"And flattered, I'm sure."

"Look here..." The mutter stumbled. "I want to ask a personal question.
Daresay you'll think it impertinent."

"If I do, be sure I shan't answer it."

"Well... it's this: Is or isn't your right name Lanyard, Michael
Lanyard?"

This time it was Lanyard who, thinking rapidly, held the pause so long
that his querist's uneasiness could not contain itself.

"Is that my answer? I mean, does your silence--?"

"That's an unusual name, Michael Lanyard," cautiously replied its
proprietor. "How did you get hold of it?"

"They say it's the right name of the Lone Wolf. Guess I don't have to
tell you who the Lone Wolf is."

"'They say'? Who, please, are 'they'?"

"Oh, there's a lot of talk going around the ship. You know how it is, a
crew will gossip. And God knows they've got enough excuse this cruise."

This was constructively evasive. Lanyard wondered who had betrayed him.
Phinuit? The tongue of that plain-spoken man was hinged in the middle;
but one couldn't feel certain. Liane Delorme had made much of the chief
engineer; though she seemed less likely to talk too much than anyone of
the ship's company but Lanyard himself. But then (one remembered of a
sudden) Monk and Mussey were by reputation old cronies; it wasn't
inconceivable that Monk might have let something slip...

"And what, Mr. Mussey, if I should admit I am Michael Lanyard?"

"Then I'll have something to say to you, something I think'll interest
you."

"Why not run the risk of interesting me, whoever I may be?"

Mussey breathed heavily in the stillness: the breathing of a cautious
man loath to commit himself.

"No," he said at length, in the clearest enunciation he had thus far
used. "No. ROSSETTI.

Song wakes with every wakening year From hearts of birds that only
feel Brief spring's deciduous flower-time near:
And song more strong to help or heal Shall silence worse than winter
seal?

From love-lit thought's remurmuring cave The notes that rippled,
wave on wave, Were clear as love, as faith were strong; And all
souls blessed the soul that gave Sweet water from the well of song.

All hearts bore fruit of joy to hear, All eyes felt mist upon them
steal For joy's sake, trembling toward a tear, When, loud as
marriage-bells that peal, Or flutelike soft, or keen like steel,
Sprang the sheer music; sharp or grave, We heard the drift of winds
that drave, And saw, swept round by ghosts in throng, Dark rocks,
that yielded, where they clave, Sweet water from the well of song.

Before this, if anybody had ever told me Whit
Monk would do a pal dirt, I'd've punched his head and thought no more
about it. But now..."

The mutter faltered. Lanyard preserved a sympathetic silence--a
silence, at least, which he hoped would pass as sympathetic. In
reality, he was struggling to suppress any betrayal of the exultation
that was beginning to take hold of him. Premature this might prove to
be, but it seemed impossible to misunderstand the emotion under which
the chief engineer was labouring or to underestimate its potential
value to Lanyard. Surely it would seem that his faith in his star had
been well-placed: was it not now--or all signs failed--delivering into
his hand the forged tool he had so desperately needed, for which he had
so earnestly prayed?

A heavy sigh issued upon the stillness, freighted with a deep and
desolating melancholy. For, it appeared, like all cynics, Mr. Mussey
was a sentimentalist at heart. And in the darkness that disembodied
voice took up its tale anew.

"I don't have to tell you what's going on between Whit and that lot
he's so thick with nowadays. You know, or you wouldn't be here."

"Isn't that conclusion what you Americans would call a little
previous?"

"Previous?" The mutter took a moment to con the full significance of
that adjective. "No: I wouldn't call it that. You see, on a voyage like
this--well, talk goes on, things get about, things are said aloud that
shouldn't be and get overheard and passed along; and the man who sits
back and listens and sifts what he hears is pretty likely to get a
tolerably good line on what's what. Of course there's never been any
secret about what the owner means to do with all this wine he's
shipped. We all know we're playing a risky game, but we're for the
owner--he isn't a bad sort, when you get to know him--and we'll go
through with it and take what's coming to us win or lose. Partly, of
course, because it'll mean something handsome for every man if we make
it without getting caught. But if you want to know what I think... I'll
tell you something..."

"But truly I am all attention."

"I think Whit Monk and Phinuit and mam'selle have framed the owner
between them."

"Can't say I quite follow..."

"I think they cooked up this smuggling business and kidded him into it
just to get the use of his yacht for their own purposes and at the same
time get him where he can't put up a howl if he finds out the truth.
Suppose he does..." The mutter became momentarily a deep-throated
chuckle of malice. XVII.

It was the dawn of winter: sword in sheath, Change, veiled and mild,
came down the gradual air With cold slow smiles that hid the doom
beneath.
Five days to die in yet were autumn's, ere The last leaf withered
from his flowerless wreath.Then, suppose they want to go on with the game, looting in Europe
and sneaking the goods into America with the use of his yacht: what's
he going to say, how's he going to stop them?"

Accepting these questions as purely rhetorical, Lanyard offered no
comment. After a moment the mutter resumed:

"Well, what do you think? Am I right or am I wrong?"

"Who knows, Mr. Mussey? One can only say, you seem to know something."

