But the exhilaration of the day persisted. She felt like doing something
out of the regular routine. Even a preliminary walk of a mile or so
before she should cross over and take the elevated, would serve to
satisfy her mild hunger for adventure. The dogs can scent out any poor
creature who may lie buried in the snow, and they run around, sniffing
and seeking, seeming thoroughly to understand what is expected of them.
When they find any one, they howl, and scratch at the snow till their
masters come to them.

They are so clever that they often show the monks the way home, when
all traces of the road are shut out by the snow.

Sometimes, when the storm is so bad that the monks dare not venture,
the dogs are sent out alone, each with a little keg of brandy tied
round his neck.But though she waved cheerful responses to their greetings, she
made her stride purposeful enough to discourage offers of company. They
all seemed young to her to-day. All her student activities seemed young.
As if, somehow, she had outgrown them. The feeling was none the less
real after she had laughed at herself for entertaining it.

She noticed presently that it was a good deal darker than it had any
right to be at this hour, and the sudden fall of the breeze and a
persistent shimmer of lightning supplied her with the explanation. When
she reached Forty-seventh Street, the break of the storm was obviously a
matter of minutes, so she decided to ride across to the elevated--it was
another mile, perhaps--rather than walk across as she had meant to do.
She didn't in the least mind getting wet, providing she could keep on
moving until she could change her clothes. But a ten-mile ride in the
elevated, with water squashing around in her boots and dripping out of
her hair, wasn't an alluring prospect.

She found quite a group of people waiting on the corner for a car, and
the car itself, when it came along, was crowded. So she handed her
nickel to the conductor over somebody's shoulder, and moved back to the
corner of the vestibule. It was frightfully stuffy inside and most of
the newly received passengers seemed to agree with her that the platform
was a pleasanter place to stay; which did very well until the next stop,
where half a dozen more prospective passengers were waiting. They were
in a hurry, too, since it had begun in very downright fashion to rain.

The conductor had been chanting, "Up in the car, please," in a
perfunctory cry all along. But at this crisis, his voice got a new
urgency. "Come on, now," he proclaimed, "you'll have to get inside!"

From the step the new arrivals pushed, the conductor pushed, and finally
he was able to give the signal for starting the car. The obvious
necessity of making room for those who'd be waiting at the next corner,
kept him at the task of herding them inside and the sheep-like docility
of an American crowd helped him.

Regretfully, with the rest, Rose made her way to the door.

"Fare, please," he said sharply as she came along.

She told him she had paid her fare, but for some reason, perhaps because
he was tired at the end of a long run, perhaps because he saw some one
else he suspected of being a spotter, he elected not to believe her.

"When did you pay it?" he demanded.

"A block back," she said, "when all those other people got on."

"You didn't pay it to me," he said truculently. "Come along! Pay your
fare or get off the car."

"I paid it once," she said quietly, "and I'm not going to pay it again."
With that she started forward toward the door.

He reached out across his little rail and caught her by the arm. It was
a natural act enough--not polite, to be sure, by no means chivalrous.
Still, he probably put into his grip no more strength than he thought
necessary to prevent her walking by into the car.

But it had a surprising result--a result that normally would not have
happened. Yet, on this particular day, it could not have happened
differently. A story is told of him that when he was five years old he
saw an acrobat performing on a tight-rope.

He was so pleased with what he saw, that when he got home he stretched
a rope between two posts, and, as soon as his mother was out of the
way, took his father's fishing-rod, and, using it as a balancing
pole, made his first appearance as a tight-rope walker.

He was trained for an acrobat and tight-rope walking, and came to this
country with a troup of pantomimists.

While here he visited Niagara Falls, and the idea at once struck him that,
if he dared to cross those terrible waters on a rope, his fortune would
be made. He made up his mind to try it, and stayed in the village
of Niagara for weeks, until he had learned just how it would be
possible for him to perform the feat.

Then he set about getting the scheme well advertised, and
securing plenty of money for himself if he succeeded in accomplishing
it.

On August 17th, 1859, he made the trip across the Falls in the presence
of 50,000 spectators.

His rope was 175 feet above the waters.

He was not satisfied with merely walking across; he crossed again
blindfolded, and then carrying a man on his back, and once again
wheeling a barrow before him.

In the summer of 1860 he crossed once more in the presence of the
Prince of Wales, and carried a man on his back, whom he set down
on the rope six times, while he rested

.

* * * * *
News has reached us that a great avalanche of snow has fallen upon the
Monastery of St. Bernard, and has destroyed the left wing of the
building, though happily without costing any lives.

[Illustration: The St. Bernard at home.]
The Great St. Bernard is a mountain pass in the Swiss Alps, and the
monastery was built in the year 963 by a nobleman named Bernard de
Menthon, for the use of pilgrims on their way to Rome.
As the years have passed away, the pilgrims have become tourists,
but still the monastery's doors have been open for all who asked
for shelter there."Did you see her pay it?" demanded the conductor.

"Naturally not," said the voice. "I got on at the last corner. She was
here then. But if she said she did, she did."

It seemed to relieve the conductor to have some one of his own sex to
quarrel with. He delivered a stream of admonition somewhat sulphurously
phrased, to the general effect that any one whose concern the present
affair was not, could, at his option, close his jaw or have his block
knocked off.

Rose hadn't, as yet, looked round at her champion. But she now became
aware that inside a shaggy gray sleeve which hung beside her, there was
a sudden tension of big muscles; the gloved hand that had helped gather
up her note-books, clenched itself into a formidable fist. The thought
of the sort of thud that fist might make against the over-active jaw of
the conductor was pleasant. Still, the thing mustn't be allowed to
happen.

She spoke quickly and decisively. "I won't pay another fare, but of
course you may put me off the car."

"All right," said the conductor.

The girl smiled over the very gingerly way in which he reached out for
her elbow to guide her around the rail and toward the step. Technically,
the action constituted putting her off the car. She heard the crisp
voice once more, this time repeating a number, "twenty-two-naught-five,"
or something like that, just as she splashed down into the two-inch lake
that covered the hollow in the pavement. The Editor has much pleasure
in acknowledging letters from Robertson B., Grace K., and M.T.W.

We are very glad to know that the trees that were moved are alive
and doing well.

DEAR MR. EDITOR:

I read THE GREAT ROUND WORLD and I think it very nice.
I am glad to read in the number for February 25th about the moving
of Katonah, for I live in Katonah myself.

The people of Katonah do not want to have it thought that New York
city has made them move because they are careless about their drainage.
It is because the city is going to make a new reservoir where the old
village of Katonah now stands.

Katonah has three churches, a public library and reading-room, a village
improvement association, and a graded school, and _was_ proud of
itself.

And she added
quickly, "I don't believe it's quite so deep on the sidewalk, is it?"
With that she waded away toward the curb.

He followed, then led the way to a lee-wall that offered, comparatively
speaking, shelter.

Then, "Where's the deception?" he asked.

On any other day, it's probable she'd have acted differently; would have
paid some heed, though a bit contemptuously, perhaps, to the precepts of
ladylike behavior, in which she'd been admirably grounded. The case for
reticence and discretion was a strong one. The night was dark; the
rain-lashed street deserted; the man an utterly casual stranger--why,
she hadn't even had a straight look into his face. His motive in getting
off the car was at least dubitable. Even if not sinister, it could
easily be unpleasantly gallant. A man might not contemplate doing her
bodily harm, and still be capable of trying to collect some sort of
sentimental reward for the ducking he had submitted himself to.

That's the one they call the "Bridge o' Sighs," ain't it?
(_Hazily._) Is that because there's _shops_ on it?

_Jem_. I dessay. Shops--or else suicides.

_Lizzie_ (_more hazily than ever_). Ah, the same as the Monument.
(_They walk on with a sense of mental enlargement._) 
_Mrs.

Lavender Salt_. It's wonderfully like the real thing, LAVENDER, isn't it?
Of course they can't _quite_ get the true Venetian atmosphere!

_Mr.

L.S._ Well, MIMOSA, they'd have the Sanitary Authorities down on them if
they _did_, you know!

_Mrs. L.S._ Oh, you're so horribly unromantic! But, LAVENDER, couldn't
we get one of those gondolas and go about.

It would be so lovely to be in one again, and fancy ourselves back in
dear Venice, now _wouldn't_ it?

_Mr. L.S._ The illusion is cheap at sixpence; so come along, MIMOSA!

[_He secures, tickets, and presently the LAVENDER SALTS, find themselves
part of a long queue, being marshalled between barriers by Italian gendarmes
in a state of politely suppressed amusement._

_Mrs. L.S._ (_over her shoulder to her husband, as she imagines_). I'd no
idea we should have to go through all this! Must we really herd in
with all these people?

Can't we two manage to get a gondola all to ourselves?

_A Voice_ (_not LAVENDER's--in her ear_). I'm sure I'm 'ighly flattered,
Mum, but I'm already suited; yn't I, DYSY?

[_DYSY corroborates his statement with unnecessary emphasis._
_A Sturdy Democrat_ (_in front, over his shoulder_).

Pity yer didn't send word you was coming, Mum, and then they'd ha' kep'
the place clear of us common people for yer! [Mrs. L.S.

_is sorry she spoke._
IN THE GONDOLA.--_Mr. and Mrs.

L.S. are seated in the back seat, supported on one side by the
Humorous 'ARRY and his Fiancée, and on the other by a pale, bloated
youth, with a particularly rank cigar, and the Sturdy Democrat,
whose two small boys occupy the seat in front._
_The St. Dem._ (_with malice aforethought_). If you two lads ain't
got room there, I dessay this lady won't mind takin' one of yer on
her lap. (_To Mrs. L.S., who is frozen with horror at the suggestion._)
They're 'umin beans, Mum, like yerself!
_Mrs. L.S._ (_desperately ignoring her other neighbours_). Isn't
that lovely balcony there copied from the one at the Pisani,
LAVENDER--or is it the Contarini? I forget.
_Mr. L.S._ Don't remember--got the Rialto rather well, haven't
they?
I suppose that's intended for the dome of the Salute down there--not
quite the outline, though, if I remember right.Thanks, really very, very much, though. Don't _you_ miss it." She thrust
out her hand. "Good-by!"

"I can't pretend to think you need an escort to the elevated," he said.
"I saw what you did to the conductor. I haven't the least doubt you
could have thrown him off the car. But I'd--really like it very much if
you would let me walk along with you."

"Why," she said, "of course! I'd like it too. Come along."


CHAPTER III

FREDERICA'S PLAN AND WHAT HAPPENED TO IT


At twenty minutes after seven that evening, Frederica Whitney was about
as nearly dressed as she usually was ten minutes before the hour at
which she had invited guests to dinner--not quite near enough dressed to
prevent a feeling that she had to hurry.

Ordinarily, though, she didn't mind. She'd been an acknowledged beauty
for ten years and the fact had ceased to be exciting. She took it rather
easily for granted, and knowing what she could do if she chose, didn't
distress herself over being lighted up, on occasions, to something a
good deal less than her full candle-power. To Frederica at thirty--or
thereabout--the job of being a radiantly delightful object of regard
lacked the sporting interest of uncertainty; was almost too simple a
matter to bother about.

But to-night the tenseness of her movements and the faint trace of a
wire edge in the tone in which she addressed the maid, revealed the fact
that she wished she'd started half an hour earlier. Even her husband
discovered it. He brought in a cigarette, left the door open behind him
and stood smiling down at her with the peculiarly complacent look that
characterizes a married man of forty when he finds himself dressed
beyond cavil in the complete evening harness of civilization, ten
minutes before his wife.

She shot a glance of rueful inquiry at him--"Now what have _you_ come
fussing around for?" would be perhaps a fair interpretation of it--and
asked him what time it was, in the evident hope that the boudoir clock
on her dressing-table had deceived her. It had, but in the wrong
direction.

"Seven twenty-two, thirty-six," he told her. It was a perfectly harmless
passion he had for minute divisions of time, but to-night it irritated
her. He might have spared her that thirty-six seconds.

She made no comment except with her eyebrows, but he must have been
looking at her, for he wanted to know, good-humoredly, what all the
excitement was about.

"You could go down as you are and not a man here to-night would know the
difference. And as for the women--well, if they have something on you
for once, they'll be all the better pleased."

"Don't try to be knowing and philosophical, and--Havelock Ellish,
Martin, dear," she admonished him, pending a minute operation with an
infinitesimal hairpin. "It isn't your lay a bit. Just concentrate your
mind on one thing, and that's being nice to Hermione Woodruff...."

She broke off for a long stare into her hand-glass; then finished,
casually, "... and on seeing that Roddy is."

He asked, "Why Rodney?" in a tone that matched hers; looked at her,
widened his eyes, said "Huh!" to himself and, finally, shook his head.
"Nothing to it," he pronounced.

She said, "Nothing to what?" but abandoned this position as untenable.
She despatched the maid with the key to the wall safe in her husband's
room. "Why isn't there?" she demanded. "Rodney won't look at young
girls. They bore him to death--and no wonder, because he freezes them
perfectly brittle with fright. But Hermione's really pretty intelligent.
She can understand fully half the things he talks about and she's clever
enough to pretend about the rest. She's got lots of tact and skill,
she's good-looking and young enough--no older than I and I'm two years
younger than Roddy. She'll appreciate a real husband, after having been
married five years to John Woodruff. And she's rich enough, now, so that
his wild-eyed way of practising law won't matter."

"All very nice and reasonable," he conceded, "but somehow the notion of
Rodney Aldrich trying to marry a rich widow is one I'm not equal to
without a handicap of at least two cocktails." He looked at his watch
again. "By the way, didn't you say he was coming early?"

She nodded. "That's what he told me this morning when I telephoned him
to remind him that it was to-night. He said he had something he wanted
to talk to me about. I knew I shouldn't have a minute, but I didn't say
so because I thought if he tried to get here early, he might miss being
late."

They heard, just then, faint and far-away, the ring of the door-bell, at
which she cried, "Oh, dear! There's some one already."

"Wait a second," he said. "Let's see if it's him."

The paneled walls and ceiling of their hall were very efficient
sounding-boards and there was no mistaking the voice they heard speaking
the moment the door opened--a voice with a crisp ring to it that sounded
always younger than his years. After being at the nest together
they would often fly off in opposite directions, to hunt on different
beats.

If one hunted in the grove, the other would go out to the rail fence.

A high maple was a favorite lookout and hunting-ground for the one
who stayed in the grove, and cracks in the bark afforded good places
to wedge insects into.

The bird who hunted on the fence, if suspecting a grub in a rail, would
stand motionless as a Robin on the grass, apparently listening; but when
the right moment came would drill down rapidly and spear the grub.

If an insect passed that way the Redhead would make a sally into the air
for it, sometimes shooting straight up for fifteen or twenty feet and
coming down almost as straight; at others flying out and back in
an ellipse, horizontally or obliquely up in the air or down over
the ground.

But oftener than all, perhaps, it flew down onto the ground to pick up
something which its sharp eyes had discovered there.

Once it brought up some insect, hit it against the rail, gave a business-like
hop and flew off to feed its young.

The young left the nest between my visits, but when, chancing to focus
my glass on a passing Woodpecker I discovered that its head was gray
instead of red, I knew for a certainty what had happened. The fledgling
seemed already much at home on its wings. It flew out into the air,
caught a white miller and went back to the tree with it, shaking it
and then rapping it vigorously against a branch before venturing
to swallow it.

When the youngster flew, I followed rousing a Robin who made such
an outcry that one of the old Redheads flew over in alarm. "Kik-a-rik,
kik-a-rik," it cried as it hurried from tree to tree, trying to keep
an eye on me while looking for the youngster. Neither of us
could find it for some time, but after looking in vain over the west
side of a big tree I rounded the trunk and found it calmly sitting on
a branch on the east side--which goes to prove that it is never
safe to say a Woodpecker isn't on a tree, till you have seen both
sides!

The old Redhead found the lost fledgling about the time that I did
and flew over to it with what looked like a big grub.

At the delectable sight, the youngster dropped all its airs of independence,
and with weak infantile cries turned and opened wide its bill!

Two days later I found two birds that may have been father and son, on
the side of a gladpole, out in the big world together.

The old bird's head glowed crimson in the strong sunlight, and it was
fortunate indeed that only friends were by.

The striking tricolor makes the Redheads such good targets that they are
in especial danger from human enemies and need loyal, valiant
defenders wherever they live.

His own suggestion was that he should decamp
furtively by the back stairs, the sound of new arrivals to the dinner
party warning him that the other way of escape was barred. Waiters could
be instructed to rescue his hat for him, and he could toddle along
down-town again.

She didn't give him time to complete the outline of this masterly
stratagem. "Don't be impossible, Rod," she said. "Don't you even know
whose birthday party this is?"

He looked at her, frowned, then laughed. He had a great big laugh.

"I thought it was one of the kid's," he said.

"Well, it isn't," she told him. "It's yours. And those people down there
were asked to meet you. And you've got just about seven minutes to get
presentable in. Go into Martin's bathroom and take off those horrible
clothes. I'll send Walters in to lay out some things of Martin's."

She came up to him and, at arm's length, touched him with cautious
finger-tips. "And do, please, there's a dear boy," she pleaded, "hurry
as fast as you can, and then come down and be as nice as you can"--she
hesitated--"especially to Hermione Woodruff. She thinks you're a wonder
and I don't want her to be disappointed."

"The widdy?" he asked. "Sure I'll be nice to her."

She looked after him rather dubiously as he disappeared in the direction
of her husband's room.

She'd have felt safer about him if he had seemed more subdued as a
result of his escapade. There was a sort of hilarious contentment about
him that filled her with misgivings.

Well, they were justified!

But the maddening thing was, she had afterward to admit, that the
disaster had been largely of her own contriving. She had been caught in
the net of her own stratagem--hoist by her own petard.

She had made it a six-couple dinner in order to insure that the talk
should be by twos rather than general, and she had spent a good
half-hour over the place-cards, getting them to suit her.

Hermione had to be on Martin's right hand, of course. She was just back
in the city after an absence of years, and everybody was rushing her.
She put Violet Williamson, whom Martin was always flirting with in a
harmless way, on his left, and Rod to the right of Hermione. At Rodney's
right, she put a girl he had known for years and cared nothing whatever
about, and then Howard West--who probably wasn't interested in her
either, but would be polite because he was to everybody. Frederica
herself sat between Carl Leaventritt of the university--a great
acquisition, since whatever you might think of him as an empirical
psychologist, there was no doubt of his being an accomplished
diner-out--and Violet's husband, as he vociferously proclaimed himself,
John Williamson, an untired business man who, had their seasons
coincided, could have enjoyed a ball game in the afternoon and stayed
awake at the opera in the evening. The Siamese government has also
agreed to look into the matter of the assault on Mr. Kellett, and punish
the guilty persons.

As you will see in Number 17, Mr. Olney hinted that Consul-General Barrett
had been over-hasty, and that the Siamese were not to blame.

He made similar remarks about General Lee in Cuba.
He does not seem to want our Consuls to protect our citizens in
foreign countries, and it is perhaps a good thing for the nation
that he has no longer the power to hinder them in the performance
of their duties.Rodney came down almost within
the seven minutes she had allowed him, looking much less dreadful than
she had expected, in her husband's other dress suit, and not forgetful,
it appeared, of the line of behavior she had enjoined on him; namely,
that he was to be nice to Hermione Woodruff.

From her end of the table, she saw them apparently safely launched in
conversation over the hors-d'oeuvre, took a look at them during the soup
to see that all was still well, then let herself be beguiled into a
conversation with John Williamson, whom she liked as well as Martin did
Violet. She never thought of the objects of her matrimonial design again
until her ear was caught by a huge seven-cornered word in her brother's
voice. He couldn't be saying it to Hermione; no, he was leaning forward,
shouting at Doctor Randolph, who apparently knew what he meant and was
getting visibly ready to reply in kind.

An avalanche is a mass of snow, which, getting loosened from the mountain
heights, falls down to the valley, often bearing masses of rock
and earth with it. As it sweeps down the mountain side it carries all
before it, and when it is finally checked in its course, it smothers
everything around in its mantle of white.

It has always been a part of the monks' duties, after one of these
dreadful avalanches has passed over, to go out into the mountains
and search for travellers who may have been buried by it.You see he hadn't caught his name when
they were introduced. And that's how it started. Hermione was game--I'll
admit that. She listened and kept looking interested, and every now and
then said something. Sometimes they'd take the trouble to smile and say
'Yes, indeed!'--politely, you know, but other times they wouldn't pay
any attention at all, just roll along over her and smash her flat--like
what's his name--Juggernaut."

"You don't need to tell me that," said Frederica. "All I didn't know was
how it started. Didn't I sit there and watch for a mortal hour, not able
to do a thing? I tried to signal to Martin, but of course he wasn't
opposite to me and ..."

"He did all he could, really," Violet answered her. "I told him to go to
the rescue, and he did, bravely. [Illustration: WAYNE TOWNSHIP CENTRALIZED
SCHOOL LOCATED AT LEES CREEK, CLINTON COUNTY, OHIO.]
On its edge was a promising old stub with a number of big,
round holes and, picking up a stick, I rapped on the trunk. Both
birds were over my head in an instant, rattling and scolding till
you would have thought I had come to chop down the tree and carry
off the young before their eyes.

I felt injured, but having found the nest could afford to watch from a
distance.

It was not long before the old birds began feeding their young. They
would fly to the stub and stand under the nest while rousing the brood
by rattling into the hole, which had the odd effect of muffling their
voices. When, as they flew back and forth a Yellow-hammer stopped in
passing, they drove him off in a hurry."Good night, old chap," said Martin in accents of lively commiseration,
"I'm glad I'm not in for what you are."


CHAPTER IV

ROSALIND STANTON DOESN'T DISAPPEAR


Rodney found a pipe of his that he kept concealed on the premises,
loaded and lighted it, sat down astride a spindling little chair that
looked hardly up to his weight, settled his elbows comfortably on the
back of it, and then asked his sister what Martin had meant--what was he
in for?

Frederica, curled up in a corner of the sofa, finished her own train of
thought aloud, first.

"She's awfully attractive, don't you think? His wife, I mean. Oh, James
Randolph's, of course." She turned to Rodney, looked at him at first
with a wry pucker between her eyebrows, then with a smile, and finally
answered his question. "Nothing," she said. "I mean, I was going to
scold you, but I'm not."

"Why, yes," he admitted through his smoke. "Randolph's wife's a mighty
pretty woman. Why had I come?

One of them leaned far down across a dead limb and inspected me, rattling
and bowing nervously; the other stationed itself on the back of a
branch over which it peered at me with one eye. Both of them cried
krit-tar-rah every time I ventured to take a step.I'd like to know what she's saying to him now."

