Produced by David Widger


THE SCARLET PLAGUE

By Jack London


Illustrated By Gordon Grant

1915


THE SCARLET PLAGUE


I

THE way led along upon what had once been the embankment of a railroad.
But no train had run upon it for many years. The forest on either side
swelled up the slopes of the embankment and crested across it in a green
wave of trees and bushes. The trail was as narrow as a man's body, and
was no more than a wild-animal runway. Occasionally, a piece of rusty
iron, showing through the forest-mould, advertised that the rail and the
ties still remained. In one place, a ten-inch tree, bursting through at
a connection, had lifted the end of a rail clearly into view. "Die? -
Thank God, I've always had decent interior operator," she continued,
üher Anna questioned, and threw a lateral, patronizing view of this,
"but now, lest we also come again .-- I hab 'it to me but - believe you
me, Mr. magistrate, I'm fifteen years in the same place and know
what the reputation of a business mind - I've sworn it to me: Rienk
says' I, Rienk - from the meat street you take no more, not to the
world!

" She came more and more into the train. "Vettel!" Anna screamed shrilly,
and was cautioned. The Rienk quickly turned around and then back to the
judges. "You should not be angry, Mr. magistrate?" And they cut a
wine Miene court: "How did 'the people I helped and what did I like
this! - It's just good that I never lose my head', it is just so good
that I never in the same Level note with - with - so what. "And finally
called to order, they told circumlocutory that John's position at
this factory is not in vain Lord had adopted." And night shift -
he will already have known why. One knows such - night! " And Mr
Hochvogel? ... It fell slightly in confusion. Well, turns out to have
seen such a Lord would not be so easy to Bockhorn hunt. "The need here!
The witness must make!" Anna screamed, and her lawyer said it also
completed.

Well, it was still unfavorable. Although the manufacturer, the whole
thing was very uncomfortable, although he was extremely withheld
and nothing against John could actually argue, just as those nasty incident
in the Rienkeschen bar - made it all a bad, very bad impression -
Johann Krill was convicted. Anna got a minute long scream convulsions.
It crashed before and wanted to go Rienk.

It had to protect people with violence away. Johann, without agitation
joining in the performances, took everything out calmly. He smiled,
almost embarrassed, as he judges at the end asked if he had something to
say desirable.
As he went along he smelled
things, as well, his distended, quivering nostrils carrying to his brain
an endless series of messages from the outside world. Also, his hearing
was acute, and had been so trained that it operated automatically.
Without conscious effort, he heard all the slight sounds in the apparent
quiet--heard, and differentiated, and classified these sounds--whether
they were of the wind rustling the leaves, of the humming of bees and
gnats, of the distant rumble of the sea that drifted to him only in
lulls, or of the gopher, just under his foot, shoving a pouchful of
earth into the entrance of his hole.

Suddenly he became alertly tense. Sound, sight, and odor had given him
a simultaneous warning. His hand went back to the old man, touching
him, and the pair stood still. Ahead, at one side of the top of the
embankment, arose a crackling sound, and the boy's gaze was fixed on the
tops of the agitated bushes. Then a large bear, a grizzly, crashed into
view, and likewise stopped abruptly, at sight of the humans. He did not
like them, and growled querulously. Slowly the boy fitted the arrow to
the bow, and slowly he pulled the bowstring taut. But he never removed
his eyes from the bear.

[Illustration: Slowly he pulled the bowstring taut 020]

The old man peered from under his green leaf at the danger, and stood as
quietly as the boy. For a few seconds this mutual scrutinizing went
on; then, the bear betraying a growing irritability, the boy, with a
movement of his head, indicated that the old man must step aside from
the trail and go down the embankment. The boy followed, going backward,
still holding the bow taut and ready. They waited till a crashing among
the bushes from the opposite side of the embankment told them the bear
had gone on. The boy grinned as he led back to the trail.

"A big un, Granser," he chuckled.

The old man shook his head.

"They get thicker every day," he complained in a thin, undependable
falsetto. "Who'd have thought I'd live to see the time when a man would
be afraid of his life on the way to the Cliff House. When I was a boy,
Edwin, men and women and little babies used to come out here from San
Francisco by tens of thousands on a nice day. And there weren't any
bears then. No, sir. They used to pay money to look at them in cages,
they were that rare."

"What is money, Granser?"

Before the old man could answer, the boy recollected and triumphantly
shoved his hand into a pouch under his bear-skin and pulled forth a
battered and tarnished silver dollar. The old man's eyes glistened, as
he held the coin close to them.

"I can't see," he muttered. "You look and see if you can make out the
date, Edwin."

The boy laughed.

"You're a great Granser," he cried delightedly, "always making believe
them little marks mean something."

The old man manifested an accustomed chagrin as he brought the coin back
again close to his own eyes.

"2012," he shrilled, and then fell to cackling grotesquely. "That was
the year Morgan the Fifth was appointed President of the United States
by the Board of Magnates. It must have been one of the last coins
minted, for the Scarlet Death came in 2013. Lord! Lord!--think of it!
Sixty years ago, and I am the only person alive to-day that lived in
those times. Where did you find it, Edwin?"

The boy, who had been regarding him with the tolerant curiousness one
accords to the prattlings of the feeble-minded, answered promptly.

"I got it off of Hoo-Hoo. He found it when we was herdin' goats down
near San José last spring. Hoo-Hoo said it was _money_. Ain't you
hungry, Granser?"

The ancient caught his staff in a tighter grip and urged along the
trail, his old eyes shining greedily.

"I hope Har-Lip 's found a crab... or two," he mumbled. "They're good
eating, crabs, mighty good eating when you've no more teeth and you've
got grandsons that love their old grandsire and make a point of catching
crabs for him. When I was a boy--"

But Edwin, suddenly stopped by what he saw, was drawing the bowstring
on a fitted arrow. He had paused on the brink of a crevasse in the
embankment. An ancient culvert had here washed out, and the stream, no
longer confined, had cut a passage through the fill. On the opposite
side, the end of a rail projected and overhung. It showed rustily
through the creeping vines which overran it. Beyond, crouching by a
bush, a rabbit looked across at him in trembling hesitancy. Fully fifty
feet was the distance, but the arrow flashed true; and the transfixed
rabbit, crying out in sudden fright and hurt, struggled painfully away
into the brush. The boy himself was a flash of brown skin and flying fur
as he bounded down the steep wall of the gap and up the other side.
His lean muscles were springs of steel that released into graceful
and efficient action. A hundred feet beyond, in a tangle of bushes,
he overtook the wounded creature, knocked its head on a convenient
tree-trunk, and turned it over to Granser to carry.

[Illustration: Rabbit is good, very good 026]

"Rabbit is good, very good," the ancient quavered, "but when it comes to
a toothsome delicacy I prefer crab. When I was a boy--"

"Why do you say so much that ain't got no sense?" Edwin impatiently
interrupted the other's threatened garrulousness.

The boy did not exactly utter these words, but something that remotely
resembled them and that was more guttural and explosive and economical
of qualifying phrases. His speech showed distant kinship with that of
the old man, and the latter's speech was approximately an English that
had gone through a bath of corrupt usage.

"What I want to know," Edwin continued, "is why you call crab 'toothsome
delicacy'? Crab is crab, ain't it? No one I never heard calls it such
funny things."

The old man sighed but did not answer, and they moved on in silence.
The surf grew suddenly louder, as they emerged from the forest upon a
stretch of sand dunes bordering the sea. A few goats were browsing among
the sandy hillocks, and a skin-clad boy, aided by a wolfish-looking
dog that was only faintly reminiscent of a collie, was watching them.
Mingled with the roar of the surf was a continuous, deep-throated
barking or bellowing, which came from a cluster of jagged rocks a
hundred yards out from shore. Here huge sea-lions hauled themselves
up to lie in the sun or battle with one another. In the immediate
foreground arose the smoke of a fire, tended by a third savage-looking
boy. Crouched near him were several wolfish dogs similar to the one that
guarded the goats.

The old man accelerated his pace, sniffing eagerly as he neared the
fire.

"Mussels!" he muttered ecstatically. "Mussels! And ain't that a crab,
Hoo-Hoo? Ain't that a crab? My, my, you boys are good to your old
grandsire."

Hoo-Hoo, who was apparently of the same age as Edwin, grinned.

"All you want, Granser. I got four."

The old man's palsied eagerness was pitiful. Sitting down in the sand as
quickly as his stiff limbs would let him, he poked a large rock-mussel
from out of the coals. The heat had forced its shells apart, and
the meat, salmon-colored, was thoroughly cooked. Between thumb and
forefinger, in trembling haste, he caught the morsel and carried it
to his mouth. But it was too hot, and the next moment was violently
ejected. The old man spluttered with the pain, and tears ran out of his
eyes and down his cheeks.

The boys were true savages, possessing only the cruel humor of the
savage. To them the incident was excruciatingly funny, and they burst
into loud laughter. Hoo-Hoo danced up and down, while Edwin rolled
gleefully on the ground. The boy with the goats came running to join in
the fun.

"Set 'em to cool, Edwin, set 'em to cool," the old man besought, in the
midst of his grief, making no attempt to wipe away the tears that
still flowed from his eyes. "And cool a crab, Edwin, too. You know your
grandsire likes crabs."

From the coals arose a great sizzling, which proceeded from the many
mussels bursting open their shells and exuding their moisture. They were
large shellfish, running from three to six inches in length. The boys
raked them out with sticks and placed them on a large piece of driftwood
to cool.

"When I was a boy, we did not laugh at our elders; we respected them."

The boys took no notice, and Granser continued to babble an incoherent
flow of complaint and censure. But this time he was more careful, and
did not burn his mouth. All began to eat, using nothing but their hands
and making loud mouth-noises and lip-smackings. The third boy, who was
called Hare-Lip, slyly deposited a pinch of sand on a mussel the ancient
was carrying to his mouth; and when the grit of it bit into the old
fellow's mucous membrane and gums, the laughter was again uproarious. He
was unaware that a joke had been played on him, and spluttered and spat
until Edwin, relenting, gave him a gourd of fresh water with which to
wash out his mouth.

"Where's them crabs, Hoo-Hoo?" Edwin demanded. "Granser's set upon
having a snack."

Again Granser's eyes burned with greediness as a large crab was handed
to him. It was a shell with legs and all complete, but the meat had long
since departed. With shaky fingers and babblings of anticipation, the
old man broke off a leg and found it filled with emptiness.

"The crabs, Hoo-Hoo?" he wailed. "The crabs?"

"I was fooling Granser. They ain't no crabs! I never found one."

The boys were overwhelmed with delight at sight of the tears of senile
disappointment that dribbled down the old man's cheeks. Then, unnoticed,
Hoo-Hoo replaced the empty shell with a fresh-cooked crab. Already
dismembered, from the cracked legs the white meat sent forth a small
cloud of savory steam. This attracted the old man's nostrils, and he
looked down in amazement.

[Illustration: This attracted the old man's nostrils 033]

The change of his mood to one of joy was immediate. He snuffled and
muttered and mumbled, making almost a croon of delight, as he began
to eat. Of this the boys took little notice, for it was an accustomed
spectacle. Nor did they notice his occasional exclamations and
utterances of phrases which meant nothing to them, as, for instance,
when he smacked his lips and champed his gums while muttering:
"Mayonnaise! Just think--mayonnaise! And it's sixty years since the last
was ever made! Two generations and never a smell of it! Why, in those
days it was served in every restaurant with crab."

When he could eat no more, the old man sighed, wiped his hands on his
naked legs, and gazed out over the sea. With the content of a full
stomach, he waxed reminiscent.

"To think of it! I've seen this beach alive with men, women, and
children on a pleasant Sunday. And there weren't any bears to eat them
up, either. And right up there on the cliff was a big restaurant where
you could get anything you wanted to eat. Four million people lived in
San Francisco then. And now, in the whole city and county there aren't
forty all told. And out there on the sea were ships and ships always to
be seen, going in for the Golden Gate or coming out. And airships in the
air--dirigibles and flying machines. They could travel two hundred miles
an hour. The mail contracts with the New York and San Francisco Limited
demanded that for the minimum. There was a chap, a Frenchman, I forget
his name, who succeeded in making three hundred; but the thing was
risky, too risky for conservative persons. But he was on the right clew,
and he would have managed it if it hadn't been for the Great Plague.
When I was a boy, there were men alive who remembered the coming of the
first aeroplanes, and now I have lived to see the last of them, and that
sixty years ago."

The old man babbled on, unheeded by the boys, who were long accustomed
to his garrulousness, and whose vocabularies, besides, lacked the
greater portion of the words he used. It was noticeable that in these
rambling soliloquies his English seemed to recrudesce into better
construction and phraseology. But when he talked directly with the boys
it lapsed, largely, into their own uncouth and simpler forms.

"But there weren't many crabs in those days," the old man wandered on.
"They were fished out, and they were great delicacies. The open season
was only a month long, too. And now crabs are accessible the whole year
around. Think of it--catching all the crabs you want, any time you want,
in the surf of the Cliff House beach!"

A sudden commotion among the goats brought the boys to their feet. The
dogs about the fire rushed to join their snarling fellow who guarded the
goats, while the goats themselves stampeded in the direction of their
human protectors. A half dozen forms, lean and gray, glided about on the
sand hillocks and faced the bristling dogs. Edwin arched an arrow that
fell short. But Hare-Lip, with a sling such as David carried into battle
against Goliath, hurled a stone through the air that whistled from the
speed of its flight. It fell squarely among the wolves and caused them
to slink away toward the dark depths of the eucalyptus forest.

[Illustration: With a sling such as David carried 036]

The boys laughed and lay down again in the sand, while Granser sighed
ponderously. He had eaten too much, and, with hands clasped on his
paunch, the fingers interlaced, he resumed his maunderings.

"'The fleeting systems lapse like foam,'" he mumbled what was evidently
a quotation. "That's it--foam, and fleeting. All man's toil upon the
planet was just so much foam. He domesticated the serviceable animals,
destroyed the hostile ones, and cleared the land of its wild vegetation.
And then he passed, and the flood of primordial life rolled back again,
sweeping his handiwork away--the weeds and the forest inundated his
fields, the beasts of prey swept over his flocks, and now there are
wolves on the Cliff House beach." He was appalled by the thought. "Where
four million people disported themselves, the wild wolves roam to-day,
and the savage progeny of our loins, with prehistoric weapons, defend
themselves against the fanged despoilers. Think of it! And all because
of the Scarlet Death--"

The adjective had caught Hare-Lip's ear.

"He's always saying that," he said to Edwin. "What is _scarlet?_"

"'The scarlet of the maples can shake me like the cry of bugles going
by,'" the old man quoted.

"It's red," Edwin answered the question. "And you don't know it because
you come from the Chauffeur Tribe. They never did know nothing, none of
them. Scarlet is red--I know that."

"Red is red, ain't it?" Hare-Lip grumbled. "Then what's the good of
gettin' cocky and calling it scarlet?"

"Granser, what for do you always say so much what nobody knows?" he
asked. "Scarlet ain't anything, but red is red. Why don't you say red,
then?"

"Red is not the right word," was the reply. "The plague was scarlet.
The whole face and body turned scarlet in an hour's time. Don't I
know? Didn't I see enough of it? And I am telling you it was scarlet
because--well, because it _was_ scarlet. There is no other word for it."

"Red is good enough for me," Hare-Lip muttered obstinately. "My dad
calls red red, and he ought to know. He says everybody died of the Red
Death."

"Your dad is a common fellow, descended from a common fellow," Granser
retorted heatedly. "Don't I know the beginnings of the Chauffeurs? "But
he has money! A pile of money!" Michael replied to it. And the farmer
nodded: "That my 'me too!" After she had left the notary, was on
Michaels face a joyously excited color. He invited the Reinalther even a
real one and the feast was named after the second pitcher already
talkative.

"Would any other in the village, you want to install stuff, I tell
you, Michl, you just need dranmachen," he talking about the
confidential table.

"Need just come - all say 'I am!" Michael gave it back. Reinalthers About
flits a comforting facial redness. Open and friendly, he really his
former servant. "Thee nor white, wie'st were my servant, Michl," he
told them, "hätt'st you also worked Buckl crooked ', if your not on the
grass Americans' bites hätt' "And Michael nodded and closed with:"
Yeah, it's in the world here and there!

" Then they sailed back again to the village.

The Reinalther could stay in his house and sat from now on every day
when Simon Lechler in the restaurant. Often he came home tipsy. Then
growled his wife: "Will be like the grad ersoffene Jürgert." Hab'ns
but, old woman Hab'ns yet! " gröhlte then blessed the farmer bier out .--
V.

As usual on such occasions, took the change in the situation more
and more into the life of a part of Dörfler A.

Small Häusler fristeten here in a tough existence.

Their meager field strip contributed little.

Each of them was forced to harvest time and during the winter, when
Holzen, from the farmers at Taglohn to work. This salary was how to
express themselves used to be "too little to live and to die too much."
These people came to the railway located. There was tolerable
wages there. "As I have my pile of money, basta! - And brauch 'not
asking and begging for the farmers," said the Fendt, whose ramshackle
hut in the village stood. "I still 'do not show up here," said the
Rieminger, "I sold my Häusl Jürgertmichl and do the' laundry on
in the city.

As hab 'ich nobody to keep up!" And so's it. Scarcely half a year ran
him, because Michael had also Fendthäusl and dilapidated Reishof
purchased. Häusler The two got a juicy sum and could remain in their
homes. Michael did not demand rent from them again. It happened around
from ear to ear. In a certain respect for one spoke of it .-- The railway
construction was in full swing.

With Gleim Hansen acres trampling workers, closely behind the
Söllingergehöft in the wheat lands they dug from the excrement of the
earth. With faces grimly watched the farmers to their fields devastated.
Many foreign people were among the workers.

Italians and Bohemia. There were burglaries, stabbings and fights at
night .-- The Söllingerin got the last rites. After a few days she died.
The whole village and many farmers from the area stood at the grave.

The bells were ringing her through the air.

Reinalther said at the funeral feast at the inn for Söllingen: "What did
'dei'm of life, Mayor ?

My two sons' are already urban, because nobody wants more of the
pitchfork and the plow! "Finster saw the Söllingen into space and
said not a word. His two sons, Martin and Joseph, were sitting there,
and equally silent. Two smart fellows they were, were no longer
bäurisch from studying in the city and had round, self-faces, in which
an arrogant pride shone. The mayor stood up and went at once. It was
harvest time. The road led to the former Reinaltherfeldern past and
the width of the Ignatz rice. As the servants worked Michaels and the
Italians they supervised. He was a silent, sinister companion with
uncanny tiefglimmenden eyes.

If where he appeared, all accessed involuntarily hurried to. The Söllingen
remained a moment are, bit his teeth and beat each other, further,
the stag handle solid floor to the ground .-- Michael saw the now
almost never during the day.

Only in the evening stelzte he üher the Söllingerhügel remained and
sometimes looked like the line after testing. Gebückt he went. He usually
wore a large coat and held a cane in his right. Sometimes, when a
returning to his passing, verglommenes was a smile on his wrinkled features.
Suddenly, however, darkened it, his head lowered and he hastily trotted
on. Once it is met, that he met the Söllingen. He remained determined,
and the peasants saw lurking in the eyes. It was just at the point
where the railway embankment is raised near the Bachbrücklein.

"Degree" you have beautiful acres hergenommen's, "said Michael." Hm! " The
mayor nodded and did not know where he hinschauensollte. "Will old now,
Söllingen!'s Give her your property!" Michael began again.

The farmer just shook his head wordlessly and went stubbornly on. But
this time Michael was still deep in the night by the office window
in the mayor's house lights.

A few days later became the Heustadel behind the Söllingerhof on
fire, and only with difficulty could the fire department, the
overturning of the flame on the farm to prevent.

The Italians Rotti and Böhme Zdrenka had it on the mayor-Magd apart.
In a night of Böhme erstach the Italians. Two gendarmes Greinau came
from.

It was restless in Söllingerhaus.

The mayor was angry at the table: "I do not like anymore!" And resolutely
he ran out the door, straight to the 'Burg piglets to.

Michael received him kindly and calmly. He offered a sum that the farmer
and his eyes wide breakdown.

The trade was established. Söllingen The Mayor gave his and moved on to
the blacksmith. "Selling your Kalupp '!" said now every night and
he Reinalther of the grouchy Gleim Lechlstube to Hans.

"Did you Ruh ', and a nice pile of money and Michl lets you inside, as
long as you want!" confirmed the Lechlwirt. "As long as I live, no!"

Hans gave monosyllabic Gleim back tenaciously and shook his head .--
Michael bought the blacksmith property. The blacksmith pulled into the
city .-- "Buy the whole village," growled the Gleim Hans, "and has
us all in the last Mausfall'n!"

"Let him, if he's like - it's can afford to pay well and is not
contrary!

- Lets talk with them! " defended the landlord and the Reinalther the
lord of the castle piglets.

And dull the Söllingen nodded .-- But the next day Michael came
into Reinaltherhaus.

The farmer received him cheerful and friendly, without any Arg "In
the spring's must go!

Have a tenant farmer," said Michael briefly at once. The peasants there
was a jerk. He looked great on him. "Bring but his stuff's already next
month!" Michael said again and turned to go. The Reinalther was
suddenly pale. His chin quivered. His lower lip slipped slightly down.
Helplessness and pleading, he saw at Michael. "Think not that we are the
few chambers could get back and to be allowed!" He sheepishly out.
Michael silently shook his head. "Not at all?" Michael turned around,
saw him cold: "Can's yes on end to the blacksmith einzieh'n. on top
are three chambers.'re after each other's mit'm Söllingen ! superiority
'thee's and let's me know! "And the farmer before anything could
reciprocate, he was outside. For a while was the Reinalther how unconscious
since. Then he went over to Lechlwirt. Gleim, the Hans and the Söllingen
sat there. Shy and quite around the outside of Reinalther inquired
after the premises in the blacksmith house. "Had 'out?" Lechler
said. mute nodded the respondent. "ins Schmiedgasse house?" "Schier,"
replied the farmer, and added: "If a tenant farmer for spring." Gleim
Hansen's cunning eyes glittered. He lifted his head and smiled gleeful.
"From the blacksmith house is not even far into the parish!" he threw
him maliciously. The Söllingen moved his face up. "Yes -!" Gleim said
Hans, measuring it, "together with your money, he chases you into
the Mausfall'n if he's fit!"

The other two farmers sat there and stared dully into the silent
void.

One stood up, and others. And both went without a word .-- VI. Repeated
times had Michael for Hans Gleim skillfully. He came, the Italians came,
the maid came. It helped nothing. The farmer had his property not
her.

"If another one comes, he may prove his bones at the door scrape
together!"

he roared for the last wild. There was no more. Michael had gradually
bought up the whole village. The farms and houses were abandoned and
quiet there. The former owners were either continued withdrawn,
died or worked against Taglohn on the rail line. The plots were of the
piglets people plows castle, built and managed. Reishof In the former
a Hausiererin stayed and carried out a grocery. In the other houses lived
workers or even the previous owners, went out in the morning and evening
inside. The walls crumbled from the neglected gardens, everything was
deserted and ruin term there.

Michael himself sitting all day in his tower room, üher the protocols
and instruments bent, which he at every purchase of a property was
issued by the Notary.

Only the Italians and the maid who brought him the food, looked at him.
Old and in ruins, he saw from. Had shrunk its form. At night, when the
silver moon glided üher the valley, he stood on the tower windows and
overlooked his property. Then sometimes glomm in his eyes something like
triumph. Only if his view of the Gleim-estate fell, it was dark on his
face .-- From the Earth broke the spring. The maid came to Reinalther and
brought the message, the farmer should be ready for extraction. "Yeah,
in God's Nam '! Sagt's just, I want the blacksmith house!" The farmer
gave her a reply with the "Piglet roost." On the same day Michael
eilsam trotted to the store to be shy and vanished in the door. The
Krämerin schrak formally collapsed when he stood there. From a horrible
yellow face charred eyes stared at her.

"Give me two calf trick Irlingerin, but good!" Michael just said. The
Krämerin presented a packing cords out. Michael carefully considered the
other a value. "Die!" he rushed out, threw him the money and took two
ropes. "wearing the same two cows because 'this time?" asked the Krämerin
finite.

But Michael just nodded and went. Stelzte he rushed through the
village.

When he was the door of his tower room zuschloß, he drew the cords
from his breast pocket, examined it again and put them in the
cupboard, closed from.

Apparently satisfied, he breathed on, stepped to the desk and read
again the documents .-- Towards evening, the pastor who no longer
had been present in the piglets roost.

Distrustful and somewhat confused received him Michael. "The
Monastery of St. Mary's would like to Söllingerhof, Michl?" said
after a moment of silence clergy. Michael shook his head. "Is not that
everything is so dead daliegt, Michl!" exhorts the pastor. "So?" Michael
said stubbornly, his wrinkles and twitched almost mockingly. "Will
an old man, Michl, what are doing with the many houses!" murmured the
priest helpless. "G'richt hold!" Michael came out muffled and tacked his
eyes sparkling at the pastor. The uneasy stood there and breathed
heavily. "Our Lord will give you thanks know Michl!"

finally he found the word again and again reminded the Söllingerhof. "Is
too much in the Sundays'," muttered Michael eerily silent and still
out, "and accuses me all the shadows in the lower offices," He was
excited because, moving not.

The clerics suddenly became pale, as he eingeschrumpfte yellow face in
the dull light saw. Now Michael's eyes sparkled and his lips again,
and went on: "Did my father once heard, is not it? ... And it has
Söllingen bought, is not it? ... And - Gleim Hans has the money to
him 'give. - cattle he dazumal geschachert, the Söllingen not? And did
it and my father bought slowly - slowly, no? .. . War is an Hüttl, at
the time - not !?--" He stopped. The priest stood wordlessly there.
"And afterwards, he started drinking, my father, is not it?"
Michael gasped out continuing: "And then there's my mother into the
parish, and - and then have them auslogiert - died because the cow
is krepiert!

Hat's no longer able to experience ... not !?"-- Now he suddenly paused,
held the words back and erbleichte.

Again, he drilled his suspicious gaze into the face of the priest. A
restlessness fieberte on his wrinkles. Suddenly, without any of the
priest to make sure he was out: "So dark it's because underneath the
tower as in the parish when my mother dazumal ....!?"--" Michl! "
cried the priest only.

Then he went .-- Michael was a long time in the same attitude since
then jerked it frightened and burst into his armchair. Later he
called the Italians.

It was already night outside.

He put the candle in and pulled the thick curtain in front. "Have always
loaded in the sand pit, is not it?" he asked the Italians. The nodded.
"Are sick, Giuseppe '! Ruh must" have, "Michael spoke well of him and
did not let him out of sight. Giuseppe stood embarrassed and uncomprehendingly
there." The Söllingerhaus over there, Giuseppe' that should belong
to you, wenn'st - if 'st blow again, only longer this time only!
" said Michael ashen and opened his desk, presented three powder bags
on the desk. The Italians stared at him in silence and at large. As
Michael said this, he bubbled almost pleading and rushed out: "Have
you ever caught, Giuseppe ', never!

Have you ever rausgemacht - this time's it'll get done "- And then he
set him apart to the plan. mids in the conversation he suddenly
listened to. Far from the village heard it Wagengeknatter and "Hue"
calls.

The Gleim Hans Habe Reinalthers went into the blacksmith house.

"Go!" Michael said hastily to the Italians. Mechanically this left the
room .-- Until deep into the night, dragged the Gleim Hans, the Söllingen
and Reinalther-spouses the furniture in the shaky chambers on the
first floor of the blacksmith house.

It was a windy, choppy, dark night stock.

Sometimes wore a wind wave sounds and phrases torn over to the "castle
piglets." Michael was shaking in the tower up and down. Up and down.
From time to time, he bowed over the desk and wrote a word or
phrase on a sheet of paper open.

Now the wind tore the beats of Kirchturmuhr apart.

Michael taps to the window, lifted the curtain aside quite narrow and tied
the rope to the window handle. And looked sharp and spähend into the
darkness beyond.
There was the _bacillus anthracis_; there was the _micrococcus_; there
was the _Bacterium termo_, and the _Bacterium lactis_--that's what
turns the goat milk sour even to this day, Hare-Lip; and there were
_Schizomycetes_ without end. And there were many others...."

Here the old man launched into a disquisition on germs and their
natures, using words and phrases of such extraordinary length and
meaninglessness, that the boys grinned at one another and looked out
over the deserted ocean till they forgot the old man was babbling on.

"But the Scarlet Death, Granser," Edwin at last suggested.

Granser recollected himself, and with a start tore himself away from the
rostrum of the lecture-hall, where, to another world audience, he
had been expounding the latest theory, sixty years gone, of germs and
germ-diseases.

"Yes, yes, Edwin; I had forgotten. Sometimes the memory of the past is
very strong upon me, and I forget that I am a dirty old man, clad in
goat-skin, wandering with my savage grandsons who are goatherds in
the primeval wilderness. 'The fleeting systems lapse like foam,' and so
lapsed our glorious, colossal civilization. I am Granser, a tired old
man. I belong to the tribe of Santa Rosans. I married into that tribe.
My sons and daughters married into the Chauffeurs, the Sacramen-tos, and
the Palo-Altos. You, Hare-Lip, are of the Chauffeurs. You, Edwin, are
of the Sacramentos. And you, Hoo-Hoo, are of the Palo-Altos. Your tribe
takes its name from a town that was near the seat of another great
institution of learning. It was called Stanford University. Yes, I
remember now. It is perfectly clear. I was telling you of the Scarlet
Death. Where was I in my story?"

"You was telling about germs, the things you can't see but which make
men sick," Edwin prompted.

"Yes, that's where I was. A man did not notice at first when only a few
of these germs got into his body. But each germ broke in half and became
two germs, and they kept doing this very rapidly so that in a short time
there were many millions of them in the body. Then the man was sick. He
had a disease, and the disease was named after the kind of a germ that
was in him. It might be measles, it might be influenza, it might be
yellow fever; it might be any of thousands and thousands of kinds of
diseases.

"Now this is the strange thing about these germs. There were always new
ones coming to live in men's bodies. Long and long and long ago, when
there were only a few men in the world, there were few diseases. But
as men increased and lived closely together in great cities and
civilizations, new diseases arose, new kinds of germs entered their
bodies. Thus were countless millions and billions of human beings
killed. And the more thickly men packed together, the more terrible were
the new diseases that came to be. Long before my time, in the middle
ages, there was the Black Plague that swept across Europe. It swept
across Europe many times. There was tuberculosis, that entered into men
wherever they were thickly packed. A hundred years before my time there
was the bubonic plague. And in Africa was the sleeping sickness. The
bacteriologists fought all these sicknesses and destroyed them, just as
you boys fight the wolves away from your goats, or squash the mosquitoes
that light on you. The bacteriologists--"

"But, Granser, what is a what-you-call-it?" Edwin interrupted.

"You, Edwin, are a goatherd. Your task is to watch the goats. You know a
great deal about goats. A bacteriologist watches germs. That's his
task, and he knows a great deal about them. So, as I was saying, the
bacteriologists fought with the germs and destroyed them--sometimes.
There was leprosy, a horrible disease. A hundred years before I was
born, the bacteriologists discovered the germ of leprosy. They knew all
about it. They made pictures of it. I have seen those pictures. But
they never found a way to kill it. But in 1984, there was the Pantoblast
Plague, a disease that broke out in a country called Brazil and that
killed millions of people. With hundertfachem mirror fieng I still
look at, if the mouth was closed, that his eye talking about me. And his
eyes spoke to me. But, where I was only alive because I heard the speech
of obedience. Everything is a living obey. Diess And the Second: This
is given orders which can not themselves obey. Thus, it is the Living
Art Diess but the third is what I heard: that commands heavier than
obeying. And not only that the end of the load command obeying all
bears, and that this load easily crushed him: - An attempt and
ventures seemed to me in all commands, and always when it bids, dares
the living truth itself. Yes even if it bids themselves: also there
should be commands atone.

His own laws it must judge and avenger and victim. As it happens Diess!
so I asked myself. What persuades the living, that it obeys and orders
and mandatory nor obedience exercises? Hear me now my word, her
way! Examine it seriously, if I enter into the life's heart and crept
down to the roots of his heart, where I was alive, because I found will
to power, and still in the will of the servants, I found the desire to
be Mr.. The fact that the strongest serve the weaker, persuades it
to his will, which Mr. Weaker still wants to be: this desire alone
may not entrathen. And how are the smaller the bigger hingiebt that
pleasure and power at the smallest did: So giebt also the largest still
there and continues to power's sake - the life on it. This is the
devotion of the greatest that it has risks and danger and death
to a dice game.

And where sacrifice and service and love glances are also there
will be Mr. . On surreptitious ways creeps because the weaker in the
castle and up into the heart of the mighty - and steals since power.
Diess And spake the secret of life itself to me. Behold, it said, I
am that which always has to overcome himself. "Of course, their
stated desire for procreation, or driving on purpose, to higher, more
distant, multiple: Diess but all is one and a secret.

Better yet, I below, as this one that I canceled, and indeed, where it
is sinking giebt leaves and traps, see, because life sacrifices -
for power!

That I must fight and Will and purpose and the purpose of contradiction:
ah, who erräth my will, erräth well, what _krummen_ Because he must
go, what I create and I love's it, - soon must I be his opponent
and I love it like my will.

And thou, discerning, are just one path and Fusstapfen my will: verily,
my will to power turns on the feet of your will to truth: the truth was
certainly not the word after her shot from the `will to existence":
this will - giebt it is not, because what is not, can not want, but
what is in existence, how could the existence nor want!

Only where life is, there is also will: but do not desire to live, but
- so teach I tell you - will to power! Much of the living is valued
higher than life itself, but the treasures themselves out talking
about - the will to power!

" - So once taught me that life: and I will do it, its methods, nor the
Räthsel your heart. Verily I say unto you: good and evil, which would
be everlasting - the giebt not! For himself it must always overcome.

With your Werther and words of good and evil exerts its violence,
its estimation Werth Ends: Diess and hidden is your love and your
soul shine, trembling and About Wallen.

But a stronger power grows out of your Werther and a new overcoming: the
shattered egg and egg shell. And who must be a creator in good and evil:
indeed, the Annihilator, a first and values as broken.

So the most evil belongs to the highest goodness: but this is the creative.
- Let us talk only of their way, whether it is equally bad.

Silence is worse, all truths are verschwiegenere toxic.

And like all but shatter what our truths break - can! Some House giebt
to build it yet! Also sprach Zarathustra. From the sublime style is
the reason my Marine who erriethe well that he has jokingly monster!
Unshakable is my depth: but it shines from floating Räthseln and laughter.
I saw a sublime today, a solemn, a Büsser of mind: oh how my soul laughed
if his ugliness! collected with breast and Denen same, which in
itself Athem ziehn: So he stood there, the Sublime, and silent: Behängt
with ugly truths, his hunting, and rich in torn clothes; hiengen many
thorns on him - but still I saw no rose. yet he learned how to laugh
and not the beauty. Finster these hunters came back from the forest
of knowledge. From the battle he returned home with wild animals: but
from his serious look even a wild animal - a unüberwundenes!

Like a tiger he is still there, the jump will, but I like these souls
are not tense, fiend is my taste all these Zurückgezognen. And you tell
me, friends, that was not to argue about taste and tasting? But all
life is dispute over taste and tasting! Taste: it is both weight and
Wagschal and Wägender, and woe unto all living creatures, without
any dispute about weight and Wagschal Wägende and wanted to live, if he
would be tired of his majesty, this sublime: only then would raise its
beauty, - and then only will I taste him and find palatable. And when
he turns away from himself, he is over his own shadow jump - and, verily!
into _seine_ sun.

Too long he sat in the shade, the cheeks bleached the penitents of
the spirit, he almost starved to his expectations. contempt is still
in his eye, and brings with disgust at his lips.

While he is resting now, but his silence has not in the sun. The Bulls
immediately should he thun, and his happiness should smell earth and
not to scorn the earth.

The white bull's see, I would like him, as he and snorting bellowing
the plowshare preceded: and his roar was still everything Terrestrial
prices! dark nor is his face, hand shadow play upon him. Verschattet
is the meaning of his eye. His That itself is still the shadow upon
him: the hand obscures the actors . Nor has he That does not overcome.
Well, I love him on the neck of the bull: but now I want even the eye
of the angel sehn. Even his heroes, he will still lose: an upscale,
it's me and not just a raised: - the ether itself should raise him,
the will of people! He defeated Unthiere, he sparked Räthsel: but
he should redeem even his Unthiere and Räthsel to heavenly children
should he transform them yet. Even his findings has not learned and
without smile his jealousy, nor is his passion flowing not become calm
in beauty. Verily, not in satiety his desire to be silent and go
underground, but in the beauty! The Anmuth belongs to Grossmuth of
Grossgesinnten. The arm above the head placed so ausruhn be the hero,
he should still be resting overcome.

But even the hero is the hardest of all things _Schöne_. Unerringbar's
the beauty of all violent intentions. A A little more, a little less:
precisely this is much here that is here the most. With lax muscles
and stand with abgeschirrtem desire: this is the heaviest thing you
Allen, her sublime! If the power and mercy in herabkommt's Visible:
beauty hot I am such a come down. And nobody wants me as if you just
beauty, you Huge: your kindness was your last self-overwhelmingness.
all evil, I dare you to: a question I want from you is good. Truly,
I laughed often the weaklings , which is good to believe, because
they have a lame paw! The Virtue pillar shalt thou strive after: it
is always nice and delicate, but harder inside and load-bearing, the more
it rises.

Yes, you are sublime, yet thou shalt once beautiful and your lend beauty
in the mirror. Then your soul before God desires to shudder, and
worship will still be in your vanity! Diess that is the secret of the
soul: first, when they leave the hero, approaching her in the
dream, - of over -hero. Also sprach Zarathustra. From the landing of
education too far into it I flew into the future: a horror invaded
me.

And when I looked around me, see! because the time was my sole
contemporary.

As I fled backwards, homewards - and more haste: so I came to you,
her present, and in the country's education.

For the first time I was with an eye for you, and good desire:
verily , with longing in the heart that I came.

But what happened to me? So terrified me was - I had to laugh! Never saw
anything so my eye Buntgesprenkeltes, I laughed and laughed while
my foot still trembled, and the heart says: "Here is the home of
all colors pots!"

- I said. Klexen with fifty-painted on the face and limbs so sasset
her because to my amazement, her present!

And with fifty mirrors around you, which flattered your play of
colors and nachredeten!

Verily, you could do no better mask bear their present than your
own face!

Who could you - _erkennen_!

Filled with the characters of the past, and these characters with
new characters überpinselt: So did you well hidden from all
Zeichendeutern!

And if you also kidney auditor is: who still believes that her kidneys
have! From their colors seem baked and dressed slips. All times and
peoples of color from your face veils, and all customs and beliefs
from your talk bunt sign.

Who of you veil and throws, and colors and sign abzöge: just enough
left over, he would keep the birds in order to frighten. Verily, I myself
am the frightened bird that you once saw naked and without color, and
I flew away, as I love the skeleton zuwinkte. Better yet, I wanted
to be day laborers in the underworld and in the shadow of the former!
- Feist, and as full of her are still the underworld!

Diess, yes Diess is Bitterniss my intestines that I have neither naked
nor clothed endure their present! Everything uncanny of the future,
and what ever made dissipated birds shiver, is verily secret nor
as confidential and your "reality." Because as you say: "Real are we
wholly, and without faith and superstition": thus prides ye - ah, even
without breasts! Yes, if you believe _können_ her Buntgesprenkelten! -
Its paintings are of everything ever thought! Refutations are you
changing the faith itself, and all thoughts limbs breaking. _Unglaubwürdige_:
So hot _ich_ you, you Wirklichen! All times jabber contradict one another
in your spirits, and dreams of all time, and gossip was true even when
your awake is! You're infertile: you _darum_ lack of faith. But who
had to create, had always his true dreams and star-sign - and
believed in faith!

- Thore Halboffne are you, where Todtengräber wait.

And that is _eure_ reality: "Everything is worth it to go basically." Oh,
I like it off, their infertility, such as lean in the ribs!

And some of you probably had one of their own marriages. And he said:
" probably because it has a god, when I slept, I secretly stolen
something? Truly enough, a female form of it! Wundersam is the Armuth
my ribs! " So many have said Current. Yes, you're laughing at me,
her present! And particularly if you are wondering about yourselves!
And woe betide me if I could not laugh about your surprise, and everything
from your Adverse Bowls would have to drink down!

But I will take with you easily, because I had to wear _Schweres_;
does and what's me, if beetles and worms have wings on my bundle set!
Verily, it is not my sorrow be harder! And not from you, her
present, I will come the great fatigue. - Oh, where should I get off now
with my longing! Of all the mountains I look after father and mother
countries. But I was never home: unstät am I in all cities and a
departure at all Thoren.

Foreign to me and ridicule the present, which I recently drove the heart,
and distributed I'm from the father and mother countries. So I love
my alone nor _Kinder_Land_, the undiscovered, the most distant seas:
after him, I warn my sails search and search. To my children I
want to make it good, that I am a child of my fathers: and to all
future - _diese_ present! Also sprach Zarathustra. From the immaculate
findings yesterday as the moon aufgieng, I mentioned that he wanted
to bear a sun: so wide and he was pregnant at the horizons. But he
was a liar to me with its pregnancy; and even more I want to the man
in the moon than to believe the woman. Of course, little man, he is
also, that timid night owls. Verily, with a bad conscience, he turns over
the rooftops. Because he is lecherous and jealous, the monk in the Moon
, concupiscent after the earth and to all delights of the lovers. No,
I do not like it, this cat on the roofs! All are disgusting to me, the
window to sneak halbverschlossne! Fromm and converts it to silent stars
on carpets: - but I like all leisetretenden man feet are not, in which
no spores klirrt.

Every step honest talk, but the cat steals over the soil away. See,
cat-term is the moon and therefore dishonest. - This parable give
I unto you hypocrites sensitive, you, the discerning clean! " Euch heisse
_ich_ - lascivious! Her loves the earth and the earthly: I errieth
you well! - But shame is in your love and bad conscience, - the moons
like her! To contempt of the Earth has convinced your mind, but not your
bowels: _die_ but are strongest in you! And now ashamed of your mind
that it is your viscera to sake and goes to his own shame and lies
surreptitious means. "That would be the ultimate to me - so verlogner
your spirit talking to himself - to live without desire, and not look
like the dog with hanging tongue: Happy to be in shows, with erstorbenem
will, without a grip and greed of selfishness - cold and Ash at
the whole body, but with drunken moons eyes!

"
And what had
occurred in New York had been duplicated in all the other cities. It was
the same in San Francisco, and Oakland, and Berkeley. By Thursday the
people were dying so rapidly that their corpses could not be handled,
and dead bodies lay everywhere. Thursday night the panic outrush for
the country began. Imagine, my grandsons, people, thicker than the
salmon-run you have seen on the Sacramento river, pouring out of the
cities by millions, madly over the country, in vain attempt to escape
the ubiquitous death. You see, they carried the germs with them. Even
the airships of the rich, fleeing for mountain and desert fastnesses,
carried the germs.

"Hundreds of these airships escaped to Hawaii, and not only did they
bring the plague with them, but they found the plague already there
before them. This we learned, by the despatches, until all order in San
Francisco vanished, and there were no operators left at their posts to
receive or send. It was amazing, astounding, this loss of communication
with the world. It was exactly as if the world had ceased, been blotted
out. For sixty years that world has no longer existed for me. I know
there must be such places as New York, Europe, Asia, and Africa; but not
one word has been heard of them--not in sixty years. With the coming of
the Scarlet Death the world fell apart, absolutely, irretrievably. Ten
thousand years of culture and civilization passed in the twinkling of an
eye, 'lapsed like foam.'

"I was telling about the airships of the rich. They carried the plague
with them and no matter where they fled, they died. I never encountered
but one survivor of any of them--Mungerson. He was afterwards a Santa
Rosan, and he married my eldest daughter. He came into the tribe eight
years after the plague. He was then nineteen years old, and he was
compelled to wait twelve years more before he could marry. You see,
there were no unmarried women, and some of the older daughters of the
Santa Rosans were already bespoken. So he was forced to wait until
my Mary had grown to sixteen years. It was his son, Gimp-Leg, who was
killed last year by the mountain lion.

"Mungerson was eleven years old at the time of the plague. His father
was one of the Industrial Magnates, a very wealthy, powerful man. It was
on his airship, the Condor, that they were fleeing, with all the family,
for the wilds of British Columbia, which is far to the north of here.
But there was some accident, and they were wrecked near Mount Shasta.
You have heard of that mountain. It is far to the north. The plague
broke out amongst them, and this boy of eleven was the only survivor.
For eight years he was alone, wandering over a deserted land and looking
vainly for his own kind. And at last, travelling south, he picked up
with us, the Santa Rosans.

"But I am ahead of my story. When the great exodus from the cities
around San Francisco Bay began, and while the telephones were still
working, I talked with my brother. I told him this flight from the
cities was insanity, that there were no symptoms of the plague in
me, and that the thing for us to do was to isolate ourselves and our
relatives in some safe place. We decided on the Chemistry Building, at
the university, and we planned to lay in a supply of provisions, and by
force of arms to prevent any other persons from forcing their presence
upon us after we had retired to our refuge.

"All this being arranged, my brother begged me to stay in my own
house for at least twenty-four hours more, on the chance of the plague
developing in me. To this I agreed, and he promised to come for me next
day. We talked on over the details of the provisioning and the defending
of the Chemistry Building until the telephone died. It died in the midst
of our conversation. That evening there were no electric lights, and
I was alone in my house in the darkness. No more newspapers were being
printed, so I had no knowledge of what was taking place outside.

[Illustration: I heard sounds of rioting and of pistol shots 098]

"I heard sounds of rioting and of pistol shots, and from my windows I
could see the glare of the sky of some conflagration in the direction
of Oakland. It was a night of terror. I did not sleep a wink. A man--why
and how I do not know--was killed on the sidewalk in front of the house.
I heard the rapid reports of an automatic pistol, and a few minutes
later the wounded wretch crawled up to my door, moaning and crying out
for help. Arming myself with two automatics, I went to him. By the light
of a match I ascertained that while he was dying of the bullet wounds,
at the same time the plague was on him. I fled indoors, whence I heard
him moan and cry out for half an hour longer.

"In the morning, my brother came to me. I had gathered into a handbag
what things of value I purposed taking, but when I saw his face I knew
that he would never accompany me to the Chemistry Building. The plague
was on him. He intended shaking my hand, but I went back hurriedly
before him.

"'Look at yourself in the mirror,' I commanded.

[Illustration: Look at yourself in the mirror 100]

"He did so, and at sight of his scarlet face, the color deepening as he
looked at it, he sank down nervelessly in a chair.

"'My God!' he said. 'I've got it. Don't come near me. I am a dead man.'

"Then the convulsions seized him. He was two hours in dying, and he
was conscious to the last, complaining about the coldness and loss of
sensation in his feet, his calves, his thighs, until at last it was his
heart and he was dead.

"That was the way the Scarlet Death slew. I caught up my handbag and
fled. The sights in the streets were terrible. One stumbled on bodies
everywhere. Some were not yet dead. And even as you looked, you saw men
sink down with the death fastened upon them. There were numerous fires
burning in Berkeley, while Oakland and San Francisco were apparently
being swept by vast conflagrations. The smoke of the burning filled the
heavens, so that the midday was as a gloomy twilight, and, in the shifts
of wind, sometimes the sun shone through dimly, a dull red orb. Truly,
my grandsons, it was like the last days of the end of the world.

"There were numerous stalled motor cars, showing that the gasoline and
the engine supplies of the garages had given out. I remember one such
car. A man and a woman lay back dead in the seats, and on the pavement
near it were two more women and a child. Strange and terrible sights
there were on every hand. People slipped by silently, furtively, like
ghosts--white-faced women carrying infants in their arms; fathers
leading children by the hand; singly, and in couples, and in
families--all fleeing out of the city of death. Some carried supplies
of food, others blankets and valuables, and there were many who carried
nothing.

"There was a grocery store--a place where food was sold. The man to whom
it belonged--I knew him well--a quiet, sober, but stupid and obstinate
fellow, was defending it. The windows and doors had been broken in, but
he, inside, hiding behind a counter, was discharging his pistol at a
number of men on the sidewalk who were breaking in. In the entrance were
several bodies--of men, I decided, whom he had killed earlier in the
day. Even as I looked on from a distance, I saw one of the robbers break
the windows of the adjoining store, a place where shoes were sold,
and deliberately set fire to it. I did not go to the groceryman's
assistance. The time for such acts had already passed. Civilization was
crumbling, and it was each for himself."


IV

I WENT away hastily, down a cross-street, and at the first corner I saw
another tragedy. Two men of the working class had caught a man and a
woman with two children, and were robbing them. I knew the man by sight,
though I had never been introduced to him. He was a poet whose verses I
had long admired. Yet I did not go to his help, for at the moment I came
upon the scene there was a pistol shot, and I saw him sinking to the
ground. The woman screamed, and she was felled with a fist-blow by one
of the brutes. I cried out threateningly, whereupon they discharged
their pistols at me and I ran away around the corner. Here I was blocked
by an advancing conflagration. The buildings on both sides were burning,
and the street was filled with smoke and flame. From somewhere in that
murk came a woman's voice calling shrilly for help. But I did not go to
her. A man's heart turned to iron amid such scenes, and one heard all
too many appeals for help.

"Returning to the corner, I found the two robbers were gone. The poet
and his wife lay dead on the pavement. It was a shocking sight. The two
children had vanished--whither I could not tell. And I knew, now, why
it was that the fleeing persons I encountered slipped along so furtively
and with such white faces. In the midst of our civilization, down in our
slums and labor-ghettos, we had bred a race of barbarians, of savages;
and now, in the time of our calamity, they turned upon us like the wild
beasts they were and destroyed us. And they destroyed themselves as
well.

[Illustration: Now in the time of calamity they turned on us 108]

"They inflamed themselves with strong drink and committed a thousand
atrocities, quarreling and killing one another in the general madness.
One group of workingmen I saw, of the better sort, who had banded
together, and, with their women and children in their midst, the sick
and aged in litters and being carried, and with a number of horses
pulling a truck-load of provisions, they were fighting their way out
of the city. They made a fine spectacle as they came down the street
through the drifting smoke, though they nearly shot me when I first
appeared in their path. As they went by, one of their leaders shouted
out to me in apologetic explanation. He said they were killing the
robbers and looters on sight, and that they had thus banded together as
the only-means by which to escape the prowlers.

"It was here that I saw for the first time what I was soon to see so
often. One of the marching men had suddenly shown the unmistakable mark
of the plague. Immediately those about him drew away, and he, without
a remonstrance, stepped out of his place to let them pass on. A woman,
most probably his wife, attempted to follow him. She was leading a
little boy by the hand. But the husband commanded her sternly to go on,
while others laid hands on her and restrained her from following him.
This I saw, and I saw the man also, with his scarlet blaze of face, step
into a doorway on the opposite side of the street. I heard the report of
his pistol, and saw him sink lifeless to the ground.

"After being turned aside twice again by advancing fires, I succeeded in
getting through to the university. On the edge of the campus I came
upon a party of university folk who were going in the direction of the
Chemistry Building. They were all family men, and their families were
with them, including the nurses and the servants. Professor Badminton
greeted me, I had difficulty in recognizing him. Somewhere he had gone
through flames, and his beard was singed off. About his head was a
bloody bandage, and his clothes were filthy.

[Illustration: He told me he had been Cruelly Beaten 112]

"He told me he had prowlers, and that his brother had been killed the
previous night, in the defence of their dwelling.

"Midway across the campus, he pointed suddenly to Mrs. Swinton's face.
The unmistakable scarlet was there. Immediately all the other women set
up a screaming and began to run away from her. Her two children were
with a nurse, and these also ran with the women. But her husband, Doctor
Swinton, remained with her.

"'Go on, Smith,' he told me. 'Keep an eye on the children. As for me,
I shall stay with my wife. I know she is as already dead, but I can't
leave her. Afterwards, if I escape, I shall come to the Chemistry
Building, and do you watch for me and let me in.'

"I left him bending over his wife and soothing her last moments, while
I ran to overtake the party. We were the last to be admitted to the
Chemistry Building. After that, with our automatic rifles we maintained
our isolation. By our plans, we had arranged for a company of sixty to
be in this refuge. Instead, every one of the number originally planned
had added relatives and friends and whole families until there were over
four hundred souls. But the Chemistry Building was large, and, standing
by itself, was in no danger of being burned by the great fires that
raged everywhere in the city.

"A large quantity of provisions had been gathered, and a food committee
took charge of it, issuing rations daily to the various families and
groups that arranged themselves into messes. A number of committees were
appointed, and we developed a very efficient organization. I was on the
committee of defence, though for the first day no prowlers came near. We
could see them in the distance, however, and by the smoke of their fires
knew that several camps of them were occupying the far edge of the
campus. Drunkenness was rife, and often we heard them singing ribald
songs or insanely shouting. While the world crashed to ruin about them
and all the air was filled with the smoke of its burning, these low
creatures gave rein to their bestiality and fought and drank and died.
I call the State's, where all are poison-drinkers, the good and bad: the
state, where all lose themselves, good and bad: the state, where the
slow suicide Aller - "life" means. Behold me this superfluous!

They steal the works of inventors and the treasures of the Wise:
Education they call their theft - and everything will be with them
disease and inconvenience! Behold me this superfluous! They are always
sick, they vomit their bile and call it newspaper. They devour each other
and can not even digest. Behold me this superfluous! Reichthümer acquire
them and are thus poorer. They want power and first the crowbar of power,
much money - this inability! Watch it climb, this speed monkey! They
climb over each other out and thus pull in the mud and the depth. Towards
the throne they all want: her insanity is to - as if the happiness
of sitting on the throne!

Often the mud sits on the throne - and often also the throne on
the mud. Maniacs, they are all me and climbing monkeys and About Hot.
Evil smells their idol to me, the cold Unthier: they smell bad to me all
together, these idolaters. My brothers , will ye suffocate in the fumes
of their mouths and desires! Dear break but the windows and jump into
Free! Is it the bad smells out of the way! Is continued by the
Götzendienerei of superfluous! Is it the bad smells out of the way!
Go away from the steam of these human sacrifices!

Clear is great souls still the earth. Are still many empty seats
for lonely and Zweisam to the smell of silent seas blowing. Frei has
yet great souls a free life. Verily, those who have little is to be
less obsessed: praise was the small Armuth! Where the state ceases as
of the start only person who is not superfluous: there begins the song
of the necessary, the unique and irreplaceable way. There , where the
state _aufhört_, - so you see me out, my brothers! You see him not, the
rainbow and the Brükken of supermen? - Thus Spake Zarathustra. Of the
flying of the market Escape, my friend, into your solitude! I see you
are stunned by the noise of the big men and zerstochen by small spikes.
Worthy know forest and rock with you to remain silent. Same again the
tree that you love, the breitästigen: quiet and sit up and hang it
over the oceans. Where solitude ends, there begins the market, and
where the market begins, as the noise begins the great actor and the
Geschwirr of toxic flies. In the world suck the best things still nothing,
no one, it only performs: great men the people called this
performance.

Few people understand the Great, that is: the creative end. But it has
meaning for all actors and performing great things. To the inventors
of new Werther revolves the world: - invisibly spins it. But the actor
turns to the people and the fame: it's the world over. The actor has
spirit but little conscience of the mind. He always believes in
that which he most strongly believe that - believe in making _sich_!
Morning he had a new faith, and on a recent morning. Rapid meaning
he, like the people, and changeable weather. Derailleur - that is
to say to him: to prove. Toll - this means to him to convince. And blood
is to him as the best of all reasons. A truth which only takes into
fine ears, he calls a lie and nothing. Indeed, he believes only in gods,
the big noise in the world! Full of solemn Possenreissern is the market
- and the nation boasts of its great men! that is it the Lord of the
hour. But the hour presses them: so they push you. And you want it yes
or no. Wehe, du willst between pros and cons of your chair? Absolutely
urgent and half was without jealousy, thou lover of truth!

Never even hung the truth at the arm of a necessarily. This sudden
sake go back to your safety: just on the market will be 'yes'? or No?
attacked. Slowly is experiencing all the deep wells: long must they wait
until they know _was_ fell into their depth. Away from the markets and
the glory begiebt everything big: far away from markets and glory ever
lived by the inventors of new values as. flee my friend, into your
solitude: I see thee by poisonous flies zerstochen. Escape to where
rough, strong air blows! Escape into your solitude! You lived for
the small and wretched too close. Flee from their invisible vengeance!
Against you, they are not as revenge. No more lifting the arm against
them! They are innumerable, and it is not your Loos, flies to Wedel.
Uncountable, this small and pathetic, and some burrows proud enough
already raindrops and weeds on the decline.

You're not a stone, but you were hohl of many drops. Zerbersten breaking
and you will me of many drops. Tired, I see thee by poisonous flies,
bloody geritzt I see thee to hundreds of points, and your pride
will not even angry. they want blood from you in all innocence, their
blood lust blood souls - and they sting, therefore, in all innocence.

But, you Tiefer, you suffer too deep to even small wounds, and
before you even have healed, you crawled to the same poison worm
on hand.

Too proud art thou to me why this Naschhaften to Toedter. But beware
that it is not your Verhängniss will all their poisonous injustice to
wear, you sing to thee also with their praise: her intrusiveness
is Loben.

You want to close your skin and your blood. You flatter yourself as a god
or devil they whimper before thee as a God or devil. What makes it! Are
flatterers and Winsl and nothing more.

Also, they are often seen as you love decent. But that was always the
wisdom of the figs. Yes, the figs are clever, you think much about thee
with their narrow soul, - you are worrying them always! Anything much
care is questionable. They punish thee for all thy virtues. You forgive
yourself by reason only - your spurious. Because you're mild and
equitable sense, you say: "They are innocent in her little life."
But their narrow mind thinks: "Debt is all great existence." Even if
you're mildly to them, they feel even more despised by you, and they
give you your Wohlthat back with hidden Wehthaten.

Literally loose your pride always goes against their taste, they
rejoice, even if you're humble enough, to be vain. That which we
recognize a human being, which we ignite in him, too. So beware of the
little ones! Before you makes them feel small, and their low glimmer
and glow against thee in invisible vengeance. Merk you not, how often
they were silenced, if you came to them and how their strength
as they went the smoke from an extinguished fire? Yes, my friend, the
bad conscience art thou thy neighbor: for they are your Unwerth.

So they hate you and would like to suck your blood. Your neighbor will
always be poisonous flies; That was gross to you is - that they themselves
must always toxic and persistent fly. Escape, my friend, into your
solitude, and there where a rough, strong air blowing. Is not it your
Loos, flies to Wedel. - Thus Spake Zarathustra. From the chastity I love
the forest. In the cities is bad to live there because giebt Many
Brünstigen. Is it not better, in the hands of a murderer to Gerath
than in the promise of a woman brünstigen? And you see me at these men:
their eye says it all -- they know nothing better on earth than a woman
to lie. mud is at the bottom of her soul, and woe betide if you even
mud has spirit! that their animals at least as completely wäret! But
for animals include the presumption of innocence.

Rathe I you, your sense Toedter? I Rathe you for the purposes of innocence.
Rathe I have to chastity? The chastity is a virtue to some, but with
many almost a vice. These contain well: but the bitch Sensuality looks
with envy from everything they thun. Even in the heights of their virtue
and into the cold spirit follows them into Diess Gethier and his mischief.
And how do like the bitch is a sensual piece of mind to beg, if it
a piece of meat will fail, your love tragedies and everything that
your heart breaks? But I am distrustful of your bitch. You gave me
cruel eyes, and looks after concupiscent suffering. Has not your
lust just disguised itself and is called pity? Diess parables And I
give unto you: not a few who wanted to drive out devils, it drove itself
into the sows.

To whom chastity is difficult, which is too widerrathen: that they not
the way to hell - that is to be mud and heat of the soul. I am speaking
of dirty things? This is me not the worst. Not when truth is dirty, but
if it is shallow, increasing the detection reluctant in their water.
Verily, it giebt Chaste of reason: they are mild by heart, and
they laugh rather than abundant her. They laugh about the chastity and
ask: "What is chastity! Is chastity not Thorheit? Thorheit But this came
to us and not us for it. We offered this hostel guests and heart: now
he lives with us - he likes stay as long as he wants! "Thus Spake
Zarathustra. From Friends" One is always too much for me "- so
thinks the hermit.

"Always once one - that in the long run giebt Two!" I and me are
always too busy in the talks: how it would be bearable, if not a friend
there? Always for the hermit is the friend of the Third: The third
is the cork that prevents the conversation in the Zweie the depth
decreases. Oh, there are too many depths giebt for all hermit. That
is why they so yearn for a friend and after its height. Our faith in
Andre verräth what we like to ourselves like to believe.

Our longing for a friend is our Verräther. And often you will just love
the envy skip. And it often takes and makes itself an enemy to hide the
fact that it is vulnerable. "Be at least my enemy!" - So speaks
the true reverence, not about friendship dare to ask. If you want a
friend, you must also be for him to make war: and in order to wage war,
one must be _können_ enemy. It is in his friends, nor the enemy honor.
Can you give to your friend densely future, and without him convert?
His friends should have his best enemy. Thou shalt not take him closest
to the heart, if you resist him.

Do you want before your friends do not wear dresses? It will honor your
friend, that you giebst him, as thou art? But a question you would like
the devil, anyone who made no secret of making, appalled: so much
reason have ye to fear nakedness! Yes, if their gods wäret because dürftet
you ashamed of your clothes! You can register for your friend is not good
enough putzen: for thou shalt him an arrow and a longing for the over
people. You saw your friend has to sleep - so you experienced rest as
he looks? What else is your friend's face? It is your own face,
on a rough and unvollkommnen mirror. You saw your friend have to sleep?
You're not shocked that your friend looks like? Oh, my friend, man
is something that needs to be overcome.

Errath in silence and be our friend his master: not everything you want
sehn. Your dreams give you verrathen what your friend in the guard does.
Errath was a pity you: you only know if your friend wants pity. Perhaps
he loves you ungebrochne the eye and the gaze of eternity. The pity
with the Friends mountains under a hard shell, to him shalt thou
ausbeissen you a tooth. So it is its subtlety and sweetness have. Are
you pure air and solitude and Brod and Medicinal your friends?

Some people may be suitable chains not solve and yet he is the Savior
friends. Are you a Sclave? So you can not friend. Are you a tyrant?
So you can not have friends. Too Long was a woman and a tyrant Sclave
hidden. For this is the woman not yet capable of friendship: it knows
only love. In the love of woman is injustice and blindness against
everything that is not love. And also in knowing the love of woman is
still attack and lightning and night next to the light. Nodl the woman
is not capable of friendship: Cats are still the women, and birds.
Or, best case, cows. Yet the woman is not capable of friendship. But
tell me, ye men, who because of you is capable of friendship? Oh
about your Armuth, their men, and your meanness of the soul! How much
you give to friends, I have my enemies, and will not become poorer
thereby. It giebt comradeship: may it enter friendship! Also sprach
Zarathustra.

From a thousand and one goals VieIe countries saw Zarathustra, and many
peoples: so, he discovered many good things and evil people. No major
power was Zarathustra earth than good and evil. People's lives could
not, which is not only appreciated, but it wants to receive, it may not
appreciate how the neighboring estimates. Much of the good this nation
was called, was called a others scorn and shame: So I found's. Much found
I here called bad, and there with purple geputzt honor. Never understood
a neighbor the other, always surprised that his soul if the neighbors
folly and malice. A table of the goods depends on every nation. See, it's
overcoming his table, see that it is the voice of his will to power.
Löblich is what it is difficult, what is indispensable and difficult
is called good, and what is the highest North still free, the rare,
severe, -- it extols the sacred.

What makes since that it prevails and triumphs and shines, its
neighbor to horror and envy: that's him the High, the first thing
Measuring the meaning of all things.

Verily, my brother realized you first of North People and Land and sky
and neighbor so you probably erräthst the law of its overcoming and
why it's on the ladder to its hope of rising. "Always shalt thou be the
first and the others vorragend: Nobody should thy jealous soul love,
unless a friend "- a Greek Diess made the soul to tremble: he went
to his path of size.

"Truth and good with bow and arrow run" - so that people eyes it is also
nice and hard, from my name - the name, which I love and at the same
time is difficult. "Honor father and mother and to the root of the
soul will be with them ": this table overcoming hung another people
about themselves and became so powerful and eternal." fidelity to
the practice and will honor and loyalty to bad blood and put dangerous
things ": So is teaching defeated another people, and so compelling
that it became pregnant and heavy with great hopes.

Verily, the people gave her everything good and evil. Verily, they
took it not, they did not find it, it was not them as a voice from
heaven. Values as presented only man in the things to get - he
created only the things of sense, a human meaning! So he calls the
"human", that is: the end of the assessment. Treasures is creation:
hear it, you creators! Estimate itself is all things valued treasure and
gem. By estimating only giebt Werth it: and without the resources
would be the nut of being hollow. Listen to their creators! Change the
values as: - which is changing the creators.

Always destroyed, who must be a creator.

Creators were only peoples and individuals until late, verily, the
individual himself is still the latest creation. Peoples once hung a
plaque of the good about themselves. Love, which will prevail, and love,
which wants to obey, created together such panels. Älter Heerde is the
desire, as the desire to I: and so long as the good conscience Heerde
means, says only the bad conscience: I. Verily, I am the clever, the
loveless, its benefit in the benefit of many people want: this is not
the Heerde origin, but their downfall. there were always loving and
creative, which created good and evil. glowing fire of love in all the
names and virtues fire of anger. Many countries saw Zarathustra, and
many peoples: no greater power on earth was Zarathustra, as the
works of the lovers: "good" and "evil" is her name. Indeed, a Ungethüm
is the power of this Lobens and blame.

Says who overcomes it to me, their brothers? Says who raises the
animal tethered on the neck the thousand? One thousand targets were before,
because thousands people there were. Only the captive of a thousand
neck is still missing, it's missing the one goal. Humanity still has
no target. But tell me, my brethren: if the goal of humanity is still
lacking, there is not even - they still own? - Thus Spake Zarathustra.
The charity urges you to your neighbor and have fine words for it. But I
say unto you, your love is your bad love of yourselves. Your neighbor
before fleeing to yourselves and you want to make a virtue of necessity:
but I understand your "self-lot." Du is older than I, which is holy You
spoken, but not the ego: it begs the man to the next. Rathe I love you
to? Rathe, I still prefer you to the next-flight and on the long-distance
love Higher than love of neighbor is the love and the Far Future, higher
even than the love of people is the love of things and ghosts. Diess ghost
in front of you herläuft, my brother, is more beautiful than you, why
did not you giebst your flesh and your bones? But you fear you and run
to your neighbor. You are keeping it to yourselves and do not love you
is not enough: now do you want your neighbor to love and seduce you
with its gold Irrthum. I wanted her hieltet it is not enough with all
neighbors and their neighbors, so it müsstet from yourselves and
your friend on his heart wall to create.

Your invites you to a witness, if you speak well of you want, and
if you have seduced him, good of you to think, do you think yourself
well of you.

Not only the liar, which reflect his knowledge speaks, but only the
right, who oppose his ignorance talking. And so it speaks of you in
traffic and you lying with the neighbor. Thus saith the fool: "Dealing
with people spoil the character, especially if you do not have."

One goes to the neighbor, because he has studied, and Andre because he
wants to lose. Your bad love to yourselves get from a prison of
loneliness. The more distant they are, what your neighbors pay attention
to, and even if you have to do with each other five, a sixth must
always die.

I also love your festivals not to I found a lot of actors in the process
and even the spectators often gebärdeten like actors. Not your neighbor,
I teach you, but the friend. The friend you had the feast of the earth,
and a premonition about the people. I teach you the friend and on
his good heart. But you must understand, to be a sponge if you have good
hearts want to be loved. I teach you the friend in the world, finished
off a bowl of good, - the creating friend, who is always a ready world
has to offer. And as he rolled the world apart, so they rolled him back
into rings, as becoming good by evil, as the Will of the purposes of
the accident. The future and the remote was the cause thee thy Today:
in thy friends thou shalt About the people as a cause of your love.

My brothers, for charity, I do not Rathe I Rathe you for long-distance
love. Thus Spake Zarathustra. From the way the creators want you, my
brother, in the loneliness go? If you want the path to your own
search? Still a little hesitation and hear me. "Those who seek the light
itself is lost. All the loneliness is at fault": So speaks the Heerde.
And you belong to a long test Heerde. The voice of Heerde will still
drown in you. And if thou wilt say "I no longer have a conscience with
you," it is an action and a pain. See, this pain himself nor gave a
conscience: and the last glimmer of that conscience still glows on your
tribulation.

But you the way you want to go tribulation, which is the way to you
yourself? So show me your right and your strength! Are you a new
strength and a new law? A first movement? A self-rolling wheel? Can
you also stars compel that they revolve around you?

Oh, it giebt lasciviousness after so much height! It giebt so much
convulsions of the ambitious! Show me that you are none of the lascivious
and ambitious are! Oh, it giebt great idea so much that tuna no more than
a bellows: they inflate and make empty. Clear call you? Your dominant
thought I want to hear, not that you're an escaped yokes. Are you a Such,
to a yoke _durfte_ escape? It giebt Some of his last Werth wegwarf as
his subservience wegwarf. Free of what? What the schiert Zarathustra!
Hell, however, your eyes tell me: free _wozu_? Can you imagine your own
evil and your good and your will hang over you like a law? Can you imagine
yourself to be judge and avenger of thy law? Furchtbar is aloneness
with the judge and avenger of the appropriate Act. So is a star thrown
out into the desert region and in the icy Athem the exclusive one.

Today you still suffer at the Many, One you: today you have your
whole Muth and your hopes.

But once you will be tired of the loneliness that is once to bend your
pride and your courage gnash. Once you crying "I'm alone!" Once you
are no longer your high and your low sehn too close, your sublime
itself will make you fear like a ghost. Once you crying: "Everything is
wrong!" It giebt feelings, the lonely Toedter want, they may fail, well,
so they themselves must die! But can you, murderer to be? Do you know,
my brother, even the word "contempt"? And the anguish of your justice,
justice to be such that you despise? Many force you, about you umzulernen,
which they expect you to hard. You came close to them and went over it,
the you will never forgive them. You go beyond them : but the higher you
climb, the less you see the eye of envy. Most, however, the Flying
hated. "Like I wanted it to be fair - you have to speak - I am me
your election as an injustice to me zugemessnen Theil." Injustice and
dirt they throw after the lonely: but, my brother, if thou want
to be a star, so you need them For this no less shine!

And beware of the good and righteous! They like to crucify those who
invent their own virtue - they hate the lonely. Dich hats even before
the holy simplicity! Everything is their unholy, what is not simple,
they also like playing with fire - the pyre.
There she was, Vesta Van Warden,
the young wife of John Van Warden, clad in rags, with marred and scarred
and toil-calloused hands, bending over the campfire and doing scullion
work--she, Vesta, who had been born to the purple of the greatest
baronage of wealth the world had ever known. John Van Warden, her
husband, worth one billion, eight hundred millions and President of the
Board of Industrial Magnates, had been the ruler of America. Also,
sitting on the International Board of Control, he had been one of the
seven men who ruled the world. And she herself had come of equally noble
stock. Her father, Philip Saxon, had been President of the Board of
Industrial Magnates up to the time of his death. This office was in
process of becoming hereditary, and had Philip Saxon had a son that son
would have succeeded him. But his only child was Vesta, the perfect
flower of generations of the highest culture this planet has ever
produced. It was not until the engagement between Vesta and Van Warden
took place, that Saxon indicated the latter as his successor. It was, I
am sure, a political marriage. I have reason to believe that Vesta never
really loved her husband in the mad passionate way of which the poets
used to sing. It was more like the marriages that obtained among crowned
heads in the days before they were displaced by the Magnates.

[Illustration: There she was, boiling fish-chowder 153]

"And there she was, boiling fish-chowder in a soot-covered pot, her
glorious eyes inflamed by the acrid smoke of the open fire. Hers was a
sad story. She was the one survivor in a million, as I had been, as
the Chauffeur had been. On a crowning eminence of the Alameda Hills,
overlooking San Francisco Bay, Van Warden had built a vast summer
palace. It was surrounded by a park of a thousand acres. When the
plague broke out, Van Warden sent her there. Armed guards patrolled the
boundaries of the park, and nothing entered in the way of provisions or
even mail matter that was not first fumigated. And yet did the plague
enter, killing the guards at their posts, the servants at their tasks,
sweeping away the whole army of retainers--or, at least, all of them who
did not flee to die elsewhere. So it was that Vesta found herself the
sole living person in the palace that had become a charnel house.

"Now the Chauffeur had been one of the servants that ran away.
Returning, two months afterward, he discovered Vesta in a little summer
pavilion where there had been no deaths and where she had established
herself. He was a brute. She was afraid, and she ran away and hid among
the trees. That night, on foot, she fled into the mountains--she, whose
tender feet and delicate body had never known the bruise of stones nor
the scratch of briars. He followed, and that night he caught her. He
struck her. Do you understand? He beat her with those terrible fists of
his and made her his slave. It was she who had to gather the firewood,
build the fires, cook, and do all the degrading camp-labor--she, who had
never performed a menial act in her life. These things he compelled her
to do, while he, a proper savage, elected to lie around camp and look
on. He did nothing, absolutely nothing, except on occasion to hunt meat
or catch fish."

"Good for Chauffeur," Hare-Lip commented in an undertone to the other
boys. "I remember him before he died. He was a corker. But he did
things, and he made things go. You know, Dad married his daughter, an'
you ought to see the way he knocked the spots outa Dad. The Chauffeur
was a son-of-a-gun. He made us kids stand around. Even when he was
croaking he reached out for me, once, an' laid my head open with that
long stick he kept always beside him."

Hare-Lip rubbed his bullet head reminiscently, and the boys returned to
the old man, who was maundering ecstatically about Vesta, the squaw of
the founder of the Chauffeur Tribe.

"And so I say to you that you cannot understand the awfulness of the
situation. The Chauffeur was a servant, understand, a servant. And he
cringed, with bowed head, to such as she. She was a lord of life, both
by birth and by marriage. The destinies of millions, such as he, she
carried in the hollow of her pink-white hand. And, in the days before
the plague, the slightest contact with such as he would have been
pollution. Oh, I have seen it. Once, I remember, there was Mrs. Goldwin,
wife of one of the great magnates. It was on a landing stage, just
as she was embarking in her private dirigible, that she dropped her
parasol. A servant picked it up and made the mistake of handing it to
her--to her, one of the greatest royal ladies of the land! She shrank
back, as though he were a leper, and indicated her secretary to receive
it. Also, she ordered her secretary to ascertain the creature's name and
to see that he was immediately discharged from service. And such a woman
was Vesta Van Warden. And her the Chauffeur beat and made his slave.

[Illustration: And her the Chauffeur beat and made his slave 158]

"--Bill--that was it; Bill, the Chauffeur. That was his name. He was
a wretched, primitive man, wholly devoid of the finer instincts and
chivalrous promptings of a cultured soul. No, there is no absolute
justice, for to him fell that wonder of womanhood, Vesta Van Warden. The
grievous-ness of this you will never understand, my grandsons; for
you are yourselves primitive little savages, unaware of aught else but
savagery. Why should Vesta not have been mine? I was a man of culture
and refinement, a professor in a great university. Even so, in the time
before the plague, such was her exalted position, she would not have
deigned to know that I existed. Mark, then, the abysmal degradation
to which she fell at the hands of the Chauffeur. Nothing less than the
destruction of all mankind had made it possible that I should know her,
look in her eyes, converse with her, touch her hand--ay, and love her
and know that her feelings toward me were very kindly. I have reason to
believe that she, even she, would have loved me, there being no other
man in the world except the Chauffeur. Why, when it destroyed eight
billions of souls, did not the plague destroy just one more man, and
that man the Chauffeur?

"Once, when the Chauffeur was away fishing, she begged me to kill him.
With tears in her eyes she begged me to kill him. But he was a strong
and violent man, and I was afraid. Afterwards, I talked with him. I
offered him my horse, my pony, my dogs, all that I possessed, if he
would give Vesta to me. And he grinned in my face and shook his head. He
was very insulting. He said that in the old days he had been a servant,
had been dirt under the feet of men like me and of women like Vesta, and
that now he had the greatest lady in the land to be servant to him and
cook his food and nurse his brats. 'You had your day before the plague,'
he said; 'but this is my day, and a damned good day it is. I wouldn't
trade back to the old times for anything.' Such words he spoke, but they
are not his words. He was a vulgar, low-minded man, and vile oaths fell
continually from his lips.

"Also, he told me that if he caught me making eyes at his woman he'd
wring my neck and give her a beating as well. What was I to do? I was
afraid. He was a brute. That first night, when I discovered the camp,
Vesta and I had great talk about the things of our vanished world. We
talked of art, and books, and poetry; and the Chauffeur listened and
grinned and sneered. He was bored and angered by our way of speech which
he did not comprehend, and finally he spoke up and said: 'And this is
Vesta Van Warden, one-time wife of Van Warden the Magnate--a high and
stuck-up beauty, who is now my squaw. Eh, Professor Smith, times is
changed, times is changed. Here, you, woman, take off my moccasins,
and lively about it. I want Professor Smith to see how well I have you
trained.'

"I saw her clench her teeth, and the flame of revolt rise in her face.
He drew back his gnarled fist to strike, and I was afraid, and sick at
heart. I could do nothing to prevail against him. So I got up to go,
and not be witness to such indignity. But the Chauffeur laughed and
threatened me with a beating if I did not stay and behold. And I sat
there, perforce, by the campfire on the shore of Lake Temescal, and
saw Vesta, Vesta Van Warden, kneel and remove the moccasins of that
grinning, hairy, apelike human brute.

"--Oh, you do not understand, my grandsons. You have never known
anything else, and you do not understand.

"'Halter-broke and bridle-wise,' the Chauffeur gloated, while she
performed that dreadful, menial task. 'A trifle balky at times,
Professor, a trifle balky; but a clout alongside the jaw makes her as
meek and gentle as a lamb.'

"And another time he said: 'We've got to start all over and replenish
the earth and multiply. You're handicapped, Professor. You ain't got no
wife, and we're up against a regular Garden-of-Eden proposition. But I
ain't proud. I'll tell you what, Professor.' He pointed at their little
infant, barely a year old. 'There's your wife, though you'll have to
wait till she grows up. It's rich, ain't it? We're all equals here, and
I'm the biggest toad in the splash. But I ain't stuck up--not I. I do
you the honor, Professor Smith, the very great honor of betrothing to
you my and Vesta Van Warden's daughter. Ain't it cussed bad that Van
Warden ain't here to see?'"


VI

"I LIVED three weeks of infinite torment there in the Chauffeur's camp.
And then, one day, tiring of me, or of what to him was my bad effect
on Vesta, he told me that the year before, wandering through the Contra
Costa Hills to the Straits of Carquinez, across the Straits he had seen
a smoke. This meant that there were still other human beings, and that
for three weeks he had kept this inestimably precious information from
me. I departed at once, with my dogs and horses, and journeyed across
the Contra Costa Hills to the Straits. I saw no smoke on the other side,
but at Port Costa discovered a small steel barge on which I was able to
embark my animals. Old canvas which I found served me for a sail, and
a southerly breeze fanned me across the Straits and up to the ruins
of Vallejo. Here, on the outskirts of the city, I found evidences of a
recently occupied camp.

[Illustration: Found evidences of a recently occupied camp 169]

"Many clam-shells showed me why these humans had come to the shores of
the Bay. This was the Santa Rosa Tribe, and I followed its track along
the old railroad right of way across the salt marshes to Sonoma Valley.
Here, at the old brickyard at Glen Ellen, I came upon the camp. There
were eighteen souls all told. Two were old men, one of whom was Jones, a
banker. The other was Harrison, a retired pawnbroker, who had taken for
wife the matron of the State Hospital for the Insane at Napa. Of all the
persons of the city of Napa, and of all the other towns and villages
in that rich and populous valley, she had been the only-survivor. Next,
there were the three young men--Cardiff and Hale, who had been farmers,
and Wainwright, a common day-laborer. All three had found wives. To
Hale, a crude, illiterate farmer, had fallen Isadore, the greatest
prize, next to Vesta, of the women who came through the plague. She was
one of the world's most noted singers, and the plague had caught her at
San Francisco. She has talked with me for hours at a time, telling me of
her adventures, until, at last, rescued by Hale in the Mendocino Forest
Reserve, there had remained nothing for her to do but become his wife.
But Hale was a good fellow, in spite of his illiteracy. He had a keen
sense of justice and right-dealing, and she was far happier with him
than was Vesta with the Chauffeur.

"The wives of Cardiff and Wainwright were ordinary women, accustomed
to toil with strong constitutions--just the type for the wild new life
which they were compelled to live. In addition were two adult idiots
from the feeble-minded home at El-dredge, and five or six young children
and infants born after the formation of the Santa Rosa Tribe. Also,
there was Bertha. She was a good woman, Hare-Lip, in spite of the sneers
of your father. Her I took for wife. She was the mother of your father,
Edwin, and of yours, Hoo-Hoo. And it was our daughter, Vera, who married
your father, Hare-Lip--your father, Sandow, who was the oldest son of
Vesta Van Warden and the Chauffeur.

"And so it was that I became the nineteenth member of the Santa Rosa
Tribe. There were only two outsiders added after me. One was Mungerson,
descended from the Magnates, who wandered alone in the wilds of Northern
California for eight years before he came south and joined us. He it was
who waited twelve years more before he married my daughter, Mary. The
other was Johnson, the man who founded the Utah Tribe. That was where he
came from, Utah, a country that lies very far away from here, across the
great deserts, to the east. It was not until twenty-seven years after
the plague that Johnson reached California. In all that Utah region he
reported but three survivors, himself one, and all men. For many years
these three men lived and hunted together, until, at last, desperate,
fearing that with them the human race would perish utterly from the
planet, they headed westward on the possibility of finding women
survivors in California. Johnson alone came through the great desert,
where his two companions died. He was forty-six years old when he joined
us, and he married the fourth daughter of Isadore and Hale, and his
eldest son married your aunt, Hare-Lip, who was the third daughter of
Vesta and the Chauffeur. Johnson was a strong man, with a will of his
own. And it was because of this that he seceded from the Santa Rosans
and formed the Utah Tribe at San José. It is a small tribe--there are
only nine in it; but, though he is dead, such was his influence and the
strength of his breed, that it will grow into a strong tribe and play a
leading part in the recivilization of the planet.

"There are only two other tribes that we know of--the Los Angelitos
and the Carmelitos. The latter started from one man and woman. He was
called Lopez, and he was descended from the ancient Mexicans and was
very black. He was a cowherd in the ranges beyond Carmel, and his wife
was a maidservant in the great Del Monte Hotel. It was seven years
before we first got in touch with the Los Ange-litos. They have a
good country down there, but it is too warm. I estimate the present
population of the world at between three hundred and fifty and four
hundred--provided, of course, that there are no scattered little tribes
elsewhere in the world. If there be such, we have not heard from them.
Since Johnson crossed the desert from Utah, no word nor sign has come
from the East or anywhere else. The great world which I knew in my
boyhood and early manhood is gone. It has ceased to be. I am the last
man who was alive in the days of the plague and who knows the wonders of
that far-off time. We, who mastered the planet--its earth, and sea, and
sky--and who were as very gods, now live in primitive savagery along the
water courses of this California country.

"But we are increasing rapidly--your sister, Hare-Lip, already has four
children. We are increasing rapidly and making ready for a new climb
toward civilization. In time, pressure of population will compel us
to spread out, and a hundred generations from now we may expect our
descendants to start across the Sierras, oozing slowly along, generation
by generation, over the great continent to the colonization of the
East--a new Aryan drift around the world.

"But it will be slow, very slow; we have so far to climb. We fell so
hopelessly far. If only one physicist or one chemist had survived!
But it was not to be, and we have forgotten everything. The Chauffeur
started working in iron. He made the forge which we use to this day.
But he was a lazy man, and when he died he took with him all he knew
of metals and machinery. What was I to know of such things? I was a
classical scholar, not a chemist.. The other men who survived were not
educated. Only two things did the Chauffeur accomplish--the brewing
of strong drink and the growing of tobacco. It was while he was drunk,
once, that he killed Vesta. I firmly believe that he killed Vesta in a
fit of drunken cruelty though he always maintained that she fell into
the lake and was drowned.

"And, my grandsons, let me warn you against the medicine-men. They call
themselves _doctors_, travestying what was once a noble profession, but
in reality they are medicine-men, devil-devil men, and they make for
superstition and darkness. They are cheats and liars. But so debased and
degraded are we, that we believe their lies. They, too, will increase
in numbers as we increase, and they will strive to rule us. Yet are
they liars and charlatans. Look at young Cross-Eyes, posing as a
doctor, selling charms against sickness, giving good hunting,
exchanging promises of fair weather for good meat and skins, sending the
death-stick, performing a thousand abominations. Yet I say to you,
that when he says he can do these things, he lies. I, Professor Smith,
Professor James Howard Smith, say that he lies. I have told him so to
his teeth. Why has he not sent me the death-stick? Because he knows that
with me it is without avail. But you, Hare-Lip, so deeply are you
sunk in black superstition that did you awake this night and find the
death-stick beside you, you would surely die. And you would die, not
because of any virtues in the stick, but because you are a savage with
the dark and clouded mind of a savage.

"The doctors must be destroyed, and all that was lost must be discovered
over again. Wherefore, earnestly, I repeat unto you certain things which
you must remember and tell to your children after you. You must tell
them that when water is made hot by fire, there resides in it a
wonderful thing called steam, which is stronger than ten thousand men
and which can do all man's work for him. There are other very useful
things. In the lightning flash resides a similarly strong servant of
man, which was of old his slave and which some day will be his slave
again.

[Illustration: I have stored many books in a cave 179]

"Quite a different thing is the alphabet. It is what enables me to
know the meaning of fine markings, whereas you boys know only rude
picture-writing. In that dry cave on Telegraph Hill, where you see me
often go when the tribe is down by the sea, I have stored many books.
In them is great wisdom. Also, with them, I have placed a key to the
alphabet, so that one who knows picture-writing may also know print.
Some day men will read again; and then, if no accident has befallen my
cave, they will know that Professor James Howard Smith once lived and
saved for them the knowledge of the ancients.

"There is another little device that men inevitably will rediscover. It
is called gunpowder. It was what enabled us to kill surely and at long
distances. Certain things which are found in the ground, when combined
in the right proportions, will make this gunpowder. What these things
are, I have forgotten, or else I never knew. But I wish I did know. Then
would I make powder, and then would I certainly kill Cross-Eyes and rid
the land of superstition--"

"After I am man-grown I am going to give Cross-Eyes all the goats,
and meat, and skins I can get, so that he'll teach me to be a doctor,"
Hoo-Hoo asserted. "And when I know, I'll make everybody else sit up and
take notice. They'll get down in the dirt to me, you bet."

The old man nodded his head solemnly, and murmured:

"Strange it is to hear the vestiges and remnants of the complicated
Aryan speech falling from the lips of a filthy little skin-clad savage.
All the world is topsy-turvy. And it has been topsy-turvy ever since the
plague."

"You won't make me sit up," Hare-Lip boasted to the would-be
medicine-man. "If I paid you for a sending of the death-stick and it
didn't work, I'd bust in your head--understand, you Hoo-Hoo, you?"

"I'm going to get Granser to remember this here gunpowder stuff," Edwin
said softly, "and then I'll have you all on the run. You, Hare-Lip, will
do my fighting for me and get my meat for me, and you, Hoo-Hoo, will
send the death-stick for me and make everybody afraid. And if I catch
Hare-Lip trying to bust your head, Hoo-Hoo, I'll fix him with that same
gunpowder. Granser ain't such a fool as you think, and I'm going to
listen to him and some day I'll be boss over the whole bunch of you."

The old man shook his head sadly, and said:

"The gunpowder will come. Nothing can stop it--the same old story over
and over. Man will increase, and men will fight. The gunpowder will
enable men to kill millions of men, and in this way only, by fire and
blood, will a new civilization, in some remote day, be evolved. And of
what profit will it be? Just as the old civilization passed, so will the
new. It may take fifty thousand years to build, but it will pass. All
things pass. Only remain cosmic force and matter, ever in flux, ever
acting and reacting and realizing the eternal types--the priest, the
soldier, and the king. Out of the mouths of babes comes the wisdom of
all the ages. Some will fight, some will rule, some will pray; and all
the rest will toil and suffer sore while on their bleeding carcasses
is reared again, and yet again, without end, the amazing beauty and
surpassing wonder of the civilized state. It were just as well that I
destroyed those cave-stored books--whether they remain or perish, all
their old truths will be discovered, their old lies lived and handed
down. What is the profit--"

Hare-Lip leaped to his feet, giving a quick glance at the pasturing
goats and the afternoon sun.

"Gee!" he muttered to Edwin, "The old geezer gets more long-winded every
day. Let's pull for camp."

While the other two, aided by the dogs, assembled the goats and started
them for the trail through the forest, Edwin stayed by the old man and
guided him in the same direction. When they reached the old right of
way, Edwin stopped suddenly and looked back. Hare-Lip and Hoo-Hoo and
the dogs and the goats passed on. Edwin was looking at a small herd of
wild horses which had come down on the hard sand. There were at least
twenty of them, young colts and yearlings and mares, led by a beautiful
stallion which stood in the foam at the edge of the surf, with arched
neck and bright wild eyes, sniffing the salt air from off the sea.

"What is it?" Granser queried.

"Horses," was the answer. "First time I ever seen 'em on the beach. It's
the mountain lions getting thicker and thicker and driving 'em down."

The low sun shot red shafts of light, fan-shaped, up from a
cloud-tumbled horizon. Zarathustra but sank into a black memory,
for him, he had been a time in this Thal confessed. And much seriousness
appealed to him about the purpose: so that he went slowly and ever
more slowly and finally stood still.

And old man and boy, skin-clad and
barbaric, turned and went along the right of way into the forest in the
wake of the goats.

THE END