Produced by Michelle Croyle, David Garcia and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team


[Illustration: _DIGGING FOR DAFFYNISHUNS_]


THE

SILLY SYCLOPEDIA


###
 A Terrible Thing in the Form of a Literary Torpedo which is Launched
### for HILARIOUS PURPOSES ONLY Inaccurate in Every Particular Containing
    Copious Etymological Derivations and Other Useless Things

_By_

_NOAH LOTT_

(An Ex-relative of Noah Webster)

Embellished with
Numerous and Distracting
CUTS and DIAGRAMS by

LOUIS F. GRANT


  G.W. DILLINGHAM COMPANY
  PUBLISHERS     NEW YORK


       *       *       *       *       *


  Copyright, 1905, by
  G.W. DILLINGHAM COMPANY

_Entered at Stationers' Hall_

Issued July, 1905

_The Silly Syclopedia_


       *       *       *       *       *


  Lives of great men all remind us
    Life is really not worth while
  If we cannot leave behind us
    Some excuses for a smile!


       *       *       *       *       *


_To_

MY AUTOMOBILE.


  Which when I read it some
    Of these Brain-throbs
  Jumped over the fence, climbed a
  Telegraph pole, burst its
  Cylinder head, exploded all its
  Tires
  And then turned around and
    Barked at me.


       *       *       *       *       *


ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS WORK


  A.b.           At the bat.
  B.i.           Butt in.
  C.o.           Catch on.
  D.t.l.         Down the line.
  E.s.           Easy street.
  I.t.n.         In the neck.
  I.u.t.y.       It's up to you.
  I.f.M.         I'm from Missouri.
  M.m.t.s.       Make mine the same.
  N.g.           Nice gentleman.
  O.t.l.         On the level.
  P.d.q.         Pass the butter.
  T.l.           The limit.


       *       *       *       *       *


PREFACE.


Some eighteen months ago I took this brilliant bunch of brain burrs to
my esteemed Publisher and with much enthusiasm invited him to spend a
lot of money thereon.

One day in the early summer of 1609, Henry IV. came to the Royal Arsenal,
the residence of Sully, accompanied by Zamet and another of his intimate
companions. He asked for the Duke and was told that he was busy
in his study.

"Of course," said the King, turning to his followers, "I dare say you
expected to be told that he was out shooting, or with the ladies, or
at the barber's.

But who works like Sully? Tell him," he said, "to come to the
balcony in his garden, where he and I are not accustomed to be
silent."
As soon as Sully appeared, the King observed: "Well; here the Duke
of Cleve is dead, and has left everybody his heir."

It was true enough, and the inheritance was of vital importance to the
world.

It was an apple of discord thrown directly between the two rival
camps into which Christendom was divided. The Duchies of Cleve, Berg,
and Julich, and the Counties and Lordships of Mark, Ravensberg,
and Ravenstein, formed a triangle, political and geographical,
closely wedged between Catholicism and Protestantism, and between
France, the United Provinces, Belgium, and Germany.

Should it fall into Catholic hands, the Netherlands were lost, trampled
upon in every corner, hedged in on all sides, with the House of
Austria governing the Rhine, the Meuse, and the Scheldt.

It was vital to them to exclude the Empire from the great historic
river which seemed destined to form the perpetual frontier of jealous
powers and rival creeds.

Should it fall into heretic hands, the States were vastly strengthened,
the Archduke Albert isolated and cut off from the protection of
Spain and of the Empire.

  France, although
  Catholic, was the ally of Holland and the secret but well known
enemy of the House of Austria.

       It was inevitable that the king of that country, the only living
statesman that wore a crown, should be appealed to by all parties
and should find himself in the proud but dangerous position of
arbiter of Europe.

In this emergency he relied upon himself and on two men besides,
Maximilian de Bethune and John of Barneveld.

The conference between the King and Sully and between both and
Francis Aerssens, ambassador of the States, were of almost daily
occurrence.

       

 ABSTAIN. The stepladder which leads up to the water wagon.

ABSTEMIOUS. Having an aisle seat on the water wagon.

ACROBAT. A fellow of infinite chest.

ACCUMULATE. To collect or bring together. For example: "He borrowed two
dollars from his wife, whereupon he went out and _accumulated_ a
bunch of boozerine." (Carlyle's Heroes and Hero Worship.)

[Illustration]

A THING OF BEAUTY. A joy forever until we get used to it.

ALCOHOL. The forefather of a hold-over. Boozerine, in the raw state.
From the Latin words _alco_ and _haul_, meaning "he is soused
to the booby hatches, _haul_ him to the _alcove_." (See Lord
Macaulay's Jags of Ancient Rome.)

AMBITION. The only disease which laziness can cure.

AMUSEMENT. The hard work a man does on the golf links to give himself an
appetite for sausage links.

ANGEL. Something behind a show--and always something behind.

APE. To imitate. For instance: The man who imitates his betters is the
easiest man to make a monkey of.

APPLAUSE. The fuss which we think the world ought to make over us for
doing our duty.

AUTOMOBILE. A horseless idea which makes people go fast and the money go
faster. A tide in the affairs of man which, taken between the shoulder
blades and the curbstone, leads on to the hospital.

AXE-GRINDING. The art practiced by those who give you a cookie so they
can touch you for a barrel of flour. The axe-grinding industry had its
origin in the Garden of Eden. The Serpent was extremely partial to
Autumn, so he gave Eve a nice red apple, and in exchange she gave the
Serpent an early Fall. (See Lord Macaulay, page 34.)

[Illustration]

AIRSHIP. A machine invented for the purpose of flying through the
newspapers.

       *       *       *       *       *

See M. Santos Dumont. In case he isn't in when you call a part of his
autobiography is printed herewith: "My first yearning," writes M.
Santos--see page 97--"was for an opportunity to rise in the world.

"When but a little boy my dearest wish was to get up to the top of the
ladder and then have someone remove the ladder. If I stayed up I knew I
was successful. If I came down I didn't know anything for a week or
two."

The reader will notice a peculiarity about this gentleman's name. It
starts off with "M" and then there is eight bars rest until it comes to
Santos. This is a French custom. Every man in France begins his first
name with "M" and then refuses to tell the rest of it. It seems such a
stingy habit.

Let us quote more from M. Dumont's own story:

"My first desire to get off the earth happened while I was extremely
young.

"One day while out in the Brazilian diamond fields picking the luscious
white stones from the trees it suddenly occurred to me what a frivolous
life I was leading.

"Diamonds, diamonds everywhere and not a place to pawn.

"I became restless.

"My father owned the diamond plantation so I went to him and explained
what a tired feeling I had, and how I longed to rise in the world.

"Father at once turned about fifteen volts into his right shoe and I
rose for a distance of four feet.

"I returned almost immediately, but this short flying trip made a deep
impression upon my mind, and otherwise.

"Ten years later I left home just to convince my father that I could
rise in the world without his kindly collaboration.

"One day while in New York I went up to the fifty-ninth floor of a
sky-remover building.

"The elevator was extremely nervous that day.

"While coming down I was pained and surprised to observe that my stomach
did not travel with me.

"I spoke to the _charge d'affaires_ of the elevator about it.

"I complained bitterly to him about such an inhuman invention which
rushed through space with a man's exterior and left his interior to bump
its way downstairs.

"The _charge d'affaires_ of the elevator told me if I did not like
it to get out and fly.

"That was the inspiration which drove me to build the flying machine.

"Two weeks later I went to Paris, because that is the flyest city in the
world."


[Illustration: "B--A Skin Game."]

Beauty is only a skin game after all.

Bad beginners make bad finishers.

Birds of a feather flock together on the theatre hats.

Be sure you're ahead--then go right.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 B: The second letter of the alphabet. It is called a vocal labial
    consonant, which, no doubt, serves it right.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

BAA. To make a noise like a sheep.

BOW-WOW. To make a noise like a dog.

BIFF. To make a noise like a boxing glove.

[Illustration]

BAGGAGE. Two shirts, some underwear, one suit of clothes, six collars
and a hair brush which you lost somewhere between here and Chicago.

BAD ACTOR. A man who is egged on by ambition and egged off by the
audience.

BADINAGE. Light or playful discourse. For example. "Why does a chicken
cross the street? Because the butcher."

[Illustration]

BAR. A place where men go to get a thirst so that they can go there
again to quench their thirst.

BEETHOVEN'S SONATA. An excuse some women use for beating the face off a
piano.

BIGAMIST. A man that adds one and has two to carry.

BLONDE. An abbreviation of peroxide of hydrogen.

BREEZE. A condition in the atmosphere which generally arises on a cold
day, to make it colder and stays away on a hot day to make it warmer.

It is supposed to inhabit the windows, but when you look for it on a
Summer night all you can see is the "gent" next door chaperoning the
growler.

BUNDLE. A load of preserves. From the Norwegian _bun_, meaning high
tide. "Yesterday he annexed a _bundle_ and this morning he sits on
the front steps singing soft lullabies to a hold-over." (Shakespeare,
page 18.)


[Illustration: "C--Coogan thinking about home."]

Charity begins at home and ruins its health by staying there too much.

Children who are wayward grow up to be the people who fall by the
wayside.

Coogan says there is no place like home--and he congratulates the other
places.

Consistency is a jewel, but it isn't fashionable to wear it.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 C: The third letter of the alphabet. It is also used in music,
    especially by _prima donnas_ who try to reach it and fall flat.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

CAB. A machine invented for the purpose of going somewhere, but which
seldom gets there. An inland tugboat.

[Illustration]

CAD. A shine with an extra polish on.

CALAMITY. A loud-mouthed individual who insists upon telling stale
jokes.

CASH. The stuff we work for, work other people for and are worked for.
Synonyms: Bones, Cash, Coin, Dough, Ducats, Long-green, Mazuma, and
1,000 others.

CHARITY. Something which begins at home and stays at home every day
except Sunday, when it goes to church to talk about itself.

CINCH. When a man starts out with a bundle of money and a bundle of
booze it's a cinch that he drops the money first.

COLD FEET. A punishment for those that stand around and wait for dead
men's shoes.

COMPLIMENTS. Things which some people fish for hard enough to catch a
sea-serpent.

CONFIDENCE MAN. The noblest work of fraud.

CONCLUSION. Something a woman jumps at in the same manner in which she
jumps off a street car--which is backwards.

CONSCIENCE. The alarm clock on a man's mind which is seldom wound up.

CONSISTENCY. A jewel which isn't appreciated as a Christmas present.

CONTENTMENT. A large, open-faced gentleman telling his friends how he
self-made himself.

COPPER-FASTENED CINCH. A good-looking widow who has made up her mind to
marry again.

COURTSHIP. Love's excursion boat just before it strikes the rough sea of
matrimony.

CROOK. A man who says nobody is straight.

[Illustration]

COOK. Something which makes up her mind to stay in the kitchen and then
loses her mind. A product of modern society who has for her motto
"Dimuendo contralto dumdum," which means, "She who cooks and runs away
will live to cook another day."

CROW. A bird politicians would eat after election if they were not so
busy drinking.

[Illustration]

CZAR. An illustration of the old proverb, "Uneasy lies the King when
falls the Ace."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter written by the Czar to Tolstoi probably illustrates
better than any other document the pleasant and health-giving conditions
under which the Czar lives and reigns:--


                                                  In The Cellar, To-day.

Dear Tolsey:--My hands tremble a little in the armor-plated gloves, so
you must excuse bad spelling.

They have just handed me a small bunch of asbestos writing paper, and
the fountain pen has been sterilized to remove the poison, so I will
write you.

Great Scottovitch! you can never enjoy the feeling of anxiety which
gallops over me when I wake in the morning and wonder will the
hard-boiled eggs explode before I eat my breakfast.

At six o'clock this morning I was awakened by a scratching noise on the
iron quilt which covers my repose. A cold perspiration broke out on my
forehead. I buried my head in the hardwood pillows and waited the end.
Just then M. Stepupski, the Minister of the Department of Bum Shells,
walked in through the secret tunnel in the wall.

I threw the aluminum blanket off my face and cried: "What is it? What is
it?"

"Pardonoviski, Your Majesty," said M. Stepupski, "it is the cat! Whether
it is a trained cat carrying a deadly bombshell in the forward turret, I
don't know, but we will investigationiski at once."

My minister coaxed the cat away and five minutes later a loud explosion
confirmed M. Stepupski's theory that the cat's bosom contained something
more than nine lives.

It also confirmed M. Stepupski, because he has been strangely absent
ever since together with a stained-glass window and a lot of new
furniture.

Take my advice, Tolstoi, and don't be a royalty.

I say this as one friend to another and not because I have to wear
copper-fastened pajamas.

I don't mind the copper-fastened pajamas so much, but to wear asphalt
neckties and barb-wire suspenders is something which aggravates the
spirit.

At 8 A.M. this morning M. Cornmealski, the Minister of the Department of
Armored Breakfasts, reported that he had discovered something suspicious
in the dish of peeled prunes.

We examined the prunes carefully and found them stuffed with free
tickets to ride on the Brooklyn Elevated Railroad. We burned the tickets
hastily and saved our lives again.

M. Cornmealski reports that up to date 219 different breakfast foods
have been received at the palace kitchen. He says they range all the way
from consolidated shavings to perforated sawdust, with here and there
some compressed knot-holes.

In a mad moment yesterday I took the Yale lock off my appetite and
ordered up one of those breakfast food samples, but just as I had the
spoonful at my lips I remembered the prayer of my youth: "Woodman, spare
that tree!" and once more my life was saved.

Ten minutes ago M. Blackandblueski, the Minister of the Department of
Witch Hazel, rushed into my bulkhead compartment.

"Oxcooski, Your Majesty," said the Minister, "but this morning the
cookski was burning a few links of sausage for breakfast. Well, Your
Majesty, about two minutes afterwards the cookski and the stove and one
side of the palace left in a hurry and went away in a northwesterly
direction. We don't expect them back, because the sausage was stuffed
with rapid transit material, Your Majesty!"

Thus it goes all day. Don't you think it is pretty hard lines when I
have to make them wash the water on both sides before putting it in the
teapot?

Now I must stop because I hear the humming of the harpoons on the
outside. My officers are talking about me again. Farewellski!

       *       *       *       *       *

CUSTOMS INSPECTOR. An individual who gets a salary for believing that
everybody on the steamboat is a smuggler.

       *       *       *       *       *

In order to study briefly the Custom House system as applied to
returning travellers let us witness the arrival from abroad of the
Secretary of the Treasury.

Some years before the Secretary went into politics deep enough to stay
there and make expenses he took a slight trip to Europe.

Two weeks later he was on his way home to his beloved land on the good
ship "Kaiser Wilhelm, the Grocer."

The Stars and Stripes seemed to wave a welcome to him as he approached
the hospitable shores of Fire Island.

"It is good, so good to breathe once more the air of Liberty!" said the
Secretary, and ten minutes later the "Kaiser Wilhelm, the Grocer" was at
her dock.

"Ah! how happy I am to be once more where Freedom reigns!" said the
Secretary as he walked proudly down the gangway plank.

"Wait!"

The speaker was a short-set man with a thick face and a wide voice.

The Secretary paled his cheeks.

"Who are you?"

"I am an American citizen; leave me pass!" exclaimed the Secretary.

Fair-haired, with a complexion of dazzling purity, large expressive eyes,
delicate but commanding features, she had a singular fascination
of look and gesture, and a winning, almost childlike, simplicity
of manner.

Without feminine artifice or commonplace coquetry, she seemed to bewitch
and subdue at a glance men of all ranks, ages, and pursuits; kings
and cardinals, great generals, ambassadors and statesmen, as well
as humbler mortals whether Spanish, Italian, French, or Flemish.

The Constable, an ignorant man who, as the King averred, could
neither write nor read, understood as well as more learned sages
the manners and humours of the court.

He had destined his daughter for the young and brilliant Bassompierre,
the most dazzling of all the cavaliers of the day.

The two were betrothed.

But the love-stricken Henry, then confined to his bed with the gout,
sent for the chosen husband of the beautiful Margaret.

"Bassompierre, my friend," said the aged king, as the youthful lover
knelt before him at the bedside, "I have become not in love, but
mad, out of my senses, furious for Mademoiselle de Montmorency.

If she should love you, I should hate you. If she should love me,
you would hate me.

'Tis better that this should not be the cause of breaking up our
good intelligence, for I love you with affection and inclination.

I am resolved to marry her to my nephew the Prince of Conde, and
to keep her near my family.

She will be the consolation and support of my old age into which I
am now about to enter.

I shall give my nephew, who loves the chase a thousand times better
than he does ladies, 100,000 livres a year, and I wish no other
favour from her than her affection without making further pretensions."

"Pajamas!" said the man.

"My pajamas!" said the Secretary.

"They look like a Chinaman's Sunday trousers--yes?"

The Secretary looked into the pitiless faces of the multitude which was
gazing into his trunk, but they handed him nothing save small bunches of
laughter.

"Come!" said the man, "where is the Chink that goes with this wearing
apparel? Did you hear over the wireless system about the labor strikes
and try to smuggle in some cheap labor?"

"I assure you that I wear those pajamas myself!" said the Secretary,
interrupting a sob in his throat.

"You wear these pajamas? When? Why? Where?"

"In the secrecy of my boudoir," said the Secretary.

"Aha!" said the man, "so you have some boudoir, too! Bad business! bad
business! I have never heard of a Boudoir Trust, therefore, we do not
make such a thing in this country. My suspicions are getting louder.
What is in this bottle?"

"That is my cough medicine," said the Secretary, giving a sample of the
cough.

"It may be wine or cream de mint because your voice sounds nervous."

"I am nervous because the world is still giggling at my pajamas," said
the Secretary.

"Back to the pajamas! Bad business! bad business! I will have to dig a
tunnel through your neckties to see if you have a _cafe au lait_ or
a _cafe chanteuse_ in the trunk. When a man gets nervous it is
always wise to watch him. Open your mouth!"

The Secretary did so.

"What have you been drinking?"

"A vermouth cocktail," said the Secretary.

"Domestic or imported?"

"Neither; the Captain treated," said the Secretary.

"It looks to me much like foreign spirits," said the man.

"Do you wish to open me further and see?" inquired the Secretary.

Then the man waded into the Secretary's other trunks, two-stepped over
his negligee shirts, waltzed through his waist-coats and did a polka
amidst the ruins of his dress suit.

"What is the verdict?" said the Secretary after the battle was over.

"Not guilty, but you might be," said the man, smiling briefly.

As the Secretary walked out the Stars and Stripes seemed to bow politely
at him and whisper with a voice slightly sarcastic: "You for the seat
away back!"

"Some day," said the Secretary, "I will jump into politics so far that
my trunk will always be a dark secret to the Custom Housers!"

And he did it.

From the life of the Secretary we learn the lesson that there is much
Liberty in this country, but, incidentally, there are a couple of bald
spots where it is missing.

If you don't believe me come home from Europe some day by way of the
Custom House.


[Illustration: "D--Sometimes an old fool gets away with a good thing."]

Do you know that a wise man can sometimes be a fool and get away with it?

Don't go among doers if you don't want to be did.

Duty calls and finds most men holding nothing but a four-flush.

Don't try to be a stinger if you don't want to get stung.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 D: The letter of the alphabet which always runs fourth.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

DAISY. A twin sister to a peach. See _Dream_.

DAM. A species of floodgates. By adding the letter "n" the floodgates
are loosened.

DAMSEL. See Daisy.

DARLING. See your best girl.

DAFFY. See a doctor.

[Illustration]

DAWN. The cold, gray period immediately following a red-hot night.

DELUDE. To take your wife by the hand and lead her away from the truth.

[Illustration]

DELUSION. Something which every man likes to hug--especially if she's
pretty.

DESTINY. Something which laughs at those who never say die.

DESCRIBE. To give an account of. For instance, one woman giving a
description of another woman's wearing apparel--oh, fudge!

DOGS OF WAR. Animals that live on bones of contention.

DRUNKARDS. The monuments which whiskey erects all along the road to
ruin.

DUST. The material from which man is made and that is the reason why
woman sweeps all before her.


[Illustration: "E--And when she marries her fourth husband its a great
deal."]

Everybody knows that money talks, but nobody notices what kind of
grammar it uses.

Evil be to him who evil drinketh.

Every woman loves an ideal man until she marries him--then it's a new
deal.

Every time you stop and stare at Success it gets up and leaves the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 E: The fifth letter of the alphabet which is usually silent at the end
    of a word--quite unlike some women _you_ know of, eh!
###

       *       *       *       *       *

EAR. A place which hears a great many things which should never have
been said.

[Illustration]

EARTH. An orange-shaped ball hanging in space and inhabited by two
classes of people, to wit: kickers and more kickers.

EDEN. The garden where Adam and Eve baked the first apple pie and pied
the human race.

ECSTASY. A state in which the mind is carried away. For instance, if you
are in a runaway automobile, you are in _ecstasy_ until you hit a
telegraph pole; after that you're in a hospital.

EGOTIST. A man who uses his brain for the purpose of believing that he
is the greatest ever.

ELBOW. Something you give a man you don't like.

EASTER. A season of the year devoted to new bonnets, overcoatless young
men and pneumonia. A tide in the affairs of women which, taken at the
pocketbook, leads on to the milliners.

ELOPE. A hurried trip taken by two lovers for the purpose of wiring Papa
for funds to get home.

[Illustration]

ELOCUTION. A disease which breaks out among students, but which is fatal
only to the spectators.

EMPLOYER. A man who has a soft spot for a hard worker.

ENVY. The root of much criticism.

ECONOMY. A system practiced by some men which permits their wives to
wear last year's dresses so that they can buy better cigars.

EXPERIENCE. The best of all teachers, because it's impossible for the
scholar to run away from school.


[Illustration: "F--There's only one thing to do however."]

Fine feathers make fine birds take to the woods.

Failures made by other people pave the road to your Success.

Fortune wears rubber shoes and a feather pillow on each hand when she
knocks on your door.

Fair play is a jewel, but so many people can't afford jewelry.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 F: The sixth letter of the alphabet. It is formed by the passage of the
    breath between the lower lip and the upper incisive teeth, but that
    doesn't seem to worry it any.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

FABLE. The story a man thinks his wife believes--and she lets him think
it.

FAD. See hobby.

[Illustration]

FADE. To gradually disappear. For example: "I had ten plunks when I went
out last night, but they faded away." (Lord Palmerston, page 21.)

FAKE. Something we buy to make sure it isn't on the level.

FAITH. Something which is said to move mountains, but the railroad
contractors always mix in a little dynamite to help matters along.

FAULT. Something which is so easy to find, but it is so hard to give it
when we find it.

FAMILY. The only cure for race suicide.

FAVOR. Something we do for a friend so he can forget about it.

FLATTERER. A man who makes friends until he begins to talk about
himself.

FORGER. A man who tries to make a name for himself, but who picks out
the wrong name.

FRIEND. A man who knows you are a liar, but hopes otherwise.

FRIENDSHIP. The name of the handle some people put on other people for
the purpose of using them.

[Illustration]

FOOTBALL. A system of manslaughter very fashionable with boys. From the
Latin words "footibus," meaning "_put the boots to him_," and
"balloona," meaning "up in the air, or, who hit me with a public
building?" A body of college students surrounded by ambulances. For
instance:

  Sing a song of football
    Pockets full of salve;
  Four and twenty legs all
    Punctured at the calve.
  Captain in the hospital
    Fullback in the soup,
  Twenty-seven faces
    Broken in the group.
  Sophomores and Freshmen
    Punched around the ring;
  When the war was over
    The boys began to sing!

    Raw! Raw! Raw!
    Raw! Raw! Raw!
      Stew them!
      Fry them!
    Raw! Raw! Raw!
      Oysters!


[Illustration: "G--The friends that Gold buys shake hands with two
fingers."]

Great oaths from little aching corns do grow.

Great minds run in the same channel--especially if they are sea
captains.

Gold is a dull metal, but it can cut friendship quicker than a knife.

Good names are better than great riches and that is why so many of us
have names without price.

      *       *       *       *       *

###
 G: The seventh letter of the alphabet. Used by the ancients as an
    expression of surprise, thus: Hully Gee!
###

       *       *       *       *       *

GAB. The product of a ball-bearing chin.

GAG. A joke rendered insensible by a third-rail comedian.

GAS. A substance we make light of until the bill comes in. _"You may
hide your light under a bushel, but you'll get a bill from the gas
company just the same_." (Shakespeare, page 9.)

GAS BILL. Something that comes in to put us out.

GAS METER. A bit of machinery invented by Ananias in order to please
Saphira and keep the household supplied with lies while the old man was
down in the grocery store.

GET-RICH-QUICK. An aquarium for suckers. A place where poor people go to
get poorer.

GEE-GEE. A horse by any other name will run as fast.

GENIAL. A guy that never was known to buy.

GENIUS. Something we have in _our_ family--if you don't believe me,
come and hear our little boy recite.

[Illustration]

GENT. Two-thirds of a gentleman.

GENTLEMAN. A title which many a man claims because the public hasn't
time to prove him otherwise.

GERM. See _microbes_. In order to see microbes you'll have to get a
magnifying glass.

GOSH. A Yankee synonym for dad bust it! See _dag my buttons!_ See
any Reub.

GOSSIP. Something which a woman hears with one ear and tells with both.
A woman who can put two and two together and make five.

GOOD TIME. About $9 worth of headache next morning and eighteen cents in
small change left in the pocket.

GOURMAND. A man who delights to make his stomach feel like a department
store.

GRAND OPERA. A disease which breaks out in society every winter and can
be cured only by inward applications of a seat in a box and outward
applications of diamonds on the chestThe ambassadors expressed their thanks for the great and extraordinary
honour thus conferred on them, and they were then requested to get
into a royal carriage which had been sent out for that purpose.

       After much ceremonious refusal they at last consented and, together
with the Duke of Vendome, drove through Paris in that vehicle into
the Faubourg Saint Germain.

Arriving at the Hotel Gondy, they were, notwithstanding all
their protestations, escorted up the staircase into the apartments by the
Duke.

"This honour is notable," said the commissioners in their report to the
States, "and never shown to anyone before, so that our ill-wishers
are filled with spite."

And Peter Pecquius was of the same opinion. "Everyone is grumbling here,"
about the reception of the States' ambassadors, "because such
honours were never paid to any ambassador whatever, whether from
Spain, England, or any other country."

And there were many men living and employed in great affairs of State,
both in France and in the Republic--the King and Villeroy, Barneveld
and Maurice--who could remember how twenty-six years before a solemn
embassy from the States had proceeded from the Hague to France to
offer the sovereignty of their country to Henry's predecessor, had
been kept ignominiously and almost like prisoners four weeks long
in Rouen, and had been thrust back into the Netherlands without
being admitted even to one audience by the monarch.

Truly time, in the course of less than one generation of mankind,
had worked marvellous changes in the fortunes of the Dutch Republic.

President Jeannin came to visit them next day, with friendly proffers of
service, and likewise the ambassador of Venice and the charge d'affaires
of Great Britain.

On the 22nd the royal carriages came by appointment to the Hotel Gondy,
and took them for their first audience to the Louvre.

They were received at the gate by a guard of honour, drums beating and
arms presented, and conducted with the greatest ceremony to an
apartment in the palace.

Soon afterwards they were ushered into a gallery where the King stood,
surrounded by a number of princes and distinguished officers of
the crown.

These withdrew on the approach of the Netherlanders, leaving the
King standing alone.

They made their reverence, and Henry saluted them all with respectful
cordiality.

Begging them to put on their hats again, he listened attentively to their
address.

The language of the discourse now pronounced was similar in tenour
to that almost contemporaneously held by the States' special envoys
in London.

Both documents, when offered afterwards in writing, bore the
unmistakable imprint of the one hand that guided the whole political
machine.

When you would least expect it the hero jumped on the stage and made
some quick motions with his face and arms which resulted in a solo.

The story he told was simplicity itself.

Plainer than words could make it his beautifully imported voice kept
saying "Aha! aha-eo! I-am-getting-one-thousand-dollars-a-night--tra-la-la-
la!-aha!-aha-eo! For-doing-this,--for-doing-this-with-the-pipes-I-get-one-
thousand-plunks-oh-plunks-per-night-aha!-aha-eo!"

Then the soprano responded with much emotion from the orchestra, "Ditto,
ditto, ditto! me too, me too! oo-oo-me too!"

It was delicious.

But just then came the bitter moment when all my deliciousness was
crushed because the narrow-headed man on my left switched softly into
"Hiawatha" with a few personal additions to the coda.

So I stood up and went home.


[Illustration: "H--It takes a real hero to laugh with an empty stomach."]

He laughs best who laughs with a full stomach.

How many people in this world are being coaxed when it's a club they
need!

Here are two things any man can find in the dark--a carpet tack and a
limburger sandwich.

"Handsome is as handsome does them"--the motto of the bunco steerer.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 H: The eighth letter of the alphabet, which is all broken up because
    Englishmen have dropped it so often. (Get ap!)
###

       *       *       *       *       *

HA! An exclamation of surprise used in connection with other dark blue
words when you step on a tack.

HA, HA! Something the world tries to give you on the slightest
provocation.

[Illustration]

HAIR. The fur that pays a temporary visit to a man's head for the
purpose of falling out later on.

HARD JOB. Trying to live without working.

HARD WORK. The sugar of life, but it is surprising how many people
prefer lemons.

HEALTH. The ability to eat meat for breakfast without having to rush to
the drugstore.

HEAT. A scheme invented by Nature for the purpose of sending human
beings to the seashore, the mountains and the hospital. It is from the
Latin words "_Gee Whizzibus Aintit Fierceibus?_"--which means much
or little, according to the size of the hotel you stop at.

HERO. A person whom we all delight to honor because the facts in the
case prevent us from throwing the hammer at him. A man who goes into
history and cannot get out again.

HIGHBALL. A drink in the hand which is worth two headache powders in the
drugstore.

HOG. A man who thinks everybody should move over and give him the end
seat.

HONESTY. The best policy after they catch you trying the others. The
excuse that a politician always has up his sleeve.

HOPE. A firm belief in to-morrow with the ability to take gracefully a
transfer to the day after to-morrow.

HORSE-SHOW. A place where the women show the horse that he has no show.
Society's parade grounds, where one dress is as good as another until
the price is known.

[Illustration]

HUSBAND. A domestic animal, invented for the purpose of giving a wife
something to worry about. See _Fourflush_. Also look in the
discard.

HUMIDITY. Something which comes in through the window and goes out
through the pores. A warm proposition any way you take it. A
brother-in-law to Torture and a half-sister to Hades.

The word comes from the Swedish language, "_Sockett Toodem_," which
means "_Melt, you Spitzbuben, melt!_"

HYPOCRITE. A knocker which is out of order except when your back is
turned.


[Illustration: "I--When two people quarrel and smile at the same time,
the third person can go for the separation papers."]

It is a wise son that owes his own father.

It takes a lot of money to teach a Duke how to love an American heiress.

If we could see ourselves as others see us many of us would wear a mask.

It takes three people to engineer a quarrel--two to make it and one to
run for a policeman.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 I: The ninth letter of the alphabet. Used principally by touchers in
    connection with O and U. Thus, I. O. U.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

ICE. A substance the world uses to put a damper on swelled heads.

IGNORANCE. A lack of knowledge. For instance: The man who never heard of
a microbe sometimes has the colic, but he never gets appendicitis.
(Milton, page 7.)

IMPOSSIBILITY. A stuttering man trying to make a bluff.

[Illustration]

INCONGRUITY. A man who prays with such noise in Sunday School that he
sprains his voice and then goes home and beats his child for talking too
loud on the Sabbath day.

INDOLENT. A lazy man just before he becomes a loafer.

IRONY OF FATE. A man with an invitation to a beefsteak dinner who has to
stay home because his wife has acute indigestion.

INDIAN COMMISSIONER. The gentleman who invented the idea of opening up
barber shops near the Indian reservations, so that Lo could get his hair
clipped by a reaping machine once every year, whether he needed it or
not.

       *       *       *       *       *

The idea of Marconi's wireless telegraph system pales into
insignificance before the idea of coaxing a wild Indian away from the
reservation and running the remorseless horse-clippers over the wild
foliage to which his head has been acclimated these many years.

This is a noble suggestion, and no doubt the Indians will take kindly to
the barbers and pay them much attention even if their tommyhawks and
scalping knives are a little dull at first.

In the dramatic language of the plains Biff Hawkins, of Spotted Dog,
Idaho, thus describes the opening of the first barber shop in the
vicinity of an Indian reservation:

"Hist!"

The speaker was the bootblack in one of those handsome hand-painted
barber shops which a loving government at Washington has placed at
intervals along the border of the Indian Reservation.

"What is it, Mike?" said Sniffles, the barber.

"Hist!"

Again that ominous word, and Mike pointed feverishly at the distant
horizon.

On it an Indian was walking, steadfastly, onward, onward, onward!

Remorseless as a gas bill the Indian came onward to the barber shop.

Sniffles, the barber, jumped quickly into his armor-plated working
clothes, and Mike, with a sad smile of farewell, crawled into the
cyclone cellar and closed the steel doors.

The Indian entered the barber shop.

"You are next!" said Sniffles, politely.

"I know it," said the Indian; "but I was put next only an hour
ago--hence the delay. The bay rum, please!"

"You want it for the hair?" inquired the barber.

"No, I want it for a souse," said the Indian.

"Get in the chair, please!" said the barber.

"Man-Behind-The-Snip-Snap speaks foolish," said the Indian. "I am not
for a hair cut; I am for that bay rum idea. Heap thirst! Don't keep me
waiting!"

The barber turned pale as the awful truth flashed across him.

"What is your name?" he said painfully.

"Man-Afraid-Of-A-Shampoo," said the Indian, sullenly.

"Nice Indian! pretty Indian! good Indian! You are not compelled to get
your hair cut, you know!" said the barber, wishing to avoid bloodshed.

"Paleface give me heap pain," said Man-Afraid-Of-A-Shampoo, fiercely.

Sniffles, the barber, trembled and believed him.

"Ugh!" said the Indian.

"Ugh!" has the same meaning in Indian as the word "Oof!" has in English.

"When I came in paleface said I was next," said Man-Afraid-Of-A-Shampoo.
"Well, I am next to this business. You have bay rum and I have a
thirst--let us get together!"

"But the bay rum is used only on the outside of the head," said the
barber.

"I have original ideas about bay rum," said the Indian, "therefore I
have decided to use it on the inside of my neck!"

"But bay rum is five cents extra with a hair cut," whispered the barber.

It was his last whisper in that shop.

Shouting the battle cry of the Cherokees, the Indian, grabbed the bay
rum bottle and poured it carefully over his thirst.

[Illustration]

This was followed by a bottle of hair tonic, which seemed to go to his
head.

Then the Indian swallowed a bottle of whisker dye and all seemed to grow
black before him.

The barber groaned in agony.

It was thrilling.

When last seen the Indian was drinking a bottle of dry shampoo and
foaming at the mouth, while he blessed the White Father at Washington
for inventing the barber shop.

That afternoon Sniffles, the barber, and Mike, his under secretary,
walked back to Washington and handed in their resignation to the
Interior Department.


[Illustration: "J--The Tip End of the season."]

Jolly not that you be not jollied.

Justice is blind for the reason that some lawyers would give her a pain
if she could see them.

Journeys end in porter tippings.

Just as you value yourself justly just that much are you valuable.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 J: The tenth letter of the alphabet, used almost exclusively to
    designate a Reub with rubber in the neck--whatever that may be.
###

[Illustration: JAY]

       *       *       *       *       *

JAG. See gold cure. If that hasn't any effect, see an undertaker.

JOCKEY. A hero or a slob--it all together depends on where the horse
finishes.

JOKE. Something that's extremely clever--when we make it ourselves.

[Illustration.]

JOLLY. Flattery with a smile on its face.

JOLT. The thing a man gets who thinks he knows it all.

JOY. Gladness with the lid off.

JUG. A place to keep the material before it becomes a jag.

JUDGMENT. An ability which some men get credit for having when in
reality they are merely lucky at guessing things.

JUSTICE. The name we give it when the verdict is the way we want it.


[Illustration: "K--A Small boy can spoil the most favorable
circumstance."]

Kisses go by favorable circumstances.

Kidders are as happy as kids till somebody kids them.

Keep a stiff upper lip--especially when you're shaving yourself.

Knockers never have weak lungs.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 K: The eleventh letter of the alphabet, pronounced K, as in Knuckle.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

KEEN. A grafter with a victim in sight.

KENO. What the grafter says when he's through with the victim.

KEEP. The motto of the Trusts.

KEY. An instrument used at 2 A.M. in connection with a door to determine
whether a man is sober or not.

[Illustration]

KEROSENE. An ambitious substance used by cooks when they want to go out
through the kitchen roof.

KICKER. A man with a grouch on the inside and a voice on the outside.

KISS. A sigh set to music. The oldest monopoly in the world with the
exception of John D. Rockerfeller. A kiss is the soul's cocktail. A
wireless message from he to she, with a little peaches and cream on the
side.

[Illustration]

KNOCKER. A hurdle in the way of the worthy. A chin-critic. An expert
with the harpoon.


[Illustration: "L--When a man is so lazy that he won't talk he is
called profound."]

Love laughs at everybody except the girl's Papa.

Laziness generally attacks every part of a man except his tongue.

Lots of men spend two dollars' worth of worry over the loss of a
quarter.

Look around and you'll see that the world likes to side with the man who
has the cash.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 L: The twelfth letter of the alphabet, captured some years ago for the
    purpose of describing the Elevated Railroad.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

LABOR. Trying to get back the money you loaned.

[Illustration]

LADY. A gentleman woman.

LAMB. A young mutton-head that goes into Wall Street.

LARK. A bird of a name given to a bird of a time.

LIGHT. An excuse used by the Gas Company to collect money.

LITERARY FAILURE. A man whose brain was unfit for publication.

[Illustration]

LOBSTER. A shine after he gets in the swim.

LOAFER. A man who believes the world owes him a living and sends another
man to collect it.

LOVE. A certain party who is supposed to be blind, but he doesn't seem
to have much trouble in finding someone to lead him around.


[Illustration: "M--One experiment that few are willing to make."]

Money cannot buy happiness, but most of us are willing to make the
experiment.

Many people would take a short walk on the road to ruin if they were
sure their friends wouldn't see them.

Money is the root of much friendship.

Marry in haste and repent in Dakota.

       *       *       *       *       *

####
 M: The thirteenth letter of the alphabet, which very few people use
    because thirteen is unlucky.
####

       *       *       *       *       *

MACARONI. An excuse for opening an Italian restaurant.

MAP. That part of the human face which is visible above the collar.

[Illustration]

MARVEL. A man who never tells you his troubles.

MEDAL. A gold or silver dingus which you get for doing something you
intended to do anyway.

MEDDLER. The fellow who butts in and says you're not entitled to a
medal.

MISER. A man who has all the money he wants but wants more.

MONEY. Something which talks, but a poor man can't keep it long enough
to know what it says.

[Illustration: 1/1000 MICROBE ENLARGED]

MICROBE. A very small animal that devotes all its energy to moving
into the system of an entire stranger. Once in it begins to do light
housekeeping on the aforementioned stranger's epiglottis. (For the
meaning of epiglottis consult the first doctor you meet. If he doesn't
tell you he's no gentleman.)


[Illustration: N ]

No matter how many good things our friends say about us, we are never
surprised.

Nothing is so astonishing to us as another man's success.

Needless to say, a friend in need is a friend in the soup.

Nothing ventured nothing wonderful.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 N: The fourteenth letter of the alphabet, sometimes called a nasal by
    those who ought to know better.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

NABOB. A man who can put on a new suit of clothes every fifteen minutes.

NATION. A large principality ready to go to war at a moment's notice.
For example: Carrie Nation.

NATURE. Something which makes no mistakes, with the exception of a
crowded street car.

NECESSITY. The mother of many an empty stomach.

[Illustration]

NECK. A place to get it in.

NEXT. The battle cry in a barber shop before blood is shed.

NIT. An abbreviation of Nix.

NIX. An abbreviation of Nit.

NOPE. An abbreviation of No!

[Illustration]

NOISE. The sound of a new suit of clothes on a loud man.

NODDLE. The place where some people think they think.

NOVEL. A book that sells better than it reads.


[Illustration: "O--A well balanced Head."]

Of two evils choose the one least likely to be talked about.

Oh, yes, the man with a jag can hold on to the fence, but he can't hold
on to his reputation.

Opportunity is something a Fool waits for while the Wise Guy runs down
the road to meet it.

Occasionally we meet men who have to part their hair in the middle in
order to have a well-balanced head.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 O: The fifteenth letter of the alphabet, used principally by the Irish
    in front of their names.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

OH! The mild-mannered sister of Ouch!

OATS. A substance invented by Nature and intended for a breakfast food,
but because pine shavings are cheaper it is now obsolete.

OBEY. A word put in the marriage service for the purpose of giving the
parties of the first part something to kick about.

[Illustration]

OCULIST. A man many young people should consult who think they have
fallen in love at first sight.

OIL. See John D. Rockerfeller--if you can.

OLD HEN. The pet name a man has for his wife because she rules the
roost.

OLIVE. A green grape dropped in a cocktail so the customer can pull it
out with his fingers. See _Cherry_.

ONION. A noisy vegetable eaten principally by people who sit next to us
in street cars.

OPERA. A device used for the purpose of making a fortune for a good
singer.

OPPORTUNITY. Something never seen until it is not there to be looked at.

ORIGINALITY. The gift some people have of saying the bright things which
we intended to think about later on.

OSLER. A modern abbreviation of chloroform. An up to date bogie man
invented for the purpose of chasing "has-beens" to the woods.

OSLERESQUE. The state of being ready for _Oslerizing_. See any man
over forty.

OSLERISM. The art of picking out a fit subject for the _Osler_
treatment. "You can lead an old man into a drugstore but you can't make
him drink chloroform." (Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy, page 19.)

OSLERIZE. To pour chloroform over an old man's breakfast food and
telephone for the undertaker.

OSLERITIS. An attack of hysteria which broke out at a banquet and became
epidemic in the newspapers.

OSLEROOZA. A man who believes in _Oslerism_. He is generally a
young man in love with a girl whose Papa is over forty and who wears No.
11 shoes of a high voltage.

OSLERETTA. A young woman who believes in _Oslerism_. She is the
same girl whose Papa has just been mentioned.


[Illustration: "P--Philosophy makes good reading for the man who has
his rent paid."]

Perseverance is the root of all money.

Perhaps you have met the man who is so wrapped up in himself that he
thinks he is a warm baby.

Pleasure travels with a brass band, but Trouble sneaks in on rubber
shoes.

Philosophers do not believe half the things they tell themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 P: The sixteenth letter of the alphabet, used principally in pickled
    peppers.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINT. A polite name for balloon juice. See the bartender.

PALPITATION OF THE TONGUE. A disease that affects many women.

PATRIOT. A man who spends all his money for fireworks for the little boy
and doesn't hold out $2 for the doctor's bill.

PATHOS. A poor man laughing at his rich wife's poor joke.

PEACH. A bit of domestic fruit, consisting of blonde tresses, a dimple,
and three bows of pink ribbon.

PEEKABOO. A summer idea invented for the purpose of making a girl's
shirtwaist something like a barb-wire fence with a full view of the
scenery. It is constructed by making one stitch and forgetting seven.
The Peekaboo is the only friend the mosquito has on earth.

PENITENTIARY. An assembly hall which always plays to a full house
because whiskey is it's advance agent.

PHILOSOPHER. A man who can size himself up and forget the result.

PLAN. Something which any fool can lay, but it takes patience like a hen
to hatch it.

PLEASURE. Fun you have to-day so you can worry over it to-morrow.

[Illustration]

POETICAL LICENSE. A woman who weighs 275 pounds and listens to the name
of Birdie.

POLITICS. The place where a man gets it--sometimes in the neck,
sometimes in the bank.

POLITICIAN. The reason we have so much politics.

POPULARITY. The cold storage house where the world sends her favorites
before she forgets them.

POSTERITY. A lot of people who will forget all about you before they are
born.

PRACTICAL JOKE. When Nature makes a pink lobster look like a man.

PREDICTION. A bit of funny business invented by the Weather Man for the
purpose of playing tiddledewinks with the weather. He says what he
thinks it will be and then the weather is what it pleases.

[Illustration]

PROMISE. What a man says to a woman or a child to keep them quiet.

PRUDE. A female lady who wishes someone will say something so she can
blush to listen and listen to blush.


[Illustration: "Q--Young writers Outfit."]

Quitters cannot be trained to quit quitting.

Queer, isn't it, that the lazier a man gets the more he wants to work
somebody else.

Quotation marks cover a multitude of plagiarists.

Qualmless consciences are fashionable nowadays.

       If, however, the States persisted in this course, he should call
his troops home again.

The
 King, as he went on, became more and more excited, and showed decided
    dissatisfaction in his
language and manner.

       It was not to be wondered at, for we have seen how persistently he
had been urging that the Advocate should come in person with "the
bridle on his neck," and now he had sent his son-in-law and two
colleagues tightly tied up by stringent instructions.

And over an above all this, while he was contemplating a general
war with intention to draw upon the States for unlimited supplies,
behold, they were haggling for the support of a couple of regiments
which were virtually their own troops.

There were reasons, however, for this cautiousness besides those
unfounded, although not entirely chimerical, suspicions as to the
King's good faith, to which we have alluded.

It should not be forgotten that, although Henry had conversed
secretly with the States' ambassador at full length on his far-reaching
plans, with instructions that he should confidentially inform the
Advocate and demand his co-operation, not a word of it had been
officially propounded to the States-General, nor to the special
embassy with whom he was now negotiating.

No treaty of alliance offensive or defensive existed between the
Kingdom and the Republic or between the Republic and any power
whatever.

It would have been culpable carelessness therefore at this moment
for the prime minister of the States to have committed his government
in writing to a full participation in a general assault upon the
House of Austria; the first step in which would have been a breach
of the treaty just concluded and instant hostilities with the
Archdukes Albert and Isabella.

That these things were in the immediate future was as plain as that
night would follow day, but the hour had not yet struck for the
States to throw down the gauntlet.

Hardly two months before, the King, in his treaty with the princes
at Hall, had excluded both the King of Great Britain and the
States-General from participation in those arrangements, and it was
grave matter for consideration, therefore, for the States whether
they should allow such succour as they might choose to grant the
princes to be included in the French contingent.

The opportunity for treating as a sovereign power with the princes
and making friends with them was tempting, but it did not seem
reasonable to the States that France should make use of them in
this war without a treaty, and should derive great advantage from
the alliance, but leave the expense to them.

Some examples:

       *       *       *       *       *

Ann's father sends his pitcher to the well; Mary's father sends his
pitcher to the saloon; how much money has Ann's father saved?

Ann's mother has just finished reading a very beautiful story. Mary's
mother sent over and borrowed the book. How old will Ann's mother be
when the book gets back?

Ann's little brother is entertaining Ann's sweetheart in the parlor.
Ann's little brother has just told Ann's sweetheart how old Ann is. How
long did Ann's sweetheart remain after he learned the bitter truth?

Ann has a brother by the name of James. James wrote two letters, one to
his wife and one to his lady typewriter. Ten minutes after mailing them
he discovered that the right letter was in the wrong envelope. Which
train did James take and when does Ann expect him back?

Ann took a dollar bill and went to a department store. She saved twenty
cents for car fare and spent eighty cents for lunch. What were the
clerks swearing at after Ann went out?

Ann had dark hair but she put peroxide on it to frighten it lighter.
Ann's hair became angry at the peroxide and got up and left her head.
Why does Ann converse with callers through the speaking tube?

Ann's friend Mary has seven brothers. One of them paints sawdust in
a delicatessen factory at twelve dollars per. The other six play the
races. What time does the dinner bell ring and who squares it with the
grocer?

Ann has another friend by the name of Ellen. Ellen's father has one
sitting room and four daughters. The four daughters are engaged to four
nice young gentlemen. At what time in the evening does papa and mamma
crawl out of the dumb waiter and how much is the gas bill?

Ann rode home in the Elevated Rough House at the twilight hour.
Eighty-seven gentlemen were there hiding behind eighty-seven newspapers.
Ann joined a strap and swung to and fro. How old was Ann when she
received a seat?


[Illustration: "S--The black Sheep."]

Some people's talk is too cheap at any price.

Some men are just like a mule, because they kick at the wrong time.

Some people save up their money for a rainy day and finally decide that
a foggy day is a good enough excuse to spend it.

Scandal is the black sheep in the family of Love.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 S: The nineteenth letter of the alphabet, which is called a sibilant,
    because it makes a hissing sound like a goose.
###

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

SALOON. Something which can be opened on credit, but it takes cash to
start a church.

SARCASM. A thirty-dollar Panama hat on a thirty-cent man.

SATAN. An accommodating chap who picks out cosey-corners in his
hot-house for the men that brag about being such devils among the women.

SCEPTIC. A man who will stop to see if there is a microbe in a kiss.

SEASHORE. A violent disease which breaks out all over people when the
weather gets warm. The cure costs anywhere from $2 to $15 per day,
according to the mood the landlord is in.

SINCERITY. What our friends think about us when our backs are turned.

SPECULATION. Paying a nickle for a seat in a street-car and then waiting
till you get it.

STUBBORNNESS. A man who knows he is wrong but believes he is right for
personal reasons.

SUCKERS. The bait used by those who go fishing for compliments.

[Illustration]

SUCCESS. Failure kicked to pieces by hard work. A man who can make
enough noise when he wins out to drown the voices of the knockers.
Something which can be caught if a man only runs long enough.

SWIFTNESS. The manner in which a fool and his rich wife's money are
parted.

SYNONYM. A lazy man trying to win success and a hen trying to lay a
corner-stone.

SEAT. A mythical place in a street car where many are called but few are
chosen. For instance:

      Little Jack Horner
      Sat in a corner
  Riding down town on the "L."
      He jumped to his feet
      Gave a lady his seat--
  I'm a liar, but don't it sound well.

--Oliver Goldsmith, page 34.


SARDINE-CAR. A term of endearment given to crowded street cars.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marcus Aurelius thus describes the sardine-car in his "Meditations"--see
page 946--as follows:

The sardine-cars consist of fifty people trying to squeeze into a space
that was built only for a Pajama hat and two newspapers.

The seats in the sardine-cars run sideways; the passengers run edgeways,
and the life insurance agents run any old way when they see these cars
coming.

[Illustration]

The sardine-car is the best genteel imitation of a rough-house that has
ever been invented.

The are called "Sardine Cars" because the conductor has to let the
passengers out with a can-opener.

Brave and strong men climb into a street car and they are full of health
and life and vigor, but a few blocks up the road they fall out backwards
and inquire feebly for a sanitarium.

To ride on the street cars in a big city of an evening brings out all
that is in a man, including a lot of loud words he didn't know he had.

The last census shows us that the street cars in the city of New York
have more ways of producing nervous prostration and palpitation of the
brain to the square inch than the combined population of Amsterdam,
Rotterdam, Tinkersdam and Gotterdammerung.

To get in some of the street cars about six o'clock is a problem, and to
get out again is an assassination.

One evening I rode from Forty-second Street to Fifty-ninth without once
touching the floor with my feet.

Part of the time I used the outposts of a stout gentleman to come
between me and the ground, and during the rest of the occasion I hung on
to a strap and swung out wild and free, like the Japanese flag on a
windy day.

Some of our street cars lead a double life, because they are used all
winter to act the part of a refrigerator.

It is a cold day when we cannot find it colder in the street cars.

In Germany we find Germans in the cars, but in America we find germs.

That is because this country is young and impulsive.

The germs in the street cars are extremely sociable and will often
follow a stranger all the way home.

Often while riding in the street cars I have felt a germ rubbing against
my ankle like a kitten, but being a gentleman, I did not reach down and
kick it away because the law says we must not be disrespectful to the
dumb brutes of the field.

Many of our street cars are made out of the same idea as a can of
condensed milk.

The only difference is that the street cars have a sour taste like a
lemon squeezer.

When you get out you cannot get in and when you get in you cannot get
out because you hate to disturb the strange gentleman that is using your
knee to lean over.

[Illustration]

Between the seats there is a space of two feet, but in that space you
will always find four feet and their owners, unless one of them happens
to have a wooden leg. Under ordinary circumstances four into two won't
go, but the sardine-cars defy the laws of gravitation.

A sardine-car conductor can put twenty-six into nine and still have four
to carry.

The idea of expansion which is now used by our Congress was suggested by
one of these sardine-cars.

The ladies of America have started a rebellion against the sardine-cars,
but every time they start it the conductor pulls the bell and leaves the
rebellious standing on the corner.

We are a very nervous and careless people in America. To prove how
careless we are I will cite the fact that Manhattan Island is called
after a cocktail.

This nervousness is our undoing because we are always in such a hurry to
get somewhere that we would rather take the first car and get squeezed
into breathlessness than wait for the next which would likely squeeze us
into insensibility.

Breathlessness can be cured, but insensibility is dangerous without an
alarm clock.

For a man with a small dining-room the sardine-car has its advantages,
but when a stout man rides in them he finds himself supporting a lot of
strangers he never met before.

One morning I jumped on one of those sardine-cars feeling just like a
two-year-old, full of health and happiness.

During the first seven blocks three men fresh from a distillery grew up
in front of me and removed the scenery.

One of them had to get out in a hurry so he kicked me on the shins to
show how sorry he was to leave me.

One of the other two must have been in the distillery a long time
because pretty soon he neglected to use his memory and sat down in my
lap.

When I remonstrated with him he replied that this is a free country and
if he wished to sit down I had no business to stop him.

Then his friend pulled us apart and I resumed the use of my lap.

During the next twenty blocks I had one of the worst daylight nightmares
I ever rode behind.

The party which had been studying the exhibits in the distillery got the
idea in his head that my foot was the loud pedal on a piano and he
started to play the overture from _William Tell_ until I yelled
"W'at'ell!"

That man was such a hard drinker that he gave me the gout just from
standing on my feet.

Then I jumped off and swore off and swore at and walked home.

If the man who invented the idea of standing up between the seats in a
sardine-car is alive he should have a monument.

My idea would be to catch him alive and place the monument on him and
have the conductor come around every ten minutes for his fare.

Then the punishment would have a fit like the crime.


[Illustration: "T--Blue sky of a Greenish Hue."]

The man with plenty of money has friends to burn and when he goes broke
he finds he has burned most of them.

The sky always looks blue when we look at it through a roll of bills.

The mud slinger never has clean hands.

The way of the transgressor is hard on his family.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 T: The twentieth letter of the alphabet, so called because the author
    of the alphabet always drank coffee.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

TABLE. A wooden arrangement covered with green cloth around which
certain parties gather for the purpose of taking each other's money. See
_gambling_. You might, incidentally, see the police if they don't
see you first.

TACT. The art of knowing just when to laugh at a rich man's joke.

TALENT. The ability to know how to keep still at the right moment.

TEMPER. Something you should keep, otherwise the man you show it to may
hand it back to you with a short-arm jab.

TEMPTATION. The banana peel in a man's brain that causes him to slip.

THE LAUGH. Something which should always be on the other fellow.

TO-MORROW. The only day in the year that appeals to a lazy man.

THERMOMETER. A machine invented by a drugstore proprietor for the
purpose of driving humanity to drink.

[Illustration]

TROUBLE. The only thing which a man borrows and wants to pay back in a
hurry. The place where a man finds his head when he loses it.

TROUBLE HUNTER. A man who always comes home with a game-bag full.

TRUTH. The kind words our enemies say about us. Something which never
figures in politics because it forgets to register.


[Illustration: "U--Both Ends."]

Undoubtedly the man that burns the candle at both ends is light-headed.

Usually you'll find that self-made men spend the rest of their lives
talking about home industry.

Uneasy looks the face that wears a frown.

Unfortunately, many a Prince of Good Fellows loses his title when his
pocketbook runs dry.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 U: The twenty-first letter of the alphabet, about which there is some
    scandal because it is always tagging after Q.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

UMPIRE. A guessing machine used and abused in and about a baseball game.

UNHAPPY. The man who knows it all with nobody to tell it to.

UNSELFISHNESS. To be able to read of a neighbor's success without
reaching for the harpoon. A man who will give his last cigar to a
stranger and then go home and kick his wife on the shins because she
spent forty cents for baby's new shoes.

UNDERTAKER. A man who gets the laugh on those who take life as a joke.


[Illustration: "V--Ideas Expressed."]

Vanity is the raw material from which hot air is manufactured.

Victors get the spoils, but the spoils generally spoil the victors.

Very true is it that the man without ideas always expresses them.

Valuable time is often wasted by men of little value.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 V: The twenty-second letter of the alphabet, used as a pet name for
    a five-dollar bill.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

VACATION. The time of the year which a young man looks forward to with
his hand on his heart; goes through with his hand on his pocketbook, and
looks back on with both hands on his head and no skin on his nose.

VACANT. The top story of a snob.

[Illustration]

VANITY. The name of the machinery that makes our swelled heads.

VERSATILITY. The ability of a woman to wear a tight shoe and a loose
smile at the same time.

VICE VERSA. To sleep with one's head at the foot of the bed and one's
feet at the head of the bed. See _Jag_ and _Soused_.

VIRTUE. Its own reward, but many people don't care to handle such a
small amount.

VULGARIANS. People who go through the world like a lot of automobiles,
with rubberneck tires and gasoline in their garrets, and noise, noise,
noise.


[Illustration: "W--Smile, please!"]

When a man is his own worst enemy the fight is always to a finish.

Whiskey is the name of the photographer that can make a high-priced man
look like 30 cents.

When a man sits around waiting for something to turn up Fortune always
turns him down.

When a man is anxious to keep your secret keep him anxious.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 W: The twenty-third letter of the alphabet, which wasn't treated very
    well in the matter of a name.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

WAD. A roll of bills with a rubber band around it. This is a wonderful
weapon in the hands of a steady spender.

WAR. An excuse for talking about the dove of peace.

[Illustration]

WEALTH. To have money enough to support an automobile that goes the pace
that kills.

WEATHER MAN. A machine disguised as a human being who tries to play
tiddlewinks with the weather. He tells the weather what to do, and the
weather does as it pleases. A machine which says, "Cooler to-morrow,
with westerly winds," but means something different. The idea comes from
the Latin words "_Guessa Gain_," which mean, "I am paid to tell the
truth, but I don't need the money."

WHISKEY. Old Mother Misery's dare-devil son.

WORRY. A lot of unwelcome thoughts which refuse to remain unthinkable.


[Illustration: "X--The Old School."]

Xperience is the name of the concern which opened the first night
school.

Xplanations quite often are old-fashioned lies disguised in good
fashion.

Xpostulation often leads to the ambulance.

Xperience teaches some people to go and do the same fool thing over
again.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 X: The twenty-fourth letter of the alphabet. It was so late getting in
    that very few words are fastened to it.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

X. That ten dollars you loaned some time ago.

XTRACTOR. The fellow you loaned it to.

[Illustration]

XCITEMENT. What happened when you tried to get it back.

X-RAYS. A machine you'll have to use to find your X.


[Illustration: "Y--Men have been known to Listen."]

You shouldn't look a gift automobile in the price tag.

Yea, verily, a first-class listener is a woman's best friend.

Yes, and if it were not for the fools in this world the poor would never
get rich.

You may take my word for it, that whatever a man hopes to be he will be,
unless he gets on the wrong car.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 Y: The twenty-fifth letter of the alphabet, which is of a bibulous
    nature because it's always in rye. (Mercy!)
###

       *       *       *       *       *

YAP. The real thing on the farm, but an awful thing on Broadway.

YACHT. A device which eats up money and yells for more.

[Illustration]

YOKE. The way a Swede says joke.

YESTERDAY. The day upon which our ship should have arrived.


[Illustration: "Z--Falling Out of Love."]

Zum men fall in love and get out of it by marrying the girl.

Zum men tell themselves a lie just to fool their conscience.

Zumhow or other a ticklish situation never gets a laugh from the parties
concerned.

Zum say that money isn't everything in this world, but it takes a man
with money to believe it.

       *       *       *       *       *

###
 Z: The twenty-sixth and last letter of the alphabet, and I'm glad of it.
###

       *       *       *       *       *

ZEAL. The ardor with which we manage other people's affairs.

ZEBRA. An animal used principally to illustrate the letter Z.

ZERO. The place where the cold waves come from.

ZIP. The same as _Zow_.

ZOW. The same as _Zip_.

ZOO. A garden scented by wild animals.

[Illustration]

ZABO. A contraction of Gonzabo, which means a Fiff.


APPENDIX.

(This part of the book may be cut out.)


AUTOMOBILES.

A Few Rules of the Road Which, It Is Hoped, Will Speedily Be Adopted By
All Automobile Societies.


The automobile is the rich man's liquor and the poor man's chaser.

It keeps our streets full of red, white and blue streaks all the
livelong day, and if the weary pedestrian is not supplied with a
ball-bearing neck his chance of getting home is null and void.

Probably the safest part about the machinery of an automobile is the
_Chauffeur_, because he knows which way to jump out.

_Chauffeur_ is the name of the man who points the machine at you
and dares you to get out of the way.

We have no word in the English language brave enough to ride on a
horseless wagon when it goes real fast.

That is why we had to reach over to Paris and pull a word out of the
French.

_Chauffeur_ was the first word we grabbed, and I think we should
give it back at the first opportunity.

The first Careless Cart we had in this country was called the "Coroner's
Delight," because it lived up to its name.

Consequently it became necessary that a set of road rules should be
composed which would help the general public to die easier when
automobo-annihilated.

Here are the rules:


1.--One sharp toot from the horn on a Happy Hansom means that business
men, messenger boys and other persons in a hurry must postpone
indefinitely their contemplated journey across the street. Crossing the
street in front of a chauffeur who has given the above signal is very
bad form, and is generally productive of spinal meningitis and doctor's
bills.

2.--Two sharp toots from the horn on a Vaseline Brougham is a signal to
the truck drivers ahead that they must dismount at once, bow politely,
and say "Gesundheit!" to the chauffeur as he passes. Truck drivers who
refuse to obey this signal should be run into and injured severely.

3.--Three sharp toots from the horn on a Benzine Buggy is a signal to
the policeman on the corner, who must immediately come to parade rest,
doff his helmet and comment enthusiastically on the grace and general
elegance of the chauffeur until the latter has disappeared in the
distance. Policemen who fail to follow this rule should be arrested,
tried, convicted and sent to Siberia.

4.--Four sharp toots from the horn on a Gasolene Barouche is a signal
for the Fire Department to assemble immediately and remove all trees,
statues and things of that sort, so that the chauffeur may take a short
cut through any of the parks. Failure on the part of the firemen to
obey this rule will justify the chauffeur in delaying an engine on its
way to a fire by stopping in front of it long enough to get run over.

5.--Five sharp toots from the horn of a Whiz Wagon is a signal to
all drivers of brewery wagons, ice wagons and mowing machines in the
vicinage that they must descend at once from their various pedestals
and lead their juggernautian caravans into the dry goods stores out of
harm's way. If there are no dry good stores handy, a candy shop will
do. No driver of a brewery wagon, ice wagon or mowing machine will be
excused for breaking this rule simply because he doesn't know the
meaning of vicinage.

6.--Six sharp toots from the horn of a Gas Carryall is a signal to
conductors and motormen that they must, without any unnecessary delay,
lift their cars from the rails and place them on the sidewalk. If the
passengers in the cars so signalled offer any objections, the policemen
on that beat will take the offenders to the nearest automobile garage
and compel them to drink gasoline.

7.--One long and one short toot means that everybody in the neighborhood
not in a Bubble must start promptly for the woods. Failure to observe
this rule will justify any chauffeur in chasing the offender seventy-six
consecutive miles in a southwesterly direction.

8.--Long and continued applause from the horn on any Rowdy Runabout
means that the chauffeur has lost the combination on his brain cells,
and is suffering severely from stage fright, superinduced by the sudden
appearance of a coal cart directly in his pathway. In a predicament of
this kind strict guiding rules cannot be laid down, but no blame can
attach to the automobilist if he climbs over the tailboard of the
vehicle and adds a new series of phrenological bumps to the suburban
part of the head of the offending coal cart director.

9.--If the foregoing rules are carefully observed there is no occasion
for further instructions, and automobubbling will become a thing of
pleasure and a joy forever.


LITTLE BLASTS OF HOT AIR.


Life is a tragedy, and that's the best reason why it should be well
acted.

What a lot of motive-power is wasted by those who jolly other people
along.

A fault-finder is a home-made knocker.

Every woman jumps quickly from mice and at conclusions.

"Don't be a clam," must be wisdom on the half shell.

The man who means everything he says is generally a stingy talker.

Hot air is mighty, and will prevail in politics.

A fool and his money is the root of much laughter.


INSOMNIA.

How to Effect a Permanent and Lasting Cure.


1.--Lie perfectly still and count 287,643 in a slow, methodical manner.
By the time you have finished counting it will be daylight, and you will
be surprised to notice how quickly the night has passed.

2.--Always partake of a bountiful repast before retiring, giving special
attention to a lobster salad, welsh rarebit and hard-boiled eggs. This
will, no doubt, give you delirium tremens, night-mare, St. Vitus' dance
and indigestion, but the pleasing thought will remain that you have kept
the rest of the household awake as well as yourself.

3.--Always undress in the dark. When you have broken three chairs, upset
the centre table and stepped on six assorted tacks, you will realize
what a stupid habit sleeping is anyway, and your senses will have become
so acute that you will want to sit up and read the Family Story Paper
during that portion of the night which has not been devoted to swearing.

4.--Always lie with your head lower than any other point of your body
and throw the pillows away. The monotony of a sleepless night will then
be relieved by the novelty of having apoplexy or heart failure, either
of which diseases is much more exciting and dangerous than insomnia.

5.--Always concentrate your thoughts and endeavor to breathe
pronouncedly and with exaggeration, like a freight engine climbing a
grade. This is calculated to frighten the rest of the family into
convulsions and stampede all the cattle in the neighborhood, but you
will be enabled to while the remaining hours of the night away by
listening to the terse remarks hurled at you from time to time by the
other members of the household.

6.--Always sponge your face with boiling water several times before
retiring. If you keep this up long enough it will be breakfast time, and
you may then go about your daily labor with the happy consciousness that
you have saved the bed clothes a great deal of wear and tear.

7.--Always take a brisk, long walk before retiring, taking particular
care to come home late and allow the watch dog to mistake you for a
tramp and chase you hurriedly into the next country side. It is also
calculated to withdraw the blood from the brain and put wings on your
feet. A brisk run of sixteen miles across country as the crow flies with
an angry bulldog pushing you pretty hard for first place, is a pleasant
diversion in a sleepless night.

8.--Be phlegmatic and indifferent in a marked degree. If you hear
thieves in the chicken coop during the night, don't move a muscle; if
you smell smoke and know the house is on fire, lie perfectly still and
count imaginary sheep jumping over an imaginary fence; if you feel the
folding bed closing up let it close and go on with your counting; if you
know that burglars are in the room pay no attention to them and let them
burgle--you have business of your own to attend to. A man with a
thoroughly developed case of insomnia has no time for such trifling
details.


WISDOM IS AS WISDOM DOES.


All is not cold that shivers.

They expressed their joy that the King had with prudence, and heroic
courage undertaken the defence of the just rights of Brandenburg
and Neuburg to the duchies of Cleve, Julich, and the other dependent
provinces.

Thus had he put an end to the presumption of those who thought they
could give the law to all the world.

They promised the co-operation of the States in this most important
enterprise of their ally, notwithstanding their great losses in
the war just concluded, and the diminution of revenue occasioned
by the inundations by which they had been afflicted; for they were
willing neither to tolerate so unjust an usurpation as that attempted
by the Emperor nor to fail to second his Majesty in his generous
designs.

They observed also that they had been instructed to enquire whether
his Majesty would not approve the contracting of a strict league
of mutual assistance between France, England, the United Provinces,
and the princes of Germany.

The King, having listened with close attention, thanked the envoys in words
of earnest and vigorous cordiality for their expressions of affection
to himself.

He begged them to remember that he had always been their good friend,
and that he never would forsake them; that he had always hated the
Spaniards, and should ever hate them; and that the affairs of Julich
must be arranged not only for the present but for the future.

He requested them to deliver their propositions in writing to him,
and to be ready to put themselves into communication with the members
of his council, in order that they might treat with each other
roundly and without reserve.

He should always deal with the Netherlanders as with his own people,
keeping no back-door open, but pouring out everything as into the lap
of his best and most trusty friends.

After this interview conferences followed daily between the ambassadors
and Villeroy, Sully, Jeannin, the Chancellor, and Puysieug.

The King's counsellors, after having read the written paraphrase of
Barneveld's instructions, the communication of which followed their oral
statements, and which, among other specifications, contained a
respectful remonstrance against the projected French East India
Company, as likely to benefit the Spaniards only, while seriously
injuring the States, complained that "the representations were too
general, and that the paper seemed to contain nothing but compliments."

The ambassadors, dilating on the various points and articles, maintained
warmly that there was much more than compliments in their instructions.

The ministers wished to know what the States practically were prepared
to do in the affair of Cleve, which they so warmly and encouragingly
recommended to the King.

They asked whether the States' army would march at once to Dusseldorf to
protect the princes at the moment when the King moved from Mezieres,
and they made many enquiries as to what amount of supplies and munitions
they could depend upon from the States' magazines.

The envoys said that they had no specific instructions on these points,
and could give therefore no conclusive replies. More than ever did Henry
regret the absence of the great Advocate at this juncture.

People may think you are eccentric if you try to make
kindling wood of the table every time you lay down an honor.

Don't lead the three of clubs in mistake for the ace of trumps, and then
get mad and jump seventeen feet in the air because you are not permitted
to pull it back. It isn't good form to jump seventeen feet in the air.
Besides, you might fall and hurt yourself and the neighborhood.

Don't hesitate to inquire what was led when there is but one card on the
table. It shows that you are taking a deep interest in the game, and it
makes the other players admire your elocutionary powers.

Don't fail to dispute the count after every hand has been played. It
draws attention to the fact that you are anxious to win. It also draws
uncomplimentary remarks from your opponents and sometimes occasions the
use of a club.

Don't fall off the chair in horrified dismay when your opponent puts
your ace to sleep with a little trump. Trumps were invented for that
purpose, and horrified dismay is not becoming to every style of beauty.


A FEW HARMLESS GERMS.


How the rest of the world does hate the people who have a good time.

A Miss is as good as a mile of Misses--if you love the girl.

The horseshoe is always lucky--when the horse wins.

A hard worker will never be arrested for killing time.

One half the world doesn't know why the other half doesn't get off the
earth.

Be good and you'll be happy, but you won't get your name in the papers
so often.


BASEBALL.

Being a Guide for the Grouchy Grandstandee.


These "do nots" have been arranged, compiled and hammered together with
a view to rendering assistance to the spectator whose thinking machinery
climbs out over his collar, and who shows symptoms of being dazed and
disorderly during the progress of a game.

Don't have any regard for the feelings of your neighbors. Get up on the
slightest provocation and yell. To make matters more exciting you had
better get up on the back of the seat also.

Don't stop to make a careful selection of the English language before
addressing the universe at large when the play is not to your liking.
Say the first thing that comes into your mind. Doubtless, it will be
glad to get out.

Don't pay any attention to the fact that ladies are in the immediate
neighborhood. Your money is just as good as theirs. Besides, it's a
man's privilege to swear and make a howling idiot of himself.

Don't fail to keep up a running comment on the general inefficiency of
the visiting club. The majority of those who sit near you came out to
the game especially to hear your views on this subject.

Don't neglect to call him a fat-headed renegade every time one of the
home players makes an error. The home players need to be reproved at
times, and nothing is quite so reproving as the term fat-headed renegade
hurled at them by a bibulous gentleman with a subterbeerean voice.

Don't hesitate to tell all who are listening--and, if your voice is
as convalescent as usual, everybody in your section of the Western
Hemisphere will have to listen--that you know more about the game than
Pop Anson and Pop Anson's younger brother, Methuselah. Under certain
circumstances modesty is a crime; therefore, you should not commit a
crime by withholding this information.

Don't forget the umpire. Don't forget him for one little moment. He will
notice it if you do, and become miserably unhappy. Tell him what you
think of him unceasingly. There is nothing so pleasing to an umpire's
ears as the sweet strains of a whiskey-trimmed voice ringing softly on
the evening air: "Hey, red-light, youse is a robber an' a thief!"
Umpires love to be criticised in this manner. With every criticism they
brace up wonderfully, and their straying sense of justice returns.
You've noticed this fact, of course.

Don't hesitate to insult a player on the field. Remember, it is very
hard for him to pick you out of the crowd. Besides, if he does, and
jumps over the rail for the purpose of putting his imprint on your
slats, you can scream for help. The police will probably wake up and
come to your assistance.

Don't forget to use the most blood-curdling and decorative style of
language now on the market when you engage in the pleasing duty of
hurting a player's feelings. This will attract attention to you from all
quarters, and will stamp you as a gentleman of the aber-nit style of
architecture.

Don't pay any attention to the uneasiness displayed by those about you
who came out for the selfish purpose of enjoying the game. If they
cannot enjoy you and your lung-power exhibit, they should stay at home.
Keep right on utilizing your vocal chords. Chatter on incessantly. Be a
consistent ass until the last man is out and the umpire crawls into his
cyclone cellar. Then go home and bathe what's left of your voice in
witch hazel, and get ready for the morrow.


BURSTS OF CONFIDENCE.


A trouble-hunter always makes a success of his job.

The girl who hesitates is left at the hitching post.

The world has a poor memory for many who believe themselves famous.

The wise man saves up for a rainy day, and always stays in the house
when it storms.

It keeps many a good man down to keep up appearances.

Some men are like a phonograph--they talk when you start them, but they
have no originality.


THE POOR MAN'S COOK BOOK.

(Presented by the President of the Food Trust.)


This Cook Book was invented by the President of the Food Trust with the
hope that the poor man will find therein much to comfort him since meat
and other luxuries have gone out of his life, because the Trust needs
the money.

The beauty about the dishes mentioned here is their cheapness. Let us
begin with the soup:


MOCK CHICKEN SOUP.Henry might begin such a war, but he would be obliged
to bequeath it to the Dauphin. He should remember that France had
always been unlucky when waging war with the Empire and with the house
of Austria.'
The Chancellor and Villeroy, although in their hearts not much in love
with Henry's course, answered the emissary with arrogance equal to
his own that their king could finish the war as well as begin it,
that he confided in his strength and the justice of his cause, and
that he knew very well and esteemed very little the combined forces
of Spain and the Empire.

They added that France was bound by the treaty of Vervins to protect the
princes, but they offered no proof of that rather startling proposition.

Meantime Teynagel was busy in demonstrating that the princes of Germany
were in reality much more afraid of Henry than of the Emperor. His
military movements and deep designs excited more suspicion throughout
that country and all Europe than the quiet journey of Leopold and
five friends by post to Julich.

He had come provided with copies of the King's private letters to the
princes, and seemed fully instructed as to his most secret thoughts.
For this convenient information he was supposed to be indebted to the
revelations of Father Cotton, who was then in disgrace; having been
detected in transmitting to the General of Jesuits Henry's most sacred
confidences and confessions as to his political designs.

Let it simper. Should you wish to smother it with onions, now is
your chance, because after cooking so long it is almost helpless. Serve
hot with a hatchet on the side. If there are more than four people in
the family use both shoes.

IRISH STEW.--Remove the jacket and waistcoat from a potato and put it in
a saucepan. Add three quarts of boiling water. Get a map of Ireland and
hang it on the wall directly in front of the saucepan. This will furnish
the local color for the stew. Let it boil two hours. When the potato
begins to moult it is a sign the stew is getting done. Walk easy so as
not to frighten it. Add a pinch of rhubarb and serve hot with lettuce
dressing. This is one of the best stews without meat that the Food Trust
has ever invented for the poor man.

MOCK PORK PIE.--Peel the bark carefully away from the hindquarters of a
spruce tree and remove the tenderloin. One of last year's Christmas
trees is excellent for the purpose. Chop it up fine and place in a
saucepan. Add boiling water and let it simper two hours. Season with a
pinch of salt, and if this is not satisfactory, you might also pinch a
little pepper. Put the bark in the coffee grinder and turn the handle
rapidly to the left. Add boiling water and serve with milk and sugar.
This will be a splendid joke on the Coffee Trust. The mock pork pie is
now done. Serve with lionaise dressing and tomato catsup. After dinner
eat four pepsin tablets and send for the doctor.

IMITATION APPLE FRITTERS.--First catch your fritter. Be sure that it is
a young fritter. The way to tell the age of a fritter is to count its
teeth. Remove the shell and add a pitcher of apple sauce. Place this in
a saucepan and tease it with a pinch of baking soda. Let it simper two
hours. Serve hot and smile rapidly while eating. Laughter always aids
digestion.

OX-TAIL CHOW CHOW.--To make ox-tail chow chow without an ox is one of
the best jokes in the world on the appetite. Remove the pin-feathers
from a young onion and chop it up fine, add water, stir gently and
add more water. Let it sizzle. Add more water. Always boil the water
before adding. Let it sizzle. Now remove the skum and serve hot with
watercresses on the side. This is a nice dish for a small family and at
the same time it shows what a generous nature the Food Trust has to
suggest it.

MOCK GIBLETS.--Take two rubber-neck clams and after stuffing them with
chestnuts fry them over a slow fire. The Coal Trust will see to it that
you have no trouble in getting a slow but expensive fire. Let them
sizzle. Now remove the necks from the clams and add baking soda. Let
them sizzle. Take the juice of a lemon and scatter it at the clams.
Serve hot, with pink finger bowls with your initials on them. Some
people prefer to have their initials on the clams, but such an idea is
only for the wealthy.

IMITATION PRUNE PIE.--Take a dozen knot-holes and peel them carefully.
Remove the shells and add a cup of sugar. Stir quickly and put in a hot
oven. Bake gently for six hours and then add a little Jamaica ginger.
Serve cold with tea wafers and talk fast while eating them.

BREAKFAST BACON.--Take a hat full of pine shavings and remove the
interior. Add a little sherry wine and sweeten to taste. Let them
sizzle. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and other cosmetics and let them
sizzle. Now turn them over with a spoon and serve them hot off the
griddle.

SARATOGA CHIPS.--The same as the breakfast bacon only you don't remove
the interior from the pine shavings. Just take them as Nature made them
and add a little salad oil. Serve cold with shredded onions on the side.

MOCK BAKED BEANS.--Take as many buttons as the family can afford and
remove the thread. Add pure spring water, put in a saucepan and stir
gently until you burst your buttons. Add a little flour to calm them and
let them sizzle. Serve with tomato catsup or molasses, according to the
location you find yourself living on the map.

OATMEAL PUDDING.--Take the sawdust carefully from a freshly caught board
and remove the husks. Add water and let it sizzle. Stir gently two
hours, then rest a while. Pour the contents into a saucepan and saturate
it with sugar and salt and other spices. Serve without splashing it, and
add a little cold water painted white to look like milk. This last idea
is a splendid joke on the Milk Trust.

HAMBURGER STEAK.--Always be sure to get a fresh Hamburger. There is
nothing that will reconcile a man to a vegetarian diet so quickly as an
over-ripe Hamburger. They should always be picked at the full of the
moon. To tell the age of a Hamburger look at its teeth. One row of teeth
for every year, and the limit is seven rows. Now remove the wishbone and
slice carefully. Add Wooster sauce and let it sizzle. Add a pinch of
potato salad and stir gently. Serve hot and eat fast with the eyes
closed tight.

APPLE DUMPLINGS.--Take a large sheet of blotting paper and remove the
ink. Ink is a non-conductor and discolors the palate. Borrow an apple
from the grocer and tie it up in the blotting paper. The blotting paper
will absorb the flavor from the apple in about three minutes. Now take
the apple back to the grocer and say, "Much obliged, thank you!" Cut the
blotting paper into thin slices and add water. Stir gently until it
boils over then unhook it. Serve hot and if your husband kicks say to
him bitterly: "You should have married an heiress with a Papa in the
Food Trust then you could afford to have real apples!"

IMITATION ROAST TURKEY.--Find a copy of a Thanksgiving Day newspaper and
select therefrom the fattest turkey on page 3. Now with a few kind words
coax the turkey away from the newspaper in the direction of the kitchen.
Care should be taken that the turkey does not escape in the butler's
pantry or fly up the dumb waiter, because the turkey is a very nervous
animal. Once you get the turkey in the kitchen lock the door and prepare
the stuffing. The best stuffing for a turkey is chestnuts, which you can
obtain by tearing a few pages from "The Life and Anecdotes of an After
Dinner Speaker." Now remove the wishbone carelessly and make a wish.
Then coax the turkey over to the gas stove and push it in. Let it sizzle
for four hours and serve hot by a Russian waiter and with Japanese
napkins.

MOCK CELERY.--Take an old whiskbroom and remove the handle. If the
handle is made of wood keep it, because it can be turned into breakfast
food the first time you see a sawmill. Here the royal coaches were
waiting, in which they were taken to lodgings provided for them in
the city at the house of a Dutch merchant.

Noel de Caron, Seignior of Schonewal, resident ambassador of the
States in London, was likewise there to greet them.When the shoe occupies the same shape as a
dozen rubber-neck clams serve with vanilla wafers and horseradish.



THE FINISH.