To make a long story short: there were many of us, and we were
distributed in various places.  Many of the boys had taken ill; many
died on the road.  The survivors were distributed among peasants, to
be brought up by them till they reached the age of entering the
army.  I was among the latter.  Many months, maybe even years, I
passed in knocking about from village to village, from town to town,
till, at last, I came into the joint possession of a certain Peter
Semionovich Khlopov and his wife Anna Petrovna.  My master was
neither old nor young; he was neither a plain peasant nor a
nobleman.  He was the clerk of the village.  In those days that was
considered a genteel occupation, honorable and well-paid.  He had no
sons, but he and one daughter, Marusya by name.  She was then about
fourteen years old, very good-looking, gay, and rather wild.

According to the regulations, all the Cantonists in the village had
to report daily for military drill and exercise on the drill grounds
before the house of the sergeant.  He lived in the same village.  At
the request of my patron Khlopov I was excused from the daily drill,
and had to report but once a week.  You see, Peter expected to
derive some benefit from me by employing me about the house and in
the field.

Now it was surely through the merits of my ancestors that I happened
to be placed in the household of Peter Khlopov.  Peter himself spent
but little of his time at home.  Most of the time he was at the
office, and his free moments he liked to spend at the tavern, which
was owned by the only Jew in the village, "our Moshko" the Klopovs
used to call him.  But whenever he happened to be at home, Peter was
very kind to me, especially when he was just a little tipsy.
Perhaps he dreamt of adopting me as his son: he had no sons of his
own.  And he tried to make me like military service.  "When you grow
up," he sued to say, "you will become an officer, and wear a sword.
Soldiers will stand at attention before you, and salute you.  You
will win distinction in battle, and be found worthy of being
presented to the Czar."  He also told me stories of Russian military
life.  By that time I had learned some Russian.  They were really
nice stories, as far as I could understand them; but they were made
nicer yet by what I could not understand of them.  For then I was
free to add something to the stories myself, or change them
according to my own fancy.  If you are a lover of stories, take the
advice of a plain old man like myself.  Never pay any attention to
stories in which everything has been prepared from the very start,
and you can tell the end as soon as you begin to read them or listen
to them.  Such stories make one yawn and fall asleep.  Stories of
this kind my daughter reads to me once in a while, and I always fall
asleep over them.  Stories are good only when told the way Khlopov
used to tell them to me.

But that is all irrelevant.  In short, Khlopov was kind to me.

As to Anna, she was entirely different.  She was close-mouthed,
ill-tempered, and a great stay-at-home.  She never visited her
neighbors, and they, in turn, called on her very rarely.  In the
village she was spoken of as a snob and a hypocrite.  Peter was
afraid of her as of the plague, especially in his sober hours.  All
her power lay in her eyes.  When that strong man--he who had the
whole village in the palm of his hand--felt her eye fixed on him,
his strength left him.  It seemed as if some devil were ready to
jump out of that eye and turn the house topsyturvy.  You fellows are
mere youngsters, you have seen nothing of the world yet; but take it
from me, there are eyes that seem quite harmless when you first look
into them, but just try to arouse their temper: you will see a
hellish fire spring up in them.  Have you ever looked into my
Rebekah's eyes?  Well, beware of the eyes.

The look Anna gave me when I first entered her house promised me
nothing good.  She hated me heartily.  She never called me by my own
name.  She called me "Zhid" all the time, in a tone of deep hatred
and contempt.

Among the orders the Cantonists had to obey were the following: to
speak no Yiddish; to say no Jewish prayer; to recite daily a certain
prayer before the image of the Virgin and before the crucifix, and
not to abstain from non-kosher food.

With regard to all injunctions except the last, Anna was very strict
with me.  But she was not very particular as to the last injunction.
 Out of sheer stinginess she fed me on bread and vegetables, and
that in the kitchen.  Once she did offer me some meat, and I refused
to touch it.  Then she got very angry, flew into a temper, and
decided to complain to the sergeant.  But Peter did not let her be
so cruel.  "Let him grow up, he will know better," said Peter,
waving his hand at me.

Then Anna made up her mind to force me to eat forbidden meat.  But I
was obstinate.  And she decided once more to complain to the
sergeant.  Just at that time another Cantonist had been found guilty
of some offense.  He belonged to the same village; his name was
Jacob.  I did not know him at that time.  His patron complained that
Jacob had persisted in reciting Hebrew prayers, and that he
abstained from meat.  Jacob was condemned to twenty lashes with
rods.  An order was issued that all Cantonists should assemble to
witness the flogging of the offender.

In the course of time we got used to such sights; but the first time
we were terribly shocked.  Just imagine: a lad of about fifteen is
stripped, put on the ground face downwards; one man sits on his
head, and another on his feet.  Two men are put on either side of
him, each with a bundle of birch-rods in his hand.  Ten times each
of them has to strike him with the rods, to make up the twenty
lashes.  I looked at the face of the culprit; it was as white as
chalk.  His lips were moving.  I thought he was reciting the prayer:
"And He, the Merciful, will forgive sin, and will not destroy.
. . ."  Up went the rods, down they went: a piercing cry . . . .
blood . . . . flaps of loose skin . . . . cries . . . . "one, two,
three" . . . . again cries . . . . sudden silence . . . . more cries
. . . . again silence . . . . "four, five" . . . . "stop!"

Because the culprit fainted, the sergeant in the goodness of his
heart divided the punishment into two parts.  Jacob was carried off
to the hospital, and it was put down in the book that he was to get
ten more lashes after his recover.

I went home.

Had Anna given me a piece of pork to eat that evening, I do not know
what I should have done.

That night I saw the old rabbi in my dream.  He was standing before
me, with bowed head and tears dropping from his eyes. . . . .

I do not remember the way Marusya treated me at first.  But I do
remember the look she gave me when I first entered her father's
house.  There are trifling matters that one remembers forever.  Hers
was a telltale look, wild and merry.  It is hard to describe it in
words--as if she wanted to say, "Welcome, friend!  You did well in
coming here.  I need just you to pass my leisure hours with me!"
And she really needed someone like myself, for she never associated
with the children of the village.  The beautiful lively girl used to
have her fits of the blues.  Then it was impossible to look at her
face without pitying her.  At such times her mother could not get a
word out of her, and the whole expression of her face was changed to
such an extent that she seemed to have aged suddenly.  She would
look the very image of her mother then.  And a peculiar expression
would steal over her face, which estranged her from other people,
and perhaps brought her nearer to me.  During those fits of
despondency she was sure to follow me if I happened to leave the
room and go outside.  She would join me and spend hour after hour in
childish prattle with me, and her merriment and wildness knew no
limits.  Little by little I got used to her, and fell, in turn, a
longing for her company during my own fits of lonesomeness.

The day after I had witnessed Jacob's punishment I felt miserable.
I was restless and excitable, and did not know what to do with
myself.  I thought my heart would burst within me.  I asked myself
all kinds of questions:  What am I doing here?  What did I come here
for?  What are all those people to me?  As if I had come there only
the day before, and of my own free will. . . .

Marusya looked sharply at me.  Very likely she recognized that
something was worrying me.  I felt a desire to share my feelings
with her.  I got up and walked out into the garden behind the house.
 In a moment she followed me.  I made a clean breast of it, and told
her all I had to witness the day before.

She listened, shivering, and asked in a tremulous voice:

"And what did they beat him for?"

"He said a Hebrew prayer, and refused to eat meat."

"And why did he refuse to eat meat?"

"It is forbidden."

"Forbidden?  Why?"

I was silent.

She also became silent; then she laid her hand on me, and said with
her usual merriment:

"They will not beat you."

"How do you know?"

"The sergeant is a good friend of ours."

"But if your mother should complain about me?"

"Then I shall go in your stead, if they should decide to switch
you."

She laughed heartily at her own suggestion.  Her laughter made me
laugh too; we both laughed, and laughed without knowing why.  And in
a mood completely changed I returned to the house.  After that I
felt very near to the girl.

Well, time passed, months and years: I lost track of them.  But I do
remember that the time had come when I knew enough Russian to make
myself understood, and fit for any kind of work about the house and
in the field, and could give my patron entire satisfaction.

One day, I remember, I tried very hard to have my work well and
promptly done, so as to earn, for once, the good-will of Anna
herself.  I felt a longing for the friendly smile of a mother.  But
Anna kept going in and out, and did not pay the least attention to
me.  I was sitting on the bench outside the house alone.  My dog was
lying at my feet, looking at me very intently.  His eyes seemed to
be full of tears.  And let me tell you by the way, his lot in the
house was entirely different from mine.  When he first entered
Peter's courtyard, the dogs met him with howls.  He tried to find
shelter in the kitchen, but was chased out with sticks.  "Where did
that tramp come from?" wondered the people.  Then my Barker saw that
he could expect no charity from the people, and he put his trust in
his own teeth.  He stood up bravely, and fought all the dogs of the
household till blood flowed.  Then only did the masters of the house
appreciate his doggish virtues and accomplishments.  They befriended
him, and allowed him his rations.  So my Barker saved his skin.  Yet
his lot did not seem to please him.  He recognized, by some peculiar
dog-sense, that I, his fellow in exile, was unhappy myself and sorry
for him too.  He felt that somehow his own days of prosperity would
not last long.  Whenever I sat about lonely and moping, he would
stretch himself at my feet, and look straight into my eyes, with an
expression of earnestness and wonderment, as if he wanted to ask me,
How is that, why don't you fight for your rights the way I did?

Presently Anna came out, shot a glance at me, and said:

"Well, now, there is the lazy Zhid sitting idle, and I have to work
and prepare meals for him, so that he may find everything ready!"  I
got up, and began to look around for something to do.

"Go, catch the little pig and bring it over here," ordered Anna.

The day before I had overheard her say that it was time to kill the
little pig.  I did not relish the job by any means.  I felt sorry
for the porkling: mere pig though it was, it had after all grown up
in our house.  And it was hard on me to have a hand in the affair.
But one angry word of Anna's set me a-going.  In a moment my hand
was on the animal, which trusted me and believed in me implicitly.
Then Anna handed me a rope to bind it.  I did as she wanted; the pig
started to squeal and squeak horribly.  To me it sounded like "Zhid,
Zhid, is that the way to treat _me?"_

Then Anna handed me a knife, and showed me where to make the cut.
. . .  The pig began to bleed fearfully, gurgling, and choking with
his own blood.  Forthwith Anna ordered wood to be brought, a fire to
be kindled, and the pig to be put upon it.  I did all as I had been
ordered.  My dog was watching me intently, greatly bewildered; the
pig groaned and groaned; the flames licked his body and embraced
it--and my dog was barking and yelping away up into the sky.

That night I dreamt that my brother the Shohet and I were on trial
in Heaven before the seat of judgment, with various animals
complaining against us.  Only clean fowl, such as geese, pigeons,
and the like were complaining against my brother, and they all
pleaded in clear, good Hebrew, saying, "Was it for your own
consumption that you killed us all?" . . . .  But it was only the
pig that complained against me, and it pleaded in screeches and
grunts that nobody could understand. . . .

The next morning Anna got up early, and made me stand before the
ikon of the Virgin and recite a certain prayer.  At dinner she
seated me alongside of Peter, gave me some roast pork, and looked
sharply at me.  I guess, while making all those preparations, Anna
had only one thing in mind: to put Peter up against me while he was
drunk.  I took fright, and began to chew away at the pork.  But then
the screeches and the grunts of the pig rang in my ears, and I
thought they came right from within my insides; I wondered how they
could listen to all that, and yet eat the pork in perfect comfort.
Suddenly a lump in my throat began to choke me. . . . Nausea,
retching . . . . and something happened to me: I vomited everything
out, right on the table.  Everybody jumped away from the table in
disgust and anger.  I met Marusya's eye, and was ashamed to look
into it.  Anna got up, boiling with rage, and took me by the ear,
and pulled me outside: "Get out of here, you dirty Zhid; and don't
you dare enter my house any more!"

Well, she chased me out.  Peter and Marusya kept quiet.  Thoroughly
miserable, I dropped down on the bench behind the house; my dog
stretched himself out on the ground at my feet and looked into my
eyes.  Then I began to talk to my fellow in misfortune:  "Do you
hear, doggie, we have been chased out. . . .  What does that mean?
did we come here of our own free will?  It is by force that we were
brought here; so what sense is there in chasing us out?"

And I thought my dog understood me; a sound came from the depths of
his throat, and died away there.  Then a thought began to haunt me:
Maybe it is really time to run away.  If they run after me and
overtake me, I shall simply say that my patron chased me out of his
house.  And the thought, Home! to your parents! took possession of
me, and tortured me ceaselessly.  Said I to myself: "If they chase
me out, I am certainly free!"  But then, just see the power of the
birch-rod:  I knew well that much time would pass before my patron
would notice my absence; and before the sergeant was informed, and
people were dispatched to pursue me, more time would pass.  Then I
should be far away from the place.  By that time I was quite
hardened;  I was not afraid to hide in the woods; devils and evil
spirits I did not fear any more.  I had learned well enough that no
devil will ever trouble a man as much as one human being can trouble
another.  And yet, when I remembered the swish of the rods over the
naked flesh, the spurting blood, the loose flaps of skin, and the
futile outcries, I was paralyzed with fear.  No, it was not really
fear: it was a sort of submissive adoration.  Had a birch-rod been
lying near me, I should have kissed it with fear and respect.  It is
hard for me to explain to you.  You youngsters are not capable of
understanding.

And as I was sitting there, full of gloomy thoughts, I did not
notice that the sun had set, and night had come.  It got so dark
that I could not see my dog lying at my feet.  Suddenly I felt
something touch me and pass lightly over my hair.  I thought it was
an ant or a night moth, and I raised my hand to chase it away.  Then
it changed its place, and I felt it at the nape of my neck.  I tried
to catch the thing that was making my neck itch, and caught a hand,
soft and warm.  I shuddered and started back: before me was Marusya,
bending over me.  I wanted to get up, but she put her hands on me
heavily, sat down at my side, all the while pressing my hand between
hers.

"Why are you sitting here?" she asked.

"Didn't your mother chase me out?"

"That is nothing.  Don't you know her temper?  That is her way."

"She keeps nagging at me all the time, and calls me nothing but
Zhid, Zhid."

"And what of it?  Aren't you a Jew?  Should I feel insulted if some
one were to call me Christian?!"

I had nothing to say.  And it dawned upon me at that moment that I
was really insulting myself by objecting to being called Zhid.
True, Anna meant to jeer at me and insult me; but did it depend on
her alone?

"And what are you going to do now?" asked Marusya.

"I want to run away."

"Without telling me?"

She peered into my face, and I felt as if two streams of warmth had
emptied themselves into me.  My eyes had become somewhat accustomed
to the darkness, and I could discern every movement of her body.  A
delicate smile was playing around her mouth, and my feeling of
despondency was giving way before it.  I felt that after all I had a
friend in the house, a good, loving, and beautiful friend.

I shuddered and broke out into tears.  Then she began to play
caressingly with my hair and pat me on my neck and face.  She did
well to let me have my cry out.  By and by I felt relieved.  She
wanted to withdraw her hand, but then I held it fast.

"So you were going to run away, and that without my knowledge?" said
she.

"No," I said with a deep sigh.

"And if I should ever call you Zhid, will you be angry with me?"

"No," answered I, thoroughly vanquished.

"Well, then you are a dear boy, and I like you!"

I felt the touch of soft, warm lips on my neck . . . .  I closed my
eyes, that the dark night sky and the shining stars might not see
me.  And when I recognized what had happened to me, I felt ashamed.
Marusya disappeared, and soon returned with a bag in her hand.

"Papa said you should go out with the horses for the night.  Here is
some food in the bag.  Take it and go out."

This she shot out quickly, and in a tone of authority, as befits the
daughter of the patron, and as if what had passed between us were
nothing but a dream.

"Going out for the night" was a peculiar custom.  You can have no
idea of what it meant.  The logic of it was this:  The cattle that
had been worked the whole of the day were, to be sure, earning their
fodder for the day.  And the owners felt under obligation and
necessity to feed them during their working hours.  But how about
the night, when the animals rested, and did no work?  Where should
the fodder for the night time come from?  So the custom developed of
letting the animals browse in some neighbor's meadow during the
night.  That was cheaper.  But that neighbor also had cattle; he,
too, had horses that did not earn their feed during the night.  Do
you know what the neighbor did?  He did the same.  He, too, sent out
his horses stealthily, into his neighbor's meadow.  So, in the long
run, every one had his cattle browse secretly in some neighbor's
meadow, and all were happy.  But when the trespassing shepherd
happened to be caught poaching, he got a whipping.  And yet,
strictly speaking, it was not stealing; it was a mere usage.  The
land-owners seemed to have agreed beforehand:  "If you happen to
catch my shepherd poaching, you may whip him, provided you do not
object if I give a whipping to your shepherd on a similar occasion."
 In spite of all this I rather liked "going out for the night."  I
loved those nights in the open field.  When the moon gave but little
light, and one could see but a few steps away, I forgot my immediate
surroundings, and my imagination was free!  I would peer into the
open sky, would bring before my mind's eye father and mother and all
who were dear to me, and would feel near to them; for the sky that
spread over all of us was the very same.  I could imagine my father
celebrating the new moon with a prayer.  I could imagine my mother
watching for the same star I was looking at; I could imagine that we
were really looking at the same spot. . . .  Then tears would come
into my eyes.  My mother, I would think, was crying, too.  And the
night listened to me, and the stars listened to me. . . .  The
crickets chirped, and if I chose, I could believe they shared my
sorrows with me, and were sighing over my fate. . . .

Idle fancy, nonsense, you think; but when one has nothing real to
look up to, dreams are very sweet.  A light breeze would steal over
me, refresh me, and bring me new hope; and I trusted I should not be
a prisoner always, the day of my release would surely come.  At such
happy moments I would fall asleep gazing at the stars.  And if the
sudden whip of the landowner did not put an end to my dreams, I
would dream away, and see things no language could describe.

Well, I took the bag and led the horses out into the open field.
But that time, out of sheer spite or for some other reason, I did
not go into our neighbor's field, but descended right into the
valley that my patron had left lying fallow, and stretched myself
upon the soft grass of the hospitable turf.

That night I longed to bring father and mother before my mind's eye
and have an imaginary talk with them.  But I did not succeed.
Instead, the figure of the old rabbi hovered before my eyes.  It
seemed to me that he was looking at me angrily, and telling me the
story of Joseph the righteous: how he lived in the house of
Potiphar, and ate nothing but vegetables.

But when I reminded myself of Joseph the righteous, I felt my heart
sink at the thought of what Marusya had done to me.  I could not
deny that the good looks of the Gentile girl were endearing her to
me, that out of her hands I would eat pork ten times a day, and that
in fact I myself was trying to put up a defense of her.  I took all
the responsibility on myself.  I was ready to believe that she did
not seek my company, but that it was I who called her to myself.  I
was a sinner in my own estimation, and I could not even cry.  Then
it seemed to me that the sky was much darker than usual, and the
stars did not shine at all.  With such thought in my mind I fell
asleep.

