E-text prepared by Al Haines


THE McBRIDES

A Romance of Arran

by

JOHN SILLARS

Fifth Impression


The Ryerson Press, Toronto
William Blackwood and Sons
Edinburgh and London
1922


TO

_MY MOTHER_


  LIST OF GAELIC NAMES AND EXPRESSIONS.

  HARRISON WEIR,
  as a drawing lesson.]
  
  THE CHILDREN'S VISIT TO THE
  LIGHTHOUSE.
  
  
  Charlie and Georgie were
  staying at Appledore, one of the Isles of Shoals, and, with two
other little children, had many nice times fishing and sailing.Mo ghaoil, my darling.
  Direach sin, (just that), (now do you see).
  Lag 'a bheithe, hollow of the birch.
  Mo bhallach, my boy.
  Ceilidh, visit (meeting of friends); ceilidhing; ceilidher.
  Cha neil, negative, no.
  Mo leanabh, my child.
  Cailleachs, old women.
  Og, young.
  Mhari nic Cloidh, Mary Fullarton.


CONTENTS.


PART I.

CHAP.

      I. WHICH TELLS OF THE COMING OF THE GIPSY
     II. MAKES SOME MENTION OF ONE JOCK McGILP, AND TELLS HOW BELLE
         BROUGHT THE WEAN IN THE TARTAN SHAWL INTO THE HOUSE OF NOURN
    III. IN WHICH I CHASE DEER AND SEE STRANGE HORSEMEN ON THE HILL,
         AND A LIGHT FLASHING ON THE SEA
     IV. I MEET JOCK McGILP AND HIS MATE McNEILAGE AT THE TUBS' INN,
         AND LEARN WHAT HAS BECOME OF THE WEAN IN THE TARTAN SHAWL
      V. MIRREN STUART'S ERRAND
     VI. WE TRAMP THROUGH THE SNOW TO McKELVIE'S INN
    VII. WE SAIL IN McKELVIE'S SKIFF TO THE HOLY ISLAND
   VIII. THE DEATH OF McDEARG, THE RED LAIRD
     IX. MIRREN STUART BIDS HER DOG LIE DOWN
      X. DOL BEAG IS FLUNG INTO A FIRE
     XI. THE BLAZING WHINS
    XII. McALLAN'S LOCKER
   XIII. DAN McBRIDE SAILS FROM LOCH BANZA
    XIV. WE RETURN
     XV. THE STRANGER ON THE MOORS
    XVI. I HAVE SOME TALK WITH McGILP IN McKINNON'S KITCHEN


PART II.

   XVII. I TURN SCHOOLMASTER
  XVIII. THE FIRST MEETING
    XIX. THE RIDERS ON THE MOOR
     XX. "THE LOVE SECRET"
    XXI. DOL BEAG LAUGHS
   XXII. THE SHAMELESS LASS
  XXIII. HELEN AND BRYDE McBRIDE REST AT THE FOOT OF THE URIE
   XXIV. THE HALFLIN'S MESSAGE
    XXV. I RIDE AGAIN TO McALLAN'S LOCKER
   XXVI. A WEDDING ON THE DOORSTEP
  XXVII. MARGARET McBRIDE KISSES HELEN
 XXVIII. IN WHICH BETTY COMPLAINS OF GROWING-PAINS
   XXIX. THE RAKING BLACK SCHOONER
    XXX. TELLS WHERE BRYDE MET HAMISH OG
   XXXI. BRYDE AND MARGARET
  XXXII. BRYDE AND HELEN
 XXXIII. HOW JOHN McCOOK HEARS OF THE PLOY AT THE CLATES
  XXXIV. WHAT CAME OF THE PLOY
   XXXV. DOL BEAG LAUGHS AGAIN


THE McBRIDES.


PART I.

CHAPTER I.

WHICH TELLS OF THE COMING OF THE GIPSY.

It was April among the hills, waes me, the far-away days of my youth,
when the hills were smiling through the mists of their tears, and the
green grasses thrusting themselves through the withered mat of the
pasture like slender fairy swords.  April in the hills, with the
curlews crying far out on the moorside, past the Red Ground my
grandfather wrought, and where again the heather will creep down, rig
on rig, for all the stone dykes, deer fences, and tile drains that ever
a man put money in.  I never knew why it was they called it "Red
Ground," for it was mostly black peaty soil, but my grandfather would
be saying, "It will be growing corn.  Give it wrack, and it will be
growing corn for evermore."

They tell me he was a great farmer for all he was laird, and never
happier than at his own plough tail, breaking a colt to work in chains;
and he it was who improved the stock in cattle and horse in our glens,
for he would be aye telling the young farmers, "Gie the quey calves
plenty o' milk, as much as they'll lash into themselves.  Be good to
them when the baby flesh is on them, and they'll grow and thrive, and
your siller'll a' come back in the milking."

The countryside clavered and havered when he bought his pedigree bulls
and his pedigree mares.  "It's money clean wasted," said the old
farmers, "for a calf's a calf no odds what begets it, and a horse that
can work in chains and take its turn on the road is horse enough for
any man, without sinking money in dumb beasts, and a' this sire-and-dam
pother."  It would anger the old man that talk, ay, even when he was
the old frail frame of what once he was,--like a dead and withered
ash-tree, dourly awaiting the death gale to send it crashing down, to
lie where once its shade fell in the hot summer days of its youth,--and
the blood would rise up on his neck, where the flesh had shrunk like
old cracked parchment, and left cords and pipes of arteries and veins,
gnarled like old ivy round a tree.

Querulous he was and ill-tempered with the scoffers.  "Man, if I had
twenty more years I would grow hoofs on your horse and udders on your
in-coming queys."  Well, well, I'm fond of this farming, but I have set
out to tell a tale, which in my poor fancy should even be like a
rotation of crops, from the breaking in of the lea to the sowing out in
grass, with the sun and winds and sweet rains to ripen and swell the
grain--the crying of the harvesters and the laughing of lassies among
the stocks in the gloaming, the neighing of horse and the lowing of
kine in the evening.

On that morning so long ago Dan and I were ploughing stubble, and I
followed my horses in all joy, laughing to see them snap as I turned
them in at the head-rigs, and coaxing them as they threw their big
glossy shoulders into the collar on the brae face.  So the morning wore
on as I ploughed, with maybe a word now and then to Dick, and a touch
of the rein to Darling, and the sea-gulls screaming after us as the
good land was turned over.  The sun came glinting through the hill
mist, and the green buds were bursting in the hedgerows for very
gladness.

I was free from the college, free from the smoke-wrack and the grime of
the town, free to hear the birds awake and singing in the planting
behind the stackyard, and I breathed great gulps of air and felt clean
and purged of all the evil of the town; for if there is vice in the
country, it is to my mind evil without sordidness.

I remember my foolish thoughts were something like these, even though
my reading should have taught me better, for the Garden of Eden was a
fine place to sin in by all accounts, yet the environment did not
mitigate the punishment.  In these young days, when my body glowed from
a swim and my eyes were clear, I thought the minister too hard on that
original iniquity.

It was coming on for dinner-time--lowsin' time, as we say in the
field--when Dan shouted--

"Hamish," says he, "who'll yon be that's travellin' so fast above the
Craig-an-dubh?"

"I will be telling you that, Dan, when she's half a mile nearer."

"Ye hinna the toon mirk rubbed out your een yet, Hamish, or ye would
ken the bonny spaewife.  I've been watchin' her this last three 'bouts."

"Dan, Dan," said I, "do you think of nothing but women and horses?
Have ye never learned the lesson of Joseph?"

"Man, Hamish," says he, with a whimsical smile and a hand at his
moustache, "ye should put a' things in their proper order.  Horses and
weemen noo.  It's not a bad thing--a while wi' a lass after the horses
are bedded and foddered, but horses first; and as for Joseph"--his
smile broadened until I could see his teeth--"if it had been Dauvit the
leddy had met on the stair, the meenisters wid never hiv heard a cheep
about it. . . .

"It's a fine lesson yon, I aye think, for auld men to be preaching, but
deevil a word about their ain youthfu' rants.  Ye're a lusty lad
yirsel', and there's many a cheery nicht among the lasses wi'
petticoats and short-goons, and I'll teach ye hoo tae whistle them oot
if ye would leave your books and come raking wi' Dan."

We had unyoked the horses and got astride, and when we came to the gate
there was the bonny spaewife carrying a bairn in a tartan shawl.  Dan
drew up, and I also; so there we stood, the horses in an impatient
semi-circle on the road, Dan and I on horseback, and the woman looking
up at us.

She had the blackest eyes I ever saw, and hair black and curly as a
water-dog's clustered over her head, and the wee rain-drops clung about
the curls round her ears and brow.  Her nose was delicate and
faultless, and her complexion was that born of sun and rain and wind.
There seemed a smile to play round her red lips, and a sombreness about
her eyes (so that she held mine fixed), until Dan spoke.

"I think, Belle," said he, "you're gettin' bonnier, and if it wasna for
the wean I would leave a kiss on your bonny red mouth."

Round the pupils of her black eyes a little ring began to glow, as
though a light came from a great distance through darkness, her white
teeth bit on her under lip, and she stepped closer to Dan's horse.

"Haud away, woman, haud away, for the love o' your Maker; the stallion
canna thole weemen about him."

I fear me the town had taken some of the game out of me, for when I saw
the big dark horse flatten his ears, the wicked eyes rolling, and the
great fore-hoofs drumming on the road, ready to leap and batter the
woman and her bairn to a bloody pulp fornent me, my stomach turned, as
we say, and I felt sick and giddy.  Many a morning had I stood at the
loose-box door and watched the devil in the horse and the devil in the
man battle for mastery, and aye the horse was cowed.  Even on the
mornings when I heard Dan's step, soft and wary on the cobbles, before
the sun was up, and knew by the look of him, and the gruffness in his
voice, that he had travelled many a weary mile from his light-o'-love,
and that sleep had not troubled him, I would hear the stable door
opening and Dan whistling like the cheery early bird as he opened the
corn-kist.  After the morning feed the battle began, for Chieftain had
a devil, but I think Dan had seven of that ilk.

"It's him or me, Hamish," he would croon, "him or me, but I'm likin'
myself a' the time"; and he kept the lathering, plunging devil off
himself, whiles with his fists, and whiles with a short stick.

"I'll handle him were he twice as big and twice as bad.  I'll hae nae
gentlemen among the horse when there's lea to plough!" and the fight
would go on.  But Dan was the only man who could handle Chieftain, and
there seemed a kind of laughing comradeship between them.

I have digressed that you might see with my eyes the queer uncanny
thing that happened on the road there between the woman and the horse.
I have told you the spaewife--if spaewife you would call her, for I
think sorceress fitted her better--I have said she came close to
Chieftain's head, her black eyes fairly lowing; and as the brute, his
skin twitching, gathered himself to rear on her, she hit him full on
the mouth with her little brown hand, and hissed a word at him in her
own tongue.  As the word struck my ears I felt myself tingle to my
finger-tips, and the world seemed to go quiet all round me.  The
horse's ears went forward, and he stretched his great neck, and there
he was quiet as an old pony, nibbling with his lips at the woman's
shawl and hair.

And the woman looked at Dan.

A kind of half laugh, half sigh, left his lips.

"I wish," said he, "I had your gait o' handlin' horse.  It's desperate
sudden, but it's sure, as our friend Hamish wid observe.  Maybe, my
dear, you'll hiv a spell tae turn the horse tae himsel' again and
something extra, an' I'm no' sayin' but what I would be likin' him
better, for sittin' here on a quate beast that sould be like the
ravening devil o' holy writ is no' canny."

"Spell," said the girl, for indeed she was little more, and under her
brown skin I could see the darker red rising.  "Spell, ye night-hawk!"
and her broad bosom heaved with the rage in her, and her body trembled
with living anger.

"I come o' folk, ye reiver, that lay down and rose up among their
horse, in the black tents, that loved and hated among their horse, that
lived and died among their horse, and ye would talk to me o' spells.
Did I but say the word to that black horse, not you nor any o' the folk
ye cam' crooked among would straddle him and live to boast o' it after."

Dan sat his horse like a statue.  It makes my old eyes moist and my
throat choky to this day to think of it, for I loved him through
everything.  Could he have had command of heavy horse, and won his rest
on some glorious field, brave, headstrong, devil-may-care Dan; but
there he sat and looked on the Cassandra, and his eyes were laughing
from his stern face as he took a turn on the rope reins.

"Back, my bonny horse," said he to Chieftain, and there was a kind of
joyous lilt in his voice.  "Draw away your pair, Hamish, and this lan'
horse o' mine.  We'll miss our dinner maybe, but I've an unco hankering
after this word."

Away down in my heart I knew what was coming, and I watched the woman
loosen her tartan shawl and lay her infant in a neuk among the hedge
roots.

"I'm waitin' now, my dear," said Dan, "and in case I dee I'll tell ye I
think I could break you in, for I like the devil temper bleezin' in
your bonny black een, and your lips would warm a deein' man.  My dear,
I think I could be your man for a' ye say I cam' crooked; for spaewife
or no--God's life, ye're awfu' bonny, Belle."

The gipsy gave a little lilting laugh.

"You," says she--"you.  I'm not saying but you're a pretty man, and
I've good looks enough for baith--if I loved ye; but, man, my love
would be a flame.  Wid ye burn with me, lad; wid ye burn?"

"I think I would too," said he, "for your een have started the bleeze
a'ready, and I'm dootin' it'll finish in brimstane."

"Ay, ay, Dan; I'm spaein' true.  I jibed at you, although you did not
say the word o' the glens o' the wee creatur' under the hedge there, as
ye might have.  Ye've good blood in ye, lad, and I'm loving your
spirit, but I'm the Belle o' your death, Dan, the Death-Bell.  Now!"

No words of mine can convey my impression of that scene.  There were
the hills, silent and grandly contemptuous, there was a rabbit loping
across the road to the hedge foot, and there the road the woman had
come stretched upwards; but as she spoke some subtle essence seemed to
flood her veins, her sombre eyes flashed, her cheeks glowed darkly, and
she trembled so that I could see her clenched hands flutter like
segans.[1]  It was not excitement, but to my mind as though some vital
powerful force had taken possession of her body and shook it, as an
aspen quivers in a gale.

The power seemed to grow stronger and stronger as she spoke, until with
her word it seemed to break free and envelop us.

Where I have written "Now" she leaned rigidly towards Chieftain and
almost hissed, so sharply came a word between her teeth.  With some
such sound, I think, will the devil unshackle his hounds.  Well for me
that my horses were rugging at the hedge, or I had never been troubled
more with headache.

For the stallion reared his huge bulk into the air with a scream of
brute rage.  I have never heard such a sound since, and never wish to
again.  He turned like an eel, his mouth agape, and the veins round his
nostrils like cord.  His great gleaming teeth snapped like a trap at
his rider's legs, and snapped again after he had a blow on the head
that might have stunned him, and at the hollow sound of it I felt my
teeth take an edge to them.  Twice he reared and fell backwards, and
twice Dan was astride as he rose.  I could see the sweat running down
his face and the bulging of the muscles as his knees pressed and clung
to the heaving spume-spattered flanks.  I think he knew he was fighting
for his life, but his smile seemed graven on his face, though it looked
like the smile of a man in sore distress.  I knew every muscle felt
red-hot, and time would give the victory to the stronger brute.  And
then I saw the change like a lightning-flash.  Dan's shoulders haunched
themselves, his head was low and stretched forward, and a look of the
most devilish ferocity came over his face, his lips were pulled down,
and his eyes almost hidden under the bunched and corrugated brows.

"Oh, oh!" cried the two others, laughing, "it's strange to hear you talk
like that; so, one has to be a king in order to merit your attention?"

"His rank as king," replied Mademoiselle de la Valliere, "is not
the astonishing part about him; I should have recognised it even in
the simple dress of a herdsman."

The three chatterers then rose and went back to the chateau. Next day,
the King, wholly occupied with what he had overheard on the previous
evening, sat musing on a sofa at his sister-in-law's, when all
at once the voice of Mademoiselle de la Beaume-le-Blanc smote his
ear and brought trouble to his heart. He saw her, noticed her melancholy
look, thought her lovelier than the loveliest, and at once fell
passionately in love.

They soon got to understand one another, yet for a long while merely
communicated by means of notes at fetes, or during the performance of
allegorical ballets and operettas, the airs in which sufficiently
expressed the nature of such missives.

In order to put the Queen-mother off the scent and screen La Valliere,
the King pretended to be in love with Mademoiselle de la Mothe-Houdancour,
one of the Queen's maids of honour. He used to talk across to her out
of one of the top-story windows, and even wished her to accept a
present of diamonds. But Madame de Navailles, who took charge of the
maids of honour, had gratings put over the top-story windows, and La
Mothe-Houdancour was so chagrined by the Queen's icy manner towards
her that she withdrew to a convent.

As to the Duchesse de Navailles and her husband, they got rid of their
charges and retired to their estates, where great wealth and freedom
were their recompense after such pompous Court slavery.

The Queen-mother was still living; unlike her niece, she was not
blindfold.

The adventure of Mademoiselle de la Mothe-Houdancour seemed to her
just what it actually was,--a subterfuge; as she surmised, it could
only be La Valliere.

Having discovered the name of her confessor, the Queen herself went in
disguise to the Theatin Church, flung herself into the confessional
where this man officiated, and promised him the sum of thirty
thousand francs for their new church if he would help her to save
the King.

The Theatin promised to do what the Queen thus earnestly desired, and
when his fair penitent came to confess, he ordered her at once to break
off her connection with the Court as with the world, and to shut
herself up in a convent.

Mademoiselle de la Valliere shed tears, and sought to make certain
remarks, but the confessor, a man of inflexible character, threatened
her with eternal damnation, and he was obeyed.

Beside herself with grief, La Valliere left by another door, so as to
avoid her servants and her coach. She recollected seeing a little convent
of hospitalieres at Saint Cloud; she went thither on foot, and was
cordially welcomed by these dames.

Next day it was noised abroad in the chateau that she had been
carried off by order of the Queen-mother.

During vespers the King seemed greatly agitated, and no sooner had the
preacher ascended the pulpit than he rose and disappeared.

The confusion of the two Queens was manifest; no one paid any heed
to the preacher; he scarcely knew where he was.

Meanwhile the conquering King had started upon his quest. Followed by a
page and a carriage and pair, he first went to Chaillot, and then to
Saint Cloud, where he rang at the entrance of the modest abode which
harboured his friend. The nun at the turnstile answered him
harshly, and denied him an audience. It is true, he only told her he
was a cousin or a relative.

Seeing that this nun was devoid of sense and of humanity, he bethought
himself of endeavouring to persuade the gardener, who lived close
to the monastery.

He slipped several gold pieces into his hand, and most politely
requested him to go and tell the Lady Superior that he had come
thither on behalf of the King.

The Lady Superior came down into the parlour, and recognising the
King from a superb miniature, besought him of his grandeur to
interest himself in this young lady of quality, devoid of means and
fatherless, and consented, moreover, to give her up to him, since
as King he so commanded.

Louise de la Beaume-le-Blanc obeyed the King, or in other words,
the dictates of her own heart, imprudently embarking upon a career
of passion, for which a temperament wholly different from hers was
needed.

It is not simple-minded maidens that one wants at Court to share the
  confidence of princes.

No doubt natures of that sort--simple, disinterested souls are pleasant
and agreeable to them, as therein they find contentment such as they
greedily prize; but for these unsullied, romantic natures,
disillusion, trickery alone is in store. And if Mademoiselle de la
Beaumele-Blanc had listened to me, she might have turned matters
to far better account; nor, after yielding up her youth to a monarch,
would she have been obliged to end, her days in a prison.

The King no longer visited her as his mistress, but trusted and
esteemed her as a friend and as the mother of his two pretty
children.

One day, in the month of April, 1674, his Majesty, while in the gardens,
received the following letter, which one of La Valliere's pages
proffered him on bended knee:

SIRE:--To-day I am leaving forever this palace, whither the cruellest
of fatalities summoned my youth and inexperience.

Had I not met you, my heart would have loved seclusion, a laborious life,
and my kinsfolk. An imperious inclination, which I could not conquer,
gave me to you, and, simple, docile as I was by nature, I believed that
my passion would always prove to me delicious, and that your love
would never die. In this world nothing endures. My fond attachment
has ceased to have any charm for you, and my heart is filled with
dismay.

This trial has come from God; of this my reason and my faith are
convinced. God has felt compassion for my unspeakable grief. That
which for long past I have suffered is greater than human force can
bear; He is going to receive me into His home of mercy.

He promises me both healing and peace.

In this theatre of pomp and perfidy I have only stayed until such a
moment as my daughter and her youthful brother might more easily do
without me. You will cherish them both; of that I have no doubt. Guide
them, I beseech you, for the sake of your own glory and their
well-being.
May your watchful care sustain them, while their mother, humbled and
prostrate in a cloister, shall commend them to Him who pardons all.

After my departure, show some kindness to those who were my servants and
faithful domestics, and deign to take back the estates and residences
which served to support me in my frivolous grandeur, and maintain the
celebrity that I deplore.

Adieu, Sire! Think no more about me, lest such a feeling, to which my
imagination might but all too readily lend itself, only beget links
of sympathy in my heart which conscience and repentance would fain
destroy.

  If God
  call me to himself, young though yet I am, He will have granted
my prayers; if He ordain me to live for a while longer in this
desert of penitence, it will never compensate for the duration of
my error, nor for the scandal of which I have been the cause.

Your subject from this time forth, LOUISE DE LA VALLIERE.

The King had not been expecting so desperate a resolve as this, nor did
he feel inclined to hinder her from making it. He left the Portuguese
ambassador, who witnessed his agitation, and hastened to Madame de la
Valliere's, who had left her apartments in the castle at daybreak. He
shed tears, being kind of heart and convinced that a body so
graceful and so delicate would never be able to resist the rigours
and hardships of so terrible a life.

The Carmelite nuns of the Rue Saint Jacques loudly proclaimed this
conversion, and in their vanity gladly received into their midst
so modest and distinguished a victim, driven thither through sheer
despair.

The ceremony which these dames call "taking the dress" attracted the
entire Court to their church. The Queen herself desired to be present
at so harrowing a spectacle, and by a curious contradiction, of which
her capricious nature is capable, she shed floods of tears. La
Valliere seemed gentler, lovelier, more modest and more seductive than
ever. In the midst of the grief and tears which her courageous sacrifice
provoked, she never uttered a single sigh, nor did she change colour
once. Hers was a nature made for extremes; like Caesar, she said to
herself, "Either Rome or nothing!"
The Abbe de Bossuet, who had been charged to preach the sermon of
investiture, showed a good deal of wit by exhibiting none at all.

The King must have felt indebted to him for such reserve.

Into his discourse he had put mere vague commonplaces, which neither
touch nor wound any one; honeyed anathemas such as these may even
pass for compliments.

This prelate has won for himself a great name and great wealth by
words.

  A proof of
  his cleverness
  exists in
  his having lived in grandeur, opulence, and worldly happiness,
while making people believe that he condemned such things.

CHAPTER XIV.

  

Story of the Queen-mother's Marriage with Cardinal Mazarin Published in
Holland.

Despite the endeavours made by the ministers concerning the pamphlet
or volume about which I am going to speak, neither they nor the
King succeeded in quashing a sinister rumour and an opinion which
had taken deep root among the people.

Ever since this calumny it believes--and will always believe--in
the twin brother of Louis XIV., suppressed, one knows not why, by
his mother, just as one believes in fairy-tales and novels.

This false rumour, invented by far-seeing folk, is that which has
most affected the King.

I will recount the manner in which it reached him.

Since the disorder and insolence of the Fronde, this prince did not
like to reside in the capital; he soon invented pretexts for getting
away from it.

The chateau of the Tuileries, built by Catherine de Medici at some distance
from the Louvre, was, really speaking, only a little country-house
and Trianon.

The King conceived the plan of uniting this structure with his
palace at the Louvre, extending it on the Saint Roch side and also
on the side of the river, and this being settled, the Louvre gallery
would be carried on as far as the southern angle of the new building,
so as to form one whole edifice, as it now appears.

While these alterations were in progress, the Court quitted the
Louvre and the capital, and took up its permanent residence at Saint
Germain.

Though ceasing to make a royal residence and home of Paris, his
Majesty did not omit to pay occasional visits to the centre of the
capital.

He came incognito, sometimes on horseback, sometimes in a coach,
and usually went about the streets on foot.

On these occasions he was dressed carelessly, like any ordinary young
man, and the better to ensure a complete disguise, he kept continually
changing either the colour of his moustache or the colour and cut
of his clothes.

One evening, on leaving the opera, just as he was about to open his
carriage door, a man approached him with a great air of mystery,
and tendering a pamphlet, begged him to buy it.

To get rid of the importunate fellow, his Majesty purchased the
book, and never glanced at its contents until the following day.

Imagine his surprise and indignation! The following was the title of
his purchase:

"Secret and Circumstantial Account of the Marriage of Anne of
Austria, Queen of France, with the Abbe Jules Simon Mazarin, Cardinal
of the Holy Roman Church.

A new edition, carefully revised. Amsterdam."
Grave and phlegmatic by nature, the King was always master of his
feelings, a sign, this, of the noble-minded. He shut himself up in
his apartment, so as to be quite alone, and hastily perused the libellous
pamphlet.

According to the author of it, King Louis XIII., being weak and languid,
and sapped moreover by secret poison, had not been able to beget any
heirs. The Queen, who secretly was Mazarin's mistress, had had
twins by the Abbe, only the prettier of the two being declared legitimate.
The other twin had been entrusted to obscure teachers, who, when it
was time, would give him up.

The princess, so the writer added, stung by qualms of conscience, had
insisted upon having her guilty intimacy purified by the sacrament
of marriage, to which the prime minister agreed.

Then, mentioning the names of such and such persons as witnesses,
the book stated that "this marriage was solemnised on a night in
February, 1643, by Cardinal de Sainte-Suzanne, a brother and servile
creature of Mazarin's."

"This explains," added the vile print, "the zeal, perseverance, and
foolish ardour of the Queen Regent in defending her Italian against
the just opposition of the nobles, against the formal charges of
the magistrates, against the clamorous outcry, not only of Parisians,
but of all France.

This explains the indifference, or rather the firm resolve, on Mazarin's
part; never to take orders, but to remain simply 'tonsure' or
'minore',--he who controls at least forty abbeys, as well as a
bishopric.

"Look at the young monarch," it continued, "and consider how
closely he resembles his Eminence, the same haughty glance; the same
uncontrolled passion for pompous buildings, luxurious dress and
equipages; the same deference and devotion to the Queen-mother; the
same independent customs, precepts, and laws; the same aversion for
the Parisians; the same resentment against the honest folk of the
Fronde."

This final phrase easily disclosed its origin; nor upon this point
had his Majesty the slightest shadow of a doubt.

The same evening he sent full instructions to the lieutenant-general of
police, and two days afterwards the nocturnal vendor of pamphlets
found himself caught in a trap.

The King wished him to be brought to Saint Germain, so that he might
identify him personally; and, as he pretended to be half-witted
or an idiot, he was thrown half naked into a dungeon.

His allowance of dry bread diminished day by day, at which he complained,
and it was decided to make him undergo this grim ordeal.

Under the pressure of hunger and thirst, the prisoner at length made a
confession, and mentioned a bookseller of the Quartier Latin, who, under
the Fronde, had made his shop a meeting-place for rebels.

The bookseller, having been put in the Bastille, and upon the same diet
as his salesman, stated the name of the Dutch printer who had
published the pamphlet.

They sought to extract more from him, and reduced his diet with such
severity that he disclosed the entire secret.

This bookseller, used to a good square meal at home, found it impossible
to tolerate the Bastille fare much longer. Bound hand and foot, at his
final cross-examination he confessed that the work had emanated from
the Cardinal de Retz, or certain of his party.

He was condemned to three years' imprisonment, and was obliged to sell
his shop and retire to the provinces.

I once heard M. de Louvois tell this tale, and use it as a means of
silencing those who regretted the absence of the exiled Cardinal-archbishop.

As to the libellous pamphlet itself, the clumsy nature of it was only
too plain, for the King is no more like Mazarin than he is like the King
of Ethiopia. On the contrary, one can easily distinguish in the general
effect of his features a very close resemblance to King Louis XIII.

The libellous pamphlet stated that, on the occasion of the Infanta's first
confinement, twins were born, and that the prettier of the two had
been adopted, another blunder, this, of the grossest kind.

A book of this sort could deceive only the working class and the
Parisian lower orders, for folk about the Court, and even the
bourgeoisie, know that it is impossible for a queen to be brought
to bed in secret.

Unfortunately for her, she has to comply with the most embarrassing rules
of etiquette.
She has to bear her final birth-pangs under an open canopy, surrounded
at no great distance by all the princes of the blood; they are summoned
thither, and they have this right so as to prevent all frauds,
subterfuges, or impositions.

When the King found the seditious book in question, the Queen, his mother,
was ill and in pain; every possible precaution was taken to prevent
her from hearing the news, and the lieutenant-general of police,
having informed the King that two-thirds of the edition had been
seized close to the Archbishop's palace, orders were given to burn
all these horrible books by night, in the presence of the Marquis
de Beringhen, appointed commissioner on this occasion.

CHAPTER XV.

Monsieur le Duc d'Orleans Wishes to be Governor of a Province.--The
King's Reply.--He Requires a Fauteuil for His Wife.--Another Excellent
Answer of the King's.

In marrying Monsieur, the King consulted only his well-known
generosity, and the richly equipped household which he granted to
this prince should assuredly have made him satisfied and content.

The Chevalier de Lorraine and the Chevalier de Remecourt, two pleasant
and baneful vampires whom Monsieur could refuse nothing, put it into
his head that he should make himself feared, so as to lead his Majesty
on to greater concessions, which they were perfectly able to turn to
their own enjoyment and profit.

Monsieur began by asking for the governorship of a province; in reply
he was told that this could not be, seeing that such appointments were
never given to French princes, brothers of the King.

Monsieur le Duc d'Orleans hastened to point out that Gaston, son of Henri
IV., had had such a post, and that the Duc de Verneuil, natural son
of the same Henri, had one at the present time.

"That is true," replied the King, "but from my youth upward you have
always heard me condemn such innovations, and you cannot expect
me to do the very thing that I have blamed others for doing. If ever
you were minded, brother, to rebel against my authority, your first
care would, undoubtedly, be to withdraw to your province, where,
like Gaston, your uncle, you would have to raise troops and money.

Pray do not weary me with indiscretions of this sort; and tell those
people who influence you to give you better advice for the future."

Somewhat abashed, the Duc d'Orleans affirmed that what he had said and
done was entirely of his own accord.

"Did you speak of your own accord," said the King, "when insisting upon
being admitted to the privy council? Such a thing can no longer be
allowed.

You inconsiderately expressed two different opinions, and since you
cannot control your tongue, which is most undoubtedly your own, I
have no power over it,--I, to whom it does not want to belong."

Then Monsieur le Duc d'Orleans added that these two refusals would
seem less harsh, less painful to him, if the King would grant a seat
in his own apartments, and in those of the Queen, to the Princess,
his wife, who was a king's daughter.

"No, that cannot be," replied his Majesty, "and pray do not insist upon
it. It is not I who have established the present customs; they existed
long before you or me. It is in your interest, brother, that the
majesty of the throne should not be weakened or altered; and if,
from Duc d'Orleans, you one day become King of France, I know you well
enough to believe that you would never be lax in this matter.

Before God, you and I are exactly the same as other creatures that live
and breathe; before men we are seemingly extraordinary beings, greater,
more refined, more perfect. The day that people, abandoning this
respect and veneration which is the support and mainstay of monarchies,--the
day that they regard us as their equals,--all the prestige of our
position will be destroyed.

Bereft of beings superior to the mass, who act as their leaders
and supports, the laws will only be as so many black lines on white
paper, and your armless chair and my fauteuil will be two pieces
of furniture of the selfsame importance.

Personally, I should like to gratify you in every respect, for the
same blood flows in our veins, and we have loved each other from
the cradle upwards.

Ask of me things that are practicable, and you shall see that I
will forestall your wishes.
Personally, I daresay I care less about honorary distinctions than
you do, and in Cabinet matters I am always considered to be simpler
and more easy to deal with than such and such a one.

One word more, and I have done.

I will nominate you to the governorship of any province
you choose, if you will now consent in writing to let proceedings
be taken against you, just as against any ordinary gentleman, in
case there should be sedition in your province, or any kind of
disorder during your administration."

Hereupon young Philippe began to smile, and he begged the King to embrace
him.

CHAPTER XVI.

Arms and Livery of Madame de Montespan.--Duchess or Princess.--Fresh
Scandal Caused by the Marquis.--The Rue Saint Honore Affair.--M.
de Ronancour.--Separation of Body and Estate.

When leaving, despite himself, for the provinces, M. de Montespan wrote
me a letter full of bitter insults, in which he ordered me to give
up his coat-of-arms, his livery, and even his name.

This letter I showed to the King. For a while he was lost in thought,
as usual on such occasions, and then he said to me:
"There's nothing extraordinary about the fellow's livery.

Put your servants into pale orange with silver lace. Assume your old crest
of Mortemart, and as regards name, I will buy you an estate with a
pretty title."

"But I don't like pale orange," I instantly replied; "if I may, I
should like to choose dark blue, and gold lace, and as regards crest,
I cannot adopt my father's crest, except in lozenge form, which could
not seriously be done. As it is your gracious intention to give me the
name of an estate, give me (for to you everything is easy) a duchy like
La Valliere, or, better still, a principality."

The King smiled, and answered, "It shall be done, madame, as you wish."

The very, next day I went into Paris to acquaint my, lawyer with my
intentions.

Several magnificent estates were just then in the market, but
only marquisates, counties, or baronies! Nothing illustrious,
nothing remarkable!

Duhamel assured me that the estate of Chabrillant, belonging to a
spendthrift, was up for sale.

"That," said he, "is a sonorous name, the brilliant renown of which
would only be enhanced by the title of princess."

Duhamel promised to see all his colleagues in this matter, and to
find me what I wanted without delay.

I quitted Paris without having met or recognised anybody, when, about
twenty paces at the most beyond the Porte Saint Honor, certain sergeants
or officials of some sort roughly stopped my carriage and seized
my horses' bridles "in the King's name."

"In the King's name?" I cried, showing myself at the coach door.

"Insolent fellows! How dare you thus take the King's name in vain?"
At the same time I told my coachman to whip up his horses with the
reins and to drive over these vagabonds.
The corn was in the stackyard and the stacks thatched, and all that
summer Belle and her wean stayed with us, the lass working at the
weeding and the harvesting, and the wean well cared for, for the
mistress remained not long abed after the spaewife's coming.  Belle's
wean might be "a tinker's brat" in whispered corners in byres and
hay-sheds, where the wenches could claver out of hearing, but the
Laird's son got no better attention than the tinker's brat when the
mistress was near.

And now that the corn was secure and the stackyard full, the deer came
down from the hills and lay close to till nightfall, and then wrought
havoc in the turnip-drills, and I noticed that, like cows in a field of
grain, they spoiled more crop than they ate, both of potatoes and
turnips; and, indeed, it angered a man to see his good root-crops
haggled and thrawn with the thin-flanked beasts, like the lean cattle,
and I thought to go round the hill dyke with the dogs on an October
evening, and harry them back to their heather and bracken again.

It was early in the evening, so I took my stick and daunered to the
hay-shed (which was next to the planting) behind the stackyard, for I
liked the noise of the wood, and would lie on the hay and listen to the
scurry of the rabbits, the rippling note of the cushats in the
tree-tops, and watch for the coming of the white owls that flitted
among the trees.  And as I lay on the sweet-smelling clovery hay there
came over me a drowsiness, for I had been early abroad, and I dovered
and dovered till sleep and waking were mingled, and strange voices came
into my ears; and then I knew the voices, and felt myself go hot all
over, for I could not move or I would be discovered with the rustling
of the hay.

"I have waited long for ye, my bonny dark lass, waited when I was
shivering to take ye in my arms," and I could see Dan lean forward and
look into Belle's black eyes, one great arm round her shoulders and his
hand below her chin, and she was bonny, bonny in the blink o' the moon.

"Ye were a good lad," says she, smiling up at him; "it whiles made me
angry ye would be so good, and I would be lying at night thinking ye
had forgotten the gipsy lass, and would be assourying[1] wi'
red-cheeked, long-legged farmer lassies; and then ye would be coming to
my window and knocking, and I was glad, and listened and listened for
ye to be coming, although ye would not be knowing from me at all, and I
would be cold, cold to ye. . . ."

"My dear, it's news to me," cried he, in great wonder, "for never a
knock did I knock," and his eyes were laughing down at her.

"What!" she cries; "what!  And who would be daring?"

"That's just what I cannot say, for the lads think ye're no' canny some
way, but maistly because the weemen hiv them under their thumbs, so I'm
thinkin' it must just have been Hamish."

It was on the tip of my tongue to cry out at that, but I saw by his
face that he could not help hurting gently whatever he liked, and he
had no thought for me at all, but waited for the girl to speak.  The
great sombre eyes were looking up at him, and the moon glintin' on her
teeth as, her red lips parted, a brown hand fluttered about the man's
breast.

"You would be knocking.  I am wantin' you to be knocking," she cried,
"for I am only a wicked gipsy lass. . . ."

I saw the man stretch her back with a straightening of his arm; I saw
the limber length of him, the lean flank and the curve of his chest, as
he half lay on the hay.

"I am wishing ye to be knocking," he mimicked in a half-fierce,
half-laughing voice, "for I am only a wicked gipsy lass"; and again,
"My dear, my dear, I'm not seeing much wickedness in a' this, and so I
must be creeping out and knockin' on a lass that will not be saying a
civil word to me, let alone a kiss in the gloamin'."

"Oh," she lilted, "oh, so you would be knocking to that unkind lass;"
and then in a far-away voice, "Will you be remembering that place where
I found you, when I would be running a wild thing like a young
foal? . . ."

"Bonnily, Belle, bonnily I mind ye--a long-legged, black-maned filly ye
were, and the big eyes o' ye, I began to love ye then. . . ."

"It would be terrible and you lying in the stall beside your horse at
that place, and them not going near you, and you only a boy.  I will be
dreaming of the horse tramping your face yet."

"I'll teach ye something better to be dreaming than that, dear lass,
for I was only a boy then, and I was carrying a man's share o' French
brandy, more shame to me.  I had nae sense at all, to be lying beside
the horse, and him a kittle brute too; but I'll aye be mindin' ye
coorieing ower me, and greetin' for a' that, when the men o' the
_Seagull_ were feart tae venture into the stall, being sailors and
strange wi' horse."

Among the hay there I remembered the loud voices and the slamming of
doors in the night, and Jock McGilp and his message about the "turf
being in"; and here it was coming round that these two had met then,
and I somehow had helped to bring them together.

"I will be asking you to do me a service the night," I heard the girl
say.

"I'm thinkin' that, my dear, will it be ridin' for the priest, for
indeed you're such a _wicked_ lass I see nae ither way for it.  I canna
aye be knockin' when your wickedness keeps me in the caul' . . . ."

"Come," she cried, rising, "come, for we will have been dallying too
long, and I did give my word to Scaurdale.  I will not be listening any
more to your talk."

"Where fell ye across that grizzly dog, John, Laird o' Scaurdale?" said
Dan as they rose.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

So I waited until the hay was all quiet and the lovers gone, and I got
the dogs and went after the deer.

Outside the dyke I found them herded, their sentinels posted like an
army resting, and away they headed, the collies at their heels, and me
racing through bracken and heather and burn, after seeing them clearing
a rise and disappearing, the big antlers like branching trees.  Away
and away I followed, till the dogs' barking was faint in the night and
the three lonely hills were looming before me, and I saw the wild-fire
glimmer on the peat-bogs and the moon going down as I whistled and
whistled for the dogs.

And as I waited I heard the thud, thud, thud of horses galloping, and
then the jangle of bridle-chains, and I lay down in the heather.  Two
horsemen passed me, wrapped in their riding-cloaks, and after a while a
light jumped out on the hillside, and I knew the horsemen had stopped
at the old empty shepherd's house, and I made my way there, for since
old McCurdy died the house had been empty.  I could hear the dogs
barking away among the hills, and the rustle of the night-folks among
the dry heather as I cautiously rounded the "but and ben," and there at
the door were the two horses that had passed me.  Quietly I crawled
into a clump of heather and lay a-watching, and turned in my mind
everything I might be a witness to, and found no answer.  Then, away
behind me, I heard a horse neigh, and the tethered horses answered, and
a gaunt figure, white-haired and martial, stalked through the door, and
I knew John, Laird of Scaurdale, waited, he and his man.

I heard a laughing voice on the night wind.

"It's a great thing to have a lass on the saddle wi' ye, Belle, ye can
kiss her at every stride," and Belle's answer must have been kissed
into silence, for I never heard it.

There came Dan on our best horse, an upstanding raking bay, and in
front of him was Belle with the wean in the tartan shawl.  The servant
lifted Belle from the saddle, and Dan, looking awkward in the glow from
the window, held the tartan bundle, then handed it to the gipsy, and
all of them went in, and I was left alone on my heather tussock.  Maybe
ten minutes passed, and the servant came out and led the horses to the
back, where there was a sheepfold and a well, and I heard him drawing
water, and in a little time he entered the house, an empty sack in his
hand, and I knew the horses were at their feed, and crawled up to the
lighted window and peered in.  The Laird was striding up and down the
narrow room, his fierce old face twitching, the body-servant stood by
the door like a wooden man, and Dan, as though the ploy pleased him,
smiled at the gipsy, who held the wean.

The Laird's words came clearly--

"She would have the false knave, she was afraid o' my stern lad and
would have the carpet-knight--the poor wee lass; but she minded her
cousin--she minded my boy at the end o' a' when she hated the
Englishman.  I ken fine how her pride suffered before she sent me word,
but the word cam' at the hinder end.  Belle," said he, stopping his
march, "ye have done finely wi' your lad an' a'."

"It's not me he'll be lookin' at, sir," wi' a toss of her head.

"The bigger fool him; it was a' grist that cam' to my mill when I was
mowing down the twenties."

"Ay, Laird," says Dan wi' a bold look, "I've heard it said ye kept the
ministers in texts for many a day, and the sins o' the great made the
poor folks' teeth water from wan Sunday till the next."

"I had thought them more concerned wi' brewing their whisky and
poaching than in the inside o' a kirk," growled the Laird, for he was
choleric when reminded of his past by any but his own conscience, which
had turned in on itself, and grown morbid as a result.

"It's a grand place the kirk, sir; I've seen and heard enough there to
keep me cheery a' week.  There was the time when we walked there in
droves, and would be takin' a look at the beasts in the parks as we
went, and often the beasts would be turned on the roadside, for a man
might buy on Monday what he only saw on Sunday.  Once, going by
Hector's, the lassies wi' their shoon in their hands, were walkin'
easier barefit and savin' shoe leather, and a young Embro' leddy, wi' a
hooped skirt wi' the braidin' like theek rope on a stack, and
high-heeled shoon, looked disdainfu' at them.  Well, well, the pigs
were on the roadside at Hector's, and they kent the barefit lassies;
but the grand lady they didna ken at all, and one caught her gown by
the braidin' and scattered away reivin' and tearin', and set the lady
spinning like a peerie, and the lassies laughed and cried 'suckie,
suckie,' and put on their boots to go into the kirk, well put on, and
in a rale godly frame o' mind."

Belle had the wean wrapped in the cloak the servant had provided and
was croonin' ower it, and the body-servant was waitin' for orders, and
there stood Dan and the Laird as though loath to part, and them on
business that might mean worse than burnin' stackyards.  And it came to
me that Scaurdale was not the man to be cherishing any tinker's whelp,
not even if he had fair claim to.

"And what lesson did ye get that day, Sir Churchman?"

"Pride goeth before a fall," says Dan, "but that was a bad day for me."

"And how?" cried Scaurdale, and I could see he was wasting time on
purpose.

"Indeed it was no fault o' mine, for between the shepherds' dogs
huntin' aboot till the church scaled, and the pigs lookin' for
diversion, a kind o' hunt got up, and a pig came into the church wi' a'
the collies in full cry and made a bonny to-do among the Elect.  The
poor beast made a breenge and got a hat on its snout, and then a fling
o' its heid ended matters, and there was the pig in the deacon's hat,
and sair pit aboot was the pig, and sairer the deacon.

"Aweel, I was reproved and reminded o' the time when I had had a sermon
a' tae masel'; but the end crowned a', for I had killed an adder that
morning on the road, and put the beast in my pouch for Hamish.  In the
middle o' the sermon, after the Gadarene swine and the dogs were
outside, the adder somewie cam' alive and crawled on to the aisle, and
the minister eyed it, and then me, and I felt hot and caul', for I
didna ken o' any new evil that might hiv reached him, and I didna see
the beast till the preacher stopped and pointed.

"'Man o' evil,' he cried, 'take the image o' your father and go hence,'
and so I'm clean lost," said Dan, wi' a comical sigh.

I had just time to lay myself flat in the heather before the servant
came out and walked to the top o' the rise.  I could see the loom o'
him against the skyline, for the moon was now very low, and then he
whistled, and Dan came leading the horses, and the gipsy carrying the
wean.  I crawled to the rise but farther away, and prayed that the dogs
had gone home and would not get wind o' me.  For a while they stood,
Dan and the body-servant at the horses' heads, and the Laird a little
apart, and then I heard Dan--

"Yon's him at last," says he, and I saw a light glimmer for a little
away out at sea, and the servant ran back to the hut and brought the
lighted lantern, and three times he covered it with his cloak, and
three times he swung it bare, and I saw the long black shadow of the
horses' legs start away into the darkness, and then away out to sea a
flare glimmered three times and all was dark.

"Easy going," says Dan; "McGilp has nae wind to come close in, and it's
a long pull to the cove."

The Laird swung himself to the saddle, and as the servant mounted,
Belle made to give him the tartan bundle, but John, Laird o' Scaurdale,
trusted none but himself on a night ride over the road to Scaurdale.

"Give me the wean," says he, and loosened his cloak.  Belle held the
wee bundle to him, and he put it in the crook of his arm.

"Ye will be a great one and whip the tinkers from your door, my dear,"
whispered Belle to the sleeping infant, "but ye've lain in the heather,
and listened tae the noises o' the hill nights, and the burns, and the
clean growing things, and maybe ye'll mind them dimly in your heart and
be kind when ye come to your kingdom."

At that Scaurdale leant over his saddle.

"Ye'll never be in want if ye knock at my door, so long as the mortar
holds the stanes thegither."

"Good night to you, Sir Churchman; I'm in nae swither whether I would
change places wi' ye the night, but weemen are daft craturs, poor
things, and I've had my day."

Then there came the swish, swish o' galloping hoofs in dry bracken, for
Scaurdale was a bog-trooper and born wi' spurs on, and I heard the
whimper o' the wean, and a gruff voice petting.  Belle was greetin'
softly, and as Dan made to lift her in the saddle--

"I will not be sitting that way again," she cried; and I know, because
her heart was sore, she must be sharp with a man that had done nothing
to anger her that I could see.

"Aweel, I was aye a bonny rinner," says Dan.  "When I was herdin' and
the beasts lay down behind the black hill in the forenoon, I could rin
tae the Wineport and back before they were rising."  I laughed to think
how we estimate time in the college by the rules of Physics, and how
the herd on the moorside did, and wondered who but he could say how
long a cow beast would lie and chew her cud, and how many miles a man
could run in the time she took to chew it.

"I will not be having you running at all, and, indeed, you have been
kind and good to me.  But why should I be going back to that place when
the thing is done I came to be doing?  I will go away to my own folk,
and you will be forgetting me."

"I'll never be forgettin' you," says he, calling her pet words that
made me wish myself far enough away, for I was shy of lovers' talk, and
he held her to his breast and spoke quickly, and turned and caught the
bridle of his horse.

"No," cried the lass--"no, I will not be staying here," and I was glad
the moon was clouded at her words, "and you will not be seeing me till
I am grown old and wrinkled like a granny."

At that he gathered her in his arms, and for a while I saw only his
head and not her face at all, except just a blur that looked pale, and
then I heard her say--

"You will be saying that to all these other women, for you will be
wicked."

"Not wicked any more, lass.  I'll just be loving you, and why are ye
turned soft; where is the lass that asked me would I burn?"

"Indeed, it is just with you I will be too gentle, I think, all my
days, for ye will be a brute and a baby, all in one, and yet you would
be aye kind to me.  I could not be tholing another man after ye."

"I think I would not be tholing that either, my dear," cried he in a
fierce voice, "but the lantern has to be lighted and the fire.  Maybe
ye'll let me do that much for you," and this time I saw her smiling,
and clinging to him with both her hands.

At the door she waited till he had made the horse comfortable in the
stone fanks,[2] and when he joined her she stretched her arms up and
pulled his head down.

"I am wishing to do this," she said, and kissed him on the mouth.  "You
will not be loving any more but me," and she struck him lightly but
with fierce abandon on the cheek, and I heard him laughing, and then
the door opened and closed, and I had all the hills to myself.  A great
loneliness came over me, and I wished the dogs had waited.

And as I made my way home, I thought of that little whimpering wean in
the crook of Scaurdale's arm, and wondered how she would fare on board
the _Gull_, for by Dan's word I kent McGilp had shone the flare away
seaward.  Scaurdale, it seemed, would be hiding the wean in fair
earnest now, and McGilp I kent would whiles be on the French coast.
But never a word did I get from Dan for many's the day about Belle, or
McGilp, or Scaurdale--we talked of horses and sheep, until the coming
of Neil Beg.


[1] Courting, clandestine courtship.

[2] Sheepfold.


CHAPTER IV.

I MEET JOCK McGILP AND HIS MATE McNEILAGE AT THE TURF INN, AND
  LEARN WHAT HAS BECOME OF THE WEAN IN THE TARTAN SHAWL.

We were at common work enough, Dan and me, in the Blair Mhor when the
night clouds were banking behind the Blackhill to swoop down on the
fast flying winter afternoon.  Indeed, it was a matter of a braxy ewe,
and the poor beast lay at the hedge-side and the blood clotting at her
throat, for Dan had bled her, and the briars o' many a brake trailed
behind her.

"Braxy and oatmeal, Hamish," says he, "there's many a lusty lad reared
on worse; but we'll be hivin' tatties and herrin' for a change, and
plenty o' sour milk tae slocken the drouth o' it."

And as he stooped to tie the ewe's clits together to make her a handier
load, I looked round me at the cold bare trees, asleep till the spring
would waken them with sap.  The hills were bleak and barren, the rocks
harsh and cold with no warm crotal on them, and just the reek from the
houses rising into the frosty sky.

The night was just down on us, when I heard the lilt o' a whistle,
clear as a whaup's, and with a great melody.  To us there came
whistling a kilted lad, his knees red as collops, for he had waded the
burn, and the cheeks o' him glowing like wild roses.

"Ah-ha, Neil Veg," cries Dan, for he made a work wi' weans always, "is
it stravagin' after the lassies ye are this bonny nicht?"

"Indeed no, it iss not that; it's yourself I'll be after," shrilled the
lad, wi' a burning face.

"And what for will ye be after me, Neil Veg?"

"I will be tellin' you by yourself alone, for my father will be sayin'
to me, 'Did you find him, and him alone? '"

At that Dan took him a step aside, with a wink to me not to be minding,
and the lad delivered his message in Gaelic and sped away, and his
clear whistle came back to us.

"A brave lad, Hamish," says Dan; "he'll have listened to a' the ghost
and bogle and bawkin stories since he could creep, and yet he'll
whistle himsel' safe ower the hill and be too proud tae run, an' I'm
thinkin' every muircock that craws, and every whaup that cries, out on
the peat-hags, will be a bogle in his childish mind."

"There's truth in that," said I, "and I wish I could be hearin' the
stories, for you have not the way o' telling them.  Ye will not be
believing them."

"Come ye raikin' wi' me the night and maybe ye'll be hearing some o'
them," says Dan, and so when the horses were bedded and the kye
fothered, we slipped through the planting and took the old peat road
for it, and that I was to hear stories was all that he would tell me.

We came out on the old road to the cove, and rough enough passage we
made, for a hill burn that crossed the bare rock o' the road had frozen
and melted and frozen again, so that on the worst o' the hill we took
our hands and knees for it, and even that comedown to a hillman was
better than breaking our necks over the rocks on the low side, for the
track was whiles no more than a scratch along a precipice.

When we came on to good heather again Dan stopped me.

"Bide a wee, bide a wee, James," and he took a step from me, and there
came at my very ear the lone night-cry of a gull, so weird and
melancholy a sound, that but for a low laugh beside me again I would
have sworn the bird had passed in the darkness.

"Listen," says he; "I startled ye first with your Christian name, and
ye were so made up wi' it, ye wid believe a gull brushed your lug; but
listen, Hamish, listen."

From out of the night came the answer, and in my mind there came the
picture I had often watched, the grey night seas and the lonely gull
flying low, and ever and anon voicing its cry as though it mourned the
lost spirit of the deep.

"There's just the two roads, you see, the shore road and the hill road,
and a strange foot carries far, and there's aye a lad on the watch when
the 'turf's in.'"

So that was Wee Neil's message; McGilp and his crew would be ashore, as
many as could be spared from the schooner, and we were making for the
Turf Inn, and as we travelled I asked why it came to be called that.
"It's a long story," said Dan, "but maybe ye'll have noticed a hole in
a smiddy wall, where they will be throwing out the ashes.  Well, in
this lonely place here, there werena many to trouble, and it cam' to be
known that a man could get a dram if he paid for it, and as much as he
liked to be payin' for.  Well, well, a stranger cam' in one day and
asked refreshment and got it, and then he plankit down a gowden guinea
and waited for his change, for the stranger was a ganger, and here was
a capture just waitin' for him.

"Well, he waited and waited and cracked away wi' the lass, for there
seemed nobody about but just Meg the gleevitch, and she had talk eno'
for five men, and a trim pair o' ankles forbye.

"'I'll be goin' now, mistress,' says the stranger, rising.

"'I'm sorry for that,' says Meg, and looked as if she meant it.

"'If ye'll just give me my change. . . .'

"'Change!' she cries, 'God save us, change; we sell naething here,' and
she lifted the guinea oot the old jug on the shelf and handed it back.
'I thought it was just a present,' says she, makin' eyes at him, 'for a
thankfu' man's free wi' his siller.  Ye were lucky to get the only drop
o' drink in the hoose,'--and that was true enough, for the time they
had been talkin' and Meg kiltin' her skirt tae kind o' divert the
stranger's attention, the lads had the keg in a safe place.  Aweel, and
so he had just to take shank's mare for it.  I'll come back tae the
hole in the wa'.  There was one in the old house, and Meg cut a divot
and stuffed the hole wi' it if there was nae danger, and if she had
word o' excisemen or gaugers on the lookout for smuggling she took the
turf oot, and that's how the place got it's name (and why we pass the
word that the 'turf's in' if there's word o' a run), but it must have
hurt Meg to gie back the guinea, for she's a wild long eye for siller."

We were now close to a white house, stone built and thatched, set among
big plane-trees, and looking to the sea.  At the door I heard Gaelic
songs and great laughing, and then we went inside.  At first I saw
nothing but two ship's lanthorns, swung from hooks such as we use to
hang hams on, and the blazing fire, where a ship's timber burned with
wee blue flames licking out, as the fire got at the salt of the seven
seas.  "I am afraid not," replied my sister. "Those are three whom one
could never manage, and your Majesty on the throne may possibly have
fewer difficulties to deal with than the abbess or the prior of a
convent."
The King was obliged to quit us to go and see one of the ministers,
but he honoured the Abbess by telling her that she was excellent
company, of which he could never have too much.

My sister wished to see Madame de Maintenon and the Duc du Maine;
so we visited that lady, who took a great liking to the Abbess,
which was reciprocated.

When my sister saw the young Duc du Maine, she exclaimed, "How handsome
he is! Oh, sister, how fond I shall be of such a nephew!"
"Then," said I, "you will forgive me, won't you, for having given birth
to him?"
"When I reproached you," she answered, "I had not yet seen the King.
When one has seen him, everything is excusable and everything
is right.
Embrace me, my dear sister, and do not let us forget that I owe my abbey
to you, as well as my independence, fortune, and liberty."

BOOK 3.

CHAPTER XXXV.

M. de Lauzun and Mademoiselle de Montpensier.

--Marriage of the One and Passion of the Other.--The King Settles a
Match.--A Secret Union.--The King Sends M. de Lauzun to Pignerol.--The
Life He Leads There.--Mademoiselle's Liberality.

--Strange Way of Acknowledging It.

They are forever talking about the coquetry of women; men also have their
coquetry, but as they show less grace and finesse than we do, they
do not get half as much attention.

The Marquis de Lauzun, having one day, noticed a certain kindly feeling
for him in the glances of Mademoiselle, endeavoured to seem to her every
day more fascinating and agreeable. The foolish Princess completely
fell into the snare, and suddenly giving up her air of noble
indifference, which till then had made her life happy, she fell
madly in love with a schemer who despised and detested her.

Held back for some months by her pride, as also by the exigencies of
etiquette, she only disclosed her sentimental passion by glances
and a mutual exchange of signs of approval; but at last she was
tired of self-restraint and martyrdom, and, detaining M. de Lauzun
one day in a recess, she placed her written offer of marriage in
his hand.

The cunning Marquis feigned astonishment, pretending humbly to
renounce such honour, while increasing his wiles and fascinations;
he even went so far as to shed tears, his most difficult feat of
all.

Mademoiselle de Montpensier, older than he by twelve or fourteen years,
never suspected that such a disparity of years was visible in her
face.
When one has been pretty, one imagines that one is still so, and
will forever remain so.

Plastered up and powdered, consumed by passion, and above all, blinded
by vanity, she fancied that Nature had to obey princes, and that, to
favour her, Time would stay his flight.

Though tired and bored with everything, Lauzun, the better to excite her
passion, put on timid, languid airs, like those of some lad fresh from
school. Quitting the embraces of some other woman, he played the lonely,
pensive, melancholy bachelor, the man absorbed by this sweet, new
mystery of love.

Having made mutual avowal of their passion, which was fill of esteem,
Lauzun inquired, merely from motives of caution, as to the Princess's
fortune; and she did not fail to tell him everything, even about
her plate and jewels.

Lauzun's love grew even more ardent now, for she had at least forty
millions, not counting her palace.

He asked if, by the marriage, he would become a prince, and she replied
that she, herself, had not sufficient power to do this; that she
was most anxious to arrange this, if she could; but anyhow, that
she could make him Duc de Montpensier, with a private uncontrolled
income of five hundred thousand livres.

He asked if, on the family coat-of-arms, the husband's coronet was
to figure, or the wife's; but, as she would not change her name,
her arms, she decided, could remain as heretofore,--the crown, the
fleur-de-lis, and so forth.

He inquired if the children of the marriage would rank as princes, and
she said that she saw nothing to prevent this.

He also asked if he would be raised higher in the peerage, and might
look to being made a prince at last, and styled Highness as soon as
the contract had been signed.

This caused some doubt and reflection. "The King, my cousin," said
Mademoiselle, "is somewhat strict in matters of this sort. He seems to
think that the royal family is a new arch-saint, at whom one may look
only when prostrate in adoration; all contract therewith is absolutely
forbidden. I begin to feel uneasy about this; yes, Lauzun, I have
fears for our love and marriage."
"Are you, then, afraid?" asked Lauzun, quite crestfallen.

"I knew how to point the Bastille cannon at the troops of the
King," she replied; "but he was very young then. No matter, I will go
and see him; if he is my King, I am his cousin; if he has his crotchets,
I have my love and my will. He can't do anything, my dear Lauzun; I
love you as once he loved La Valliere, as to-day he loves Montespan;
I am not afraid of him.

As for the permission, I know our history by heart, and I will prove
to him by a hundred examples that, from the time of Charlemagne
up to the present time, widows and daughters of kings have married
mere noblemen.

These nobleman may have been most meritorious,--I only know them from
history,--but not one of them was as worthy as you."
So saying, she asked for her fan, her gloves, and her horses, and
attended by her grooms-in-waiting, she went to the King in person.

The King listened to her from beginning to end, and then remarked, "You
refused the Kings of Denmark, Portugal, Spain, and England, and
you wish to marry my captain of the guard, the Marquis de Lauzun?"

"Yes, Sire, for I place him above all monarchs,--yourself alone
excepted."

"Do you love him immensely?"

"More than I can possibly say; a thousand, a hundred thousand times more
than myself."
"Do you think he is equally devoted to you?"--"That would be impossible,"
she tranquilly answered; "but his love for me is delicate, tender; and
such friendship suffices me."
"My cousin, in all that there is self-interest. I entreat you to reflect.
The world, as you know, is a mocking world; you want to excite universal
derision and injure the respect which is due to the place that I
fill."

"Ah, Sire, do not wound me! I fling myself at your feet. Have compassion
upon M. de Lauzun, and pity my tears. Do not exercise your power; let
him be the consolation of my life; let me marry him."
The King, no longer able to hide his disgust and impatience, said,
"Cousin, you are now a good forty-four years old; at that age you ought
to be able to take care of yourself.

Spare me all your grievances, and do what pleases you."
On leaving Mademoiselle, he came to my apartment and told me about all
this nonsense. I then informed him of what I had heard by letter the
day before. Lauzun, while still carrying on with the fastest ladies
of the Court and the town, had just wheedled the Princess into making
him a present of twenty millions,--a most extravagant gift.

"This is too much!"

exclaimed the King; and he at once caused a letter to be despatched to
Mademoiselle and her lover, telling them that their intimacy must
cease, and that things must go no farther.

But the audacious Lauzun found means to suborn a well-meaning
simpleton of a priest, who married them secretly the very same
day.

The King's indignation and resentment may well be imagined. He had his
captain of the guard arrested and sent as a prisoner to Pignerol.

On this occasion, M. de Lauzun complained bitterly of me; he invented
the most absurd tales about me, even saying that he had struck me
in my own apartments, after taunting me to my face with "our old
intimacy."

That is false; he reproached me with nothing, for there was nothing
to reproach. Shortly after the Princess's grand scene, he came and
begged me to intercede on his behalf.

I only made a sort of vague promise, and he knew well enough that, in
the great world, a vague promise is the same as a refusal.

For more than six months I had to stanch the tears and assuage the grief
of Mademoiselle. So tiresome to me did this prove, that she alone
well-nigh sufficed to make me quit the Court.

Such sorrowing and chagrin made her lose the little beauty that still
remained to her; nothing seemed more incongruous and ridiculous than to
hear this elderly grand lady talking perpetually about "her dearest
darling, the prisoner."
At the time I write he is at Pignerol; his bad disposition is forever
getting him into trouble. She sends him lots of money unknown to the
King, who generally knows everything.

All this money he squanders or gambles away, and when funds are low,
says, "The old lady will send us some."

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Hyde, the Chancellor.--Misfortune Not Always Misfortune.--Prince
Comnenus.--The King at Petit-Bourg.--His Incognito.--Who M. de Vivonne
Really Was.

The castle of Petit-Bourg, of which the King made me a present, is
situate on a height overlooking the Seine, whence one may get the
loveliest of views.

So pleasant did I find this charming abode, that I repaired thither as
often as possible, and stayed for five or six days.
One balmy summer night, I sat in my dressing-gown at the central
balcony, watching the stars, as was my wont, asking myself whether
I should not be a thousand times happier if I should pass my life in
a retreat like this, and so have time to contemplate the glorious
works of Nature, and to prepare myself for that separation which
sooner or later awaited me.

Reason bade me encourage such thoughts, yet my heart offered opposition
thereto, urging that there was something terrifying in solitude, most
of all here, amid vast fields and meadows, and that, away from the
Court and all my friends, I should grow old, and death would take
me before my, time.

While plunged in such thoughts, I suddenly heard the sound of a tocsin,
and scanning the horizon, I saw flames and smoke rising from some
hamlet or country-house.

I rang for my servants, and told them instantly to despatch horsemen to
the scene of the catastrophe, and bring back news.

The messengers started off, and soon came back to say that the fire
had broken out at the residence of my lord Hyde, Chancellor of
England, who was but lately convalescent.

They had seen him lying upon a rug on the grass, some little distance
from the burning mansion. I forthwith ordered my carriage to be sent
for him, and charged my surgeon and secretary to invite him to take
shelter at my castle.

My lord gratefully accepted the invitation; he entered my room as the
clock struck twelve. As yet he could not tell the cause of the
disaster, and in a calm, patriarchal manner observed, "I am a man marked
out for great misfortune.

God forbid, madame, that the mischance which dogs my footsteps touch you
also!"

"I cannot bear to see a fire," said I, in reply to the English nobleman,
"for some dreadful accident always results therefrom.

Yet, on the whole, they are of good augury, and I am sure, my lord,
that your health or your affairs will benefit by this accident."

Hearing me talk thus, my lord smiled. He only took some slight refreshment,--a
little soup,--and heard me give orders for all my available
servants to be sent to the scene of disaster, in order to save
all his furniture, and protect it as well.

After repeated expressions of his gratitude, he desired to withdraw,
and retired to rest.

Next day we learnt that the fire had been got under about one o'clock in
the morning; one wing only of the chateau had been destroyed, and
the library, together with all the linen and plate, was well-nigh
intact.

Lord Hyde was very glad to hear the news. They told him that all the
labourers living near had gladly come to the help of his servants
and mine.

As his private cashbox had been saved, owing to their vigilance and
honesty, he promised to distribute its contents among them when
he returned.

Hardly had he got the words out, when they came to tell me that,
on the highroad, just in front of my gates, a carriage, bound for
Paris, had the traces broken, and the travellers persons of distinction
begged the favour of my hospitality for a short while. I consented
with pleasure, and they went back to take the travellers my answer.

"You see, madame," said the Chancellor, "my bad luck is contagious;
no sooner have I set foot in this enchanting abode than its atmosphere
deteriorates.

A travelling-carriage passes rapidly by in front of the gates,
when lo! some invisible hand breaks it to pieces, and stops it from
proceeding any further."

Then I replied, "But how do you know, monsieur, that this mishap may not
prove a most agreeable adventure for the travellers to whom we are
about to give shelter? To begin with, they will have the honour of
making your acquaintance, and to meet with an illustrious person
is no common or frivolous event."

The servants announced the Princes Comnenus, who immediately entered
the salon.

Though dressed in travelling-costume, with embroidered gaiters, in the
Greek fashion, it was easy to see what they were. The son, a lad
of fourteen, was presented to me by his father, and when both were
seated, I introduced them to the Chancellor.

"The name is well known," observed the Prince, "even in Greece. My
lord married his daughter to the heir-presumptive to the English throne,
and England, being by nature ungrateful, has distressed this worthy
parent, while robbing him of all his possessions."
At these words Lord Hyde became greatly affected; he could not restrain
his tears, and fearing at first to compromise himself, he told us
that his exile was voluntary and self-imposed, or very nearly so.

After complimenting the Chancellor of a great kingdom, Prince Comnenus
thought that he ought to say something courteous and flattering
to myself.

"Madame," quoth he, "it is only now, after asking for hospitality
and generously obtaining it, that I and my son have learnt the name
of the lady who has so graciously granted us admission to this most
lovely place. For a moment we hesitated in awe. But now our eyes behold
her whom all Europe admires, whom a great King favours with his
friendship and confidence. What strange chances befall one in life!

Could I ever have foreseen so fortunate a mishap!"

I briefly replied to this amiable speech, and invited the travellers to
spend, at least, one day with us. They gladly accepted, and each retired
to his apartment until the time came for driving out.

Dinner was laid, and on the point of being served, when the King,
who was on his way from Fontainebleau, suddenly entered my room.

He had heard something about a fire, and came to see what had happened.
I at once informed him, telling him, moreover, that I had the Duke
of York's father-in-law staying with me at the moment.

"Lord Hyde, the Chancellor?" exclaimed the King. "I have never seen
him, and have always been desirous to make his acquaintance. The opportunity
is an easy and favourable one."
"But that is not all, Sire; I have other guests to meet you," said I.

"And who may they be?" inquired the King, smiling. "Just because I have
come in rough-and-ready plight, your house is full of people."

"But they are in rough-and-ready plight as well," I answered; "so
your Majesties must mutually excuse each other."

"Are you in fun or in earnest?" asked his Majesty. "Have you really
got some king stowed away in one of your rooms?"
"Not a king, Sire, but an emperor,--the Emperor of Constantinople
and Trebizond, accompanied by the Prince Imperial, his son.

You shall see two Greek profiles of the best sort, two finely cut
noses, albeit hooked, and almond-shaped eyes, like those of Achilles
and Agamemnon."

Then the King said, "Send for your groom of the chambers at once,
and tell him to give orders that my incognito be strictly observed.

You must introduce me to these dignitaries as your brother, M. de
Vivonne.

Under these conditions, I will join your party at table; otherwise,
I should be obliged to leave the castle immediately."

The King's wishes were promptly complied with; the footmen were let into
the secret, and I introduced "Monsieur de Vivonne" to my guests.

The talk, without being sparkling, was pleasant enough until dessert.

When the men-servants left us, it assumed a very different character. The
King induced the Chancellor to converse, and asked him if his exile were
owing to the English monarch personally, or to some parliamentary
intrigue.

"King Charles," replied his lordship, "is a prince to gauge whose
character requires long study. Apparently, he is the very soul of
candour, but no one is more deceitful than he. He fawns and smiles upon
you when in his heart of hearts he despises and loathe you.

When the Duke of York, unfortunately, became violently enamoured of my
daughter, he did not conceal his attachment from his brother, the King,
and at last asked for his approval to join his fortunes to my
daughter's, when the King, without offering opposition, contented himself
by pointing out the relative distance between their rank and position;
to which the Duke replied, 'But at one time you did everything you
possibly could to get Olympia Mancini, who was merely Mazarin's niece!'
And King Charles, who could not deny this, left his brother complete
liberty of action.

"As my daughter was far dearer and more precious to me than social
grandeur, I begged the Duke of York to find for himself a partner of
exalted rank. He gave way to despair, and spoke of putting an end to
his existence; in fact, he behaved as all lovers do whom passion
touches to madness; so this baleful marriage took place.

God is my witness that I opposed it, urged thereto by wisdom, by modesty,
and by foresight.

Now, as you see, from that cruel moment I have been exiled to alien
lands, robbed of the sight of my beloved child, who has been raised to
the rank of a princess, and whom I shall never see again. Why did my
sovereign not say to me frankly, I do not like this marriage; you
must oppose it, Chancellor, to please me?

"How different was his conduct from that of his cousin, the French
King!

Mademoiselle d'Orleans wanted to make an unsuitable match; the King
opposed it, as he had a right to do, and the marriage did not take place."

My "brother," the King, smiled as he told his lordship he was right.

Prince Comnenus was of the same opinion, and, being expressly invited
to do so, he briefly recounted his adventures, and stated the
object of his journey to Paris.

"The whole world," said he, "is aware of the great misfortunes of my
family.

The Emperors Andronicus and Michael Comnenus, driven from the throne
of Constantinople, left their names within the heart and memory of
Greece; they had ruled the West with a gentle sceptre, and in a people's
grateful remembrance they had their reward. My ancestors, their
descendants, held sway in Trebizond, a quicksand which gave way beneath
their tread.

From adversity to adversity, from country to country, we were finally
driven to seclusion in the Isle of Candia, part of the quondam Minos
territory. Venice had allowed Candia to fall before Mahomet's bloody
sword.

Europe lost her bulwark, the Cross of the Saviour was thrown down, and
the Candian Christians have been massacred or forced to flee. I have
left in the hands of the conqueror my fields and forests, my summer
palace, my winter palace, and my gardens filled with the produce of
America, Asia, and Europe. From this overwhelming disaster I managed
to save my son; and as my sole fortune I brought away with me the large
jewels of Andronicus, his ivory and sapphire sceptre, his scimitar
of Lemnos, and his ancient gold crown, which once encircled Theseus's
brow.

"These noble relics I shall present to the King of France. They
say that he is humane, generous, fond of glory, and zealous
in the cause of justice.

When before his now immovable throne he sees laid down these last relics
of an ancient race, perhaps he will be touched by so lamentable a downfall,
and will not suffer distress to trouble my last days, and darken
the early years of this my child."

During this speech I kept watching the King's face. I saw that he was
interested, then touched, and at last was on the point of forgetting
his incognito and of appearing in his true character.

"Prince," said he to the Greek traveller, "my duties and my devotion
make it easy for me to approach the King of France's person very
closely. In four or five days he will be leaving Fontainebleau for
his palace at Saint Germain. I will tell him without modification all
that I have just heard from you. Without being either prophet or seer,
I can guarantee that you will be well received and cordially welcomed,
receiving such benefits as kings are bound to yield to kings.

So we toiled upwards, Dan always leading, and sometimes I saw
him turning and knew he was speaking; but the wind cut the words as
they left his lips, and bore them tearing and shrieking to the sea
below.

Before we gained the top of the hill I saw Dan climbing upwards from
the old peat track, and I followed dumbly as he led me into an old
quarry, long since disused except by the sheep on the warm summer days,
and there we lay almost exhausted, content just to know that the storm
rushed over our pitiful retreat, and it seems droll to me now that I
spoke scarcely above my breath; but then it seemed as though the
storm-king might hear me if I raised my voice.

But when Dan spoke the black anger was trembling in his voice.

"They're lying there snug and dry in our cove, d---n them, and that
poor _Gull_ straining and crying out there, reaching for her hame, and
them ready to pounce on her crew, the crawling slinks,"--and I knew he
was thinking of the Preventive men.

In a while we crawled to the path again, and clawed our way to the top
of the hill, and there below us was a wondrous sight.  The sea ran
inwards in a noble bay, and the bay was almost landlocked with an
island, but down below us was a myriad twinkling lights, hundreds of
them, rising and falling.  The snow had taken off for a little, and a
hazy moon hurrying behind grey clouds showed us the ships tossing and
straining at their cables.  Some of the lights seemed to move slowly
past the others, and these I took to be vessels dragging their anchors.

We stood looking down a while, for with the stopping of the snow a
weight seemed to be lifted from us, and then made our way downwards
towards the sea.  After our fight upwards, the descent seemed easy and
almost calm, although the wind was howling still; but we were close to
farmed land now, and company, and once in a field sheltered by the wood
of the Point, we came on sheep, standing and lying close in by the
trees, and Dan bawled into my ear, "The hogs are doing finely, Hamish;
I hadna expected to see them," and I remembered that we were wintering
sheep with old Hector of the Point as well as Easdale and Birrican.  We
struck the shore road and passed the big rock, and the sea was washing
over the road, carrying spars, and bamboos, and sailors' beds, and
leaving them high and dry on the fields by the roadside.

Groups of noisy seamen passed us with a great clop-clopping of
sea-boots, and many little thatch houses we hurried by, until we came
to the Quay Inn, where there were many people gathered, and pushed
ourselves through drunken, quarrelling sailors to the counter.


[1] Forage.


CHAPTER VII.

WE SAIL IN McKELVIE'S SKIFF TO THE HOLY ISLAND.

Through the throng of bearded sailors we strode and made our way to the
kitchen of the Quay Inn.  A place sacred to kenspeckle folk it was, and
from its smoke-stained rafters hung many pieces of bacon and dried
shallots, and there were also bunches of centaury, and camomile, and
dandelion root, and bogbean, for the goodman's wife was cunning in
medicines of the older-fashioned sort.  In this place the noise from
the common room was not so plainly heard, and indeed it gave me the
impression of a haven from the boisterous spirit there.

As I stood before the blazing fire, guiltily conscious of the puddle of
water at my feet where the snow had melted, Dan left the kitchen by a
door leading to a yard and stables, and I heard him speaking to some
one; and then when he came back there was the goodwife with him, and
Dan cried for a long hot drink, for the flesh was frozen on his bones.
At that the goodwife, with many "to be sures" and "of courses," hurried
herself here and there, and all the time she would be talking of the
sheep in this terrible weather, and of our long tramp across the hill;
and then she handed us the drink, and would not be having any payment
at all for it, for were we not freens of her ain folk (however far
out), and strangers too, moreover?  And then the low door opened, and
the innkeeper entered from the taproom, a dark man, very heavy across
the shoulders, and a little bent on his legs like a sailor.  I had seen
him as we entered, black-bearded, silent, with his two swarthy sons,
eyeing his company from below pent-house brows.  His eyes, blue and
keen, took us in from stem to stern, as the sailors say, and he came
close to Dan before the fire, and--

"Ay," says he, "it'll be the boat again," and his voice was a growl.

"Just that," says Dan, sipping his drink, and then he talked quickly,
and I heard him tell of Mirren Stuart's message and of Dol Rob Beag's
treachery (for he had taken the word to the Preventives of where McGilp
kept his cargo in the cove above the Snib before it was carted inland,
or stowed in many an innocent-looking smack bound for the mainland).

"Dol Rob Beag will be slipping his cable one of these fine nights,"
growled the listener; and then, "There's just the caves at the Rhu
Ban," [1] says he.

"I had that in my head," says Dan, "for the gangers are in the Cove at
Bealach an sgadan, and McGilp will be in the Channel.  McDearg o' the
Isle House is in this to his oxters.  There's just nothing for it but
to show a glim on the seaward side o' the Isle, and McGilp will take
the _Gull_ to the Rhu Ban when the wind takes off; but, man, it's
risky, devilish risky, wi' the bay fou o' boats."

"It's the deil's own night," agreed the innkeeper, "black as pitch and
blowing smoke, but the snow will be helping us too," and then we sat
before the fire all silent for a while, the goodwife busy with her
infusions and brews.

"Will ye be remembering the night they pressganged McKillop?" thus
suddenly to Dan.

"A droll night's work yon."

"Ye see," turning to me, "this Neil McKillop would be a likely lad,
clever on the boats, and clever wi' the snares--ay, clever, clever--and
kept his mother well.  Ay--well, there came a night like this, but not
so much wind, and the pressgang boat slipped into the bay, and nobody
knowing, and ashore came the crew o' her, and many's the likely lad
they took, and among them Neil McKillop.  The boat would just be
shoving off from the old Stone Quay when his mother came there in her
white mutch.

"'Give me back my son, my only son,' she cried, standing on the
quay-head; 'you will not be taking away the one that keeps me in meat
and drink, me an old, old woman.  Och, bring him back, my lad, and I'll
be blessing ye and praying for ye in your bloody wars.'

"At that a tarry breeks up with an oar and skelps a splash o' water at
the old woman, and laughed at her with the wind blowing her skirts, and
showing her lean shanks.

"'Go back to your weeds and your snakes, ye witch," he cries in the
Gaelic; 'we'll make a sailor-man out o' your whelp,' and the oars began
to plash.

"Down on her knees went the old _cailleach_.  'Bring him to me, ye
hounds, before I put a curse on ye,' and she tore her coorie from her
head, and the wind tore through the strands of her white hair, and they
rose like elf-locks.  High above her head she threw her arm, her
fingers stiff and pointing, there on the quay-head, an awesome sight in
the mirk of a half moon.

"Then slowly, slowly, softly she began--

"'Cursed be ye all, seed, breed, and generations o' ye.  The madness o'
the sea come on ye in the still night watches, friendless, friendless
on the face o' the waters be your lives, and your deaths too foul for
the sea to be giving you a cleanly burial.'  Then in a skirl o' rage,
her face working, 'The foul things o' the deep shall reive the flesh
from ye in your death, and in your lives ye shall mourn for the quiet
streams o' fresh water and the sight of green things growing--and
never, never, never get nigh them. . . .'

"In the boat the men lay on their oars, with faces white below the tan
o' wind and weather, and then hurriedly she came astern, and Neil
McKillop sprang on the quay, and to his mother, and the pressgang boat
shot into the haze off the land, and the mother and son went back to
the croft on the hillside."

His tale finished, McKelvie drained his glass at a gulp, and his lips
pressed together as though he were unwilling that even the volatile
essence might escape, and then--

"We'll go," says he.  "Robin!"

At his word one of the swarthy sons entered and stood waiting, and
through the open door to the common room I saw groups of sailors,
asleep on the floor before the fire, and asleep on the benches where
they sat; yet some hardened drinkers kept the drink going.

"Ye see, Hamish," Dan whispered, "there's a big sea running, and these
sailor boys would rather risk the floor than their wee boats."

I felt a sinking at my heart, for I knew that the sailors were sweirt
to risk their lives, yet there was not one timid face among them, but
many bold and truculent--men used to risk their lives, and maybe
enjoying the risk.  But I held my peace, for I thought shame of my
terror, and before Dan too.  So the four of us went out quietly the
back way and came to the quay, where we found a boat on the lee side,
afloat, and with the mast stepped, and all ready for hoisting the sail,
and I wondered if Dan's talking to the goodwife in the inn yard had had
anything to do with it, for the boats at that time of the year were
mostly upturned on the beach, and indeed most of the dingies and gigs
from the ships were also drawn up.

Robin McKelvie slipped down the quay-wall as nimbly as a cat, and
busied himself with the sail, doing what I know not, though I prayed he
might not loosen any reef, and his father followed, more slowly, for he
was a heavier man, but wonderfully active in a boat.  Then Dan bade me
climb down, and I scrambled down and found my feet on a gunwale just as
I expected to feel the water, so I sat down in the boat suddenly, and
Dan was beside me in a wee while.

Robin had the sail up, and made fast, as his father cast off and took
the tiller, and the roar of the sea all round me as we sailed from the
lee of the quay at first filled me with fear, but soon I felt the skiff
rise to the first sea, and I forgot my terror in watching the helmsman.

"Ay, ay," he spoke softly; "they're coming now, the three sisters," and
his eyes seemed to pierce the gloom for the three rolling curling waves
as he shouldered the skiff over them.  Sometimes I watched the water
curling over the gunwale, and wondered if ever again I would reach the
land, and then a wave would break somewhere near, and the helmsman
would mutter--

"I ken ye; I will be hearing your whispering," and it seemed to me as
if he were a cunning old warrior in the midst of well-tried foes, wary
and courageous, and always winning through.  But in the middle of the
bay the waves rose madly round us, the stout skiff was tossed like a
cork, now perched giddily on the crest, and now racing madly to the
trough, and then to the crest again with a horrible side motion (which
I think seamen call yawing), most fearful of all.  But McKelvie spoke
to his boat as I have heard horsemen speak to their horses.

When a squall struck us and the skiff lay down to it, he would croon
softly--

"You will not be killing yourself, lass--easy, easy,--oh, but you are
eager for the sea," and I knew that I was watching a master hand, a man
cunning in the moods of the sea; but as I sat he bade me bale the water
out of the boat, for it was slushing about high over the floor-boards,
and these had come adrift, and were moving with every motion, so I
baled with a will, glad for something mechanical to do, to keep my eyes
off the menacing waves which seemed to rush up to devour us, and as if
we were too poor a prey, spurned us away.  Then I saw that we were in
calmer water, and the steep shore of the Isle seemed close to, and the
light of the white house clear, and in a little time the sail came
rattling down, and the skiff's keel grated on the flat gravel, and we
sprang ashore and put the anchor on the beach though the tide was going
back.

And as we made our way over the gravelly shore I saw a crouching figure
rise from among the wrack and come to us.

"Oh, oh; have ye come for me, father?  Have ye come for me at last?"
and a girl flung herself into McKelvie's arms, and hung there crying.

"Wheest, lass, wheest," commanded the innkeeper sternly.

"Oh, I just crept as near the sea as I could go, for oh, yon hoose is
no' canny, and a' day the ravens from the Red Rocks have walked in at
the doors, fluttering and croaking, and the Red Man is crying that he's
gaun tae his hame the night; and McRae piping to him a' day, and him
drinking and blaspheming. . . ."

"If McDearg's gaun the night, we'll maybe hae news tae stop him, my
dear," said Dan.  "Anywie, ye're surely no' feart of a raven's
croaking?"

With that we started for the Isle House, the whitewash of it looking
yellowish against the snow, and all about us the flapping of wings and
the crying of sea-birds as our feet scrunched on the gravel.

"I canna go there," cried the lass.  "I just canna; let me bide in the
boat," and then, as she saw her brother take the lantern from the bows,
she ran to him.

"Take me wi' ye, Robin.  I'll speil tae the Goat's Ledge wi' ye; but
oh, do not be making me go back there. . . ."

"Wheest, my lassie, my poor wee lassie," said her father; "there's nae
harm will come on you, wi' your father and Robin beside ye; but you
will not be mentioning any Goat's Ledge, for the devil himself will
carry word to the Preventives."

So, standing some way from the skiff, we held a council of war, and at
length Robin took his lantern and left us to climb to the Goat Ledge
and make the warning signal, should M'Gilp be in the channel, and we
others made for an outhouse, where we left McKelvie's lass content
enough wi' two collies, for she was at her service in the Isle House,
and they kent her.  We left her there sitting on a bag of corn and the
dogs at her feet, and made our way through the yard to the house.


[1] Bhuda ban=white headland.


CHAPTER VIII.

THE DEATH OF McDEARG, THE RED LAIRD.

While we were still in the yard the door opened, throwing a scad of
light over the snow, and a high screiching voice came to us--

"Come in, lads, come in; the lassies are weary waiting for their lads,
the poor bit things, sair negleckit on this weary isle, wi' nane to see
their ankles but scarts[1] and solangeese."

And as we entered she held out a dry wrinkled hand.

"Prosperous New Year, Young Dan.  Six bonny sons Auld Kate wishes ye,
tall braw lads that'll no feel the weight o' your coffin; but if a'
tales be true, you'll no' be in want.  Ech, they're clever, clever,
your lassies.  Same to you, McKelvie.  Your lass has ta'en the rue the
day.  Happy New Year, young sir; you'll be a McBride too," and the old
withered crone peered at me through eyes bleared, as it seemed to me,
with the peat reek of a hundred winters.

I was sore amazed at our welcome, for it was not near New Year, and I
wondered if the scad of light on the snow, shining on us, had taken the
old woman back to her younger days, but Dan took me out of my amazement.

"Humour her, Hamish; humour the weemen.  A new face is New Year to Auld
Kate that keeps house tae McDearg."

"Och, it's the lassies will be the pleased ones, coiling the blankets
round them; it's Auld Kate that kens," and then she gave a screitchy
hooch and began to sing in her cracked thin voice--

  'The man's no' born and he never will be,
  The man's no born that will daunton me.'

It's that I used to be singing to your grandfather, Dan, when I was at
my service in Nourn.  He had a terrible grip, your grandfather, and the
devil was in him; but he's deid, they're a' deid but Auld Kate.  But
we'll have a dram, and you'll be seeing the Red Laird."  And in a
little I saw that there was more than old age the matter.

There came the noise of piping in that strange house, and we tramped
along a stone-flagged passage, and entered a room looking to the sea,
and there, before a great fire, was McDearg, an old man, with evil
looking from his eyes.  He sat in his great chair, his head on his
breast, and his shepherd, with the pipes on his knee, sat listening.

"A brave night, a brave night, and the devil on the roof-tree, McBride.
What seek ye o' the Red Laird?  The _Gull_, say ye; the Preventives--to
hell wi' the Preventives; there's a bonny cove at the Rhu Ban, lads;
but ye're in good time to see the devil coming for Red Roland."

A terrible squall struck the house and moaned round the gables, and the
lowes blew into the room.

"D'ye hear him, the laughing o' him, and his blackbirds spying all
day--ay, the Ravens from the Red Rocks; but they have nae terrors for
Roland McDearg."

A long time he was silent, and then slowly the words came--

"McRae, McRae (for the McRaes were all pipers), play me back, back till
I hear my mother laughing, in the evening, till I see the grass, green,
green and beautiful in the sun, and the golden ben-weeds swaying to the
breeze, and I am a boy again--I, Red Roland, searching among the
heather, with the scent o' wild honey around me, searching for the shy
white heather to bring coyly to my lass, and bravely the sun shines
among the hills, and the hawk's brown wings flutter in the blue vault.
Play me back, McRae, till I hear the water wimpling on the hill burns,
when I lie flat to drink, the brown peaty water, McRae, and the sheep
looking at me before they run.  The sun and the sea and the wild winds
o' my youth, McRae; bring them back to me before I go."

As he spoke, the Red Laird lolled his head on the back of his chair.
His eyes were closed, and his mind looked backwards; and as he cried
for the sun and the growing grass and the wave of the wind in the hay,
his hand rose and fell.  And McRae, McRae the piper, looked long into
the glowing fire, looked till his harsh face softened and the smiling
came round his eyes, and softly, softly he played.  And in his playing
I saw the goodman bend over his wife and whisper.  I saw her face glow
in the evening sun, and I heard her laughter, clear and sweet like
diamonds ajingle, as she struck him playfully, and walked stately and
slow to the green where her children played on the lush grass, and ever
and ever she looked over her shoulder for her man, because he was her
lover still.  And I saw a boy moving among the crags, the honey dust
round his knees, and ever and ever his eyes searched the heather, and I
heard his cry of gladness as he fell down beside the lucky heather,
white and chaste as a virgin.

And I looked at Dan and saw him far away in his youth, and even
McKelvie looked not comfortable.  But the Laird was all happy, a boy
again with all his days before him, and when McRae made an end of his
piping, said Dan with a queer sigh--

"A great gift, Hamish, to be drowned in drink," and as I watched the
piper gulp his usquebach I kent what he meant.

But at his stopping, the Laird rose.  "Let be the days o' innocence,
McRae.  The March, The March, now, and the onset o' battle.  Dirl it
out, dirl it out, for Red Roland was first in the charge, and the cries
o' fear made the blood tingle in his back, the women screaming, and the
men crying, and the red blood flowing, and my father's sword dauntless
in the van--bring it back, McRae.  Make my cauld blood hot as in my
manhood."

When he cried for the battle-music, his clenched fist beat the air, his
long locks tossed like an old lion's mane, and the war love shone in
his eyes.  A great change came on the piper.  He stood his full height,
as straight as a young larch tree, and a cold deadly pride came on his
face, and then with a great swing he threw the drones to his shoulder,
his arm caressed the bag, and his foot beat, beat, beat like a restive
horse, till he got the very swing of his pibroch.

Then with that fine prideful swing of his shoulders he started to
march, and I saw the clansmen gather, wet from the mountain torrents,
with knees red-scarred by the briars of many a wood.  I heard the
clamour of their talk, and the high note of their anger, and then
swiftly, silently, below a pale moon I saw their ranks lock and the
grim march begin, onward, onward to the southlands.

And then I heard the wail of the southern mothers, and the laughing cry
of the clansmen as the foemen stood to arms, the wild devilish lilt of
it for glory or a laughing death, and all around a black, black land,
lighted alone with blazing farms, and the broad red swathe where the
hillmen trailed.  Came the very struggle, the gasping for breath, the
cry of the fallen, the hand-to-hand grip, and then the great blare of
triumph, and the Red Laird yelled aloud--

"Through, by God, through!"

"I've lived my life, McBride, my ain wild life, and the sadness is
coming on me, to leave my bonny hills and the cold splash o' a summer's
sea.  The sadness o' the silent peaks and the gloom o' the hidden
valleys, McBride--ay, but it's fine, the sadness, better than the
heated joys o' the south."  And again McRae played, looking into the
heart of the fire, and the far-away look in his eyes, and as he played
I felt a lump rise in my throat, for a sorrow I kent not, except that
the wind moaned eerily through the thatch, and grey and gurly grew the
sea, with the black jackdaws flying low inshore.  The uneasy cattle
were lowing in the byre, and the rain fell in great drops from the
leafless trees--fell on the cold wet earth, and the fire on the hearth
was out, and cold white ash marked where nevermore would peat be
lighted; and oh! I heard the wail of the mourners, and saw the sobbing
daughter cling to her mother, and the youngest son leave for the wars,
the last of his house and name, and his name forgotten in the glens
already.

"Stop him, stop him," I cried; "there's cold death at my very side, and
his breath on my cheek like an east wind," and I would have run from
the room.

"Death," cried the Red Laird--"death.  I flouted him in my youth; I
wrestled with him and flung him from me.  I laughed at his cold eyes
across a naked sword, and spurned him on the heather; but now in my
age, when my bones are brittle and my arms shrunk, he creeps behind me
again, sure, sure o' his prey," and as he spoke he crouched like a
stealthy enemy, one groping hand outstretched.  Then he flung himself
upright, his eyes flashing, dauntless as a lion.

"Come then, Death, to the last grips wi' Red Roland; ay, your cold hand
is at my throat, old warrior--ay, but mine is firmer yet.  The Onset,
the Onset, the blare o' it, the madness o' it for Red Roland's last
fight," and at his words the swinging lamp went out with the last great
gust of the gale, and in the darkness came the crash of a fallen man,
and Red Roland lay dead in the red glow of his own fire.  And as we
stood there, Robin McKelvie came in with the word that the _Gull_ was
battling in the channel.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

And they carried the dead man and laid him decently on his bed.

Behind Robin, the house servants, stout dairymaids from the mainland,
stood awhisper, their sonsy red cheeks pale and mottled with fear, and
among them came the bullock-feeders; for the Red Laird fattened stock
for the mainland markets, and had his own quay, where the carrying
vessels moored in these days, and from the kitchen came the moaning of
old Kate.

"Ochone, ochone, he's gone, the strong one, and I mind me when his back
was like a barn door and the love-locks curling on his brow," and she
came into the chamber wringing pitiful, toil-worn hands, and the
servants after her, ashiver to be left alone in the dim passage.  Her
Majesty was told so, and desired to see my child, and when she perceived
how striking was the resemblance, she took a fancy to the charming little
girl, and requested that she might frequently be brought to see her.
Such friendliness proved unlucky, for the Infanta, as is well known,
has never been able to rear one of her children,--a great pity,
certainly, for she has had five, all handsome, well-made, and of
gracious, noble mien, like the King.

In the case of Mademoiselle de Tours, the Queen managed to conquer
her dislike, and also sent for the Duc du Maine.

Despite her affection for M. le Dauphin, she herself admitted that if
Monseigneur had the airs of a gentleman, M. le Duc du Maine looked
the very type of a king's son.

The Duc du Maine, Madame de Maintenon's special pupil, was so well trained
to all the exigencies of his position and his rank, that such premature
perfection caused him to pass for a prodigy. Than his, no smile could
be more winning and sweet; no one could carry himself with greater
dignity and ease. He limps slightly, which is a great pity,
especially as he has such good looks, and so graceful a figure;
his lameness, indeed, was entirely the result of an accident,--a
sad accident, due to teething.

To please the King, his governess took him once to Auvez, and twice to
the Pyrenees, but neither the waters nor the Auvez quack doctors
could effect a cure.

At any rate, I was fortunate enough to bring up this handsome prince,
who, if he treat me with ceremony, yet loves me none the less.

Brought up by the Duc de Montausier, a sort of monkish soldier, and by
Bossuet, a sort of military monk, Monsieur le Dauphin had no good
examples from which to profit.

Crammed as he is with Latin, Greek, German, Spanish, and Church history,
he knows all that they teach in colleges, being totally ignorant of all
that can only be learnt at the Court of a king. He has no distinction
of manner, no polish or refinement of address; he laughs in loud
guffaws, and even raises his voice in the presence of his father.
Having been born at Court, his way of bowing is not altogether
awkward; but what a difference between his salute and that of the
King!

"Monseigneur looks just like a German prince." That speech exactly hits
him off,--a portrait sketched by no other brush than that of his
royal father.

Monseigneur, who does not like me, pays me court the same as any one else.
Being very jealous of the pretty Comte de Vermandois and his brother,
the Duc du Maine, he tries to imitate their elegant manner, but is too
stiff to succeed. The Duc du Maine shows him the respect inspired by his
governess, but the Comte de Vermandois, long separated from his mother,
has been less coached in this respect, and being thoroughly
candid and sincere, shows little restraint.

Often, instead of styling him "Monseigneur," he calls him merely "Monsieur
le Dauphin," while the latter, as if such a title were common or of
no account, looks at his brother and makes no reply.

When I told the King about such petty fraternal tiffs, he said, "With
age, all that will disappear; as a man grows taller, he gets a
better, broader view of his belongings."

M. le Dauphin shows a singular preference for Mademoiselle de Nantes,
but my daughter, brimful of wit and fun, often makes merry at the
expense of her exalted admirer.

Mademoiselle de Blois, the eldest daughter of Madame de la Valliere,
is the handsomest, most charming person it is possible to imagine.
Her slim, graceful figure reminds one of the beautiful goddesses,
with whom poets entertain us; she abounds in accomplishments and every
sort of charm. Her tender solicitude for her mother, and their constant
close companionship, have doubtless served to quicken her intelligence
and penetration.

Like the King, she is somewhat grave; she has the same large brown eyes,
and just his Austrian lip, his shapely hand and well-turned leg, almost
his selfsame voice. Madame de la Valliere, who, in the intervals of
pregnancy, had no bosom to speak of, has shown marked development
in this respect since living at the convent.

The Princess, ever since she attained the age of puberty, has always
seemed adequately furnished with physical charms.

The King provided her with a husband in the person of the Prince de Conti,
a nephew of the Prince de Conde.

They are devotedly attached to each other, being both as handsome as
can be. The Princesse de Conti enjoys the entire affection of the
Queen, who becomes quite uneasy if she does not see her for five
or six days.

Certain foreign princes proposed for her hand, when the King replied
that the presence of his daughter was as needful to him as daylight
or the air he breathed.

I have here surely drawn a most attractive portrait of this princess,
and I ought certainly to be believed, for Madame de Conti is not
fond of me at all.

Possibly she looks upon me as the author of her mother's disgrace; I
shall never be at pains to undeceive her. Until the moment of her
departure, Madame de la Valliere used always to visit me. The evening
before her going she took supper with me, and I certainly had no cause
to read in her looks either annoyance or reproach. Mademoiselle de
Montpensier, who happened to call, saw us at table, and stayed to have
some dessert with us. She has often told me afterwards how calm and
serene the Duchess looked. One would never have thought she was about
to quit a brilliant Court for the hair shirt of the ascetic, and
all the death-in-life of a convent. I grieved for her, I wept for her,
and I got her a grand gentleman as a husband.

[This statement is scarcely reconcilable with the fact that Madame
de la Valliere remained in a convent until her death.

This may refer to Mademoiselle de Blois, La Valliere's daughter, who
was given in marriage to the Prince de Conti.

--EDITOR'S NOTE.]

CHAPTER LI.

Madame de Maintenon's Character.--The Queen Likes Her.--She Revisits Her
Family.--Her Grandfather's Papers Restored to Her.

As Madame de Maintenon's character happened to please the King, as
I have already stated, he allotted her handsome apartments at Court while
waiting until he could keep her there as a fixture, by conferring upon
her some important appointment. She had the honour of being presented
to the Queen, who paid her a thousand compliments respecting the
Duc du Maine's perfections, being so candid and so good natured as
to say:
"You would have been just the person to educate Monseigneur."

Unwilling to appear as if she slighted the Dauphin's actual tutors,
Madame de Maintenon adroitly replied that, as it seemed to her, M. le
Dauphin had been brought up like an angel.

It is said that I have special talent for sustaining and enlivening
a conversation; there is something in that, I admit, but to do her
justice, I must say that in this respect Madame de Maintenon is without
a rival.
She has quite a wealth of invention; the most arid subject in her
hands becomes attractive; while for transitions, her skill is unequalled.
Far simpler than myself, she gauges her whole audience with a single
glance.

And as, since her misfortunes, her rule has been never to make an
enemy, since these easily crop up along one's path, she is careful
never to utter anything which could irritate the feelings or wound
the pride of the most sensitive.

Her descriptions are so varied, so vivacious, that they fascinate a
whole crowd. If now and again some little touch of irony escapes her,
she knows how to temper and even instantly to neutralise this by terms
of praise at once natural and simple.

Under the guise of an extremely pretty woman, she conceals the
knowledge and tact of a statesman.

I have, moreover, noticed that latterly the King likes to talk about matters
of State when she is present. He rarely did this with me.

I think she is at the outset of a successful career. The King
made persistent inquiries with regard to her whole family. He has already
conferred a petty governorship upon the Comte d'Aubigne, her brother,
and the Marquis de la Gallerie, their cousin, has just received the
command of a regiment, and a pension.

Madame de Maintenon readily admits that she owes her actual good
fortune to myself.

I also saw one of her letters to Madame de Saint-Geran, in which she
refers to me in terms of gratitude. Sometimes, indeed, she goes too far,
even siding with my husband, and condemning what she dares to term my
conduct; however, this is only to my face.

I have always liked her, and in spite of her affronts, I like her
still; but there are times when I am less tolerant, and then we are
like two persons just about to fall out.

The Comte de Toulouse and Mademoiselle de Blois were not entrusted to
her at their birth as the others were. The King thought that the
additional responsibility of their education would prove too great for
the Marquise.
He preferred to enjoy her society and conversation, so my two youngest
children were placed in the care of Madame d'Arbon, a friend or
stewardess of M. de Colbert. Not a great compliment, as I take it.

When, for the second time, Madame de Maintenon took the Duc du Maine
to Barege, she returned by way of the Landes, Guienne, and Poitou. She
wished to revisit her native place, and show her pupil to all her
relations. Perceiving that she was a marquise, the instructress of
princes, and a personage in high favour, they were lavish of their
compliments and their praise, yet forebore to give her back her
property.

Knowing that she was a trifle vain about her noble birth, they made over
to her the great family pedigree, as well as a most precious
manuscript.
These papers, found to be quite correct, included a most spirited
history of the War of the League, written by Baron Agrippa d'Aubigne,
who might rank as an authority upon the subject, having fought
against the Leaguers for over fifteen years.

Among these documents the King found certain details that hitherto had
been forgotten, or had never yet come to light.
And as the Baron was Henri IV.'

s favourite aide-decamp, every reference that he makes to that good king
is of importance and interest.

This manuscript, in the simplest manner possible, set forth the
governess's ancestors.

I am sure she was more concerned about this document than about her
property.

CHAPTER LII.

The Young Flemish Lady.--The Sainte-Aldegonde Family.--The Sage of the
Sepulchres.

Just at the time of the conquest of Tournai, a most amusing thing
occurred, which deserves to be chronicled.

Another episode may be recorded also, of a gloomier nature.

Directly Tournai had surrendered, and the new outposts were occupied,
the King wished to make his entry into this important town, which he had
long desired to see. The people and the burghers, although mute and
silent, willingly watched the French army and its King march past,
but the aristocracy scarcely showed themselves at any of the
windows, and the few folk who appeared here and there on the balconies
abstained from applauding the King.

Splendidly apparelled, and riding the loveliest of milk-white steeds,
his Majesty proceeded upon his triumphant way, surrounded by the
flower of French nobility, and scattering money as he went.

Before the Town Hall the procession stopped, when the magistrates
delivered an address, and gave up to his Majesty the keys of the
city in a large enamelled bowl.

When the King, looking calmly contented, was about to reply, he observed
a woman who had pushed her way through the French guardsmen, and staring
hard at him, appeared anxious to get close up to him. In fact, she
advanced a step or two, and the epithet that crossed her lips struck the
conqueror as being coarsely offensive.

"Arrest that woman," cried the King. She was instantly seized and
brought before him.

"Why do you insult me thus?" he asked quickly, but with dignity.

"I have not insulted you," replied the Flemish lady. "The word that
escaped me was rather a term of flattery and of praise, at least if
it has the meaning which it conveys to us here, in these semi-French
parts."

"Say that word again," added the King; "for I want everybody to bear
witness that I am just in punishing you for such an insult."

"Sire," answered this young woman, "your soldiers have destroyed my
pasture-lands, my woods, and my crops. Heart-broken, I came here to
curse you, but your appearance at once made me change my mind. On
looking closer at you, in spite of my grief, I could not help exclaiming,
'So that's the handsome b-----, is it!'"
The grenadiers, being called as witnesses, declared that such was in
fact her remark. Then the King smiled, and said to the young Flemish
lady:

"Who are you? What is your name?"
With readiness and dignity she replied, "Sire, you see before you the
Comtesse de Sainte-Aldegonde."
"Pray, madame," quoth the King, "be so good as to finish your toilet; I
invite you to dine with me to-day."
Madame de Sainte-Aldegonde accepted the honour, and did in fact dine
with his Majesty that day.

She was clever, and made herself most agreeable, so that the King, whose
policy it was to win hearts by all concessions possible, indemnified
her for all losses sustained during the war, besides granting
favours to all her relatives and friends.

The Sainte-Aldegonde family appeared at Court, being linked thereto
by good services.

It is already a training-ground for excellent officers and persons
of merit.

But for that somewhat neat remark of the Countess's, all those gentlemen
would have remained in poverty and obscurity within the walls or in
the suburbs of Tournai.

Some days after this, the King was informed of the arrest of a most
dangerous individual, who had been caught digging below certain ancient
aqueducts "with a view to preparing a mine of some sort."

This person was brought in, tied and bound like a criminal; they hustled
him and maltreated him. I noticed how he trembled and shed tears.

He was a learned man--an antiquary. A few days before our invasion he
had commenced certain excavations, which he had been forced to
discontinue, and now so great was his impatience that he had been
obliged to go on in spite of the surrounding troops.

By means of an old manuscript, long kept by the Druids, as also by
monks, this man had been able to discover traces of an old Roman
highroad, and as in the days of the Romans the tombs of the rich
and the great were always placed alongside these broad roads, our
good antiquary had been making certain researches there, which for
him had proved to be a veritable gold-mine.

Having made confession of all this to the King, his Majesty set him
free, granting him, moreover, complete liberty as regarded the
execution of his enterprise.

A few days afterwards he begged to have the honour of presenting to
his Majesty some of the objects which he had collected during his
researches.

I was present, and the following are the funereal curiosities which he
showed us:

Having broken open a tomb, he had extracted therefrom a large alabaster
vase, which still contained the ashes of the deceased.

Next this urn, carefully sealed up, there was another vase, containing
three gold rings adorned with precious stones, two gold spurs, the
bit of a battle-horse, very slightly rusted, and chased with silver
and gold, a sort of seal with rough coat-of-arms, a necklace of
large and very choice pearls, a stylet or pencil for calligraphy,
and a hundred gold and silver coins bearing the effigy of Domitian,
a very wicked emperor, who reigned over Rome and over Gaul in those
days.

When the King had amused himself with examining these trinkets, he
turned to the antiquary and said, "Is that all, sir?

Why, where is Charon's flask of wine?"

"Here, your Majesty," replied the old man, producing a small flask. "See,
the wine has become quite clear."

With great difficulty the flask was opened; the wine it contained
was pale and odourless, but by those bold enough to taste it, was
pronounced delicious.

When overturning the urn in order to empty out the ashes and bury
them, they noticed an inscription, which the King instantly translated.

It ran thus:
"May the gods who guard tombs punish him who breaks open this
mausoleum.

The troubles and misfortunes of Aurelius Silvius have been cruel
enough during his lifetime; in this tomb at least let him have
peace."

The worthy antiquary offered me his pearl necklace and one of the antique
rings, but I refused these with a look of horror. He sold the coins to
the King, and informed us that his various excavations and researches
had brought him in about one hundred thousand livres up to the present
time.

The King said to him playfully, "Mind what you are about, monsieur; that
sentence which I translated for you is not of a very, reassuring nature."

"Yet it will not serve to hinder me in my scientific researches,"
replied the savant. "Charon, who by now must be quite a rich man,
evidently disdains all such petty hidden treasures as these. To me
they are most useful."
Next time we passed through Tournai, I made inquiries as to this miser,
and afterwards informed the King. It appears that he was surprised by
robbers when despoiling one of these tombs. After robbing him of all
that he possessed, they buried him alive in the very, grave where he was
digging, so as to save expense. What a dismal sort of science! What
a life, and what a death!

CHAPTER LIII.

The Monks of Sainte Amandine.--The Prince of Orange Entrapped.--The
Drugged Wine.--The Admirable Judith.

After the furious siege of Conde, which lasted only four days, the
King, who had been present, left for Sebourg, whence he sent orders
for the destruction of the principal forts of Liege, and for the
ravaging of the Juliers district.

He treated the Neubourg estates in the same ruthless fashion, as the Duke
had abandoned his attitude of neutrality, and had joined the Empire,
Holland and Spain. All the Cleves district, and those between the Meuse
and the Vahal, were subjected to heavy taxation.
Everywhere one saw families in flight, castles sacked, homesteads
and convents in flames.

The Duc de Villa-Hermosa, Governor-General in Flanders for the King
of Spain, and William of Orange, the Dutch leader, went hither and
thither all over the country, endeavouring to rouse the people,
and spur them on to offer all possible resistance to the King of
France.

These two noble generalissimi even found their way into monasteries
and nunneries, and carried off their silver plate, actually, seizing
the consecrated vessels used for the sacrament, saying that all
such things would help the good cause.

One day they entered a wealthy Bernardine monastery, where the
miraculous tomb of Sainte Amandine was on view. The great veneration
shown for this saint in all the country thereabouts had served greatly
to enrich the community and bring them in numerous costly offerings.
The chapel wherein the saint's heart was said to repose was lighted
by a huge gold lamp, and on the walls and in niches right up to the
ceiling were thousands of votive offerings in enamel, silver, and
gold.

The Duc de Villa-Hermosa (a good Catholic) dared not give orders for
the pillage of this holy chapel, but left that to the Prince of
Orange (a good Huguenot).

One evening they came to ask the prior for shelter, who, seeing that
he was at the mercy of both armies, had to show himself pleasant to
each.

During supper, when the two generals informed him of the object
of their secret visit, he clearly perceived that the monastery was about
to be sacked, and like a man of resource, at once made up his mind. When
dessert came, he gave his guests wine that had been drugged. The
generals, growing drowsy, soon fell asleep, and the prior at once caused
them to be carried off to a cell and placed upon a comfortable
bed.

This done, he celebrated midnight mass as usual, and at its close he
summoned the whole community, telling them of their peril and
inviting counsel and advice.

"My brethren," asked he, "ought we not to look upon our prisoners as
profaners of holy places, and serve them in secret and before God as
once the admirable Judith served Holofernes?"
At this proposal there was a general murmur. The assembly grew agitated,
but seeing how perilous was the situation, order was soon restored.

The old monks were of opinion that the two generals ought not yet to be
sacrificed, but should be shut up in a subterranean dungeon, a messenger
being sent forthwith to the French King announcing their capture.

The young monks protested loudly against such an act, declaring it
to be treacherous, disgraceful, felonious.

The prior endeavoured to make them listen to reason and be silent, but
the young monks, though in a minority, got the upper hand. They deposed
the prior, abused and assaulted him, and finally flung him into
prison.

One of them was appointed prior without ballot, and this new leader,
followed by his adherents, roused the generals and officiously sent
them away.

The prior's nephew, a young Bernardine, accompanied by a lay brother
and two or three servants, set out across country that night, and brought
information to the King of all this disorder, begging his Majesty to
save his worthy uncle's life.

At the head of six hundred dragoons, the King hastened to the convent
and at once rescued the prior, sending the good old monks of Sainte
Amandine to Citeaux, and dispersing the rebellious young ones among
the Carthusian and Trappist monasteries.

All the treasures contained in the chapel he had transferred to his
camp, until a calmer, more propitious season.

That priceless capture, the Prince of Orange, escaped him, however, and
he was inconsolable thereat, adding, as he narrated the incident,
"Were it not that I feared to bring dishonour upon my name, and
sully the history of my reign and my life, I would have massacred
those young Saint-Bernard monks."

"What a vile breed they all are!" I cried, losing all patience.

"No, no, madame," he quickly rejoined, "you are apt to jump from
one extreme to the other.

It does not do to generalise thus. The young monks at Sainte Amandine
showed themselves to be my enemies, I admit, and for this I shall
punish them as they deserve, but the poor old monks merely desired
my success and advantage.

When peace is declared, I shall take care of them and of their
monastery; the prior shall be made an abbot.

I like the poor fellow; so will you, when you see him."
I really cannot see why the King should have taken such a fancy to
this old monk, who was minded to murder a couple of generals in his
convent because, forsooth, Judith once slew Holofernes!

Judith might have been tempted to do that sort of thing; she was a
Jewess.

But a Christian monk! I cannot get over it!

CHAPTER LIV.

The Chevalier de Rohan.--He is Born Too Late.--His Debts.--Messina Ceded
to the French.

--The King of Spain Meditates Revenge.--The Comte de Monterey.--Madame
de Villars as Conspirator.--The Picpus Schoolmaster.

--The Plot Fails.--Discovery and Retribution.

--Madame de Soubise's Indifference to the Chevalier's Fate.
Had he been born fifty or sixty years earlier, the Chevalier de
Rohan might have played a great part. He was one of those men,
devoid of restraint and of principle, who love pleasure above all
things, and who would sacrifice their honour, their peace of mind,
aye, even the State itself, if such a sacrifice were really needed,
in order to attain their own personal enjoyment and satisfaction.Chance! _lie down_!' and at that the laughing came on me,
and my own lass turned her dear face to me glowing, and with a look of
mingled pride and shame she looked at me and put her arms round my neck.

"'I will not be a great hand at saying love talk, Ronny,' she
whispered.  'I can just be holding you tight, but take me if ye will be
having so poor a lass, for I will have been loving you all to myself
all the time.'

"And when a wee while was passed and we found ourselves in the stable
(for a lass has always an eye for who may be looking), Mirren Stuart
gave me a look of great scorn, but playfully.

"'It will be as well that one o' us is farmer enough to mind the
beasts,' said she, and went out and took the garron into his stall, for
he had been clean forgot, and stood looking longingly into his stable
and the wind raising a pook o' hair on his tail."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

"Well, when the lassies, Mirren's sisters, were by wi' teasing us, I
sat down to a meal in Finlay's kitchen, and when I rose on my legs to
be going, my lass flung a shawl round her, and wondrous bonny she was
in that shawl, and we left by the back road to be seeing my mother, and
the lassies flung bachles at us 'for luck.'  And although Mirren was
not out o' my sight in the house, yet I will be quite sure they kent we
were for the marrying, for I got a glimpse o' Peggy, a rollicking
tomboy o' a lass, rubbing herself against Mirren's shawl and crying,
'It's me that will be going off next.'

"And Anne, a ruddy lass, whispered--

"'Now that you will have the lad you were speaking about through your
sleep, Mirren, maybe ye'll be giving me your garters,' and between one
and the other o' them, it was a red-faced, brave-looking lass that
stood wi' me in my mother's kitchen.

"And my mother, that I had been wearying for a sight o' for three years
past, my old mother, kissed the lass first, and then--

"'You will have managed to bring him to his senses at last, Mirren
dear,' said she; and then I found that these two had been having the
great confabs when I would be away, and my wife has told me since, when
she was new-fangled wi' me, and very loving, that she would just be
going there to be listening to my mother's stories about me, when I
would be a wean; and although I will be telling her that the things I
am remembering most are the skelpings I would be getting, she just will
be laughing at me.

"'It is not one half of what you would be deserving, my man,' she says.

"So and on, there we sat wi' the red glow of the fire shining on my old
mother's face, making her look hearty and well in her white mutch, and
glinting on Mirren's eyes when she turned to speak, and lowing in the
copper o' her hair, and I would be content to sit and listen to these
two, till Mirren had to be going.  On the road home she made no
complaints when I put my arm round her, for was she not my own lass
now.  Moreover, it was dark.  We were at our first good-night under the
rowan-trees beside the byre, for rowans will keep the fairies away, and
it is good farming to have them where the beasts will be walking under
them every day.  We were loath to part, Mirren and me, and she would be
lying against my breast, when there came the figure of a man running,
and I kent him for Gilchrist the excise-man.

"'Stop a wee, my lad; stop,' says I.  'What will be hurrying ye?'

"'That damned McGilp has escaped us again,' said he, 'and Dan McBride
has killed Dol Rob Beag.'

"'Run, Ronny, run,' cried Mirren, and pulled me to the stable.  'Dan
will be needing all his friends before the morning,' and she had the
bridle on the garron, and I was on his back like a flash, and making
for the Quay Inn before she was done speaking."


[1] Coosp=chilblain on the heel.


CHAPTER X.

DOL BEAG IS FLUNG INTO A FIRE.

And now you will be coming to meet Dan and me on the long road back
from the South End, and coming on with us like a good comrade, for Dan
that day walked like a man that was fey, and I, who would be thinking I
kent him, might just as weel have been walking with a stranger.  Below
the shoulder o' the big black hill, before ye come to the Laird's Turn,
he halted.

"Man, Hamish, the hills are just vexed wi' me this day," said he, "and
I ken a' their moods, as weel as a bairn kens his mother."

"To me," said I, and I would be searching about in my mind for the
right words, like a pedant, for was I not college-bred--"to me," said
I, "they aye look just grandly contemptuous," and, mind you, my heart
went out to the great strong man at my side because of the soft place
in his warm heart for the grim old hills, for I would aye be feared to
talk that way to him, for fear of his laughing.

"I ken what ye mean by grandly contemptuous too," said he.  "I have
felt that way when I would be gathering sheep, and looking up at the
crags and the rocks above me, and the head o' the hill would be turned
from me in disdain, and I would be feeling like the wee red ant
crawling on the beard o' a warrior, asleep on a glorious battlefield.
I canna just be putting the right words to it, but, man, I feel it
inside o' me.

"There's days in the early summer mornings before the heat-haze has
lifted when a man can see the hills lying on their backs wi' their
faces to the sun, like giants resting, and he can see the smile on the
brow o' them when the sun beats down, and it's fine to be imagining
that they're laughing to one another; and on these days the hills are
aye friendly to a man, and when he lies down among the heather the
spirit o' the hills will be knowing him, and his forebears, since the
hills were established; but ah! they will be glooming at me the day.

"There's a frown on the brow o' the Urie, and his face is hidden from
me, and listen to the grumbling and flyting o' the burn.  They're a'
vexed, Hamish, but we're to have company down through the glen, for
yonder will be Sandy Nicol driving his stots to the bay."

He is fond of giving, and of giving generously, but of his own accord,
without the least prompting. Had I refrained from committing this
indiscretion, he might, possibly, have made me a duchess there and
then, renaming Petit-Bourg Royal-Bourg.

The new abbess of Fontevrault, caring less now for claustral
seclusion, equipped her new residence in very sumptuous style.

In a splendid carriage she came to thank the King and kiss hands. With
much tact and dignity she encountered the scrutiny of the royal family
and of the Court. Her manners showed her to have been a person brought
up in the great world, and possessed of all the tact and delicacy which
her position as well as mine required.

As she embraced me, she sighed; yet, instantly recovering herself,
she made the excuse that so many ceremonious greetings and compliments
had fatigued her.

It was not long before the King joined us, who said, "Madame, I never
thought that there was much amusement to be got by wearing the veil.
Now, you must admit that days in a convent seem very long to any
one who has wit and intelligence."

"Sire," replied my sister, "the first fifteen or twenty months are
wearisome, I readily confess.

Then comes discouragement; after that, habit; and then one grows
resigned to one's fetters from the mere pleasure of existence."

"Did you meet with any good friends among your associates?"
"In such assemblies," rejoined the Abbess, "one can form no attachment
or durable friendship. The reason for this is simple. If the companion
you choose is religious in all sincerity, she is perforce a slave to
every little rule and regulation, and to her it would seem like
defrauding the Deity to give affection to any one but to Him. If, by
mischance, you meet with some one of sensitive temperament, with
a bright intellect that matches your own, you lay yourself open to
be the mournful sharer of her griefs, doubts, and regrets, and her
depression reacts upon you; her sorrow makes your melancholy return.

Privation conjures up countless illusions and every chimera imaginable,
so that the peaceful retreat of virgins of the Lord becomes a
veritable hell, peopled by phantoms that groan in torture!"

"Oh, madame!" exclaimed the King. "What a picture is this!
But I would be holding my steel in my hand,
and we sat and watched, the dogs and me."

"Was it the skein-dubh you would be holding?"

"It would not be the black knife, Dan McBride; it would just be this."

At that Sandy Nicol showed us a small object, which seemed to me to be
a twisted horse-shoe nail wrapped round about with wool; but he would
not be letting it go from his palm, and when I would have examined it
closer he put it past.

"It's not Sandy that would be droving without his steel," he cried.

"Would you aye be carrying that?" said I; for he looked so wild and
lawless that it was not in me to be believing that he trusted to aught
save his dirk.

"There was a time no, mo bhallach," said Sandy Nicol, "a time when I
would be selling back-calvers and stots to the Red Laird for the
mainland markets; and it would just be the wee Broon Lass o' Ardbennan
that saved the beasts--for, ye see, I did not always stay ma lane, and
when my mother would be failin' and her joints stiffening like a' aged
beasts, the milking would aye be done and the byre mucked when she got
up in the morning.  Oh, but she was the wise one, for she would be
leaving the best o' the cream in a basin, and maybe a bannock, for the
wee Broon Lass, for my mother would be seeing her flitting among the
battens.  And before she went away she would be telling me: 'Never be
offering her boots or claes when the snaw comes, Sandy, for the Broonie
o' Lag 'a bheithe[1] left in sore anger for that they pitied her in the
snaw.'

"Direach sin, it was a fine day I started to drive the back-calvers and
stots, and the sun red wi' a fine-weather haze, and the roads hard and
dry, and it was maybe two hours I was on the road and the beasts
settled, when there came a woman on the road and a shawl about her
head, and I kent her for a devil's black bairn that could be telling
her ain folk when the rain would come in the harvest, and when the
butter would come on at the kirning.

"A bad unchancy woman; ye'll ken the breed o' them, for they will be
sore feart o' clean burn-water, but they'll be coorieing ower a fire a'
day, and talking to the black cat, and I had it in my mind to be
turning when I saw her, for did she not come into the byre at Dyke-end
when the beasts were at their fother, and she stood and she eyed them.

"'So bonny,' says she, 'so bonny and fat and glossy, and the wee bit
speckled quey calves they'll be leaving,' and with that she walked up
the byre and ran her hand over the tors of the beasts, crooning away to
herself; and another month saw the last of the kye pic calved.

"Well, well, I stood when she came to me, and she smirked at me.
'Seven braw beasts, and not a lame yin among them,' says she, and
tittered a wee bit laugh that set the dogs girning through their bare
teeth; and then she went her way, and her laughing coming back to me,
and we would not be far on when the first of the beasts was hirpling;
and one after the other the lameness came on them, till I could just
have sat down and grat that I had not set the dogs on the witch.

"I would just be turning the beasts on the road for a wee, when there
came the wee Broon Lass among the bracken on the hillside, and then I
left the road and took the dogs with me, and we hid on the low side,
for fear to anger the wee Broon Lass.  She went among the beasts, and
they would be kenning her, and lowing quietly like calves, and she
would be lifting their feet, and then there would be a hole in the
clits o' them a'.  And the wee Broon Lass, she blew and she blew into
the hole, and went on to the next, and in a wee the beasts were walking
sound, and taking a bite at the sprits and the scrog on the roadside,
and I lay close till I saw the wee one near the rise o' the hill, and
started the beasts again, and the lameness came near them not any more,
but aye I would be carrying the steel after that."

In the middle of the glen we left Sandy Nicol with his dogs and his
travelling beasts, and before we turned the bend where the nut-trees
were I looked back, and there he came on slowly with the sunset light
on him as he came, and I saw him looking to the great rocks on his left
hand as though he waited the coming of something not of this world; and
again he would be looking down through the bare trees to the dark glen
where the burn was muttering and grumbling coldly, and it was strange
to me that these wild men, so terrible in their anger, would be
believing all these old stories, until the thought came to me that it
would just be the poetry and imaginings of the Celt, alone among the
hills that are aye on the very point of speaking to their children; for
a man, and a bold man, will be seeing and hearing strange things among
the hills, when the mist comes down, when he will have listened to the
stories of hate and love and clan feuds of his folks since he could be
listening, clapped on his creepie stool close to his mother's skirt,
and his head against her kneesThe day we left Sainte Marie aux Mines, a little German sovereign
came to present his homage to the King.

      It was the Prince de Mont-Beliard, of Wurtemberg, whom I had
previously met in Paris, on the occasion of his marriage with
Marechal de Chatillon's charming daughter.

The luxurious splendour of Saint Germain and Versailles had certainly
not yet succeeded in turning the heads of these German sovereigns. This
particular one wore a large buff doublet with big copper-gilt buttons.
His cravat was without either ribbons or lace. His rather short hair
was roughly combed over his forehead; he carried no sword, and instead
of gold buckles or clasps, he had little bows of red leather on his
black velvet shoes. His coach, entirely black, was still of old-fashioned
make; that is to say, studded with quantities of gilt nails. Wearing
mourning for the Empress, his six horses were richly, caparisoned,
his four lackeys wearing yellow liveries faced with red. An escort
of twenty guardsmen, dressed similarly, was in attendance; they
seemed to be well mounted, and were handsome fellows.

A second carriage of prodigious size followed the ducal conveyance; in
this were twelve ladies and gentlemen, who got out and made their
obeisance to the King and Queen.

The Prince de Mont-Beliard did not get into his coach again until ours
were in motion. He spoke French fairly well, and the little he said was
said with much grace. He looked very hard at me, which shocked the
Queen greatly, but not the King.

A little further on, their Majesties were greeted by the delegates of
the noble chapter of Strasburg. These comprised the Count of Manderhall
and two canons. What canons, too! And how astonished we were!

The old Count was dressed in a black cassock, and his hair looked
somewhat like a cleric's, but his cravat was tied with a large
flame-coloured bow, and he wore ill-fitting hose of the same hue. As
for the two canons, they were pleasant young men, good-looking and
well-made.
Their light gray dress was edged with black and gold; they wore their
hair long in wavy curls, and in their little black velvet caps they had
yellow and black feathers, and their silver-mounted swords were
like those worn by our young courtiers.

Their equipment was far superior to that of the deputation of the
Prince de Mont-Beliard. It is true, they were churchmen, and churchmen
have only themselves and their personal satisfaction to consider.

These gentlemen accompanied us as far as Chatenoi, a little town in their
neighbourhood, and here they introduced the bailiff of the town to the
King, who was to remain constantly in attendance and act as interpreter.

The bailiff spoke French with surprising ease. He had been formerly tutor
at President Tambonneaux's, an extremely wealthy man, who entertained
the Court, the town, and all the cleverest men of the day.
The King soon became friends with the bailiff, and kept him the whole
time close to his carriage.

When travelling, the King is quite another man. He puts off his gravity
of demeanour, and likes to amuse his companions, or else make his
companions amuse him.

Believing him to be like Henri IV. in temper, the bailiff was for asking
a thousand questions. Some of these the King answered; to others he
gave no reply.

"Sire," said he to his Majesty, "your town of Paris has a greater reputation
than it actually deserves. They say you are fond of building; then
Paris ought to have occasion to remember your reign.

Allow me to express a hope that her principal streets will be widened,
that her temples, most of them of real beauty, may be isolated. You
should add to the number of her bridges, quays, public baths, almshouses
and infirmaries."

The King smiled. "Come and see us in four or five years," he rejoined,
"or before that, if you like, and if your affairs permit you to do
so.
You will be pleased to see what I have already done."

Then the bailiff, approaching my carriage window, addressed a few
complimentary remarks to myself.

"I have often met your father, M. de Mortemart," said he, "at President
Tambonneaux's. One day the little De Bouillons were there, quarrelling
about his sword, and to the younger he said, 'You, sir, shall go into
the Church, because you squint.

Let my sword alone; here's my rosary.'"

"Well," quoth the King, "M. de Mortemart was a true prophet, for that
little Bouillon fellow is to-day Cardinal de Bouillon."
"Sire," continued the worthy German, "I am rejoiced to hear such news.
And little Peguilain de Lauzun, of whom you used to be so fond
when you were both boys,--where is he? What rank does he now hold?"
Hereupon the King looked at Mademoiselle, who, greatly confused, shed
tears.

"Well, M. Bailiff," said his Majesty, "did you easily recognise me at
first sight?"

"Sire," replied the German, "your physiognomy is precisely the same;
when a boy, you looked more serious. The day you entered Parliament
in hunting-dress I saw you get into your coach; and that evening the
President said to his wife, 'Madame, we are going to have a King. I
wish you could have been there, in one of the domes, just to hear
the little he said to us.'"

Whereupon the King laughingly inquired what reply the President's wife
made. But the bailiff, smiling in his turn, seemed afraid to repeat
it, and so his Majesty said:
"I was told of her answer at the time, so I can let you know what
it was.

'Your young King will turn out a despot.' That is what Madame la
Presidente said to her husband."
The bailiff, somewhat confused, admitted that this was exactly the
case.

The huge bridge at Brisach, across the Rhine, had no railing; the planks
were in a rickety condition, and through fissures one caught sight
of the impetuous rush of waters below.

We all got out of our coaches and crossed over with our eyes half shut,
so dangerous did it seem; while the King rode across this wretched
bridge,--one of the narrowest and loftiest that there is, and which is
always in motion.

Next day the Bishop of Bale came to pay his respects to the Queen,
and was accompanied by delegates from the Swiss cantons, and other
notabilities.

After this I heard the "General of the Capucins" announced, who had
just been to pay a visit of greeting to the German Court.

He was said to be by birth a Roman. Strange to say, for that Capucin
the same ceremony and fuss was made as for a sovereign prince, and I
heard that this was a time-honoured privilege enjoyed by his Order.

The monk himself was a fine man, wearing several decorations; his
carriage, livery, and train seemed splendid, nor did he lack ease of
manner nor readiness of conversation.

He told us that, at the imperial palace in Vienna, he had seen the
Princesse d'Inspruck,--a relative of the French Queen, and that the
Emperor was bringing her up as if destined one day to be his seventh
bride, according to a prediction.

He also stated that the Emperor had made the young Princess sing
to him,--a Capucin monk; and added genially that she was comely and
graceful, and that he had been very pleased to see her.

The King was very merry at this priest's expense. Not so the Queen,
who was Spanish, and particularly devoted to Capucin friars of all
nationalities.

CHAPTER XLVII.

Moliere.--Racine.--Their Mutual Esteem.--Racine in Mourning.

The King had not much leisure, yet occasionally he gave up half an
hour or an hour to the society of a chosen few,--men famous for
their wit and brilliant talents.

One day he was so kind as to bring to my room the celebrated Moliere,
to whom he was particularly attached and showed special favour.

"Madame," said the King, "here you see the one man in all France who
has most wit, most talent, and most modesty and good sense combined.

I thank God for letting him be born during my reign, and I pray
that He may preserve him to us for a long while yet."
As I hastened to add my own complimentary remarks to those of the
King, I certainly perceived that about this illustrious person
there was an air of modesty and simplicity such as one does not
commonly find in Apollo's favourites who aspire to fame.

Moreover, he was most comely.

Moliere told the King that he had just sketched out the plot of his
"Malade Imaginaire," and assured us that hypochondriacs themselves
would find something to laugh at when it was played.

He spoke very little about himself, but at great length, and with
evident admiration, about the young poet Racine.

The King asked if he thought that Racine had strength sufficient
to make him the equal of Corneille.

"Sire," said the comic poet, "Racine has already surpassed Corneille
by the harmonious elegance of his versification, and by the natural,
true sensibility of his dialogue; his situations are never fictitious;
all his words, his phrases, come from the heart.

Racine alone is a true poet, for he alone is inspired."
The King, continuing, said: "I cannot witness his tragedy of 'Berenice'
without shedding tears. How comes it that Madame Deshoulieres and
Madame de Sevigne, who have so much mind, refuse to recognise beauties
which strike a genius such as yours?"
"Sire," replied Moliere, "my opinion is nothing compared to that which
your Majesty has just expressed, such is your sureness of judgment and
your tact. I know by experience that those scenes of my comedies
which, at a first reading, are applauded by your Majesty, always win
most applause from the public afterwards."
"Is Racine in easy circumstances?" asked the King.

"He is not well off," replied Moliere, "but the tragedies which he has
in his portfolio will make a rich man of him some day; of that I
have not the least doubt."
"Meanwhile," said the King, "take him this draft of six thousand livres
from me, nor shall this be the limit of my esteem and affection."

Five or six months after this interview, poor Moliere broke a blood-vessel
in his chest, while playing with too great fervour the title part in
his "Malade Imaginaire." When they brought the news to the King, he
turned pale, and clasping his hands together, well-nigh burst into
tears. "France has lost her greatest genius," he said before all the
nobles present. "We shall never have any one like him again; our loss
is irreparable!"
When they came to tell us that the Paris clergy had refused burial
to "the author of 'Tartuffe,'" his Majesty graciously sent special
orders to the Archbishop, and with a royal wish of that sort they
were obliged to comply, or else give good reasons for not doing
so.

Racine went into mourning for Moliere. The King heard this, and publicly
commended such an act of good feeling and grateful sympathy.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

Madame de Montausier and the Phantom.--What She Exacts from the Marquise.--Her
Reproaches to the Duke.--Bossuet's Complacency.

Those spiteful persons who told the Queen how obliging the Duchesse de
Montausier had shown herself towards me were also so extremely
kind as to write an account of the whole affair to the Marquis de
Montespan.

At that time he was still in Paris, and one day he went to the Duchess
just as she was getting out of bed. In a loud voice he proceeded
to scold her, daring to threaten her as if she were some common woman;
in fact, he caught hold of her and endeavoured to strike her.

The King would not allow M. de Montausier to obtain redress from
the Marquis for such an insult as this.

He granted a large pension to the Duchess, and appointed her husband
preceptor to the Dauphin.

Such honours and emoluments partly recompensed the Duchess, yet they
scarcely consoled her.

She considered that her good name was all but lost, and what afflicted
her still more was that she never recovered her health.

She used to visit me, as our duties brought us together, but it was easy
to see that confidence and friendship no longer existed.

One day, when passing along one of the castle corridors, which,
being so gloomy, need lamplight at all hours, she perceived a tall
white phantom, which glared hideously at her, and then approaching,
vanished.

She was utterly prostrated, and on returning to her apartments was seized
with fever and shivering. The doctors perceived that her brain was
affected; they ordered palliatives, but we soon saw that there was
no counting upon their remedies. She was gradually sinking.

Half an hour before she died the Duchess sent for me, having given
instructions that we should be left alone, and that there should be
no witnesses. Her intense emaciation was pitiful, and yet her face
kept something of its pleasant expression.

"It is because of you, and through you," she exclaimed in a feeble, broken
voice, "that I quit this world while yet in the prime of life. God
calls me; I must die.

"Kings are so horribly exacting. Everything that ministers to their
passions seems feasible to them, and righteous folk must consent
to do their pleasure, or suffer the penalty of being disgraced and
neglected, and of seeing their long years of service lost and
forgotten.

"During that unlucky journey in Brabant, you sought by redoubling your
coquetry and fascinations to allure La Valliere's lover. You managed
to succeed; he became fond of you.

Knowing my husband's ambitious nature, he easily got him to make me
favour this intrigue, and lend my apartments as a meeting-place.

"At Court nothing long remains a secret. The Queen was warned, and for a
while would not believe her informants.

But your husband, with brutal impetuousness, burst in upon me. He
insulted me in outrageous fashion.
He tried to drag me out of bed and throw me out of the window. Hearing
me scream, my servants rushed in and rescued me, in a fainting state,
from his clutches. And you it is who have brought upon me such
scandalous insults.

"Ready to appear before my God, who has already summoned me by a spectre,
I have a boon to ask of you, Madame la Marquise. I beg it of you,
as I clasp these strengthless, trembling hands. Do not deny me this
favour, or I will cherish implacable resentment, and implore my Master
and my Judge to visit you with grievous punishment.

"Leave the King," she continued, after drying her tears. "Leave so
sensual a being; the slave of his passions, the ravisher of others'
good.
The pomp and grandeur which surround you and intoxicate you would seem
but a little thing did you but look at them as now I do, upon my bed
of death.

"The Queen hates me; she is right. She despises me, and justly,
too. I shall elude her hatred and disdain, which weigh thus heavily
upon my heart. Perhaps she may deign to pardon me when my lawyer shall
have delivered to her a document, signed by myself, containing my
confession and excuses."
As she uttered these words, Madame de Montausier began to vomit
blood, and I had to summon her attendants.

With a last movement of the head she bade me farewell, and I heard
that she called for her husband.

Next day she was dead. Her waiting-maid came to tell me that the
Duchess, conscious to the last, had made her husband promise to resign
his appointment as governor to the Dauphin, and withdraw to his estates,
where he was to do penance. M. de Meaux, a friend of the family, read
the prayers for the dying, to which the Duchess made response, and
three minutes before the final death-throe, she consented to let him
preach a funeral sermon in eulogy of herself and her husband.

When printed and published, this discourse was thought to be a fine
piece of eloquence.

Over certain things the Bishop passed lightly, while exaggerating
others.

Some things, again, were entirely of his own invention; and if from
the depths of her tomb the Duchess could have heard all that M. de
Meaux said about her, she never would have borne me such malice,
nor would her grief at leaving life and fortune have troubled her
so keenly.

The King thought this funeral oration excellently well composed. Of
one expression and of one whole passage, however, he disapproved,
though which these were he did not do me the honour to say.

BOOK 4.

CHAPTER XLIX.

President de Nesmond.--Melladoro.--A Complacent Husband and His Love-sick
Wife.--Tragic Sequel.
President de Nesmond--upright, clear-headed magistrate as he was--was
of very great service to me at the Courts of Justice. He always
managed to oblige me and look after my interests and my rights in
any legal dispute of mine, or when I had reason to fear annoyance
on the part of my husband.
I will here relate the grief that his young wife caused him, and
it will be seen that, by the side of this poor President, M. de
Montespan might count himself lucky. Having long been a widower,
he was in some measure accustomed to this state, until love laid a
snare for him just at the age of sixty-five.
In the garden that lay below his windows--a garden owned by his
neighbour, a farmer--he saw Clorinde."Umph," sniffed Ronny, "it's the great company that gathers at
Finlays," and indeed Mirren Stuart saved many's the house at that time,
for the gangers and excisemen went after her sisters, while old Finlay
smiled grimly, and Mirren got hold of the secrets.

"If a man runnin' like that Gilchrist can blurt oot the news and keep
runnin', it's maistly truth, but if he stops and begins to walk, and
twist his mouth before he speaks, he's makin' lies," said McKinnon, and
turned himself in the water.

The searchers were beginning to tire of beating.

"Roast the devil oot."  "Ay, gie McBride a taste o' the fire."

"I'm thanking God for a fool," said Dan, "if the whins will just burn,
but whins are dour revengefu' bushes."

"Burn," says Ronny--"burn; they'll hiv a bleeze ye'll see for twenty
miles--we're bate, Dan."

"Na, na," says Dan.  "Wait you, yonder's a twinkle, anither.  Man,
they'll mak' a bonny lowe, and waste a heap of good keep."

Men were rushing hither and thither with flaming branches, and already,
when the breeze freshened, you could hear the roar and crackle.  The
great lilac flames leapt ten feet in the air, and the night rained
stars.  The sparks fell above us like fire-flakes, and some came down
and sizzled out in our pool.

When the flames were roaring like a hurricane, Dan spoke softly--

"We'll go now."

"Are ye daft?" said Ronny.

"Ye don't ken the effect o' a fire like that," said Dan.  "A man must
look at it, and see the lowes ploofin' into the sky, and the sparks
fleein'.  He canna help himsel'.  The horses will be needing a lot o'
handling too, and the men on the low side'll just hiv tae run tae
winward or lie in the burn, for the heat o' whuns is terrible.  They'll
a' face the flames waitin' till we run oot like bleezin' deevils, and
they're sae sure that we will start every moment, they will not lift
their eyes for fear they will be missing the sight o' us."

"We must just risk it," said I, "for I'm like to freeze here."

Dan put his head out of our hole and crawled out, and I followed, and
Ronny last.  We could feel the air warm, and the night was clear as
day, and yet the searchers stood gazing at their fire as Dan had said.
We crawled flat like snakes, keeping among dark patches as much as we
could, till we came to the turf dyke, and still our pursuers tended the
fire.  Slowly and softly we crossed into heather, and lay for a minute.
Then, looking down across the common, Dan threw back his head and
laughed in his silent fashion.

"We're among our ain heather now, Hamish," says he.  "In an hour we'll
be among the peat hags.  I've a mind tae whistle them up."

"I've lain long enough in the water, Dan," said I.

"Aweel," says he, "we'll just make McAllan's Locker for it; eh, Ronny?"
And again we started to run, zigzagging to the dark bits till we
crossed the first rise, and we stood looking back.  The whins were all
ablaze and the trees in the belting standing out clear, and the little
figures still running with the torches.


[1] Steep.

[2] Opening.


CHAPTER XII.

McALLAN'S LOCKER.

Over the first rise of the hills was a long dreary waste--treeless,
awesome, desolate.  Whiles, as we ran, a curlew would rise, and its
long whirling cry rose in the night, filling the ears and leaving an
emptiness afterwards in the silence, for things not canny to be
filling.  Once we startled a herd of red-deer feeding round the mossy
lips of a frozen pool, and away they galloped.  One lordly stag wheeled
with antlers high, gazed at our flight, and vanished, leaving us in
that dreadful stillness, and a cold eerie wind whined and sighed over
us.  We spoke little, having no breath to spare, for the ground was
growing more steep and broken towards the second rise, up which we
clambered, sliding and falling, grasping frozen heather till we reached
the top.  The hill was now a riddle of peat hags and binks, like a
bee's skep, a place of treachery and slimy death, although the frost
would have most of the sinking pools in its iron hand; but we never
stopped the long stride that seemed so slow to me at first.  Dan bent
and twisted through the peat banks like a hound on the trail.  Here was
a place where folk had wrought, cutting their fuel for generations; and
God knows what memories were lurking here from the old days, what
ghosts of love and hatred, what spirits of tears and laughter.  Would
the race never end?  My tongue, dry and swollen, stuck raspily against
the roof of my mouth.  Round my lips was a hot fire, for I had grasped
a handful of snow and melted it in my mouth as I ran.  We were past the
peat hags, and the ground fell away under our feet; the heather got
scantier and sprits more common, until we had descended, maybe, five
hundred feet into a wide valley with a level plain at its heart, with
many clumps of stunted birches and hardy firs.  Here was the great
grazing for young beasts in the summer, away here in the glen, but now
only stillness and desolation.  A wide burn rumbled and splashed on its
gravelly banks in front of us, and we could hear the deep noise of a
waterfall.

"Hold in to the fall," cried McKinnon, and his voice was hoarse as a
raven's.

"I ken this like the back o' my hand," said Dan, and led us, with never
a break, to an easy crossing.

And now we took the greatest care of our going, for a great hill rose
before us steep, as it seemed to me, as the wall of a house, and then
all our care was made useless, for the snow began again.

Slowly, blindly we clambered and spelled up the hillside, now numb with
cold, now fiery hot, Dan always in the lead, and me groaning at his
hurdie.

"Keep a stout heart, Hamish; this is the last o't."

We were now, as it were, on a ladder on the hill face, for there were a
succession of great holes like steps, on each of which three men could
stand--the giant's steps, the old folks called them.

At the back of the step where we three lay was a grey rock, as though
the earth had been worn away, leaving the rock partly bare.  As we lay
Dan struck it three times with a stone about the size of a
putting-ball, and a great low baying sounded, and my blood ran cold,
and then the grey rock moved inch by inch, and I heard a great rift of
Gaelic, and Dan went crawling like a snake through the hole, and myself
and McKinnon at his heels.

"Welcome, hearty welcome; whatever drives ye sae fast.  Welcome to
McAllan's Locker."

"It's latish for ceilidhing," said Dan.  "I'm hoping me and my friends
are not putting ye out in any ways, but just a shakedown o' breckans is
all we're asking, and thankful for it."

"Better the bottom o' the locker than the end o' the cable.  Sit ye
doon and warm yourself."

I was sore done wi' the long running, and lay on the rook floor with my
head on my arms, and I felt as a hound feels after a long chase, till
the caveman answered Dan.  At the first I thought his tongue had been
malformed as he stood in the light, for a growling and grumbling came
from his throat; and as he growled, from the darkness of the chamber a
great brindled dog stalked to his side and stretched his fore-paws,
opened a mouth like a red pit, and whined with outstretched curling
tongue.

"He would tear down a stag, him," says Dan, nodding at the brute.
Again came the growling rumbling from the stranger.

"Hark tae him, Marr; hark tae him--a stag.  Ho, ho, ho!  He would tear
a man's throat oot at his first leap," and man and dog rumbled and
growled in devilish mirth.  "Sing tae me, dog--sing," and the man threw
his head up, and there came the long greeting howl of a dog baying the
moon, and dog and man howled in unison, with swaying bodies and heads
thrown upwards.

"God, but the open hill's a bonny place," said McKinnon, and a shiver
went over him.  In this terrible place we lay the night--a great gloomy
forbidding place in the belly of the hill.  Shiver on shiver went
through me as I looked round me.  The walls were rock, bare and dry,
converging high up in the gloom; for there was just the peat fire and a
cruisie alight.  Once, as though disturbed in its sleep, I heard a
rock-pigeon "rookatihoo coo-a" away above me in some cranny that must
open on the hill face.  The smoke curled up in a rude dry-stone chimney
for about five or six feet against the rock, and the bulk of it still
ascended in a column, although the chimney stopped, but a waving pall
hung over the cave, swaying and undulating in long waves and streamers,
and the air below was cool and fresh.  There were great carvings on the
walls--warriors and ships, galleys and horses a-rearing, and on a flat
stone projecting from the chimney, and serving as the brace or
mantelpiece, were models of ships made from the breast-bones of birds,
some quite large and others very small, and needing an infinite deal of
patience.  There were rough stools and a table, all of which must have
been made inside the cave, and, indeed, the bark was dry and brittle on
the legs.  Great bundles of heather, fashioned like narrow beds, lay
along the wall in the firelight, and like a dark unwinking eye the
light glimmered on a pool.  There were square steps cut in the rock
down to the pool, which was shaped like a horn spoon with the handle
cut off short, and the water entering it from a crack in the rock,
noiselessly as oil, trickled silently away in a little sloping gutter
to the back of the cavern.  Who first discovered the cavern I never
knew, but by the fire lay, twisted and blackened, the hilt and half of
a sword, and in a corner a black and rust-pitted breastplate.  The back
part of the cave narrowed, and through a passage the Nameless Man
passed to bring us meat and drink.  Have you walked on a bare moor road
in the pit mirk wi' a drizzle of soft mist in a silence you could hear?
Have you felt the fear coming over you, like a cold hand on your heart,
when ye knew that a thing gibbered and mouthed at your side?  Well, the
thought o' that man, the Nameless Man, brings fear to me in a lighted
room.

For he was a dead white man, his hair, lank and white, hung round his
shoulders, his beard was slimy and soft as a white hare's, face and
hands cold, dead white, and his features were frozen.

No trace of any feeling showed on his face.  His voice and his laughter
rumbled from his throat, leaving his face unchanged, only his pupils
waxed and waned like a cat's in the dark.  He was covered with a
patchwork of skins and tatters of cloth, and as he set meat before us,
venison, it came to me that he must hunt his food in the dark, always
in the dark.  That cold whiteness was not of the good God's sunlight.
As we ate, Dan told him some of our story, and the Nameless Man sat, a
handful of his beard in his hand, his elbow on the table, and his eyes
growing and fading.

"I'm sair feart I left him deid," said Dan.  "If they come for us, dog,
when we're lying at the still and the good water turnin' to fine
whisky--and the good nice water, trickling and dripping through the
rocks for a hundred years--if they creep upon us, dog, what will we be
doing, you and me, Marr?  Ho--ho--ho! killing them, eh?  Leaving their
bones wi' the white bones away in there--the old, old bones," and dog
and man made a howling of laughter.  I knew then that this was the
watcher of a smugglers' still; for let the gang o' Preventives do their
worst, whisky would still be made in the hills.

It came to me then why the folk would be leaving peats for the wee
folks, as they said, when they would be taking down the creels from the
hills; for the Nameless Man threw more on the fire from some hidden
store, likely nearer his worm, when we had finished eating.  The great
dog lay at the rock by which we entered, and I saw that the stone was
swung on a balance; but if there was a way to open from the outside I
never knew till long after.  McKinnon and Dan lay talking, but I was
silent for the most part, thinking of the sword and the armour, and of
the people who fashioned the well, and wondering about the old, old
bones away through the dark passage into the heart of the hill.  The
far, far-away stories were in my mind of Finn and his warriors, of his
great dogs and his queens.  Did Ossian the bard tune his harp to great
deeds, and to lovely women of the land of the Ever Young, in the cave
of the past?  Into my musings--for sleep had nearly come over me--broke
the voice of the Nameless Man.

"I gave her to drink of the foamy milk--warm, and the bubbles of froth
in it.  'Drink, my lost lass,' said I, 'for ye loved me well once,' and
all the time I would be telling her that death was coming with the
white milk.  And she took up the fine nice milk and drank, because she
had loved me well once, she that loved me yet but feared--the coward,
the soft, soft, white coward that would lie on another man's heart
after I had keeled her for myself.  Ay, she took up the milk and drank,
and I took my ways, and they came running to Glen Darruach to tell me
she had died.

"Oh, oh! the dark, the dark, and never more the sun shining on the
bonny blooms of dark Darruach, never mair the white lambs running, and
the gleam on the wing of the moorcock.

"Ay, they would be for the killing of me, and I lay among the rafters,
under the thatch of my mother's house, and listened to them miscalling
me, the black killer--the bloody man that had the black art and the
evil eye; and it came over my heart to catch them by the hair, and pull
them up to me as they were speaking, and let my black knife kiss their
hearts.  It was all red, red before me, up there under the thatch, and
them down below, and my sisters shaking when they saw me watching down
in the dark.  It's droll, droll--because a soft white coward died--they
would kill me, me that would kill a man when I drew my dirk--ho, ho, ho!

"I lay hid among the rocks above the Herring Slap, alane day and night,
and the blue rockdoos left their nestlings and circled above my lair,
till I was feart that folk wid see them, and come peering down and get
me.  But a herrin' skiff took me away from that place in the dark of
the night, and I drifted to the warm South Seas and the darkling women
and the white glistening houses; but she came with me, she that had
died.  I would be seeing her rising before the bows o' the ship, rising
from the sea, and waving on me to follow, and the weather was worse and
worse at her every coming.  An' there was a man o' the Western Isles in
the crew, and he had the sight, and would be telling o' the woman
rising from the sea, and her hair blowing over the yeast o' the waves,
and her eyes staring, staring, and the waving of her hand when I was at
the tiller; and so bad the weather got, and the sickness among the
crew, that the captain swore he would send the woman's man to her, and
he lay aft in his cabin, and drank rum till his boy was feart to
venture near him; and then he came on deck--a fine wild man, all in his
finery o' lace and golden earrings, and he called his sailors aft to
make choice of the woman's man.  There was many there that would have
been making choice of me, but my hand was quick on the dirk, and no man
spoke above a whisper, and then I looked over the bows, and I would be
seeing her coming, and the man of the Western Isles cried out in his
fear--

"'She's wavin', she's wavin', Chrisht's mercy.'  He was pointing to the
grey seas, and the froth was on his lips.

"And as he was standing gazing I creeped round behind him like a cat,
so quiet, and I had my arms round him before his eyes were winking.

"'Go to your wet love,' I cried, and I flung him over the rail by the
poop, and the captain was at the laughing.

"'The curse is lifted, my lads,' he roared.  'Crowd the sail on her.
Heigh-ho for the North and the gay adventures!'  But after that there
were two to be watching in the darkness when I took the tiller--ay, and
I crawled from the sea at last, and came to the hills again--in the
dark.

"Oh, the dark, the dark, and never mair the sun shining on the heather
howes of dark Glen Darruach."  As we lay on the heather beds the
Nameless Man wandered through the cave, and the booming of his voice
rumbled in the heart of the hill, as he wandered through unknown
galleries in the dark.  The day came at last, and I saw a wee shaft of
light filter down some way on the cavern walls, but we could only lie
still till the dusk would come again, and we might make our way among
the hills, for after our sleeping Dan and Ronny and me had a great
confab.

"I canna lie here like a rat in a hole a' my days," said Dan.

"Ye'll never sleep sound till there's many a mile o' blue sea between
you and Dol Beag's hunters," said I.  "If we could pass the word for a
skiff. . . ."

"We're daft, we're clean daft," cried Ronny.  "McGilp is lying at the
north end, standing off and on.  If we can just make Loch Ranza, ye're
safe."

"Ay," said Dan.  "I'm thinking it's the Low Country now for me, Hamish.
Whatever money is due me, ye'll leave wi' McGilp, and he'll find a way
for sending it on.  I'm sair sweirt tae part frae my bonny horses for
yon mauk's sake. . . .  And there's the bonny spaewife, Hamish; if
anything comes wrong tae that lass I'll be relying on you."  And then
for a long time he sat brooding at the fire.

In the afternoon a change came over the Nameless Man.  He crawled on
his knees about the cave, whining and howling like a beast.  He glared
at the black pool, and pointed.

"She's there in the water."  And then with a yell to the dog, "Had her,
Marr; tear her sinery; rive her sinery, good Marr."  And he hissed the
hound on to his vision, and the dog, frenzied at his crying, breenged
into the pool, and the man whined with joy, and caressed the soaking
coat.  Later on in the day, after we had had a meal, he sat at the
passage-way and eyed us, and the dog girned and showed his teeth.

"They'll no come creepin' into the dim places where the queer things
are hidden, no--spying and spying."  And when we paid no heed to his
ravings, except that we kept the fire bright and had armed ourselves,
he lay down and slept across the passage-way, his head on the hound's
flank.  At every movement of our bodies the growling rumbled to our
ears, and the bristles rose on the dog's back.  But when it was nearly
dark the sleeper wakened, and we left the dreadful place called
McAllan's Locker, and took to the hills again.


CHAPTER XIII.

DAN McBRIDE SAILS FROM LOCH RANZA.

For a while we lay silent on the giant's step of McAllan's Locker, and
I felt my spirits lighten to be outside of that place.  The hills were
silent, but from the cave came a baying and growling of dog and man, at
first as from a distance, and growing louder and louder, as though the
Nameless Man and his grim hound ranged through the unknown caverns.  We
three sprauchled upwards, for we had no relish to meet these two, and
as we neared the rise of the hill the baying filled the night, and
suddenly the great hound bounded down the hillside with great twisting
leaps, and at his heels the wild figure of his master followed.  In the
valley they played like gambolling puppies, rushing at one another and
wrestling, with whiles the brute worrying the man playfully, and whiles
the man kneeling on the dog; then away they would dash separately,
wheeling and leaping and rubbing their flanks in the snow.  For a long
time the game went on, and then the players slunk closer, the shaggy
heads thrust skywards, and the long whining cry rose on the night; then
away they ranged, running flank to flank through the peat hags and over
the rise of the hill we had crossed the night before.

"He'll be a bold man that shepherds these hills in the lambing," said
Dan.

All through this night we held our course a little to the west of the
pole-star, though McKinnon and Dan had travelled the way before.  We
were now in the middle of the great barren range, frowning mountains
menaced our path, and burns rumbled in the darkness; and when Dan spoke
his voice was thick with anger--

"I lifted a snipe o' a man, and I flung him the back of the fire.  What
is there in that to be running from?

"If the man has freens, I'll meet them a' wherever they like; but this
running sticks in my gizzard.  It's just ain brother tae caul' fear,"
and we marched on in grim silence.

On the mountains my feet were almost without feeling at all with the
cold, and my clothes sticking to my shoulders with sweat; and on the
last of the hills McKinnon clapped like a startled hare.

"Look at yon," he whispered; "they're to win'ward o' us after a'."

Far below us a little light flickered and blinked on the hillside, and
we watched it, hardly breathing, and again I heard my heart begin to
pound.

After some wee while of watching, Dan grunted--

"Umph!" says he.  "Ye see droll things in the hills when ye're rinnin'
for dear life.  Yon's just Tchonie Handy Ishable and his lantern."

"I never would be believing that story," said Ronny.

"Man, if I had the time I would get his secret this night," says Dan.
"Ye see, Hamish, yon's an old man down yonder, and they'll be saying he
pays the Duke's rent in the big money.  They've the story of how he
found a hoard o' it among the hills; and it's likely enough, for many's
the bold stark lad took to the Southern Seas from these glens.  Och,
an' I ken folk mysel' that found an iron pot o' doubloons in the peat
bink; but aul' Tchonie, he just takes what he will be needin', and he
takes it at night when the folks are abed.  They used to be following
him, but he was skilly among the rocks, and they would maybe come on
his lantern sitting lighted, and once they found a dagger stuck at the
entrance to a cave to keep the wee folk from shuttin' it when a man was
inside; but they were never able to get the secret, for Tchonie Handy
Ishable would be sittin' over his peat fire when the lads came back in
the mornin'."

At the screich o' day we came from Glen Chalmadale into the thatched
village of Loch Ranza.  At a house some way back from the others
McKinnon stopped us.

"The man that lives here is a farmer and a fisherman," said he, "and a
very po-lite man in his taalk moreover, for I know him well," and he
mimicked the Loch Ranza speech, which, indeed, is very proper speech,
and I was very startled at one time to hear the very weans with the
polite way of it.

"Ye will be havin' the dogs on us," says Dan in a low voice; "and
there's folks here that are unfreens o' mine."

"Alaister Jock has weans enough to do without the dogs," says Ronny,
"for dogs are unchancy beasts in the smuggling nights, and Alaister
himsel' will be always up wi' the drake's dridd."

In a little time Ronny came back to us, and we made our way into
Alastair's house, a place where a grown man could stand broad-soled on
the clay floor and touch the rafters of the roof with the flat of his
palms.  The peat fire was smouldering on the floor, and the reek made
its way out at the rigging.  Alastair himself, a tall stooped man with
a red beard and a thin beak of a nose, brought peats and threw them on
the fire.

"There was one came for you in the night yesterday," says he to Dan in
his very proper polite way.  "I would not be having her in my house at
all, for I am a reeleegious man with a family to rear before the Lord.
I put her into the byre with the kye, for she is of the land of Egypt,
the house of bondage; and my wife sprinkled a little meal and a little
saut over the rumps of the kye to keep away her spells, for we must
meet spell with spell--not that I will be believing in these evil-doers
of the Black Art."

"Och, I kent, I kent," cried Dan, long before Alastair had done with
his speaking, and disappeared through a door which gave me a glimpse of
a cow's head looking over its biss, and it struck me that the byre was
the handy place to get at in Loch Ranza.  Ronny and Alastair were
thrang at the talking, with the farmer laying off with his hands, and
wagging his head like a minister in the pulpit, and all in a voice so
raised in tone that I believed from hearing him what our folks say,
that when two farmers are ploughing at the north end they can talk
comfortably across three fields, and they are great at the handling of
their skiffs and bold sailors.  I heard Dan--

"Och, my lass, my ain lass; it went sair against my heart to be leaving
without seein' you at all."

I heard her brave voice with a crooning quiver like a mother's.

"I ran, I ran all the long road, for I kent it all from the first o'
it," and in the dimness of the byre I could see these two clinging to
each other.

"Is it the sight[1] ye think ye have now, my droll dark lass?" says
Dan, looking down at her, one arm holding her away from him and the
great love in his eyes.

"There's whiles I come near to hating you when you will be talking like
that," said the swarthy girl.  "Mirren Stuart brought me word."

"You'll be glad to be rid o' me then.  You'll be forgetting me soon,"
and the man let his arm drop from her shoulders, and the cold
intolerant pride of his voice stung like a whip-lash, for he never
could thole that the woman he loved could even have a thought different
from his own, let alone a love-hatred.

I expected a proud heart-breaking lie from the sombre beauty, but for
all his answer she crept close, and clung to him with both hands, and
hid her face on his breast; then holding him at the stretch of her arms
she raised her head, and looked Dan in his eyes.

"Oh, man," she cried, "I have that that will keep me in mind o' ye,
shameless, shameless that I am," and two great tears rose in her eyes,
the first tears I ever saw there, but Dan lifted her in his arms like a
baby.

"Was ever there such a mother for a bold man's son," I heard him cry in
a voice of love and pride and laughter.

In Alastair's kitchen the thought came to me then what will the son of
these two be--the father strong as a mountain ash, and with the cruel
arrogant pride of a long-bred race behind him, his own will his only
law, and the queer twist of tenderness for old stories and old songs
and his love for all nature--a stark man, who would reach out and take
what he desired; and the mother fiercely tender, wildly, passionately
loving her chosen man, all the dark East in her black eyes, all the
deadly South in her blazing angers--a graceful, hard, blue steel blade
of Damascus, with jewel-encrusted hilt and sheath of velvet.  Being
refused by the elder princess, M. de Savoie, still quite young,
sought the hand of her sister, Mademoiselle de Valois.

He wrote her a letter which, unfortunately, was somewhat singular
in style, and which, unfortunately too, fell into the hands of
Mademoiselle de Montpensier.

Like her late father, Gaston, she plumed herself upon her wit and
eloquence; she caused several copies of the effusion to be printed and
circulated at Court. I will include it in these Memoirs, as it cannot
but prove entertaining. The heroes of Greece, and even of Troy,
possibly delivered their compliments in somewhat better fashion,
if we may judge by the version preserved for us by Homer.

FROM HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUC DE SAVOIE TO HIS MOST HONOURED COUSIN,
MADEMOISELLE DE VALOIS.

MY DEAR COUSIN:--As the pen must needs perform the office of the
tongue, and as it expresses the feelings of my heart, I doubt not
but that I am at great disadvantage, since the depth of these
feelings it cannot express, nor rightly convince you that, having
given all myself to you, nothing remains either to give or to desire,
save to find such affection pleasantly reciprocated.

Thus, in these lines, I earnestly beseech you to return my love,--lines
which give you the first hints of that fire which your many lovely
qualities have lighted in my soul. They create in me an inconceivable
impatience closely to contemplate that which now I admire at a
distance, and to convince you by various proofs that, with matchless
loyalty and passion,
I am, dear Cousin, Your most humble slave and servant, EMMANUEL.

Gentle as an angel, Mademoiselle de Valois desired just what everybody
else did.

The youngest of the three princesses was named Mademoiselle d'Alencon.
With a trifle more wit and dash, she could have maintained her position
at Court, where so charming a face as hers was fitted to make its
mark; but her fine dark eyes did but express indifference and
vacuity, seemingly unconscious of the pleasure to be got in this
world when one is young, good-looking, shapely, a princess of the
blood, and cousin german of the King besides.

Marguerite de Lorraine, her mother, married her to the Duc de Guise,
their near relative, who, without ambition or pretension, seemed
almost astonished to see that the King gave, not a dowry, but a most
lovely verdure--[Drawing-room tapestry, much in vogue at that
time]--, and an enamelled dinner-service.

The marriage was celebrated at the chateau, without any special
ceremonies or preparations; so much so that two cushions, which
had been forgotten, had to be hastily fetched. I saw what was the
matter, and motioning the two attendants of the royal sacristy, I
whispered to them to fetch what was wanted from my own apartment.

Not knowing to what use these cushions were to be put, my 'valet de
chambre' brought the flowered velvet ones, on which my dogs were
wont to lie.

I noticed this just as their Highnesses were about to kneel down, and I
felt so irresistibly inclined to laugh that I was obliged to
retire to my room to avoid bursting out laughing before everybody.

Fortunately the Guises did not get to know of this little detail until
long after, or they might have imagined that it was a planned piece
of malicious mockery.

However, it is only fair to admit that the marriage was treated in a
very off-hand way, and it is that which always happens to people
whose modesty and candour hinder them from posing and talking big
when they get the chance.

A strange delusion, truly!

Mademoiselle d'Orleans, the eldest child of the second marriage, is
considered one of the prettiest and most graceful of blondes. Her
endowments were surely all that a princess could need, if one
except reserve in speaking, and a general dignity of deportment.

When it was a question of giving her to Prince de Medici, Grand Duke of
Tuscany, she was all the while sincerely attached to handsome Prince
Charles de Lorraine, her maternal cousin. But the King, who, in his heart
of hearts, wanted to get hold of Lorraine for himself, could not
sanction this union; nay, he did more: he opposed it. Accordingly the
Princess, being urged to do so by her mother, consented to go to Italy,
and as we say at Court, expatriate herself.

The Bishop of Nziers, named De Bonzy, the Tuscan charge d'afaires,
came, on behalf of the Medici family, to make formal demand of
her hand, and had undertaken to bring her to her husband with
all despatch. He had undertaken an all too difficult task.

"Monsieur de Bonzy," said she to the prelate, "as it is you who here play
the part of interpreter and cavalier of honour as it is you,
moreover, who have to drag me away from my native country, I have to
inform you that it is my intention to leave it as slowly as possible,
and to contemplate it at my leisure before quitting it forever."

And, indeed, the Princess desired to make a stay more or less long
in every town en route. If, on the way, she noticed a convent of any
importance, she at once asked to be taken thither, and, in default
of other pastime or pretext, she requested them to say complines
with full choral accompaniment.

If she saw some castle or other, she inquired the name of its owner, and,
though she hardly knew the inmates, was wont to invite herself to
dinner and supper.

The Bishop of Beziers grew disconsolate.

He wrote letters to the Court, which he sent by special courier, and I
said to the King, "Pray, Sire, let her do as she likes; she will
surely have time enough to look at her husband later on."

Near Saint Fargeau, when the Princess heard that this estate was
her sister's, Mademoiselle sent a gentleman with her compliments,
to ask if she would give her shelter for twenty-four hours.

Instead of twenty-four hours' stay, she proceeded to take up her
abode there; and, provided with a gun and dogs, she wandered all
over the fields, always accompanied by the worthy Bishop, at whose
utter exhaustion she was highly amused.

At length she left her native land, and joined her husband, who
seemed somewhat sulky at all this delay.

"I cannot love you just yet," quoth she, weeping; "my heart is still
another's, and it is impossible to break off such attachments without
much time and much pain. Pray treat me with gentleness, for if you
are severe, I shall not do you any harm, but I shall go back to the
Luxembourg to my mother."

CHAPTER XXV.

Random Recollections.--Madame de Montespan Withdraws from Politics.--The
Queen's Dowry.

--First Campaign in Flanders.--The Queen Meets the King.--Some One Else
Sees Him First.--The Queen's Anger at La Valliere.

In compiling these Memoirs, I have never pretended to keep a strictly
regular diary, where events are set down chronologically and in their
proper order.

I write as I recollect; some of my recollections are chronicled sooner,
and others later. Thus it happens that the King's first conquests are
only now mentioned in the present chapter, although they occurred in the
year 1667, at the beginning of my credit and my favour.

I was naturally inclined for politics, and should have liked the hazard
of the game; but I suppose that the King considered me more
frivolous and giddy than I really was, for, despite the strong
friendship with which he has honoured me, he has never been gracious
enough to initiate me into the secrets of the Cabinet and the State.

If this sort of exclusion or ostracism served to wound my self-respect,
it nevertheless had its special advantage for me, for in epochs
less glorious or less brilliant (that is to say, in times of failure),
they could never cavil at advice or counsel which I had given, nor
blame me for the shortcomings of my proteges or creatures.

The King was born ambitious.

This prince will not admit it; he gives a thousand reasons in justification
of his conquests. But the desire for conquest proves him to be a conqueror,
and one is not a conqueror without being ambitious.

I think I can explain myself by mentioning the treaty drawn up at
the time of his marriage.

It was stipulated that the Infanta should have rights over the
Netherlands, then possessed by Don Balthazar, Prince of Spain.

But it was agreed to give the Princess Maria Theresa a handsome
dowry, in lieu of which she signed a paper renouncing her rights.

Her father, King Philip IV., died at the close of the year 1665, and
the Queen-mother besought our King not to take advantage of the
minority of the young Charles II., his brother-in-law, by troubling
Spain afresh with his pretensions.

Hardly had Anne of Austria been interred, when the King informed
the Spanish Court of his claims.

In the spring of the following year, he himself led an army
into Spanish Flanders, where his appearance was not expected.

These fine provinces, badly provisioned and badly fortified, made but a
merely formal resistance to Conde, Turenne, Crequi, and all our illustrious
generals, who, led by the King in person, wrought the troops to a
wild pitch of enthusiasm.

      The King had left the Infanta, his wife, at Compiegne, and it was
there that we awaited either news of the army or orders to advance.

From Compiegne we went to La Fere, where we heard that the King was
coming to receive us. Suddenly it was rumoured that the Duchesse de la
Valliere had just arrived, and that she was acting in accordance with
orders received.

The Queen began to weep, and, sobbing, bewailed her destiny. She was
seized by convulsions and violent retching, much to the alarm of her
ladies and the physicians.

Next day, after mass, the Duchesse and the Marquise de la Valliere came
to make their courtesy to the Queen, who, staring at them, said not a
word. When dinner-time came, she gave orders that no food should
be served to them, but the officials supplied this to them in
secret, fearing to be compromised.

In the coach, the Queen complained greatly of Mademoiselle de la
Valliere, and the Princesse de Bade, one of the ladies-in-waiting,
said to me, "Could you have believed that, with such gentleness, one
could also display such impudence?" The Duchesse de Montausier, I know
not why, expressed herself to me in the same terms of amazement. I
replied that, "Were I in that fair lady's place, I should dare to
show myself least of all to the Queen, for fear of grieving her
Majesty."

I was often rebuked afterwards for this speech, which, I admit, I
delivered somewhat thoughtlessly.

On leaving La Fere, the Queen gave particular orders to let the Duchess
have no relays, so that she could not follow; but the Master of the
Horse had caused these to be brought to her from Versailles, so
nothing was wanting.

On putting my head out of window, when we turned a corner of the road,
I saw that La Valliere's coach, with six horses, was following quite
close behind; but I took care not to tell the Queen, who believed
those ladies were a long way off.

All at once, on a height, we saw a body of horsemen approaching.
The King could be plainly distinguished, riding at their head.

La Valliere's coach immediately left the main road, and drove across
country, while the Queen called out to have it stopped; but the King
embraced its occupants, and then it drove off at a gallop to a chateau
already fixed upon for its reception.

I like to be just, and it is my duty to be so. This mark of irreverence
towards the Queen is the only one for which Mademoiselle de la
Valliere can be blamed; but she would never have done such a thing
of her own accord; it was all the fault of the Marquise, blinded
as she was by ambition.

CHAPTER XXVI.

The King Contemplates the Conquest of Holland.--The Grand Seignior's
Embassy.

--Madame de Montespan's Chance of Becoming First Lady of the Harem.--Anxiety
to Conclude Negotiations with so Passionate an Ambassador.--Help
Sent to Candia.--With Disastrous Results.--Death of the Duc de
Beaufort.--Why It Is Good to Carry About the Picture of One's
Lady-love.

Having gained possession of the Netherlands in the name of the Infanta,
his consort, the King seriously contemplated the subjugation of
the Dutch, and possibly also the invasion of these rich countries.

Meanwhile, he privately intimated as much to the princes of Europe,
promising to each of them some personal and particular advantage in
exchange for a guarantee of assistance or neutrality in this matter.

The Grand Seignior, hearing that the Pope and the Venetians were urging
our Cabinet to come to the help of Candia,
[This important island of Candia, the last powerful bulwark of
Christendom against the Turk, belonged at that time to Venice.

EDITOR'S NOTE.]
lost no time in sending a splendid embassy to Paris, to congratulate the
young King upon his conquest of Flanders, and to predict for him all
success in the paths along which ambition might lead him.

Being naturally fond of show and display, the King left nothing undone
which might give brilliance to the reception of so renowned an embassy.

The Court wore an air of such splendour and magnificence that these
Mussulmans, used though they were to Asiatic pomp, seemed surprised
and amazed at so brilliant a reception, at which nothing, indeed,
had been forgotten.

The ambassador-in-chief was a pleasant young man, tall, shapely, and
almost as good-looking as the King. This Turk had splendidly shaped
hands, and eyes that shone with extraordinary brilliance. He conceived
an ardent passion for me, a passion that went to such lengths that he
sacrificed thereto all his gravity, all his stately Ottoman demeanour.

When I passed by, he saluted me, placing his hand to his heart,
stopping to gaze at me intently, and watch me as long as possible. Being
introduced (either by chance or design) to my Paris jeweller, he seized
a gold box upon which he saw my portrait, and, giving the jeweller a
considerable sum, refused to part with the picture, however much they
begged him to do so.

One fine morning, in spite of his turban, he got into the large chapel
of the chateau during mass, and while the Court of France was adoring
the true God, Ibrahim knelt down in front of me, which made every
one laugh, including the King.

All such absurdities caused the ministers to give him the required
reply with all speed, and they were not backward in granting him a
farewell audience.

When the time came for him to go, Ibrahim burst into tears, exclaiming
that, in his country, I should be in the first rank, whereas at Saint
Germain I was only in the second; and he charged his interpreter
to tell the King of France that the unhappy Ibrahim would never get
over this visit to his Court.

The King replied, with a smile, that he had "better become a
Christian, and stay with us."

At these words the ambassador turned pale, and glancing downwards,
withdrew, forgetting to salute his Majesty.

Then he returned, and made all his bows quite nicely; nor would he
quit the capital before he had sent me his portrait, some pretty
verses in Italian, which he had caused to be composed, and besides this,
a set of amber ornaments, the most beautiful of any worn by ladies of
the harem.

Despite this imposing and costly embassy, despite the ambassador's
compliment, who referred to the King as "Eldest Son of the Sun,"
this same Son of the Sun despatched seven thousand picked troops
to help Venice against the Turks.

To this detachment the Venetian Republic sent fourteen vessels laden
with their own soldiers, under the leadership of our Duc de Beaufort,
Grand Admiral of France, and Lieutenant-General Duc de Navailles.

Had these troops arrived in the nick of time, they would have
saved Candia, but by a sudden accident all was lost, and after so
terrible a reverse, the Isle of Candia, wrested from the potentates
of Europe and Christendom, fell a prey to the infidels.

A pistol-shot fired at a Turk blew up several barrels of gunpowder
belonging to a large magazine captured from the enemy. Our troops,
thinking that a mine had been sprung, fled in headlong confusion, never
even caring to save their muskets.

The Turks butchered them in the most frightful manner. In this huge
massacre, some of our most promising officers perished, and the Duc de
Beaufort was never found either among the wounded or the slain.

The young Comte de Guiche, of whom I shall presently speak, had his
hand smashed, and if on his breast he had not worn a portrait of
Madame,--[The ill-fated Duchesse d'Orleans.]--the sword of a Turk
would have struck him to the heart.

The King felt sorry that he had only despatched seven thousand men
thither. But when M. de Louvois informed him that the whole detachment
had been almost annihilated, he regretted having sent so many.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Danger of Harbouring a Malcontent.--The King's Policy with Regard
to Lorraine.--Advice of Madame de Thianges.

--Conquest of Lorraine.

--The Lorraines Surrender to the Emperor.

The petty princes placed too near a great potentate are just like the
shrubs that grow beside an old oak tree, whose broad shade blights
them, while its roots undermine and sap them, till at last they are
weakened and destroyed.

When young Gaston, son of Henri IV., seeking to get free from
Richelieu's insolent despotism, withdrew to the Duc de Lorraine, the
Cardinal uttered a cry of joy, and remarked to Louis XIII., that
vindictive, jealous prince, "Oh, what a good turn the Duc d'Orleans
has just done you to-day!
By going to stay with M. de Lorraine, he will oust him!"
The Court soon got to know that M. de Lorraine had given Monsieur a
most cordial reception, and that the latter, who, like his father,
was very susceptible, had proposed for the hand of the Princesse
Marguerite, a charming person, and sister to the reigning Duke.

King Louis XIII. openly opposed this marriage, which nevertheless was
arranged for, and celebrated partly at Nancy and partly at
Luneville.

Such complacence earned for M. de Lorraine the indignation of the King
and his minister, the Cardinal.

"I'm thinking, Hamish, if the houris in his
paradise kenned the words o' the spring I've been deaving him wi', the
Egyptian would be very greatly thought of."

When I was by with the reading of Dan's news, "Ye'll have another
letter," said I, making signs at the pagan.

"Yass," and at that he put it in my hands.  It was for Belle.

We got on the road again, the pony trotting now and the messenger
running easily, one brown hand at the stirrup-leather, and very many
times he would be saying "Geelp," till it came on me that McGilp would
be wishing to be seeing me at once.

At Belle's cottage door I dismounted, and with the clatter of the horse
there came old Betty, with that queer look on her face of disdain and
mystery, and just itching to be at the talking.

"_The wean's hame_," said she, and slammed the door with a last nod of
her old head and her lips pursed up; and then there came the snuffling
ill-natured greeting of a wean that made me grue as I made my way to
the byre, for till then my mind had clean forgot the calf I was to be
seeing that day.

In the byre we sat, the heathen and me--for we were but simple men in
this affair--and the byre was a dark place to be sitting, and in a
while old Betty came, havering at hens and talking to herself.  As she
came and stood in the doorway and looked closely within, with her back
bent and her hand on the lintel, her eyes fell on the messenger, and
she let a great cry from her in the Gaelic.  To be putting it in
English is not so good, but it would be like this, "What dost thou
require of me, father of devils?" and she fell on her knees.  Well,
well, I can laugh at that sight yet.  But she "came to" in a little,
and took me into the sunlight, and said the gipsy lass would be seeing
me for a little time; and I was taken to Belle's sleeping-place, and
her arm was round her wean, and she was lying on her back, and her
black hair a little damp curling on the pillow.

"You have been very good," said she.  "My man, your kinsman, will be
owing you thanks."  And at that her eyes suffused, and two great tears
gathered and glittered, and she smiled up to me, and I gave her the
letter and turned away.

In a long while she cried, proud and piteous--

"Bring me the messenger; he will have his father's gift for my son."
And the lilt of joy in her voice made me think shame to be a man at
all.  Silently the messenger came, his eyes on the ground, and kneeled,
and at that they were at it in their own Gaelic, and Belle raised the
wean a little, and I saw his face wrinkled and red, and his blue
staring eyes.  And the man laid a long blue blade across the bed, and
the little groping fingers of the child fluttered a moment, and then
closed on the hilt, and when I lifted the gleaming snake-like sword,
from the hilt scroll with a tinkling fell a ring, and it fell on the
bosom of the mother--and she lay and smiled.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

But I made a safe place for that sword and scabbard (for the messenger
gave that last into my hands), and for many nights in my dreams the
little dimpled hand fluttered and closed on the hilt.


CHAPTER XVI.

I HAVE SOME TALK WITH McGILP IN McKINNON'S KITCHEN.

In the gloaming I left the sheiling, and took my way through the hill,
as we say, for McKinnon's house by the glen on the road to Birrican,
and the first of that road is just plain guessing, but after, maybe, a
mile there rises up the Mulloch Mhor, the big peak of the Island, and
with that, a little to a man's left hand, the road to the sea is easy.
There is a road crossing that way that you'll still see running in
through the Planting above the Letter, and through by the Little
Clearing, and joining the road to the castle.

To the left of me I could hear the kye at the Bothanairidh, where there
was a common grazing, for by this time it was well to have the beasts
away from the steadings, because there was no great fencing in these
days, and the weans would be put to the herding, out on the hillside.
You'll see yet the wee turf byres where the kye were milked, and the
founds of the bochans where the old folk had their summer, with the
hens and beasts about them.  And many's the story I could be telling
about these summer quarters when the lassies and old wives would be at
the spinning.

All the glen on the right of me was a McBride place, but you will not
get that name there any more now, and nothing belonging to them but the
trees, old and straggling, that they would be planting long ago, and
the furs on the side of the hill where they had rigs about, and
lazy-beds.

There were not many houses on the shore in these days, except maybe at
a place they would be calling Clamperton, not very far from McKelvie's
Inn.

Ronny was the pleased man to welcome me to his house, and Mirren, his
wife, was at her best to be showing what a thrifty goodwife she was
making, and she was very kind, and spoke good words to me; so, thinks
I, Ronny will have been telling her about the talk we had yon day on
the Isle.

"They will be saying," says Mirren, "that yon dark lass has her trouble
past her."

"I am hoping that," said I, and looked at Ronny's mother sitting very
bright and perky by the fire, with a clean white mutch on her head and
the strings not tied.

"It is goot," says she, "to have a boy whatever--a boy iss a good
thing, no matter which way he will be got," and she ended her little
talk with a very brisk demand.  "Gif me a dram, Mirren; yes"--and that
set us to the laughing, for the young wife was setting the drink before
us and not making signs of giving the old one any.

We sat down to a meal of roasted fowl, very tasty, and a very good drop
of spirits to it, and I would be laughing inside of myself because of
the boldness of McKinnon to be praising his wife's cooking before his
ain mother, and Mirren was greatly pleased too; indeed, many's the time
I will be thinking that the road to a quiet lass's heart will be to
praise her cooking.  When we had made an end of the eating I gave
McKinnon the story of the stranger that came whistling at uncanny
hours, and asked him where I would be like to find McGilp, for it
appeared the man wanted speech with me.

"You are on the right tack," says he, "for I am waiting for his hand on
the sneck any time this two hours past," and the dishes were hardly
cleared away when the smuggler bent his head to be coming in the door,
for in these days there were no locks in the Isle of the Peaks.

There came in with the man a kind of waft of the sea as he threw off
his great-coat and clattered his cutlass in a corner--a fine figure of
a man, towering up to the rafters, and his voice held in as though it
would be more comfortable to hurl an order in the teeth of a gale.

"Ha!" says he, looking from McKinnon to his wife; "she has brought you
to port finely."  But he was mightily complimentary, and gave many good
wishes with his glass in his great hand.

"And how are you, Mister Hamish?" says he.  "Every plank sailing--in
fine trim--and that's good hearing these days."

With that McKinnon got his fiddle, and played us many sprightly airs,
for he was a very creditable performer, and the smuggler would be
asking for this or that one, and nodding his head with great spirit.

"You would have speech with the Pagan," said he, when the night was
wearing on.  "An' cold eneuch he was when I picked him up at the mouth
o' the Rouen river, for I had an express from a compatriot, Mr Hamish,
serving overseas"--this with a very grand air.

"Were you wanting speech with me?" said I, for I could see the drink
was going to his head.

"It's a wee thing private," says he; "but tak' up your dram.  I canna
thole a man that loiters wi' drink till the pith is out of it."

At that we drew our chairs close before the fire.

"Many's the time we would be talking about ye, Mr Hamish," says he,
"Dan and myself; yon time we left ye in the haar at Loch Ranza--a
senseless job, too, by all accounts, and Alastair rowing to the
suthard, and us creeping out to the nor'west; he'll be hard to find
now, by Gully--ay, Dan will be hard to find.

"I am hoping you are not close-hauled for time," says he, "for it's
hard to come at my tale, Mr Hamish; but ye see, Dan McBride had some
notion o' what might occur--I am thinking ye will see with me there.

"I am giving you the man's words, ye see, for he had great faith in ye.

"'Ye'll say to Hamish,' says he, and I'm telling you he was a sober
man--'ye'll say, I am not wanting the wean to grow up like a cadger's
dog, to be running from kicks and whining for a bone.'

"I am no' great hand at this wean business, Mr Hamish, but McBride was
a fine man."

At that I made mention of the wean he had taken to the convent in
France.

"I'm with you there," says he.  "I was paid good money for that job,
and I ken what I ken, and mair--what I've found out.  Ye'll no' hiv
great mind o' Scaurdale's son?  No?  Aweel, he was a bog-louper, and
wild, wild at that, but he fell in wi' some south-country lady--a
cousin o' his ain, that stopped for years at Scaurdale--a young thing
that was feart to haud the man, but fond o' him too.  I canna mind the
name o' her.  The long and short of it was jeest this--she married on
an Englishman, a landed man and weel bred--Stockdale they ca'ed
him--but he turned oot ill after a', and the first wean was a lass
instead o' a boy.  And I'm jalousin' she would be getting her
keel-haulings for that, poor lady.  Ye ken weel that young Scaurdale
broke his neck, and ye ken where.

"'I'll be in hell or hame,' says he, 'in forty minutes.'  At the Quay
Inn it was, and his horse lathered and foaming and wild wi' fear.
Aweel, Mr Hamish, he's no _hame_ yet.

"Things were going from bad to worse with the lass he lost, and her man
aye at the bottle, and sometimes she would be finding him lookin' at
the wean and cursing, so what does she do but get word to the old Laird
o' Scaurdale, who was fond o' her and a just man.  I'll wager ye, he
did not hang long in irons.  The thing was done circumspectly, mind
you--nae high-handedness--but Belle's folk were about Glen Scaur, a
droll wandering band, claiming great descent from Eastern folk, and
with horses and dogs and spaewife among them; and Belle (as they will
be calling her) was the daughter o' the Chief, a very proud man.

"They were a wandering tribe, Mr Hamish, and they wandered into the
south country, and I'm thinking ye saw the bonny spaewife coming back
her lane, except for a wean, on a morning ye ploughed stubble.

"But here's the droll bit," says he.  "Stockdale was kilt an his horse,
too, in his ain park, for he scoured the place like a madman after the
wean was lost.  Weel, weel, that finished the lady, poor body.  Ye'll
see how things are now, Mr Hamish," says he.

"Yon's an heiress.  An' that's a' I'll be saying," says he, for
McKinnon came in from his stable, "but the Laird, your uncle, was in
the ploy," says he, "or I'm sair mistaken, and the Mistress too."

With that we rose to be going, and had a glass, and the captain's last
words were--"Ye'll mind yon: 'I'm not wanting the wean to grow up like
a cadger's dog.'"

As I was walking home that night the thought came into my head of the
wisdom of Betty at the big house.

I minded her saying to me on the Sunday that Belle took the wean in the
tartan shawl to the Mistress--her very words came back to me--

"The wean has the look o' John o' Scaurdale."


PART II.


CHAPTER XVII.

I TURN SCHOOLMASTER.

There were many things to be doing in these days--peats to be cutting
and carted home and built into tidy stacks, just as you can see them
to-day, and the sprits and bog hay to be saving, for we were not good
at growing hay, and then, when the boys grew up, there was the
schooling of them.  It was the boys we would aye be calling them, Dan's
boy and the Laird's son, and they were fine boys.

Bryde McBride, that was the name of Dan's son, and Hugh, with a wheen
other names, was the young Laird, who was schooled in Edinburgh and was
not long back to us, and there was a lass Margaret, his sister.  They
would be with me everywhere on the long summer days, and me with the
books by me; but mostly in the summer we would hold school at the Wee
Hill, for there was a green place as level as the page of a book, and a
little turf dyke enclosing it nearly, that we called the Wee Hill.
Wae's me, now they have hens scarting about the place, and the
greenness is gone from it.

There was the stone of twenty-two snails close by, for that was the
number we found on it, a thing I have many times thought about; and
great games we had, Bryde with his black hair and swarthy skin and wild
blue eyes, with laughter just ready in them, and the speed and grace of
a wild cat; and Hugh, ruddy like his folks, and dour too and very
loyal; and the lass Margaret, who could turn Bryde with her little
finger, and gloried in the doing of it.  Ay, they grew up with me, and
would be swimming with me in the sea, and every path in the hills we
would be riding over, and we were happy together.  These were the
happiest hours of all, ochone; the sun shone more brightly and the days
were longer.

And in his mother's eyes there was none like Bryde.  The sun rose and
set on him, his every little mannerism was a joy, and I have watched
her gazing at him for long without speech, and suddenly rise and press
his head against her heart, and her happiness was when he looked up
from his task and smiled.  I think never was a hand laid on him in
anger.

There was something elemental about the lad.  He would stand mother
naked in the dim morning light below the little fall, and his pony
awaiting him, and he kent every horse and dog within twenty miles.
Indeed, there was a time when he would have slept with his horses.

"They might be needing me in the night," said he.

In these days we grew hay in a droll fashion.  If there was a field
namely for good grass, we would be getting green divots from it and
putting them in our own parks, and scattering good rich earth round the
divots.  And when the grass was blown about by the winds, the seeds
would fall and strike on the loose scattered earth, so that these
divots were the leaven that leavened the whole field.  But when he was
sixteen and man grown, a fair scholar and expert with the sword, Bryde
would be laughing at the notion.  And he was strong and tough like the
mountain ash.

"Hill land," said he, "will only be growing hill grass," and he set his
folk and he went himself and took the seeds from the hill grasses.
Guid kens how long it took him, but he sowed his hill grasses with his
corn, and the seeds came, as we say, and he cut it and threshed it with
the flails; and after that he had hay-stacks in his yard, and his
beasts were well done by, so that at the fair he got great prices both
for stots and back-calvers.  And, indeed, it was at the fair that first
I saw the mettle in the boy, although his eyes had always dancing
devils in them.  There was much drink in these days, and the mainland
dealers had not the head for it that the boys from the glens had.  The
young boys would be holding saddle beasts from the early morning and
making the easy money.  Aweel, on this fair day, Margaret the maid, the
sister of Hugh, had craked and craked to be seeing the beasts and the
ferlies, and her mother, the Lady, and her father, the Laird, were sore
against it.

"I will be with Bryde, my cousin," said she; "and who will meddle me."
(I was clean forgotten.)

"He is not a real cousin, Margaret," said the mother.

"He is a fine lad; you will go, my lass," said the Laird, for blood was
more to him than a stroke left-handed across a shield, and that day she
rode with Hugh and me--Margaret, the Flower of Nourn.  Tall she was and
limber like a lance, her eyes like blue forget-me-nots that grow by the
burn mhor, fearless and daring, with long black lashes.  Her brown hair
curled at her white neck, and her white chin was strong like a man's,
but very soft and beautiful; her lips red, and her teeth like pearls.

She was silent for the most part on the road that day, though whiles
she would be quizzing her brother about the lassies in the college
town, for he had two years of the College at St Andrews.  He was the
great hand with the lassies by all accounts, Hugh, and many's the time
his mother would be havering about them, but that man, my uncle, would
wink as though he would be amused.

But when we passed McKelvie's Inn and saw old McKelvie there, stout and
hearty, but very white about the head, and had a salutation from Ronald
McKinnon thrang with the dealers, and Mirren not far off still
sonsy--when we passed there I saw that Margaret was all trembling; and
when we saw Bryde, tall and swarthy, coming to us, I saw the smiling in
her eyes and her face aglow.

"What was that, my dear lass?" said I, looking at her.

"That would be my heart leaping," said she, with a laugh and a blush.

And Bryde lifted her from her little horse, and her hands were never
tired to be touching him.  She was all tremulous with laughter and
eager-eyed, and the red was flaming in her cheeks, and she would be
ordering Bryde like a queen, but pleadingly withal.

"You will stable my little horse," said she, and when Bryde, smiling
down at her, took the bridle, "But--but I will be coming with you," she
cried, "or surely you will be forgetting to halter him, or letting him
run off and leave me," and as those two with the proud little horse
moved to the inn, I saw her look up at the boy with all her heart in
her eyes and her lips smiling a little pitifully.

"Do you think I would be caring, Bryde, if he ran off--if you were left
with me?"

Ah, she was brave in her loving, was the Flower of Nourn.

Mirren McKinnon, that was once Mirren Stuart, was dowie that day, and
her eyes red with greeting, for her son had gone to the sea, as his
father had long ago.  "I will be missing his step," she said softly,
"when my man is on the hill," but Ronny would not be listening.

"It will make a man of the lad," said he; "there's something clean and
fine about the sea."

Bryde had sold his beasts well, and it was his pleasure to be showing
Margaret the bonniest foals, rough-haired and tousled as they were, and
Hugh and me would be passing judgment.  There was a mob of mares and
foals and yearlings gathered in one place, and the mainland dealers
bargaining with the farmers--always on the point of fighting by their
way of it, and laughing to scorn the offered prices, as you will see to
this day when folks are dealing in horse.

And as we stood a little way off, a great burly red-faced man--a
Lowland dealer, strong as a tree, and a wit in a coarse way--turned his
round drink-reddened eyes on us a time or two, and whispered behind his
hand to his cronies, and I heard the titter of Dol Beag's laughing as
Hugh pointed to a bonny yearling colt, and we stepped away, but not so
far that I heard the dealer's words.

"Ou ay," says he, looking at Bryde, "Dan's is he?  I've heard tell o'
him, but whitna queen is't that's lookin' at him like a motherless
foal?"

At that Bryde put Margaret in my hands.  His face was like a devil's
and his teeth showed as though his mouth were dry.  To Hugh he gave one
word.  "Stop!" said he, and the word was a snarl.

Never another word he spoke, but leapt among the bargainers, and slid
through the great flailing arms of the bucolic wit, and his right hand
sank into the man's red throat.  I see him still, his left hand behind
the man's back, the shoulders raised, all the lithe length of him as he
stood on his toes, his eyes like blue flame.  I saw him shake his enemy
as a dog shakes a rabbit.  The great red face took a blae colour--the
tongue protruded from his mouth and the eyes stared wildly.  Men would
have dragged Bryde off, but he hissed a "begone" through clenched teeth
(it was a word of his mother), and they fell back as from a
sword-stroke.

"Go down, go down, ye beast, if ye never come up," he girned, and flung
the man from him to the earth, where he lay.

I heard no word, and no look that I saw passed between, but Margaret
left us and ran to Bryde.

"Put your foot on that cur, my lady," says he, cold as an icicle, and
his head bare.  Her two white hands trembled at his sleeve and she
turned her face from the groaning man in horror, and then she raised
her great blue eyes in one long look, and then her little foot but
touched the man's shoulder.

A grim smile came over the face of Bryde McBride, like sunlight in a
dark pool.  "A brave lass," said he, and I only heard her reply, and
saw her colour rise at his praise.

"Take me home," she whispered, "Bryde--Bryde _dear_."

"Drink," cried the man on the ground, "drink.  God, I wis near hand it
that time."

On the road home we pretended to be very merry, for nothing would
please Margaret but Bryde would ride to her father's house.  On the
hill road she set spurs to her horse with a challenge to Bryde, and
they left us some way behind, Hugh and me.

"Man," said Hugh, and his face was troubled, "this will not do."

"No," said I, and hated myself, "for the boy's as good as you or me."

"Good!" cries Hugh; "he's like the mountains--he's granite, and what
are we but dressed sandstone--and the lass kens it," says he.  "God
help us."


CHAPTER XVIII.

THE FIRST MEETING.

"Is such a pretty, charming person as yourself fitted for a Court
of that kind, and for such an odd sort of climate?"
"Madame, I have sought to shut my eyes to many things, being solely
conscious of the horribly forlorn condition in which I find myself in
my native country."

"Have you reckoned the distance? Did the Princess confess that she
was going to carry you off to the other end of the world? For her city
of Lisbon, surrounded by precipices, is more than three hundred
leagues from Paris."

"At the age of three I voyaged to America, returning hither when I was
eleven."

"I am vexed with Mademoiselle d'Aumale--
[Mademoiselle d'Aumale, daughter of the Duc de Nemours, of the House
of Savoy.

She was a blonde, pleasant-mannered enough, but short of stature.
Her head was too big for her body; and this head of hers was full of
conspiracies and coups d'etat. She dethroned her husband in order to
marry his brother.--EDITOR'S NOTE.]
for wanting to rob us of so charming a treasure. But has she any right
to act in this way? Do you think her capable of contributing to your
pleasure or your happiness? This young Queen of Portugal, under the guise
of good-humour, hides a violent and irascible temperament. I believe
her to be thoroughly selfish; suppose that she neglects and despises
you, after having profited by your company to while away the tedium
of her journey?

Take my word for it, madame, you had better stay here with us; for there
is no real society but in France, no wit but in our great world, no real
happiness but in Paris. Draw up another petition as quickly as possible,
and send it to me. I will present it myself, and to tell you this
is tantamount to a promise that your plea shall succeed."
Mademoiselle d'Aubigne, all flushed with emotion, assured me of her
gratitude with the ingenuous eloquence peculiar to herself.

We embraced as two friends of the Albret set should do, and three days
later, the King received a new petition, not signed with the name
of Scarron, but with that of D'Aubigne.

The pension of two thousand francs, granted three years before her death
by the Queen-mother, was renewed. Madame Scarron had the honour of making
her courtesy to the King, who thought her handsome, but grave in
demeanour, and in a loud, clear voice, he said to her, "Madame, I kept
you waiting; I was jealous of your friends."
The Queen of Portugal knew that I had deprived her of her secretary,
fellow-gossip, reader, Spanish teacher, stewardess, confidante,
and lady-in-waiting.

She wrote to me complaining about this, and on taking leave of the
King to go and reign in Portugal, she said, with rather a forced
air of raillery:
"I shall hate you as long as I live, and if ever you do me the
honour of paying me a visit some day at Lisbon, I'll have you burned
for your pains."

Then she wanted to embrace me, as if we were equals, but this I deprecated
as much from aversion as from respect.

CHAPTER XIX.

La Fontaine.--Boileau.--Moliere.

--Corneille.--Louis XIV.'s Opinion of Each of Them.

The King's studies with his preceptor, Perefixe, had been of only a
superficial sort, as, in accordance with the express order of the
Queen-mother, this prelate had been mainly concerned about the
health of his pupil, the Queen being, above all, desirous that he
should have a good constitution.

"The rest comes easily enough, if a prince have but nobility of soul
and a sense of duty," as the Queen often used to say.
Her words came true.

I came across several Spanish and Italian books in the library of the
little apartments. The "Pastor Fido," "Aminta," and the "Gerusalemme
" seemed to me, at first, to be the favourite works. Then came
Voiture's letters, the writings of Malherbe and De Balzac, the
Fables of La Fontaine, the Satires of Boileau, and the delightful
comedies of Moliere.

Corneille's tragedies had been read, but not often.

Until I came to Court, I had always looked upon Corneille as the
greatest tragic dramatist in the world, and as the foremost of our
poets and men of letters. The King saved me from this error.

Book in hand, he pointed out to me numberless faults of style, incoherent
and fantastic imagery, sentiment alike exaggerated and a thousand
leagues removed from nature. He considered, and still considers,
Pierre Corneille to be a blind enthusiast of the ancients, whom
we deem great since we do not know them.

In his eyes, this declamatory poet was a republican more by virtue of
his head than his heart or his intention,--one of those men more
capricious than morose, who cannot reconcile themselves to what exists,
and prefer to fall back upon bygone generations, not knowing how to
live like friendly folk among their contemporaries.

He liked La Fontaine better, by reason of his extreme naturalness,
but his unbecoming conduct at the time of the Fouquet trial proved
painful to his Majesty, who considered the following verses passing
strange:

". . . .

Trust not in kings Their favour is but slippery; worse than that,
It costs one dear, and errors such as these Full oft bring shame
and scandal in their wake."

"Long live Moliere!"

added his Majesty; "there you have talent without artifice, poetry without
rhapsody, satire without bitterness, pleasantry that is always
apt, great knowledge of the human heart, and perpetual raillery
that yet is not devoid of delicacy and compassion.

Moliere is a most charming man in every respect; I gave him a few
hints for his 'Tartuffe,' and such is his gratitude that he wants
to make out that, without me, he would never have written that
masterpiece."

"You helped him, Sire, to produce it, and above all things, to carry
out his main idea; and Moliere is right in thinking that, without
a mind free from error, such as is yours, his masterpiece would
never have been created."

"It struck me," continued the King, "that some such thing was
indispensable as a counterbalance in the vast machinery of my
government, and I shall ever be the friend and supporter, not of
Tartuffes, but of the 'Tartuffe,' as long as I live."

"And Boileau, Sire?" I continued; "what place among your favourites
does he fill?"
"I like Boileau," replied the prince, "as a necessary scourge, which one
can pit against the bad taste of second-rate authors. His satires,
of too personal, a nature, and consequently iniquitous, do not
please me.

He knows it, and, despite himself, he will amend this.

He is at work upon an 'Ars Poetica,' after the manner of Horace.

The little that he has read to me of this poem leads me to expect
that it will be an important work. The French language will continue
to perfect itself by the help of literature like this, and Boileau,
cruel though he be, is going to confer a great benefit upon all
those who have to do with letters."

CHAPTER XX.

Birth of the Comte de Vegin.

--Madame Scarron as Governess.--The King's Continued Dislike of Her.--Birth
of the Duc du Maine.

--Marriage of the Nun.

The King became ever more attached to me personally, as also to the
peculiarities of my temperament.

He had witnessed with satisfaction the birth of Madame de la
Valliere's two children, and I thought that he would have the same
affection for mine.

But I was wrong.

It was with feelings of trepidation and alarm that he contemplated
my approaching confinement.

Had I given birth to a daughter, I am perfectly certain that, in his
eyes, I should have been done for.

I gave birth to the first Comte de Vegin, and, grasping my hand
affectionately, the King said to me, "Be of good courage, madame;
present princes to the Crown, and let those be scandalised who will!"

A few moments later he came back, and gave me a million for my
expenses.

It was, however, mutually arranged that the newborn Infant should
be recognised later on, and that, for the time being, I was to have
him brought up in secrecy and mystery.

When dissuading Madame Scarron from undertaking a journey to Lisbon,
I had my own private ends in view.

I considered her peculiarly fitted to superintend the education of
the King's children, and to maintain with success the air of
mysterious reserve which for a while was indispensable to me.

I deputed my brother, M. de Vivonne, to acquaint her with my
proposals,--proposals which came from the King as well,--nor did I
doubt for one moment as regarded her consent and complacency, being,
as she was, alone in Paris.

"Madame," said M. de Vivonne to her, "the Marquise is overjoyed at being
able to offer you an important position of trust, which will change
your life once for all."

"The gentle, quiet life which, thanks to the kindness of the King,
I now lead, is all that my ambition can desire," replied the widow,
concealing her trouble from my brother; "but since the King wishes
and commands it, I will renounce the liberty so dear to me, and
will not hesitate to obey."

Accordingly she came. The King had a few moments' parley with her, in
order to explain to her all his intentions relative to the new life
upon which she was about to enter, and M. Bontems--[First Groom
of the Chamber, and Keeper of the Privy Purse.]

--furnished her with the necessary funds for establishing her
household in suitable style.

A month afterwards, I went incognito to her lonely residence, situate
amid vast kitchen-gardens between Vaugirard and the Luxembourg. The house
was clean, commodious, thoroughly well appointed, and, not being
overlooked by neighbours, the secret could but be safely kept.

Madame Scarron's domestics included two nurses, a waiting-maid, a
physician, a courier, two footmen, a coachman, a postilion, and two
cooks.

Being provided with an excellent coach, she came to Saint Germain
every week, to bring me my son, or else news of his welfare.

Her habitually sad expression somewhat pained the King. As I soon
noticed their mutual embarrassment, I used to let Madame Scarron
stay in an inner room all the time that his Majesty remained with
me.

In the following year, I gave birth to the Duc du Maine.

Mademoiselle d'Aubigne, who was waiting in the drawing-room, wrapped the
child up carefully, and took it away from Paris with all speed.

On her way she met with an adventure, comic in itself, and which
mortified her much. When told of it, I laughed not a little; and, in
spite of all my excuses and expressions of regret, she always felt
somewhat sore about this; in fact, she never quite got over it.

Between Marly and Ruel, two mounted police officers, in pursuit of
a nun who had escaped from a convent, bethought themselves of looking
inside Madame Scarron's carriage.

Such inquisitiveness surprised her, and she put on her mask, and
drew down the blinds. Observing that she was closely followed by these
soldiers, she gave a signal to her coachman, who instantly whipped
up his horses, and drove at a furious rate.

At Nanterre the gendarmes, being reinforced, cried out to the
coachman to stop, and obliged Madame Scarron to get out.

She was taken to a tavern close by, where they asked her to remove
her mask.

She made various excuses for not doing so, but at the mention of
the lieutenant-general of police, she had to give in.

"Madame," inquired the brigadier, "have you not been in a nunnery?"
"Pray, monsieur, why do you ask?"
"Be good enough to answer me, madame; repeat my question, and I
insist upon a reply.

I have received instructions that I shall not hesitate to carry out."

"I have lived with nuns, but that, monsieur, was a long while ago."

"It is not a question of time.

What was your motive for leaving these ladies, and who enabled you
to do so?"

"I left the convent after my first communion. I left it openly,
and of my own free will. Pray be good enough to allow me to continue
my journey."

"On leaving the convent, where did you go?"
"First to one of my relatives, then to another, and at last to Paris,
where I got married."
"Married? What, madame, are you married?

Oh, young lady, what behaviour is this? Your simple, modest mien plainly
shows what you were before this marriage.

But why did you want to get married?"
As he said this, the little Duc du Maine, suffering, perhaps, from
a twinge of colic, began to cry.

The brigadier, more amazed than ever, ordered the infant to be shown
as well.

Seeing that she could make no defence, Madame Scarron began to shed
tears, and the officer, touched to pity, said:

"Madame, I am sorry for your fault, for, as I see, you are a good
mother.

My orders are to take you to prison, and thence to the convent specified
by the archbishop, but I warn you that if we catch the father of
your child, he will hang.

As for you, who have been seduced, and who belong to a good family,
tell me one of your relatives with whom you are on friendly terms,
and I will undertake to inform them of your predicament."

Madame Scarron, busy in soothing the Duc du Maine, durst not explain
for fear of aggravating matters, but begged the brigadier to take
her back to Saint Germain.

At this juncture my brother arrived on his way back to Paris.

He recognised the carriage, which stood before the inn, with a crowd
of peasants round it, and hastened to rescue the governess, for he
soon succeeded in persuading these worthy police officers that the
sobbing dame was not a runaway nun, and that the new-born infant
came of a good stock.

CHAPTER XXI.

The Saint Denis View.--Superstitions, Apparitions.--Projected Enlargement
of Versailles.--Fresh Victims for Saint Denis.

One evening I was walking at the far end of the long terrace of Saint
Germain. The King soon came thither, and pointing to Saint Denis,
said, "That, madame, is a gloomy, funereal view, which makes me displeased
and disgusted with this residence, fine though it be."
"Sire," I replied, "in no other spot could a more magnificent view be
found.

Yonder river winding afar through the vast plain, that noble forest
divided by hunting roads into squares, that Calvary poised high in
air, those bridges placed here and there to add to the attractiveness
of the landscape, those flowery meadows set in the foreground as a
rest to the eye, the broad stream of the Seine, which seemingly is
fain to flow at a slower rate below your palace windows,--I do not
think that any more charming combination of objects could be met
with elsewhere, unless one went a long way from the capital."

"The chateau of Saint Germain no longer pleases me," replied the King.
"I shall enlarge Versailles and withdraw thither. What I am going to
say may astonish you, perhaps, as it comes from me, who am neither
a whimsical female nor a prey to superstition. A few days before the
Queen, my mother, had her final seizure, I was walking here alone
in this very spot.

A reddish light appeared above the monastery of Saint Denis, and a cloud
which rose out of the ruddy glare assumed the shape of a hearse
bearing the arms of Austria.

A few days afterwards my poor mother was removed to Saint Denis. Four
or five days before the horrible death of our adorable Henrietta, the
arrows of Saint Denis appeared to me in a dream covered in dusky flames,
and amid them I saw the spectre of Death, holding in his hand the
necklaces and bracelets of a young lady.

The appalling death of my cousin followed close upon this presage.
Henceforth, the view of Saint Denis spoils all these pleasant
landscapes for me.

At Versailles fewer objects confront the eye; a park of that sort has
its own wealth of natural beauty, which suffices. I shall make
Versailles a delightful resort, for which France will be grateful
to me, and which my successors can neither neglect nor destroy
without bringing to themselves dishonour."

I sympathised with the reasons which made Saint Germain disagreeable
to his Majesty.

Next summer the causes for such aversion became more numerous, as
the King had the misfortune to lose the daughters which the Queen
bore him, and they were carried to Saint Denis.

CHAPTER XXII.

M. de Lauzun.--His Pretensions.--Erroneous Ideas of the Public.--The
War in Candia.--M. de Lauzun Thinks He Will Secure a Throne for
Himself.--The King Does Not Wish This.

The Marquis de Guilain de Lauzun was, and still is, one of the handsomest
men at Court. Before my marriage, vanity prompted him to belong to the
list of my suitors, but as his reputation in Paris was that of a
man who had great success with the ladies, my family requested him
either to come to the point or to retire, and he withdrew, though
unwilling to break matters off altogether.

When he saw me in the bonds of matrimony, and enjoying its liberty, he
recommenced his somewhat equivocal pursuit of me, and managed to get
himself talked about at my expense.

Society was unjust; M. de Lauzun only dared to pay me homage of
an insipid sort. He had success enough in other quarters, and I knew
what I owed to some one as well as what I owed to myself.

Ambition is the Marquis's ruling passion. The simple role of a fine
gentleman is, in his eyes, but a secondary one; his Magnificency requires
a far more exalted platform than that.

When he knew that war in Candia had broken out, and which side the
kings of Christendom would necessarily take, his ideas became more
exalted still.

He bethought himself of the strange fortunes of certain valiant
warriors in the time of the Crusades.

He saw that the Lorraines, the Bouillons, and the Lusignans had won
sceptres and crowns, and he flattered himself that the name of
Lauzun might in this vast adventurous career gain glory too.

He begged me to get him a command in this army of Candia, wherein the
King had just permitted his own kinsmen to go and win laurels for
themselves.

He was already a full colonel of dragoons, and one of the captains
of the guard.

The King, who till then liked him well enough, considered such a
proposition indecent, and, gauging or not gauging his intentions,
he postponed until a later period these aspirations of Lauzun to
the post of prince or sovereign.

CHAPTER XXIII.

The Abbe d'Estrees.--Singular Offers of Service.

--Madame de Montespan Declines His Offer of Intercession at the Vatican.--He
Revenges Himself upon the King of Portugal.

--Difference between a Fair Man and a Dark.

Since the reign of Gabrielle d'Estrees, who died just as she was
about to espouse her King, the D'Estrees family were treated at
Court more with conventional favour than with esteem.

The first of that name was lieutenant-general, destined to wield the baton
of a French marshal, on account of his ancestry as well as his own
personal merit.

The Abbe d'Estrees passed for being in the Church what M. de Lauzun was
in society,--a man who always met with success, and who also was madly
ambitious.

While still very young, he had been appointed to the bishopric of Laon,
which, in conjunction with two splendid abbeys, brought him in a
handsome revenue.

The Duc and Duchesse de Vendome were as fond of him as one of their
own kin, doing nothing without first consulting him, everywhere
praising and extolling his abilities, which were worthy of a
ministry.

This prelate desired above all things to be made a cardinal.

Under Henri IV. he could easily have had his wish, but at that time
he was not yet born.

He imagined that on the strength of my credit he could procure the
biretta for himself.

As soon as he saw me recognised as a mistress, he paid assiduous court
to me, never losing an opportunity of everywhere sounding my praise.

One day he said to me: "Madame, every one pities you on account of the
vexation and grief which the Marquis de Montespan has caused
you. If you will confide in me,--that is, if you will let me represent
your interests with the Cardinals and the Holy Father,--I heartily offer
you my services as mediator and advocate with regard to the question of
nullity. At an early age I studied theology and ecclesiastical law.

Your marriage may be considered null and void, according to this or
that point of view. You know that upon the death of the Princesse
de Nemours, Mademoiselle de Nemours and Mademoiselle d'Aumale, her
two daughters, came to reside with Madame de Vendome, my cousin, a
relative and a friend of their mother.

The eldest I first of all married to Duc Charles de Lorraine, heir to
the present Duc de Lorraine. His Majesty did not approve of this
marriage, which was contrary to his politics. His Majesty deigned
to explain himself and open out to me upon the subject. I at once consulted
my books, and found all the means necessary for dissolving such
a marriage.
So true, indeed is this, that I forthwith remarried Mademoiselle
de Nemours to the Duc de Savoie.

This took place under your very eyes. Soon afterwards I married her
younger sister to the King of Portugal, and accompanied her to
Lisbon, where the Portuguese gave her a fairly warm reception.

Her young husband is tall and fair, with a pleasant, distinguished
face; he loves his wife, and is only moderately beloved in return.
Is she wrong or is she right?

Now, I will tell you.

The monarch is well-made, but a childish infirmity has left one
whole side of him somewhat weak, and he limps. Mademoiselle d'Aumale,
or to speak more correctly, the Queen of Portugal, writes letter upon
letter to me, describing her situation.

She believed herself pregnant, and had even announced the news to
Madame de Vendome, as well as to Madame de Savoie, her sister.
Now it appears that this is not the case. She is vexed and disgusted.
I am about to join her at Lisbon. She is inclined to place the crown
upon the young brother of the King, requesting the latter to seek the
seclusion of a monastery. I can see that this new idea of the youthful
Queen's will necessitate my visiting the Vatican. Allow me, madame, to
have charge of your interests.

Do not have the slightest fear but that I shall protect them zealously
and intelligently, killing thus two birds with one stone."
"Pray accept my humble thanks," I replied to the Bishop. "The reigning
Sovereign Pontiff has never shown me any favour whatever, and is in
nowise one of my friends.

said Ronald.

"Ou ay, Ronald, I was chust thinking of the old ploys--I see you have
strangers with you."

Then he turned to Bryde--

"You will be a stronger man than your father, and he wass a fine man,
but you would kill a man too.  Yes, but we will not be talking of
killing when it's the lassies you will be thinking about, and I'm
hearing the southern leddy is very chief with you," and he sniggered
and went out.

"God's blood," said Hugh in a white rage, "do you let any drunken rogue
blackguard a lady?"

"I am not to be touching that man," said Bryde, and his face was dark
red.

"Have I to live to see one of my name a coward--a bastard and a coward?"

"By the living God, you lie, Hugh McBride," said Bryde through his
teeth, and struck Hugh on the mouth with the back of his hand.

"That will be all that is needful," says Hugh with a bow; "there's a
yard outside, and maybe McKelvie will be giving us a couple of
lanthorns."

Never a word said Bryde, but the breath whistled through his nostrils,
and we made our way through the kitchen, for it was easier to stop the
big burn in spate than these two.  There were cutlasses on the wall
crossed like the sign of a battle on a map, and Hugh had them down.

"I think they are marrows," says he, trying to be calm, but his very
voice shook with rage.

"Outside," said Bryde.

There was a puddly yard, squelched with the feet of cow beasts.  The
scad of light from the door and the two lanterns lit up the yellow
trampled glaur, and both the boys stripped in silence and stood on
guard, and then started.

McGilp and McKinnon and the McKelvies were there only, and if these had
not been my own boys I could have enjoyed the business, for they were
matched to a hair, and tireless as tigers.

The blue blades sprang from cut to parry like live things, and in the
light I saw the same cruel smile, line for line, in both faces.  The
snow was falling in big wet flakes, and the fight went on, neither
giving an inch, and then from behind came a thin voice--

"The McBrides are at it, hammer and tongs--the Laird and the bastard,
te-he," cried Dol Beag from the dark.

At that word Bryde's blade seemed to waver an instant, and Hugh's bit
into his thigh, but like a flash I saw Bryde recover, and a lightning
stroke and Hugh's cutlass was clattering on the cobbles, and then I saw
Bryde whirl his sword round his head, and raise himself uplifted for a
dreadful blow that would have cleft his cousin to the chest, and the
cruel smile was still on both faces, and then Bryde stopped.

"It's no' true, Hughie," said he, and lowered his hand and walked back
to the kitchen, swayed a minute, and thrust his arms out blindly, and
fell on the flagstones.

"Have I killed him, Hamish?" cried Hugh--"have I killed Bryde?  God,
what will Margaret say to this?"

"I do not know what you have done," said I.  "It would be maybe better
if he is dead, for I think you will have killed his spirit."

We would have had him to bed in the inn, but he came to himself.

"Hamish," said he, "take me home to my"--and in a brave voice--"to my
mother."

And Hugh went out of the room, and I knew he would never be a boy again.

McKelvie's wife was at the doctoring of the wound with her concoctions,
and I made what job I could of it, and then we put Bryde in a peat
creel, with straw and blankets, and took him to his mother.

"It was just a daft prank," said he to Belle, who leant over him like
some wild fierce creature.  "It was just a mad ploy, mother."


CHAPTER XXII.

THE SHAMELESS LASS.

I left Bryde sleeping at last and restless, with Belle wide-eyed by his
bedside, and traked down to the big house very bitter at heart against
Hugh, for the quarrel had been of his seeking; and when I came under
the rowan-trees and past the moss-covered stone horse-trough, the grey
day was coming in.  And at the little window of Margaret's room I saw a
white face peering, and there in a bare stone-flagged lobby she came to
me, a stricken white thing, and dumb.  She had no words at all, but
stood gazing at my face, her hands twisting and twisting, and a strange
moving in her white throat.

"Come, my lass," said I, and took her up and carried her to my room,
where there was still a glow of red in the wide fireplace, and I kicked
the charred wood together, and threw dry spills on that and made a
blaze, and set her in my chair in the glow of it, for she was stiff
with cold, being but half clothed or maybe less.  Then I brought from
an aumery some French spirit, and she took a little, shivering and
making faces, but it lifted the cold from her heart.  Yet in her eyes
was a dreadful look, as of one who had gazed all night over bottomless
chasms of nameless fear.

"And now, Mistress Margaret McBride," said I in as blithe a voice as I
could be mustering, "why am I to be finding you in cold lobbies, and
carrying you to my chamber like the ogre?"

At that came the saddest little smile over her face, and all her body
seemed to relax.

"Tell me," said she, "there would not be laughing in your voice and
him--away," and even then I was thinking she would be afraid to say
that grim word.

"Bryde will have a sned from a hanger," said I, making light of it.
"You will have seen deeper in a turnip, and I left him sleeping."

"The dear," said she--"the dear," and then looking at me, "Oh, Hamish,
Hamish, be good to me; I will not can help it."

"Where is Hugh?" said I.

"He came into us," said the lass, "like a wraith."

"'I have provoked my cousin,' he said, 'and wounded and maybe killed
him, and I am owing him my life forbye,' and I ran to be waiting for
you, and locked my door on all of them, even my mother."

She had a droll coaxing way with her, Margaret--a way of saying, "Will
you tell me?" and then of repeating it, and she started now.

"Hamish," said she, "will you tell me one thing?  Will you tell me?"

I nodded.

"Would it be--will you tell me--truly?" and she waited for my assent.

"Would it be Helen the boys were fighting over?"

"It would not," said I, and she said nothing more after that; but as I
took her to the door she pulled my head down.

"I am thinking often, Hamish," said she, "you are the best one of us
all."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Now I will say this--that Bryde was like a wean in bed, fretful and
ill-natured and restless, and his mother had to be beside him when folk
came in, and I think in his new knowledge he feared she might suffer
some indignity.

And he lashed his pride with a new-found humbleness, and railed at
himself.  I can hear his words on that day I brought Margaret to be
seeing him, and she had many dainty dishes to be describing.

"It is very kind of you indeed," said he, "to be minding a poor body
like me, and kind of your people to be allowing you to visit my mother
and myself."

And at the sound of these words the poor lass was red and white time
about, and at last fell all aback like a little ship in the wind's eye.

"Oh, Bryde," cried she, "what is this talk of my people?  Are not my
people your own people also?"

"I have my mother's word for it," said he, with his arm over his eyes,
and the dark blood surging upwards over throat and cheeks.

The lass was on her knees by his bedside at that.

"Do you think," she cried--"do you think _that_ would weigh with me; I
have kent that long syne."

"It was news to me," said he, turning his face away; "bonny news to me."

"This will be news to me also," said she, her face hidden, "for I would
be thinking in the night-time--in the dark--I would be thinking it
would maybe be _me_ you differed over.

"You, Mistress Margaret,"  cried he.  "What could I ever be to such as
you--but a servant?"

"Bryde McBride, do you ken what there is in my heart to be doing to
you," and her eyes were all alight, and her breath coming fast--her
face close to his and her arms round him: "I could be kissing your hurt
till it was healed.  I am wanting your head _here_, here at my heart,
for I am yours--I will be yours--I will be yours."

"Some day," said Bryde in a soft whisper, with amazement in his
tones--"some day you will find a man worthy of that great love. . . ."

But she was at her wheedling now.

"Will you tell me, Bryde--will you tell me truly?" and she put her lips
to his ear.  "I love you, Bryde--did ye not know?  Am I not a shameless
lass?"

"There never was maiden like you before, Margaret," said he.  "I am
always loving you, always. . . ."

"But tell me," she cried--"tell me," and she put her ear close to his
mouth, and her eyes were closed and a smiling gladness on her face.

"Love you," he cried in a great voice.  "The good God will maybe be
knowing the love in my heart for you," and his face was grey with pain,
but at his words she pressed her face to his gently.

"Now," she said, "I will be happy again."

And when I came into the room there was the lass standing very proud
with her hand on his brow.

"Is he not a restless boy, our Bryde?" said she, and there was pride
and love and tears and laughter in her tones, and she left us together.

"Hamish," said he, "you will not be bringing her here again ever--I
will not be strong enough lying here . . ." and then in a lower voice,
"My mother has a ring," said he.  "I could not be asking her, my
mother, and who is there to turn to but you," and I told him of the
messenger who came from the Low Countries with Dan's letters and his
mother's ring.

"And your baby fist closed on the sword," said I.

"The sword," said he.  "Where is my father's gift?"

At that I went to the old byre where the heathen had sat that day, and
I digged the cobbles from a corner of a biss close to the trough, and
there, wrapped in a sheep's skin in a box, was the sword as I had
buried it long ago, and I brought it to Dan's son.

He took it with a kind of joy, and his eyes all lit up.

"My father would be knowing," said he, and drew the blade.  "This will
clear the tangles."

There were flowers very beautifully let into the blade in thin gold.
"Is she not a maiden richly dowered?" said Bryde--"a slim grey maiden,
a faithful maiden, who will be lying at my side, and fierce to be
defending me?"

Belle hated that sword from the first day, but Bryde had it by him at
his bedside always.

There were many folk coming and going these days, and Ronny McKinnon
and McGilp would be sitting with Bryde, and they would have the great
tales of ships and the sea, and whiles Ronny would have his fiddle and
play, and whiles it would be the old stories they would be telling.

There was a day too when Hugh McBride and Helen came a-riding on the
moors, and the thought came to me that both were a little sobered, and
the lass had not the same gaiety about her; but I was thinking maybe
she would be anxious about the Laird of Scaurdale, for there was word
that he would not be keeping so very well of late.

There was a sternness about Hugh as of a man that would be carrying a
grim load, but Bryde made very much of him always, and I am thinking
that was not the least of his troubles, for there were some words
between us after the fight.

"Yon was a dirty business," said Hugh.  "I am not fit to stand in the
same park with my cousin, and I will have told him that," for his
mother would aye be warning Bryde never to lay hands on Dol Beag all
his days.


CHAPTER XXIII.

HELEN AND BRYDE McBRIDE REST AT THE FOOT OF THE URIE.

There was a long time that Bryde was lame and weak, for he had lost
much blood, but his strength came back to him, and it is droll to think
that he had grown in his bed.  When he was out he could not be having
enough of the hills, and the fields and the sun.  He would be talking
to the very beasts about the place in his gladness, and Hugh would be
giving him an arm, and they would often be at the laughing like
brothers; but for long was Margaret, his sister, cold to Hugh.

And in the month of May, Bryde came down to the big house, and the
Laird and his Lady welcomed him at the door, and Margaret behind them
very sedate by her way of it.

And the Laird gave Bryde a good word that day in my hearing.

"You will not be minding that tale, my lad," said he, with his hand on
Bryde's shoulder.  "We will whiles be a little careless in the
marrying, our folk," said he, "but the blood is strong enough, and we
hold together."

But for all that I kent that there would be something strange about
Dan's son since he rose from his bed, and I think that Margaret kent it
too, for I would be seeing a wistful look in her eyes when no one would
be near her.

And then there was a day when Hugh brought Helen to the house, and she
was closeted a long time with Margaret.

"Your cousin Bryde will be leaving us ver' soon," said she.

I will never be the one to deny that Mistress Helen came fast to the
bit.

"Will Hugh have been telling you that?" said Margaret in a certain tone.

"Hugh--no.  I meet Bryde ver' often.  He is good to be meeting--there
is a fire and dash about him," and at that she spread out her white
hands with a fine gesture, and took a turn to the window, her
riding-switch at her teeth.

Now there was an intolerance about Margaret which you will find often
with a proud spirit, and that Bryde should be happy away from her hurt
her like a lash.  The women maybe will have a name for it, for there
was a smile in Helen's eyes as Margaret spoke--

"I am glad," said she, "he will have so good a friend as you.  Maybe he
will be staying if you were to ask him."

"And you, Margaret?"

"I do not come of folk who ask," said Margaret, with great unconcern;
then for no reason seemingly (but maybe thinking of a certain time when
she all but asked) her neck and face and forehead grew dark with
mantling blood.

"Is he then not of your people who are slow to ask--favours?" said
Helen.  "I think so, yes.  Do you remember I ride with him a little way
from Scaurdale?  There is a moon, and the hills ver' clear and we
gallop."

"I am minding," said Margaret.

"'It is Romance,' I say to him, and he will be carrying me away off to
the hills, and he is laughing.

"'An unwilling captive,' he says.

"'Not ver' unwilling,' I say, for he looked ver' gallant.

"'But a willing captive, she would kiss me,' said Bryde, your cousin,
and then I make no movement of my head, but my eyes are looking at his
laughing down at me--_asking favours_, ma belle, and still I not move,
and he throw back his head (comme ça), and say--

"'I do not beg--even kisses,' very proudly he looks, ma belle, and his
blue eyes laughing. . . ."

"I am remembering that the charm was working, Helen," said Margaret, in
a voice like the north wind for coldness.

"Ah oui," cried Helen, "backwards it work--I kiss _him_ la la," and she
laughed like silver bells a-tinkle.

Now that was a daftlike tale to be telling, but Margaret was for ever
cleaving me with Helen after that.  "She is beautiful," she would tell
me, "and merry and a great lady, and I think any man will be loving
her," but there were many nights when Margaret lay wide-eyed, for all
that she drove Bryde from her with jest and laughter.  But I think it
was well that she never kent of the meeting of Bryde and Helen
Stockdale at the ford in the burn yonder at the foot of the Urie.

On a summer morning that was, with the heat-haze hardly lifted and long
slender threads of spider webs clinging to the leaves of the birches by
the burnside, and the bracken green and strong, with the white cuckoo
spittals on them that will leave a mark like froth on the knees of a
horse.  To the pebbly ford above the "Waulk Mill" came Bryde, riding
loosely with slack rein, for he was thinking much these days.  In the
burn his horse halted to drink, and then rested a little from the
water--his head high and his ears forward--Bryde looking to his path
for the South End, for he was on some errand of grazing beasts.  Then
there came that fine sound, the distant neigh of a horse, and the horse
in the burn answered gallantly, and came splashing on, passaging and
side-stepping a little, with curved crest.  And there by the burnside
they met, Bryde and Helen.

Their words at the meeting were formal enough, for there were houses at
a little distance from the crossing; but you will only be seeing the
founds of them now, and the plum-trees gone to wood, and the straggling
hawthorns and the heather growing to the very burnside by the
Lagavile.[1]  But at the meeting there was a rich glowing colour in the
face of the maid, and her lips were parted in a little smile, and her
great eyes, sombre often, but now alight with love a-laughing in them,
rested on the man like a caress.

"Ha, well met, my swarthy dragoon," said she, "or are we sailors this
merry morning?"

"There's aye the night for dreams, Mistress Helen, but in the daytime I
will be but a plain farming body, concerned about bestial. . . ."

"Bestial," quo' she, as they rode in the old track by the burnside that
you'll see yet from the other road, "my horse is a-lathered, and I too
am concerned about bestial.  We will let us down," said she, "in the
shade yonder, and rest the horses, and be good farmers together--yes?"

Bryde slacked the girths and tied the horses, and then joined the lass
on a little mound of green like a couch.

"And now," cried Helen Stockdale--"now, sir, here are we in the green
wood with neither page nor groom--squire and dame--and I am loving it,"
said she, and her little brown capable hand took one of his great hard
ones.


[1] Laga vile=hollow of the tree.


"You have fine hands, M'sieu Bryde," said she, her fingers over his to
be comparing them, "great and strong and well-tried."

And there fell a silence between them, and as both strove to break that
silence their eyes met, and there came a quick changing of colour on
the face of Helen, and Bryde's hand closed over hers.  The third
ecclesiastic went beyond all bounds, actually uttering the following
words:

"Sire, when King David was still but a shepherd, a heifer was stolen
from his flocks; David made complaint to the patriarch of the land,
when his heifer was restored to him, and the thief was punished.

"When David came to the throne, he carried off his servant's wife,
and as an excuse for such an odious deed, he pleaded the young
woman's extreme beauty.

The wretched servant besought him to obey the voice, not of passion,
but of justice, and the servant was disgraced and perished miserably.

Oh, David, unhappy David!"
The King, who had found it hard to sit quiet and hear such insults,
said to me that evening:

"Go to Clagny. Let this stormy weather pass by. When it is fine again,
you must come back."
Having never run counter to the wishes of the father of my children,
I acquiesced, and without further delay gladly departed.

Next day, Madame de Montausier came to see me at my country-house; she
told me of the general rumour that was afloat at Court.

The news, said she, of my retirement had begun to get about; three bishops
had gone to congratulate the King, and these gentlemen had despatched
couriers to Paris to inform the heads of the various parishes,
inviting them to write to the prince sympathising references touching
an event which God and all Christendom viewed with complete
satisfaction.

Madame de Montausier assured me that the King's bearing was fairly
calm on the whole, and she also added that he had granted an
interview of half an hour at least to the Abbe Bossuet, who had
discoursed to him about me in a strain similar to that of the other
clerics.

She was my sincere friend; she promised to come to Clagny every evening,
driving thither incognito.

She had hardly been gone an hour, when my footman announced "Monsieur
Bossuet, Bishop of Condom."

At the mention of this name, I felt momentarily inclined to refuse
to see its owner; but I conquered my disgust, and I did well.

The prelate, with his semi-clerical, semi-courtly air, made me a low
bow.

I calmly waited, so as to give him time to deliver his message. The
famous rhetorician proceeded as follows:

"You know, madame, with what health-giving sacrifices the Church
is now engaged.

The merits of our Lord doubtless protect Christians at all times, but
the Church has appointed times more efficacious, ceremonies more
useful, springs yet more abounding.

Thus it is that we now celebrate the grand nine days of the
jubilee.

"To this mystic pool herdsman and monarchs alike receive summons
and admission.

The most Christian King must, for his own sake, accomplish his own
sanctification; his sanctification provides for that of his
subjects.

"Chosen by God to this royal priesthood, he comprehends the duties imposed
upon him by such noble office. The passions of the heart are maladies
from which man may recover, just as he recovers from physical disease.
The physicians of the soul have lifted up their voice, have taken sage
counsel together; and I come to inform you of the monarch's miraculous
recovery, and at his request, I bring you this important and welcome
news.

"For convalescents, greater care is required than for others; the
King, and the whole of France, beseech you, with my voice, to have
respect and care for the convalescence of our monarch, and I beg
you, madame, to leave at once for Fontevrault."

"For Fontevrault?"

I cried, without betraying my emotion. "Fontevrault is near Poitiers; it
is too far away. No, I would rather go to Petit-Bourg, near the forest
of Fontainebleau."
"Fontainebleau is but eighteen leagues from the capital," he answered;
"such proximity would be dangerous. I must insist upon Fontevrault,
madame."

"But I cannot take my children to Fontevrault," I retorted; "the nuns,
and the Abbess herself, would never admit them.

You know better than I do that it is a nunnery."

"Your children," said he, "are not necessary to you; Madame de la
Valliere managed to leave here for good and all."
"Yes; and in forsaking them she committed a crime," I answered;
"only ferocious-hearted persons could have counselled her or commanded
her to do so."

And saying this, I rose, and gave him a glance of disdain.

He grew somewhat gentler in manner as he slowly went on, "His Majesty
will take care of your children; it behoves you to save their
mother.

And, in order to prove to you that I have not come here of my own
accord, but that, on the contrary, I am executing a formal command, here
is a letter of farewell addressed to you by the King."
I took the letter, which was couched in the following terms:

It is but right, madame, that on so solemn an occasion I should set an
example myself. I must ask you henceforth to consider our intimacy
entirely at an end. You must retire to Fontevrault, where Madame de
Montemart will take care of you and afford you distraction by her
charming society. Your children are in good hands; do not be in the least
uneasy about them. Farewell. I wish you all the firmness and well-being
possible. LOUISON
In the first flush of my indignation I was about to trample under
foot so offensive a communication.

But the final phrase shocked me less than the others.

I read it over again, and understood that if the King recommended me to
be firm, it was because he needed to be firm himself. I soon mastered
my emotion, and looked at things in their real light. It was easy to see
that sanctimonious fanatics had forced the King to act. Bossuet was
not sanctimonious, but, to serve his own ends, proffered himself as
spokesman and emissary, being anxious to prove to his old colleagues
that he was on the side of what they styled moral conduct and good
example.

For a while I walked up and down my salon; but the least exertion fatigues
me. I resumed my armchair or my settee, leaving the man there like a
sort of messenger, whom it was not necessary to treat with any
respect.

He was bold, and asked me for a definite answer which he could take
back to his Majesty.

I stared hard at him for about a minute, and then said: "My Lord Bishop
of Condom, the clerics who have been advising the King are very pleased
that he should set an example to his people of self-sacrifice. I
am of their opinion; I think as they do, as you do, as the Pope does;
but feeling convinced that to us, the innocent sheep, the shepherds
ought first to show an example, I will consent to break off my
relationship with his Majesty when you, M. de Condom, shall have
broken off your intimacy with Mademoiselle de Mauleon des Vieux!"

By a retort of this kind I admit that I hoped greatly to embarrass the
Bishop, and enjoy seeing his face redden with confusion. But he was
nowise disconcerted, and I confess to-day that this circumstance
proved to me that there was but little truth in the rumours that
were current with regard to this subject.

"Mademoiselle de Mauleon!" said he, smiling half-bitterly, half-pityingly.
"Surely, madame, your grief makes you forget what you say. Everybody
knows that she is an acquaintance of my youth, and that, since that
time, having confidence in my doctrines and my counsel, she wished
to have me as spiritual monitor and guide.

How can you institute a comparison between such a relationship and
your own?"

Then, after walking up and down for a moment, as if endeavouring
to regain his self-possession, he continued:

"However, I shall not insist further; it was signally foolish of me to
speak in the name of an earthly king, when I should have invoked that
of the King of Heaven.

I have received an insulting answer. So be it.

"Farewell, madame.

I leave you to your own conscience, which, seemingly, is so tranquil
that I blame myself for having sought to disturb it."
With these words he departed, leaving me much amazed at the patience
with which a man, known to be so arrogant and haughty, had received
such an onslaught upon his private life and reputation.

I need scarcely say that, next day, the species of pastoral letter
which my lords the Bishops of Aleth, Orleans, Soissons, and Condom
had dictated to the King was succeeded by another letter, which he
had dictated himself, and by which my love for him was solaced and
assured.

He begged me to wait patiently for a few days, and this arrangement
served my purpose very well. I thought it most amusing that the King
should have commissioned M. de Bossuet to deliver this second missive,
and I believe I said as much to certain persons, which perhaps gave
rise to a rumour that he actually brought me love-letters from the
King. But the purveyors of such gossip could surely know nothing of
Bossuet's inflexible principles, and of the subtlety of his policy.
He was well aware that by lending himself to such amenities he would
lose caste morally with the King, and that if by his loyalty he had won
royal attachment and regard, all this would have been irretrievably
lost.

Thus M. de Bossuet was of those who say, "Hate me, but fear me," rather
than of those who strive to be loved. Such people know that friendships
are generally frail and transient, and that esteem lasts longer and
leads further.

He never interfered again with my affairs, nor did I with his; I got my
way, and he is still where he was.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Madame de Montespan Back at Court.--Her Friends.--Her Enemies.--Edifying
Conversions.--The Archbishop of Paris.

Eight days after the conclusion of the jubilee I returned to Versailles.

The King received me with every mark of sincere friendship; my friends
came in crowds to my apartments; my enemies left their names with my
Swiss servant, and in chapel they put back my seat, chairs, and
footstools in their usual place.

Madame de Maintenon had twice sent my children to Clagny
[The splendid Chateau de Clagny (since demolished) was situated on
the beautiful country surrounding Versailles, near the wood of
Millers d'Avrai.

--EDITOR's NOTE.]

with the under-governess; but she did not come herself, which greatly
inconvenienced me. I complained to her about this, and she assured
me the King had dissuaded her from visiting me, "so as to put
curious folk off the scent;" and when I told her of my interview
with M. de Bossuet, she neatly avoided being mixed up in the matter
by omitting to blame anybody.

The most licentious women, so she told me, had distinguished themselves
by pious exercises during the observance of the jubilee.

She informed me that the Comtesse de Soissons, the Princesse de
Monaco, Madame de Soubise, and five or six virtuous dames of this
type, had given gold, silver, and enamelled lamps to the most notable
churches of the capital.

The notorious Duchesse de Longueville talked of having her own tomb
constructed in a Carmelite chapel. Six leaders of fashion had forsworn
rouge, and Madame d'Humieres had given up gambling.

As for my lord the Archbishop of Paris, he had not changed his way of
life a jot, either for the better or for the worse.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Attempted Abduction.--The Marquise Procures a Bodyguard.

--Her Reasons for So Doing.--Geography and Morals.

The youthful Marquis d'Antin--my son--was growing up; the King
showed him the most flattering signs of his attachment, and as the
child had lived only with me, he dreaded his father's violent temper,
of which he had often heard me speak.

In order to have the custody of his son, the Marquis de Montespan had
appealed to Parliament; but partisans of the King had shelved the
matter, which, though ever in abeyance, was still pending. I had my son
educated under my care, being sure of the tender attachment that
would spring up between himself and the princes, his brothers.

At the Montespan chateau, I admit, he would have learned to ride
an unbroken horse, as well as to shoot hares, partridges, and big
game; he would also have learned to talk loud, to use bad language,
to babble about his pedigree, while ignorant of its history or its
crest; in fine, he would have learned to despise his mother, and
probably to hate her.

Educated under my eyes, almost on the King's lap, he soon learned
the customs of the Court and all that a well-born gentleman should
know.

He will be made Duc d'Antin, I have the King's word for it,--and his
mien and address, which fortunately sort well with that which Fate
holds in store for him, entitle him to rank with all that is most exalted
at Court.

The Procureur-General caused a man from Barn to be arrested, who had
come to abduct my son. This individual, half-Spanish and half-French,
was detained in the Paris prisons, and I was left in ignorance of
the matter.
It was imprudent not to tell me, and almost occasioned a serious
mishap.

One day I was returning from the neighbourhood of Etampes with only
my son, his tutor, and my physician in the carriage.

On reaching a steep incline, where the brake should be put on, my servants
imprudently neglected to do this, and I felt that we were burning the
roadway in our descent. Such recklessness made me uneasy, when
suddenly twelve horsemen rode headlong at us, and sought to stop the
postilions. My six horses were new ones and very fresh; they
galloped along at breakneck speed.

Our pursuers fired at the coachman, but missed him, and the report of
a pistol terrified the horses yet further. They redoubled their speed.
We gave ourselves up for lost, as an accident of some sort seemed bound
to ensue, when suddenly my carriage reached the courtyard of an inn,
where we obtained help.

Baulked of their prey, the horsemen turned about and rode away. They
had been noticed the day before, hanging about and asking for Madame
de Montespan.

We stayed that night at the inn, and next day, provided with a stout
escort, we reached Saint Germain.

The King regretted not having provided against similar attempts. He
rewarded my postilions for their neglect to use the brake (a neglect
which, at first, I was going to punish), saying to me, "If they had
put the brake on, you would have been captured and whisked off to the
Pyrenees. Your husband is never going to give in!"
"Such a disagreeable surprise," added he, "shall not occur again.
Henceforth you shall not travel without an adequate escort. In future,
you shall have a guard of honour, like the Queen and myself."

I had long wished for this privilege, and I warmly thanked his
Majesty.

Nevertheless, people chose to put a completely false construction
upon so simple an innovation, and my sentiments in the matter were
wholly misunderstood. It was thought that vanity had prompted me to
endeavour to put myself on a level with the Queen, and this worthy
princess was herself somewhat nettled thereat. God is my witness that,
from mere motives of prudence, this unusual arrangement had to be made,
and I entirely agreed to it. After all, if the Infanta of Spain gave
birth to the Dauphin, Athenais de Mortemart is the mother of several
princes.

In France, a Catholic realm, for the King to have a second wife is
considered superfluous by the timorous and shrivelled-brained. In
Constantinople, Alexandria, and Ispahan, I should have met with only
homage, veneration, respect. Errors of a purely geographical nature
are not those which cause me alarm; to have brought into the world
so perfect a being as the Duc du Maine will never, as I take it,
incur blame at the tribunal of Almighty God.

Mademoiselle de Nantes, his charming sister, has from her cradle been
destined to belong to one of the royal branches. Mademoiselle de Blois
will also become the mother of several Bourbon princes; I have good
grounds for cherishing such flattering hopes.

The little Comte de Toulouse already bids fair to be a worthy successor
to M. du Maine. He has the same grace of manner, and frank, distinguished
mien.

When all these princes possess their several escorts, it will seem
passing strange that their mother alone should not have any. That is my
opinion, and it is shared by all people of sense.

CHAPTER XL.

Osmin, the Little Moor.--He Sets the Fashion.

--The Queen Has a Black Baby.--Osmin is Dismissed.

I have already told how the envoys of the King of Arda, an African
prince, gave to the Queen a nice little blackamoor, as a toy and pet.

This Moor, aged about ten or twelve years, was only twenty-seven inches
in height, and the King of Arda declared that, being quite unique,
the boy would never grow to be taller than three feet.

The Queen instantly took a great fancy to this black creature.

Sometimes he gambolled about and turned somersaults on her carpet
like a kitten, or frolicked about on the bureau, the sofa, and even
on the Queen's lap.

As she passed from one room to another, he used to hold up her train, and
delighted to catch hold of it and so make the Queen stop short
suddenly, or else to cover his head and face with it, for mischief,
to make the courtiers laugh.

He was arrayed in regular African costume, wearing handsome bracelets,
armlets, a necklace ablaze with jewels, and a splendid turban.

Wishing to show myself agreeable, I gave him a superb aigrette of
rubies and diamonds; I was always sorry afterwards that I did so.

The King could never put up with this little dwarf, albeit his
features were comely enough.

To begin with, he thought him too familiar, and never even answered him
when the dwarf dared to address him.

Following the fashion set by her Majesty, all the Court ladies
wanted to have little blackamoors to follow them about, set off
their white complexions, and hold up their cloaks or their trains.

Thus it came that Mignard, Le Bourdon, and other painters of the
aristocracy, used to introduce negro boys into all their large
portraits. It was a mode, a mania; but so absurd a fashion soon had to
disappear after the mishap of which I am about to tell.

The Queen being pregnant, public prayers were offered up for her according
to custom, and her Majesty was forever saying: "My pregnancy this
time is different from preceding ones. I am a prey to nausea and strange
whims; I have never felt like this before. If, for propriety's sake, I
did not restrain myself, I should now dearly like to be turning somersaults
on the carpet, like little Osmin. He eats green fruit and raw game;
that is what I should like to do, too. I should like to--"
"Oh, madame, you frighten us!" exclaimed the King. "Don't let all
those whimsies trouble you further, or you will give birth to some
monstrosity, some freak of nature." His Majesty was a true prophet. The
Queen was delivered of a fine little girl, black as ink from head to
foot. They did not tell her this at once, fearing a catastrophe, but
persuaded her to go to sleep, saying that the child had been taken
away to be christened.

The physicians met in one room, the bishops and chaplains in another.
One prelate was opposed to baptising the infant; another only agreed
to this upon certain conditions. The majority decided that it should
be baptised without the name of father or mother, and such suppression
was unanimously advocated.

But there was Dan McBride with a sabre slash from his ear to the point
of his chin, and a proud set to his head, and a way of bending from his
hips like a man reared in the saddle.  A great martial moustache curled
at the corners of his mouth.  Dan McBride that was away for twenty
years, and mair.  He was arrayed in some outlandish soldier rig, with
great boots and prodigious spurs.

"The lass," says he at the first go-off, "what came o' the lass that
will be my wife?" says he, with a great breath.  "Is all things right
with Belle?"

"Finely," says I; "you will be seeing her with the daylight."

"Man, I will have been needing that word," says he.

"What am I to be calling ye, man?"

"Hooch," says he, and his words were sharper and fiercer than of yore.
"My father's rank will be good enough for me, but ye will call me Dan
McBride and naething else.  Major I was in the Low Countries, and the
warrant's in my saddle-bags," says he.  "Wae's me, for I've lost that,
horse and all."

But I had a word to say to that.

"The horse will be sleeping in the stable," said I, "and I will be the
man that's put him there," and told him about the strange horse.

"Yon crater, Dol Beag, didna just dee," says he after a while.

"Nor a drop out of his lug," says I, "if ye will be overlooking a
crooked back.  I sent ye that word with the heathen."

"The heathen--the skemp--yon was the last o' the heathen--hilt or hair
o' him that I saw, and me mixed up wi' daftlike wars--it was a packet
that reached me--in Dantzig," says he, "after lying a year, frae some
sensible wench calling hersel' Helen Stockdale. . . ."

I was dumb at that, but I was remembering the lass asking of the Scot
that took the Pagan to the mouth of the Rouen river.  "Ay, a priest
gave the packet to a Scots friend o' mine in Rouen, and then it came to
me at a tavern in Dantzig.  I didna bide long there.  I was landed wi'
the smugglers at Fowey," says he, "and McNeilage put me ashore last
night at the Point and was to leave word for ye.  It was a thought
gruesome here," says he, "wi' McAllan and the dog among the bones ben
there--deid?  Ay, deid twenty years, Hamish, by the look o' things.
Tell me about Belle," said he, "Belle and the boy, Hamish.  The lass
that wrote had a great word o' the boy, and she wanted me hame.  I am
not sure why--weemen are such droll . . .  Is she religious?" says he.

"Ye'll be seeing," says I.

And then again, "I had to have a crack wi' ye, Hamish, before I could
be doing anything; it's no' canny coming in on folk after a matter o'
twenty years."

All that night we sat before a fire with no other light, and many a
time I would be thinking of the Killer dying in there in the dark, and
the dog beside him; the Nameless Man was not in Dan's mind, but the
length of the night.

"Belle and the boy--'a likely lad,' ye say.  Hoch, he'll come hame,
Hamish, never fear--the lasses will be taking him hame at his age."

And when we were stretched before the red glow of the fire he would
still be at the talking, and the last I am minding was his voice.

"I will have lain beside the fire on the battlefield and seen the eyes
o' the wolves glowering through the lowes, Hamish; but, man, it was a
king to this weary waiting, a king to this."


CHAPTER XXVI.

A WEDDING ON THE DOORSTEP.

It was at the drakes' dridd that Dan roused me, and we left McAllan's
Locker behind us with its gruesome keepers, and came down the hillside
to the burn.  I mind that there was a raven above us in the morning
air, and his vindictive croak-croak was the only living sound that came
to us as we marched.

At the burn I saw the track of the garron where he had crossed in the
night, and at the burnside Dan stopped.

"Many a time have I wearied for the sight o' a burn, Hamish, cold and
sweet and clean, when we would be drinking water that was stinking,"
and he made preparations to splash his face; and it was droll to see
the bronze of his face stop at the throat, and the skin below like a
leek for whiteness.

There were many things to be telling the wanderer--that he had got some
notion of from McNeilage of the _Seagull_, but for the most part it was
hard to talk to a man walking fast.

We came up over the last of the three lonely hills, with bare moorlands
and peat hags fornent us, and away below the sea, and I held on for the
house on the moor that once was McCurdy's hut.  The first beast we saw
was a raddy, a droll sheep with four daft-like horns, and there came a
great crying of curlews; and then, when we came near to the house
without yet seeing it, there was a look of wonder in Dan's face.

"There was nae grass here when I left hame," says he; "this will be
your work, Hamish.  Ye were aye a great hand for grass."

As he spoke, it seemed to me that the voice was the same voice that I
kent when I was a boy, but I was at the walking now and hurried him on.

"Grass," said I; "look at yon," and I pointed to the parks and the
steading, with the smoke rising straight from the lums into the frosty
morning air.

"That was the young lad's work," said I.

"He will be a farmer at all events . . ." and there was on Dan's face
as he spoke a look of pride and pity all mixed.

"Belle will not be knowing you are here."

"Ay, but she will that, Hamish--ye don't ken Belle; look, man, look,
she's at the doorstep now."  And if ever a man had it in his bones to
run it was Dan, and at the door they met--the very door where the woman
had kissed her man and smote him on the cheek, when I lay in the
heather, and the Laird of Scaurdale rode with the wean in the crook of
his arm--the same Helen that had brought them there then, had brought
also this happy meeting.  It was a picture I would be aye wishing I
could be painting--Belle, her dark face flushed, her eyes suffused, the
pride, the love, the longing of her, and her hands twisting and
clasping, and her lips trembling, without words coming to them.  The
heaving breast and the little flutter at the delicate nostril, what man
can be telling of these things; and Dan, his brows pulled down, and the
scar red on his cheek, and his arms half outstretched--Dan took his
woman into his arms as a man lifts a wean, and I saw his head bend to
her face, and the wild clasp of her arms round him, and her lips
parting as she raised them to his.

I did a daftlike thing then, for I put the saddle on the great
horse--and he was a mettle beast, with many outlandish capers--and I
rode through the hill to the kirk, and left word that the minister
would be doing well to ceilidh at the house on the moor.

And indeed it was well on in the afternoon when that grave man
dismounted a little stiffly from his pony, and I made bold to search
for Dan and Belle, and tell my errand.  It would maybe be a chancy
business, but these two were like bairns then--and on the doorstep they
were married.  And when the minister's little pony was on its road
home, and the sun still red to the west, and we three still standing at
the door, Belle with with her two hands on Dan's arm, said he--

"I had clean forgot, my dear, but Hamish would always be remembering
the due observances o' the sacraments."

A wedding, it seems to me, will be waking the devil of speech in all
women, and old Betty would be havering like all that.

"What would I be telling ye?" she would say.  "Has he not had the wale
of all the weemen, and never the wan could be keeping him but you.  And
you a young thing yet--there will be time for a scroosch of weans; it
is Betty that kens, and Bryde the lad will be daidlin' his brother on
his knee.

"Ye could have been waiting," says she, "till the lad would be home,
and standing under his mother's shawl before the minister, but ye would
be that daft to be at the marrying--hoot, toot."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Dan came back to his farming as a boy returns to his play, and it was
droll whiles at the head-rig to see him straighten his back from the
plough stilts, with also a quick far-seeing look to right and left of
him, and an upward tilt to his chin that brought back the soldier in a
moment; and then ye would hear the canny coaxing to get the horses into
the furrow again, and the lost years were all forgotten.

My uncle took the news of the wedding finely.

"I'll not be denying Belle is a clever woman," says he, "a managing
two-handed lass--imphm.  There might have been more of a splore," says
he, "and no harm done--a wheen hens and a keg would not have been out
of place."

But my aunt was not in his way of thinking.

"There would surely be no occasion," said she (when Margaret was not
there), "the woman was well enough done by already."

"You would not have him live there in open scandal?" said I.

"An old song now," says she; "we always kind of put a face on things,
but if Dan would be making a decent woman of Belle, there is nothing to
be said."

I rode with Hugh and Margaret to be seeing Dan for the first time, and
he had his soldier garb on him when we sat down to meat; and Margaret
kept close to him at the table, and their talk was of the Low Countries
and a soldier's life, and yet for all that he would be telling her how
the lassies would be dressing themselves, or the manner of the braiding
of their hair, and for Hugh and me he would be giving a great insight
into the working of soils and manures, and the different kinds of
cattle beasts and horse; and very little talk of war we got from him,
unless, maybe, it would be a story he would be telling that would give
us an inkling of the business.  He would aye be harping on the waste of
land, and indeed if there was nothing else to be doing, he would be
having good red earth carted from useless places and scattered on his
own fields, which I think the old monks would be doing round their
monasteries long ago, a practice maybe learned from Rome in the early
days, but I have no sure knowledge of it.

It was that day that Helen came to the moor house, and among us, with
word from John of Scaurdale for Dan to be coming to see him, and I saw
that the very sight of her made a difference; for the face of Hugh
flushed as he stood to greet her, and Margaret took to the talking in a
vivacious manner that was not like her.

And Dan had many words for his visitor.  "For," says he, in a grand
fashion, "were it not for you, madam, I might be finding myself lying
in harness, with the half o' Europe between me and this bonny place;"
and again, after a quizzing look, "I will not be the one to think you
will be overly religious either"; but I am thinking I was the only one
that would be getting the meaning of that saying.

"But why did you not return--many years?" said Helen.

"Just precisely that I would never be the one to see one o' my name
dangling at the end o' a cart tether," said Dan, "or jingling at a
cross-roads on a wuddy.  Many a night I would be at this place," says
he, with a smile to his wife, "but there was no word for me, and the
years came and went, and there would be fighting to be going on
with--och, it was a weary waiting when there was no little war
somewhere, but it's by wi' now, the great thing is that it's by
with. . . ."

Hugh and Mistress Helen went their own road, and we watched them from
the doorstep, and Dan himself put the saddle gear on Margaret's little
horse, and walked a bit of the way with us on the home road.

"I am liking that man too," said Margaret, when we were alone, "but I
am thinking there was a liking for the wandering, and the fighting in
him, or else he had been back long syne."

"He would have his happy days these twenty years," said she, "in new
towns and among new folk, and Belle kind of chained to the moor
here--it is that silent woman I will be liking the best of all, Hamish."

"My dear," said I, "you are not understanding the pride of your ain
folk.  Yon was the God's truth and nothing else he told Mistress Helen;
the hangman's rope is no decent to be coiled about a man's folk.  It's
just the cleverness of Helen Stockdale I will be made up with--the
simple sending of a screed of news; what beats me is why she did it."

"And that's easy to me," says Margaret.  "It would just be a gift to
Belle, Hamish."

"To Belle," says I.

"There are maybe more ways o' killing a cat than choking it with
butter," said the lass, "but that will be a very effective way, and
even the cat might like it, I am thinking.  Ye'll mind, Hamish, that
Belle is the mother o' Bryde McBride, and what could not but be
pleasing to the mother, would be like enough to please the lad, that
doted on her a' his days."

"I think I am seeing it," said I.

"Ay, but Helen never would be seeing it like that, Hamish.  She saw it
like a flash, and sent the letter that brought back Dan, and I am not
sure but Bryde would be here yet, if the mail had but come to hand
sooner."

"Margaret," said I, "are there none among the young sparks coming about
the place that you could be tholing about ye?"

"No," says she, with a smile; "there is a word among the kitchen
wenches that whiles comes into my mind, Hamish."

"The kitchen wenches' conversation will be doing finely for me," says
I, a little put out.

"It is none such a bad saying either, Hamish.  This is it," said she,
"and there's no great occasion to be in a black mood with a lass--

"A clean want, Hamish, is better than a dirty breakfast.  That's what
the lassies say, whiles, in the kitchen."


CHAPTER XXVII.

MARGARET McBRIDE KISSES HELEN.

It would always be a great pleasure for me to be watching Dan, the way
he would be toiling against the heather, and draining in the moss in
the seasons, and rearing his horses, for his great war-horse sired many
foals, and maybe to this day you will see the traces of that breed in
the little crofts where the horses and cattle beasts are as long bred
as the names of the folk that own them.  They were black for the most
part, the breed of the war-horse, and very proud in their bearing, but
bigger beasts than the native breed, and not so much cow-hocked
(although that is a hardy sign), nor so scroggy at the hoof--ay, and
they would trot for evermore.  You will maybe hear to this day a farmer
saying of a mare of that strain: "She is one of the old origineels."
But whiles the twenty years of his soldiering would come over the man,
and ye would be hearing him at his camp-songs in the French language,
and there would come a prideful swing to his body, and a quick way of
speech, and an overbearing look, as though maybe the common work was
galling, and the sheep and beasts nothing better than for boiling in a
soldier's camp-kettle.  These times would maybe be after a fair or a
wedding, and indeed he was not to be interfered with except by his own
native folk, for he would ride at a ganger or an exciseman for the
pleasure of seeing them run like dafties when the mood was on him--or a
drop too much in him--and for no ill-nature whatever; but it was
fearsome to see the big black horse stretch to the gallop, with flying
mane and wicked eye a-rolling.  But Belle could tame her man, and she
kent his every mood and his every look.  It was droll and laughable too
to see her hand his little son to Dan (for old Betty was right: there
was another son to Belle--not a "scroosch," as the old one said, but
one boy, and they put Hamish on him for a name: Hamish Og they called
him, and he ruled that house).

"Here is your son to be holding for a little, my man," that dark woman
Belle would be saying, and Dan, in his big moods, would be answering--

"Have I not held the sword in my hand for twenty years, and what were
weans to me in these days?"

"Very little--I am hoping, Dan," his wife would answer with a straight
dark look, and the beginning of a laugh in her eyes, for always Dan
would be remembering the first boy this wife of his had reared in those
years, and a kind of shame would come over him, and Belle would laugh
for that she had her man back, and her laughter was a thing to gladden
the heart, and Dan would never be tired of hearing it.  So the big mood
would pass, and the hard-fighting farmer would be at work again; but
whiles, after the laughing, the old longing, half-fierce look would be
in Belle's eyes, and I kent it was not Dan or Hamish Og she was
thinking of, but her first-born, Bryde.

And as the years wore on there was another thing to be watching in
Belle.  She would take the wean in a shawl swathed round her limber
figure, and only the little head of him outside of it, and his eyes
seeing things, like a young bird, and she would walk to the rise where
old John of Scaurdale's man waved the lanthorn to McGilp on the night
when I chased the deer, and there she would stand for long, looking
seaward and crooning to the wean.  This she would be doing every night
before the gloaming.

"He will come on yon road," she would sometimes be telling Hamish Og,
and point to the grey sea away to the suthard.

Now these freits are very catchy, and will follow folks that put faith
in them, and there are many such folk to this day; and even Margaret
McBride would always be putting great faith in the crowing of a cock--a
noble fellow he was, of the Scots Grey breed.  At the feeding-time
Margaret would be thrang with her white hands in a measure of grain,
and I would be hearing her speaking to the chanticleer.  If he would be
crowing once, it was not good, and she would be coaxing him.

"Have you not better word than that?" she would flyte at him at the
second cry; and if the bird would crow the three times, she would be
lavish with the feeding and grow cheerful.  And there was a time when
Mistress Helen was with her at this task, and curious at all the
talking.

"If he will cry three times--is it that something happens?" said Helen.

"It will be good news."

"Perhaps a lover comes?"

"I am not to have a man, it seems," says Margaret.

"If my lover comes," murmured Helen softly, with her slow smile, "I
will know--another way."

"In what way?" says Margaret, throwing the last of the grain to the
fowls about her feet.

"Something will _leap up_ here, ma belle, where my heart is."

And for some reason Margaret, the Flower of Nourn, dropped her grain
dish and kissed her guest.

Now there is little to be telling when little things only are in the
memory, and yet the days with little to be remembering are the happy
days, that go past quickly like youth, and leave but vague memories of
sunshine and laughter--of nights, and song, and dance.  And there were
great nights of happiness, for in these days the folk had the time to
be knowing one the other, and neighbourly.  And maybe in an evening
there would be gathered at Dan's place all the old friends of his
youth.  You would be seeing Ronald McKinnon and Mirren, sitting in the
circle round the fire, thrang at the knitting--both man and
wife--kemping as they called it: that is, each would tie a knot in the
worsted and make a race of it, who would be finished first.  And Jock
McGilp too would be there, standing off and on, between the stories of
his wild seafaring days and the ghost stories of his youth; and Robin
McKelvie and his sister that met us on the shore head of the isle that
night the Red Laird passed; and there was no Red Roland in her mind
these days, for she had weans to her oxter.  And maybe, perched on a
table like a heathen god, the tailor would be working; and if there
were young lassies with their lads, ye would have the fiddle going, and
the hoochin' and the dancing.

And even in the cottars' houses the good-wife would have a meal on such
a night, and it would be pork and greens, or herring and potatoes; and
then when it was bedtime in the morning, the ceilidhers would take the
road, with maybe a piper at the head of them, and it would be at
another house they would be meeting on the next night.  Wae's me, these
days are fast going, and there are bolts and bars on the doors now.
The story of a winter's ceilidhing would be a great book for fine
stories.

Directly she arrived, she singled me out as the object of her ponderous
Palatine sarcasms. She exaggerated my style of dress, my ways and
habits. She thought to make fun of my little spaniels by causing
herself to be followed, even into the King's presence-chamber, by a
large turnspit, which in mockery she called by the name of my favourite
dog.

When I had had my hair dressed, ornamented with quantities of little
curls, diamonds, and jewelled pins, she had the impertinence to appear
at Court wearing a huge wig, a grotesque travesty of my coiffure.

I was told of it. I entered the King's apartment without deigning to
salute Madame, or even to look at her.

I had also been told that, in society, she referred to me as "the
Montespan woman." I met her one day in company with a good many other
people, and said to her:

"Madame, you managed to give up your religion in order to marry a
French prince; you might just as well have left behind your gross
Palatine vulgarity also.

I have the honour to inform you that, in the exalted society to which you
have been admitted, one can no more say 'the Montespan woman,' than
one can say 'the Orleans woman.'

I have never offended you in the slightest degree, and I fail to
see why I should have been chosen as the favoured object of your
vulgar insults."

She blushed, and ventured to inform me that this way of expressing
herself was a turn of speech taken from her own native language,
and that by saying "the," as a matter of course "Marquise" was
understood.

"No, madame," I said, without appearing irritated; "in Paris, such
an excuse as that is quite inadmissible, and since you associate
with turnspits, pray ask your cooks, and they will tell you."

Fearing to quarrel with the King, she was obliged to be more careful,
but to change one's disposition is impossible, and she has loathed
and insulted me ever since.

Her husband, who himself probably taught her to do so, one day tried to
make apologies for what he ruefully termed her reprehensible
conduct.

"There, there, it doesn't matter," I said to him; "it is easier to offend
me than to deceive me.

Allow me to quote to you the speech of Mademoiselle de Montpensier,
'You had a charming and accomplished wife, you ought to have prevented
her from being poisoned, and then we should not have had this hag
at Court.'"

CHAPTER XLII.

Madame de Montespan's Father-confessor.--He Alters His Opinion.

--Madame de Maintenon Is Consulted.

--A General on Theology.--A Country Priest.--The Marquise Postpones Her
Repentance and Her Absolution.

My father-confessor, who since my arrival at Court had never vexed
or thwarted me, suddenly altered his whole manner towards me, from
which I readily concluded that the Queen had got hold of him.

This priest, of gentle, easy-going, kindly nature, never spoke to
me except in a tone of discontent and reproach. He sought to
induce me to leave the King there and then, and retire to some
remote chateau.

Seeing that he was intriguing, and had, so to speak, taken up his
position, like a woman of experience I took up mine as well, and
politely dismissed him, at which he was somewhat surprised.

In matters of religion, Madame de Maintenon, who understands such
things, was my usual mentor. I told her that I was disheartened, and
should not go to confession again for ever so long. She was shocked
at my resolve, and strove all she could to make me change my mind and
endeavour to lead me back into the right way.

She forever kept repeating her favourite argument, saying, "Good gracious!
suppose you should die in that state!"
I replied that it was not my fault, as I had never ceased to obey
the precepts of the Holy Church.

"It was my old father-confessor," said I, "the Canon of Saint Thomas
du Louvre, who had harshly refused to confess me."

"What he does," replied she, "is solely for your own good."
"But if he has only my well-being in view," I quickly retorted,
"why did not he think of this at first?

It would have been far better to have stopped me at the outset,
instead of letting me calmly proceed upon my career.

He is obeying the Queen's orders, or else those of that Abbe Bossuet
de Mauleon, who no longer dares attack me to my face."

As we thus talked, the Duc de Vivonne came into my room. Learning the
topic of our discussion, he spoke as follows: "I should not be
general of the King's Galleys and a soldier at heart and by profession
if my opinion in this matter were other than it is.

I have attentively read controversies on this point, and have seen
it conclusively proved that our kings never kept a confessor at
Court.

Among these kings, too, there were most holy, most saintly people,
and--"

"Then, what do you conclude from that, Duke?" asked Madame de
Maintenon.

"Why, that Madame will do well to respect his Majesty the King as her
father-confessor."
"Oh, Duke, you shock me!

What dreadful advice, to be sure!" cried the governess.

"I have not the least wish to shock you, madame; but my veneration
for D'Aubigne--
[Theodore Agrippa, Baron d'Aubigne, lieutenant-general in the army
of Henri IV.

He persevered in Calvinism after the recantation of the King.--EDITOR'S
NOTE.]
your illustrious grandfather--is too great to let me think that he
is among the damned, and he never attended confession at all."
"Eternity hides that secret from us," replied Madame de Maintenon.
"Each day I pray to God to have mercy upon my poor grandfather;
if I thought he were among the saved, I should never be at pains to do
this."
"Bah, madame!

let's talk like sensible, straightforward people," quoth the General.
"The reverend Pere de la Chaise--one of the Jesuit oracles--gives the
King absolution every year, and authorises him to receive the Holy
Sacrament at Easter. If the King's confessor--thorough priest as he
is--pardons his intimacy with madame, here, how comes it that the
other cleric won't tolerate madame's intimacy with the King? On a point
of such importance as this, the two confessors ought really to
come to some agreement, or else, as the Jesuits have such a
tremendous reputation, the Marquise is entitled to side with them."

Hemmed in thus, Madame de Maintenon remarked "that the morals of Jesuits
and lax casuists had never been hers," and she advised me to choose
a confessor far removed from the Court and its intrigues.

The next day she mentioned a certain village priest to me, uninfluenced
by anybody, and whose primitive simplicity caused him to be looked
upon as a saint.

I submitted, and ingenuously went to confess myself to this wonderful
man; his great goodness did not prevent him from rallying me about
the elegance of my costume, and the perfume of my gloves, and my
hair.

He insisted upon knowing my name, and on learning it, flew into a
passion. I suppress the details of his disagreeable propositions.

Seated sideways in his confessional, he stamped on the floor, abused
me, and spoke disrespectfully of the King. I could not stand such
scandalous behaviour for long; and, wearing my veil down, I got into
my coach, being thoroughly determined that I would take a good long
holiday.

M. de Vivonne soundly rated me for such cowardice, as he called it,
while Madame de Maintenon offered me her curate-in-chief, or else the
Abbe Gobelin.

But, for the time being, I determined to keep to my plan of not going to
confession, strengthened in such resolve by my brother Vivonne's
good sense, and the attitude of the King's Jesuit confessor, who had a
great reputation and knew what he was about.

CHAPTER XLIII.

The Comte de Guiche.--His Violent Passion for Madame.--His Despair.--He
Flees to La Trappe.

--And Comes Out Again.--A Man's Heart.--Cured of His Passion, He Takes
a Wife.

The Comte de Guiche, son of the Marechal de Grammont, was undoubtedly
one of the handsomest men in France.

The grandeur and wealth of his family had, at an early age, inspired
him with courage and self-conceit, so that in his blind, frivolous
presumption, the only person, as he thought, who exceeded his own
fascination was possibly the King, but nobody else.

Perceiving the wonderful charm of Monsieur's first wife, he conceived so
violent a passion for her that no counsel nor restraint could prevent
him from going to the most extravagant lengths in obedience to this
rash, this boundless passion.

Henrietta of England, much neglected by her husband, and naturally of a
romantic disposition, allowed the young Count to declare his love
for her, either by singing pretty romances under her balcony, or
by wearing ribbons, bunched together in the form of a hieroglyphic,
next his heart.

Elegantly dressed, he never failed to attend all the assemblies to which
she lent lustre by her presence. He followed her to Saint Germain,
to Versailles, to Chambord, to Saint Cloud; he only lived and had his
being in the enjoyment of contemplating her charms.

One day, being desirous of walking alongside her sedan-chair, without
being recognised, he had a complete suit made for him of the La
Valliere livery, and thus, seeming to be one of the Duchess's pages,
he was able to converse with Madame for a short time.

Another time he disguised himself as a pretty gipsy, and came to
tell the Princess her fortune.

At first she did not recognise him, but when the secret was out, and
all the ladies were in fits of laughter, a page came running in to
announce the arrival of Monsieur. Young De Guiche slipped out by a back
staircase, and in order to facilitate his exit, one of the footmen,
worthy of Moliere, caught hold of the Prince as if he were one of
his comrades, and holding a handkerchief over his face, nearly poked
his eye out.

The Count's indiscretions were retailed in due course to Monsieur by his
favourites, and he was incensed beyond measure.

He complained to Marechal de Grammont; he complained to the King.

Hereupon, M. de Guiche received orders to travel for two or three
years.

War with the Turks had just been declared, and together with other
officers, his friends, he set out for Candia and took part in the
siege.

All did him the justice to affirm that while there he behaved like a
hero.

When the fortress had to capitulate, and Candia was lost to the
Christians forever, our officers returned to France.

Madame was still alive when the young Count rejoined his family.
He met the Princess once or twice in society, without being able to
approach her person, or say a single word to her.

Soon afterwards, she gave birth to a daughter.

A few days later, certain monsters took her life by giving her poison.
This dreadful event made such an impression upon the poor Comte de
Guiche, that for a long while he lost his gaiety, youth, good looks,
and to a certain extent, his reason.

      After yielding to violent despair, he was possessed with rash ideas
of vengeance.

The Marechal de Grammont had to send him away to one of his estates,
for the Count talked of attacking and of killing, without further ado,
the Marquis d'Effiat, M. de Remecourt, the Prince's intendant, named
Morel,
[Morel subsequently admitted his guilt in the matter of Madame's death,
as well as the commission of other corresponding crimes. See the
Letters of Charlotte, the Princess Palatine.--EDITOR'S NOTE.]
and even the Duc d'Orleans himself.

His intense agitation was succeeded by profound melancholy, stupor
closely allied to insanity or death.

One evening, the Comte de Guiche went to the Abbey Church of Saint
Denis.
He hid himself here, to avoid being watched, and when the huge nave
was closed, and all the attendants had left, he rushed forward and
flung himself at full length upon the tombstone which covers the
vast royal vault.

By the flickering light of the lamps, he mourned the passing hence of
so accomplished a woman, murdered in the flower of her youth.

He called her by name, telling her once more of his deep and fervent
love.
Next day, he wandered about in great pain, gloomy and inconsolable.

One day he came to see me at Clagny, and talked in a hopeless,
desolate way about our dear one.

He told me that neither glory nor ambition nor voluptuous pleasures
could ever allure him or prove soothing to his soul.
He assured me that life was a burden to him,--a burden that religion
alone prevented him from relinquishing, and that he was determined to
shut himself up in La Trappe or in some such wild, deserted
place.

I sought to dissuade him from such a project, which could only be
the cause of grief and consternation to his relatives.

He pretended to yield to my entreaties, but the next night he left home
and disappeared.

At length he came back. Luckily, the Trappist Abbe de Ranch wished to
take away from him the portrait on enamel of Henrietta of England, so
as to break it in pieces before his eyes.

So indignant was the Count that he was upon the point of giving the
hermit a thrashing. He fled in disgust from the monastery, and this
fresh annoyance served, in some degree, to assuage his grief. Life's
daily occupations, the excitements of society, the continual care
shown towards him by his relatives, youth, above all, and Time, the
irresistible healer, at last served to soothe a sorrow which, had it
lasted longer, would have been more disastrous in its results.

The Comte de Guiche consented to marry a wife to whom he was but slightly
attached, and who is quite content with him, praising his good qualities
and all his actions.

CHAPTER XLIV.

Mexica.--Philippa.--Molina.--The Queen's Jester.

In marrying Maria Theresa, Infanta of Spain, the King had made an
advantageous match from a political point of view.

For through the Infanta he had rights with regard to Flanders; she also
provided him with eventual claims upon Spain itself, together with
Mexico and Peru.

But from a personal and social point of view, the King could not have
contracted a more miserable alliance.

The Infanta, almost wholly uneducated, had not even such intellectual
resources as a position such as hers certainly required, where
personal risk was perpetual, where authority had to be maintained
by charming manners, and respect for power ensured by elevation of
tone and sentiment, which checks the indiscreet, and imbues everybody
with the spirit of consideration and reverence.

Maria Theresa, though a king's daughter, made no more effect at
Court than if she had been a mere middle-class person.

The King, in fact, by his considerateness, splendour, and glory, served
to support her dignity.
He hoped and even desired that she should be held in honour, partly for
her own sake, in a great measure for his. But as soon as she started
upon some argument or narration where force of intellect was needed, she
always seemed bewildered, and he soon interrupted her either by finishing
the tale himself, or by changing the conversation.

This he did good-naturedly and with much tact, so that the Queen,
instead of taking offence, was pleased to be under such an obligation
to him.

From such a wife this prince could not look to have sons of remarkable
talent or intellect, for that would have been nothing short of a
miracle. And thus the little Dauphin showed none of those signs of
intelligence which the most ordinary commonplace children usually display.
When the Queen heard courtiers repeat some of the droll, witty sayings
of the Comte de Vegin, or the Duc du Maine, she reddened with jealousy,
and remarked, "Everybody goes into ecstasies about those children,
while Monsieur le Dauphin is never even mentioned."

She had brought with her from Spain that Donna Silvia Molina, of
whom I have already spoken, and who had got complete control over
her character.

Instead of tranquillising her, and so making her happy, Donna Silvia
thought to become more entertaining, and above all, more necessary to
her, by gossiping to her about the King's amours. She ferreted out all
the secret details, all the petty circumstances, and with such dangerous
material troubled the mind and destroyed the repose of her mistress,
who wept unceasingly, and became visibly changed.

La Molina, enriched and almost wealthy, was sent back to Spain, much
to the grief of Maria Theresa, who for several days after her
departure could neither eat nor sleep.

At the same time, the King got rid of that little she-dwarf, named
Mexica, in whose insufferable talk and insufferable presence the
Queen took delight.

But the sly little wretch escaped during the journey, and managed
to get back to the princess again, hidden in some box or basket.

The Queen was highly delighted to see her again; she pampered her secretly
in her private cabinet with the utmost mystery, giving up every moment
that she could spare.

One day, by way of a short cut, the King was passing through the Queen's
closet, when he heard the sound of coughing in one of the cupboards.

Turning back, he flung it open, where, huddled up in great confusion,
he found Mexica.

"What!" cried his Majesty; "so you are back again? When and how did
you come?"
In a feeble voice Mexica answered, "Sire, please don't send me away
from the Queen any more, and she will never complain again about
Madame de Montespan."

The King laughed at this speech, and then came and repeated it to me.
I laughed heartily, too, and such a treaty of peace seemed to
contain queer compensation clauses: Madame de Montespan and Mexica
were mutually bound over to support each other; the spectacle was
vastly droll, I vow.

Besides her little dwarf, the Queen had a fool named Tricominy.

We were gathered for the reading and Hugh a little late, as was usual
when he went 'sourrying--God forbid that he should--when he went
courting, and after the reading there was a little time to talk, and,
said he, stretching his legs--

"Helen was telling me Bryde will be home one of these days."

Now here, thinks I, is a bonny kettle of fish, for Margaret was sitting
with us, but for all the suddenness of it she never geed her beaver,
and I kent then that she had word some way.

"Mistress Helen has quick news," said I.

"She has a maid yonder, Dol Beag's lass, and she brought the word frae
McKinnon's son, it seems; Kate Dol Beag had the news."

"Imphm," said I, for Margaret was looking down and smiling in a way
that angered me a little--"imphm," said I.  "Did she say was he
bringing his wife with him?"

"Wife?" said Hugh with a start.

Margaret was not smiling now, but I will say this; she was making a
brave try at it.

"Some lady in Jamaica," said I, "wi' bonny bright eyes, young McKinnon
was thinking."

At that Hugh left us, smiling.

"Hamish," said Margaret, "you are not being kind to me any more--it is
not true."

"Margaret, when did you see Ronald's son?"

"Oh, I was looking for a sailor coming home," said she, "since yon day
we went to old Mhari nic Cloidh's, and then the lassies told me
Ronald's boy was home--and--and the night you were at Dan's they
brought him here--a nice quiet boy--and I _happened_ to go into the
kitchen when he was there . . . and, Hamish, it is not nice to be
unfriends like this, you and me, and I would not be meaning yon I said
to you about old wives' havers--_now_," and after that she came and sat
beside me, and put an arm round my neck.

"Will you tell me this, Hamish?" says she in her wheedling voice.
"Will you tell me truly?"

"What is it?" said I.

"Did McKinnon's son say anything about bonny bright eyes?"

"He said there were bonny bright eyes in Jamaica and the towns
thereabout, Margaret, and he kind o' looked as though maybe he was
wearying to be back there."

"Poof!" said she, "and was that all.  I am thinking I would maybe be
like that myself, if the Lord had made me a boy."

"Well, my lass, there's nane will deny that Bryde was a little that way
himself--he would aye have a quick eye for a likely lass from what I
can mind."

"Well," said she, being very merry and bold, and showing herself before
me, "am not I a likely lass, Hamish, my dear?"

Now the old folk will use that expression with a very definite meaning,
and when I thought of that I was feeling my face smiling, and me trying
not to, as I looked at the lass.

"Hamish," she cried, "did you ever look at a lass like that before--it
is a wonder to me you are not married long ago," and then with a frown
on her face, but half laughing yet, "I ken," she cried, "she was
married already, poor Hamish--was it Belle?"

But I was thinking it was time to be putting an end to her daffing.

"Listen, my dear," said I; "I ken another likely lass."

"Oh?"

"Helen," said I.

"Likely," she cried--"likely, the likeliest lass I will ever be seeing,
Hamish--_for a sister_."

But for all that she would be jibing at Hugh and his marriage.
"Hughie," she would cry, "the fine sunny days are passing.  When I get
a man I am thinking it will be half the joy of it to be out with him on
the hills and among the trees, and maybe on the sea.  You will be
waiting till the rainy days come, and that will not be so lucky."

"Och," said Hugh, "I will be sitting inside with the lass I marry on
the wet days."

"Yes, Hugh; but I would be liking to be out with him in the rain and
laughing at it and loving it, because I would be with him."

"The Lord should have made you a man," said I, "for you would be
kissing your lass on some hill-top with the rain in her brown face and
clinging to her curls, Margaret."

"Brown face and curls," she cried.  "I wonder.  Would my lass have been
like that, Hamish, like Belle, or with a look--like Mistress Helen
maybe; but I would be loving the kissing anyway," said she.

And Helen Stockdale was often with us, whiles, to my thinking, a little
skeich[1] with Hugh, as though maybe she would rouse the temper in him,
for that she seemed to delight in, but never would she be telling us
what her man should be like.

"Husban'," she would say, with a shrug of her shoulder, "_il faut
necessaire_--one must, I think, be sensible; is it not so?--perrhaps in
anozer world one may know from the beginning," and I often wondered if
she had forgotten how something should leap up at her heart.  She would
talk to Margaret about her gowns, using terms that never before had I
heard tell of, and sending as far as Edinburgh for her braws, which, I
am thinking, was a waste of good money, but I kept my thumb on that.
For the wedding was to come off at the back-end, and I would be hoping
that the weather would keep up, and the harvest be well got, wedding or
not.

And in these long summer evenings very often I would be taking one of
the men with me and a net, and taking the boat from the beach we would
go out with the splash-net, for I would be fond of the sport as well as
of the daintiness of the eating in salmon trout.  In the dusk we would
be leaving, and whiles not coming in till it was two or three o'clock
in the morning.

I am thinking that maybe long ago the folk on the island would be
watching for an enemy landing from the water, for with the sea as calm
as a mill-pond and just the loom of the land--maybe through a haze--the
senses will become very alert, and any little noise without the boat a
man will be hearing, and wondering about, as well as listening to the
splash of a fish falling into the water after a gladsome leap, and the
noise of splashing of the oars to frighten the salmon-trout into the
meshes.

The Marquise and the two Chevaliers were beheaded, while the
ex-schoolmaster was hanged. As for young La Truaumont, son of a
councillor of the Exchequer, he escaped the block by letting himself be
throttled by his guards or gaolers, to whom he offered no
resistance.

Despite her influence upon the King's feelings, the Princess de
Soubise did not deign to take the least notice of the trial, and
they say that she drove across the Pont-Neuf in her coach just as
the Chevalier de Rohan, pinioned and barefooted, was marching to
his doom.

CHAPTER LV.

The Prince of Orange Captures Bonn.--The King Captures Orange.--The
Calvinists of Orange Offer Resistance.

Since Catiline's famous hatred for Consul Cicero, there has never
been hatred so deep and envenomed as that of William of Orange for
the King.

For this loathing, cherished by a petty prince for a great potentate,
various reasons have been given. As for myself, I view things closely
and in their true light, and I am convinced that Prince William
was actuated by sheer jealousy and envy.

It was affirmed that the King, when intending to give him as bride
Mademoiselle de Blois, his eldest daughter and great favourite,
had offered to place him on the Dutch throne as independent King, and
that to such generous proposals the petty Stadtholder replied, "I am not
pious enough to marry the daughter of a Carmelite nun." So absurd a
proposal as this, however, was never made, for the simple reason that
Mademoiselle de Blois has never yet been offered in marriage to
any prince or noble man in this wide world.

Rather than to be parted from her, the King would prefer her to remain
single. He has often said as much to me, and there is no reason to doubt
his word.

The little Principality of Orange, which once formed the estate of
this now outlandish family, is situate close to the Rhone, amid
French territory.

Though decorated with the title of Sovereignty, like its neighbour
the Principality of Dombes, it is no less a fief-land of the Crown.

In this capacity it has to contribute to the Crown revenues, and owes
homage and fealty to the sovereign.

Such petty, formal restrictions are very galling to the arrogant
young Prince of Orange, for he is one of those men who desire, at
all cost, to make a noise in the world, and who would set fire to
Solomon's Temple or to the Delphian Temple, it mattered not which,
so long as they made people talk about them.

After Turenne's death, there was a good deal of rivalry among our
generals. This proved harmful to the service.

The Goddess of Victory discovered this, and at times forsook us.

Many possessions that were conquered had to be given up, and we had to
bow before those whom erst we had humiliated.

But Orange was never restored.--[This was written in 1677.]
When, in November, 1673, the Prince of Orange had the audacity to
besiege Bonn, the residence of our ally, the Prince Elector of
Cologne, and to reduce that prelate to the last extremity, the King
promptly seized upon the Principality of Orange; and having planted
the French flag upon every building, he published a general decree,
strictly forbidding the inhabitants to hold any communication
whatever with "their former petty sovereign," and ordering prayers
to be said for him, Louis, in all their churches.

This is a positive fact.

The Roman Catholics readily complied with this royal decree, which
was in conformity with their sympathies and their interests; but
the Protestants waxed furious thereat.

Some of them even carried their devotion to such a pitch that they
paid taxes to two masters; that is to say, to Stadtholder William,
as well as to his Majesty the King.

The Huguenot "ministers," or priests, issued pastoral letters in
praise of the Calvinist Prince and in abuse of the Most Christian
King.

They also preached against the new oath of fealty, and committed several
most imprudent acts, which the Jesuits were not slow to remark and
report in Court circles.

"He was a little behind the fair, it seems," and the bitterness in his
voice was not good to be hearing.  We were silent until we came in
sight of the white stone below the house on the moor on the road to the
three lonely ones, and then I cried, pointing--

"She is waiting."

"I see her," said he, "and the boy with her," and I looked at the
far-seeing sailor eyes with the little wrinkles at the corners that
seamen and hillmen have, and he left me.  When I reached the stone they
were there, the son comforting the mother, and the little boy Hamish
standing a little way off, affrighted.

"Take me," he cried, his arms out, "Hamish is feared of the great black
man," and I would have taken him, but Bryde was before me.

"Come, little dear," said he, and smiled, and the boy came to him
slowly, the mother watching, and then Bryde swung his little brother on
his shoulder.

"We will be doing finely now," said he; "and you kent I was coming,"
said he to the mother, smiling at her.

"I saw her sailing in the Firth, your black schooner, the neatness of
her, and the pride, and I said, 'It is my son's ship you are'; and when
she was at an anchor in the calm water I was watching for the little
boat to be coming to the shore, but the darkness was down and your
father took me away.  Morning and evening," said she, "rain or fine, I
would be looking for you since Angus McKinnon came home."

"What--is he home then?  I forgathered with him, I mind.  I was mate on
the _Spray_," said Bryde.  "Well, he would be telling you I was lucky.
I have word that I can be sailing a King's ship if I will be going
back."

At the door of the place that was old McCurdy's hut, Dan McBride was
standing.  The white was streaking in the redness of his face, and he
was shaking.  Bryde put the boy in his mother's arms, and it is droll,
but Belle went to the side of her man.

"Dan," said she, "I have brought you your son," and she looked from one
to the other, her lips quivering.  Bryde opened his mouth to speak,
looking at his father--a long level look.

"You are a fine man," said he, "my father."

At the words Dan took a great gulp of a breath and his eyes were
filling.

"I will have a great son," said he, and cried aloud on his Maker.  "My
son, oh, my son, can you be forgiving your father?"

"There is no ill in my heart for you," said the son, "only pity and a
strange love since the day that Hamish put your gift to me into my
hand.  I will have been carving my own name with that sword, and it is
kindness in you to be lending your name to me."

"My name and all that I have," cried the father, and took his son into
the house.

Well, well, it is easy to be writing of that meeting, but the dread of
it that was on me I kent afterwards when we were at meat, when we had
all laughed together.  It would be Betty that brought the laughing on
us, for she would be crying to us to ken who was the stranger.

And when Bryde went to her bedside, she scrambled up among her pillows.

"Will you have been fetching a silk dress for Betty?" she cried at him.

"Silk and lace and more," said Bryde.

"Not brandy," says she, her lips pursed up.

"Just brandy."

"Come and be kissing me first," said she, a little tremulously, "and
then we will maybe be having a drop of it."

The halflin, a stout man now, and clever with horse, came in to the
house to be seeing Bryde.

"Ye can be riving the skin off my bones," said he, "for I was telling
her about yon."

"About what?" said Bryde, but I think that he kent, for his face was
dark.

"About the words ye would be telling her yon night ye left wi' the
kist, and her not there to be hearing.  She would be giving me siller,"
said the halflin.

I am thinking he would get mair siller.  And most of that day, it would
be nothing but questions, Bryde sitting with his brother on his knee,
and Dan going out of himself with little kindnesses.

"Hugh is not married, ye tell me.  What ails the man?"

"Och," said I, "his days o' freedom will be getting fewer, for they
will be at the marrying soon."

"We will be having a spree then," said Bryde.  "I am thinking I have a
present for Mistress Helen in my traps."

And his kists and bags and droll cases came from the stone quay in the
evening, and I was greatly taken with the cunningness of the cases of
leather, fashioned likely from a cow belly, and with the hair still
sticking, although maybe a little bare and worn, and the corners
clamped with iron, making a box of leather of a handy shape for a pack
beast, or easy to be stored in a ship.

And the cries of Betty when she had her dress (all of fine black silk
with much lace, fine like cobwebs), the cries of her were heartening in
a body so old, but maybe a little foolish.  For his mother he had a
host of things--a chain of fine gold with a pearl here and there at
intervals, and a watch for me of chased silver, very large and
handsome.  To his father he gave a bridle of plaited hair and
ornamented with silver, a very fine bit of work, and too beautiful for
everyday use, but Dan sat with it on his knee, and indeed it was hung
in the place of honour beside his great sword.

And we sat long listening to Bryde when the strangeness wore off him,
and he was telling us of how he came on board a King's ship and worked
and fought until his officers were proud of him, and of how he became
an officer on board a frigate, a position most difficult to attain to
in those days (although there are other men from the island who have
done the like, as a man can be reading in the records).  He told us of
his sailing days in the privateer _Spray_ in the Indies, and of his
meeting with Angus McKinnon, but of these things I will not be writing
at any length in this story.

The father and son left me a good way on the home road, and I made my
way indoors with no noise, and there was not so much as a dog barking,
and when I was in my own place I sat thinking for a long time.

And it came on me that Bryde was the wise one to be going away with his
sword, and to be making a name for himself, and siller.  For the Bryde
that was fit to command a King's ship would be far different from the
boy on a moorside farm, and I was weaving dreams like a lass at her
spinning when the door was opened behind me and Margaret stood looking
in, a light held high in her hand and her arm bare.

"When will he be coming?" said she.  It would likely be the man that
was with me at the splash-net that would be telling her the news.

"He has been here already," said I, "and you sound sleeping."

"I will be easy wakened, Hamish; a chuckle stone at the window would
not have been putting you out of your road.  Will he be changed in his
features?" says she, "and was he asking for all of us?"

"Indeed he was all questions," said I; "but I am not remembering that
he spoke of you, my lass."

"My motherless lass! am I clean forgot then?"

"I would not say that either," said I, and told her about the window
gazing.

"He will be a little blate for such a namely man," said Margaret, but I
could see there was a glow of pleasure over her.

"It will be long past time for the bedding," said I.

"There is no sleep will come to me this night"; and then, "I wonder
will the daylight never be coming?"

"Margaret," said I, and I am glad always that I said this--"Margaret,"
said I, "Bryde will be coming here in the morning; you will be meeting
your kinsman on the road," said I, "and that will be doing him a
kindness.

"Maybe he will not be for me to be meeting him, Hamish?"

"There's aye that, Margaret, but I would be risking it."


CHAPTER XXXI.

BRYDE AND MARGARET.

I think truly there was not much sleep for Margaret, even as she said,
for did not I hear her moving, and I would be thinking of her turning
and twisting fornent the image-glass.

And I will tell you where the place is that they met, Bryde and
Margaret, on the hill where the cairn stands and no man knows who would
be the builders.  For the lass walked easy and slow to the Hill of the
Fort, as we will be calling it, and then turned to the ridge that runs
to the right hand, for that way one can be seeing all the valley.  And
she sat by the foot of the cairn.  I am thinking that the far-seeing
blue eyes of Bryde would be watching every rise and hollow, or why else
would he have made the cairn, for that is not just the nearest road to
the Big House.

To her he came there and stood before her, and she rose to be meeting
him, but had no words of greeting.  It is like she would be rehearsing
in her mind how this meeting should go, but for all that she rose, and
her hands clasped and pressed themselves hard at her heart, and she
turned herself a little away from him, only her eyes holding his.

"Br--Bryde," was the word that came softly between her lips like a
whisper.

But the man took two strides and was at her side, his hands not yet
touching her, and there came a trembling on the lass.

"If you cannot be loving me and keeping me for ever," said she, "do not
be touching me, for if you will be touching me I am lost," and there
was a dignity in her bearing, although her lips were quivering.

"I am not fit to be touching you, for I have no right folk," said he.

"Do you think it is heeding _that_ I will be, if it is me and no other
that has your heart?"

"But that has aye been yours, little lass, from the beginning, for
there is sunshine and gladness where you are."

"Then," she cried, "then, my darling, I will not can wait any longer,"
and he held her close and looked down into her eyes.  There was a place
of flat rocks a little way off, and he carried her there, and a white
swirl of mist hung around them, and the wind blowing it away, and the
sun licking up the trailing white wreaths.

"We are on the high ground," he cried; "look, my dear, the sea below
us, and the woods and the heather, the sun and the mist and the winds
are round us--it is here that I would be loving to kiss you."

"Kiss me, then," she cried, "for I have been dreaming of such?"

Always when I am on the hill I will be looking at that little rocky
place, and seeing these two, brave and proud and young and loving,
seeing them clasped heart to heart on that high wind-swept space
against the sky, with the little curls and whirls of mist and the sun
licking up the floating wreaths.  So must the young gods have loved.

And they sat there with the wild-fowl only and the sheep to be seeing
them.

"Bryde," cried the girl, looking at her man with great starry eyes and
her cheeks aglow, "Bryde, will it anger you if I will be telling
something."

For answer he smiled down at her.

"Mhari nic Cloidh did tell me this would come, and there is more to
come.  There is to be a journey we will be making together--and listen,
for these will be her words, 'And his hand will be over yours at the
rough places, and he will lead you to the land of the pleasant ways,
the wide green meadows, starred with flowers and the blue of sparkling
seas,'--are not these good words?"

"My heart would be in such a land," said he.  "My dear, could you be
trusting yourself to me in the great new land, for the farming is in
the very marrow of my bones.  Would you be grieving for your own folk,
and your own hills, in that new land, where the cattle would be grazing
knee-deep in grass, and the horses roaming in herds, long-tailed and
with great tangled manes--roaming on the great pastures?"

"I would be loving that place!" she cried.

"There would be the house-building.  By a stream the house would be,
where there would be fishing, and the byres and the stables and the
dykes to be building, and you would be loving to see the little foals
near to you, and the young calves in the joy of living, running
daftlike races in the sunshine."

"Bryde, is it not the land of the Ever Young you will be showing me?"

"It is a young land, a land for strong youth.  I could be getting
ground there," said he, "in that far America; but would you not be
vexed when the years went by--vexed at the strange faces, and yearning
for the cold splash of the sea in summer, and the green of the waving
bracken, the purple of the hills, and the sound of voices that you
would be knowing?"

"Would I not be having you, Bryde?  Is there anything I could be
wishing for more than that?  I am loving that land, and," she
whispered, snuggling her head close to his side, "when we are grown old
and our--our--children gone from us, maybe if you would be wearying for
this place, we could be coming back and lying down yonder," said she,
pointing to the old kirk, "among our folk."

"There would maybe be some of the boys here coming with us,--Angus
McKinnon and Guy Hamilton and Pate Currie," says Bryde, "and we could
be talking of this place and remembering it when it would be New Year,
and telling the old stories again."

"Do you know who I think will be coming?" cried Margaret.  "I am
thinking Hamish will be coming too."

When they rose to leave the place--and they were loath to leave--the
face of Margaret was changed; there was a glamour of joy over her, and
her eyes were not seeing very well, but rather looking away into that
happy future, and she clung to Bryde.

"Will I be too happy?" she whispered fearfully, and made the sign that
wards off the spirit of evil.  "Bryde, we will not be telling this for
a wee while,--I am to be holding my happiness in my hands, holding it
to my heart, and nobody knowing."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

It will whiles make me smile to think of the coming of Bryde and
Margaret to the Big House that day, for with all her cleverness the
eyes of Margaret could not be leaving her man, and her mouth would
tremble into a smile, and her cheeks glow at a word; but Bryde that day
was all-conquering.

As to the Prince's extreme youth, that is in no way prejudicial to
you, my brethren, as monseigneur will be suitably represented by
his vicar-general until such time as he is able to assume the
governorship himself."

"Is it your intention to condemn my son to be an ecclesiastic?" I
asked the King, in amazement.

"Madame, these are my views," he answered: "If the Comte de Vegin
as he grows up should continue to show pluck and a taste for things
military, as by birth he is bound to do, we will relieve him of the
abbey on the eve of his marriage, while he will have profited thereby
up to that time.

If, on the contrary, my son should show but inferior mental capacity,
and a pusillanimous character, there will be no harm in his remaining
among the Church folk; he will be far better off there than elsewhere.
The essential thing for a parent is to study carefully and in good
time the proper vocation for his children; the essential thing for
the ruler of an Empire is to employ the right people to do the work
in hand."

"Will my son, on receiving this abbey, have to wear the dress of
his office?" I asked. "Imagine the Comte de Vegin an abbe!"
"Do not feel the slightest repugnance on that score," added the King.
"The Electors of the German Empire are nearly all of them ecclesiastics;
our own history of France will show you that the sons of kings were
bishops or mere abbes; the grandson of the Duc de Savoie is a
cardinal and an archbishop, and King Charles X., my grandfather's
paternal uncle, nearly became King of France and cardinal at one
and the same time."

At this moment Madame Scarron came in. "Madame, we will make you our
judge in the argument that we are now having," said his Majesty. "Do you
think there is any objection to our giving to little Vegin the dress
of an abbe?"
"On the contrary, Sire," replied the governess, smiling, "such a dress
will inspire him betimes with reserve and modesty, strengthening
his principles, and making far more profitable to him the excellent
education which he is now receiving."

"I am obliged to you for your opinion," said the King, "and I flatter
myself, madame, that you see things in the same light that I do."
When the King had gone, Madame Scarron asked me why I disapproved of
this abbey.

"I do not wish to deny so rich a benefice to my son," I replied, "but
it seems to me that he might enjoy the revenues therefrom, without being
obliged to wear the livery. Is not the King powerful enough to effect
this?"

"You are hardly just, madame," replied the governess, in a serious
tone.

"If our religion be a true one, God himself is at the head of it,
and for so supreme a Chief the sons of kings are but of small
account."

With an argument such as this she closed my mouth, leaving me quite
amazed, and next day she smiled with delight when she presented the
little Comte de Vegin dressed as a little abbe.

She was careful to see that the crozier, mitre, and cross were painted
on the panels of his carriage, and let the post of vicar-general
be given to one of her pious friends who was presented to me.

CHAPTER XXX.

Once a Queen, Always a Queen.--An Anonymous Letter.--The Queen's
Confidence.--She Has a Sermon Preached against Madame de Montespan.--Who
the Preacher was.--One Scandal May Avert Another.

I related how, near La Fere, at the time of the Flanders campaign, Madame
de la Valliere's coach, at the risk of offending the Queen, left
the main road and took a short cut across country, so as to get on
ahead, and arrive before anybody else. By this the Duchess thought
to give her royal friend a great mark of her attachment.

On the contrary, it was the first cause for that coolness which the King
afterwards displayed.

"Fain would he be beloved, yet loved with tact."
The very next day his Majesty, prevailed upon La Valliere to say that
such a style of travelling was too fatiguing for her.

She had the honour of dining with the Queen, and then she returned to
the little chateau of Versailles, so as to be near her children.

The King arranged with Madame de Montausier, lady-in-waiting to the
Queen, that I should use her rooms to dress and write in, and that
his Majesty should be free to come there when he liked, and have a
quiet chat with me about matters of interest.

The Queen, whom I had managed to please by my amusing talk, always kept
me close to her side, both when taking long walks or playing cards.
At a given signal, a knock overhead, I used to leave the Queen,
excusing myself on the score of a headache, or arrears of
correspondence; in short, I managed to get away as best I could.

The King left us in order to capture Douai, then Tournay, and finally the
whole of Flanders; while the Queen continued to show me every sign
of her sincere and trustful friendship.

In August, on the Day of Our Lady, while the King was besieging
Lille, a letter came to the Queen, informing her that her husband
had forsaken Madame de la Valliere for her Majesty's lady-in-waiting,
the Marquise de Montespan.

Moreover, the anonymous missive named "the prudent Duchesse de
Montausier" as confidante and accomplice.

"It is horrible--it is infamous!" cried the Queen, as she flung aside the
letter. "I shall never be persuaded that such is the case. My dear
little Montespan enjoys my friendship and my esteem; others are
jealous of her, but they shall not succeed. Perhaps the King may
know the handwriting; he shall see it at once!" And that same evening
she forwarded the letter to him.

The Comte de Vegin had been born, and the Queen was absolutely
ignorant of his existence. My pregnancy with the Duc du Maine had
likewise escaped her notice, owing to the large paniers which I
took to wearing, and thus made the fashion.

But the Court is a place where the best of friends are traitors. The Queen
was at length convinced, after long refusing to be so, and from that
day forward she cordially detested me.

While the King was conquering Holland, she instructed her chief
almoner to have a sermon of a scandalous sort to be preached, which,
delivered with all due solemnity in her presence, should grieve and
wound me as much as possible.

On the day appointed, a preacher, totally unknown to us, gets into
the pulpit, makes a long prayer for the guidance of the Holy Ghost,
and then, rising gracefully, bows low to the Queen.

Raising his eyes to heaven, he makes the sign of the cross and gives
out the following text: "Woman, arise and sin no more.

Go hence; I forgive thee."
As he uttered these words, he looked hard at my pew, and soon made
me understand by his egordium how interesting his discourse would
be to me.

Written with rare grace of style, it was merely a piece of satire
from beginning to end,--of satire so audacious that it was constantly
levelled at the King.

The orator brought before us in succession lifelike portraits of
the Queen, of her august spouse, of my children, of M. de Montespan,
and of myself.

Upon some he lavished praise; others he vehemently rebuked; while to
others he gave tender pity.

Anon he caused the lips of his hearers to curl in irony, and again,
roused their indignation or touched them to tears.

Any one else would have been bored by such a rigmarole; it rather
amused me.

That evening, and for a week afterwards, nothing else but this sermon
was talked of at Versailles. The Queen had received complete
satisfaction.

Before me she was at pains not to laugh, and I was pleased to see that
her resentment had almost disappeared.

Upon his return, the King was for punishing such an offence as this.

Things are not easily hidden from him; his Majesty desired to know the
name and rank of the ecclesiastic. The entire Court replied that he
was a good-looking young Franciscan.

The chief almoner, being forced to state the monastery from which
the preacher came, mentioned the Cordeliers of Paris.

There it transpired that the monk told off by the prior for this
enterprise had been too frightened to execute it, and had sent,
as his deputy, a young actor from Orleans,--a brother of his, who
thus could not say no.

So, as it happened, Queen Maria Theresa and her chief almoner (an
exemplary person) had caused virtue to be preached to me by a young
play-actor!

The King dared not take further proceedings in so strange a matter,
for fear lest one scandal might beget a far greater one.

It was this that caused Madame Cornuel to remark, "The pulpit is in
want of comedians; they work wonders there!"

CHAPTER XXXI.

The King Alters His Opinion about Madame Scarron.--He Wants
Her to Assume Another Name.

--He Gives Her the Maintenon Estates.--She and Madame de Montespan
Visit These.

--A Strange Story.

At first the King used to feel afraid of Madame Scarron, and seemingly
laughed at me when I endeavoured to persuade him that there was
nothing affected or singular about her.

The Marquis de Beringhen, for some reason or other, had prejudiced his
Majesty against her, so that very often, when the King heard that
she was visiting me, he never got beyond the vestibule, but at
once withdrew.

One day she was telling me, in her pleasant, original way, a funny
tale about the famous Brancas, and I laughed till I cried again,--in
fact, until I nearly made myself quite ill.

The King, who was listening at the door, was greatly tickled by the
story. He came in smiling and thoroughly self-possessed. Then, addressing
the governess, he said, "Madame, allow me to compliment you and to
thank you at the same time.

I thought you were of a serious, melancholy disposition, but as I listened
to you through the keyhole, I am no longer surprised that you have
such long talks with the Marquise.

Will you do me the favour of being as amusing some other time, if I
venture to make one of the party?"
The governess, courtesying, blushed somewhat; and the King continued,
"Madame, I am aware of your affection for my children; that is a great
recommendation to me; banish all restraint; I take the greatest
pleasure in your company."

She replied, "It was the fear of displeasing you which, despite myself,
caused me to incur your displeasure."
The King continued, "Madame, I know that the late M. de Scarron was a
man of much wit and also of agreeable manners.

My cousin, De Beaufort, used to rave about him, but on account of
his somewhat free poems, his name lacks weight and dignity.

In fact, his name in no way fits so charming a personality as yours; would
it grieve you to change it?"
The governess cleverly replied that all that she owed to the memory
of her defunct husband was gratitude and esteem.

"Allow me, then, to arrange matters," added the King.

"I am fond of sonorous names; in this I agree with Boileau."
A few days afterwards we heard that the splendid Maintenon estates
were for sale.

The King himself came to inform the widow of this, and, giving her
in advance the fee for education, he counted out a hundred thousand
crowns wherewith instantly to purchase the property.

Forthwith the King compelled her to discard this truly ridiculous
author's name, and styled her before everybody Madame de Maintenon.

I must do her the justice to state that her gratitude for the King's
liberality was well-nigh exaggerated, while no change was perceptible
in her manners and bearing. She had, naturally, a grand, dignified air,
which was in strange contrast to the grotesque buffoonery of her
poet-husband. Now she is exactly in her proper place, representing to
perfection the governess of a king's children.

Spiteful persons were wont to say that I appeared jealous on seeing her
made a marquise like myself.

Good gracious, no! On the contrary, I was delighted; her parentage was
well known to me. The Duchesse de Navailles, my protectress, was a near
relative of hers, and M. d'Aubigne, her grandfather, was one of King
Henri's two Chief Gentlemen of the Chamber.

Madame de Maintenon's father was, in many respects, greatly to
blame.
Without being actually dishonest, he squandered a good deal of his
fortune, the greater part being pounced upon by his family; and had
the King forced these harpies to disgorge, Madame de Maintenon could
have lived in opulence, eclipsing several of the personages at Court.

I am glad to be able to do her justice in these Memoirs, to the
satisfaction of my own self-respect. I look upon her as my own
handiwork, and everything assures me that this is her conviction
also, and that she will always bear it in mind.

The King said to us, "Go and see the Chateau de Maintenon, and then you
can tell me all about it. According to an old book, I find that it was
built in the reign of Henri II. by Nicolas de Cointerot, the King's
minister of finance; a 'surintendant's' castle ought to form a noteworthy
feature of the landscape."
Madame de Maintenon hereupon told us a most extraordinary story. The
lady who sold this marquisate had retired two years previously to the
island of Martinique, where she, at the present moment, owned the
residence of Constant d'Aubigne, the same house where the new
Marquise de Maintenon had spent her childhood with her parents, so
that while one of these ladies had quitted the Chateau de Maintenon
in order to live in Martinique, the other had come from Martinique
in order to reside at the Chateau de Maintenon.

Truly, the destinies of some are strange in this world.

The chateau appeared to be large, of solid proportions, and built
in a grandly simple style, befitting a minister of dignity and
position.

The governess shed tears of emotion when setting foot there for the first
time. The six priests, whom the surintendant had appointed, officiated
in the large chapel or little church attached to the castle.

They approached us in regular procession, presenting holy water,
baskets of flowers and fruit, an old man, a child, and two little
lambs to the Marquise.

      The villagers, dressed out with flowers and ribbons, also came to
pay, their respects to her.

They danced in the castle courtyard, under our balcony, to the sound
of hautbois and bagpipes.

We gave them money, said pleasant things to everybody, and invited
all the six clerics to sup with us. These gentry spoke with great
respect of the other Madame de Maintenon, who had become disgusted with
her property, and with France generally, because, for two winters
running, her orange-groves and fig-trees had been frost-bitten.

She herself, being a most chilly, person, never left off her furs
until August, and in order to avoid looking at or walking upon
snow and ice, she fled to the other end of the world.

"The other extreme will bring her back to us," observed Madame de Maintenon
to the priests. "Though his Majesty were to give me Martinique or Saint
Domingo, I certainly would never go and live there myself."

When we returned, all these little details greatly amused the
King. He, too, wanted to go and see the castle of another Fouquet,
but, as we complained of the bad roads, he ordered these to be mended
along the entire route.

CHAPTER XXXII.

The Second Comte de Vexin.--He is made Abbe of Saint Denis.--Priests
or Devils?--The Coronation Diadem.

--Royalty Jokes with the Monks.

My poor little Comte de Vegin died. We all mourned for him as he deserved;
his pretty face would have made every one love him; his extreme
gentleness had nothing of the savage warrior about it, but at any
rate, he was the best-looking cardinal in Christendom.

He made such funny speeches that one could not help recollecting them.
He was more of a Mortemart than a Bourbon, but that did not prevent
the King from idolising him.

The King thought of conferring the Abbey of Saint Germain des Pres
upon his younger brother; to this I was opposed, imagining, perhaps
without reason, that such succession would bring bad luck.

So the King presented him to the Abbey of Saint Denis, the revenue of
which was equally considerable, and he conferred upon him the title
of Comte de Vexin, caring nothing for the remarks I made concerning
the similarities of such names and distinctions.

The second Comte de Vegin bid fair to be a man of reflection and of
genius.

He obviously disliked his little abbe's dress, and we always kept saying,
"It's only for the time being, my little fellow."
When, after his nomination, the monks of Saint Denis came to make their
obeisance to him, he asked if they were devils, and continually
covered his face so as not to see them.

      The King arrived, and with a few flattering words managed to soothe
the priests' outraged dignity, and when they asked the little prince
if he would honour them by a visit of inspection to Suger's room,

[Suger was Abbe of Saint Denis, and a famous minister of Queen
Blanche.

Editor's Note.]
which had just been restored, he replied with a sulky smile, "I'll come
and see you, but with my eyes shut."

Then the priests mildly remonstrated because the coronation diadem had
not been brought back to their store of treasures, but was still
missing.

"So, in your treasure-house at Saint Denis you keep all the crowns
of all the reigns?"

Dol Beag took down the great Bible.  "We will worship the Lord," said
he, "before you will be leaving," and he opened the Book and read, and
the voice of him rolled in relish of the Gaelic, and then they kneeled
on the bare floor and Dol Beag prayed before his God, and John McCook,
opening his eyes, saw his lass smiling to him.

The lad and lass took the hill road in the moonlight, and the mother
watching them.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Dol Beag lay in his bed long, turning and turning like a man not at his
ease, and then he rose and put his clothes on him.

"Where will you be going at this hour?" said his wife.

"Woman," said he, "I will have forgotten if the skiff is high on the
shore-head, for the wind is away to the west'ard," and he went out into
the night.

In an hour maybe he was in again and the cruisie lighted, and again he
fell on his knees by the side of the bed and prayed aloud, and his wife
would be hearing in her sleep.

"Lord, look on Thy servant.  Was not I the straight one before Thee,
straight like a young tree, and strong before Thee.  Lord, look then
from that great mountain.  Thy home and Thy dwelling-place, and see me,
Thy servant, twisted and gnarled like the roots of a fallen tree.  It
will be in Thy hands to raise up or cast down, and the wicked are
before Thee.  Strike, God of Battle, and the raging sea, strike and
spare not the wicked, for Thy servant will have waited long."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Gilchrist, who was now the head of the gangers and preventives, turned
on his pillow after Dol Beag had crept out.

"Ay, Mirren Stuart," said he, "Mirren Stuart that rade the Uist pony
and laughed at me in my young days--maybe, Mirren, ye will come to my
door yet--my _back_ door."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

And those two that took the road up through the Glen by the burnside
past the very trees where Bryde and Helen sat on yon June morning when
the spider-webs were floating--John and Kate that dawdled on the road,
for never was a road too long for young folk in love--these two would
be making but the one shadow on the road, for the lass had thrown her
shawl over them both, and for a long time they were in the heather, not
far from Birrican, at a place they will be calling Oliver's garden--the
wherefore I will not know, unless maybe some of Cromwell's men would be
killed there, for I have heard the old folk say that Cromwell's
garrison at the Castle would be put to the sword; but I have no sure
knowledge of the garrison, or of the place of the killing, although I
am hoping that the folk did bravely, for it is never in me to be
forgiving the Drove at Dunbar.  But it was not Dunbar that these lovers
were heeding about--ye will have been in the heather with a lass maybe,
so you will be guessing that.

"Would you be telling the mother of you that we would be for marrying,
Kate?"

"Yes," said the lass in a whisper, and put her head against the curve
of his breast.  "I could be sleeping here."

"Och, my lass, it is fine to be sleeping in the heather.  My father and
his brother would be lying out like the kye in the summer, when they
would be at the smuggling, they will be often telling me.  And, Kate,"
said he, "you would not be saying any word o' the ploy at the Cleiteadh
mor, for your father, Dol Beag, is not very chief with Dan McBride."

"It will not be spoken of," said she; but the lass held her man the
closer.  "You will not be thinking of going to that place.  I could not
be letting you go there now."

"It will be the rent o' the crofts and steadings, the smuggling money,"
said he, "and sair wrocht for, and if they will not be hindering me, I
will be going there.  I was hearing at hame that Gilchrist is mad for a
new hoose, and he will have the promise of it if he can be putting
hands on a still, or 'making seizure,' as they will be naming it."

A shiver went over the lass.  "What is it makes ye grue?"

"I am wishing to greet to think you will be leaving me on that night."

"Come hame, lass," said McCook, and shook himself as a horse will shake
on a cold day; "there is a goose on my grave too," said he, and laughed
and kissed her.


CHAPTER XXXIV.

WHAT CAME OF THE PLOY.

Bryde and Margaret would be aye at their planning, and the lass with a
glamour of joy at the sewing and marking of linen; and whiles it would
seem that Bryde himself was forgot, but there would be times when they
would be away for hours together, the lass with her two arms clinging
to his, and laughing up into his face, and the folk would be smiling to
be just seeing her, for it was as though her love was so good and great
a power that she must be kind to the whole world.

"Why will you be loving me?" she would cry, and stand, her great blue
eyes all loving.

"My dear," Bryde would say, "the day grows brighter when you are with
me; there is peace in my heart and gladness.  The flowers are more
beautiful and the sea is grander.  Och, I cannot be telling you in
words."

"I will be content and listen; this is the way of it with me," and she
put her hand to her breast.  "There is something here that will grow
when you are near me, and I am telling myself that will be my happiness
choking me.  Am I not the daft lass?"

And little Hamish would be with them often, and Dan and Belle were
proud folk, but walking soberly for fear of too much happiness; but
once when we watched the father and his two sons coming home, and the
young boy between them, begging to be lifted and swung across little
pools.  Belle spoke--

"Hamish, keep guard," she said in that droll fashion that belonged to
her.  "Once when I was young there was a dream of evil came on me, but
I am forgetting it--I am forgetting."

C.E.C.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]
THE UNMOTHERLY HEN.

Now, my dear children, if you will be very quiet, I will tell you a
true story, which I sometimes tell my little daughter Fanny and her
cousin Grace, when they climb up on my knees just before going to
bed.

On a farm near Fishkill, where Fanny's Aunt Jane lives, they raise
a great many chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese.

When I was a boy, ever so many years ago, I used to have great fun
hunting for eggs through the hay and straw in the barns.

Well, last year one of the hens, instead of laying her eggs in the
hen-house or barn, like a well-mannered hen, stole off under a wood-pile,
and was not seen for three weeks, when she made her appearance with a
fine brood of chickens. To keep her from straying away again, she was
put into a coop. For several days, she was a good mother to her children;
but, after a week or so, she began to act very strangely, and, when her
children came near her, she would peck and abuse them.

Would you believe it, children?

  in one day, this unmotherly hen had
  pecked all but one of her chickens to death; and, when Aunt Jane
found this poor chap, he had but one eye, and all the toes were
gone from one foot; so that he had to stand on the other.

At first, Aunt Jane thought it would be a mercy to kill the little fellow,
and put him out of pain; but she finally determined that she would
try to cure him.

So she took him into the kitchen, and made him quite comfortable in a
box half filled with cotton-batting, and placed near the stove. She
gave him cracked-corn to eat, and plenty of water to drink, and, after
a while, he got so strong, that he hopped out of the box, and was
just as jolly a chicken as he could be, with only one eye to see
with, and only one foot and the stump of another to walk on.

Still he would not go out and play with other chickens of his age, but
persisted in hanging around the kitchen. One morning, when Aunt Jane
went into the breakfast-room, she found him on the table, helping himself
from a dish of stewed potatoes. Such impudence could no longer be
tolerated: so the saucy little cripple was banished to the barnyard
to learn manners.

And what do you think became of the unmotherly hen? She lost all her
friends. She was despised and hated by everybody on the farm. She
was pointed at as "that cruel, speckled hen," until life became a
burden to her. She was not permitted to have any more chickens.It would be Helen I would be watching, for her hand was tight clenched,
and she swayed a little as a flower sways, but she spoke bravely.  It
would be a long business, a marriage in these days.

But when the ring was on her finger and Margaret had lifted the veil,
she turned to her man, and held him to be kissing her.

"You are kind to me, Hugh," said she in a little low voice.

And when it would be Bryde's turn to be at the kissing, she kissed his
cheek.

"I am your cousin now, is it not?" said she, with a little smile, and I
caught her as she swayed, and all her body would be a-quiver like a
fiddle-string.

There would be a great spread there in the open--pasties of mutton from
black-faced ewes, very sweet and good to be remembering, and fish too,
and fowls roasted and browned, and the crop of them bursting with
stuffing.  There was sirloin and pork, and dishes of every kind.  There
was ale, good strong ale, that puts flesh on a man if he will be having
the rib to be carrying it.  For dainty folk foreign wine, and for grown
men brandy and usquebach.  It would be a goodly feast, with much
laughing and neighbourliness among the guests, and there is a droll
thing I am remembering, and that is the good clothes of the folk.  If
you will be taking time and rummaging about in some old kist, you will
be finding these clothes to this day, with the infinite deal of sewing
on them, and the beautiful buttons, and you will likely be finding too
an old lease maybe, with all the stipulations anent the burning of kelp.

I am wishing that you could be with us on the road on such a day, for
every man would be stopping and getting his dram, and giving his good
wishes to the pair before he would be going on with his business.

And Hugh would be speaking for his wife and himself, and giving his
thanks to the folk for their well-wishing.  And the old Laird of
Scaurdale made the lassies keep their faces lowered, for he would be a
bluff hearty man, with little false modesty in him, if indeed he would
be having any of any kind.

"There is nothing," says he, "will be taming a lass like skelping a
wean, or curing him o' the hives, and it's weans I will be wanting
about the place," says he.

I will not be telling too much about the talk, for these would be
wilder days than now, as you can be seeing if you will be looking at
the Session Records.

Then in the evening the dancing would be going on, with the pipers in
their own place, three of them abreast, and piping until their faces
would be shining with the joy of it.  Och, the great joyousness of the
dancing, with the lassies taking a good hold of their skirts and
lifting them to be getting the bonny steps in, and the boys from the
glens hooching with upthrown arm, now this and now that, and their
shoes beating out the time as though the music and the dancing was in
the very blood of them, and indeed so it was.

And there would be fiddlers too, and step-dancing, and singing and
everything to be making merry the heart of a man.

Hugh and Helen would be leaving the dance at last, and there was a buzz
of laughing, although nobody would be knowing where the pair of them
were to be that night; and it was then that Margaret would be at her
good-nights to Bryde, for they could not be having enough of each other
all that day.

Every time Franklin himself was unable to tell which road to
take, he would leave the reins on the horse's neck, and the good
beast, left to itself, never failed to go right.

[Illustration]

The noblest conquest that man ever made over the animal creation is that
of the horse. Every thing in him breathes out vivacity and energy. That
need of continual movement, that impatience during repose, that
nervous motion of the lips, that stamping of the feet, all indicate
a pressing need of activity.

UNCLE CHARLES.

THE PET OF THE SHIP.

PART III.

One day when the ship was at anchor in one of the ports on the western
coast of South America, a number of sheep were brought on board. Whether
Dennis regarded them as intruders, or not, I cannot say; but his
treatment of them was anything but kind.

[Illustration]
The poor sheep stood in great fear of him, and fled in alarm
whenever he made a charge at them.

      One by one they began to disappear; and, at last, only one--a little
fellow whom the sailors afterward named Billy--was left.

He was greatly distressed when the last of his companions was taken
away, and ran bleating about the deck in search of him.

To add to his troubles, that dreadful bully Dennis, who had been
watching him for some time, was now coming towards him.

He was frightened nearly to death.

What must have been his delight when he saw in Dennis's eyes a look
of pity, and heard his friendly grunt!

      I don't know what Dennis said; but I do know, that, half an hour
afterwards, Billy had forgotten all about his troubles, and was
lying down with his head resting in Dennis's fat neck.

Even the rough sailors were pleased; and as they looked at Dennis, who
was fast asleep, they said, "Now that was a fine thing, and Dennis
was the pig to do it.

He was willing to fight with a flock of sheep; but, when it came to
quarrelling with one little fellow, he was too noble for that."
[Illustration]
Thenceforth Dennis and Billy were inseparable, and no pair ever agreed
better. There were times, however, when Dennis seemed a little vexed
with Billy, though he was always as kind as possible. I will tell you
of an instance.

Billy would always watch the crowd about Dennis, when the latter was
taking his bath, with a great deal of anxiety; and, if Dennis did not
appear very shortly, he would begin bleating loudly.

This would disgust Dennis immensely; but he couldn't bear to think that
Billy's feelings were hurt: so he would leave his nice bath, and
push his way through the men, until Billy could see him.

Then he would return to the pump, grunting in a manner that plainly
showed his feelings.

He was certainly saying, "I do wish that sheep had a little more
of the pig about him. If I am out of his sight for a moment, he
begins to cry, and take on in such a manner, that I must show myself
to him; and then I have all the trouble of making the sailors pump
again." 
But the sailors only waited to make Dennis beg a little.John McCook came close to Bryde McBride, and pointed to the very place
where the gangers were lying waiting.

"Would there be something moving there among the bushes?" said he.

"A sheep maybe," said Bryde.

"I am wishing I had the dogs with me," said John.

There were silent figures of women, with shawls tight about their
shoulders, and they looked a little fearfully to the dark places.

Margaret was in her first sleep and dreaming, and it was a daft dream,
and her lips curled softly and parted a little, for in her dreams Bryde
would be knocking and knocking at her door.

"I am just thinking this," she was saying to her dreaming self,
"because he would be tormenting me to be kissing him again," and she
opened her arms and her lips pouted, and then again came the knocking,
low at the first of it, and then growing louder, until at last she
became broad awake, and there would be only a little moonlight in her
room.

"Who is it?" she said, standing a little fearfully behind her door, and
her heart beating.

"Let me in; oh, let me in," she could hear a woman's voice, and opened
the door, and a lass flung herself inside.

"He will be away to the smuggling, mistress," cried the lass, "and I
will be feart, I will be feart, for I told my father--I told my father."

"Go back to your bed, Kate," said Margaret; "it is the nightmare.  Who
will be gone to the smuggling?--there will not be any smuggling."

"At the Clates, mistress--my man is there, the man I am to be marrying,
and your man, mistress, and his father," and then she got her words.
"It is my father I am dreading," said she.  "Dol Beag is my father.  
When I begged Cardinal Mazarin to grant me the hand of the present Madame
de Mazarin, his Eminence replied, "Would you like to be a cardinal?
I can manage that; but as regards my niece, the Queen is going to
get her married immediately."

When, before God and man, I wedded Mademoiselle de Nemours, whose worthy
mother led her to the altar, his Majesty refused to sign the
marriage contract, and told Madame de Nemours that it would never
be considered valid.

Hurry," she cried--"hurry," and shoved the wench before
her and came to my door, and it was not long until I had the horses
saddled.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Margaret was on Helen's black horse Hillman, her face a white mask and
her lips a thin line.  Ye will have heard that Mistress Helen was a
bold rider, but you were not seeing Margaret that night.  It has come
to me since that she would be like Bryde in her rage.  She had the
black at the stretch of his gallop, and cutting him with the whip, and
a ruthlessness like cold iron was in her voice when she spoke to him.
I do not like to be thinking of her then, for it would not be thus she
would be using horse.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Round a bend of the road in this mad ride we smashed into Hugh and
Helen, their horses walking quietly, and I learned afterwards that they
were to spend their bridal night at the village called Lagg, and had
made their escape quietly.

I have often wondered why Helen was not on her own black horse that
night, and I think it was that she had put all thoughts of Bryde from
her mind--for Bryde was fond of the black, and would be praising and
petting him often.

But she kent her horse in the passing, and well she kent his rider.

"Come on," I cried to Hugh, and gathered my horse under me, for I was
all but thrown.

"No, no; _they're married_," cried Margaret, and cut again at the
black, although he was half maddened already.

As he leapt from the lash I heard Helen--

"Ah, Hillman," she cried (now Hillman was a by-name for Bryde), and
then, "Where is the so great calm of Margaret?"

"The gaugers are at the Clates--Gilchrist and Dol Beag and Bryde and
Dan.  Can ye not see what will come of it?"  I know not what I cried to
Hugh as we galloped.

But at my words Helen leaned forward on her saddle, and coaxed her
horse in a whisper, and he stretched to the gallop like a hound.

"A droll beginning this," said Hugh.  "Helter-skelter ower the
countryside for a wheen gangers.  What sort o' bridal night is this?
Could they no' keep their dirty fighting out o' my marriage. . . ."

"Ye were not meant to ken, Hugh."

"And I wish I did not ken.  God, look at Helen--look at my wife--look
at yon."

For Helen was abreast of Margaret and leaning from her saddle, and
speaking to the black horse, and he kent her voice and swerved to his
mistress.

"Do-you-know-who-he-is-like, my brave Hillman?" said Helen.

"He is like his mist . . . he is like the devil," said Margaret.

Sometimes yet I can see Helen's face clear-cut upraised against the
sky, her curling black hair flying loose, and never, never will I
forget her laughing--the devilry and the joy of it.


CHAPTER XXXV.

DOL BEAG LAUGHS AGAIN.

Angus McKinnon stretched himself on the shore at the Clates.  "I am not
liking this waiting," said he to Dan McBride; "McNeilage might have
been standing closer in."

"It will be the Revenue cutter he is feared of, Angus," said his father.

"The Revenue boat is lying off the White Rock in Lamlash," said Angus.
"McNeilage will be getting old and sober."

"Wait a wee, Angus--wait a wee, my boy."  It was another McKinnon, a
friend of his own, that spoke.  Another judge consented to forego his
vacation and take his place on the bench for four months; so M. de
Nesmond was able to leave Paris.

When the time came to set out by coach, madame went off into violent
hysterics; but the magistrate, backed up by his father-in-law,
showed firmness, and they set out for the Chateau de Nesmond, about
thirty leagues from Paris.

M. de Nesmond found the country far from enjoyable. His wife, who always
sat by herself in her dressing-gown and seldom consented to see a
soul, on more than one occasion left her guests at table in order
to sulk and mope in her closet.

She fell ill. During her periods of suffering and depression, she
continually mentioned the Spaniard's name. Failing his person, she desired
to have his portrait. Alarmed at his wife's condition, the President
agreed to write a letter himself to the author of all this trouble, who
soon sent the lady a handsome sweetmeat-box ornamented with his crest
and his portrait.

At the sight of this, Clorinde became like another woman.

She had her hair dressed and put on a smart gown, to show the
portrait how deeply enamoured she was of the original.

"Monsieur," she said to her husband, "I am the only daughter of a
wealthy man, who, when he gave me to a magistrate older than
himself, did not intend to sacrifice me.

You have been young, no doubt, and you, therefore, ought to know how
revolting to youth, all freshness and perfume, are the cuddlings and
caresses of decrepitude.

As yet I do not detest you, but it is absolutely impossible to love
you. On the contrary, I am in love with Melladoro; perhaps in your
day you were as attractive as he is, and knew how to make the most
of what you then possessed.

Now, will you please me by going back to Paris? I shall be ever so
grateful to you if you will. Or must you spend the autumn in this
gloomy abode of your ancestors? To show myself obedient, I will
consent; only in this case you must send your secretary to the Spanish
Legation, and your coach-and-six, to bring Melladoro here without
delay."

At this speech M. de Nesmond could no longer hide his disgust, but
frankly refused to entertain such a proposal for one moment.

Whereupon, his wife gave way to violent grief. She could neither
eat nor sleep, and being already in a weakly state, soon developed
symptoms which frightened her doctors.

M. de Nesmond was frightened too, and at length sent his rival a polite
and pressing invitation to come and stay at the chateau.

This state of affairs went on for six whole years, during which time
Madame de Nesmond lavished upon her comely paramour all the wealth
amassed by her frugal, orderly spouse.

At last the President could stand it no longer, but went and made a bitter
complaint to the King. His Majesty at once asked the Spanish
Ambassador to have Melladoro recalled.

At this news, Clorinde was seized with violent convulsions; so severe,
indeed, was this attack, that her wretched husband at once sought
to have the order rescinded. But as it transpired, the King's wish had
been instantly complied with, and the unwelcome news had to be told
to Clorinde.

"If you love me," quoth she to her husband, "then grant me this last
favour, after which, I swear it, Clorinde will never make further
appeal to your kind-heartedness. However quick they have been, my
young friend cannot yet have reached the coast. Let me have sight of
him once more; let me give him a lock of my hair, a few loving words
of advice, and one last kiss before he is lost to me forever."

So fervent was her pleading and so profuse her tears, that M. de Nesmond
consented to do all. His coach-and-six was got ready there and then.
An hour before sunset the belfries of Havre came in sight, and as it was
high tide, they drove right up to the harbour wharf.

Margaret McBride was on her knees, and her hand held in the fast grip
of her man.

They brought lanterns round us now, and I would have lifted Helen, for
the dark stain on her back was growing and growing.

"Let me be," she whispered; "I am happy."

And then there came on the face of Bryde a slow smile, and his eyes
opened wide.

"I think I am not hurt--my shoulder--a lass came between----" and then
in a loud voice of terror, "Margaret, Margaret."

"I am s-safe, Bryde--safe--it is Helen."  Margaret was weeping, and at
these words Helen spoke to Bryde, even as we were staunching her wound.

"My Bryde," said she with a little smile, "and--I--was--almost--the
bride--of Hugh.  It--is--droll--poor Hugh."

Margaret would have taken the proud dark head to her breast, but
Helen's voice came faintly, "J'y suis, j'y reste.  Be very good to
Bryde, Margaret, ma belle, while he is with you--you bring him peace
and a great contentment and a so _great calm_."  I wonder could she be
smiling.  "When he come to me he will 'ave no great calm--no great
contentment--only--only--a great love."

Cantocarrero, the Castilian secretary of state, presented the Spanish
notabilities, while Cardinal Mazarin, in his pontifical robes,
presented the French.

As he announced M. de Turenne, the old King looked at him repeatedly.
But because John McCook was come of good folk, I
took the dagger from Dol Beag's hand in the darkness, and wiped it
clean, and put it back into the sheath, while folk were seeing to the
wound on Bryde's shoulder, for a bullet had passed through it, even as
Helen robbed Dol Beag of his vengeance.

Madame de Nesmond managed to secure an invitation, and went with one of
her cousins. The young Spaniard did the honours of the evening,
and showed them every attention.

As the President was obliged to attend an all-night sitting at the
Tourelle,--[The parliamentary criminal court.]--and as these young
ladies did not like going home alone,--for their residence was some
way off,--the young Spaniard had the privilege of conducting them to
their coach and of driving back with them. After cards and a little
music, they had supper about daybreak; and when the President
returned, at five o'clock, he saw Melladoro, to whom he was formally
introduced by madame.

The President's welcome was a blend of surprise, anger, forced
condescension, and diplomatic politeness.
And Margaret McBride would take her sons to
the wee hill and tell them the great tales and the old stories, and her
arm would be on the shoulder of her man, and her eyes resting on him.

And at night, after the reading, when the boys would be sent scampering
to bed, you would see Bryde carrying a little lass to her
sleeping-place, and Margaret, his wife, following--and they would stand
by the bedside and listen to the laughing--and you will know the name
of that brave little lass.