(17:29) For the sake of making themselves secure, kings who seized the
throne in ancient times used to try to spread the idea that they were
descended from the immortal gods, thinking that if their subjects and the
rest of mankind did not look on them as equals, but believed them to be
gods, they would willingly submit to their rule, and obey their commands.
(30) Thus Augustus persuaded the Romans that he was descended from AEneas,
who was the son of Venus, and numbered among the gods. (31) "He wished
himself to be worshipped in temples, like the gods, with flamens and
priests." (Tacitus, Ann. i. 10.)

(17:32) Alexander wished to be saluted as the son of Jupiter, not from
motives of pride but of policy, as he showed by his answer to the invective
of Hermolaus: "It is almost laughable," said he, that Hermolaus asked me to
contradict Jupiter, by whose oracle I am recognized. (33) Am I responsible
for the answers of the gods? (34) It offered me the name of son;
acquiescence was by no means foreign to my present designs. (35) Would that
the Indians also would believe me to be a god! (36) Wars are carried through
by prestige, falsehoods that are believed often gain the force of truth."
(Curtius, viii,. Para, 8.) (37) In these few words he cleverly contrives to
palm off a fiction on the ignorant, and at the same time hints at the motive
for the deception.

(17:38) Cleon, in his speech persuading the Macedonians to obey their king,
adopted a similar device: for after going through the praises of Alexander
with admiration, and recalling his merits, he proceeds, "the Persians are
not only pious, but prudent in worshipping their kings as gods: for kingship
is the shield of public safety," and he ends thus, "I, myself, when the king
enters a banquet hall, should prostrate my body on the ground; other men
should do the like, especially those who are wise " (Curtius, viii.
This will be easily understood, if we reflect that here is the point where
more muscles of expression converge than at any other. From above comes
the elevator of the angle of the mouth; from the region of the cheek-bone
slant downwards the two _zygomatics_, which carry the angle outwards and
upwards; from behind comes the _buccinator_, or trumpeter's muscle, which
simply widens the mouth by drawing the corners straight outward; from below,
the depressor of the angle; not to add a seventh, sometimes well
marked,--the "laughing muscle" of Santorini. Within the narrow circle where
these muscles meet the ring of muscular fibres surrounding the mouth the
battles of the soul record their varying fortunes and results. This is the
"_noeud vital_"--to borrow Flourens's expression with reference
to a nervous centre,--the _vital knot_ of expression.

Here we may read the victories and defeats, the force, the weakness, the
hardness, the sweetness of a character. Here is the nest of that feeble fowl,
self-consciousness, whose brood strays at large over all the features.

If you wish to see the very look your friend wore when his portrait was taken,
let not the finishing artist's pencil intrude within the circle of the vital
knot of expression.

We have learned many curious facts from photographic portraits which we were
slow to learn from faces. One is the great number of aspects belonging
to each countenance with which we are familiar. Sometimes, in looking at a
portrait, it seems to us that this is just the face we know, and
that it is always thus. But again another view shows us a wholly different
aspect, and yet as absolutely characteristic as the first; and a third and
a fourth convince us that our friend was not one, but many, in outward
appearance, as in the mental and emotional shapes by which his inner nature
made itself known to us.

Another point which must have struck everybody who has studied photographic
portraits is the family likeness that shows itself throughout a whole
wide connection. We notice it more readily than in life, from the fact that
we bring many of these family-portraits together and study them more
at our ease. There is something in the face that corresponds to _tone_
in the voice,--recognizable, not capable of description; and this kind
of resemblance in the faces of kindred we may observe, though the features
are unlike.

But the features themselves are wonderfully tenacious of their old patterns.
The Prince of Wales is getting to look like George III. We noticed it when
he was in this country; we see it more plainly in his recent photographs.
Governor Endicott's features have come straight down to some of his descendants
in the present day. There is a dimpled chin which runs through one family
connection we have studied, and a certain form of lip which belongs to
another. As our _cheval de bataille_ stands ready saddled and bridled for
us just now, we must indulge ourselves in mounting him for a brief excursion.
This is a story we have told so often that we should begin to doubt it but
for the fact that we have before us the written statement of the person
who was its subject.
His professor, who did not know his name or anything about him, stopped
him one day after lecture and asked him if he was not a relation of Mr. ----,
a person of some note in Essex County.--Not that he had ever heard of.--The
professor thought he must be,--would he inquire?--Two or three days afterwards,
having made inquiries at his home in Middlesex County, he reported that an
elder member of the family informed him that Mr.

----'s great-grandfather on his mother's side and his own great-grandfather
on his father's side were own cousins. The whole class of facts, of
which this seems to us too singular an instance to be lost, is forcing
itself into notice, with new strength of evidence, through the galleries
of photographic family-portraits which are making everywhere.
In the course of a certain number of years there will have been
developed some new physiognomical results, which will prove of
extreme interest to the physiologist and the moralist. They will
take time; for, to bring some of them out fully, a generation must
be followed from its cradle to its grave.

(17:55) Inasmuch as the Hebrews did not transfer their rights to any other
person but, as in a democracy, all surrendered their rights equally, and
cried out with one voice, "Whatsoever God shall speak (no mediator or
mouthpiece being named) that will we do," it follows that all were equally
bound by the covenant, and that all had an equal right to consult the Deity,
to accept and to interpret His laws, so that all had an exactly equal share
in the government. [17:5] (56) Thus at first they all approached God
together, so that they might learn His commands, but in this first
salutation, they were so thoroughly terrified and so astounded to hear God
speaking, that they thought their last hour was at hand: full of fear,
therefore, they went afresh to Moses, and said, "Lo, we have heard God
speaking in the fire, and there is no cause why we should wish to die:
surely this great fire will consume us: if we hear again the voice of God,
we shall surely die. (57) Thou, therefore, go near, and hear all the words
of our God, and thou (not God) shalt speak with us: all that God shall tell
us, that will we hearken to and perform."

(17:58) They thus clearly abrogated their former covenant, and absolutely
transferred to Moses their right to consult God and interpret His commands:
for they do not here promise obedience to all that God shall tell them, but
to all that God shall tell Moses (see Deut. v:20 after the Decalogue, and
chap. xviii:15, 16). (59) Moses, therefore, remained the sole promulgator
and interpreter of the Divine laws, and consequently also the sovereign
judge, who could not be arraigned himself, and who acted among the Hebrews
the part, of God; in other words, held the sovereign kingship: he alone
had the right to consult God, to give the Divine answers to the
people, and to see that they were carried out. (60) I say he alone, for if
anyone during the life of Moses was desirous of preaching anything in the
name of the Lord, he was, even if a true prophet, considered guilty and a
usurper of the sovereign right (Numb. xi:28) [Endnote 30]. (61) We may here
notice, that though the people had elected Moses, they could not rightfully
elect Moses's successor; for having transferred to Moses their right of
consulting God, and absolutely promised to regard him as a Divine oracle,
they had plainly forfeited the whole of their right, and were bound to
accept as chosen by God anyone proclaimed by Moses as his successor. (62) If
Moses had so chosen his successor, who like him should wield the sole right
of government, possessing the sole right of consulting God, and consequently
of making and abrogating laws, of deciding on peace or war, of sending
ambassadors, appointing judges - in fact, discharging all the functions of a
sovereign, the state would have become simply a monarchy, only differing
from other monarchies in the fact, that the latter are, or should be,
carried on in accordance with God's decree, unknown even to the monarch,
whereas the Hebrew monarch would have been the only person to whom the
decree was revealed. (63) A difference which increases, rather than
diminishes the monarch's authority. (64) As far as the people in both cases
are concerned, each would be equally subject, and equally ignorant of
the Divine decree, for each would be dependent on the monarch's words, and
would learn from him alone, what was lawful or unlawful: nor would the fact
that the people believed that the monarch was only issuing commands in
accordance with God's decree revealed to him, make it less in subjection,
but rather more. [17:6] (65) However, Moses elected no such successor, but
left the dominion to those who came after him in a condition which could not
be called a popular government, nor an aristocracy, nor a monarchy, but a
Theocracy. (66) For the right of interpreting laws was vested in one man,
while the right and power of administering the state according to the
laws thus interpreted, was vested in another man (see Numb. xxvii:21)
[Endnote 31].

(17:67) In order that the question may be thoroughly understood, I will duly
set forth the administration of the whole state.

(68) First, the people were commanded to build a tabernacle, which should
be, as it were, the dwelling of God - that is, of the sovereign authority of
the state. (69) This tabernacle was to be erected at the cost of the whole
people, not of one man, in order that the place where God was consulted
might be public property. (70) The Levites were chosen as courtiers and
administrators of this royal abode; while Aaron, the brother of Moses, was
chosen to be their chief and second, as it were, to God their King, being
succeeded in the office by his legitimate sons.

(17:71) He, as the nearest to God, was the sovereign interpreter of the
Divine laws; he communicated the answers of the Divine oracle to the people,
and entreated God's favour for them. (72) If, in addition to these
privileges, he had possessed the right of ruling, he would have been neither
more nor less than an absolute monarch; but, in respect to government, he
was only a private citizen: the whole tribe of Levi was so completely
divested of governing rights that it did not even take its share with the
others in the partition of territory. (73) Moses provided for its support by
inspiring the common people with great reverence for it, as the only tribe
dedicated to GodIt is well enough for some Baron Gros or Horace Vernet to please
an imperial master with fanciful portraits of what they are supposed
to be.

The honest sunshine
"Is Nature's sternest painter, yet the best";
and that gives us, even without the crimson coloring which flows over the
recent picture, some conception of what a repulsive, brutal, sickening,
hideous thing it is, this dashing together of two frantic mobs to which
we give the name of armies. The end to be attained justifies the means, we
are willing to believe; but the sight of these pictures is a commentary on
civilization such as a savage might well triumph to show its
missionaries.
Yet through such martyrdom must come our redemption. War Is the surgery of
crime. Bad as it is in itself, it always implies that something worse
has gone before. Where is the American, worthy of his privileges, who does
not now recognize the fact, if never until now, that the disease of our
nation was organic, not functional, calling for the knife, and not for washes
and anodynes?

It is a relief to soar away from the contemplation of these sad scenes and
fly in the balloon which carried Messrs. King and Black in their aërial
photographic excursion. Our townsman, Dr. John Jeffries, as is well
recollected, was one of the first to tempt the perilous heights of the
atmosphere, and the first who ever performed a journey through the air of any
considerable extent. We believe this attempt of our younger townsmen to be
the earliest in which the aëronaut has sought to work the two miracles at
once, of rising against the force of gravity, and picturing the face of the
earth beneath him without brush or pencil.

One of their photographs is lying before us.

Boston, as the eagle and the wild goose see it, is a very different object
from the same place as the solid citizen looks up at its eaves and chimneys.
The Old South and Trinity Church are two landmarks not to be mistaken.
Washington Street slants across the picture as a narrow cleft. Milk Street
winds as if the cowpath which gave it a name had been followed by the
builders of its commercial palaces. Windows, chimneys, and skylights
attract the eye in the central parts of the view, exquisitely defined,
bewildering in numbers. Towards the circumference it grows darker, becoming
clouded and confused, and at one end a black expanse of waveless water is
whitened by the nebulous outline of flitting sails. As a first attempt it
is on the whole a remarkable success; but its greatest interest is in
showing what we may hope to see accomplished in the same direction.

While the aëronaut is looking at our planet from the vault of heaven where
he hangs suspended, and seizing the image of the scene beneath him as he
flies, the astronomer is causing the heavenly bodies to print their
images on the sensitive sheet he spreads under the rays concentrated
by his telescope. We have formerly taken occasion to speak of the
wonderful stereoscopic figures of the moon taken by Mr.}

(17:86) The high priest, both in the case of Aaron and of his son Eleazar,
was chosen by Moses; nor had anyone, after Moses' death, a right to elect to
the office, which became hereditary . (87) The general-in-chief of the army
was also chosen by Moses, and assumed his functions in virtue of the
commands, not of the high priest, but of Moses: indeed, after the death of
Joshua, the high priest did not appoint anyone in his place, and the
captains did not consult God afresh about a general-in-chief, but each
retained Joshua's power in respect to the contingent of his own tribe,
and all retained it collectively, in respect to the whole army. (88) There
seems to have been no need of a general-in-chief, except when they were
obliged to unite their forces against a common enemy. (89) This occurred
most frequently during the time of Joshua, when they had no fixed dwelling.
place, and possessed all things in common. [17:7] (90) After all the tribes
had gained their territories by right of conquest, and had divided their
allotted gains, they, became separated, having no longer their possessions
in common, so that the need for a single commander ceased, for the
different tribes should be considered rather in the light of confederated
states than of bodies of fellow-citizens. (91) In respect to their God and
their religion, they, were fellow-citizens; but, in respect to the rights
which one possessed with regard to another, they were only confederated:
they, were, in fact, in much the same position (if one excepts the Temple
common to all) as the United States of the Netherlands {or United States of
America}. (92) The division of property, held in common is only another
phrase for the possession of his share by each of the owners singly, and the
surrender by the others of their rights over such share. (93) This is why
Moses elected captains of the tribes - namely, that when the dominion was
divided, each might take care of his own part; consulting God through the
high priest on the affairs of his tribe, ruling over his army, building and
fortifying cities, appointing judges, attacking the enemies of his own
dominion, and having complete control over all civil and military affairs.
(94) He was not bound to acknowledge any superior judge save God
[Endnote 32], or a prophet whom God should expressly send. (95) If he
departed from the worship of God, the rest of the tribes did not arraign him
as a subject, but attacked him as an enemy. (95) Of this we have examples in
Scripture. (96) When Joshua was dead, the children of Israel (not a fresh
general-in-chief) consulted God; it being decided that the tribe of Judah
should be the first to attack its enemies, the tribe in question contracted
a single alliance with the tribe of Simeon, for uniting their forces, and
attacking their common enemy, the rest of the tribes not being included in
the alliance (Judges i:1, 2, 3). (97) Each tribe separately made war against
its own enemies, and, according to its pleasure, received them as subjects
or allies, though it had been commanded not to spare them on any conditions,
but to destroy them utterly. (98) Such disobedience met with reproof from
the rest of the tribes, but did not cause the offending tribe to be
arraigned: it was not considered a sufficient reason for proclaiming a civil
war, or interfering in one another's affairs. (99) But when the tribe of
Benjamin offended against the others, and so loosened the bonds of peace
that none of the confederated tribes could find refuge within its borders,
they attacked it as an enemy, and gaining the victory over it after three
battles, put to death both guilty and innocent, according to the laws of
war: an act which they subsequently bewailed with tardy repentance.

(17:100) These examples plainly confirm what we have said concerning the
rights of each tribe. (101) Perhaps we shall be asked who elected the
successors to the captains of each tribe; on this point I can gather no
positive information in Scripture, but I conjecture that as the tribes were
divided into families, each headed by its senior member, the senior of all
these heads of families succeeded by right to the office of captain, for
Moses chose from among these seniors his seventy coadjutors, who formed with
himself the supreme council. (102) Those who administered the government
after the death of Joshua were called elders, and elder is a very common
Hebrew expression in the sense of judge, as I suppose everyone knows;
however, it is not very important for us to make up our minds on this point.
(103) It is enough to have shown that after the death of Moses no one man
wielded all the power of a sovereign; as affairs were not all managed by one
man, nor by a single council, nor by the popular vote, but partly by one
tribe, partly by the rest in equal shares, it is most evident that the
government, after the death of Moses, was neither monarchic, nor
aristocratic, nor popular, but, as we have said, Theocratic.
(104) The reasons for applying this name are:

(17:105) I. Because the royal seat of government was the Temple, and in
respect to it alone, as we have shown, all the tribes were fellow-citizens,

(106) II. Because all the people owed allegiance to God, their supreme
Judge, to whom only they had promised implicit obedience in all things.

(17:107) III. Because the general-in-chief or dictator, when there was need
of such, was elected by none save God alone. (108) This was expressly
commanded by Moses in the name of God (Deut. xix:15), and witnessed by the
actual choice of Gideon, of Samson, and of Samuel; wherefrom we may conclude
that the other faithful leaders were chosen in the same manner, though it is
not expressly told us.

They are of all ages, from the babe in arms to the old wrinkled patriarchs
and dames whose smiles have as many furrows as an ancient elm has
rings that count its summers. The sun is a Rembrandt in his way, and loves
to track all the lines in these old splintered faces.

A photograph of one of them is like one of those fossilized sea-beaches
where the raindrops have left their marks, and the shellfish the grooves in
which they crawled, and the wading birds the divergent lines of their
foot-prints,--tears, cares, griefs, once vanishing as impressions from
the sand, now fixed as the vestiges in the sand-stone.

Attitudes, dresses, features, hands, feet, betray the social grade of the
candidates for portraiture. The picture tells no lie about them. There is
no use in their putting on airs; the make-believe gentleman and lady
cannot look like the genuine article. Mediocrity shows itself for what
it is worth, no matter what temporary name it may have acquired. Ill-temper
cannot hide itself under the simper of assumed amiability. The querulousness
of incompetent complaining natures confesses itself almost as much as in
the tones of the voice. The anxiety which strives to smooth its forehead
cannot get rid of the telltale furrow. The weakness which belongs to the
infirm of purpose and vacuous of thought is hardly to be disguised,
even though the moustache is allowed to hide _the centre of
expression_.
All parts of a face doubtless have their fixed relations to each
other and to the character of the person to whom the face belongs.(Deut. xxxi:9,
10, and vi:7.) (113) The captains were thus for their own sakes bound to
take great care to administer everything according to the laws laid down,
and well known to all, if they, wished to be held in high honour by, the
people, who would regard them as the administrators of God's dominion, and
as God's vicegerents; otherwise they could not have escaped all the
virulence of theological hatred. (114) There was another very important
check on the unbridled license of the captains, in the fact, that the army
was formed from the whole body, of the citizens, between the ages of twenty
and sixty, without exception, and that the captains were not able to hire
any foreign soldiery. (115) This I say was very, important, for it is well
known that princes can oppress their peoples with the single aid of
the soldiery in their pay; while there is nothing more formidable to them
than the freedom of citizen soldiers, who have established the freedom and
glory of their country, by their valour, their toil, and their blood. (116)
Thus Alexander, when he was about to make wax on Darius, a second time,
after hearing the advice of Parmenio, did not chide him who gave the advice,
but Polysperchon, who was standing by. (117) For, as Curtius says
(iv. Para. 13), he did not venture to reproach Parmenio again after having
shortly, before reproved him too sharply. (118) This freedom of the
Macedonians, which he so dreaded, he was not able to subdue till after the
number of captives enlisted in the army, surpassed that of his own people:
then, but not till then, he gave rein to his anger so long checked by, the
independence of his chief fellow-countrymenThe police-officers know well enough the expression of habitual
crime.

Now, if all this series of faces had been carefully studied in photographs
from the days of innocence to those of confirmed guilt, there is no doubt
that a keen eye might recognize, we will not say the first evil volition
in the change it wrought upon the face, nor each successive stage in the
downward process of the falling nature, but epochs and eras, with
differential marks, as palpable perhaps as those which separate
the aspects of the successive decades of life.

And what is far pleasanter, when the character of a neglected and vitiated
child is raised by wise culture, the converse change will be found--nay,
has been found--to record itself unmistakably upon the faithful page of
the countenance; so that charitable institutions have learned that
their strongest appeal lies in the request, "Look on this picture,
and on that,"--the lawless boy at his entrance, and the decent youth
at his dismissal.

The field of photography is extending itself to embrace subjects of
strange and sometimes of fearful interest. We have referred in a former
article to a stereograph in a friend's collection showing the bodies of the
slain heaped up for burial after the Battle of Malignano. We have now
before us a series of photographs showing the field of Antietam and the
surrounding country, as they appeared after the great battle of the 17th of
September. These terrible mementos of one of the most sanguinary conflicts
of the war we owe to the enterprise of Mr. Brady of New York. We ourselves
were on the field upon the Sunday following the Wednesday when the
battle took place. It is not, however, for us to bear witness to the fidelity
of views which the truthful sunbeam has delineated in all their dread reality.
The photographs bear witness to the accuracy of some of our own sketches in
a paper published in the December number of this magazine.
The "ditch" is figured, still encumbered with the dead, and strewed, as we
saw it and the neighboring fields, with fragments and tatters. The
"colonel's gray horse" is given in another picture just as we saw
him lying.

Let him who wishes to know what war is look at this series of illustrations.
These wrecks of manhood thrown together in careless heaps or ranged in
ghastly rows for burial were alive but yesterday. How dear to their little
circles far away most of them!--how little cared for here by the tired
party whose office it is to consign them to the earth! An officer may here
and there be recognized; but for the rest--if enemies, they will be counted,
and that is all. "80 Rebels are buried in this hole" was one of the epitaphs
we read and recorded. Many people would not look through this series.
.

(17:128) So much for the precautions for keeping the captains within bounds.
[17:9] (129) We must now look for the restraints upon the people: these,
however, are very clearly indicated in the very groundwork of the social
fabric.

(17:130) Anyone who gives the subject the slightest attention, will see that
the state was so ordered as to inspire the most ardent patriotism in the
hearts of the citizens, so that the latter would be very hard to persuade to
betray their country, and be ready to endure anything rather than
submit to a foreign yoke. (131) After they had transferred their right
to God, they thought that their kingdom belonged to God, and that they
themselves were God's children. (132) Other nations they looked upon as
God's enemies, and regarded with intense hatred (which they took
to be piety, see Psalm cxxxix:21, 22): nothing would have been more
abhorrent to them than swearing allegiance to a foreigner, and promising him
obedience: nor could they conceive any greater or more execrable crime than
the betrayal of their country, the kingdom of the God whom they adored.

(17:133) It was considered wicked for anyone to settle outside of the
country, inasmuch as the worship of God by which they were bound could not
be carried on elsewhere: their own land alone was considered holy, the rest
of the earth unclean and profane.

(17:134) David, who was forced to live in exile, complained before Saul as
follows: "But if they be the children of men who have stirred thee up
against me, cursed be they before the Lord; for they have driven me out this
day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Go, serve other
gods." (I Sam. xxvi:19.) (135) For the same reason no citizen, as we should
especially remark, was ever sent into exile: he who sinned was liable to
punishment, but not to disgrace.

Things can't last as they are going on now...."
Then he went on abruptly to something that for a time he had been keeping
back.

"Of course just at present the church may do a confounded lot of harm.
Some of you clerical gentlemen are rather too fond of talking socialism and
even preaching socialism. Don't think I want to be overcritical.
I admit there's no end of things to be said for a proper sort of
socialism, Ruskin, and all that. We're all Socialists nowadays.
Ideals--excellent. But--it gets misunderstood. It gives the men a sense of
moral support. It makes them fancy that they are It. Encourages them to
forget duties and set up preposterous claims. Class war and all
that sort of thing..

He had a firm belief that it is a function of the church to act as mediator
between employer and employed. It was a common saying of his that
the aim of socialism--the right sort of socialism--was to Christianize
employment. Regardless of suspicion on either hand, regardless of very
distinct hints that he should "mind his own business," he exerted himself
in a search for methods of reconciliation. He sought out every one who seemed
likely to be influential on either side, and did his utmost to discover
the conditions of a settlement. As far as possible and with the help of a
not very efficient chaplain he tried to combine such interviews with his
more normal visiting.

At times, and this was particularly the case on this day, he seemed to be
discovering nothing but the incurable perversity and militancy of human
nature. It was a day under an east wind, when a steely-blue sky full
of colourless light filled a stiff-necked world with whitish high lights
and inky shadows. These bright harsh days of barometric high pressure in
England rouse and thwart every expectation of the happiness of spring.
And as the bishop drove through the afternoon in a hired fly
along a rutted road of slag between fields that were bitterly wired against
the Sunday trespasser, he fell into a despondent meditation upon the political
and social outlook.

His thoughts were of a sort not uncommon in those days. The world was
strangely restless. Since the passing of Victoria the Great there had been
an accumulating uneasiness in the national life. It was as if some compact
and dignified paper-weight had been lifted from people's ideas, and as if
at once they had begun to blow about anyhow. Not that Queen Victoria
had really been a paper-weight or any weight at all, but it happened
that she died as an epoch closed, an epoch of tremendous stabilities.
Her son, already elderly, had followed as the selvedge follows the
piece, he had passed and left the new age stripped bare.Henry Draper, who has constructed a reflecting telescope, with the
largest silver reflector in the world, except that of the Imperial
Observatory at Paris, for the special purpose of celestial photography.
The reflectors made by Dr.