And now a wild and solemn voice is heard, unearthly in its tones,
rising above the yells of those savage men. At the sound every cheek
becomes pale: it strikes upon the ear as some funeral wail. Is it the
death-song of the captive girl bound to that fearful stake? No; for
she stands unmoved, with eyes raised heavenward, and lips apart,--

   "In still but brave despair."

Shrouded in a mantle of dark cloth, her long black hair unbound and
streaming over her shoulders, appears the Mohawk widow, the daughter
of the Ojebwa chief. The gathering throng fall back as she approaches,
awed by her sudden appearance among them. She stretches out a hand on
which dark stains are visible--it is the blood of her husband,
sacrificed by her on that day of fearful deeds: it has never been
effaced. In the name of the Great Spirit she claims the captive
girl--the last of that devoted tribe--to be delivered over to her
will. Her right to this remnant of her murdered husband's family is
acknowledged. A knife is placed in her hand, while a deafening yell of
triumph bursts from the excited squaws, as this their great high
priestess, as they deem her, advances to the criminal. But it is not
to shed the heart's blood of the Mohawk girl, but to sever the thong
that bind her to the deadly stake, for which that glittering blade is
drawn, and to bid her depart in peace whithersoever she would go.

Then, turning to the Bald Eagle, she thus addresses him: "At the dead
of night, when the path of light spanned the sky, a vision stood
before mine eyes. It came from the Great and Good Spirit, and bade me
to set free the last of a murdered race, whose sun had gone down in
blood shed by my hand and by the hands of my people. The vision told
me that if I did this my path should henceforth be peace, and that I
should go to the better land and be at rest if I did this good deed."
She then laid her hands on the head of the young Mohawk, blessed her,
and, enveloping herself in the dark mantle, slowly retired back to her
solitary tent once more.


CHAPTER XVI.


  "Hame, hame, hame,
     Hame I soon shall be--
   Hame, hame, hame,
     In mine own countrie"

  --_Scotch Ballad_

Old Jacob and Catharine, who had been mute spectators of the scene so
full of interest to them, now presented themselves before the Ojebwa
chief and besought leave to depart. The presents were again laid
before him, and this time were graciously accepted. Catharine, in
distributing the beads and cloth, took care that the best portion
should fall to the grand-daughter of the chief, the pretty,
good-humoured "Snow-bird." Strand, were the first in England who published
the application of this agent (see _Athenæum_, Aug. 14th). Their Collodion
(price 9d. per oz.) retains its extraordinary sensitiveness, tenacity,
and colour unimpaired for months: it may be exported to any climate,
and the Iodizing Compound mixed as required. J. B. HOCKIN & CO.
manufacture PURE CHEMICALS and all APPARATUS with the latest Improvements
adapted for all the Photographic and Daguerreotype processes. Cameras
for Developing in the open Country.
She said "she would go with her white sister, and pray to
God to bless her enemies, as the Great Spirit had taught her to do."

It seems a lingering principle of good in human nature that the
exercise of mercy and virtue opens the heart to the enjoyment of
social happiness. The Indians, no longer worked up by excitement to
deeds of violence, seemed disposed to bury the hatchet of hatred, and
the lodge was now filled with mirth and the voice of gladness,
feasting, and dancing. A covenant of peace and good-will was entered
upon by old Jacob and the chief, who bade Catharine tell her brothers
that from henceforth they should be free to hunt the deer, fish, or
shoot the wild-fowl of the lake whenever they desired to do so, "he,
the Bald Eagle, had said so."

On the morrow, with the first dawn of day, the old trapper was astir;
the canoe was ready, with fresh cedar boughs strewed at the bottom. A
supply of parched rice and dried fish had been presented by the Indian
chief for the voyage, that his white brother and the young girls might
not suffer from want. At sunrise the old man led his young charges to
the lodge of the Bald Eagle, who took a kindly farewell of them. The
"Snow-bird" was sorrowful, and her bright, laughing eyes were dimmed
with tears at parting with Catharine. She was a gentle, loving thing,
as soft and playful as the tame fawn that nestled its velvet head
against her arm. She did not let Catharine depart without many tokens
of her regard, the work of her own hands,--bracelets of porcupine
quills cut in fine pieces, and strung in fanciful patterns, moccasins
richly wrought, and tiny bark dishes and boxes, such as might have
graced a lady's work-table, so rare was their workmanship.

Just as they were about to step into the canoe, the "Snow-bird"
reappeared, bearing a richly worked bark box, "From the Great
Medicine," she said in a low voice, "to the daughter of the Mohawk
brave." The box contained a fine tunic, soft as a lady's glove,
embroidered and fringed, and a fillet of scarlet and blue feathers,
with the wings and breast of the war-bird as shoulder ornaments. It
was a token of reconciliation and good-will worthy of a generous
heart.

The young girl pressed the gifts to her bosom and to her lips
reverentially, and the hand that brought them to her heart, as she
said in her native tongue, "Tell the Great Medicine I kiss her in my
heart, and pray that she may have peace and joy till she departs for
the spirit land."

With joyful heart they bade adieu to the Indian lodges, and rejoiced
in being once more afloat on the bosom of the great river. To
Catharine the events of the past hours seemed like a strange
bewildering dream. She longed for the quiet repose of home; and how
gladly did she listen to that kind old man's plans for restoring
Hector, Louis, and herself to the arms of their beloved parents. How
often did she say to herself, "Oh that I had wings like a dove, for
then would I flee away and be at rest!"--in the shelter of that dear
mother's arms whom she now pined for with a painful yearning of the
heart that might well be called home-sickness. But in spite of anxious
wishes, the little party were compelled to halt for the night some few
miles above the lake. There is on the eastern bank of the Otonabee a
pretty, rounded knoll, clothed with wild cherries, hawthorns, and
pine-trees, just where a creek half hidden by alder and cranberry
bushes works its way below the shoulder of the little eminence. This
creek grows broader and becomes a little stream, through which the
hunters sometimes paddle their canoes, as a short cut to the lower
part of the lake near Crook's Rapids.

To this creek old Jacob steered his little craft, and bidding the
girls collect a few dry sticks and branches for an evening fire on the
sheltered side of the little bank, he soon lighted the pile into a
cheerful blaze by the aid of birch bark, the hunter's tinder--a sort
of fungus that is found in the rotten oak and maple trees--and a knife
and flint. Sole Agents in the United Kingdom for VOIGHTLANDER & SON'S
celebrated Lenses for Portraits and Views.

General Depôt for Turner's, Whatman's, Canson Frères', La Croix,
and other Talbotype Papers.

Pure Photographic Chemicals."There is a tent fit for a queen to sleep under, _mes cheres filles_,"
he said, eying his arrangements for their night shelter with great
satisfaction.

